"Share\n\nCongress should answer why during the time of emergency, Rajmata Ji jailed for a long time: PM Modi\nFor 55 years Congress in in power During all those years, Madhya Pradesh was termed 'Bimaru': PM Modi\nIn the last 15 years, the definition of MP has changed. It has now become 'Maximum Progress': PM Modi\nCongress manufactures lies and spreads it But now people are more aware They know about Congress' lies: PM\nEven today, the Congress cries fowl of demonetisation. Why is it so? Because they face the heat of demonetisation: PM Modi\nOur fight against corruption will not end Those who have looted the poor have returned looted: PM\nI think the people of Gwalior have shown the stars in the day to the Congress!\nOn the stage, my companions of the Council of Ministers, Shri Narendra Singh Ji Tomar, Shri Prabhat Jha, Mr. Anup Mishra, sister Maya Singh Ji, Mayor of Gwalior Bhai Vivek ji, the Chief Minister of the State, Bansi Lal Jee, District President of Datia Bhai Vikram Ji, District President Bhind Mr. Anup ji from Sanjeev Ji, Murraya, Mr. Devesh ji, brother of Gwalior City, Bhai Virendra ji from the village, all of the Bharatiya Janata Party The leader of the Bharatiya Janata Party and the candidate of the Bharatiya Janata Party in all our elections, Mr. Rustam Singh Ji, the business worker of the social worker, Mr. Rustam Singh ji, Mr. Jai Bhan Singh from Gwalior, Narayan Singh from Gwalior South, Lal Singh Ji from Gohad, Rajni Prajapati from Bhander, Shri Rakesh ji from Mehgaon, Raja Lal from Sevada, Rajkumar from Kerira, Captain Singh ji from Dabra, Rasal Singh from Lahar Shri, Satish ji from Gwalior, Chaudhary Rakesh ji from Bhind, Shivamangal Singh ji from Dimni, Arvind Singh ji from Atre, Subedar Singh ji from Jaura, Bharat Singh ji from Gwalior village, Ajb Singh ji from Sumavali ... all of you Bless all our comrades by saying both the hands of Bharat Mata on the hail ... Bharat Mata Ki ... Jai! Long live Mother India! Thanks a lot.\nI want to complain to Gwalior for the first time ... do I? What will happen if you feel bad .. will not agree? You are the people of the big king heart ... please complain? sure? Do not mind bad? I trust you, I say ... Look, we were contesting Lok Sabha elections in 2014 and in the same period my Gwalior was also coming. I myself ... The Bharatiya Janata Party had declared the prime minister's candidate ... In a way I came to you for me, but at that time half of them did not even come, and today..I am amazed today when they If our Narendra Jee started flashing mobile phones of everyone, then I could not see why people came in such a large number, to bless all our comrades ... this is the reason for the people of Gwalior area. No big gathering brothers and sisters will know the pundits sitting in Delhi which side winds. Brothers and sisters, this land of Gwalior is the land of tenacity, penance and sacrifice. This sage Gayav ji's asceticism and this is the inspiration for the inspiring earth. Rani Lakshmibai Ho, Tatya Tope Ho, Ram Prasad Bismil Ho ... More than one, these Kranti Dutras have been on the verandah. I bow to this earth.\nAnd we have a special legacy attached to this land for the Bharatiya Janata Party ... Rajmata was made popular with Rajmata Vijayaraje Scindia ji Like a mother, he supported many workers like us. Mother's Apoorva..most love and I remember equally when I walked with Ekta Yatra in the 90s ... at night at Shivpuri, at night at nine o'clock at night. After finishing the program, I was managing to sleep, so there was a voice at my door ... I was surprised that at two o'clock in the night, who came ... When the door opened, Rajmata ji with himself 3-4 The companions had come with a hot-milk glass in a tray and said that son sleeping on drinking the first night. Anyone can imagine that a mother grew up in the royal family, one of her own small workers and that too at 3 o'clock ... she came to drink hot milk and not just me, the driver of our unity journey ... partner who Even after going to each one's room, that mother caught a bowl of milk in her hand. The mother who gave this love and today we are the people of the Bharatiya Janata Party ... we are celebrating the birth anniversary of Rajmata ji, citizen of this country ... and at such times my Gwalior coming to the earth, remembering the virtues of the mother and mother Respectfully honoring them, it is a great privilege in itself.\nGwalior comes to Earth and from every wall here, from every street, from every tree plant, the voice which comes out of reverberation repeatedly, is that voice of Atal Bihari Vajpayee. The mother and child of Saraswati, Gwalior, who is flowing on her tongue from this earth, she was familiar with. This land has always been the workplace of our Kushabhau Thakre. Simplicity, renunciation, penance, hard work, dedication All things got settled in one place - that is Kushabhau Thakre. Rajmata ji, Atal Bihari Vajpayee ji, Kushabhau Thakre ji, it is very natural to remember the virtue of all these great men on the land of Gwalior and that is why I first of all bowed down to our great men, their resolve to the land, their work I have come here to seek blessings from the people of this earth. I have come to seek blessings for my colleagues and I believe that brother-in-law, this is the power of Gwalior which makes Rajmata a mass mother.\nAnd when we miss the mother of the mother, how can we forget the days of emergency? I want to ask the leaders of the Congress and ask the people of Rajmata's family who are in the Congress, especially I want to ask them ... the voice of the people of Gwalior's public ... I want to raise ... Just tell ... during the Emergency, during the Emergency, the Congress Government, which is flagging the Congress flag today, the crime of Rajmata ji for 19 months Switch to closed just answer. And if you have the courage, you dare to ask the people of your party to ask people why your grandfather had been tortured for 19 months in jail, was the crime, why he was tortured in the jails? And if he was innocent, then why did the Congress party commit this sin, why did that government try to strangle the name of democracy?\nMy dear brothers and sisters, this is the tradition of the Congress party, I..I do not, nor anybody ... This is the only formula that has been the life force of the Congress party. If there are mixed governments in this country and with the backing of Congress 2 months, 4 months, 6 months, years ... while stabilizing the country by knocking them back ... they never worry about the loss of the country because That Congress Party is born for a family, lives for a family, battles for a family, and favors the future of the country for a family too. Are brothers and sisters ... Can the fate of Madhya Pradesh be given to such a Congress? Can such Congress enter again? Will this again create obstruction in the development journey of Madhya Pradesh? What will allow such elements to penetrate? Whose heart is concerned about the future of their children..the concerns of the future of their sons and daughters, they think 50 times that the waste which you owe, because the youth has lived in the era of Congress, you are ruined, Do you want to let your sons and daughters be ruined? Want to let their future go into darkness, want to ruin their future? If you do not want to do so, then resolve this with the resolution that nowhere in India, there is no place in Madhya Pradesh, Gwalior ho, Munda, Murena, any area will not let the Congress take a foothold. Will be brother-in-law\nHistory is witness, 55 years of Congress 15 years of BJP ... We challenge the Congress people ... Weighing on any scales You gave Madhya in 55 years, we have multiplied it in 15 years because The future of Madhya Pradesh is the future of our dreams. At one time it was our MP ... Madhya Pradesh ... it came in the kingdom of Bimaru, did not it come? Was it that did not come? Then who was the government here ... whose government was ... Who was responsible ... Who brought the ruin ... Who has defamed Madhya Pradesh all over the world? Who removed him out of the sick ... who removed out of the sick ... who washed the stigma of this disease? Hey a Madhya Pradesh was once called Bimaru ... Today the MP has become the meaning ... Madhya Pradesh has changed its meaning ... Now MP says, then it seems immediately MP means that Maximum Progress ... In his era, Madhya Pradesh meant Bimalu ... 15 years old BJP's rule has meant maximum Progress-MP And so, brothers and sisters, I have come here today to insist on you ... In today's villages, you know how to work best in the whole of India? I know..? These Congressmen will not say ... Number 1 state, Madhya Pradesh, in the whole country, to give the poor to the poor in the countryside.\nBrothers and sisters, we remember the road in the villages ... When we used to come from Gujarat to Jhabua ... through Malwa, Madhya Pradesh used to come from Bai Road, the driver used to say that there is no need to ask sahib Madhya Pradesh I did not come ... If the road to Gujarat ends, then if the vehicle starts moving, then think that Madhya Pradesh has come ... At that time when Digvijay used to rule, Congress ruled the government ... no one had to ask Where is the Gujarat Where did the state of Madhya Pradesh start? The condition of the raga was telling that Madhya Pradesh has come. Brothers and sisters, those who have made this condition, those who are ruined, such people, the brothers and sisters again do not have the right to demand votes for the people of Madhya Pradesh.\nAnd see their game in Madhya Pradesh I have heard that 8 different regions speak Congress 8 different languages. Just like the area ... and there is no, no, the chief minister is going to be the only one ... not going to another place, no, not the chief minister, this is going to be the same. 8-8 Chief ministers have been wandering, they are wandering! Do not know the people of Madhya Pradesh? These Congressmen are still living in the mood of the Emergency. They feel that in the Emergency a lie was spoken from Delhi, in Hindustan they would gradually become percolate ... people used to accept it. The time has changed ... 50 years have passed since then, and that's why every moment of your lies is challenging momentarily. You will think that you will speak one thing in Chhindwara and people will not know if you speak second in Gwalior. Hey, before they get off the stage, people come to know what you said in Chhindwara and what is said in Gwalior. Why are you cheating with the public? Hey you have the courage to declare the name of the Chief Minister's name! The head of the party whose party will be the head of the party, can not decide on its name, will it be able to decide your future. What will your destiny decide ... will you change your fate? And so, brothers and sisters, I want to convey a congratulatory and congratulatory message to Shivraj Ji's government ... Whenever it came to agricultural development in our country, agriculture development means Haryana, Punjab and western Uttar Pradesh, Ganga- This was the discussion of Yamuna's coast. In front of this illusion, the farmers of Madhya Pradesh have done amazingly, the government of Shivraj ji showed great success and this Madhya Pradesh did the work of continuing to remain number one in the field of agriculture in India and its cause ... Shivraj ji Emphasized on the delivery of water, stressed on providing electricity as per need. It was 15 years ago when Congress used to rule here, did the power come home in the evening to eat food? Today, the work of giving electricity 24 hours a day is done by the government of Shivraj ji, brother and sister The Madhya Pradesh BJP government has done this and therefore they have a great difficulty in how to do these things.\nBrothers and sisters, we have dreamed of making Gwalior a smart city and under this Smart City, Gwalior will also be going to become a smart city in Madhya Pradesh, which will be one of our Gwalior. And in these 5 cities ... in 7 cities, Rs. 23 thousand crore in 5 years ... The Indian government is appraising Rs. 23 thousand crore. You can imagine, when 23 thousand crores of rupees will be spent then how will the appearance of Gwalior and 7 cities here change ... You can guess how much life will change here. Brothers and sisters, this Congress party is spreading lies to instigate young people. Our mantra is the education of children and girls, income of the youth, irrigation to the farmer and medicines to the elderly. We are constantly working on these mantras. We made the prime minister's currency scheme. Without a bank guarantee, our country's youth can take the money from the bank. Your plan can be taken ... and I am happy that in Madhya Pradesh alone, one crore such people took their loan from the bank and took the capital from Rs 10,000 to Rs 50 lakh on their feet ... alone One million brothers and sisters in Madhya Pradesh Today the young man of my country does not like to wander from house to house. He intends to give employment to two or four people standing on his feet and under the money scheme we have shown this work.\nBrothers and sisters, we had the Jan Dhan Yojana ... Congress promised that Mrs. Indira Gandhi and her grandfather of Congress leader ... was slogan that the nationalization of the banks were doing for the poor. 50 years after the nationalization of the banks, 50% of Hindustan people did not have an account in the bank. Making these promises, throwing dust into the eyes of people, voting in elections and forgetting ... This is the tradition of Congress. We decided to come, the bank's door will be opened for the poor. We have opened the Prime Minister's Public Account. अकेले मध्य प्रदेश में 3 करोड़ लोगों के बैंक के अकाउंट खोले गए भाइयो-बहनो। आज गरीब से गरीब इंसान भी...सब्जी का ठेला चलाने वाला, अखबार इकट्ठा करने वाला, फुटपाथ पर बैठ करके जूते रिपेयर करने वाला, आज बैंक के अंदर अपना अकाउंट...खाता खोल करके बैंक में जाकर के गर्व से खड़ा होता है, ये काम हमने किया है। भाइयो-बहनो, लघु और मध्यम वर्ग के मकान...पहली बार हिन्दुस्तान में मध्यम वर्गीय परिवार...उनको कभी मकान बनाने का सपना पूरा नहीं होता था...ये पहली सरकार ऐसी है जिन्होंने उनको बैंक के अंदर रियायत दी और उनके जीवन में हमने बदलाव लाने का प्रयास किया है।\nभाइयो-बहनो, मैं आज कांग्रेस के कुछ झूठ की भी चर्चा करना चाहता हूं। जरा कांग्रेस पार्टी जवाब दे...उन्होंने चुनाव के पहले कर्नाटक में ऐसा ही चुनावी घोषणा पत्र निकाला था जैसा अभी मध्य प्रदेश में लोगों की आंख में धूल झोंकने का किया है। हमारे देश के किसानों की दुर्दशा किसने की..आपको मालूम है, किसान कांग्रेस के समय अगर बैंक से कर्जे लेता था, तो 15% उसको ब्याज होता था...ये शिवराज जी की सरकार है कि किसान को शून्य ब्याज से पैसा दिया जाता है। ये हमने करके दिखाया है भाइयो-बहनो। ये कांग्रेस पार्टी ने कर्नाटक में किसानों के लिए बड़े-बड़े वादे किए थे। भाइयो-बहनो, कांग्रेस सरकार ने कर्नाटक में...अभी-अभी सरकार बनी है...कर्जमाफी...किसानों का वादा किया था लेकिन बैंको ने FIR करके अनेक किसानों को कर्ज न चुकाने के लिए जेलों में बंद करके रख दिया है। भाइयो-बहनो, ये मैं मध्य प्रदेश के किसानों को कहना चाहता हूं, वो दिन याद कीजिए, जब कांग्रेस की सरकार होती थी...यूरिया लेने जाते थे...लाठियों के मार झेलने पड़ते थे। हमारे आने के बाद यूरिया..जितना चाहे, जब चाहे आज उपलब्ध करा दिया गया है। कांग्रेस के समय में कांग्रेस के पास मिनिमम सपोर्ट प्राइस के लिए मांग हुआ करती थी...लागत से डेढ़ गुना की मांग होती थी...10-10 साल तक कांग्रेस उन फाइलों पर बैठी रही...उन्होंने दिया नहीं। भाइयो-बहनो, ये भारतीय जनता पार्टी को आपने दिल्ली में बैठाया और हमने किसानों के एमएसपी को लागत का डेढ़ गुना करने का वादा पूरा कर दिया। \nकांग्रेस का काम वादाखिलाफी का है, हमारा काम वादा निभाने का है और लोगों का कल्याण करने का है। भाइयो-बहनो, वन रैंक वन पेंशन...कांग्रेस के जमाने में..वन रैंक वन पेंशन...हर चुनाव में लॉलीपॉप पकड़ा देते थे सेना के जवानों को, उनकी डिसिप्लीन का दुरुपयोग करते थे। सेना के जवान अनुशासन में रहने के कारण कभी मोर्चे नहीं निकालते थे, मुंह खोलते नहीं थे और हर चुनाव में ये वन रैंक वन पेंशन के नारे देते थे और जब बहुत दबाव बना और मैंने जब घोषणा की 2013 में कि हमारी सरकार आएगी तो वन रैंक वन पेंशन देगी तो वो मारे-मारे बजट के अंदर 500 करोड़ रुपया लेके आ गए। 500 करोड़ रुपये से वन रैंक वन पेंशन हो नहीं सकता है। जब हमने लागू किया तो करीब-करीब 12,000 करोड़ रुपया लग गया। भाइयो-बहनो, देश के लिए जीने-मरने वाले जवान, उनका मान-सम्मान और ये चंबल का पूरा इलाका...इस ग्वालियर का इलाका...ये देश की सेवा के लिए हर परिवार से कोई ना कोई जवान सीमा पर तैनात रहता है, ऐसे जवानों को वन रैंक वन पेंशन देने का काम हमारी सरकार ने किया है। \nभाइयो-बहनो, चाहे युवा हो, चाहे किसान हो, चाहे हमारे देश के लघु उद्योंगों से जुड़े हुए लोग हों, चाहे छोटे कारोबारी हों...हर क्षेत्र में हमने विकास को माहात्म्य दिया है और भारतीय जनता पार्टी का एक ही मंत्र है विकास..विकास..और विकास। कांग्रेस का मंत्र है बांटो...बांटो...बांटो, भाई को भाई से जुदा करो, एक जाति को दूसरी जाति से जुदा करो, एक शहर को गांव से लड़ाओ, गांव को शहर से लड़ाओ हर जगह पर भेद करो, खाई पैदा करो, बंटवारा करो। हमारा मंत्र है सबका साथ, सबका विकास। ये सबका साथ, सबका विकास इसी मंत्र को लेकर के मैं आज ग्वालियर वासियों के पास आया हूं। मध्य प्रदेश में आज मेरा दूसरा कार्यक्रम है. मैंने सुबह छत्तीसगढ़ से शुरू किया है। मैं शहडोल भी गया और अभी ग्वालियर आया हूं। हवा का रुख साफ दिख रहा है। भाइयो-बहनो आप संकल्प कीजिए, ज्यादा से ज्यादा मतदान करेंगे और नियम बनाइए, पहले मतदान फिर जलपान। पहले मतदान करेंगे बाद में जलपान करेंगे। भारी संख्या में मतदान कीजिए। भारतीय जनता पार्टी के लोगों को विजयी बनाइए और मध्य प्रदेश की विकास यात्रा को एक नई प्रेरणा, नई ताकत, नई ऊर्जा देकर के आप आगे बढ़ें, इसी एक अपेक्षा के साथ मेरे साथ जोड़ से बोलिए भारत माता की...जय...भारत माता की...जय...भारत माता की...जय! \n"