"Share\n\nCongress should answer why during the time of emergency, Rajmata Ji jailed for a long time: PM Modi\nFor 55 years Congress in in power During all those years, Madhya Pradesh was termed 'Bimaru': PM Modi\nIn the last 15 years, the definition of MP has changed. It has now become 'Maximum Progress': PM Modi\nCongress manufactures lies and spreads it But now people are more aware They know about Congress' lies: PM\nEven today, the Congress cries fowl of demonetisation. Why is it so? Because they face the heat of demonetisation: PM Modi\nOur fight against corruption will not end Those who have looted the poor have returned looted: PM\nThe popular and successful Chief Minister of Madhya Pradesh, sitting on the stage, in a way, the Chief Minister of the state, my friend, brother Shivraj Singh Ji, my partner in the Parliament and the Chairman of the party Mr. Rakesh Singh Ji, my sister sister Rati Pathak in the Parliament, Mr. Gnan Singh ji, Mr. Faggan Singh Kulaste Ji, Mr. Anandaram Jai Vaishya, Chairman of Anuppur District, Mr. Sunil Jain, Mr. Manish Singh ji, Indrajeet Chhabra ji, all my dear brothers and sisters of Shahdol who have been camping at the platform and all the senior noblemen holding a large number ...\nIn this election, we have thrown up our respected workers, who have dedicated the interests of Janata Janardan, the activist of Bharatiya Janata Party, in this field. Bharatiya Janata Party's candidate from Anuppur, Mr. Ramlal ji, from Shri Peshapargarh Shri Narendra Marwaji, from Kotma, Mr. Dilip ji, from Bandhavgarh, Shivnarayan Singh ji, from Jaitpur Manisha Singh, from Manpur to Meena Singh, from Jaisingh Nagar, Mr. Jaysingh Maravi Ji, from Boyhari Mr. Sharad Cole, Mr. Jai Singh Ji from Dindori Bless all these all our companions by speaking to me the glory of Mother India. Long live Mother India! Long live Mother India!\nToday, after visiting the tribal area of ​​Chhattisgarh, I got a good fortune to join you in Shahdol. It is a matter of great happiness for the Bharatiya Janata Party that our tribal brothers and sisters have played a great role in forming the government of Bharatiya Janata Party in all the states where there is the highest tribal area in our country. Whether you are Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, all the areas where the most tribal groups live, all the states have given you the opportunity to serve the Bharatiya Janata Party repeatedly. And so, I want to congratulate you with my heart first, bow down and bow your head.\nBrothers and sisters, those elections, who became MLAs, who did not become MLA, who won the party, who did not win the party, whose government was formed, whose government did not make it, for such limited purpose. This is the election to decide what is the future of our Madhya Pradesh, to decide. How we want to give our children the Madhya Pradesh, it is a decision you have to make in this election. It has been done by the Bharatiya Janata Party to bring Madhya Pradesh into the center stage, the leadership of Shivraj Singh has done, the millions of Bharatiya Janata Party workers in Madhya Pradesh have done their work and the result of the great love of the people of Madhya Pradesh It is possible that this is possible. And so brothers and sisters, you are clear in front of 15 years versus 55 years. And also a comparison you do, of course. You should also ask for the calculation of Modi. Must demand or should not ask? Do not hesitate Should Modi also give accounting or not? Should be accounted for moment or moment? Pie-pie should be accounted for or not? I also urge you for that too. What their 4th Generation Governments, what did the 4th generation of the same family give to the country, and what did a tea seller give to the country in 4 years? Come be the fight. The situation is such that in the mouth there is a chhori in the mouth. They speak, speak in the Parliament, speak out also that we talk of love, we talk of love, we talk about love, we talk about love. And here in Madhya Pradesh, we were told that he did not speak anything except anger. That is to say one, do the second - this is part of the character of Congress.\nNow tell me, what these Congress leaders are hurting and going on is that Shivraj did not do this, Modi did not do this, Shivraj did not do this, Modi did not do it ... Will you ask questions? I want the full answer from you When the Congress comes, will you ask questions? Will you ask Will you ask with love Eye in the eye, will you ask? If he says that why the road is not built, then ask him so much that 55 years of the government you had run, you made the road and Shivraj ji has thrown up. Do not say no, do not you? Have you made these roads, and Shivraj ji has brought bulldozing to you? Do not you tell this school that you were made in 55 years, did Shivraj ji come and break his walls? Have you been hospitalized? The work they did not do, is asking us why not? Hey, in 55 years, what you could not do, answer him first. Was your mind locked up? This is the first time you came to know that development means it happens, is it?\nAnd so, brothers and sisters, Congress party ... I am surprised and now I have come to understand that how many years did they win in the elections? Because at that time the strength of the opposing team was too low, the media was not so vibrant and there were not so many channels, there were not so many newspapers, social media was not there. Therefore, those who used to serve the lie would have reached the bottom and the people seemed to be lying too. Now it is known that the businessman of lies, how many lies the lieutenants can lie, how many times they can lie, how they can lie, where they can lie Maybe it would have been a habit of lying, even lying in the night would have been lying in it too. But now the media is aware, the social media has become more active, the number of newspapers has increased and so, their lie can not live more than 1 hour, 2 hours, it is decided to die and therefore they have to fabricate a new lie is.\nNow, brothers and sisters, we have promised that till 2022 when India's independence will last for 75 years, we will not allow a single family to live in India without any house, every family will have its own home. Tell me, is there any doubt on this promise? Tell them with full force, say their ears to be torn. Does anyone have any doubt? Do you have any doubts on this promise? Why is this doubt not? Not because Modi is speaking, not because he is speaking to Shivraj Ji. This is because the brothers and sisters, in this prime minister housing scheme, we have handed over the keys of 12 lakh houses in Madhya Pradesh alone in such a short time, then the people have borne the belief that Bhai, who promises, is misguided Do not do it. Brothers and sisters, people's faith is believed. Within the society, the government punishes the culprits by making laws, but the family's rituals prevent the children from becoming criminals. And so, it has been our effort that on one side the atmosphere of rituals flourish in families, on the other hand, the government's law will work at a faster pace. They are silent, they always lie on the lips of those who lie. This is the Madhya Pradesh government ... in Madhya Pradesh, in the 5 days, in 15 days, by taking all the action in the month, the government of Madhya Pradesh has succeeded. Only then does the badge arise. To protect the mother and daughters, it has to work with this cleverness ... and I congratulate Shivraj Ji for his good wishes so that he can use the law to save the respect of mothers and sisters Have done all the work for. But they will not say such things as they used to be Tandoori Kand in their period. Brothers and sisters in this country can not forget this And that is why, I say that when the working government wants to fulfill the dreams of ordinary human beings, or to worry about the safety of the common man, when they work faster, results are available.\nBrothers and sisters, the first house that was built in the whole country, this government makes the same house in Madhya Pradesh alone, how will it be? In order to get the first gas coupon, the MPs had to go inside these Raj Darbars in Delhi and request that the 25 coupons of MPs be done 30, we want to give gas connections to 25 families in our area. An MP 25 was able to give gas connection in the house in the year and that too by the grace of this court! These 4th generation who ruled, used to grace them. We decided that my poor mothers have to free me from the stove smoke. If there is a gas stove in the rich house of this country, then a gas stove will burn in the house of my poor and we will bring this similarity in the country. Brothers and sisters, I am glad that today we got a gas connection to thousands of families inside Madhya Pradesh. 8 crore households in the country ... we have promised and trust in our promise is that the gas stove in the 55 million households has reached the free and the connection of gas. Then people of the people are confident that Modi and Shivraj can work together.\nAnd so, brothers and sisters, people's connection to electricity .... People were forced to live in the 18th century. Beginning of the 20th century, the beginning of the 21st century. If even today people had to live a dark life, who ruled for 4-4 generations, who ruled Madhya Pradesh for 55 years, those people should answer that why did you keep people in the dark? We have started the work of electrification in all the families under the Sadbhavna Yojana, in any of the families in which there is no electricity, not feeling lame. Brothers and sisters, we have gone to thousands of families in Madhya Pradesh, in the Shahdol area alone, 40 thousand families who had won the life of darkness, our government delivered the lot, electricity got started, and darkness had to flee from their home. And if light has come, then I believe that there is going to be a new light in life too.\nBrothers and sisters who, after Independence, started the work of making the toilets. So many governments, the number of toilets that they made, their 4th generation made the toilets, the same toilets we built in 4 years ... made the brothers and sisters in 4 years. Even if we were to walk at their pace, even half Hindustan ... my mothers and sisters had to be forced to go out in the open but to speed up this stigma, we increased the speed, increased the allocation of money, and brought the results. Mothers and sisters can live with dignity, we have done this work.\nNow people are discussing that the government was even before, from the 4-4 generation only one family was ruling, this tea-house became the Prime Minister, where does it bring so much money? There is a question in the minds of people that Modi has got so much money from where? Wherever the road of the village is being constructed, the well has been there itself, the pond has been there itself, the river is becoming a river, wherever the rail is being widened, the electrification of the railways is happening, somewhere in the new school Opening, new AIIMS is opening, IITs are opening. Where did Modi bring money in such a short time? This is the reason for their suffering. These 4th generation have been deposited, the notes of rupees were lying beneath the bed of someone, there was a sack of somebody, somebody's cloaks were stuck in notes; Brought to the bank. These are your money, that is why you are building toilets, building houses, making the road to the village, the farmer is getting water, and therefore he has trouble. A person sitting here is crying today for the ban on filing a ban on a brother-in-law? Is there any cry? At that time, I publicly said that it would be a little difficult, I publicly said. Is there any crying today? The Congress alone is crying, these families are crying. Why? Their 4th generation has been deposited, so they are crying, tears are not drying. Even the old son dies, even then the old man gets ready for a year. How much would they have been robbed that even after 2-3 years, they are still unable to handle. You can imagine. Can you tell me whether these robbers who have robbed should be brought back or should not be brought? Should the general human money be withdrawn from them or should not be removed? Should this work continue or should not? Is your blessing Is your blessing Bless both fists and bless me by touching my hand, because I am not going to leave this fight. I am not about to fight against corruption brothers and sisters. This is my fight against those who eat it.\nElections in the name of caste-community, elections have been very much, Elections have taken place in the name of sectarianism, my game of yours has been very much, colors of their own have become very colored, now the country Not approved. Now the country needs a vote for development, the country needs a party for development, the country needs politics for development, the country needs politics for development. If whatever the answer will give, then development will give, whatever promise will promise development. And the promises of Congress are so bhai? I told. My promise is that people are seeing here, here and here, now they will be here, these people are watching. I keep accounting constantly. Just ask them, who was the government that started the government before the Bharatiya Janata Party formed a government in Madhya Pradesh? Whose government was it? Whose government was it? Diggy King. Yes? And what games played? You just remove their election manifesto. For 5 years, he had the opportunity to run the government and in that two years completed Madhya Pradesh was one, 3 years Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh were working differently, but Manifesto was from Congress, the governments were both Congressmen. Take a look at the calculation, at that time the dust that was dashed in your eyes, the promises which were made, the big public-spoken words, of which 62 percent ... is serious ... 62 percent promises that book In anyway, they remained closed, they did not do any work for 5 years. न मध्य प्रदेश के हिस्से का किया, न छत्तीसगढ़ के हिस्से का किया। क्या आप उनपे भरोसा करोगे भाई? आप जोर से बताइए, भरोसा करोगे?\nआप मुझे बताइए, इन्दिरा गांधी ने बैंकों का राष्ट्रीयकरण गरीबों के नाम पर किया था कि नहीं किया था? उन्होंने कहा था कि बैंक गरीबों के लिए होनी चाहिए, इसलिए राष्ट्रीयकरण किया था। किया था कि नहीं किया था? जरा पूरी ताकत से बताइए, किया था कि नहीं किया था? क्या गरीबों को बैंक के अंदर एंट्री थी? क्या गरीब कभी बैंक में जा पाया था? आपने जो वादा किया था, जिस बहाने बैंकों को आपने कब्जा कर लिया था, इस देश की आधी जनसंख्या बैंक के दरवाजे तक पहुँच नहीं पाई थी, आपने वादाखिलाफी की थी। हमने 4 साल के भीतर-भीतर हिंदुस्तान के हर परिवार को बैंक खाते से जोड़ दिया। आज गरीब भी बैंक के दरवाजे पर जा करके खड़ा हो सकता है, ये स्थिति हमने पैदा की है। आप उनके वादों पर भरोसा करोगे? आप उनके वादों पर भरोसा करोगे? आप उनके वादों पर भरोसा करोगे? अरे आपकी दादीमाँ श्रीमती इन्दिरा गांधी ने देश को कहा था गरीबी हटाओ...कहा था कि नहीं कहा था? जरा मुझे पूरे विश्वास से बताइए, कहा था कि नहीं कहा था? इन्दिरा गांधी ने गरीबी हटाओ का नारा दिया था कि नहीं दिया था? उन्होंने कहा था कि गरीबी हटाने के लिए मेरी सरकार बनाइए, कहा था कि नहीं कहा था? उस बात को 4 साल हो गए, क्या गरीबी हटी? गरीबी हटी क्या? उन्होंने वादाखिलाफी की या नहीं की? वादाखिलाफी की या नहीं की? जो ऐसे झूठे वादे करते हैं उनपे भरोसा करोगे क्या? ऐसे झूठे वादे करने वालों पर भरोसा करोगे क्या?\nये लोगों की आंख में धूल झोंकने वालों पर भरोसा करोगे क्या? और इसलिए भाइयो–बहनो, हमारे काम पर विश्वास करके वोट दीजिए। जात-पात पर वोट मत दीजिए। हमारे वादों पर भी वोट मत दीजिए। हमने जो किया है, उस पर विश्वास करके वोट दीजिए। और मैं कहता हूं कि उनकी चार पीढ़ी के खिलाफ मेरे चार साल, उनके पचपन साल के खिलाफ शिवराज जी के पन्द्रह साल, हम सिद्ध करके देंगे कि हम उनसे ज्यादा अच्छा करते हैं, सबके लिए करते हैं और मध्यप्रदेश का भविष्य उसी में है। तो इसी विश्वास के साथ मेरे भाइयो–बहनो, विकास के मंत्र को लेकर के मध्य प्रदेश के उज्ज्वल भविष्य के लिए आप सब भारी मतदान करें। मध्य प्रदेश में फिर एक बार भारतीय जनता पार्टी की सरकार बनाइए और दिल्ली से मुझे मध्य प्रदेश की सेवा करने का मौका दीजिए। और मध्य प्रदेश में शिवराज जी को भोपाल से सेवा करने का मौका दीजिए। ये डबल इंजन किस ताकत से आगे बढ़ता है, ये चार साल में आपने देखा है। आने वाले पांच साल में आप देखेँगे कि हम मध्य प्रदेश को कितनी ऊंचाइयों पर ले जाते हैं।\nमेरे साथ बोलिए, भारत माता की जय! Long live Mother India!"