"Share\n\nAlong with Varanasi, the whole country is now witness to how next the infrastructure can transform the means of transport: PM Modi\nInland waterway will save time and money, reduce the cost of fuel, and reduce vehicular pollution: PM Modi\nModern infrastructure has built on a rapid pace in the last four years: PM Modi\nAirports in remote areas, rail connectivity in parts of the north east, rural roads and highways have become a part of the union government's identity: PM Modi\nEverywhere Shiva !!!\nThe great festivals of Sun worship full of purity, purity, Chhath, you are very much congratulating all the mother Bhagini Logan.\nEveryday family wants happiness for prosperity from the four days festival.\nAll of you, Diwali Manvalan, Bhai Duj and Govardhan Pooja Then Dev Deepawali's preparations. Congratulations together at all the festivals.\nMy colleague in the Union Cabinet on the stage, Mr. Nitin Gadkari, Uttar Pradesh's Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya, Minister in the UPA Government Mr. Suresh Khanna, my colleague in the Parliament, Dr. Mahendra Nath Pandey and Shri Ramcharit Nishad ji, other great honors here and the brothers and sisters of my beloved Varanasi,\nColleagues,\nAfter the festival of Dussehra and Deepawali again today, once again you have had the opportunity to meet all the Kashishians. This time my good fortune was that I got an opportunity to visit Baba Kedarnath on Deepawali. Now within a week, in the city of Baba Vishwanath, you got an opportunity to take blessings. In Uttarakhand, I was blessed by worshiping Mother Bhigarthi, so here today, the good fortune of Mother Ganga was received shortly before.\nToday is also the date of the death of Mahamana Malviya ji. I respectfully honor his great work, his penance today.\nFor colleagues, Kashi, Purvanchal, for Eastern India, for the entire India year, today's day is very historic.\nToday Varanasi and the country are witness to the work of development, which should have been decades ago but did not happen.\nToday Varanasi and the country have also witnessed the fact that when the work is done at the time of taking the resolution, then how glorious, glorious and glorious it is, its picture.\nToday Varanasi and the country have also witnessed the fact that the concept of Next Generation Infrastructure is going to rejuvenate the ways and means of transport in the country.\nAs the prime minister of the country, being a parliamentarian of Varanasi, for me today is the opportunity of double happiness. Since everybody has a spiritual connection with this holy land, today the communication of new energy connecting the water and space, the three, has happened in this area.\nCompanions, a few days back, I welcomed the country's first container vessel, which arrived through the river route. With the reception, a multi-modal terminal built at a cost of more than Rs 200 crores has also been released. It took decades in this work, but today I am cheerful, I am happy, that the dream that the country had dreamed of today has come true on Kashi's land. This means that the container vesel walk is connected to the Bay of Bengal from eastern Uttar Pradesh, Purvanchal and Eastern India waterways.\nbrothers and sisters,\nToday, the project connecting the city with Babatpur Airport, connecting the connectivity of Road Road, Kashi City, the project related to undergrounding of electric wires, and also the release of many projects for the efforts to free the pollution from mother Ganga. And the shilanyas have been here. This project, more than two and a half billion rupees, will make the picture of the changing Banaras more grand and make the Divine. For all these projects, I congratulate you on behalf of all the Kashi people, the entire Purvanchal.\nColleagues,\nThis is the first time after independence that we have been able to use our river route for business, at such a wide level for business. You are the Kashyasi witness, four years ago when I had thought of connecting Banaras and Haldia with the waterway, how was it joke, all the negative things were said, but the ship, which came from Kolkata just a little earlier, Those who have criticized themselves have given the answer.\nThis first container of the country is not just a part of the process of freight transport, New Vision of New India has won-alive evidence. It is a symbol of the thinking that relies on the resources of the country and the power of the country.\nbrothers and sisters,\nToday, the container vessel that came in Varanasi, has come from Kolkata industrial goods and from here the ship will return with Fertilizer. I.e. UP, in the Purvanchal, the factories built in the factories, including the fertilizer, will now be able to reach the ports of eastern India directly.\nThis is just an example. That day is not far away when the vegetables, grains, things made by the weavers and brothers in Varanasi and the surrounding areas will go from this waterway. Suppose, for the farmers here, for the millions of people associated with small industries, how big is open. This waterway will have a very large role, for its industries, to import inputs for agriculture, to procure raw material and then to bring it back in value addition.\nYour love your enthusiasm, thank you very much, let me speak and people also want to hear. I am grateful to you for your love for your enthusiasm. But keep these energy a little bit up to 19. So let me start, I say. You will listen peacefully or Modi will continue to do so. I am very grateful to you for so much enthusiasm for young people, but in very large quantities today Kashi people want to know and understand the nuances of this thing. And so how is this change coming, how is this change going to come? I am trying to explain to him a little bit.\nIn the coming days, when the Ro-Ro service will start from the multi-model terminal built in Varanasi, then for a long distance, you will get another option. Large tanker trucks, buses, cars, will reach the other cities directly through the ship.\nCompanions, the amount of luggage that has come to this ship today, if it was brought by road, it would have 16 trucks. Not only this, due to the waterway, there is also a saving of about 4,500 rupees per container. Meaning that these belongings have come. 70-75 thousand rupees is saved directly. That is, by the way, this waterway will save time and money, crowds on the road will also be reduced, fuel costs will be reduced and there will also be relief from pollution caused by trains.\nCompanions were a time when large ships used to run in the rivers of our country. But after independence, instead of paying much attention to strengthening this path, it has been neglected. Loss of the country. You think, the power of the country, with the power of our rivers, how much bigger the previous government had done.\nOur government is doing the task of ending this Anna with the power of the country. Now more than 100 National Waterways are being worked in the country today. Varanasi-Haldia Waterway is also one of them. Many facilities are being developed by investing more than 5 thousand crore in Farka, Sahibganj, Buxar, through Haldia from Varanasi. This waterway will not only benefit Uttar Pradesh but also large parts of Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal, i.e. a large part of eastern India will be of great benefit.\nBrothers and sisters, this waterway will not only be used for transportation of goods but it is also going to work on our tourism connecting East Asian pilgrimage to East Asian countries. Several areas of Purvanchal, Eastern India along with Varanasi will be known for the cruise tourism over time. And all this will be in accordance with the culture of Kashi and Kashi's civilization, with the concept of the modern style of traditional Kashi, the development map will run.\nWith the modern facilities, brothers and sisters, these ancient pathways, Nature, Culture and Adventure are going to be the confluence site.\nCompanions, Varanasi Ho, Bhadohi Ho, Mirzapur, they are the center of the carpet industry and now they are also becoming a Global Hub of Textile Export of the country. Last month alone, India Carpet Expo was organized with great success in the Deen Dayal Handicraft Complex. I started this expo from Delhi. From the beginning of the National Waterway to Varanasi to Kolkata, people from this sector will also benefit greatly, they will get more help in export.\nCompanions, facilitation facilitates a direct relationship and facilities sometimes become the reason for pride. This is an example of the World Class road connecting Babatpur Airport. I was told that people come to take selfie far and wide. Banaras is shadowed in the entire social media. This way is capped. Now is the time for festivals. Whoever you have come home from airplane this time, people will be filled with pride before leaving the airport. I have been told that people who went out for a few days are now coming back to the city, then they are not sure that they are passing through the same Harihua and Tarana-Shivpura way. Remember that day when your flight was missed because of the jam on this road, you had to leave for the airport several hours before. The road pit paused for you. Now this situation has changed.\nThe road connecting Babatpur Airport with the city has not only widened at the cost of more than Rs 800 crore- 4 lane, but has started attracting tourists from India and abroad. This road will also facilitate the visit of the Kashi people, the time of tourists coming here, the journey to Jaunpur, Sultanpur and Lucknow will also be made easier. The first phase of the city's ring road has also been dedicated to Kashi people today. Vehicles traveling to Gorakhpur, Lucknow, Azamgarh and Ayodhya will not need entry inside the city, with the cost of about Rs 760 crore spent on this road.\nThese two projects of companions, road were the decades-old demand of the city of Benaras. Within 6 months of becoming the Prime Minister, I started the efforts to complete these two projects rapidly. Both of these projects have been completed with your support. Now the second phase of the ring road is also running fast. It will also be completed soon.\nWith these projects where the problems of jam in Benares city will be reduced, pollution will also decrease and your time will also be left. This will make it easier for tourists to visit Sarnath. The heliport which is going to be built in Ramnagar, whose foundation is laid a little earlier, will also benefit the tourism here.\nCompanions, tourism and connectivity increase with connectivity, trust in the country, confidence in the system, and that too much increases. Today, the number of projects that have been inaugurated and laid out in Banaras. Apart from this, there are new employment opportunities open for the youth here.\nBrothers and sisters For the BJP's governments, the development of the country and the countrymen for the government led by the BJP is all about our development. Now the country wants more and just politics of development. People are seeing their decisions, not seeing the vote bank politics.\nIn the last four years, how fast the modern infrastructure has evolved, it is now clearly visible. The first time the train, rural roads and the spectacular National Highways, the network of expressways, have become the identity of our government, in the remote areas of newer airports, tribal areas, far-flung areas of the North East.\nCompanions, we have not only emphasized the development of resources, but have also worked seriously on the small needs of the common man, such as hygiene and health. The scope of rural sanitation was less than 40 percent before our arrival in 2014, it is now more than 95 percent. Due to the Ayushman Bharat Scheme, the patient from the poor has been treated in the hospital in the event of critical illness. Under this scheme, more than 2 lakh poor have received free treatment so far. And now the plan has not been more than 40 days.\nCompanions, we have not only taken care of human health, but also have taken a vow to keep our life and our rivers healthy. With this feeling, the mission, namami Namami Gange, for the cleanliness of Mother Ganges, has reached a new place today.\nFor the treatment of dirty water found in Ganga, 4 projects worth more than 4 crores have been released and the foundation stone has been given to me sometime ago. Three plants connected with sewer treatment in Dinapur are going to save the city's dirt for many years from coming to the mother Ganga. Ramnagar plant will also be ready to serve Maa Ganga soon.\nOur Government, Ganga ji is not shedding money in water, but the Ganga water is coming in to clean it. So far, projects worth Rs. 23 thousand crores have been approved under Namami Gange Mission. Work on 5 thousand crore rupees projects is underway. Nearly all the villages on the banks of the Ganges have now been liberated from open defecation. These projects are part of our resolve to make Ganga uninterrupted, from Gangotri to Gangasagar.\nToday, if these campaigns are moving forward at a faster pace, then there is a public participant behind it, there is a sense of responsibility in the hearts of every citizen towards the rivers. Otherwise, how do the old governments shed thousands of crores in the name of cleanliness of the Ganga, we know it well.\nCompanions, here today the works of power reforms in some areas of Varanasi have also been released. In addition to the old Kashi, work has been completed under the IPDS scheme. The electric wires that hung on the net, now have been underground. This is also an important step towards realizing our dream of the grand Kashi. आने वाले दिनों में शहर के अन्य क्षेत्रों में भी इस काम को विस्तार दिया जाएगा।\nसाथियों, आपके प्रयासों और प्रेरणा से आज चिरपुरातन काशी की नई तस्वीर देश-दुनिया के सामने आने लगी है। अब हमें इसको सहेजना है, सुरक्षित रखना है, ताकि हमारे इस गौरवशाली शहर का गौरवगान दुनियाभर में होता रहे।\nअगले साल जनवरी में प्रवासी भारतीय दिवस भी काशी की पावन भूमि पर होना है। इस आयोजन के लिए मैं भी आप लोगों की तरह ही देश-दुनिया से आए लोगों का स्वागत करने के लिए वाराणसी में मौजूद रहूंगा। उस समय प्रयागराज में अर्धकुंभ का भी आयोजन हो रहा होगा। वहां से भी अनेक लोग वाराणसी आएंगे।\nहम सभी की इच्छा है कि दुनिया के सबसे प्रचीन शहर काशी की गरिमा और सबसे अच्छी सुविधा का ऐसा संगम हो कि काशी की स्मृति, यहां आने वालों के जीवन में अमिट हो जाए, वे बार-बार यहां आएं, ऐसा माहौल पैदा हो।\nअंत में एक बार फिर आप सभी को इन तमाम सुविधाओं के लिए, विकास के नए-नए प्रोजेक्ट्स के लिए अनेक-अनेक बधाई देता हूं,  शुभकामनाएं देता हूं। आप सभी को, पूर्वांचल और पूर्वी भारत के मेरे साथियों को छठ पूजा की पुन: बहुत बहुत शुभकामनाएं देता हूं।\nजय छठी मइया !!!"