"Share\n\nElections for a democracy I urge the people of Chhattisgarh to turn out in big numbers to vote: PM\nNarendra Modi in Bilaspur: Narendra Modi in Bilaspur\nFor the Congress, the welfare of the Chhattisgarh is not a priority. Prime Minister Narendra Modi\nShocking that Congress leaders, who are out on bail question steps like demonetisation, which led to crackdown on several shell companies: PM\nMy partner Mr. Lakhan Sahuji, the President of the State Bharatiya Janata Party, all the leaders who were present on the stage and the popular social worker of the Bharatiya Janata Party in this election, our candidate and state president Mr. Dharmalal Kaushik ji (here) Let's take Kamal K.), brother Amar Agarwal from Bilaspur, Mr. Punnulal ji from Mungali, Mr. Tokhan Sahu ji, from Lorami Finally, Dr. Krishnamurthi Bandi ji, Kota from Mr. Kashi Sahu ji, from Beltara, Mr. Rajneesh ji, sister from Takhtpur, Harshita Pandey Ji, from Mervoyhi, Mrs. Archana ji ... All of you bless our allies by speaking Jai of Bharat Mata. . Long live Mother India! Long live Mother India! Virgiye.\nOnce again, Bilaspur got the opportunity to come to Earth. For many years, I had the privilege of working in the organization between you and when I used to work in the organization, many people came to Bilaspur to learn and learn a lot from the people of the party, meeting them, knowing a lot. Got it. And, I had seen that a special characteristic of the workers of Chhattisgarh that I always remember. There, at that time our party was small, it was part of Madhya Pradesh, it was yet to be formed in Chhattisgarh, in a way the party was also small, the state of absence. But I always used to see why the lack was not enough, but it was not visible in the nature of party workers. His enthusiasm, enthusiasm, resolution never gave a voice of disappointment. And so, today Chhattisgarh has been receiving blessings from the Bharatiya Janata Party. We are fortunate enough to serve the people of Chhattisgarh. One of the reasons here is the strong link between the people and the people of the organization and the workers of the government, who take the programs of the government to the people and make constant efforts to solve the problems of the people by reaching the government.\nBrothers and sisters, this is our Chhattisgarh, our Bilaspur, this is our Korba, this whole area, Chhattisgarh in a way, our 'Paddy bowl' of Hindustan. And, as soon as it enters here, it is very natural to remember it. This is the dream building of Chhattisgarh, sitting on black gold ... I can imagine how the energetic young men here are giving the lights not only to Chhattisgarh but also to the whole of India by giving this dark gold, These amazing things have been shown by this earth. This is our Chhattisgarh ... This is the land of Saint tradition, it is the land of the revered Guru Ghasidas ji, who has come to the truth, this is the birthplace of the earthly Satnam tradition. Message of Sath Kabir, I am MP from Kashi, If you went to the place of worship, then all the people of Saint Kabir tradition came from Chhattisgarh. In Gujarat, Kabir is also on the banks of Narmada. When I was the Chief Minister, I had made a big national session of the people of Saint Kabir tradition of the country, the strength of giving spiritual life to the small sections of the society as well as the life of the livelihood has created that tradition and its fortune I had found.\nToday the first phase is being held in Chhattisgarh. When the dates were declared, many people thought that there would be Diwali festivals, 4-5 days will go to Diwali festival and on the second day, if voting will be done, then the heat will come in the election or not. Many pundits were arguing in the air-conditioned rooms, but they did not know the mood of Bastar's public. When I came here, people tell me that there is an inclination of people towards very heavy polling. It is the duty of everyone to vote in a democracy. Do not give it to whom, do not give it, it is your choice but to vote - it is the biggest festival of democracy. And, I believe that those who show the bombs, guns and pistols will answer the power of the democracy today.\nI have full faith that people will be voting, they will be voting for maximum and that is the power of democracy. After one week, on 20th, our remaining areas are voted. This time, Chhattisgarh should make a new record, a new record by voting heavily. Messages should be sent in every family that first voting, then refreshments. And, this time there should be a competition between men and women that more men vote in the village that more women vote, and this time women should leave men behind. Must vote so heavily! Voting is a major factor in the celebration of democracy. And, I also congratulate the Election Commission that in these days the Election Commission also strives for more voting, publicity, plans, makes people aware. Election Commission has played a very big role and this is the power of democracy. And therefore, the Election commissioner is eligible for congratulations for the maximum voting which is continuing.\nBrothers and sisters, the Bharatiya Janata Party has succeeded in giving new ideas to politics by taking the same mantra. There were 52 elections in this country, but every election was contested in the name of caste-community, fought in the name of family, tax-tax was divided between me and you, the village and the city were divided, the rich And fought due to poor ditch And, in a month or two months, such a heat was created that those who thought well and well-minded were also flowing in that flow. But the Bharatiya Janata Party decided that if this country is to make dreams of the dreams of our independence, the country has to take on the heights of development, take towards prosperity, liberate the country from poverty, the village-poor If the people of the country have to give their right, then the country will have to be brought out of the division of caste, will have to rise above the high caste discrimination. And so, the Bharatiya Janata Party came in with a new stream in politics and it is the mantra of the current: -Solution: And where the opportunity was found by doing it. Those spells are development, development and development. Growth at a fast pace, development all around, whole development, development of everyone- we walked through this mantra. And that is why our opposition parties still do not understand how to deal with the Bharatiya Janata Party.\nTry to put the poison of caste into people, but today the poorest of the poor of India has also woken up. She wants development, she does not want to let her children go by giving her inheritance in heritage, she does not want to go to her children by giving illiteracy in heritage. She had to cut her life in the slums, in the forests, but her children did not live in such compulsion, this dream is also seeing the poorest of the poor from India. And we have come out with the determination to make those dreams come true, to fulfill the dream of every human being, we are moving towards resolution. And so, my brothers and sisters, go to any corner of Chhattisgarh today, go 25 kms in any direction, you will see somewhere in Chhattisgarh the development work is going to be seen somewhere.\nBrothers and sisters, we have a strong history of development which can be weighed on every scales, every criterion can be measured. We have achieved results on the issue of development on every criterion, have achieved change and the strength of the history of that development is that today the confidence of bright future is born. The belief of this bright future does not arise by criticizing others, does not arise due to abusive speech, non-love is not born from speaking language. The confidence of bright future arises when the reality of the work done on the foundation of development looks public. Then this belief arises and today I am experiencing this faith in every corner of Chhattisgarh.\nBrothers and sisters, we have crossed a new heights after development. But today, I just want to ask our opponents, what was the reason when Chhattisgarh was part of Madhya Pradesh then Madhya Pradesh was also counted as Bimalu, then Chhattisgarh's area was also considered as sick, backward region was counted, development was considered Nomination was not visible? You had ruled for 40-40 years, 50-50 years, why did you do this misery? And I tell you, if they had lived with them even after Chhattisgarh became new, then what things you are seeing today, you reach there. It may reach 50 years and probably still can not reach. And its reason is that their politics starts with a family and is fulfilled in that family.\nOur politics begins with the poor cottage and does not sleep without any change in the life of the poor, with this intention our politics runs. And therefore, we have given priority to development. Who is it that does not want his children to get good education, who is poor who lives in the slums, life passes on the sidewalk, who does not want that to get a good, very sure home, who does not Wants The mother who cooked the food for the children by burning a wooden stove, who does not want mother, that we should get rid of this smoke, get rid of this stove of wood, we also get a gas cylinder? Who does not want the poor The vegetable seller on the sidewalk also thinks that there is a front house of the bank, he also sells and sells vegetables every day, thinks when the day will come when I can also open the doors of this bank and go in. Will I be able to deposit it? The dream always sees the vegetable seller sitting on the sidewalk.\nBut those people grew up in families, people living for the family, they were disconnected, their distance of hundreds of miles from the hopes and aspirations of the common man was their distance. And therefore, slogans used to give slogans, but they did not have the policy to fulfill it, neither was the consensus nor did the Congress have got such a leadership that worked with the intention of living and die for the betterment of the country. And so brothers and sisters, we have shown. And, today I have come to tell you. You see, Congress has taken its own resolution now. Well, people have not done much notice. But when he removed 36 points for Chhattisgarh, which was a press conference in which the manifesto was given to him, all the newspersons reported that 36 points for Chhattisgarh but while issuing the manifesto Namdhari was said 150 times Sir, Sir, Sir, 150 times ! That is, the importance of Chhattisgarh was low for them, Namdhari .... This was everything for them.\nBrothers and sisters, this is our Chhattisgarh, you see, how long had the trouble been for the connection of the family gas in the Congress. When the slippers had to be rubbed in the house of the leaders, then the cylinders of the gas came. We got 26 lac families free from the front and delivered the cylinders of gas to Chhattisgarh alone and they have given gas connection to 1.5 lakh families in Bilaspur. . Have not promised, have done so.\nBrothers and sisters, we have opened more than 13 million accounts under the Pradhan Mantri Janhan Yojana. Within Chhattisgarh, the presence of 1.3 crore families in the bank means we have opened the doors of the bank for the poorest of the poor. And, the poor of my country is even more exposed than his rich wealthy. I told the poor that no one will keep the money, the account will open. But look at the richness of my poor, they deposited Rs 90,000 crore in banks and saved their money.\nBrothers and sisters, Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana ... You see, when the Congress party was the government, the speed at which time the house was built ... we have built houses in 4 years, to work at the pace of Congress to build as many houses Had it happened, then I believe that at least 30 years of the house we have built in 4 years in making so many houses. Now imagine that how much costly it would have been for 30 years, then the house? Imagine if you were 30 years old then the poor living in the slum, the son of his son, the weddings would have happened, in the slums, the house could not be found. It is the government that we had the possibility of getting after 30 years, we have shown it within 4 years. Brothers and sisters, over 6 lakh households have got poor families in Chhattisgarh.\nOut of this, 1.5 lakhs of our tribal families have been met. Not only this, I have got home of 40 thousand Prime Minister housing scheme in Bilaspur area. This discussion will not be done by the people of Congress, our opponents will not, and those who are going on bail in the racket of mother-son rupees are giving a certificate to Modi today. Those who are living on bail in the racket of money themselves are roaming out on bail, they are sharing honesty's certificates to others. Call for accounting It was the reason for this ban on the fact that fake companies were caught and fake companies were caught, due to which your business was caught and for that reason you had to get on bail. Because of this ban on the bail you had to take, why do you forget this?\nPeople ask me that Modi ji, the governments were also before. You make so many roads in comparison to earlier, doing the work of Railways at such a fast pace as before, are working to provide electricity so widely in comparison to earlier, compared to earlier you have electrification of the rail You are opening up such a large school, opening the IIM, opening the IIT, you are opening the AIIMS, where does it bring so many bucks? Many think that from where does Modi get money? My brothers and sisters, these rupees were also before, these rs are not of Modi, these are your own. लेकिन पहले, पहले ये रुपये किसी के बिस्तर के नीचे छुपे हुए थे, किसी के बोरे में भर करके रखा हुआ था, किसी के कबर्ड भरे पड़े हुए रहते थे। ये नोटबंदी लगी, ये सबको बाहर आना पड़ा। और वही रुपये हैं जो आज इतना सारा काम हो रहा है। ये रुपये आपके हैं और उसको आपके लिए खर्च करने में मेरी सरकार पूरी ताकत से लगी हुई हैऔर आपका जीवन बदलना, इस संकल्प को लेकर के चल पड़ी है। ये तेज गति से काम इसीलिए हो रहा है।\nइस देश में शक्ति में कमी नहीं है, इस देश के संकल्प में कमी नहीं है, इस देश के जनता-जनार्दन के आत्मविश्वास में कमी नहीं है। इस देश के सामान्य मानवी के सपने उतने ही महत्वपूर्ण हैं जितने कि इस देश के अमीर से अमीर लोगों के होते हैं। लेकिन रुपये कहीं न कहीं चले जाते थे। और, कांग्रेस के ही एक प्रधानमंत्री, एक परिवार की तीसरी पीढ़ी के प्रधानमंत्री (क्यूंकि वहाँ तो सबकुछ परिवार के लिए ही है), वो तीसरी पीढ़ी के प्रधानमंत्री ने कहा था कि दिल्ली से 1 रुपया निकलता है, 15 पैसा पहुंचता है। ये कौन सा पंजा था जो 85 पैसे मार लेता था? वो कौन सा पंजा था जो रुपया घिस-घिस के 15 पैसा बना देता था? ये नोटबंदी ने उन 85 पैसों को बाहर निकाला है। जो उनके पिताजी कह के गए थे, उनको बाहर निकालने का काम किया है। भाइयो-बहनो, जो लोग भ्रष्टाचार में ड़ूबे हुए हैं, जिनपे भ्रष्टाचार के आरोप लगे हुए हैं, जिनको भ्रष्टाचार के सिवाय काम करने का कोई तरीका आता नहीं है,ऐसे लोगों से देश ज्यादा अपेक्षा नहीं करता है। और इसलिए भाइयो-बहनो, हमें विकास की राह पे जाना है। विकास को हमने प्राथमिकता दी है।\nकभी स्वच्छ भारत अभियान का मजाक उड़ाना, कभी टूरिज्म डेवलपमेंट का मज़ाक उड़ाना…आज हर क्षेत्र में भारत विकास की नई ऊंचाइयों को पार कर रहा है। भाइयो-बहनो, हम आयुष्मान भारत योजना लाए। हमारा मत है कि देश के अंदर बच्चों को पढ़ाई, युवा को कमाई, किसान को सिंचाई और बुजुर्गों को दवाई- ये पूरा प्रबंध होना चाहिए। एक के बाद एक हम ऐसी योजनाएँ ला रहे हैं, जिससे हमारे सामान्य मानवी की आशा-आकांक्षाओं को पूर्ण कर पाएँ। आयुष्मान भारत-अभी तो योजना अभी-अभी शुरू की है, मुश्किल से महीना-सवा महीना पूरा हुआ है। लेकिन इस आयुष्मान भारत योजना के तहत अकेले छत्तीसगढ़ में 42 लाख परिवारों को इसका सीधा-सीधा लाभ मिलने वाला है। और लाभ क्या है? गंभीर बीमारी आई घर में तो इलाज के लिए बड़ा से बड़ा ऑपरेशन करना होगा तो गरीब को अब सोचने की जरूरत नहीं है। ये दिल्ली सरकार के खजाने से पैसे आएंगे और गरीब को साल में 5 लाख रुपये तक का खर्चा सरकार देगी। भाइयो-बहनो,पिछले दिनों पूरे देश में लाखों परिवार, कोई 2 साल से, 5 साल से पैसों के अभाव में अस्पताल नहीं जाते थे, उपचार नहीं कराते थे, गंभीर बीमारियों में बिस्तर पर पड़े हुए थे, जवान बेटे बिस्तर पर जिंदगी गुजार रहे थे, बेटियाँ परेशान थीं, बुजुर्गों को तकलीफ थी।\nजैसे ये योजना आई, लाखों की तादाद में ऐसे गरीबों ने अस्पताल के दरवाजे खटखटाए और ये आयुष्मान भारत जिसके कारण उनका तत्काल उपचार हुआ, ऑपरेशन हुआ और वो आज अपने घर में एक नई आशा और विश्वास के साथ फिर से वापस चले गए हैं और ये निरंतर चल रहा है। छत्तीसगढ़ में भी हजारों ऐसे परिवारों ने आयुष्मान भारत योजना के तहत आज काम लिया है।करीब देश भर में 2 लाख से ज्यादा लोगों का उपचार पिछले 30-40 दिन में हो गया है। ये बहुत बड़ा काम है। ये वो लोग हैं जो शायद मरना पसंद करते लेकिन अस्पताल जाना पसंद नहीं करते। अगर जाते तो भी कर्जदार हो जाते, कर्ज लेना पड़ता और बेटे के बेटे भी वो कर्ज नहीं चुका पाते। वो काम इस बेटे ने कर दिया है, भाइयो-बहनो, इस बेटे ने किया है। और इसलिए भाइयो-बहनो, गरीब के कल्याण, सामान्य मानवी की जिंदगी में बदलाव- इस काम को लेकर के हम चल रहे हैं। तब भाइयो-बहनो, ये हमारा बिलासपुर स्मार्ट सिटी बनना चाहिए। इसे स्मार्ट सिटी बनाना है हमें। और इसके लिए, भारत सरकार पूरी तरह आपको योजनाओं में मदद करके बिलासपुर को बदल करके रखेगी, ये मैं आपको विश्वास दिलाता हूँ।\nहमारी सरकार ने एक डिस्ट्रिक्ट मिनरल फंड की योजना बनाई। अब छत्तीसगढ़ में ब्लैक गोल्ड, काला सोना चला जाता था। लेकिन यहाँ के लोगों को क्या मिलता था? डिस्ट्रिक्ट मिनरल फंड बनाया और डिस्ट्रिक्ट के लिए बनाया। उसके कारण छत्तीसगढ़ के ऐसे इलाकों को करीब 3 हजार करोड़ रुपया मिला है, 3 हजार करोड़ रुपया! और उससे विकास की नई योजनाएँ साकार हो रही हैं।\nभाइयो-बहनो, भारतीय जनता पार्टी छत्तीसगढ़ ने जो मैनिफेस्टो घोषित किया है, जो संकल्प पत्र घोषित किया है, उसके लिए भी मैं उनको बधाई देता हूँ। छत्तीसगढ़ को नक्सलवाद से मुक्त करने का बीड़ा अगर कोई पूरा कर सकता है तो हम ही कर सकते हैं और कोई नहीं कर सकते। अरे जिन्होंने जन्म दिया, जिन्होंने पाला-पोसा, वो उसको खत्म करेंगे क्या? करेंगे क्या? हम ही कर सकते हैं, वे कभी नहीं कर सकते क्यूंकि उनका तो सारा कारोबार ही है और इसलिए उनके बचाव में बोलते रहते हैं, क्रांतिकारी कह देते हैं। मैं छत्तीसगढ़ की भारतीय जनता पार्टी को बधाई देता हूँ कि उन्होंने मल्टी-स्पेशलिटी अस्पताल हर जिले में बनाने का संकल्प किया है। ये बहुत बड़ा काम है। भारत सरकार की योजना और ये मल्टी-स्पेशलिटी हॉस्पिटल, उसके पनपने के लिए बहुत सुविधा बन जाएगी। फिर, छत्तीसगढ़ में डॉक्टरों की भी संख्या बढ़ती चली जाएगी, यहाँ के बच्चों को मेडिकल पढ़ने का मौका मिलेगा। हेल्थ के सेक्टर में पीछे मुड़ कर देखने की नौबत नहीं आएगी। देश इस गंभीर समस्या से बाहर निकल जाएगा, इस विश्वास के साथ हम आगे बढ़ रहे हैं।\nजो लघु और सीमांत किसान हैं हमारे, भूमिहीन कृषि मजदूर हैं और 60 साल से ऊपर के हैं, उनको 1000 रुपये का पेंशन देने का एक बहुत ही नवीनतम काम का हमारे छत्तीसगढ़ की भारतीय जनता पार्टी ने बीड़ा उठाया है। ऐसे कई काम जिनसे किसानों को कितना लाभ होगा जिसका हम अंदाजा कर सकते हैं। भाइयो-बहनो, लघु उद्योग हों, नौजवानों के रोजगार का विषय हो, एक नया छत्तीसगढ़ बनाने का सपना हो और संकल्प हो। और, छत्तीसगढ़ पुरुषार्थ में विश्वास करता है, छत्तीसगढ़ साहस करने में विश्वास करता है,छत्तीसगढ़ सपनों को पूरा करने के लिए सामर्थ्य के साथ आगे बढ़ने में विश्वास करता है।\nमैं आपसे आग्रह करने आया हूँ कि फिर एक बार भारतीय जनता पार्टी को वोट देकर के, डॉक्टर रमन सिंह जी की काम करने वाली सरकार को फिर से काम करने का मौका दीजिए। और, आज छत्तीसगढ़ की उम्र 18 साल है। घर में बेटे-बेटी भी 18 साल के हो जाते हैं ना तो परिवार के जो मुखिया होते हैं उनका सोचने का तरीका बदल जाता है। 18 साल के बेटे-बेटी के लिए नए तरीके से सोचा जाता है। उनके नए सपने होते हैं, नए संकल्प होते हैं,उन्हें नई दुनिया में जाना होता है। 18 साल तक तो घर में एक अवस्था होती है, 18 साल के बाद दूसरी अवस्था होती है। अब छत्तीसगढ़ 18 साल का हुआ है। आप इस छत्तीसगढ़ के मालिक हैं, आप छत्तीसगढ़ के माँ-बाप हैं। 18 साल के छत्तीसगढ़ को आगे कैसे बढ़ाना है, ये निर्णय आपका है। और, कोई समझदार मालिक, कोई समझदार माँ-बाप, 18 साल की उम्र में बच्चे के संबंध में कोई गलती नहीं करता है, कभी गलती नहीं करता है। अगर गलती कर देता है तो वो बेटा ही उसके लिए समस्या बन जाता है।\nभाइयो-बहनो, मुझे विश्वास है…छत्तीसगढ़ के मेरे प्यारे भाइयो-बहनो, हमारे रिकॉर्ड को देखते हुए, विकास के संकल्प को देखते हुए, आने वाले दिनों में 18 साल की उमरिया वाला मेरा छत्तीसगढ़ जो अब तेजतर्रार जवान की तरह दौड़ने वाला है तब कोई आकर के कहीं ब्रेक न लगा दे, इसकी चिंता आपको करनी है। और इसलिए भारतीय जनता पार्टी के कमल निशान पर बटन दबा करके फिर से एक बार भारतीय जनता पार्टी की सरकार बनानी है, इसी एक अपेक्षा के साथ आज मैं आपके बीच आया हूँ। मुझे पूरा विश्वास है कि छत्तीसगढ़ फिर एक बार कमल के रंग में रंग जाएगा, फिर एक बार विकास की नई ऊंचाइयों की ओर तेज गति से आगे बढ़ेगा। इस विश्वास के साथ, आप सबको बहुत शुभकामनाएँ देते हुए, हमारे सभी उम्मीदवारों को बहुत शुभकामनाएँ देते हुए मैं मेरी वाणी को विराम देता हूँ।\nमेरे साथ दोनों हाथ मुट्ठी बंद करके ज़ोर से बोलिए- भारत माता की जय! Long live Mother India! Long live Mother India!\nThanks a lot."