"Share\n\nWe are not trying to save the region. We are making efforts to increase the quality of life here: PM Modi\nFor us, the mantra is 'Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas'. We do not discriminate anyone on the grounds of gender and caste: PM in Chhattisgarh\nTeach a fitting lesson to the Congress leaders, who on one hand try to shield the urban maoists, and in the state of Chhattisgarh talk about freeing the state from Maoists: PM\nCongress always considers the poor, dalits, tribals and the marginalised as their vote-bank. It was Atal Bihari Vajpayee Ji who thought about his welfare and created an tribal affairs ministry: PM\nJai Maa Danteshwari .. Jai Maa Danteeshwari ..\nSuccessful and popular Chief Minister of Chhattisgarh, our friend Dr. Raman Singh Ji, my colleague Mr. Dinesh Kashyap ji in Parliament, Mr. Kamal Chandra Bhanjdev, a member of my family, in this election, Bharatiya Janata Party candidate from Bastar, Mrs. Subhau Kashyap ji, brother Santosh Bafna from Jagdalpur, Lakhru ram Kashyap ji from Chitrakoot, Bhima Ram Mandavi ji from Dantewada, from Kota Niram Barse ji, Mahesh Gagra ji from Bijapur, Ms Lata Usendi from Kondagaon, Harishankar Netam ji from Keshakal, Kedar Kashyap ji from Narayanpur ... Bless all these all my colleagues by thanking you ... Thank you very much. your.\nAll the senior noblemen of the Bharatiya Janata Party sitting on the platform, the festival of Diwali is going on, the holy festival of Bhai Duj, even though you come here in such a large number ... far away, wherever I look People are standing in the sun It is not the election gathering, it seems that the rally that has taken place in the development has changed in the Janasagar today.\nThe election of this round is the election in five states and I got the privilege of doing the initiation of Danteshwari. Today, I have come to demand something from you on the holy festival of Bhai Duj, where the blessings of mothers and sisters are always my strength. Now our friend Raman Singh Ji was telling that as many Prime Ministers have been in this country, more often than I have come to Bastar, I have come alone, but whenever I came, I have not come empty handed. I have come to pay my responsibility, I have come up with some new plans for your favorable development, your hope, aspiration, expectations. Your children will have a bright future, coming generation generation ... In Bastar, poverty never again can not even face it. It is to strengthen Bastar, make rich. From here to unemployment, poverty from here, starvation from here, to eradicate all these things which we are constantly trying. In the same sequence, I have been fortunate enough to come in between you. And this is our obligation because you have given us the responsibility, to liberate you from difficulties, to increase as many facilities as possible, to develop your own arrangements to fulfill your dreams that your hard work, your happiness, your resolve To fulfill all your wishes, that environment is appropriate, come to work and we have been continuously talking about this.\nAfter so many years of independence ... elections were held before, politicians also used to come before, the governments were made earlier too, but the thinking of those governments was that ... mine-yours, my own, my caste, my friend The community, my locality, my relative, my family, all their business ran around this and even today they are leaders of these parties, the activities of these parties ... their aim was to work well for their limited area. Stare Making his kindred, to fills cases of vote and are moving their world. We have come and changed the conditions. Not my own, my race, my caste-your race ... not discrimination, not discrimination in the city and village; discrimination among the oppressed, oppressed, deprived tribal people, not discrimination between men and women; in the young and the elderly No discrimination. They have finished the walls of discrimination with the same mantra, together with everyone, everyone's development. We also need everyone together and we have to do all the development. My game of yours is no longer acceptable to anyone within the country and therefore, brothers and sisters, today Raman Singh was telling a lot of plans, so many roads became so much that the train became so much that it happened so much that it happened. How was this brother? People are surprised ... the governments were even before but why were not so many things done? Look at anywhere, some development work is going on. The reason for this was the same ... money was earlier, the plans were earlier but the business was in the hands of intermediaries and hence there was nothing to gain from below. We ended these intermediaries and cleared the way. You are getting your rights and therefore my dear brothers and sisters, for your development, when we are continuously working on this one mantra ... child ... the child of the poor is in the womb of mother At the time of the birth of a child, there is a child, the age of anganwadi, the age of education in the school, the age of studying in college, the strength of working skill development, employment opportunities come, marriage opportunity Yes, the time to build a home Came to be, farming-Bari arrangements are required to be aging to hand, it is not a term of life in which you stand right with you do not help, our government hold your hand.\nTake a look at the whole journey from home to death to reach the death. In every work somewhere the government stands with you, worries you. And so, brothers and sisters, I said at the beginning ... I have come again and again, I have come with some talk of development of this area, I have come with the plan and the result of that is till tomorrow Had not been able to think in old governance and never used to grow then give names of Naxal and Maoists ... there can not be. We have decided, there will also be there. In the hands of those children who should have pen in their hands, these demonic people catch guns, waste their lives, destroy their parents' dreams. If a fire in the school is not a monstrous attitude then what is it, who does not allow doctors to work in the hospital is not a monstrous attitude. And you must have seen, the urban Maoists who live in the air-conditioned homes in the cities, look neatly, create the status of sit-ups in the best people, their children study abroad, roam in the good trains, But they do this work of destroying the life of our tribal children with a remote system sitting there. And one such tribe ... the people of Congress fighting in this election answer that you make statements against the defense of the armed Maoists, if the government takes legal action against them, then you come to the field to save them and come here Let's talk about the naxalism and stir up the vote! Will such people forgive me ... will forgive the person who wastes your life ... will they allow such people to enter the land of Chhattisgarh again? We have to save the Bastar that is not to save, we have to change Bastar or not to change, we have to make a new Bastar or not, we have to change the future of every young man in Bastar or not to change, we have the future of the mothers and sisters of Bastar. Change that does not change? And so, brothers and sisters, I have come to urge you that all the seats on Bastar's land should be blossomed only and only lotus, if anybody else has come .. There is no one coming to Chhattisgarh but in some corner of Bastar If they go, they will stain in the whole of Bastar's dreams .. And that's why, brothers and sisters, I have to serve you, I have to fulfill the dreams of Atal Bihari Vajpayee and the dreams which Atal ji did not see, have come to Chhattisgarh repeatedly to fulfill, repeatedly the land of Bastar I have come here and today I have come to repeat that resolution again till I complete the dreams of Atal ji, I am not going to sit in peace.\nBrothers and sisters, now our Chhattisgarh has been 18 years old ... By the age of 18, the needs of the child in the house are different, but after 18, his needs change, his needs change. Even the parents ... if they are sensible then with the children after 18 years ... according to their need, expenses have to be changed in their budget. They have to go out to friends and friends, so parents think for children, let's not make clothes this year but will bring a good shirt for the son because they have a good image of their friends. Tell the daughter that she will teach her to daughter, she will teach them, prepare her like this before marriage. Every house has an 18-year-old son and daughter, then all the dreams of the house begin to weave for those 18 years old children. Brothers and sisters, when Chhattisgarh is 18 years old, the government sitting in Delhi is also engaged in knitting the dreams of Chhattisgarh, which is 18 years old. Your 18-year-old dreams are different and we have taken the initiative to understand and work for you. Tell me, brothers and sisters, the journey that is after 18 years, should be done at a fast pace or should not be in all directions, should not be there, should every family reach or should not? For this work, Raman Singh wants to walk with his shoulder and should complete the dreams of Atal Bihari Vajpayee.\nBrothers and sisters, when we were part of Madhya Pradesh ... Atal ji saw this Congress government which ruled in Madhya Pradesh for so many years and Chhattisgarh was part of it, people had to face starvation, at night the house If you will not burn, the son will sleep the tears that will eat some of the drinkers, they also got worried. Given the need to pay special attention to Chhattisgarh, considering the need to pay special attention to Bastar, Vajpayee ji built Chhattisgarh. Initially, in the hands of such people went to Chhattisgarh, it seemed that they would ruin, will ruin, but the people of Chhattisgarh were sensible, here my tribal brother was sensible, here my Dalit brother was sensible, here my mother Mothers and sisters were sensible and at that time I used to work in the middle of an organization as a worker and then I saw people's mood and not the people of the big city I understand that my brothers and sisters living in the forest were very easy to understand and they threw them out and watched them and handed them Chhattisgarh in the hands of Bharatiya Janata Party in safe hands.\nThere is no need to look back and look back today. The strength of this work is due to the understanding of the people of Chhattisgarh. Whatever happened today in Chhattisgarh, it has happened due to the fact that you have given the opportunity to the Bharatiya Janata Party. This is due to your understanding, it is due to your basic tendency to think about the good of your Chhattisgarh. And that's why brothers and sisters, do not have to stop this journey, and this journey is ahead ... This is the time after 18 years, that day will not be far when Chhattisgarh will start counting in the prosperous states of India. That day will not be far away, people from all over India are investing in capital, then let Chhattisgarh, Lakshi-roti kamanii, then Chhatisgarh, money and wealth should be spent, then Chhattisgarh ... these days will not be far, my dear brothers and sisters, So the height of Chhattisgarh is due to come, because we have shed blood and sweat for 15 years and we will get the result of it for the coming years, we will be able to meet your children. Are. And that's why we have come here today to ask you, brothers and sisters, central and state when working together and I tell you when Raman Singh ji was running the government here, that was 10 years passed ... that was his job to put Delhi . It was difficult for him to defeat Raman Singh, it was difficult to overthrow Bharatiya Janata Party in Chhattisgarh; then for ten years, the government in Delhi was sitting, whom was sitting, whose government was, whose government was, who used to run, who used to run Who used to run, whose face was, who was the business, and there was such a fire in his heart that Raman Singh ... in Chhattisgarh, this BJP? ... He kept searching for that for 10 years ... all the work here Go, hang on A, has fallen, causing dissatisfaction among the people ... all these acts were, but the BJP is not the nature of living a grace. Ours is 100 million Hindus, and no one can be our high command. Janata Janardhana is paramount for us ... and therefore whatever resources were there ... Delhi did not give any help, despite this, it did not leave any stone unturned in pursuing Chhattisgarh. But, for the last 4 years, we got an opportunity ... so we decided that the Delhi government will do the job of filling the 10-year pothole in Chhattisgarh and we did. The work that has not been done in 10 years has been done on Chhattisgarh soil in 4 years and that is why the brothers, when their government, the roads going to the village in 10 years ... rural road was 20 thousand kilometers, 10 years In 20 thousand ... if there was still his government in Delhi then you would have been stuck there only there. Our government built 30 thousand kilometers in four years of coming.\nNow tell me the working government wants people who want to stop the work, they should. The working government needs or should not. It should be our dream that your village should get the road as quickly as possible ... will you wait 20-20, 25-25 years after so many years of independence? And therefore it is necessary to be a fast-moving government. दिल्ली में ऐसी सरकार बैठी है और यहां छत्तीसगढ़ की सरकार दोनों कंधे से कंधा मिलाकर के चलते हैं...और मैं जब पिछले चुनाव में आया था...तब मैं गुजरात का मुख्यमंत्री था और तब मैंने आपको कहा था कि केंद्र में ऐसी सरकार आने वाली है कि छत्तीसगढ़ को डबल इंजन मिलने वाला है एक रायपुर का इंजन...एक नई दिल्ली का इंजन और दोनों मिलाकर के छत्तीसगढ़ को आगे ले जाएंगे और हमने करके दिखाया है। भाइयो-बहनो, इन 4 साल में छत्तीसगढ़ के 9,000 से ज्यादा गांवों को सड़क से जोड़ा गया। इतना ही नहीं करीब 35,000 करोड़ रुपया लगा करके 3,000 किलोमीटर के नेशनल हाईवे का काम हमारी सरकार ने छत्तीसगढ़ की  धरती पर किया है और नेशनल हाईवे बनने से छत्तीसगढ़ देश की अर्थव्यवस्था की मुख्यधारा का हिस्सा बन गया है। वो सिर्फ गाड़ियां तेज दौड़ने का हिस्सा नहीं होता है...ये बड़े रास्ते...नेशनल हाईवे अर्थव्यवस्था का हिस्सा बनते हैं,  अर्थव्यवस्था को गति देने का काम करते हैं। इतने कम समय में ये हमने करके दिखाया। करीब 12,000 करोड़ रुपये से 7 नई रेलवे लाइनों को मंजूरी दे दी गई। 11,000 करोड़ रुपये से ज्यादा लागत की 15 हजार किलोमीटर की रेल लाइन के चौड़ीकरण का काम भी हमारी सरकार ने स्वीकृत कर दिया है। भाइयो-बहनो, आज यहां का कोना-कोना विकास का पर्याय बना हुआ है। दुर्ग-कोंदल से लेकर भोपालपटनम तक आपको विकास ही विकास नजर आने लगा, ये दोनों सरकार ने मिलकर के काम किया इसके कारण हुआ है। भाइयो-बहनो, किसी ने सोचा था कि जगदलपुर के हवाई अड्डे से जहाज दिल्ली जाएंगे, उड़ेंगे, लोगों को लाएंगे-ले जाएंगे, आज हवाई अड्डा बना कि नहीं बना। भाइयो-बहनो, कोई सोच सकता था कि यहां पर बस्तर की अपनी यूनिवर्सिटी हो, बस्तर का अपना मेडिकल कॉलेज हो, बस्तर का अपना इंजीनियरिंग कॉलेज हो, राजधानी रायपुर में जैसी सुविधाएं हैं वैसी सुविधाएं सुकमा, दंतेवाड़ा या बीजापुर हो, उसमें उपलब्ध हो, ये क्या कभी पहले किसी ने सोचा तक था? भाइयो-बहनो, ये हमने करके दिखाया। और इसीलिए भाइयो-बहनो, और कांग्रेस पार्टी को तो ये दलित हो, पीड़ित हो, शोषित हो, वंचित हो, गरीब हो इसको तो वो अपना खजाना मानते हैं, खजाना। अपने वोट बैंक के रूप में ही उसको देखते हैं, इंसान के रूप में देखने को तैयार नहीं हैं। इतने साल वो सरकार में रहे लेकिन कभी भारत सरकार में अलग आदिवासियों के विकास का मंत्रालय नहीं बनाया। इतने उनके प्रधानमंत्री हो गए , इतनी सरकारें हो गईं...ये अटल बिहारी वाजपेयी देश के पहले ऐसे प्रधानमंत्री बने जिन्होंने हिन्दुस्तान के आदिवासियों के लिए भारत सरकार में अलग आदिवासी मंत्रालय बनाया, अलग बजट बनाया, अलग अफसर लगाए, अलग मंत्री बनाया, आदिवासी मंत्री को एक विभाग दिया और देश में आदिवासियों के विकास के लिए वैज्ञानिक तरीके से आगे बढ़ने का सिलसिला अटल बिहारी वाजपेयी के प्रधानमं   ्री बनने के बाद हुआ। ये भारतीय जनता पार्टी की सोच के कारण होता है, ये भारतीय जनता पार्टी के संस्कार के कारण होता है कि समाज के दबे-कुचले लोगों को विशेष ध्यान देकर के उनको सबकी बराबरी में एक बार ले आएंगे तो देश को तेज गति से आगे बढ़ाने में सभी सवा सौ करोड़ देशवासी समान रूप से योगदान दे पाएंगे। इस बात को लेकर के हम चले हैं। लेकिन कांग्रेस पार्टी को तो आदिवासियों का मजाक उड़ाना है, उनके कपड़ों का मजाक उड़ाना है, उनके पहनावे का, उनके नाच-गान का, उनके गाजे बाजे का...ये उनको मजा आता है। मैं तो हैरान हूं, मैं एक बार पूर्वोत्तर में गया था...वहां के मेरे आदिवासी भाइयों-बहनों ने बड़े प्यार से, सम्मान से मुझे एक टोपा पहनाया, पगड़ी पहनाई...उनके प्रकार की एक पगड़ी थी...मैंने बड़े शान से पहनी क्योंकि जंगलों में ज़िंदगी गुजारने वाले मेरे ही देश के एक भाई ने मुझे पहनाई थी। उसकी फोटो अखबारों में छप गई तो कांग्रेस के नेताओं ने उस पगड़ी का ऐसा मजाक उड़ाया, ऐसा मजाक उड़ाया और पूरे पूर्वोत्तर भारत के हमारे देश के लोग नाराज हो गए, देश के आदिवासी नाराज हो गए कि आप...देश के प्रधानमंत्री, आदिवासियों के कपड़ों को, पहनावे को, जीवन को इतना सम्मान देते हैं, उनकी अगर पगड़ी पहनी तो आप उसका मजाक उड़ाते हो। तब कांग्रेस वाले डर गए कि अब लेने के देने पड़ गए क्योंकि पहले तो उनकी ही गाड़ी चलती थी, अब देश का एक-एक व्यक्ति उसके पास जानकारियां हैं, वो जागरूक हो चुका है। ये कांग्रेस वाले जो घुट्टी पिलाते थे वो जमाना अब चला गया। उनका झूठ लंबा नहीं चल सकता भाइयो-बहनो और इसलिए अब फिर बोलने की हिम्मत नहीं करते...लेकिन क्या इस प्रकार से हमारे देश के आदिवासियों को अपमानित करते रहोगे। भाइयो-बहनो, ये हमारी बस्तरिया पहचान...और मेरे..मुझे सबसे पहले इस बस्तर क्षेत्र में विस्तार से किसी ने प्रवास करवाया था...हर-जगह पर ले जाते थे तो हमारे पुराने साथी बलिराम कश्यप जी मुझे ले जाते थे। हर जगह पर और उनको इतनी जानकारियां रहती थीं... हर चीज वो मुझे समझाते थे, सब क्षेत्र में कई दिनों तक मेरा उनके साथ भ्रमण होता था...यहां की खाने की चीजें कैसी होती हैं, यहां के बोलचाल के शब्दों का क्या अर्थ होता है...ये जगह किस चीज के लिए है...ये जगह कैसे बनी..यहां कौन सी लड़ाई हुई थी, सारी बातें बताते थे भाइयो-बहनो। आज जब मैं बस्तरिया पहचान की बात करता हूं, तो मुझे लगता है कि हमारे बलिराम कश्यप जी की आत्मा जहां भी होगी, उनको संतोष मिलता होगा, उनको आनंद होता होगा कि देश में एक ऐसा प्रधानमंत्री है जिसको कभी मैंने बस्तर की रोटी खिलाई थी वो भूला नहीं है और उस बस्तरिया पहचान के लिए, बलिराम कश्यप जी जैसे लोगों के सपनों को पूरा करने के लिए आज वो काम कर रहा है, ये भाव उनके अंदर आता होगा।\nभाइयो-बहनो, हमारे लिए...कांग्रेस पार्टी..आपको याद है...यही आदिवासियों को कांग्रेस ने गोलियों से भून दिया था...60 से अधिक मेरे आदिवासी भाई-बहनों को मार दिया गया था। क्या गुनाह था उनका, क्यों मार दिया था...कांग्रेस पार्टी के लोगों के पास जवाब नहीं है भाइयो-बहनो। महाराज प्रवीरचंद भंजदेव जी वो यहां आंदोलन चला रहे थे, खुद के लिए नहीं चलाते थे, आदिवासियों के अधिकार के लिए चलाते थे, आदिवासियों को हक दिलाने के लिए चलाते थे...उनके साथ क्या हुआ, ये बस्तर की हर मिट्टी को पता है, हर पेड़-पौधे को पता है, हर बच्चे को पता है जी और उस आंदोलन के बदले में 60 आदिवासियों को मार दिया...हमें महाराज साहब को खोना पड़ा। ऐसा जुल्म करने वाली कांग्रेस पार्टी आपके पास आज गुमराह करने के लिए उतर पड़ी है। और इसीलिए भाइयो-बहनो मैं आपसे आग्रह करूंगा कि हमें बस्तर के उज्ज्वल भविष्य के दिन किसी के हाथ में जाकर के तबाह नहीं होने देने हैं, बर्बाद नहीं होने देने हैं और वो दिन भी दूर नहीं कि छत्तीसगढ़ का भविष्य़ भी बस्तर की आर्थिक समृद्धि से जुड़ने वाला है। लोग बस्तर की  आर्थिक समृध्दि से पूरे छत्तीसगढ़ की आर्थिक समृद्धि देखने वाले हैं। \nभाइयो-बहनो, इन्होंने इतने साल सरकार चलाई लेकिन इनको महलों की दुनिया का पता था, परिवार की दुनिया का पता था, मेरे जंगलों का पता नहीं था। आप मुझे बताइए....क्या कारण होगा कि इन्होंने कानूनन हमारे जंगल में आदिवासियों की मील्कियत बांस को उन्होंने पेड़ की कैटेगरी में डाल दिया। अब पर्यावरण के कानून ऐसे हैं कि आप पेड़ काट नहीं सकते...उसके कारण मेरा आदिवासी बांस भी काट नहीं सकता। जिस बांस से उसकी अर्थव्यवस्था चलती, रोजी-रोटी चलती, घर बनाता, सामान बनाकर बेचता वो बांस काटने पर मंजूरी ही नहीं। मैं हैरान था कि आजादी के इतने सालों के बाद भी जमीन से कटे हुए, महलों में पले-बढ़े, सोने के चम्मच लेकर के पैदा हुए कांग्रेस के नेता कभी आदिवासी की समस्या समझ नहीं पाए भाइयो-बहनो। हम आप ही के बीच से पले बढ़े आगे आए हैं जी... बस्तर की मिट्टी में पैदल घूमने का सौभाग्य मिला है तो हमें पता चलता है कि बांस को ग्रास की कैटेगरी में डालो और बांस को, हमारे आदिवासियों को हक दिला दीजिए। हमने कानून में परिवर्तन किया और आज पूरे हिन्दुस्तान के आदिवासियों की सबसे बड़ी ताकत वो बांस उसकी अर्थव्यवस्था के केंद्र में आ गया। उसको कानूनी झंझटों से मुक्ति मिल गई।   \nभाइयो-बहनो, यहां पर आपने देखा होगा हमारे देश के पत्रकारिता जगत से जुड़ा हुआ दूरदर्शन का हमारा एक साथी, हमारे लोकतंत्र के पर्व को कैमरा में कैद करने के लिए जंगलों के अंदर जाकर के लोगों से मिलकर के लोकशक्ति, लोकशाही इसका गुणगान करने के लिए अपना जीवन खपा दे रहा था, वो हमारे भाई अच्युत साहू को माओवादियों ने गोलियों से भून दिया, उसे मौत का शिकार बना दिया। क्या गुनाह था उसका? वो तो आपके कल्याण की बात लेकर आया था, आपके सपनों को दुनिया के सामने ले जाने के लिए वो अपने कंधे पर कैमरा लेकर के घूम रहा था। वो बंदूक लेकर नहीं आया था, वो कंधे पर कैमरा लेकर आया था और उसे मार दिया जाए? अभी दो दिन पहले हमारे 5 जवान शहीद हो गए। ये माओवादी निर्दोषों की हत्या करें औऱ ये कांग्रेस के नेता उन्हें क्रांतिकारी कहें, क्या आपको ये बात मंजूर है क्या...कांग्रेस पार्टी की ये बात आपको मंजूर है क्या? निर्दोषों को मौत के घाट उतारने वाले लोगों को कांग्रेस क्रांतिकारी कहे...क्या ऐसी कांग्रेस को हिन्दुस्तान में जगह होनी चाहिए क्या? क्या भाषा बोल रहे हैं...एक पत्रकार को जिन्होंने, एक निर्दोष पत्रकार को जिन लोगों ने मौत के घाट के उतार दिया वो आपको क्रांतिकारी लगने लगे हैं? ये देश कभी कांग्रेस के नेताओं को कभी माफ नहीं करेगा...ये कैसी जुबान बोल रहे हैं। और भाइयो-बहनो, देश को गुमराह करना, झूठ बोलना ये उनकी प्रकृति बन गई है और मुझे विश्वास है इस प्रकार से काम करने वाले लोगों को, ऐसी कांग्रेस पार्टी का कोई भविष्य नहीं है जी। और जिनको झूठ के सहारे जीना पड़े, तब मान लीजिए कि धरती पर उनके पास जगह बची नहीं है। आए दिन लगातार झूठ बोलो..बार-बार बोलो, जहां जाओ वहां बोलो, जो मिले उसको बोलो, यही उन्होंने मंत्र ले लिया है। हमारा मंत्र है सबका साथ, सबका विकास। हमारा मंत्र है विकास..विकास..विकास और उनका कारोबार है झूठ बोलो..झूठ बोलो..झूठ बोलो। और इसीलिए भाइयो-बहनो, 12 तारीख को मतदान है बार-बार भाजपा, ये 12 तारीख का मंत्र लेकर के भारी संख्या में मतदान करें। इस चुनाव को रक्तरंजित करने का सपना देखने वालों को अभूतपूर्व मतदान करके जवाब दीजिए। लोकतंत्र ही हमारी समस्याओं का समाधान दे सकता है। बैठ करके...विवाद का संवाद से, चर्चा से समस्याओं का समाधान हो सकता है, यही रास्ता लोकतंत्र में होता है। बम-बंदूक के रास्ते से समस्याओं के समाधान नहीं होते हैं।   \nभाइयो-बहनो, हमें शांति की राह पर चलना है। 18 साल के छत्तीसगढ़ के सपने एक नौजवान के सपने हैं। वो अधीर होता है, ज्यादा इंतजार नहीं करता है और मैं भी अधीर हूं आपके विकास के लिए। आइए, आपके सपने-हमारा पसीना, आपके सपने-हमारा पुरुषार्थ, आपके सपने- हमारा संकल्प...आओ मिलकर के चल पड़ें...एक नया बस्तर बनाएं, एक नया छत्तीसगढ़ बनाएं...फिर रमन सिंह की सरकार बनाएं...फिर भारतीय जनता पार्टी की सरकार बनाएं। मेरे साथ बोलिए भारत माता की...जय, भारत माता की...जय, भारत माता की...जय। बहुत-बहुत धन्यवाद! "