"\nPM Modi dedicates world's tallest statue, the 'Statue of Unity', to the nation\nStatue of Unity will continue to revive the future of the courage, capability and resolve of Sardar Patel: PM Modi\nThe integration of India by Sardar Patel, has resulted in India's march towards becoming a big economic and strategic power: PM\nThe Aspirations of the youth of India can be achieved only through the \"Ek Bharat, Shrestha Bharat\": PM Modi\nI will say Sardar Patel, you will say- live immortal, immortal.\nSardar Patel. Immortal, immortal,\nSardar Patel. Immortal, immortal,\nSardar Patel. Immortal, immortal,\nI would like another slogan, who resonated from this land every moment in this country. I will say, the unity of the country, you will say - Zindabad, Zindabad\nUnity of the country - Zindabad, Zindabad.\nUnity of the country - Zindabad, Zindabad.\nUnity of the country - Zindabad, Zindabad.\nUnity of the country - Zindabad, Zindabad.\nGovernor of Gujarat Shri Om Prakash Kohli, the Chief Minister of the State, Mr. Vijay Rupani ji, Governor of Karnataka, Shri Vajubhai Vala, Governor of Madhya Pradesh Mrs. Anandi Ben Patel, Member of Parliament and member of Rajya Sabha Mr. Amit Bhai Shah, Gujarat Chief Minister Shri Nitin Bhai, Assembly Speaker Rajendra Ji, Excellency and Mer Dear brothers and sisters.\nOn the historic occasion of Satpura and Vindh, on the shores of this sacred stream of Mother Narmada, I congratulate all of you, the countrymen, the Hindus spread all over the world and everyone who loves Hindustan.\nToday the entire country is celebrating National Integration Day in memory of Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel. On this occasion our young men are racing for the unity and integrity of India in every corner of the country. Run for Unity I also greet all those participating in this. Your Bharat Bhakti and this is the same feeling of Bharat Bhakti which has flourished for thousands of years, our civilization has flourished and is flourishing. Colleagues come to such an opportunity in the history of any country when they fully realize. Today it is the moment that gets recorded in the history of a nation forever and it is very difficult to get rid of it. Today's day is also a momentous moment from such a few moments in India's history. We were walking for so many years of independence by taking an incomplete decision to give India the right place for a great personality devoted to the honor of India.\nToday, the present Indian has done the task of highlighting a golden man in his history. Today, while taking the throne from the earth to the head, Sardar Saheb is being anointed, then India has not only created a new history for itself, but has also prepared a skyscraper of inspiration for the future. It is my good fortune that I have had the opportunity to dedicate this huge statue of Sardar Sahib to the country. When I envisioned it as Chief Minister of Gujarat, I did not realize that one day as a Prime Minister, I would get an opportunity to do this virtuous work. For this blessing of Sardar Saheb, I consider myself blessed for the blessings of the people of the country. I am very grateful to the people of Gujarat for the congratulations that I have given to the people of Gujarat today. I do not have this honor letter or congratulatory letter for me, but in the soil in which there is a ritual, among which a mother gets her hand on the back of her son, the power, enthusiasm, and energy of the son increases thousands of times. In your honor letter today, I am feeling that blessing. I have also been given the first piece of iron found during the iron campaign. When we started the campaign in Ahmedabad, the flag that was hoisted was also given to me as a gift. I am grateful to all of you towards the people of Gujarat. And I will leave these things here, so that you can keep it in the museum here, so that the country can know.\nI am remembering that old day and today I am still very happy to say a lot. I am remembering the days when the soil was sought from the farmers from the villages across the country and work was being done to collect the old tools worked in the field. When lakhs of villages across the country had made themselves a mass movement by millions of farmers' families moving ahead. When hundreds of metric tonnes of iron was drawn from the tools given by them and a solid foundation of this statue was prepared.\nCompanions, I also remember that when I put this idea in front, there was also an atmosphere of doubts and apprehensions, and I want to present one thing for the first time today. When this imagination was going on in the mind, then I was searching for the mountains here that I could find some such rock. By carving the same rock and removing the image of Sardar Sahib from it. After every kind of investigation we found that such a large rock is not even possible and this rock is not as strong anymore, then I had to change my mind and the idea that you are seeing today is born from it. I used to think constantly, interact with people, took suggestions for everyone, and today I am happy that people associated with this important project of the country have brought the confidence of the country to a peak.\n\nBrothers and Sisters, this highest statue of the world will be remembered for the whole world, our future generations, the courage, strength and determination of that person. Who had done sacred work to thwart the conspiracy to break Maa Bharati into pieces. The great man who ended all those fears forever, which was reflecting on the future of the future of India. I bow my head to such a Iron Man Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel.\nThe strength of the peers, Sardar Saheb came to India when Maa Bharati was divided into more than five hundred princely states. There was a great disappointment for India's future in the world and the pessimistic was also in that era. Pessimists thought that India would be shattered due to its diversity. Even during that period of despair, everyone was expected to have a ray of hope and this hope is also the ray of Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel. Sardar Patel was involved in the bravery of Kautilya's diplomat and Shivaji Maharaj. He said Sardar Saheb in addressing the princely states on July 5, 1947 and I believe that these sentences of Sardar Sahib are equally meaningful even today. Sardar Saheb had said that our mutual disputes, mutual hostility and hatred in front of foreign invaders were a major reason for our defeat. Now we do not have to repeat this mistake nor to be the slave of someone again.\nUnderstanding the power of integration with Sardar Saheb's dialogue, these Raja-Rajas had merged their states. Seeing India, India became one. On the call of Sardar Saheb, hundreds of King and Rajas of the country had set an example of sacrifice. We should never forget this sacrifice of kings and kingdoms. And I also have a dream that in addition to this place, a virtual museum should be prepared for the steps taken for the integration of the country which was more than five and a half hundred who were king-state princes, so that the next generation ... Otherwise, today the democratically elected president of a tehsil should be elected and he should be told that leave the brother a year ago, then a big storm rises. These king-kings had given the things of their ancestors to the nation for centuries. We can never forget this, he has to remember.\nWhile making the strength of the weakness that the world was giving us at that time, Sardar Patel showed the path to the country. Surrounded by suspicion on the same path, India is communicating on its terms from the world today. Hindustan is moving forward towards becoming the world's largest economic and strategic power. If this is possible, then Sardar Sahib was a big contributor to that extraordinary personality born in the ordinary farmer's house, there is a huge roll. Regardless of pressure, no matter how many differences, how the governance is established in the administration. This Sardar Saheb did it. From Kutch to Kohima, from Kargil to Kanyakumari today, if we are able to go to restlessness, it has been possible only because of his resolve, due to Sardar Sahab. Sardar Saheb did not take the resolution, imagine it all the time, I want to shake my countrymen. Imagine the moment if Sardar Saheb had not done this work, had not taken the resolution, now to see the fallen lion and the fallen lion and to worship Shiva devotees in Somnath and see the Charminar of Hyderabad. We have to take a visa for the Hindus. If Sardar Sahib did not have the will, then a direct train from Kashmir to Kanyakumari could not be imagined. If Sardar Sahib did not have the determination, then we had to face many difficulties in setting up an administrative structure like civil service.\nOn April 21, 1947, addressing the probationers of All India Administrative Services, Brothers and Sisters, Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel had said and the big words are important. Even today, whatever IAS, IPS, IFS, should remember this word, Sardar Saheb had said that till now the ICS ie Indian Civil Services was neither a person nor was he a civilian nor did he serve him There was a feeling. He called upon the youth to change the situation. He had told young people that they have to increase the respect of the Indian Administrative Service with total transparency, with full sincerity. It is to establish India for the new construction. It was the motivation of Sardar that the comparisons of India's administrative service were made from steelframe.\nBrothers and Sisters Sardar Patel was made the Home Minister of the country at such a time which was the toughest moment in the history of India. Their responsibility was the responsibility of the reconstruction of the country's systems, along with the obligation to handle the inconvenient law system. He also created a solid base for our modern police system while taking the country out of those difficult situations. Sardar Saheb has been devoted every moment to connect with the common people of the country's democracy. Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel has a huge role in giving women the right to make active contributions to the politics of India. When mothers and sisters in the country could not participate in the elections of Panchayats and cities, then Sardar had raised a voice against that injustice. On their initiative, many decades before independence, the path to overcome this distinction was opened to Sardar Saheb, due to which fundamental rights today are an effective part of our democracy.\nCompanions, this statue is the living-awakening manifestation of Sardar Patel's own love, talent, foresight and spirituality. This talent is respected for their power and dedication, it is also an expression of new India's new self-confidence. This statue was eternal, eternal and eternal to remind those who questioned the existence of India.\nIt is a symbol of self respect for the farmers of the country, whose soil of farmland and iron of the farm material became its strong foundation and their spirit of producing food by colliding with every challenge has become its spirit. It is a memorial to the contributions of tribal siblings, who have made valuable contributions in the journey of independence from the movement of freedom. This height is to remind the young people of this vibrant Indian that the future of India is of your aspiration which is so vast. The power and mantra to fulfill these aspirations is just one and only one - 'One Bharat Best India', one Bharat Best India, One India Best India\nCompanions Statue of Unity This symbolizes our engineering and technical abilities. Over the last three and a half years, on an average, every two and a half thousand workers have worked on the mission mode. After some time, who are going to be respected, have passed the age of 90 A team of stupendous artisans in the country led by the dignitical architect of the country, Mr. Ram Sutarji, has accomplished this glorious monument of art. The spirit of mission in mind is the dedication to national unity and the power of Bharat Bhakti which has been completed in such a short time. When Sardar Sarovar Dam was laid on its foundation and after several decades, it was inaugurated, it was seen and seen in front of his eyes. I respectfully congratulate everyone, every worker, every craftsman, every craftsman and every engineer associated with this great work, and congratulate everyone very much. All the names associated with it directly and indirectly have become an important part of history with this statue of Sardar.\nThis journey, which has reached a study today, started its journey eight years ago on today's day. On October 31, 2010 in Ahmedabad, I first put this idea in front of everyone. Like millions of Indians, I had the same feeling in my mind that the great man who has done such a great honor to unite the country, he should definitely get the respect, which he deserves. I wanted this honor also that they met the farmer, the sweat of that worker, for which Sardar Patel fought all his life. Companions, Sardar Patel did not only raise voice against farmers' exploitation from Kheda to Bardoli, did Satyagraha, but also gave solution to them. आज का सहकार आंदोलन जो देश के अनेक गांवों की अर्थव्‍यवस्‍था का मजबूत आधार बन चुका है यह सरदार साहब की ही दीर्घ दृष्टि का परिणाम है।\nसाथियों, सरदार पटेल का यह स्‍मारक उनके प्रति करोड़ों भारतीयों के सम्‍मान और देशवासियों के सामर्थ्‍य का प्रतीक तो है ही, यह देश की अर्थव्‍यवस्‍था रोजगार निर्माण का भी महत्‍वपूर्ण स्‍थान होने वाला है। इससे हजारों आदिवासी भाई-बहनों को हर वर्ष सीधा रोजगार मिलने वाला है। सतपुड़ा और विंध्‍य के इस अंचल में बसे आप सभी जनों को प्रकृति ने जो कुछ भी सौंपा है, वो अब आधुनिक रूप में आपके काम आने वाला है। देश ने जिन जंगलों के बारे में कविताओं के जरिये पढ़ा अब उन जंगलों, उन आदिवासी परंपराओं से पूरी दुनिया प्रत्‍यक्ष साक्षात्‍कार करने वाली है। सरदार साहब के दर्शन करने वाले Tourist सरदार सरोवर dam, सतपुड़ा और विंध्‍य के पर्वतों के दर्शन भी कर पाएंगे। मैं गुजरात सरकार की फिर से प्रशंसा करूंगा कि वो इस प्रतिमा के आसपास के तमाम इलाकों को Tourist Sport के रूप में विकसित कर रहे हैं।जो फूलों की घाटी बनी है valley of flowers वो इस स्‍मारक के आकर्षण को और बढ़ाने वाली है और मैं तो चाहूंगा कि यहां एक ऐसी एकता नर्सरी बने कि यहां आने वाला हर Tourist एकता नर्सरी से एकता का पौधा अपने घर ले जाए।और एकता का वृक्ष बोये और प्रति पल देश की एकता का स्‍मरण करता रहे। साथ में, Tourism यहां के जन-जन के जीवन को बदलने वाला है।\nसाथियों, इस जिले और इस क्षेत्र का पारंपरिक ज्ञान बहुत समृद्ध रहा है। Statue of Unity के कारण जब Tourism का विकास होगा तो इस ज्ञान का परंपरागत ज्ञान का भी प्रसार होगा। और इस क्षेत्र की एक नई पहचान बनेगी। मुझे विश्‍वास है मैं इस इलाके से जुड़ा रहा हूं इसलिए मुझे काफी चीजें मालूम है। शायद यहां बैठे हुए कईयों को भी मन कर जाए मेरे कहने के बाद यहां के चावल से बने ऊना-मांडा, तहला-मांडा, ठोकाला मांडा यह ऐसे पकवान है यहां आने वाले पर्यटकों को खूब भाएंगे, खूब पसंद आएंगे। इसी तरह यहां बहुतायात में उगने वाले पौधे आयुर्वेद से जुड़े लोग इसको भलीभांति जानते हैं। खाती भिंडी यह चिकित्‍सा के लिए अनेक गुणों से भरा हुआ है और उसकी पहचान दूर-दूर तक पहुंचने वाली है। और इसलिए मुझे भरोसा है कि स्‍मारक यहां पर कृषि को बेहतर बनाने, आदिवासियों के जीवन को बेहतर बनाने के लिए शोध का केंद्र भी बनेगा।\nसाथियों बीते चार वर्षों में देश के नायकों के योगदान को स्‍मरण करने का एक बहुत बड़ा अभियान सरकार ने शुरू किया है। जब मैं गुजरात का मुख्‍यमंत्री था तब भी मेरा इन चीजों पर आग्रह था। यह हमारी पुरातन संस्‍कृति है, संस्‍कार है जिनको लेकर हम आगे बढ़ रहे हैं। सरदार वल्‍लभ भाई पटेल की यह गगनचुंबी प्रतिमा हो। उनकी स्‍मृति में दिल्‍ली में आधुनिक म्‍यूजियम भी हमने बनाया है। गांधी नगर का महात्‍मा मंदिर और दांडी कुटीर हो, बाबा साहब भीमराव अम्‍बेडकर के पंचतीर्थ हो, हरियाणा में किसान नेता सर छोटू राम की हरियाणा की सबसे ऊंची प्रतिमा हो। कच्‍छ के मांडवी में आजादी के सशस्‍त्र क्रांति के पुरोधा, गुजरात की धरती की संतान श्‍याम जी कृष्‍ण वर्मा का स्‍मारक हो और हमारे आदिवासी भाईयों-बहनों के वीर नायक गोविंद गुरू का श्रद्धा स्‍थल हो, ऐसे अनेक महापुरूषों के स्‍मारक बीते वर्षों में हम तैयार कर चुके हैं।\nइसके अलावा नेता जी सुभाष चंद्र बोस का दिल्‍ली में संग्रहालय हो, छत्रपति शिवाजी महाराज की मुंबई में भव्‍य प्रतिमा हो या फिर हमारे आदिवासी नायक देश की आजादी के वीर उनकी स्‍मृति में संग्रहालय बनाने का काम हो, इन सभी विषयों पर हम इतिहास को पुनर्जीवित करने के लिए काम कर रहे हैं। बाबा साहब के योगदान को याद करने के लिए 26 नवंबर को संविधान दिवस व्‍यापक तौर से मनाने का फैसला हो या फिर नेता जी के नाम पर राष्‍ट्रीय सम्‍मान शुरू करने का ऐलान हो, यह हमारी ही सरकार ने इन सारी बातों की शुरूआत की है। लेकिन साथियों कई बार तो मैं हैरान रह जाता हूं जब देश में ही कुछ लोग हमारी इस मुहिम को राजनीति के चश्‍मे से देखना का दु:साहस करते है।\nसरदार पटेल जैसे महापुरूषों देश के सपूतों की प्रशंसा करने के लिए भी पता नहीं हमारी आलोचना की जाती है। ऐसा अनुभव कराया जाता है, जैसे हमने बहुत बड़ा अपराध कर दिया है। मैं आपसे पूछना चाहता हूं कि क्‍या देश के महापुरूषों का स्‍मरण करना अपराध है क्‍या? साथियों, हमारी कोशिश है कि भारत के हर राज्‍य के नागरिक, हर नागरिक का पुरूषार्थ सरदार पटेल के विजन को आगे बढ़ाने में अपने सामर्थ्‍य का पूरा इस्‍तेमाल कर सके। भाईयों और बहनों सरदार पटेल ने स्‍वतंत्र भारत में जिस तरह के गांव की कल्‍पना की और उसका जिक्र उन्‍होंने आजादी के तीन-चार महीने पहले विट्ठल भाई पटेल कॉलेज की स्‍थापना के दौरान किया था और सरदार साहब ने कहा था उस कॉलेज के निर्माण के समय कि हम अपने गांवों में बहुत ही बेतरतीब तरीकों से घरों का निर्माण कर रहे हैं, सड़के भी बिना किसी सोच के बनाई जा रही है और घरों के सामने गंhttps://cms.narendramodi.in/article/update?id=542086#English-pillsदगी का अंबार रहता है। सरदार साहब ने तब गांवों को खुले में शौच से मुक्‍त करने के लिए गंदगी से मुक्‍त करने का आह्वान किया था। मुझे खुशी है कि जो सपना सरदार साहब ने देखा था देश आज उसको पूरा करने की दिशा में आगे बढ़ रहा है। जन भागीदारी की वजह से अब देश में ग्रामीण स्‍वच्‍छता का दायरा 95% तक पहुंच गया है।\nभाईयों और बहनों सरदार पटेल चाहते थे कि भारत सशक्‍त, सद्र, संवेदनशील, सतर्क और समावेशी बने। हमारे सारे प्रयास उनके इसी सपने को साकार करने की दिशा में हो रहे हैं। हम देश के हर बेघर को पक्‍का घर देने की भगीरथ योजना पर काम कर रहे हैं। हम उन 18000 गांवों तक बिजली पहुंचाई है, जहां आजादी के इतने वर्षों के बाद भी बिजली नहीं पहुंची। हमारी सरकार सौभाग्‍य योजना के तहत देश के हर घर तक बिजली कनेक्‍शन पहुंचाने के लिए दिनरात काम में जुटी हुई है। देश के हर गांव को सड़क से जोड़ना, optical fiber network से जोड़ना, digital connectivity से जोड़ने का काम आज तेज गति से किया जा रहा है। देश में आज हर घर में गैस का चूल्‍हा हो, गैस का connection पहुंचे इसके प्रयास के साथ ही देश के हर घर में शौचालय की सुविधा पहुंचाने पर काम हो रहा है।\nसरकार ने दुनिया की सबसे बड़ी, जब मैं दुनिया के लोगों को बताता हूं तो उनको आश्‍चर्य होता है अमेरिका की जनसंख्‍या, मैक्सिको की जनसंख्‍या, कनाडा की जनसंख्‍या इनका सबको मिला ले और जितनी जनसंख्‍या होती है, उससे ज्‍यादा लोगों के लिए प्रधानमंत्री जन आरोग्‍य योजना, आयुष्‍मान भारत योजना लोग तो कभी-कभी उसको मोदी केयर भी कहते हैं। यह स्‍वस्‍थ्‍य भारत का निर्माण करने में मदद करने वाली योजना है। वो भारत को आयुष्‍मान करने वाली योजना है। समावेशी और सशक्‍त भारत के लक्ष्‍य को पूरा करने की कोशिश का हमारा आधार हमारा ध्‍येय मंत्र ‘सबका साथ सबका विकास’ यही हमारा ध्‍येय मंत्र है।\nभाईयों और बहनों सरदार साहब ने रियासतों को जोड़कर देश का राजनीतिक एकीकरण किया। वहीं हमारी सरकार ने जीएसटी के माध्‍यम से देश का आर्थिक एकीकरण किया है। one nation one tax का सपना साकार किया है। हम भारत जोड़ो के सरदार साहब के प्रण को निरंतर विस्‍तार दे रहे हैं। चाहे देश की बड़ी कृषि मंडियों को जोड़ने वाली ईनाम योजना हो,one nation one grid का काम हो या फिर भारत माला, सेतू भारतम्, भारत नेक जैसे अनेक कार्यक्रम हमारी सरकार देश को जोड़कर ‘एक भारत श्रेष्‍ठ भारत’ के सरदार साहब के सपने को साकार करने में जुटी है।\nसाथियों, आज देश के लिए सोचने वाले युवाओं की शक्ति हमारे पास है। देश के विकास के लिए यही एक रास्‍ता है, जिसको ले करके सभी देशवासियों को आगे बढ़ना है। देश की एकता, अखंडता और सार्वभौमिकता को बनाए रखना एक ऐसा दायित्‍व है, जो सरदार वल्‍लभ भाई पटेल हम हिंदुस्‍तानियों को सौंप करके गए हैं। हमारी जिम्‍मेदारी है कि हम देश को बांटने की हर तरह की कोशिश का पुरजोर जवाब दें। और इसलिए हमें हर तरह से सतर्क रहना है, समाज के तौर पर एकजुट रहना है। हमें यह प्रण करना है कि हम अपने सरदार के संस्‍कारों को पूरी पवित्रता के साथ आने वाली पीढि़यों में भी उतारने में भी कोई कमी नहीं रखेंगे।\nसाथियों, सरदार वल्‍लभ भाई पटेल कहते थे हर भारतीय को, और मैं सरदार साहब का वाक्‍य सुना रहा हूं आपको, सरदार साहब कहते थे – हर भारतीय को यह भुलना होगा कि वो किस जाति या वर्ग से है, उसको सिर्फ एक बात याद रखनी होगी कि वो भारतीय है और जितना इस देश पर अधिकार है, उतने ही कर्तव्‍य भी है। सरदार साहब की शाश्‍वत भावना इस बुलंद प्रतिमा की तरह हमेशा हमें प्रेरित करते रहे। इसी कामना के साथ एक बार फिर से Statue of Unity के लिए जो सिर्फ भारतवासियों का ही घटना ही नहीं है यहां पूरी दुनिया को इतना बड़ा Statue दुनिया के लिए अजीब बात है और इसलिए पूरे विश्‍व का ध्‍यान आज माता नर्मदा के तट ने आकर्षित किया है। इससे जुड़े हुए हर साथी को मैं बधाई देता हूं। इस सपने को साकार करने में लगे हुए हर किसी का अभिनंदन करता हूं। मां नर्मदा और ताप्‍ती की घाटियों में बसे हुए हर आदिवासी भाई-बहन युवा साथी को भी बेहतर भविष्‍य की मैं हृदयपूर्वक बहुत-बहुत शुभकामनाएं देता हूं।\nपूरा देश इस अवसर से जुड़ा है, विश्‍व भर के लोग आज इस अवसर से जुड़े हैं और इतने बड़े उमंग और ऊर्जा के साथ एकता के मंत्र को आगे ले जाने के लिए यह एकता का तीर्थ तैयार हुआ है। एकता की प्रेरणा का प्रेरणा बिंदू हमें यहां से प्राप्‍त हो रहा है। इसी भावना के साथ हम चलें औरों को भी चलाएं, हम जुड़े औरों को भी जोड़े और भारत को ‘एक भारत श्रेष्‍ठ भारत’ बनाने का सपना ले करके चले।\nमेरे साथ बोलें–\nसरदार पटेल - जय हो।\nसरदार पटेल - जय हो।\nदेश की एकता जिंदाबाद।\nदेश की एकता - जिंदाबाद।\nदेश की एकता - जिंदाबाद।\nदेश की एकता - जिंदाबाद।\nदेश की एकता - जिंदाबाद।"