"Technology has become an integral part of everyone's lives: PM Modi\nThrough technology, we are sure to serve\nThrough Atal Tinkering Labs in schools, we are promoting innovation and developing a technological temperament among the younger generations: PM\nScience is universal, technology has to be local: PM Narendra Modi\nYour Excellency, Prime Minister Juspepe Cante, my colleague in the Cabinet. Harshvardhan ji, all the partners of India and Italy, ladies and gentlemen associated with the world of technology in Tech Summit!\nHello!\nChao, Komai Stai!\nA specially warm welcome to all guests who come here from Italy!\nBenvenuto in India!\nFriends,\nThis is the 24th (twenty-fourth) Tech Summit. It is a matter of pride for us as Italy's participation in this permit as Partner Country as well as the dignified presence of Prime Minister Kunte Ji.\nBefore coming here, during my official visit, my expansion has been discussed with Prime Minister Mr. Kante. I have experienced my enthusiasm and commitment to relations with India.\nThis year is also important for us because it is the 70th year of Diplomatic Relations of India and Italy. This year, our cooperation in the field of Science and Technology is completed 40 years. Prime Minister Kunte's visit to India on this auspicious occasion has a different significance.\nFriends,\nThis is the time when it is difficult to imagine life without technology. Today almost every person's life is connected to technology in some form or the other. In the past few years, there has been a lot of change in the field of technology. Its speed is so fast that the effect of a technology does not reach the last end of the society so that it gets better technology. In such a situation, there is a challenge to run with the changing technology in front of all the countries, and there are many new opportunities.\nIndia has made technology a medium of social justice, empowerment, inclusion, competent government machinery and transparency. Effective last service delivery of government services is being ensured through technology. In particular, a comprehensive infrastructure of Digital Technology is being developed so that the general public can easily get the benefits of the facilities. We consider technology as an important medium of ease of living.\nFriends,\nToday one of the world's largest Direct Benefit Scheme is going on in India. Government help is being provided directly to the beneficiaries' bank accounts. Many facilities from Birth Certificate to Old Age Pension are online today. The services of more than 300 centers and state government have been brought on a platform through Umang App.\nDigital payments are now increasing at a speed of about two and a half million transactions per month. More than 3 lakh Common Service Centers across the country are providing online services in village-village.\nIn the last 4 years, the cost of one GB data in India has decreased by more than 90 percent. This cheap data in India is becoming an effective medium for delivering digital technology to every person in the country.\nFriends,\nIndia is now moving forward to take the IT Software Power's identity to the next level. We are insisting on developing Technological Temperament from Scientific Temper in India.\nTemperament is being developed for future technology, for innovation in schools through the Atal Tinkering Lab throughout the country. A network of youth is being created across the country through the Atal Innovation Mission, which will become the strongest pillar of the fourth industrial revolution.\nThe result of all these government efforts is that we have moved up 21 places in the ranking of Global Innovation Index of World Intellectual Property Orgnisation (WIPO). Apart from this, today's world's second largest start-up ecosystem is in India.\nThere is also emphasis on quality in the innovations that are taking place in India. India's Space Program is a great example, and Italy has also realized its success.\nToday India is sending the satellite to many countries in the world, including Italy, at a very low cost. They are proving useful in extending the benefit of satellite technology to home.\nFriends, today, when the world is discussing IndustryFour Point Zero, strengthening cooperation between science and technology between the ancient civilizations of India and Italy will create new opportunities, but we will also be able to cope with the challenges effectively.\nFriends,\nToday India is one of the fastest growing economies in the world. Ecosystem of India's vast Domestic Market, Young Population, Technology and Innovation, is going to be a strong engine of growth in the world.\nAt the same time Italy has a rich heritage in science and technology. Italy's name in the world of manufacturing is known for best quality. Therefore, India and Italy together can strengthen their cooperation in High Quality Research. Through this cooperation, we can prepare comprehensive technical solutions for solving global challenges.\nThis is the reason that strengthening the cooperation between science and technology for the betterment of the lives of people of both countries, clean the environment, science and technology for human welfare, is the most necessary in comparison to earlier. I am happy that the scientific community and business leaders of both countries are collaborating in the areas of Cutting Edge of Research and Innovation. We have extensive cooperation in areas such as Renewable Energy, Environmental Science, Neuro Science, and IT to preserve cultural heritage.\nFriends,\nApart from strengthening this path of cooperation, our goal is to ensure that the results of research and development are not limited to labs, but their benefits also reach the society, the people. That's why I always say \"Science is Universal, Technology has to be local \".\nIn India, we have started the Science and Heritage Research Initiative, i.e. SHRI (Sri), to preserve its historical heritage. Its purpose is to find solutions related to technology for the preservation and restoration of historical monuments. Technology, Tourism and History - The combination of the three appears in this initiative.\nI believe that by promoting Science, Technology and Innovation, new speed of development will be ensured. They will also have important role in the development of our bilateral relations. This is the purpose of this Tech Summit.\nI am confident that in the last two days Summit will help in enhancing the technology transfer, joint ventures and market access between the two countries. This Summit will play an important role in discussing our shared future.\nFriends,\nToday, I am very happy to announce the introduction of the next phase of Indo-Italian bilateral Industrial Research and Development Cooperation program. This will enable our industry and research institute to develop new products and prototypes without interruption. \"Know how\", is the need of time to change into \"Show how\".\nIn order to strengthen economic relations between the two countries, we have also agreed that a CEO Forum under the guidance of the Joint Commission on Economic Cooperation (JCEC) will also be constituted. Simultaneously, to increase the two-way investments between the two countries, there has been consensus on the formation of a Fast Track Mechanism to remove the hindrances in doing business.\nI am also happy that India and Italy have agreed to increase cooperation in the field of LAD i.e. Style Style Accessories Design. There will also be special focus on leather sector, Transportation \u0026 Automobile Design ie TAD.\nAlso, I am also happy to state that both countries will establish Indo-Italian Centers of Excellence based on skills in select areas such as conservation of cultural heritage, Renewable Energy, Life Sciences and Geo-Hazards. Not only will these universities, research institutes and industry join us, but we will also be able to get a technical solution to these challenges.\nFriends,\nI successfully congratulate all the organizers for the success of Tech Summit. I also thank the Government of Italy for heartily accepting our invitation to join us as a partner country. I am very grateful to all the participants of Tech Summit. The contribution and presence of all of you have been important for the success of this Summit.\nOnce again, I express my gratitude to Prime Minister Kunteji for enhancing the beauty of this program. Not only this, he has also given a valuable gift to his personal guidance, attitude and commitment to the newly-formed Indo-Italian Partnership.\nGratsee Mille!\nThanks a lot!!!"