"Share\n\nTies between India and Korea are not just the basis of business contact, but it is about people-to-people\nHappy to note that the Indian community is contributing to development, research and innovation in Korea: PM\nIndian community all over the world is the country's 'Rashtradoots': PM Modi\nHello.\nHello my Indian brothers and sisters in Korea, once again. I would like to thank all of you for welcoming me with this warmth.\nI am told that you have been waiting here for a long time. Well, if it is cold out then it feels good inside. Of all things, we should look at positives. I am a knit in front of your love.\nFriends, this is the second chance for me, when I come to Korea and I am meeting with the Indian community. The basis of relations between India and Korea is not just business contact, the main basis is people to people contact. All the Indians who came from the country or you are living here are the foundations of our relationship. Ambassador is one, but the ambassador is numerous. This link between affinity between India and Korea is not new.\nIn ancient times, the princess of India, Surraratna, traveled thousands of kilometers-here. They are married to the king here. Even today millions of Koreans consider themselves descendants; And that's why I can say that in a way we have a blood link to people from Korean society.\nThe blood that runs in the veins of Korean society is also a part of India. Even today, the statue of Rajkumari is installed in Ayodhya and on the previous Diwali, the first lady Kim Jong Suk was witnessed there. A very spectacular event was done in Ayodhya, perhaps even on television there would be telecast. Probably at the time when Lord Rama came back and there was light in Ayodhya, after thousands of years, that light was again in Ayodhya.\nFriends, India and Korea have also given a lot of strength to Buddhism too. A Korean Buddhist monk Hycho visited India in the 8th century.\nFriends, it is good to know that in the development of Korea, the way the ancient things inspire us, you are also contributing a lot to your happiness. Here, there is great respect for Indian Medha and skill. You are contributing to research and innovation in Korea. Staying in India, providing R \u0026 D facilities to Korean companies. Additionally, Indian academics, researchers and post-doctoral students are working or studying in leading Korean universities. And the Indians living here are participating in the prosperity and prosperity of Korea as well as in the culture and social life of here.\nFriends, yoga has great respect and affection in Korea. You guys will do it, I do not know, but the outsiders will be asking whenever they meet, good brother, what do you know about yoga, then you will say, sit down and hold nose.\nIn Seoul, Busan and other cities, more than two thousand people took part in the International Yoga Day with great enthusiasm. In Korea all Holi, Diwali, Baisakhi - not only consider all Indian festivals but also include their Korean friends in it. Now Indian cities have started getting place in the cities, while Indian dishes are also getting place in the menu. People here also know what it means.\nHere Indian films are becoming very popular. Kabaddi-kabadi is now being heard among Korean children, are not they speaking people here? In 2018, the Korean team won the silver medal in the Asian Games, so I congratulate all the people here.\nFriends, I have already said that the Ambassador is the same but wherever every Hindustani is, it is an Ambassador. In a way you are the ambassador of India. Thirty million overseas Indians, their hard work, discipline has the nation's credibility in the world, and the country I go to, I am very happy to hear that the prestige of Indians is proudly mentioned as citizens of the law. it happens.\nFriends, this year is a special year for our country, why? Why? It is therefore important that the Father of the Nation is 150th anniversary of Mahatma Gandhiji. There is an opportunity when we remember them, get inspiration from their teachings, their philosophy. And I would like Mahatma Gandhi to have such a vast personality as the world human, when the world was to be recognized as the great man in the form of his identity, unfortunately did not happen.\nNelson Mandela knows the world; Martin Luther knows the King; Kennedy knows; Tell the world about Gandhi still - who is good, where is it. Do we not have the obligation of people that India has such a great heritage of Mahatma Gandhi; Gandhi's name should be on the tongue of every child in the world, it should be our dream.\nThey were world-human and today, when the world is struggling with many challenges then the philosophy of Mahatma Gandhi becomes more relevant. Bapu's life was huge, very reverential towards nature, his role was. He put a lot of emphasis on interacting with the environment in his life. Bapu is being honored in a unique way in Korea. In the memory of Bapu, we are all going to plant 150 plants in Korea.\nFriends, our relations with Korea have been strong every day, growing and growing and growing steadily. Korea and India are moving forward with step by step in promoting peace, stability and prosperity across this region. There is a clear and intuitive partnership between us. We can benefit each other together.\nThis partnership is strengthening the presence of Indian companies in Korea. The Korean brand has also become part of India's home. Korean brands such as LG, Samsung, Hyundai have reached the villages and villages of India and have become part of the colloquy of the people.\nFriends, today the whole world is looking at India with hopeful eyes. We are today the fastest growing economy in the world. Our economy has grown stronger. Before 2014, we used to hear that one of India's Fragile Five, we will drown too, Sanam will take you too. Today, the fastest economy in the big economy is the fastest economy in the world and in the next few years, India is moving towards becoming a trillion economy, we will be in the five trillion club, that day will not be far. And when in 2014, when I took charge, then we were at the 11th position in the world financially; Today we have reached six, and five will not be late, you believe. And our effort is to make India a place in the top three in the next decade and a half.\nFriends, in the last four and a half years in India, we are busy making sure of living and ease of doing business. Due to continuous economic and social reforms, we are also achieving success. The biggest indirect tax reform, goods and service tax, GST is part of the system today. Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel had united the country after which the economic integration of the country was done by GST. We have stepped firmly towards cashless economy, we have maintained fiscal discipline. The result of this is that in the last four years, in the ease of doing business, we have jumped 65 places in the global ranking and the world is wondering that such a big country, a country full of such diversity, developing country, this much Can I jump a big jump?\nThe chairman of the World Bank had specifically called me- \"It is a great surprise for us that no country can bring such a big result with determination, and it is the strength of India that brought it. We have come very soon - I mean, now you can relax, it can not Modi. And on the day I got these results, I made such a big jump, people were kissing; I said, how will I go to promise 50? How will India make its place in Top Fifty?\nFriends, India is considered to be the bright spot for investment in the world, and therefore the country has received record two hundred sixty three billion dollar FDI over the past four years.\nFriends, some of you will have come to India recently, you will have seen your country changed ... do not say .. do not you come here? If you have come, then there must have been a changed look. India is fast changing in the last four years.\nToday almost every person in India has a bank account. And for this, more than 33 crore accounts were opened in just one thousand days. And a report says that fifty percent of the bank accounts opened in the world in the last four years were opened in India alone. And the accounts were opened not only when the poor people, the bank opened the account, they also wanted to save them, these accounts today are 12 billion dollars. The world is watching closely the revolution of financial inclusion at this time.\nUnder the Money Scheme, hundred and twenty eight million people have been given micro credit of more than ninety billion dollars, and you will be happy to know, 74 percent of these are women taking borrower and maximum first time, the bank's door is for the first time Saw, the money taken from the bank for the first time; That is how big a revolution it is, you can guess.\nFor social security, today there are schemes for affordable pensions and insurance, in which there is a premium of up to 90 rupees, ie from 90 paise to 1 rupee. 90 money nothing happens With this, the insurance of two lakh rupees is being fixed by the poor from the poor. Today, the world's largest health insurance scheme, Ayushman India, people know it by the name of ModiCare. 50 crore people are getting free treatment. That is, 50 million people mean more - America, Canada, Mexico than their total population. And this is done by Hindustan.\nThe world's tallest statue of unity, today the name of India is taken. There are many such works which have the power of the country's strength.\nDigital India has changed rapidly in the lives of the people of India. Today almost every Indian has a biometric identity. Optical fiber is reached in one and a half million villages of the country.\nFriends, in many cases today India stands in line for world leaders. For the elimination of TB in the world, the world has made 2030 target, India has set this target 2025. And from 130 million Indians, I assure you that we will be achieving this goal in 2025.\nToday, in the case of clean energy, we are showing the path to the world. With our initiatives to establish and accelerate the international solar alliance, India is growing rapidly towards both the green economy and the global economy.\nToday our country has become the sixth largest producer of renewable energy in the world. Today, India's prestige has increased in the world, do you experience, do not? If people shake hands then what do they leave? India! Do not hold that, are you? These changes have come.\nFriends, I also urge you to share the positive developments of India with your Korean friends. Make in India today has become a global brand. Together with friendly countries like Korea, we want to become a big hub of electronics manufacturing.\nFriends, today a new energy is seen in India. As a representative of this energy, tomorrow I will be honored with the Seoul Peace Prize. These rewards are not mine, I have come from just 130 million Indians and from the side of 30 million Indians, only to accept him. These awards are the honor of the honor of every Indian, the honor of the man of every Indian citizen. These awards recognize the hard work that Indians have consistently, day and night in the last four years.\nI once again express my gratitude to all of you for enhancing the honor of your country and best wishes from my side for your progress and achievements in this country.\nThe Kumbh Mela here is not new. People of the new generation will go or not, I do not know, but the people of the old generation who are here, they think that they must go to the Aquarius fair. The festival of our country, this kind of fair, that - a picture of a certain type emerges as soon as it comes to mind. But you will be happy to know that India- Although the Kumbh Mela is not small, every day a country of Europe is gathering on the banks of the Ganga, and there are four people who dip in the Ganges during the whole Kumbh Mela More than Korea. Four times the number of people here will be bathing in the Ganges - when these programs are completed then Such a great strength, and for the first time, has come to meditate that whatever has gone to the Kumbh Mela, they have discussed the arrangement of fair and cleanliness of the fair - this is widely discussed. Otherwise it was our nature, that was not our attention towards such things, we got used to it, it goes on, let's go, man! For the first time, the New York Times has specifically mentioned the cleanliness of the Kumbh Mela while discussing the Kumbh Mela. Here, if this country can decide - What can be done, the living proof of this matter is the Kumbh Mela of this time.\nDosta, the country has changed very fast, the country is moving very fast. Tourism is a great force for development. And where do I go, I do not get free from the Indian community, I ask for something in return? Everyone says that Modi is about to come again, is to ask, and today he went away, now after four years, will come after three years, who will remember. I am not like that, I will ask, demand - voice becomes loose. Really ask? Are our Hindustani today, who lives in the world - you will be reading somewhere, working in a factory, working in management somewhere else - you will have contact with local people - it would be natural. क्‍या आपने मन में ठानी है कि हर वर्ष कम से कम पांच non-Indian families को हिन्‍दुस्‍तान देखने के लिए धक्‍का मारूंगा? इतना कर सकते हो क्‍या? अगर सिर्फ विश्‍व में फैले हुए हिन्‍दुस्‍तानी ये तय कर लें कि मैं देश में जा करके investment करूं, हरेक के पास कहां पैसे हैं भाई, वो अपनी जिंदगी गुजारा कर लेता है, थोड़ा-बहुत बचा लेता है।\nलेकिन देश सेवा में एक काम जरूर कर सकता है कि मैं एक साल में कम से कम पांच non- Indian families को भारत देखने के लिए प्रेरित करूंगा, प्रोत्‍साहित करूंगा, जाने में मदद करूंगा। आप कल्‍पना कर सकते हैं भारत का टूरिज्‍म कितना बढ़ सकता है, कितनी बड़ी सेवा आप कर सकते हैं।द्य\nतो मैंने आपसे मांगा है, मैं पूछूंगा हमारे Embassy को कि कितनों ने वीजा मांगा भई, बताओ। और मेरा मत है कि हिन्‍दुस्‍तान वादा करता है तो निभाता है। लो मैं आपकी तारीफ कर रहा हूं, आप ही हंस रहे हो।\nमैं आऊंगा, मैं आऊंगा, बार-बार आऊंगा, आप चिंता मत कीजिए। लेकिन जब मैं आऊंगा तब‍ फिर से पूछंगा ये। देखिए- देश की बहुत बड़ी सेवा होगी।\nमैं फिर एक बार- वैसे ठंड के माहौल में भी आप यहां आए, आपने मुझे आ करके आशीर्वाद दिया, इसके लिए मैं आपका बहुत-बहुत आभारी हूं।\nThank you."