"Share\n\nIndia, Japan agree to deepen cooperation in digital services, cyber space, health and defense and security\nThe swap mechanism between India and Japan underlines the growing economic ties between our nations: PM Modi\nWith a strong India-Japan cooperation, 21st century will be Asia's century: PM Modi\nPrime Minister and my close friend, Mr. Abe,\nDistinguished delegates,\nNamaste,\nKonichiwa,\nThe affectionate way in which Abe San has welcomed me here in Tokyo, and earlier in Yamanashi and in his home, has made this visit of mine to Japan even more unforgettable Japan is the best amalgamation of the best values ​​of Eastern and Western cultures This is the same great country which has taught us that the path of human development is not one of those who are conflicting between the ancient and the new ways. Acceptance of new and respect for the old - this is the key contribution of Japan to the world. And it is also one of the very similar similarities of India and Japan.\nExcellencies,\nIndia and Japan have relations with the depths and expanses of Indian and Pacific oceans. These relationships are based on shared commitment to democratic values ​​and the rules of law. Yesterday and today I had a very useful conversation with Abe San. Today, we have signed this shared vision Tomorrow it will provide a new light to our future We are in full agreement that we will give unhindered pace to our cooperation in digital partnership to cyber space, from health to defense and security and from the sea to space. I have been told that today Japan's investors have announced a new investment of $ 2.5 billion in India. This will provide employment to about 30 thousand people in India Agreement on Bilateral Currency Swap Arrangement During this visit clearly reflects our mutual trust and economic partnership in our ever increasing nigh.\nFriends,\n21st century is the century of Asia, but there are questions about its form and factor Who will benefit, there are many such questions However one thing is very clear that without the cooperation between India and Japan 21st century can not be a century of Asia.\nAbe San and I have agreed to the 2 + 2 Dialogue in our Foreign and Defense Ministers. Its purpose is to promote peace and stability in the world. Japan's entry into the International Solar Alliance will be another example of such cooperation in the interest of the world.\nFriends,\nNext year Japan will host the G-20 Summit in Osaka. The Rugby World Cup will also be held in Japan next year. This tournament will be held in Asia for the first time. And after that 2020 Olympics) will be held in Tokyo. For all these important global events, on my behalf, and on behalf of whole India, our warmest wishes are with you.\nFriends,\nProgress in India-Japan relations is limitless like Japan's Kaizen philosophy. Together with Prime Minister Abe, I am committed to strengthen these relations further. Once again I thank Abe San, the Government of Japan and all of you and convey my heartfelt wishes.\nDomo Arigato Gozaimasu\nJapan is the confluence of the best aspects of the civilizations of the east and west.\nThis is the great country that taught that the path of mankind's development is not a conflict between the ancient and the new, but its coexistence and the creation of it: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) October 29, 2018\nThe relations between Japan and India are received by the depth and breadth of the Indian and Pacific oceans.\nThese relations are based on shared commitment to democratic values ​​and freedoms and the Rule of Law: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) October 29, 2018\nWe have the fullest agreement that we will give unlimited pace to our cooperation from digital partnership to cyber space, from health to protection, and from sea to space.\nI am told that today Japan's investors have announced a new investment of 2.5 billion US dollars in India: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) October 29, 2018\nDuring our visit, our mutual trust and our growing partnership of the mutual partnership between the bilateral currency swap arrangement are clearly visible: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) October 29, 2018\nDuring our visit, our mutual trust and our growing partnership of the mutual partnership between the bilateral currency swap arrangement are clearly visible: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) October 29, 2018\nWithout the cooperation of India and Japan 21st Century can not be a century of Asia.\nAbe San and I have agreed to the 2 + 2 Dialogue between our Foreign and Defense Ministers.\nIts aim is to promote peace and stability in the world: PM"