"Indian diaspora is the true ambassador of India: PM Modi\nIndia is continuously working with the Indian Solutions- Global Applications: PM Modi\n'Make in India' is turning India into a Global Hub for Electronics and Automobile Manufacturing: PM Narendra Modi\nHello! (Namaskar!)\nA country like Japan, this atmosphere of AKI season and your company, it is truly a phenomenal phenomenon. If you have to call at 9:00 am on a working Monday morning in India, but to turn up in such large numbers so early in the morning, I am grateful from the depths of my heart for such love and blessings.\nToday's meeting is also special because I am meeting my relatives residing in Japan after the year 2016.\nOn this occasion, I congratulate our best friend, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, on behalf of India, on behalf of all of you, for the President of LDP again\nPrime Minister Abe always had a feeling of love and love for the people The kind of special reception that has been accorded to me has given a new dimension to this love and affection, once again I express my gratitude to Prime Minister Abe and to the people of Japan.\nAlong with this my heartiest wishes to Deepawali. Just like in Deepawali illuminated the place where it is lighted, similarly it is my wish that you are illuminate your country and everywhere in the world.\nFriends,\nThis is my third visit to Japan as the Prime Minister of India. Whenever I come to Japan, I have a very affectionate experience here. That is why relations between India and Japan are rooted from cultures to trends Be it Hinduism or Buddhism, our heritage is shared. A glimpse of this heritage is reflected in the people that we adore to our alphabets.\nBe it Goddess Saraswati, Goddess Lakshmi, Lord Shiva or Ganesh, equivalents of all are present in the Japanese society. The word \"service\" means the same in Japanese and Hindi. Home made Goma here and the festoon became Tori in Japanese.The traditional white attire that Japanese pilgrims wear who goes to the Holy Mount Ontake, also get some written on the ancient script of Sanskrit-Sidham. When they wear white Japanese Tengui, OM is written on it.\nFriends,\nThere are many such strong ones. While Buddha and Bose connect the history of India and Japan, the present Indian is being strengthened by the emissaries like you. The ambassador of the government is one but thousands of envoys\nYou are the bridge that connects India and Japan, its people, culture and aspirations of both countries I am glad you are carrying this responsibility successfully.\nFriends,\nWhenever I talk to Prime Minister Abe, he praises Indian community which makes me feel so happy. You have earned great respect from your skillsand your cultural values.\nYou have succeeded in making Yoga a part of Japan's life. You have introduced Kadhi-Chawal in the menu here, and now you celebrate Diwali with your Japanese friends here. You have given this martial arts skilled country the art of kabaddi and now you are engaged in the culture of cricket here.\nThe way you have made a place in Japanese hearts with the mantra of Contribution, Co-existence to Conquer Hearts is really appreciable. I am happy that a diaspora of more than 30 thousand Indians is working as our culture.\nFriends,\nMany of you stay visit India Who are the people of the newspapers and through the internet Today, India is going to be a major phase of change. Today, the world is praising India's efforts to serve humanity. The country is being honored for the work that is being done in the field of public service, and the kind of policies that are being formulated in India.\nRecently, two great organizations have appreciated and honored India's efforts. Due to contributions made towards Green Future, United Nations has awarded the champion of the Earth award and Seoul Peace Foundation has honored India with the Seoul Peace Prize.\nFriends,\nThese honors have been given to me as a representative of 1.25 billion Indians but my contribution is only as much as the garland thatstrings the beads and encourage them to move forward unitedly. Our country is full of such pearls and diamonds like you Only a concerted effort was required Today, this collective power of the masses and public participation is being recognized by the world.\nToday, India is playing a leading role in environmental protection, world peace, and reducing economic disparity. I thank you for the peace prize for praising Modinomics. While respecting their feelings, I would like to say that instead of Modinomics it is an honor for Indonomics.\nBeing the head of government, I am simply doing what is the culture and tradition of India We are devoted to our ancient values ​​of 'Whole world is a family' and 'May all become happy and disease free.' Our government has made only that much changes that the worldshould be seen with the glasses of India.\nOur government is constantly working with the Indian Solution, Global Application. First we are solving problems of India and then presenting that model to other countries.\nFriends,\nYou will be proud to know that the transparency created in India because of the trinity of JAM i.e. Jandhan, Aadhar and Mobile, is also the inspiration for other developing countries of the world. The systems envisaged in India arenow studied Apart from this, our modern arrangementsfor Digital Transactions, like BHIM App and Rupay Card, many countries of the world are also these things about curious.\nI have been told that Japan is also increasingly making efforts towards a Less Cash Economy. You will be happy to know that today Over the past four years, digital transactions have increased by almost 7 times through UPI, BHIM and other digital platforms.\nAt the same time, India is taking financial inclusion to the next level and home delivery of Financial Services in villages is being done by Post Offices. You have seen the postman in your childhood, that postman is now becoming a banker.\nFriends,\nToday, India is making remarkable progress in the field of Digital Infrastructure. Broadband connectivity is reaching villages and more than one billion mobile phones are active in India today. Sometimes it is said that there are more mobile phones in India than the population of India. 1GB data in India is cheaper than the smallest bottle of cold drink. Today this cheap data is becoming effective medium of service delivery.\nOn the other hand, Make in India has emerged as a global brand today. Today we are making great products India is becoming a global hub specializing in Electronics and Automobile Manufacturing. We are moving forward towards becoming one in mobile phone manufacturing.\nFriends,\nThe environment behind the success of Make in India is that what has created for business in the past four years. We have made a jump of more than 40 points in the ease of doing business rankings. This year also we have improved our placein the Global Competitive Rankings by five points. At the same time, in the case of innovation, today we have joined the list of the world's leading countries. This is the reason that India is the second largest ecosystem for start-ups.\nFriends,\nWhatever innovations are taking place in India, whatever solutions are being prepared, along with being inexpensive they are also in terms of quality also. India's Space Program is a great example of this. Today, India is sending users to many countries and private companies in the world. Last year, our scientists have created an unprecedented record of launching more than one hundred satellites at once.\nWe have sent Chandrayaan and Mangalyaan in very small budget, now we are preparing to send Gaganyaan by 2022. This Gaganyaan will be fully Indian and the person going to space in this will also be an Indian\nFriends,\nFrom ground to space, many such changes have been taking place in India today. Due to these changes, today India is the world's fastest growing major economy Given these changes, all the agencies in the world are saying that in the coming decade, India will drive world growth. In this growth story of India, Japan and you are all going to make a big contribution.\nFrom the Bullet Train to the Smart Cities, whatever new infrastructure of New India is today, Japan is a partner in the. India's Manpower, India's Youth Power is also benefitting from Japan's skill.\nFriends,\nI invite you for your participation Today, along with appropriate opportunities for investment and innovation in India, it's also an important time to connect.\nIndians settled in Japan, together with the Japanese friends The support that Swami Vivekananda Ji, NetajiSubhash Chandra Bose and independence movement of India got from Japan, it will always remain in the heart of millions of Indians.\nWe all have the ability to get stronger in our future.\nToday, from this forum I invite you to Pravasi Bharatiya Divas and Ardha-Kumbha in January next year. This year, Pravasi Indian will be organized in Varanasi, where Prime Minister Abe got attracted by the Ganga Aarti. I am inviting you face to face to come to Varanasi because I am the MP from there and you all will be my guests.\nTwo days later, India is going to create one more new identity on the world map.\n31st October is the birth anniversary of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, which we celebrate every year, but this time it will be the whole world as Gujarat, his birthplace, is the world's tallest statue of SardarSahab i.e. The statue of unity which is twice as high as the statue of Liberty.The statue of SardarJi will be as high as his brilliance. Every India can proudly say that the world's largest statue is in India. It will be inaugurated on October 31. I am sure that when you will visit India, your Japanese friends will visit India, then you will inspire them to see the statue of Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel, this will be my request to you all.\nAt the end, once again my best wishes to Deepawali\nYou all got into such large numberstoday morning, I was once again heartily thank you all\nThank you."