"Share\n\nTime Magazine wrote that if one person who could unite the nation and heal its wounds, it was Sardar Patel: PM during #ManKiBaat\nSardar Patel's Jayanti on October 31st this year will be the special honor of the nation.\nSpirit, strength, skill, stamina - Narendra Modi during #MannKiBaat\nWas glad to meet the medal winners of Asian Para Games 2018 held in Jakarta. The players won a staggering 72 medals, thus making a new record and elevating the pride of India: PM Modi #MannKiBaat\nHad the opportunity to meet the winners of the Summer Youth Olympics in 2018 which was held in Argentina. Our players have performed the best ever in the Youth Olympics 2018: PM during #MannKiBaat\nIndia has a golden history in hockey In the past, only India has got gold medals in many competitions but has also won the World Cup once: PM during #MannKiBaat\nThe way in which Indians are stepping forward to social causes is turning out to be a inspiration for the whole nation and thrusting its people with passion: PM #MannKiBaat\nLiving in harmony with the nature of our tribal communities Our tribal communities worship the trees and flowers as gods and goddesses: PM #MannKiBaat\nWorld War I was a landmark event for India We have no direct contact with that war Despite this, our soldiers fought bravely and gave the supreme sacrifice: PM #MannKiBaat\nDevelopment of the poorest of the poor is the symbol of peace: PM Narendra Modi during #MannKiBaat\nThe charm The natural beauty of Northeast is unique and people are very talented: PM during #MannKiBaat\nMy dear countrymen, Namaskar Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel This year too, the youth of the country is all set, to take part in the 'Run for Unity'. The weather too I urge you to participate in this run for unity. Six months or so before Independence, on the 27th of January, 1947, the world - famous international magazine 'Time' had a photograph of Sardar Patel on the cover page of that edition. In their lead story, they had been depicted a map of India; it is nowhere close It was the map of an India that was divided into myriad fragments. There existed over 550 princely states. The English had lost interest in India; they wanted to leave Time Magazine had opted that India was then the risks of problems like partition, violence, food scarcity, price rise and power-politics. The magazine further observed that according to the plethora of problems, if there was someone who possessed the ability to unite the country and heal wounds, it was Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel. The story too brings to the fore the other aspects of the life of the Iron Man of India ... the manner in which he managed the relief operations during the Ahmedabad floods in the 1920s; the way he steered the Bardoli Satyagrah Such was his sense of honesty and commitment that the farmer, the worker right up to the full faith Gandhiji called Sardar Patel as the only one capable of finding a lasting solution to the issue of the states and asked him to act. Sardar Patel formulated solutions one by one, weaving the warp and weft of aity on the axis of a single thread. He ensured the merger of all princely states Whether Junagadh, Hyderabad, Travancore, or for that matter, the princely states of Rajasthan, if we are able to see a United India now, it was completely on account of the sagacity \u0026 strategic wisdom of Sardar Patel. Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel as we exalt the spirit of unity that binds our nation, our Mother India The 31st of October this year will be special on one more account-on this day, we will dedicate the statue of unity of the nation as a true tribute to Sardar Patel. Erected on the banks of river Narmada in Gujarat, the structure is twice the height of the Statue of Liberty. This is the world's tallest scyscraping statue. Every Indian will now be proud to see the world's tallest statue here on Indian soil. Sardar Patel, a true son of the soil will adorn our skies too. I hope every Indian will have swell with pride on this remarkable feat of mother India ... and will sing paeans of glory in its praise Of course, the inner desire to visit the statue of unity will come naturally to every Indian. I am sure this will turn out to be a destination\nMy dear brothers \u0026 sisters, we celebrated 'Infantry Day' yesterday. I respectfully bow before all of them, the Indian Armed Forces I also salute But, do you know why Indian citizens commemorate this day as Infantry Day? This is the very day when Indian Forces landed in Kashmir and saved the valley from the clutches of aggression. Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel I was reading the old interview with the celebrated Army officer at Manekshaw. In that interview, field Marshal Sam Manekshaw was reminiscing on times when he was Colonel. Around this time, military operations commenced in Kashmir Field Marshal Manekshaw has mentioned how in a meeting, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel was irked on the delay in sending troops to Kashmir. In the proceedings, Sardar Patel gave him a characteristic look and reiterated that there was no delay in our army operation and that solution should be swiftly And immediately after that, our troops flew to Kashmir ... we've seen how our Army is successful. The 31st of October is also the birth anniversary of our former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi. Our respected tributes to Indira ji too.\nMy dear countrymen, who does not love sports? Elements like spirit, strength, skill, stamina are extremely important in the world. They are the ultimate test for a sportsperson's mettle ... all four of these virtues form the core foundation of nation - building universally. If the youth of a country possess these qualities, that country will progress not only in areas such as Economy and Science \u0026 Technology but also bring glory in the field of sports. Just recently I had two memorable meetings. First, I got a chance to meet our Para Athletes who participated in the Asian Para Games 2018 held at Jakarta These athletes bagged a tally of 72 medals, creating a new, unprecedented record, bringing glory to the nation. I was fortunate enough to get a chance to meet all these talented athletes I congratulated them. Their grit \u0026 determination; Their solution to all the odds in the path of success is really inspiring. Similarly, I had a chance to meet our winners of the Summer youth Olympics in 2018 held in Argentina. You will be pleased to know that in the Summer Youth Olympics 2018, the performance of our youth was the best ever. At this event we won 13 medals besides 3 in mixed events. You may recall that even, in the recent Asian Games, India's performance was excellence. Have you seen the way I used to be used terms such as 'the best ever' or 'new, unprecedented record'? This is the real story of Indian sports, which is witnessing an upswing with every passing day. India is setting new records not only in the field of sports but also in hitherto uncharted areas To give you an example, I would like to mention about Para Athlete Narayan Thakur, who won a gold medal for the country in the 2018 Para Asian Games. He is a Divyang by birth. When he turns eight he lost his father Then he spent another eight years in an orphanage After leaving the orphanage, he has a living cleaning DTC buses and working as waiter at roadside eateries. The same Narayan is winning medals for India at International events. Not just that, just watching the fastening levels of excellence in Indian sports! Hitherto, India had never won a medal in a Judo event, at the junior or senior level. But Tabaabi Devi created history by bagging the silver medal at the Youth Olympics. 16 year old player hails from a village in Manipur Her father is a laborer and a fish-seller There were times when the family had no money to buy food. Even such hardships were not able to cow down her zest \u0026 devotion. And she has created history by a medal for the country. Stories like these are innumerable Every life, everybody is a source of inspiration Every young sportsperson's passion \u0026 dedication is the hallmark of New India.\nMy dear countrymen, you can recall that we had successfully organized FIFA Under-17 World Cup in the year 2017. The whole world acclaimed this as a very successful tournament. The FIFA Under-17 World Cup had created a record in the number of viewers on the ground. More than 12 lakh enthusiasts have enjoyed the romance of football matches in various stadia across the country and boosted the morale of the young players. This year too, we have been fortunate to be the hosts of the Men's Hockey World Cup 2018 in Bhubaneshwar. The Hockey World Cup will begin on the 28th November to be concluded on the 16th December. Every Indian who plays any game or has any interest in any game India has a golden history in Hockey India has won gold medals in various tournaments and has been the world champion once. India has produced many great hockey players. Whenever there will be reference to Hockey, the story will remain incomplete without a mention of these legends. Hockey maestro Major Dhyan Chand is a renowned name. Then, from Balbeer Singh Senior, Leslie Claudius, Mohammad Shahid, Udham Singh to Dhan Raj Pillai, Indian Hockey had a very long journey. Even today, players of Team India are encouraging\nIt is a good chance for the sport lovers to witness close contested matches Go to Bhubaneshwar and cheer up the team and also encouraged Odisha has a dignified historical background and has a very rich cultural tradition. People of the state This is a chance to see Odisha. They can visit the world famous holy places like the Sun Temple of Konark, Lord Jagannath Temple in Puri and Chilka Lake. I convey my best wishes to our men's team for this tournament and assure them that 125 crore Indians are supported by them. I also like to convey my wishes to all the teams from around the world.\nMy dear countrymen, the way people are coming forward and volunteering for social work is really inspirational and encouraging for all countrymen. \"Service is Supreme\" has been India's tradition since centuries and we can feel the scent of this tradition in every and every sector today as well. But, in this new era, the new generation is coming forward in a new way with a fresh vigor and spirit to meet their new dream. Recently, I attended a program where a portal was launched, its name is 'Self 4 Society', MyGov and the IT and Electronics industry of the country has launched this portal with a view to get their employees social activities for motivating and provide them opportunities to perform in this field Their dedication and vigor can make every Indian feel proud. A fresh and pleasant air of IT to society, We-not I, a transformation from the individual to the community is imbibed in this. Someone is teaching the old people; someone is involved in the campaign of cleanliness And there is no vested interest behind all these activities but a pure feeling of dedication and resolve is the driving force. One young person Learned to play wheelchair basket ball in order to be able to help the wheelchair basket This spirit, is a mission mode activity Will this not make every Indian feel proud This spirit of 'We, not I' will surely inspire all of us.\nMy dear brothers and sisters, when I was going through your suggestion for Mann Ki Baat this time, I found a very interesting comment from Mr Manish Mahapatra from Pudducherry. He wrote on Mygov- Please take the topic \"In Man Ki Baat\" as the tribes and their traditions and rituals are the best examples of coexistence with the nature. How do we need to adopt their traditions in our lives for achieving sustainable development and learn from those traditions? Manishji, I would appreciate the subject of the listeners of Mann Ki Baat. This is a subject that inspires us into our dignified past and our ancient traditions, Today, the whole world and specially the western countries environmental protection about the discussion and a balanced life style adoption of new ways to find out. Our country is also facing this problem. But, for its solution we only have to look inward, to look in our glorious past and our rich traditions and have specially understood the way of our tribal communities. To live in consonance and close coordination with the nature is an integral part of our tribal communities. Our tribal brothers worship trees and flowers like gods and goddesses The Bhil tribes of Central India and specially those in Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh worship Peepal and Arjun trees religiously. The Bishnoi community in the desert land of Rajasthan Specially, in the context of serving trees, they prefer laying down their lives but can not tolerate any tree. Mishmi tribes of Arunachal Pradesh claim their relations with tigers They also behave like their brothers and sisters. In Nagaland as well, tigers were seen as the forest guardians. People of Warli Community in Maharashtra consider tigers as their guests and for them the presence of tigers is a good omen indicating prosperity. There is a belief in the Kol community in Central India that their fortune is directly connected with the tigers and they firmly believe that if the tigers do not get food, the villagers are hungry. The Gond tribes in Central Indai stop fishing in some parts of Kaithan river during the breeding season. They consider this area as a fish reserve and they get plentiful of healthy fishes because of their beliefs. Tribal communities make their dwelling units from natural materials which are strong as well as eco-friendly. In the isolated regions of the Nilgiri plateau in South India, a small wanderer community Toda made their settlements using locally available material only.\nMy dear brothers and sisters, this is a fact that the tribal community believes in peace and harmonious co-existence but, if someone has lost their natural resources to harm and cause harm, then they will be able to fight against their rights. There is no wonder that our first freedom fighters were the brave people. Who can forget Bhagwan Birsa Munda who struggled hard against the British Empire to save his own forest land. Besides, whatever has been said, there is a very long list of examples of tribal communities which teach us how to keep a close coordination and nature with adjustments and the country has been forested for the tribal people of the country which still remains. with us Come on, let us express our gratitude.\nMy dear countrymen, \"Mann Ki Baat\", we talk about those people and organizations who make extra-ordinary contribution for the society. These works may seem small but have a very deep impact in changing our thinking and in the society. A few days ago, I was reading a farmer brother from Gurbachan Singh from Punjab. The son of this hard working farmer Gurbachan Singh Gurbachan Singh ji had told the bride's parents that the marriage would be performed in a solemn manner. There is absolutely no need to spend much on wedding reception or any other item. We have a very very simple event. But then he suddenly said that he had one condition And, when a condition is put in these days, it is usually thought that the other side is going to make a big demand which is really difficult for the bride's family to meet. But, you will be surprised to know that Bhabha Gurbachan Singh was a simple farmer and what he said the bride's father and the condition he placed the true strength of our society. Gurbachan Singh asked him to promise that he will not burn parali or stubble in his fields. You can imagine the social power this statement was This point made by Gurbachan Singh has been seen as something that has been seen and has seen many societies in society. Shriman Gurbachan Singh ji's family has presented one example before us. I have also read about a village which is near Nabha in Punjab. Kallar Majra came in the light of the process as the farmers there for the stubble with his fields. Congratulations to Bhai Gurbachan Singh ji! Congratulations to the people of Kallar Majra and all those places who are making their best efforts to clean and pollution free. All of you are looking forward to the Indian tradition of a true successor. Just as a sea is formed by collection of tiny drops, similarly, a small constructive step, plays a vital role.\nMy dear countrymen, it has been told in our epics: -\nPeace: Peace: Peace of peace,\nSeparate peace: you: peace: meditation: peace.\nPlot: Peace: Vishwadeevah: Peace: Brahma Shanti,\nAll peace: Shantirao peace: general peace ||\nPeace: Peace: Peace: ||\nIt means - O, Lord, peace prevailed all around in all three \"Lokas\", in water, in air, in space, in fire, in wind, in medicine, in vegetation, in gardens, in sub conscious, in the whole creation Grant peace to every soul, every heart, in me, in you, in every particle and everywhere in the Universe. Om Shanti: Shanti: Shanti :.\nWherever there will be a talk of world peace, India's name and contribution For India, 11th of November this year has a special significance because on 11th November a hundred years back, the World War I had ended. Ending of that war is completing one hundred years meaning thereby a century of ending of the vast devastation and human loss will also get completed. For India, World War I was an important event. Rightly speaking Despite this, our soldiers fought bravely and made the supreme sacrifice. Indian soldiers showed it to the world that they are second to none Our soldiers have displayed great value and difficult conditions. Restoration of peace The world witnessed a dance of destruction and the destruction of the World War I; According to estimates, around one crore soldiers and almost the same number of civilians lost their lives. This Made the World The definition of peace has changed in the last hundred years. Today, peace does not mean 'no war' There is a need to work unitedly to address issues such as terrorism, climate change, economic development through social justice and coordination. Development of the poorest of the poor is the real indicator of peace.\nMy dear countrymen, our North-East has a unique distinction of its own. The natural beauty of North-East has no parallel and the people of this area are extremely talented. Now our north-east is also known for all North East is one region that has made great progress in organic farming. A few days ago Sikkim won the prestigious Future Policy Gold Award, 2018 for encouraging the sustainable food system. This award is given by the UN body 'Food and Agriculture Organization' - FAO. You will be glad to know that this is the best policy making award Not only this, our Sikkim outperformed 51 nominated policies of 25 countries to win this award For this, I heartily compliment the people of Sikkim\nMy dear countrymen, October is about to end. Quite a result Winter has set in and with the changing weather, the season of festivals have also set in - Dhanteras, Deepawali, Bhaiya Dooj, Chathat - in a way it can be said that the month of November is the month of festivals. I extend my best wishes to all countriesmen for these festivals.\nI would request you to take full care of yourself and also take care of your social interests. I am sure these festivals are a chance to make new resolves. These festivals prove a chance to advance in a mission mode and make a firm resolve in your life. Your progress is The more progress you can My best wishes to you all Thank you very much much\nThis 31st October, Let us 'Run For Unity': PM #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/O4vWDInmNP\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) October 28, 2018\nA @TIME Magazine story from 1947 on Sardar Patel gave us insights: PM #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/AKRyOJBC3w\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) October 28, 2018\nSardar Patel's Jayanti will be more special on this October 31 - On this day giving true tribute to Sardar Patel, we will dedicate the statue of Unity to the nation: PM #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/BH25j2LqYn\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) October 28, 2018\nTomorrow we have celebrated 'Infantry Day' by the countrymen.\nDo you know why all of us Hindustan citizens celebrate these 'Infantry Day': PM #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/gwOV87d6MJ\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) October 28, 2018\nIn the sports world, spirit, strength, skill, stamina - all these things are very important.\nThis is the criterion for the success of a player and the four qualities are important for building a nation: PM pic.twitter.com/zBotJPF6md\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) October 28, 2018\nThis year, India has got the privilege of organizing Men's Hockey World Cup 2018 in Bhubaneswar. The Hockey World Cup will start from 28 November and till December 16.\nIndia has a great history in Hockey: PM pic.twitter.com/Uaz01HzDqX\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) October 28, 2018\nIn the past, I went to a program where a portal has been launched, whose name is 'Self 4 Society'.\nEvery Indian will be proud to see the excitement and passion that they have for this work: PM pic.twitter.com/TwZTIQD3pp\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) October 28, 2018\nIT to Society,"