"Farmers are the ones, who lead the country ahead: PM Modi\nPM Modi reiterates government's commitment to double the income of farmers by 2022\nPM Modi emphasizes the need to grow new technologies and ways\nMy Cabinet colleague, Radhamohan Singh ji; The popular, successful and zealous Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh, Yogi Adityanath ji; Assistant Deputy Minister of the Government of Japan, Takami Nakada ji; Israel's Ambassador Maya Kadosh ji; agricultural scientists, other dignitaries and my dear farmer brothers and sisters who have come here from every corner of UP\nThere are still some months left for the Ardha-Kumbh Mela of Prayagraj. However, another Kumbh has started in UP from today. About 50 thousand farmers from different villages of UP and scientists and entrepreneurs from around the world and within the country are becoming a part of this Agricultural Kumbh in Lucknow. I welcome you all. And as a parliamentarian from UP, it's my responsibility to stand on your journey.\nA few months back, during Krishi Unnati Mela, I had been advised to organize large farmer fairs. Krishi Kumbh Mela is just an extension of that I congratulate Yogi ji and his whole team for this great effort. I also want to offer my gratitude to the Government of Japan and the Government of Israel for partnering with us in this event. At the same time, the partner state of Haryana will also get out of it.\nFriends,\nWhenever the word 'Kumbh' gets associated with any event, its significance increases manifold. The Kumbh, in a way, is an inter-flow of ideas and the expression of humanity. I believe that the Krishi Kumbh will fulfill this tradition and in the next three days, new paths will open for modern techniques and other opportunities.\nFriends,\nI was told that about 200 stalls in this fair are the farmers. I believe that every farmer will benefit from this quality\nFriends,\nThe Kharif season is about to get everywhere around the country. All the farmer brothers and sisters are busy these days. Even this time, a record production is expected. UP is a place where the hard-working farmers produce the country's 20% of the food grains. I congratulate you all for the same Several crops including rice and pulses are being purchased in Mandis across the country. I was told that in many parts of Uttar Pradesh too, grand arrangements have been made. This time the value received by the farmers for their crops. You are aware of the fact that the government has made a historic increase in the MSP of 21 crops. It has been decided that the farmer should get direct profit of at least 50% of the cost.\nFriends,\nAs the farmers of UP are engaged in record production, Yogi ji's government is breaking records in the purchase of that product. So, I congratulate Yogi ji's government This time about 50-55 lakh metric tons of wheat has been purchased whereas the previous government used to purchase only 7-8 lakh metric tons of wheat. This means that considering that the farmers get a fair price, the made-up by the Indian Janata Party's Yogi Government is 7-8 times more. Moreover, this purchase has made the use of technology i.e. e-Uparjan\nFriends,\nThis transformation is visible only in the case of wheat and paddy but also in case of sugarcane. Farmers had paid more than Rs 27 thousand crores this season. Besides, Rs.11 thousand crores from the amount due to farmers. I was told that the Yogi government is trying to clear the money. I am glad that the government, for the first time, has decided to buy it. This will definitely help the farmers who do not get the fair price.\nFriends,\nThese efforts in UP are part of that commitment of the central government as a result of the villages and the farmers have become an important part of our economic planning. As per our clear conviction, it is the farmer that takes the nation forward, not the other way round. Therefore, the government is working on the problems associated with agriculture and farmers. Our focus is on removing every little problem\nFriends,\nThe government is committed to doubling the farmer's income by 2022 that will mark 75 years of Indian independence. Following the policy of minimum cost and maximum profit, scientific techniques have been beautifully blended with agriculture. A strong system of 'seed to the market' is being prepared in the country. Many initiatives are being taken in different areas. More than 16 crore soil health cards have been handed over to the farmers of the country which of 3 crore have been distributed in UP. This will help the farmers decide which crop is suitable for a particular soil type and the quantity of fertilizers required for the crops.\nFriends,\nIn order to keep the features and fertility of the soil intact, organic farming is being promoted. The farmers are being encouraged to maximize their use of fertilizers. The availability of the fertilizers like Urea in adequate amounts is also being ensured. At the same time, the irrigation facilities are also being strengthened. Apart from the major irrigation projects, new technologies in irrigation are also being promoted. Farmers are being encouraged to use 'Per Drop More Crop' Micro irrigation systems like drip irrigation and sprinkler irrigation are becoming part of our irrigation system.\nIsrael has received accolades in new irrigation techniques At the same time, Japan is doing a commendable job in agricultural technologies. So, as a partner in the farm, you are going to draw the benefits from the two countries.\nFriends,\nBesides, we are rapidly moving forward in converting the electric and diesel pumps in solar pumps. Apart from these systems, pumps are important part of irrigation and major efforts are in this direction. A massive campaign is going to convert these electricity and diesel pumps to solar pumps. Under this, in the next four years, solar pumps will be installed in the fields of about 28 lakh farmers across the country. Firstly, the farmers will get free electricity and secondly, the surplus electricity can be sold to power discoms.\nFriends,\nThe farmer who was once 'Annadata' or producer of food grains now has the capability of being 'Urjadata' or producer of energy. The Annadata will now be Urjadata.\nFriends,\nThe fact that this will bring a sea change in the lives of the farmers. I was in Gujarat There I noticed that some farmer families had collectively installed solar panels and solar pumps inside their fields. They have started generating electricity from solar energy That was used in their fields and in solar pumps. It completes its need of electricity Moreover, they are earning Rs.50 thousand more annually by selling the surplus electricity.\nFriends,\nThe government has made great efforts. The work of connecting the farmers and the scientists are directly researching the research centers, so that the knowledge and information related to farming and seeds as a result of the research and discovery is the shortest possible time on the farmers. Therefore, about 700 agricultural students have been set up throughout the country. Modern institutions related to agricultural research are also being established. Rice Research Center is located in Varanasi. The government has made efforts to ensure maximum prices for farmers' crops and for value addition. The government has allowed 100% FDI in the food processing sector. We are aware of the fact that selling tomatoes will generate less income than selling tomato sauce in a bottle. Selling raw mangoes will fetch less income from selling pickles from raw mangoes. Similarly, selling green chillies will generate less income but selling chilli powder will generate greater income. This is called value addition. Moreover, TOP scheme with a cost of Rs.500 crores which is related to value addition of Tomatoes, Onions and Potatoes was announced in the year's budget. This will benefit the potato farmers of UP to a great extent. This has opened up new opportunities for investment in agriculture which is benefitting UP. I was told that in the Investor Summit, proposals of about Rs.16 thousand crores were made in food processing sector. Out of these, 14 projects worth Rs.3500 crore have already been launched.\nFriends,\nThese steps are making agriculture profitable Besides, other steps are also being collected. After the success of Green Revolution, we have started walking on new paths of white revolution, sweet revolution and blue revolution. We are making the field of milk production, honey production and eggs or fish production. Two days ago, the government of India has taken a major decision for the fishing production. The government has given approval to a new fund of Rs. 7500 crore.\nFriends,\nAll of you, the farmers, agricultural experts, scientists who are present here in Krishi Kumbh are important part of India's economy. This is a great impact on your efforts. I urge you all sit together and discuss about the techniques related to agriculture. It is necessary to discuss on myriad issues like how to use less fertilizers, how to improve the use of less water, how to improve, for the purposes of the warehouses for crops and how to use techniques like robots and drones effectively in agriculture.\nइसके अलावा, how can we turn Waste can turn into wealth Nothing is useless in an agricultural field before and after harvest Everything related to the field is gold If the farmer uses his field effectively, nothing will go waste Wealth can be out of waste There is a need to work more effectively in this direction. The government is offering a discount of 50-80% on crop waste to stop stubble burning. However, with technology-based solutions, we have had an end to the compulsion of our farmers. This will protect the environment\nI believe that in the next three days, effective discussion will take place. The discussions should focus on the different districts of UP according to their needs.\nI hope that the Krishi Kumbh will give a new direction to the agricultural system of UP as well as the whole country. With this expectation, once again, my best wishes to you all\nThank you!"