"Share\n\nIndia has a long tradition of handicrafts and Varanasi has played a key role in this: PM\nWe want our weavers and artisans belonging to the carpet industry to prosper and get global recognition: PM Modi\nFor the carpet sector, our ministry is Farm to Fiber, Fiber to Fabric, Fabric to Fashion and Fashion to Foreign: PM Modi\nHello.\nMy colleague Smriti Irani Ji, all the entrepreneurs associated with the Carpet Sector, my weaver brothers and sisters, and all the other great teachers present there present in Varanasi. I congratulate all of you on the holy land of Kashi, from all over the country, coming from foreign countries. I am told that more than two and a half hundred guests from around 38 countries in the world are part of this Expo. Besides, people belonging to the Carpet Sector have also arrived from Jammu, Kashmir, West Bengal and other states of the country. All of you welcome me as a Banaras MP in Banaras.\nFriends, the festival of festivals is nowadays in the country. After Dussehra, Durgapujaja, I have got the opportunity to join Benaras for the first time through technology. Now all of you will be busy preparing for Dhanteras and Deepawali. This is the time of year when all of you are most engaged. The work is more than usual because of the usual days, because demand is high. You get the award of art of your work; This is also the best time for this.\nFor the weavers and traders of Sageo, Varanasi and UP, this festival has brought double happiness. India Carpet Expo is the first time in Deendayal Handicraft Package. Congratulations to all of you for this Now in Delhi as well as in Varanasi, India's carpet industry is getting the opportunity to show our weavers, designers, businessmen, their skills, their production in front of the world.\nFriends, I am happy that with the aims that the Deendayal Handicraft Complex was built, we are moving fast on those goals. This is also important because these areas are weavers, the hubs of the carpet industry. Here, about one-fourth of the people associated with handicrafts are weavers, workers and business sisters and businessmen. Varanasi ho, Bhadoi ho, Mirzapur ho; They are the center of the carpet industry, and now Eastern India, this whole region is becoming a global hub of textile export of the country. Not only this, Deendayal Handicraft Complex is also playing an important role in strengthening this international identity in the case of Handicrafts.\nIt is the constant effort of the Government, the Government that in order to encourage the small and medium enterprises of Handicrafts to be promoted and promoted by technology, the facilities should be provided where the product is produced. This time, the Indian Carpet Expo, happening in Varanasi, is another big step in this episode, together with a very important pillar of our Five App vision for Textile Sector. And when I say Five App, Five App means Farm to Fiber, Fiber to Factory, Factory to Fashion, Fashion to Foreign. This is a great effort towards connecting farmers and weavers directly to the world market.\nDuring these four days, these expo will showcase one of the finest designs, will be crores of rupees in business, will be agreements, new business opportunities will be opened, weavers will get new orders. I believe that the merchants who have come from foreign countries will also be able to experience the changing business environment of our culture, Kashi and India.\nFriends, there is a very long tradition in India about handicrafts. In rural areas of India, there is a great deal of handloom in spinning yarn. The land of Benaras has a big role in it. The identities of Banaras associated with the Saint Kabir are equally linked to handicrafts. Saint Kabir used to wear yarn and also gave a message of life through him. Kabirdas ji has said -\nSome Kabir Suno Ho\nThat is what the charkha is written, not the result of it.\nThat is, the Charkha is the essence of life and who understood it, he also understood the essence of life. Where handicrafts have been linked to such a large vision of life, when such arrangements are made to simplify the lives of weavers then there is a sense of satisfaction.\nFriends, in our country, handicrafts - trade, motivation over business, struggle for independence, has been the means of swelping. What has been the significance of Gandhiji, Satyagraha and Charkha's in our freedom movement, we know this well.\nWith the help of all of you, the government is continuously making efforts to strengthen this message of self-reliance through handicrafts. That is why India is the world's largest carpet producing country. For the past four-and-a-four years, we are at the top in the world of hand-made carpets. It has been possible due to millions of weavers, designers, merchants' labor, and government policies.\nFriends, today, India has more than 35 percent of the carpet market, which is estimated to be up to 50 percent in the next two to three years. That is, in the coming years, as much as the business of carpet in the world, India will have half of it, all of you will have it.\nLast year, we exported 9,000 crores of carpets. We exported carpet to nearly 100 countries this year. This is a laudable task, but we have to move it further. We have to try that by 2022, when 75 years of our independence will be complete, then we take this figure of exports more than two and a half times, to 25 thousand crore rupees.\nNot only exports but also in the country, the carpet business has increased more than three times in the past four years. The market which was 500 crore four years ago, has become 1600 crore today.\nIf there is a scope of the market in the country, then there are two obvious reasons behind it. One, the middle class is expanding in the country and second, for the industry, unprecedented facilities are being provided for its promotion.\nFriends, if we go only through this trend, the future of the whole industry, the future of the whole textile sector is bright in the country. Today India is the only country in the world which creates small carpets and big carpets. Not only this, India's carpet is excellent in terms of art and crafts, it is also environment friendly. It is a great honor for all of you, your skills, that Made in India Carpet, the Made in India Carpet has emerged as a big brand.\nFriends, the Government is committed to every kind of effort to further strengthen this brand. The logistic support is being strengthened to ensure that the garment exporters do not have any inconvenience. The plans to provide warehousing and showroom facility across the country are underway. This will allow you to easily access your goods to a big market.\nNot only this, facilities are also being built on technology and quality. Indian Institute of Carpet Technology i.ic.t. for carpet testing facility in Bhadoni and Srinagar; A world-class laboratory has been established in this. The effort is to ensure that our products are zero defect, zero effect, in which there is no defect and environmental concerns can also be seen in the product.\nApart from this, many arrangements have also been made for the marketing of handicrafts and other assistance to weavers along with the carpet. There are 9 common facility centers, common service centers in Varanasi. The benefits of these centers are to thousands of weavers.\nBesides, besides the quality, weavers are being made to make small traders not suffer from the problem of money. Under the monetary scheme, a lot of help from free loan of Rs. 50 thousand to ten lakh rupees is being provided. For weavers, a provision of margin money of Rs 10 thousand in the money scheme has also been made.\nNot only that, any assistance or debt, weavers are now being given, they are reaching their account in a very short time. The identification card given to weavers by the name 'Identity' should be removed from the middlemen Has received great help in\nApart from this, modern loom is also being provided to Bhadoni, Mirzapur Mega Carpet Cluster and Srinagar Carpet Cluster weavers. Training is also being given for the skill to develop the loom, and there is a lot of skill development programs for the growers' skill.\nSister-in-law, whenever I used to talk to weaver brothers and sisters, one thing must have been heard, they used to say that our children do not want to join this work anymore. What could be a serious situation with this? Today, when we are on top of the world in terms of carpet, then it is equally necessary to inspire and encourage future generations.\nUnder this goal, B.Tech. Program is being run in IICT Bhadoi, in the technology of the art. In other parts of the country, there is a plan to run such programs in training institutes. Along with the skill of the weavers, education for them and their children is also being given attention. 75 percent of the children of poor weavers' families are being borne by the government.\nFriends, this government is committed to making your art and labor a nation's power too. For the country in the coming time, there are many big opportunities to showcase this art for Benaras.\nThe next Pravasi Bharatiya Sammelan will be held in Kashi in the next year, it will also prove to be a great medium of publicity. I am confident that the businessmen from all over the world will be able to enjoy our cultural heritage along with our cultural memory and changing Kashi.\nOnce again, all of you congratulate Dhanteras, Deepawali and Chhath Puja in advance and for this successful event, to give Kashi an international reputation, I will give to the Ministry, to my weavers, all the greats related to export-import To get Kashi to Kashi, I again congratulate a lot to bring Kashi to the center of prestige.\nThanks a lot."