"Share\n\nPM Modi hoists the National Flag at Red Fort to commemorate the 75th anniversary of Azad Hind Government\nAzad Hind government represented the vision laid down by Subhas Chandra Bose, of a strong undivided India: PM Modi\nSubhas Chandra Bose is a visionary, who united Indians to fight against the powerful colonial British rule, says PM Modi\nPrime Minister says, \"Netaji was a inspiration for all those who are fighting for self-determination and freedom in countries all over the world\"\nMy colleague of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Mahesh Sharma, member of the Azad Hind Fauj and the heroic hero of the country and among us all, Mr. Lalati Ram Ji, nephew of Subhash Babu, brother Chandrakumar Bose, Brig RS Chikara ji and security here. All the officers of the army's forces, other noblemen, brothers and sisters.\nToday, the historic day of October 21, the flag hoisting on the Red Fort, you can imagine how much I consider myself fortunate? This is the same Red Fort, where the dream of victory parade was seen by Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose 75 years ago. Taking oath as the first Prime Minister of the Azad Hind Government, Netaji had announced that the Tricolor would be hoisted with full glory one day on this Red Fort. The Azad Hind Government was the government of the unbroken India, the Government of undivided India. I congratulate the countrymen on 75 years of Azad Hind Government.\nSaathio, the person who had so much vision towards his goal was so clear. To achieve the goal, which has gone out to put all of its stake at stake, which is dedicated only to the country and only; Through such a person, remembering generation is inspired from generation to generation. Today I bow to those parents who gave Sardar like a saint to this country. Gave birth to the brave warriors who sacrificed for the nation. I am a leader in front of the soldiers and their families who have given me everything in the fight for independence. I also remember the people of the whole world who supported Netaji's mission with this mission and made a valuable contribution in building a free, prosperous, strong India.\nSageo, Azad Hind Sarkar, This Azad Hind Government, it was not just a name, but under the leadership of Netaji, the schemes related to every area were created by this government. This government had its own bank, its currency, its postage stamp was its intelligence system. Living outside the country, with limited resources, developing such a wider system against powerful empire, a strong revolution, unprecedented, I think this was an extraordinary work.\nNetaji united the people against a government whose sun never broke, whose rule was in a large part of the world. If we read Netaji's own writings, then we would have known how the foundation for reaching the top of gallantry had fallen into his childhood.\nAround the year 1912, 106 years ago, a letter from the Chitti that he had written to his mother, is a testimony to the fact that Subhash Babu's heart was so much pain in India's position, how uncomfortable it was, how much pain He would keep his mind, he was only 15-16 years old at that time.\nHundreds of years of slavery that the country had made, he shared the pain of his mother with his letter. He had asked the question in his letter from his mother that mother will fall in our country day and night more? Is not this a sad Bharatmata's single son who completely devoted his selfishness and dedicates his whole life to the service of India's mother? Say mother, how long will we sleep? Subash Babu, aged 15-16, asked this question to his mother.\nBrothers and Sisters, in this letter, they also answered the questions asked by the mother. He had explained to his mother that now, no longer can wait, now is not the time to sleep, we have to wake up with our inertia, we will have to discard laziness and have to work in action. This Subhash Babu, 15-16 years old! This intense passion in his own made Kishore Subhash Babu as Netaji Subhash.\nNetaji had the same purpose, the only mission was - the freedom of India Mother India is free from slavery chains. That was his ideology and this was his workplace.\nSathiyo, Subhash Babu, with the help of Swami Vivekananda and his teachings to decide the goal of his life, to dedicate his existence to him-\nThe world of self-enlightenment is the path of salvation, ie the path of salvation is opened to the service of the world. The main basis of their contemplation was the service of the world. Because of this feeling of service to his India he suffered every torture, crossed every challenge, failed every conspiracy.\nBrothers and sisters, Subhash Babu stayed in the fighters who, over time, changed themselves and took their own steps in view of their goal. This is the reason why he first attempted Mahatma Gandhi in the country by staying in Congress and then according to the circumstances, he chose the path of armed revolution. This route played a big role in furthering the independence movement.\nFriends, Subhash Babu, who did the mantra, did not taste the nectar only, but its benefits and other countries also happened. The countries that were fighting for their independence at that time were inspired by seeing Subhash Chandra Bose. They thought that nothing is impossible. We can also get organized, challenge the British, can be free. Great freedom fighter Nelson Mandela, Bharat Ratna Nelson Mandela also said that during the student movement of South Africa, he considered Subhash Babu as his leader, he used to be his hero.\nBrothers and Sisters, today we are celebrating 75 years of Azad Hind Government, four years later in 2022 Azad will be completing 75 years of India. 75 years ago, Netaji promised to make an India where everyone has equal rights, everyone has equal opportunities. He had promised to take inspiration from his ancient traditions and to create a happy and prosperous India who glorified them. He promised that the balanced development of the country, the development of every sector He promised that the policy of 'divide and rule', to overthrow it, because of which the 'politics of divide and rule' to India has enslaved for centuries for centuries.\nToday, even after so many years of independence Netaji's dream has not been fulfilled. India has gone a step ahead, but it is yet to reach new heights. To achieve this goal, today's hundred and hundred crore people of India are moving forward with new India's resolve. A new India that was speculated by Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose too.\nToday, at a time when the destructive powers are attacking our independence, unity and the Constitution from outside and inside the country, it is the duty of every resident of India that they are motivated by Netaji to fight those forces, defeat them and defeat the country. Also take a pledge to make your full contribution in the development of\nBut fellow, with these resolutions, one thing is more important - this is the feeling of nationalism, the feeling of Indianness During the trial of the Red Fort here, Azad Hind Fauj's fighter Shahnawaz Khan had said that Subhash Chandra Bose was the first person to wake up in his mind the feeling of having India.\nHe was the first person who taught India to look at Indian eyes. After all, what were the circumstances, because of which Shahnawaz Khan had said such a thing? Why was it necessary to see and understand India from the eyes of Indians - when we see the condition of the country today and understand it clearly.\nRecalling his days of brothers and sisters, Cambridge, Subhash Babu wrote that we are taught to the Indians that Europe is a great form of Great Britain, so our habit has to be seen by Europe's glasses. . It is our misfortune that after the independence, those who created India and the systems here, saw India also with the glasses of England.\nOur culture, our great languages, our education system, our curriculum, our system suffered a lot of this infection. Today I can certainly say today that if the country had the guidance of personalities like Subhash Babu, Sardar Patel, in the decades after Independent India, they would not have the foreign eyeglasses to see India, the conditions would be very different.\nCompanions, it is also tragic that in order to make a family bigger, many efforts of the country's heroes - whether they are Sardar Patel, Baba Saheb Ambedkar, like him, has been tried to forget the contribution of Netaji. Now our government is changing the situation. All of you have come to know till now, before coming here I was in the program to surrender to the National Police Monument. I have announced there on the name of Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose to start a national honor.\nIn our country, when nationality is calamity, those who join in the task of disaster management and relief and rescue, such knights who betray their lives to save the lives of others, now every year in the name of Netaji, the police jawans Will be given respect. Our policemen, the paramilitary force personnel who will enhance the country's glory, will be entitled to it.\nFriends, balanced development of the country at every level of society, every person has the opportunity to create a nation, its role in the progress of the nation is an important part of Netaji's larger vision. Azad Hind Government, led by Netaji, also created the gateway of India's independence to Eastern India. In the year 1944, under the leadership of Colonel Shukk Malik, the Azad Hind Fauj hoisted the tricolor in Mooreang of Manipur.\nIt has also been our misfortune that the contribution of north-east and eastern India to such a bravery in the freedom movement did not get as much space. In the race of development, this important part of the country remained behind. Today I am satisfied that the eastern India is understood by Subhash Babu, the present government is equally giving importance, taking it in the same direction, working to make this area a growth engine of the country. is.\nBrothers and Sisters, I consider myself fortunate that whatever Netaji has given for the country; I have had a chance to keep him in front of the country, to walk on the path shown by him. And so when I got an invitation to come to this event today, I also got the maternity of the work of Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose in the days of Gujarat.\nSathiyo, when I was the Chief Minister of Gujarat, then in 2009 the historic Haripura Congress, Congress was the convention. We again raised the memory of the convention of Haripura Congress in a way. As Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel, the people of Gujarat who took a big procession sitting in the bullocks after Netaji was appointed as Congress President in the same session, that is exactly what we had done in a grand ceremony, In 2009, there was a revival of history by standing there. Even though he was a convention of Congress, but it was a page of history, we showed him alive.\nShe was fortunate to have been dedicated to freedom, for the comrade. People like us who have not got this opportunity, we have had the opportunity to live for the country, to be dedicated to development, we have opened the way for all of us. We have reached Swaraj by giving millions of sacrifices. Now we all have the challenge of maintaining this Swaraj with Suraj on the hundred and fifty million Indians. Netaji had said - 'You have to get freedom from the power of weapons and the cost of blood. Then when India is free, you will have to make a permanent army for the country, whose work will be to maintain our independence forever.\nToday I can say that India is moving towards building an army whose dream was seen by Netaji Subhash Bose. Josh, passion and passion, this is the history of our military tradition, now technology and modern weapon power are also being associated with it. Our military strength has always been for self defense and will continue to do so. We have never been greedy of any other's land. We have history from our centuries, but whatever challenges we face for the sovereignty of India, we will get the answers with double power.\nMany steps have been taken in the past four years to strengthen the army, the comrades. The world's best technology is being made part of the Indian Army. The ability of the army or the brave soldiers to make the life easier and simpler - the courage to take big and tough decisions is in this government and it will continue to be continued. From Surgical strike to Netaji files to public Our government has taken the decision. Many ex-servicemen present here are also witnesses that the demand for One Rank One Pension, which has been running for decades, has been fulfilled by the government according to its promise.\nNot only this, the nearly Rs 11,000 crore arrear has also been carried to the ex-servicemen, which has benefited millions of ex-servicemen. In addition, the pension which has been decided on the recommendation of the Seventh Pay Commission, has also increased on the basis of fixed pension after the implementation of One Rank One Pension. That is, my military brothers got double bonanza on pension.\nSuch efforts have been made to simplify the lives of ex-servicemen. Apart from this, the bravery of the soldiers will be realized for future generations, for this, the National War Museum work has also reached the last phase.\nCompanions, tomorrow, i.e., 75 are also completing 75 years of Rani Jhansi Regiment. सशस्‍त्र सेना में महिलाओं की भी बराबरी की भागीदारी हो, इसकी नींव भी नेताजी सुभाषचंद्र बोस ने ही रखी थी। देश की पहली सशस्‍त्र महिला रेजिमेंट भारत की समृद्ध परम्‍पराओं के प्रति सुभाष बाबू के आगाध विश्‍वास का परिणाम था। तमाम विरोधों को दरकिनार करते हुए उन्‍होंने महिला सैनिकों की सलामी ली थी।\nमैं गर्व के साथ कह सकता हूं कि नेताजी ने जो काम 75 वर्ष पहले शुरू किया था, उसको सही मायने में आगे बढ़ाने का काम इस सरकार ने किया है। इसी 15 अगस्‍त को मैंने यहीं लाल‍ किले से एक बड़ा ऐलान किया था- मैंने कहा था कि सशस्‍त्र सेना में Short Service Commission के माध्‍यम से नियुक्‍त महिला अधिकारियों को पुरुष समकक्ष अधिकारियों की तरह ही एक पारदर्शी चयन प्रक्रिया द्वारा स्‍थाई कमीशन दिया जाएगा।\nसाथियो, ये सरकार के उन प्रयासों का विस्‍तार है जो बीते चार वर्षों से उठाए गए हैं। मार्च, 2016 में नेवी में महिलाओं को पायलटकरने का फैसला लिया गया था। कुछ दिन पहले ही नौसेना की 6 जांबाज महिला अधिकारियों ने समंदर को जीतकर विश्‍व को भारत की नारी-शक्ति का परिचय करवाया है। इसके अलावा देश को पहली महिला फाइटर पायलट देने का काम भी इसी सरकार के दौरान हुआ है।\nमुझे इस बात का भी संतोष है कि आजाद भारत में पहली बार भारत की सशस्‍त्र सेनाओं को सशक्‍त करने, देखरेख करने का जिम्‍मा भी देश की पहली देश की पहली रक्षामंत्री सीतारमण जी के हाथ में है।\nसाथियो, आज आप सभी के सहयोग से, सशस्‍त्र बलों के कौशल और समर्पण से देश पूरी तरह से सुरक्षित है, समर्थ है और विकास के पथ पर सही दिशा में तेज गति से लक्ष्‍य को पाने के लिए दौड़ रहा है।\nएक बार फिर, आप सभी को, देशवासियों को, इस महत्‍वपूर्ण अवसर पर हृदयपूर्वक बहुत-बहुत बधाई देता हूं। एकता, अखंडता और आत्‍मविश्‍वास की हमारी ये यात्रा नेताजी सुभाषचंद्र बोस जी के आशीर्वाद से निरंतर आगे बढ़े।\nइसी के साथ मेरे साथ सब बोलेंगे-\nLong live Mother India\nLong live Mother India\nLong live Mother India\nवंदे - मातरम"