"Share\n\nPM Modi dedicates National Police Memorial to the nation, salutes the courage and sacrifices of police personnel\nPM Modi announces award in the name of Netaji Subas Chandra Bose, to honour the police and paramilitary personnel, involved in disaster response operations\nCentral sculpture of the National Police memorial represents capability, courage and service orientation of the police forces, says PM\nNational Police Memorial will inspire the citizens and educate them about the bravery of police and paramilitary personnel: PM\nUnder Modernization of Police Forces (MPF) scheme, we are equipping the police forces with the latest technologies, modern communication systems and weapons: PM\nFormer Deputy Prime Minister of our country Mr. LK Advani, Honorable Mr. Rajnath Singh, Honorary Minister of the country, my other colleagues from the Cabinet, Honorary staff of my fellow police force of Parliament, Mr. Veer Saput, a witness of Hot Spring Incident, here present the martyrs Family members, other great men and my dear brothers and sisters ... we all come in some moments in life, when you have to bow to bravery. We are filled with pride. But also feel a tide of sensation within itself. This is the moment for me.\nI respectfully honor every person dedicated to the security of the country, I respect the families of the martyrs present here on the Police Commemoration Day. Today's day is to memorize your bravery and high highest sacrifice, along with the service of all of you who have been following the pattern of our police and paramilitary forces.\nPolice Memorial Day is also remembered for the heroic story of courageous police heroes who served the first defense minister in the snowy peaks of Ladakh, dedicated his life to the country. Today, there is also a chance to remember the thousands of martyrs associated with the police fleet, who, after independence, walked on the path of duty and neglected their lives, their youth, their lives. I bow to such heroic heroes. Every martyr's family, many of them are also here. I am also in front of everyone. Who have sacrificed such a huge amount for their country.\nCompanions, it is my good fortune that I have had the opportunity to dedicate the nation's national police memorial to the Amar Saga of nation service and dedication. The central structure created in this memorial is a symbol of the spirit, valor and service of every police.\nThe water flowing under the rock is a sign of continuous flow of goodwill in our society. The Wall of Valour is the name of 34 thousand 844 police personnel. Those who fought different challenges in different states of the country, sacrificed their highest sacrifice. I believe that each item kept in the Navinaratr Museum of this memorial, one memory of every countryman coming here, our young comrades, the future of our country, our children, our police and the paramilitary system about glorious history Will inspire in Just as you all remain on the path of your duty day and night, without stopping, without stopping. In every season, in the summer, in winter, in the rain, in the snow all the time, remain stationed for service on every festival. Something similar seems to be seen from within this memorial itself.\nCompanions, it is a proof of membership of all of you that the elements that make the country uncomfortable get frustrated. You have failed many conspiracies to create an atmosphere of fear and insecurity in the country. Such conspiracies whose information also does not come out. Such love that you have never received public praise at all. Every moment of the country passing through peace, every moment of the countrymen is possible only by your duty, service.\nCompanions, this day is also to remember every jawan who is dealing with panic in order to maintain peace and order in Jammu and Kashmir. Jawans who are currently posted on duty in Naxal-affected districts of the country. They will also tell us that you are doing the best work. And you are moving fast in the direction of peace establishment.\nIf the number of Naxal-affected districts is declining today More youths from those areas are joining the mainstream. So your efforts also have a big role in it. Courage and sacrifices of our comrades in the North East are also now experiencing peace as we are experiencing. You also contribute to the development of our northeast which is a symbol of peace and prosperity.\nCompanions, this day is a day to remember the time of natural calamities in the country's disaster management or in the time of the accident, those who are involved in relief work, whose services are not discussed much.\nI want to say to the countrymen today ... There is a natural disaster even now for some years now, you must have seen NDRF written or written by SDRF to save people's lives by working hard there in day-to-day uniforms Will be seen. But the country does not know that these same khaki uniforms are my policemen. Country ... never forget their courage, their dedication, their service. Most of the time, it is not known to anyone who is the people who took charge of the relief work when a building falls, when the boat is an accident, on the fire, when there is an accident inside the rail.\nIn every state of the country, every police station, posted in every police checkpost, to the companions engaged in the protection of every property of the nation, to all the companions working in relief work, to all of you on this important occasion, Very congratulations\nCompanions, this memorial service and bravery, together also show the Government's commitment. The basis of which is the respect of the nation's symbol of protection and every Indian associated with nation building is respected. Today, I am proud of the National Police Memorial, but there are some questions, why it took 70 years of independence to accept the existence of this last memorial. The Police Memorial Day is celebrated after the Hot Spring incident which is also 60 years ago. Then why wait so many years\nThe idea of ​​such a memorial dedicated to comrades, the country's police force, was 25 years ago, 26 years ago. Even then the government gave it approval too. But the first step taken to land it was taken by Atal Bihari Vajpayee's government, and in 2002, the then Home Minister Respected Advaniji also laid a foundation stone. Today Advani ji is present himself here. He is proud to see that dream come true, he knows well that after some of his work, the work of this memorial has not progressed further.\nI believe that for some years the work stopped because of the laws, but the previous government wanted, if he had tried diligently, then the memorial would have been many years ago. But the earlier government allowed the dust on the stone established by Advani Ji.\nWhen the NDA government was formed in 2014, we allocated the budget and today this grand monument is being dedicated to the country. Perhaps God has chosen me to do good work, I have liked myself. This is the way of our government's work. Today, working culture has been developed to achieve goals on time.\nYou should remember that the Ambedkar International Center has been launched in Delhi last year. Discussion on this center also started around 1992. But for two decades, its file has been suppressed. The file was searched after the arrival of this government. The foundation stone of the center and the inauguration also happened. Similarly, the work of making the National Memorial on Baba Saheb Ambedkar's house, 26, Alipur Road, began in the time of Atal ji. After the departure of their government, the work on this project has also been stopped. After our government came to the shilanyas and in April this year it also got the privilege to inaugurate. I am happy that this grand monument is inspiring the world today.\nCompanions, sometimes a serious question arises in my mind. That is what is the reason of the earlier ruthlessness of the previous government towards those who devote their services to the nation, valor and sacrifice. Our tradition is never a part of our culture. We are those people who, despite being hungry, disregard everything for the goodness of the nation.\nI am proud that for the past four years we have been successful in establishing that tradition. Where the honor of every person has been ensured that has contributed to the creation of the nation and is the watchman of nation building.\nToday the launch of the National Police Memorial is in this form as a link to the same tradition. From today on the 10th day on October 31, I will be privileged to unveil a skyscraper of Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel Ji in Kavadia of Gujarat. This reflection of the contribution of Sardar Saheb to the country's highest statue.\nMy colleagues, I believe, these monuments should not just fill the place of excursions but rather develop such as a system from where the new generation, our tradition, get knowledge of the glory of the country. Get information about the heroes of the police. I would suggest that the statues of our martyrs who sacrificed and sacrificed for the country also took place in the schools where they had read. They also took part in the villages where they were living. When our students look at the statues of our Mahavirs they will receive a new inspiration.\nCompanions, we should create an atmosphere that whenever the army's army of Paramilitary Force passes through somewhere, it will instill a sense of respect. These statues of police memorial martyrs, their stories are taking us towards this direction. Today, on this occasion, I want to make an important and historic announcement among you.\nIn the event of a tragedy in the country, in the event of a natural disaster, first of all the police and paramilitary jawans are present. Without these National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) can not be imagined. At the time of crisis, they put their lives on fire to save the lives of others. But it is also true that in such dire circumstances, it is often overlooked. After the situation becomes normal, they go back to their respective places, their battalions. Today, I am declaring an honor for such mighty service-oriented heroes who will save lives of others in disaster management. This honor will be announced on January 23 every year on the name of Bharat Mata Vir Veer Saput Leader Ji Subhash Chandra Bose ji. The name of our Subhash Babu, who played an important role in compelling us to leave the country, will make this honor and honor of making this impossible impossible. It is also a matter of pride for all of us that 75 years of Azad Hind Government was established by them today.\nThe brothers and sisters want to focus on the glorious tradition of valor, power and sacrifice, along with the glorious past, the challenges of the present and the future.\nToday, technology has changed life completely. It is obviously being influenced by the nature of the crime. We are making weapons to criminal technology. Rumor and cyber crime is emerging as a major challenge. In addition, in addition to better coordination with other agencies, the police machinery has to do more in the workplace of incorporation of technology and innovation.\nCompanions, in this direction there are many meaningful efforts across the country. Police is providing facilities like social media or online FIR in many states of the country. Traffic related complaints are also being handled through social media. This is a commendable step. They have to take us to that level. That for short complaints no one has to come to the police station for normal complaints.\nCompanions, all of you know that last year the government made a big initiative towards police reforms. Under the modernization of police force scheme, about 45 thousand crore rupees are being spent on the Police infrastructure technology or training till 2019-20. Many such works are being undertaken by modernization of the system and the modernization of the system, modernization of the system and the modernization of the system. Apart from this, work is also going on to integrate the police station and to create National Databases of Crime and Criminal Records. This database is being tried to connect with other institutions of the justice system such as a forensic lab or a court ... with them.\nThe Government is trying to make smart technology accessible to every state, every city, to improve our law and order system. But technology can never compensate for human sensitivities. This is the reason that the role of every member of the police force is very important. You are the first of the weakest oppressed, oppressed, oppressed, exploited society. You are the first friend in which you are first remembered in difficult situations. Therefore, your role is to establish law and order, to understand the suffering of people with condolences, to tear their tears. By giving a glass of cold water to every afflicted, exploited person who comes to the police station, speaking two words will help strengthen the bond between the police and the society. When these bonds are strong, the arrangement of co-operation and public participation will be even stronger.\nTo reduce the crime, you will get a lot of help from the society. And this is my strong belief. Finally, once again on the Police Smriti Day, you congratulate all of you for this modern National Police Memorial. I will also urge all the Chief Ministers of the state to come and make a special program, pay tribute to these police personnel. And the people who belong to your state are listed. Also respect them especially. जरूर यहां आएं, अधिकारियों के साथ मिलकर के वो अपनी योजना बनाएं। आपकी सेवा और समर्पण को नमन करते हुए, मैं मेरे इन पुलिस परिवारों को आने वाले त्‍यौहारों की बहुत-बहुत शुभकानाओं के साथ मैं अपनी बात समाप्‍त करता हूं और आप सबका ..... बहुत-बहुत धन्‍यवाद।"