"Share\n\nPM Modi pays homage to Shri Guru Ravidas and laid the foundation stone of Guru Ravidas birthplace development project\nThe teachings of the Guru Ravidas inspire us every day: PM Modi\nWe bring quota for poor, so that those marginalized can lead a dignified life. This government is punishing the corrupt and rewarding the honest: PM\nAll my dear devotees and sisters and all my beloved devotees, who are present here on this holy day, will be present on the stage with all the greatness and different parts of the country and the world. On the occasion of the birth anniversary of Sri Guru Ravidas ji, I congratulate all the people of every nation, including all their followers spread throughout the world.\nI am very happy today that the grace of Guru Ravidas has come again among you all to fulfill my promise from his blessings. In the year 2016, on the holy day of today, I had the opportunity to sit here and sit on anchor. Then I told all of you about the beautification of the entire courtyard and the birth place of Guru and to develop it. After that when Yogi Ji in the government led the government, I urged him to create a comprehensive project report. I am happy that the demand that you were doing for decades, which was felt here. Governments came, talked about, but your hope was never fulfilled, on the other hand, today a Mars work has started. Auspicious beginning has started.\nIn the first phase, all devotees have been planned to expand and beautify at a cost of about Rs. 50 crores. Under this, the road that comes from the BHU will be decorated and protected. There will be another 12-km route Guru Ravidas ji's bronze statue will be built. A route will be built. Community hall will be built and other public facilities will also be built. That is, after the completion of this project, you and the lakhs of pilgrims who come here will get all the facilities in one place in one place.\nIt is a place of trust and reverence for millions of people, the place of the companions, saints, Ravidas ji, and as the MP here, I am fortunate that as a representative of mine, I have had the privilege of serving this holy land. It is the land that gives direction and inspiration to the social life of India. The detail of Sant Ravidas ji's ideas is infinite. The philosophy that he has given is the way to live the right way and that too in a very simple way. Ravidas says -\n'I want to do this, where all the food is food,\nThe small-guys were all settled, Ravidas was happy. '\nThat is, Guruji conceived such a country where the basic needs of all of them should be taken care of without any discrimination.\nCompanions, the government of the Center has been making every effort to bring this feeling to the ground for the last four and a half years. Our government has been consistently trying to ensure that Panchashera of development, development of children, education of children, income of the youth, medicines to the elderly, irrigation of farmers and hearing of the people. Soon after, I am going to inaugurate and inaugurate many health facilities including two cancer hospitals in Banaras. Apart from this, many other projects that make life easier for Varanasi and Purvanchal are also starting today. The benefit of all these facilities is to get equal access to every section of the society.\nEvery step of our government, brothers and sisters, every plan is suitable for the spirit of Shri Guru Ravidas ji. Poor households have a permanent home, their toilets in every home, gas cylinders under every household, electricity connection to the poor, free treatment up to five lakhs to poor families, guaranteeing poor and middle class youth without guarantee Loans under the money scheme from the bank, irrigation water to the farmer's farm, and now every year, about six crore rupees of direct assistance to nearly 12 million poor farmers of the country. Minister launches. There are many such schemes which are being run to raise the class of society, who have always been neglected and deprived.\nGurudev used to say, neither any caste, nor any class, nor any sect, as a person above any distinction, all should get the same benefits of these schemes and I am satisfied that I am getting it. Companions, worshiped saints, Ravidas ji wanted this kind of society, where there is no difference in the society on the basis of caste and class. They said -\nCaste is a caste in the caste, which is like Ketan\nRudas man could not be joined, until the caste went away ..\nMeaning the caste is like banana leaves, where there are leaves within the leaves. There are also many castes in the castes. In such a case, unless a person is discriminated against in the name of the caste, then all human beings will not be able to connect with each other completely. Social harmony will not be possible, social unity will not be possible, there will not be equality in society, on this path shown by fellow Guru, if we walked with sincerity, today's India would have been freed from atrocities in the name of castes, but Unfortunately this did not happen.\nBrothers and Sisters, New India is going to change this situation. Our young partner, who is becoming part of the social and political system in the era of technology in the era of Digital India. We are all going to change this situation. We have to recognize the selfishness of those people, which only raising their granule and water for their political selfishness.\nOn behalf of fellow workers, the Guru has given our attention to another evil, which has caused great loss to our country, our society. This is evil, dishonesty, killing others' rights and taking advantage of it. Guruji had said -\nLabor Kau Ehar Jani Kei, Jau Pujahe Din Din-Ran.\nThat is, true labor is the form of God. Honestly, the work that is done, earning happiness and peace in life comes from its earnings. Our government has tried to make this sense of Guruji in the last four and a half years in our political and social rituals. The ban is prohibited, the harsh action being taken against Anonymous property, or the tendency of black money to strictly end the tendency to be made part of the system. It all goes in India. This kind of mentality has gone home.\nWith the blessings of associates, Sant Ravidas Ji, there can be no place for corrupt conduct in the new India for dishonesty. For honesty who wants to move ahead with their labor, the government will stand up on the shoulders at every level. In the recent past, all of you have seen that those who honestly make tax, tax has been removed from taxable income up to five lakh rupees of such crores middle class associates. On one hand, people who loot money are being punished. Honesty is also being respected on the other hand.\nBrothers and sisters, we all are lucky, who have found the guidance of the Gurus, saints, sages, monks and wise people. This knowledge of the gurus continues to show the way to this great tradition like our generations, for this also our government is constantly trying. Last year, I went myself to lay the foundation of the monument associated with Saint Kabir Ji in Maghre. Similarly, in Sarnath the sacred places associated with Lord Buddha have been preserved, beautification has been done. Similarly, we are celebrating the celebrations of 550th birth anniversary of Gurunanak Dev ji in the whole world.\nOur government, the Government of India and the State of Uttar Pradesh are fully devoted to this, for our brothers and sisters, for our society, who have contributed their respect to the whole of reverence. Our rich cultural heritage is our strength, our inspiration. To make your life easier, for this we are going to strengthen the path shown by Guru Ravidas Ji. Once again you are very happy for the project of expanding the birth place, birth anniversary of the revered Guru Ravidas ji. Thank you very much and paused my voice while bowing down at the feet of Pujya Guru Maharaj. Thanks a lot."