"Share\n\nNumerous measures undertaken in the last four years to improve the quality of life of our citizens: PM\nHuman Rights should not be just slogans but it should be an integral part of our values: PM\nFor us, 'Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas' is about serving the people: PM\nWith focus on justice for all, the government is increasing the number of e-Courts, strengthening the National Judicial Data Grid: Prime Minister Modi\nWith the use of technology, we are making the system transparent and protecting the citizens: PM Modi\nTo empower the Divyangs, we have strengthened the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act: PM Modi\nMr. Rajnath Singh Ji, my partner of the Council of Ministers, who was present on the stage, Mr. Manoj Sinha, NHRC Chairperson Justice S. L. Dattu ji, Member of the Commission, all new dignitaries present here, ladies and gentlemen!\nNational Human Rights Commission is completing 25 years today. Congratulations to all of you, the people of the country, to reach this crucial stage. On this important occasion, I am feeling great with all of you.\nFriends, in the last two and a half decades, the National Human Rights Commission has shown the direction of nation building by becoming the voice of the poor, suffering, deprived, oppressed of the common man. International Human Rights Institutions has continuously given 'A'Status to your organization for the role you have played while pursuing justice and policy posting. This is a matter of pride for India.\nFriends, the protection of human rights is an important part of our culture. Our tradition always recognizes the person's life-sustaining equality, respect for dignity and dignity, and acceptance of it. Now the slogan that was pronounced here at the beginning, later Rajnathji also said in detail - the spirit of 'Survey Bhavantu Sukhhen' has been in our sacraments.\nThe movement that took place in the long period of slavery has also been a significant part of it. After independence, a strong mechanism was developed for the protection of these ideals after independence. We have a three-level governance system- an independent and impartial justice system, active media and active civil society. There are many institutions, commissions and tribunals like NHRC, which ensure the rights. Our system is grateful to those institutions which are committed to protect the rights of every citizen, including the poor, women, children, victims, the underprivileged, tribals. Our panchayat raj system or local bodies system is an important part of human rights protection system. These institutions are playing an important role in bringing us the benefit of the common people, the benefits of development, the public welfare schemes to the land. These institutions are also contributing a lot to the empowerment and participation of women, the deprived sections.\nFriends, this surrender towards human rights has brought the country out of a great crisis in the 70's. Emergency, the right to life was stripped in that dark period of emergency, what do the rest of the rights do? During that time thousands of people who raised their voices against the government were filled in prisons, but the Indians again got this ideological aspect of their practice, human rights again by their efforts. I respectfully honor all those institutions that restore human rights, the superiority of original rights, to all the people, on this sacred occasion of today.\nFriends, human rights should not be just slogans, it should be a ritual, should be the basis of democracy. I believe that this is a huge achievement of the last four and a half years that in the meantime serious attempts have been made to raise the dignity of the oppressed and oppressed society of the poor, deprived, exploited society. Whatever steps have been taken in the past four years, whatever campaigns have been run, the plans which have been made, their goal is this and that is also achieved.\nThe government's focus has been on the fact that the basic needs of the common man can not be met by the power of his pocket, but only by being Indian, it is naturally occurring. Our government considers this mantra as a medium of service with all 'development and development of all'. It is in itself like working to guarantee the protection of human rights.\nFriends, all of you are well aware that there were so many questions about the rights of daughters. Assuming the daughter was unwanted, the distorted mentality of killing the mother in the womb was divided among some narrow-minded people of the society.\nToday I can say with pride that due to the 'Beti Bachao-Beti Practice' campaign, there has been a huge increase in the number of daughters in many states including Haryana and Rajasthan. Many innocent people have the right to life. Life does not mean breathing, and respect is equally important.\nI am happy that the word Divyang, the word 'Divyang' has become an indicator of respect for some Indians today. Not only this, special arrangements are being made to facilitate their life, under the 'accessible India' campaign, there are government buildings, airports, and railway stations. The poor should spend his life in the slum under the open sky, he has to bear the burden of the season, even if his rights are abusive. In order to take him out of this situation, a campaign to provide accommodation to every homeless poor is being run under the 'Prime Minister's Housing Scheme'. And in 2022 when India's independence will be 75 years, every person in India should get a house, which does not have a roof over its head. Until now, more than a hundred crore brothers and sisters have got the keys to the house.\nApart from the house, the poor are being provided free gas connections under 'Ujjwala Yojana'. This plan is not just a welfare scheme. It is related to equality, living with dignity is by living. With this, more than 5 crore poor mothers and sisters of the country got the right to clean smokeless kitchen. These families were deprived of this right because they had no power, their pockets were empty.\nNot only this, when there is a system of electricity in the country, electricity is being created, even then thousands of villages and millions of families were in the dark.Only because they were poor, they lived in remote areas. I am happy that in very short period the power has reached 18 thousand villages, which were forced to live in the 18th century even after so many years of independence.\nNot only this, within 10-11 months, more than one and a half million households have got the likelihood of illumination in light of the 'good luck' scheme, electricity is being lit in their house.\nFriends, the problem of defecation in the open, along with darkness, was also a huge obstacle in the way of dignified life. He did not tell anyone the insult that he felt inside the poor within the compulsion of not having toilets. In particular, my millions of sisters-daughters, the right to live with dignity was a violation of their rights, but there was also serious question about taking the right to live. In the last four years, more than nine crores of toilet made in villages and cities across the country has ensured the right to life, besides cleanliness for the poor sisters and brothers. And the Uttar Pradesh government then, the Uttar Pradesh government has named the toilet as 'Ijtaghhar'. 'Izzatghar' writes on every toilet.\nPoor life, another authority related to its health, which was recently found and mentioned by Mr. Rajnathji, is the PMJAY i.e. Ayushman Bharat Scheme. You are getting the proof of how big this is that you get it every day. The news coming from the corners of the country in the media is very satisfying. Even after having the facilities of the best hospitals, the person who was deprived of good treatment in the absence of resource has got the right of treatment today. Within more than two-and-a-half weeks of launch, more than 50 thousand brothers and sisters can be treated. Has been done or treatment is underway.\nAlong with health, for many decades of independence, the financial freedom of millions of citizens was limited in a small area. Only a few people were able to use the bank, were able to get the loan. But too much of the population was forced to hide their small savings in the kitchen compartment. We understand the severity of the situation. Launch of 'Jhananan Abhiyan'. And today, seeing nearly 350 million people connected to the bank, ensuring the right to economic freedom is ensured today.\nNot only this, through the 'Mudra Yojana', those people are being given a guaranteed free loan to self-employed, which used to depend only on moneylenders.\nBrothers and Sisters, our government has ensured continuous human rights in our government's policy and decisions through the law. Have tried to strengthen them further. More recently, the law that emancipates 'three divorces' to Muslim women is a part of this episode. I hope this important effort related to the rights of Muslim women will also be approved by the Parliament.\nThe decision to increase pregnancy for women from 12 weeks to 26 weeks is also the result of our thinking. In a way, we have protected the rights of the newborn. He can stay with his mother for 6 months, it is a big decision in itself. It is still to be done in the progressive countries of the world.\nThis government has done the same to remove the legal hindrances in our women working in night shift and they get sufficient security during this time.\nThe 'Rights of Person with Disabilities' Act' to enhance the rights of the Divisors, to increase their reservation in jobs or to transform the rights of the Transgender Persons Protection of Rights Bill, these are examples of our government's commitment to human rights.\nWe have done the work to ensure that there is no discrimination against people suffering from HIV, they get equal treatment, also by law.\nFriends, the government is increasing the number of e-courts to strengthen the right to gain justice, the National Judicial data grid is empowering. So far, more than 17,000 courts of the country have been added to the national judicial data grid. The information related to the case and the information related to the decisions being made online has increased in the justice process and the number of pending cases has decreased. Legal aid is also being provided to people living in far-flung areas of the country through tele-law scheme.\nIn order to ensure the rights of citizens and brothers, the Government is constantly emphasizing on the use of modern technology and increasing transparency in the system. By bringing it to the UIDAI act, the government has not only strengthened the base legally, but has successfully tried to reach the full benefit of the government schemes to the poor of the country by increasing the use of the base.\nThe basis has become one of the largest technology-based empowerment programs in the country. Recently, the Supreme Court has praised the government's work. Similarly, by making the public distribution system transparent by the government, the Government has ensured the poor to get cheap foodgrains. Otherwise, what happened first, how it happened, we all know well.\nIn the same way, people have not been able to get their rights, many procedures have been corrected for this, many rules have also been changed. Promote self-certification or the women appointed through the Short Service Commission in the Indian Armed Forces The decision of permanent commission like officers of men is part of the government's approach.\nSuch small changes in the rules have had an impact on a very large scale. Like changing the definition of bamboo, tribal siblings in far-flung areas in the country now get the right to transit bamboo and to transport bamboo. This has a huge impact on their income growth.\nFriends, earning everyone, studying to all, medicine for all and hearing of everybody, with this goal, many such works have been done, in which millions of Indians are getting out of gruesome poverty. The country is moving towards a very large middle class system. If this success is received then the government's efforts are behind it, there is more public participation than that. Crores of people have understood their duties. To change his behavior has motivated himself.\nBrothers and sisters, our decisions, our programs can only be successful if the people join them. On the basis of my experience, I can say that there can not be a mantra of big success from public participation.\nI am told that during its Silver Jubilee celebrations many campaigns of public awareness have been started by the NHRC across the country. The help of technology is also being taken. A postal stamp was inaugurated a while ago. The new version of the NHRC website has also been launched. This will definitely facilitate those who need help. I recommend that you also take advantage of the extensive publicity of NHRC through social media. Awareness of human rights is essential as well, it is equally important for citizens to remind their duties, their obligations. The person who understands their obligations, knows how to respect the rights of others.\nI also realize that you have a large number of complaints, many of them are serious. You hear every complaint, deal with them. But is it possible that\nA database should be prepared about the class or the area related to the complaints, and a detailed study should be done. I am confident that during this process, there will be many such problems which would be a comprehensive solution possible.\nThe role of the NHRC in the government's efforts to achieve sustainable development goals is very important. The government has always welcomed your suggestions. देश के लोगों के जीवन को बेहतर बनाने के लिए, उनके अधिकार सुनिश्चित करने के लिए सरकार प्रतिपल प्रतिबद्ध है। एक बार फिर NHRC को, आप सभी कोSilver Jubileeके इस अवसर पर बहुत-बहुत बधाई देता हूं, बहुत-बहुत शुभकामनाएं देता हूं। देश में रचनात्‍मक परिवर्तन के लिए हम सभी मिलकर आगे बढ़ते रहेंगे।\nइसी कामना के साथ आप सबका बहुत-बहुत धन्‍यवाद।"