"Share\n\nEmerging fields, including AI, Machine Learning, IoT, Blockchain and Big Data can take India's new heights of development and improve the quality of life of its citizens: PM\nIndustry 4.0 has the power to drive irreversible positive change in India: PM Modi\nFourth Industrial revolution will help bring the required speed and scale to work in India: PM Modi\nFrom 'local solution' to 'global application' ... We are moving forward on this path: PM Modi\nIndia's contribution towards the fourth industrial revolution in the world stunned: PM\n#DigitalIndia has brought data to the villages; India has the highest mobile data consumption in the world and is also the country where data is available at the lowest price: PM\nPresident of World Economic Forum Mr. BorgeBrende honored member of the industry, other guests from abroad and my friends\nI would like to thank all of you for coming to this special event. It is very pleasant for me that World Economic Forum missed me at the launch of India's first and world's fourth Center of the Fourth Industrial Revolution. Such an industries for 4.0, for the first time in hearing, we think of the industry Are there. But its component, which has its power, has the potential to change the present and future of human life.\nThe way in which the disruptive, interconnected technologies are emerging in today's global scenario is unprecedented. This harmonization between the different technologies is becoming the basis of the coordinated fourth Industrial Revolution or the fourth industrial revolution. Different dimensions of these technologies are changing the way in which people live in every society, way of working, communication is constantly changing in every level of the world. Under these circumstances, the opening of this important center in India after San Francisco, Tokyo and Beijing now opens the door to the future possibilities of future.\nI congratulate and thank the World Economic Forum for this initiative. How Fourth Industrial Revolution is expanding, how it is showing its impact all over the world, you know well. You are its experts, understand the nuances of these It is very important for all of us to understand why this revolution is important to India and why India has the full potential today to take full advantage of this revolution. With the full potential of implementing all the technologies, artificial intelligence, machine learning, internet of things, block chain, big data, and all such new technologies, to bring India's development to new heights, millions of new opportunities of employment There is the ability to make and improve the life of every person in the country.\nIndia's young energy, its decades of experience in the field of information technology, the vibrant eco system of startups further enhances this capability. Today, when India is moving ahead with the resolve of New India, strengthening its power and resources, it has become like a good deal of gold to meet the Fourth Industrial Revolution.\nIndia is not only seen as a change in the industry, it is also seen as the basis of social change. Industry is a platform, production is a process and technology is a tool, but its ultimate goal is to sit in the last line of society. It is easy to make a person's life easier, change in it.\nFriends, I am seeing the strengths in the industry 4.0 which can eliminate many weaknesses related to the social and economic system forever. An e-reversible positive change will bring in India. I firmly believe that using industry 4.0 can play an important role in eliminating India's poverty. The poor, deprived sections of the country can be made better, the lives of the neglected classes of society.\nE-revolution can help us a lot in the speed and scale we need to work in a vast and diverse country like India.\nFriends, no building can be built without foundation. The success of the industry 4.0 has also been determined on which country the foundation is ready for it, the strongest is. Today I am proud that in the last four and a half years our government has taken many important initiatives in preparing India for the fourth industrial revolution and achieved success. Behind this confidence of mine, I want to keep the detail behind this excitement in front of you.\nFriends, in the industry, if only one word is removed, then there will be no meaning in it. This word is digital, but the same word is changing India today. The Digital India campaign has conveyed the data to the villages and villages of India. In the past four-and-a-half years, the government has to strengthen the country's telecom infrastructure. Has invested six times more than before.\nIn the twenty-four weeks, 61 million people of India had a digital identity. Today, more than 120 million people of India have Aadhar card, their digital identity. Twenty fourteen had less than 8 lakh mobile based trans-receiver stations in India, today their number has exceeded 18 lakhs. Twenty fourteen The total tally in India was densityseventy five percent, today it has increased to ninety three percent. Twenty fourteen, the number of mobile internet subscriptions in India was 23 crores, today it has more than doubled to more than 50 crores. In the last four years, internet coverage has increased by more than seventy five percent. In these years, the Indian government has laid out more than three lakh kilometers of optical fiber. This is the result of the fact that where twenty fifty years ago only the country's fifty nine panchayats had joined optical fiber, today more than one lakh panchayats have reached optical fiber. Very soon we are going to achieve the goal of connecting all the 2.5 million panchayats in the country with this fiber.\nThere were just eighty three thousand common service centers in the country, twenty fourteen. Today there are more than three lakh common service centers in India. In the rural areas of the country, the government is working to provide more than 32,000 Wi-Fi hot spots in the remote areas. The Digital India campaign has changed the way in which Indians have lived in the last four years.\nFriends, all this is Industry 4.0 that in the twenty fourteen, an Indian citizen used to use mobile data, today it is using more than thirty times more mobile data. It is also interesting that today, where the highest mobile data consumption in the world is happening in India, the cheapest data in the whole world is also available in India. This is because after twenty fourteen, the value of mobile data in India has decreased by more than ninety percent.\nFriends, such a development story will not be heard in any country in the world. This success story of India is unexpected. Today India is one of the world's largest digital infrastructure countries. The unique interfaces like Aadhaar, unified payment interface i.e. UPI, e-sign, e-national agricultural market ie ENAM, government e-market place ie GEM, digi-locker are helping India become a technology leader through artificial intelligence. Due to these, more and more people are increasingly connecting with digital technology. India's digital infrastructure has given the country's startups the opportunity to innovate on these platforms. These innovations are also working to strengthen the MSME sector of the country.\nFriends, national strategy has been created just a few months ago to prepare the robbers eco system related to research on artificial intelligence in India. Following the vision of 'All along with development', the name of artificial intelligence for all has been given. How the research eco system will be created, adaption will be promoted, skilling challenges will be dealt with; All these important topics have been discussed in detail in detail.\nSpecial attention has been given to those sectors which are also associated with Indian public, such as agriculture, health, education. In these areas, the government has started work on several pilot projects. In the same episode, we have organized a big conference on mobility in the last few days.\nThis new WEF center in Mumbai will work to strengthen this episode. These centers will work as motivators and supplements for the efforts being made in the direction of 'everyone's development and development'. This center will help design the policies of the government around new emerging technologies. This center will help the public sector, private sector of India, awaken new consciousness in the work of various state governments, to help in bringing forward new dimensions of industry 4.0.\nI have been told that with this Government of Maharashtra, this center has started work on a project to improve government services through grown up and internet up thinks. And for that I definitely congratulate the Chief Minister of Maharashtra. I hope that many such projects will be started in every state in the coming times.\nFriends, in India, with the strengthening of industrial 4.0, in the expansion of artificial intelligence, on one side the people of the country will get better health related facilities, while the cost of treatment will also be reduced. By expanding it in the agricultural sector, farmers' yield will increase on one side, waste of grains will stop, and on the other hand their income will also increase. This technique can help the farmers of India to make the right decision in relation to the weather, crop and seed sowing cycle. With the strengthening of the 21st Century infrastructure in this smart city and India, it can help to increase connectivity to the villages and villages of the country.\nFrom Smart Mobility to Transportation and to get rid of the problems of jam in cities, it is also getting help from new technologies. Our country is endowed with linguistic diversity, with the help of artificial intelligence, the exchange of ideas in different dialects and languages ​​can be easy.\nIn the same way, artificial intelligence has a huge role in reducing the strengths of my dear brothers and sisters in India, in reducing the problems in their lives, they have many uses.\nFriends, all these major subjects have started work in India at different levels. These works also include the solution for India, the solution for the World. We are also moving towards the global application from the local solution. The role of another technology in this is very important, this is block chain. This technologyminimum government joins the vision of maximum governance, it moves forward. With this help, self governance and self certification are being expanded and future prospects are being searched. All government procedures, conflicts, bottlenecks can be overcome with its help. Improvement in these procedures will increase transparency, corruption will be reduced, crime will be reduced and all of them will directly affect the citizens of the Bhatra.\nFriends, the expansion of black block chain technology has the potential to bring India up too much in the ease of doing business ranking. All the services of the government, management of natural resources, registration of property, contract, power connection, and how much work can be accelerated with its help. Considering this, work on the block chain in India is also working rapidly to make a national strategy. It will also help in this new WEF center in Mumbai.\nI would also like to inform you that India is going to announce its drones policy very soon. Friends, when the first industrial revolution happened, India was a slave. Even when there was a second industrial revolution, India was a slave. When the Third Industrial Revolution took place, India was struggling to deal with the challenges faced by independence after independence. But now the 21st century India has changed. Today, with full confidence, I am telling the power of 130 million people of our country that India will not be deprived of the benefits of the fourth industrial revolution, but I believe that India's contribution in the fourth industrial revolution will be shocking to the whole world; An unprecedented, unpredictable, unimaginable contribution will be of India.\nOur diversity, our demographic potential, fast growing market size and digital infrastructure have the potential to make India a global hub of research and implementation. The benefits of the innovations to be made in the whole world will be found in the whole world.\nFriends, today I want to put my point on another important topic on this forum. Some people worry that this uptake of technology will reduce employment, but the truth is that the realities of human life which are not touched till today, are now going to be opened by industry 4.0. This will change the nature of job to a large extent, creating new opportunities. Understanding this fact, the Indian government is running a program like Skill India Mission, Start Up India, Stand Up India, Attal Innovation Mission. The youth of our country can be prepared for changing techniques, it is already being worked on.\nFriends, where the world will be ten years later, no person sitting in this hall can tell. Nobody can even tell how far the fifth industrial revolution is so far. Well, the first three industrial revolution came at an interval of about 100 years, but we are also seeing that the fourth revolution has knocked 30-40 years ago. Seeing the last decade or two, so many things have been invented and they have become extinct. Technology has squeeze like time. The change from the industry 4.0 to 5.0 will not wait 100 years, so India is very serious about the industry 4.0. This is the time to get together with your full potential.\nI also want to establish an Industrial 4.0 park in India in the coming months. I invoke all of you, the industries of the country, of all the state governments, civil society, enterprors, that come along with this revolution, join together and meet it, we all get together on the ground.\nFriends, the views of our government are open. Our thoughts are open Whichever framework is to be created, whatever protocol to decide, whichever policy is to be created, we are always ready to do whatever in the interest of the new India, in the interest of the Indians. We always welcome every suggestion, every experience of you. The government is ready all the time, is ready. We are sitting on the ground that now this time, India will not bow down.\nI wish you all very well for the Center for Fourth Industrial Revolution once again and I end my talk.\nThanks a lot."