"Share\n\nChaudhary Chhotu Ram had said about Farmers- \"To me a farmer is a sign of poverty as well as a soldier raising his voice against the rights of the British Army\": PM\nNot many people will be aware that the idea of ​​building the Bhakra Dam was Chaudhari Chhotu Ram's idea. He, along with the King of Bilaspur, signed the Bhakra Dam project: PM\nInspire by Chaudhary Sahab's vision, we are working towards our farmers: PM\nWe are sure that the income of farmers of Haryana is increased and Haryana's villages become prosperous: PM\nToday, the soul of Chaudhary Chhotu Ram will be delighted to see the success of the 'Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao' campaign in Haryana: PM\nToday, Haryana is accelerating the growth of the country We all need to work together to ensure that the growth continues in the long run: PM\nI will say - Sir Chhoturam\nYou will all speak, say twice - be immortal, be immortal\nSir Chhoturam - Amar Rahe, Amar Rahan\nSir Chhoturam - Amar Rahe, Amar Rahan\nSir Chhoturam - Amar Rahe, Amar Rahan\nSir Chhoturam - Amar Rahe, Amar Rahan\nEverybody in the defense of the country's border, everybody in the field of millions of crores of population, farmers and farmers, all have won more medals in the field. There is no match for the Haryana people in the future.\nGovernor of Haryana, Mr. Satyadev Narayan Arya Ji, my associate of the Union Council of Ministers Chaudhary Birendra Singh ji, Mr. Krishan Pal Gurjar, popular Chief Minister of Haryana, Mr. Manohar Lal Ji, Governor of Jammu and Kashmir Mr. Satpal Malik, Governor of Himachal Pradesh And the son of this earth, Shri Acharya Debavratt, Minister of the Government of Haryana, our old Fellow brother OP Dhankad ji, MLA Subhash Barala ji, and Haryana as well as my dear brothers and sisters from Punjab and Rajasthan.\nToday I handed over the idol of Deenbandhu Chhotoram to Mhare today. So, what is the greatest happiness I can make?\nCompanions, it is my good fortune that today I have had the opportunity to unveil the magnificent and huge statue of the farmers' voice, the farmers of the farmers, and Rebere Azam Deenbandhu Chaudhary Chhoturam Ji. Before going to this meeting here, I also went to the museum built in memory of Ch. Chhataram ji. Now along with this museum, the tallest statue of Haryana has become another identity of Snapala, Rohtak. And it is my good fortune that this month, in the month of October, the success of Sir Chhoturam ji, the messiah of the farmers, was to launch the biggest statue of Haryana, on October 31, the birthplace of Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel, the world's tallest statue, to inaugurate it Good luck! And both great men were peasants, for the farmers and the work of adding farmers to the country. And another feature is that this idol has been constructed by Mr. Sutar ji. Now more than 90 years old, still work. And that is what our sutar ji made the world's tallest statue, Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel. I congratulate all our aware citizens of Haryana, Rajasthan and Punjab as well as all the nation's citizens.\nBrothers and Sisters have been born in our country from time to time, who are dedicating only their whole life to serving the society and showing the direction of the country. There is a lot of poverty, lacks, there are many problems, there is conflict; Such people have been trying to consolidate the society by crossing every challenge and trying to consolidate themselves. It is a matter of pride for all of us that Chaudhari Chhoturamji was born on this land of Haryana.\nChaudhary Chhoturam was one of those social reformers in the country who played a key role in the formation of India. They were powerful and vocal voices of farmers, laborers, deprived, exploited people. He stood in front of every force who created discrimination in society. He also tried to understand the problems related to agriculture, the problems faced by farmers, small entrepreneurs, the challenges they faced, and also tried to reduce those challenges.\nFriends, today, Sir Chhotramji's soul will be happy to see that on the day of today, the foundation stone of a modern coach Rail Coach factory in Sonipat has also happened.\nThe factory will be constructed at a cost of about Rs 500 crore. The work of repairing and modernizing 250 coaches of passenger train will be done in this Rail Coach Factory every year. After the construction of this coach factory, the compulsion to send coaches to remote factories for the maintenance of passenger coaches will now come to an end. And this will increase the availability of passenger coaches in trains running in this area and people will also get comfortable coaches.\nBrothers and sisters, this factory will not only help Sainipat but also increase the industrial development of Haryana. Whatever the need for the repair of the coach, the small enterprises will also get the benefit of new work opportunities due to the fulfillment of the same. Whether there are seat covers, fans, electric fittings, all facilities in the coaches, small entrepreneurs from Haryana will have a big opportunity to provide them.\nThink of this, how many new opportunities of employment opportunities are available to the youth from this coach factory. There will be another benefit of this factory - due to this factory engineers and technicians will develop local expertise in the area of ​​repair of rail coach. Or here the engineer, technician of this factory has a different type of specialty and due to this fact. Will gain expertise. In the coming days, the experts here will be able to give the benefit of the country to the country by visiting other parts of the country.\nFriends, it was my privilege to have a chance to work in Haryana for many years. And when I used to do the party here, there is hardly any day that I do not hear any other person in relation to Sir Chhotoram ji, in relation to his greatness. Whatever I have read and heard about him, he is going to inspire every person who wants to do something for the country and the society by tackling challenges. It was here that Chaudhary Sahab had said in Rohtak that the farmer for me is also a symbol of poverty and this is also a soldier who has been flagging against the tyranny of the English army. These were the words of Sir Chhoturam.\nFriends, there is no such village in Haryana where no member is associated with the army. By joining the army, credit goes to Dinabandhu Chhoturam ji for the awakening of this service. He encouraged the farmers here to join large numbers in the army. During World War I many of the soldiers fought for world peace.\nHis colleagues did not see that independent India in his life, but he understood his expectations, his aspirations and his needs of challenges in India. He always kept raising voice against the British's 'divide and rule' policy. Because Chaudhary Chhoturam ji and his thoughts, in every section of politics, he was respected by Chhaturam ji. His stature, how big his personality was, can be assumed that Sardar Patel once said for Sir Chhotoram and every citizen of Haryana can be proud of this situation. Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel had said that if Chaudhary Chhotu Ram Ji was alive today, after partition, after the Partition of India, during that partition, I would not have had to worry about Punjab, Chhoturam would take care of me. This Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel has introduced the power and power of Sir Chhotoram ji.\nHis influence in a large part of West and North India was so widespread that the British administrators were also forced to think hundreds of times before refusing to obey him. That incident of Chaudhary Chhoturam ji and money lender, I have also heard at least 100 times. You will all be well-acquainted. The moneylender had advised them to be Patwari instead of lending them. But the moneylender did not even have the impression that he is suggesting to be Patwari, he is going to decide the fortunes of thousands of Patarsis of Punjab one day. While struggling only on the strength of his strength, Chaudhary Sahab was made to the revenue minister of Punjab.\nBrothers and Sisters, while minister, they created such laws for marketing of crops, not just Punjab but for the farmers of the country, for the workers working in the farm, for India's revenue system, which till today is part of our system Are. Laws related to farmers should be law-related, law of support price or law related to agricultural committees, their foundation was laid by Chaudhary Sahab.\nWe should not forget that all the tasks were done when the country was a slave. Chaudhary Sahib had all kinds of boundaries in front of him, but in spite of not only thinking but he also showed it to the farmers. He is also a strong advocate of increasing Agro Industries. In that round, he also emphasized the strengthening of cottage industries, small industries. They used to encourage entrepreneurs to constantly join the farmers of the country, everyone should join the agriculture sector.\nSeeing this vision of Chitoram ji, Chakravarti Rajgopalacharya ji had said that Rajgopalacharya had asked for Sarchotturam that Chaudhary Chhoturam not only knows how to set a higher goal, but also how to achieve those goals, Well knew\nBrothers and Sisters, many people in the country will not even know this, the Bhakra Dam is the same, this Bhakra Dam is the true thought of Chaudhary Saheb. They had signed the Bhakra Dam along with the king of Bilaspur. This matter is being received by the people of Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, the benefits that farmers are getting today, they are all watching us. Imagine how big a vision he was, how far was his vision.\nSister-in-law, the person who did so much for the country, made such a great improvement, kept such a vision; Knowing and understanding of it is the right of every person, it is the right. Many times I wonder why such a great person has been limited to the laws of one area. I believe that this did not have any impact on the height of Chaudhary Sahib, but many generations of the country have been deprived of learning from their lives.\nBrothers and Sisters, our government is working to increase the value of every person who dedicates his life to the country. For the last four years, not only is the work of honoring great personalities but also the expanses of the path shown by them are being given to them. For the farmers, small entrepreneurs do not have to trust the moneylenders for help, banks have been kept open for this. Under Jan Jan Dhan Yojana, accounts of about six and a half million brothers and sisters of Haryana also have been opened. It has been easier for the government to take loans from cooperative banks. Recently, India Post Payment Bank has also started. This ensures that you get banking services at home only through your post office.\nSathyo, as Chaudhary Saheb thought wholeheartedly for the upliftment of the farmers, the same way our government is also trying to create a powerful system from seed to market. Farmers get fair value for their produce, farmers get protection cover from the weather, get modern seeds, get urea in adequate quantities, get proper irrigation system, keep the health of the soil, and work is being done continuously. I am happy that Haryana is also getting the benefit of this. Nearly 50 lakh farmers of the country have got soil health cards. About six and a half lakh farmers are associated with crop insurance, who have received claim amounting to more than three and a half million rupees. Where water is not reached for past 30-40 years, water is being delivered today. In the present day, a historic agreement has been reached between the six states for the Lakhwar Dam. Haryana is also going to benefit from this.\nSathiyo, Chaudhary Sahab, eight-nine-ten decades ago, had created the Agricultural Produce Market Act to give the farmers fair value of the crop. Our government has also started PM ASHA i.e. Prime Minister's Income Tax Income Protection campaign. Under this, the government has arranged that if the farmers are getting lower prices than the support price, then the state can compensate them. Not only that, we promised that at least 50 percent of the benefits should be given to the farmers at the cost, that too has been completed.\nFriends, the government has increased the support price of 21 major crops, including paddy, wheat and sugarcane. The support price of paddy has been increased to 200 rupees per quintal. Now its price has gone up from Rs 1,550 to Rs 1750 a quintal. Similarly, Rs. 275 for MSP, Rs. 1300 for sunflower and support price of bajra has been increased to five hundred rupees per quintal.\nBrothers and sisters, remember how many years our farmers were demanding this. The farmer of the country was saying repeatedly- now our government has fulfilled this demand.\nIt is being ensured that the income of the villages and farmers of Haryana, along with their income, is not being done only in dealing with disease, it is also being managed.\nI congratulate the people of Haryana that Ayushman India's first beneficiary is the only daughter of your state. It is also a matter of satisfaction that through this scheme, more than 50 thousand poor brothers and sisters have either received treatment or are being treated in two weeks.\nI am also happy that Haryana has declared himself open from open defecation. I congratulate Rohtak especially because the Maharishi Dayanand University got the first place in the Sanitary Ranking.\nसाथियो, आज चौधरी साहब की आत्‍मा जहां भी होगी, उन्‍हें हरियाणा में ‘बेटी बचाओ-बेटी पढ़ाओ’ अभियान की सफलता देख करके सबसे ज्‍यादा प्रसन्‍नता होती होगी। उन्‍होंने बदलाव के लिए सिर्फ आवाज ही नहीं उठाई बल्कि समाज की सोच में परिवर्तन के लिए शुरूआत अपने घर से की थी। बेटियों को लेकर जो सोच हमारे समाज में रही, उसका उन्‍होंने हमेशा विरोध किया। यही कारण है कि समाज के हर दबाव के बावजूद वो अपनी दो बेटियों के साथ हमेशा मजबूती के साथ खड़े रहे।\nभाइयो-बहनों, आज जब हरियाणा के छोटे-छोटे गांवों में पैदा हुई बेटियां विश्‍व मंचों पर देश का गौरव बढ़ा रही हैं, हरियाणा के युवा भारत को खेलों में विश्‍व शक्ति बनाने के लिए जुटे हैं, जब देश के गरीब से गरीब परिवारों के युवा आगे बढ़ रहे हैं, तब लगता है कि हम चौधरी साहब के सपनों को साकार करने की तरफ तेज गति से आगे बढ़ रहे हैं।\nसाथियो, आज हरियाणा देश के विकास को गति दे रहा है। ये गति निरंतर तेज हो इसके लिए हम सभी को काम करना है। यही संदेश चौधरी छोटूराम जी का हम सभी के लिए है। सामाजिक समरसता और राष्‍ट्रीय एकता के लिए समर्पित राष्‍ट्र पुरुष को सच्‍ची श्रद्धां‍जलि तभी होगी जब हम मिल करके उनके सपनों का भारत बनाएंगे, नया भारत बनाएंगे।\nकुछ दिनों में हरियाणा दिवस भी आने वाला है। इसके लिए भी मैं सभी हरियाणावासियों को एडवांस में बहुत-बहुत शुभकामनाएं भी देता हूं। और आप सब इतनी विशाल संख्‍या में और सर, छोटूराम जी को श्रद्धांजलि देने आए, इसके लिए मैं आप सबका हृदय से धन्‍यवाद करता हूं।\nThanks a lot."