"PM Modi inaugurates first investor summit in Dehradun\nPotential, Policy and Performance are the key sources of our progress: PM Modi\nDoing business has become easier in India due to Insolvency \u0026 Bankruptcy Code The banking system has also got strengthened: PM Modi\nPM Modi says Housing for All, Power for All, Clean Fuel for All, Health for All, Banking for All and other schemes by the Government\nPM Modi says #Ayushman India will help in building hospitals in tier II and tier III cities and will also help in the medical infrastructure\nPM Modi urges investors to make in India, not only for India but for the whole world\nGovernor of Uttarakhand, Smt. Baby Rani Maurya Ji, all my Cabinet colleagues, Chief Minister of the State, Trivendra Singh Rawat Ji, all the members of the Uttarakhand Cabinet, the Minister of Communications and Information of Singapore, Mr. S. Iswaran, The Ambassadors of Japan and the Czech Republic, the entrepreneurs from around the world, ladies and gentlemen.\nI welcome and greet all the friends who have come from the country and the world to this sacred place of Baba Kedar nath ji and Char Dham: Uttarakhand. I believe that you will experience India's economic environment along with our cultural diversity which is thousands of years old, get acquainted with it and return with a new feeling.\nFriends,\nWe have gathered here on the land of Uttarakhand at a time when both economic and social transformations are sweeping India. The country is passing through a major phase of transformation. We are moving toward a new India Every major international organization is saying that India is going to be the main engine of world's growth in the coming decades. Now, India's economy has stabilized, fiscal deficit has narrowed down and the inflation rate is under control. The middle class is growing at a rapid pace. The youth power of more than 80 crores that has made the demographic dividend is full of aspirations and capabilities.\nFriends,\nEconomic reforms in speed and skill are going on in an unprecedented rate. More than 10000 initiatives have been taken by the Central and the State governments in the last two years. India has improved in 42 points in just doing the initiative In the process of reforms, we have done more than 1400 laws. Besides, reforms have also been made in the taxation system of India. Efforts are made to make the tax-related solutions more transparent and efficient.\nThe Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code has made the business easier and has strengthened the banking system. The greatest tax reform in India since independence has been in the form of GST. GST has turned the country into a single market and has helped in expanding the tax base.\nOur infrastructure is also growing at a record speed. Last year, 10 thousand kilometers long National Highway was built in India This means that the work was progressing at a rate of 27kilometer per day. This speed is double than that of the previous governments\nThe railway lines are also being constructed at double speed. Besides, work is underway for new metro, high speed rail projects, dedicated freight corridor in many cities. The government is moving forward with the modernization of 400 railway stations.\nIndia's aviation sector is also growing at a rapid pace. To speed up the process further, about 100 more airports and helipads are being constructed. Work is going to improve the air connectivity to tier-2 and tier 3 cities through UDAN scheme. Work is also underway to create more than 100 national waterways.\nFriends,\nApart from this, targets of myriad schemes like housing for all, power for all, clean fuel for all, health for all and banking for all are about to be soon achieved. In short, we can say that because of this all-round change there is a favourable environment for you and the investors from around the world.\nThe recently launched Ayushman Bharat Yojana has increased the investment in the medical sector in India. In the near future, new hospitals, medical colleges, paramedical human resources development organizations will come up and paramedical infrastructure will be strengthened in tier-2 and tier-3 cities because of this scheme. You could imagine that more than 50 crore Indians would get health insurance assurance of up to Rs.5 lakh under Ayushman Bharat Yojana. That is, a population of more than the total population of America, Canada and Mexico put together this benefit. Population of more than that Thus, we will require a number of hospitals as well as doctors to deliver these benefits. There is an amazing chance of investing This means that there is an assurance of return for investors. This is a major opportunity for capital investment that opens up the setting of the best quality hospitals in tier-2 and tier-3 cities.\nFriends,\nToday the rate at which expenditure on infrastructure is being made is never before before. Therefore, immense possibilities of investment are also available. Potentiality, policy and performance are the means of progress. New India is the best destination for investment and Destination Uttarakhand is among those states that represent New India and our demographic dividend. Today's Uttarakhand represents the youth and their zeal I believe that the government under Trivendra Rawat is making tremendous efforts to turn the seamless possibilities of this region into opportunities. This platform of Destination represents the efforts Now it is pertinent to put these discussions, confidence and enthusiasm on ground as soon as possible so that the youngsters of Uttarakhand get maximum opportunities for employment.\nFriends,\nWhen Late Atal Bihari Vajpayee had decided to create Uttarakhand, circumstances were not favourable Apart from political instability, we had a better future. However, today, Uttarakhand is moving forward on a rapid pace on the path of development.\nMicro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME): Many steps have been taken to promote and empower. The emphasis being on providing higher credit, support capital, interest subsidy, lower tax and innovation for small enterprises. Recently, it has been decided that loans of up to Rs.1 crore for the MSMEs will be approved in a very short time.\nSome facilities are now available online to ensure that there is no investment in government offices for getting project clearances. A web portal named 'PARIVESH' is for online environmental clearances which has not only simplified the process but has also accelerated it.\nMany steps have been taken in Uttarakhand in every possible way. Uttarakhand is being connected through highways, railways and airways. Every village is now getting metaled roads Moreover, the work for Char Dham all-weather road and the Hrishikesh-Karnaprayag rail line is progressing at a rapid pace.\nFriends,\nThe tourism sector is going to benefit from better connectivity. The nature has not only enriched this state with abundance, but it is also blessed with religious faith and culture. Uttarakhand tourism is a complete package of nature, adventure, culture, yoga and meditation. It is an ideal destination. With a separate tourism policy, the Uttarakhand government has given the status of an industry. For the first time in 18 years, 13 new tourist destinations in 13 districts have been identified for developing. This will surely open up employment opportunities for the state's youth.\n\nFriends,\nUttarakhand has the potential to become an organic state. I am glad that the efforts are going on under the cluster based organic farming to make it an organic state. The central government is also working hard to provide a market for organic farming.\nAlso, food processing is being done along with it. The government has approved 100% Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) in the food processing sector to strengthen it. India is one of the pioneer countries in the field of food processing. It includes production of food grains, fruits, vegetables and milk. In all of these fields, India stands within first three ranks. Our focus is on food processing sector so as to ensure that there is no wastage in farmers' production and they take maximum advantage out of it. The Uttarakhand has a bright future in this regard.\nI would like to make a special request to you for more investments in agriculture and agri-business. The impending value addition in the agricultural will play in the areas of the farmers And I believe that with greater private investment in the agricultural sector, food processing, value addition, cold storage, storage or transportation with special types of carriages and tapping in the power and potential of the rural economy will give a new dimension to the economic potential of India\nIndia is heading toward a world leader in terms of renewable energy today. Today, India has the power to lead the world We have decided that by 2030, 40% of the electricity generation will be non-fossil fuel based resources. Moreover, by 2022 that marks 75 years of Indian independence, we have set a target of 175 GW of renewable energy. Solar power forms a major part of this target. This is the concept behind International Solar Alliance (ISA). To ensure that the energy needs of the world are fulfilled and the environment is safe, we have a monta - 'one world, one sun, one grid' The state government is also making efforts to promote renewable energy in Uttarakhand. Hydel power Uttarakhand has the potential of becoming an energy surplus state Uttarakhand has the power and the potential to make India energy-rich\nFriends,\nIn the last four years, Make in India has turned into a major brand. We urge to make in India but not the whole world. The world has accepted our invitation and now India is becoming the hub for not only Information Technology but also for electronic manufacturing. Today, the world's largest mobile phone manufacturing unit is operating in India with more than 120 factories World's many major brands are now part of Make in India\nAt the same time, India is making great strides in the sector. Japan is the partner of Uttarakhand for this event. Friends, you will be glad to know that Japan's products, its cars are now manufactured in India and Japan imports the cars.\nFriends,\nToday through this program, I invite you to invest in different sectors and to become a part of the growth story of Uttarakhand and New India.\nI believe that the MoUs that are going to be signed in the next two days will be fructify very soon and if we channelize the potential of the maximum level, no one can stop India's progress and growth story. It is wonderful that today a healthy competition has started. Every state wants to beat the other and be more innovative. According to its capability When a state progresses with its capabilities, I do not think it will lag behind for long\nThe strength of our states The potential of our states is that of the small countries of the world.\nI want to get big I still remember when I was the Chief Minister of Gujarat. Even that date was 7th October The year was 2001. I had no experience. I did not know how a government functioned I did not see any office I was completely new Journalists came and started posing difficult questions. They were trying hard so that I made a mistake or something that would not allow my career to take off in the first place. So, one person asked me that as I wanted to build Gujarat, who was my idol? Whom do I follow to build Gujarat? Usually it is assumed that while answering such questions, people say they want to follow America or England I gave a different answer. I said that I would like to build it like South Korea. They were confused I said, \"Please shut off your cameras. Let me explain it to you.\" I said that the population of Gujarat is almost of South Korea, which is almost the same as the coastal boundaries; the same. I said, 'I have studied it in so much detail that if we follow that path, we will certainly move forward; and we will never stop'.\nI believe that every state has potential It can compete and leave many such countries behind Every country can move forward with this capability Our youngsters have the strength, potential and capabilities\nThe Russian President was here today First of all, we had a very different program He was very fond of a academic institution of Russia He had been there I had requested him to bring those students to India And I said that I also wished to send some students to India. So this time he had brought 20 students with him 20 Russian students had been working with 20 Indian students for 5-6 days. Those students had done such a wonderful task that both I and the Russian President were stupefied! There is a great potential in our children. They should get the right opportunities and exposure. Today, Uttarakhand has taken a step forward in that direction. 18th year is very significant The Uttarakhand government is 18 years old. The enthusiasm and dreams of 18 years, the intensions of 18 years! Uttarakhand should be careful not to cancel this 18th year. It is an extremely valuable time.\nWe have been hearing about Special Economic Zones (SEZs) for economic development However, the Uttarakhand has a different SEZ. It is there for centuries due to the penance of rishis and sages, mother Ganga and Devadidev Himalayas. This is an area of ​​Spiritual Eco Zone. The strength of the Spiritual Eco Zone is the million times greater than the Special Economic Zone. Uttarakhand should extend its plans\nI believe that under the leadership of Rawat Ji, this 18 year old enthusiastic government will help the new heights and in 2025, when you will attain the age of 25 years, many of your dreams have already been fulfilled. This great effort has been a good start I am extremely happy and I assure you that you will get support from the central government\nThanks a lot!"