"Share\n\nThere is no place for those who indulge in vote bank politics. Such politics ruins the progress of the nation: PM Modi\nPolitics of development never was acceptable to Congress: PM Modi in Ajmer\nVote bank politics is not only limited to elections It destroys the whole system, administration suffers due to this: PM Modi\nIn Ajmer, PM Modi appeals people to not allow those indulging vote-bank politics\nWhy is the Congress not fighting elections on facts? Why are they indulging in spreading lies and abuses, asks the PM\nCongress is not proud of the soldiers' sacrifice along the border, it has demeaned the surgical strikes: PM Modi\nThe popular and successful Chief Minister of Rajasthan, Vasan Vasundhara ji, Rajasthan State President Mr. Madan Lal Saini, at the center, my partner of the Council of Ministers Shri Prakash Javadekar, Arjunram Meghwal, Vijay Goel, Rajyavardhan Rathore, Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, P. P. Chaudhary, C.R. Chaudhary; The President of our Legislative Assembly, Shri Kailash ji, Bhai Om Prakash Mathur, our senior leader Gulabchand ji, who has different responsibilities in the State Government, all other great leaders who sit on the stage and in such a horrible summer, these huge masses, Enthusiasm, these energy, you have written today the palm of bright future of Rajasthan.\nNow our state president was telling that you give us time even during the election; I assure the State President that I am the same Narendra Modi who used to work on the organization by sitting on a scooter with our Saini ji. And therefore, even for the country and the world, I am the Prime Minister but for the Bharatiya Janata Party, I am a worker, and whenever a party, as a worker, whatever responsibility I give to him I try. Even further, whenever you meet all of you, I will ask you to come, wherever you are going to ask, for a small booth meeting, this worker is present.\nWe have a tradition that when someone comes by a trip, familiar, relative, known person, who comes by the journey, welcomes and welcomes them, because we have a belief that the journey will come by That is, he comes to earn virtue and when we see him, take his blessings, then some part of the virtue comes our fortune too. I am fortunate today that after visiting the four-and-a-half-and-a-half kilometer long, seven and seven million goddesses of Rajasthan, taking their blessings, Vasundhara ji is here when he is here, so my fortune is to welcome him today. To honor them, and I also had the opportunity to be part of this virtuous work, I consider it a privilege to be.\nThis journey is not easy. And even if there is no mental balance, if there is a lack of mental capacity to live in the opposition party, there are those who have spoken, no one to ask, then the journey is very simple, the applause also rings very much. But after running the government for five years, it is not possible to go around the public and public to give an account of the moment, pie-pie, it is not possible without devotion to a large number of people. And wherever this Bharat Bhartiya Janata Party should be, whether it is Rajasthan or Madhya Pradesh, whether it is in Chhattisgarh, anywhere in public, giving account of its work to the public, the Bharatiya Janata Party never hides the mouth. We know and we do not have a habit of lying.\nWe are people who work for 'Generally beneficial people.' 'Sarvajan Hidayay Sarvajan Sukhaay', are the people devoted to a new politics with this fundamental principle. On one side, the game of politics of vote bank, on the other hand, the development of 'everyone together with everyone', the responsibility of this new politics is the difference between sky and land. Those who vote politically, they enjoy playing Hindus and Muslims, and sometimes they enjoy playing in backward and never, this caste, this biradari ... sometimes that caste, that community. Any city, never a village ... ever rich, never poor ... sometimes a man, a woman ... sometimes elderly, sometimes young; Where you get a chance, make a crack, where you get the chance to meet each other, they will continue fighting and we will embrace one and straighten our election owl, it plays the vote bank politics. .\nIt is easy to break, to add, life gets bumpy, then joins it and joins it. We are going to add, every section of society, every section of the society The terrain should also go a long way, if any terrain be left behind, we are not allowed to do this too. And so whenever anyone has got a free time, if the government of Bharatiya Janata Party is to make an account of our work culture, then by seeing that 'everyone's development with everyone', 'Sarvajan Hitiayya Sarvjan sukhaan', what is the power of this mantra? , How it demonstrates the resolution of India's bright future, how it comes out assertively. And, these vote bank politics is not limited to just elections. Even those who have big personalities, who have the power of the pen, have the ability to debit for hours, they make a great mistake, they even think that the vote bank politics is limited to elections only. No, it destroys the entire system.\nIf the parties who vote for the vote bank, if they sit in the government, even in babies, even in the officers, the entire government cadre is distributed under that vote bank and then they post them. Inside the district, only those officers who fit in their vote bank equation. And because of this, half of the government bureaucrats, until they are a vote bank government, get away from government work, get cold, come to the office, sit down, say, Bhai who asks us. Because of this, the governance system should get such termites, everyone sees the other with suspicion, everyone searches for a way to put a hurdle in the work, everyone is engaged in failing others and the consequences ... to vote bank politics The power-lords have to get four moons, but those poor Muljim, the person who came from the normal family, inside the regime for five years in a way bothers themselves that I said here I have come. And so, let these politicians of the vote bank politics ever please do not let them in any corner of India. Like their vote bank runs in the transfer of officers, the whole police department gives them color in the color of caste and due to this, the administration always becomes a victim of serious illness.\nWhen we go with this mantra of 'Sarvaj Haiyatya Sarojan sukhaay', then we keep on trying to awaken the governance, keeping alive its principles, and then going on, the direction of development remains right. When the budget allocation is to be done, to construct a road, to construct a canal, to construct a pond, to get electricity, it is a vote bank politics that calculates the community which we vote for in that area. Not only that, then we decide that there is no need to give a budget for them, just fill the name of the name, we have to allocate funds to the same community where the votes will get in the future. And therefore, the state of all-round development should not happen. Unfortunately, for sixty years, Congress has created this tradition in the country, or else this country, its citizens ... if you get a small opportunity, then with your prowess, your own field, your village will get your work done. Keeping the power of moon light, but this politics was not approved by the Congress.\nNow Vasundhara ji was telling that neither did he see his leader, nor he came to the assembly, nor did he raise any question for the poor, nor did he ever argue. Hey Vansudhara, why are you so angry with him, in Hindustan, he does not do anything like this in any state, because he is taking aarti of a family, or revolving around that family, his politics goes on. These are the people who go to orbit seven and a half million people, they give their feet on the forehead because the high command of these people is the people of Rajasthan's seven and a half million people, their high command is a family. Now you will say that they work for seven and a half million, that they do for the family. Is this Rajasthan any expectation from them? Is there any expectation from those who worship this family? Will the orbiting of this family do good to you? Will they take time out from doing their best and worry about you? Everyone knows Rajasthan, Vasundhara ji, do not worry.\nBrothers and sisters, they play similarly in budget allocation and later they are accessible to their vote bank ... there are budgets, but later, there are people who are rude people who are there to protect their politics. They are resumed, ... this contract should meet my nephew, the contract should meet my uncle's son only. And, those who are buried in Vote Bank politics, those who are dependent on them ... Then the budget also goes to those people who do or do not do development work ... The report on the paper becomes The money is stolen, the country is wasted due to this. Tell me, is there again on the land of Rajasthan, whether it is to enter such kind of distortions anywhere in India, whether it is to allow them to enter again, whether to let society break, between brother and brother Do you have to give birth to the wall, what is the path of progress that has to go on the path of catastrophe once again?\nBrothers and sisters, after 60 years of hard country, the country has got a direction, now in no case do not have to give them a chance to see it here again. I once said to the public that the good of democracy is in that there is an anti-awakening party, a dedicated opposition party to the public, with the sensitivities of every question of the public, the government works to keep the awareness, the good of the people There is a sharp competition for the speed of work, the new suggestions for the work of the public, between the ruling party and the opposition party. But unfortunately, those who failed in power for 60 years also failed as opposition parties. Not to study, it is not that there is no shortage of time when the government is running, it is not that while the government is running, two expectations are not incomplete ... we accept, but they do not work hard and therefore they Lies have to be resorted to, false things have to be spoken, we have to use chanting language ... otherwise on the basis of realities, we say that you used to make so many paths before, we make so many. Let's go, debate, they run away. No, not his argument.\nBrothers and sisters, I was watching ... Vasundhara, they did not get much time, in ten minutes they completed their speech, but in the shortest time, they achieved the achievements, after hearing these achievements, if I was the voter of Rajasthan So the first thing ... the Bharatiya Janata Party government will make it again. After all, the government's work is to create facilities in the normal human life, fulfill its needs and after one, we have tried to fulfill this work. You see, today someone can imagine that without life, no one can live.\nBrothers, if there is a nighttime electricity in the house and the mobile phone is not charging then you can sleep, do you run away by taking a mobile phone or not, do not let the charging ... It does not happen it happens. Without electricity, no life can be cut, this is the situation. But look at the grace of this Congress ... even after the rule of these years ... When Vasundhara ji came ... There was an opportunity to serve the Bharatiya Janata Party in Delhi ... There were 13 lakhs of families in the 18th Century In the dark life, they were forced to live. We took the initiative, first to get electricity in every village of Hindustan and started last year, will bring electricity to every household and I congratulate Vasundhara ji that he implemented this program of Indian government with great zeal in Rajasthan and about 13 lakh families Has completed the work of power transmission.\nBrothers, this work is not short. To bring about change in the life of common man and still for those families who have not yet got the electricity, the Rajasthan government is fully engaged and the Government of India is fully cooperating with them. And we have decided ... Until the 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, even a single family in India, one family will not be forced to live in the 18th century, there will be electricity in his house too.\nBrothers and sisters, here is the River River ... which is the Riverity of the river ... ... I certainly believe that there is a type of Indian capital for tourism, Rajasthan is the capital. Tourists from the country and the world come running towards Rajasthan. Here the desert land attracts them because the people who are respected here are experienced by the people who are respected, and therefore the world goes through. To increase her ... Today Vasundhara ji is going from here to Pushkar. The development of Pushkar, it is the center of great reverence for the people of India who have come from spiritual pursuits for the pilgrims of Hindustan and behind them The hard work they have done is not the development of a place, it is becoming an energy center for the development of the economy of Rajasthan and which is going to be of great benefit.\nBrothers, I came to Rajasthan last week too. But I came under a program of the Indian government. I had come for an important gathering of all our three army forces, Army, Air Force, but those who have trouble with the progress of the Bharatiya Janata Party, they wrote, Modi will make the bugle play the election. लेकिन वहां मुझे सर्जिकल स्ट्राइक के दो साल पूर्ण होने पर पराक्रम पर्व मनाने का अवसर मिला, जोधपुर की धरती पर अवसर मिला। ये वीरों की भूमि पर अवसर मिला। लेकिन भाइयो-बहनो, आज भी हम सब पृथ्वीराज के पराक्रम को याद करते हैं कि नहीं करते हैं, करते हैं कि नहीं करते हैं। पृथ्वीराज चौहान को याद कर-कर के हमें प्रेरणा मिलती है कि नहीं मिलती है, हमारे रोंगटे खड़े होते हैं कि नहीं होते हैं, वीरता का भाव पैदा होता है कि नहीं होता है। हमारे में से किसी ने पृथ्वीराज चौहान को देखा था क्या...नहीं देखा था। लेकिन हर राष्ट्र के जीवन में त्याग, तपस्या, वीरता, संवेदना, करुणा, दया, ममता... ये सदगुणों की घटनाएं पीढ़ी दर पीढ़ी प्रेरणा देती रहती हैं और इसलिए हर पीढ़ी का दायित्व होता है कि ऐसी घटनाओं का बार-बार स्मरण किया जाए और समयानुकूल अच्छी चीजों को लेकर के आगे जाने का संकल्प किया जाए।\nसर्जिकल स्ट्राइक मेरे देश के वीर जवानों का बहुत ही बड़ा पराक्रम है। दुश्मन के दांत खट्टे करने की ताकत मेरे देश का जवान रखता है। कौन हिंदुस्तानी होगा जिसको हमारे इन वीरों के प्रति गर्व न हो! क्या हो गया है कांग्रेस पार्टी को...क्या राजनीति ने आपको इतना नीचे धकेल दिया है कि पहले आपने सर्जिकल स्ट्राइक की बेइज्जती करने की कोशिश की, मेरे वीर जवानों के पराक्रम को लांछन लगाने के लिए कोई मौका नहीं छोड़ा और अब जब उसका पराक्रम पर्व करके, वीर गाथा को याद करके देश की युवा पीढ़ी को प्रेरणा मिल रही थी, तो उसमें भी गंदी हरकतें करने से आप बाज नहीं आए। शर्म आनी चाहिए ऐसे लोगों से, शर्म आनी चाहिए ऐसी राजनीति से, शर्म आनी चाहिए ऐसी सोच से।\nभाइयो-बहनो, देश का किसान हो, देश का जवान हो...मैं देख रहा था वसुंधरा जी किसानों के लिए किए कामों की बातें कर रही थीं, यहां से तालियाँ बंद नहीं हो रही थीं भाई। और भारत सरकार ने भी... मैं जरा कांग्रेस वालों से पूछना चाहता हूं ये देश के किसानों के लिए एमएसपी की मांग कितने सालों से थी भाई और आपको कौन रोक रहा था, क्यूं नहीं किया आपने, क्या तकलीफ हुई आपको। लेकिन आपको परवाह नहीं थी, किसानों की चिंता नहीं थी। हमने वादा किया था कि लागत का डेढ़ गुना हम किसानों को एमएसपी देंगे, हमने ये वादा पूरा किया है। और आपको तकलीफ ये नहीं है, आपको तकलीफ ये है कि मोदी ने कर कैसे दिया, अब मोदी के खिलाफ बोलेंगे क्या, दिन-रात उनको इसी की चिंता रहती है। अरे आप परवाह क्यों करते हो, आप तो दिन-रात सुबह उठते ही झूठ मैन्युफैक्चर कर देते हो, आपको क्या तकलीफ है। और आपका झूठ आपको जीने की ताकत दे रहा है, जीते रहो, ये झूठ में ही जीते रहो, 100 साल जीते रहो, जहां हो वहां जीते रहो।\nभाइयो-बहनो, आज हमने एमएसपी का इतना बड़ा निर्णय..कोई कल्पना कर सकता है इस एमएसपी के कारण, अगर मैं उसका हिसाब लगाऊं, तो हिंदुस्तान के किसान का करीब-करीब 62 हजार करोड़ रुपया उसको अतिरिक्त आय होने वाली है, एक्सट्रा इन्कम। जो कांग्रेस का शासन होता तो उनकी जेब में इतने पैसे नहीं जाते, ये भाजपा सरकार है, किसान की जेब में 62 हजार करोड़ रुपया अधिक जाने वाला है और एक बार नहीं हर फसल के बाद जाने वाला है, हर साल खेती का सीजन पूरा होने के बाद जाने वाला है। उपरांत, प्रधानमंत्री फसल बीमा योजना..वसुंधरा जी बता रही थीं कि अकेले राजस्थान में 3,000 करोड़ रुपया फसल बीमा का प्राप्त हुआ। अगर मोदी ने 1,000 करोड़ का भी पैकेज दिया होता तो हेडलाइन बन जाती, अकेले राजस्थान में 3,000 करोड़ रुपया फसल बीमा का मिल जाए, ये अपने-आप में बहुत बड़ी घटना होती है। लेकिन भाइयो-बहनो, कुछ लोगों को देश की प्रगति में विश्वास नहीं है, विकास में उनका विश्वास नहीं है, उनको तो तोड़-फोड़ की राजनीति, अपनी दुकान चलती रहे, किसी की कृपा से अपना गुजारा चलता रहे..और इसलिए बोलने वाले भी और उनके गाजे-बाजे बजाने वाले भी…ये सारी टोली विकास के मुददो पर चर्चा करने की हिम्मत नहीं करती।\nभाइयो-बहनो, मैं विश्वास से कहता हूं हमारी दिशा सही है, हमारी नीति स्पष्ट है, हमारी नीयत पर कोई शक नहीं कर सकता है और जिस दिशा में जा रहे हैं हम मेहनत में कोई कमी नहीं रखते हैं। जी-जान से जुटे हैं क्योंकि ये हमारे लिए ये सवा सौ करोड़ का हिंदुस्तान, सवा सौ करोड़ देशवासी यही हमारा परिवार है, उन्हीं का कल्याण, इसी में हमारा जीवन का संतोष है और उसी बात को लेकर के हम आगे चल रहे हैं। भाइयो-बहनो, हमारी माताएं, बहनें, सरकार में काम करने वाली बहनें, मैं उनको जरा याद दिलाना चाहूंगा आज सरकार में भी  30 परसेंट के करीब महिलाएं काम कर रही हैं, करीब-करीब सब विभाग में, और, शिक्षा में और आरोग्य में तो और ज्यादा महिलाएं काम कर रही हैं।\nदुनिया के अमीर से अमीर देशों ने जो काम नहीं किया है, दुनिया के सुखी-संपन्न देशों ने जो काम नहीं किया है, दुनिया के फॉरवर्ड माने जाने वाले देशों ने जो काम नहीं किया है, ऐसा गरीब देश, दुनिया जिसको पिछड़ा देश मानती है उस हिंदुस्तान ने कर के दिखाया है। क्या किया है मालूम है आपको? कोई चर्चा ही नहीं कर रहा है। हमारी सरकार मे काम करने वाली बहनें उनको प्रसव के समय जो छुट्टी मिलती है, डिलीवरी के टाइम पे, वो पहले बहुत कम मिलती थी और इसलिए जब बच्चे को मां की जरूरत होती थी तब मां दफ्तर चली जाती थी, काम के लिए जाना पड़ता था; ये एक ऐसी प्रगतिशील सरकार है, शासन में बैठी हुई सभी बहनों को मैं याद करना चाहता हूँ, ये ऐसी प्रगतिशील सरकार है कि हमने डिलीवरी की छ्ट्टी 26 हफ्ते कर दी। छह महीने, ताकि बच्चे का मां के नाते वो लालन-पालन कर सके और पगार के साथ उसकी आय चालू रहेगी। ये बड़ा प्रगतिशील निर्णय है।\nसमाज के हर तबके लिए, सबका साथ सबका विकास, इसको मिलेगा उसको नहीं मिलेगा ये खेल हमारा नहीं है। और, एक तरफ शासन में काम करने वाली हमारी बहनों को इतना बड़ा अधिकार दिया तो दूसरी तरफ तीन तलाक के कारण जिनकी जिंदगी तबाह हो जाती थी, उन बहनों को सुरक्षा देने के लिए हमने कानून लाने का काम किया और हमने कानून लाया। हम वोट बैंक की राजनीति नहीं करते हैं। अगर महिला की बात करते हैं, तो सभी महिलाओं के साथ समान व्यवहार होना चाहिए, हिंदू-मुसलमान भेद नहीं होना चाहिए, हम भेद के खिलाफ हैं।\nमैं भारतीय जनता पार्टी के मुख्यमंत्रियों को, विशेष कर वसुंधरा जी को, शिवराज जी को इस बात के लिए बधाई देता हूं; भारत सरकार ने ये बलात्कारी प्रवृत्ति, राक्षसी मनोवृति वाले लोगों के खिलाफ कठोर से कठोर कदम उठाने का हमने कानून बनाया, फांसी की सजा के सिवाय कुछ नहीं। और, मुझे इस बात का संतोष है कि राजस्थान, मध्यप्रदेश, पिछले कुछ महीनों में कानून बनने के बाद कभी एक महीने में सजा हो गई, कभी दो महीने में सजा हो गई, कहीं पर पांच दिन में सजा हो गई और फांसी की सजा हो गई। अब हमारा काम है कि सजा हो गई है फांसी की, इस बात को प्रचारित करें ताकि उस राक्षसी मनोवृत्ति के लोगों को भय पैदा हो, जितने घंटे बलात्कार की बातें होती हैं उससे 10 गुना ज्यादा फांसी की बात होनी चाहिए ताकि अपने-आप इस प्रकार के विकृत राक्षसी लोगों को सबक सीखने का मौका मिलेगा। भाइयो-बहनो, इन चीजों को करने के लिए समाज के प्रति समर्पण का भाव लगता है, राजनीति में हिम्मत के साथ निर्णय करने की ताकत लगती है, और ये ताकत दिखाकर के हमने काम किया है।\nभाइयो-बहनो, प्रधानमंत्री आवास योजना, हम टुकड़ो में नहीं सोचते हैं, हम चीजों को पूर्णता में सोचते हैं और पूर्णता के साथ सोचते हैं इसके कारण हमने ये भी निर्णय किया। घर तो पहले भी मिलते थे; दो साल, तीन साल के बाद उन घरों का क्या हाल होता था? हम संपूर्ण आवश्यकताओं को ध्यान में रख कर घर देते हैं, बिजली देते हैं, नल देते हैं, नल में जल देते हैं, शौचालय देते हैं, गैस का कनेक्शन देते हैं। एक प्रकार से परिवार के जीवन स्तर में तुरंत बदलाव आए उसके लिए आवश्यक सारी बातें उसके साथ जोड़ देते हैं। हम टुकड़ों में नहीं पूर्णता पर विश्वास करते हैं। पहले तो क्या था, पहले जमीन का टुकड़ा देंगे एक चुनाव जीतेंगे, फिर घर का शिलान्यास होगा, दीवार 2-4 फीट ऊपर आ जाएगी, दूसरा चुनाव जीत लेंगे, फिर मकान बन जाएगा, तीसरा चुनाव जीत लेंगे, फिर गैस की बातें करेंगे, चौथा चुनाव जीत लेंगे, फिर बिजली की बात करेंगे, फिर पांचवां चुनाव, सब चीजें पांच चुनाव के हिसाब-किताब में, हमने इस परंपरा को तोड़ दिया है। उस परिवार को सब कुछ मिलना चाहिए, एक साथ मिलना चाहिए, जल्दी मिलना चाहिए, चुनाव का इंतजार नही करना चाहिए। हम टुकड़ों में सोचने वाले लोग नहीं हैं, हम संपूर्णता को लेकर चलने वाले लोग हैं। और इसलिए भाइयो-बहनो, हम उस दिशा में काम करते हुए आगे जब बढ़ रहे हैं।\nआज यहां वसुंधरा जी ने एक बात का उल्लेख किया पूर्वी राजस्थान नहर परियोजना। राजस्थान में इंदिरा गांधी नहर परियोजना के बाद कोई भी बड़ी सिंचाई व पेयजल परियोजना की नींव नहीं रखी गई। मुझे पता है कि राजस्थान में पूर्वी राजस्थान नहर परियोजना की मांग काफी समय से उठ रही थी और जब मैं जुलाई में जयपुर आया था तब भी मैंने इसका जिक्र किया था। साथियो, भारत सरकार द्वारा बहुत गंभीरता के साथ इस योजना का तकनीकी अध्ययन कराया जा रहा है, इस प्रोजेक्ट से जुड़े सारे पहलुओं का लेखा-जोखा करने के बाद पूरी संवेदनशीलता के साथ हम इस पर फैसला लेंगे और चंबल बेसिन की नदियों पर आधारित इस परियोजना से राजस्थान की दो लाख हेक्टेयर से ज्यादा जमीन को सिंचाई की सुविधा मिलेगी। इतना ही नहीं, इस परियोजना से अजमेर, जयपुर, दौसा, करौली, सवाई माधोपुर, झालावाड़, बारण, कोटा, बूंदी, टौंक, अलवर, भरतपुर और धौलपुर यानि 13 जिलों में रहने वाली राजस्थान की 40 प्रतिशत जनता को पीने का मीठा पानी भी मिलेगा।\nभाइयो-बहनो, ये दिल्ली में बैठे हुए पंडितों को पता नहीं चलेगा कि राजस्थान अपनी परंपरा बदलने जा रहा है। पहले राजस्थान की परंपरा बनी रही थी और लोगों ने मान लिया था कि एक बार कांग्रेस, एक बार बीजेपी, एक बार कांग्रेस, एक बार बीजेपी। अब राजस्थान ने फैसला कर लिया है फिर एक बार बीजेपी। मैं विश्वास दिलाता हूं...आप इस संकल्प को लेकर के जाइए...हर बूथ कमल बूथ, हर बूथ सबल बूथ, मेरा बूथ सबसे मजबूत। मैं नहीं मानता हूं अगर हम बूथ जीत गएं तो चुनाव हारने के लिए कोई रास्ता नहीं है और बूथ जीत गए तो भाइयो-बहनो, चुनाव  जीतना पक्का होता है। और इसलिए देखिए, प्रकृति भी हमारा साथ देने के लिए आई है; विजय की आंधी भी चल पड़ी है राजस्थान की धरती में। जब धरती माता आशीर्वाद देने आती है तो विजय निश्चित हो जाती है और उस विजय को लेकर के आगे बढ़ें, पूरे संकल्प को साकार करने के लिए चल पड़ें।\nमेरी तरफ से आप सबको बहुत-बहुत शुभकामना है।\nThanks a lot."