"Share\n\nIndia's accords with highest priority for its partnership: PM Modi at joint press meet with President Putin\nIndia and Russia agree to strengthen cooperation in the area of ​​terrorism and climate change\nIn the coming times, India and Russia will deepen trade and investment links, enhance cooperation from sea to space: PM Modi\nYour Excellency\nPresident of the Russian Federation and my closest friend Vladimir Vladimirovich,\nHello, honorable representative of both countries.\nDobri Din\nI am very happy to welcome President Putin and his delegation to India for the nineteenth annual summit.\nWe are welcoming you as President of a country with whom we have unique relations. You have made invaluable personal contribution for these relationships.\nThe memories of the informal summit that was held in Sochi by President Putin are fresh in my mind. With that special visit, we both got an opportunity to openly discuss.\nPresident,\nIndia gives topmost priority to its relations with Russia. Our relations in this world have become more relevant, changing rapidly.\nOur Special and Privileged Strategic Partnership has consistently received new energy and direction from the continuous series of nineteen summits. And our cooperation on global affairs has got new meaning and motives.\nOur cooperation has got strategic direction from your journey. Today, we have made important decisions which will make our relations stronger in our long run.\nFrom human resource development to natural and energy resources, from trade to investment, from the peaceful cooperation of nuclear energy to solar energy, from technology to tiger conservation, from Arctic to far east, and from sea to earth, India and There will be an even greater expansion of Russia's relations. This extension will take our cooperation across a few variants of the past.\nAlso, the important pillars of our relationships will be stronger and stronger.\nRussia has always been with us in the development journey of India. The next goal in our space is to send the Indian Astronaut to India's Gaganyaan. I am very happy that you have assured the whole cooperation of Russia in this mission.\nThe youth have the ability to rejuvenate the future of our countries. I am happy that the talented children of India and Russia will demonstrate their innovative ideas in the afternoon after this afternoon. These ideas have developed together.\nWe welcome the participation of Russia in the flagship programs of India and the wide opportunities of business. I am also happy that after some time from now we will participate in the India-Russia Business Summit. In this, about 200 major economic entrepreneurs from both countries are participating.\nIndia and Russia have been cooperating closely in all international matters of mutual interest. President Putin and I have also discussed these in detail.\nIndia and Russia are unanimous in strengthening the multi-polarity and multi-laterism (multi-lateralism) in the fast-changing world. Our two countries have common interests in cooperating with terrorism, regional organizations such as Afghanistan and Indo Pacific developments, climate change, SCO, BRICS and multilateral organizations like the G20 and ASEAN. We have agreed to continue our beneficial cooperation and coordination in international institutions.\nI am very impressed by the steps taken by President Putin for the development of the Far East of Russia. India is ready to cooperate in this field.\nThe decisions taken today will further enhance our cooperation and contribute to the restoration of peace and stability in the challenging world.\nBrothers sisters\n\nThe source of the power of the relations between India and Russia is in common man's goodwill and friendship. We have considered many such efforts today that people-to-people are strong and strong. And people of both countries, especially young people, know each other about information and mutual understanding and increase. This will create a new foundation for the future of India-Russia relations.\nFriends,\nI can honestly say that India-Russia friendship is unique in itself. I sincerely believe that with the commitment of President Putin for this particular relationship, these relations will get even more energy. And our strong faith and friendship will be strengthened and our special and privileged Strategic Partnership will get new talents.\nThank you.\nFrom human resource development to natural resources,\nFrom trade to investment,\nFrom the peaceful cooperation of nuclear energy to solar energy,\nFrom technology to tiger conservation,\nFrom the ocean to the end,\nIndia and Russia will have greater expansion of relations: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) October 5, 2018\nOur two countries have common interests in cooperating with terrorism, organizations like Afghanistan and Indo Pacific developments, climate change, organizations like SCO, BRICS and organizations like the G20 and ASEAN.\nWe have agreed to continue our profitable cooperation in international institutions: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) October 5, 2018\nIndo-Russian friendship is unique in itself.\nWith President Putin's commitment to this particular relationship, these relations will get even more energy.\nAnd our strong friendship will be strengthened and our special and privileged Strategic Partnership will get new strengths: PM"