"PM Narendra Modi receives UNEP 'Champion of the Earth' award\nUN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres presents 'Champions of the Earth' award for PM Modi\nClimate and calamity are directly related to culture; PM Modi after receiving 'Champions of the Earth' award\nWhen I say 'Sabka Saath Sabka Vikas' I also include nature in it, says PM Modi\nIndia of today is one of the leading countries in the world. In order to match this speed, we have been working on a smart and sustainable system: PM\nUnited Nations Secretary-General His Excellency Antonio Guteras, my colleague of the Council of Ministers, Sushma Swaraj, Dr. Harshvardhan ji, Dr. Mahesh Sharma, Executive Director of the United Nations Environment Program, Erik Solheim, guests from abroad and overseas.\nLadies and gentlemen I am grateful to the UN heart for this honor. It is a matter of pride for us that the program is being organized on the soil of India and for this the United Nations Secretary-General came here, Erik (Eric) and his whole team came here. And as I said earlier, this honor is the result of commitment of 100 million people of India for the protection of the environment. Champions of the Earth Award is the honor of the ever-newer ancient ancient tradition of India, who has seen God in nature, who has the Panch elements in the origin of creation; The earth, the sky, the fire, the water, the air has called its seat. It is a tribute to the tribal brothers and sisters who live in the forests of India who love more forests than their lives. This is the honor of the fishermen of India who take equally from the oceans and the rivers, as much as is necessary for earning. These people are probably not going to school college, but they stop the work of fishery in the fishery season, going to the sea. Stop your work. This is the respect of millions of farmers of India, for whom the Ritu Chakra is the life cycle. Those who love this soil too dear to their lives This is the honor of the great woman of India for which the reuse and recycle of the members has been part of everyday life. Which also sees the form of God in the plant, which also breaks the basil leaves, then breaks and counts. It is considered as virtuous to give ant food to ant. It is the honor of the anonymous faces who devote their lives to protect nature and the environment in India, who have worked for many years in any village, some settlement, some mountain, some tribal area, without worrying about the benefits, loss, happiness and prosperity. are doing. I express gratitude once again to you for this honor from your heart.\nThis is also a double honor for India, because Kochi airport has also received award. It symbolizes our commitment to sustainable energy. On this occasion I congratulate all those associates, organizations, who have received this award in different categories, found in different countries of the world. Companions, I speak of Indian philosophy about environment and nature, because climate and calamity have a direct connection to culture. Concern of climate is not difficult to escape from calamity unless it is a part of culture. Today the world is acknowledging the sentiments of India towards the environment. But as I said earlier that has been a part of our lifestyles for thousands of years and now Sushma ji mentioned this thing. We are part of that society, when we get up in the morning, first of all, Mother Mother is apologized, because we are going to keep her feet on it. In a way, they are going to put their burden on the earth. We have been told here-\nSea-spring Devi Mountain Boat Mandates.\nVishnu wife nandibhya foot touch\nIt means that the person who is wearing a sea-like garment, the wife of Lord Vishnu, a mountain body, is the goddess of the earth. Excuse me, because I'm touching you with your feet. This is the sensation which is part of our life. Worship of trees, seasoning, seasons and fasting in the form of festivals. Talk of nature's relationship to Lorians, folk dances. We have always considered nature to be alive. And it is not just about living, it is not so, we are those people who have considered nature as living and have also accepted symbiotic. With this inclination and relationship with nature, the desire of the whole universe is considered paramount in ours. It is said in the Yajurveda only -\nDue: Peacekeeping peace :,\nEarth Peace: Peaceful Consolation:.\nBotanical: Shantirvishu Deva: Shantir Braham Peace:,\nAll peace: peace, peace, peace, peace, and peace.\nPeace: Peace: Peace.\nIn this stanza of associates, God has prayed to God that there is peace in the air, there is peace in space, peace on earth, peace in water, peace in medicine, peace in flora, peace in the world, all deities Have peace in Without calling for this mantra for peace of the whole world, none of our Yajna-rituals is complete, unless it happens. And when and when God himself had to introduce himself, to describe his expansion, he himself called Ishwar -\nShrutosh Asami Jahnavi,\nSamsari Asami Sagar\nThat is, I am the reservoir, I am the only river and I am also the sea. Therefore, the respect which you have given is respect for this faith of the people of India and its people.\nCompanions India's economy is fast moving forward. Every year millions of people are coming out of the situation of gruesome poverty. We are dedicated to further accelerating this growth momentum. Not because we have to compete with someone or we have the greed of prosperity, but because we can not leave a part of the population to bear the burden of poverty. It is our responsibility to give them a dignified life. The poorest in many countries of the world is facing the adverse consequences of the indiscriminate exploitation of nature. The severity of drought and flood is increasing year after year. And most disturbing in this is happening which has limited resources, which is poor. Therefore, this huge population needs support to connect with development opportunities without putting extra emphasis on the environment. Need to pause hands. So in Paris I also advocated this and I have presented one word in front of the world. And I have advocated the challenge of the climate change of climate change, without ensuring the climate justice, we can not get out of this situation. I am happy that the world has recognized this matter in the Paris accord and has shown commitment on climate justice. But to take it on the ground, we still have to do a lot and do it fast.\nHe is particularly grateful to His Excellency Antonio Guteras here that he has understood the demand of this time, he has made great efforts to accelerate the implementation of the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol and the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goal. And so we are moving forward in the mantra of everyone, everyone in India. When I talk about development of all, it also includes nature and invites all of them, i.e. the active participation of 500 million people.\nColleagues, villages and cities are both important pillars for our economy. Our large number of employment is connected to the village and the farming, then our city is hub of service and manufacturing. And so the government is working with holistic approach. The basis of every policy of the government for the present and future of the country is a green and clean environment. Companions Our villages have always been conscious of the environment, they are associated with nature. For the past four years, the village has further expanded its own sublime power. Efforts have been made to convert bio waste into energy from initiatives such as waste to wealth and waste to energy in villages. From Organic Farm to Soil Heath Card and per drop more crop is being promoted. This is helping our soil and water sources get rid of poisonous chemicals and the sense of proper use of water has been strengthened. Where we talk of industry and manufacturing, then our motto is zero defect, zero effect. When we talk of agriculture, our motto is being per drop more crop.\nCompanions, today India is in the countries of the world where the fastest urbanization is taking place. In this way, we are also focusing on making our urban life smart and sustainable. Whatever next generation infrastructure is needed in the country today, they are being built with the goal of sustainable environment and inclusive growth. Today, the work of hundred smart cities in India is going on fast. From sewer to surveillance, smart arrangements are being prepared. Based on the suggestions of locals, Cutting-Edge Technology and Renewable Energy are the basis of this arrangement. National highway expressway of the country is being eco-friendly. Along with them the green corridor is being developed. We are doing our utmost to meet all the energy needs of the other facilities along with new highways as well as solar power. City transport network like Metro is also being linked to Solar Energy, while we are reducing the reliance on railway's Fossil fuel.\nToday, the campaign of water and energy conservation is being carried out at a fast pace from the homes in India to the streets, from offices to roads and from port to airport. From LED bulbs to rainwater harvesting technology is being promoted at every level. So much so that we are working fast to make Clean Fuel based from home kitchen to transport sector. Over the past four years, more than 10 crore households have been linked to LPG, out of which more than 5.5 crore are free gas connections provided through the Ujjwala scheme. Smoke-free campaign is also going on for homes as well as mobility. To improve the air quality, NCAP is working on the National Clean Air Program. When it comes to deciding the emission standard for vehicles, we have decided to implement the BS-6 standard directly from BS-4.\nCompanions, today, when India's focus is on the Ease of Living. Everyone's home, everyone's electricity, food to everyone, education to everyone, employment to all of us are our important aspects. And then our commitment to the environment has increased, we have not come to the deficit. Our effort is to reduce emission intensity by 20 to 25 percent compared to the 2005 level in the next two years. Our effort is to reduce it to 30 to 35 percent by 2030. If we have achieved the greatest breakthrough among all these efforts, then that is the behavior of people, change in the people's thinking process. The attachment to the environment is strengthening our belief as well as in conduct. For this reason, India has taken the resolution today that it will free itself from single use plastic until 2022. I believe that by taking inspiration from Mahatma Gandhi's vast personality, the new India will fulfill these resolutions and emerge as a model for the world. I once again express my heartfelt gratitude to the United Nations to honor India's efforts.\nYou have taken away all the time and participated in this important occasion, personally it is my responsibility that we do not leave any shortcomings in fulfilling the resolutions we have taken, and have come forward and have come forward.\nI thank you so much from your heart.\nThank you.\nThese honors are the commitment of the 100 million people of India to protect the environment.\nThe Champions of the Earth Award, is the honor of the ever-present ancient rituals of India, which has seen God in nature.\nWho has called for the establishment of Panchtattva at the origin of the creation: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) October 3, 2018\nThese are tribal brothers and sisters who live in the forests of India, who love more forests than their lives.\nThis is the honor of the fishermen of India, who take as much from the ocean, as much as is necessary for earning\nThis is the honor of the farmers of India, for whom the season is the life cycle: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) October 3, 2018\nThis is the honor of the great woman of India, for which Reuse and Recycle has been a part of everyday life for centuries.\nWho also sees the form of God in the plant\nWhich also break the basil leaves, then count them.\nWho believes in antique food to ant: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) October 3, 2018\nClimate and Calamity have a direct relationship with culture.\nConcerning climate is not difficult to escape from calamity unless it is a part of culture.\nToday, the world is accepting India's sentiment towards the environment, but it has been a part of our lifestyle for thousands of years: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) October 3, 2018\nThis is the sensation that is part of our life.\nWorship of trees, weather, seasons, fasting and festival celebrations,\nTalking about relationship with nature in Loriye-Lokgathas,\nWe have always considered nature to be alive;\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) October 3, 2018\nThe population needs support to connect with the opportunities of development, without putting additional pressure on the environment, on the environment, there is a need to put hand on.\nThat's why I talk about Climate Justice.\nClimate Justice can not be tackled without the challenge of climate change: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) October 3, 2018\nToday India is one of the countries in the world where the fastest urbanization is happening.\nIn this way, emphasizing on making urban and urban life smart and sustainable.\nInfrastructure is being built with the goal of Sustainable Environment and Inclusive Growth: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) October 3, 2018\nThe National Highway, Expressway is being eco-friendly, along with the Green Corridor being developed.\nCity transport network like Metro is also being linked to Solar Energy. At the same time, we are rapidly reducing dependence on railway's Fossil Fuel: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) October 3, 2018\nToday in India, from homes to streets,\nFrom offices to roads,\nFrom ports to airports,\nA campaign for water and energy conservation is going on.\nFrom LED bulbs to Rain Water Harvesting, technology is being promoted at every level: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) October 3, 2018\nBetween all these efforts, if we have achieved the greatest success, then it is the behavior of people, change in the people's thinking process.\nपर्यावरण के प्रति लगाव हमारी आस्था के साथ-साथ अब आचरण में भी और मजबूत हो रहा है: PM"