"Share\n\nInternational Solar Alliance (ISA) has created a great platform in order to ensure climate justice, says PM Modi\nRole being played by oil wells today will one day be played by sun rays: PM\nWe have decided to generate 40% of our electricity using non fossil fuel based resources by 2030: PM Modi\nTo fulfill the goals of Paris Agreement, we have started working on the project of renewable energy: PM Modi\nAlong with Solar and Wind power, we are working fast on B3 i.e Biomass-Biofuel-Bioenergy: PM Modi at 1st assembly of ISA\nUnited Nations Secretary General, Excellency, Antonio Guterres, International Solar Alliance Assembly and Indian Ocean Rim Association, all the ministers from these countries, all my cabinet colleagues, industry partners, honorable guests, especially young students, friends, Ladies and gentlemen\nI got an opportunity to participate in this important event associated with cleanliness in the morning with Excellency, Antonio Guterres. From today, organizing 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi is also being started in the country and the world. For the beginning of this churning for the Green future, there can be no other than fair opportunity from today's day.\nInternational Solar Alliance (ISA), and I would like to popularly say that it will be the word 'i'sa assembly. Global renewable energy investment and expo and a re-investment meeting or India Ocean Rim Association Energy Meet, the three main goals are one- to create the option of Clean Energy for the Green future.\nFriends, in the last 150-200 years, mankind has been more dependent on the resources buried beneath the earth for its energy needs. How our nature has opposed it and is still doing it, all of us are watching. Nature is constantly giving us the message that the energy present on the ground is in the Sun, in the air or in the water, that is the solution of this better and safer future.\nI am glad that today we are all uniting for the brain chanting on this message that we all are receiving from nature. Companions, I remember three years ago in the first meeting of the re-investment, I put the resolution of renewable energy in front of our countrymen from the MW to Gigawat. Then I made it clear that the benefits of solar and green energy will only be available if it is cheap and accessible. And for this I also proposed to create a common platform for Solar resource reach countries. I am happy that we have had unprecedented success in pursuing these plans in a very short time.\nCompanions, today the International Solar Alliance has emerged as a big ray of hope for the world. Within three years, this organization has become a treaty based inter governmental organization. 100 million Indians are also happy that ISA's Headquarter is in India only. It further increases the perfection of ISA.\nI think whenever the future of the big organizations of human welfare established in the 21st century, ISA's name will be the top of it. All of us as ISA have prepared a very large platform towards ensuring climate justice. The coming generations have given us all of the great gifts associated with humanity.\nFriends, I have always believed that the role that OPEC plays today in fulfilling the energy requirements of the world, the same role is going to be the International Solar Alliance in the time to come. The roll that is of oil wells today, the same roll is going to be the sun's rays in the future. I am particularly grateful to the United Nations for active cooperation in this initiative of IES, where it has reached.\nIn the ISA launch program in Paris, the then General Secretary, the presence of Ban Ki-moon and the involvement of Excellency, Antonio Guterres in today's program, shows how much the United Nations values ​​this forum. On this occasion, I express my heartfelt gratitude to the President of France, his government for their support and support.\nFriends, representatives of 40 countries are present in this first assembly of the ISA. But now we have to move forward towards that direction when these solar power options are not limited to only the hundred other countries around the Cancer and Capricorn, but the whole world gets its benefit. Under the spirit of Universal cooperation on solar energy, India is going to offer membership to all the member states of the Union in the Assembly of ISA.\nAs a significant member of the Indian Ocean Ocean Rim Association, India is very important to this organization. Our energy related challenges are the same. Therefore, in view of our energy security, we have to work together on renewable energy.\nI have also kept the sense of SAGAR i.e. security and growth for all in the region. I believe that this meeting will open new doors of cooperation.\nFriends, the growing use of renewable energy has started to affect India. To complete the goals of the Paris Climate Agreement, we have started working on the deployment of renewable energy to the plant. We have decided that by the year 2030, our 40 percent power capacity will be born from non-fossil fuel based resources. Under this goal, in the last four years, India has doubled its capacity of renewable energy to 72 GW. In this, solar energy capacity has increased by 9-fold. 20% of the electricity we produce today is non hydro renewable. Not only this, the capacity of about 50 gigawatts will soon be added to it. It is a clear indication that by the year 2022 we have kept the goal of renewable energy production of 175 GW, we are moving ahead with success and we will continue to do it.\nFriends, today India is sharpening the pace of development with the new confidence, with the power of poverty. To give strength to this new confidence, we have chosen that which has been the source of our power for thousands of years, has been a reservoir of energy. This reservoir is Sun, which we worship as the people of India also in the form of Sun God.\nCompanions, the sun is the God of light for us, the god of energy. We believe that the sun is the speedometer of the whole creation. Om Shurayya Namah: From the mantra to the sun and the first ray of the sun started the day, we have a simple tradition in society. From Vedas to Sun, the Sun has been our source of our contemplation, our worship, our inner energy. Now with the power of modern science, we are committed to transforming this inner energy into a solution of external energy.\nFriends, India is working very fast in the field of solar power. Solar power has become very cheap during the last four years, which has made our target of adding electricity to the many poor people. The panel to power and Make in India are a very important place in our goal of bringing home lighting. I am happy that in the last four years, India has emerged as the most preferred destination of the world in the field of renewable energy. About 42 billion investment has happened during this period.\nThese changes, which are coming in the field of peers, solar power, are not only foreign investment but also for our own entrepreneurs an unprecedented opportunity. Our effort is to create a strong eco system of Solar panel manufacturing in the country itself. This is the best time to invest in the sector of Renewable Energy. In the next four years, I look at the potential of $ 70- $ 80 billion business in this sector.\nAlong with peers, power generation, power storage is also very important and the National Energy storage mission is being worked on to create the necessary infrastructure for this. Under this mission, the government is focusing on the policy support needed to increase the capacity of demand creation, indigenous manufacturing, innovation and energy storage.\nKUSAM i.e., a farmer's energy safety and upliftment campaign, is being arranged in the village in the same solar panel and connecting them with the grid. About 28 lakh solar panels are to be installed in the country in the coming four years. It aims to develop capacity of about 10 gigawatts.\nAlong with sister, solar and wind power, we are working rapidly on B-3, that is, biomass, bio fuel, bio energy too. In India, serious efforts are made to make the transport system clean-fuel based. We are turning this challenge into an opportunity by creating biofuels from biogas. We have presented a huge plan for this, for example, Gobardhan. Various innovations are being done in village-village, city-city, with waste to energy.\nIt is also working on renewable energy for companions, environmental protection, saving power, these are also our priorities. Under the Ujala scheme, the biggest expedition to illuminate the country's homes, streets and roads with LED bulb is currently being run in every corner of India. So far about 31 million LED bulbs have been distributed. This 31 million LED bulb is a very big figure, saving about 40 thousand million kilowatt hour electricity every year. No one can imagine how big it is. Not only this, the country's electricity bill has saved nearly Rs. 16 thousand crores every year and we have prevented the generation of carbon dioxide in large quantities.\nAnd then I would like to say, this is just the beginning. The time ahead is full of many opportunities. For the coming generations, we have to explore the possibilities of every opportunity related to climate justice and to stay successful.\nI am confident that in the next three days, you will discuss all the greatness in detail on these opportunities and contribute to the renewable future as well as to publish, process.\nI assure you that every suggestion, every innovative idea will be very important to us. And so now open human resource development, technology up gradation, small people have experimented in the new world countries, we will bring all these things to the fore, and I am confident that we will fulfill this mission. can do. And we discussed the globalization of globalization in the world of the world, technology has brought the world very close. We also carry a dream that a world, a sun, a grid. One World, One Sun, One Grid.\nIf you cross this mission, you can imagine that when the sunrise starts, turn it from there, then if the grid remains till sunset, then the electricity can get out of the sun for twenty-four hours. Today, we think of the sun as long as there is sun in our country, but by taking this dream, one world, one sun, one grid, we will go and if there is no sun rises, it will not be possible to get electricity And the sun goes somewhere, sometimes it does not fall, then why the flow of electricity will be stopped.\nIn a new way, it is necessary to think again. And I believe that on the occasion of this important program of ISA, we must with a new faith, with new ideas, with new energy, with new resolutions, to play a key role in the creation of a new world. Increase.\nTo come back to India once again, to come here and join us on this important occasion, I express my gratitude to all of you for your participation in the bright future of the world.\nThanks a lot."