"India has a vibrant cultural history: PM Modi\nGurudev Tagore popularized traditional folk art and dance forms as the country's culture: PM\nGurudev Tagore considered the whole world as his family. Wherever he went, he was welcomed\nI congratulate all the winners of the Tagore Cultural Goodwill Reward from the heart. 'Rajkumar Singhjit Singh', Shree Ram Sutar ji and Chhaynat's respect, respect for art, honor of culture and respect for knowledge.\nCulture is the oxygen of any nation. This gives strength to the identity and existence of the nation. Respect of any nation and its age is also determined by the maturity of cultural and cultural roots.\nIndia has a cultural expansion of tens of thousands of years, which has faced the long period of slavery, even without external aggression. If this is possible, then many mystics like Swami Vivekanand ji and Gurudev Rabindranath Tagore have contributed.\nIndia's cultural power is like a colorful garland, which gives its different colorful strengths to different beads. Making water on Kos-Kos at four kosas makes it India multicolored and multi-functional.\nGurudev understood this same power of India and composed this diversity in Rabindra music. Rabindra music is the color of entire India and it is beyond the bondage of language.\nGurudev considered folk art and traditional dances as an architect of the country's culture. Manipuri dance teacher Nabakumar Sinha ji was so impressed with him that he came to know Santiniketan.\nToday, Tagore respected honored Shri Rajkumar Singhjit Singh represents this rich culture. Rajkumar Ji has been devoted to the promotion of Manipuri dance. He has played a leading role in promoting cultural harmony through Manipuri dance tradition. Hope they will continue to contribute in this field in the future. Congratulations to them for this award from me.\nCompanions, Gurudev was beyond all limits. He was devoted to nature and humanity. Gurudev considered the whole world as his home, so the world gave him equal equality. Even today, the story of Kabuli on the tongue of the Afghani people is. Even today, many cities of the world have memories associated with their names; many prestigious universities have chairs in their names. Three and a half years ago when I went to Tajikistan, I had the privilege of inaugurating Gurudev's statue there.\nCompanions, it is very rare that the Prime Minister of the two countries join the convocation of a university. It was an affair with Gurudev, that was a reverence for him, who was present with the Prime Minister of Bangladesh Sheikh Hasina, also with me in the convocation of Visva-Bharati.\nGurudev's composition 'Amar Sonar Bangla' is the identity of Bangladesh, the national anthem is there. This shared cultural heritage of India and Bangladesh has further strengthened the chhayant. The humanitarian and cultural value of Chhayant expresses the feelings of Gurudev I congratulate him for the honor of today.\nTalking to my colleagues, Gurudev, I often discuss their days in Gujarat. His brother was the Commissioner of Ahmedabad and while living with his brother, he composed many poems there. Gurudev's composition is the spirit of Jan-Gan-Man, he has empowered him by one of India's best-known Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel.\nI'm glad these two superheroes are adding another link today. Shri Ram Sutarji has become a bridge between Gurudev and Sardar Saheb today. Sutarji has made the country proud through the Statue of Unity. I congratulate the singer for the Tagore Prize for the strengthening of the feeling of national pride in strengthening the spirit of national unity. And just as I have heard in his speech, the age has crossed 93, but the speech of his speech was the same - I have a lot to do now. This is a motivation for every young person.\n\nCompanions, the work of Gurudev and their message is beyond time, time and circumstance. His insistence towards the protection of humanity needs to be strengthened today. In today's challenges in the world, Gurudev is being taught, learned from them, and more relevant.\nI will break my talk with the lines of Gurudev-\nGurudev ji wrote -\n'' I slept and dreamt that life was joy.\nI awoke and saw that life was service.\nI acted and saw, service was joy\ni.e\n\"I slept and dreamed that life is happiness.\nI awakened and saw that life is service.\nI served and found that service is joy. \"\nWe keep these values ​​of service all the way, continue to work to enrich the country's culture, with great desire, once again, many of you wish all the best.\nI thank President Mr. that he took the time and the progression of this theme has multiplied many times. I also congratulate Bhai Mahesh Sharma that his department has done very well to add those emotions through this award very well.\nThanks a lot !!!"