"Share\n\n4Ps are essential for making the world clean - Political Leadership, Public Funding, Partnerships \u0026 People's Participation: PM Modi\n#SwachhBharat While fighting for freedom, Gandhi ji once said that out of freedom and cleanliness, he will give greater priority to cleanliness, says PM Modi\nFor the #SwacchBharat Mission, I derive inspiration from respected Bapu and followed his guidelines: PM Modi\nToday, I am proud that our nation has 125 crore people following the footsteps of Gandhiji, and has turned #SwacchBharat Mission in a success story: PM\nSo many countries are coming together for a cleanliness campaign is an unheard of event, says PM Modi at MGISC # Gandhi150\nHis Excellency United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres, accompanied by Honorable Ministers of the various Nations, Sushma ji, Uma Bharti ji, Hardeep Puri, Ramesh ji, from different countries and from different countries came together from the world. Guests, brothers and sisters\nIn India, Pujya Bapu is very welcome from the heart of everybody in this land. Greetings to all of you, from the hundred and fifty million Indians. Your commitment to important issues like cleanliness and commitment to presenting mankind together with a collective spirit, and for this you should be among the world's greatest personalities associated with all world leaders, sanitation and sustainable development, among you There is a very good moment for me.\nThank you very much for participating in the Mahatma Gandhi International Sanitation Convention and sharing the experiences of our countries, and in a way to enrich this summit with your experience, your thoughts, your vision.\nToday, when the world is passing through many challenges, then it is a phenomenal event in itself that contemplating and applying so many countries on one important topic related to humanity is itself.\nToday, in the direction of Global Sanitation, I believe that all the time you have given, all of you have been gathered, these opportunities are going to prove to be a milestone associated with the work of human welfare in the days to come.\nCompanions, today we are taking steps to celebrate Mahatma Gandhi's 150th birth year, and 150 years in a global way. I pay respect to Bapuji respectfully on behalf of all. And I see that the dream of Pujya Bapu was conceived by cleanliness. And today, if we get an opportunity to honor me with the different greatities associated with that cleanliness, we also have a good fortune to pay tribute and work in the same way.\nAll of you spent a day in Bapu's ashram too. On the banks of Sabarmati, from which Pujya Bapu had prepared the country for freedom fight. The simplicity of the place, its life has been seen by itself closely. I believe that Bapu's ideas must definitely be an opportunity for a new energy, new consciousness, new inspiration for those associated with the mission of cleanliness. And it is also very meaningful that today we have gathered on the concluding occasion of this function of Mahatma Gandhi International Sanitation Convention.\nSome time ago I had the opportunity to honor and award some of the Sanhedrinas here. I congratulate all the award winners very much, especially the revered Amma, because since the work started, Pujya Amma actively took this whole campaign on its shoulder in a way. By taking inspiration from the lives of such great men, humans, the lives of these great men, today many countless people made this campaign of cleanliness a mass movement, made a great power. I salute them all to this forum today.\nWhile fighting for the fight of independence, Gandhiji once said that if he asks in freedom and hygiene then he gives sanitation priority. Gandhiji, who laid down his life for the war of independence, but he also had a resolve to give priority to sanitation in freedom and cleanliness.\nHe wrote his ideas in 1945, he wrote, and in that published version he presented him as a constructive program. Rural hygiene was also an important factor in the important documents I mentioned in that document of Mahatma Gandhi.\nThe question is, why were Gandhiji repeatedly giving so much emphasis on cleanliness? Just because there are diseases from dirt? My soul says, no There was no limited purpose.\nCompanions, if you look carefully, will meditate, then you will find that when we do not remove uncleanness, do not remove the filth, the same uncleanness becomes the reason for us to create a tendency to accept situations, that tendency arises. is. Anything is surrounded by dirt, some place is surrounded by dirt and if the person present there does not change it, does not clean it, then gradually he starts accepting that dirt. After some time such a situation arises, such a state of mind is that the dirt does not seem to be messy. That is, in a way, the person's consciousness sticks to the consciousness of the person, its thought process, and it binds.\nNow think about the other situation instead - when the person does not accept dirt, he attempts to clean it, his consciousness also moves. There is a habit that he will not accept the conditions like this.\nWhen Pujya Bapu changed the hygiene to Janadanalan, then there was a mood towards him, that mood was also to change that mindset of the person too. It was his endeavor to go from the inertia to Chetan and to eliminate that consciousness in the end, this was his endeavor. When we replaced this consciousness in the Indians then we saw the same effect of this freedom movement and the country was free.\nToday I acknowledge in front of you in front of the world that if we were not familiar with the thoughts of Pujya Bapuji, people of India and many like me, would not have tried as a student to understand his philosophy, They would not have weighed on giving such things to the world, they would not have understood, then perhaps this program would not be a priority for any government.\nToday, it became a priority, we went on to do this thing on 15th August from Red Fort because this was an effect on Gandhi's thoughts, ideals and minds. And that is the reason that today, for this work without inspiration, people are giving inspiration to many people.\nToday I am proud that on the path shown by Gandhiji, the hundred and fifty million people have made Swachh Bharat Abhiyan the world's largest mass movement. The result of this public sentiment is that before 2014, the scope of rural sanitation was about thirty to eight percent, it has now become ninety four percent. Reaching ninety four percent from thirty to eight percent in four years, it is the most successful example of joining public responsibilities.\nThe number of open defecation free (ODF) villages in open open defecation has crossed 5 lakh today. 25 states of India have declared themselves as open defecation in the open.\nCompanions, sixty percent of the global population of open defecation four years ago was in India. Today, it has decreased from sixty percent to less than twenty percent. That is, in a way, our hard work is also giving a new excitement, new excitement in the map of the world. And the major thing is that in these four years, not only the toilets, but also the regular use of more than 90 percent of toilets, not just village, city, ODF.\nThe government is also continuously monitoring the fact that the villages and cities which are declaring ODF themselves are not going back to the old habit. For this, behavioural change, and that is the greatest work, it is being constantly stressed. That is being invested on.\nThe colleagues, when we started this campaign, it was also a question that had to spend a lot of money for it. But more than Paese, the Government of India gave priority to this social change, emphasized its importance and if the situation in the mind turns out, then there is no need for a government to change the situation in reality, people start doing it themselves.\nToday, when I listen, I see that Swachh Bharat Abhiyan has changed the mood of the people of India. In what way the diseases in India's villages have decreased. The cost of treatment is reduced. And when such news comes, then how much contentment is found.\nDifferent organizations associated with the United Nations have also studied and in studying, they have exposed the new dimensions of this campaign through a study in front of the world.\nBrothers and sisters, millions of Indians have made this movement a symbol of hope and change. Swachh Bharat Abhiyan is being proven to be the world's largest domino effect today.\nCompanions, today I am also proud of the fact that due to Swachh Bharat Mission, India has once again been awakened to its ancient urges, towards cleanliness. This ritual of cleanliness is rooted in our old tradition, culture and thinking, the disadvantages have come later. While describing the correct method of living a human life, Maharshi Patanjali had said about Ashtanga Yoga -\nShauk Santosh Tantra: Swadhyaya God's Rule and Rule:\nMeaning of the five rules of living a rich life - personal hygiene, satisfaction, austerity, freedom and God consciousness. Apart from these, the first rule in these five also was cleanliness- Patanjali also advocated. God's consciousness and penance can also be possible only after cleanliness. This virtue of cleanliness has been a part of India's life.\nRight now when I was coming to this hall, I had an opportunity to see an exhibition with his excellency António Guterres. It has been shown in the way how well the sewage system of toilets in the Indus Valley civilization was.\nCompanions are heading towards achieving United Nations sustainable development goals, led by His Excellency António Guterres. Under this, by 2030 cleanliness in the world, open defecation in open and seventeen targets such as clean energy have been fixed. It has been resolved to achieve them.\nGeneral Secretary, I am convinced today that India will have an advanced role in this, we will extend our activities ahead of time. India, with the help of rich philosophy, ancient inspiration, modern trends and effective programs, today, with the help of public participation, India is moving forward on achieving the objectives of sustainable development goals.\nWith our sanitation on government, we are equally stressing on nutrition. Even in India, mass movement has been launched against malnutrition. Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam - that is, the whole world as a family, the work we are doing, that work is in our surrender, today in front of the world, in front of mankind.\nMy colleagues, I want to congratulate you for the fact that after the four-day conference we have all come to the conclusion that four 'P' is necessary for making the world clean, and this is our Mantra of 'P' Is- political leadership, public funding, partnership, people's participation Through the Delhi Declaration you people have recognized these four important mantras in omnipresent hygiene. I express gratitude to all of you for this.\nOn this occasion, I have taken forward the efforts of Swachh Bharat Mission, millions of Sanhedrinas, my colleagues of the media; And I mention the media, because the Sanitary campaign has changed its general parallelism with respect to the media. My country can say with pride that every small unit of the media of my country- whether it is print media or electronic media, has talked about people who work for cleanliness, have discussed good things, His extensive publicity has spread and these reports have created an atmosphere of inspiration in a manner. And so I would like to express my gratitude to the media and its active contribution.\nParticipation, with the participation of all of you; It seemed like a difficult task, but the country is moving forward towards making this difficult-looking work-goal. Now our work is left. We are not gathered here to accept satisfaction. We have gathered, to get the inspiration to do what is still faster, to get it done faster.\nWe have to move forward and the grandfather Mahatma Gandhi has to offer the grand poetry work of clean and healthy India on his 150th birthday. I hope, we are confident that the people of India will continue to fulfill this dream, prove this resolve and whatever necessary diligence will be required for them, whatever responsibility will be raised, no Indian will remain behind.\nAll of you have come here on this important occasion, giving India the opportunity to greet you, I thank you very much for all of you, all the guests.\nToday, on behalf of the Postal Department of the Government of India, the opportunity to inaugurate the stamp of Pujya Bapu on this important occasion also opened us. I am a messenger in the activation of the postal department of India and the postal stamp itself. It also connects with history, connects with the changing effects of society.\nI was seeing an important occasion today - Vaishnava Jan Tone Ray Rehe - Pujya Bapu was the world human. And it was said to them that after centuries, when someone would see that such a person had been born, perhaps he would say - no, no, it would be imagined that such a person might be such a person? Such great men were Pujya Bapu And his inspiration was- Vaishnav would say, then there was a small thought in mind that in 150 countries of the world, there are 150 years, the well known songwriters, musicians, singers, speakers, people who are there , They will meet - Vaishnav Jan - present in the same form once again.\nमैंने ऐसे ही सुषमा जी से कहा था लेकिन सुषमा जी ने और उनकी पूरी टीम ने, जिस लगन के साथ दुनिया के सब मिशन में बैठे हुए हमारे सा‍थियों ने जिस प्रकार से उसको अहमियत दी, और जिस प्रकार की क्‍वालिटी, ये जो विदेश के लोगों ने इन चीजों को गाया होगा, मैं मानता हूं शायद उन्‍होंने कई दिनों तक प्रेक्टिस की होगी। यानी एक प्रकार से वो गांधी में डूब चुके होंगे।\nहमारे पास एक कैसेट आया है, लेकिन मैं विश्‍वास से कहता हूं, उन देशों के ये कला जगत के लोग गांधी में डूब चुके होंगे। उनके मन में प्रश्‍न उठता होगा कि क्‍या बात है, कौन महापुरुष हैं, उन्‍होंने अर्थ समझने की कोशिश की होगी। वैष्‍णव भजन का वैश्विक रूप पहली बार दुनिया के सामने आ रहा है। और मुझे विश्‍वास है कि ये जो प्रयास हुआ ये डेढ़ सौ  साल निमित्‍त, ये स्वर, ये दृश्‍य, ये दुनिया के हर देशों की पहचान और मैं यूएन के महा‍सचिव महोदय को कह रहा था कि आपके मादरे वतन, आपके home country के बांसुरी वादक भी इसमें आज बांसुरी बजा रहे थे।\nउन दुनिया के देश के लोग अपने कलाकार को देखेंगे, सुनेंगे, एक curiosity पैदा होगी, इसे समझने की कोशिश होगी। हम भारतीयों को तो पता ही नहीं है कि वैष्‍णव भजन किस भाषा में है। हमारे जेहन में ऐसा उतर गया है कि उसकी मूल भाषा किसी को पता तक नहीं है, हम गाते चले जा रहे हैं। किसी भाषा में पले-बढ़े होंगे, हिन्‍दुस्‍तान के हर कोने में गाने वाले मिल जाते हैं। वैसे ही ये विश्‍व भर में, विश्‍व भर में मानव जाति के जेहन में ये जरूर जगह बना लेगा, ऐसा मेरा विश्‍वास है।  मैं फिर एक बार सुषमा जी की टीम को भी हृदयपूर्वक बहुत-बहुत बधाई देता हूं।\nआज स्‍वच्‍छता के क्षेत्र में हमें जो परिणाम मिले हैं, ये परिणाम अधिक करने की प्रेरणा देते हैं। हमने कभी ये दावा नहीं किया है कि हमने सब कुछ कर लिया है। लेकिन हमारा विश्‍वास पैदा हुआ है कि जिस चीज से हम डरते थे, हाथ लगाते नहीं थे, दूर भागते थे, उस गदंगी को हाथ लगा करके हमने स्‍वच्‍छता का सृजन करने में सफलता पाई है, और अधिक सफलता पा सकते हैं। जन सामान्‍य को गंदगी पसंद नहीं है। जन सामान्‍य स्‍वच्‍छता के साथ जुड़ने के लिए तैयार है, इस विश्‍वास को बल मिला है।\nऔर इस काम के लिए उमा भारती जी, उनका डिपार्टमेंट, उनकी पूरी टीम, देश भर के नागरिकों ने, भिन्‍न–भिन्‍न संगठनों ने ये जो काम किया है, आज वो बधाई के पात्र हैं, अभिनंदन के अधिकारी हैं। मैं उमाजी को, रमेश जी को और उनकी पूरी टीम को, जिस समर्पण भाव से काम हो रहा है कोई कल्‍पना नहीं कर सकता है बाहर बैठ करके कि सरकारी दफ्तर में बाबुओं की छवि कुछ भी हो। इस काम में मैं कह सकता हूं कि वहां कोई बाबूगिरी नहीं है, सिर्फ और सिर्फ गांधीगिरी, स्‍वचछता गिरी दिखाई देती है।\nइतना बड़ा काम एक टीम के रूप में किया गया है। छोटे-मोटे हर मुलाजिम ने, अधिकारी ने इसे अपना कार्यक्रम बना लिया है। ये बहुत rare होता है जी। और मैं इसको बड़ी emotionally attach होने के कारण, मैं बारीकी से देखता हूं तब मुझे पता चलता है कि कितनी मेहनत लोग कर रहे हैं, कितना प्रयास कर रहे हैं, जी-जान से जुटे हुए हैं। तब जा करके देश में बदलाव हमें नजर आने लगता है।\nआज मेरे लिए एक संकल्‍प का भी अवसर है, संतोष का भी अवसर है। जब मेरे देशवासियों ने पूज्‍य बापू को सच्‍चे अर्थ में श्रद्धांजलि के साथ कार्यांजलि के रूप में स्‍वच्‍छता की सफलता को आगे बढ़ाया है। मैं फिर एक बार सबका बहुत-बहुत धन्‍यवाद करता हूं।\nमहासचिव जी स्‍वयं समय निकाल करके पूज्‍य बापू की जन्‍म जयंती पर हमारे बची आए और यूएन के जो goals हैं वो goal को हम भारत में कैसे आगे बढ़ा रहे हैं और विश्‍व के इतने दोस्‍त जब इस काम में जुड़े हुए हैं तो उसमें वो स्‍वयं आ करके इसकी शोभा बढ़ाई है, इसके लिए मैं उनका भी आज हृदय से बहुत-बहुत धन्‍यवाद करता हूं।\nबहुत-बहुत धन्‍यवाद आप सबका।"