"PM Modi holds talks with Uzbek President\nPM Modi and Uzbek president witness exchange of many MoUs and agreements between India and Uzbekistan\nIndia is committed to strengthen strategic partnership with Uzbekistan: PM Modi\nWe took a long term view on the regional issues of security, peace and prosperity and cooperation: PM Modi at joint press statement with Uzbek President\nYour Excellency\nAnd my friend President Mirziyev,\nRespected guests and friends from Uzbekistan,\nIndian delegation members,\nHello.\nPresident,\nThis is your first state visit to India. I am very happy that you are traveling with your family and a strong delegation. I am very happy to welcome you and your family and delegation. Witness of equality and close relations between Uzbekistan and India is our shared history and culture. 'Guest', 'friend' and 'Aziz' - how many such words are known in both countries in the same way. This is not just the language of equality. It is a mix of hearts and emotions. I am proud and happy, that the foundations of our countries' relationships have been built on such a strong foundation. President, I was introduced to you during my visit to Uzbekistan in 2015. Your goodwill and friendship towards India, and your personality influenced me very much. This is our fourth meeting. I feel like you are a close friend. Aziz is friends I am even more happy that there is a strong delegation with you. In the last few days, on your order and guidance, their useful interviews have been held in India. We have a very meaningful discussion today. We have shared our vision and plans to deepen the historic relations of India and Uzbekistan, and to strengthen our strategic partnership. We have taken a long-term view to enrich our old friendly relationships in today's context. The issues of regional importance, which are related to our security, peace, prosperity and cooperation, have also been meaningful discussions. On these issues, and on international forums including the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, we have decided to deepen our cooperation. In today's meeting, we have fully agreed that the time has come to extend the ancient and intimate relations between our countries in line with the expectations and expectations of our people.\nExcellency,\nWith many of your courageous concrete steps and reforms, Uzbekistan has chased the old system behind and advanced rapidly towards modernism. This is the result of your leadership and vision. I welcome it. I congratulate you and best wishes for further success.\nExcellency,\nAccording to the priorities of Uzbekistan, India is committed to cooperating with those efforts. We have especially discussed today to increase our existing cooperation in new areas. We have agreed to increase trade and investment relations. We have targeted a billion dollar bilateral trade by 2020. We have also decided to start negotiations on the Preferred Trade Agreement. On the proposal of Uzbekistan, we have decided to provide Line of Credit of $ 200 million for low cost houses and such other social infrastructure projects in the social sectors of Uzbekistan. In addition, we welcome the proposals of Uzbekistan under Lines of Credit of 800 million dollars and under the buyers credit by Exim Bank. In the areas of space, human resources development and information technology, we have proposed to benefit from the experience of Uzbekistan for the benefit of Uzbekistan. We welcome the growing cooperation between the states of India and Uzbekistan. Today there has been agreement between Agra and Samarkand between the Twining Agreement and the Andjans of Gujarat and Uzbekistan. We have considered the ways to increase connectivity between India and Uzbekistan. Wishing for business and connectivity is an important link. India has become a member of the Ashgabat Agreement in February 2018. We are thankful to Uzbekistan for support in this. We are happy that Uzbekistan has agreed to join the International North South Transport Corridor.\nExcellency,\nYour senior advisor and friend are joining the closing ceremony of Gandhi Sanitation Convention tomorrow. Your respect for Mahatma Gandhi's message of truth, non-violence and peace has touched the heart of Indians. Tashkand has associated the memory of former Prime Minister of India, Lal Bahadur Shastri. I thank you for the renovation of Shastri Ji's memorial and Lalbahadur Shastri School. Your presence in India on the eve of the birth date of these two great leaders holds special significance for us.\nExcellency,\nIt is a matter of happiness that our defense relations are increasing. During today's meeting, we discussed the increase in defense cooperation in other areas, including joint military exercises and military education and training. President, the discussion with you has once again made it clear that India and Uzbekistan want a safe and prosperous external environment. We appreciate Uzbekistan's efforts for regional peace and stability. India will make every possible collaboration with Uzbekistan in this Stable, democratic and inclusive and prosperous Afghanistan is in the interest of our entire region. I am happy that in this context, we have decided to maintain regular contact between our two countries. Cultural and people-to-people contacts are the pillars of our relationships. We discussed today on topics such as e-visa, tourism, academic exchanges and air connectivity.\nExcellency,\nNow we are moving towards a new phase in which our bilateral relations will touch new heights and strengthen our strategic partnership. Once again welcoming you and your delegation, I wish you a pleasant and fruitful stay in India.\nThanks a lot."