"Share\n\nPM Modi says that his government is focussing on Jan Dhan, Van Dhan and Gobar Dhan\nGuided by Sardar Patel, Pritamrai Desai Ji worked on cooperative housing in a big way in Ahmedabad. These efforts have given the aspirations of many people: PM in Anand\nAmul is not only about milk processing. Modi is the best model of empowerment, says PM\nSardar Patel works on cooperative housing in a big way: PM Modi\nToday, the time has come to give importance to innovation and value addition: PM Modi in Anand\nAll of my dear brothers and sisters, who are sitting on the platform, have great respect and a large number of them.\nCam? I see that this huge pandal too falls short. There are many people standing outside in the sun. All of you have come to bless such a large number, for that we all are very grateful to you. Today, all of you have given me the opportunity to inaugurate, open or close the project of about 1100 crore rupees. I respectfully thank you for honoring all my farmer families who have joined the cooperative movement for the respect you have given me.\nToday the Amul brand has become an identity in more than 40 countries of the world. And I was surprised in some countries when I had the opportunity to go, some who wanted to meet the delegates; There were people living there from some Indian society, some were there and one thing would have been to say that we also have some arrangements for the supply of Amul's product here. And when he listened, he was so proud that the result of the continuous success of nearly seven decades from the cooperative movement of farmers is that today Amul has become an identity outside the country and the country, Amul has become an inspiration, Amul Has become a necessity. This achievement is not small. This is a huge achievement. This is not just a production industry, it is not just a process of milk processing; It is also a model of an alternate economy.\nOn one side, the socialist sense composition, on the other hand, capitalist sense composition; On one side, the government-occupied economy, on the other hand, the economy occupied by Danna Seth. The world has been familiar with these two systems. Mahadars like Sardar sahab sowed that seed which has emerged today as a sample of the third economy, where neither the government will be occupied nor will it be captured by Dhanna Seth; It will be the cooperative movement and the cooperation of the farmers, citizens, people's publicity will create the economy, flourish, grow and everyone will be its sharer.\nIt is a model of the economy that provides a meaningful alternate to socialism and capitalism. We all are well aware that a formal form of Amul was prepared almost a year before independence, but the cooperative movement was earlier too. Very few people will know when Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Ahmedabad municipality was not a corporation at the time, was a municipality, he was elected chairman of that municipality, he became the president of the municipality. And had won the elections from Dariapur to where our Kaushik brothers had won. And Sardar Sahab had come from municipality winning by just one vote, by one vote. And later became the Chairman.\nFor the first time in Gujarat, urban development should be planned, urban development should be planned, when this concept was the head of Sardar Sahab Ahmedabad municipality, for the first time in Gujarat. And at the same time he used the first cooperative housing society. Based on cooperative work, house building, middle-class family got houses. At that time a Pritam Roy used to be Desai, whom Sardar Saheb did, and in Gujarat Gujarat became the first housing society, led by Pritam Roy Desai under the guidance of Sardar Saheb. And on 28 January 1940, Sardar Sahab inaugurated it on January 28, 1927. While inaugurating, he has a new model of development, people should remember it, so proud of Pritam Roy Desai, he named the society Pritam Nagar. Even today, Pritam Nagar in Ahmedabad is the first successful success of this cooperative movement, ie, the first memory of success in a way. And in the same way, the tendency of co-operative in every region to go further and more specifically Gujarat and Maharashtra; Because at that time there was huge Maharashtra. Cooperative in this entire area - this is not a system, co-operation - no composition bound to the bondage of these rules, co-operative-as a ritual, we have stabilized in public opinion and the result of that is that today the cooperative movement associated with Gujarat People work as a model for all the countries.\nAnd North Gujarat ahead of Amul kept its foot in it. Milk Sagar Dairy Bunny, Banas Dairy Bunny. Sometimes I think, if we were not able to lead our cooperatives, then Gujarat, who is forced to live in the ten years of famine in ten years, was in trouble at that time, today it has decreased . The farmer, the cattle man, how does he survive with these difficulties. The milk producer group searched for the problem of farmers and even after famine, even after selling animal husbandry and milk, the farmer would have been able to survive, livestock was living, and life started moving.\nBut later he also came a time, for some reason people in Gandhinagar sat for such people who created rules that created this cooperative movement to obstruct the dairy industry. Due to the formation of dairy in Kutch-Saurashtra, it became a burden, whereas animal husbandry was more in Kutch-Saurashtra.\nWhen we got the opportunity to serve people we changed the way. We said - be encouraged everywhere. And I am experiencing today, in almost all the districts of Gujarat, for livestock, for farmers, has become a huge opportunity for the milk producer.\nThere are some people who consider themselves wise, many believe the intellectuals and when their thing comes out of their realm, their mind and their ego are not ready to accept it. It does not have the courage to oppose and, therefore, ridicule, ridicule and talk about such light-talked things, which you can not imagine.\nThere are such people and I remember equally when the white desert in Kutch started the Festival, were raising Ranautas, after the earthquake, several schemes were used to make the economy of Kachh, then once in his speech there I had said. I had said that as far as I am aware, which is the milk of camel, no milk, it is very much nutrition value. There can be a lot of work for the development of our children. We do not know what Gujarat Chief Minister Narendra Modi did at that time, where did I go by taking camel milk, where my jokes were burnt, used to be cartoons, mockery, and I do not know, such a bad comment was . Today I am glad that Amul's chocolate made of camel milk is very demanding. And I was just telling Ram Singh that milk of camel milk from cow's milk has become today.\nThis is the example of what sometimes the ignorant people do. Now, when a person who follows camels in the desert, gets a huge market, a new Sambhal of his bread and bread will be ready, and I am happy that after so many years today, Amul has made this dream come true. For nutrition, we have come to feel the need to do a lot in our country for nutrition.\nEven when I was Chief Minister in Gujarat, I used to initiate a lot of things by taking a nutrition mission. Because it is my conviction that our mother and child, if it is healthy then Hindustan can never be sick, our India can also be healthy.\nI was more happy today that here both solar energy and cooperative movement have been met. If there is crop in the field then the electricity will also be born in the field. And I congratulate those farmers, those 11 farmers, together by making cooperative, have created electricity, used it in agriculture; What was more was now being bought due to the state government's policy. And I was told that this cooperative will have additional income of 50 thousand rupees in a year. In the cooperative sector, it has the courage to use the earth all four time, always new.\nThe Government of India has carried forward three important schemes- One Janhana, Second Mortgages and Third Gobardhan. Janhana, Vardhan, Gobardhan Wealth, among the waste of animals, also make gas from wealth and dung, make electricity, make fertilizer, and remember me that Dakor Umreth had a big enthusiastic worker partner, he had 10-12 villages Starting from the project to collect all dung. And by making a large dung-gas plant, they used to plan the gas in the adjacent villages at that time. Even today 11 farmers gathered together to generate electricity for a Solan pump and later to sell electricity, cultivation continued and solar farming would continue; Like 11-11 villages, they can work in mission mode too.\nToday, I have come here on the earth of Parrot, with the austerity of Sardar Sahib, the work which is done here by the austerities of the great men of many cooperative regions, I hope that Amul should guide in the days to come, and people will guide And this Gobardhan Yojana will also be a clean India campaign, in the sense of wealth, will be wealth, clean energy and country is not dependent on things that are being taken from abroad. No need. We will open a good way of serving the country. In the coming days, if the people here will do that work then I believe that a very big sample can be done for the country, work can be done.\nNow after two years Amul will become 75 years. And in 2022 India's independence will be 75 years. I have seen that Amul, sometimes taking the name of a stop, it is not Amul. It is in the nature of Amul, thinking, doing new things, doing courage. Here is the whole community, the work culture here, the professionals who handle this, the leaders of the cooperative movement here, everyone because I have been associated with it for years, have always tried to understand this . They are adventurous, have the nature of doing new things.\nI have come here today to make an appeal to all the leaders of the co-operative movement led by all the professionals sitting in Amul, Amul. When Amul will be 75 years and when India will have 75 years of independence; Keeping in mind both years, can Amul decide any new goals? Can the new target set? And for this 75 years we will create 75 years from now that we have two to three years from now. We have time between the country's independence in 75 years. So, by taking certain such goals, can we bring any new thing to the country and the world by taking our number of people connected with us?\nToday we are at number ten in milk processing in the whole world. If Amul wants to decide whether it will happen for 75 years of independence, then we can move from ten to ten and decide to reach number three. I do not feel difficult.\nThere was a time in our country when we used to live under the influence of lack. Were struggling with problems of lack And then the governance decision process, the process of thinking, the ways of working was different. We have become mandatory for the country to come out of it very fast. The crisis is not lacking in front of us today. Today the challenge before the country is of abundance. Farmers produce such a large quantity that sometimes the market falls, the farmer also gets damaged because it is exuberance.\nIt was the first time that the production was very low, from the outside we used to bring the wheat out of the stomach. Just like a white revolution the agricultural revolution happened; The country's food stores are filled. But now we have more in some things than our requirement. The measure of this situation is processed, value addition is done. If we did not increase this dairy industry, if we did not make new milk processing, new products, maybe this milk production also left the farmer, leaving animal husbandry because he was not likely to survive. But due to this arrangement, the farmers are connected with the same enthusiasm in milk production even today.\nSimilarly in our agricultural product, value addition is also very important for us. When I was the Chief Minister of Gujarat, the same place was there in Anand on the occasion of the Agri festival, so I came in it. So an old friend of mine got me there Now I was also very surprised, wearing a coat-pants-tie - I said, what's the matter, brother, you have changed a lot, what are you doing nowadays? So what did he say to me - we would like to come here, make this maniphorant, ano powder, and sell it so much that we can earn so much money. This is called value addition. That is, first Sarad was the first place to go to the nearest place, the pond had fallen down first, but Anne nutrition value was not news. No one at work That's the strength in every of our agro products. Tomatoes are high in yield, tomato market goes down, tomato gets spoiled in two days, three days, but if the tomatoes have value addition, processing is done, ketchup is formed, packed in a great bottle Goes, is not bad for months and is sold in the world market. Our farmer is never harmed. And so, the way the processing of milk, he has given our farmers a big power. In the coming days, we have to emphasize on processing, value addition, value addition, agricultural product. And that's why the Government of India has got more force in our agricultural production in the country under the Pradhan Mantri Krishi Samity Yojna, we are working towards that direction.\nI had ever told our Dariyas- Amreli and Banas Dairy put forward the work. Ours may have done but maybe I do not know. उनको मैंने कहा था कि जैसे हमने श्‍वेत क्रांति की वैसे हमें sweet revolution भी करना चाहिए। और जो हमारे किसान भाई इस दुग्‍ध मंडली से जुड़े हैं, उनको मधुमक्‍खी पालन का भी ट्रेनिंग देना चाहिए। और वो जो शहद उत्‍पादन करें, जब हम दूध लेने जाएं, उसके साथ शहद भी ले करके आएं। और जैसे इस प्‍लांट में उसका पैकेजिंग करते हैं, वैसा ही एक और पैकेजिंग करें। अमरेली जिला और बनास, दोनों डेयरी आज शहद उत्‍पादन की दिशा में बहुत बड़ा योगदान कर रहे हैं। हिन्‍दुस्‍तान में पहले जितना शहद उत्‍पादन होता था, उससे आज अनेक गुना शहद उत्‍पादन होना शुरू हुआ है और वो विदेशों में जाने लगा है। अगर वो बिकेगा नहीं, घर में खाया जाएगा तो भी बच्‍चों के पोषण में काम आएगा। इस ओर extra मेहनत नहीं है। जैसे वो ही खेत छोटा सा क्‍यो न हो, अगर उस पर सोलर पैनल लगाएं, अधिक मूल्‍य मिल जाएगा। उसी के अंदर मधुमक्‍खी पालन की कुछ चीजें लगा दें, और अधिक कमाई हो जाएगी। इसके लिए हम 2022, आजादी के 75 साल तक हिन्‍दुस्‍तान के किसान की आय डबल करने के लिए ऐसे अनेक नए-नए प्रकल्‍पों को जोड़ रहे हैं।\nमैं आशा करता हूं कि हम इसके साथ जुड़ें। और एक विचार मैंने पहले रखा था, मैं इसको कर नहीं पाया जब मैं यहां था, लेकिन हम कर सकते हैं। जैसे यहां take home ration, इसके विषय में अच्‍छा काम हुआ है। यहां पर बच्‍चों के पोषण के लिए बाल अमूल की रचना के विषय में अच्‍छा काम हुआ है। हम मध्‍यान्‍ह भोजन की दिशा में भी बहुत बड़ा काम कर सकते हैं। जिन गांवों में हम दूध लेने जाते हैं, centrally अगर हम बड़ा कुकिंग का प्‍लांट लगाएं, और जब हमारी गाड़ी दूध लेने जाती है सुबह तो साथ में वहां जो स्‍कूल होगी, उन बच्‍चों के लिए बहुत बढ़िया टिफिन के अंदर मध्‍यान्‍ह भोजन ले करके जाएं, स्‍कूल के बच्‍चों के लिए वहां टिफिन छोड़ दिया जाए। टिुफिन भी ऐसा बढ़िया हो कि गरम-गरम खाना मिले और जब दूसरे दिन जब दूध वापिस आता है तो साथ में खाली टिफिन भी चला आए। कोई extra transportation का खर्च किए बिना हम आराम से, हमारी जहां-जहां दूध मंडली है वहां के स्‍कूलों में सरकार पैसे देती है, हम सिर्फ management करें।\nमैं विश्‍वास दिलाता हूं जिस प्रकार से इस्‍कॉन के द्वारा मध्‍यानह भोजन योजना को एक ताकत मिली है, हमारी सभी डेरी बहुत उत्‍तम तरीके से हमारे इन बच्‍चों को इसी व्‍यवस्‍था के तहत खाना पहुंचा सकती हैं। एक ही व्‍यवस्‍था का multiple utility, इसको ध्‍यान में रख करके अगर हम योजनाएं बनाएंगे, मैं विश्‍वास से कहता हूं कि हम सिर्फ कुछ सीमित क्षेत्रों में नहीं, जीवन के हर क्षेत्र में प्रभाव पैदा करने का काम कर सकते हैं।\nमुझे याद है धर्मच के हमारे लोग, पूरे देश में मैंने देखा है कि जो गोचर की जमीन होती है, उस पर हमेशा झगड़ा होता है। किसी ने encroachment कर दिया, ढिकना कर दिया, फलाना कर दिया। लेकिन हमारे धर्मच के भाइयों ने सालों पहले cooperative society बनाई और गोचर का विकास cooperative पर किया और daily, green grass home delivery देते थे उस समय। आज तो मुझे मालूम नहीं। मैं पहले कभी आया करता था। होम डिलीवरी देते थे green grass. अगर दो पशु हैं तो आपको इतना किलो चाहिए, पहुंचा देते थे। और उसमें से जो कमाई होती थी उससे वो गोचर की भूमि के development का आधुनिक काम उन्‍होंने खड़ा किया।\nमेरा कहने का तात्‍पर्य ये है कि यहां की सोच में सहकारिता के संस्‍कार पड़े हैं। हम इस सहकारिता का व्‍यापक रूप कैसे बनाएं, हम कैसे और चीजों के साथ जोड़ें, और उसको आगे बढ़ाने की दिशा में हम कैसे काम करें।\nमैं फिर एक बार आज अमूल परिवार को इस चरोतर की धरती के मेरे प्रगतिशील किसान पुत्रों को, इस धरती के महा मनीषी सरदार वल्‍लभभाई पटेल को स्‍मरण करते हुए और उन्‍होंने जो उत्‍तम परम्‍परा बनाई है, उस परम्‍परा से जुड़े हुए सहकारी क्षेत्र को समर्पित सभी लोगों को आदरपूर्वक स्‍मरण करते हुए, मैं आज इस बहुत बड़ी योजना को, अनेकविद् योजनाओं को गुजरात की धरती को, देश की धरती का समर्पित करते हुए अत्‍यंत गर्व की अनुभूति के साथ आप सबको बहुत-बहुत शुभकामनाएं देता हूं और भारत सरकार की तरफ से विश्‍वास दिलाता हूं, इन सारे प्रकल्‍पों में उसे आगे बढ़ाने में दिल्‍ली की सरकार कभी पीछे नहीं रहेगी। भारत सरकार कंधे से कंधा मिला करके इसकी प्रगति के लिए आपकी हिस्‍सेदार बनेगी। इसी एक अभ्‍यर्थना के साथ आप सबका बहुत-बहुत धन्‍यवाद। मेरे साथ पूरी ताकत से बोलेंगे-\nभारत माता की - जय\nक्‍यों भाई, क्‍या हो गया, ये मेरा चरोतर है। आवाज ऐसी नहीं होती।\nभारत माता की – जय।\nये बात हुई, शाबास।\nThank you."