"Every Indian is proud of our armed forces and brave soldiers, says PM #MannKiBaat\nBlue helmet-wearing Indian soldiers have been contributing to world peace since the decades: PM Modi #MannKiBaat\nEvery Indian, irrespective of his region, caste, religion or language; is always ready to support our soldiers and express joy toward their success: PM #MannKiBaat\nIndia can say with pride that the army derives its power not only from men but also from women Today, the women are empowered, and also armed: PM Modi #MannKiBaat\nThe Indian Air Force is at the forefront of relief and rescue work during times of disasters, says PM Modi #MannKiBaat\nIndia to celebrate Mahatma Gandhi's 150th birth anniversary for two years: PM Modi #MannKiBaat\nBapu gave a inspirational ministry to all of us who is known as Gandhi Ji's Talisman. This Mantra is extremely relevant today: PM during #MannKiBaat\nThe strong personality of Pt Lal Bahadur Shastri has identified with his slogan 'Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan': PM Modi #MannKiBaat\nShastri ji's gentle persona will always continue to fill us with immense pride, says PM Modi #MannKiBaat\n#MannKiBaat PM Modi congratulates the people on the success of the 'Swachaat Hi Seva' movement\nCome and let's run for Unity on 31st October, so that citizens from every class of society can join together and strengthen our efforts for a united India, says Modi #ManKiBaat\n#MannKiBaat Sardar Patel always worked for the unity of the country throughout his life, says PM Modi\nNHRC, which is set to celebrate its 25th anniversary, has promoted Indian Vedic Values ​​of Sarve Bhavantu Sukhinah: PM Modi #MannKiBaat\nMy dear countrymen, Namaskar There must be hardly any Indian who does not feel proud of our Armed Forces, our army jawans, our soldiers Every Indian, irrespective of region, caste, religion, sect or language, has ever expressed interest Yesterday, a hundred and twenty-five crore Indians celebrated the Paraakram Parva, the festival of Valour. We remembered that surgical strike carried out in 2016, where our soldiers were given a right to answer. At various places in the country, the exhibitions have been organized by our Armed Forces in order to apprise the citizens of the maximum number, the young generation, of the might we possess; how capable we are and how our soldiers can protect their citizens A day such as Paraakaram Prava reminds us of the glorious heritage of our Army. It also inspires us to maintain the unity and integrity of the country. I too participated in a program held at Jodhpur in the land of the braiant, Rajasthan. It has now been decided that our soldiers will give a befitting reply to our nation.\nWe staunchly believe in peace; We are committed to taking it forward ... but not at the cost of compromising our self-respect and sovereignty of our nation. India has always been resolutely committed to peace In the two world-wars fought in the 20th century, over a lakh of our soldiers made the Supreme Sacrifice; that too in a war where we were not involved in any way\nWe have never This was itself in our commitment \u0026 dedication towards peace. A few days ago, on the 23rd of September, on the occasion of the centenary of the Battle of Haifa in Israel, we remembered and paid tributes to Mysore, Hyderabad and Jodhpur Lancers who had freed from Haifa from the clutches of oppressors . This too was an act of valor on our troops. Even today, India is one of the largest contributors to the United Nations Peace Keeping Forces in terms of sending forces personnel. World Peace for the maintenance of millions of our brave soldiers wearing blue helmets have played a remarkular role.\nMy dear countrymen, the sky offers the rarest of hues It is not surprising that the Indian Air Force has proved itself to be the citizen's eye, through the display of the sheer might in the skies. It has got a sense of security One of the notable features eagerly awaited by spectators during the Republic Day parade is the flypast comprising of the great display of our air force through their breath taking aerobatic manoeuvres.\nWe celebrate Air Force Day on the 8th of October. Making a humble start in 1932 with six pilots and 19 airmen, our Air Force has emerged as one of the mightiest and the greatest air force of the 21st century today. From the core of my heart, I congratulate those Air Warriors and their families who rendered service to the nation. In 1947, when Pakistani attackers resorted to an unprecedented attack, it was really our Air Force which ensured that Indian soldiers and armaments reached the battlefield immediately. The Air Force also retaliated befittingly in 1965 too. Who does not know about the Bangladesh Freedom Struggle of 1971? The Air Force played a very significant role in 1999 by pushing back the intruders and their clutches from Cargil liberating.\nThe Air Force defeated the enemy at Tiger Hill by moving out of the air. Be it the relief and rescue work or disaster management, our country is indebted to our Air Force for the commendable efforts of our Air Warrior. Our countrymen to extend full support to the natural calamities like storms, cyclones, floods and forest fires. The Air Force has set an example in ensuring gender equality and has opened its doors for our daughters of India. Now, the Air Force is offering the Option of Permanent Commission to Women from the Short Service Commission, which I announced on the 15th of August this year from the Red Fort.\nIndian can proudly claim that in the armed forces, our Army only man-power but woman-power too is contributing equally Women are already empowered and now getting too too\nMy dear countrymen, some days ago, Officer Abhilash Tomy of our Navy was struggling between life and death. The whole country was concerned about saving Tomy You know, Abhalash Tomy is a very courageous, brave soldier He was the first Indian who set a global travel in a small boat without any modern technology. For the last 80 days, he was moving forward in South Indian Ocean to participate in the Golden Globe Race. Yet, this brave heart from the Navy kept struggling for many days in mid-Ocean. He fought to be afloat without food or drink He did not accept A rare example of courage, determination, strength and bravery - a few days ago I talked to Abhilash over the telephone after he was rescued and brought safely ground. I had met him his grit \u0026 spirit, his determination to make another similar attempt I pray for Tomy's sound health and I am sure that his courage, bravery and resolve to fight and emerge a young generation.\nMy dear countrymen, every child in our country knows the importance of the 2nd of October for our nation The 2nd of October, this year, has a special significance. For two years from now on, we are going to organize various programs across the world on the 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi. Mahatma Gandhi's philosophy is inspired by the whole world.\nEverybody including great personalities like Dr. Martin Luther King and Nelson Mandela derived power from Gandhiji's ideology to be able to fight against the people. In today's Mann Ki Baat, I want to talk about another important work of revered Bapu which maximum countrymen should know. In the year 1941, Mahatma Gandhi started penning down a few ideas in a constructive program. Later, in 1945, when the Freedom Struggle gained momentum, he prepared an amended copy of those ideas. Revered Bapu, put his ideas on different subjects like Farmers, villages, securing of labor rights, cleanliness and promoting of education. This is also known as the Gandhi Charter. Revered Babu Getting Connected with People was the best quality, this was in his nature. Everyone has experienced this He made him everyone that he or she is very important and absolutely necessary for the country His biggest contribution in the freedom struggle was that he made it a expansive \"Jan-Aandolan\" (People's Movement).\nDuring the Freedom Struggle people from all sections and all regions dedicated themselves at Mahatma Gandhi's call. Bapu gave a inspirational ministry to all of us who is known as Gandhiji's Talisman. In that, Gandhiji had said, \"I give you a ministry, whenever you are in doubt or when your ego gets over your personality, this test from undergo; Remember the face of the poorest or the weakest person that has seen you Will this, in anyway, benefit him! Will he be able to get some control over his life and destiny through your step! Meaning thereby that your step help millions of people in getting Swaraj who has an empty stomach and a dissatisfied soul! Then, you will see that your doubt is waning away and your ego is getting getting quelled.\nMy dear countrymen, one of Gandhiji's mantras is very relevant event today. The swelling, the middle class of the country, its growing economic power, increasing purchasing power; can be remembered Bapu for shopping! Can we remember that Mantra of Bapu! \"Can we spare a thought while shopping for this country! Whose face will sport a smile! Who will be the fortunate one to get a direct or indirect benefit from your purchase! I will feel much happier if my purchase will be the poorest of the poor Keeping this Mantra of Gandhiji in mind while making any purchases during the 150th Anniversary of Gandhiji, we must make it a point to see that our purchase must benefit one of our countrymen and that too, the one who has physical labor in invested money, who has applied skill This is the mantra of Gandhiji, this is the message of Gandhiji and I firmly believe that a small step of yours can surely bring about a very big benefit in the life of the poorest and the most privileged person.\nMy dear countrymen, When Gandhiji said that by maintaining cleanliness, freedom would be won. Then he probably did not know how this would happen. But this did happen and India got freedom In the same way today, we may also feel that the economic upliftment and economic empowerment of our country and help the poor in the credit given by the poverty fight against the fight against a big way. I feel that this is true patriotism, and a perfect tribute to revered Bapu's work. For example, think of purchasing Khadi and handloom products on special occasions; this will benefit many weavers It is said that Lal Bahadur Shastriji used to preserve old and worn out Khadi clothes because some one's labour could be felt in those clothes making. He used to say that all these clothes have been woven after putting a hard labor, every thread of these clothes should be used. This spirit of attachment toward the country and fellow countrymen was deeply imbibed in that great person. Two days later, we will celebrate the birth anniversary of Shastriji along with the respected Bapu's birth anniversary. The very name of Shastriji evokes a feeling of eternal faith in the hearts of us, Indians His mild persona always fills every Indian with a sense of pride.\nLal Bahadur Shastriji had a unique quality in that, he was very humble outwardly His slogan \"Jai Jawan, Jaai Kisan\" is the hallmark of his personality. It was the result of his free selfless service to the nation that in a brief tenure of about a year and a half years he gave up his jawans and farmers to the pinnacle of success.\nMy dear countrymen, while remembering revered Bapu today, it is quite natural not to skip talking of cleanliness. A movement \"Swachha Hi Sewa\" was launched on the 15th of September. Crores of people got connected with this movement and luckily I also got a chance to participate in the voluntary cleanliness program with the children of Delhi's Ambedkar School. I went to the school, the foundation of which had been laid by none other than respected Baba Saheb himself. On the 15th of September, people from all over the country Institutions also extended their contribution enthusiastically School children, college students, NCC, NSS, youth organizations, media groups, the corporate world, all of them offered voluntary cleanliness service on a large scale. I heartily congratulate all these cleanliness-loving countrymen for their efforts. Come on, let us listen to a phone call\nMany people have said that cleanliness has a significant meaning in every one's life and what is a matter of immense happiness is the fact that \"Swachh\" Bharat Abhiyan \"and that, all of you have the facility now. And maybe those connected with this movement may not be able to guess. But one understands the difficulties you were facing when there was no toilet and that the construction of this toilet was really proven to be a big boon for you. If you did not have a call about this aspect, maybe those connected with this cleanliness movement could not even think about such a sensitive issue. I specially thank you for your phone call\nMy dear countrymen, Swachh India Mission or Clean India Mission has become a successful story not only in our country but in the whole world and everybody is talking about this movement. This time India is hosting the biggest Sanitation Convention of the world so far, the Mahatma Gandhi International Sanitation Convention. Sanitation Ministers from across the world and experts on the subject of sanitation will converge and share their experiments and experiences. Mahatma Gandhi International Sanitation Convention will conclude on 2nd October, 2018 with the commencement of Bapu's 150th Birth Anniversary celebrations.\nMy dear countrymen, there is a Sanskrit quote-u; k; ewya LojkT; a L; kr ~ (Nyayamoolam Swarajyam Syat) meaning justice lies at the root of Swaraj and while discussing the subject of justice, human rights of spirit is inherent in that This is specially necessary for the freedom and peace of the exploited, victimized and deprived people and to ensure justice for them.\nIn the Constitution drafted by Dr. Baba Saheb Ambedkar, many fundamental rights of the poor Inspired by his vision, the 'National Human Rights Commission' (NHRC) was formed on 12th October 1993. A few days later, NHRC will complete 25 years of its existence. The NHRC has not only protected human rights but also has promoted respect for human dignity over the years. Our most beloved leader, Mr. Atal Bihari Vajpayee, the former Prime Minister of our country, has said that the human rights are not analien concept for us.\nIn the emblem of our National Human Rights Commission, the ideal word is back to Vedic period- \"Sarve Bhavantu Sukhinah\" is inscribed. NHRC has instilled widespread awareness of human rights and has played an important role in preventing their misuse. In its journey of 25 years, it has created an atmosphere of hope and confidence in the countrymen. For a healthy society, and for lofty democratic values, I feel that it is a very hope inspiring event. Today, with NHRC operating at the national level, 26 State Human Rights Commissions have also been constituted. As a society, we need to understand the importance of human rights and inculcates them in practice - this is the very basis of Sab ka Saath-Sab ka Vikas'.\nMy dear countrymen, the month of October heralds, Jay Prakash Narayan ji's birth anniversary, the beginning of the birth centenary of Rajmata Vijayaraje Scindiaji. These luminaries have been encouraged in all of us and we offer our heartfelt tributes to them. I would like to mention that the last few years, on Sardar Saheb's birth anniversary, on the occasion of Manashakti's birth anniversary. October 31 is marked in every small town and district by organizing the 'Run for Unity' race.\nEven this year, we should try to organize 'Run for Unity' in our village, town, city or metropolis. This is the best way to remember Sardar Saheb, because he worked for the unity of our nation throughout his life. I urge you all that on October 31, through 'Run for Unity', to strengthen our efforts and bind every section of the society as a unified unit. This is a great tribute to Sardar Sahib.\nMy dear countrymen, be it Navratri, Durgapuja or Vijayadashmi, I offer all my heartfelt greetings to the holy festivals. Thank you\nIndia is committed to world peace. #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/aya4A7U1mf\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) September 30, 2018\nRemembering the brave Indian soldiers who fought in Haifa #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/16ugHqvSxM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) September 30, 2018\nIndia is among the top contributors to @UN peacekeeping forces #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/ObTPqNHlrk"