"Knowledge and education are not bound to books: PM\nBalanced development can not be pursained without innovation, says PM Modi\nWe should not only educate students in the classrooms of colleges and universities, but also have them as the expectations of our country: PM\nPM Modi says to improve the infrastructure of education, the RISE i.e. Revitalization of Infrastructure and Systems in Education\nWe must realize that in today's world, no country, society or individual It is critical that we develop a vision of 'Global citizen and Global village': PM\nChairman of this conference Shri Ram Ram Bahadur Rai, Chairman of the Conference Mr. Prakash Javadekar, Dr. Satyapal Singh Ji, UGC Chairman Dr. Dhirendra Pratap Singh, Chairman of the Researcher for Resurgence Foundation Dr. Sachidanand Joshi, Vice Chancellor of IGNOU Dr. Nageshwar Rao, Chancellors, Vice Chancellors and directors from Central, State and Private Universities in seminar, all other greats of education Discharge, brothers and sisters.\nToday all of you have gathered here for a meaningful discussion on the subject of Academic Leadership on Education for Resurgence. First of all I congratulate all of you for raising these important topics. For the future of India, churning of such topics is very necessary for new India and there is also time demand. Companions, when I think of the word Resurgence ie Resurrection, the first image in the mind-brain comes from the emergence of Swami Vivekanand ji. Swami Vivekananda had presented itself Resurgence of the power of India's philosophy decades ago.\nIt is a matter of time when the world has forgotten everything in our country's capacities, our strengths, our contribution, our favors, our feats, and everything we forgot. From the talk of Swami Vivekanand ji, I want to start my talk. He had said a very important thing about education, which still can be the guiding principle of our today's summit. We need such a perfect education. Vivekanand ji said that we need such a comprehensive education that can make us humans.\nEducation is not just the name of that information which has been filled in your brain. We should assimilate the thoughts or thoughts in such a way as to create life, spread the humanity and form the character. These are the words of Vivekanand ji. And if I talk about Resurgence today, then I do not believe that there is no more outside of it, but even when the time changes, some things are added, but it joins itself in the light of the same basic idea, and this three elements today's education Has three pillars - life formation, humanity and character formation.\nInspired by these thoughts of Swami ji, I dare to add another column in this today. Because time is demanding .. And that is - Innovation, innovation, innovation, innovation. When the innovation gets stuck, life stops. There can be no age, no time, no arrangement that can run without innovation. If there is an important goal of lively, then it is innovation. And if there is no innovation then life goes on. Arrangements, ideas, life traditions become all this burden. If we think about the revival of our higher education with all these aspects, then we have a right direction.\nSuch direction of education that came from the person's life, came to work in the needs of the society and the creation of the nation. Not only that, this direction of education was explained by Gurudev Ravindranath Tagore in different era. Only then did he say that every person is born with some other goal. And education is a major contributor to achieving that goal. I will say this even further, as if in the person's life every institution should also be born with some set goal and then there should be a formula in the instrument and practice for this.\nFriends, when talking about Vidya, Vidyalaya, Student, I want to take your attention towards the ancient tradition of your country. The base pillar of our culture is Vedas. All of you know that Veda is composed of the words of Sanskrit language, which literally means the book of knowledge. From the same Vidya, the word has developed, i.e., without knowledge, the concept of our society, our country, and even our life can not be imagined. Companions, knowledge and education can not be just books. The purpose of education is to develop a balanced development of every dimension of the person, and you all know that continuous innovation is mandatory for balanced development.\nOur ancient talukshila, Nalanda, Vikramshila were also emphasized on innovation with knowledge in universities. Only then were the great teachers of Acharya Chanakya, Arya Bhatt, Panini, Dhanvantri, Charak, Sushruta, from the temples of such Vidyaan. If they had accepted the book knowledge only enough, would the world get the rule of politics, economics, astronomy, surgery, mathematics and grammar? I do not believe he might find And so when it comes to \"Education for Resurgence\", then in thinking, in ideas, without innovation, work can not work.\nThe views of the three great men of modern history of our country were similar to the books and knowledge of the brothers and sisters, education and education. Baba Saheb Bhimrao Ambedkar, Deendayal Upadhyaya and Dr. Ram Manohar Lohia He saw the reflection of character and society in education and Baba Saheb Ambedkar said - Characterless and unmanifested educated person is more dangerous than animal. If the educated person's education is against the interests of the poor people, then the person becomes a curse for society.\nMore important than education is character. This word belongs to Dr. Baba Saheb Ambedkar. At the same time, Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay ji also added to the social responsibilities of education that society must educate every person in a manner, only then he would be able to fulfill the responsibilities towards society. Here, he has not been confined to the educational institution; the society has only educated the society, he has transmitted the sacrament to a generation second generation; that idea was seen by Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay in modern form. Manishi Dr. Ram Manohar Lohia of the country also used to say that education research should be based on research. He had said that the nature of education system should be such that the person, family, society and nation can be tied together in one form.\nWe can not imagine that society that a circle, that is, the second circle, that is, the family, the third circle, that is, the fourth circle, that is, the fifth circle, that country, we can not imagine this. When we walked from person to family, walk from the family, the same stream would expand in the same formula, it is the people who carry this imagination, we can not imagine a circle that one circle is not connected to another. . If the two circles are different then the concept of the conceptual development, expansion and rites of society will be impossible. It is also clear from the views of these three great thinkers of the country that if there is no target of education, then nothing more than a hanging certificate is nothing more.\nCompanions, we have to accept another reality that no country in the world can live a society or a person alone by being isolate. We have to think about the philosophy of Global Citizen and Global Village. And this philosophy exists in our sacraments from ancient times. When we talk of Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam and Survey Bhavantu Sukhinah, the part of our philosophy is that of the global family of Global Village. Going on this vision, the government is constantly making efforts to target education, connect her with the society and find solutions to problems of education, is also doing innovation.\nCompanions, today there are about 900 universities and higher education institutes in our country as well as around 40 thousand colleges in the country. You can imagine how big power is our responsibility. If we take more and more cooperation with these educational institutions in tackling the problems of the problems of our villages and cities, how different will the conditions be? And I mean to say that we work on the philosophy of \"Interlink Institutions to Innovate and Incubate\". An interlinking that connects society and institutions and connects the institutions together and all together associated with the dreams of the nation. Imagine how much a 20-22 year old student can study when making his Thought process while keeping the need of society in mind while studying for his degree. Those who work on their projects will also think that it will be used for the benefit of the society, the results will definitely be very positive.\nIn associates, we have to provide higher ideas, high ethics, higher rites and higher behavior as well as higher solutions to society's problems in higher education. I urge the students to pay attention to the classroom of the college university, but they also have to be linked with the hopes and aspirations of the country. Moving on this path, the Central Government also strives to make educational institutions in the country's needs at every level. With the same vision we have just started the Atal Tinker Lab as Javadekar ji mentioned. It is focusing on enhancing the trend of innovation among schoolchildren.\nSo far, atal tinkering lab has started in more than 2000 schools in the country and in the next few months we have increased its number to 5000 And I talked with children working in the Atal Tinkering Lab in different corners of the country through video conferencing once through technology. The children of 8th, 9th, 10th grade were. That is, I did not feel like leaving the program. After that my program, many programs were reached. But to listen to those children, they used to show an experiment that we did this in the lab, we did the same in the lab, that is, I was amazed. That is, how much potential is given in our children, given a little chance, their inner strengths should be given to rise, the ideas give out results. Not to be imposed, the problem arises there only.\nOur government is also focusing on investing in the education world. To improve the infrastructure of education like RISE i.e. Revitalising of Infrastructure and Systems in Education. We have started this program widely. Through this, 2022 will be 75 years of India's independence. Our intention is to spend one lakh crores by 2022. The government also established the HEFA Higher Education Funding Agency. Which will provide financial assistance in the formation of the Higher Education Institute. The government has also decided to increase the budget of the National Higher Education Campaign by three times. Now, Prakashji was giving figures but I have to go further. This will prove to be an effective step in strengthening higher education in the states.\nBrothers and Sisters, in the last four years, many new IITs, new IIMs, new IISERs and new IIITs, new central universities have been approved in the country. The government has also brought a policy under which efforts are being made to set up 20 Institutes of Eminence in the country. It has 10 public sector and 10 private sector The purpose of this policy is to include the education institutions of the country in the list of proven institutions of the world. Today we see very little in the top 500 world class. We need to change this situation and for this, the government will spend about one thousand crore rupees on every institution of public sector in the next few years. You will also be familiar with the fact that under the Global initiative for academic network, that is, we are inviting the best teachers from all over the world to teach in Indian institutions.\nCompanions Our government favors the open flow of ideas in educational institutions. We have started this by giving autonomy to institutions like IIMs. I'm surprised this thing is not being discussed in the country. Even the scholars have not known about it. IIM reforms that were perhaps the biggest advocates of reform in India, who would have been writing for the last 20-25 years, maybe they would not have even thought that with so much power we ... but If you say good after, then if you go to Modi's account then you will stop writing the trouble. And because of this, the changes that have changed have been done by IIM itself, its course, its curriculum, teacher appointment, board member appointment, expansion itself. You do it, I have said this, show me, the government will not come anywhere, no Babu will sit and sit. Now it is their duty to do it.\nI think this is one of the topics related to higher education in India and it is an unprecedented experiment and we have to take this decision forward to us and institute. Recently, the UGC has also released the Graded Economic Regulation, which gave autonomy to universities and colleges. Its purpose is to improve the standard of education and it will also help in making them the best. Due to this regulation, 60 Higher Education institutions and Universities have got grade autonomy in the country. Of these, Universities of many states are also part of it.\nAmong all these efforts of the government, it is also the obligation of all of you to take advantage of the positive environment, and raise the good qualities in it which were our best dreams, by combining those dreams Do not let the time go down, let us not lose it. Tenure of more people than you is four to five years old.\nWhile working during these years, you should also set some goals for yourself. From the very first day you have to think that when you have finished the term, then what will you leave legacy? अनेक ऐसे विषय हैं जिन पर ध्‍यान देने की आवश्‍यकता है, जो उच्‍च शिक्षा के स्‍तर में resurgence के लिए बहुत आवश्‍यक है। और जैसे कि आप शिक्षण की नई पद्धत्तियों को विकसित करने में सहयोग दे सकते हैं। आज हर दिन एक नई टेक्‍नोलॉजी आती है। हम समय के साथ रहते हुए नई टेक्‍नोलॉजी का प्रयोग करके शिक्षण की व्‍यवस्‍था को और मजबूत कैसे कर सकते हैं। टीचर की ट्रेनिंग जो हमेशा से एक उपेक्षित क्षेत्र रहा है, उसे कैसे सुधार सकते हैं।\nहम इस बात से सहमत होंगे कोई गरीब से गरीब भी हो या अमीर से अमीर भी हो अगर उसको जीवन की एक इच्‍छा पूछोगे, गरीब से गरीब पूछोगे ड्राइवर होगा, peon होगा, सामान्‍य जिंदगी गुजारा करने वाला मजदूर व्‍यक्ति होगा या अमीर से अमीर होगा। अगर उसको पूछोगे, तो एक सपना common होता है और वो होता है खुद के बच्‍चों की अच्‍छी शिक्षा। अमीर से अमीर व्‍यक्ति भी चाहता है कि भई मेरे बच्‍चों को संभालने वाला कोई अच्‍छा टीचर मिल जाए, कोई अच्‍छा स्‍कूल मिल जाए, गरीब से गरीब भी चाहता है कि मेरे बच्‍चे के लिए अच्‍छी शिक्षा की व्‍यवस्‍था हो जाए।\nअब यह बिना टीचर संभव नहीं है, हर कोई अच्‍छा टीचर ढूंढता है और इसलिए हमारा फोकस इस बात पर भी होना चाहिए कि समाज को उत्‍तम शिक्षक कैसे मिले? और मिशनरी जीन वाले टीचर चाहिए। हमारी institution बहुत बढि़या-बढि़या CEO को पैदा करते हैं, दुनिया की बड़ी-बड़ी कंपनियों के CEO बन जाते हैं,हम बड़ा गर्व करते हैं कि मेरे देश की फलानी institution से निकला हुआ व्‍यक्ति उस देश के बड़े उद्योग या व्‍यापार जगत का वो CEO बन गया है, मुझे तो खुशी जब होगी, तब हम कहेंगे मेरे यहां से निकला हुआ टीचर उसने देश को 50 वैज्ञानिक दिए हैं, 50 डॉक्‍टर दिए हैं।\nऔर मैं यह मानता हूं कि यह आज की बड़ी आवश्‍यकता है। अगर आप किसी अच्‍छी साहित्‍यकार से मिलेंगे कवि को सुनेगे, देखेंगे, तो पाएंगे कि उनके भीतर से जो चीजें निकली है चिंतन स्‍वयं का हो, कलम खुद की हो, शब्‍द स्‍वयं के होंगे, मां सरस्‍वती का आशीर्वाद होगा, लेकिन एक बात common होगी, वो यह होगी जो कुछ भी निकला होगा, वो जीवन के अनुभव से निकला होगा, समाज के प्रति संवेदना से निकला होगा, कुछ सपनों के कारण निकला होगा। य‍ह सिर्फ शब्‍दों का जोड़ नहीं होता, पूरा भाव-विश्‍व होता है जो इन शब्‍दों को गर्भाधान करवाता है और उस गर्भाधान में से कोई कविता बनकर कोई साहित्यिक रचना बन करके निकलती है।\nकोई creative चीज बनकरके निकलती होगी। शायद कलम से निकले, कम्‍प्‍यूटर से निकले लेकिन उसके मूल में समाज के प्रति वो संवेदना होती है। जिंदगी के अनुभव का एक निचोड़ होता है, तब जा करके निकलता है। और इसलिए समाज के सुख-दुख को समझना उसे जमीन पर रह करके महसूस करना यह हमारी शिक्षा व्‍यवस्‍था का अंग कैसे बने यह समय की मांग है। यह तब होता है जब शिक्षा का विस्‍तार class room की चौखट से बाहर भी हो। अब जैसे पुराने समय में गुरूकुल में विद्यार्थियों को लकड़ी काटने के लिए भेजा गया।\nराजा महाराजाओं के बेटे गुरूकुल में पढ़ते थे। अब उस संस्‍था के लिए लकड़ी मंगवाना कोई मुश्किल काम नहीं था, लेकिन संस्‍कार करने के लिए, जीवन का अनुभव करने के लिए राजा का बेटा भी अगर गुरूकुल में पढ़ता है तो उसको लकड़ी काटने के लिए जाना पड़ता था। और इसलिए उसके पीछे मकसद यह होता था कि छात्र बाहर जाए, समाज, उसकी चुनौतियों को देखें, समझे। इसी तरह विद्यार्थियों को दी जाने वाली शिक्षा का विस्‍तार class room के दायरे से बाहर होना बहुत अनिवार्य है।\nवो आसपास के किसी महोल्‍ले में जाए, अपने आसपास देखे कि कैसे झुग्‍गी-झोपडि़यों में कुपोषण की समस्‍या है। कुछ बच्‍चों को पर्यापत टीके नहीं लगे हैं। ड्रग्‍स धीरे-धीरे करके गरीब परिवार में भी घुसता चला जा रहा है। क्‍या कारण है बच्‍चे स्‍कूल छोड़ करके ऐसे ही भटक रहे हैं। समाज की इस तस्‍वीर से उनका परिचय भी बहुत आवश्‍यक है।\nआप सोचिए अगर कॉलेज में पढ़ने वाले युवा अपने आसपास के इलाके में जा करके सिर्फ एक बात का प्रचार करे, एक बात के प्रति जागरूकता फैलाएं, सब बच्‍चों को कहें झुग्‍गी झोपड़ी में, गरीबों में अरे भई देखों बच्‍चें हाथ धोए बिना खाना नहीं खाना है। बार-बार कहें, आप कल्‍पना कर सकते हैं कि इतना बड़ा बदलाव आएगा, चीज़ छोटी है। मैं वो बातें नहीं कर रहा हूं कि बजट लगाओ, बिटिंग करो, reform करो form भरो, वो नहीं कह रहा हूं। मैं जुड़ने की बात कर रहा हूं। जुटने की बात कर रहा हूं। जागरूकता के तरीके innovative हो सकते हैं। creative हो सकते हैं। ऐसे अभियान न सिर्फ विद्यार्थियों का खुद का जीवन सदृढ़ बनाएंगे बल्कि अनेक गरीब बच्‍चों के जीवन की रक्षा भी करेंगे।\nमैं अभी कुछ दिन पहले बनारस गया था, मेरा लोकसभा का क्षेत्र है। और मेरी वहां मुलाकात काशी विश्‍वविद्यालय के कुछ नौजवानों के साथ हई। मैं नहीं जानता हूं उनके Vice Chancellor उनको कभी मिले हैं कि नहीं मिले हैं, लेकिन मुझे मिलने का मौका मिला। इन युवाओं ने चार-पांच साल पहले एक संस्‍था शुरू की Try to fight. Try to fight के नाम से। शुरू में ये तीन-चार लड़के थे और अब तो ये बहुत बड़ा ग्रुप बन गया है, लड़के-लड़कियां सब इकट्ठे आए हैं।\nइन युवाओं ने जो कचरा बीनने वाले बच्‍चे होते हैं, उन पर उनका ध्‍यान गया और उनका मन कर गया कि इन बच्‍चों की शिक्षा होनी चाहिए। और उन्‍होंने अपनी शिक्षा के समय में से समय निकाल करके इन कचरा बीनने वाले बच्‍चों को स्‍कूल ले जाने की दिशा में मेहनत की, कुछ पढ़ाना शुरू किया, कुछ समय देने लगे, मतलब मेहनत करने लगे। आज बनारस में ये युवा संस्‍था 1000 से ज्‍यादा गरीब बच्‍चों को शिक्षा देने का काम कर रही है।\nमैं उन बच्‍चों को भी मिला, उन नौजवानों से भी मिला और परिवार में ऐसे ही बच्‍चे पैदा हुए, मां अपने काम में है, बाप अपने काम में है। बच्‍चों की दुनिया अलग है। ऐसी गलत आदतों में फंसे हुए थे, उन सबको बाहर निकाल करके आए। एक बच्‍ची की मैंने देखा इतना बढ़िया पेंटिंग था, उसकी ताकत थी, भगवान ने उसको गिफ्ट दी थी। उन्‍होंने जब मुझे उसको गिफ्ट किया, उस बच्‍ची ने; मैं हैरान था। फिर मैंने उसको पूछा, बेटा तुम्‍हारे परिवार में किसी ने, नहीं-नहीं बोली, मैं ऐसे ही करती थी और ये जब साहब लोग आए, तो उन्‍होंने फिर मेरे लिए कागज लाए, कलम लाए, अब मैं उसी पर कर रही हूं।\nदेखिए, उस कॉलेज के छात्र, वे हुडदंग में भी जा सकते हैं, यूनियनबाजी में जा सकते हैं, आंदोलन में जा सकते थे, लेकिन उन्‍होंने रास्‍ता ये चुना और 1000 बच्‍चों की जिंदगी को बदल दिया और मैं मानता हूं सिर्फ उन हजार लड़कों की जिंदगी नहीं बदली, उन युवाओं की जिंदगी ज्‍यादा बदली है, जिन्‍होंने संवेदना को समझा है।\nसमाज के हित में काम करने वाली ऐसी संस्‍थाओं ने जितने ज्‍यादा युवा जुड़ेंगे, इस तरह के अभिनव प्रयोग करेंगे उतना ही गरीब-वंचित बच्‍चों को लाभ मिलेगा। इन सब कार्यों में बहुत बज‍ट या आर्थिक सहायता की आवश्‍यकता नहीं होती है लेकिन ऐसे कार्य कॉलेज में पढ़ने वाले विद्यार्थियों और किसी झुग्‍गी-झोंपड़ी में रहने वाले छोटे बच्‍चों, दोनों को ही प्रेरणा देने का काम करेंगे। उनमें आपस में भी एक connect साबित होगा, लेकिन हमारे देश का एक दुर्भाग्‍य भी है। क्षमा करना, कोई बुरा मत मानना।\nहम लोग स्‍कूल में पढ़ते थे, तब स्‍कूल में टीचर कहते थे कि आज कोई सेवा कार्य किया हो तो note लिख करके आना। शायद आप लोगों को भी होगा ऐसा, आज कौन सा सेवा कार्य किया ऐसा लिख करके और 100 में से 90 बच्‍चे लिखते थे कि आज रास्‍ते में एक अंधजन मिला, उसको मैंने रास्‍ता cross करवाया। आप देख लीजिए, 90 बच्‍चे यही लिखते थे। यानी एक तो वो झूठ लिखने की आदत डालते थे, झूठा करने की आदत डालते थे और हम उसको टोकते भी नहीं थे कि ये छोटा सा गांव है यहां रास्‍ता cross करने की नौबत कहां से आई यार, बस चलती है गाड़ी। पहले से चली आ रही है, हमारी भी चलती है, आज भी चलता होगा शायद।\nमेरा कहने का तात्‍पर्य है ये सारा innovation न होने का परिणाम है। ये शुरू इसलिए हुआ होगा कि उस बच्‍चों को समाज सेवा के संस्‍‍कार हों, लेकिन बाद में वो एक ritual बन गया, प्राणहीन हो गया क्‍योंकि लिखना है, तुम लिख करके लाए हो, पेज भर गया है, टीचर को समय नहीं है पढ़ने के लिए। पूरा पेज लिखा है फिर अंदर कुछ भी लिखा हो, लिखा तो है।\nमैं समझता हूं इसमें बदलाव जरूरी है। और मैं मानता हूं आप में से बहुत से लोग इन बातों से परिचित होंगे कि इस सरकार में आने के बाद मैंने एक और प्रयास शुरू किया है। मेरी कोशिश रहती है कि जहां कहीं भी यूनिवर्सिटी के convocation में जाता हूं, यहां शायद कुछ बैठे होंगे जिनकी यूनिवर्सिटी में जाने का मौका मिला, तो मैंने एक नियम बनाया है। मेरे ऑफिस में से चिट्ठी जाती है कि मैं उस convocation में आऊंगा लेकिन वहां मेरे स्‍पेशल गेस्‍ट होंगे पचास। उनके लिए बैठने की आगे के row में स्‍पेशल व्‍यवस्‍था चाहिए। ये मेरा आग्रह रहता है और वो 50 कौन होते हैं- उस इलाके के सरकारी स्‍कूल के झुग्‍गी-झोंपड़ी वाले बच्‍चे जो पढ़ते हैं, वो सातंवी, आठवीं, नौंवी, दसवीं के बच्‍चे मेरे Chief guest होते हैं।\nउनको मैं परिचय करवाता हूं उस पूरे audience में convocation में। क्‍यों, मैं उन बच्‍चों को संस्‍कार करना चाहता हूं and seeing is believing, वो जब बैठता है बच्‍चा, उसने तो बेचारा अपना झुग्‍गी–झोंपड़ी देखी हैं, स्‍कूल के वो जो environment देखा है, इतनी बड़ी यूनिवर्सिटी के campus में आता है। बैठा है, सब अलग-अलग, बराबर और वो पहन करके बच्‍चे आते हैं, टोपी में और जब सर्टिफिकेट लेते हैं, उसके अंदर भी एक बीज अंकुरित होने लगता है कि कभी मैं भी। मैं भी कभी इस dias पर जाऊंगा और मुझे भी कोई इस प्रकार से देगा, ये सपने बोने का काम होता है।\nचीज छोटी होती है, बदलाव बजट से आते हैं ऐसा नहीं है जी। बदलने के इरादे से आते हैं, जुड़ने के साथ शुरू होते हैं और जूझने से सफलता भी मिलती है, ये संकल्‍प ले करके चलना है। और इसलिए जब भी मैं शिक्षा जगत के विद्वानों के बीच जाता हूं तो एक बात पर जरूर मैं बल देता हूं। और ये विषय है city based excellent centers. हर संस्‍थान को ये भी जिम्‍मेदारी लेनी होगी कि वह अपने आसपास के education और problem solution eco system को सही रूप से तैयार करे। और इसके लिए मैं आपको कुछ उदाहरण देना चाहता हूं।\nहमारे विद्यार्थियों को जिम्‍मेदारी दी जा सकती है कि वह अपने आसपास के लोगों को digital literate बनाने का काम करें। वे अपने आसपास के लोगों को आयुष्‍मान भारत, उजाला, स्‍वच्‍छ भारत मिशन जैसी योजनाओं से परिचित कराएं। वो उनके जीवन को आसान बना सकते हैं। विद्यार्थी अपनी locality में जल संरक्षण, पर्यावरण और बिजली बचाने की सीख दें।\nऐसे अनेक कार्यों की लिस्‍ट बनाकर, pool बनाकर शिक्षा संस्‍थान एक-दूसरे से साझा भी कर सकते हैं। मैं तो ये भी कहता हूं कि इस काम में सिर्फ शिक्षक और छात्र ही नहीं, अभिभावक और alumni को भी जोड़ना चाहिए। जब शिक्षा से इस कार्य हर स्‍तर पर समाज का जुड़ाव होगा तो हमारे युवाओं का सामर्थ्‍य और उनकी समझ में कितनी बढ़ोत्‍तरी होगी इसका आप अंदाज लगा सकते हैं।\nभाइयो और बहनों, देश के युवाओं ने अपनी क्षमता से Brand India को वैश्विक पहचान दिलवाई है। देश के तमाम विश्‍वविद्यालयों, अलग-अलग संस्‍थानों से जैसे IIT, IIM, मेडिकल कॉलेज में पढ़े छात्रों ने विदेश में जाकर भारत का नाम रोशन किया है। कई तो दुनिया की बड़ी कम्‍पनियां चला रहे हैं। हम सब इस बात से भी भलीभांति परिचित हैं कि देश के युवाओं के पास विचारों की कमी नहीं है। अगर हमारे पास millions of million problem भी हैं तो billion solution भी हैं, ये विश्‍वास है।\nये भी सच है कि आज की दुनिया की सबसे बड़ी कं‍पनियां कभी न कभी start up ही होती थीं। इसी को ध्‍यान में रखते हुए सरकार Start up India, Stand up India, Skill India जैसी योजनाएं चला रही है। मैं इस बात को ले करके भी आश्‍वस्‍त हूं कि आने वाले दिनों में artificial intelligence, machine learning, 5G technology, block chain, big date analysis जैसे क्षेत्रों में हमारे युवा, ये world leader बन सकते हैं। बनाने हैं हमें। हम सब ये जानते हैं कि हमारा देश technical human resource में दुनिया का बहुत बड़ा pool है। हम Start up में दुनिया का दूसरा सबसे बड़ा eco system हैं। Innovative index में लगातार प्रगति कर रहे हैं।\nये सारी स्थितियां हमारे देश के नौजवानों और शिक्षा संस्‍थानों, दोनों के ही अनुकूल हैं और इसलिए हम सभी को मिलकर देश के युवाओं में social scientific और innovative temper इसका विकसित करने की दिशा में हम लोगों ने काम करने की बहुत आवश्‍यकता है।\nसाथियों, Resurgence तभी संभव है जब हम सब एक कदम आगे बढ़ें। वैसे भी Research से Resurgence खामियों को खत्‍म कर आगे बढ़ने का तो प्रयास है ही, लेकिन साथ-साथ नए युग के अनुकूल बदलाव लाना, ये उसमें निहित होना चाहिए।\nमेरी कमियां दूर करो, उतना नहीं हो, मैं बीमार हूं इसलिए बीमारी से मुक्‍त हो जाऊं, इतना नहीं है, मुझे तंदुरूस्‍त भी होना है, ये भी मेरा इरादा होना चाहिए। शिक्षा जगत के आप सभी दिग्‍गज New India के निर्माण के लिए देश की नींव को और मजबूत करें। देश के नौजवानों में और आत्‍मविश्‍वास पैदा करें।\nइसी कामना के साथ मैं फिर एक बार इस महत्‍वपूर्ण imitative के लिए आप सबको हृदय से बहुत बधाई देता हूं। आप यहां से जो मंथन करेंगे, जो चिंतन करेंगे, जो चीजें उसमें से उजागर हो करके आएंगी, मुझे भरोसा है कि आप वो लोग हैं जो धरती से जुड़े हुए हैं, जो बीते हुए कल से जुड़े हैं। वो लोग हैं जो आने वाले उत्‍तम कल के सपने संजो करके जिंदगी खपाने वाले लोग हैं। जहां ऐसा समूह होता है, वो बहुत कुछ दे सकता है।\nमुझे विश्‍वास है कि ये चिंतन, ये मनन, ये प्रयास देश के आने वाले समय के लिए कुछ न कुछ महत्‍वपूर्ण चीजें दे करके जाएगा। इस अपेक्षा के साथ फिर एक बार इस प्रयास के लिए बधाई देते हुए मेरी बहुत-बहुत शुभकामनाएं।\nThank you."