"Share\n\nFortunate to be a citizen of the Indian Janata Party that is devoted to serve the nation: PM Modi\nIt is a matter of great pride that we have governments in 19 states and it is a matter of greater pride that we are the biggest party in the world: PM\nThe BJP government in Madhya Pradesh, under Shivraj Ji's leadership is leaving no stone unturned to serve the people of the state: PM\nFor us, 125 crore Indians are our family, for us it is always nation first: PM Narendra Modi\nInspire by Pandit Deendayal Upadhyaya's ideals, we are devoted to serve this land: PM\nWe are fortunate - we identify ourselves with Gandhi Ji, Lohia Ji as well as Pandit Deendayal Upadhyaya Ji because we believe in communion: PM\nFor 10 years, Congress betrayed the people It is time to give them a befitting reply: PM Modi in Bhopal\nOur vision is very clear - 'Mera booth, Sabse Mazboot': PM\nPeople have said in the name of vote bank: PM Modi\nWe are committed to empowering Muslim women On one hand, 'Triple Talaq', 'we are starting efforts of abolish', but Congress is making it a vote-bank issue: PM Modi\nPM Modi remembers the contributions of Kushabhau Thakre, Rajamata, Scindia towards development of Madhya Pradesh\nThe more symbolized by the opposition, the more the lotus (BJP symbol) will bloom: PM Modi\nNational President of the Bharatiya Janata Party sitting on the platform ... What should be the party's president in all the political parties, who have strained their hard work, who have forced to discuss every small party in the country, By the way Mr Amit Bhai Shah Chief Minister of Madhya Pradesh, my friend Mr. Shivraj Singh ji Chauhan My partner in the Lok Sabha and President of Madhya Pradesh Bharatiya Janata Party Mr. Rakesh Singh Ji All the distinguished senior leaders who were sitting on the stage and a large number of my colleagues, brothers and sisters who came from every corner of the state of Madhya Pradesh.\nThe name of this program is 'Kumbh of the workers'. Perhaps this huge Jana Sagar ... wherever my eyes are reaching, I am filled with excitement, millions of people are full of energy.\nHow lucky we are, we do not know in our birth, how many virtues we have done that we too have received the good fortune of working as a worker of this great party, serving Mother Bharti. Such virtue and such good luck are not destined to live by evil people.\nJust like the unarmed Karmayogi and only Mother Bharti's jai-cheekar has the intention to spend life. The family who believe in the hundred and fifty million people Hindustan tries to share the sadness of every misery, such lakhs-lakhs workers from the corners of the Madhya Pradesh It is a matter of pride for the Bharatiya Janata Party to form a government in 19 states, but being the biggest party in the world is also a matter of great pride. And, being the world's largest party worker, what could be the proudest man's life of bigger friends?\nToday Pandit Deendayal is the birth anniversary of Upadhyay ji. Perhaps we are the only party in the world, the word that the party's ideology is known to be - 'Integral Humanism'.\nAny political party anywhere in the world is working with the word 'humanism', I have not heard, neither have I read. We are alone who are working only in the political life of the issue of humanity and only.\nBrothers and sisters, we were celebrating the birth anniversary of Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay ji last year. How did the Bharatiya Janata Party celebrate the birth centric? Not celebrated by big celebrations Even if you too, we too may not have done so, your jai-chekaar, my majesty too. In the birth centenary year, all the workers of the party, the National President also did all those things that were set out in it, and the small soldiers of the Bharatiya Janata Party sitting in the booth, even as Deendayal ji had spent his life. He fulfilled it with the same passion ... this is our strength.\nBrothers and sisters, Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay ji, his contemplation, his life, his conduct, his thoughts are our inspiration.\nYou will all speak with me, both hands will lift up and close your fists.\nI will say Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay, both of you will speak up and say twice - be immortal, immortal ...\nPandit Deendayal Upadhyaya - Amar Rai, Amar Singh\nPandit Deendayal Upadhyaya - Amar Rai, Amar Singh\nPandit Deendayal Upadhyaya - Amar Rai, Amar Singh\nBrothers and sisters, generally the Madhya Pradesh Bharatiya Janata Party's organization is very strong. Since the time of Kushabhau Thakre ji, each root of its organization has been deepened so strong in the land which has flourished in this form of Vishvakshak from this earth.\nAnd Madhya Pradesh is a party with the habit of working in a Organized 'Way'. For many years 25 September, Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay ji has had a tradition of celebrating the birth anniversary of the birth anniversary of the workers. I also got the privilege of receiving blessings from everyone at such a ceremony. Today, once again, once again, you have got the privilege of taking holy chants in the Mahakumbh of this workers on September 25, but there is a difference.\nWhenever it came before, there used to be a feeling in the mind that whose land was land, the land which gave birth to such a worthy man, who illuminated the name of Hindustan in the country and the world, 'One Life-One Mission 'The only idea was to have a dedicated life, however, Atal Bihari Vajpayee is not among us today.\nWe have Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay Ji on millions of workers of Bharatiya Janata Party, Shyama Prasad Mukherjee should be, Atal Bihari Vajpayee, Rajmata Scindia ji, hundreds of youth volunteers who sacrificed for the idea of ​​the party, beating in the battle in Kerala Even after struggling, be it a life-giving volunteer to save West Bengal or mother on earth of Jammu Kashmir. These millions of workers, who have been prepared for every moment for their sacrifice for Bharati, are in debt, brothers and sisters, all of them have debt on us.\nAll these great men had exposed their lives by dreaming to fulfill the dream of the 500 million people of dreams. We are people who grew up with their blessings, and so on all of us these great men, three hundred four-four generation of hundreds of sacrificial workers, those who give credit for this idea, we have debt on all workers. We will not miss any chance to repay the debt. We will not let any opportunity.\nBrothers and sisters, the country can never forget three great men after independence. Mahatma Gandhi, Ram Manohar Lohia, Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay These three great men who have been sitting in the last line for the welfare of the nation for the development of the nation, for the welfare of the nation, who are standing at the last end, who are sitting very far in the race of development, giving priority to them all Always keep guiding the country with the idea of ​​taking the nation to new heights. Gandhi, Lohia and Deendayal are the three great men whose ideas have grown up who today are doing their work in the politics of Hindustan.\nBrothers and sisters, it is our fortune that we are those people who are also approved by Gandhi, Lohia is also approved, and Deendayal is also approved. Because we believe in coordination. We believe in social justice.\nBrothers and sisters, 'everyone's development-all development' is not just an election slogan. For the future of bright India, for the fulfillment of the aspirations of class-conscious Indians, this is our way of thinking. Moving forward on this path, no class of society will be left behind. Whether it is due to social causes, whether it is due to economic reasons, whether it is due to the absence of opportunity, it is the responsibility of all of us that we are moving forward the plans for the people of all sections of society for their welfare. Are. Even if there is a state, then which state is left behind in the state. If there is a district, then which block is behind it. If there is a bloc, then which village was left behind? And if there is a village then who are the families who have left behind, we are working with detailed plans to bring them all forward.\nBrothers and sisters, vote bank politics in our country has ruined the society as a termite. Therefore, if the country is to save the country from the ruined 70 years of independence, then we have the special responsibility of the Bharatiya Janata Party to liberate the country from the termite of the vote bank politics. Because the vote bank politics brought such a waste that the leader or party used to catch a group of society. He used to make an equation of one or two groups, and in the same way he used to make the handcuffs to win elections. Neither they were accountable to all or they did not want to welfare of all, nor did they work for the good of everyone, they had no choice but to save their chair.\nBrothers and sisters, those who have committed this sin, the country is divided into smaller pieces, breaking the tone of society, destroying and playing politics, the cause of the country's devastation remains. And brothers and sisters, after going 'everyone along with all development', these mantras have become an indispensable way for a glorious India, for a bright India, for a prosperous India, a strong India. And therefore, through the workers of the people of Madhya Pradesh today, I urge that if the previous governments, the culture of the Congress, would have been good for Madhya Pradesh, whatever the work done by the Bharatiya Janata Party governments, they could . And I would like to say to Madhya Pradesh that the Bharatiya Janata Party has given you an opportunity to serve, but the difficulties faced by the Bharatiya Janata Party in Madhya Pradesh should also be known.\nWhat is the difficulty of Bharatiya Janata Party's governments in Madhya Pradesh, whether Sundarlal ji has taken over the job, even if Kailash ji took over the job, even if Babulal Gaur took over the job, even if Uma Bharti ji took over the job, even if Shivraj ji Work was done, as long as there was a UPA government in Delhi, where wherever the Bharatiya Janata Party's governments were, not only against those governments, but also against the people of the country. Paul sat by. Delhi was proud to interfere in every work of the government. And their leader too- I was the chief minister in Gujarat, if any minister of the Congress accepted our greetings and if the picture was printed then he would tremble that now my address will be cut. A picture of my greeting with Modi ji has been printed.\nSuch oppression has run in Delhi within the UPA regime. Even the officers, if they keep the money, keep lying, if the plans get stuck then get stuck, but where there is a BJP government, nothing will stop there. Then there will be a resignation of the public on that and then the people of the Janata Party will be removed.\nBrothers and sisters, should such a conspiracy save Madhya Pradesh or not?\nSuch conspiracies should save Madhya Pradesh or not? Those who have kept themselves hostile to Madhya Pradesh for ten-ten years, should they be punished or not? Such people should get such punishment or should they not? Should they stand in the election and bring them to the earth or not?\nBrothers and sisters, they have played in Delhi with your rights for ten years, they have played the first opportunity to punish them. First came brother-in-law They should be punished for their sins.\nWho were the people who had done 'glorious' black rants to put Madhya Pradesh in the list of 'Bimaru'? How hard is it to get Madhya Pradesh out of that pothole and to bring development to the same level. Now there is a government in Delhi, which believes that if Hindustan has to move ahead then the states of India will have to strengthen. States need to go ahead, strengthen states' strengths. I want an opportunity to serve the brothers and sisters\nIn order to do well in Madhya Pradesh for the next five years, the government of Delhi and the government of Madhya Pradesh, together with the government of Bharatiya Janata Party, has gone along with the dreams of Madhya Pradesh, Shivraj ji has given the pace; We have had the opportunity to cooperate more and more. Now everything is ready, now the chance is to make a new leap.\nBrothers and sisters, there are as many rankings in India today ... Whether it is in relation to agriculture, urban development, ranking of road construction, ranking of connecting water and rivers, I have told the government and his colleagues of Shivraj I congratulate that in every ranking, they stand on number one in India today.\nBrothers and sisters, you tell me that the party which is more than 100 years old, the party which has hundreds of retired central ministers, there should be former governors, many former chief ministers, many X-mp and many X-MLAs, fifty-sixty What has been the rule of the country over the years, what has happened to such a large party, a microscope, whether there is any survivor in Hindustan or not Chi.\nJust the people of the Congress, think about why this happened to you? And you are not ready to improve after such a defeat. We lost our '84 also. After losing the election with Atal ji, we did not work to save the skin by giving abusive EVM machine. How the Congress party defeated after losing the election did not stop doing so. We looked inside, walked with a resolution to get the confidence of the public, walked after the worst defeat and gave confidence to the people of the country and the people of the country trusted us.\nCongress is not ready to do this. So big of 44 out of 440, it is not ready to do self-contemplation. Because of its ego Because of that, these cabinets are a reserve for us. There is no tea, a poor mother's son Shivraj, son of a poor mother, Yogi ji, they can not sit. Those who have a right to be born, can sit alone. Are you approved in democracy? What is approved in democracy? Are you approved in democracy?\nAnd what are you doing now, for the Congress party itself. Elections are going on in Jammu and Kashmir right now जो उनके साथी दल हैं, वो चुनाव से भाग रहे हैं, अगर साथियों के प्रति इतना प्रेम था तो कांग्रेस पार्टी को उनके साथ खड़े रहना चाहिए था, लेकिन जम्मू-कश्मीर में कहते हैं कि अच्छा आपको साथ नहीं चलना है तो कोई बात नहीं, ये पंचायत के चुनाव में तो लड़ लेंगे। ये कैसा गठबंधन है भाई? ये कैसा गठबंधन है तुम्हारा? ये गठबंधन पराजय के भय से पैदा हुआ है। देश की भलाई के लिए पैदा नहीं हुआ है।\nअगर दिल्ली की सरकार सफल न हुई होती, अगर शिवराज जी की सरकार सफल न हुई होती, अगर रमन सिंह और वसुंधरा जी सरकारें कामयाब न हुई होतीं, तो कांग्रेस का अहंकार इतना है कि छोटे-छोटे दलों के पैर पकड़ने के लिए नहीं जाती, वो कुचल देते। आज तो घर-घर जाकर के पैर पकड़ रहे हैं, आ जाओ..हमारे साथ आ जाओ, अरे खड़े होकर के हाथ पकड़ कर के एक फोटो निकाल दो, अरे कहीं तो बोल दो हमारे लिए कुछ। ये हाल हो गया सवा सौ साल पुरानी पार्टी का कि वो छोटे-छोटे दलों के सर्टिफिकेट लेने के लिए भटक रही है।\nअगर कांग्रेस पार्टी के नेताओं ने आत्मचिंतन किया होता, चार साल मिल गए उनको, कुछ देश की भलाई के लिए किया होता, तो आज हर किसी की गोद में जाकर के बैठने की नौबत न आती, हर किसी को गोद लेने की नौबत न आती, ये बर्बादी न होती। भाइयो-बहनो, अगर उनके नसीब में बर्बादी लिखी हुई है, तो मुझे और आपको रोने की क्या जरूरत है।\nऔर इसलिए भाइयो-बहनो, हमलोगों को विकास के मुद्दे पर चुनाव में जाना है। वे समाज को तोड़ने के रास्ते पर जाना चाहते हैं। वे सत्ता हथियाने के लिए ‘कांड’ करना चाहते हैं। वे मुट्ठी भर लोगों को उपयोग करके ‘अपप्रचार’ की, झूठ की आंधी फैलाना चाहते हैं। उनका रास्ता उनको मुबारक। हमारा रास्ता है - ‘संगठन में शक्ति है’। दल भी संगठन की ताकत पे आगे बढ़ेगा। देश भी ‘एक भारत-श्रेष्ठ भारत’ के मिजाज से आगे बढ़ेगा। अब देश दुनिया में अपनी जगह बना रहा है। आज दुनिया में हिंदुस्तान का लोहा माना जा रहा है। इसलिए आज आपसे कहने आया हूं...अब चुनाव सामने है...संकोच करने की जरूरत नहीं है, लेकिन चुनाव जीतने का हमारा मंत्र भी साथ है।\nभाइयो-बहनो, हम धन बल से चुनाव न लड़ते हैं, न लड़ना चाहते हैं। हम चुनाव लड़ते हैं जन बल से। हमें जन बल से आगे बढ़ना है और ये जन बल में जुड़ने का काम हमारा कार्यकर्ता करता है। और इसलिए हमारा मंत्र है – ‘मेरा बूथ-सबसे मजबूत बूथ’। मेरा बूथ-सबसे मजबूत। मेरा बूथ सबसे मजबूत।  \nअगर भारतीय जनता पार्टी के लाखों कार्यकर्ता एक ही मंत्र लेकर जाएं, बहुत बड़े लंबे-लंबे इरादे की जरूरत नहीं है। हम तय कर लें - आंधी आए तूफान आए, झूठ का बवंडर चल जाए, जातिवाद का जहर फैला दिया जाए, नोटों के ढेर लग जाएं,  गलत रास्ते अपनाए जाएं..कुछ भी हो जाए, लेकिन मैं मेरे बूथ में भाजपा का झंडा झुकने नहीं दूंगा।\nलाखों कार्यकर्ता इसी मंत्र को लेकर के चल दें - ‘मेरा बूथ-सबसे मजबूत’। चुनाव जीतने की यही जड़ी-बूटी है। और मुझे सार्वजनिक रूप में कहने से डर नहीं है। कांग्रेस वाले भी सुनते हैं तो सुनें, क्योंकि मुझे मालूम है कि ऐसे समर्पित लोग उनके पास हैं कहां?\nऔर जिस पार्टी के पास ऐसे लाखों कार्यकर्ताओं की फौज हो, जिसका सिवाय देश कोई सपना न हो, उस पार्टी के लिए विजय निश्चित होती है दोस्तो।  \nये विजय मध्य प्रदेश के उज्ज्वल भविष्य के लिए है।\nये विजय हिंदुस्तान के भाग्य का नीति निर्धारण करने के लिए है। ये विजय आने वाले हिंदुस्तान के गरीब से गरीब समाज के हर तबके का कल्याण करने के लिए है, हर नागरिक को न्याय दिलाने के लिए है।\nभाइयो-बहनो, अगड़े और पिछड़ों का भेद देश का भला नहीं करेगा। हमें ‘सबका साथ-सबका विकास’ इसी मंत्र को आगे बढ़ाना है और इसके लिए भारतीय जनता पार्टी प्रतिबद्ध है। हमारे लिए सवा सौ करोड़ देशवासी यही हमारा परिवार है। हमारे लिए ‘दल से बड़ा देश है’। इसलिए भारतीय जनता पार्टी के लाखों कार्यकर्ता जिस मिजाज के साथ, और ये पहला चुनाव मध्य प्रदेश का है जब अटल बिहारी वाजपेयी, उनकी स्मृतियां हमारे साथ हैं, वाजपेयी जी नहीं हैं। इसी मिट्टी की संतान नहीं हैं।\nये वो चुनाव है जब देश राजमाता सिंधिया जी की जन्मशती मनाने जा रहा है। ये चुनाव का वो वर्ष है, वो राजमाता जिन्होंने मूल्यों के लिए, आदर्शों के लिए जेल जाना पसंद किया था, लेकिन कांग्रेस के सामने झुकना जिन्हें मंजूर नहीं था। ऐसी प्रेरणा शक्ति, उनकी प्रेरणा और आशीर्वाद लेकर हमें जाना है। मध्य प्रदेश की एक-एक महिला राजमाता जी का कांग्रेस के खिलाफ संघर्ष करने का जो माद्दा था, जो मिजाज था, उसी को लेकर के मध्य प्रदेश की एक-एक महिला निकलेगी।\nभाइयो-बहनो, ये वोट बैंक की राजनीति ने क्या कर के रखा है। कोई मुझे बताए दुनिया के इस्लामिक देशों में भी तीन तलाक मंजूर नहीं है। यहां वोट बैंक की राजनीति और जिस पार्टी की मुखिया एक महिला हो, उनको, वोट बैंक की राजनीति...कुर्सी की भलाई, तीन तलाक की पीड़ित उन मेरी मुसलमान बहनों की चिंता नहीं हो रही है। भाइयो-बहनो, ये वोट बैंक की राजनीति का विकृत रूप है। आप मुझे बताइए सभी महिलाओं का सम्मान होना चाहिए कि नहीं, समान अधिकार होना चाहिए, उन पर जुल्म रुकना चाहिए कि नहीं चाहिए।\nमां-बेटी हिंदू हो या मुसलमान, भेद किस बात का। ये आपके वोट बैंक की राजनीति है जो ये परिस्थिति पैदा करती है। और इसलिए भाइयो-बहनो, हमारे लिए अनिवार्य है।\nअब कांग्रेस पार्टी हिंदुस्तान में गठबंधन करने में सफल नहीं हो रही है। अगर मिल भी जाएं तो ये मेल-मिलाप संभव नहीं दिखता है। और इसलिए भारत के बाहर गठबंधन खोजा जा रहा है। दुनिया के देश तय करेंगे कि हिंदुस्तान में कौन प्रधानमंत्री बनेगा?\nकांग्रेस पार्टी...क्या हाल  हो गया है आपका...क्या हो गया है।  क्या सत्ता खोने के बाद आपने संतुलन भी खो दिया। अरे चुनाव तो आते हैं जाते हैं, सवा सौ साल पुरानी पार्टी...उसमें कुछ तो बचा रहना चाहिए। अरे कुछ नहीं बचा है दोस्तो...कुछ नहीं बचा है।\nये कांग्रेस पार्टी बोझ बन गई है। ऐसे लोगों से देश को बचाना...ये भी लोकतंत्र में जागरूक नागरिकों का कर्तव्य है।\nभारतीय जनता पार्टी के कार्यकर्ता...यहीं से हम संकल्प लेकर के चलें...हमारा बूथ हम हारने नहीं देंगे। हमारा बूथ जिसमें कमल को झुकने नहीं देंगे।  \nऔर मेरे विरोधियों को मैं कहता हूं कि अभी भी समझो। 2001 से लेकर के जब से मैं राजनीति में आया हूं...उसके पहले तो मैं संगठन में काम करता था, राजनीति में नहीं था...2001 से आया हूं और आपने पूरी ताकत लगा दी है मुझ पर गालियां देने की। डिक्शनरी की कोई गाली नहीं है जो आपने मेरे लिए उपयोग न किया हो। आपके एडवाइजर से पूछ लीजिए, आपने जितना कीचड़ उछाला है कमल उतना ही ज्यादा खिला है।\nपिछले दो दशक के आपके ये सारे ये प्रयास, ये प्रयोग देश की जनता के गले नहीं उतरे हैं। और इसलिए मैं फिर आपको कहता हूं आइए, विकास के मुद्दों पर बहस करें। देश को विकास की राह पर ले जाने के लिए हम योजनाएं लेकर के चलें। हम विरोध करें विकास के लिए करें। हम आलोचना भी करें विकास के लिए करें। लेकिन वो ताकत नहीं है। सरल रास्ता है कीचड़ उछालो-कीचड़ उछालो।\nऔर इसलिए कहता हूं जितना कीचड़ उछालोगे उतना ही कमल खिलेगा। हर कोने में कमल खिलेगा, हर बूथ में कमल खिलेगा, हर घर में कमल खिलेगा, हिंदुस्तान की सरकार कमल पर खिलेगी।\nइस विश्वास के साथ मेरे साथ बोलिए...भारत माता की जय। Vande Matram.\n"