"With Pakyong Airport, the country has hit a century of airports: PM Modi\nPakyong Airport will greatly ease connectivity to Sikkim, boost tourism, strengthen trade: PM Modi\nOut of 100 airports in the country today, 35 have been operationalized in the last four years: PM Modi\nGovernor of Sikkim Mr. Ganga Prasad ji, Chief Minister of the State Pawan Chamling Ji, my cabinet colleagues Mr. Suresh Prabhu Ji, Dr. Jitendra Singh Ji, S. S.Ahluwalia ji, Speaker of the State Assembly K. N. Rai ji, Minister in the State Government, Mr. Dorjee Tshering Lepcha ji, all the other dignitaries present here and my dear brothers and sisters.\nFriends,\nI have been touring East India for the last three days, and during this period, I have had the privilege of dedicating major projects to the nation that will be related to the infrastructure and will serve the humanity.\nAfter inaugurating the Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PMJAY) and launching the Ayushman Bharat Mission in Jharkhand yesterday, I arrived at Sikkim yesterday evening. This morning as I woke up to Sikkim's rising sun, cool air, beautiful mountains and the pristine natural beauty, I started clicking pictures. Who will not love its beauty and elegance? Everyone will appreciate it. Nature has given you everything and everyone throngs.\nBrothers and sisters,\nYou are well aware of the importance of the Eastern direction in our traditions and culture.\nThe Northeast is special of significance. My warm regards to the beautiful eastern state and I dedicate to you and Sikkim your first airport - Pakyong Airport.\nThis day is not only an historic one for you but also for immense significance for the nation. You will feel proud once the Pakyong airport becomes operational\nCricketers score century on the ground and today India has scored a century. After the inauguration of this airport, there are 100 operational airports in the country. In that sense, India has scored a century today. Our country is transforming Sikkim is known for football Everyone plays football here but now they are also trying their hands at cricket.\nI read in today's newspaper that Sikkim's captain Nilesh Lamichanay had scored a century yesterday. On one hand, Nilesh is the first Sikkimese to score century in cricket, while on the other hand, Sikkim marks the 100th airport of the country.\nBrothers and sisters,\nThis airport will play a pivotal role in making your life easier. Till today, someone from some other part of the country who wanted to visit Sikkim or other places via Sikkim had to face a lot of trouble. The people of Sikkim and the visitors of Sikkim\nEarlier people had de-board at Bagdogra airport and had to cover a distance of about 125 kilometres on a difficult terrain that took 5-6 hours. Only then, one could reach Gangtok. However, now this Pakyong airport will eliminate the exhausting tour\nBrothers and sisters,\nIt has definitely made the trip smooth and short; At the same time, the government has also tried to ensure that the common man too can easily go to and from here. Therefore, this airport has been linked to the UDAN scheme. Under this scheme, one has to pay about Rs.2500-2600\nDue to the government's efforts and vision, travel by flights have become cheaper like the air-conditioned railway journeys. There is a saying - Time is money Traveling by flight saves time; So it saves money. This is the reason why the country's lakhs of middle class families are now able to travel by flights.\nFriends,\nThe Airport has just been inaugurated. However, within a couple of weeks, regular flights to Guwahati and Kolkata will start. Efforts will also be made to connect with other countries.\nFriends,\nThe Pakyong Airport is not only a symbol of beauty but also of engineering skills. The people who are active on social media must have seen the photos of this airport and of flights landing on the lap of nature. You must have seen those photos They have gone viral on social media Even though it has been inaugurated today, but the people have already started hailing it.\nThis airport that has been constructed with a cost of Rs.550 crore depicts the pride and the ability of the engineers and workers. The hills were carved out, the debris was used to fill the gorges and they had to deal with the heavy rain. The streams passing through the airport Really, it is a extraordinary engineering technique.\nToday on this occasion, I would like to congratulate all the engineers and workers for the astounding work. You are all done\nBrothers and sisters,\nWork for extending both the infrastructural and emotional connectivity to Sikkim and the Northeast is going on at a rapid pace. Over the last four years, I have often interacted with the people of the Northeastern states to seek their blessings.\nFurthermore, after every one or a couple of weeks, a Union minister visits one or the other of the Northwest state and monitors the progress of the work. Thus, you can see the results of this system on ground today.\n\nSeveral initiatives in the north-east states like Sikkim, Arunachal Pradesh, Meghalaya, Manipur, Nagaland, Assam, Tripura or Mizoram have been taken from the first time since independence. Flights and rail connectivity have reached there for the first time; and even the electricity has reached for some places.\nWider National Highways as well as rural roads are built. Vast bridges are being constructed over the rivers. Digital India is being expanded Proceeding with the Mantra of 'Sabka Sath Sabka Vikas', our government is working with zest and fervor to minimize regional unbalance and to make the engines of India's growth story. We are committed to it.\nWith this vision, we expedited the work of handing over the airport to Sikkim. We cross all the hurdles You are well aware of the fact that about six decades ago, a small flight had taken off from here. Thereafter, for six decades, you had to wait for the airport\nFriends,\nCities in the state of Arunachal Pradesh have been set up only in Sikkim but also in other states including Arunachal Pradesh. As I was saying, 100 airports have been operationalized. And you will be surprised to know that 35 of these airports have just been built in the last four years.\nWhat is the meaning of working on a fast pace? What does it mean to work in all directions? What does it mean to work with vision? You will understand Up to 2014 since independence, that is, in 67 years only 65 airports existed. This means that on an average, 1 airport was built every year. Do you understand? 1 airport This was their way of thinking During the last four years, 9 airports per year were built. The work has been going on at 9 times better speed. They had taken 40 more years to complete the task that we have done in four years.\nBrothers and sisters,\nToday India has become the third largest market for domestic flights in the world. The airline companies are short of aircrafts. Orders are being placed for new aircrafts. I want to keep some more statistics In 70 years of Independence, barely 400 aircrafts were operational. Now the airline companies have placed order for 1000 new aircrafts in the last one year; 400 aircrafts in 70 years and 1000 new ones in just one year. This depicts that our dream of enabling the common man to travel by air is getting fulfilled at a rapid pace.\nBrothers and sisters,\nThis airport will not only facilitate you to travel from different parts of the country. Sikkim has always been the hub for domestic and international tourists. The tourist population is greater than its population I was told that despite not having an airport, the tourist population was 1.5 times the population of the state.\nNow that this airport is operational, you will see that the number of tourists will not be limited to this. You will see the increase in the number of tourists in this Diwali and Durga Puja season itself.\nThe airport will prove to be a gateway of employment for the youngsters of Sikkim. As a result, many opportunities in the form of hotels, motels, guesthouses, camping sites, homestay, tourist guides, restaurants and suchlike will open up. In tourism sector, even the poorest of the poor will earn; small vendors like tea sellers, groundnut sellers and florists will get the opportunity to earn; auto rickshaw drivers and guesthouse owners will also earn\nFriends,\nThe government has made transportation and tourism as a medium of transformation. The focus is on religious places and tribal belts. The facilities are being developed for these places for the devotees and tourists. This area is home to the highest peak Kanchenjunga as well as the Nathu La Pass that has been opened up by our government for Kailash Mansarovar Yatra.\nMore than 40 crores has been approved for the devotees here. Efforts are being made by collaborating with the state government to keep Sikkim's environment safe and green.\nUnder the National River Conservation Plan, the central government has approved more than Rs.350 cr. Under this, 8 out of 9 projects are for Gangtok and Singtham Projects worth approx Rs. 150 crores are for protecting Rani chu river from getting polluted. Besides, for protecting the environment of the entire Northeast, about Rs.125 crores have been approved of which more than 50 crores have already been released.\nFriends,\nThere is a close connection between environment, transport and tourism. Therefore, the emphasis is not just on connectivity, but also on other means that are being strengthened. Work on the National Highway project worth more than Rs.1500 crore is also underway. Besides, small roads are being constructed and widened at a cost of Rs.250 crores.\nAlong with the roads, the railway of Sikkim is also being strengthened. The work of connecting Gangtok with broad-gauge line is going on at a rapid pace.\nAid of more than Rs.1500 crore has been given to the government for the electricity supply system and repairing the transmission lines. I was told that efforts are going to finish this work by December this year.\nBesides, we are also moving towards including Sikkim among the country's leading states in terms of electricity generation. Work on 6 hydroelectric power projects at a cost of about Rs. 14 thousand crores is underway\nBrothers and sisters,\nI would like to congratulate the people of Sikkim, the government of Sikkim and especially the farmers here. Sikkim is the first state to become 100% organic farming state.\nThe government is making many efforts to promote Work is progressing under the Agriculture Development Scheme. Not only organic farming but value addition and market system is also being developed Today this airport has started for the passengers but the day is not far when the flowers and flowers from here\nFlowers produced by the farmers of Sikkim will reach the feet of various gods and goddess in India. The governments in the north-east states have also started a special scheme named Mission Organic Value Development for Northeastern Region. A provision of Rs.400 crores has been made for this.\nFriends,\nOrganic products are not only safe for our environment. The government's top priority The Chief Minister was telling me that there was a discernable result in the success of organic farming and products; the life expectancy The life expectancy of the people has increased rapidly and the life expectancy of women is men's I believe that the others will also learn from Sikkim, get rid of chemical fertilizers and lead a healthy and happy life.\nAs per the information that I have, the people of Sikkim have embraced and promoted the purposes of 'Swachhta Hi Seva'. In 2016, Sikkim was the first state to be declared Open Defecation Free due to the efforts and awareness of all of you. Moreover, you have done a commendable job in elimination of plastic wastes.\nBrothers and sisters,\nAs I was saying, yesterday, the biggest healthcare scheme in the country was started in the form of Ayushmann Bharat and Sikkim too is associated with it. Now, the government will spend up to Rs 5 lakhs per poor family of Sikkim. If a person visits here any part of the country and requires treatment from hospital, he will receive the money even at that place. The protective cover of Ayushman Bharat will follow the patient everywhere he goes.\nFriends,\nThe government has been running several schemes over the last four years to elevate the standard of living and the people of Sikkim too is deriving benefits from it. Under Jan Dhan Yojana, bank accounts of about 1 lakh people have been opened in Sikkim. Nearly 80 thousand brothers and sisters had been covered under the insurance schemes with a premium of Re.1 per month and 90 paise daily.\nUnder the Ujjwala scheme, about 38 thousand poor families were given free gas connections for their kitchens.\nFriends,\nThe NDA Government is moving forward with commitment of making the lives of the people of East India and Northeast India. We wish to connect this area with the new era of development and want to build a new pivot of New India.\nThis airport will help in many new facilities that will take place in Sikkim to new heights. I once again congratulate you for your first airport.\nThe Chief Minister has mentioned about these issues. Therefore, I feel it is not necessary to publicly talk about those However, I want to reassure you that if we want to take our nation to greater heights, it is worth mentioning for Sikkim forward. Therefore, every kind of effort will be made to fulfill the dreams of every community, individual and youngster of Sikkim.\nWith this belief, once again I offer my best wishes and congratulations to you all.\nThank you!"