"Share\n\nPM Modi launches #AyushmanBharat Yojana, which will provide Rs 5 lakhs healthcare cover to 10 crore families\nBenefits of #AyushmanBharat Healthcare scheme will be for all irrespective of religion, caste or class: PM Modi\n#AyushmanBharat is the world's largest state-funded health insurance scheme: PM Modi\nBeneficiaries of #Ayushman India roughly equal to the population of the European Union, or the population of America, Canada and Mexico, taken together: Prime Minister\n#AyushmanBharat Phase-I was initiated on Baba Saheb Ambedkar's Jayanti and now PM Jan Arogya Yojana is being rolled out two days ahead of Pt. Deen Dayal Upadhyaya's Jayanti: PM Modi\nThe poor will get the best in class medical treatment for diseases like cancer, diabetes through #AyushManBharat, says PM\n#AyushmanBharat: Amount of Rs. 5 lakhs will cover all investigations, medicine, pre-hospitalization expenses etc.; It will also cover pre-existing illnesses, says PM\nMore than 13,000 hospitals across the country have joined #AyushmanBharat: PM Modi\n2,300 wellness centers are operational across the country, our aim is to take their numbers as high as 1.5 lakhs: PM Modi\nGovernment is working on a sustainable basis. Our focus is on both \"Affordable Healthcare\" and \"Preventive Healthcare\": PM Modi\nThrough the efforts of all those involved with PMJAY, and the dedication of the doctors, nurses, healthcare providers, ASHAs, ANMs etc, #AyushmanBharat will become a success: PM Modi\nGovernor of Jharkhand Smt. Draupadi Murmu Ji, the zealous and popular Chief Minister of the state, Mr. Raghubar Das, my Cabinet colleague. Jagat Prasad Nadda ji, my cabinet colleague and son of the soil Sudarshan Bhagat Ji, my colleague in the central government Jayant Sinha, Member of the NITI Ayog, Dr. V.K. Paul, Minister in the State Government Ramchandra Chandravanshi, my colleague in Parliament Ram Tahal Choudhary ji, MLA Mr. Ram Kumar Pahan ji, all the dignitaries present here and my dear brothers and sisters of Jharkhand who are present here in large numbers.\nFriends,\nToday, we are witnessing this special occasion that will be a great service to humanity in the future. Today I have come here to not only give impetus to Jharkhand's development but also to fulfill the age of old dreams of the sages of India and of every family in India - 'Sarve Bhavantu Sukhinaha Sarve Santu Niramayaha'. We need to fulfill this age-old resolution in this century and we are giving it a valuable start.\nToday this important step of completing the dream of ensuring better medical facilities and the treatment of the poorest of the poor.\nToday the whole country is watching Ranchi Similar events have been organized in more than 400 districts of the country and from there they are watching this grand ceremony of Ranchi. After that, they will carry this program forward in their respective districts.\nToday I also got the opportunity to inaugurate two new medical colleges here. Our Chief Minister was telling me that there were only 3 medical colleges with 350 students in 70 years since Independence; while 8 medical colleges with 1200 students came in just 4 years. I do not think we need to look at a better example\nBrothers and sisters,\nThe Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana - PMJAY with the resolution of Ayushman Bharat will be implemented from today. Every person is naming this scheme Some people are calling it 'Modicare' while others are calling it a pro-poor scheme. People are naming it in different ways I believe that there can not be a big scheme or a campaign\nIt is the world's largest scheme that aims to provide health assurance of up to five lakh rupees to more than 50 billion brothers and sisters of the country. Such a huge government is not operating in the world.\nIt is difficult to imagine the number of beneficiaries The beneficiaries of Ayushman Bharat are equivalent to the population of the entire European Union comprising 27-28 countries.\nAyushman Bharat will take the health of the number of people more than the combined population of America, Canada and Mexico.\nTherefore, our health minister Nadda ji was saying that the world's most popular health magazine has developed this scheme and it is a 'game changer' and an ambitious scheme.\nI believe that in the near future, the people associated with the medical sector, or those related to health schemes, those associated with economics or modern treatment techniques, or those thinking of bringing about a transformation in the life of the common man like social scientists , medical scientists, economists will have to study and think on the lines of India's scheme of Ayushman Bharat. And sooner or later, based on it, they have to devise future models for the world.\nThe work done by all my friends who have worked as a team to give this plan a shape is not a miniscule one. Such a Herculean task has been accomplished from it's adoption to its implementation within a short span of 6 months. Those who talk about good governance, must realize that forming a team and working with a vision and a roadmap in a time-bound manner and 6,000 within 50 million people with 13,000 hospitals associated with itself is a unique feat.\n\nSo, today I would like to congratulate my whole team publicly in front of the 125 crore Indians from the bottom of my heart. And I believe that now the team will work with more enthusiasm and dedication; Because earlier the Prime Ministers kept nagging them but now they are the blessings of 50 crore poor people I believe that with the blessings of the 50 crore poor people, even the ASHA workers in villages will work zealously and make it a success.\nFriends,\nWhile dedicating this protectionive cover of health to the poor The scheme is a good for everyone but the inauguration of a hospital can never wish that the hospital remains full? No one can! When I will go to inaugurate a hospital, I will say that their hospital always remains empty.\nToday while launching the Ayushman Bharat Mission, I would pray that no poor person of my country faces such an adversary that he has got the doors of a hospital to avail the scheme. Such adversaries should not strike anyone So, I also pray to God for everyone's good health. If some adversary befalls anyone, Ayushman is there\nIf the disease is not affected by the disease, your country's poor will also be able to avail the same health care facilities that the rich avails.\nBrothers and sisters,\nThis scheme is being implemented today However, it was necessary to run trials for it's a mega scheme. For the last few days, trials were going to different districts to ensure that the technology and the Arogya Mitras are functioning properly and to see if the existing hospitals need to be changed or upgraded. And I believe that this mission will succeed successfully. It will further strengthen the sector of healthcare services.\nFriends,\nA special occasion is also associated with Ayushman Bharat Mission. When I started the first phase and the wellness center on April 14 from the jungles of Chhattisgarh, it was on the birth anniversary of Baba Saheb Ambedkar. Today, while beginning the second phase, birth anniversary of Pt. Deen Dayal Upadhyay is the 25th September which has been kept in mind. So, this event has been organized for two days before his birth anniversary as it is also a suitable for me. However, this day also marks another important occasion. It is also the birth anniversary of our national poet Dinkar, the name that triggers an feeling of vigour and whose words had the power to awaken anyone\nSo today, we are devoting this scheme to the country with the blessings of the great people who had made the endless efforts to eliminate the prevalent discrimination in the society.\nThis scheme is being considered as the best quality treatment.\nBrothers and sisters,\nWhenever we look at the health sector of our country, it has been noticed that if Rs.100 is spent on a person for treatment, of that the burden of more than Rs.60 is borne by family or that individual. The entire savings is on medical expenses. As most part of their income is spent on medical expenses, every year lakhs of families that are on the verge of coming out of poverty are again pushed back into poverty due to some or other disease. We have taken this,\nBrothers and sisters,\nWe have been listening to the slogan of 'Garibi Hatao' since independence If the people who deceived the poor over the past 30,40 and 50 years had been emphasized on empowering the poor instead of playing dirty politics in the name of poor, then India would not have been today what it is today. They had an erroneous perception about the poor They thought that poor always demands something or the other The basic mistake on their part was to believe But the extent of the dignity and self-respect that the poor possess can not ever be measured.\nI have lived in poverty. I have experienced the dignity and self respect of the poor This feeling of self-respect However, no effort was made to understand this feeling of poor self-respect or to understand their intensions. So, before every election they used to indulge in dole politics to gain political brownie points They used to follow this ploy\nWe, on the other hand, have identified the root cause of the problem. The country is moving forward in a rapid pace Recently, an international organization has said that within the last 2-3 years, in India, almost 5 crore families are in extreme poverty.\nBrothers and sisters,\nThis is possible because we have been emphasized on the empowerment of the poor Therefore, when a poor person gets a home, his mindset and perception changes and when a poor mother gets a gas connection, she is confident and feels equal to the others.\nThe poor feel dignified when they have a bank account They decide to save money The poor move towards empowerment when they are vaccinated and avail the benefits of Poshan Mission.\nYou must have seen the recently concluded Asian Games Who were the award winners of the Asian Games? Who won the gold medals? Who were the people who brought such great honours to India? Most of these children, both sons and daughters, belong to small villages and poor families. Their childhood was spent in malnutrition but when they got the opportunity, they brought accolades to the country\nThat power also lies in the poor So, all our schemes are There is another transformation in our country Earlier all the laws were formulated. They were associated with the community, caste and areas that will be politically beneficial or Even if there were possibilities of regional development, social change or removing community tensions, the government's money was used to strengthen the political parties. The government's treasury was recklessly looted\nWe did not take that path We do not want to return to that path. Our Mentra has been - 'Sabka Sath Sabka Vikas' Ayushman Bharat will not be based on community, caste or class discriminations 'Sabka Sath Sabka Vikas' does not discriminate between caste, community, region, religion or theists and atheists. It is not matter whether the person goes to temple or mosque or gurdwara or church Ayushmann Bharat This is what is 'Sabka Sath Sabka Vikas'.\nFriends,\nIt is such a massive scheme and it can be estimated from the fact that treatment for more than 1300 diseases including cancer, heart disease, kidney and liver diseases and diabetes were included in the scheme. The treatment for 1300 serious diseases will not only be available in government hospitals but also in private hospitals of the country.\nApart from getting admission to the hospital, up to 5 lakh rupees can be used for check-up, medicines, expenditure prior to getting admission to the hospital till the completion of the treatment. If someone has already been ill, he can use his medical expenses.\nMoreover, proper arrangements have been made so that the beneficiaries across the country are able to avail the benefits of the scheme. We have made arrangements so that you do not run from pillar to post for treatment. Efforts are made We are trying to ensure that no beneficiary\nYou do not have to get registered for this scheme This e-card is all that you need E-card will have all the necessary information related to you You will not be entangled in any kind of paper verification\nइसके अलावा, you will remember I urge all the poor families to remember this one telephone number - 14555. You can call and confirm if your and your family name is in the scheme or not. You can also enquire about the facilities that you can avail for your problems and about the nearest common service centers. Today, there are 3 lakh common service centers in the country. No one has traveled more than 2-3km to the common service center You can go and seek information from these common service centers.\nFriends,\nApart from these facilities, you will also have two more helping hands: First, ASHA and ANM sisters of your village; And secondly, Pradhan Mantri Arogya Mitras, who will be present in his hospital These Pradhan Mantri Arogya Mitras will cooperate with you so that you can avail the benefits of this scheme right from the time before getting admitted to the hospital till post treatment period. These friends who are able to make the country\nFriends,\nThe Ayushman India Mission strengthens the environment of 'One India, One treatment' in true sense The people of one state who has joined the Ayushman Bharat Mission also can avail the benefits of the scheme in some other state.\nTill date, more than 13,000 hospitals across the country In the near future, more hospitals Moreover, the well performing hospitals, especially the rural hospitals will get incentives from the government.\nBrothers and sisters,\nThe aim of Ayushmann Bharat Mission is not only to provide financial aid but also to develop a system.\nFriends,\nToday, 10 wellness centers have also been inaugurated here. Now Jharkhand has 40 such centers and the country has about 2000-20000 centers. We have set a target of establishing 1.5 lakhs wellness centers across the country in the next four years.\nBrothers and sisters,\nThe health and wellness centers are important part of Ayushman India Mission. These centers will not only have treatment and medicines for common diseases but also have facilities for conducting several free tests. This will help in early detection of serious diseases\nFriends,\nThe government is working successfully in bits and pieces Each decision and the law is interlinked. The government is focusing on both affordable healthcare and preventive healthcare. Yoga, campaigns like Swachh Bharat Mission, making villages Open Defecation Free etc. are the cause of serious diseases You need to read recently that the possibility of saving the lives of 3 lakh children have increased because of Swachh India Mission. Whether it is the statistics related to saving the lives of newborn babies or the lives of pregnant mothers, the country is striding forward at a rapid pace to make India healthy.\nThe government has started schemes like Poshan Mission so that the nutrition of the nascent stage of development of the body. At the same time, relentless efforts are made in the medical field. According to an estimate, there will be about 2500 good quality and modern hospitals due to Ayushman in the coming 3 years. Most of these hospitals will be concentrated in tier-2, tier-3 cities and small towns. As a result, new employment opportunities and new opportunities for new business\nMoreover, employment opportunities will also come up in the form of technical expertise, call center jobs, management, pharmaceutical production, equipment manufacturing and medical services. There will be a huge demand for paramedical staff and trained doctors Simultaneously, there will also be new opportunities for start-ups related to the medical field. Lakhs of doctors, nurses and people associated with hospital management This means that a great opportunity awaits\nThe government is working relentlessly to strengthen the health infrastructure in the country's villages, towns, and tier-1 and tier-2 cities. In the last four years, 14 new AIIMS has been approved. Under the Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojana, work is underway to establish at least 1 AIIMS in every state. Also, 82 new government medical colleges are being constructed across the country The government is trying to emphasize that there should be at least one medical college in every three or four parliamentary constituencies.\nUnder this effort, today the foundation stone of two medical colleges has been done that will be constructed at a cost of more than Rs.600 crore. A new facility of about 400 beds will be added to these medical colleges that are coming up in Koderma and Chaibasa.\nBrothers and sisters,\nIn the last four years, about 25,000 new undergraduate and post-graduate seats have been added to the medical colleges in the country. The government is targeting to develop a capacity to produce 1 lakh new doctors in the coming 4-5 years. That is, keeping in mind the requirements of the future, is emphasized on both the infrastructure and human resources.\nFriends,\nDeen Dayal Upadhyay used to say that just like education, the expenditure on health is not expenditure but an investment. Development of the country and the society is possible without good quality education and skills Similarly, sick citizens can not build an empowered nation.\nFriends,\nI am confident that with the help of every person associated with this scheme, the efforts of Arogya Mitras, ASHA and ANM sisters, doctors, nurses, workers and service providers, we can make this plan successful and build a healthy nation. I wish that the new India is healthy and empowered and you are healthy\nWith this expectation, I dedicate the Prime Minister Jan Arogya Yojana to 125 crore Indians from the soil of Ranchi and the land of Lord Birsa Munda today.\nThanks a lot!"