"PM Modi lays foundation for development projects in Janjgir, Chhattisgarh\nPM Modi lays foundation stone for Bilaspur-Anuppur third rail track project\nWe are sure to help the farmers through measures like Soil Health Cards and Fasal Bima Yojana: PM Modi\nWe are committed to develop for all, we want to make a roof over every head by 2022: PM\nWe are devoted to develop and want to fulfill the aspirations of people, says PM in Chhattisgarh\nGovernor of Odisha Shriman Professor Ganeshi Lal Ji, Chief Minister of the State Shri Naveen Patnaik Ji, my colleagues in Union Council of Ministers Shriman Jual Oram Ji, Dharmendra Pradhan Ji and all the dignitaries present here,\nI came here from Talcher today where we had started revival the defunct fertilizer plant at a cost of about Rs. 13,000 crores. In a way, it will become the hub of economic activity in that region. A modern Odisha, a modern India should have modern infra-structure. So, I took the opportunity to inaugurate Veer Surendra Sain Airport here. It is natural that when the travelers who will come here and hear about Veer Surendra Sain will be attracted towards the bravery of Odisha, toward the sacrifice of Odisha and the stories of the dedication of Odisha.\nToday, I have got the opportunity to inaugurate some other big plans from here. This is the second largest airport of Odisha. Why is it has not been built for so many years May be it was waiting for me\nI belong to Gujarat where there is a district called Kutch. It's a desert and the other side is Pakistan. In that district, there are five airports. Today the construction of the second airport of Odisha starts after so many years. Suresh Ji said about the kind of progress that is taking place in the aviation sector of the country. You will be surprised to know that the total number of planes flying so far in the country since independence is just about four hundred and fifty This was the case so far since independence and in the year alone, the orders were made for nine hundred and fifty new aircraft. I believe that Veer Surendra Sain Airport is a place which is the center of three places Bhuvaneshwar, Ranchi and Raipur. You can imagine that it will provide wings to so many possibilities of development which will take a new flight of development.\nSuch facilities are extremely important for the industrialists who want to invest in Jharsuguda, Sambalpur and nearby areas of Chhattisgarh. If they are able to easily travel to this place It has been our thinking that the meaning of Sabkath-Sabka is that there is balance between regions. This kind of imbalance is where only Western India continues to grow and Eastern India continues to grow. And that is why it is our constant effort And development of Odisha is an important part of it Be it Eastern Uttar Pradesh or Odisha or West Bengal or Assam or North-East, the development of the whole region is extremely important.\nToday I'm inaugurating an airport here, I am going to inaugurate an airport in Sikkim the day after tomorrow. You can imagine how much work is done Today, I also got the opportunity to dedicate a coalmine to the nation. We are aware that energy is the center of activities and Odisha is fortunate that it has the treasure of black diamond. And today the work begins to extract coal from the mine. Also the work to produce energy from the start of the city\nToday, a railway project can connect a airport; Connectivity is a big role forwarding development Be it a highway or railway or airways or waterway The work of connecting all the places by internet is speedily increasing.\nThis tribal area is being connected by railways today: this is itself an important step. I believe that in future connectivity will be a game changer for all round development of Odisha. Veer Surendra Sain Airport to the people of the area\nThank you very much"