"Share\n\nJharkhand: PM inaugurates and laid the foundation of a slew of projects in the health, education, water supply and sanitation sectors\nThe Central Government is focusing on the people of Jharkhand: PM\nThere were only three medical colleges since independence in the state before and now three more had been added: PM in Jharkhand\nLong live Mother India\nLong live Mother India\nAll my great brothers and sisters who came to the stage to give us blessings and a large number of my dear brothers and sisters\nMy dear brothers and sisters of Hazaribagh, I have come to Hazaribagh earlier too, you also come to bless a large amount, but let me tell you that every record of the first rally is broken. Today I see, who created the platform - have thought that make this side look so full, but there are more people than that on the other side. Your coming in such a large number, blessing so lovingly, gives us the power to run for you day and night, gives strength to work for you. Land of Jharkhand is the land of revolution, it is the land of the revolutionaries. The fight of freedom led by Lord Birasamunda or the resolution of Satyagraha, this land has given many fighter, revolutionaries. I pay tribute to Shaheed Vijay Sorengk, once again, with the help of this land. I salute his family in Gumla heart. Their children are bravely facing this time. As a parent, we have to take care of their families, on every step, at every step, as a parent.\nFriends, today I have come here to give more speed to the work that has been done for the last four and a half years for the development of Jharkhand. The infrastructure facilities of the Medical College building, the hospital, the engineering college, the problem of water problem, the foundation stone of the Namami Gange Project, and the release of the basic facilities will be strengthened. I congratulate you all for this. I congratulate thousands of farmers here, who have been given government assistance to buy smart phones.\nFriends, Jharkhand is witnessing the beginning of the world's largest health insurance scheme, Ayushman India, PMJ. With the blessings of all of you, this scheme is liberating millions of poor families from all over the country today. Jharkhand has also benefited from this scheme. 57 thousand people have undergone free treatment in the event of critical illness. Recently in the media I saw that the second major operation of tumor in the country has been done with the help of Ayushman Yojna in Jamshedpur. After a while I joined Ranchi with many beneficiaries of the same scheme and I am going to talk about their experience, I am going to talk to them.\nIn order to strengthen health services in Sethio, Jharkhand, the Central Government is continuously working with the State Government. After the AIIMS in Deodhar today, the inauguration of medical college in three districts- Dumka, Hazaribagh and Palamu is the result of our efforts. It was only three years ago that Jharkhand had three medical colleges; Now see today three medical colleges are opening in a single day. With these medical colleges, young people will get the option of medical education right here, together with health facilities. Along with that, 500 beds have the capacities of Hazaribagh, Dumka, Palamu and Jamshedpur hospitals.\nBrothers and sisters, health is directly related to drinking water, cleanliness is from. The government is also continuously making efforts to facilitate clean drinking water in Jharkhand. Our government has worked on 350 projects, not one or two, at the cost of thousands of crores. The opening and foundation of such 11 projects has given me an opportunity to do just a few moments ago.\nBrothers and Sisters, here today, many projects related to irrigation have started. At the completion of these, along with Hazaribagh, Ramgarh, Palamu, Goda, Western Singbhabhoom, these thousands of hectares of land can be brought under irrigation. The last time I went to Palamu, I started work on Mandaladam and North Kolli project which has been delayed for decades. All these projects are going to brighten the future of farmers here.\nFriends, the Government of Jharkhand is engaged in bringing the central government's campaign from seed to market to land. Today, the scheme to give smart phones to farmers families has been started, checks have also been given to some farmers. This scheme will benefit 27 lakh farmers of the state. Due to this smart phone, now farmers will be able to facilitate digital transactions related to crop sales, they will be able to see the weather on the phone, learn about new techniques of farming and also connect directly to other government schemes.\nIt is our mission, to be the Central Government or to the Government of Jharkhand, to the farmers, to free the poor from the middlemen. This is the reason for whether there is ration, scholarship, pension; Every government help is being sent directly to the beneficiary's bank account. Recently, a huge plan has been made for small farmers giving extension to this campaign. Our government has come with the Prime Minister's Kisan Award fund. Under this, those farmers who have five acres or less will be transferred directly to the bank account. In the next ten years, our government will deposit Rs 7 lakh crore into the bank account of the farmers. With this amount, he will be able to buy seeds on time, buy medicines, buy fertilizer and he will be able to get rid of money from the moneylenders at a very high interest rate. With this, about 12 crore farmers of the country will get benefit, so that 22 lakh farmers of Jharkhand will get direct benefit.\nGoing by the mantra of all the people, along with everyone, the Central Government is engaged in empowering the poor, the disadvantaged, the backward, the exploited, the tribals, women, youth-every class. Under this thought, the inauguration and foundation stone of two major educational institutions has been done today. It is related to one woman and the other is from our tribal society. The inauguration of the Women Engineering College in Ramgarh today. At the same time, the foundation stone of Center for Tribal Studies has been laid at Acharya Vinoba Bhave University in Hazaribagh.\nSaathio, Jharkhand has always been a pioneer in the empowerment of women. Captain Shikha Surbhi, daughter of Hazaribagh's daughter, who showed her talent on the bike in the parade of Republic Day, is discussing the whole of India. Women engineering college of Ramgarh is also going to give birth to many daughters like Captain Shikha Surabhi, who will create new rituals of new India. It is the first and the third college in eastern India, where only daughters are studying engineering.\nThe brothers and sisters, the Central Government is also constantly trying to connect tribal society with education and skill. Whether there is a school education or higher education, young people of tribal society are being given all kinds of assistance. With the formation of Center for Tribal Studies at Acharya Vinoba Bhave University, it will help in explaining the society and culture of the society and reaching the rites of society for generations to come.\nSimilarly Eklavya model schools are being opened in all the tribal areas of the country including Jharkhand. About two dozen schools have started in Jharkhand and work on opening of 70 new schools is underway.\nFacilities in sports, tribal areas, tribal areas are being strengthened so that our tribal youth sports can get better performance. Jharkhand has given the country big players in many sports including archery. In such a situation, this power of the youth of Jharkhand will emerge more in the coming time.\nSister-in-law, here today, an important scheme has been started with the nurturing of children. Under this, children are given milk in packets in schools. This will help the children of the poor and tribal society get rid of the problem of malnutrition and, as our Chief Minister said, the name of this scheme is \"Kanha Milk Scheme\"; That is, in a way, he remembered Lord Krishna, remembered about the times of milk and butter in that era. I would hope that children from this Kanha milk scheme should be so promising, so be proud of this, the forehead of the entire country is proudly proud.The central government, which is running national campaign, will also get strength from this scheme.\nTo give respect to the tribal, education, skill and nutrition as well as tribal heroes, many attempts are being made to make many contribution towards independence to future generations. The Birasamunda Museum in Jharkhand is a testimony to this. This museum will enrich the identity of heroes like the great Tribal freedom Sanani Birasamunda. Many such museums are being made in different states of the country, in which the Central Government is helping the State Governments. These museums will recite the names of our tribal heroes as well as the centers of tourism.\nFriends, I am happy that Jharkhand has done very commendable work towards cleanliness. Four years ago, when the scope of sanitation was only 20 percent, Jharkhand has now freed herself from the open. Raghuvar Das ji, her whole team, all the small children of her administration- all of them were given lakhs of rupees -Congress congratulations More than 33 lakh toilets have been made in record time, in itself ... I have been told that Hazaribagh's record is also the best in this. Most toilets have been made here in the shortest possible time. I congratulate you all for this achievement.\nSathiyo, many projects that clean the river's water, have been inaugurated and laid out today. While inaugurating Sahibganj Sewer Treatment Plant, construction of Ramgarh Sewer Treatment Plant is being started from today. Under the project of Namami Gange, beautification of ghats along with water treatment is being done. The work of the beautification of Madhusudan Ghat has also been completed. These projects are happening because these projects are being done because, four and a half years ago, you have elected a complete majority government in the center.\nI can not afford to do anything for the development of the country, with full devotion for the development of every region of the country, with full sincerity, as much as I can day and night. Your blessings will continue to be like this on me, I end my talk with this desire.\nClose my fist with me and speak with full force-\nLong live Mother India\nLong live Mother India\nLong live Mother India\nThanks a lot."