"PM Modi says connectivity has the power to eradicate any form of regional discrimination\nPM Modi's Odisha Chief Minister Shri Naveen Patnaik to give priority to #SwachhBharat\nOur government has taken historic step by complying the old old demand of farmers to raise the MSP: PM Modi in Odisha\nOdisha deserves that rights, rights and developments: PM Modi\nPM Modi says the project initiated today at Talcher and Jharsuguda are part of Odisha's development process\nMr. Suresh Prabhu Jee, Jual Oram Ji, Mr. Dharmendra Pradhanji, MLA and President of the State Mr. Basant Panda, National Vice-President Mr. Suresh Pujari, MLA Mr. Pradeep Purohit, MLA Mrs. Radherai Panda, MLA Mr. Ravi Narayan Nike Jee, former Chief Minister Mr. Giridhar Gamang, State Executive Member Mr. Subhash Ch Han Yes.Right the brave sons of the legendary Earth, all I salute once again. You came so far to bless me from this far, I am very grateful to all of you.\nOrissa is preparing for a very big change. Your presence is such a witness in such a large number.\nFriends, it is my good fortune that a long time ago I got the opportunity to launch Jharsuguda Airport - Veer Surendra Sai Airport and release the roaring coal mine. From today onwards, the Jharsuguda-Barpalli-Saradega rail line is commencing, and along with this, there has also been a sign of production from Heindolanga coal mine.\nFriends, the BJP government at the Center is planning a new plan after one by looking at the hopes, aspirations and needs of the people of Orissa. All of you know that the first airport in Orissa started in Bhubaneswar almost 50 years ago. Despite being so important in the industrial form, the first airport in Orissa did not get the first thought, the work was not done. Now as Jharsuguda, the people of Orissa have got their second airport today.\nNow it is easier for you to go to Bhubaneswar, Raipur and Ranchi. If you are going to Raipur now, you have to go to Bhubaneswar for four hours, then seven hours, this new airport will save your time and money will also be left. Not only this, the development of three new airports in the state is also being done. Airports that will be built in Koraput, Sundergarh and Kalahandi will bring a new revolution in the industrial development of Orissa.\nFriends, when airports, airways develop in any area, its direct impact falls on investment, tourism and employment. When more airplanes can land, when large airplanes can fly and more passengers can come, surely economic activities will be of great benefit. Think of any sector. Travel to Triple, Tour, Taxi, Hotel, Resort Everyone will benefit. These new tasks will also open new door to employment for the youth here. With this, the business relationship with other states and other countries will be easier and stronger.\nBrothers and sisters, I have said before, this is my dream that those who wear hawkers can travel in the air. Today this dream is appearing to be true. More people traveling in AC coaches in railways are now traveling in airplanes. Our government has made its policies with the same thinking that the common man of the country's flight has left. The country's poor, the country's middle class can sit in the airplane, to make it fly, new airports across the country are being created, connecting small towns to the airport is underway. These new airports will also work to reduce discrimination among those living in big and small cities.\nFriends, connectivity has the power to eliminate all forms of regional discrimination. Whether there are villages on the far border or tribal areas within the country, the more connectivity, the greater the development and therefore our government for Utkal Pradesh - railway, highways, airways, waterways, eye and internet - all kind of connectivity. Is working on making In today's episode, the Jharsuguda-Barpalli-Saradega railway line has also started. This is the first railway link in Orissa's tribal area after many years of independence, which will connect interiors and backward areas with the rest of the country from Sundargarh district. Right now, it will be the job of transporting coal, but in the future, the passenger trains have also opened.\nBrothers and Sisters, how much seriousness has been in the previous governments about the development of Orissa, this project is also a winning dream. Work began on this in 2006, but till the Congress government was in the center, less than 30 percent of the work was done. After the formation of BJP government in Delhi, more than 70 percent of the work was done in four years and today this route has been dedicated to the people of Orissa.\nHow BJP works, how it works for development, what is their speed, you see it and understand it well. In the last four years, the length of the National Highway has increased more than doubled in Orissa in the last four years. The work of bringing the road to every village of the state is also being accelerated. You are getting blessings for these people, but this is also a fact that the state government of Orissa looks depressed in these tasks, as much as worrying it should be done. I have to wake him from Delhi The speed at which the people were running decades ago, they want to run Orissa at the same speed. Corruption and delays in decisions have become the identity of the Orissa government, which has become a barrier to development.\nFriends, before getting the government of the BJP at the Center, Orissa got Rs 82,000 crore in the five-year period. After becoming our government, the amount has now increased to about two lakh crores. Do you see the effect of this amount being given to the government of Orissa on the ground, is seen anywhere. Somewhere worry worries or does not bother, where are these money going?\nOrissa's health service, malnutrition, mother's death rate, infant mortality rate, falling number of girls compared to boys, all these things worry every Hindustani, every Orissa. I do not say that this is not a problem in other states of the country, but what is the attitude of the state government towards these problems, it matters a lot.\nI urged Naveen Babu to speed up the construction of state toilets. So far, Orissa Ayushman is not even connected to India. This scheme is going to be implemented all over the country tomorrow. This plan will ensure that patients get free treatment upto five lakh rupees in case of critical illness. You want the poor of Orissa to get help for up to five lakh rupees in the disease, but this scheme is not going to be the Orissa government. He says, will think.\nThe scheme related to health is being run by the state government. It has its limitations. You know the people well aware of it.\nBrothers and sisters, all of you know that our government has done historic work to fulfill the year-long demand related to the MSP of farmers across the country. It is decided to meet the huge profit of farmers of this region, farmers who produce paddy, maize and pulses. Minimum Support Price of Paddy- The Government has increased the price of two hundred rupees per quintal in MSP. Similarly, the MSP of Maize has increased by Rs 275. The support price of maize has gone up to Rs 1,700 over the cost of about Rs 1,100 per quintal. Apart from corn, nutritious and fiber-rich cereals such as ragi have also been ensured for more than 50 percent. But I was told that here in Orissa farmers are not getting the same benefit as they should have been. In many places, the purchase of pulses is not just a real purchase. The paddy of the farmers is deliberately forbidden to buy them after being deliberately spoiled.\nBefore coming here, I was told that there is a scheme related to home, construction of toilets and without the bribe, poor work of the poor has not been possible in the government of Orissa. People here, some people call him Parsant i.e. PC. Everyone knows that the PC, due to this PC, the people of Orissa are roaming, they are missing out on the benefits of development schemes.\nIn the last few days, how many scams are discussed in Orissa. The people involved in the government are being seen on the activists of the government, from planting to polythene, from the co-operative department to the road construction, from scarcity to irrigation. How good will be in such a situation and that is why it is time for a big change in Orissa. These changes will work to fulfill your hopes and expectations.\nBrothers and sisters, today the roaring coal mine has been launched. From today itself, the process of production of regular coal from Dulanga coal mine is also being started. Coal emissions from these mines will help in increasing power generation.\nFriends, the expectations of the youth here, their every dream should be fulfilled, this is the priority of our government. In view of the needs of the industrial sector here, different skills have been given to the youth development of the youth. In view of the works related to hydrocarbon sector, a skill development institute has also been set up by the Petroleum Ministry. Apart from this, Indian Institute of Skill has been set up in Bhubaneswar. 24 Prime Minister Skill Centers are also working in the State. Under the Prime Minister's Skill campaign, work is being done to give skill training to three lakh youths of the state by the year 2020. Under the Deendayal Upadhyaya Rural Skill Scheme, about one lakh youths have been trained. Nearly one crore loans have been distributed in Orissa under the Prime Minister's Money Scheme. The amount of more than 25 thousand crore rupees has been given to the people here for self-employment.\nSister-in-law, I am clearly watching, young energy-rich Orissa is now well-placed to move forward. Odisha wants to leave behind the backwardness of decades. The central government is also working on it with the help of Orissa. Special focus is being given to those of the 10 backward districts of the state who are aspiring districts. Our effort is to get that respect from Orissa, get the right, get the development, which Orissa deserves, every citizen of Orissa deserves. This is a link between Talcher and the plans started here in Jharsuguda this morning. I congratulate all of you for these schemes once again and give you many, especially to many of my young brothers and sisters all the best.\nJai jagannath"