"PM Modi dedicates Garjanbahal coal mines and the Jharsuguda-Barapali-Sardega rail link to the nation\nPM Modi inaugurates Jharsuguda airport in Odisha\nJharsuguda airport is well located to meet the needs of the people: PM Modi\nPM Modi says, 'India has devoted significant efforts to enhance connectivity all over the nation'\nPresent here on the day, Governor of Odisha Professor GaneshhiLalJi, Chief Minister of the State and my friend Shriman Naveen PatnaikJi, My colleague in the Union Council of Ministers, ShrimanJualOramJi, Mr. Dharmendra Pradhan Ji, My colleague in Parliament Shri Satpatiji and Member of Legislative Assembly of this area Braj Kishore Pradhan Ji and my dear brothers and sisters;\nSince I am going to address a huge public gathering after this program so I would not like to talk about this plant and will be briefly express my happiness on this auspicious occasion. I covey my best widhes to all those who work on this work in tiem.\nIn a way, I am fortunate to get the opportunity to revive this fetiliser plant. The people area dreamed a dream several decades ago which did not materialize for some reasons. They have given up hope that the plant will ever be revived.\nHowever, we made a serious commitment to take the new heights of development with new energy and new momentum. As such, we took up many big projects and schemes and took many initiatives to materialize which new energy, new momentum and strong resolutions were needed. And the result is before you today today the revival this plant at a cost of about Rs. 13,000 crore\nIt is a completely new technology for India Not only this region but the entire country is going to get a new direction through this region. With the use of this technology the country will be free from importing gas and fertilizer from abroad.\nThe revival of the plant will generate huge jobs for the region. Nearly 4,500 people will be associated with this project and there will be additional benefits due to the project.\nIf the policy is clear and the intention is good only then sound decisions can be taken. We keep hearing about Navratnas, Maharatnas and Ratnas. Some times there are good news and some times When all such jewels come together The expertise of every one of them, funding from every one of them will go into the revival of this project and it will meet only the needs of the people of Odisha.\nI am told that it will take 36 months to start production in this plant. I keep visiting this kind of projects and I asked for the date of production. I assure you that I will come again after 36 months to inaugurate this project. With this confidence, I concluded my heartfelt gratitude to Mr. Chief Minister.\nThank you very much"