"Share\n\nPM Modi in Talcher: Narendra Modi in Talcher\nI urge Naveen Babu to give priority to cleanliness in Odisha for the health of the people here: PM Modi in Odisha\nPM Modi says Odisha has a lot left to do, specially in matters of cleanliness\nOur government is making sure that whatever money is given, people are given it: PM Modi\nTalcher fertilizer plant will be ready in 36 months, says Modi in Odisha\nLong live Mother India...\nSr. Vishva Bhushan Harichandan ji, the senior leader of all of us, on the stage, my partner Mr. Jualal, Shri Dharmendra Pradhan ji, leader of the Legislative Party, KV Singhdev ji, National General Secretary of Bharatiya Janata Party Mr. Arun Singh ji, National Spokesperson and this The children of the earth Dr. Sankit Patra ji, National Executive member, our very old ascetic worker Mr. Prata Violin G, our leader, Mr. Minister Shyamal Yes, sir Rudra Narayan Pani living voice of our Rudra Narayan Pani G still keeps resonating in Parliament, leader Mrs. Surma Pani G.\nJai Jagannath, Jai Maa Hingula\nThis love of the people of Odisha, this affection is a great blessing for me and I am experiencing that when the first Chief Minister of 2014 had the opportunity to come for some programs in Odisha, then in the 2013-14 Lok Sabha elections There was a chance to come, after 2014 many times as a Prime Minister, you got an opportunity to come in the form of a worker, but I have been consistently watching that every rally of your old rally It breaks the record. Even today, I see, you have broken all the old records. These are the people of the vast sea, the enthusiasm, the excitement, the people of Odisha are wondering, this is a living example. What is in the mind of Odisha, it is clearly visible. This historically and naturally rich land of Sageo, Odisha, coming to that land is a very enjoyable experience for me.\nThe big bases of the dream of the rise of Eastern India, Odisha's own capabilities here are the people's infinite power. Today, I have double happiness too because the work of the revival of the Talcher Fertilizer plant has started shortly before now. In this work, the Government is going to spend around 13 thousand crore rupees. I congratulate the people of Talcher, the people of Odisha, especially the younger generation here. Friends, this holy land is blessed with the blessings of mother Hingula. This land has got rich natural wealth from his infinite compassion. The recognition is that fire of God Jagannath's kitchen itself is Hingula itself. Nowadays Ganesha Puja is celebrated with great festivity. With the blessings of Ganesh ji, this work started in Talcher with the blessings of Mata Hingula will write a new saga of the development of the new Odisha.\nBrothers and sisters, many holy heroes have been born on this holy land of Odisha. The stories of the common people's courage and courage are still giving inspiration to the people under the leadership of the great leader Prabh Mohan Pradhan. The story of Balak Bajirao, a member of the Aryan army of this movement, is a unique example of heroism and courage. We respectfully honor many of our heroes like Chandra Subba Singh, Sarangdhar Das, Dasharatha Water, Vaishnav Patnaik and Musa Malik, who do not care for their life for the country. This land is also of King Raja Somnath Singh, who did not accept the supremacy of the British and struggled to get them out of Odisha. With the blessings of these heroes, Talcher's Fertilizer plant will become the key pivot of nation-building and this is my confidence. This area also connects Odisha's coastal areas to the western part and hence, after modernization of the fertilizer plant, the development of the entire region is certain to get a new speed.\nSathiyo, Talcher's compost plant is a symbol of failure of the previous governments, so far. Now this fertilizer factory will be a symbol of the success of our government. I am giving you the confidence. Here the fertilizer factory used to be the key pivot of life and development, but the policies and policies of the previous governments remained so that the factories of many fertilizers were closed and which were once closed, they never started. In 2000, the then government took the decision to start the Talcher factory, but all the things remained closed on paper. When there was a government under the leadership of the Bharatiya Janata Party in the center, then once the work increased and the blockades were removed, the difficulties which had stopped due to interruption in the way of the fertilizer factory. Today, the result of this is that the people of Odisha have got to see these auspicious opportunities. And when I was just starting the work of revival of the plant, I was showing me on the whole map, so I asked all our people of our Indian government who have been engaged in this work, tell me when will you start production, when will the production start? You will, when will the factory work be completed? They have promised me that work will be completed within 36 months.\nMy dear brothers and sisters of Talcher, I assure you that after 36 months of completion, I myself will come again once again and will open it. We have carried forward the task of opening the closed fertilizer factories to the farmers of the country, spending thousands of crores to strengthen the country's agricultural system. Apart from Talcher, here, work is going on in Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh, Sindri in Jharkhand, Ramagundam in Telangana and in Barauni of Bihar, to revive the country's five major manure factories. Brothers and sisters, many times I think, then I am surprised that when there were resources in our country, resources were there, even in our country there was a serious effort to start these factories even when there was strength. Why only files have been done, political promises continue, speeches continue but nothing has been seen on the ground.\nBrothers and sisters, in the last four or four years, our government has put full emphasis on linking the poor, country's backward and our backward areas to banking services. Due to Jan Dhan Yojana, in Odisha, bank accounts of 10.3 million poor have also been opened. Money from all the central government schemes is being transferred directly into these accounts. Friends, you remember and the people of Odisha should be more remembered, there was a prime minister in our country, once they said that if you send a rupee from Delhi then only 15 paise reaches poor, who among them were middlemen who were one Were making 15 bucks of rupees. He knew what was the disease, but for the disease to save the country from that disease, he had no breath, no power, no vision, no power. That continued the process of theft. Now our government is making sure that the money which is sent from Delhi should be deposited directly in the bank accounts of the whole, full percentage of the total, no middleman in the middle. Our way of doing work and this method is because our policy is clear, our intention is clear.\nMy dear brothers and sisters, today the mission of cleanliness is working fast in the whole country. Campaign for cleanliness is going on, every small state of India is joining with it. In 2014, rural sanitation was only 10 percent in Odisha, but since the Indian government has taken the initiative, it is an effort to accelerate it, aware citizens of Odisha have helped me, have supported me, have given me side by side And due to its 10 percent in 2014, now it has reached almost 55 percent. But the country is moving forward at what speed. Odisha has a lot to do with the way the country has taken the lead in cleanliness. This is not only far behind the national average, but it is less than many states which are behind Odisha with many other parameters, they have gone beyond the issues of cleanliness and hence we have to go further and try. . I believe that by further accelerating this campaign in the coming months, we will achieve the goal of complete cleanliness in Odisha.\nI urged the Chief Minister Mr. Naveen Babu a few days ago and see that the country is moving forward in cleanliness and Odisha will be left behind. The toilets are not being built, the movement of Open Defration Free is not going on. I sent them a sincere message, but today when Mother Hingula came on the earth, I came to the earth of Lord Jagannath, then I urge the new Babu to once again give priority to sanitation in Odisha. This hygiene is associated with health. Good hygiene is also needed for the health of the people of Odisha.\nIn this way, my dear brothers and sisters, in the days to come, we are going to start another Bhagiratha work related to the health of the people of the country from tomorrow with the land of Jharkhand together in the village-village of Hindustan. This program is being started by Prime Minister Jan Swasthya Yojna PMJAY from tomorrow under the Ayushman Bharat Scheme. Under this scheme 100 million poor families of the country i.e. about 500 million people mean more people than the population of America, Canada, Mexico, their families, if their family will be required to treat serious illness then year A health assured of up to five lakh rupees will be given across Five lakh rupees..and if there is a serious illness, the poor family will get free treatment upto Rs five lakh in the hospitals fixed. When a sick person gets sick, he gets immersed in the interest of the family, the family gets annihilated, I want to save such families.\nMy brothers and sisters, the maximum state of India has joined the Government of India. The states of the state that have joined, the poor of that state will get the benefit. You tell me, brothers and sisters, the poor people of Odisha should get the benefit that should not be met. Explain to me with full force, should meet or should not be found. Should we take advantage of such a scheme or should not take it, should the government of Odisha should come forward or not, but I do not understand, our new babus do not understand. Today, I will again publicly urge our friend Naveen Babu through you to help the poor families of Odisha, for the health of the poor families, the Government of India has planned to help poor families, Ayushmann Join India scheme and join you in the help of up to five lakh rupees to every family, I invite you. If you join this scheme in Odisha people in any state, if you go to Delhi in this disease, then it will be treated as free under the scheme, but if you plan, then you will get benefits. If the government of Odisha does not get involved then I will not be able to serve you.\nBrothers and sisters, what is the condition of health services in Odisha, it is not hidden from anyone. At the time of birth, the death of mother and child, the truth of Odisha's health center, I do not believe, for now, no one needs to describe me. All things are in front of people like open book. That's why the Central Government is trying to improve health professions here. The citizens here do not have to go to big cities for the treatment of diseases. Ayushman India is preparing to open wellness center in the big panchayats of your state. Apart from this, five new medical colleges are also being opened in the state, medical colleges in Balasore, Baripada, Bolangir, Koraput and Puri and Rs 570 crore are being provided for Medical College in Rourkela. Also work on Super Specialty Hospital in Talcher and Sundergarh. 360 crore rupees are being spent on modernization of existing medical colleges of Cuttack, Burla and Bahrampur.\nBrothers and sisters, today, I will admire Mr. Dharmendra, your popular partner on this forum, Mr. Jualji who works in the team of my government, because many schemes of the government have been implemented due to his plans. Sisters and daughters have been discharged from the smoke in the kitchen. More than 34 lakh poor families and women have been given free gas connections under Ujjwala scheme in Odisha. Odisha has made huge leaps in the case of LPG gas connections. In 2014, only 22 percent of the people had gas connections in the state, now it has increased to 60-65 percent. Due to the Ujjwala scheme, the health of not only women but also their family is improving.\nFriends, the Central Government is trying to make your life easier, reducing the challenges of unnecessarily from your life. With this thinking going forward, security insurance cover has been given to 50 lakh people of Odisha on a premium of only one rupee per month and 90 paise per day. In the event of any untowardness, now Prime Minister Jeevan Jyoti Yojana and the Prime Minister's security insurance scheme, two lakhs of rupees are being given to these poor families.\nBrothers and sisters, who does not have a dream of poor, that he has his own house. Everyone has a dream, but for centuries the slogans continued to move around houses, big things, somewhere, work on the ground was not the same. What kind of houses were available under the first housing schemes, how many houses were found, you know all these things well. Now the Bharatiya Janata Party government has resolved that by 2022, when 75 years of independence will be celebrated, there should be no home without any home, every poor should have a roof and the deficiencies in earlier schemes have been removed. केंद्र सरकार की आवास योजनाओं के तहत ओडिशा में बन रहे घरों में भी 40 प्रतिशत से ज्यादा की वृद्धि हुई है।\nपिछले चार साल में प्रधानमंत्री आवास योजना समेत दूसरी केंद्रीय योजनाओं के तहत राज्य के करीब-करीब 10 लाख घरों के निर्माण के लिए स्वीकृति दे दी गई है। जबकि पहले की सरकार के 10 साल के शासन में सिर्फ सात लाख घरों की स्वीकृति दी गई। घरों के निर्माण के ये अंतर गवाह हैं कि हमारी सरकार ओडिशा के गरीब भाई-बहनों को घर देने के लिए कितनी गंभीर है।\nभाइयो और बहनो, केंद्र सरकार ये भी सुनिश्चित करने की कोशिश कर रही है कि ओडिशा में किसी भी गरीब को भूखा सोने की नौबत नहीं आनी चाहिए। कभी-कभी ये जानकारियां लोगों को नहीं होती हैं तभी हमें मजबूरन बताना पड़ रहा है मेरे ओडिशा के प्यारे भाइयो-बहनो, ओडिशा में जो चावलगरीबों को एक रुपये प्रति किलो दिया जाता है, उस एक किलो चावल के पीछे 25 रुपया से 30 रुपया भारत सरकार के खजाने से देते हैं। तब जाकर के एक रुपये किलो चावल आपकी थाली में आता है। ये जानकारी लोगों को है ही नहीं, उनको पता ही नहीं है, सारा पैसा दिल्लीसे आता है।राज्य के 85 लाख से ज्यादा परिवारों को इसका लाभ मिल रहा है। इस योजना के लिए केंद्र सरकार नवीन बाबू की सरकार को हर महीने लगभग 450 करोड़ रुपये देती है। इसके अलावा जो वितरण प्रणाली है, उसका आधुनिकीकरण करके ये सुनिश्चित किया जा रहा है कि गरीबों का अधिकार कोई बिचौलिया छीन न ले।\nभाइयो और बहनो, जब नीयत साफ हो, देश का हित सबसे आगे हो, तो ऐसे फैसले लिए जाते हैं जिन्हें लेने का हौसला दूसरों में कहीं नजर नहीं आता है। हमारी सरकार आर्थिक ही नहीं, बल्कि सामाजिक न्याय के लिए भी निरंतर कार्य कर रही है। दशकों से देश में ओबीसी कमीशन को संवैधनिक दर्जा देने की मांग हमारे पिछड़े समुदाय के भाई-बहन कर रहे थे। इस मांग को पूरा करने का काम भी इसी सरकार ने किया है। अब ओबीसी कमीशन के पास जितनी जिम्मेदारियां हैं, उतने ही उचित उसके पास अब अधिकार भी हैं।\nतीन दिन पहले ही केंद्र सरकार ने एक और ऐसा फैसला लिया है, जिसकी आवश्यकता दशकों से महसूस की जा रही थी लेकिन पहले की कोई भी सरकार इसका जिक्र तक करने से डरती थी। ये फैसला है तीन तलाक पर। तीन तलाक किस तरह हमारी मुस्लिम बहनों की जिंदगी को तबाह कर रहा है, ये हम भलीभांति जानते हैं लेकिन वोट खोने के डर से इस समस्याके बारे में कोई बात तक करने को तैयार नहीं था। हमारी सरकार ने जब लोकसभा में तीन तलाक से जुड़ा कानून पास कराया तो उसे राज्यसभा में रोकने की कोशिश की गई। लेकिन हम मुस्लिम बहनों-बेटियों को इस कुप्रथा के चंगुल से निकालने के लिए संकल्पबद्ध हैं, प्रतिबद्ध हैं। अब तीन तलाक पर ऑर्डिनेंस (अध्यादेश) लाकर इसे गैरकानूनी घोषित कर दिया गया है। हमारी निरंतर कोशिश रहेगी कि इस पर संसद से भी जल्द से जल्द मुहर लगवाई जाए।\nसाथियो, आपके आशीर्वाद से ओडिशा भी देश के विकास में कंधे से कंधा मिलाकर के आगे बढ़ने के लिए तैयार है। रुकावट क्या है, वो मुझे कहने की जरूरत नहीं है, मुसीबत कहां है वो मुझे समझाने की जरूरत नहीं है। भारतीय जनता पार्टी के पक्ष में आपका ये समर्थन इस बात का गवाह है कि नए ओडिशा के सपने को आप जल्द से जल्द पूरा करना चाहते हैं। आपके इस सपने को पूरा करने के लिए, ओडिशा के इस सपने को पूरा करने के लिए केंद्र सरकार हर तरह से आपके साथ है।\nएक बार फिर आप सभी को तालचेर में हो रहे नवनिर्माण की बहुत-बहुत बधाई। फिर से एक बार 36 महीने पर काम पूरा होने पर आपके आशीर्वाद से यहां उद्घाटन के लिए आऊंगा।\nभाइयो-बहनो, अब यहां से मुझे झारसुगुड़ा जाने का कार्यक्रम है। वहां भी नए ओडिशा से जुड़ी अनेक परियोजनाओं की शुरुआत होगी। आप यहां आए, इतना स्नेह, इतना आशीर्वाद दिया, मैं हृदय से आप सबका बहुत-बहुत धन्याद करता हूं।\nJai jagannath"