"Share\n\nIICC will reflect India's economic progress, rich cultural heritage, and our consciousness towards environmental protection: PM Modi\nOur government has begun a series of unprecedented projects for the nation's development: PM Modi\nOur government does not shy away from taking tough decisions in national interest: PM\nAll round progress has happened in the last four years only\nMy cabinet colleagues Mr. Suresh Prabhu, Mr. Hardeep Singh Puri, Mr. C.R. Chaudhary, Secretary DIPP, Mr. Ramesh Abhishek and my brothers and sisters associated with trade and business who are present here today.\nThe whole country is busy with Ganpati festival. Lord Ganesha has arrived in every household Let us seek the blessings of Lord Ganesha for every good and successful. It is a suitable opportunity to start the construction of this important center, which is a grand and glorious symbol of New India.\nWe can very well experience the country's economic development, cultural richness and our sensitivity towards nature in 'India International Convention and Expo Center' i.e. IICC This service exhibits the feelings and expressions of 125 crore Indians. This is the basis of India's image and place in the comity of nations today.\nThis center will be built on a cost of approximately Rs.26,000 crore will prove to be a center of attitude and energy of the country's 80 crore youth. This is part of the government's vision that focuses on world class infrastructure and ease of doing business. Just now we have been extensively told through the film and the 3D model that will not only be a single Convention Center or Expo Center but a vibrant and vibrant center for the country and the world's business.\nIn a way, this will be a mini city within Delhi. Innumerable facilities like the Convention Hall, Expo Hall, Meeting Hall, Hotels, Market, Office, and Recreation will be developed in one place.\nSo, we will organize international level events in the country's capital or not; Should we invite people from all over the world? There will not be anymore This Convention Hall is being built in a place that accommodates 10,000 people. It will be among top 5 Conventional Halls in the world and top 3 in Asia in terms of seating capacity.\nMost importantly, it is going to extend the work culture of accomplishing big tasks that have developed in the last four years. This is going to be India's largest Convention and Expo Center\nFriends,\nThis government has started work on its unprecedented schemes for the development of the country like the longest tunnel, the longest gas pipeline, the longest bridge over the sea, the largest mobile manufacturing unit or broadband connectivity and electricity to every village, or The greatest financial inclusion movement, the largest banking network in the rural areas, setting up of India Post Payment Bank, indirect tax in the form of GST, running the greatest mass movement in the form of Swachh Bharat Mission and now the country and the world's great healthcare scheme ie Ayushman Bharat\nThese are some examples of physical and social infrastructure that are symbolized only by providing a new direction but also of the 21st century India and the speed, scale and skill of New India.\nFriends,\nToday, the name of IICC will also be included in the world class facilities that are being developed in different parts of the country. Laced with modern technology, the complex will have myriad facilities that are expected from the world's 6th largest economy for the business leaders from around the world; the economy that is growing at a rate of 8% that is rapidly progressing with the target of turning into a 5trillion dollar economy in the next 5-7 years and 10 trillion dollars in the economy next to one-and-a-half-decade .\nI am happy to know that this transportation will be connected to modern transportation facilities. This will be directly connected to the airport by high-speed metro. All the facilities and arrangements for meetings or business Incubation Centers, event management service, entertainment, shopping or tourism related facilities will be available, under one roof.\nThis project is a part of the government's resolution, in which every infrastructure related to India's growth story is strengthened.\nBrothers and sisters,\nWherever we go, we find that even small countries are capable of organizing big conferences. By developing modern arrangements, many countries have become the hubs of Conference Tourism. However, we have never thought about this direction for years. All our major conferences or trade fair are limited to just one place i.e. Pragati Maidan That place too has lost its glory Now that idea has changed and today's program is the result of that change.\nIICC center will be set up not only in the country's capital but also in other states to strengthen business culture. In our country, an ecosystem of conference tourism will be developed.\nInternational level summits, Annual General Meetings of major companies, events of different government departments etc. Can be easily organized in such centers This modern Convention Center will, in a way, promote ease of living. There will not be any issue of erecting tents, supply of water and electricity or any weather conditions. There will be a 'ready-to-use' system that will be available for maximum number of people.\nWhen there are centers like for activities like business activities or cultural activities, the whole city gets benefitted. These Conventions will be the identities of these cities.\nFriends,\nIICC will become India's credible story I hope that after it is ready, then Conference Tourism will increase the identity of India in the form of MIC i.e. Meeting Incentive Conferences and Exhibition\nIICC will help the country's businessmen and industrialists to showcase and establish their products in the international market. The small and medium entrepreneurs often find it difficult to advertise and market their products due to financial constraints. This will prove to be effective They will be able to direct interact with international buyers and sellers. They will be able to know about international level technologies and will operate their business accordingly.\nThis facility will give impetus to government's efforts that will empower MSME i.e. Medium and Small Scale industries. Moreover, a significant facility will also come up for start-ups. The most challenging challenge of a start-up is to investors. This will prove to be a major platform Here, the discussions will depend on ideas, innovation, funding, branding and marketing.\nThis is important because today India is the second largest ecosystem in the world of the field of Start-ups.\nToday our youth is working on more than 10,000 start-ups. In such scenario, the modern facilities will benefit every class and every level of the society. The fact that this center will provide employment opportunities to the country's 5 lakh youngsters is noteworthy. This project is not only the face of India's economic and cultural power but also a new direction for lakhs of poor and middle class families. This has the power to change the aspirations of the youngsters from the country's training institutes, skill centers or schools and colleges.\nBrothers and sisters,\nIICC is the extension of those major infrastructure projects that have been given over the last four years. Such projects have opened up new jobs for lakhs of youngsters. Job opportunities are being created in every sector such as service, agriculture or manufacturing sector. As per reports, job creation in the IT sector has shown a dramatic increase.\nThere are many opportunities in the retail sector. The E-Commerce sector alone is generating more than $ 50 billion in revenue. The more this sector gets widespread\nFriends,\nToday, along with the service sector, the manufacturing sector too is growing the power of 'Make in India'. Today, India is becoming the manufacturing hub of mobile phones, which has brought the country's 4-4.5 lakh youngsters in the last few years in the employment network. Now according to the current scenario, we are not only exporting mobile phones but also manufacturing 80% of the mobile phones within the country. This has saved us Rs.3 lakh crores of foreign exchange.\nFriends,\nIn the last four years, an environment of transparent and merit-based business has been created. The country's telecom sector has come out of the dark that prevailed 5-6 years ago. Today this sector is among the fastest growing sectors of the country. The country is now moving towards establishing the infrastructure of 5G Transparent Tendering System and Digital India Today voice call is almost free and the price of 1GB 4G data has reduced from Rs 250 to 300 only to Rs.19-20. Now the common man can savvy the power of internet as the industry has got new opportunities for business. Along with the Telecom sector, the Tourism sector too is building a new record of sustainable development and creating jobs in the country.\nFriends,\nA country is run by a system and its institutions A nation can not be built in 2 or 4 months or years It is the result of several years of sustained development. Therefore, timely decision making and implementation of the schemes is correct.\nTake the example There was no need of dozens of public sector banks We have been hearing debates on this issue for years. About two and a half decades ago, this issue was raised. However, even after a lot of discussions, no one had the courage to work in this direction. The last 50 months are the witness to the NDA The decisions that were in limbo for years Initially, the small banks were merged with State Bank of India and now three more banks will be merged with one bank. I clearly remember that about 3-4 years back, whenever there used to talk on reform, some people used to challenge and write 'If Modi can accomplish the task of merger of banks, we accept that Modi is really doing something great' . Now that this work has been completed, their pens are a peaceful slumber. They are now silent\nAll the decisions like the ones related to GST, demonetization, Benami property, Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, or absconders after committing financial frauds, or cancelling the registration of more than 3 lakh suspicious companies, are the honesty of the government and transparent business environment\nFriends,\nIn the last four years, all-round development was possible and the government could perform better with the same resources available, because it had been all the more important than the nation of the welfare. It had been ensured that the arrangements were done properly\nFriends,\nI want to reassure you that this system of people will continue. Today, despite the challenges faced by the country, India's economic foundation is strengthening day by day. The fundamentals are strong; exports are being encouraged Work is going to be a comprehensive scheme to make global trade 40% of the GDP Efforts are going to achieve the target of turning the country's GDP to 5trillion dollars by 2025, of which 1 trillion dollars should be formed by the manufacturing and agricultural sectors.\nAs a result of the government's efforts, the rankings in 'Ease of Doing Business' have improved in the last four years by 42 points. Now even the states are competing among themselves. This competition in 'Ease of Doing Business' is also the improvement of the people's ease of living.\nWe are striving to take this tour of districts and Tehsil levels. Today we are focusing on the aspects of 'Easy to Doing Business' even at district level. We are working on the same The government is trying to increase the GDP by the districts by 2-3% in the future. It is the methods, the initiatives and the priorities. The government's idea has always been the result of the imprints of sustainable reforms.\nFriends,\nOur vast country has a huge population of youngsters who have the right to dream big and fulfill those dreams. They have the right to give a physical form to those dreams It is the responsibility of the business world to help those dreams. It is also the responsibility of all of you\nI believe that we will work together with our dreams of youngsters of New India. Efforts are going to complete on the first phase of IICC within 1-1.5 years. My best wishes to the people I was told that almost 2500 workers have already started working in this complex. This means that full-fledged work has already begun\nI believe that the dreams we have started, India must move forward as projecting itself as not only but also in the ever changing world and global economy. We should stride forward for these dreams Once again, my best wishes to the whole team for the best possible way and at a best possible pace.\nThanks a lot!"