"Share\n\nWe are trying to bring about scientific growth, with priority being keeping Varanasi's age-old identity safe: PM\nVaranasi will soon be the gateway to the east, says PM Modi\nKashi is now emerging as a health hub: PM Modi\nJoin the movement in making a new Kashi and a new India: PM Modi urges people of Varanasi\nMy young friends from Kashi, who are present here in large numbers and my brothers, sisters and friends of Kashi! My greetings to you all!\nI am overwhelmed with love and affection on the people of Kashi I feel like taking time out and visiting Kashi again and again.\nBrothers and sisters,\nHarHarMahadev!\nIt is really fortunate for me that I am starting another country for the blessings of Baba Vishwanath and Mother Ganga. Your love and blessings are the inspiration for every moment and strengthens the countrymen.\nFriends,\nIn order to take this expression of service forward, projects worth more than Rs.550 crore have been either laid or foundation-stones.\nThese development projects are not only registered with Varanasi. It includes projects of basic necessities such as electricity and water as well as projects that promise new opportunities to farmers, weavers and artisans.\nMoreover, new projects have started to make the Benares Hindu University an important knowledge center for the 21st century. I congratulate the people of Varanasi for these projects and offer my best wishes.\nFriends,\nWhenever I am amidst you, I tend to always remind you that all of our efforts are bringing about a change in the culture and heritage of Kashi. Modern facilities and infrastructures are being assimilated with the city by keeping its age-old identity.\nThe difference between now and four-four-and-a-half years ago when the people of Kashi had a resolution of change Is not it? Can you make the difference or not? Can you see the change? Thank you!\nWell, you are a witness to the situation where Kashi's condition was completely left to Lord Bholenath. Today I am extremely satisfied that with the blessings of Baba Vishwanath, we have successfully provided a new direction to the development of Varanasi.\nSeveral years ago, every visitor of Kashi used to be pained by the deteriorating facilities and infrastructure of the city. Just like the dangling electricity transmission wires, too. At that time, I had decided to change the all-round development.\nToday we can see all-round transformation in Kashi I vividly remember; Before becoming a parliamentarian, whenever I used to visit Kashi, I used to wonder at the dangling electricity wires when Varanasi will be freed from this? You can see you are there in most part of the city The work is underway in the rest of the areas.\nThe 5 major projects related to electrification These projects will be strengthened in Varanasi. Besides, the foundation stone of another sub-center has been laid. After it gets ready, the nearby areas will be able to get rid of the issue of low voltage.\nFriends,\nA lot of efforts are being made to develop Varanasi as a gateway to the Eastern India. Therefore, the government's priority is to provide Varanasi with world class infrastructure. As per the needs of 21st century, facilities such as transport facilities, medical facilities and education facilities etc. are being developed\nToday Kashi is shimmering under the illumination of LED. The flow of mother Ganga is easily visible at night too from across the city. LED bulbs have not only illuminated your life Varanasi Nagar has saved a lot of money after LED bulbs were installed.\nFriends,\nAnyone who has visited Kashi 4 years back For many years, discussion on construction was a ring road in Varanasi. After 2014 elections, the ring road file took up. The previous state government of UP on that time did not allow this plan to progress because they were afraid So, they tried to run in the cold storage.\nHowever, as soon as you elected Yogi ji's government, the work is fast pace at the completion of the work. A 4-lane road from Harhua to Ghaziipur is almost done. Work on a new circuit from Harhua to Raja Talab and Chandauli is rapidly progressing. On this route, a bridge will be constructed over Ganga which will reduce the number of trucks entering Varanasi.\nFriends,\nThe construction of Kashi Ring road will benefit not only. The roads emanating from here are extremely significant to reach Bihar, Nepal, Jharkhand and Madhya Pradesh. This is the reason why the roads connecting the city of Varanasi within and with other states. Crores of rupees have been spent on National Highway No. 7, that is, Varanasi-Sultanpur road, Varanasi-Gorakhpur section and Varanasi- Handiaroad link.\nBrothers and sisters,\nWork on many roads projects worth thousands of crores rupees is underway within Varanasi. Earlier people had a lot of trouble while travelling between Mahmoorganj and Manduadih; the school students had to suffer a lot; I need not remember After age, the work on Manduadih flyover is complete. Similarly, after the completion of the Samnegat Bridge over the river, Ganga has traveled to and fro from Ramnagar easy. The Demand for Broadcasting The work to broaden the Andhura Bridge That Work has also been done Work is underway in different parts of the city including Broadening of Bojuvid-Sindhora road, making Shivpur-Phulwaria road in a 4-lane one and broadening the road between Raja Talab Police station and Jakhini. The work on development of important Panchkosi passages in terms of religious beliefs and tourism is also progressing at a rapid pace.\nBhagwatBridge and Court Road with approximately Rs.750 crores has been allocated for the construction of roads. You are already aware of the fact that it was a difficult road! A journey that should take some minutes Often people used to miss their flights and trains due to heavy traffic jam. All these issues will definitely be eliminated.\nFriends,\nThe people visiting the airports are witnesses to the fact that Varanasi is developing. The number of tourists coming to Varanasi Four years ago, about 8 lakh people used to come to Babatpur airport. This figure has shot up to 21 lakhs now.\nThe transport system in Varanasi is being modernized in every possible way to bring a Smart Transformation into Smart Varanasi. Traffic system is being integrated so that a single mode of transport is not over-burdened. The integrated command and control center is built here.\nOnce the work of the fast-moving multi-modal terminal in Varanasi is completed, the city is going to emerge as a major hub for transport and logistics. This will increase the connectivity of roads, railways and water transport, which will benefit the businesses and industries here.\nThe work on developing a Ferry service is going to help the Kashi visitors to reduce their travel time. Work on National Waterway No.1 among Varanasi and Haldia is underway. CNG vehicles are going on at a rapid pace.\nBrothers and sisters,\nMy happiness doubles when I see people posting photos of Varanasi Cantonment Station joyously on social media Development work on stations like the Cantonment Station, Manduadih or city station has expedited. Those are being modernized The people travelling to Kashi by train can see pictures of New Kashi at the station only.\nFriends,\nApart from this, work of doubling the track connecting with Varanasi with Allahabad and Chhapra is in progress. Electrificationwork from Varanasi to Baliya has completed. The work of doubling and electrification of Varanasi-Allahabad City is in progress.\nAlong with the infrastructure, the connectivity of Varanasi to the rest of the country via rail has also increased manifold. Many new trains have started from Varanasi in the last four years. Trains like Varanasi-Delhi, Vadodara, Patna Mahamana Expresses, Varanasi-Patna Janashatabdi Express with modern facilities Railway connectivity of Varanasi with other cities like Hubli, Mysore or Guwahati has strengthened.\nFriends,\nNow commuting to the city of Kashi has not only been made, but it is also being beautified. Now our ghats welcome the guests It is now possible to ride both by a boat as well as cruise in the waters of Maa Ganga. Arrangements have been made so that devotees can easily reach temples This campaign of transformation through tourism has been going on relentlessly.\nBrothers and sisters,\nFor the past four years, work is underway to protect the legacy of Kashi and to beautify our heritage. Mahatma Gandhi started his freedom movement from Maidagin Town Hall Efforts have been made to revive the Heritage House. It has turned its original form.\nBig and important parks of Varanasi have also been restored, developed and beautified. Light and Sound Show has been arranged for tourists in Sarnath In order to promote tourism, religious centers like Budhha theme park, Sarangnath pond, Gurudham temple, MarkandeyaMahadev temple has already been beautified.\nBeautification of Bhairavkund, Sagarnathkund, Lakshmikund and Durganathkund have already done done. In the last four years, the people of Kashi have welcomed many leaders of different countries in a spectacular way. Japan's Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, France's President Macron and Germany's President Frank Walter have always praised and talked about the hospitality of the people of Kashi. Japan has, in fact, gifted aconvention center to Kashi\nFriends,\nEverybody has his eyes on the hospitality of Kashi In January, Kashi will organize Kumbh of Indians settled across the globe. Therefore, the government is working on its level. However, your cooperation is indispensable Every resident of Kashi has has come forward Varanasi's essence, hue and heritage must reflect in every corner and street. We need to set such a example of cleanliness and hospitality that our Indian is remembering it throughout their lives. And I wish that the people who came here during Pravasi Indian Diwas have such a brilliant experience that they end up becoming tourism ambassadors of Kashi; so that wherever they go, they say fascinating things about Kashi\nBrothers and sisters,\nKashi has witnessed a change in terms of cleanliness. Today, cleanliness is the new normal in the ghats, streets and every corner of Kashi Robust solutions to not only cleanliness but also have been found. Fertilizer is being manufactured from garbage by using modern techniques.\nA large factory has been established in Karsara to turn waste in fertilizer. Everyday several metric tons of waste are produced. That waste is turned into compost A waste to power plant has been set up in Karsara itself. Electricity is produced by this plant. Besides, biofuel plants have been set up in Bhavaniya, Pokhari, PahariyaMandi and IDA complex.\nFriends,\nSimultaneous efforts are going on to clean up mother Ganga from Gangotri to Gangasagar. Arrangements are being made to not only clean the river but also inhibit the flow of garbage from the nearby villages and cities in the river. Thus, more than 200 projects worth approximately Rs 21,000 crore already approved\nIn Varanasi, projects worth more than Rs. 600 crores have been started with this motive. The Sewagetreatment plant in Dinapur and Ramana is progressing at a rapid pace. Work is also underway for the infrastructure related to sever plant. Along with the construction of thousands of new sewer chambers, more than 150 community toilets have also been constructed. Along with sewer work, efforts are going on to improve the drinking water supply system. In thousands of households the work of providing water connections and installing water meters underway.\nFriends,\nFacilities like road, electricity and water supply have been delivered to only As a parliamentarian, I have the responsibility of developing certain villages and Nagepur is one such village where a major water project has started. All the villages like Nagepur, Jayapur, Kakariya, Domri etc. are now being linked to facilities like roads, water and electricity Several other arrangements like playground, self-employment centers, better facilities for farmers and health care facilities are also being provided.\nFriends,\nKashi is now emerging as a health hub Hospitals in different areas will turn Varanasi into a major medical center The new and modern trauma center of BHU is saving the lives of thousands of people New cancer hospital and super-specialty hospital of Varanasi, which is under construction, will be providing a critical role in providing modern facilities for treatment.\nRecently, BHU has signed an agreement with AIIMS to develop a World Class Health Institute.\nFriends,\nToday a Regional Ophthalmology Institute has also been inaugurated in BHU. About 54 years ago, LalBahadur Shastri ji inaugurated the Ophthalmology department here. I have got this opportunity to extend a regional center. After this facility is fully developed, crores of people from Eastern Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand and Nepal will benefit.\nMoreover, the people of Kashi would no longer need to travel to big cities for eye treatment. From cataract to serious eye diseases - all can be treated at a very low cost. Also, this institute will produce high quality doctors and will help in excelling in research.\nFriends,\nApart from setting up new hospitals, the current ones have also been upgraded in Varanasi. The ESI Hospital of Pandepur has been modernized at a cost of Rs.150 crore. Besides, the number of beds in the existing hospitals has also been increased. Private Hospitals are also being encouraged Besides, several healthcare centers and hospitals are being set up at Tehsil and Block levels.\nFriends,\nAfter Yogiji of BJP has been elected in UP, all the work is progressing at an unprecedented speed. I congratulate Yogiji and his team for joining the Ayushman Bharat. The trial of this scheme that promises free treatment of up to Rs.5 lakh to 50 crore poor brothers and sisters in the country is going on in several parts of the country including UP This scheme will be implemented across the country from 23 September afterwards.\nBrothers and sisters,\nThe government has also emphasized Malviya ji had dream of providing modern education with side traditional education. In order to fulfill his dream and to expand BHU, several centers have been launched.\nVedic knowledge has been linked to 21st century science and future technological solutions. The Vedic Age has been linked to the contemporary period. On one hand, foundation stone for Vedic Science Center has been laid, while on the other hand, Atal Incubation Center has also been inaugurated.\nYoung friends,\nWe have attracted the future technology as much as pride in our ancient culture and traditions. This country with the strength of more than 80 crore youngsters is leaving an impression on the transient technological landscape. The Atal Incubation Center was started in BHU. This Incubation Center of BHU will provide a new energy to the start-ups in the near future.\nI was informed that 80 start-ups across the country want to join it and 20 start-ups have already joined it. I congratulate the youngsters of Varanasi for this center and specially those who have the courage and this mind-set.\nFriends,\nThe work for giving a fillip to the rural economy and farmers has gained momentum over the past four years. The Perishable Cargo Center in Raja Talab was launched in July. This cargo center is not only saving the crops from getting damaged but also helping the farmers of Varanasi and surrounding areas in their additions. It not only stores vegetables like potatoes and tomatoes but is also very close to the railway station. This will facilitate the transportation of fruits and vegetables to other cities.\nBesides, the work on the International Rice Research Center is nearing completion. This means that Kashi is going to play a leading role in the future. We are making arrangements so that the farmer brothers and sisters of Varanasi get an alternative source of income as well. We are encouraging the farmer and Apiculture along with agriculture.\nA little while ago, farmers were given boxes of bees. Here the prototype photographs were displayed, but the boxes were already presented to them. This is the motive behind it. Bees not only help in growing but also is a medium of increasing income by honey production. You will be glad to know that the country is producing production of honey\nBrothers and sisters,\nVaranasi and the Eastern India is a land of the weavers, artisans and the people who turn into soil in gold. Trade Facilitation Centers have been set up to provide technical support to the handicrafts industry and the artisans and craftsmen of Varanasi and connecting them to new markets. Besides, Common Facilitation Centers have also been set up at 9 places to provide better production facilities to the weavers. Warp machines are hand-made to weaver\nMoreover, the potter brothers and sisters and those craftsmen using mud and clay are also provided technical support. Electric charges have been given to many brothers and sisters in this program today. Besides, modern machines for pressing and drying the clay or mud are being handed over to them. This will save your labor and decorative items.\nFriends,\nCeaseless efforts are made to elevate the standard of living in every class of people in Varanasi. Where's the kitchen gas pipelines? For this, pipelines have been from Allahabad to Varanasi Till date, the gas pipeline connection has reached more than 8000 households in Varanasi. Work is going on to deliver this to more than 40,000 households in the coming days. Apart from this, the Ujjwala Yojana has made the lives of the women easier by providing more than 60 thousand gas connections in Varanasi and its surrounding villages.\nFriends,\nKashi is making its future with a new zeal by walking on the path of SabkaSaathSabkaVikas. Work is going on for projects worth thousands of crores of rupees. Out of those infrastructure projects, many are on the verge of completion in just a few months. The development of this city will be a new height after completion of some major projects like the ring road from airport to the court, the rice research institute, Binapur-Goytha sewer treatment plant, multi-modal terminal, a cancer hospital international standard, etc.\nFriends,\nThese projects are opening up in unlimited employment opportunities in Varanasi. The development of Varanasi has also opened up new possibilities for entrepreneurs. Come; let us together strengthen the resolution of this transformation in Varanasi with dedication. Let us contribute towards the construction of New Kashi and New India\nI once again congratulate you all for the new projects I hope you keep your love and blessings. Brothers and sisters, even though you have elected me as your Prime Minister And today, I have shown you a glimpse of the work that I have done as a parliamentarian in the past four years. I believe that as a representative of the people; You are my boss or High Command. Therefore, it is my responsibility to give you money\nAs a parliamentarian, I am glad that I have received this opportunity to present you the development and work that has been done. Once again, I thank you all for your love and blessings.\nSay along with me - Victory to Mother India!\nVictory to Mother India!"