"Share\n\nVaccination efforts are on This helps women and children in particular: PM Modi\nThrough the power of technology, training of ASHA, ANM and Anganwadi workers was simplified: PM Modi\nA little child, Karishma from Karnal in Haryana became the first beneficiary of Ayushman Bharat. The Government of India is devoting topmost importance to the health sector: PM\nThe Government of India is taking many steps for the welfare of the ASHA, ANM and Anganwadi workers: PM Modi\nThis is the first effort on my part to direct you. I was told that almost every block of the country ASHA workers, Anganwadi workers as well as ANM are all front lines It is extremely difficult to imagine healthy maternity without you I am glad that you are playing a crucial role in strengthening the foundation. You have taken the responsibility of strengthening the safety circle of every mother and child on your shoulders. There are three aspects of this safety circle First is nutrition that is correct diet, the second is vaccination and the third is cleanliness. It will be wrong to say that people did not know about these before or schemes related to these aspects non-existent Many initiatives have been related to these aspects over the years after independence but with little success. Countries with lesser resources They are doing much better than us In order to get out of this scenario, we started working on a new strategy in 2014.\nAll of you are familiar with Mission Indradhanush. Under it, a goal was set for vaccinating little children in remote and backward areas of the country. You have taken this mission forward on a rapid pace and have helped more than 85 lakh pregnant women to get immunized. The workers of Eastern India and Eastern Uttar Pradesh know that children are exposed to threat of encephalitis. In order to fight such diseases, 5 new vaccines were introduced including the one for Japanese Encephalitis under Universal Immunization Program. Two years back, Pradhan Mantri Surakshit Matritva launched. Your contribution has been implemented. You are my companions Earlier it was said that only God has a thousand arms. Of course, thousand arms can not be added. It meant that there were 500 people in his team who were the help of Gods to solve all the problems. Today, the country's Prime Minister can say that he has lakhs of arms instead of a thousand. And you are all my arms, friends\nFriends,\nHealth is directly linked to nutrition Moreover, nutrition is not only restricted to 'what one should eat or how should one eat?' cleaning and immunization are also necessary You may be wondering to know that marriage at a young age is also one of the major causes of this problem. Marriage and pregnancy should be at the right age. Pregnancy before the right age can cause both the mother and child.\nHow to wash before being eaten? Many such things are linked to nutrition Keeping this in mind, National Nutrition Mission was launched across the country from Rajasthan's Jhunjhunu this year. It is an ambitious mission It is a big challenge but I have not accepted this challenge just for me. Acceptance of this challenge reflects my trust in you. You have proved your worth We have taken the challenge If we succeed in delivering these goals, then Mission to every mother and child will be saved. It will give a new impetus to the country's development.\nSometimes we hear That person becomes famous in his village Sometimes we hear that a person has been caught in the train. All television channels and newspapers start flashing this news However, you are those people who save the lives of the small and innocent children A doctor saves the lives of innumerable people throughout his life. Sometimes I feel that the ASHA workers and the Anganwadi workers save more lives\nI salute the 24 lakh + workers who are striving hard to make this nutrition month successful, for their contribution and for the day in and day out. Today i have got the opportunity to salute you I would like to hear from you on the missions. The people like us, who are always in air-conditioned rooms When the whole nation hears you, lakhs of other sisters and workers will also learn from yoour experiences. That is why I want to listen to you"