"PM Modi, PM Hasina of Bangladesh jointly inaugurated two railway projects and a power link\nRailway projects between India and Bangladesh to boost trade and connectivity\nIndia to supply an additional 500MW power to Bangladesh, through the existing Bheramara-Baharampur interconnection\nEnhanced cooperation between India and Bangladesh augurs well for our countries: PM Modi\nYour Excellency Sheikh Hasina, Prime Minister of Bangladesh,\nForeign Minister of India and Bangladesh,\nMs. Mamata Banerjee, Chief Minister of West Bengal,\nShri Biplab Kumar Deb, Chief Minister of Tripura,\nA few days ago, I met Sheikh Hasinaji at the BIMSTEC Summit in Kathmandu. Before that, we also met at Shantiniketan in May and in London during the Commonwealth Summit in April.\nI am glad that today once again I have got the opportunity to interact with the video conference.\nI have been stressed on the fact that the neighboring countries should be like that of neighbors Whenever we feel like We should not be tied\nI can clearly see this intimacy in the relationship with Prime Minister Sheikh Hasinaji Apart from the meetings, this is our fourth video conference and one more video conference will be organized in the near future.\nThe most important thing about these video conferences is that the inaugurations of the two projects do not require VIP visits.\nExcellency, whenever we talk of connectivity, I always feel like restoring your vision of connectivity prior to 1965. I am extremely happy to say that we have been taking steps in this direction since the last few years.\nToday we have enhanced our power connectivity and we have started two projects to deepen the railway connectivity.\nWhen I visited Bangladesh in 2015, we decided to supply 500 megawatts of additional power to Bangladesh. Thus, the transmission link from Bangladesh is being used in West Bengal for this. I congratulate the Chief Minister Ms. Mamata Banerjee for supporting this work\nWith the completion of this project, 1.16 gigawatts power is being supplied to Bangladesh from India. I believe that this quantum leap to gigawatt from megawatt is a symbol of the golden chapter of our relationships.\nOur connectivity is also improving in the field of railways. The key aspects of our cooperation include Bangladesh and connectivity with India.\nOnce the connectivity of Akhaura-Agartala is completed, another link will be added to our cross-border connectivity. I congratulate Chief Minister Mr. Biplab Kumar Deb for his cooperation in this project\nPrime Minister Sheikh Hasinaji has set ambitious targets for the development of Bangladesh i.e. becoming a Middle Income country by 2021 and a developed country by 2041. It is a great honor for us to be able to realize this vision.\nI have complete faith that as we enhance our relations and strengthen relationships with people, we will be able to enjoy new heights of growth and prosperity.\nI express my heartfelt gratitude to Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina, and the Chief Ministers of West Bengal and Tripura for this work and attending today's program.\nThank you."