"Share\n\nPM Modi launches projects related to Patna metro, construction of ammonia-urea complex at Baraui and extension LPG pipe network to Patna and Muzaffarpur\nI feel the same fire in my heart that's burning inside you, says PM Modi in Pulwama in terror attack after country in anger and sadness\nOur aim is to uplift status of those struggling to avail basic facilities: PM\nLong live Mother India\nLong live Mother India\nLong live Mother India\nAll my great brothers and sisters present on the stage and the great number of my dear brothers and sisters\nAll of you have come to bless us with such a huge number, so I congratulate you by bowing your head. I can see that many people have been connected through Patna also through video. I salute all the people present in the program in Patna and Hazaribagh.\nWhereas Satyagraha, Bihar Kesari Shri Krishna Singh, the Kumbhasthali, Simriya Dham, is on the other side, like the nation's poet Ramdhari Singh Dinkar, who gave the country; Of that Begusarai, I salute the holy mud of Bihar. I pay tribute to martyred Constable Sanjay Kumar Sinha of Patna, and Shahid Ratan Kumar Thakur of Bhagalpur who sacrificed his life for the country. I express my sympathies with their families. And I am experiencing so much fire in your heart and the countrymen. The fire that is in your heart, the same fire is in my heart too. Today is also the date of Jananayak Karpuri Thakur ji's death. The blessing of Kripuri Babu, who dedicates his life to social justice, will always be blessed by all, I dedicate my tribute to this wish.\nFriends, today, the inauguration and fundraising of dozens of projects of thousands of crores has been done for overall development of Bihar. There are projects related to Patna and making this city a smart start. Projects related to industrial development and employment of youth of Bihar and projects for enhancing health facilities for every person in Bihar are also included in this. I congratulate all the people, Nitish Babu and his whole team for all these projects. If we were Bhola babu in our midst today, he would be very happy.\nFriends, like economic activity on the western end of India, to equate it, I would rather say that the power to overcome it is in our Bihar and Eastern India. Just as the NDA government is launching projects for development of Eastern India including Bihar, one after the other for modern infrastructure; That day is not far away when these areas will become an important area for the development of the country.\nOne of the many projects undertaken with the aim of rejuvenating eastern India including the brothers and sisters, Bihar is also the Prime Minister Energy Ganga Yojna. Through this scheme Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal and Orissa are being connected to the gas pipeline. In the first phase of the scheme, the release of Patna-Fulpur section of Jagdishpur-Haldia pipeline was done shortly. You will remember that almost three and a half years ago, in July 2015, I had laid the foundation for it from Patna. The Haldia-Durgapur LPG pipeline is also being expanded to Muzaffarpur and Patna while pushing the facility of gas pipeline. Whose foundation stone too has been done today.\nBrothers and Sisters, this project is going to have three major tasks together. One here will be available to the fertilizer factory in Barauni, which is being restarted; Second- The work of giving gas to households through pipes in Patna will be done. Instead of petrol and diesel, trains will run with CNG. In Patna, the city gas distribution plant has also been inaugurated. With this, thousands of families are now going to reach the gas stove for the pipe. The third benefit of this project will be that when the industries here will get enough gas, the new ecosystem of gas based economy will develop, young people will get new employment opportunities, i.e. energy ganga project in a way, people here, and especially the middle There is a big change in the life of the class. With the expansion of CNG, the cost of the people running the car will be reduced and some of the money spent on petrol and diesel will also be left. Apart from this the environment will also have a positive effect.\nIt is our humble tribute to the wife of sister-in-law, Barauni, in this manner, here in a way our son and his first Chief Minister Dr. Srikrishna Singh. They made many efforts to establish it here, but due to the technology being outdated, it was closed. Now when it has been able to bring the gas here, it has been made gas-based.\nIn addition to brothers and sisters, Barauni, Gorakhpur, Sindri and Orissa, the work of reviving such factories is also going on fast. All this is possible, then behind it is the Prime Minister Energy Ganga Plan.\nWith all these fertilizer factories, farmers from these farms will be able to get enough manure, young people will also get new employment opportunities. The government has also announced a historic plan for this scheme for its farmers, siblings. Under the PM Kisan Samman Yojna, in the next 10 years, seven lakh crores of rupees will be deposited directly in the farmers' account. It will be of great benefit to farmers of Bihar too. Imagine, when such a large amount will reach the rural economy of the country, in the rural economy, without any intermediary, then how much power will it give to the village, those who live in the village.\nBrothers and Sisters, when an industry seems to be, there is a complete environment of employment around, which will benefit Bihar along with East India. Similarly, the widening of the refinery of Barauni will increase the capacity of refining crude oil and along with Bihar, things related to petroleum will be easily accessible to Nepal.\nSociologists, our government is being given special emphasis on connectivity. Today the Ranchi-Patna Weekly Express has been flagged off. Apart from this, the work of electrification of Barauni-Kandpur, Muzaffarpur-Raxol, Fatahah-Islampur, Bihar Sharif-Danywan railway lines has been completed.\nAlong with the comrades, the railways, we are developing similar traffic arrangements in the cities too. I congratulate Patnavis very much because Pataliputra is now going to join the Metro Rail. This project of more than Rs. 13 thousand crores is being developed keeping in view the present needs along with the present needs. These metro projects are evolving rapidly, Patna will give further boost to the city, will give new momentum. Along with the development of the Patna River Front, people living in Patna and tourists coming there will have a different experience.\nFriends, vision of the NDA Government's plan Our development journey is going on simultaneously on two tracks. The first track is infrastructure related projects- industrial development, modern facilities to the people; And the second track is - to make the lives of those deprived, exploited, victims, who have been struggling for basic facilities for the past 70 years, are deprived of those facilities. To build a permanent house for those brothers and sisters, to make their kitchen smoke free, to give gas connections, to light their homes with electricity, toilets built, to provide them treatment, save the cost of medicines, education for daughters There are several such schemes that our government has started. New India passes through these two tracks. Under the housing schemes of the central government, there are more than 18 lakh houses for the poor in Bihar. More than 50 thousand in it are made here, in Begusarai.\nSimilarly, 27 cities like Bihar - Aara, Hajipur, Patna, Sasaram, Motihari, Bhagalpur, Munger, Siwan - are being connected with modern facilities under Amrit Mission. Even today, along with Patna, the foundation stone of 22 projects connected with cleanliness and drinking water for the other cities of Bihar and water for the exhaust toilets has been laid. Similarly, when the plant connected with cleaning of sewerage network and dirty water for the tax collector, fence, sultanganj and nogathiya will be ready, it will give more power to Namami Ganga Mission. Our cities will also be clean and the water here will be clean.\nAlong with such arrangements, the NDA government has given the highest emphasis on the health of the poor and the middle class, as the brothers and sisters, the gas based economy, the connectivity should be, the smart city, the cleaning of Gangaji. With regard to healthcare in Bihar, today is a historic day. Chapra and Purnia are now going to be new medical colleges, while upgradation of medical college of Bhagalpur and Gaya is being done. Apart from this, work is on to make another AIIMS apart from Patna AIIMS in Bihar. After the development of these facilities, the people of Bihar will be less needed to go out for the treatment of serious diseases.\nBrothers and sisters, I understand the pain of the poor when he does not do his treatment because he has to run home, teach children. In this situation, his disease becomes more serious. The NDA government has launched the Ayushman Bharat Scheme, Prime Minister's Health Plan, to remove every poor person from this concern. This scheme has become the ray of hope for nearly 50 million poor people across the country. Out of this, more than five crore people, they are from Bihar. So far, the scheme has not been completed for 150 days, in such a short time only about 12 lakh poor sisters of the country have got the facility of free treatment. In this, more than 12,500 people of Bihar got the benefit of treatment. Recently, our government has made a provision of 10 percent reservation for the poor in the general category on the economic basis. This has been done keeping the reservation of second class.\nAll these works of companionship, development and trust are being possible because you have formed a strong government four and a half years ago, who, with full potential, can take decisions with speed, take decisions on the ground. And so once again, with all the good wishes to all of you, this development plans will identify the new Bihar, will give jobs to the youth, give strength to the farmer, the new identity of Patna will be formed, the dreams of healthy Bihar will be fulfilled from the point of view of health. For all these things, all of you many-many good wishes. A lot of congratulations to Nitish Babu and his whole team.\nThanks a lot. Speak with me aloud-\nLong live Mother India\nLong live Mother India\nLong live Mother India\nThanks a lot."