"Share\n\nWhichever duty was done by Venkaiah Ji, he performed with utmost diligence and adapted into that role with ease: PM\nMr. Venkaiah Naidu has the ability to endear yourself to all sections. He is also a disciplinarian: PM Modi\nVenkaiah Ji always provides visionary leadership He gets the best experts to ensure justice done: PM\nVenkaiah is a farmer at heart. He is passionate about the welfare of farmers and agriculture: PM Modi\nThe Prime Minister, the Prime Minister of the country, has come in the way of the efforts of Venkaiah Naidu Ji: PM Modi\nSome people have been congratulating Venkaiah Ji for some reasons I am congratulating him for changing his habits. Because when I see Venkaiah Ji in the House I see how much effort he makes restrain himself. I believe that the effort is necessary to make restrainself and succeeding in that, is itself a big thing. If the House functions in an orderly manner, no one pays attention to who is the presiding officer. People do not pay much attention to what their or her capabilities And mostly the things that remain at the forefront are what are the capabilities of the members, what are their views. However, when the house does not focus solely on the presiding officer; how he is enforcing discipline; how he is restraining the members That is why the country was fortunate to get the opportunity to take a close look at Venkaiah Ji in the last year. If the house did work in an orderly manner I had the opportunity to work with Venkaiah Ji for many years and we have been groomed in the same political culture. When Venkaiah was party secretary of Andhra Pradesh And when he was the party's national president, I was assisting him in the capacity of a party. So in a way we worked as a team. For Venkaiah Ji's responsibilities are more important than the office.\nIt has been informed that just a while ago that Venkaiah had visited all the states in one year. However, that state was left out not because of it. It was left out bad weather created problems\nWe work in the House; sometimes after coming out of a meeting when we think he has already left; that he reached reached Kerala; Tamil Nadu or Andhra. So whatever the responsibilities were given to him, he always discharged them completely; put necessary hard work for that and made himself fit for discharging those responsibilities and that is why he continued to succeed and also made that sector a successful. Fifty years in public life Ten years in public life as a student and that too as an activist and forty years long political life straight away. And during the 50 years, he has been taught a lot. Sometimes we work with someone so close; in such a way that it becomes difficult to recognize him, to know him If you are standing ten feet apart from somebody then only you get to know him; However, if you have embraced somebody then it's difficult to know him This means that it is very difficult to realize; but when we hear it from others that he has these qualities then it gives us immense pride and pleasure that we have the opportunity to work with such a stalwart as a worker.\nVenkiah Ji lays a lot of emphasis on discipline and the situation of our country is like this If someone insists on a little bit then he has gone People call him autocrat and what not; people use the entire dictionary against him However, Venkaiah Ji himself follows the discipline which he expects from others. If someone is required to go on a tour with Venkaiah Ji First, he never keeps a watch and he does not keep a pen or money with him either If you are required to travel with you The good thing is that he never keeps a watch with him but he is so disciplined that he arrives at the program in the right time which is praiseworthy. Arriving at the program is the right time and if the program is not concluded within the allotted time then you will see how uneasy he feels and you will feel like the program concludes very soon. So discipline is a part of his nature and because of this thing, he has always worked with a vision, he has a holistic view, a roadmap prepared, a plan of action plan and strategy and then by a success arranging the resources and roping in capable people\nFirst time when he was appointed a Minister, he was a high profile minister. He was comfortable with English too and he was representing South so atal ji think of inducting him in council of ministers. When I asked him, \"What happened!\" Then he replied that it was not his work . I asked him, \"I'll tell Atal Ji about it.\" He replied, \"Please, you must meet him and share your views.\" And you know that He went to Atal Ji and urged not to assign such high profile ministries to him. He asked Atal Ji for Rural Development Ministry saying that he would like to dedicate his life to this thing. So by not accepting the high profile ministries which are considered some value, he said he wanted rural development. By his very nature he is a farmer. He is a farmer by vocation and inclination. Doing something for farmers, representing farmers, this thing is so deeply embedded in his mind that he has lived his life like this and he is interested in rural development. And as Arun Ji said that Prime Minister's Rural Road Progamme has always been the most effective program of all the governments. All MPs want PM The credit for putting in the minds of the MPs goes to ShrimanVenkaiah Ji. Similarly, water, water in the rural life, drinking water, it is one of the tasks for which he has dedicated himself. He used to dedicate his time and energy for this. Even today if the discussion on such topics is postponed in the house he is the one who gets disturbed the most When it comes to issues like villages and farmers then its views are like this: \"At least have a discussion in the house that is happening there.\" So the uneasiness that is in the welfare of the common man, it is the\nWho had never heard him speaking in Telugu He speaks so fast that you will feel as if you are sitting in a local train and he is running it like a superfast train. He speaks so fast! And it is a thing to see the way he articulates And his rhyming is very natural And it's not just like in public speeches He talks in such a way In the house everyone is benefitting from this. I congratulate the whole team that has made this small effort for his first year in office to the whole country. And I believe that it makes you realize that how to use this institution for the welfare of the society, how to bring newness and momentum in it office And this book has outlined how this institution itself has been moving forward and cooperating in discharging other tasks of the country.\nIn a way it looks like that Vice President but when you look at it we find that we also have some or other place in this family album. You spot some MP or some vice chancellor or some chief minister or some governor so also this thing is also seen how far flung areas in the work of contact with the rest of the effort.\nI love to Venkaiah Ji And the desire which has got in mind is that the house should function in the proper manner that there should be a full discussion in the House and such issues should be raised in the house that is useful for the country. I believe that his dream about this will be realized through his constant efforts. I love to Venkaiah Ji Thank you very much!"