"\nPM Modi launches India Post Payments Bank\nIPPB will be in economic transformation by bringing banks to the doorsteps of the villagers and the poor: PM Modi\nThrough IPPB, banking services will reach every nook and corner of the country: PM Modi\nPrevious UPA government responsible for the NPA mess: PM Modi\nThe Nomadars (Congress) had put the country's economic stability on a landmine, says PM Modi\nWe have initiated swift action against the biggest defaulters: PM Modi\nThe Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today launched the India Post Payment Bank (IPPB) at Talkatora Stadium in New Delhi. The function was witnessed at 3000 locations across the country, which was connected to the main event in Delhi.\nSpeaking on the occasion, the Prime Minister said that through the India Post Payments Bank, banking services will conveniently reach the remotest places in the country, and the people living there.\nHe recalled that The Union Government had already started rolled out of the financial inclusion. He said that today's launch of IPPB is one more step to achieve this objective. He said that IPPB branches have opened across 650 districts today.\nThe Prime Minister said that the postman has long been a respected and accepted person in the villages. He said the trust on the postman remains, despite the advent of modern technology He said that the government's approach is to reform existing frameworks and structures, and hence, transform them into the changing times. He said that there are over 1.5 lakh post offices and over three lakh postmen or \"grameen dak sevaks\" who are connected to the country. Now they will be empowered with smartphones and digital devices to provide financial services.\nEnumerating the benefits of IPPB, he said it will enable money transfer, transfer of government benefits, bill payments and other services such as investment and insurance. He added that postmen will deliver these services at the doorstep. He said that the IPPB will also facilitate digital transactions, and help deliver the benefits of schemes such as Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana, which provide assistance to farmers.\nThe Prime Minister said that since 2014, the Union Government has been firmly dealing with the distortions and problems that arisen in India's banking sector due to indiscriminate loan advances. He said existing loans have been reviewed and a professional approach He mentioned other measures such as the Fugitive Economic Offenders Bill, which has been guilty to punished.\nThe Prime Minister said that now Mudra loans worth 13 lakh crore have been given to the poor and middle class, for making self-employment opportunities. He said that today, as India achieves its best ever Asian Games performance, and the economy shows excellent growth numbers, the whole country is new self-confidence. He said this is the result of the collective efforts of the people. He said today, India is not just the fastest growing economy in the world, but also the country that is eradicating poverty the fastest.\nThe Prime Minister said that 3 lakh \"dak sevaks\" will be the key to providers of financial services to every household, every farmer and every small enterprise in the villages. He mentioned that in recent months, many steps have been taken for the welfare of \"dak sevaks\" and to meet their long pending demand. These have led to a substantial increase in their salary, he added. He expressed confidence that the IPPB will reach over 1.5 lakh post offices in the next few months."