"Share\n\nGopalakrishnan's speech in Nepalese language: PM Modi\nPM Narendra Modi and PM KP Oli jointly inaugurated Nepal-Bharat Maitri Pashupati Dharmashala in Kathmandu\nThere were strong cultural and civilizational ties in between India and Nepal: PM Modi in Kathmandu\nThe Dharmshala would be more than just a rest house for the pilgrims. It will further improve ties between India and Nepal: PM Modi\nIndia is among the fastest growing economies in the world today: PM Modi in Kathmandu\nIndia believes in the mantra of 'Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas', says PM Modi\nHonourable Prime Minister Oli Ji, Minister of Culture and Tourism, Ravinder Prasad AdhikariJi, Member of Pashupati Area Development Trust, Dr. Pradeep DhakalJi and other dignitaries present here, devotees of Bhole Baba who have come here from far away places and my dear brothers and sisters of Nepal,\nToday, a son from Kashi, the land of Baba Vishwanath bowles down to you who are present here in the courtyard of PashupatiNathJi As Prime Minister Oli Ji said only a while ago that it is very easy to understand Nepali language and the people of Gujarat.\nIndia-Nepal friendship is deep We know that when a tragedy overtakes you if one gives you a great relief. When Atalji passed away, in moments Oli Ji called me and offered his condolences. I know that was not a mere formality It was a natural expression of one's sense of belonging And the respect and the feelings with which the foreign minister himself came to attend the funeral of AtalJi!\nToday Nepal has decided to translate the poems of AtalJi in Nepalese.\nThe way we preserve and nurture the memories and message of the wisdom that he has shared; How to pass on the next generation; How much do we translate that into our lives, I believe that the great tribute to that great soul And I express my heartfelt gratitude to the respected Oli Ji, to the government of Nepal and to the people of Nepal for paying the best tribute to him, for the pledge that Nepal has taken over the thoughts of AtalJi, the wisdom that he had , and the perspective that he had provided for the contemporary situation, which he had expressed in his poetry.\nThe cultural relations of our countries are very old. However, it is certain that the relationship with a country does not become strong or long lasting.\nIf only Kathmandu and Delhi come together; If the governments in Kathmandu and Delhi come together, that alone is not enough; The relation will not be strengthened as the people of Nepali and Indian mingle with each other And today the excellent work of strengthening the people to people has been done with the inauguration of this Dharmshala which is a symbol of Nepal-India friendship.\nLord Pashupatinath is the important place in Lord Thevoor of Thevaram, the best place. And Baba Pashupatinath has given its infinite devotees of remote South India to himself in this temple like the Ganesh and Kartik for hundreds of years from generation to generation. And so today, with my best friend Prime Minister Oli Ji, there is no limit to my happiness while devoting Nepal-Bharat Maitri Pashupati Dharamsala to travelers all over the world, for tourists, for Shiva devotees. For the convenience of devotees coming from all over the world, I have had the privilege of giving a small gift to the people at the feet of Pashupatinath by the hundred and fifty million Indians.\nMy dear brothers and sisters, whenever I come to Kathmandu, I deeply feel the love and the people of Nepal. And this is not the only affinity can be seen in Nepal About four years ago, I got a chance to worship at the Pashupatinath Jaw on the last Monday of the month of Shravan. Few months ago, when I came here, I had the privilege of visiting all three major pilgrimages i.e. Pashupatinath, Muktinath and JanakiDham. Today I am overwhelmed with devotion as I got the opportunity to visit and offer my prayers right at the feet of Baba Pashupatinath once again. These feelings are not alone, millions and millions of devotees of Lord Shiva all over India and though out of the world, who have taken the spiritual life and religious rituals, those who are always engrossed in God's devotion, they have the desire to visit PashupatinathJi once in their life time This bond of devotion to Lord Shiva and devotees of Lord Shiva between India and Nepal is so strong that it has neither been affected by the distance nor by time or difficult terrain.\nKathmandu and Kanyakumari are thousands of kilometers apart but the stories of PashupatinathJi have been reverberating in Tamil Nadu for more than one thousand five hundred years.\nAnd Baba Pashupatinath has given its infinite devotees of remote South India to himself in this temple like the Ganesh and Kartik for hundreds of years from generation to generation. And so today, with my best friend Prime Minister Oli Ji, there is no limit to my happiness while devoting Nepal-Bharat Maitri Pashupati Dharamsala to travelers all over the world, for tourists, for Shiva devotees. For the convenience of devotees coming from all over the world, I have had the privilege of giving a small gift to the people at the feet of Pashupatinath by the hundred and fifty million Indians.\nShaivKuruvar'sthaivaram has an important place for Lord PashupatinathJi; it has an excellent reference And Baba Pashupatinath has provided a space for his numerous devotees who have far-flung southern India, for centuries and generation after generation like Ganesh and Kartik. Today I am overwhelmed while dedicating this Nepal-India Friendship PashupatiDharamshala along with my best friend Prime Minister Oli Ji to the travelers, to the tourists and devotees of Lord Shiva from all over the world. I am fortunate to have this opportunity to make this small offering in the feet of Lord Pashupatinath on behalf of 1.25 billion Indians for the benefit of the devotees who came here from all over the world.\nFriends, Pashupatinath, Muktinath and JanakiDham, they all unite Nepal's diversity in unity and at the same time each moment, they are with Nepal's relations with India. Baba Vishwanath and Pashupatinath connect Kashi and Kathmandu and I am from the land of Somnath. Somnath to Vishwanath, Vishwanath to Pashupatinath, similarly the relation of Mother Sita and Lord Shri Ram connects Janakpur with Ayodhya and Lord Jagannath and Muktinath connect Puri with Mastang. Lord Pashupatinath presiding here in this beautiful Bagmati valley, where on the one side there is Dhaulagiri and Annapurna; and Sagarmatha and KanchanJanga on the other side. It gives a beautiful and wonderful experience to the devotees of Lord Shiva and tourists from all over the world. In a way, the holy land of Kathmandu is a place of confluence of both Hinduism and Buddhism. In what way, these two faiths are inclusive of one another, and there is amity between the followers of both the faiths, which is the result of which Kathmandu of the lanes and pathways pass through. This temple of Lord PashupatinathJi is also surrounded by the centers of many faiths, like it is intertwined with the fleck of Buddhist monks. As Pradeep Ji said only a while ago that one doesnt know even when the chanting Om Mani Padme Hum unites with the chanting of Om NamahShivay by the devotees of Lord Shiva. This tradition is also an important link between the relations of Nepal and India. If Lumbini in Nepal gave Gautam to the world, then Bodh Gaya in India turned him into Lord Buddha for the world. The path shown by Gautam Buddha is a inspiration to solve many problems of the world of the problems of extremism and terrorism.\nFriends, India and Nepal have historical partnership of faith, soul and affinity. This is our unbreakable bond, this is our invaluable treasure and heritage. Our glorious history of thousands of years, our shared allegiance to VasudhaivaKutumbakam is the value that both the countries differ from the world of many other civilizations.\nAs Oli Ji was talking about - SarveBhavantuSukhinah; SarveSantuNiramaya Praying the welfare of everyone, not just the loved ones, but for the whole of the world. And the self-confidence derived from this rich tradition will secure our place in the world. The future of both countries will be determined Whatever we are able to achieve today, it will be meaningful only when everyone will develop, who have been persecuted exploited. Today, India is scaling new heights of economic development. It is moving on the path of Reform, Perform and Transform Today it is shining in the sky The philosophy of 'Together with everyone, Development for everyone (SabkaSath-SabkaVikas)' with which we are moving forward, also has similar place for our Nepalese brothers and sisters. When we talk about 'Together with everyone, Development for everyone,' then it is for everyone. It has been a part of our tradition to help neighbors and contributors in their prosperity, in accordance with that and with blessings of Baba Pashupatinath, the relationship between both countries is also moving forward.\nFriends, every Indian is happy to see that today Nepal is politically stable. As a result, Nepal's pace is growing up Today, I would like to assure the Prime Minister and the people of Nepal who are present here that India's good wishes and cooperation will always be there for the welfare of Nepal and its people. India and Nepal are the millions of people of life, this is the uninterrupted movement of faith, civilization and culture. I do not believe that India-Nepal Friendship Dharamshala is just a building where some tourists will come and stay, it is not just a place to stay The feelings of India-Nepal When they will go back to their homes, they will go back with this feeling of eternal friendship between India and Nepal. These are symbols in themselves, the arrangements may be good, but they are able to improve life and this Dharamshala is the symbol which gives us strength . This arrangement is not just a facility for a traveler to stay overnight It strengthens tourism in Nepal These arrangements are available for tourists coming to Nepal. A person with a modest income can also benefit from such arrangement. This building is not just a building, it is not just a place of retiring or sleeping. This unit provides a new energy to the economic activity related to the tourism of Nepal. It has a new power, a new power to it And tourism is such a sector which has the potential of generating maximum employment with the minimum investment. And when such arrangements are available to the general public, tourists also want to visit, they also want to stay here and when a tourist stays, then he certainly gives something.\nI believe that this Nepal-India Friendship Pashupatinath is a landmark, it is not just a building or a place to stay or retire, but it is a pillar of friendship, it will become an energy center which provides momentum to the economic system. With this belief, once again I express my heartfelt gratitude towards Prime Minister of Nepal.\nBecause BIMSTEC was such an important event, which has sent a positive message to the whole world from Kathmandu. When the BIMSTEC summit represents twenty-two percent of world population being organized in Nepal at the feet of Lord Pashupatinath then the resolutions were made here unfulfilled. And therefore, I believe that the Prime Minister Oli Ji in Kathmandu, in the lap of Himalayas will play a great and decisive role in establishing this region in peace and security. Hon'ble Oli Ji has accomplished this thing for which he deserves compliments and praise therefore I congratulate him\nOnce again, I would like to express that. And it is our good fortune that we are able to offer this gift. People in India will be happy with this arrangement And this facility will also provide a new opportunity for economic growth. With this feeling, I will again bow down to the feet of Lord and I will conclude my speech. Many-many thanks."