"Share\n\nWe only have diplomatic relations with all BIMSTEC countries but are strongly connected by civilization, history, art, language, cuisine and shared culture: PM Modi\nPM Modi: Big opportunity to expand trade, economic, transport, digital, and people-to-people connectivity in the BIMSTEC region\nBIMSTEC inaugural session: PM Modi calls for greater cooperation among member countries to tackle terrorism and drug trafficking\nYour Excellency, Right Hon'ble Prime Minister OliJi,\nMy fellow leaders from BIMSTEC member countries,\nFirst of all, I would like to thank the Prime Minister OliJi for hosting this successful fourth BIMSTEC Summit. Although this is the first BIMSTEC Summit for me, but in 2016 I had the opportunity to host BIMSTEC Retreat with the BRICS Summit in Goa. The Agenda for Action that we had decided in Goa, our teams have taken a commendable follow-up action on that.\nIt includes,\n- Organizing the first annual BIMSTEC Disaster Management Exercise\n- Two meetings of the National Security Chiefs\n- Progress in discussions on the BIMSTEC Trade Facilitation Agreement.\n- Agreement on the subject of BIMSTEC Grid Inter-Connection\nI congratulate the delegations\nExcellencies,\nFor centuries our countries have been linked with civilization, history, art, language, food and unbreakable bonds of our shared culture. On the one side there is the Great Himalaya mountain range and on the other side there is the Bay of Bengal between the Indian and Pacific oceans. This area of ​​Bay of Bengal has a special significance for our development, security and progress. And, therefore, it is no surprise that the culmination of both India's \"Neighborhood First\" and \"Act East\", happens in the region of the Bay of Bengal\nExcellencies,\nWe are all developing countries Peace, prosperity and happiness in our countries is our biggest priority. But in today's inter-connected world no one can achieve it alone by yourself. We have to walk with each other I believe that the biggest opportunity connectivity - Trade connectivity, Economic connectivity, Transport connectivity, Digital connectivity, and People-to-People connectivity - We will have work on all dimensions. BIMSTEC in coastal shipping and motor vehicles agreements India is ready to host BIMSTEC Start Up Conclave to increase connectivity among our entrepreneurs Most of us are primarily agricultural states and we are facing the risk of climate change. In this context, for cooperation on agricultural research, education and development, India will organize an International Conference on Climate Smart Farming Systems.\nIn the field of digital connectivity India is already committed to enhancing its National Knowledge Network in Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Bhutan and Nepal. We propose to increase it further to include Myanmar and Thailand also. I hope all BIMSTEC countries will be participating in India Mobile Congress in New Delhi this year. The Congress also includes the BIMSTEC Ministerial Conclave India's North-Eastern Region will play an important role in growing connectivity with BIMSTEC member countries. For the development of the North East region of India, we have a project called Science and Technology Interventions in the North Eastern Region. We are going to extend this program to BIMSTEC member countries. Similarly, we will also provide twenty-four scholarships to researchers, students and professionals from BIMSTEC member countries in the North Eastern Space Application Center of India.\nExcellencies,\nA special link in our relations is Buddhism and contemplation. India will host a International Buddhist Conclave in August 2020. I invite all the BIMSTEC member countries to participate in it as Guest of Honor. To promote contact among our young people, India wishes to host a BIMSTEC Youth Summit and a BIMSTEC Band Festival. We can also organize a BIMSTEC Youth Water Sports with them. For the young students of BIMSTEC countries, thirty scholarships at Nalanda University and 12 research fellowships for advanced medicine will also be given at the GIPMER institute. Along with that one hundred short term training courses will also be offered on topics like tourism, environment, disaster management, renewable energy, agriculture, trade and I.T.C. program of India under WTO. We will also establish a Center of Bay of Bengal Studies at Nalanda University for research on arts, culture, maritime laws and other subjects in the Bay of Bengal region. In this center, we can also connect to one another's languages. We can cooperate to revive our historic buildings and monuments in order to benefit from our long history and the tourism potential related to all countries of our historical monuments.\nExcellencies,\nIt is necessary that there is an atmosphere of peace and security in our region for the success of our shared efforts for regional integration and economic progress and prosperity. Our countries, connected with the Himalayas and the Gulf of Bengal, often face natural disasters. Sometimes it is flood, sometimes cyclone, or earthquake. In this context, humanitarian assistance with each other and cooperation and disaster relief is very important. The geographical location of our region is linked to the global maritime trade routes, and Blue Economy has also had a special significance in all our economies. Along with that, the importance of cyber economy will significantly increase for our economies in the coming digital era. And therefore, I welcome the upcoming BIMSTEC Multi-National Military Field Training Exercise and the Army Chief's Conclave that will be held in India next month. India will also host a tri services Humanitarian Assistance and Disaster Relief Exercise of BIMSTEC countries. India is also ready to host the second annual BIMSTEC Disaster Management Exercise. We are also ready to cooperate in capacity building. India will organize a Hackathon for youth from all BIMSTEC countries on Blue Economy. This will focus on the possibilities and cooperation in the Blue Economy.\nExcellencies,\nThere is no conflict between the terrorism and transnational crimes. We are ready to organize a conference within the BIMSTEC framework on issues related to narcotics. It is evidently clear that any one country of problems We have to be united to face them And for that we need to In this context, mutual cooperation of our law-makers, especially women MPs, can be very helpful. My proposal is that we should set up a special forum for BIMSTEC women MPs.\nExcellencies,\nBIMSTEC has made remarkable progress in the last two decades. But we still have a long way ahead There are many opportunities to further deepen our economic integration. And that's what our people expect from us too. This fourth summit is a great opportunity to take the expectations, hopes and desires of our people. Declaration of this fourth summit encompasses many important decisions in itself. This will give a lot of strength to the organization and the process of BIMSTEC.\nAlong with that, the success of this summit will prove to be a significant milestone and provide strength to BIMSTEC processes. For this I congratulate the leadership of the host country, the government of Nepal, OliJi, and the leadership of all the members countries. India is committed to working shoulder to shoulder\nThank you.\nThanks a lot\nIndia is already committed to enhancing its National Knowledge Network in Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Bhutan and Nepal in the field of digital connectivity: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) August 30, 2018\nIn August 2020, India will host the International Buddhist Conclave.\nI invite all BIMSTEC member countries to participate in this as Guest of Honor: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) August 30, 2018\nWe will also establish a Center of Bay of Bengal Studies at Nalanda University for research on arts, culture, maritime laws and other subjects in the Bay of Bengal region: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) August 30, 2018\nOur country, associated with the Himalayas and the Gulf of Bengal, frequently faces natural disasters. Never flood, ever cyclone, earthquake ever.\nIn this context, our cooperation and coordination with humanitarian assistance and disaster relief efforts with each other is very important: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) August 30, 2018\nNone of us have been able to face problems like transnational crimes and drug trafficking associated with the network of terrorism and terrorism.\nOn topics related to narcotics, we are ready to organize a conference in BIMSTEC frame-work: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) August 30, 2018\n"