"\nPM Modi appeals for making \"Swachhata hi Sewa\" campaign a success\nPravasi Bharatiya Divas next year: PM\nAs a citizen of India, we have the right and duty to ensure that our name is on the voters' list, says PM\nIt is our responsibility to ensure that all central flagship programs reach their targeted beneficiaries: PM Modi to BJP Karyakartas\nHello friends,\nToday, once again, I am getting an opportunity to interact with Kashi's workers. On Monday, the district and metropolitan workers talked, talked to the workers at the level level and campaign for voter registration and verification, connecting people with the public welfare schemes, and the coming of the people of Kashi Participation, on many such topics, I got the opportunity to talk to you most. I am pretty sure that the information of these discussions must have reached to you, and it has also been discussed about how and what to do next.\nIn the coming days, maybe you will sit down and discuss this and I believe this is the criterion, this is the test that there is co-ordination in Team Kashi. Yesterday I was telling the workers of the Mandal that feedback from top to bottom, right information should be known and from top to bottom, right guidance, guidelines, and that too very smooth. Without any flow, there is no diversion There is no dialysis.\nAnd then a team of people goes on the same platform, from the same platform, by adding their strength in one direction. Second, such workers who are not working in the party with certain obligations because everyone in the system So can not be included, but we are not those people who work only for the charge. We are the people who live for the workload. This system is in charge, it is the responsibility of the workload and we have grown up with the rites of the responsibilities. The five-five, six-six generations of life-filled work that is in front of us-that is, the mind attached to it, the time given, these people are equally part of Team Kashi as much as Narendra Modi.\nCome, I still feel better talking to some activists.\nPM Modi - Hello Dr. Manoj\nDr. Manoj - Hello Sir. Vande Mataram First of all, I heartily thank you for the people of Kashi that a large organization like Tata Memorial Cancer Hospital is in Kashi, so that poor brothers will not have to go to Mumbai and this is where treatment is possible. Thank you very much for this. I have a question that what medical facilities are available for Kashi in the coming days. Because this conversation is seeing the whole world, the whole India is watching the year, what new changes in the field of medicine, what new dimensions are going to come, discuss this matter with the head in detail that our Kashishas can benefit. Thank you Sir, Vande Mataram\nPM Modi- Dr. Manoj ji, I am grateful to you because you have touched a very important question. There is a family of middle class, a family of lower middle class, poor family, if the disease enters the family once all the dreams of the family are crushed and no matter how powerful the citizen Can not do anything on your behalf He wants arrangements, needs governmental arrangements, needs public order and we believe that in the Preventive Healthcare Segment, we should also stress. Healthcare should also be Affordable. Today Kashi is working as a medical hub for millions of crores population in the vicinity.\nPeople from various states are taking advantage of medical facilities after visiting Kashi. You will be happy to know that BHU Hospital is going to be the best hospital in the country in the near future. According to which an MOU has been done, a lot of increase in the facility will be done here. Now BHU will also be developed on the lines of AIIMS, which will give everyone the latest medical facilities. Modern health infrastructure is being raised in BHU. Cancer treatment facilities have also been developed and which is itself a doctor and now even the general public of Kashi has started to know, now the patient will not only get good treatment but will not have to go far away.\nMedical colleges and hospitals of many states will also be linked with Kashi by tele-medicine, so that people in remote areas can also take advantage of it. A Health Wellness Center is going to open soon in Banaras. CGHS dispensary for government employees is also open. It is a matter of great pride that today thousands of doctors in India are providing proactive actively in improving the health of pregnant women and their children by providing free services. Millions of people across the country are benefiting from this.\nAyushman is spreading a network of wellness centers across India, which will give people good health facilities. For the first time, 100 million households are getting health insurance or about half of the population, so that the poor will get a new force in the fight against the disease and I believe that as far as the latest arrangements are necessary for the treatment of diseases, the same as the need for preventive health care. is.\nVaccination work should be 100% No cleanliness should be done in cleanliness. Drink water also sometimes causes illness. If we give our contribution as a social worker in the social life as an activist of the Bharatiya Janata Party, then we can all be very helpful in the lives of ordinary human beings. Manoj ji, thank you, you today gave me an opportunity to talk about health issues.\nPM Modi - Hello Upendra\nUpendra Nath Rai - Hello Prime Minister, I am Upendra Nath Rai. Sir retired from Indian Navy after completing 15 years of service in 2001. At that time the pension was very low for us and we had two small children. I was thinking how to give good education to them, Sir, I worked hard for this. The child studied engineering. Moving away from the last, our schooling would stop, but Sir, your decision ended our many problems.\nBecause of the forest rank one pension declaration we got two lakh rupees due to which the child's education was completed and today it has settled very well. For this I wanted to contact you for a long time. Today is the time for this contact, Sir, I want to thank you very much. And Sir when we were in the job, that time we had big problems for voting people. It was a big problem for the holidays. If you have any advice for this, then it will be great grace. Tell me sir, thanks sir\nPM Modi- Upendraji has worked in Navy, you have been working in Navy so much time will be there in Gujarat too.\nUpendra nath ji sir\nPM Modi- Where were Porbandar?\nUpendra Nath-ji Sir Porbandar\nPM Modi - how good it is there\nUpendra Nath - There were two years there ...\nPM Modi - Well then you are well acquainted with all things ...\nUpendra nath ji sir\nPM Modi- Upendraji, it is a matter of great pleasure for me that one rank, one pension, this decision has brought a positive change in the lives of lakhs of army personnel like Upendra Ji and they will also get the job of getting money right from time to time. Could\nYou have asked about the service voter registration which is definitely an important topic. For those people who are working in different areas like Army, Navy, Air Force, BSF, CRPF, SSB, the Election Commission has made provision of service voter registration for them. It can be used by their families as well. It is very simple. One website is www.servicevoter.nic.in. Visiting this website can get detailed information about this topic.\nThe person working in the army or the Para Military, through his native place where he is going to live, can register himself, his family name in the voter's list. And not only, he can also vote through postal ballot or proxy later.\nYesterday, I talked with a lot of detail about voter registration with workers. As a citizen, we also have the right to all of us and duty also to ensure that our name is on the voter's list. Our not only the names of people around us are also in the voters' list, such awareness is necessary.\nWe should be proud of voting rights because through this we get a very big opportunity to determine the future of our country. It is often seen that people do not remain vigilant about being named in the electoral roll. Many times the people then know that their name is not in the voter list when they reach to vote. The disadvantage of this is that they have to be deprived of the biggest rights of democracy that is the franchise.\nActually, it is a major responsibility of the booth workers group. The booth workers should divide all the families of their booths to ensure that their name is in the voters' list. You raised a good question. I would like to convey this message to our ex-servicemen, and I have seen myself that the X Service Men, their groups in social media are very good, they are very active. Upendraji must definitely use it. I will manage this information on Narendra Modi app too. You can also get these information from the Narendra Modi app to our all the military brothers.\nPM Modi - Anand ji Namaste\nAnand Srivastav - Best wishes to you I want to say to you that wherever I go, I try that there should be any special thing about that place, something is happening, I take photos of people associated with that work, live it. For example, I went to Mirzapur, was going to visit Vindhyachal, we used to fix that path in one and a half hours, it was a 18-kilometer road, but I reached this time in 18 minutes.\nAt the age of 35, I did not know and I did not have to visit hundreds of times to see mother, sometimes I did not see the root of it. And four lane road, so smooth road, very much reached the eighi. Ever since that road has been built and it has started, I have gone eight to ten times and have gone with my family for the visit of Mother. I want to say to you that in the work of this sanitation, those who are engaged in this work, I help them with their help. They take their pictures, take their photos, I live with them and broadcast the social media.\nYou are requested to use social media to find out how to create all positive environments. Get people useful information and get the best use of this medium. Please tell it.\nPM Modi- Anandji I think you are very active on social media and are using great mobile phones. I know your videos are quite popular. In a way, you have become a journalist of Tanak without traveling around. Some people are doing good work and they are positive, or some people work only to spread the smell. I liked that some people are focusing on positive, good things. I have been urging the workers for the last several days to record small videos showing the changing India from their mobile and share them on social media.\nWhen Anand Ji shares the video of the progress of the gas pipeline work under the photo of the railway station of Varanasi and the energy Ganga, then whoever sees it is proud, the confidence in the country's capabilities increases. Today India is making historic and unforeseen progress and I tell you, Anand jiap is doing it. Wherever our former President, Dr. Abdul Kalam, his soul would get peace as it always used to say that there should be an atmosphere of positive news in the country. Negative things are given to us in such a way that frustrates the common emerging man of the country, forcing the house to sit.\nDo whatever you dreamed by Dr. Abdul Kalam in your way, talk about positive things, spread positive things, and when you discuss light, then there is no room for darkness. And I believe in every village now there is electricity in every village, there is a school in every village in India, there is toilet, India has become the most mobile manufacturing country in the world, India has become the most growing aviation market in the world, India is the world's fastest growing economy, India is the fastest poverty eradication in the world, more than the number of people who ride in the aircondensed train in India People climb on the plane - now just think, these things will not fill the Indians proudly. It is the duty of all aware citizens to reach the government's plans to more and more people so that every section of the society can take advantage of these schemes.\nI am astonished sometimes, in the neighborhood you will be in every corner of every country of the world, in the middle of the neighborhood too, sometimes the sticks will come on the road, the incident of the mohalla The village did not even know, but nowadays due to the use of this mobile phone some people upload it, and occasionally the battle of two families in the locality becomes a national news and it can last twenty four hours. ऐसी स्थिति में अच्छी, पॉजिटिव चीजें जो समाज को ताकत दे जब हम करते हैं और जब शेयर करते हैं तो क्रिएटिविटी का बहुत बड़ा रोल है। आपने सोशल मीडिया पर देन एंड नाऊ वाली कोई फोटो देखी होगी। एक फोटो में पहले काशी की सड़कों पर बिजली के तारों का जंजाल दिखाया गया और उसके पास में अंडरग्राउंड वायरिंग का काम होने के बाद की फोटो दिखाई गयी। ये सचमुच में जब फर्क किसी को दिखता है तो कहता है, हाँ यार कुछ हुआ है।\nपिछले चार वर्षों में सरकार पूरी प्रतिबद्धता के साथ काशी के विकास के लिए काम कर रही है। आज काशी में सड़कों से लेकर, रेलवे स्टेशन और एयरपोर्ट तक आपको विकास दिखाई देगा। काशी में काफी तेजी से बदलाव आ रहा है और सिर्फ वाराणसी महानगर में ही नहीं, पूरे वाराणसी में बदलाव स्पष्ट देखा जा सकता है। हमारा देश कैसे बदल रहा है, हमारी काशी कैसे बदल रही है, इन सबकी जानकारी आपको नरेन्द्र मोदी ऐप से भी मिल सकती है। वहां इन्फो ग्राफिक्स हैं, छोटे-छोटे वीडियोज हैं जिन्हें आप खुद देखें और आगे फॉरवर्ड भी कर सकते हैं, शेयर भी कर सकते हैं।\nऐप पर वॉलंटियरिंग के लिए भी काफी सारी चीजें हैंऔर जाते-जाते मैं आपसे दो चीजें शेयर करते जाना चाहता हूँ। पहला, अगले 15 सितम्बर से दो अक्टूबर तक स्वच्छता ही सेवा का एक देशव्यापी अभियान शुरू हुआ है। इस दौरान हम सब मिलकर काशी में क्या-क्या कर सकते हैं, इसकी योजना अभी से बनाना शुरू कर दें।\nदूसरा, आगामी 21 से 23 जनवरी तक, प्रवासी भारतीय दिवस काशी में आयोजित होने वाला है। दुनिया भर के भारतवासी काशी आयेंगे। वे काशी की कौन सी छवि लेकर जायेंगे, इस पर हम अभी से सोचें और उसमें कुछ योगदान दें।\nअब तक कई देशों के राष्ट्राध्यक्षों ने काशी में आकर भारतीय संस्कृति के दर्शन किये हैं। इस बार अपने ही परिवार के वे लोग, एक प्रकार से भारतीय लोग, कोई दो पीढ़ी पहले गया, कोई चार पीढ़ी, वे विश्व भर में नाम रोशन कर रहे हैं। ये वे भारतीय हैं जो बरसों बाद अपनी मिट्टी के दर्शन करेंगे। कुछ लोग ऐसे भी होंगे जो अपने आप को हिंदुस्तान का कहते होंगे मगर उन्हें कभी भारत को देखने का सौभाग्य नहीं मिला होगा। काशी के पास इन सब लोगों से संवाद करने का सुनहरा अवसर होगा।\nहमारा कर्तव्य है कि हम उन्हें महान भारतीय संस्कृति और सभ्यता का अनुभव करवा सकें। काशी का हर घर, हर गली, हर मोहल्ला भारतीय संस्कृति में रंगा हो, काशी का हर घर मेहमान नवाजी के लिए तैयार हो। मुझे याद है जब शहर से कोई रिश्तेदार घर आता था, तो घर के ही अलग-अलग परिवारों में इस बात की जिद होती थी कि कम से कम हमारे घर में एक दिन के लिए तो ठहरें। दुनिया भर के भारतवासियों के लिए भी काशी के मन में ऐसी ही ललक पैदा हो।\nहजारों की संख्या में काशीवासी अपने यहाँ मेहमानों को ठहराएँ, साथ ही उन्हें यहाँ की कला-संस्कृति से अवगत करवाएं। पूरी काशी स्वच्छ और सुन्दर हो, इसके लिए अभी से तैयारियां करवाएं। और मैं ये भी कहना चाहूंगा, आप सोशल मीडिया पर हैं, कभी-कभी लोग मर्यादाएं चूक जाते हैं, किसी भी झूठी बात को सुना तो उसको आगे कर दिया, देखते भी नहीं है कि मैं इससे समाज का कितना नुकसान कर रहा हूँ।\nकुछ लोग तो ऐसे शब्द प्रयोग करते हैं कि किसी भी सभ्य समाज को शोभा नहीं देता है। बहलावे के लिए कुछ भी लिख देते हैं, कुछ भी बोल देते हैं। मैं समझता हूँ ये किसी एक राजनीतिक दल का विषय नहीं है, किसी एक विचार का विषय नहीं है। ये सवा सौ करोड़ देशवासियों को, हम सबको अपने आपको प्रशिक्षित करना होगा कि हम इस टेक्नोलॉजी का, इस विज्ञान का उपयोग कभीभी गंदगी फैलाने में न करें। हमारा स्वच्छता अभियान दिमागी स्वच्छता से जुड़ा हुआ होना चाहिए।\nकितनी उत्तम चीजें हमारे पास हैं, कितनी उत्तम बातें हैं, हम उसी को शेयर करेंगे, एक ऐसा पवित्र माहौल बना सकते हैं। इसलिए मैं चाहता हूँ कि जिस सड़क पर आपको घंटे लगते थे उसे आपने मिनटों में तय कर लिया, इस बात को दुनिया को बताया, ऐसी बहुत सारी और बाते हैं। सिर्फ आप नहीं, सकारात्मक खबरें देने वाले की टोली बनाइये, सच्ची हो, सकारात्मक हो। किसी की भलाई के लिए मैं नहीं कह रह हूँ, किसी राजनीतिक दल की भलाई के लिए मैं नहीं कह रहा हूँ, सरकार की भलाई के लिए नहीं कह रहा हूँ, समाज की ताकत बनती है, बहुत नाम होगा देश का।\nआपने देखा होगा, कभी किसी ऑटो रिक्शे में कोई अपना पर्स भूल जाता है, अन्दर एक लाख-दो लाख रुपया है और ऑटो रिक्शा वाला उसे ढूंढ़ करके जब पहुँचाता है, आपने देखा वो खबर हिंदुस्तान के किसी कोने में जायेगी, नया विश्वास देती है। उसमें सरकार की जय-जयकार नहीं है, आपकी आवाज की ताकत की जय-जयकार है। इसलिए मैं कहता हूँ सकारात्मक चीजों पर बल दीजिये और जो भी गंध फैलाने वाले लोग हैं उनको तवज्जो ही मत दीजिये, नेगलेक्ट कीजिये, अपना काम करते रहिये, पॉजिटिव करते रहिये। आप देखिये, धीरे-धीरे इतनी बढ़िया टेक्नोलॉजी है, समाज के हर व्यक्ति को ताकत दे सकती है। आप सबसे आज बात करने का मुझे मौका मिला, मुझे अच्छा लगा, हम सब इसी तरह से, संगठन के, देश के काम को मिलजुल कर आगे बढ़ाते रहे।\nThanks a lot."