"\n#MannKiBaat: PM Narendra Modi extends Raksha Bandhan and Janmashtami greetings to people across the country\nKnowledge and teachers are invaluable. Apart from mothers, teachers are the only people who have an influence on our lives: PM Modi #MannKiBaat\nThe flood in Kerala has severely affected public life. The whole nation stands with Kerala at this difficult time: PM during #MannKiBaat\nThe extent of devastation caused by disasters is unfortunate but at the same time, we are also witness the humanity: PM during #MannKiBaat\nArmed forces personnel are the ongoing rescue work in Kerala. They have left no stone unturned to save the people: PM Modi #MannKiBaat\nThe efforts of NDRF team in handling the situation in Kerala show their potential and commitment: PM Modi during #MannKiBaat\nOn 16th August, the whole nation was deeply saddened to hear about our beloved Atal Ji: PM Narendra Modi during #MannKiBaat\nThe affection and respect for Atal Ji from people across the country reflects his great personality: PM during the #MannKiBaat\nThe nation will always remembered Prime Minister: PM Modi #MannKiBaat\nThe country will always be grateful to Atal ji for bringing good governance to the mainstream: PM Narendra Modi during #MannKiBaat\nAtal Ji was a true patriot: PM Narendra Modi during #MannKiBaat\nIt was during the tenure of Atal Ji that India witnessed 'another independence'. Indian Flag Code was created and commissioned in 2002: PM during #MannKiBaat\nThis monsoon session will forever be remembered as an exemplary move for social justice and well-being of youth: PM #MannKiBaat\nWe passed an amendment in the Monsoon Session that will protect the rights of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes and benefit from them with better security: PM #ManKiBaat\nOur players are excelling in sports like shooting and wrestling, but now they are shining even in those arenas where we did not get well in the past: PM during #MannKiBaat\nOur award-winning players come from a different background, with a high percentage of girls who stand out victorious, who in itself is a positive news: PM Modi #MannKiBaat\nIt is my humble appeal to all the citizens that they should indulge in some sport and keep themselves fit as only a healthy India can lead to a prosperous and developed India: PM #MannKiBaat\nIndia has borne multiple engineers who turn unimaginable in achievable and created marvels that often miracles as illustrative: PM Modi #ManKiBaat\nMy dear countrymen, Namaskar Today, the whole country is celebrating Rakshabandhan Heartiest greetings to all fellow citizens on this auspicious occasion. The festival of Rakshabandhan symbolizes the bond of love \u0026 trust between a brother and a sister. For centuries, this festival has proved to be a social affair. In the nation's history, there are innumerable accounts of this sacred thread, binding together people of distant lands, different religions, around a spindle of trust. In a few days from now, we will celebrate the festival of Janmashtami The whole atmosphere will reverberate to the sonorous chants \u0026 calls of 'Hathi, Ghoda, Palki', 'Jai Kanhaiya Lal Ki' and 'Govinda-Govinda'. It is indeed an extremely joyous experience, imbue the essence of Lord Krishna and revel blissfully. In other parts of the country, especially Maharashtra, our young friends must be busy with preparations of 'Dahi-Handi' .... The festive ritual of the human pyramid breaking the curd filled pot. Heartiest greetings to all countrymen on the festive occasions of Rakshabandhan and Janmashtami.\nBhagini Chinmayee, Bhavati Sanskrit - Question | Sister Chinmayee has asked a question in Sanskrit. Excellent, extraordinary My salutations to you On the occasion of Sanskrit week, I extend my best wishes to all countrymen.\nI am very thankful to young Chinmayee for touching this subject. Friends, Apart from Rakshabandhan, Shravan Poornima is also celebrated as Sanskrit Day.\nI congratulate all those actively involved in preserving \u0026 conserving this glorious heritage, helping to reach out to the masses. Every language has its own significance, sanctity. India takes great pride in the fact that Tamil is the most ancient of world languages We Indians also feel proud that from Vedic times to modern day, Sanskrit language has played a stellar role in the universal knowledge of spread.\nSanskrit language \u0026 literature encompasses a storehouse of knowledge pertaining to every aspect of life. Science \u0026 Technology, Agriculture \u0026 Health, Mathematics \u0026 Management, Economy \u0026 Environment, The whole spectrum has touched upon It is said that our Vedas have detailed reference on Mantras, on ways \u0026 means to counter the challenges of global warming. You will be happy to know that even today, residents of village Mattur in Shivamoga district of Karnataka used Sanskrit as their language.\nYou will be astonished to know that Sanskrit is a language that possesses the capacity for infinite word formation with two thousand verb roots, 200 suffixes and 22 prefixes; coupled with compounds, the possibility of word-creation is limitless And that is why the minutest nuance of an expression or subject can be accurately described. This is the core specialty of Sanskrit Today, at times, in order to communicate more assertively, we tend to make use of English quotes or even shher-o-shayari-urdu poetry. But those who are well acquainted with Sanskrit Subhashitas - epigrammatic verses, know very well that it is possible to make a crisp, precise statement, using very few words through the usage of subhashitas. And since there is an understanding of geographical and cultural related, they are easy to understand \u0026 assimilate.\nFor example, in order to illustrate the significance of the Guru in one's life, it has been said\nEkamipi Akrammastu Guru: Disciple Prabodhye r ~ |\nPredevils, then the nostalgic, if - Datta is u.khk Hkosr ~ ||\nThereby meaning, when a teacher imparts even an iota of knowledge to the student, there is no material or wealth on the whole earth that the student can use, to repay the guru. We must abide by the same essence, the same spirit as we celebrate Teachers' Day. Knowledge \u0026 the Guru are incomparable, invaluable, priceless, On the occasion of Teachers' Day, we remember the great philosopher, former President of India Dr. Sarvapalli Radhakrishnan ji. His birth anniversary is celebrated as Teacher 'day across the country. I felicitate all the teachers in the country. I also salute your understanding of science, education and students.\nMy dear countrymen, the monsoon comes along, bringing a new ray of hope to our toiling farmers. It provided much needed help to the scorched trees \u0026 shrubs, and to parched water bodies; On the other hand excessive rainfall causes devastating floods. It's a vagary of Nature that other places have compared to some places that have received higher rainfall. We just saw how the terrible floods in Kerala have affected human lives. In today's pressing, hard times, the whole nation is with Kerala. Our sympathies are those families who lost their loved ones Loss of life can not be compensated, but I assure the grief-stricken families that in the moment of suffering \u0026 misery, a hundred and twenty five crore Indians stand by their shoulders, shoulder to shoulder. I pray for those diseases I firmly believe that the grit and courage of the people of the state will rise again.\nDisasters, leave behind a trail of destruction But one goes to witness facets of humanity, humaneness during disasters From Kutch to Kamrup, from Kashmir to Kanyakumari, everyone is endeavoring to contribute in some way or other so that wherever a disaster strikes, be it Kerala or any other part of India, human life returns to normalcy Irrespective of age group or area of ​​work Everyone is trying to ensure speedy mitigation of the victims in Kerala, in fact sharing their pain. We know that the Jawans of our armed forces are the vanguards of rescue and relief operations in Kerala. They have left no stone unturned as saviors of those trapped in the floods. The Air Force, Navy, Army, BSF, CISF, RAF, every agency has played an exemplary role in the rescue and relief operations. I would like to specially mention the arduous endeavors of the NDRF Daredevils. At this moment of hardship \u0026 agony, their service stands out as a shining example. The capability, commitment \u0026 control situation through rapid decisions of the NDRF has made them a citizen of every Indian's eye, worthy of respect \u0026 admiration. Yesterday was the festival of Onam We pray for Onam to provide power to the country, especially Kerala so that it returns to normalcy on development. Once again on behalf of all Indians, I would like to re-assure every and everyone in Kerala and other affected places that at this moment of calamity, the whole country stands by them.\nMy dear countrymen! I was looking for \"Man Ki Ki Baat\" The topic about which people from across the country has written is \"Our revered Atal Behari Vajpayee\" Kirti from Ghaziabad, Swati Vats from Sonipat, Bhar Praveen from Kerala, Dr. Swapan Banerjee from West Bengal, Akhilesh Pandey from Katihar, Bihar and many others have written on Narendra Modi Mobile App and MyGov asking me to talk on various aspects of Atalji's life. As soon as the people in our country and abroad heard of the demise of Atalji on 16th August, everyone drowned in sadness. He was the leader of Prime Minister fourteen years ago. In a way, he was cut-off from active politics for the last 10 years. He was not seen in the news or in public life\nTen years is a huge gap but on 16th August our country and the whole world witnessed that common man's heart in even a single moment of the gap was not there. The wave of love and faith that spread across the nation During these last days, many great aspects of Atalji came up to the fore. People remembered him as the best member of parliament, sensitive writer, best orator and most popular The country will ever remain grateful to Atalji for bringing good governance in the main stream. But, I just want to touch on one more facet of Atalji's legendary personality and that is the political culture, which Atalji has given to India, our efforts to change our political culture in the changes, its efforts to make it a organized framework and which proves very beneficial for India and a bigger benefit This is certain. India will remain grateful to Atalji for bringing the 91st Amendment Act, 2003. This change brought about two important changes in India's politics.\nFirst one is the size of the cabinet in states was restricted to 15% of the total seats in the state assembly.\nAnd the second one is that the limit of the Anti-Defection Law was enhanced from one-thirds to two-thirds. Apart from this, clear guidelines were defined to disqualify the defector.\nFor many years in India, the political culture of forming a very large cabinet was being misused to constitute jumbo cabinets not only to create a divide but also to appease political leaders. Atalji changed it. This effort of his resulted in saving money This also helped in improving efficiency It could only be a visionary like Atalji who brought in this transformation and as a result of this, healthy traditions blossomed in our polity.\nAtalji was a true patriot It was during his tenure that the budget was changed. Earlier, as was the British tradition, the budget used to be presented at 5 pm because in London, Parliament used to start working at that time. In the year 2001, Atalji changed the time of presenting the budget from 5 pm to 11 am. One more freedom- The Indian Flag Code was framed in Atalji's tenure and it came in effect in 2002. Such codes were included in this code, which made it possible to public places in the tricolor unfurl. This provided a chance to our country is unfurl our national flag. Thus, he brought our beloved tricolor closer to the common man. You must have noticed how on the basis of basic reforms, whether in our election process or the people's representatives concerning shortcomings. Similarly, you can see that presently the efforts are going on and discussions are being held on the same day for Lok Sabha and for state assemblies. The government and the opposition - both are considered their view points This is a good development and a healthy sign for our democracy. I must say that developing healthy traditions for a sound democracy, making constant efforts to strengthen democracy, encouraging open-minded debates would also be a proper tribute to Atalji. Reiterating our resolve to fulfill his dream of a prosperous and developed India, I along with all the tributes to Atalji\nMy dear countrymen! Whenever there is a discussion about Parliament is thereadays, it is about hold-ups, noisy scenes and stalling the proceedings but when something good happens, it is not given much importance. The monsoon session of Parliament You will be glad to know that the productivity of the Lok Sabha remained 118 percent and that of the state Sabha was 74 percent. All the members rose up party interest to make the monsoon session most productive and this is why Lok Sabha passes 21 bills and in Rajya Sabha fourteen bills passed. This Monsoon session of Parliament will always be remembered as a social justice and youth welfare. A number of important bills to be eligible for the session. As you know, a demand to constitute an OBC Commission similar to SC / ST The country fulfilled its resolution this time to make an OBC Commission and also granted it Constitutional powers This step is going to prove to be our goal toward social justice. An amendment bill to secure the rights of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes also passed into this session. This Act will give more security to the interests of SC and ST communities. This will also forbids criminals from indulging in atrocities and will instill confidence among the dalit communities.\nNo civil society can tolerate The nation will not tolerate those committing rapes. With this point in view Parliament has made a provision of the Criminal Act Amendment Bill. Those guilty of raping will get a minimum sentence of ten years and those found guilty of raping girls below the age of 12 years will be awarded. Recently, you may have read in newspapers, that is a court in Mandsaur in Madhya Pradesh, after a brief hearing of two months, a minor girl raping a convicted two convicates found guilty of death sentence. Earlier, a court in Katni in Madhya Pradesh awarded the death sentence to the guilty after just a hearing of just five days. Courts in Rajasthan have also taken similar quick decisions. This Act will play an effective role in curbing crimes against women and girls. Economic growth will be incomplete without a social transformation The Triple Talaq has passed the Lok Sabha, although it could not be passed in the state Sabha, I assure the Muslim women that they are providing them social justice. When we move forward in the national interest, a change in the lives of the poor, the backward, the exploited and the deprived ones. In the Monsoon session, this time, everyone has jointly presented a ideal approach. Today, I publicly express my heartfelt gratitude to all MP's.\nMy dear countrymen! The focus of the Indians is focused on the Asian Games. Every morning, first of all, people look for newspapers, Television, News and Social Media to check Indian players winning medals. The Asian Games are going on. I wish to congratulate all the players I extend my best wishes to those players Indian players are performing well in shooting and wrestling but our players are winning in those competitions too, in which our performance is not so good before-like WUSHU and ROWING These are not just medals but\nAmong those winning medals for our country are a big number of our daughters who are a very positive sign; so much so, that youngsters of only 15-16 years of age have brought their country by winning medals. This too is a very positive indication that most of the medal-winners are from small towns and villages and these players have achieved this success.\nWe will celebrate National Sports Day on 29th August and I extend my best wishes to all sports lovers and also to legendary hockey wizard Mr. Dhyanchandji.\nI request every citizen to make it a point to play and take care of their fitness as only a healthy India will develop a developed and prosperous India. When India will be fit, only then Once again, I congratulate the medal winners at the Asian Games and also Many good wishes to you\nNamaste Bhavnaji, I respect your sentiments. All of us have seen houses and buildings being constructed of bricks and stones but can you imagine that about twelve hundred years ago, a huge mountain which was given a shape of an elegant, huge and a unique -temple -this May be difficult to imagine, but this happened and that temple is Kailash Nath Temple in Ellora, Mahrashtra Would you believe if about a thousand years ago, an over sixty meters tall granite was built and another granite rock weighing about 80 tons was placed on top in it. But, Brijeshwar Temple of Thanjavur in Tamil Nadu is the place where this incredible combination of Engineering and Architecture can be seen. Anybody will feel overawed on seeing Rani Ki Vaav of the 11th Century in Patan in Gujarat. Our land has been an engineering laboratory There are many engineers in India who made the unimaginable possible and presented in engineering before the world. In this lineage of great engineers, we were blessed with a diamond whose work is still a source of wonder for all. He is Bharat Ratna Dr. M. Visvesvaraya. Lakhs of farmers and common people are going to benefit from Krishna Raj Sagar Dam built by him. He is widely revered in that country. In his memory, 15th September was observed as Engineers Day. Following his footsteps, our engineers have created their own identity in the world.\nWhen I talk of wonders in the engineering world, I am reminded of an incident of 2001 when a devastating earthquake hits Kutch in Gujarat. I used to work as a volunteer there during those days, I got a chance to go to a village and had a chance to meet more than a hundred years of age. And she was looking at me and mocking, saying, \"Look at my house! It is called Bhoonga in Kutch. This house has faced three earthquakes I myself have seen three in this house itself But, you did not know any damage anywhere These houses were built by our ancestors in sync with nature and surroundings of this place \". And she was saying all this with such an feeling of pride that it made me think that the engineers in that era has created local structures according to such structures that kept common man safe and secure. While observing Engineers Day, we should think of the future as well. Workshops should be held at different places. What are we going to do? What do we need to teach? What do we need to connect to? Nowadays, disaster management has assumed immense significance. The world is facing natural calamities. What should be the new form of structural engineering? What courses should be done? What will be taught to students? How do we keep the eco friendly? How do we increase the quality of construction by making the value addition through local materials? How do we make zero waste our priority? All such points need to be pondered upon when we observe Engineers Day.\nMy dear countrymen! There is a mood of festivity and the preparations for Diwali also begin. We will keep meeting through Mann Ki Baat, and will keep sharing issues. We will join hands in our country ahead with heartfelt vigor. With these feelings, I extend my best wishes to you all. Thanks. We shall meet\nThe Prime Minister conveys Rakha Bandhan greetings during #MannKiBaat https://t.co/CbSYmu66bw pic.twitter.com/rrZWfhya14\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) August 26, 2018\nPM @narendramodi also conveys Janmashtami greetings to the people of India #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/okP0P1VcoU\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) August 26, 2018\nChinmayi asks PM @narendramodi to talk about Sanskrit language, since it is Sanskrit Day today. #MannKiBaat https://t.co/CbSYmu66bw\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) August 26, 2018\nGreetings to all\nThis language is deeply connected with our culture. #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/JzO8BnZhgv\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) August 26, 2018\nThere is a strong link between knowledge and Sanskrit #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/iuJzlloYWl\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) August 26, 2018\nSanskrit Subhashitas help articulating things Here is how a Gurus has been described in Sanskrit.\nI also convey greetings on Teacher's Day: PM @narendramodi during #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/gPza5eIwsu\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) August 26, 2018\nPM @narendramodi highlights the importance of teachers in our society. #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/f8559gi0wn\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) August 26, 2018\nIndia stands shoulder to shoulder #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/ANq79PFsvz\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) August 26, 2018\nPeople from all walks of life have come in support of the people of Kerala. #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/Gh1mLoqdt9\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) August 26, 2018\nPM @narendramodi appreciates our forces and various teams that are working on relief work in Kerala. #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/ZIRF0LHmQi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) August 26, 2018\nIf there was one topic which most people wrote, asking @narendramodi to speak, it was the life of the great Atal Ji. #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/ulls302Z1U\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) August 26, 2018\nTributes for Atal Ji has poured in from all sections of society #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/q1qO992Mj6\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) August 26, 2018\nAtal Ji brought a very unique and positive change in India's political culture. #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/e82OZ76YYo\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) August 26, 2018\nIt was decided during the tenure of Prime Minister of the Council of Ministers to 15% of the size of the State Assemblies.\nAtal Ji also made the anti-defect law stricter: PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) August 26, 2018\nRemembering the immense contributions of Atal Ji #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/dQXaZ82hvt\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) August 26, 2018\nWe witnessed a productive monsoon session, for which I congratulated MP colleagues.\nThis was a session devoted to social justice and youth welfare: PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/zQczwLtkoW\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) August 26, 2018\nFulfilling the aspirations of the OBC communities #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/fIJaoqJpUg\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) August 26, 2018\nCommitted to safeguarding the rights of SC and ST communities #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/FRtHyrwbGj\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) August 26, 2018\nOur focus remains as the empowerment of women #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/uWIPAEiuoo\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) August 26, 2018\nThe eyes of the nation\nWe are proud of the medal winners in the 2018 Asian Games and wish those whose events are the best best: PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/xnPF1umS3d\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) August 26, 2018\nI once again urge the people of India to focus on fitness, says PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/vJbfzmVRlo\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) August 26, 2018\nDuring #MannKiBaat, PM @narendramodi greetings the community of engineers and lauds their efforts towards nation building. #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/NazedTZtE2\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) August 26, 2018\nDuring #MannKiBaat, PM @narendramodi greetings the community of engineers and lauds their efforts towards nation building. #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/NazedTZtE2"