"Police, forensic science and judiciary are the criminal justice delivery system: Prime Minister\nGreater technological intervention in forensic science can help solve challenges of cyber security: PM Modi\nIn order to deal with fastly changing crime scenario, we have new technologies to make it clear that criminals will not be spared: PM\nGovernor of Gujarat Shriman O.P. Kohli Ji, Chief Minister Shri Rupani Ji, Deputy Chief Minister Shri Nitin Bhai, His colleagues in the Council of Ministers Mr. Bhupendra Ji Chudasama, Shri Pradeep Singh Jadeja, Director General of Gujarat Forensic Science University Dr. J. M. Vyas, all the dignitaries present in theconvocation, all the medal winner scholars and their guardians and the students who are students of today's event.\nBrothers and sisters,\nI heartily welcome all the 4th convocation of Gujarat Forensic Science University. And I am extending this welcome so that no one wants to do this event. First of all, I would like to warmly congratulate all those students who are going to receive the degrees today and those who are about to start a very important journey of their lives. I also extend my warm greetings to the parents and other members of the students. It is because of their upbringing, their efforts and their hard work\nI am particularly delighted to be at Gujarat Forensic Sciences University. This university and students are studying here. This is a university that offers courses. Instead, the focus area is specific. Your road to Gandhinagar did not have a easy one When you plan to come here, I am sure you asked him, you want to do this? Are you watching too much crime related TV shows? Or, are you reading too many Agatha Christie or Feluda books? Yet, you are persisted and have been traditionally believed to be unconventional but today's age. This shows that you not only believe in yourself but also are blessed with the power of determination. This feature will always help you Friends, it is a matter of pride that in a short time, GFSU has achieved such a bench-mark of academic excellence that the National Assessment and Accreditation Council has given this University an 'A' grade. I am glad that GFSU is very few universities in India, to achieve this immediately after establishment. With Thirty-Five Courses and Two-Thousand Two-Hundred Plus students, Gujarat Forensic Science University is engaged in teaching and research in different areas of Forensic Sciences. I congratulate the leadership, management, and faculty of GFSU for their energy and commitment, making this university the pride of Gujarat and India.\nFriends,\nPolice, forensic science and judiciary, these three things are an integral part of the criminal justice delivery system. In any country, the stronger these three organs are, the safe of the citizens of the country. And keeping this in mind, a comprehensive work to extend these three pillars has been going on in Gujarat with a holistic approach for the last few years. Defense Power University, National Law University and Forensic Science University constitute a complete holistic package. And the result of this approach is that the qualified and trained students who have passed out from the Defense Power University are strengthening the country's internal security by joining the armed forces. The students passing out from the National Law University and Forensic Science University have been further added to the efficiency, investigation and legal process of our armed forces.\nFriends,\nGiven the kind of methods of being abused by these criminals from being exposed to it, it is equally important to make everyone realize that if he does something wrong then he will be caught in the future, he will have one day\nThis fear of being apprehended and the commission of crime by proving it in a court of law is very helpful to keep crimes under check. And the role of forensic science This is a new strength to the credibility of our judicial system.\nAnd I specifically appreciated GFSU for creating a large pool of human resources in a scientific way to strengthen the criminal investigation and justice delivery system. It is not just India, but law enforcement agencies across the globe are coming forward to seek help from your university. Your university is earning reputation at international level by providing training and consultancy to their personnel.\nI have been told that Gujarat Forensic Science University has provided training to more than 6,000 officers in the last six years. More than 700 police officers of 20 countries have also received training here. And they are now using their knowledge and skills. It is a matter of great pride for all of you, for all people of the state that the state is training and education based on global security in such a decisive role.\nFriends,\nIt is also extremely important in the modern times. Digital technology definitely has an important role in play. Digital technology has given a new strength to forensic science. Previously all the tests and investigations were required, but today digital technology has made these processes and jobs even easier and even more precise. And I believe that there is still a lot of scope to develop new software and increase the use of digital tools and we should think in this direction in a more serious way.\nFriends,\nOn the one hand, it has also given birth to a new kind of crime, cyber crime. Cyber ​​crime is not only a challenge for the citizens but it is also affecting our all other important organs like financial institutions, power stations and hospitals as well. It poses a serious challenge to national security not only for India but also for all other countries. Today, on this occasion, I urge all the cyber and digital experts that they should help in keeping the country and society safe and for their empowerment by becoming a partner in Digital India Mission.\nThe government has taken steps to check cyber crime and inculcate fear in the minds of criminals. Cyber ​​Forensic Labs have also been strengthened but the country needs experts like a big way who can help investigators to catch up cyber criminals.\nFriends,\nIt is not just the field of crime alone but the importance of forensic science has increased in other fields as well. For example, in the insurance sector, all companies of settlement of claims. Whether it is a big challenge for them to ascertain whether the person making the claim is a genuine one or not Knowledge of forensic science Similarly, if the people working in the health sector, if they have knowledge of forensic science then they will do their job while keeping the needs of the forensic science in their minds. For example, if an injured person reaches hospital after a crime then he carries a lot of forensic evidence with him. If the people working in the health sector, if the nurses have a better understanding of forensic science then they can help a lot in preserving these evidences.\nIt can be very important for every student of forensic science to develop a fine understanding of human intelligence. Perhaps some of you had never heard about the Pagi community living in Gujarat and Rajasthan. The Pagi community living in the Kutch and border areas has been known for their human intelligence for centuries. For example, by looking at the pugmarks of a camel they can tell whether someone was riding on it or not. I have read it somewhere that skill develops in this regard. And that is why even today, in some areas, Police take the help of people in solving the heinous crimes.\nI would like to tell the university and its administration some things or the other at the world, and this is human intelligence through it. And this Forensic Science University should focus on such subjects. Earlier, when there was no digital technology, at that time people used to collectevidence and match finger prints. . Hand. Hand. Hand Psychoanalysts were there Easrlier, all these things were there\nThese traditional methods which existed in India, they were there in every state and I wonder if these can be compiled by Forensic Science University and linked with the new technology I believe that not only in India, if there is any such method in any other country and if we use that knowledge then we can take a great extent.\nFor example, the psycho-profile which is being prepared, the psychoanalysis that is being conducted, at one point it was made by talking to the person.\nToday, it is being helped As traditional knowledge combined with technology Similarly, I believe that it should be a more area of ​​research for our forensic science university, that is how we can in the field of traditional knowledge, human intelligence and modern technology. Our university should work in that direction.\nFriends, criminals and ways of committing crime are changing. In order to deal with rapidly changing crime scenario, you also have new technologies to make it clear that criminals will not be spared. DNA profiling has established new dimensions in forensic investigation With the help of this technology, many such cases have been resolved which would otherwise remain unolved. I call upon forensic experts to help the judicial system by using DNA profiling as much as possible so that the culprit get punished immediately and the victims get justice. Looking at the importance of DNA technology in the forensic investigation, our government has approved the DNA Technology (Use and Application) Regulation Bill 2018. Through this bill, we will ensure that all DNA tests are reliable and the data is safe. The government has also decided to strengthen DNA analysis in all the States and Union Territories. A State of the Art Lab under the Nirbhaya scheme is being established in Central Forensic Science Laboratory, Chandigarh. I am confident that in the coming times, we will be able to stop the heinous crimes, including the crimes committed on women, speedily and accurately\nThe case of the hearing of the start of two months less than a minor in the case of a rapist, two demons, two rape victims, and one minor for raping a man in a court in Mandsaur district. . In just two months! Prior to that a court in Katni district of Madhya Pradesh has been sentenced to just five days. Courts in Rajasthan have also acted in the same way\nYou who deal with forensic science can render a great service so that our courts can take the cases of heinous crimes like rapes. You can have a huge impact. It is true that the government has made the law even more stringent, the police carried out the investigations but forensic science provided a strong scientific support system. This kind of swift implementation of judicial process will not give criminals any chance to escape justice. And I believe that your skills are the most serious crimes.\nFriends,\nThe government has been working in the direction of strengthening the forensic science. In this series, the government has approved the proposal to upgrade the police force of the country.\nThe work has started to establish new institutes and centers of excellence at national and international level. More from Rs. 300 crore will be spent on this project of which 60% will be provided by the center. And I am happy to note that the government of Gujarat has already released about Rs. 50 crore for this purpose This money was used in the modernization and expansion of the technologies related to forensic science.\nFriends,\nYou have selected Some of the principles from the classrooms of Forensic Science will also help you in the classroom, though in different contexts. They teach you the Law of Individuality, never forget that principle in life too. Swami Vivekananda used to say This means every one of us, within ourselves, has tremendous strength The first step Believe in yourself Believe in your abilities Believe in your potential Locard taught you that the perpetrator of a crime will bring something into the crime. I am sure you will be solving crimes But, do remember that every one of you students brings great value to our society as well. And, while adding value, do not forget to learn from others. Keep your mind open to new ideas, views and opinions. Enrich the world with your thoughts and absorb the best This diversity is what makes you a richer person And, when I say Law of Progressive Change, while your mind will naturally go back to you We live in a world that is rapidly changing in every sense. Cutting Edge It does not take much time for a new idea People, and youngsters in particular are coming out with the box solutions in record time. Likewise, you too must be the center of the changing trends. Your education and intelligence have trained you to think out of the box. Ensure that you use the skills not only to keep some of the progressive changes that make our world a better place. Generations to come Friends, no scheme or initiative I am confident that the knowledge you have gained here will help you I hope you will continue to hold the highest esteem. I wish all the graduating students a bright and vibrant future\nI have noticed that most of the awards were won by boys. Look! This is the brightness of the times I especially congratulate these daughters and their parents and I want to thank them for specializing in these daughters.\nThank you very much!"