"Share\n\nThe great homes under PM Awas Yojana are being possible because there are no middlemen: PM\nIt is my dream, it is our endeavor to ensure that every Indian has 2022: PM Modi\nTill now, we only heard about politicians getting their own homes. Now, we are hearing about the poor getting their own homes: PM Modi\nWe will celebrate the auspicious festival of Rakshabandhan after two-three days. You all my sisters, have come here with a grand Rakhi for me; I am grateful I wish to express my heartfelt gratitude to all the mothers and the sisters of my country who have showered their blessings and have shielded me through their blessings.\nThe festival of Rakshabandhan is round the corner and more than 1 lakh families of Gujarat is receiving their own houses. I believe it is one of the greatest gifts on the occasion of Rakshabandhan.\nI understand the pain The whole life passes in a slum. The future is shrouded in darkness Every morning one gets up with a new hope which fades away from the end of the day.\nHowever, when one has a house registered in his / her name, one again begins dreaming. Then the whole family, from the youngest member to the eldest, starts working hard to fulfill that dream and their lives.\nI am extremely happy to have gifted the houses as a brother to the mothers, sisters and to more than 1 lakh families just before the festival of Rakshabandhan.\nThere is another scheme worth Rs.600 crore which is a way to gift a gift to the mothers and sisters on the occasion of Rakshabandhan. The impact of water crisis on the mothers and sisters of a family. Even today water has been arranged by mothers and sisters Due to lack of availability of clean drinking water, the house becomes a hub of diseases. Clean drinking water prevents the family from catching many diseases.\nI have spent a lot of my life in the tribal belt. While I was staying in Dharampur Sidambadi, Two months after Diwali I clearly remember that at that time, the entire tribal belt from Dharampur, Sidambur, Umargaon to Ambaji used to receive heavy rain and the water used to drain in the sea. Consequently, those areas remained perched\nWhen I was the Chief Minister of Gujarat, I used thousands of crores of rupees to ensure that every village and household of the eastern tribal belt of Gujarat between Umar Gaon and Ambaji received water via taps.\nThe movie that you just saw mentioned about 10 schemes Today the tenth scheme is going to start The people who have seen the movie must be wondering that water will reach to a height of 200th floor. The river will be moved to the people in low areas. This is the miracle of technology\nIn our country, we also have a polling booth for a single voter in a remote forest of Gir. It is the most popular aspect of polling and polling around the world. It gets box-item news\nI believe that this new development will also become a wonder! In order to deliver water to a village of 200-300 households, a sensitive government carries water to a height equivalent to 200th floor of an building. This is a living example of our citizen of our country\nEarlier there were also governments too with tribal Chief Ministers. There was an tribal Chief Minister before I became the Chief Minister. After becoming Chief Minister when I visited his village, I found that there was water tanks. I was fortunate enough to get the chance of providing water to that village.\nIf someone sets aside one or two pots of water for the passersby and offers water, for years people look up that family with a lot of respect and pride.\nEven today people narrat stories of Lakha Baldhara who had given water for the villages of Gujarat and Rajasthan. Why? This is the reason I feel proud to announce that the government is running the campaign of delivery water to every household through taps.\nWe are trying to solve some of these critical questions. How should be in future How should the lives of the poor? What are our dreams and what are the steps that we are taking to those dreams?\nYou must have seen that I got the opportunity to travel across Gujarat in just half an hour to 45 minutes. I visited the mother and the sisters. Although I was listening to what they were saying, my eyes were on their homes. I was inspecting their homes Even you might be wondering how much the house is under the Awas Yojana are so beautiful? This was possible because the cut money and middlemen were eliminated\nThis is possible because even when a single rupee is sanctioned by the Central Government in Delhi, the entire 100 paise reaches the house of the poor. This government has the courage to ask a mother in front of the media, the press and the public? Did they have to pay anything\nWe are building a positive image of ourselves I am glad that the mothers and sisters had exclaimed with a lot of confidence and satisfaction that 'No! We did not have to pay a single penny to anyone We have got our rights under the scheme lawfully '\nWhile you were looking at the houses built under the Prime Minister's Awas Yojana, you might have been impressed with the fact that the houses were built by the people. It is true that the government had provided the funds for the construction but at the same time it was built with hard work of those families. They had planned the design of the house and the kind of material with which it should be constructed.\nWe did not know Route When a family builds its own home, the joy is ineffable and consequently every village of Gujarat has built beautiful houses.\nWe have started a scheme for poverty alleviation by empowering the poor. There were banks Under the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana, we brought banks to the doorstep of the poor.\nThere was a time The poor used to think whether their homes will ever be free from dark Today with the help of UJALA scheme and assistance scheme we have undertaken the responsibility of providing electricity connections to every household. In the coming 1-1.5 years, no house in India will be without electricity connection.\nThis in a way is an endeavor to make radical changes in their life with the assurance of toilet, electricity, drinking water and gas stove in their homes.\nMy dear brothers and sisters,\nYou, the people of Gujarat have nurtured me and have brought me up. Gujarat has taught me a lot Whatever I've learned from you, because of that I am trying to fulfill the dreams in a time bound manner. We have dreamed of building an India where every family has its own house by 2022 that will mark 75 years of Independence.\nThere was a time when news from the grand houses of the politicians; but now the media talks about the poor\nThis is such a Prime Minister, who joins the families in their 'House Warming ceremony; who shares their enthusiasm and joy by coming to Valsad and conducting a video conference.\nBrothers and sisters,\nThe last week was very painful for us Atal Bihari Vajpayee passed away but the scheme named after him i.e. The Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana that aims at connecting the villages with metaled roads. The work is moving on a fast pace\nIn short, efforts are being made in the direction of radical changes. You may have seen that the girls living in remote areas are getting jobs I have got the chance to provide evidence for the same.\nThe problems of the country can easily become eliminated, the dreams of the common man can be fulfilled and we are continuously fulfilling those efforts.\nMy brothers and sisters from Valsad,\nI used to like this place for some days ago These days when it rains, it pours; When it does not, there is a dry spell for weeks together. Some areas of Gujarat were flooded with rain water while other areas did not receive rain at all! However, Gujarat was blessed with rain in some parts. The coming year will be wonderful! I believe it will be highly beneficial for agriculture.\nMy dear brothers and sisters of Valsad,\nThank you for the conference and patiently sitting for so long I can not thank you for such big numbers.\nMy best wishes to all mothers and sisters on the occasion of Rakshabandhan.\nThank you so much!"