"Share\n\nThe nation is proud of the IITs and what IIT graduates have achieved. The success of IITs led to the creation of engineering colleges around the country: PM\nIITs have become 'India's Instrument of Transformation': PM Modi\nInnovation and Enterprise are going to be the foundation stone for making India a developed economy: PM Modi\nInnovation is the buzz-word of 21st century. Any society that does not come to stagnate: PM Modi\nWe must make India the most attractive destination for innovation \u0026 enterprise: PM\nInnovate in India, Innovate for humanity: PM Modi's appeal to students\nFocus on aspirations, set high targets: PM Modi says students\nToday is August 11. One hundred and ten years ago, Khudiram Bose had made the supreme sacrifice on this day for the motherland. I bow down to the brave revolutionary, I pay homage to him\nFriends,\nThose people who are sacrificed their lives for freedom, those who sacrificed everything, they became immortals, and they became a source of inspiration. However, we are those who did not get the good opportunity to sacrifice our lives in freedom struggle but we are also fortunate in the sense that we have a free India for our lives, we are dedicated to life by a new sense of joy our lives for nation building Today, the kind of confidence I see in you people, the kind of enthusiasm that I see on your faces is assuring to me that we have been moving the right direction.\nFriends,\nIIT Bombay is among those institutions of a free India which was conceived to provide a new direction. You have been successfully engaged in the last 60 years. This journey which started with 100 students has now reached 10,000 students. During this period, you have established yourself in the top institutions of the world.\nThis institution has been celebrating its diamond jubilee. But all those diamonds are even more important, all those diamonds who are sitting here before me, all those who have been awarded from the degree after graduation\nToday, on this occasion, first of all, I would like to express my conviction and convey my understanding to all those students of India and abroad and their families.\nToday, the degree of 'Doctor of Science' has been awarded to Dr. Romesh Wadhwani on this occasion I like my best wishes to Dr. Wadhwani Romesh ji has worked in his life to link technology He has taken upon himself a great work of creating the environment for generating employment, skills, innovation and entrepreneurship through Wadhwani Foundation.\nAs an institution, it is a matter of pride for all that you like many students like Wadhwani Ji who has passed out from here today in the active contribution.\nIt is the result of continuous efforts made by IIT Bombay in the last six decades that it has been carved out in a place for the selection of Institutions of Eminence of the country. And you people have just informed that you are going to get the financial assistance of Rs. 1,000 crore which is going to be used in the development of infrastructure. I congratulate you\nThe nation is proud of the IITs, and what IIT graduates have achieved. The success of the IITs led to the creation of several engineering colleges around the country. They were inspired by the IITs, and this led to India becoming one of the world's largest pools of technical manpower. The IITs have built brand India globally And they did it over the years IIT graduates went to America and excelled there: first as students in Universities and then as technology experts, entrepreneurs, executives and in academics. It was a large number of IIT students who built the IT sector in India, brick by brick..or I should say, click by click. Earlier Indians with the IT sector were considered hard working and intelligent - but mainly in other countries, mainly in the US. Now India has become the destination for IT development.\nAnd today, IIT graduates are at the forefront of some of the best start-ups in India. These are start-ups that are also on the forefront of solving so many national problems. To that work in the start-up movement or are planning to start one after college, please do remember that the biggest corporations of today were start-ups of yesterday. They were the result of idealism combined with hard-work and diligence. Keep at it, do not give up, and you will succeed\nYou are fortunate to have lived in a campus like this, in a city like Mumbai. You have a lake on one side, and the hills too. Occasionally, you can share your campus with crocodiles and leopards. It is still August, but I am sure the mood is indigo today! I am sure the last four years were a wonderful learning experience.\nThere is so much to look back and remember the college festivals, inter hostel sports, student-faculty associations. Did I mention some studies as well? You have received what is the best that our education system has to offer. Students here represent the diversity of India From different states, speaking different languages, from different backgrounds, you can learn more about knowledge and learning.\nFriends,\nIIT Bombay is among those institutes of the country which has been working on the new technologies for a new India.\nIt will be decided though innovations and new technology that in what way the world will be developed in the next two decades In such a situation, the role of your institution, the role of IITs becomes extremely important. Whether it is 5G broadband technology, or be it artificial intelligence or be it block chain technology or be it big data analysis or be it machine learning, all these technologies are going to be very important for smart manufacturing and for the vision of smart cities.\nThe new building which will be inaugurated after a while The Department of Energy Science and Engineering and the Center for Environmental Science and Engineering is going to work from this building. Given the fact that energy and environment are the biggest challenges for the country and the world, I am confident that an excellent environment of research in these two fields will be created at the near future.\nI have been told that a solar lab will also be established in the building that will help students in research related to solar energy. In addition to solar energy, bio-fuel is also going to be a big source I have already said this thing in Delhi on the occasion of the World Bio-Fuel Day that the technology related to this field should be taught in every small and big engineering institutions and research should be conducted on it.\nFriends,\nThe country and the world knows IITs as Indian Institute of Technology. However, today the definition for IITs has changed a bit for us. Now these institutes are not only allowed to study in the field of technology but today IITs have become India's Instruments of Transformation.\nAnd when we talk about transformation then the Start Up revolution towards which the country is moving, IITs are a big source of that revolution. Today, the world thinks IITs as the nursery of Unicorn Start Ups It means that the Start Ups that are taking off now in India it is believed that the value of these Start Ups in future is probably a billion dollar. In a way, these are the reflection of those technologies\nFriends,\nToday, the billion dollar Start Ups that are there in the world, dozens of them are being established by those people who have passed out from IITs. Today, I see many such unicorn founders of future before me\nFriends,\nInnovations and Enterprise are going to be the foundation stone A long term sustainable technology-based economic development\nAnd precisely this is the reason why we started many programs like Start Up India and Atal Innovation Mission and the results of these schemes are now becoming visible. Today, India is the world's second largest ecosystem in the field of Start Ups. More than 10,000 Start Ups have been nurtured in the country and elaborate arrangements have been made.\nFriends,\nToday, we have been constantly moving forwardwards in the ranking of Innovation Index. It means that the results of our holistic approach Special attention has been given to students of the field of research in the field of research.\nInnovation is the buzzword of the 21st century. Any society that does not innovate will stagnate. That India is a emerging as a hub for start-ups shows that the thrust for innovation is very much there. We should build on this further and make the most attractive destination for innovation and enterprise. And, this is not possible through government efforts alone It will happen youngsters like you The best ideas do not come in government buildings or in fancy offices. They come in campuses like yours, in the minds of youngsters like you.\nMy appeal to you and many other youngsters like you: Innovate in India, Innovate for humanity.\nFrom mitigating climate change to ensure better agricultural productivity, From clean energy to water conservation, From combating malnutrition to effective waste management. Let us affirm that the best ideas will come from Indian laboratories and from Indian students. On our part, we are doing everything possible to foster a spirit of research and innovation in India.\nSeven new IITs, 7 new IIMs, 2 IISER and 11 new IIITs have been approved in the last four years. A program called RISE - Revitalization of Infrastructure and Systems in Education - has been launched. A target of arranging more than one lakh crore rupees in the next four years has been set under the scheme. New institutions, new infrastructure is essential, however, the skilled manpower that will be created there too\nFriends,\nAt present the country trains around 7 lakh engineers in its campuses. However, some of them passed out Their skills can not be developed I would like to appeal to the professors and experts present here They should come up with the recommendations It is a collective responsibility of all of us And the government is trying for this thing\nYou may be aware that the Prime Minister's Research Fellows scheme Under the scheme, resources are available for one thousand talented engineering students. Not only this, the arrangements for admission of these students in the reputed institution like IITs and IISc for doing PhD have also been made for those who have been selected under this scheme. This fellowship has been providing you a great opportunity for conducting research while staying in the country. The students of IIT Bombay should also take advantage of this scheme.\nFriends,\nAll those people who are present here today are either teachers or future leaders. You are going to work in the field of politics As people you have been preparing yourself for the new Start Ups through technology and innovation, therefore people will definitely have some concrete vision about how this thing about you\nFriends,\nIt's not easy to give up This is the problem with the society and also the system of governance too. Just imagine, the habits that have been developed over a period of thousands of years, the systems which have been going on for centuries, how to convince those systems to change themselves However, when dedication, motivation and aspiration are at the center of your thinking and action then you will succeed in overcoming all the obstacles.\nToday, the government has been working while keeping in mind the aspirations of all of you, aspirations of millions and millions of youth of the country. I should only appeal this much to you people that you should shed this dilemma from your mind whether you will succeed or not, should you do it or not, you should shed this dilemma and instead focus on your aspirations. Higher goals, high thinking will further inspire, dilemma will limit your talent to boundaries.\nFriends,\nJust Having Aspirations Those people are who have been passed out from the institution today or those who have passed out in the coming years, all of you are going to join some or some other institution, you will have a new institution for the foundation. I am hopeful that you will take into consideration the needs of the country and its people in every such thing There are many problems\nFriends,\nThis is the government of the people who are aiming at 1.25 billion countrymen and that will make their lives easier. And that is why when I talk to students, scientists and entrepreneurs like you then I certainly discuss the city based science clusters around all institutions like IITs.\nThe idea is that a lot of people like students, teachers and people related to the industry and Start Ups should get the opportunity to work and conduct research and development at one place as per one's requirements.\nFor example, take that area of ​​Mumbai where your institute is located, I have been informed that there are about 800 colleges and institutes here in Greater Mumbai and about 9 lakh youths are studying in this region. And today when we have gathered here for the convocation, this is also the occasion of diamond jubilee for this institute and I would like to connect you with a pledge on this occasion. Can IIT Bombay become a city-based center of excellence?\nFriends,\nYou are very aware that the government has given more autonomy to Indian Institute of Management (IIMs) by enacting a law. The government has also given emphasis on this thing that IIM alumni who has completed their education\nThey have been given representation in the board of governors of IIMs. I believe that institutions like IITs should also take this kind of steps to take advantage of their alumni.\nIf this happens then these alumni will also get a better opportunity for their alma mater. Every student sitting before me is an alumnus or alumni in future and all of you will agree with my idea that alumni are such kind of power who can play an important role in taking this institution to a new height. I have been told that IIT Bombay has more than 50 thousand alumni You can take a lot of benefits from their knowledge and experience.\nFriends,\nYou are working hard There will be many of your classmates who are struggling against deprivation. You have got amazing capabilities and today you are getting excellent results of that. However, there are millions of such youths who have not been successful It is not that talent They could not get this chance in absence of opportunities and guidance. You can bring about a new light, a new energy and a new spirit in the life.\nIt would be even better if IIT Bombay formulates an outreach program for nearby schools. The arrangements should be made to bring young children into this campus so that they can be taught for doing research in science. You will be aware that a massive program of Atal Tinkering Labs has now been running in schools across the country. And children had been introduced to new technologies like Artificial Intelligence and 3D Printing in the program.\nThe outreach program for schools will also help in that mission It is very much possible that sometimes elders like us and some of you may get some new inspiration from those young minds.\nFriends,\nThe degree that has been awarded to your goal today, this symbolises your goal. Please keep this thing in mind that this is just a milestone, the real challenge is waiting for you\nWhatever you have achieved, you are able to achieve in future, the hopes of your families, the hopes of 1.25 billion countrymen, and your own hopes are with that. Whatever you are going to do And the new India will also become stronger\nMay you succeed in fulfilling millions and millions of expectations. I congratulate you people I got the chance to spend some time between you and me.\nThank you very much!"