"Share\n\nIndia will give a befitting reply to the perpetrators of the Pulwama terror attack: PM Modi\nDefense Corridor in Bundelkhand will be a boon for the region: PM Modi\nGuided by the mantra of 'Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas', we are moving forward on the path of development: PM Modi in Jhansi\nMy dear brothers and sisters,\nToday the country is very excited and unhappy. Here I can understand the feelings of all of you. There is every Indian resentment from the attack by the terrorists in Pulwama. Our brave soldiers have sacrificed their lives in defense of the country, their sacrifice will not be in vain. This trust from Jhansi's land, from the land of heroes and heroes, I want to give 130 million Hindustans.\nThe bravery of our security forces, the nation has seen his fortune and there can not be any one in our country who can doubt the power and strength of our army. The country has so much faith in their strength and courage.\nAnd my dear countrymen, allowed me to make all the decisions, what the situation is, what the place is, what time it will be, to decide further action for my dear brothers and sisters, security forces coming to bless here is. The criminals of the Pulwama attack, the culprits of the Pulwama attack, will surely get the punishment of their actions. Our neighboring country has forgotten that this is a new policy and a new system of India. The harmony that terrorist organizations and their bosses have shown will be fully accounted for.\nCompanions, our neighboring country is passing through a very bad phase at this time financially. He is now so isolated at this time, his condition has been so poor that the big countries have started making the distance from him. It has become difficult for him to run his daily expenses. He is walking around taking a bowl, but, today, the world is not able to get help from the world easily. In this era of misery, by doing such attacks on India, by making such a catastrophic destruction as Pulwama, he thinks that India will also become bad, then our enemy, people sitting in Pakistan, understand this goodness - the way you have adopted, you Have seen your waste. The way we have adopted, our day is doubled, four times the advancement of the world is also seeing the world.\nBrothers and sisters, our neighbors will respond to this conspiracy, answer 130 million people of the country, give an answer.\nCompanions, today the world's largest countries are standing with India, supporting India's feelings. The message I am coming to know that they are equally sad, the same is angry. The whole world community is in favor of ending these monarchs of terror.\nThis land of comrades, heroic daughters and brave sons knows that howsoever the conspirators do the enemy, how to fight them. This land is witness that protecting mother Bharati, protecting her children is paramount for us.\nCompanions, this land is the land of bravery of Manikarnika, who gave new zeal, new inspiration to the country's freedom movement as a queen of Jhansi. Manikarnika was the daughter of Kashi and I am fortunate that the people there, Kashi, made me my MP; And so, his homeland, my workplace also connects me with a special affection from Bundelkhand. From Boodelkhand to Indian devotion to the country's faith, it is a new altitude for every moment. I remember that when I first came among you, I promised you that I will return the affection which you are giving me, including interest. Do you remember? I said that, do not you remember? I will return with interest, I had said, do not you remember? We are the people who promise Intentions come out, they stop by fulfilling their intentions.\nFor the last four and a half years, the Central Government has been consistently engaged in this work and after the formation of the BJP government here, under the leadership of Yogi Jee, his whole team of the state has accelerated the pace of development.\nBJP's Governments are working for collaborators, Panchadhara of development i.e. children's education, income of youth, medicines to the elderly, irrigation for farmers and hearing of the people. While moving forward on this target, we have recently laid foundation stones of development works of about 20 thousand crore related to the development of Bundelkhand and UP. Security, employment, rail, electricity, water; There are many such projects connected.\nBrothers and sisters, now Bundelkhand has started the campaign to build the country's security and development corridor. This defence corridor, built from Jhansi to Agra, is empowering the country as well as providing new employment opportunities to the youth of Bundelkhand and Uttar Pradesh. Large investors of the country and the world have shown interest in setting up an industry here.\nI have been told that the agreement of about four thousand crore rupees has already been done. In this defense corridor, the defense and security goods, along with the large government companies of the country producing it, foreign companies will also invest in the industry.\nBrothers and Sisters, when large industries seem to be growing, small industries also develop around them. A complete eco-system, a complete environment is ready. Small and medium enterprises in Jhansi and the surrounding areas, they are going to get huge profits from this corridor. This corridor will provide direct employment to lakhs of youth here. Not only this, how to grow the skills of young people, how to be skill development; Skill development will also be made by the companies coming here so that they can master the skills for this work and they can earn their livelier by staying in their own village, they do not have to go here.\nI used to live in Gujarat, hardly any block of Bundelkhand would be such that people of the people did not live here in Gujarat. I am well aware of you from the people And those who would never have thought that areas like Bundelkhand can also become the center of industrial development - I want to tell you my experience. Inside Gujarat, the desert on the border of Pakistan is our Kutch district; The big district is An officer is not ready to go there on that side, and people are not ready to stay there. The population also had minus growth, the population was reduced rather than the increase - because there was no water, there was a possibility of non-roti.\nBut after the 2001 earthquake, I got the responsibility of work as a Chief Minister there on my head. In such a short time, the Kutch district known as the desert was not provided to the water, no one was willing to give his daughter for marriage there; Today the Kutch district has become one of India's fastest growing districts, it has become. Which I have seen with my eyes, Kutch has evolved with my eyes, developing. I can imagine today, this Bundelkhand will be like that, that I can see with my eyes.\nIf Kutch can be formed then Bundelkhand can also be formed, it is my belief. And so, the people who are still living in despair, have been indecisive to think, we have been working behind this defence corridor with the intention of making a huge change, with the determination to take out this land from them, working Are there.\nCompanions, I just want to talk about another challenge here. The challenge is - water Water is the biggest challenge here. I have a lot of struggles for all my people in Bundelkhand water, I have a good sense of it. The government of Yogi Adityanath ji also has a full sense of it. And furthering the effort to emancipate the problem of water, the foundation stone of 9000 crores pipeline is being done today.\nAll the mothers and sisters of Bundelkhand bless us with abundant blessings so that we can get this drinking water from you as soon as possible. Today, for the water, most of the household is having problems, then the mothers and sisters are in it. Their full power goes behind the water. You mothers and sisters, I have come to repay your loan, you have come to save you from this crisis. Please bless us so that we can reach water from the pipeline. I would say this pipeline of water, this is not just a pipeline project; These are not pipeline of this area, Life Line is Life Line.\nBrothers and Sisters, after completion of this project, almost every village of Jhansi, Lalitpur, Jalna, Hamirpur, Mahoba, Banda and Chitrakoot, in Bundelkhand, is going to be easy to meet with drinking water pipeline. Likewise, for the Jhansi city and surrounding villages, the Central Government has planned at the cost of Rs. 600 crores under the Amrit Yojana. With the water of the river Betwa, the thirst of the people of Jhansi city will burn, as well as drinking water to many villages nearby.\nBrothers and sisters, all these projects will meet the needs of the present, they will also fulfill future needs.\nWith the modernization of the brothers and sisters, the hill dam project, farmers will get a lot of benefits. Earlier this dam did not reach the proper quantity of water till the farmer's farm and the leakage would have been due to the fall of the gate. Now the water leakage has been stopped, and in this budget, the BJP government has also brought a historic plan named 'Prime Minister Kisan Samman Nidhi'. Under this, a farmer who has less than five acres of land will be deposited directly by the central government in his bank account by 6000 rupees every year. This amount will reach you in three installments of two to two thousand rupees. The Government estimates that 25 million farmers in Uttar Pradesh, 2 crore 25 lakh farmers of Uttar Pradesh will be beneficiaries of this scheme, which will benefit from it. That is, in a way, almost everyone, i.e., in every district of UP more than 95 percent of the farmers will benefit from this scheme.\nUnder the PM Kisan Samman Yojana, in the next ten years, a total of seven lakh crore rupees; This figure is not small, Rs 7 lakh crore is going to be directly deposited in the bank of the farmers. And always remember, these money will be directly accessible to the farmers' bank account, there will be no middleman, no broker, no one will be able to kill you.\nCompanions, for the last four and a half years, the bank accounts of the poor, farmers' accounts were being opened with such a fast, but there was also a long way to do our job; Were not working hard to open such accounts. By opening your bank account, our government has arranged that your gas subsidy, MNREGA wages, pension, children's scholarship; All these money will be deposited directly in your account without going anywhere from the public treasury - and due to the leakage closed. You know that depositing money directly into your accounts, nearly one lakh crores of rupees are saved in the country, one lakh crores rupees, he used to go before someone's pocket. Among the intermediaries who rob you of you, Modi stands today as a wall.\nThis is very important in our government, along with our brothers and sisters, farmers and cattle traders - for cattle and fish parents too. Now, farmers who are providing livelihood loans are being provided loan from Kisan Credit Card so that they can increase their business. Today, the farmer has to take money from the moneylenders and his life ends, giving him interest, we have taken the initiative to remove the cattle and fishermen from that cycle.\nApart from this, another important decision has been taken for the benefit of the farmers. Earlier, farmers used to get agricultural loans up to one lakh rupees without bank guarantee, from the banks. We have decided that by looking at the need of time and farmers also started cultivating modern farming, the scientists started cultivating and their hands were also free, so now we have decided to give one lakh rupees sixty thousand rupees more than one lakh rupees. ; Has been increased. That is, now the farmer can get bank loan without a bank guarantee of up to one lakh sixty thousand rupees. He does not have to go to the moneylenders.\nLikewise, keeping in view the livestock, the government has also decided to set up Kamdhenu Commission. Under this commission, a provision of Rs 500 crores has been made to effectively implement the maintenance of the Gomata and the cattle and the rules and regulations related to it. The way Kamdhenu Commission is a very important step, in the manner in which Bundelkhand has been a serious issue of fodder problem and cattle smuggling for animals.\nAlong with these challenges, the transmission system has been improved to overcome the problem of your electricity. Now the electricity system of many areas of Western Uttar Pradesh, including Bundelkhand, will be improved. Now the electricity generated in the Western and Northern grid will be easily transmitted in different areas.\nCompanions, Bundelkhand expressway or railway connectivity here; Our government has consistently emphasized this. Due to the doubling of Manikpur and Khairar-Bhimsen sections from Jhansi, or electrification of route from Jharsi to Khairar and to Bhimsen, all these projects will benefit greatly.\nBrothers and sisters, farmers, young people, or my young sons and daughters, by taking a mantra of development with a complete thought for everyone, 'everyone's development - all development', no discrimination, no mine-yours, no one We have done our work by taking this one mantra, not everyone, but with all the 'all-together development'. And so this is possible because you made a strong government center four and a half years ago. और मैं मानूंगा पूरा देश उत्‍तर प्रदेश का आभारी है क्‍योंकि हिन्‍दुस्‍तान को 30 साल के बाद पूर्ण बहुमत की सरकार देना, हिन्‍दुस्‍तान को पहली बार, 30 साल के बाद स्थिर सरकार देना, हिन्‍दुस्‍तान को 30 साल के बाद मजबूत सरकार देना हिन्‍दुस्‍तान को 30 साल के बाद फैसले लेने वाली सरकार देना; अगर उसमें सबसे बड़ी भूमिका किसी ने अदा की है तो ये मेरे उत्‍तर प्रदेश ने की है, मेरे उत्‍तर प्रदेश के मतदाताओं ने की है। ये उत्‍तर प्रदेश के मतदाताओं की निर्णय शक्ति ने भारत का भाग्‍य बदल दिया है। भारत के भाग्‍य की दिशा बदल दी है। 30 साल से निराशा के गर्त में डूबे हुए देश को नई आशा जगाने का काम 2014 में, ये उत्‍तर प्रदेश की जनता ने किया है। और मजबूत सरकार का मतलब क्‍या होता है, मजबूत सरकार का जन-जन को लाभ क्‍या होता है, मजबूत सरकार से दुनिया में गौरव कैसे पैदा होता है; ये उत्‍तर प्रदेश ने करके दिखाया है, जिसका लाभ पूरे हिन्‍दुस्‍तान ने पाया है।\nमुझे विश्‍वास है कि विकास के लिए, नए भारत के लिए आप आने वाले दिनों में भी मुझे और मजबूती से आशीर्वाद देंगे।\nभाइयों और बहनों, एक बार फिर विकास की रोजगार से जुड़ी सभी परियोजनाओं के लिए आपको मैं बहुत-बहुत शुभकामनाएं देता हूं। मैं उमाजी का भी विशेष रूप से अभिनंदन करता हूं कि हर छोटी-छोटी चीजों को ले करके इस क्षेत्र के विकास के लिए जिस मनोयोग से सरकार के हर विभाग को वो हिलाती रहती हैं, दौड़ाती रहती हैं। मैं समझता हूं एक सांसद के रूप में भी पूरे देश की जिम्‍मेदारियों के साथ जिस प्रकार से वो जिम्‍मेदारियों को निर्वाह कर रही हैं, मैं उमाजी का भी हृदय से बहुत-बहुत अभिनंदन करता हूं, उनका बहुत-बहुत धन्‍यवाद करता हूं।\nमेरे साथ पूरी ताकत से बोलिए-\nLong live Mother India\nLong live Mother India\nLong live Mother India\nThanks a lot."