"\nBiofuels can power India's growth in 21st century: PM Modi\nBiofuels can help reduce dependency on crude oil. They can contribute to a cleaner environment: PM Modi\nBiofuels can generate additional income for farmers and boost rural employment: PM Modi\nUnder the ethanol blending program, by mixing ethanol with petrol, about Rs. 4,000 crore has saved; Narendra Modi\nWe are working to make BioCNG from trash; CNG usage is ramped up in public transport; import: PM\nLadies and gentlemen from different sections of the society who have gathered here; friends,\nThe month of August brings pureness and an environment of resolutions. This month is for commemorating revolution and freedom fighters who had laid down their lives for the country. This month marks the celebration of not only Independence Day but also other festivals that will make our social and cultural life rich. My best wishes for the upcoming festivals\nProtection of environment occupies a very high place in our traditions, culture and festivals. Today's program is also associated with environmental and modern traditions. My best wishes to you are World Biofuel Day.\nFriends,\nThe government has been making efforts to improve the standard of living of the 125 crore Indians and formulating uncommon schemes for this. Strengthening the rural economy, doubling the farmers' income, providing alternatives to petrol, diesel and gas and making the environment safe are some of the priorities of the government. Biofuel will play a significant role in completing these goals. Biofuel has the ability to create a balance between our environment and economic development.\nFriends,\nBiofuel is not just science but also a Mantra that will provide a new energy to not only India but also the entire world. Biofuel means the fuel that is produced from crops, crop-residue and garbage and left-overs. It is going to transform and improve the quality of life of people in both rural and urban areas. An old saying was reinforced in the film that was shown today -'Aam ke aam and guthali ke daam 'means that double use or complete utilization of a thing. It's a very old saying It is a modern application in a way\nMore and more use of biofuels will help increase the incomes of the farmers, open up new opportunity of employment, will save the country's wealth and will also be a boon for the environment.\nIt is a part of our grand vision, according to which our path to cleanliness, health and empowerment of the villages and poor farmers are strengthened. Apart from this, it is also associated with our modern model of Urban Development. Biofuel is the best way to get green initiative in the air pollution in cities.\nFriends,\nToday the farmer brothers and sisters have gathered here in large numbers. The presence of the farmers in Vigyan Bhawan is a strong message. Different parts of different patterns Some regions are flooded with rain while others wait for rain We are constantly watching that news. At one place we are experiencing due to enough rain, while we are also troubled with the same rain in yet another region.\nThis is all more important for my farmers. I believe that paddy along with other kharif crops have already been sown in almost all parts of the country. You are already aware of the fact that the government has set the MSP of 14 kharif crops at 1.5 times of their cost. Whenever we talk of agriculture, we tend to refer to M.S Swaminathan ji. Two or three days back, Swaminathan had written an article in which he has been widely considered as the transformation in the agricultural sector, the initiatives taken by the government, and the government policies. He is an authority He has elaborately described and appreciated the plans, the policies and the efforts of the farmers.\nYou too have seen for yourself in the movie that an MSP has been set for sugarcane too along with the Kharif crops so that the farmer's get their cost of cultivation on 80% more benefits. In this season, the MSP on sugar has increased by Rs.20 to Rs.275 per quintal. The farmers are going to pay a lot Besides, the farmers are bound to benefit from the government's efforts.\nFriends,\nThis idea of ​​producing ethanol from sugarcane had started during Atal Bihari Vajpayee ji's governance. However, the schemes were known as the condition of the government that was in power in the previous decade. This attempt was not taken seriously When the Bharatiya Janata Party formed the government again with NDA in 2014, a proper roadmap was chalked out. The Ethanol Blending Program Today, these schemes are in smooth operation in 25 states and Union Territories. There is a record production of ethanol in the last four years and the country is moving into the direction of producing 450 million liters of ethanol in the coming four years.\nFriends,\nEthanol has not only helped the country's wealth. Last year, ethanol blending of petrol has saved about Rs.4000 crores in foreign exchange that was spent on import.\nThe target of the government is to increase this savings to Rs.12000 crores in the next four years. Moreover, in the next four years we can make Rs.20000crores just by producing ethanol from sugarcane With this saving and an alternative to sugarcane, the sugarcane farmers will be ensured of their recurrent problems. Ethanol is saving money Besides, it will also reduce the toxic gases that generate from petrol.\nFriends,\nTargets related to biofuel This means that it is not a wishful thinking Robust policies, laws and strategies are being prepared, responsibility and accountability are being fixed and regular monitoring is done. The government has formulated a national policy to develop all forms of biofuel including ethanol. The government is working toward developing the capacity of blending ethanol with petrol up to at least 10% by 2022 and at least 20% by 2030.\nBiofuel will not only provide an alternative to the sugarcane farmers Often, our harvested crops like wheat, rice, maize, potatoes and vegetables perish due to bad weather or lack of storage facilities. Naturally the farmers then have to dump those damaged crops. However, we have decided to use even that for producing ethanol.\nThere is another issue before the farmers The farmers are unable to sell their crops because sometimes the crops are not required for stains, short size, etc. as a result of the weather conditions The consumers are not allowed to buy such crops. The shopkeepers do not buy such crops. Thus, the farmers have to bear the brunt of unfavourable weather conditions. However, ethanol can be made from such crops that are not up to the required standards for less than the optimum size, broken, discoloured etc. When we frame a systematic policy, trust me, not a single grain You can imagine the kind of strength that the farmers will gain.\nFriends,\nUnder the National Policy, a nationwide scheme is formulated to transform not only the waste but also the farm waste and dung of animals in fuel. Even the banana peels that are not only allowed from every household but also from farms will be used as a potential fuel in the near future.\nBesides, ethanol can also be made from grass and bamboo. Bamboo is grown especially in the Northeast and tribal areas. In such scenario, this will be a major step in shaping their economy that will benefit the bamboo growers.\nFriends,\nCrop residue or stubble is a major problem However, crop residue is a valuable natural resource This is a valuable herb that helps us in our eyes with our eyes. I have not beenicing that it is a regular phenomenon for the farmers of Punjab and Haryana. This is a serious challenge\nI time and again tell my farmer brothers that burning crop stubble leads to a decline in the fertility of soil and the smoke released causes air pollution degrading. Therefore, the work on the possibility of producing ethanol from the crop is stubble is going on at a massive scale. This means crop stubble will also be a medium of income. It will not only curtail air pollution but will also help in increasing levels of income.\nFriends,\nThe government is investing in biofuel There are 12 modern refineries across the country at the cost of Rs.10 thousand crores. One refinery will employ about 1000-1500 people This means, 1.5 lakh people will get employment from the refineries. Besides, the scheme of generating fuel from cow dung is also progressing at a rapid pace.\nYou should have seen that we had launched a scheme called 'Gobardhan Yojana' in the previous budget. Under the Gobardhan Yojana, one biogas plant is being set up in every district. Currently, 700 plants are being installed All the farmers and the Self Help Groups are associated with it.\nFriends,\nFresh probabilities of income for the poor, the farmers and the tribals are getting ready for schemes like Gobardhan, Van Dhan and Jan Dhan. We are working toward ensuring that there is a proper use of not only your crops, but also of animal dung, crop residue, domestic waste and everything else.\nBesides, you can have additional income from the plants and fruits grown in forests. During autumn season you have noticed that leaves fall and pile up to a height of 1 or 2 feet. This can also be a medium of income. This is the 'waste to wealth' campaign. It is also giving due diligence to the Swachh Bharat Mission.\nFriends,\nThere is a significant contribution of our scientists and youngsters with start-ups. On this occasion I would like to offer my gratitude You are the most successful people in this field. For example, it is important to look for crops with bumper production that produces better quality and high quantity of biofuels. For this to happen, the entrepreneurs with new startups and people with new technology need to tie up.\nI believe that the course on biofuels should be prioritized in our engineering colleges, IITs and polytechnic colleges. Further, more and more knowledge related biofuels should reach the farmers through Krishi Vikas Kendras i.e. KVKs Awareness should be created in the farmers by keeping the central theme of biofuels in agricultural fairs across the country.\nFriends,\nOne of the biggest issues related to cleanliness in cities is solid waste management. The government is working on improving the technology of producing energy from the sewer water and industrial waste water. Once I had read a news article about a tea-seller in a small town; he used to sell tea Usually my focus is easily drawn towards anything So, he got an idea Naturally, gas emanates from a polluted drain result in a foul smell. Therefore, he entered a pipeline through a hole in a furnished utensil. The gas that was emanating from the gutter was channelized to his tea-stall with the help of the pipeline. He used that gas for making tea It is a simple technology\nOnce I was in Gujarat and a scooter was moving in front of our convoy. The person on the scooter was carrying a huge tractor tube. It was completely filled with air You can imagine that if a person carries such a huge tractor tube on a scooter, the vehicles coming from behind will be scared of collision and accident. Even I was astonished Normally a person will carry a empty tube and fill it with air later. So I asked him to halt.\nWe got down from the car and asked the person on scooter that what he was doing and why he was walking the tube like that. He had been injured. He said that he was going to his field. I asked him the purpose So he said that with the household waste and cattle dung of his animals he had set up a biogas plant in his house. He fills the tube with that gas That gas is used Just about the capability of our country! Today even our farmers and villagers do innovative experiments.\nI would like to urge people to start-ups this idea. Sometimes we do not find great ideas We want to carry this forward by collating everything.\nToday we are working on a massive scheme of B-3. B-3 means Biomass, Biofuel and Bioenergy. In addition to ethanol, work is underway at a rapid pace to produce bio-CNG from garbage. CNG is being promoted in the country's transport system so as to avoid pollution from petrol and Diesel At present, we are importing CNG from abroad We are trying to reduce our dependence on imports. Till date, more than 175 plants have been set up in the country. That day is not far when CNG vehicles will be a reality in not only all cities but also in villages.\nFriends,\nToday things like plastic waste, old rubber tires etc. are the cause of concern These things are now being used. Research is underway.\nI just watched the work of poor people They collect all the plastic waste from their village and carry them to the river. Then they burn and melt the plastic and mix that They make blocks out of it and sell at a large scale. Women Self Help Groups are engaged in this work. They are not only cleaning the garbage but also making new products out of it and selling in the market.\nThe government has been working towards creating a balance between the environment and development. When we talk about balancing the environment The generation and utilization of electricity is a direct impact on the environment.\nToday we are focusing on other sources of energy including solar energy along with the conventional sources of energy like coal and natural gas to generate electricity. We are promoting solar energy only in India but in the whole world with the help of International Solar Alliance.\nToday the use of solar energy is growing at an unprecedented rate in the form of industries and offices. Besides, the use of LED lights in homes and offices is saving electricity. I am glad that the country's railway stations now glitter with LED lights. They have completed their work. Now the goal is to install LED bulbs in the railway and railway quarters in future. We are promoting LED lights. Environmental concerns are associated with Swachh Bharat and Swasth Bharat Mission.\nSmoke-free kitchens are also part of this broad vision. Today I congratulate the 5 crore poor families, the mothers and the sisters who have been liberated from smoke.\nIt is a wonder that such work has been completed in such a short span of time in India. We have 125 crore Indians and about 25-26 crore families in our country Out of these 25-26 crore families, 5 crore families have received gas connections in such a short span of time. You can see for yourself when work is progressing at such a rapid pace, results are bound to show.\nFriends,\nToday the farmers, the technicians and the government officials will be deleberating on biofuel and its challenges throughout the day. You will be discussing the daily practical problems of the farmers. I am sure that we will get many suggestions about the energy requirements of the 125 crore Indians and making agriculture profitable.\nThe revolutionary changes by biofuel can never be brought by the efforts of the government; But we need to make a mass movement through public participation by involving students, teachers, scientists and industrialists.\nI want to urge the representatives of the states who are present here, to make efforts on individual levels. The World is celebrating Biofuel Day today. India has taken several initiatives in the field of biofuel and is capable of assuring the world in addressing the concern of global warming. These steps taken by India are being appreciated all over the world today\nThe world is closely watching India's plans and policies and today's efforts will instill new energy, will provide a new direction and will accelerate the progress. I congratulate you for this successful plan.\nThank you!"