"\nPM congratulates Harivansh Narayan Singh on being elected as Deputy Chairman of Rajya Sabha\nWorking closely with Chandra Shekhar Ji, Harivansh knew that before that Chandra Shekhar Ji would resign. However, he did not have his own newspaper This shows his commitment to ethics and public service: PM\nHarivansh is well read and has written a lot. He has served the society for years: PM Modi\nHon. Mr. Chairman,\nFirst of all, I congratulate the newly elected deputy chairman Shriman Harivansh Ji on behalf of the whole house and myself. It is a matter of happiness for all of us that today Arun Ji is also among us after the recovery. Today is the 9th of August. The August Revolution was an important milestone in the freedom movement and Balia District had played an important role in that event. Balia had been at the forefront in the freedom struggle right from the war of independence of 1857 to the sounding the bugle of August Revolution tosacrificing lives. Whether it was Mangal Pandey Ji or Chittu Pandey Ji or be it the tradition of Chandra ShekharJi, and Harivansh Ji is also in that series.\nHe was born in the village of Jay Prakash Ji and till date he had been attached to the village. And he has also been working as a trustee in the trust that was formed for the dreams of Jay Prakash Ji.\nHarivansh Ji belongs to that tradition of Wordsmiths who has built a special recognition for themselves. And it is a matter of happiness for me that he was a student in Banaras. He obtained education in Banaras And he finished his M.A. in economics from Banaras only. And he was selected in the RBI However, he did not like the Reserve Bank But later he joined a nationalized bank\nMr. Chairman,\nYou will be pleased to know that he worked in Hyderabad for two important years of his life. At times he had several places like Mumbai, Hyderabad and Delhi. However, he was never influenced by those glittering mega cities. He went to Calcutta to work in Ravivar newspaper. And all of us are aware that SP Singh was a stalwart, He worked with SP Singh. And as a trainee journalist he had worked with DharamvirBharati. He had started He worked with DharmYug with an sense of attachment.\nHe was a confidant of Chandra Shekhar ji and every person has unique traits about the dignity and values ​​of the office he holds. He had all the information because of the kind of office he was holding in Chandra ShekharJi'steam. He had advanced information that Chandra Shekhar ji was about to tender his resignation. He has been associated with a newspaper. He was attached to the world of journalism. However, he never let his own newspaper get an idea of ​​it that Chandra Shekhar ji was about to resign. While maintaining the dignity of his office he kept that secret to himself He did not allow the news to be published in his own newspaper.\nHarivansh ji joined Ravivar newspaper in Bihar. At that time it was undivided Bihar, Jharkhand was formed later He went to Ranchi to join PrabhatKhabar. And the circulation of news paper of just 400 copies when he had joined it. The person who had many opportunities in life, had been the banking sector However, he has been a talented person and he is dedicated to owning a newspaper with a circulation of just 400 copies. His four decade long journalistic career reflects powerful journalism and that journalism was attached to the society's cause. It was not possible for those in power.\nAnd I believe that the greatest factor behind the election of Harivanshji would be that he was associated with the journalism oriented toward the cause of the society and he stayed away from the journalism oriented towards ruling class.\nHe had been running the public movement. When Param Veer gallantry award winner Albert Ekka attained martyrdom for the country then a news was published in a newspaper that his wife was leading a life of poverty and deprivation. It was twenty years ago. HarivanshJi took the responsibility He collected money from people He collected four lakh rupees and gave him the widow of the martyr.\nOnce, Naxals had kidnapped a respected person HarivanshJi, whatever sources he has used through his newspaper, he has courageously gone to the Naxal area. Why are they He risked his life.\nSo he has a personality who is well read and who has also written a lot of books. And I believe that it was easy to run on a newspaper and supervise journalists. It's a different experience And the experience of the ruling class is different\nYou have seen the example of a successful member However, most of the time the situation of the house is like this Therefore, it is a huge task, it is a challenging task. However, HarivanshJi will definitely be able to do this thing\nHarivanshJi's wife Shrimati Asha Ji, she is from Champaran. So in a way the whole family is connected to JP, connected to Gandhiji in some way or the other And she herself is a M.A. in political science so heracademic knowledge will now be more helpful to you.\nI am confident that now this thing will become a mantra in the house that all the members of the parliament will be of grace (Hari). Now everyone will be banking on Hari (HarivanshJi) And I am confident that all of us, be from the side or that side, all the MPs will have your support\nIt was such an election in which there were candidates with 'Hari' name on either side. One candidate has a prefix of BK before his name: BK Hari He has no such prefix or suffix of BK or VK.\nHowever, I would like to congratulate BK Hari Prasad Ji for fulfilling his responsibility for the dignity of democracy. And everyone was talking about this thing So a lot of new people\nAnd I would like to thank all the dignitaries, all the honorable members for taking forward the whole process in a very good manner and also to the deputy chairman. And I am confident that his experience, his dedication to the social cause. And he has been a unique thing about Harivanshji, he had started a column in his news paper: 'What kind of MP must we have?' And at that time he did not know that one day he will become MP But he has run a massive campaign, what kind of MPs we should have I know that he has got a huge opportunity to realize his dreams. And Dashrath Manjhi, today, who has had discussions about a lot in India, very few people would be aware that if you were the first time search and published the story of Dashrath Manjhi then it was Harivansh Babu. So today we are going to be guided by the gentleman who has always been attached to the people.\nI heartily congratulate him and convey my best wishes."