"\nParliament is the dreams and voice of 125 crore Indians: PM Modi\nEverything has said in Parliament is immense value and provides an opportunity for policy makers and important issues to resolve the government: PM\nDisruptions in the Parliament are a loss to the nation than to the government: PM\nIt is the responsibility of the parliamentarians to ensure smooth functioning of Parliament: PM\nAll the distinguished dignitaries present here,\nFirst of all, I would like to congratulate the 5 award winners from the bottom of my heart. The country must be watching this event on T.V. and wondering that they are the same Parliamentarians Even the Vice President and the Speaker Madam should be really happy to be a witness as everyone is calm and composed. I hope that such a scenario will also exist in both the houses of the Parliament and may we and our Parliamentarians who are associated with the common man, get the opportunity to speak. The government must be compelled to prioritize their issues The voices of the poor, the villages and the forests must reach the government through the Parliamentarians in such a way that the government too is obliged to empathize with their issues. Unfortunately, that is a parliamentary He has attained his work He is definitely rich in terms of work done; He is an authority in his own field. However, because of pandemonium, chaos and noise the government has not been affected Those who have come here after a lot of hardwork and are not allowed to talk Therefore, it is also a loss of that region and the local people of that area to which he belongs. The chaos is shown on the T.V. for a few minutes Thereafter, it ends. But, the MP who gets the opportunity to talk, even if he launches a scathing attack on the government, even if he has points to make, his words be a part of the history\nIt's the responsibility of everyone to ensure that the words of the Parliamentary go on record. It's the responsibility of all of us to ensure that the issues related to the villages, poor and farmers, spoken by the parliamentarians must be compelled to take action. We can create such a scenario in the House. The better the environment is, stronger will carry our nation ahead.\nAs per my experience, the Parliamentarians never speak anything. Whether one acts on some pressure or not, is a different story; Whether someone is compelled to do something for gaining political brownie points or not is a different story; but it leaves a profound mark that forces the policy makers to give it some time to a thought. Therefore, it is not easy to be a parliamentarian They carry the dreams of 125 crore Indians and the resolutions of the people of their region and with the promise of a bright future. Among those who have got the opportunity to accomplish that work today being honored When our colleagues are honored, we feel proud that we work with such colleagues. We feel proud that we areco-workers; We are the Parliamentarians in the same time period It is a matter of immense pride and prestige for us.\nI once again congratulate you all from the core of my heart and my best wishes are with you.\nThanks a lot!"