"Share\n\nPM Modi attends groundbreaking ceremony of 81 projects in Uttar Pradesh, with total investment of over 60,000 crore rupees\nAs a caring government, our objective is to ease the difficulties of life, and improve ease of living: PM Modi\nThe speed with which these projects have moved in Uttar Pradesh under the present government within five months, is outstanding: PM Modi\nInvestment projects will provide many new employment opportunities, and benefit various sections of society: PM Modi\nLadies and gentlemen,\nLord Shiva's favorite month of the year i.e. Shravan is here Devotees of Lord Siva from different parts of the country have set out with their kavad. In a way, this marks the beginning of the festival season that will end with Diwali.\nFriends,\nApart from festivals, a large part of the country is also receiving heavy rain. Good monsoon is a blessing for agriculture and a sound economy. The government is worried The government with the state government is leaving no stone unturned\nFriends,\nI believe that being a sensitive government; It is our primary responsibility to make the common man easy and hassle-free. This is our one and only goal. We have been successful in the last four years. Today, gathering here in this Hall of Lucknow is a part of this endeavor. I had got the chance to attend the program. I have also got the opportunity to lay the foundation stone of several projects related to the cities of Uttar Pradesh and to hand over the keys of my poor homeless brothers and sisters. I am glad that today we are moving forward with the resolution of bringing about a transformation in every corner of Uttar Pradesh.\nFriends,\nThis is the second time in 5 months that I am meeting my entrepreneur friends in Lucknow. Earlier, I had come to Lucknow during the UP Investors Summit in February. I was told that a proposal was made more than Rs.4.25 lakh crore in UP during that summit. I am glad that a major step has taken place on that resolution on ground.\nI do not know why Satish ji was hesitantly saying that 60 thousand crores was not a big amount. His humble and conscientious tone was undermining the value of Rs. 60 thousand crores I had been the Chief Minister for a long time and I belonged to a state. Rs.60 crores is not a small sum of money It is a huge amount! You have not achieved!\nI would like to congratulate the officers here. What you've done is beyond imagination I know the types of hurdles that occur during capital investment Just a single petition in court will suspend the work for 2-3 years. If the environmental activists get hold of it, they keep sitting over it. And if it reaches a media person, Satish ji, even the government gets scared of handing over the project; because the rivals are a well chalked out game plan. In such scenario, overcoming the hurdles within 5 months and investing Rs.60 thousand crore is indeed an exceptional achievement! I'm saying it all I also congratulate the farmers who had given up their lands Even the junior-most government servants and the Patwaris must have cleared all the obstacles. Therefore, it was possible to make this investment The country can either run by Prime Minister or by the Patwaris. Therefore, due to a successful leadership, the whole team from the Chief Minister of the Patwari could think in the same direction in such a short span of time.\nSecondly, I am glad that you did not leave the whims of a single individual. You have formulated policies for different sectors and have made everything transparent. Anyone can access the online and see for yourself whether that person is within that policy framework or not. It is a policy-driven state It is one of the greatest achievements of Uttar Pradesh. Therefore, it is my request to you all; kindly do not think that this sum of Rs.60,000 is a small amount. It is an extraordinary achievement! I know very well how much effort is required as I have been in the field for a long time. One has to take the initiative and pursue it further. One also has the brunt However, when one is committed to the state, new pathways automatically opens up.\nThere is another reason to be happy. See, filling the cycle's tube with enough air. Sometimes there is an air bubble in one corner of the tube. Even though the meter indicates that the right amount of air is filled I am happy that the Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh has focused on comprehensive development, balanced development of all regions. There is a need for balanced development. Though the state is progressing only by the sole development of the noida and Gaziabad but the needs of Uttar Pradesh will not be fulfilled in that way. I am glad that the way these things have been accomplished, all the initiatives that have been undertaken and all the nuances that are taken into consideration are commendable!\nSome people are describing this as a groundbreaking ceremony. Although traditionally it is a groundbreaking ceremony but I call it a record-breaking ceremony The processes have been expedited and the changes were made in the archaic working system in such a short span of time. I believe that no one can stand up and claim that such a thing was ever completed before in Uttar Pradesh. These are absolutely new things for the governance of Uttar Pradesh. I am glad that the government under the leadership of Yogi ji was in constant touch with the investors and created a convincing environment. Initiatives such as online MoU tracker or single window platform like Nivesh Bandhu for clearances show not only the transformed work culture, but also an enabling environment prevailed. There was a time when investing in UP was considered as a grave challenge. Those challenges have now emerged as opportunities These opportunities in the form of employment, business, good roads, adequate electricity, better present and a bright future are the people of UP and growth and development of the state. I hope the speed with which you are striding forward, UP will soon cross the trillion dollars economic threshold. I congratulate my businessmen for their commitment and my best wishes are with you all.\nWe are not afraid You must have seen some people who are always hesitant to get a photo clicked with an industrialist. But there is not a single industryist who does not like their house and prostrates before them. Amar Singh ji is sitting here He will bring out the whole history. However, when your intensions are right and honest, it is never demeaning to stand beside anyone A pure soul like Mahatma Gandhi was never hesitant to go and even stay with the family of Birla ji. He was never hesitant to stand with Birla as his intensions were pure. Those who avoid me publicly but are engaged in everything behind everyone's back Just as the hard work of One farmer, one artist, banker, financer, government servant and laborer plays a signed role in nation building, the hard work of an industrialist is also critical in the process. This is extremely unjustified to them Definitely, the ones who are engaged in wrongdoings will be thrown out of the country or are languishing in prisons. Before that, there was no action against everyone's back. It was well known as to whom!\nSo, everyone's cooperation is needed It is the responsibility of every Indian to pay respect to the 125 crore Indians. The projects that have been launched today will provide more than 2 lakh youngsters and the factories that will be able to provide jobs to the local people. Everybody going to benefit; be it a farmer, a worker or a youngster\nFriends,\nI had promised the 22 crore people of UP that I would return their love with interest. The initiation of these projects is one of the crucial steps towards fulfilling that promise. These projects will help in doing away with the financial and industrial misbalance in Uttar Pradesh. This will not be limited to These will be extended to Noida, Greater Noida, Meerut, Muzzafarnagar, Jhansi, Hardoi, Amethi, Raebareli, Jaunpur, Mirzapur and Gorakhpur. These projects will prove to be huge steps in giving the digital India and Make in India programs. The digital infrastructure in UP such as delivery of high speed internet in UP, or laying optical fiber network or setting up IT centers will provide a new momentum, direction to UP and new opportunities to its youth. It is a part of that massive plan of the government which we want to make the common man easy with digitalization. We want to erect a system where there will not be any scope of discrimination. The process should show speed and sensitivity. There should not be There should be an equal treatment to all i.e. 'Sabka Sath Sabka Vikas'\nFriends,\nThe Digital India Program is a fast and transparent delivery of services. More than 3 lakh common service centers Now the villagers are not compelled to visit government offices for ticketing, telemedicine, Jan Aushadhi, Aadhaar, paying electricity and telephone bills, etc. The Common Service Centers in the villages, free WiFi hotspot and cheap mobile internet are making the life of the poor and the middle class easy.\nFriends,\nThe IT sector has been our strength for many years. Today the IT export sector is on a record level. More than 40 lakh people are associated with this industry but this strength of the country has remained confined to the big cities and the metro cities only. Our government is doing the pushing of the small towns and cities as well as the villages.\nFriends,\nThe tradition of thinking isolation in the government has now ended. Solutions and synchronization are being promoted by putting an end to silos. There is a direct link between the government's schemes and actions. Digital India Program and Make in India is the best example to prove this point. The falling price of mobile phones These days the prices of mobile phones have dropped because the mobile phones are being manufactured in India at an accelerated rate. Today the country is becoming a mobile manufacturing hub for the world. We are ranked second in terms of mobile manufacturing in the world and I am happy that Uttar Pradesh is taking the lead in the manufacturing revolution. At present, UP has more than 50 mobile manufacturing factories. Recently, the world's largest manufacturing unit was started in UP Mobile manufacturing factories are also present in the factories that have been launched today.\nFriends,\nThe government has taken many decisions These decisions include those related to Foreign Direct Investment, giving incentives for manufacturing or making the processes simple These have created a favourable environment for the industries. GST was stuck for several years. Now it has been liberated from the country. The industrial world has highly benefited from it.\nIn the last few years, many significant steps have been made in the country. By public procurement preference to make in India order, the government is pushing the various departments and institutions to make purchases of goods and services from the domestic sources. Make in India is being promoted This order is also aiding the small industries. In the last one year, UP has twice benefitted from the changes that have been made, the policies that have been formulated and the above crime rates under the leadership of yogi ji Friends, the BJP government is working on its approach of 'holistic vision, inclusive action'.\nI want to reassure the industrialists from this platform. It is just the beginning of this race for me There is a long way to go and there is a need to fasten the process. You are an important unit of nation building and your solution is also linked to the dreams of the youngsters of the country. We have both the intentions and the ability to make strong decisions in the future.\nAs our major projects related to infrastructure get ready, disinvestment in the country will become much easier. The expenditure on logistics will be especially low. Next generation infrastructure will benefit not only the public but also the industrial sector.\nFriends,\nThere are immense possibilities in UP in the areas of IT, consumer electronics and electronics manufacturing. The MSME sector is also going to benefit from the new infrastructure in the near future. I want to make an appeal to the small and medium entrepreneurs who are still carrying out cash-based transactions.\nFriends,\nSustainable development and ceaseless efforts are the key to the dreams of 125 crore Indians. The infrastructure of electricity is a critical part of sustainable development. Affordable and continuous supply Electricity is equally important for agriculture and industries Therefore, electricity is the focus of this government Today, the country is moving from conventional energy to green energy. The government is specially focusing on solar energy. Our initiative of the International Solar Alliance has got recognition world over UP is about to become a solar power A few months back, a massive solar plant was inaugurated in Mirzapur. Today, the foundation stone of another plant has been laid.\nBrothers and sisters,\nToday is a crying need for solar technology and machines like solar pumps not only in India but also in African and other developing countries. I urge all my industrialists to come forward and make the best use of the unique environment that has been created in the field of clean and green energy in India.\nFriends,\nThe work ranging from generation to electricity to its distribution to every household is moving at an unprecedented rate. Our energy deficit has shrunk from 4.2% to less than 1% within four years. Coal that was once the reason for a scam Today, power grids do not fail due to lack of coal\nMoreover, all the reforms that have been brought into the field of electricity\nThe UDAY scheme has given a new lease of life to the distribution companies. With the help of UJALA scheme, the installed LED lights have reduced the electricity bills in the last three years with the savings of Rs.50,000 crore specially for the middle class families and for the city of the city. If Modi had announced a Rs 50 thousand crore, it had made headlines. People had been impressed However, we formulated a scheme that helped people save for Rs.50,000 crore! The country\nFriends,\nToday electricity is easily accessible India has jumped about 82 places in the world There is such a commendable improvement! Today, the efforts are on We are fasting in the process of achieving our goal.\nI am surprised that some people If we say that we have done something, they will say that no, it was not done I want to tell my critics that if you are looking for facts to criticize and condemn Modi, there were projects that were pending for 70 years. If you want to look for facts Well, we are trying to reach our goal of providing uninterrupted power supply to the country. Therefore, the network of power transmission is being strengthened.\nThe Ghatampur-Hapur transmission line that was launched today Yogi ji's government was encouraged to rejuvenate the system of transmission that was disrupted during the previous government's tenure. We have had parliamentarians from UP's Lucknow for a long time. Our respected former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Bajpayee ji keeps saying that he wants to see an India that is prosperous, capable and sensitive, where there is no gap between the rich and the poor or between labor and capital or between administration and the citizens .\nAtal ji had not only dreamed of it but had also cleared out of a road map to achieve the same. He had once said that As a result of this thought, he focused on infrastructure. We are striving hard to carry forward the idea of ​​the 21st century.\nWe are trying to complete a project like the country's biggest expressway, the Purvanchal Expressway and Defense Industrial Corridor at Bundelkhand at a rapid pace. Friends, the government is making every possible effort to make the best practices of the youth and the 125 crore Indians Our one and only roadmap is to fulfill the dreams of the crosés of people and to build a new India with public participation. I congratulate you all from the bottom of my heart for all that you are doing for Uttar Pradesh and for the country. One or two months ago I went to Mumbai and invited the industrialists. Usually people invite them I explained that although they were so rich and prosperous with big businesses but the corporate investment in agriculture is just 1% in the India. It is the lowest of the countries of the world. I had spent half a day planning out in the corporate world. This 1% too was dominated by tractor makers and urea manufacturers. I had been urged the industrialists to come up with ideas, how they could help every farmer, Warehouses, cold storage, packaging etc. are those people I had been asked to work in that direction. I had told them that they could form a brainstorming team and discuss about the different areas. The more corporate investment goes into agriculture; strong will be able to produce more and more Sometimes, a major part of the product is wasted. Just a while ago, Suri ji was saying that we could produce fruit juices out of the pulps of the fruits that are grown in the country. This decision is going to The consumer of juices will also become stronger A strong citizen makes a strong nation.\nIn a nutshell, I wish to link these industries with the village life. We need to think This is significant in the coming days and I am focusing on it. I believe that the results will follow soon. I also believe that just like we have put the Rs.60 thousand crore project on ground, the other projects like Rs.50 thousand crore worth of projects are also on the verge of completion as Yogi ji was saying. I believe that this is really a great achievement. I would like to congratulate your whole team once again\nThank you all! Moreover, being an MP from Uttar Pradesh, I feel happy about the development. It is my responsibility towards the people of Uttar Pradesh and the people have a right over me. Therefore, I may visit Uttar Pradesh twice, 5 times or 15 times; I am here for you and your service.\nThanks a lot!"