"Share\n\nIt should be our duty to care for the nature, PM Narendra Modi during #MannKiBaat\nPM Modi talks about Thailand cave tragedy during #MannKiBaat, applauds the young football team, their coach and rescuers\nMost difficult missions can be accomplished The need for your goal is a calm and steady mind: PM during #MannKiBaat\nJuly is the month when youngsters step in a new phase of their life: PM Modi #MannKiBaat\n#MannKiBaat: PM Modi speaks about determination and dedication of many students who have excelled despite belonging to humble backgrounds\n#MannKiBaat: PM Modi applauds IT professionals from Rae Bareli for their innovation\nOur saints and seers have always taught about fighting superstition: PM Modi during #MannKiBaat\nLokmanya Tilak initiated community celebration of Ganesh Utsav, which became a effective medium to further social awakening, promote harmony and equality among people: PM #MannKiBaat\nChandrashekhar Azad's passion and bravery during freedom struggle inspired many Azad sacrificed his life, but he never bowed in front of British: PM during #MannKiBaat\n#MannKiBaat: PM Modi applauds Hima Das, Ekta Bhyan, Yogesh Kathunia, Sundar Singh Gurjar \u0026 other sportspersons for their stellar performances\nMy dear countrymen, Namaskar Of late, the news of extinction At places, we are on the verge of overcoming showers; At some places, people are waiting for the rain The vastness and diversity of India, in fact, at times even rains play hide \u0026 seek through partiality laced likes \u0026 dislikes. But why we blame the rains! After all it was humankind that he chose the path of conflict with Nature and consequently his periodic wrath. And that is why it gets our collective responsibility ... Let us be lovers of nature, protectors of Nature, conservers of Nature ... and thus, ensure spontaneous balance in her myriad bounty.\nCome to think of it, recently an incident related to a natural disaster attracted global attention, leaving every heart and mind perturbed. All of you have watched it on T.V ... in Thailand a team of 12 teenaged football players and their coach went on a tour to a cave. Usually it takes some hours to enter and exit that cave But Destiny has different plans that day. Barely did they enter into the cave that caused a heavy heavy downpour due to the inlet of the cave. Their exit was completely blocked. Not able to find a way out, they perched themselves a top a mound inside the cave; not for a day or two, but an entire 18 days. One can only imagine the teenagers in the face of death. On the one hand they were struggling against all odds; On the other, the world over, humanity join hands in the noble and the most righteous of human virtues. The world over, people prayed for the children No stone left left Their timely evacuation was of a prime concern, since the heavy monsoon had delayed rescue-attempts by some months. Anyways, the good news of their safe exit is a relief, a sense of inner calm. But I feel like watching the whole sequence of events from another perspective, i.e, how the operation is conducted! The sense of responsibility \u0026 commitment, prevailing at every level was astonishing. The government, their parents, family members, media, citizens of that country, every one of them displayed an awe-inspiring sense of peace and patience. They all came together as their mission I feel the self-control exercised by them in the right understanding and emulating. It is not that parents were not aggrieved, it is not that the mothers' eyes were ceased to be moist. Their patience, their restraint, in fact the calm composition exercised by the entire society is commendable \u0026 worth following. During the operation, a sailor from Thailand Navy sacrificed his life. The whole world is being wildered at the way they hold on with courage and patience, without losing hope, despite the odds against them in the water-logged dark cave. This proves that when humanity stands together, it creates wonders What is definitely required for your goal with a calm \u0026 steady demeanour and the will of strive.\nA few days ago, the country's beloved poet Neeraj Ji left us forever. Neeraj ji was blessed with a special quality ... it was a combination of hope, faith, a firm resolve and self-confidence. Every word of Neeraj ji's work can instill a lot of strength \u0026 inspiration in us Indians. He wrote\nPick up the stars\nDo not worry\nThe lamp is burnt, darkness will remain\nThe dark will be dispelled\nWhether you brew up storms\nOr make lightening strike\nNow\nThe dark will be dispelled\nMy heartfelt respectful tributes to Neeraj ji\nUsually, the months of July and August are very important for farmers and the youth. This is the time for peak season for colleges. Like Satyam, Hundreds of thousands of schools to join colleges. Whereas February and March are consumed in exams, papers and answers, April and May are meant for vacation, followed by results and thereafter, shaping a course for one's life through career choices. July is the month when the youth step in a new phase of life, where the focus shift from questions and veers toward cut-offs\nThe focus of students steers from home to hostel. Students submit themselves to the tutelage of Professors in the form of their parents. I firmly believe that my young friends must be enthusiastic and happy on the commencement of their college life. Leaving home for the first time, moving out of one's village, coming out of a safe environment. This multitude of young people leave their homes for the first time. Some students may have joined their respective colleges All I want to say to you is' Be calm, enjoy life, seek inner happiness in life. There is no alternative to books, one has to study, yet one's bent of mind should be discovering new things Old friends are invaluable. Childhood friends are precious, but selecting, making and maintaining new friendships is a task that requires immense prudence. Keeping something new, such as newer skills and languages Young people who leave their homes for the sake of studies should discover their new places, know more about the people, language, culture and tourism facets related to them. My best wishes to all young people Reflecting the college season reminded me of someone I saw in the news recently ... how Asharam Chowdhury a student from a very poor family in Madhya Pradesh Overcame life's many challenges to achieve success In his first attempt, he cracked the Entrance examination for MBBS at AIIMS, Jodhpur. His father I congratulate him on his success There are many such instances of students from deprived families who, through sheer determination \u0026 perseverance overcame all odds and out of the beacons of inspiration to others. Examples like Prince Kumar of Delhi, whose father is a DTC bus driver, Abhay Gupta of Kolkata, who studied on foothpaths under street lights, Bitiya Afreen Sheikh of Ahmedabad, whose father is a auto rickshaw, Nagpur's daughter Khushi, whose father is a school bus driver, Karthik of Haryana, whose father is a watchman or Ramesh Sahu of Jharkhand, whose father is an brick-kiln laborer ... or Gurgaon's divyang angel Anushka Panda, who suffers from a hereditary disorder called spinal muscular atrophy ... all of them overcame each \u0026 every obstacle through their firm resolve and zeal If we look around, we can see many such examples.\nAny commendable event from any part of the country infuses my heart with energy and inspires me And when I mention the glorious journey of these youth, I am reminded of Neeraj ji's line which sum up the raison d'etre of life. Neeraj ji has said\nSongs are to recount the earth to me\nI have to call every darkness in the light\nTo smear the sword with the smell of flowers\nAnd I have to wake the mountains of Ga-ga\nHow do i\nthe song of the earth\nI like to inspire every strand of dark\nto come\nAnd I want to\nWith the fragrance of flowers\nAnd to awaken the mountains\nwith the Sweetness of songs\n\nMy dear countrymen, some days ago, I said to myself, \"Two youths make Modi's dream come true\". On reading further, I came to know how our youngsters put into efforts to transform the lives of the common man.\nIt happened so that once I was interacting with Indian youth in San Jose, Whenever they found time, that direction in which they used their talent to India's benefit and do something. I had made an appeal to change the brain-drain in brain-gain. Two IT Professionals from Rae Bareilly Yogesh Sahu ji and Rajneesh Bajpayee ji accepted my challenge and made a unique effort. With their joint efforts, Yogesh ji and Rajneesh have developed a SmartGaonApp by using their professional skills. This app is not only connecting the villagers but now they can not get any information on their own mobile phones. Residents of the village Taudhakpur in Rae Bareilly, village chief, District Magistrate, CDO and every one joined in to create awareness among the masses. This app is actually bringing in a digital revolution in the village, with the help of this app, it has become easy to record, track and monitor development work in the village. This App contains phone directory, news section, events list, health center and information center of the village. This App is very useful for the farmers and the grammar feature of the App and FACT. If you look into this incident, you are the young man living in the United States, who has left many years ago but, who knows about the finer details, who knows about the country's life-style and ideology the challenges and still is emotionally attached to his village This is the most popular way of the village.\nA sense of belonging to the village and towards one's roots and also a spirit to show and do something is naturally there in every Indian\nBut, sometimes because of time, sometimes because of distance and at times because of situations that spirit gets faded but just a touch of a small spark, everything re-emerges which takes a back to old memories. We should also check if such thing has happened in our case too Whether circumstances, situations, distances have made us alien, whether dust has been our determinations\nDo think\nSantoshji, many - many thanks for your phone call Actually, the winner is a wonderful travel in itself. Friends, Ashadhi Ekadashi, which fell on 23rd July, is celebrated as a day of grand transformation of Pandharpur Wari. Pandharpur is a holy town in Solapur district in Maharashtra. About 15-20 days before Ashadhi Ekadashi wikari or pilgrims start the train. This yatra (travel) is known as Wari and lakhs of warkaris join this. Wooden foot wear or padukas of great saints like Saint Gyaneshwar and Saint Tukaram are placed in a palki and pilgrims begin their pilgrimage chanting \"Vitthal-Vitthal\". Pilgrims go to have a glimpse of Vitthal who is also known as Vithoba or Pandurang. Lord Vitthal safeguards the interests of the poor, the deprived ones and the ones who are suffering. People from Maharashtra, Karnataka, Goa, Andhra Pradesh, Telengana have deep devotion and respect for Vitthal.\nVisiting Vithoba Temple in Pandharpur and its grandeur, beauty and spiritual pleasure is a unique experience in itself. I request the listeners of \"Man Ki Baat\" to visit the Pandharpur Wari at least once, whenever they get a chance. Innumerable saints like Gyaneshwar, Namdev, Ekknath, Ram Dass, Tukaram are relevant even today in educating the masses. They are the power to fight against each other. May be be compositions like Bharud (Hkk: M) or Abhang (vHkax), we get a great message of amity, love and brotherhood We get the mind to enable the society to fight against blind-faith through devotion and worship. These were the people who, at times restrained and corrected the society, even showed a mirror and ensured that old evil traditions get eradicated from the society and that people are compassion, equality and righteousness in culture. Our Mother India is a land full of gems and treasures and the tradition of these great saints who have adorned our land the same level as the great men who dedicated our life to our Mother India One such great man who has left the country is Tilak who has left a very deep impression on the hearts of Indians. We remember and pay our tribute to Tilak ji on his birth anniversary on 23rd July and his 1st death anniversary.\nLokmanya Tilak was full of courage and self-confidence. He had the courage to show a mirror to the British The British were so afraid of Lok Manya that they tried to induce him in three decades in two decades; this is no small thing I want to narrate a interesting incident to the countrymen who is connected with Lok Manya Tilak and his statue in Ahmedabad. When in October 1916, Lok Manya Tilak ji came to Ahmedabad, more than 40,000 people that time gave him a welcome and during that very visit, Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel had a chance to talk to him. Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel was highly impressed by Lok Manya Tilakji. When on August 1, 1920, Lok Manya Tilakji passed away, Patel had decided upon himself that he would build his statue in Ahmedabad. Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel was elected the Mayor of Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation and he immediately selected Victoria Garden as a place for Lok Manya Tilak's memorial and this was the very Victoria Garden which was named after British Queen. The British were naturally not happy with this and the collector consistently kept denying permission. But Sardar Saheb was also Sardar Saheb after all, he was persistent and had remarked that he had to give up on his post but Lok Manya Tilakji's statue was definitely built there. Finally, the statue got built and Sardar Saheb got it unveiled by none other than Mahatma Gandhi on 28th February, 1929; Bapuji said that with the coming of Sardar Patel, Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation has not only got a man but it has got the strength on the basis of which, the building of the statue of Tilakji has become possible And my dear countrymen, the specialty about this statue is that Tilakji in which he is sitting in a chair and in this \"Swaraj is our birthright\" (\"Swaraj Hamara Janma Sidhha Author Hai\") right below Tilakji's statue. And this all happened during the British rule. Tradition of publicly celebrating Ganesh utsav also initiated with the efforts of Lok Manya Tilakji. The celebration of Ganesh Utsav publicly became a effective medium in promoting a spirit of social awakening, integration, amity and equality among the masses besides projecting an understanding of dedication and festivity in them. This was the period when there was a need to fight against the British; These festivals, by breaking the barriers of casteism and communalism served the purpose of uniting all. Such events get more popularity with the passage of time. Thus, it becomes clear that our young generation is still care for the brave heroes of our ancient past, its heritage and history. Today, you can see Ganesh pandals in many cities All families in that street collectively organize these pandals This is a great opportunity for our youth where they can learn qualities of leadership and organization and inculcate these in themselves.\nMy dear countrymen! I had requested last time too and now, while remembering Lokmanya Tilak, I will once again urge all of you to celebrate Ganesh Utsav with great enthusiasm and full heartedly but insisting on the celebrations eco-friendly. Right from Ganesh idol to all decorative material, I want to be able to participate in every city, prizes should be awarded; and I will like that to be related to Ganesh Utsav.\nI will definitely send your ideas and efforts to the people. Lokmanya Tilak evoked self-confidence among our countrymen and gave the slogan \"Swaraj is our birth right and I have it.\" Today is the time to say that good governance is our birth right and we have it.\nEvery Indian should have access to good governance and positive results. It is the factoring in of the outreach that will create a new India After 50 years of Tilak's birth, on the same day i.e. On July 23, another boy of Mother India was born, who sacrificed his life so that his countrymen could breathe freely in an atomsphere of freedom. I am talking about none other than Chandrasekhar Azad. Where you will find a young man in India\nSarfaroshi ki tamanna ab hamare dil mein hai hain\nI do not know how much I am going to do with e-qaatil\n(The desire for martyrdom\nLet us see the power of my executioner\nThese lines inspired many young people like Ashfaq Ullah Khan, Bhagat Singh, Chandrashekhar Azad and many others. Azad's courage and passion for freedom Chandrashekhar Azad put his life on the stake, but he never bowed in front of the foreign rule. It was my privilege and good fortune that I had the opportunity of going to Chandrasekhar Azad's native village of Alirajpur in Madhya Pradesh. I had the opportunity to pay homage in Chandrasekhar Azad Park in Allahabad, Chandrasekhar Azad Ji was a brave man who did not wish to be the bullet of foreigners - he wished to fight for independence as a free man and if he had died, he wished to stay a free man! This is what special Once again, I bow and pay tributes to the two great sons of India - Lokmanya Tilakji and Chandrasekhar Azad ji.\nJust a few days ago, in the Junior Under-20 World Athletics Championship in Finland, India's brave daughter and a farmer, daughter Hima Das made history by winning the gold medal in the 400-meter race event. Ekta Bhyan, Another daughter of the country, in response to my letter, has emailed me from Indonesia, where she is now preparing for Asian Games. Ekta in her e-mail writes - 'The most important moment in the life of any athlete is that when he or she holds the tricolor and I am proud that I can do that.' Ekta, we all are proud of you You have brought glory to the Nation Ekta has won the gold and bronze medals in World Para Athletics Grand Prix 2018 held in Tunisia. Her achievement is all the more special because she has made the imposing challenges in her life.\nDaughter Ekta Bhyan in 2003, lost the use of half of her body due to road accident, but this girl did not lose courage and made herself all the more strong to perform this grand feat. Another Divyang, Yogesh Qathuniaji, has won the gold medal in the discus throw in Para Athletics Grand Prix in Berlin and in the process bettered the world record, along with Sundar Singh Gurjar who also won the gold medal in javelin. I salute Ekta Bhyanji, Yogesh Qathuniaji and Sundar Singh Ji, all of you for your fortitude and passion, and congratulate you! May you go ahead from these successes, keep on playing and keep on blooming.\nMy dear countrymen, the month is August is significant because it is historically important dates and festivals, but due to the weather sometimes sickness also enters the house I wish you all the best wishes for good health, for the month of August for the spirit of patriotism and many festivals that have continued over centuries. Next time 'Mann Ki Baat' next time\nMany Many Thanks\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 29, 2018\nThe stories of human resilience from Thailand #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/JbrN6X8dw7\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 29, 2018\nThe month of July #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/rIfDSA4Y6k\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 29, 2018\nAn inspiring story from Madhya Pradesh #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/eeIDgbI5NL\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 29, 2018\nSaluting young achievers who overcame challenges to succeed #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/Dlejd0Qs6u\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 29, 2018\nYouth are contributing towards a new India! #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/xizRsP5Edg\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 29, 2018\nThe teachings of our saints continue to inspire us in the fight against social evils. #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/DTzGFG7Lf5\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 29, 2018\nPaying tributes to a brave son of India, Lokmanya Tilak #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/vMpuPdagNc\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 29, 2018\nGanesh Utsav celebrations are an outcome of Lokmanya Tilak's efforts. #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/IHK70q68LG\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 29, 2018\nChandrashekhar Azad's passion for the country and his bravery inspire us. #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/DTqDa1Sumy"