"Share\n\nOur pledge to make life of Indians is simple and comfortable in the last 3 years: PM Modi\nWe are bound to build a system for future generations, where life will be based on 5 Es: Easy Living, Education, Employment, Economy and Entertainment: PM\nBy 2022 we want to ensure that everyone has a house of their own: PM Modi\nPM Modi takes a jibe at Congress president's' chowkidar-bhagidar remark, says \"I am proud to be a 'bhagidar' of the pain through the poor\"\nThrough Smart city mission, we want to deal with new challenges: PM Modi\nPrevious governments in Uttar Pradesh preferentialised own bungalows over homes for poor: PM Modi\nAll dear brothers and sisters coming from different corners of the country.\nI am a MP from Uttar Pradesh and therefore, firstly, as a representative of Uttar Pradesh, I welcome you all with heart. You are from different corners of the country, I am sure that you have enjoyed this historic city, its hospitality and Lakhnavi accent. Friends, all of you are adopting this change, the things that are going on the ground. Be a mayor, a commissioner or a CEO; You are the representative of the cities of the country which are a symbol of the hope and aspirations of the new century, the new India and the new generation. For the past three years, you have come together with the shoulder to fulfill the dreams of millions of countrymen.\nI had an opportunity to see the exhibition which I had been here some time ago. There was information about the ongoing projects in the country. Some of the best performing cities in the Smart City Mission have been rewarded. Apart from this, some siblings and daughters were handed the keys of their own houses and the glow on their face when the keys were found, the confidence of the bright future was reflected in their eyes, it is a great inspiration for all of us .\nMany such beneficiaries got an opportunity to talk to me before coming to the stage here. These opportunities to change the lives of the poor, homeless siblings of the country and changing; This is really a great satisfying experience in life. All the citizens of the cities who have received the prizes, and those who have got their home, have congratulated me on behalf of all those families, very good luck.\nBut you must have done the mark when I was giving the award, everybody was coming, I did not mark it; There are only two male mayors, the rest of the women are Mayere. The jihad with which our sisters have done this work, the applause for those sisters.\nSethios, the poor of the city, the campaign to give a homeless home, the work of a hundred smart cities or 500 AMRUT cities; Our resolve to make life simple, easy and secure to millions of people has become stronger every three years. Even today, a lot of schemes have been laid down for smart cities in Uttar Pradesh and I have been told that under the smart city mission, work on plans of more than seven thousand crore rupees across the country has been completed and 52 thousand crore Work on schemes more than Rs. Is running at a fast pace. The goal of this mission is to make the lives of poor, low-middle-class and middle-class people living in cities, give them better civil facilities. Integrated command centers to deliver these features in Smart City; This is like his soul; From here the arrangement of the entire city is to be conducted, the activities of the city have to be monitored.\nIn the eleven cities selected under the Mission, integrated command and control centers have started functioning in 11 cities and in the next few months, efforts are being made to complete 50 more cities. These efforts have started giving results and I have been told that in some circumstances, in the last two quarters, there has been a significant reduction in the crime rate in the last two quarters of the system of technology in Rajkot city of Gujarat. Due to the monitoring of CCTV cameras, there has been a reduction in the number of trends in spreading the mess and burning garbage in the public place.\nThe increase in property tax collection has been noticed in Bhopal. BRTS corridor in Ahmedabad- The number of people traveling in buses with free Wi-Fi has started increasing automatically. Buses from CCTV and GPS in Vishapatnam are being tracked online. In Pune, emergency call bells have been installed at almost hundred hundred places], where information is given to nearby police station from pressing a button. Many such arrangements have started working today. Under the Smart City Mission very soon, Uttar Pradesh's Agra, Kanpur, Allahabad, Aligarh, Varanasi, Jhansi, Bareilly, Saharanpur, Moradabad and these are our Lucknow; In such facilities, you will start getting benefit of it.\nOur mission of transforming the landscape of Urban India and Lucknow is a close relationship between brothers and sisters. Lucknow city has been working as the great benefactor of the country's urban life, Mr. Atal Bihari Vajpayee ji. Our inspiration source and former prime minister of the country, Mr. Atal Bihari Vajpayee ji has been a long time parliamentary area. Nowadays, the health of Atal ji is not good. The whole country is keen to be healthy soon. But on the basis of the motivation that Atalji had taken, our government, crores of Hindustani people are moving forward with it at a fast pace.\nSathiyo, Atalji, in a way, made Lucknow a laboratory for the improvement of urban life of the country. Today, you see the road connecting almost 1000 villages around Lucknow to Lucknow, which are coming here, which are coming up in Lucknow, the bio technology park, the scientific convention centers, which are coming here. Such work was done in Lucknow as his MP, his vision was; The result is that. Today the Metro is either running in 12 cities in the country or it is going to start soon. Here the work of expansion of Metro is also underway in Lucknow. Atal Bihari Vajpayee ji was the first to bring this system into a big way in urban transport, to bring it to Delhi. The success of the Delhi Metro is being repeated today.\nSathiyo, Atalji used to say that neither old nor old will get new. He said this in the context of old and new Lucknow. That's our AMRUT today and his name is also associated with Atalji; This 'Amrit' which we are saying is 'Amrit Yojana' - its full word is Atal Mission for rejuvenation and urban transformation, and it is our inspiration for a smart city mission.\nWith the same thinking, decades old arrangements are being improved in many cities. These cities are being encouraged to arrange sewerage, drinking water, improving street lights, arranging beautification of lake, pond and parks.\nSathiyo, the plans for giving home to poor, homeless siblings who are living openly in the slums of the city are going on, and it was also started by Atalji. In year 2001, the Balmiki-Ambedkar housing scheme was started by Atalji in the country. Here, in Lucknow only 10 thousand brothers and sisters got their house under this scheme. The spirit in the core of the schemes that are going on today is the same, but we are trying to take the speed, scale and quality of living to a different level. The government is trying to provide roof over every head till 2022. When 75 years of independence, then there should not be any family in Hindustan, which does not have its own house.\nKeeping this in mind, 54 lakh houses have been sanctioned in urban areas in the last three years. Not only in cities, in villages, more than one crore houses have been handed over to the public. Houses that are built today have toilets; there is electricity under good luck, LED bulbs have also been installed under Ujala; That is, they are getting a complete package. The government has been providing interest relief to these houses, now the area of ​​the houses has been increased even further than the earlier.\nFriends, the houses which are being given are not just roofs on the head of the poor homeless but this is a living proof of empowerment of women. The houses which are being given under the Prime Minister's Housing Scheme are being given in the name of mothers and sisters. Under this scheme, about 87 lakh houses have been registered in the name of women or in partnership. Otherwise how was our social order- go to any family, on whose name the land was named, in the name of the husband, in the name of the father, in the name of son On whose name the house is in the name of the husband, in the name of the son On whose name the son of a scooter was brought; There is nothing in the name of that woman.\nWe have changed the situation. And before that he used to go to our place - now, who will go through the street, he will not ask who is the master of the house, but he will ask who is the owner of this house? These changes are going to come in the thinking of society.\nI congratulate Yogiji and his government that they are pushing this scheme to raise the living standard of the poor at a fast pace. Otherwise, I have the experience of the government before me. After 2014, how are the days till the Yogi comes, I know well and I remind the people repeatedly. How do we have to write letters to the center for the poor's house, whenever we want to meet, we had to talk - Hey brother do something, we are ready to pay. They had to insist. But those governments were like this, they were like that too. He was not ready to leave his work-tradition. He was one point programme, to decorate his bungalow. Now, if it is vacant, then it will become the house of the poor.\nToday, one more thing is to say, and Uttar Pradesh has made me a MP, then I should share this with the people of Uttar Pradesh because you have the right. You have heard that an allegation has been imposed on me these days. And the accusation is that I am not a watchman, I am a partner.\nBut my Uttar Pradesh brothers and sisters and my countrymen, I consider this accusation a prize and I am proud that I am a partner. I am a part of the misery of the poor of the country, I am a partner of working laborers, I am a partner of all the sad moms. I am the partner of the pain of the mother who worsens her eyes and health in the fumes of wood and cow dung in the stove. I want to change the stove of every mother.\nI am a partner of the pain of the farmer whose crop gets wasted in water or in water and he becomes desperate. I am a partner to protect the farmer.\nI am a partner, the passion of those brave soldiers who are willing to do everything for the sake of our safety in the desert, by burning the skin of Jaisalmer and Kutch by taking the Siachen and Kargil bone frosting cold.\nI am a partner, the pain of the poor family who is forced to sell his land in the treatment of a sick person in his house. I think for that family and work for her service.\nI am a partner, I am a participant of the effort which is because the poor have roofs on their heads, they get home, they get toilets in that house, get clean water to drink, get electricity. If they get sick, they get cheap medicines and treatment, children get education.\nI am a participant, the effort by which our youth get the skills, jobs, help them in their employment. I would like to see the ordinary citizens wearing our slippers get the air travel facility.\nI am proud that I am a partner, as I am proud that I am the son of a poor mother. Poverty has given me honesty and courage. Poverty has taught me to live life. I have taken the poison of poverty, I have seen the suffering of the poor. It is said to us here- 'Whose feet do not get tired, what is there to go away?' The person who has experienced, knows the problem and knows the solution related to the land of distress.\nEarlier, I was also accused of being Chyala, how can I be the Prime Minister of my country? But those people can not take these decisions, the decision will be taken by the people of the 500 million people of this country. Friends, those who humiliate the participants, the same thinking is the result of the same thinking in the root of the problems of our cities today, it seems to be the same.\nWe also had inspirations for smart cities and people who were also interested. The old cities found in excavation today are examples of how our ancestors used to make cities. In that era, centuries ago, there is also a type of paradox of the smart city of that era and has been a craftsman too. But the will of the political will and lack of complete thinking made a big loss.\nAfter independence, when the responsibility of building a nation with renewed renewal was on our shoulders, when there was no pressure of population; Then there was a great opportunity for our cities to be settled according to the future requirements. If the problems were not there at that time today, if at that time the plan-work had to be done, then the troubles which are facing today will not have to be tolerated. But randomly the cities were allowed to spread to whichever area it was spreading. Go, look, fill my house, you go somewhere. In a way, a forest of concrete was allowed to grow. The result is that every city of India is suffering today.\nFriends, a whole generation has struggled with these chaos, and somewhere two or two, three or three generations have gone, and the other is carrying a burden of bitter experiences. More knowledgeable people are expecting and they are going to go that today with the growth of about seven and a half percent, India is going to grow faster in the coming years. ऐसे में देश का वो हिस्‍सा जिसकी जीडीपी में 65 प्रतिशत से अधिक की हिस्‍सेदारी है, जो एक प्रकार से ग्रोथ का इंजन है, वो अगर अव्‍यवस्थित रहें तो हमारी कैसी रुकावटें खड़ी होंगी ये हम अंदाज लगा सकते हैं और इसलिए इन व्‍यवस्‍थाओं को व्‍यवस्थित करना अनिवार्य है।\nलटकते तार, गंदा पानी उगलते सीवर, घंटों तक लगते ट्रैफिक जाम; ऐसी तमाम अव्‍यवस्‍थाएं 21वीं सदी के भारत का परिभाषित नहीं कर सकतीं। इसी सोच के साथ तीन वर्ष पहले इस मिशन की नींव रखी गई थी। देश के 100 शहरों को इसके लिए चुना गया और तय किया गया कि दो लाख करोड़ से अधिक के निवेश से इन्‍हें विकसित किया गया जाएगा। विकास भी ऐसा कि जहां शरीर नया हो लेकिन आत्‍मा वही हो, संस्‍कृति जहां की पहचान होगी; स्‍मार्टनेस, ये उसकी जिंदगी होगी। ऐसे जीवंत शहर विकसित करने की तरफ हम तेज गति से आगे बढ़ रहे हैं।\nसाथियों, हमारी सरकार के लिए स्‍मार्ट सिटी सिर्फ एक प्रोजेक्‍ट नहीं है बल्कि हमारे लिए एक मिशन है। Mission to transformation, mission to transform, mission to transform the nation, ये मिशन हमारे शहरों को न्‍यू इंडिया की नई चुनौतियों से निपटने के लिए तैयार करेगा। 21वीं सदी के भारत में विश्‍वस्‍तरीय intelligent urban centers खड़ा करेगा। ये देश के उस युवा की आकांक्षाओं का प्रतिनिधित्‍व करते हैं जो सिर्फ बेहतर नहीं बल्कि बेस्‍ट चाहते हैं। ये हमारी जिम्‍मेदारी है, ये हमारी प्रतिबद्धता है कि इसी जेनेरेशन के लिए भविष्‍य की व्‍यवस्‍थाओं का निर्माण हो। यहां जीवन Five E पर आधारित हो और Five E यानी Ease of living, Education, Employment, Economy and Entertainment.\nऔर जब भी मैं आप जैसे लोगों जैसे शहर के मेयर से, म्‍युनिसिपल कमीश्‍नर या CEO से बातचीत करता हूं तो एक नई आशा सामने आती है। स्‍मार्ट सिटी मिशन की प्रक्रिया का ढांचा जन-सहभाग, जन-आकांक्षा और जन-दायित्‍व; इन तीनों पर आधारित है। अपने शहर में इस तरह की योजनाएं शुरू हों, ये शहर के लोगों ने खुद तय किया है। उनके ही विचार शहरों के स्‍मार्ट सिटी विजन के आधार बने हैं और इन पर आज तेज गति से काम चल रहा है।\nमुझे इस बात की भी प्रसन्‍नता है कि न सिर्फ यहां नई व्‍यवस्‍थाओं का निर्माण हो रहा है बल्कि फंडिंग की वैकल्पिक व्‍यवस्‍था भी की जा रही है। पुणे, हैदराबाद और इंदौर ने म्‍युनिसिपल बॉन्‍ड के माध्‍यम से लगभग साढ़े पांच सौ करोड़ रुपये जुटाए। अब लखनऊ और गाजियाबाद में भी बहुत जल्‍द ये प्रक्रिया शुरू होने जा रही है। ये म्‍युनिसिपल बॉन्‍ड्स सरकारों पर आर्थिक निर्भरता को भी कम करने का काम करेंगे। मेरा बाकी शहरों से भी आग्रह है वो इस प्रकार के initiative के लिए आगे आएं।\nसाथियो, शहरों का स्‍मार्ट होना, सिस्‍टम का टेक्‍नोलॉजी से जुड़ना, ये ease of living को सुनिश्चित कर रहे हैं। आज आप अनुभव कर सकते हैं कि किस प्रकार सेवाएं ऑनलाइन हुई हैं, जिसके कारण अब सामान्‍य जन को कतार में खड़ा नहीं होना पड़ता। ये कतारें भी तो करप्‍शन की जड़ थीं। आज आपको कोई बिल भरना हो, किसी सुविधा के लिए एप्‍लाई करना हो, कोई सर्टिफिकेट चाहिए, या फिर छात्रवृत्ति, पेंशन, प्रॉविडेंट फंड जैसी अनेक सुविधाएं आज ऑनलाइन हैं; यानि आज governance भी स्‍मार्ट हो रहा है जिससे transparency सुनिश्चित हुई है। और इसकी वजह से करप्‍शन में बहुत बड़ी कमी आ रही है।\nसाथियो, smart, secure, sustainable और transparent व्‍यवस्‍थाएं देश के करोड़ों लोगों के जीवन में परिवर्तन ला रही हैं। ये जो भी सिस्‍टम बनाया जा रहा है ये सबके लिए है। इसमें ऊंच-नीच, पंत, सम्‍प्रदाय, छोटे-बड़े, ऐसी कोई सीमाएं नहीं हैं, न वो आधार है; सिर्फ और सिर्फ विकास, यही एक मंत्र है। कोई भेद नहीं, कोई भेदभाव नहीं। जन भागीदारी, राज्‍यों की भागीदारी, स्‍थानीय निकायों की भागीदारी से ये सब कुछ संभव हो सकता है। ‘सबका साथ-सबका विकास’ और टीम इंडिया की ही भावना न्‍यू इंडिया के संकल्‍प को सिद्ध करने वाली है।\nऔर मैं आज योगीजी से जब बात कर रहा तो उन्‍होंने एक अच्‍छी खबर सुनाई। देखिए, कुछ बातें ऐसी हैं जो देश में अगर हम हमारे देश के नागरिकों पर भरोसा करें, कैसा अद्भुत काम कर सकते हैं। और दुर्भाग्‍य है कि पहले नेताओं को वोट लेते समय नागरिक याद आते थे। अगर हम सचमुच में नागरिकों की शक्ति और सद्भावनाओं को देखें और उसको टटोलें तो कैसा परिणाम मिलता है, योगीजी मुझे बता रहे थे। आपको मालूम है मैंने एक बार 15 अगस्‍त पर लालकिले से कहा था- कि अगर आप कमाते-धमाते हैं, एक गैस की सब्सिडी में क्‍या रखा है, क्‍यों लेते हो वो गैस की सब्सिडी? इस देश में सब्सिडी राजनीति से ऐसी जुड़ गई है, कोई ऐसी बात कहने की हिम्‍मत नहीं करता; हमने की और देश को गर्व होना चाहिए करीब-करीब सवा करोड़ परिवारों ने गैस सब्सिडी छोड़ दी।\nअब वो तो बात लालकिले से बोला था लेकिन देश का मिजाज देखिए- रेलवे वालों ने अपना जो रिजर्वेशन फॉर्म होता है उसमें एक कॉलम बनाई है अभी, नई-नई कॉलम बनाई है, अभी कुछ महीने पहले बनाई है। ज्‍यादा एडवरटाइजमेंट भी नहीं किया है, ऐसे ही लिख दिया है। और उसमें हमें मालूम है कि रेलवे में जो सीनियर सिटिजन यात्रा करते हैं उनको concession मिलता है, सब्सिडी मिलती है। क्‍या कमाते-धमाते हैं, कुछ नहीं, आपकी उम्र इतनी हो गई आपको ये लाभ मिलेगा। उन्‍होंने लिखा- कि अगर आपको, आप कमाते-धमाते हैं और अगर आप ये जो सब्सिडी है, छोड़ना चाहते हैं, इस कॉलम में Tick mark करिए। मैं- जान करके मुझे खुशी हुई, इतने कम समय में कोई एडवरटाइजमेंट नहीं, किसी नेता का बयान नहीं, कुछ नहीं; इस देश के 40 लाख से ज्‍यादा लोगों ने रेलवे यात्रा की अपनी सब्सिडी छोड़ दी; ये छोटी बात नहीं है।\nआज मुझे योगीजी ने बताया कि उत्‍तर प्रदेश में गांवों में जो लोगों को आवास मिले थे पुराने, कुछ लोगों की आर्थिक स्थिति बदली, कुछ लोग वहां से कुछ शहर में चले गए बेटे रोजी-रोटी कमाने गए तो, वहां settle हो गए। और उत्‍तर प्रदेश सरकार ने request की लोगों को कि अगर आपकी स्थिति में बदलाव आया है और आपके पास पहले सरकार का दिया हुआ मकान है; अगर आप वो मकान सरकार को वापिस दें तो हम किसी गरीब को allot करना चाहते हैं। मेरे लिए इतनी खुशी की बात है कि मेरे उत्‍तर प्रदेश के गांवों के 46 हजार (forty six thousand) लोगों ने अपने घर वापिस दे दिए। ये छोटी बात नहीं है जी।\nहमारे देश में ऐसी मानसिकता बनी हुई थी कि जैसे सब लोग चोर हैं, सब ऐसा करोगे। ये तो, कोई जरूरत नहीं है, हम देश के नागरिकों पर भरोसा करें, देश चलाने के लिए हमसे भी ज्‍यादा ताकत मेरे देशवासियों में है, ये हम में विश्‍वास होना चाहिए। देश को बदलने के लिए किस प्रकार से लोग आगे आ रहे हैं, एक ईमानदारी का माहौल बना है। पहले की तुलना में अब ज्‍यादा लोग टैक्‍स देने के लिए आ रहे हैं। नगर के अंदर सुविधाएं अगर दिखती हैं तो लोग टैक्‍स देने के लिए तैयार हो रहे हैं। उसको भरोसा हुआ है कि पाई-पाई सही जगह पर खर्च होगी, खुद के बंगलों पर खर्च नहीं होगी तो देश का सामान्‍य मानवी पैसे देने के लिए तैयार हो गया है।\nऔर इसलिए सब फिर से एक बार आप सभी को इस मिशन के लिए, जो काम आप लोगों ने किया है और जो हमारे देश नगर निगम से सभी महानुभाव आए हैं, उनको भी। मुझे विश्‍वास है कि अगली बार और भी शहर आगे आएंगे, जो आगे निकल चुके हैं-निकल चुके हैं लेकिन नए लोग आगे आएंगे। नए शहरों में क्षमता पड़ी है, लीडरशिप दीजिए। वहां के कमीश्‍नर हों, वहां के मेयर हों, वहां के CEO हों- जरा जी-जान से एक टारगेट तय कीजिए। आपको भी सम्‍मानित करने के लिए मैं इंतजार कर रहा हूं। अब मुझे आपको सम्‍मानित करने का मौका दीजिए। मैं हिन्‍दुस्तान के सभी शहरों को निमंत्रित करता हूं, मैं समाने से आपका सम्‍मान करना चाहता हूं, मुझे आपका सम्‍मान करने का अवसर दीजिए, इतना उत्‍तम काम करके आइए।\nफिर एक बार सफल होने वालों को बहुत-बहुत शुभकामनाएं, सफलता के लिए प्रयत्‍न करने वालों को भी बहुत-बहुत शुभकामनाएं।\nThanks a lot."