"Share\n\nIndia's ties with Africa are time-tested The Government of India has deepened engagement with Africa: PM Modi\nSeveral African students come to India to study and also receive scholarships: PM Modi\nThe Digital Revolution is bringing new opportunities for us. It is necessary to look at AI and big data analytics closely: PM\nExcellency, President Cyril Ramaphosa,\nMy colleagues of BRICS,\nAll my esteemed companions present here from around the world,\nFirst of all I congratulate President Ramphosa for empowering the Outreach process in BRICS. This dialogue between BRICS and other emerging economies is a good opportunity to exchange views on important topics of development. The presence of a large number of African countries here is also natural, and the subject of happiness too. India's relations with Africa are historic and deep. My government has given the highest priority to the expansion of India's historic efforts for independence, development and peace in Africa. Over the last four years, our economic relations and development cooperation has reached new heights through more than 100 mutual visits and visits of Heads of State and Government level. Today more than 40 African countries have 180 lines of credit more than 11 billion dollars. Each year, 8000 African students are being developed in Africa based on scholarships, e-network for tele-medicine in 48 African countries, and 54 billion dollars by private sector, depending on Africa's needs in Africa. While addressing the Parliament of Uganda in the days of Uganda, I have explained in detail the 10 principles of partnership between India and Africa. These 10 principles are guidelines for development, cooperation, peace and security for the development of Africa, and further strengthening hundreds of years of relationships between our people. For the important initiative of African Continental Free Trade Area, I warmly congratulate all African countries. I also welcome the various efforts being made for regional economic integration in Africa.\nExcellencies,\nFree Trade and Commerce has pulled out millions of people from poverty in the last three decades. Sharing the benefits of globalization and development to people was a key part of this process. And Global South was an equal partner in this effort. Since the economic crisis of 2008, the fundamental aspect of globalization has been clouding protectionism. The most profound impact of this trend and the slowdown in the growth rate has been on those countries which could not take advantage of industrial progress opportunities in the colonial period. Today we are once again at historic turn. Due to digital revolution, new possibilities are emerging for us. And so, it is important that we be fully prepared for changes due to automation, artificial intelligence and big data analytics. This will require investment in digital infrastructure and skilled workforce. Also, inclusive global value chains, workers mobility, portable social security frameworks and efficient remittance corridors are also our priorities.\nExcellencies,\nIndia has been contributing to its development with its partner countries. By sharing our development experiences under South-South Cooperation, all possible cooperation by technical cooperation, training and capacity building in other developing countries is an important part of our foreign policy. At the same time, India has also been providing financial assistance as well as having self-developing countries in areas like infrastructure, power, agriculture, education, health, information technology, according to the requirements and priorities of participating countries. South-South Cooperation has been a major base in India's development journey. Sharing your development experience with developing countries has always been a priority for India, and will also be in the future.\nThank you all so very much.\nThe coming together of so many African leaders\nIndia's ties with Africa are time-tested The Government of India has deepened engagement with Africa: PM @narendramodi at the BRICS Outreach Meeting with African countries\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 27, 2018\nSeveral African students come to India to study and also receive scholarships: PM @narendramodi at the BRICS Outreach Meeting with African countries\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 27, 2018\nI have outlined ten principles for India's ties with Africa during my recent address at the Parliament of Uganda: PM @narendramodi at the BRICS Outreach Meeting with African countries\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 27, 2018\nI welcome various efforts for close economic integration among the African nations: PM @narendramodi at the BRICS Outreach Meeting with African countries\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 27, 2018\nThe Digital Revolution is bringing new opportunities for us. It is necessary to look at AI and big data analytics closely: PM @narendramodi at the BRICS Outreach Meeting with African countries"