"Share\n\nThe dawn of the new opportunities and the unity of aspirations of our young people will connect us: PM\nThe story of India's own freedom struggle is intensively linked to Africa: PM\nFor India, the moral principles of independence movement were not just confined to the boundaries of India. It was a universal quest for liberty, dignity, equality and opportunity for every human being: PM\nIndia's Principled Support to Africa's Liberation Movements This mattered nothing in comparison to Africa's freedom: PM\nToday, India and Africa stand on the threshold of a future of great promise: PM Modi\nIndia is proud to be Africa's partner Uganda is central to our commitment to the continent: PM Modi\nWe are proud of the work of Indian peacekeepers in over a dozen UN peacekeeping missions in Africa: PM\nIn all the UN peacekeeping missions in the world, 163 Indians have made the supreme sacrifice. PM is the highest number for any country: PM\nIndia will work with you and for you Our partnership will build instruments of empowerment in Africa: PM Modi\nYour Excellency President Yoweri Museveni,\nYour Excellency Vice President\nRight Honourable Rebecca Kadaga, Speaker of the Ugandan Parliament,\nHonourable Ministers,\nHonourable Members of the Parliament,\nExcellencies,\nNamaskar.\nBala Musija\nI am deeply honored by the invitation to address this august House. I have had similar privileges in other Parliaments. This is, however, special This is the first time the Prime Minister of India It is a great honor for the 1.25 billion people of India. I carry my greetings and warm wishes for me to this House and for all the people of Uganda. Your presence, Madam Speaker, reminds me of my Lok Sabha, who also has a lady speaker I also see a large number of young Members of Parliament here. This is good news for democracy Every time I come to Uganda, I am enchanted by this \"Pearl of Africa\". It is a land of immense beauty, great wealth of resources and rich heritage. Its rivers and lakes have encompassed this large area across cultures. The history that brings us to this point, when the Prime Minister of the largest democracy is speaking to the elected members of the United Nations. Our ancient maritime links, the dark age of colonial rule, the shared struggle for freedom, the uncertain paths as independent countries in a divided world, the dawn of the new opportunities and the unity of aspirations of our young population.\nMr. President,\nOur people are among the many threads that connect Uganda and India together Over a century ago, the heroic labor connected to the Uganda to the shores of the Indian Ocean through railway. Your gracious presence today speaks of the precious bonds of friendship and solidarity between our people You have brought peace and stability to your country You have put it on the path of growth and progress amidst many challenges You have empowered women and made your nation more inclusive Your visionary leadership has enabled the Ugandan people of Indian origin to return to their cherished home, regain their lives and help rebuild the nation. In opening the State House to the celebration of Deepawali, you have lit up many strands of ties that connect India and Uganda. Among them, the most sacred is the site at Jinja, at the source of River Nile, where a portion of the ashes of Mahatma Gandhi were immersed. In his life and beyond, he is one with Africa and Africans. And, at the sacred site in Jinja, where a statue of Gandhiji now stands, We will build a Gandhi Heritage Center As we approach the 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, there is no better homage than a center to remind us of his mission in shaping his mission. and the universal and timeless values ​​of his life and message.\nExcellencies,\nThe story of India's own freedom It is not just the 21 years that Gandhiji spent in Africa, or the first non-cooperation movement. For India, the moral principles of independence movement, or the peaceful means to pursue it, were not just confined to the boundaries of India or to the future of Indians It was a universal quest for liberty, dignity, equality and opportunity for every human being. Nowhere did it apply more than in Africa. Twenty years before our independence, the leaders of our National Movement had linked India's independence struggle. Even as India stood on the threshold of independence, the fate of our minds. Mahatma Gandhi firmly believed that India's freedom will remain incomplete so long as Africa remains in bondage. Free India did not forget his words India pursued Afro-Asian solidarity in Bandung We were firm in opposition to the apartheid in South Africa. We took leading and bold positions in former Rhodesia - which is now known as Zimbabwe, Guinea Bassau, Angola and Namibia. Gandhiji's peaceful resistance inspired leaders like Nelson Mandela, Desmond Tutu, Albert Luthuli, Julius Nyrere and Kwame Nkrumah. History is witness to the success of the ancient wisdom of India and Africa. Some of the most profound changes in Africa came from Gandhian methods. India's Principled Support to Africa's Liberation Movements has often come as a nation's trade. But, nothing mattered in comparison to Africa's freedom.\nExcellencies,\nOur economic and international partnerships over the past seven decades have been prompted as much as economic impulse as well as ethical bonds. We demanded a fair and equitable access to markets and resources. We are ready to join And, we work on diversify economic partnership between countries of the south. Our doctors and teachers went to Africa only to seek professional opportunities, but in solidarity with a common cause of free nations As President Museveni said at the 3rd India Africa Forum Summit in Delhi in 2015 and I quote - \"We fought against colonial rule together. Let us fight for mutual prosperity together.\" Excellencies,\nToday, India and Africa stand on the threshold of great future: as confident, secure, youthful, innovative, and dynamic people Uganda is a example of Africa on the move. It is witnessing increasing gender parity, growing educational and health standards, and expanding infrastructure and connectivity. It is a region with growing trade and investment We are seeing a surge of innovation. We in India rejoice in every African success, because of our deep bonds of friendships.\nExcellencies,\nIndia is proud to be Africa's partner And, Uganda is central to our commitment to the continent. Yesterday, I announced two Lines of Credit for Uganda. The first, of 141 million US dollars for electricity lines And the second, of 64 million US dollars for agriculture and dairy production. As in the past, we will continue to support the aspirations of the people of Uganda - in agriculture and healthcare, education and training, infrastructure and energy, capacity building in government and training in defense. I compliment President Museveni and this House on the decision to join the International Solar Alliance\nExcellencies,\nAs with Uganda, we have deepened our partnership and engagement across the vast expanse of Africa. In the past four years, our President, Vice President and I have collectively visited in less than 25 countries in Africa. Our ministers have covered virtually all African nations We were honored to host all 54 countries - over 40 at Heads of State and Government level - at the Third Africa-India Forum Summit in October 2015. We were also privileged to host many African leaders for the inaugural summit of The International Solar Alliance Other than all these, 32 Heads of State or Government from Africa have visited India in the last four years. My home state was proud to be the host of the first ever meeting of the African Development Bank in India last year. And we are also opening 18 new embassies in Africa.\nExcellencies,\nOur development partnership consists of implementing 180 lines of credit worth about USD 11 billion in over 40 African countries. At the last India Forum Summit, We had a concessional line of credit of 10 billion US dollars and 600 million dollars in grant assistance Every year, over 8000 African youth are trained in a different set of programs. As always, our efforts will be driven by your priorities. Indian companies have invested over US $ 54 billion in Africa Our trade with Africa is now over US $ 62 billion This is over 21 percent more than the previous year. Africa's exports to India are growing And, our economic ties are now increasingly driven by new partnerships in innovation in the digital economy. The Pan Africa E-Network links 48 African countries to India, and to one other. It can become the new backbone for digital innovation in Africa. With many coastal nations, our partnership is now increasingly seekings to harness the benefits of Blue Economy in a sustainable manner And, India's medicines turned the tide on diseases that were once a threat to Africa's future. They also continue to make healthcare affordable and accessible to many\nExcellencies,\nAs we work together for prosperity Indian soldiers have served in blue helmets so that Africa's children can look to a future of peace. We are proud of the work of Indian peacekeepers in over a dozen UN peacekeeping missions in Africa, since our first mission in Congo in 1960. In all the UN peacekeeping missions in the world, 163 Indians have made supreme sacrifices. This is the highest number for any country Almost 70 percent of these people embraced martyrdom just in Africa. Today, over 6,000 Indians serve in five peacekeeping operations in Africa. Indian women established a landmark with the first all-female Police Unit of the United Nations in Liberia. Our defense and security cooperation is growing with nations in Africa, as we work together to terrorism and piracy, and keep our seas safe\nExcellencies,\nIndia's engagement with Africa will continue to be guided by 10 principles\nOne, Africa will be the top of our priorities. We will continue to intensify and deepen our engagement with Africa. As we have seen, it will be sustained and regular\nTwo, our development partnership will be guided by your priorities. It will be on terms that will be comfortable for you, that will free your potential and not constrain your future. We will rely on African talent and skills We will build as much local capacity as possible\nThree, we will keep our markets open and make it easy and more attractive to trade with India. We will be able to invest in Africa.\nFour, we will harness India's experience with digital revolution to support Africa's development; improve delivery of public services; extend education and health; spread digital literacy; expand financial inclusion; and mainstream the marginalised.\nThis will not just be our partnership to advance the UN sustainable development goals, but also to equip the youth of Africa for their place in the digital age.\nFive, Africa has 60 percent of the world's agricultural land, but produces just 10 percent of the global output. Africa's agriculture\nSix, our partnership will address the challenges of climate change. We will work with Africa to ensure a just international climate order; to preserve our biodiversity; And, adopt clean and efficient energy sources\nSeven, we will strengthen our cooperation and mutual capabilities in combating terrorism and extremism; keeping our cyberspace safe and secure; and, supporting the UN in advancing and keeping peace;\nEight, we will work with African nations to keep the oceans open and free for all countries The world needs cooperation and not competition in the eastern shores of Africa and the Eastern Indian Ocean. That is why India's vision of Indian Ocean Security is cooperative and inclusive, rooted in security and growth.\nNine, and, this is especially important to me: as global engagement in Africa increases, we must all work together to ensure that the people do not once turn into a theater of rival ambitions, but the nurseries for the aspirations of Africa's youth\nTen, Just as India and Africa fought together, we will work together for a just, representative and democratic global order that has a voice and a role for one-third of humanity that lives in Africa and India\nIndia's own quest for reforms in the global institutions is incomplete without an equal place for Africa. That's a very important purpose.\nExcellencies,\nIf this is a century of nations, rising together in freedom and equality; If this is to be an age when the light of chance comes on all humans; if this is a time when our planet has a more hopeful future; then all of this magnificent continent of Africa India will work with you and for you Our partnership will build on the empowerment in Africa We will stand in solidarity with your endeavors, in transparency, with respect and on the principle of equality. We will speak for you, and with you Two-tenths of India and two-tenths of Africa is under the age of 35 years. And, if the future belongs to the youth, then this is ours to shape and build And, let us be guided by the Ugandan saying that is - \"Anayejitahidi hufaidi\" which means \"one who makes the extra effort will benefit\". India has made that extra effort for Africa. And will always do so For Africa's benefit\nThank you. Thank you very much\nAsante Sana\nOur ancient maritime links, the dark age of colonialism, the shared struggle for freedom, the uncertain paths as independent countries in a divided world, the dawn of the new opportunities and the unity of aspirations of our young population, all this is connected to us: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 25, 2018\nMr President, your visionary leadership has enabled Ugandans of Indian origin to return to their home, and rehabilitate the nation that they love.\nIn opening the State House for celebration of Deepawali, you have lit up many strands of ties that bind us: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 25, 2018\nAnd, at the sacred site in Jinja, where a statue of Gandhiji now stands, We will build a Gandhi Heritage Center\nAs we approach the 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, there is no better homage than a center to remind us of his mission in PM: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 25, 2018\nThe story of India's own independence struggle is intimately linked to Africa. It is not just the 21 years that Gandhiji spent in Africa, or the first non-cooperation movement, he led: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 25, 2018\nFor India, the moral principles of independence movement, were not just confined to the boundaries of India.\nIt was a universal quest for liberty, dignity, equality and opportunity for every human being. Nowhere did it apply more than in Africa: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 25, 2018\nIndia pursued Afro-Asian solidarity in Bandung We were firm in opposition to the apartheid in South Africa. We took leading and bold positions in former Rhodesia - now Zimbabwe, Guinea Bassau, Angola and Namibia: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 25, 2018\nIndia's Principled Support to Africa's Liberation Movements\nThis mattered nothing in comparison to Africa's freedom: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 25, 2018\nOur international partnerships over the past 7 decades have been prompted as much by economic impulses as well as ethical bonds\nWe demanded a fair and equitable access to markets and resources. We fought together to develop the foundation of global trade: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 25, 2018\nToday, India and Africa stand on the threshold of great promise:\nAs confident, secure, youthful, innovative, and dynamic people: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 25, 2018\nIndia is proud to be Africa's partner\nUganda is central to our commitment to the continent.\nI announced yesterday 2 Lines of Credit for Uganda\nThe first, of US $ 141 million for electricity lines And the second, of US $ 64 million for agriculture and dairy production: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 25, 2018\nWe were honored to host all 54 countries on the third Africa-India Forum Summit in October 2015.\nWe were also privileged to host many African leaders for the inaugural summit of the International Solar Alliance: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 25, 2018\nOur partnership has included implementation of 180 Lines of Credit worth about US $ 11 billion in over African countries\nAt the last Africa India Forum Summit, We had a concessional Line of Credit of US $ 10 billion and US $ 600 million in grant assistance: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 25, 2018\nAs we work together for prosperity\nIndian soldiers have served in blue helmets so that Africa's children can look to a future of peace.\nWe are proud of the work of Indian peacekeepers in over a dozen UN peacekeeping missions in Africa: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 25, 2018\nIn all the UN peacekeeping missions in the world, 163 Indians have made the supreme sacrifice. This is the highest number for any country\nAlmost 70% of these embraced martyrdom just in Africa: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 25, 2018\nIndia's engagement with Africa will continue to be guided by 10 principles\nOne, Africa will be the top of our priorities. We will continue to intensify and deepen our engagement with Africa. As we have shown, it will be sustained and regular: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 25, 2018\nTwo, our development partnership will be guided by your priorities.\nIt will be on terms that will be comfortable for you, that will free your potential and not constrain your future.\nWe will build as much local capacity \u0026 create as much local opportunities as possible: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 25, 2018\nThree, we will keep our markets open and make it easy and more attractive to trade with India.\nWe will support our industry in Africa: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 25, 2018\nFour, we will harness India's experience with digital revolution to support Africa's development; improve delivery of public services; extend education and health; spread digital literacy; expand financial inclusion; and mainstream the marginalised: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 25, 2018\nFive, Africa has 60% of the world's agricultural land, but produces just 10% of the global output. Africa's agriculture\nSix, our partnership will address the challenges of climate change: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 25, 2018\nSeven, we will strengthen our cooperation and mutual capabilities in combating terrorism and extremism; keeping our cyberspace safe and secure; and, supporting the UN in advancing and keeping peace: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 25, 2018\nEight, we will work with African nations to keep the oceans open and free for all countries\nThe world needs cooperation and not the competition in the eastern shores of Africa and the Eastern Indian Ocean: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 25, 2018\nNine, and, this is particularly important to me:\nAs global engagement in Africa increases,\nWe should all work together to ensure that we do not turn into any of the rival ambitions,\nBut is a nursery for the aspirations of Africa's youth: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 25, 2018\nTen, just as India and Africa fought colonialism together, we will work together for a just, representative and democratic global order that has a voice and a role for one-third of humanity that lives in Africa and India: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 25, 2018\nif this is a time when our planet has a more hopeful future\nthen all of this magnificent continent of Africa must walk in the rest of the world: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 25, 2018\nIndia will work with you and for you\nOur partnership will build on the empowerment in Africa\nWe will stand in solidarity with your endeavors, in transparency, with respect and on the principle of equality.\nWe will speak for you, and with you: PM"