"Share\n\nTies between India and Uganda are special and date back to thousands of years: PM\nAfrican countries including Uganda hold special prominence for India, says PM\nDue to 'Make in India', the country is getting a new identity as a manufacturing hub for the world: PM\nIndia has always been a partner in Africa's development journey and will remain so: PM Modi\nYou are the true 'Rashtradoots': PM Modi to Indian community in Uganda\nGlad that many African countries are a part of the International Solar Alliance: PM Modi\n\nHis Excellency President Museveni, his wife Janet Museveni Jiand my dear brothers and sisters present here in large numbers,\nI have a relationship of love and affinity with all of you I am a part of your family I am a part of this huge family and because of the story of my joy Today, hon'ble Mr. President himself is present in here\nHis presence here also symbolizes his infinite love for 1.25 billion Indians and also for thousands of Indians living here in Uganda. And so I express my heartfelt regards to Mr. President While today I have come here in the future, I am going to address the parliament of Uganda. And you people have heard my address in detail in the Parliament in Delhi two days ago. You people have heard it too and the whole Uganda was listening. I am extremely grateful to you people\nMy dear brothers and sisters,\nThis is the first time that an Indian Prime Minister will get the parliament of Uganda. I would like to express my gratitude to the President and people of Uganda on behalf of 1.25 billion Indians.\nFriends, it is a matter of pleasure and happiness for any Indian to visit Uganda and have a meeting and dialogue with all of you.\nI only have this expectation from you people that may continue to be your enthusiasm, your love and your feelings. This is the second time that I have got the chance to visit Uganda and to meet all of you. I had come here 11 years ago as the Chief Minister of Gujarat and today I have come here as Prime Minister of the country.\nWhen I was Chief Minister of Gujarat even at that time I had got the opportunity to meet face to face with many people who have been given a free-wheeling discussion. I see a lot of familiar faces here before and I am happy thatMr President introduced them one by one What a close relationship he has done with people and today he spent about the whole day together and he discussed about several families by their names and told me how he knew them. And for how many years he knew them He told me all these things\nThis respect has been earned from you people due to your hard work, your conduct and your character. It's not a mean achievement And many generations who have come here from India, they have loved it\nFriends, India's relations with Uganda are new Theseare centuries old We have a relation of hard work, the relation of fighting against exploitation. Today, whatever development has been achieved by Uganda, it also has the scent of blood and sweat of Indians as well as the scent of blood and sweat of people of Uganda. There are several families in you who have been living here for three-four generations. I would like to remind the youth, the youth of Uganda present here that the train in which you people travel, that train is also providing momentum to the relations between India and Uganda. It was that period when India and Uganda were both enslaved by one power. At that time our foresters were brought from India They had been forced to run Those great souls had carried out their struggles in those difficult times. Uganda gained independence but a lot of our ancestors decided to settle down here They mixed the country with sugar as well as in the milk, as well.\nToday, all of you have been giving your energy in all fields here, whether the Uganda, or the business, arts, sports, in all sectors of the society. Ashes of Mahatma Gandhi were immersed here in Jinja.Several Indians have made active contribution to the politics of this country and they have still been doing it today. Late Narendra Bhai Patel was the first non-European Speaker of the Parliament of Independent Uganda. And he had been elected unanimously While there was a time when they all came to you. However, the people and government of Uganda never let them go out of their hearts. Today, I express my heartfelt gratitude to the President of Uganda and along with him for all the people of Uganda for the way they have once again embraced the Indian community.\nThere are many people who we have never had a chance to visit India. There will be some people who will not even aware about their roots, perhaps, they will not be aware that from which state or village or city they came. However, even if you have been alive If one hits your heart for Uganda then another is also for India In true sense of the word, you are the ambassadors of India Just a while ago, when I came to the stage along with the President then I saw that how cultural events were organized here before my arrival. This thing is in itself is commendable that the people who have saved this truly mesmerizing Indian-ness\nI can say it on the basis of my first experience and my today's experience as well as that of the people who have been living with the Indian languages, Indian food and art and Indian culture; and also with the feelings of unity in diversity and family values ​​and the feeling that the whole world is one family; and that is why every Indian is proud of you; 1.25 billion Indians are proud of you I too\nFriends, along with Uganda, many other African countries are extremely important for India One of the reasons for this thing And the second reason is that all of us have fought a collective battle against slavery. Third, all of us are facing challenges of development. We have a long history of sharing our joy and pain with each other. We all have learned some or some other thing from our capabilities. And even today we have been moving forward We want strong defense relations with Uganda We have been making arrangements to provide training to Ugandan military in India as per their requirement. These days more than thousand Ugandan students have studied in India.\nFriends, India has changed the lot here. Today, the way Uganda is among the fast growing economies of Africa, similarly, India too is one of the fastest growing economies of the world. India's economy is providing momentum to the development of the whole world. Today, Make in India has become India's identity in the world. Today, we have been selling cars and smart phones manufactured in India to those countries. It is very possible that when you go out to buy a smart phone here in Uganda then you will come across to 'Made in India' label.\nRecently, the foundation stone for the world's largest mobile manufacturing unit has been laid in India. India has been fast emerging as a manufacturing hub for the world. In addition to this, India has made digital technologies a tool for the people's empowerment. Many services are available on mobile phones From the registration of a child to the registration of death, they have been made available online. Today, the work is linked to every major village body of the country with a broadband internet connection. Today, things like needle to railway tracks to the coaches for metro trains were manufactured in India by using the steel manufactured in India. India is moving on a fast pace as well as for start-ups.\nAnd wherever I go in the world, I definitely like to be reminded A country with thousands of years old glorious past was presented as a country of snake charmers. India was presented as the world. India means - snake charmers and occultism Was not this the identity? Our youths changed this image and perception and made India the land of mouse - it means the land of IT software.\nToday, the same youth has been launching thousands of start-ups for the country and the world. You will be proud to know that in the last two years alone more than 11,000 start-ups have been registered in the country. Our youths are making innovations as per the requirements of the world and finding solutions for the problems. Friends, today, electricity is provided to all six lakh villages of the country. Today, there is no village in the country How easy is it to get electricity connection in India? In the last four years, India has jumped 82 places in the ease of getting power ranking. Today, we have reached the 29th position in the world. It's not that now electricity is available but an effort has also been made. Hundreds of croresLED bulbs have been sold in the last four years. More than 100 crores Friends, many changes of this kind are taking place in India, because there is a massive change in the system and society there. Today, India is moving forward with a pledge to make a new India.\nFriends, I was the Prime Minister. Three years ago When Mr. President has visited India to attend India-Africa Summit then he has strongly urged me to visit Uganda. However, the program could not be firmed up due to some or some other reason. I am happy that today I have got a audience with you people In the last four years, we have special emphasis on our relations with Africa Today, Africa has a place of importance in India's foreign policy. When we have organized the India-Africa Forum Summit in 2015 then we had invited all the countries of Africa. Prior to that meetings were arranged only It was a matter of happiness that not only all the countries accepted our invitation but 41 countries of top leadership also participated in the program and all of them were Delhi. Africa also embraced India when we extended our hands and it held our hand.-There was no single country in Africa where no minister level visit is from the last four years in India. More than 20 visits have taken place at the level of President, Vice President and Prime Minister In addition to India-Africa Forum Summit, the heads of 32 African countries have visited India. We have decided to open our embassies in 18 countries and it will increase the number of our embassies in Africa to 47. Our cooperation is there in the social development and struggle of Africa. We have been successful in the development of the world. And this is the reason that the annual meeting of the African Development Bank was organized in India last year. Credit lines for projects worth more than $ 3 billion We have a commitment of $ 10 billion under the India-Africa Forum summit. In addition to this, we are committed to provide a grant of $ 600 million and scholarships to 50,000 students in India. The provision of e-visa has been made for 33 African countries to visit India and the results of our strong commitment towards Africa is now becoming visible.\nLast year, India's trade with African countries has registered a growth of 32 percent. I had urged all the African countries to take membership of the International Solar Alliance and after my appeal now half of the members of the alliance are from Africa.\nAfrican countries have supported India in one voice at international forums too. I believe that the presence of Asian and African countries are becoming strong day by day in the new world order. In this direction, mutual cooperation between the countries like us will certainly bring a positive and positive change in the lives of crores of people.\nI thank you very much for the enthusiasm and zeal with whom you have come here and showered your love, affections and blessings on me\nI convey my heartfelt regards to Mr. President, to the government and people of Uganda\nAnd you are aware about 2019! I am not thinking What are you thinking about 2019? What are you thinking? Oh! In January, PravasiBhartiya is going to be organized on 22-23 January. And this time the place of the program is Kashi - Banaras. Prime Minister, I have come here to invite you on behalf of Kashi, the place, the people of that place has made me Prime Minister And it is also a matter of happiness that Vibrant Gujarat Global Investor Summit takes place in Gujarat, so that event is also there around there is 18-19-20. Please spend 22-23January in Kashi, as Kumbh fair is starting from 14th January in Prayag, so after spending 22-23rd in Kashi please go to Kumbh fair from Banaras. Take a dip in Prayag Raj and after that you should come to Delhi on 26 January and it is a complete one week package for you in India, there are so many events one after another.\nToday, I have come here to invite my brothers and sisters in Uganda, you people please visit us. The love and affection that shows you, India's best wishes. And your life has been contributing in making India proud and so we too Once again Thank you very much"