"Share\n\nDeep rooted ties between India and Uganda since thousands of years and both the countries have stood the test of time: PM\nTraining, Capacity building, technology and infrastructure are the key sectors of India-Uganda cooperation: PM Modi\nPM Modi announces two lines of credit worth $ 200 million for Uganda\nI thank President Museveni for giving me the opportunity to address the Ugandan Parliament: PM Modi\nHis Excellency President Museveni\nRespected delegates,\nMembers of the Media,\nIt is my good fortune that after two decades, I have come to Uganda for the first bilateral visit of the Prime Minister of India. President Museveni is a very old friend of India. I too have a very old introduction to them. When I came here as Chief Minister of Gujarat in 2007, the sweet memories of that trip are still fresh. And today I express my heartfelt gratitude for the generous words of President, and for our warm reception and honor.\nFriends,\nThe centuries old and historical links between India and Uganda have come to the test of time. Uganda has always been close to our hearts and will remain. India has always been in Uganda's economic progress and national development efforts. Training, Capacity building, technology, infrastructure etc. are our main areas of cooperation. In the future, we will continue our cooperation in accordance with Ugandan requirements and priorities.\nAs an expression of our friendship with the Ugandan people, the Government of India has decided to gift Uganda Cancer Institute, a state-of-the-art cancer therapy machine to Kampalala. I am happy to know that this machine will not only meet the needs of our Ugandan friends but also the friends of East African countries. In Uganda, we have approved two lines of credit proposals of approximately two Hundred million dollars for the development of agriculture and dairy sector. It is a matter of satisfaction that our cooperation in the defense sector is also moving forward. Our cooperation in military training has a long history. We are ready to strengthen this cooperation further. We have also decided to give vehicles and ambulances to the Ugandan Army and for civil works. Our relations in Trade and Investment are getting stronger. Together with the President, I will get an opportunity to discuss with the leading business leaders of both countries to give more emphasis on these relations.\nFriends,\nI express my heartfelt gratitude to the President for the affection of Indian origin living in Uganda for his affection. After a difficult time, in the efficient and strong leadership of the President, the Indian society of today is contributing a lot in Uganda's social and economic life. I am happy that in the evening with the Indian-origin society, President will be involved in my program. I congratulate him for the whole of India for his special gesture. Tomorrow morning I will also get a chance to address Uganda's Parliament. I am the first Prime Minister of India to be blessed. For this special honor, I express my gratitude to the President and the heart of Uganda's Parliament.\nFriends,\nIndia and Uganda are both young and dominant countries. Both governments have the responsibility of meeting the aspirations of the youth. And in these efforts we are fully committed to cooperating with each other. From the hundreds of hundred Indians, I wish all the best wishes for the progress and prosperity of Ugandan people.\nThank you."