"PM Modi pays homage to the CRPF soldiers in the attack on Pulwama\nThe perpetrators of the hinous terror attack in Pulwama will not be spared: PM Modi\nHumanitarian forces around the world must unite to fight against terrorism: PM\nFirst of all, I pay respectfully tribute to the martyrs in the attack of Pulwama terror. He has announced his life while serving the country. In this clock of sadness, the feelings of me and every Indian are with their family.\nThe rage in the country due to this attack is opening up the blood of the people; I understand this very well. At this time the expectations of the country, there are some emotions, they are also natural. Our security forces have been given complete independence. We have full confidence in the bravery of our soldiers, their bravery. I have full confidence that people in color of patriotism will also bring the right information to our agencies so that our fight will be sharpened in order to crush terror.\nI want to tell terrorist organizations and their guardians that they have committed a great mistake, they will have to pay a lot of cost.\nI assure the nation that whoever bites behind the attack, whatever crime is behind this attack, they will definitely get the punishment for their actions. I respect the feelings of those who are criticizing us. I understand their feelings and also have their full right to criticize.\nBut all my colleagues are requested that these times are very sensitive and emotional moments. In favor or in opposition, we all should stay away from political splinter groups. The country of this attack is fighting together, the country is together, the country has only one voice and it should be heard in the world because the fight is fighting us to win.\nOur neighboring country has been isolated across the world, if it understands that the kind of act it is doing, the way the conspiracy is being formed, will succeed in creating instability in India, then the dream will always be Leave for He will never be able to do this, nor will it ever happen.\nAt this time, our neighboring country, which is undergoing a major economic crisis, also thinks that by destroying such a catastrophe, India can make upset; These mansubu are also never to be fulfilled. The time has proved that the way they have gone, they are seeing the devastation and the path we have taken is progressing forward.\n130 crore Hindustani such every conspiracy will give a glimmer of such attacks. Many big countries have condemned this terrorist attack in very strict terms and have expressed the sense of support for standing with India, support to India.\nI am grateful to all those countries and invoke all to say that all humanist powers against terrorism must be fought together, humanist forces must be defeated by terrorism.\nTo fight terror, when all the countries unanimously, one voice, one direction will run, then the terrorist can not last more than a few moments.\nSathyo, after the Pulwama attack, the state of mind and atmosphere is full of indignation with sadness. The country of such attacks will fight bitterly. This country is not going to stop. Our brave martyrs have sacrificed their lives. And every martyr who dies for the country imposes life for two dreams - the first, the security of the country, the second, the prosperity of the country. I bow down to all the heroic martyrs, bowing down to their souls, taking their blessings, once again I believe that the two dreams that they have brought to life, to fulfill those dreams, we have the moment of life -Peep the expense. By giving more speed to the path of prosperity, by giving more power to the path of development, we will go forward by bowing down to the spirit of these brave martyrs and in the same way, from the concept and design of Vande Bharat Express, I express gratitude to every worker, every worker, who takes off.\nThis train made in Chennai is going to be the first train between Delhi and Kashi. This is the true power of an India-best India, the power of Vande Bharat Express.\nFriends, in the last four and a half years, we have tried to change the position of Indian Railways with utmost sincerity, with great effort; Vande Bharti Express is a glimpse of those works. Over the years, the Railways have been in those sectors which have made a lot of progress in manufacturing under Make in India. In addition, modernization of rail coach factories in the country, conversion of diesel locomotives into electricity, and new factories have also been started for this.\nYou will remember, the first railway reservation was the key to online reservation. At that time, more than two thousand tickets could not be booked in one minute. Now I am very satisfied today that the railway website has become very user friendly and can book more than 20 thousand tickets in one minute. The first conditions were that it was at least two years for a railway project to get approved, now a railway project in the country is accepted in three or four or more six months. With such effort, the movement of the railway has taken a new turn. Unmanned crossing has been eliminated by running a big campaign across the lines of broad gauge across the country.\nNow when we came to the government, there were more than 8,300 unmanned railway crossings in the country, due to this, there were incidents in the day. Due to the endless crossing of unmanned rail crossing on broad gauge lines, the accidents have also decreased.\nThe task of laying railway tracks in the country or electrification work is already being done at double speed. By giving priority to the busiest routes in the country, they are being freed from traditional trains. In electric trains we see that pollution will be less, diesel costs will also be saved and the speed of trains will also increase.\nClearly, these efforts to modernize the railways have created new employment opportunities too. I have been told that since 2014, about 1.5 lakh employees have been appointed in the Railways till now. After the recruitment drive is going on, the number is expected to reach two lakhs.\nFriends, I do not claim that despite all the efforts we have made in such a short time, we have changed everything in Indian Railways, we never claim such a claim; There is still a lot to do. So, of course, I can say that we are moving fast in the direction of making the Indian Railways a modern rail service, and I assure you will give more speed to this development and give strength. Water, be it, be it; Hindustan should be east, be west, north and south; With all the development, everyone will take the same mantra and carry forward this path of development. We will continue to bow down to the people who die for the country through development and also the one who is the blood of the people who taunted life for protecting the country by punishing criminals with full force in the field of security. Keeping the price of blood drops\nWith this belief, I pause my voice. Name these martyrs with me -\nVande Mataram - Vande Mataram\nVande Mataram - Vande Mataram\nVande Mataram - Vande Mataram"