"\nWe want to boost economic ties between India and Rwanda: PM Modi\nIndia and Rwanda can do a lot together There are many opportunities in rural development and small scale industries: PM Modi\nIndia and Rwanda can cooperation in furthering the 'Make in India' movement: PM Modi\nBe the foundation of life or be it it is the quality of life or be it the economy or it is a self-sufficient family, I have seen a very beautiful model of these things how all these aspects are covered by the development. . And I was involved so deeply in that we got late in coming here.\nI am the first Prime Minister of India who has got the opportunity to visit this country. However, I am glad that such a large Indian business delegation has And it is the proof that though India is growing at a fast pace but our formula is Sabka Sath-Sabka Vikas (development of all-together with all) and hence only we will make progress but we also help those who are in their growth who walk alongside This is our basic idea\nI would like to specially urge the people of Indian Business Forum who are present here that please do not come to Rwanda Today, the situation is like this that coming to Rwanda means that the key lies here. Rwanda model and its development are being discussed In a way there is a new tendency which has developed throughout Africa and Mr. President has been leading it. Your visit to this country means that you are not limited to the boundaries of just one country If you think this thing then you will see that many more possibilities and you will come across many more challenges and opportunities. And I believe that people will not let go of this opportunity.\nI have been observing this thing since yesterday. President is very passionate Good governance, development and progress of the people, prosperity of the people and peace in the society, all these topics are central to his thinking. And all these things are favourrable to us Indians These things are extremely suitable for our nature.\nNow this country is like this India decided to come to Africa at a time when the focus of the world was not Africa, when no one felt like coming to Africa\nLook! There is a family from Jodhpur in Gujarat, I believe that they had come here at the end of the 19th century. And since then many people from India have come here They have mixed with the local people. They have become a partner in the developmental journey of the country. It's true that now The whole world feels like coming to this country However, we had come here today And today we want to help them grow So we can do something for those who are still behind We have been going to the world with this intention and we have been We want to do something for the welfare of people\nMr. President visited in Gujarat He saw and understood Whenever he visited India, he is always interested in those things which are development oriented. He looks at things and understises them and he invites people\nI believe that there will never be any hurdle in doing any work in the country, which is why it's a nature of understanding, accepting and proving new and newer things.\nThere are limitless possibilities and if you open one window then you will come across to another opportunity. And if you open the second window then you will see another even grander opportunity And you will continue to move ahead And I can see this possibilities here And so there are equal opportunities in India as well. There are many business people in Rwanda and if they want to grow in India then India is ready to provide them all kind of facilities. I invite them.\nHowever, I would like to urge the people of India, the kind of modernity towards which the Rwanda is moving ... be it infrastructure or rural development or be it the economic activity or it will set up a small scale industries or be it their desire to develop a global market for their products all these issues are such that members of Indian business community are going to get together a lot of things.\nIndia has started in India We can share this Make in India movement with Rwanda We can connect with them. We have been moving forward to tackle the issues related to climate change through International Solar Alliance. And a big movement has been launched to make life more affordable. I hope that people of Rwanda will come forward for this thing\nToday, when I was travelling with Mr. President then I discussed the use of LED bulbs. LED bulbs have benefitted Indian middle class, middle class Indian families so much that their electricity bills have now been reduced to just one third. If we launch this LED bulb campaign in Rwanda then it will help people save energy and it will benefit poor and middle class people of the country.\nAnd the expenditure required for setting up energy plants can also be reduced due to reduction in energy requirement. And the energy saved So what a big change We can collectively work in this direction. There is a lot of potential in dairy industry, there is a potential for milk revolution and India has mastery over it. We can collectively work with them. So, in a way, the capabilities that India has from the village level to the national level, the strength of Indian business community and Indian industry, we have the Rwanda development for these strengths. Rwanda is a friend country If you examine the country then you will find that there are similarities in the culture that we follow in India You will find a sense of affinity in everything And we can understand it very well that it will be operated in the country which has this sense of affinity, which has democratic values ​​and transparency governance and which has a commitment and a committed leadership.\nMr. President has spent the entire time with us from the moment It is an extremely rare thing His entire government We keep visiting different countries of the world, however, we should learn it from Mr. President that how to properly use every single minute I am happy and once again I thank you and convey my best wishes to all of you."