"Share\n\nThe relationship between India and Rwanda has stood the test of time; It is a matter of pride for us that India has a trusted partner in Rwanda's economic as well as national development: PM\nIndia will open its first high commission in Rwanda soon: PM Modi\nPrime Minister Narendra Modi\nYour Excellency President\nDistinguished delegates,\nMembers of the Media,\nThis is the first occasion when no Prime Minister of India has come to Rwanda. And my good fortune is that I got this privilege on the invitation of my friend President Kagame ji.\nI express my heartfelt thanks to President's friendly words, and warm welcome and respect for me and my delegation. The President himself came to welcome me. His special gesture is the honor of the whole of India. Tomorrow morning, I will pay tribute to the Kigali Genocide Memorial. After the 1994 Genocide Rwanda has adopted a peace process, it is commendable truly unique. President Kagame has the efficient leadership whose effective and competent rule is being made by Rwanda today with economic progress at fast speeds.\nFriends,\nRelations between India and Rwanda have come to the test of time. It is a matter of pride for us that India has been your trusted partner in Rwanda's economic development and national development visit. Our contribution will continue in Rwanda's development journey. We have been collaborating in areas of training, technology, infrastructure development and project assistance. In areas such as finance, management, rural development and ICT, we provide training in leading Indian institutions for Rwanda. We would like to further increase this contribution in the Capacity building. Today, we have signed two hundred million dollars on lines of credit and training. Today, we have also discussed different areas of cooperation between the two countries, including new areas such as leather and dairy research. In this context, I am very excited about the visit of Ravenu Adarsh ​​village with the President yesterday. India itself is an agricultural country, and most of our population lives in villages. And therefore, I want to benefit from Rwanda's experience to improve rural life and from the initiatives of the President. We include Menifekcring Sector, Hospitality and Tourism has proposed a lot of areas where India and Rwanda pervasive developmental partnerships can strengthen. We want to strengthen our business and investment relations. And so, President Kagame and I will meet with the major business leaders of both countries tomorrow and will consider their suggestions.\nFriends,\nI am happy to inform that we will soon open High Commission in Rwanda. It will not only pay closer dialogue between our governments, as well as Konsulr, passport and visa and other features will be accessible. We look forward to taking the relationship between the two countries to a more high level in the coming time.\nI once again give my heartfelt gratitude to the President. And also the people of Rwanda, best wishes to all the 500 million Indians.\nThank you.\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 23, 2018\nFurthering India-Rwanda co-operation pic.twitter.com/1WFBqekKOj\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 23, 2018\nImproving business ties between India \u0026 Rwanda pic.twitter.com/fyqX0h2TZw"