"\nPrime Minister Modi interacts with Indian community in Rwanda\nAll over the world, the Indian diaspora is making a mark. They are our Rashtradoots: PM Modi\nFor years the Indian community in Rwanda wanted a High Commission. This long pending demand will now be fulfilled: Prime Minister Modi\nNamaste, How are you?\nOur High Commissioner said just a while ago that the Prime Minister took out the time for you people The truth is that you have taken out time for me because this is no time to be awake. By this time, you are already ready for your dinner. However, you people are awake for me and you have turned up here so late in the night and it's not just that, you also have neighboring countries from up So, I am very grateful to you people for your love and blessings.\nWhen we watch a cricket match in a stadium then we do not know much about the position of the ball. However, when we watch the match in television in our homes at remote places then we do know everything that is the position of the ball, what is the position of the bowler, where is the batman standing and his feet of position, everything is known\nThat is why the people living outside India know more about the people living in India They have knowledge of every fine detail. And it is natural that wherever Indians may be living in the world, every good news coming from India gives them a new happiness and a new enthusiasm.\nWhat is your sense about the last four years? Whether it is improved or it is just like that? Do you feel that India's passport commands more respect? Now you will feel that whenever you land on any airport in the world, whenever you visit an immigration counter and when you say 'I am an Indian' then whether the person is immediately your eyes in looks and his appreciation or not? Before when you used to shake hands then it was like 'okay' for them, now when you shake hands then people do not let it go. Is there a change or not? This change is the reason why the country has changed and the country is making progress at a rapid speed.\nIt is not because of Modi It is 1.25 billion Indians If a player wins gold medal anywhere in the world then Modi has not shed his sweat for that. But it has become possible because after forming the government, Modi has made the selection process so transparent so the right person gets the right opportunity and that is why he is able to win the gold medal.\nPeople do wonders if they get done in a transparent manner And this is the only job of the government And our formula is 'Sabka Satha - Sabka Vikas (development for all, together with all)'. And this is the word \"Sabka Satha Sabka\" is very powerful. And as per this mantra, every citizen of the country feels that now the time has come for the country and it is our responsibility to take the country forward.\nDid the toilets were needed? Does this need to be Modi? Whether people wait for a particular person to become Prime Minister to have a toilet in their homes? However, it was like that: it's like this only; These things happen; and no one used to care Eight crore toilets have been constructed in such a small span of time and lakhs of villages have become open defecation free.\nOnce we decide to do something, then our style of working is like this only, otherwise there is no darth of problems in India. Problems are there But, whether we will just count the problems or we will set the country free of all those problems. Look, 18,000 villages of the country had been living in the 18th century even 70 years after the independence There was no electricity in those villages We decided that we will provide electricity in one thousand days and we did that Even now there are 4 crore households in the country We have decided this thing, a time frame is being fixed, and we will provide electricity to them in a year. So we will have to do that and we will not rest\nConfidence is due to solving of problems Everyone feels that it can be done, When an Indian citizen listens this thing anywhere in the world that India has launched 100 satellites in one go then how much pride he feels. Look brother, 100 satellites are in Today, India has been doing this kind of things\nIndia has demonstrated its strength Today, India is making this kind of progress that number of its citizens. India is moving toward modernisation When we had formed the government then we were the 9th or 10th position in the world And now we have reached to the 6th position. And for the first time And very soon we will be on the fifth, fourth and third place.\nToday, if there is any fast growing economy among the major economies of the world then the name of that country is India So the country has been making progress in a rapid pace, it has scaled new heights of development.\nDo you feel like people or not? In every two months! Great! See there are plenty of occasions in 2019. I got it, what people were thinking about when I talked about 2019. However, I wanted to say something else\nOur International Pravasi Bhartiya Divas Karyakram (International Overseas Indian Day Program) is being organized on 22-23 January, 2019 in Kashi. Overseas Indians Anywhere in the World, they gathered in India every second year. This time it is in Kashi. And you guys do know that I represent Kashi so if I invite you people\nSo, the first thing is that its advantage should be taken of You should be present in Pravasi Bharatiya Divas in large numbers. Second: Kumbh fair is beginning in Prayagran from 14th January 2019, on the day of Makar Sankranti. People from all over the world visit kumbh fair So please visit Pravasi Bharatiya Divas in Kashi and then visit Prayag in Prayagraj and then Delhi on 26th of January. And before that there is one more program - Vibrant Gujarat Global Investor Summit - in Ahmedabad, Gujarat on 20-21 January. It means you can visit by a complete package. First Vibrant Summit in Gujarat then from there to Banaras then from Banaras to Prayag Raj and from Prayag Raj to Delhi. And if you want to stay beyond that then please stay up to May and we will get some things to engageyou\nYou have turned up in such a large number, you are blessed, you conveyed your best wishes. I am extremely grateful to you people\nI would like to tell the Indian community spread all over the world that India is proud of you Wherever the Indians have gone into the world, they have made us proud. And today I just sat a while ago. I have gone directly to that program from the airport itself. So the President praised you people a lot, it means he takes a lot of pride in the Indian community and when I heard this thing then I feel so happy that India from here coming to visit all my fatigue was gone.\nAnd he told a great thing He said those Indians who live here have been making a lot of contribution in the progress of their country; They earn their livelihood but they are not mischief makers There is no problem\nAnd the second thing that he said that the Indian community that lives here is a special feature that will help keep the social work here. They are the people of the welfare of local people. Look, you have won the hearts of these traits only. This thing is itself very important that the country where we have come, the people of that country are impressed by our sense of service, they are impressed by service towards our orientation.\nAnd these reports have come from all the world that it is a society that leads the lives of law abiding citizens, a society that does not make any kind of mischief. And this kind of behavior by Indians is not welcome. Indians are being liked Indians are being liked by the other people In many ways, any Indian wherever he may be the world, he is the official ambassador, he is the ambassador of the country.\nToday, my entire tiredness was completely gone the moment I was happy And now I am feeling good You have come here, I thank you very much\nMy best wishes"