"Share\n\nThe NDA Government at Center and the BJP Government in Uttar Pradesh is leaving no stone unturned towards farmers' welfare: PM\nRight to Information Act: Narendra Modi\nPeople across the country have faith in us, but some parties have taken no confidence motion in the Parliament House: Prime Minister\nIn the Parliament House, we repeatedly questioned the opposition why they moved such a motion, but they did not answer the nation: PM\nA young New India is well rising which can no longer be suppressed. They are well aware of the tactics of other parties: PM\nMy partner and my oldest partner in the parliament Dr. Mahendra Nath Pandey Ji, the successful Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh, Mr. Yogi Adityanath, the Deputy Chief Minister of the State, Mr. Keshav Prasad Maurya, the Minister of State in the center, Mr. Manitha Maneka, Minister in the Government, Mr. Sun Pratap ji, with the Council of Ministers at the Center, Smt. Krishna Krishna, Mr. Santosh Gangwar Jee, Mr. Dharmpal Singh, Suresh Khanna ji, Baldev Singh ji, Suresh Rana ji, Rajinikant Maheshwari ji, Anjubala ji, Mukesh Rajput ji, Ashok Vajpayee ji, Ajay Mishra Treney, Dharmendra Kashyap ji, Rekha Arun Verma ji, Rajesh Verma , Mr. Raja Verma, Mr. Sunil Bansal, and my dear brothers and sisters in large numbers here.\nMy greetings to the people of Bismeel, the rebels, the land of Vikal, the people of Shahjahanpur, Shahjahanpur. I bow down. I pay tribute to the martyrdom of revolution from Kakori and to the sons of the underworld who face the tragedy of emergency.\nFrom the fields of the farm to the nation's awakening, the earth has contributed. The role played by the youth in the nation building is to inspire young people of the whole country.\nThis land of Shahjahanpur today has witnessed a huge number of farmers from different regions of western Uttar Pradesh. I can see how much enthusiasm within you, due to such affection, and I see that there is no place in this pandal.\nAnd I see that there are such large amounts in the far side of the field. They may not even be heard, but they have come to bless, I bow to them all. Similar love, this kind of enthusiasm is getting to see me in every corner of the country. In the past, UP, Punjab, Rajasthan, West Bengal got the opportunity to go among the farmers. And wherever my farmer brother brothers went, our blessings provided blessings to the Bharatiya Janata Party. I'm overwhelmed by it.\nCompanionship\nA few days ago farmers from all over the country, sugarcane farmers came to Delhi to meet me. In this, many farmers from western Uttar Pradesh came to my house. Then I told them that very soon a good news will be given to farmers of sugarcane. And here today I have come to play the same promise in Shahjahanpur.\n\nBrothers and sisters\nIn recent times, the government has decided that you will now get around 80% direct profit over the cost of the cane. In the official price of 14 crops of paddy, maize, pulses and oil, an increase of Rs 200 to Rs 1800 has never been done in history before. Today the tears which are shedding in the name of the farmers who are shedding ... They had the opportunity to do this, but these gaadi tear-blowing governments were not ready to make a decision for you, were not worried. And today I am happy that in this episode, the sugar cane of our sugar cane farmers has also become involved.\nCompanionship\nThe Government has decided that this time, which you sell sugarcane, its beneficial price will be increased by Rs 20 per quintal to Rs 275 per quintal. Given the increase in the production of sugar, the price has been fixed at 10% recovery. This time the amount of sugarcane you have sown, the cost of production of quintal, is 155 rupees. In such a situation, the price that has been fixed now is about two and a half times that of the cost. Not only this, even if sugar is rectified per quintal, then it will get a price of more than 261 rupees already.\nCompanionship\nEvery farmer of the country, the family of the peasants ... the honor of labor, the center of the Bharatiya Janata Party, sitting in Delhi, the government of Uttar Pradesh, the farmer for all of us, the village of India is our priority . This is the reason that many decisions have been taken recently in the interest of about 50 million cane farmers in the country. Many efforts are being made to meet you, the complete dues of your cane as soon as possible. 100% duty on imported sugar Permission was granted to export 20 lakhs of sugar. A minimum price for sugar was decided so that the sugar mill could not make excuses for loss. We also decided to deposit additional assistance of Rs 5.50 per quintal directly into the farmers' account. The first money was given to the sugar mills. We did not say, we will directly give directly to the farmers' account so that the farmer gets his entitlement. The result of these efforts is that the old dues which have been due in the past one and a half months are continuously decreasing. And\nIn the coming days the speed of payment of dues is going to accelerate.\nCompanionship\nFor the last five years, our constant effort has been to reach the peasants till the time of the cane growers. We have been trying to break the order which the old governments had made for decades, who had formed alliances. The previous governments had left the arrears of thousands of crores. He has successfully tried to settle it in time. Keeping in mind the workers and their families working in cane mills as well as sugarcane farmers in the four years, the government has made many decisions.\nBrothers and sisters\nIf there is more sugar than required, the money of the farmers is stuck. In such a situation, the government took the decision not only sugarcane but also made fuel for the vehicles which are going on. For this, it was decided to make ethanol from sugarcane and mix it in petrol. Sugar mills were given financial help for these new technologies, new machines. Ethanol is the result of government policies about it .... You will be happy to know. What kind of progress has been made in four years. Four years ago, before we came to India, less than 400 million liters of ethanell was produced in India. After one decade of our government, production of ethanol will reach 160 million liters by the end of this year. Where 40 million and where 160 million liters\nStraight-up 4x increases\nCompanionship\nNeither the technology is new to ethanol nor new ideas, Modi came. It was all already. If not, then there was no consensus. There was no intention ... The farmers did not care about the happiness and misery. There was no intention to find new pathways. The result of this was that the sugarcane farmer was being disturbed for years and we used to bring gas from abroad. About 15 years ago, the government of Atal Bihari Vajpayee ji started this scheme. The pilot started work on the project. But after that the government came. He worked on the turtle trick for 10 years. If it had worked fast, then farmers would not have got the money due to the extra sugar being produced today. You do not have to rotate sugar mills. Not only the sugar cane farmers were left to get disturbed. Rather, the money used to avoid going out of the country with the use of ethanol could not be done.\nIncomplete, insensitive thinking and corrupt system have done a great loss to the farmers of the country and the country for so long. These losses are not limited to cane alone. Projects related to irrigation, it has also been shelved for decades. Some time ago I made the inauguration of the Bansagar project in eastern Uttar Pradesh. The birth of that plan was stretched four decades ago, but all had to hang. But in 2014, when the people of the country, especially the brothers and sisters of Uttar Pradesh gave us the opportunity to serve the country, then that plan-project was worked fast. And after the formation of a Yogi government in the past year, the pace of work doubled. Now it is ready to give water to two lakh farmers of the eastern Uttar Pradesh's farm.\n\nBrothers and sisters\nFarmers have the power that if they get water they can produce gold from the soil. Today, around 100 thousand crore rupees are spent on such a hangover in the country, about 100 irrigation schemes are working fast.\nOne such decision is related to neem coating and fertilizer factories of urea. Today, farmers from all over the country do not have to struggle for urea, they have not been able to cope with the crisis. He is not eating sticks of police. He does not have to try to buy urea in black market. The reason for this is that earlier Urea illegally used to go to factories instead of farms. All those paths have been closed. Now a hundred percent neem coating works only on the farm.\nIn Shahjahanpur, there is a very large fertilizer factory. From here, there is urea all over the country. Similar factories were in Gorakhpur, Sindri in Jharkhand and Barauni in Bihar. But thousands of people shut down these factories due to the wrong policies of the old governments have become unemployed. The consumption of urea was not reduced but there was a continuation of introduction of urea from abroad to meet the demand for urea. I do not know who was being done for the good of all. Why was used. But our government took the initiative to start these closed factories again. Gorakhpur and Sindri are in full swing and in the coming years the production of fertilizer will start here.\nCompanionship\nAll the work that the government has done. And when urea has neem coating, then village-village women help group, women's groups also get an economic turnover. By collecting the neem pods, which are neem trees outside the village, they are now selling people to him. It has also started earning. Women self-help groups are doing this work and are doing business of millions of crores. Neem coating of urea is done by removing oil from that neem pod. Which has the power to produce more in the field.\nWe have organized a valid strategy from seed to market. This urea is part of the same. Thereby increasing the income of farmers. Not only the prices of crops ... We are not just stopping his prices. Shopping is also ensured.\nI want to congratulate Yogi and his whole team. That their government has increased more than many times in the purchase of all crops like paddy and wheat. I have been told. This time the government has procured six times more wheat and four times more paddy than the previous.\nThere was procurement of paddy and wheat at such a large extent in Shahjahanpur. You also know what was the situation here first. What kind of games were played here first. But now by removing the middlemen, the proper price of the purchase is being given to the timers on time. Transparency has come into purchase. This system is a major change. It also strengthened our resolve to increase the income of farmers.\nBrothers and sisters\nSeveral steps have been taken in the interest of the farmers in the last four years. Uttar Pradesh is not only beneficial to every farmer in the corner of the country. The biggest enemy of the farmer and the poor, if any, is the disease. To avoid the disease, under the Prime Minister's Health Plan, if a family gets sick for one lakh rupees in one year, then it is going to make the family free of treatment for five lakh rupees.\nUnder the Ujjwala, the LPG Gas Cylinder is being provided free of cost to eight crore poor, dalit, deprived, backward mothers and sisters of the country.\nSteps have been taken to give life to more than two crore poor people under the roof of the house.\nThose who fulfill their dream to the small entrepreneurs, who have been self-employed, have given 13 million currency lien without any bank guarantee.\nThousands of crores of rupees of our poorer rights went somewhere else before the system of public money, base and mobile. Long ago a Prime Minister of the Congress government had said that if a rupee comes from Delhi then 15 paise goes to the village. This was said by the Congress Prime Minister. He also said that when he used to flag his flag from Panchayat to Parliament, his people were sitting and choosing. And no party could not even get the entry. The BJP was not seen anywhere. When his rule went on all sides, he had said that if the rupee goes out of Delhi then 15 paise goes to the village. Who was this paw, who used to make 15 bucks of rupture of rupees? Who was this claw, could you kill 85 paise from the rupees?\nBrothers and sisters\nWe searched the way. And you will be happy Through the technology, the beneficiary started making money in the direct bank account. 90 thousand crore rupees, which went somewhere else, started reaching the right person.\nThis non-confidence motion does not come like this. Because, when the 90 thousand crores of rupees are closed here, shops of how many shops will be closed. So stop such misdeeds, stop the paths of corruption, stop the free earnings, will they believe in it? Will you ... Will he trust such a Modi government? Unbelief will do ... But this is the people of the country. Even those who disbelieve smear them.\nElectricity is being provided to every household in the country. And I'm surprised. When we got electricity in 18000 villages, some people were cursing us by doing big programs. Our accounts were demanding. Never before had he been in a hurry that there is no electricity in the village. The homes do not have electricity that is there. वो तो पुरानी सरकारों की आरती उतारने में लगे रहते थे इसलिए उनको दिखता नहीं था। लेकिन जैसे ही हमने हाथ लगाया, ऐसा गुनाह कर दिया, ऐसा गुनाह कर दिया।\nजब 18 हजार गांव में बिजली पहुंची। हिन्दुस्तान के हर गांव में उजाला पहुंचा। उन्होंने शुरू कर दिया कि गांवों में तो गई घरों में नहीं गई, घरों में नहीं गई।\nजो लोग हमारी आलोचना करते हैं, जो हमें सवाल पूछते हैं।\nमैं जरा उनको पूछना चाहता हूं। ये चार करोड़ घर, आजादी के 70 साल के बाद भी, अगर उन घरों में बिजली नहीं पहुंची है तो 70 साल तक जो सरकारों में थे। वो जिम्मेदार है कि नहीं है ...। है कि नहीं है ...। आप मुझे बताइए भैया। गांव के किसी के घर में बिजली लगी थी, कांग्रेस के जमाने में, समाजवादियों के जमाने में, बहुजन समाजवादियों के जमाने में। क्या मोदी ने आकरके बिजली का खंभा उखाड़ दिया क्या...। वो तार निकाल दिया क्या...। वो लट्टू ले गया क्या ...। अरे जिन लोगों ने चार करोड़ लोगों को 18वीं सदी में जीने के लिए मजबूर किया। हम उजाला पहुंचाने की कोशिश कर रहे हैं। और इसलिए हमने बीड़ा उठाया है। आपने चार करोड़ परिवारों को अंधेर में रखा है। हमने फैसला किया है कि 2019 तक हर घर में बिजली पहुंचा के रहेंगे। जो भी मेहनत करनी पड़ेगी, करेंगे।\nआप मुझे बताइए भैया।\nक्या ये गरीब को बिजली का हक है कि नहीं है ...। हक है कि नहीं है ...। उसको मिलना चाहिए कि नहीं मिलना चाहिए ...। अगर बिजली मिलती है तो उसके बच्चों की पढ़ाई होगी कि नहीं होगी ...। अगर बिजली मिलती है तो उसकी जिंदगी में बदलाव आएगा कि नहीं आएगा ...। अंधेरे की जिंदगी से बाहर आएगा कि नहीं आएगा ...।\nये गरीबों, गरीबों, गरीबों के नाम पर माला जपने वाली पुरानी सरकारों को क्या हुआ कि लोगों को, गरीबों को अंधेर में रखा है। अरे ये गरीब है कौन ...। दलित है, पीड़ित है, शोषित है, वंचित है, गांव का व्यक्ति है। उसको अंधेरे की जिंदगी जीने के लिए मजबूर किया।\nलेकिन हम आपके घर में बिजली लेकरके दौड़ रहे हैं, ला रहे हैं, पहुंचा रहे हैं। और वे अविश्वास का कागज लेकरके पार्लियामेंट में घूम रहे हैं।\nदेश की गरीब हर मां-बहनों को शौचालय की सुविधा देकर उनको अनेक तकलीफों से बचाया जा रहा है। देश में हर शिशु हर प्रसूता माता का टीकाकारण किया जा रहा है।\nशाहजहांपुर के मेरे प्यारे भाइयो बहनो।\nमैं आज आपसे कुछ पूछना चाहता हूं। कल लोकसभा में तो मैंने अपना काम पूरा कर दिया। आप संतुष्ट हैं ...। कल लोकसभा में जो हुआ, उससे संतुष्ट हैं ...। आपको पता चल गया कि उन्होंने क्या-क्या गलत किया ...।\nआपको पता चल गया वो कुर्सी के लिए कैसे दौड़ रहे हैं। प्रधानमंत्री की कुर्सी के सिवा उनको कुछ नहीं दिखता है। न देश दिखता है और देश का न गरीब दिखता है। न देश का नौजवान दिखता है और न देश का किसान दिखता है।\nमैं आपसे पूछना चाहता हूं मेरे प्यारे भाइयो बहनो।\nचार साल आपकी सेवा में गए हैं। आप मुझे बताइए कि मैंने कोई गलत काम किया है क्या ...। कोई गलत काम किया है ...। क्या मैं गलत रास्ते पर चल रहा हूं ...। क्या मैं अपने लिए कुछ किया है क्या ...। क्या मैं देश के लिए कर रहा हूं कि नहीं कर रहा हूं ...। गरीबों के लिए कर रहा हूं कि नहीं कर रहा हूं ...। किसानों के लिए कर रहा हूं कि नहीं कर रहा हूं ...।\nभाइयो बहनो।\nमेरा गुनाह यही है। मेरा गुनाह है कि मैं भ्रष्टाचार के खिलाफ लड़ रहा हूं। मेरा गुनाह है कि मैं परिवारवाद के खिलाफ पूरी ताकत से खड़ा हूं। आप मुझे बताइए। वो लाल बत्ती लगाकरके विशेष जो जनाधिकार भोगते थे। और रास्ते चलते लोगों को लाल बत्ती का डर दिखाते थे। जिले तहसील में भी निकल पड़े थे लोग। ये लाल बत्ती छीन लेना गुनाह है क्या। मैंने अच्छा किया कि नहीं किया ...। अच्छा किया कि नहीं किया ...। ये विशेषाधिकार लेकरके सामान्य मानवी पर जो रौब जमाते थे कि हम तो सेवक हैं, सेवक। ये ठान बान के नाम पर क्या चल रहा था। हमने बंद कर दिया। अब उनकी परेशानी होना बहुत स्वाभाविक है।\nभाइयो बहनो।\nआपने जिस ताकत से जवाब दिया है। वो दिल्ली के राज दरबारों में पहुंच चुकी है भाइयो। ये आवाज वहां तक पहुंच चुकी है। आपको विश्वास है। उत्तर प्रदेश की जनता को विश्वास है। उत्तर, दक्षिण, पूरब, पश्चिम, भारत के हर हिस्सा के जनता को विश्वास है। लेकिन कुछ दल कहते हैं, उनको मोदी पर विश्वास नहीं है।\nकेंद्र में ऐतिहासिक जनादेश देकरके आपने जो सरकार बनाई है उन पर उनको विश्वास नहीं है। कल संसद में हम उनको लगातार ये पूछते रहे। भाई बताओ तो सही ये अविश्वास का कारण क्या है। जरा बताओ तो ...। अब कारण नहीं बता पाए तो गले पड़ गए। लेकिन वो ना तो हमें और ना ही देश को इसका कारण बता पाए हैं।\nहम उनको ये समझाते रहे कि लोकतंत्र में जनमत, जनादेश सबसे ऊपर है। जनता जनार्धन के मन मंदिर के खिलाफ ये खेल खेलना ठीक नहीं है। जनता से उलझना महंगा पड़ जाएगा। लेकिन उन पर तो जुनून सवार था कि मोदी को सबक सिखाना है। मोदी को हटाना है।\nअरे मोदी कुछ नहीं है। ये जो ताकत है वो सवा सौ करोड़ हिंदुस्तानियों की ताकत है। आप सभी की ताकत है। बाबा साहेब अंबेडकर के संविधान की ताकत है। जब तक ये शक्ति साथ रहेगी, तब तक कोई दल ...। और अब तो एक दल नहीं। दल के साथ दल। दल के साथ दल। जब दल के साथ दल हो तो दलदल हो जाता है। दलदल हो जाता है। और जितना ज्यादा दलदल होता है उतना ज्यादा कमल खिलता है। ये उनका दलदल का खेल कमल खिलाने का नया अवसर देने वाला है।\nसाथियो।\nउन्होंने अपने भविष्य के टेस्ट के लिए फ्लोर टेस्ट का उपयोग किया। लेकिन उनके आंकड़े जितने कम थे, उससे भी छोटा उनका आकलन है। वो आज के भारत का मर्म नहीं समझ रहे हैं। उनको लगता है कि व्यवस्थाओं से खिलवाड़ के उनके तौर-तरीके अब भी चलते रहेंगे। लेकिन उनको मैं बता दूं कि वक्त बदल चुका है। देश बदल चुका है। देश के नौजवान का मिजाज बदल चुका है। देश की बेटियां भी अब जाग चुकी है। लोकतंत्र के हर तंत्र को धमकाने की उनकी आदतें और उनका ये फॉर्मूला अब आगे कभी काम नहीं आएगा। अहंकार, दंभ और दमन की आदतें आज का युवा भारत एक पल भी सहने को तैयार नहीं है। अरे चाहे साइकिल हो या हाथी, अरे किसी को भी बना लो साथी। स्वार्थ के इस पूरे स्वांग को देश भलीभांति समझ चुका है। शाहजहांपुर और उत्तर प्रदेश के लिए तो ये खेल सबसे बड़ा धोखा है। सबसे बड़ा धोखा है।\nभाइयो और बहनो।\nहम एक संकल्प के साथ आगे बढ़ रहे हैं। ये संकल्प है 2022 तक न्यू इंडिया के उदय का। ऐसा न्यू इंडिया जहां किसान को सिंचाई, गरीब को दवाई, बच्चों को पढ़ाई और युवाओं की कमाई सुनिश्चित हो। योगी जी की अगुवाई वाली प्रदेश सरकार इस लक्ष्य को हासिल करने में निरंतर जुटी है। विशेष तौर पर उत्तर प्रदेश में निवेश का बेहतर माहौल बने। इसके लिए इतने कम समय में अभूतपूर्व काम किया गया है। निवेश तब होता है जब उसे सुरक्षा, सुविधा और सुशासन का भरोसा होता है। बीते एक-डेढ़ वर्षों में ये योगी सरकार भरोसा जगाने में कामयाब रही है। कानून व्यवस्था पटरी पर आने लगी है। कनेक्टिविटी की दिशा में अभूतपूर्व काम हो रहा है। दिल्ली मेरठ एक्सप्रेस-वे हो या पूर्वांचल एक्सप्रेस-वे हो। ऐसे कई सड़कों पर काम चल रहा है, जिनमें से कई प्रोजेक्ट ये आपके शाहजहांपुर में भी है।\nभाइयो और बहनो।\nरोड हो, रेल हो या फिर बिजली हो। गत चार वर्षों में दोगुनी गति से काम चल रहा है। विद्युतीकरण के क्षेत्र में यूपी में बड़ी तेज काम हो रहा है। पिछले 15 वर्षों में जहां लगभग साढ़े 6 करोड़ घरों तक बिजली का कनेक्शन पहुंचाया गया था वहां सिर्फ एक वर्ष में 46 लाख घरों का बिजलीकरण किया गया। ये देश के उन चार करोड़ परिवारों के जीवन को रौशन करने के प्रयास का हिस्सा है, जिसको सौभाग्य योजना के तहत अगले वर्ष मार्च तक पूरा करने का लक्ष्य है।\nबिजली की आवश्यकता की पूर्ति के लिए सौर ऊर्जा पैदा करने में भी यूपी तेज गति से आगे बढ़ रहा है। अब तक यहां 500 मेगावॉट से अधिक के प्रोजेक्ट पूरे किए जा चुके हैं। उसमें से एक बहुत बड़ा प्रोजेक्ट मिर्जापुर बना है। उसका उद्घाटन फ्रांस के राष्ट्रपति के साथ मिलकर मुझे करने का मौका मिला। \nसाथियो।\nदेश के इतिहास और आजादी के संघर्ष, यहां की याद और यहां के कण-कण में बसी हैं। ऋषि-मनीषियों से जुड़े महत्पूर्ण स्थान इस क्षेत्र में है। इन स्थानों के जीर्णोद्धार और इनको पर्यटन के मानचित्र पर उभारने के लिए, यहां के युवाओं को रोजगार के अतिरिक्त अवसर दिलाने के लिए हमारी सरकार प्रतिबद्ध है। हमारी प्रतिबद्धता और आपके सक्रिय सहयोग और भागीदारी से हम हर मुश्किल लक्ष्य को भी हासिल करने वाले हैं। \nगन्ने के लाभकारी मूल्यों को लेकरके किए गए फैसले के लिए आप सभी को मैं फिर एक बार बहुत-बहुत बधाई देता हूं। I wish a lot of good luck. आप यहां भारी संख्या में पधारे। इसके लिए मैं आपका बहुत-बहुत आभारी हूं। मेरे साथ पूरी ताकत से बोलिए।\nLong live Mother India.\nLong live Mother India.\nLong live Mother India.\nये शहीदों की धरती है। मैं कहूंगा शहीदों, आप कहेंगे अमर रहे।\nशहीदों अमर रहे।"