"Share\n\nIt was unfortunate that even after 70 years of independence, over 18,000 villages remained in dark: PM\nIn 2005, the UPA Government promised to electrify every village by 2009. The then President of the ruling party went on a step ahead and spoke about the electricity to every home. None of that happened: PM\nFrom the Ramparts of the Red Fort I had announced that every village will be electrified. We walked to every village: PM\nAbout 14,500 villages out of the 18,000 that had not been electrified, were in Eastern India We have changed that: PM Modi\nI got the opportunity today to meet all my friends from those 18 thousand villages of the country where the electricity was reached for the first time. People here lived in darkness for centuries wondering Will electricity never come to their village. I am happy that I have the opportunity to share your happiness today. The smile on your face These things are very important in themselves The people who have seen electricity since their birth, those who have never experienced dark nights, do not even know what dispelling darkness means. They do not know what is having electricity at night in house or village means Those who have never spent their life in the dark, can not understand this thing It is said in an Upanishad: \"Tamaso Ma Jyotirgamay\" which means let the dark be dispelled and be light everywhere.\nI am fortunate to meet those people After waiting for the years For each of us a day is 24 hours and everyone wants to use this time in the most productive way, for his or her family and society and country. But, out of 24 hours if 10-12 hours of your time was wasted then what you can do? Can you do the same amount of work in the 12-14 hours? You might be wondering what kind of question How is it possible that a person has just 12-14 hours? Countrymen, this may sound weird to you but there are millions of families in thousands and thousands of our villages in remote and backward areas who have lived through this kind of life for decades. This kind of villages where electricity has not reached even after so many years after the independence, the lives of people living there were limited between sunrise and sunset. Sunlight fixed their work hours, whether it was studied or used in the kitchen or serving of the food. How many decades have passed since the independence of the country? However, you will be surprised to know that when we formed the government then there were no electricity It's surprising what the government that can not overcome Previous government made a lot of promises about electrification Nothing was done in this regard It was year 2005, about 13 years back when the Congress government was in power and Manmohan Singh Ji was the Prime Minister. He made the promise that he will provide electricity to every village of the country by 2009. Not only this, the then president of Congress party also said that electricity will be supplied to every household by 2009. However, those promises were never fulfilled. Nobody took such promises seriously However, we only take seriously our efforts and try to get out I believe that this is the strength of democracy that we should always try to improve and make things public. When all of us work collectively then excellent results are there\nI said this before the ramparts of the red fort on the 15th of August. That we had set a target The government started work on this direction without any delay. We did not discriminate From North to South, from East to West, we dedicated ourselves in the work to provide electricity to all those villages in the country under DeenDayalUpadhyay Gram JyotiYojana that was deprived of electricity. Under this scheme a separate feeder system has started for supplying electricity to farmers in addition to the electrification of villages and habitations and stronging of distribution system. It was also ensured that all the villages of the country and all the habitations are linked to them, whether they are small or large, should be covered in the scheme one by one and thus, Ujala scheme continued to expand.\nNo village or habitation, even if it has a very small population, should be excluded from the facility of electricity. In those villages and habitations where it was not possible to link them with the grid electricity. The day of 28 April 2018 will be remembered as a historic day in India's developmental journey. Leishang village in Manipur It was a moment of pride for every countrymen And I am happy that today I would like to start this conversation with the people of that village. First of all, let's listen to them They are the Senapati district of Manipur.\nLook! The supply of electricity after their life has become easier. Most of those 18,000 villages where electricity was not reached in the very far-flung areas of the country. Like they are located in snow-clad mountains in hilly areas or they are surrounded by dense forests or they cause disturbed areas under the Naxal and militant activities. It was no less than electricity These are those villages where there are no means of connectivity and it's not easy to reach there either. There are several villages like that. Equipments were transported through different modes of transportation like on horses or on mules, or on shoulders or through boats. There were several villages like 35 villages in Jammu and Kashmir and 16 villages in the state of Arunachal where equipment was to be transported through helicopter. I believe that it is not the achievement of the government It is the achievement of every single person, it is those villages who have been associated with this task or the credit goes to those low level government employees who work hard day and night and sufferings of the difficulties. They carried poles on their shoulders, this is the work done by the low level government employees. It is their work, they are electricians or technicians or labourers. It is the result of serious efforts made by them today. I thank you for all the people I would like to convey my best wishes to them\nYou see when we talk about Mumbai we are reminded of high rise buildings, a city and its roads. Elephanta Island is situated at some distance from Mumbai. It's a huge center of attraction for tourism. The caves of Elephant are part of Unesco's world heritage sites. Indian and foreign tourists visit I was surprised to know that despite being so close to Mumbai and despite being an important tourist center, the electricity was not available in the villages. And I never read about this thing in newspapers or a big TV show was ever conducted on this issue that there was dark in the area. And no one cared about that. Yes, now Now when we are working there, people come to tell that the light has not been supplied to the left or right side, it has been supplied to the areas but not to rear areas like this: small grid is working or large grid is working. All these things are taking place. Had this stuff taken place before? Can anyone imagine that the people of our tourist destination, people of villages of Elephanta island, have been living their lives in dark for the last 70 years. The electricity is provided by undersea cables. Today, the darkness of those villages has disappeared. When the intent is good, when the intent is clear and when the policies are clear then even the most difficult goals can be achieved.\nLet us go to some other area First of all let us go to Jharkhand\nLook brothers and sisters,\nPrevious governments have not paid attention This region was deprived of development and different facilities This area of ​​18,0000 villages of the country where there was no electricity, this figure is bit surprising for the country, that 14,582 or about 15,000 villages of those 18,000 villages without electricity is located in our eastern region . And 5,790 villages, about 6,000 villages were located in the north-east and east, they were from North-East India. Look! You will be watching it on TV, see in this map the areas which appear in red color, all these areas were in dark Now tell me if they wanted to be benefited But these areas were not thickly populated. Number of parliamentary seats in these places is also low so those previous governments have never considered them any interest to them. Those past governments have not cared for these villages with thin population because their political interests I have always believed that India's developmental journey will pick up more speed.\nWhen our government was formed, we have been moving forward with this approach and the beginning of connecting the North East with the mainstream of development. The most important thing was to provide electricity to the villages And I am happy that today electricity is not only reached the villages of the north-east but it has reached to every village of the country. Darkness in the rural areas have been eliminated. Who knows what kind of changes are there in the life?\nI get a lot of letters from people People share their experiences with me and I get to learn a lot.\nYou could imagine that what a big change has brought about the lives of people in rural areas after their villages electrified Now dark no longer controls the lives of people Now the sun sets at the time of sunset Children can easily study in the light of the sunset. Now the village women do not have to start cooking Before this was the issue that food has just been cooked, this cycle has ended. People have come out of those worries You will find that markets are open till late in the night. People do not have the right to shop for their mobile phones. If you left mobile in some other village in the night and if you go to collect mobile in the morning and if someone commits something wrong using that mobile. What kind of difficulties were there! People from Jammu and Kashmir are among us, let's listen to them, because those same devices are those hills in the helicopters using great difficulty, so I would like to hear from my brothers and sisters from J \u0026 K.\nLook, thousands and thousands of people who have been connected with us today know what a big impact electricity has made their lives. Today, the electricity has been given to every village of the country but it is not like that And that is why our government has made a pledge to provide electricity to every household of this country by going ahead in the achievement to realize the dream of Pandit DeenDayal UpadhyayJi And in this direction Pradhan MantriSahajBijliHarGhar Yojana, the abbreviation for the word, has been started. Electricity connection to all the households that have been left out, whether in cities or in villages, is being provided under this scheme. And we have set a target of providing four crore electricity connections under this scheme. And we have been working in the target Electricity connections have been provided around 80-85-90 lakh households so far under this scheme. Electricity connections are absolutely free for poor families and only Rs. 500 will be charged from capable families, which can be repaid by you in 10 easy installments with electricity bill Modern technology has also been used to provide the goal of providing electricity to households in the stipulated time. In order to provide electricity to households in the least possible time camps have also been organized in the villages where electricity connections spot at all the formalities completed by approval.\nIn addition to this, the provisions for solar power and systems based on the solar power have also been created for families living in the remote areas and also in those areas where access is difficult. I believe that electricity does not even provide light in it. Energy, in a way, it can also become an important tool in the fight against poverty. The electricity which has been supplied to the villages, it's not only eliminating the dark that sets in the sunset, this light is filling the light of progress in the rural people and villages. And the proof of this thing is your experience which has been brought to you. The whole country has heard you There are many other villages but there is a paucity of time, the parliament is in session and I would like to certainly some villages. Namaste to Bastar and Alirajpur, Namaste to Sehore and Navpada, Namaste to Sitapur and sometimes you people did have seen this thing in TV or newspapers in this thing, would have been read by you, you have heard of our opponents of the speeches, who sing in the praise of our opponents They say that there is no electricity in so many homes. You please see that it is not a commentary on us or on our government. It is the commentary on those people who have been running the government since the last 70 years. It's not our criticism It is the criticism of those people We are just trying to finish that\nAnd that is why if there is no electricity in 4 crore households then it does not mean that there was electricity in your house and your villages and now the electricity supply has been cut by Modi Government after formation of government, it does not mean that Modi took away all the electricity poles and wires It's not that. There was nothing before We have been trying to install that. And that is why those people, our opponents who abuse us with great enthusiasm that there is no electricity in this or that house, that no pole was there installed. No one has installed it already and we have been trying to install that And if we continue to receive your support ... and all those low level employees You can abuse as much as you want However, those low level workers who work hard, who try to bring light in the village should we respect them, we should encourage them so that they are also encouraged. , at the level of Eventually this is the task for all of us. Our job is to solve the problems\nI am confident that God will give you strength to all of us Our intent is clear We have so much love in our hearts that you are not enough. We will continue to work And I would like to show you a video in the end Let us watch this video after that I will conclude my speech"