"Share\n\nThe country is witnessing transformation and 125 crore Indians are collectively moving towards realizing the dream of a new India: PM Modi\nBJP-led NDA government has fulfilled the promise of raising Minimum Support Price for kahrif crops by 1.5 times: PM\nFarmers are our 'Annadatas' Their well-intentioned country's progress: PM Modi\nTMC government in West Bengal is unable to address farmers' woes, uplift the poor and generate employment for the state's youth: PM Modi\n'Syndicate politics' is flourishing under TMC's rule in West Bengal, which is the hampering the state's growth: PM\nAttack on BJP workers in West Bengal for political gain: PM Narendra Modi\nState President of Bharatiya Janata Party Mr. Dilip Jee Ghosh, National Secretary Bhai Rahul Sinha, in the center, my colleague of the Council of Ministers Mr. Azhuwaliaia, Mr. Babul Suprio ji, National Secretary Mr. Suresh Pujari, National Secretary General Mr. Kailash Vijayvargiya, Former MP Mr. Mukul My dear brothers and sisters in my opinion and huge numbers.\nCal Croer World Cup football match. Match Kemons Your late futbollar love talk far and away relatives Yesterday all of you were dressed in the colors of the football world cup, were enjoying. And today this huge number of people came here to bless us. I express my gratitude to your heart.\nWhen I was coming here from the helicopter All the way, at that time the rain was also going on, the crowds that I saw were amazing. I am their .... Those who have gone up, please get down ... Whatever you climb down, get down .... Get down .... Get down They have climbed up, move down. Do not run a race. Brother, get down you guys. Handle Someone did not go to him. Someone who came down the pandal did not go up to it. Varna will hurt anyone else.\nLong live Mother India. Long live Mother India. Vande Matram. Vande Matram. Vande Matram. Vande Matram.\nBrothers and sisters\nYou came to such a large number of welcome Come to bless I am grateful to your heart. I am also very grateful to Mamta's sister because I saw that in her welcome today she also used to make so many flags, so many flags that I express her gratitude also. And I also thank Mamta's sister for expressing her hoarding on the four sides to welcome the Prime Minister in the currency of her hand while greeting herself. I express my gratitude for this also. And in a way, we have taken such a big decision for the farmers that today the Trinamool also had to make flags to welcome this gathering and they had to photograph their photos too. This is not the victory of the Bharatiya Janata Party, the victory of our Kisan brothers' sisters. I congratulate the Kisan brothers sisters very much.\nBrothers and sisters\nDo you hear? Due to all this fall ... maybe ....\nThis is a historic ground in Medinipur which has made history and is also seen as history. These grounds have been witness to Mahatma Gandhi, Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose, Deshbandhu Chittaranjan Das, Rishi Arvindo, Dr. Shyama Prasad Mukherjee, the address of one of the great sages of the country. It is my good fortune that today I have the privilege of bowing down to this earth. Whether there is freedom movement, social reform programs, the power of common man or higher standards of education Medinipur has made a special place in history. On this occasion, I pay my tribute to every person including Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar, Shahid Khudiram Bose, Matangiri Hazra and Rani Shiromani. Who spent their lives in the service of the country.\nCompanionship\nThe country is going through a big phase of change today. The manner in which it was proved during the freedom movement was taken by a resolution. Similarly, the journey of Siddhi is going on in the entire country today with resolution. To make the resolution of 100 million Indians, New India, today, to become the youngest country in the country, to be a farmer of the country, women, to be dalit, suffer, be exploited, deprived, tribal, everyone -In their own way, to take the country forward, they are engaged in progress to create new ones.\nThe Bharatiya Janata Party government can understand what your needs are and what can be done for you. Understanding this, how to make your life easier, policy decisions, changes in strategy, and the people of the last end reach its advantage, are continuously working for it.\nBrother-in-law\nRecently, our government has taken such a decision which is going to give a huge new force in the lives of farmers of West Bengal.\nCompanionship\nEarlier, every government demanded the increase of MSP. Many commissions, many committees sit He has been postponed every time. MSP files were suspended and kept suspended. The farmers were demanding the MSP, the farmers kept on demanding, but the state governments did not think that the people sitting in Delhi heard the farmers. After making this government of the Bharatiya Janata Party, our government has decided to give one and a half times MSP of the cost.\nBrothers and sisters\nDue to this, the minimum support price of paddy has been increased by Rs 200 per quintal per quintal in MSP. Similarly, the MSP of Maize has been increased by Rs. 275. The support price for maize has been increased to Rs. 1750 per quintal cost of about Rs. 1100. Apart from corn, nutritious and fiber-rich grains like jowar, ragi have also been ensured for the benefit of 50 percent above cost. These key crops of Kharif, the government had a few months ago, which is directly related to West Bengal. In Jute MSP we have increased the price of 200 rupees a quintal.\nCompanionship\nWhen our government was formed in 2014. Then the average price of jute was less than Rs 2000 / quintal per quintal. In the last years, we have increased the price of jute to more than Rs. 1700 per quintal. Our farmers' brothers have benefited from this decision which is the product of jute in West Bengal. The farmer is our food adder. The village is the soul of our country. No society can move forward until it is neglected by the farmer .... No country can move forward until the village goes forward. And the prosperity of the village, the prosperity of agriculture, the power of its possibilities and the strength of the government of Bharat Bharat, is being done by the government of Delhi for the farmers of the whole country.\nBrothers and sisters\nWe are working with 2022 to resolve the income of the farmer. And with the intention of doubling the income of the farmer, whether it is fishery, whether poultry, bee keeping, promoting bamboo cultivation along the farm side. In a way, the income of the farmer from animal husbandry to bee, we are working today with the determination of doubling the income of the farmer by adding these and other things. We took an important decision - bamboo, bamboo The earlier governments considered Bambu as a tree, believed to be a tree, considered the tree. Because of that, no one could bite Bumbu. We accepted the bamboo as grass, assumed grass, assumed the Trinamool. And because of this, our bamboo today, the farmer can grow in his farm and can sell bamboo and sell it.\nBrothers and sisters\nWe have to bring thousands of crores of rupees from abroad. If making the fire, bring the bamboo out. Make kite, bring bamboo out. And the farmer of my country, living in the forests with the life of my tribal Bumbu, is living with Bamboi, he had no right to sell Bamboo. We have done this huge historic decision to help the farmers. How did the market improve? How does the farmer sell, how can he get the right price? From seed to market Whether it is the work of self-testing, whether it is the work of irrigation, even if it is talk of delivering urea over time, even if the seed is of good quality. From there the e-NAM claims can sell our farmer with a higher price than his mobile phone. Our government has done this work.\nBrothers and sisters\nThis is how many potatoes are grown in our Bengal, we know well. And later, what happens to the potato, they also know. State governments should arrange for its storage. But in the absence of which our farmers produce, there is a loss of millions of crores of rupees. The country gets damaged.\nBrothers and sisters\nToday, we have decided to set up thousands of crores of budget for the storage of storage facilities as a farmer's property plan so that the farmers of the country who produce them can be saved till the market is reached. And in the right place, right We can get the product that the farmer has produced at the time. For this, we are operating Operation Green.\nTop plans have been brought - Tomato, Aion, Potatoes so that farmers who produce it get special benefits. Marketing reformation in agriculture is also being done at a very broad level to give a fair price for the crop to the farmers of the country. I hope that the West Bengal Government will also take more steps for the market reforms for the betterment of the farmers so that farmers can get profitable guarantees.\nBrothers and sisters\nWe are also working on upgrading 22 thousand rural hats with the necessary infrastructure.\nBrothers and sisters\nOur effort is to make our farmer prosperous, modern farming, use of technology in our agriculture correctly. We are also working in that direction. Today also a new opportunity for Blue Revolution has arisen. Marine power, water power, also has an opportunity. And so, in the Blue Revolution, from the fisheries, our Bengal peasants may be able to join big power. I also invite them to join us in all these activities.\nBrothers and sisters\nI see what is the condition of the Government of West Bengal. Today we are aware of the situation in West Bengal that we know very well. No benefit to the farmer, no development of the poor, new opportunities for the young man These characters, these pictures, have become a new identity of this work style, Jatai Upgradation, Madhyaai Upgradation, West Bengal.\nCompanionship\nMothers, mothers, those who talk of man's face, face the last 8 years, their syndicate is known to everyone in Bengal today. This syndicate is forcibly recovered. This syndicate is to snatch the benefits of farmers. This syndicate is about conspiracy to kill your opponents. This syndicate is to torture the poor This syndicate is for your vote bank. To fulfill this dream of maintaining the syndicated power, syndicate is engaged in every immoral, illegal, illegal act. Ignore the rest of West Bengal\nBrothers and sisters\nToday, the normal life of West Bengal is hard to live. Pooja is also in trouble here. Attempts are also being made to crush the great traditions of Great Bengal. It is difficult to do anything in West Bengal without the consent of syndicate. The new company is open, the desire to open a new hospital, to create a new school, to build a new road, to offer without syndicate, nothing can be done without acceptance. This syndicate is deciding who bought the goods here, whose belongings bought the goods. From whom will the contractor take the goods, where the cement comes from, where the pebble will come from, where the sand will come from, where the wood comes from, where the ribs will come from, these also ..., they also decide the syndicate. Where the farmers sell their crops, decide the syndicate. How many decide on the syndicate sold in How much the syndicate should get, decide the syndicate.\nBrothers and sisters\nEven if he has to enroll in the college, he does not get admission without offering the Syndicate. From Chitfund to K. Potato Bond .... Chitfund to Potato Bond .... What are the reasons for running. It all goes with the will of syndicate. This Bengal knows well.\nCompanionship\nThe situation in which the Left Government has conveyed to West Bengal for decades, has come to haunt him and has made him worse. Small entrepreneurs or big businessmen, there is no difference between them for the party and the administration. In this case, the state of the debt situation, the position of investment, what is here, it is not hidden from anyone. Small entrepreneurs or big businessmen. Here the party and administration for them, helping the syndicate, doing good to that syndicate, is engaged in this. Did my Bengal brothers and sisters ..., did you work to invite the trouble of emancipation from the leftists? Did the liberation from the left to make a worse state?\nBut brothers and sisters\nYou know how they have done this. From the earth, the voices of Vande Mataram and Jana Gana Mana emerged. Because of that political land, these political syndicate are insulting the traditions, due to the politics of their vote bank, their appeasement politics, humiliating the land of Bengal here again and again.\nBrothers and sisters\nIn the past, elections were held in Panchayat. Between the emphasis and oppression, in the way the people here supported the Bharatiya Janata Party between terror and violence, I bow my head and bow to the public. After one, our Dalit activists were assassinated. They were fished out of death. The sons of Dalit parents were stripped The unarmed people were killed. Democracy was abducted but brothers You do not lose courage. You stand up That's ..., it has brought hope for the bright future of Bengal. This brings the faith of Bengal's bright future. I congratulate all of you, the brave workers of whole Bengal, congratulate them.\nBrothers and sisters\nWhere do the central government spend money to the states? Do not do that. Let's calculate or do not give it. Everything happens without syndicate.\nBrothers and sisters\nBengal is the land of a sacrament. Bengal is the land of patriots. These Bengal is the land of solitaire and sacrifices. अगर कुछ मुट्ठीभर लोग सोचे कि सत्ता के नशे में बंगाल की भावनाओं को कुचल दिया जाएगा। तो वो दीवार पर लिखा हुआ पढ़ ले, सदियों पुराना इतिहास पढ़ लें, हर जुल्मकार की विदाई निश्चित होती है। कोई नहीं बच पाता है, जिन्हें लोकतंत्र पर यकीन नहीं, जिन्हें चुनाव प्रक्रियाओँ पर यकीन नहीं, हाईकोर्ट और सुप्रीम कोर्ट हर किसी को जिस सरकार को डंडे मारने पड़े।\nभाइयो बहनो।\nमैं हैरान हूं जो लोकतंत्र में विश्वास नहीं करते हों,, न्यायालय पर विश्वास न करते हों, संसदीय प्रणाली में विश्वास न करते हों, पंचायत व्यवस्था में विश्वास न करते हो, चुनाव प्रक्रिया में विश्वास न करते हों। ये बंगाल है। अब ये बचने वाले नहीं है।\nभाइयो बहनो।\nबंगाल की जनता ने वामपंथियों के ऐसे जुल्म से लोकतंत्र की ताकत से बंगाल को वामपंथियों के जुल्म से मुक्ति किया। उस समय तो समय लगा था। अब महीनों के भीतर-भीतर ये बंगाल जुल्म से मुक्त होने वाला है। बंगाल मौके की तलाश में है। बंगाल मौके के इंतजार में है। और इसलिए मैं बंगाल के लोगों को यही कहना चाहूंगा कि बंगाल के उज्ज्वल भविष्य के लिए ...। बंगाल के नागरिकों से मेरा यही अनुरोध है। बंगाल के कार्यकर्ताओं से मेरा यह अनुरोध है विभाजित नहीं संगठित होकर के सोचिए। हताश नहीं साहस के साथ सोचिए। आपके बगल में त्रिपुरा ने ये कमाल करके दिखा दिया है। अगर साहस है, संकल्प है तो सिंडिकेट हिल जाती है। जैसे त्रिपुरा ने आपके बगल में सिंडिकेट को ध्वस्त कर दिया, आपकी ताकत पश्चिम बंगाल के सिंडिकेट को भी ध्वस्त कर देगी। इस ऐतिहासिक मैदान से निकला हुआ संकल्प कभी बेकार नहीं गया है। इतिहास इसका गवाह है।\nभाइयो बहनो।\nये पश्चिम बंगाल नई ऊर्जा के साथ, नए उमंग के साथ, नए विश्वास के साथ आगे बढ़ रहा है।\nभाइयो बहनो।\nमैं बंगाल के लोगों का, उनकी ताकत का नया रूप आज मैंने देखा है। आज मैंने बंगाल के लोगों की एक नई ताकत का दर्शन किया। कोई कल्पना कर सकता है कि इस सभा के मैदान में एक तिहाई हिस्सा गिर जाए। हर कोई मदद करके सबको बाहर ले जाएं और बाकी सभा शांति से चलती रहे। ये शायद इतिहास में कभी हुआ। मैं आपको जितना नमन करूं उतना कम है। मैं बंगाल की जनता का जितना पैर छुऊं उतना कम है। ऐसी डिसिपिलिन कोई सोच नहीं सकता है। मैं गुजरात से आया हूं। मैं कल्पना नहीं कर सकता हूं कि ऐसा हादसा होने के बाद भी लोग इतने प्यार से, शांति से, डिसिप्लीन से, पूरी सभा का ...। ये घटना अदभुत है। और लोग भी पंडाल दब गया लेकिन छोड़ने को तैयार नहीं है। वो हटने को तैयार नहीं है। ये आपका साहस ...। दीदी ...। ये दम देख लीजिए। ये डिसिप्लीन देख लीजिए। ये साहस देख लीजिए। प्राकृतिक आपदा भी जिनको हिला नहीं सकी आपका जुल्म कहां से हिला सकता है।\nभाइयो बहनो।\nमेरे लिए आज की ये सभा जीवन भर स्मरण रहेगी, जीवनभर। सरकार की इतनी रुकावटों के बाद भी इतनी संख्या, लगातार बारिश के बाद भी इतने लोग, मैदान पानी से भरा हुआ है तो भी इतने लोग, और पंडाल का एक हिस्सा गिरने के बाद भी कोई हिलने का नाम नहीं लेता है। ये ताकत है। ये ताकत है। मैं बंगाल को, बंगाल की जनता को और बंगाल भारतीय जनता पार्टी के कार्यकर्ताओं के साहस को शत-शत नमन करता हूं। Thanks a lot. Thanks a lot."