"Share\n\nToday, we are the fastest growing economy in the world. Powered by the 125 crore people of India, we will grow even faster: PM\nYoung India feels - \"Anything is possible! Everything is achievable. \"\nIndia needs to go digital in public service delivery- JAM trinity gets us there: PM\nIndia needs a unified and simplified tax structure- GST was for that: PM\nWe are future-proofing India in every way, enabling New India to take off: PM Modi\nWhen development is our only aim, we remain sensitive to people's concerns and aspirations: PM\nWhen the future of every citizen improves, the future of India and stature of India in the world improved: PM\nDalmiya Bharat Group's MD Bhai Dalmia, mentor of the youth for development, Mrityunjay Singh, President Bhai Praful Nigam, Rural Achiever Shri Chait Ram Pawar, all the dignitaries present here and my dear young friends,\nI have got the opportunity to honor some achievers from across the country, who are supporting this special initiative. A library has been launched and a white paper related to rural India is also being formulated. I am glad that you are doing the work in keeping the country's needs and prioritizing them. I congratulate you for all your achievements till date. Both my best wishes and the government's support will be successful.\nFriends,\nOur country has been going through an important phase of transformation. You must have realized the last four years that our country has been striding forward to new heights in the 21st century. In the last four years, the country's credibility as well as glory has enhanced 125 crore Indians have arrived at the world's platform. India has taken off!\nFriends, Gone are the days, when India was considered to be among the 'Fragile Five'. Today, we are the fastest growing economy in the world. Powered by the Hundred and Twenty Five Crore People of India, we will grow even faster. As per an international report, poverty is declining in India. Five crore people have gone out of poverty in the last two years Who do you think this is possible? It is the people of India The government can only play the role of an enabler. It is the youth, who is also the only people to use This is the \"walk\" attitude That is gone now. This is our new India\nFriends,\nNew India is equivalent to 125 crore However, its basis is 'Young India' The youth power of the youngsters is free from the traditional work style and ideas. This section of the youngsters has been inspired to transform the outdated systems. Some people wait for the environment to change in order to bring about a transformation while others themselves change the atmosphere by taking a resolution for transformation. You are not among those who wait but the ones who bring about the transformation themselves as you are a mindset of a harbinger of change The independence on favourable situations Today, the youth of the country is engaged in this tremendous will power.\nFriends, Today's India is doing nothing small. Just like the aspirations and power of the youth, India is doing big, transformative things More than 3 crore children have been vaccinated, thus boosting the health of India's future. This is a big number Who's at the lead? Young doctors, nurses, support staff and volunteers India built 1.75 lakh kilometres of rural roads in the last 4 years. Who built them? Young labourers and workers India made electricity reach every 4 years Eighteen thousand villages were electrified and this target was completed on time. Now, we are electrifying every home Eighty Five lakh homes have been electrified since October 2017. Who rose to the homes of their fellow citizens? Young electricians and technicians, who made 4 crore and 65 lakhs of gas connections, reached the poor? Yet again, India's youth And, they did not like this, but many of them live in rural areas. More than one crore homes have been built for the last 4 years. Who did it? It was young engineers, masons and labourers who made this possible. These numbers are mostly in crossover! They are big numbers Why are these big numbers possible? Because of another big number the 800 million people of India under the age of 35\nAnyone will be envious of a youth So, I believe that you have chosen the most apt tagline for this event - 'It's our turn now.' the word 'our' also refers to a citizen as well as the country Friends, there was a monarch. This system was prevalent centuries ago. After independence when the constitution was framed by Babasaheb Ambedkar and democracy was established, new kind of 'monarch rule' started After independence, even in politics, three generations The rules about some families. However, today the situation has changed and you, my countrymen have changed it. See, today the President, the Vice President and I belong to a small place. Even our ancestors were not so well-known We are a family of a common man We have been democratically elected which depicts how the public opinion has changed. This applies only to these three posts, but also to the Chief Ministers of the states. The Chief Ministers like Yogi Adityanath ji, Tripura's Biplab Deb, Uttarakhand's Trivendra Singh Rawat, Madhya Pradesh's Shivraj Singh Chauhan, Bihar's Nitish ji, Haryana's Manoharlal ji and Jharkhand's Raghubar Das ji belong to the families of common man. The public They have lived a simple life and are more They have sacrificed their lives for the youth and its aspirations. They fully understand\nMy young friends,\nIs not it a change? I believe that this is a positive indication for our country's democracy. We can also see that in every other area. The number of youngsters from rural areas and small towns, becoming IAS and IPS and getting into government service, is growing. The big dreams of people from small towns will also be fulfilled. This change is the identity of the New India If you think the area of ​​sports or toppers of class 10th and 12th, you will find that today these toppers are not schools in big cities but smaller towns and villages. Even the talented sports people This is the discernable change\nFriends, A few days ago, an 18-year-old from the rice fields of Assam captured the attention of the whole world. I am talking about Hima Das In her run, you can see the grit and power just shine through. In fact, there are such youngsters bringing home medals and records They represent New India They overcame steep odds, showed great determination and achieved great heights. We are a top sporting power in badminton, doing well in shooting, weight-lifting and many more sports. Those bringing home the small towns They are the simple middle class or neo-middle class families. Young India feels \"Anything is possible! Everything is achievable. \"\nToday India's status on the international platform has improved considerably and its reputation has again been established. It has got a new self-confidence in the youth. There is an equality of opportunities This is the result of transparency, identification of talent and respect. The foundation stone of the new India is being strengthened with a new approach and myriad efforts such as Skill India, Start-up India, Stand-up India, Khelo India and Digital India. Looking for solutions is now being emphasized by putting an end to silos. Schemes are being considered We are working towards eliminating even the smallest of the issues of the youth, entrepreneurs, women, farmers and the middle class.\nFriends, India needs great road infrastructure Bharatmala is the building of thousands of kilometres of roads. India needs port-led development Sagarmala is helping build infrastructure for it. India needs to go digital in public service delivery JAM trinity got us there India needs a clean economy increase digital payments and innovations like BHIM App is taking us there India needs a unified / and simplified tax structure GST is for that India needs to unlock the power of air travel India needs more that India needs villages connected with i-ways we have laid 2.7 lakh km of optical fiber network connecting more than one lakh gram panchayats India needs more entrepreneurs Mudra and Standup India are for that India needs affordable healthcare Ayushmann Bharat is for that India needs its startup generation to prosper today There is a level playing field in public procurement for startups too! We are future-proofing India in every way, enabling New India to take off.\nFriends,\nIdeas and innovation have always been a part of the daily life of the people of India. However, an environment is being created so as to utilize these powers of the youngsters as much as possible. The government is promoting the aspirations and capabilities of the youth towards research and innovation. Atal Innovation Mission has been started in the field of innovation. We are focusing on our efforts to create an ecosystem of innovation in the schools and colleges. More than 2400 Atal Digital labs have been approved in the country. Students are getting acquainted with the future technologies Programs like Smart India Hackathon are being promoted for innovative ideas The country's youth is being directly involved with the solution. The youth will step in the world of start-ups by walking on this path.\nWe have seen that the people who have come forward to give the test during the government's crackdown on black money and corruption and the implementation of GST This is a proof of the change I remember clearly that when we started talking about digital payments, some experts were saying that a poor country like India can not progress on this front. However, today you can see the progress in digital payment for yourself. The credit goes to the youth for taking this system. People have started using digital payment methods\nFriends, when development is our only aim, we remain sensitive to people's concerns and aspirations. When we are receptive to people When we remove red-tapes and make policies, we bring more FDI When we bring more FDI, we create more industries in India When we create more industries, we create more employment opportunities. When we create more employment opportunities, we can improve the youth. When the future of every citizen improves, the future of India and the stature of the world improve!\nFriends,\nToday we have one of the best opportunities. We are a generation that is not fortunate to have the chance of sacrificing its life for the country. However, we have the opportunity to contribute to the nation History is a witness to the fact that even youngsters had regained the status during the freedom struggle. The zeal and morale of the youth had played a critical role in the freedom struggle. You are all going to play the same role today You all have to create that New India of which our freedom fighters, the people who had sacrificed their lives\nFriends, New India is the land, where you make your name, your name does not make you, where your ideas matter, not your influence, where opportunities beckon instead of obstacles Where a billion aspirations, find free flowing expression, where the travel to progress is one and all, instead of a select few. It is the place, where processes drive progress, instead of influencing processes where the government belongs to everyone, instead of everything associated with the government, where the power of hope prevails over mindless hate, where 125 crore Indians write their own destiny instead of being left to their own fate This is our New India!\nFriends,\nYou are the present and the future of India India needs your participation We do not need just listeners but those youngsters who can provide suggestions.\nThe country will succeed if you succeed The country's resolutions will be fulfilled if your resolutions are fulfilled. Once again I offer my best wishes to the whole team of 'Youth for Development' for this grand initiative. I would like to specially like those people who were honored today because their work and effort will be talked of and discussed. Their work will automatically become a inspiration for everyone else You are the ones who have sacrificed their lives for fulfilling your dreams by working in villages and slums in the remotest corner of the country. You have accomplished As a result, you are experiencing more levels of satisfaction today. The work that satisfies others is tremendous power of inspiring others. I congratulate all the youngsters who have achieved this from the core of my heart.\nThanks a lot!"