"Share\n\nPM Modi dedicates Bansagar Canal Project to the nation, move to provide big boost to irrigation in the region\nPM Modi lays foundation stone of the Mirzapur Medical College, inaugurates 100 Jan Aushadhi Kendras\nPrevious governments left projects incomplete and this led to delay in development: PM\nThose shedding crocodile tears for farmers should be asked why they did not complete irrigation projects during their tenure: PM\nIt is a great honor to be present here in Mirzapur. I am elated to meet you in the lap of Mother Vindhyavasini. You are waiting for me for so long I bow down and salute you all for that After looking at the crowd, I am confident that Mother Vindhyavasini has showered her blessings on me and with her grace her blessings will always be with me.\nThe Governor of UP, Mr. Ram Naik, the Chief Minister, Mr. Yogi Adityanathji, Deputy Chief Minister Mr. Keshav Prasad Mauryaji, my colleague from the Council of Ministers at the Center, sister Anupriyaji, Minister of State Government Mr. Sidhhartha Nathji, Mr. Dharampal Singh, Mr. AshutoshTandon, Mr. Rajesh Aggarwal and leader of the IndianJanata Party as well as my old friend MP Dr. Mahendranath Pandey, Mr. Virendra Singh, MP Chhote Bhai Lal and my dear brothers and sisters who are present here in large numbers.\nI have been watching from this stage that people are constantly pouring in from all sides. People are still gathering Brothers and sisters This region is located between the Vindhyan Mountains and river Bhagirathi is the center of immense possibilities. Today, I have got this opportunity to look for these possibilities. The last time when I came here in the month of March to inaugurate the solar plant, the French President had also come here with me and we were welcomed with the Goddess's photo and stole. The President of France, Macron was enthralled with the gesture. So, he wished to know about the goddess's glory and greatness. When I enlightened him about his greatness, he was absolutely stupefied! We are committed to the extensive development of this land of devotion and traditions.\nSince the NDA Government has been formed under the leadership of Yogi ji, one can clearly see the rapid pace of development across Uttar Pradesh in general and Purvanchal in particular. We all are relentlessly striving toward fulfilling the dreams of industrious people like Sonelal Patel who are uplifting the poor, the deprived and the oppressed people of this region. In the last two days, I have got the opportunity to start and dedicate new developmental projects to the people of Purvanchal. These include the longest Expressway of the country i.e. the Purvanchal Expressway, the perishable cargo center for the peasants in Varanasi and the railway-related projects. This project will provide unprecedented speed for the development of Purvanchal.\nI have been able to give more attention to this chain of development. A little while ago, several projects along with the historic Bansagar dam project worth Rs.4000 crores were inaugurated. These projects related to irrigation, health and transport will bring a pleasant transformation into the life of a common man in this region. Agriculture has been an important part of the lives of the people of Mirzapur, Sonbhadra, Bhadohi, Chandauli or Allahabad. The previous governments used to make incomplete schemes for the farmers and kept them suspended. You all had the brunt of it and you are all a witness to it. Friends, the Rs.3500 crore worth project of Bansagar canal is going to benefit the 1.5 lakh hectares of land including that of Mirzapur and the entire region along with Allahabad in irrigation terms. If you were not able to do so, you would have already started reaping the benefits. But the brothers and sisters, the previous governments The draft of this project was drawn 40 years ago! The foundation of this project was laid in 1978 but the work started only 20 years later. In the years that followed, many governments came to power, made promises and that was it. Nothing was done for the public\nIn 2014, when you all gave us a chance to serve and our government started going on. This project was lost during the files Thereafter, it was brought under the head of the Ministry of Finance and the wholefocus was divertedtowards its completion. As a result of Yogi ji and his team's concerted efforts over the last 1 year and 3 months, the nectar in the form of Bansagar canal can be delivered to happiness. Apart from Bansagar, work is underway for the long suspended Sarayu Canal project and Central Ganga Sagar project.\nFriends,\nThe Bansagar project is also an example of that incomplete thought and limited will power whose price was to be paid by you all my farmer brothers and sisters, my poor brothers and sisters and this region of all people. The facility that you were supposed to receive long ago was not provided and the country as a whole was to face financial losses. At that time the cost of this project was only Rs.300 cr. It had been done within that amount However, due to its suspension, time passed and its cost started shooting up. The Rs.300 crore project could now be completed only after using Rs.3500 crore. You tell me, are not you? Have you kept your rights? Why brothers and sisters, you must ask those who shed crocodile tears as to why they had turned a blind eye to such incomplete irrigation projects across the country during their tenure. This is not just a single case of Bansagar, there are many incomplete and suspended projects for the country. They were not at all concerned Why did they leave these projects incomplete?\nBrothers and sisters,\nI want to Will you give me? This is the land of mother Vindhyavasini You have promised me Will you fulfill that promise? See, Rs.3500 crore was spent and 40 years was wasted. We can not do anything about the past Now, water has reached at your place. Now, those are my farmers and sisters who have access to water and are living close to the canal practice drip and sprinkler irrigation in order to save water? I just want this promise from you all; nothing else This water is like mother Vindhyavasini'sprasad Just like we do not let a single grain of mother Vindhyavasini's propsad to go waste, we must not let a single drop of water that we have received in the form of mother's dreams. We will cultivate the crops Drip irrigation can be used in all types of cultivation. It saves money, water, labor and the yield is good. So, if you decide to save water, the amount of water available today that can irrigate 1-1.25 lakh hectares of land, can be used to irrigate a land of 2 lakh hectares. If today, few lakh farmers are getting the benefits, the number of beneficiaries will double in the future. If you find this amount of water is not enough and save the water during 0cultivation, it will last longer This water will also benefit your future generations.\nSo my brothers and sisters, I am demanding something from you as your servant and as a devotee of mother Vindhyavasini. Will you give me? Will you fulfillil the promise? There is a government scheme for micro-irrigation under which subsidy is provided. You must take advantage of it\nMy dear farmer brothers and sisters,\nThese people were shedding crocodile tears for the farmers There were MSPs, no purchases were made, a notice was published in newspapers, with photographs printed and everyone used to hail the attempt. However, the farmers never received anything Files regarding a raise in the MSP used to address the address. Several years ago, a proposal was made from MSP to 1.5 times of cost of cultivation. However, those people who used to politicize the issue of farmers for no time to provide an increased MSP at 1.5 times the cost. They were immersed in politics They did not They kept sitting on the files The work that the previous governments have been hesitating from doing for many years. I can humbly say that the MSP by 1.5 times Today, that promise has turned into a ground reality. We have increased the MSP of 14 kharif crops including paddy, corn, tur, urad and moong from Rs.200 to Rs.1800. It has been decided that farmers should get 50% profit in the cost of theproduction cost of these crops.\nBrothers and sisters,\nThe farmers of UP and Purvanchal are going to get out of this decision. From now onwards, 1 quintal of paddy will fetch you Rs.200 more. Friends, the estimated cost of producing 1 quintal of paddy is Rs.1100- Rs.1200 approx. The MSP decided for paddy is now Rs.1750 This means that 50% profit is ensured. I was told that last year in UP, the purchase of paddy was 4 times than that of the previous year. I would like to congratulate Yogi ji and his team for this great achievement\nBrothers and sisters,\nThe MSP of pulses has also been increased with that of paddy. It means that there is an increase by Rs.2200-225 in the MSP of Arhar. That is, the farmers will get the direct benefit of 65% of cost of cultivation.\nFriends,\nOur government is working day in and out. A system is being created right from the seeds to the market so that the farmer's income increases and his cost of cultivation reduces. Earlier, the farmers were lathi-charged for urea; They had to queue up all night and had to buy Urea in black. This issue has been resolved in the last four years Everything is being done just because of your blessings, support and cooperation.\nBrothers and sisters,\nI want to We want to double the incomes of the farmers by the year 2022 and it is not a difficult job. Let me give you an example. Today we are going to have the fences around the edges of the field. Sometimes sharp nails are placed along the boundaries. A lot of area was wasted in the process Now the government has placed bamboo under the category of grass. Therefore, you can now plant bamboo with the edges of the agricultural field. You can easily cut down the bamboo and sell them in the market. The government can not stop you Bamboo worth thousands of crores of rupees is imported from abroad while it could be easily cultivated by the farmers as well as their agricultural fields. We have changed the law Earlier bamboo was considered as a tree but we made changes and categorized it as grass. We had been able to import bamboo too for making sticks and kites. The farmers of my country There are many such uses. I would like to urge my farmer brothers to avail the benefits of the myriad schemes of the government in order to increase their income besides engaging in cultivation. Our government is moving forward with the goal of taking the ray of development to every individual and at every corner of the country. The foundation stone of some bridges have also been done today in order to make better connectivity and to make your life easier. ChunarBridge has now shortened the distance between Varanasi and Chunar. I was also told that the country used to be cut off from the rest of the country during the monsoon season. Now this new bridge will resolve this issue\nBrothers and sisters,\nTo make affordable and better quality healthcare facilities the poor of the poor The Medical Colleges that will come up here will benefit not only the people of Mirzapur and Sonbhadra but also of Bhadohi, Chandauli and Allahabad. Now the district hospital of this place will have 500 beds. Consequently, you will not have to travel longer distances to get treated for serious illnesses. Besides, more than 100 Jan Aushadhikendras across Uttar Pradesh also launched today. These Jan Aushadhikendras will prove to the poor, the middle class and the lower middle class. More than 700 medicines and more than 150 tools that are needed are available in these stores at affordable prices. More than 3500 such stores have been established throughout the country. More than 800 medicines have been brought under price control measures. Prices of knee implants and stents have been reduced. Many such measures taken by the government to bring relief to the poor and the middle class.\nIf there are people in a middle class family, one or two diseases Medicines have to be taken on a regular basis for diseases like diabetes and blood pressure. Medicines are required daily for one or the other member of the family and the medical bill rises to Rs.1000, Rs.2000, Rs.3000 and even Rs.5000 by the end of the month. However, now due to Jan Aushadhi scheme, the thousand rupees bill is reduced to Rs 250-300 for a month. You can imagine the extent The previous governments had not done this but their party, their family and seat Therefore, the welfare of the common people\nFriends,\nThese days, dialysis is become a absolute necessity. Many families from different villages are getting a dialysis done. We have started the Pradhan Mantri National Dialysis Program and have taken the responsibility of helping the poor people in solving their problems. Under the Dialysis Program, we are setting up dialysis centers in the districts. The poor, the middle class and the middle class can get the dialysis done for free. Till date, about 25 lakhs dialysis sessions have been conducted for free. With every dialysis session, a poor person's Rs.1500, Rs.2000 or Rs.2500 is saved. Moreover, the Swachh Bharat Mission has proved to combat the diseases. According to a report last year, the incidents of diseases in the villages and the villages where the use of the toilets have increased have fallen significantly! Moreover, every family in the villages that were declared open defecation free has annually saved Rs.50,000 approx. Previously, this amount used to be visited and leaves from work.\nFriends,\nThe government is about to start a massive scheme to break the vicious cycle of poverty and diseases. Some people call it 'Modi Care' and others call it 'Ayushman Bharat' Under this scheme, almost 50 crore poor people will get annual treatment of up to 5 lakh rupees for free. The work is underway at a rapid pace. Soon the government is going to launch this program You could imagine if the government provides 5 lakh rupees to a family whose one of the members has been suffering from a serious illness; It will provide a new lease of life to that family. Will not that family be rescued from these many troubles? When crores of families come out of the problems, will not my country be the problems as well? Therefore, brothers and sisters, we have formulated the Ayushman Bharat Mission for a healthy and bright future.\nBrothers and sisters,\nReducing the burden of worries and making the lives of the poor, the deprived and the oppressed section of the society So, we have been engaged in the process. Keeping this in mind, the poor people of the country are being covered under social security with a premium of Re.1 per month and 90 Paisa per day. It is not a poor person The life insurance and accident insurance with this premium rate is a unflickering flame in the lives of the people. Earlier there was a fractured ideology that only the upper class people, the educated class and the middle class had bank accounts. The poor did not have bank accounts Similarly, people used to believe only the rich and the educated can gas cylinders, the poor could not. The people of our country also believe that transactions through cards can be done only by the bureaucrats and the upper class people but never by the poor Friends, we decided to break this ideology All 125 crore Indians should stand on an equal platform. The poor could never think of getting insurance. They used to believe that only the rich who had cars could be insured. They thought that they did not even have a cycle; why would they be insured? We broke all these myths and brought an insurance scheme with a premium of 90 paisa per day and Re.1 per month for the poor. This insurance is benefitting the poor We have been introducing schemes that will end in the discrimination. You will soon get results in the coming days. Our poor can We are working towards making them confident and self-dependent.\nMore than 1.5 crore people of Uttar Pradesh are now connected to these two schemes. The claim amount of about Rs.300 crores through these schemes has already reached the people in adversity This is just from Uttar Pradesh If my government had even announced Rs.100 crore, it would have been the headline in the front page of the newspapers. With our scheme, Rs.300 crore reached the people and they were rescued from the adversity. This is a live example\nFriends,\nI request those of you who are not connected with the scheme to do so at the earliest and start availing the benefits. No one wants that adversity befalls anyone However, no one can predict the cycle of fate In times of adversities, this scheme will prove to be a boon for you and benefits you. Therefore, we have brought this scheme. All the decisions and plans brought by the government for the welfare of the poor are aimed at them and their standard of living. According to a recent international report, 5 crore people of India have come out of extreme poverty in the last 2 years. Although this news will be printed in the newspapers but probably only in the corner and the television channels will not even talk about it. There was a negative one However, when the report is positive, no one notices it. So, I want to inform you about this international report. You tell me; can not you see the positive results of every scheme? Do you want to Do you want to get out of poverty? You can easily see the results today. Definitely, these are also the impact of the government schemes that the burden on the poor. Certainty is also one of the factors For example, the Ujjwala Yojana has not only removed the women of the smoke from burning of the fossil fuels but has also provided them an opportunity to work for their family. Now they do not have to sit in front of the firewood for hours. More than 80 lakh women in Uttar Pradesh have been given the free gas connections under the Ujjwala Yojana. Similarly, under Jan Dhan Yojana, more than 5 crore bank accounts have been created in Uttar Pradesh. More than 1 crore loans without bank guarantee have been given under the MUDRA Yojana. Under Pradhan MantriAvas Yojana more than 18 lakh homes have been built and inflation has also been controlled. These are some of the schemes\nFriends,\nWe are committed to fulfilling our solution of 'New India' where the poor will be assured of medicines, the farmers will be assured of irrigation, the children are assured of income and the youth of the employment and where the system is transparent unprecedented facilities I once again congratulate you for the plans that have been launched today. I congratulate Yogi ji, his government and his team for successfully My best wishes to them Once again I would like to remind you; Do not forget to use Mother Vindhyavasini'sprasad i.e. every drop of water I would like to thank you all for your interest in the event of scorching heat and showering. Saying with your fists - Victory to Mother India! Victory to Mother India! Victory to Mother India!\nThanks a lot!"