"Share\n\nFor the last four years, the efforts of the 21st century are: Kashi in accordance with the requirements of the PM\nNew Banaras - a blend of spiritualuality and modernity - is being developed, for a new India: PM Modi\nKashi is emerging as an important international tourist destination, says PM\nWork in full swing for an Integrated Command and Control Center, that would make Varanasi a Smart City: PM\nSmart City Initiative is not just a mission to improve infrastructure in cities, but also a mission to give India a new identity: PM Modi\nGovernor of Uttar Pradesh Shriman Ram Naik Ji, the energetic, high spirited, hardworking and glorious Chief Minister of the State Shriman Yogi Adityanath Ji, my colleague in the union council of ministers Shriman Manoj Sinha Ji, my colleague in the parliament and a very old friend of mine and the President of Bhartiya Janta Party in Uttar Pradesh Shriman Mahendra Nath Pandey Ji, Charge-de-Affairs in the Embassy of Japan Shri Hireka Asari Ji and my brothers and sisters of Banaras.\nBefore anything else, I would like to be proud of a country of pride. You have never seen this thing that a young girl of Degaam in Navangon district of Assam has made a spectacular performance; and those who have seen it on TV; Today I have specially tweeted this thing; and it was wondering for the commentators present in the stadium that is a girl of India being moving forward the world champions and it does not make any excitement commentators kind of talk about this thing with any Indian proud.\nAnd later you people had seen that Hima Das achieved a wonderful thing, she brought laurels for the country and when it was finally decided that she was won by her hands in the tricolor for waiting while she was anxiously waiting to hold the tricolor in her hand and she had this feeling of victory in her heart. And she did not forget to wrap around her assy cloth around her neck after the victory when she waved the tricolor. And when she was awarded with the medal; When she was standing there and when Jan-Man-Gan was played, you people saw that the tears of success 18 years old Hima Das of eyes out of the flow, the success of those tears mother India to the devoted. This kind of scene in itself gives a new energy and inspiration to 1.25 billion Indians\nA girl of a farmer family who grows rice in a small village and who used to play at just 18 months ago, who has never played at the state level, within 18 months she has come back . I congratulate Hima Das, I convey my best wishes to her And I also urge you to praise Please appreciate our daughter, this girl from Assam Many-many congratulations\nBrothers and sisters,\nThe month of Savan, the favorite month of Baba Bholenath (Lord Shiva) is about to start. In a few days time, the hordes of devotees of Lord Shiva from all over the country, from all over the world are going to gather in Kashi. The preparations for this festival are underway at a fast speed.\nBrothers and sisters,\nAt a time When we are busy in preparing for this festival I would like to share the pain of those families who have lost their loved ones in the accident The accident that happened in Banaras, the loss of the invaluable life is extremely painful. I express my condolences to all the affected families Sharing the pain of others, this feeling of cooperation and compassion, this is the hallmark of Kashi. This simple behavior like that of Lord Shiva and character like the mother Ganga's character that absorbs everyone's pain and misery in itself is the hallmark of Banaras. People of Banaras never ever forget the values ​​wherever they live or in the world.\nFriends,\nBanaras is like this only since last centuries of years, it has been immersed in traditions. In the last four years, a effort has been made on regular basis to give a new recognition to its mythological identity, to develop Kashi as per the requirements of the 21st century. A new banaras is being built for a new India which has a great body Where culture and values ​​will be full of smart systems Now this changing face of Banaras is visible from all sides.\nToday, if anyone sees the roads, intersections, courtyards, lanes, riverbanks and ponds of Kashi then he feels infinite happiness. Electricity wires hang out overhead The roads has floodlights Fountains with colorful lights\nFriends,\nAn investment worth tens of thousands of rupees has been made in Banaras during the last four years and this will continue. There were many challenges in the days following the year 2014. Leave alone providing the support for development, in fact hurdles were created However, since the time when you people have installed BJP government in Uttar Pradesh with a massive mandate, the speed of development has become faster in the whole of Uttar Pradesh. By continuing this series, I have either dedicated or laid the foundation stones for the schemes worth Rs. 1,000 crores just a while ago. These more than 30 projects of central and state governments are related to the roads, transportation, supply of water, sewage, cooking gas, cleanliness and beautification of this city. In addition to this, people of the city are going to be immensely benefited by the establishment of the circuit bench of Income Tax Tribunal, Central Government employees for the CGHS wellness center facility.\nBrothers and sisters,\nNearby villages are also benefitting from Banaras. Today, many schemes in these villages related to drinking water have been made public here. I would like to specially greet you, the farmers and sisters who have gathered here There is a perishable cargo center near this place. I am fortunate that I had the opportunity to devote to it and today I also got the opportunity to dedicate it to public.\nFriends,\nThis cargo center is going to be a big boon. Adequate arrangements have been made for storage of vegetables like potato, green beans and tomatoes that fall in a short span of time. Now you people have not had to do the damage caused due to fruits and vegetables. Railway Station is also not far away. Now it will be easy to sell\nBrothers and sisters,\nThis government is going to change Our maximum focus is on this eastern part of the country. The foundation stone for the longest expressway which was laid in Azamgarh is just a part of the same vision.\nFriends,\nThe city of Kashi has always been the place for ultimate salvation and there is no dearth of people However, it is fast emerging as the hub for reducing the difficulties in life through medical science. Banaras has started to emerge as a health hub in the eastern India due to cooperation of you people Our BHU which was known for education is now getting the field of medicine as well. You will be happy to know that recently BHU has signed an agreement with AIIMs to set up a world class health institute. In a way, it has started and very soon the results of this thing will be visible to you Connectivity is very important for the people of Banaras along with those people who visit Banaras. So, be it road or rail, In this direction, work is being done to give a new face to the cant railway station. The work of doubling the railway track connecting to Varanasi to Allahabad and Chapara is being done at fast speed. The work of electrification of railway track from Varanasi to Balia has completed and a memo train has started on this track from today. I have just flagged of the train Now people from Balia and Gazipur will be able to come here on this train and they will be able to go back in the evening after completing their work. Now the people of the region are going to get relief from the crowd in long distance trains.\nFriends,\nThe efforts to provide better facilities to the devotees The devotees of Lord Shiva who came here from the country and all over the world, the arrangements for making them so that they could have trouble facing the city while visiting. The work for widening the Panch Kosi road has started from today. In addition to this, two dozen roads connecting to all the places of cultural or spiritual importance are either rebuilt altogether. These roads have been allowed to public just a while ago.\nBrothers and sisters,\nKashi has been emerging as an important center for tourism. Today, the foundation stone for international conversion center - Rudraksh - has been laid here. Two years ago when the Prime Minister of Japan and my close friend Shriman Shinzo Abe had come to Kashi with me then he had gifted this thing to India, to the people of Kashi. This project is slated to be completed in the next one and a half to two years. I express my heartfelt gratitude to the Prime Minister of Japan Shriman Shinzo Abe Ji on behalf of the residents of Kashi and also our countrymen\nFriends,\nI am happy that Yogi Ji and his team have been encouraging tourism not only in Kashi but in the entire UP The work on cleanliness and beautification of heritage sites is being done on a fast pace for this purpose. The way all of you, the people of UP have taken the cleanliness, the clean India mission is specially praiseworthy. Your contribution for a clean, beautiful and healthy India is praiseworthy.\nFriends,\nWhatever you are doing is very important. But we should not forget the time of four years ago You can not forget that road connecting to Babadpura airport to the city On which people were dependent The situation was on the airport, instead of going to the airport. What was the situation of Ganga Ji, of her riverbanks, all this is known to everyone How the garbage and filth of the whole city and villages were drained in Ganga Ji and all the systems of the previous government were these things about less worried. There is no account of how much money was wasted in the name of Ganga Ji. On the one hand there was to threat to the flow of Ganga Ji, there was danger to the purity of Ganga water and on the other hand people's coffers were overflowing with the money. In such a situation, the work of cleaning Ganga Ji took up. Today, the campaign to make mother Ganga has been going on a rapid pace. It's not just in Banaras, all the efforts are made from Gangotri to Ganga Sagar. It is not just cleanliness but the arrangements are also made so that sewage of cities are not dumped in to Ganga More than 200 schemes worth Rs 21,000 crore has been approved for this purpose. Several projects related to sewage has either been established or established.\nFriends,\nThe government is also able to ensure this thing that the treatment plants that are being built properly because it was the work culture of the previous governments, although earlier the treatment plants were built but they did not have the capacity to work as well a long time Now, whichever treatment plants are being constructed, it has also been ensured that they should work for at least 15 years. It means our emphasis is not only on construction of sewage treatment plants but it is also It takes more time and labor And its results will be visible to the people of Banaras in the near future.\nBrothers and sisters,\nThe program that is taking place here today, it is also going to convert Banaras into a smart city. The work on an integrated command and control center is taking place here at rapid speed. The administration and public facilities of the whole country Today, the work is going on around 10 such projects\nFriends,\nSmart City is not just a city but it is a mission to give a new identity to the country. It is a symbol of a young India, a New India. Similarly, Make in India and Digital India missions have been the common man easy. Our Uttar Pradesh has played a leading role in it. I congratulate Yogi Ji and his whole team for the industrial policy and the environment for investment that has created you and its results are now becoming visible. A few days ago in Noida, I got the opportunity to publicly dedicate Samsung's biggest mobile manufacturing unit in the world This will create thousands of opportunities for employment You will be proud to know that in the last four years the number of mobile manufacturing units in the country has increased from 2 to 120 and out of 50 these are in our Uttar Pradesh. Today, these factories are providing more than 4 lakh young people.\nFriends,\nIn addition to Make in India, Digital India is also turning out to be a effective medium. Today, a BPO of Tata Consultancy Services, TCS, is being started here This center will bring new jobs for Banaras.\nBrothers and sisters,\nWhenever the issue of employment comes up then the government is giving special attention to mothers and sisters in this sector too. Be it the loan for self-employment without a bank guarantee under a guarantee or a free lpg cylinder, a massive change is being brought into the life of poor mothers and sisters. A massive project is going on in Kashi so that fuel can be provided to all. Public dedication of city gas distribution system A pipeline is being used from Allahabad to Banaras for this purpose. I am happy that the piped gas connections have been installed in 8,000 homes of Banaras so far and the work to provide it to 40,000 homes is going on.\nFriends,\nThis is not just a facility related to fuel but it is a mission to overhaul the whole ecosystem of the city. Be it PNG or CNG, this infrastructure is going to bring down the pollution level in the city. Just imagine when the buses, cars and autos of Banaras will run on CNG then how many avenues of employment it will create\nFriends,\nWhenever I meet the Prime Minister of Japan or any other Indian meets Prime Minister of Japan and wherever he gets the opportunity then I observe it regularly my friend Prime Minister of Japan continues to narrate what he has experienced in Kashi and he narrated the way people of Kashi welcomed him He continues to praise Kashi Sometime back President of France had come here with me and the way people of Kashi welcomed the President of France, the way they honored him and gave him respect, today, the whole France discusses this thing with a lot of pride. The President of France This is the tradition of Kashi, this is the feeling of affinity of Kashi. This is the fragrance that has been spread in the world. This love and affection of Kashi is incredible\nMy dear brothers and sisters of Kashi,\nOnce again you are going to get a big opportunity to showcase the love and warmth of Kashi, to show the affinity and hospitality of Kashi to the whole world. Will you make all the preparations for it? Will you extend a grand welcome? Will you make Kashi proud? Will you wholeheartedly praise every guest? Will you certainly do it? Done! Promise! See, Pravasi Bharatiya is going to be organized in Kashi in the month of January to 21st to 23rd January. Overseas Indians from all the world are going to attend this Pravasi Indian Day. Wherever in the world Indians are there in business, in politics or they are running governments, all of these people are going to come together in Kashi together 21st to 23rd January Some of them will be those whose fathers had been foreign countries four-five generations before and they never came back, children of those people are going to India for the first time to see this land. Please tell me whether such a grand event will bring prestige to Kashi or not? Whether we should make preparations to welcome these people or not? Do you want to work with this people or not? Whether Kashi should earn praise all over the world or not? Please start preparing for this thing right away and all these guests who are here from all over the world, they were here from 21st to 23rd January, and they are kumh festival visit to 24th on prayag raj on the 26th of January.\nI especially urge the people of Kashi to extend their hospitality. And as someone from Kashi, I will also be with you on the 21st January The people of India are coming to participate in this program It's very important event so I invite you to start preparations to host them.\nMy brothers and sisters of Kashi,\nToday, I got the opportunity to visit you people I got the opportunity to dedicate several steps I am going to do it and I will continue to do it.\nOnce again I convey my heartfelt regards to the people of Kashi. Please join me in saying it aloud - Har Har Maha Dev\nThank you very much"