"Poorvanchal Expressway will transform the towns and cities that it passes through: PM\nConnectivity is necessary for development: PM Narendra Modi\nSabka Saath, Sabka Vikaas is our mantra; Our focus is balanced development: PM\nPM Modi slams opposition for obstructing the law on Triple Talaq from being passed in the Parliament\nUttar Pradesh Governor Mr. Ram Nayak Ji, Chief Minister, Yashwashvi, Stunning, Diligent, Mr. Yogi Adityanathji, always has a genuine temperament to smile. However my colleague Deputy Chief Minister Mr. Keshav Prasad Maurya, Minister of Industrial Development Mr. Satish Mahanaji, State Government Minister Bhai Dara Singh ji, my partner in Parliament and State President of Bharatiya Janata Party Mr. Mahendra Nath Andey G, our fellow sister in Parliament Neelam Sonkar law, legislators brother Arun G and arrived in large numbers, my dear brothers and sisters.\nI salute this land of Azamgarh, who gave many intellectuals to the ascetic and literature of the sages. Today there is a new chapter in the development of Uttar Pradesh has started. In eastern India a new Ganges will grow in a large area of ​​eastern Uttar Pradesh It is going to meet you as Ganga Purvanchal Expressway and we have got the opportunity to lay foundation.\nCo-workers like Uttar Pradesh should be in development, fast growth, those who are backward, bring more energy and bring them equal to others, the decision to work in this direction is of the people's public service, it is yours, we So they are following him as a servant. Four years ago Uttar Pradesh gave the Bharatiya Janata Party's blessings to work in the Central Government by giving rich blessings. I chose Kashi and last year you made a historic decision to double the speed of development. The way in which the work of Yogi Adityanath ji has been done in the last one year, it is unprecedented. You know well what the condition of the big criminals is. The Bharatiya Janata Party government has tried to create a better environment for development in Uttar Pradesh. By controlling crime, controlling corruption, Yogi has done a great job of making big investments and facilitating business for small entrepreneurs. Yogi ji's government is immersed in your service by becoming a farmer or a young man, a woman, or a victim, a victim, a disadvantaged class. In the first ten years, the identification of the kind of identity that was created in Uttar Pradesh has started changing now. Now the public money is being spent for public good. Each pie is being spent honestly. This changed work culture will take Uttar Pradesh to new heights.\nBrothers and Sisters, Purvanchal Express is going to give new heights to the entire UP, especially the hopes and aspirations of eastern Uttar Pradesh. More than 23 thousand crore rupees will be spent on Purvanchal expressway. From the cities of Lucknow to Ghazipur, the cities, towns and villages will come in the way of 340 kilometers. Not only this, after the construction of this road, the distance of Ghazipur from Delhi will also be reduced for several hours and it will take hours, the waste of the gasoline and diesel, the environmental damage, all these things have passed after becoming the Express Tomorrow will be the talk of tomorrow. And the biggest thing is that people in the area will be saved and this is a big deal. Here's a farmer, be a farmer, my weaver brother, a potter's potter, it is going to give new expressive direction to everyone's life, new speed is going to give. With the formation of this road, farmers of Purbanchal will get grains, fruits, vegetables and milk from the brothers and sisters in less time to reach the mandis of Delhi. In a way, the industrial corridor will grow in the form of. New industries will grow around this expressway. I look forward to the possibility of all the institutions like Education, Training Institute, Industrial Training Institute, Medical Institute in the future. One more thing besides this is that tourism, tourism In this area, which is our important mythological place, are associated with Lord Rama, connected to our sages and monks, they will now get more publicity. This will give young people opportunities for their traditional work as well as new employment opportunities.\nCompanions, I have also been told that in the coming time Gorakhpur will also be linked to an expressway. Apart from this Bundelkhand has decided to make such a proposal as the government of the Bharatiya Janata Party. All these efforts will take connectivity to the new level in Uttar Pradesh. The basic condition of development in the 21st century is connectivity. As the connectivity increases in any area, the entire ecosystem itself develops there. Creating new opportunities of employment from connectivity, simplifying business and continuous efforts to raise the level of life of farmers, poor, deprived, exploited and backward, is going on.\nBrothers and Sisters, When Your Negotiations Work and Goal Development, then the speed of work increases automatically. The files did not have to wait again to get the recommendation of anybody and then go and file up. That is why in the last four years, the network of National Highway in Uttar Pradesh has almost doubled. As long as the national highways were long before 2014, the number of National Highways, which has now doubled. Think, as much work done after Independence, the BJP government has shown it in just four years. Now, after the formation of Yogi Ji's government here, the speed has increased. In Uttar Pradesh, work is not only on highways but also on water and air and air work. In the Ganga jam, the ships running from Benaras to Haldia will carry the industrial development further in the entire area. Apart from this, special emphasis is being given on air connectivity and I have always dreamed, keeping in mind that the airplane wears can fly in the airplane, the government is pushing the flying plan ahead with a fast speed. Through this scheme, small towns are connected with air connectivity. 12 airports in Uttar Pradesh are also being developed under this scheme. Apart from this, the work of international airports in Kushi city and in Jovar has also been expedited.\nBrothers and sisters, Modi or Yogi, you are our family. Your dreams are our dreams. We are connected with the aspirations of the poor and the middle class, so when the talk of fares under the flight scheme came to an end, it was ensured that no one would have to spend more than two and a half thousand to travel for an hour. Today the result of this is that more people traveled in the airplane than people who traveled in the AC coach last year. Companions, policies of earlier governments have been such that this part of the country is our eastern India, it is our Eastern Uttar Pradesh state always behind in the race for development, while I believe that the development of the country in eastern India is multiplied There is a capacity to accelerate, in eastern Uttar Pradesh it has the same potential. Now the young people can now go to other states and feel their iron, so when they get the right opportunity right here, they can definitely rejuvenate the entire area.\nAs long as the colleagues will not grow in the east, the glow of New India will remain gloomy. And in the past four years, many projects related to road, rail and airport were approved in Purvanchal, Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Assam and North East these areas. This eastern part of the country is being worked in a way to create a new corridor of development. Here the work of opening new medical colleges of AIIMS, closed fertilizers factories is being done. Companions, whatever this work, they will promote balanced development of this area. Without any discrimination, we are moving forward with the mantra of 'All along, everybody's development'. All of us have an opportunity to move forward in the same way, all have balanced development. Our government is working to make villages a focal point for development. The task of connecting every major panchayat of the country with optical fiber is fast running. So far, more than one lakh panchayats have been added to it. Nearly three lakh common service centers are doing a great job to make their lives easier for the village and the empowerment of the poor. Apart from this, more than 1.5 lakh wellness centers are also being set up to worry about the health of people for more than one and a half lakh health care in villages.\nCompanions, in the last four years, more than one crore households have been constructed for the poor people by completing the 'Pradhanmantri Awas Yojana' and old housing schemes. Under the 'Pradhan Mantri Gramin Sadak Yojana', the task of connecting every village of the country is also going on in the last phase. Brothers and sisters, this dream of Swarajya in the country and villages was seen by Mahatma Gandhi, Baba Saheb Ambedkar had seen, Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay ji had seen, Dr. Ram Manohar Lohia ji had seen. These new arrangements are for everyone, all are for doing good. But unfortunately, some political parties who talk of equality and equality have done just politics in the name of Baba Saheb and Ram Manohar Lohia ji. I want to know from the people of Azamgarh that the kind of development that has happened in the previous governments can you imagine? Have those activities done to you? Should not any more development of Azamgarh? Did those people who have trusted Azamgarh and the people of this area have done or did not work to crush your trust? The truth is that these parties have not only benefited the public and the poor but have only done good to themselves and their family members. The votes demanded from the poor, the votes demanded from the dalit, the votes demanded from the backward, by making a government in their name, they filled their safes and did nothing. Nowadays you are seeing yourself that those who did not want to see each other, did not like, they are now together. Meet every morning and evening - Modi, Modi, Modi Brothers and sisters, this is the amount of security for their selfish ends, they meet together all the family members, see all these people, these are family parties, together with all the family parties, are now bent on stopping your development. . You want to stop being empowered. They know that if poor, farmer, dalit, backward, if it becomes strong then their shops will be closed for ever.\nBrothers and sisters, the poles of all these parties have also opened their attitude on three divorces. On one hand, while the central government is making efforts to make women's lives easier, all these parties are working together to put the lives of women, and especially Muslim sisters and daughters in crisis. Lakhs of millions of Muslim sisters and daughters were always demanded that three divorces should be closed and the three divorced customs were banned in Islamic countries of the world. I read in the newspaper, the Congress Party President Mr. Namdar said that Congress is a party of Muslims. Discussion is going on in the last two days, I am not surprised because earlier when Manmohan Singh's government, Prime Minister Manmohan Singh himself had said that the first rights on the country's natural resources are Muslims. They had said this. But I want to ask this nominee of the Congress party that you are a party of Congress party Muslims, you feel better, you are happy, but tell me that the Muslims' party is only of men or women too? Is there any place for Muslim women for their respect, for honor, for their dignity, for their right? In the Parliament, the law stops, hoaxes, Parliament does not allow it to run. I want to say this familyist parties, it is one day to go to one-party parties in the field to remove Modi, there is still four to five days to start the parliament. If you meet the Muslim women due to those divorces, come and meet those troubled mothers and sisters due to halala, ask them, and then tell you your talk in the parliament.\nBrothers and sisters, in the 21st century such political parties who are passing through the 18th century can give slogans to remove Modi, can not do good to the people, brothers and sisters When BJP Government tried to give authority to Muslim sisters and daughters by bringing legislation in Parliament, they are now stuck in it. It wants to have three divorces, the lives of Muslim sisters and daughters remain hell, but I assure that I will do my best to explain these political parties, by convincing them to give them the rights of our sisters and daughters I will try to bring it so that our Muslim daughters get relief from the three divorces which are causing problems.\nBrothers and sisters, such leaders need to be cautious with such parties. These people, who are immersed in their selfish interests, do not think well of everyone. Can not think of the good of the nation On the other hand, the central government which is the BJP government of UP, the country is the family for it, the country is paramount, our family is 100 million people. Our government is constantly working to become a farmer, become poor, deprived, exploited, how to make the life of the backward backward and simple. जनधन योजना के तहत उत्‍तर प्रदेश में लगभग पांच करोड़ गरीबों के बैंक के खाते खुले। लकड़ी के धुएं से मुक्ति दिलाने के लिए 80 लाख से ज्‍यादा महिलाओं को मुफ्त में गैस सिलेंडर दिया गया। सिर्फ एक रुपया महीना और 90 पैसे प्रति दिन की प्रीमियम पर एक करोड़ 60 लाख से ज्‍यादा गरीबों को सुरक्षा कवच दिया गया। अब आयुष्‍मान भारत के तहत सरकार की तैयारी हर गरीब परिवार को सालभर में पांच लाख रुपये तक का मुफ्त ईलाज सुनिश्चित करने की है। अभी हाल ही में सरकार ने किसानों से किया अपना वादा पूरा किया। सरकार द्वारा खरीफ़  की 14 फसलों के न्‍यूनतम समर्थन मूल्‍य एमएसपी में बहुत बड़ी बढ़ोतरी की गई है। धान हो, मक्‍का, ज्‍वार, बाजारा, तूर, उड़द, मूंग, सूरजमुखी, सोयाबीन, तिल इनके समर्थन मूल्‍य में दो सौ रुपये से ले करके 1800 रुपये तक की वृद्धि की गई है। कई फसलों में तो लागत का सौ प्रतिशत यानि दो गुना तक मूल्‍य मिलना तय किया।\nसाथियों हमारी सरकार देश की, देश के नागरिकों की आवश्‍यकता को समझते हुए योजनाएं बना रही है, फैसले ले रही है। ऐसे फैसले जिनका वर्षों से इंतजार था, जिन्‍हें पहले की सरकारें सिर्फ फाइलों में घूमाती रही, उन फैसलों को लेने का काम भी भारतीय जनता पार्टी के नेतृत्‍व में एनडीए की सरकार कर रही है। आपकी हर जरूरत के प्रति यह सरकार पूरी तरह संवेदनशील है। यहां इस क्षेत्र में बनारसी साड़ी के कारोबार से जुड़े बुनकर भाई-बहन भी तो अच्‍छी तरह समझ ले उन्‍हें तो पिछली सरकारों ने भुला दिया, जबकि यह सरकार उनके लिए आधुनिक मशीनों, कम ब्‍याज पर कर्ज से ले करके नये बाजार बनाने तक का काम  कर रही है। बनारस में trade facilitation centre तो पिछले साल ही शुरू हो चुका है। यह centre आप सभी बुनकर और शिल्‍पकारों के लिए नई उम्‍मीद बन करके आया है। इससे हस्‍त शिल्‍पी और हाथ से बने कालीनों को बढ़ावा मिल रहा है। वहीं योगी जी की सरकार ने taxtile sector के लिए भी नई नीति बनाई है। यहां जो भी उत्‍पादन होता है, उसका प्रचार-प्रसार और बाजार दिलाने  के लिए one district one product scheme पर काम किया जा रहा है।\nभाईयों-बहनों, यहां की काली मिट्टी की कला तो अपने आप मे अनूठी है। मैं योगी जी और इनकी टीम को बधाई दूंगा जो उन्‍होंने हाल में जो माटी कला बोर्ड बनाने का फैसला लिया है, वो सराहनीय है। इससे न सिर्फ लाखों नये रोजगार सृजित होंगे, बल्कि एक कला भी जीवित रहेगी।\nसाथियों जब जनहित और राष्‍ट्रहित को सर्वोपरि रखा जाता है, जब गरीब की चिंता रखते हुए उसके जीवन को सरल और सुगम बनाने के लक्ष्‍य  पर काम किया जाता है, तब इस तरह के फैसले होते हैं। वरना सिर्फ कागजों में योजना बनते  और भाषणों में शिलान्‍यास होते, वो आप भलीभांति जानते हैं, आपने उसे देखा है। उत्‍तर प्रदेश और देश अब उस कार्य संस्‍कृति से आगे बढ़ चुका है।\nपूर्वांचल के, यूपी के आप सभी भाई-बहनों को इस आधुनिक एक्‍सप्रेसवे का काम शुरू होने पर फिर से एक बार बहुत-बहुत बधाई के साथ आपको अनेक शुभकामनाएं देता हूं। आप इतनी बड़ी भरी संख्‍या में, इतनी गर्मी में ,यह जन सैलाब यह अपने आप में आपके प्‍यार का प्रतीक है। आप आशीर्वाद देने आएं, मैं हृदय से आपका बहुत-बहुत धन्‍यवाद करता हूं।"