"Share\n\nPM Modi inaugurates the new headquarters Building of the Archaeological Survey of India in New Delhi\nWe need to device new ways to promote civil and social involvement in preserving and promoting our historical heritage: PM\nPM Modi says, \"We will never feel proud of our heritage\"\nPM Modi says that India should take pride in the rich history of our nation\nFirst of all, I would like to mention this magnificent and modern building. This organization is 150 years old This institute itself is a subject of archaeology. Over the last 150 years it has grown and spread in its unique way It must have achieved great accolades The period of 150 years is really a long time for an institution\nI do not know whether ASI has a record of its 150 year old history or not. In case it does not have a record, it will be a great idea to get it done Over the years, many people There would have been an idea based on which institution was envisaged. There will be many other aspects like the process of its expansion, the use and changes in technology used, its current impact on the society, and its way of attracting the people worldwide Even today, the archeological artefacts of our country provide insights into the reconstructing With the development of science and space technology, the complex struggle of dualities related to the human life that existed before was now demolished. The belief that the river did not exist any of the viewspoints. However, space technology confirmed that this viewpoint was erroneous. The river was not mythical There is another discussion about the origination of Aryans. Some people are interested in their favorite topics. This is an enormous segment. Technology is aided in the field of archaeology, due to which the new discussions and debates have come up.\nI believe that these rock inscriptions and old artefacts and stones are not inanimate objects. Every stone in this world has something to say Every paper related to archaeology has its own story. Every object derived from archaeology depicts the hard work and dreams of man. Therefore, the people associated with archaeology start their work on such a deserted land that attracts attention to the world for many years. Just like a scientist remains completely immersed in his research work related to the future in the laboratory, an archaeologist remains the oblivious to the rest of the world while his research work in the deserted forests and hills. They do not even realize that 10-20 years pass in the process. Then one day they come up with their thesis on some new topic that draws the world's attention. There is a hillock close to Chandigarh. Some people from France, some experts in life sciences, archaeologists from both countries and within the country started their research work on this hillock. They came up with their findings that the remains of the world's oldest living organisms were found on this hillock. It was lakhs of years old The French President wanted to visit that place. I took him there In short, these things are sometimes beyond beliefs. A person working in this field\nSometimes the power to challenge It is often accepted in the beginning However, we have some very familiar and habituated to these things.\nWho are not allowed to I clearly remember that the invitation of the American government They had asked me for a journey as well. So, I wished to know about them in hospitals and schools. I also asked them to take their most historical place over which they take pride. I think he is the person They showed me a massive historic monument and were proudly telling me that it was 400 years old. For them it was something historic and a matter of pride. We have a wonderful history of about 2000 and 5000 year old. This cut-off has happened\nAfter independence, we should have come out of this mentality They consider our historical pride to be a slave. I believe that unless we feel proud of our heritage and culture, we will not feel the urge to preserve it. We have got this urge of renovating Otherwise that is just a piece of rock I am fortunate that the village where I was born The facilities for humans have been developed over the years and Hiuen Tsang had also written that there used to be a university for the Buddhist monks. So, all those things are still there There was a teacher in our school who used to tell us that if we visited any place and found some stones with some engravings, we must collect those and drop them to school of one corner. All of us were habituated to collect such stones with engravings and gathered in our corner. Although I do not know its status now, but at that time students were habituated to it. However, I did not understand that whenever I find any stone on the road, it definitely has a lot of value. This was the awareness of a teacher who provided us Since that time, these things have always been\nI clearly remember that Dr. Hari Bhai Godhani used to live in Ahmedabad He was a medical practitioner. He So I went to meet him He had said that his 20 Fiat cars had already been damaged. At that time The modern cars did not exist at that time He used to visit the forests, hillocks and rocky areas on Saturdays and Sundays in his Fiat. His car did not last for more than one year as he was traveling on such unpaved roads. I believe that probably no individual other than him would have been such a great collection of artefacts. At that time he had a vast collection of artefacts. He was from the medical field. He showed me some slides. I was young but extremely curious He showed me a rock carving in those slides which depicted a pregnant woman. He told me that the engraving was about 800 years old. In the engravings, the woman was seen as if a surgery had done; It was cut from one side. The different layers of the skin were also intricately carved on that stone. How the baby sleeps inside the mother's womb also was intricately carved out\nI was told that it was discovered by medical science just a few centuries ago. The thing that was carved out about 800 years ago by our Craftsmen was certified by the medical science much later, i.e. The different layers of the skin and the way the baby sleeps inside the mother's womb. You can imagine how the knowledge should be percolated here. This was shown by these slides.\nWe have this wonderful heritage It means they have vastense knowledge Otherwise, how they have known about the number of layers of skin and carved This means our science is age-old. It is such a powerful creation\nThere is a good thing about the people who are interested in this subject. There is a lot of public participation in this sector. If you visit any monument in the world, you will find retired people coming forward in uniforms as working guides and showing around the places. The society carries this responsibility. We have created an environment where we can create a club of senior citizens. We will become able to public participation. If government servants come forward in this field, it can be done. The modus operandi is the same. Even the best of the guards can not protect a garden unless every visitor decides that the garden will not be allowed. Then no one can also touch that garden for years So, public participation has immense strength So, if we are in the process of public life and the people who provide these services to the public, it is a great task!\nWe can seek help from the corporate sector. We can ask their workers if they are interested in providing these services for 10 or 15 hours per month. Gradually, these things gain importance\nI feel that there is a need to ponder over another issue. This responsibility need not be corrected with just the ASI The tourism department, the culture department and other departments of the central government as well as the related departments of the state governments can also join\nSuppose we choose 100 cities that are valuable in terms of heritage and tourism with good tourist destinations, the students of that city should be taught the archaeology and history of that city. The chronology of every generation If the students of Agra were taught about the history of Taj Mahal, there would not be any chance of delusion or diversion. They will be ready about every generation.\nSecondly,\nWe can start a certificate course on their city. The successful candidates will know the intricacies of their cities and will become the best tour guide.\nOnce I was talked about I had told them that you have talent hunt shows on television for music and dance where the kids perform. Television showcases the brilliant talent of these children Why do not you have a similar talent hunt for the best guides? They can show the city on screen for which guide wants to work. The potential guides can wear stunning costumes, learn new languages ​​and show around the places. There is a competition like this. This will gradually promote India's tourism sector and professional guides will come up. It is extremely difficult to run\nHowever, there is an attachment to a thing once we know it is a history behind it. Suppose there is a person in a closed room and a small hole is carved out for letting out. Now people out of the room who are completely unaware about who the person is hanging hand; it will be like However, if the people outside are informed that the hand belongs to Sachin Tendulkar, they may not even want to leave that hand. This means that there is a lot of strength It is important to have knowledge about our culture.\nOnce I wanted to grow in the desert area. Developing tourism in a desert So I started with guides They used to teach how to produce salt. They were able to teach people about salt making. You will be surprised to know that students of class 8th and 9th were able to lucidly explain the tourists and the making and processing. First visitors were the english tourists They explained really well and people started developing interest in that. The children too got jobs I'm surprised Please forgive me as i want to share something Please do not mind Today the way the world is working; with the help of space technology you can also get the picture of a number plate of a scooter parked in a narrow lane of Delhi. However, a board in front of the monuments read 'Photography is prohibited'. Today, times have changed and technology has advanced\nWhile the Sardar Sarovar dam was built, people wanted to visit it. Sometimes the water used to overflow People wished to see that However, huge boards with 'Photography is prohibited' written on them everywhere I was the Chief Minister at that time So I did exactly the opposite I asked the people whoever clicked the best photograph would be rewarded on the condition that they had uploaded the snaps on the website. You will be surprised The people started taking the snaps and uploading on the website. Thereafter, a ticket fee was imposed on the visitors. Ticket was for getting registered Then I said that these visitors will be digitally registered and the 5th lakh visitor will be rewarded and respected. Surprisingly, the 5th visitor was a couple from Kashmir's Baramullah Then it's strength was realized. That couple had honored Thereafter, some students of class 8th and 10th were trained as work as guides. They were supposed to know everything about the dam, its beginning, grant of permission, the amount of cement and iron used and the volume of water that will be stored. They were tribal children and work exceptionally well. I feel that a similar activity can be promoted in at least 100 cities of our country The new generation can be ready for that Once the history is on your finger tips, you will see that gradually India's grand heritage and thousand year old history will turn out to be a wonder! We do not have to offer anything else We just need to showcase our legacy left behind by our ancestors. Nothing can hinder the growth of India's tourism industry Moreover, we are not those children who tend to forget the hard work and contribution made by our ancestors. It is our responsibility to carry forward the legacy of our ancestors, to present it before the world with great pride and to worship it. We should move ahead with that self-confidence With one expectation of brightening up the building with this very idea, I offer my best wishes to you all."