"\nToday, women are excelling in every sphere: PM Modi\nIt is important to recognize the talent of women and provide them with the right opportunities: PM\nSelf Help Groups have immensely benefitted people in rural areas, especially women: PM\nTo strengthen the network of Self Help Groups across the country, Government is helping them economically as well.\nHello.\nToday you come here to bless me in such a large number of far away millions of mothers and sisters from my village are blessed to me. Who will be the one who does not get the energy because of a good fortune, do not get the courage to work. These are the people whose blessings whose love has always kept giving me new strength to do something for the country. You all are rich in resolutions in your own right. Dedicated to entrepreneurship. And how you work in a team form, how to make a collective effort. I think the biggest universities in the world - these are the poor mothers of my Hindustan - sisters who have probably had the privilege of reading very few people, but what is the spirit of team, how to work together, how to share work Hardly anyone can imagine it.\nWhen we talk about female empowerment, the most important requirement is that women have the opportunity to recognize their own powers, their abilities, their skills. Women do not have to teach something. There are many things inside them. But they do not get the opportunity. On the day when our mothers and sisters get an opportunity, she shows them amazingly and crosses all obstacles. And see the strength of women, what does not handle anything, from the morning to the night, and how much time management is perfect, the family of her family, she can do whatever she can to change the life of the society. The women of our country have the power and have the strength to do some work for success, the courage to fight is also there. Whenever women's economic strength is high. And I believe that one of the biggest things in women empowerment is that they are financially self-reliant. The day women become financially self-reliant, they become assertive; they become assertive even in the family; children also say this; Do not do this, you can also say to your husband; Do not do this and therefore being economically independent of women becomes a very big reason for increasing participation of every decision. And that's why we should try the people. In women, when economic power grows, there is an impact on those who are in their social life. When women are financially powerful, then the social evils which sometimes have to be compromised with social evils, have to be bowed down, and they do not want to accept the evils. If there is economic power, then he is ready to fight against evils. If you look at any sector today, you will see women working in a large number there. Anyone can imagine that our mothers - without the sisters, can be the task of animal husbandry, someone can imagine that our mothers - our agriculture can run without the contribution of sisters. Very few people know, if you go to the village, then you will know how big the farming work our mother sisters do. The animal production is one-hundred percent of the milk produced in the country today, I believe 100 percent of our mothers sisters are contributing. Exercise in animal husbandry is the result of that and therefore our cluster of collective enterprises in village-village has been promoted to meet our needs from our mothers and sisters, especially in the rural areas, in the rural areas, and from their enterprise. It's going to get more and more. These efforts should be accelerated, expand its scope, and get more and more benefits.\nGovernment of India, Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana,\nThe National Rural Livelihood Mission is making great efforts to ensure this. For the small entrepreneurs in the countryside of our country, self-help youth, self-help youth and I have seen that there is absolutely no written woman, she understands what the Self Help Group means, she understands what she speaks in English. These words have reached such a low. Whenever you call a self-help group, she thinks what I am saying. That's why he has become populer. These are our self help groups, in a way, the basis of the economic development of the poor especially the women. These groups are making women aware. They are also making them economically and socially strong. Under the Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana, National Rural Livelihood Mission, he has tried to reach millions of rural poor families in 2.5 lakh gram panchayats across the country, has made successful efforts. They have been targeted to provide sustainable livelihood opportunities. This scheme has been started in all the states. And I would like to congratulate all the states and its officers. Who has done the task of bringing millions of women to these schemes and improving their lives. And I will urge those who are our working officers at the district level that such work is done in their district. They have an emoticon story. Should write a single book Do not you see that government is a document, you see those officers or their families will also enjoy a wonderful work. You will be surprised to know that till now about 45 lakh Self Help Groups have been formed and about 5 crore women are actively involved. In a way, another earning person has increased for five crore households. The source of another income is ready. I want to tell you some statistics.\n2011-2014 Before becoming our government, if any progress made from 2011 to 2014, five lakh Self-Help Groups were formed. And only 50-52 lakh families were linked to Self Help Group. After the formation of our government, this work was given priority from 2014 to 2018, and this work was considered to be important and more than 20 lakh new self help groups were formed in last four years and more than two crore households were added to Self Help Group. is. That is, Self Help Group has increased fourfold in comparison to earlier. And four times more families have also benefited from this. This indicates how much commitment we have towards the speed of working of this government and the public's welfare, empowering our mothers is our priority. Under this scheme, every kind of help is provided in the skill development of the rural women from training to funding and marketing.\nAs I said earlier, a member of Self Help Group from different areas across the country is with us today. Once again, I have been involved in the economic development of the country, contributing to the economic life of the family and working at least from the new modalities, team-making, formal education, or not However, I am very much heartbroken to listen to all these mothers who have worked on such success.\nSee how much change has changed in all these lives,\nThe Self Help Group is playing a big role. We have seen this live-in example here. This network of Self Help Group is spread all over the country. Connected to different areas and businesses. The government also provides necessary training, financial help and opportunities for furthering them.\nAn experiment has been done in the women's farmer and agriculture sector through Self Help Group. It was conducted on the Women's Farmer's Empowerment Project, under which more than 33 lakh women farmers were given training. Along with this, more than 25 thousand Community Livelihood Resource Person was also elected. Which are providing 24x7 support at the rural level. Today, there is no field, value addition, value addition has become very important especially in areas of agriculture. I am happy that today the farmers of the country have started to understand the importance of value addition in appreciation. They are adopting it and they also get the benefit of it. In many states, the value chain approach has been adopted for some special products like maize, mango, flower farming, dairy etc. For this, two lakh members have been supported by Self Help Group. Right now, we heard Amrutra Devi from Pataliputra, Bihar and how it changed families in the lives of poor women after joining the Self Help Group. I tell you some other examples of Bihar. There are more than two and a half million members of the Self Help Group, who are cultivating paddy better in training. Likewise, nearly two lakh members are cultivating vegetable in new ways. Apart from this, Cluster has also been set up in Bihar to make lakhs of bangles and producer group has been set up. It is a matter of pride that the bangles are famous for our designs in our country and outside of the country. Now as Chhattisgarh, Meena Manjhi told how brick building helped her to improve her life. There are several units set up to make brick there. Nearly 2000 self-help groups have been associated with it. We all are pleasantly surprised to know that their annual profits have reached in crores rupees. Likewise, 122 daily market outlets have been made in 22 districts of Chhattisgarh where 200 different products of Self Help Group are sold.\nI would like to share my personal experience with you in Chhattisgarh. You might have seen on TV some days ago I went to Chhattisgarh where I got an opportunity to ride in E-Rikshaw. The e-rickshaw was running a woman. That area of ​​Chhattisgarh was previously afflicted by Naxalism, Maoism violence. There was no way to go there. But the government made efforts to overcome this problem. And the result of this is that there are several e-rickshaws running today. There are many inaccessible rural areas in the country where the vehicle is not available for movement. In this program, funds were made available to rural households to buy vehicles in these areas. This has made the movement easier, but simultaneously, it has also become a very good source of income for rural households.\nSee, we have just heard a lot from Revati and heard Vandana ji that under this scheme, skill development, skill training helped her. What is the change from training? These are her examples. Under the Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana, special attention is being given for skill development of rural youth. Training is being given to the youth for both employment and self employment so that the youth of the country can move forward in line with their hope, aspiration. New employment opportunities are available for people with skill training. And this is a positive change in people's lives. Rural Self Employment Training Institute has been set up in every district of the country so that the youth can get the facility of training available to them at their home. Here the youth of the village are trained to start economic activities. Nearly 600 rural self-employment training organizations are working in the country till May this year. Under this, about 28 lakh youths have been trained. And 19-20 lakh of them have been linked to employment. Now we also hear Sudha Baghel ji from Madhya Pradesh. Who serve as a packaging of sanitary napkins. Sanitary pad manufacturing units have been set up in Madhya Pradesh, which are working in 35 districts. More than 5,500 members of Self Help Group are doing this work. Let me tell you another example from Madhya Pradesh. There are about 500 livelihood fresh stores opened. Wherever the sale of livelihood spices is more than one tonne per year. In a way livelihood has become a brand there. Now we talk to Rakhi ji and how to go through a self help group, an experiment has been done in the field of banking. To provide banking or financial services to the villages or remote areas, a member of Self Help Group has been appointed as bank friend in the form of bank friend. Today nearly 2000 self-help groups are working as a bank friend or bank savvy banking assistant across the country. I was told that this has resulted in a transaction of about three and a half billion rupees.\nSee how it works as a community resource person, you know that many women are those who have been associated with this work for a long time. He runs this program on its own, as well as going to new villages as a community resource person and motivating women there. So far, this program is being extended to the whole country by 2 lakh community resource persons and this number is increasing day by day. Under the Deendayal Upadhyaya Yojana, there is also provision for loan from banks besides government grants. People with loans from banks get a lot of benefit in increasing the business. Together, one thing that all of you would like to see is that the loan back is also being repaid in the repayment periodically.\nAnd I have seen that sometimes the bank has not been late to reach the money of Self Help Group. About 99 percent of the money came back. These are the sacraments of our poor family. The poor have wealth, in which they are power. अभी हमने लक्ष्मी जी से सुना कि कैसे और उनके साथ तीस अन्य महिलाएं पापड़,अपना प्रोडक्ट बेच कर कैसे मुनाफा कमा रही हैं। यहां मैं आपको बताना चाहूंगा कि आज इस विशेष पर विशेष ध्यान दिया जा रहा है कि सेल्फ हैल्प ग्रुप के उत्पाद सही दामों पर बिके। उनके लिये अच्छे बाजार उपलब्ध हों। इसके लिये भारत सरकार हर राज्य में प्रति वर्ष दो सरस मेलों के आयोजन के लिये अनुदान देती है। इसके अच्छे परिणाम देखने को मिल रहे हैं। हर वर्ष सेल्फ हैल्प ग्रुप के उत्पादों की मांग बढ़ रही है। जिससे उनके आय में भी वृद्धि हो रही है। इसके अलावा सेल्फ हैल्प ग्रुप्स को जेम (जी ई एम) यानी गवर्मेंट ई मार्केट से भी लाभ मिल रहा है। पारदर्शी व्यवस्था को बढ़ाना और उसको बढ़ावा देने के लिये सरकार डीजिटल तरीके से सामानों की खरीद बिक्री को बढ़ावा देगी। सरकार में अब इसी के जरिये टैंडर दिये जा रहे हैं और सरकारी सामान की खरीदी हो रही है। और इसके लिये मैं सभी सेल्फ हैल्प ग्रुप की बहनें जो आप कुछ न कुछ उत्पाद करती हैं कुछ न कुछ प्रोडक्ट करती हैं,आप ये सरकार को जो पोर्टल है जीईएम उसमें जाकर के अपने आपको रजिस्टर करवा दीजिए,ताकि आप भी अगर सरकार को किसी चीज की जरूरत हो उसकी जानकारी आ जाए तो आप भी कह सकती है कि आप भी प्रोवाइड कर सकती हो और सरकार खरीदती है इन चीजों को।\nदेखिए अगर वो भेंड़ पालते हैं और ऊन बेचते हैं, तो मैं एक सुझाव देता हूं आपको। मैं जब गुजरात में था, तो मैंने एक छोटा प्रयोग किया और उस प्रयोग का ये जो भेंड़, बकरी चराने वाले और छोटे-छोटे काम करने वाले लोग थे, तो आपने देखा होगा आजकल ये बड़े – बड़े सैलून होते हैं, वहां जो हजामत करने वाले लोग होते हैं,वो एक मशीन होती है ट्रिमर हमलोग जो दाढ़ी को ठीक करते हैं ट्रिमर उपयोग करते हैं, तो मैंने ऐसे ट्रिमर इन भेंड़ चराने वालों को दिया,और मैंने कहा कि आप कैंची से जो बाल काटते हैं भेंड़ के तो उसके ऊन के टुकड़े हो जाते हैं,तो आपको कमाई कम होगी। आप ये ट्रिमर से मशीन से काटिए तो लंबे तार वाला ऊन मिलेगा। आप हैरान हो जाएंगे उसके कारण मेहनत भी कम हो गई। उस भेंड़ को तकलीफ होती थी वो भी कम हो गई। और लंबे धागे के ऊन मिलने लगे उनको मार्केट में अच्छा मिलने लगा। आपके यहां जो बहनें हैं। उनको ये अगर ट्रेनिंग करवा लेती हैं, तो ये आपके यहां तो ऊनी चीजों गर्म कपड़ों का काफी काम है, अच्छे धागे बन सकते हैं, तो बहुत बड़ी कमाई हो सकती है,तो आप जरूर वहां इस दिशा में सोचिए कुपवाड़ा इलाके में जो पहले मैंने देखा है कि इस काम को काफी ताकत थी और दूध के क्षेत्र में भी आपके इलाके में भी काफी मदद मिलती थी।\nआप लोगों की कहानियां आप लोगों के अनुभव मैं समझता हूं जो भी सुनेगा और अगर खुले मन से सुनेगा अच्छा सोचने की भूमिका से सुनेगा तो मैं जरूर मानता हूं। हमारे देश की माताओं बहनों की ताकत कितनी है थोड़ा सा भी सहारा मिल जाए तो कैसे अपनी दुनिया खड़ी कर सकती हैं। कैसे मिलजुलकर के काम कर सकते हैं। कैसे लीडरशिप दे सकते हैं। एक नए भारत की नींव रखने के लिये वो कैसा परीश्रम कर रहे हैं। मैं समझता हूं सुनने वाले हम सबके लिये इनकी एक –एक गाथा बहुत ही प्रेरक है। इससे देश को ताकत मिलती है। इससे हमारी हर महिला को कुछ नया करने का रास्ता मिलता है,उत्साह मिलता है। और निराशा फैलाने वालों की संख्या कम नहीं। बुराई फैलाने वालों की संख्या कम नहीं। लेकिन अच्छाई का रास्ता छोड़ना नहीं। परिश्रम करने वालों की पूजा करना छोड़ना नहीं। अपने बलबूते में देश को आगे बढ़ाना, अपने को आगे बढ़ाना, परिवार को आगे बढ़ाना, अपने बच्चों की पढ़ाई करना,कठिन जिंदगी से निकल कर जीना ये अपने आप में हर इंसान को निराशा से जूझने की ताकत देता है और देश की यही तो ताकत है। और इसलिये मुझे बहुत अच्छा लगा आप लोगों को सुनकर के उससे मुझे भी ऊर्जा मिली है। मुझे प्रेरणा मिली है और मुझे विश्वास है कि आज इस कार्यक्रम में आप लोगों ने जो बाते बताईं हैं। और मुझे विश्वास है कि आप में से बहुत लोग है जिनको कहना है। हर किसी की अपनी एक कथा है हर किसी का अपना अनुभव है। हर किसी ने मुसीबतों से रास्ता निकाला है और ये आपका काम है आपका परिश्रम है आपकी हिम्मत है। किसी को इसकी क्रेडिट नहीं जाती है सिर्फ आपको ही जाती है और इसलिये आप से बढ़कर के कोई प्रेरणा नहीं है। लेकिन जिन बातों को बहनों को बहुत कुछ कहना है वो कह नहीं पाए हैं, मैं चाहूंगा कि आप अपनी बात मुझ तक पहुंचाइए। मैं आपको सुनूंगा। और कभी जो मैं आप में से मेरी जो बात आपसे आई होगी मन की बात में भी कभी सुनाऊंगा। क्योंकि देश को इसी से प्रेरणा मिलती है। रोना धोना करने वाले करते रहते हैं। अच्छा करने वाले भी प्रेरणा देते हैं। अब उसको काम लेकर के आगे चलना है। तो मैं आपसे प्रार्थना करता हूं। आपके पास मोबाइल फोन का उपयोग करने की आदत लग गई होगी। अगर नहीं लगी है तो आपके यहां कॉमन सर्विस सेंटर होता है। आपने देखा होगा नरेन्द्र मोदी एप है। आप उस पर जाकर के आप अपने समूह की फोटो रखिए। आप अपने समूह की बहनों की इन्टरव्यु उसमें बोलकर के रखिए। क्या काम किया कैसे किया। कैसे मुसीबतों से आप निकले और क्या-क्या अच्छा काम किया है। ये सब आप उस पर डाल दीजिए। मैं इसको देखूंगा, पढ़ूंगा,सुनूंगा और आप उसमें डालोगे तो लोग भी देखेंगे और फिर मैं उसमें से दो चार बातें जब भी मुझे मन की बात में से समय निकलेगा मैं जरूर आपकी बातें दुनिया को बताऊंगा। आपने अपने लिये तो किया ही है, लेकिन आपने ऐसी करोड़ों करोड़ों बहनों को भी एक नई हिम्मत दी है,नया हौसला दिया है। अब तो कॉमन सर्विस सेंटर बहुत पॉपुलर हो चुके हैं। देश के तीन लाख गांव में कॉमन सर्विस सेंटर हैं। अब तो हमारी बेटियां ही कॉमन सर्विस सेंटर चला रही हैं। वहां जाकर के आप इस टैक्नॉलॉजी का उपयोग करके आपकी जो सफलता की गाथा है वो जरूर मुझे भेजिए सारा देश और दुनिया उसको देखेगी। कैसे-कैसे हमारे दूर-सुदूर गांव में रहने वाली बहनें भी कितना उत्तम काम कर रही हैं। कैसे-कैसे नए तरीके ढूंढ़ रही हैं। बहुत अच्छा लगा आज आप लोगों को मिलने का मौका मिला। आप इतनी बड़ी संख्या में आशीर्वाद देने के लिए आए। मेरी तरफ से आपको बहुत-बहुत शुभकामनाएं हैं और आपको बहुत-बहुत बधाई है।\nबहुत–बहुत धन्यवाद!"