"Share\n\nFor 70 years, the Congress party only has its own welfare, betrayed the farmers\nNDA Government has been committed to farmers and therefore has fulfilled the promise of the minimum support price: PM Modi in Punjab\nHistoric increase of 1.5 times in the MSP for kharif crops will be significantly increased to farmers' income and empower them: PM Modi\nCongress is spreading lies and rumors regarding Minimum Support Price: PM Modi\nInitiatives like Jan Dhan Yojana, Ujjwala Yojana, Mudra Yojana and Fasal Bima Yojana have benefitted farmers immensely: PM Modi\nThe popular Chief Minister of Haryana, Mr. Manohar Lal Ji Khattar, the former CM of Punjab and the guide of each of us, the true meaning of the peasants' messiah, Mr. Mr. Prakash Singh G. Badal, President of Punjab Bharatiya Janata Party and my partner Mr. Shwet Malik ji in the Parliament, Punjab Former Deputy Chief Minister and my friend Mr. Sukhdev Singh G. Badal, BJP National Vice President Mr. Avinash Rai Khan No, my partner sister Harsimrat ji Kaur Badal, MP Sukdev Singh ji Dhindsa of the Council of Ministers at the center, my partner of the minister in the center Vijay Vijay, MP, Prof. Prof. Prem Singh Chandumajra, BJP National Secretary Shriman Tarun Chugh ji, MP Mr. Ranjit Singh ji Brahmapura, Haryana Bharatiya Janata Party President Mr. Subhash Barla ji, MP Balwinder Singh Bhunder, Minister of Rajasthan Surendra Singh G.T.T.\nPunjab gave them the most important thing. These grounds existed in my streams Gaj's Fateh Bulani, Wahey Guru ji khalsa, wah guru ji fathah My bowing down to this land of the supreme sacrifice of the land of corn, sacrifice and sacrifice Guru Gobind Singh ji and his forty disciples' poems of bravery are composed in the particles here. This pattern of bravery and courage is driving the entire Madva, Punjab, the whole Sikh tradition living in the country and the world. To protect the boundaries, be the food security or the area of ​​labor enterprise, Punjab has always worked to inspire the country. Punjab has always thought of himself before the country.\nCompanionship\nEven today, there is hardly any corner of the world, where even the siblings who came from Punjab are not feeling ashamed of their labor.\nCompanionship\nIt is my privilege to have a long experience of joining the traditions of Punjab, which is the fragrance of the clay, I have also got a good fortune. Over the past four years, I have had the opportunity to come among all of you many times. I am grateful to all the peasant brothers, Punjab Bharatiya Janata Party, our trusted ally of NDA Shiromani Akali Dal, especially Sardar Parkash Singh Badal, who today gave me an opportunity to see all the farmers. Today I got the Mallot on the ground. Malhot ji, which famously is the most cotton crop yielded. Malhot connects Punjab to Rajasthan and Haryana. And I am glad that here today a large number of farmers and brothers and sisters have reached Haryana and Rajasthan. In a variety of ways today, farmers have taken the Aquarius Aquarium.\nCompanionship\nThe way you are filling the country's granaries with record yield in the four years of Bib For him, I bow to the farmers of my country, all of you. All records of wheat production, paddy, sugar, cotton or pulses production are breaking down. This year is also being estimated to be new records.\nMy peasant brothers and sisters who excel in labor\nYou never left a lot of hard work. Whatever has been located, whatever difficulty the nature has created, you have worked hard, sweat sheds. But despite the hard work, the farmer's life had to be happy, he had to live a life of frustration and frustration for decades.\nThe reason for this was that in the last 70 years, the party on which the farmers of the country had given the responsibility of raising the standard of living. He did not respect the farmer, his hard work, and did not respect him.\nOnly promises made to farmers and worries were made ... The history of 70 years tells that only one family is worried. He was cared for only his happiness. Such schemes were made for the farmers in an unscientific way, but the arrangements were made to bestow the best for the family of their own. The announcements were made for the farmers, but the Congress saw only one dream. Those dreams also came to work to fulfill the same family. The whole country knows the truth well.\nBrothers and sisters\nI know why for so many years you were limited to just 10 percent of the cost. But why? What was the self-interest behind this?\nBrothers and sisters\nThe farmer is the soul of our country. The farmer is our food adder. Congress always cheated with the farmer, lied Congress is not on the empowerment of the farmers, but continue to do politics to make the farmers vote bank. But at the center the NDA government is busy in changing the situation. Our government has done the job of enhancing the honor of both the young men standing on the border or in the field, who are my farmers' brothers.\nCompanionship\nThis is our only government which has completed One Rank One Pension. This is also our own government which has fulfilled its promise on MSP. Forty years of forest ranks for implementation of one pension, which were not in a recession. For seventy years, the farmers who did not have the right to pay their entitlement, they are busy misguiding the farmers. Your government has been able to make sure that your work has been done to ensure one and a half times the cost of the cost.\nBrothers and sisters\nThe minimum support price for 14 crops of purchase has been greatly increased. Your paddy, cotton, maize, millet, tur, urad, moong ho, peanut, sunflower, soyabean or sesame have been increased from 200 rupees to 1800 rupees. And in many crops, it has been decided to get almost 100 per cent of the cost i.e., doubling the cost.\nBrothers and sisters\nThis decision is going to make Punjab a lot of profit. Be a farmer of Punjab, a farmer of Haryana, a farmer of Rajasthan, the biggest benefit here is going to be. This is your palace, this area of ​​Punjab is known for its white gold. Your softness, your cotton is famous in the country and the world. There is also an increase of 1100 rupees.\nPeasant brothers and sisters\nThe cost which comes on cotton is assumed to be around Rs. 3400 per quintal. Now the government price has been fixed, Rs 5150 for small fibers and Rs 5450 for large fibers has been fixed. That is, the amount of government money you received so far is more than 1130 rupees.\nCompanionship\nJust like cotton, the support price of paddy has been increased by 200 rupees in comparison to earlier. The cost of one quintinal paddy is estimated at Rs 1150 and the support price of paddy is fixed at Rs 1750. Where the 1150 and ou 1750 means that the benefit of straight 50 percent is fixed. This will bring great benefits to my farmers, brothers and sisters of Haryana as well as Haryana.\nCompanionship\nCorn the roti to the mustard da greens This brand has become a new identity of brand Punjab today. The MSP of Maize has been increased by Rs. 275. The support price of maize has been raised to Rs. 1700 on the cost of about Rs. 1100 / - per quintal.\nCompanionship\nIn addition to maize, the benefits of more than 50 percent of the nutritious and fiber-rich grains like jowar, ragi are also ensured. There are small farmers who grow millet. For millet-growing brothers, the cost has been fixed at almost two times the cost. The cost of millet comes to about Rs. 1 thousand but its support price has been fixed at Rs. 1950. Similarly, Ragi's MSP has also been increased by about Rs. 1000.\nBrothers and sisters\nThis is a thick grain, which was once an important part of our diet. Due to medicinal properties, its demand has started to grow again today. The demand for this nutritious food is increasing in other parts of the world, not only in the country. In such a way that this price has been fixed. It is full of its market potential.\nBrothers and sisters\nThis decision has been taken. With this, farmers who work on their land are going to get benefits. The workers who work on the lease are also going to be fully benefitted. Because the cost added has also been taken care of the leased farmer. Whatever labor you have in farming, whether it is your own, your family, the wages you have given, the livestock labor or the machine rent, the land lease or the rent, the cost of fertilizer, the fertilization of seeds, the irrigation All expenses incurred on it have been added to the cost.\nCompanionship\nEver since the government took this decision, a great concern of the farmer of the country has been overcome. He believes that the investment he has made, which he has put into labor. Now he is going to get his reward. But the Congress and his colleagues have lost their sleep. Farmers should go to sleep, they are not approved by the Congress. And that's why Congress's sleep has worsened. They do not understand that for 70 years they did not have the courage to make such a decision .... It has not been discussed earlier, it is not so. Its demand did not come before, it is not so. Farmers did not do the agitation, it is not so. Everyone tried, but the Congress used to suppress all those demands and pressed the files. How many years have they been sitting on this demand, how did they fulfill this government? He is not sitting in his mind. That is why they are now engaged in creating new rumors and mischief. But try it anyway. For all of us, the country's village, our intentions for the poor farmer are stronger than this. And we are never going to leave the path of the farmers' wellbeing.\nCompanionship\nWe made the promise of one and a half times the price. But as a resolution to this, we expanded it. After your support, the NDA government at the Center decided that by 2022, we will try to double the income of our farmers, income of all of you, doubling the income of the farmers of the country. Efforts are being made in this direction in the last four years. And for this, work from seed to market is being done under a comprehensive strategy. One step after another is being taken to solve every problem ranging from preparation of crop to sale in the market.\nFarmer brothers and sisters\nThe scheme of Swayam Health Card is part of this comprehensive strategy of the government. Soil Health Cards have been distributed to 15 crore farmers in the country so far. In which also millions of farmers got their benefit in Punjab. This self-health card is actually your land record of your soil. Based on this, you will discover which crop should be grown on the ground. Which fertilizer should be inserted in it. Not only this, the farmers of the soil testing did not have problems, for this they have prepared a network of check centers.\nBrothers and sisters\nThe previous government .... So big country .... You listen So big country .... Self-Testing was not a new science. But the previous government only made 40-45 labs, 40-45 We have approved more than 9000 check centers across the country. Congress where it is just .... The Congress spent 50-55 crores on it in these years. At the same time, the NDA government has invested 22 times more ie 1200 crores for checking the soil of the farmers' fields. As well as soil, seed is equally important. The government ensured that the farmers received seeds of good quality. In the past four years, nearly two and a half million Sid Village programs have been started, which has been directly benefited by millions of farmers. During the previous government, about 450 variations of seeds were released in 4 years. At the same time, our government has brought the variety of more than 800 seeds in the past four years to the farmers today. If today's production of paddy has increased by 300 percent compared to earlier, then the new and good quality seeds are a major contributor to it.\nBrothers and sisters\nI want to remind the old days of lack of urea during the earlier government. One round was that when urea went into factories instead of farmers, it would have gone somewhere. Farmers had to sticks to the urea, had to buy in black money. But preventing this dishonesty by making neem coating of 100% of urea. And today, enough urea is available to you. Crops grow well in the field when there is a proper arrangement of irrigation. Under the Prime Minister's Agricultural Irrigation Scheme, more than 2.5 million hectares of land has been brought under the purview of micro irrigation. It was also expanded in Punjab when Badal Saheb was fasting.\nCompanionship\nWhen the crop is ready, the market challenge for it remains. Around 22 thousand rural hamlets in the country are being upgraded. An alternative arrangement has also been made.\nToday there is discussion in the country about e-name. Those who have not used it yet, tell all the farmer brothers that there is an excellent arrangement for selling crops on the Internet. Under this, more than 600 mandis in the country, in which 19 mandals of Punjab have been added. In these mandis, you can now sell your crop at home or sitting anywhere from your mobile phone or by visiting the nearest Common Service Center. This scheme is going to be effective in protecting farmers from middlemen.\nApart from this, Prime Minister Kisan Samadha Yojna is underway for the farmers' crops, especially vegetables and fruits. Under this, new warehouses with modern technology are being made in the country. Food parks are being built. The whole supply chain is being strengthened. And it is being ensured that the farmer does not have to suffer loss because of his crop failure. अनाज, फलों और सब्जियों में वैल्यू एडिशन से किसान की आय को कैसे बढ़ाया जा सकता है। इस दिशा में हमारे मंत्रि-परिषद की साथी हरसिमत जी और उनकी टीम लगातार प्रयास कर रही है।\nफूड प्रोसेसिंग में 100 प्रतिशत एफडीआई का जो फैसला लिया गया है। उससे किसानों को और अधिक लाभ होने वाला है।\nकिसानों को अपनी उपज मंडियों तक लाने ले जाने में समस्या न हो, इसके लिए कनेक्टिविटी पर भी ध्यान दिया जा रहा है। आपका जो एनएच 54 है, उसको भारत माला परियोजना के तहत फोर लेन किया जा रहा है। वहीं, हिसार में एक बड़ा एयरपोर्ट बन रहा है। इससे हरियाणा के साथ-साथ पंजाब के हिस्से और राजस्थान को भी लाभ मिलने वाला है।\nसाथियो।\nपंजाब ने तो खेती किसानी में हमेशा नए प्रयोग किए हैं। नए-नए मॉडल विकसित किए हैं। हरित क्रांति में पंजाब के किसानों की भूमिका रही, वैसा ही योगदान पंजाब में किसानों की नई पीढ़ी को दे सकती है। अब देश में दूसरी क्रांति का आधार ब्लू रिवोल्यूशन यानी मछली पालन, व्हाइट रिवोल्यूशन यानी दूध का उत्पादन, स्वीट रिवोल्यूशन यानी मधुमक्खी पालन हो सकता है। इसमें सरकार का पूरा साथ आपको मिलने वाला है। क्योंकि आय दोगुनी करने के लिए सिर्फ पारंपरिक खेती पर ही बल नहीं दिया जा रहा है। बल्कि इससे जुड़े दूसरे व्यवसाय जैसे ऑर्गेनिक फार्मिंग, पशुपालन, मधुमक्खी पालन, मछली पालन या फिर मुर्गी पालन इन पर भी विशेष ध्यान दिया जा रहा है। इसी का परिणाम है कि बीते चार वर्षों में पहले की तुलना में 21 प्रतिशत अधिक दूध का उत्पादन हुआ। वहीं, यूपीए में चार वर्षों में जितना शहद पैदा हुआ उससे लगभग 30 प्रतिशत अधिक शहद बीते चार वर्षों में उत्पादन हुआ है।\nसाथियो।\nआज इस मंच पर से एक और महत्वपूर्ण विषय पर बात करना चाहता हूं। ये विषय है पराली जलाने की समस्या। केद्र सरकार इस पर गंभीरता से काम कर रही है ताकि आपको फसल काटने के बाद उसके बचे हुए हिस्से को जलाने के लिए मजबूर न होना पड़े। इसके लिए पंजाब, हरियाणा, यूपी, दिल्ली के लिए 50 करोड़ रुपए से ज्यादा का प्रावधान किया गया है। योजना का बजट का आधे से ज्यादा पंजाब पर केंद्रित है। आपको पराली जलानी न पड़े इसके लिए जो मशीनें चाहिए उसकी खरीदारी के लिए 50 प्रतिशत की सहायता भी सरकार आपको दे रही है।\nमेरी अपील है ...। आप सबसे मेरी अपील है कि पंजाब और आस-पास के लोगों के स्वास्थ्य की चिंता को देखते हुए पराली को न जलाएं। एक अनुमान है पराली को न जलाकर उसे खेत में ही मिला दें तो खाद के खर्च पर प्रति हेक्टेयर 2000 रुपये बचते हैं। मेरा आपसे आग्रह है कि इस योजना का भी लाभ उठाएं। इससे जमीन की उपजाऊ शक्ति भी बनी रहेगी और धुएं से जो प्रदूषण फैलता है, उससे मुक्ति मिलेगी।\nप्रदूषण की जब बात आती है तो पंजाब को बहुत ज्यादा भुगतना पड़ रहा है। मालवा के इस इलाके में तो कैंसर की गंभीर समस्या है। इसी को देखते हुए भटिंडा में एम्स का फैसला लिया गया। मेरा पंजाब सरकार से अनुरोध है कि उससे जुड़े कार्यों में जरा तेजी लाएं।\nसाथियो।\nहमारी सरकार गरीब को सस्ती और अच्छी स्वास्थ्य सेवा देने के लिए कार्य कर रही है। जनऔषधि केंद्र हो या अमृत फार्मेसी। केंद्र कैंसर जैसी गंभीर बीमारियों की दवा पर 50 प्रतिशत तक छूट दे रही है। बहुत जल्द सरकार एक ऐसी व्यवस्था करने जा रही है कि देश के लगभग 50 करोड़ गरीब भाई बहन को एक साल में 5 लाख रुपए तक का इलाज की मुफ्त में व्यवस्था हो जाएगी।\nसाथियो।\nगांव, गरीब और किसान के जीवन को सरल और सुगम बनाने के लिए हमारी सरकार प्रतिबद्ध है। इसी भावना के तहत राष्ट्रीय ग्राम स्वराज अभियान पूरे देश में चलाया चलाया जा रहा है। सबके पास जन धन बैंक खाते हो, उज्ज्वला का गैस कनेक्शन हो, हर घर में बिजली कनेक्शन हो, बीमा सुरक्षा हो, सभी का टीकाकरण किया हुआ हो, हर घर में एलईडी बल्ब हो, ये सुनिश्चित करने का एक बहुत बड़ा अभियान चलाया जा रहा है।\nजनहित की जो योजनाएं, बड़ी योजनाएं सरकार चला रही है। इनसे पंजाब को, गांव, गरीब, किसान को सर्वाधिक लाभ हुआ है। आज यहां 60 लाख से अधिक जन धन खाते खुल चुके हैं। उज्ज्वला के तहत 7.5 लाख गैस कनेक्शन मिल चुके हैं। मुद्रा योजना से 23.5 लाख लोगों को बिना गारंटी कर्ज मिल चुका है, जिसमें से 13 लाख से अधिक तो पंजाब की हमारी माताएं बहनें हैं। लगभग 40 लाख लोग जीवन ज्योति और सुरक्षा बीमा योजना से जुड़े हैं। इसके तहत 50 करोड़ का क्लेम भी मिल चुका है। गांव का गौरव और किसान का सम्मान फिर से स्थापित करने की दिशा में हम निरंतर आगे बढ़ रहे हैं। हालांकि मोदी को ये सब करते देख विरोधियों की नींद उड़ती ही जा रही है। उनकी रातें खराब हो रही है। किसी भी तरह झूठ फैलाकर, अफवाह फैलाकर लोगों को भड़काने में लगे हुए हैं।\nभाइयो बहनो।\nअगले वर्ष गुरु नानकदेव जी का 550वां प्रकाश पर्व है। ये प्रकाश पर्व के साथ ही हम सभी देशवासियों के लिए पूरी दुनिया की मानव जाति के लिए गुरु नानकदेव जी का प्रकाश पर्व एक प्रकार से प्रेरणा पर्व भी है। पूरी मानवता को उन्होंने जो रास्ता दिखाया। किसान, गरीब, पिछड़े, शोषित, उनके हक में जो आवाज उन्होंने उठाई। वो हम सभी के लिए जीवन पर्यंत मार्गदर्शक का काम करती है। वो इस महान धरती को जिस दिव्य और भव्य रूप में देखना चाहते थे। गरीब को किसान को जिस तरह से सशक्त देखना चाहते थे वो न्यू इंडिया का अहम संकल्प है। आइए इस संकल्प को साथ मिलकरके सिद्ध करें, नए भारत का निर्माण करें।\nऔर मैं हरियाणा के मुख्यमंत्री जी को, हरियाणा की सरकार को और वहां की जनता को विशेष रूप से बहुत-बहुत बधाई देता हूं। कल जो ईज ऑफ डूइंग बिजनेस वर्ल्ड बैंक के साथ जो मिलकरके जो रिपोर्ट प्रकट हुई है। उसमें हरियाणा प्रांत ने पूरे देश में बहुत बड़ी छलांग लगाकरके तीसरे नंबर पर पहुंच गए हैं। मैं इसके लिए मनोहर लाल जी खट्टर को, उनकी सरकार को और हरियाणा की जनता को बहुत-बहुत बधाई देता हूं। और मैं पंजाब के लोगों को कहना चाहता हूं कि पंजाब के लोग जरा यहां की सरकार को पूछो तो, कांग्रेस को तो जरा पूछो तो वर्ल्ड बैंक ने जो रिपोर्ट दी है। उसमें पंजाब क्यों पिछड़ गया। बादल साहब जहां छोड़कर गए थे, वहां से गिरता ही चला जा रहा है, गिरता ही चला जा रहा है। जरा पंजाब की जनता इनसे भी जवाब मांगे कि इतने कम समय में पंजाब का क्या हाल बनाकर रख दिया है।\nमेरा यह सौभाग्य है कि जब भी किसान के विषय पर मुझे किसी से कुछ मार्गदर्शन चाहिए तो आज मैं कह सकता हूं कि प्रकाश सिंह जी बादल साहब वो ऐसे किसानों के समर्पित नेता हैं जो किसान की हर कठिनाई भलीभांति जानते हैं और समस्याओं के समाधान के रास्ते जानते हैं और हमें मार्गदर्शन करते रहे हैं। आज समय निकालकरके हमें आशीर्वाद देने के लिए स्वयं प्रकाश सिंह जी बादल साहब पधारे। मैं अंतकरणपूर्वक उनका ह्रदय से मैं आभार प्रकट करता हूं। और मैं आपका भी जो इतनी गर्मी में और एक प्रकार के किसानी के काम का समय होता है, उस समय भी आप आशीर्वाद देने के लिए पधारे, गर्मजोशी से हम सबको आशीर्वाद दिए, सत्कार सम्मान किया। इसके लिए मैं आप सबका फिर एक बार ह्रदय से बहुत-बहुत अभिनंदन करता हूं, धन्यवाद करता हूं। जो बोले सो निहाल, सत श्री अकाल। Thanks a lot."