"\nPM Modi, South Korean President inaugurates world's largest mobile manufacturing unit in Noida\nDigital technology is playing a key role in making the life of the common man easier: PM Modi\nThe expansion of smartphones, broadband and data connectivity is a sign of digital revolution in India: PM Modi\nIndia's growing economy and rising neo middle class, creates immense investment possibilities: PM Modi\nPresident and my friend Shriman Moon Jae-in Ji; Jay Y. Lee, Vice Chairman of Samsung; the representatives of Korea and India and all the dignitaries present here,\nIt is a very happy experience for me to come to this Samsung factory in Nodia This new mobile manufacturing unit is also a matter of pride for both Nodia and Uttar Pradesh. I congratulate Samsung and his whole team for this new unit and convey my best wishes to them.\nFriends,\nToday's event is extremely important in making the country's global hub. This investment of Rs. 5,000 crore will not only strengthen the business relations of Samsung in India but will also be very important for the relations between India and Korea. Samsung's global R \u0026 D hub is based in India and now this manufacturing facility will further enhance our pride.\nFriends,\nWhenever I speak to people from business community then I often tell them this thing that there will be hardly any middle class home in India which does not have the least one Korean product. Samsung has certainly carved out a special place for the Indians. Especially your phones, they are the world leader in the smart phone market. Whenever I have spoken to the Samsung leadership, I have always encouraged them in manufacturing in India. This program takes place in Nodia today is a reflection of that. Today, digital technology is playing a vital role in making the life easier. Today about 40 crore smart phones are used in India and 32 million people have been using broadband; Internet data is available at extremely low prices and more than one lakh village bodies (gram panchayats) of the country has been covered under the fiber network. All these things indicate a digital revolution taking place in the country.\nFriends,\nToday, fast and transparent service delivery has ensured due to affordable mobile phones, fast internet and low cost internet data. Almost all the facilities are available online, be it the payment of electricity and water bills or be admission in the schools and colleges or it can be provident fund or pension. Cities in the free Wi-Fi hotspots wings to the aspirations of poor and middle class youths while providing services to the village people.\nNot only this, the government is procuring goods directly from the producers via GeM - Government e-Market place. This has been beneficial for small and medium entrepreneurs and it has also increased transparency in the government procurement.\nFriends,\nToday, digital transactions have been growing constantly Transaction has become very easy because of BHIM App and Rupay cards. In the month of June, transactions worth about Rs. 41,000 crores have been carried out through BHIM App Today, not only in India but there is a curiosity about BHIM and Rupay throughout the world. I got the opportunity to launch these two facilities in Singapore a few days ago. In such a situation, this program which is happening today will not only contribut in the empowerment of Indian citizens but it will also provide a momentum to the Make in India program.\nFriends,\nOur insistence on Make in India is not just a part of an economic policy but it is also a commitment of our relations countries like Korea In addition to providing new opportunities to a trusted brand like Samsung, it is also an open invitation to every businessman of the world who wants to take advantage of a new and transparent business culture. India's growing economy and expanding the middle class is full of numerous opportunities for investment I am happy that today this initiative is getting support and is being welcomed throughout the world. If we talk about mobile phone manufacturing then today India has become the second largest manufacturer. In the last four years, the number of mobile manufacturing units has increased to 120 from just two four years ago. And it is a matter of satisfaction that 50 out of them are based in Noida alone. They have provided direct employment to more than four lakh youths. Samsung has played an important role in employment generation. You have provided direct employment to almost 70,000 people in the whole country and about five thousand of them are here in Noida. One thousand people are going to get into this new plant I have been informed that this unit established here is going to be the largest mobile phone manufacturing unit of the company. Nearly one crore phones will be manufactured here every month. It is also important that 30 percent of total production of this plant will be exported; It will be exported to different countries. It will definitely boost your market. It means that we will manufacture excellent products for the world market by using Korean technology and India's manufacturing and software support. And this is the vision of our two countries\nOnce again, I congratulate the whole team of Samsung and convey my best wishes. Thank you very much to be able to invite me here today."