"Share\n\nThere is something very special about the land of Rajasthan. This is a land of courage: PM\nBe it living in harmony with nature or defending our nation, Modi has shown the way: PM\nThe Central Government and the State Government are working together for the progress of Rajasthan: PM Modi in Jaipur\nPM Modi highlights historic increase of 1.5 times in MSP, says government is working for the welfare of our hardworking farmers\nOur aim is inclusive and all-round development: PM: PM Modi\nThere is no tolerance towards corruption All our efforts are aimed at building a new India: Prime Minister\nI can feel it in accordance with its culture and tradition The Shine and the Spirit May Rajesh to continue to show his love and affection on all of us I am sincerely grateful to all of my blessings and I salute this land of braves.\nFriends,\nIn Rajasthan the stories of Maharana Pratap's chivalry, Sooraj Mal's bravery, Bhima Shah's renunciation, Panna Dhai's sacrifice, Mira Baa's devotion, Queen of Hadi's sacrifice, Amrita Devi's supreme sacrifice, all together, the region of the ethos of the part.\nSky-high forts, golden articles, colorful turbans, sweet language, lovely songs and dignified traditions, all these things are Rajasthan's identity. Rajasthan has been playing the role model for the country, it is the area of ​​production of grains by overcoming the challenging nature or protectioning the nation. Brothers and sisters,\nRajasthan has been going on the path of development with the last four years. Both the government at the center and state have been working in hand to raise the living standards of people here. I have got the opportunity to lay the foundation stone of 13 schemes worth more than Rs. 2,100 crore for Udaipur, Ajmer, Kota, Dhoulpur, Nagor, Alwar, Jodhpur, Chittor Gadh, Kishan Gadh, Sujan Gadh, Bikaner, Bhilwara, Mount Abu, Boondi and Bevar. All these projects aim at developing well and smart facilities in the cities and towns of Rajasthan. Be it for getting rid of the problem of traffic jam or a better sewage management system, all these projects are going to make life better in all these cities\nFriends,\nYou might not have forgotten what the situation four years ago. I will urge the people of Rajasthan that we should never forget that Vasundhara Ji had to take the charge four years ago; Please never forget that the government of the government has left only then you will realize that how is today done today. What kind of rush was there to install plaques in the names of politicians in Rajasthan? Every child of Rajasthan knows that what has happened to the refinery in Barmer which is being built in these days. Today, the work is being done on this refinery. This is the style of working of this government under which things are not delayed nor misdirected. Be it the central government or BJP government in a state, our single point agenda has been developed. It is: development and development alone\nWe continue to do the work of making the life of every citizen This is our effort to find out and to understand that the schemes of the government have benefitted you people; a constant effort to improve Just a while ago, some of the beneficiaries in the fields Not only the beneficiaries of central government schemes but also the beneficiaries of the state government also shared their experience. The daughters who have been good in studies and who have got scooty under Raj Shri Scheme, the children who have been benefited under Palanhar scheme, the senior citizens who have benefitted under the pilgrimage scheme, no one can forget the spark in the eyes all of them and I congratulate Vasundhara Ji for this concept.\nIt's true that there is a section that loses its sleep with the mention of Indian Janata Party. They catch fever just by listening the name of Modi Ji or Vasundhara Ji. They hate this kind of programs. However, the biggest benefit of this thing is that when the common people of Rajasthan get to listen directly from these beneficiaries then they also become aware about the schemes and also how they avail this scheme of benefits. In a way, because of this thing they do not get stuck on papers, they reach the common people Because of this a pressure is being created on government machinery, a public pressure is being created and people become aware and if any officer in any area is lousy then he has also done fast. And that is why, this program has caused more benefits to the beneficiaries than it has created publicity for the government. And I would like that the beneficiaries should have the advantage.\nFriends, whatever programs have been done in the last four years, all in the central focus is poor, exploited, persecuted, deprived, Dalit, tribals, farmers, mothers and daughters. The government has been working with the target of doubling the farmer's income by 2022 when it will be 75 years of our independence. And the son of soil of this land, my colleague, Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, has been working for the Agricultural Department. I still remember when there was an opportunity to launch the soil health card scheme then it was inaugurated from Sooraj Gadh in Rajasthan. At that time, the government had fixed a target of 14 crore soil health cards and I am happy that we have fulfilled this promise and more than 14.50 crore soil health cards have been distributed to farmers. . Nearly 90 lakh farmers have received these cards in Rajasthan. With the help of these cards You had noticed that after many years there is a bumper crop in the country.\nFriends,\nThis is also a happy coincidence that when the government has fulfilled its promise to MSP one and a half times to cost of production then I got the opportunity to hold my first public program in Rajasthan. You will get one and a half times the cost of the millet, maize or pulses that will grow you this year.\nFriends,\nI would like to talk about this thing in Rajasthan. The cost of production of one quintal of millet is estimated at around Rs. 990, now the government has increased the MSP to Rs. 1950. It means more than double the cost Similarly, the cost of production of maize is around Rs. 1620 and the MSP for it has been set at Rs. 2430. The cost of production of corn was estimated at Rs. 1130 per quintal and the MSP for it has been increased to Rs. 1700. The cost of production for Moong has been estimated at Rs. 4650 and its MSP has been increased to almost Rs. 7,000 In addition to this, the government has set the MSP at one and a half times cost of production be it tur dal or urad or soyabeen or paddy. Not only this, the central government has been in regular touch with state governments to make effective arrangements. The government of Vasundhara has been going to ensure that every single drop of farmer's sweat is being respected. And I have been told that the government has procured the farmer's produce worth about Rs. 11,500 crore this time.\nFriends, The government has been working on the whole system from seed to the market. Also, the government of Vasundhara Ji has been working with all its ability to implement the schemes that have been made in the last four years. Under the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana, a claim worth more than Rs. 2,500 crores has been distributed to the farmers.\nFriends, The BJP Government has adopted the path of empowerment and improvement of the lot of poor people by moving away from the earlier methods Its results are clearly visible. A reputed global body has recently released a report in which it has been said that nearly 5 crore people in India have come out of the vicious circle of poverty in the last two years. Five crore people have come out of poverty The idea is to get rid of poverty The support that this government is getting from people, 1.25 crore people of the country, it is the result of the same support that nearly 80 lakh toilets are built in Rajasthan under Clean India Mission.\nDuring this period, more than 2.5 crore accounts have been opened in Rajasthan out of total 32 crore accounts. The work of providing houses to more than 6 lakh poor people of Rajasthan has been completed under PMAY and also by completing the previous schemes. More than 70 lakh people in Rajasthan have got the cover of a premium for one rupee per month and 90 paise per day.\nFriends,\nMore than 44 lakh entrepreneurs of Rajasthan have not provided any bank loan without any guarantee under the Mudra scheme. In addition to this, free electricity connections to nearly 3 lakh people have been given under the scheme of just one year. Free gas connections have been provided to more than 33.50 lakh mothers and sisters in Rajasthan under the Ujjwal scheme. Ujjwala has changed the lives of women.\nBrothers and sisters,\nI also got to know about a new thing while talking to the beneficiary mothers and sisters of this scheme. One sister told me that due to the scheme, she had not only received the water but also saved. Water saved because kitchen utensils were not cooking. In this way, this scheme is providing double benefits to the mothers of Rajasthan.\nFriends,\nI am aware that the people of Rajasthan spend a great part of their time Vasundhara Ji's government has made tremendous efforts in this direction. I have been informed that the projects worth more than Rs. 4,000 crores have been completed in cities and villages under the schemes like the Chief minister's water self-dependence mission. The facility of supply of potable water has been provided to more than 12,500 villages.\nBrothers and sisters,\nI have been informed, the Rajasthan government and BJP MLAs have demanded that Parvati, Kali Sindh and Chambal Link schemes should be declared as national projects. I have been informed that a detailed project report has been sent to technically This scheme will provide the irrigation facility for more than 2 lakh hectare land of Rajasthan. Not only this, this scheme will also provide drinking water to more than 40% of population living in 13 cities like Jaipur, Alwar, Bharatpur, Sawai Madhopur, Jhalawad, Kota and Bundi. Brothers and sisters,\nI would like to assure you that the central government will treat this demand positively. A decision for the development of Rajasthan, and for providing easy water to the farmers of the state, to provide drinking water to the people of the state, will be taken with full sensitivity.\nFriends,\nTo empower the poor, the government has been giving more attention to the areas like health, nutrition and education. I had a very important scheme like national nutrition mission when I was in Jhunjhnu last time. Presently, this scheme has been implemented throughout the country. In addition to this, the encouragement that has been given for the delivery of babies under the supervision of specialists and immunization of mothers and infants, it has also resulted in a sharp decrease in the mortality rate. I would like to particularly congratulate the mothers and daughters of Rajasthan and the government of Rajasthan that the results of the people in this direction are now visible on the ground level. Rajasthan has definitely been taking the Beti Bachao-Beti Padhao program for a very high level. A massive pledge of Ayushman has been taken by taking into account the poor people's concern about diseases. Under the scheme, the free treatment of upto Rs. 5 lakh per annum for a serious condition will be ensured for around 50 crore people The work on this scheme is going to be a fast pace and very soon it will launch.\nBrothers and sisters,\nThe objective of every scheme of the BJP is balanced development of the country and to provide a life of dignity, security and self-respect. Presently, an unprecedented people's movement is going on in the country, it's name is national village self-rule mission The work has been done with a new energy It is being ensured that every person in the village has bank accounts, that every household has a gas connection and electricity connection, everybody is being immunized, that each one of them has safety coverage and that every house has LED bulbs. Also, 1,500 villages of Rajasthan will be given the full benefits of these schemes by 15th August.\nFriends,\nBe it a village or a city, the work to develop every part of the country is being done on a fast pace with the motto of Sabka Sath - Sabka Vikas. Smart facilities are being developed on the 100th largest cities of the country. Our Jaipur, Udaipur, Kota and Ajmer are among these cities. The central government has approved more than Rs. 7,000 crore for making smart the various dimensions of these cities related to roads, traffic, electricity and water and also other aspects of administration. Rajasthan has been working on a fast speed.\nFriends,\nThe tasks that are being executed today However, you are very familiar with the intent with which the previous governments have worked. And it is the result of the same intent that people have started calling the Congress a Bail Gadi. It's a bullock cart but a tool for getting bail. Because many top politicians of the Congress party and several chief ministers are on bail these days. However, the BJP governments are working day and night to strengthen the trust that you have given the mandate to BJP and the Congress culture. We have been moving forward with the pledge of making a New India. The country is going to complete 75 years of its independence in 2022 but before that 70 years of organization will be completed in the next year. Making of a New India is not possible without a New Rajasthan. In such situation, there is a golden opportunity for our brothers and sisters in the state for nation building and for the development of Rajasthan.\nFriends,\nThis year is the birth centenary year of Paramvir Chakra awardee Shaheed Piru Singh Shekhawat who made supreme sacrifice for the country. Seventy years of his sacrifice I salute this great soul who sacrificed his life. Today, our country is able to face the bravery, valor and patriotism of such great souls. However, it is unfortunate that our political opponents did not spare the army It was okay to raise the question on government, however, they have also committed the sin of raising the question on the army's capability. It never happened before The people of Rajasthan, the people of the country will never forgive those people\nFriends,\nThose who want to do ethnic politics However, our determination to take the safety and self-respect of the country to the top will not change and our policies are transparent. And this is the reason that the issue of one rank - one pension which was stuck for years\nBrothers and sisters,\nToday, our country is an important juncture. We have started moving in a new direction and many difficult objectives have been achieved and we have moved forward to many new goals. I have full faith that the government will succeed in realizing its every pledge because of the active participation of all of you I concluded my speech by once again congratulating the people of Rajasthan for the schemes.\nAll you please join me chanting:\nBharat Mata Ki Jay (victory to mother India).\nBharat Mata Ki Jay (victory to mother India).\nThank you very much"