"Share\n\nIn the last four years, our government has given a new direction to public healthcare: PM Modi\nThe government's efforts are to strengthen the health infrastructure in Tier 2 and Tier 3 cities, similar to what has built in big cities: Prime Minister\nGood healthcare facilities are being created for new India, where are the best hospitals, more beds, better facilities, excellent doctors: Prime Minister Narendra Modi is a healthy nation only from a healthy family ctors: PM Modi\nA healthy nation is created only from a healthy family and a healthy society: PM Modi\nThrough the Natand a healthy society: PM Modi through National Health Policy, our efforts are to make healthcare affordable and accessible: PM Modi\nMy colleagues from the Council of Ministers, Mr. J.P. Naddaji, Ashwini Choubey ji, Anupriya Patel and Mr. Randeep Guleriaji present on this stage, Mr. I. S. Jha, Dr. Rajesh Sharma and all the dignitaries,\nThis day is really special in terms of treatment, for the people of Delhi, for those coming to Delhi and in a way for all of you. I am glad that we have managed to get some pillars to help the poor, the common man, the lower middle class and the middle class to overcome the difficulties in their lives and fight against the diseases. Just a few hours ago, a project worth approximately Rs.1700 crores was launched. Consequently, a new capacity of more than 1800 beds has been added to Delhi's two important hospitals i.e. AIIMS and Safdarjung\nFriends,\nConsidering the increasing pressure on AIIMS, the capacity of all its campuses in Delhi is expanded. Today, the National Center for Ageing, which is built on a cost of more than 300 crore rupees, has also been laid. This center will be of 200 beds. Efforts will be made to complete this in the next 1.5 - 2 years. There will be a lot of facilities for senior citizens. It will also have old age, science research center, where research can be done to solve problems related to old age. Besides, work has also been done to modernize the facilities in the hospital by spending more than Rs.1300 crore in Safdarjung Hospital. Under this, the services of a super-specialty block Safdarjung Hospital will become the largest emergency care hospital in the country, with a new capacity of 500 beds for just medical emergencies.\nFriends,\nThere is also a Power Grid Relaxation House among the 5 projects that were launched today. This is one of the best examples of public sector and society. It is a great relief for those patients.\nFriends,\nTimely treatment plays a critical role in saving lives. But sometimes traffic of Delhi becomes an hindrance Earlier, there was a huge problem, especially with the movement of patients and doctors in different centers and the campus of AIIMS. These problems have also been resolved between the main building of AIIMS and the Jai Prakash Narayan Trauma Center. I have also got the opportunity to inaugurate the one kilometer long underground tunnel sometime back. This tunnel ensures hassle-free movement of patients, their relatives, doctors and essential medicines and equipment.\nFriends,\nYou are well aware of the great responsibility on us to mobilize our vast and developing country like India for affordable, accessible, safe and modern healthcare facilities. In the last four years, a new direction has given public health care. Every policy intervention of the central government aims at providing quality, accessible and affordable health care facilities to the poor and the middle class. The central government is dealing with the state governments. The relentless efforts of the central government have increased the number of institutional deliveries in the hospitals. Maternal Mortality Rate and Infant Mortality Rate have decreased significantly due to the regular monitoring of the pregnant mothers and children and the addition of 5 new vaccines in the immunization program.\nThe government is trying to ensure that the health infrastructure is in and around the big cities should be strengthened and similar facilities should be available in Tier 2 and Tier 3 cities. For this, the government is working on two broad levels. Firstly, our existing hospitals are being more comfortable Secondly, health care services\nFriends,\nThe number of AIIMS that has been approved in the last 4 years is more than those approved in the last 70 years of independence. Thirteen new AIIMS has been approved of which 8 have already been started. Besides, the construction of super-specialty hospitals in 15 medical colleges\nFriends,\nA health care system is being developed for new India where hospitals will be affordable and sufficient. New opportunities are also being created in Medical Education. Our government is working to upgrade hospitals in 58 Districts in Medical Colleges In this year's budget, the government had decided to set up 24 new Medical Colleges. The Government has tries to have a minimum of one in three Lok Sabha seats. In the last four years, around 25,000 new seats of undergraduate or postgraduate medical courses have been added nationwide. The government has also made the admission process more transparent.\nFriends,\nThe vision of this government is not limited to just hospitals, illness and medicines or modern facilities. A National Health Policy has been framed with the same purpose, to ensure the treatment of every person in the country and to reduce the causes that make people sick. Our government has also tried to take out health care from the Ministry of Health. Ministry of Rural Development is also involved in this vision on health care. The Ministry of sanitation and drinking water is also linked with it. The Ministry of Women and Child Development has also been associated with it. And they are getting support from our traditional health services and also from AYUSH Ministry Schemes have been formulated by the government There is a lot of efforts to implement them. The major cause of poverty is Therefore, preventing disease means decrease of poverty as well. Ceaseless efforts are being made in this direction. The construction of toilets under the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, vaccination in remote areas under Mission Indradhanush, National Mission on Nutrition and myriad aspirative schemes like Ayushman, India is reducing the expenditure by the poor on diseases. The country was never before so serious about the work on Preventive or Affordable Healthcare\nNational Health Protection Scheme or Ayushman Bharat is also an important link in this direction. Under this scheme, work on setting up of health and wellness centers in about 1.5 lakh i.e. In every major panchayat is going on. In the future, these centers will provide the facilities for identifying the disease. The people living in cities and villages are getting out of it. The work is underway to provide free treatment up to Rs. 5 lakhs in the poor and lower middle class in case of serious illnesses. We are making efforts to link Discussions are going on Broadly speaking, various stakeholders have agreed on different matters and very soon we are going to come up with the world's largest health insurance scheme.\nFriends,\nThis scheme is not only for giving a life to the poor but also for bringing a new revolution that will create an unprecedented opportunity in the medical sector. Due to this scheme, the hospitals and the small towns of the country are sure to form a vast network in the future. It is quiet to have a great network of new hospitals, because once the other person will bear the burden of medical expenses, the patients definitely visit the hospitals. Before they were used to be sick The hospitals and the doctors will also come forward to provide their services as they will be certain about getting their fees. In a way, a system is developing in which we are going to enter into a new era in terms of human resources development, medical sector, infrastructure development and a health conscious society. Employment opportunities in this sector We are all aware of a single doctor. There is a possibility of providing jobs to many people Yes, I believe that the compulsion of accommodating modern medical facilities in big cities will also be reduced. People can easily avail these services close to their homes.\nFriends,\nIn the beginning of this month, I have personally communicated with the beneficiaries across the country to know how much the common man benefits from the last four years in the affordable health care schemes. According to my estimate, there were about 30-40 lakh people before me interacting through approximately 3 lakh centers. One thing was clear from the discussion that there was a tremendous decline in the medical bills of the poor people. Friends, you are well aware of the reason for the same. About 1100 essential medicines have been brought under the control of the government. This has saved the expenditure of about Rs.10 thousand crores on medicines for those families. This scheme has resulted in the savings of more than Rs. 10 thousand crores in one year. More than 3,600 public-medicine centers have been opened across the country. In these centers, more than 700 medicines and more than 150 tools for surgery are available at cheap prices. Nearly 75-80 lakh patients have also taken advantage of the 50% low-cost medicines in Amrit Stores. Also, the reduction in the cost of stents and knee plants has saved the country's poor and middle class around 5,500 crore rupees. Their prices have become 1 / 3rd i.e. they have reduced by three times Moreover, prices of many medicines have fallen after the GST was imposed and the people have benefitted immensely out of it. Dialysis centers have been created in almost every district of the country. Free dialysis facility is available here. So far, 2.5 lakh patients have taken advantage of this. Earlier, the poor had traveled for hundred or two hundred kilometers for getting a free dialysis. Now they are getting this facility in their own districts. Since it was difficult for them to travel such a large distance, they had to spend huge amounts of money for getting a dialysis done in nearby hospitals. Now this dialysis facility will help them save about Rs.1500- Rs.2000 Under this program, about 25 lakh free dialysis sessions have already been conducted. Besides, Yoga has also established its identity as a Preventative Health Care mechanism. Earlier people used to make fun of Yogis, but now yoga has carved a niche for the whole world. Although I can not claim that yoga can turn a hedonist into a yogi Today, yoga has become a mass movement in the world. We have seen that the International Yoga Day was celebrated a few days ago. I was also told that there was a lot of awareness about Yoga in even AIIMS. All my friends were also doing yoga. I was delighted!\nFriends,\nIt is the aim of the government to deliver healthcare services to every citizen but it is not possible without your i.e. The entire medical sector's cooperation and support Just as the country is progressing toward a new India, the people associated with the health sector should also make some resolutions. If I am a doctor or a medical professional, I should achieve these targets by 2022 that will mark 75 years of India's independence. This is the environment The government is working to make India TB-free by 2025. Financial assistance of Rs.500 will be provided to the TB patients per month, keeping their health in mind.\nFriends,\nThe other countries have set their target to make themselves free of TB by 2030. We have to fulfill our resolution as soon as possible. The World wants to get TB-free by 2030. The whole world is watching India and wondering if she can achieve this goal. I have complete faith in the country's medical sector that will work on this challenge with full commitment and will bring fame to the country. Maternal mortality rate and infant mortality rates are also important issues in this context. Like I said, the country has made great strides in this area in the last four years but to minimize the mother and infant mortality rates. Thus, the work on mission mode is going on under the Ministry of Primary Education, Pradhan Mantri Matru Vandana Yojana and National Nutrition Mission. Work must be done by making this mission as life's mission. The maximum people should be associated with this form of a mass movement as soon as possible. We need to move forward with this belief\nFriends,\nDue to the prevalence of an environment of honesty and transparency, more and more people are coming forward to make their contributions. People now believe that every penny of their taxes is used for the welfare of the country. We can see the results of this faith at every level of the society. You may remember that while I was requesting the people of my country who we could afford, from the Red Fort to give up the gas subsidy. I have received such a great response from 1crore 25 lakh families who have given up their subsidies. Otherwise, it is believed that in our country people are not able to give up any provision. This is a natural behavior If you are travelling by flight and the seat next to you is empty, and the flight is about to take off and no passenger has yet to occupy it, you start putting your things like mobile phone, book etc. on that seat even if it's not your seat However, if the passenger comes and sits, you have a feeling of not letting go of that seat. You are reluctant to give it away There are 25 crore families with this mentality and 1 crore 25 lakh families have been given out of them. We can see the country's strength and mood. I want to share You must be knowing that senior citizens get a concession on their tickets. In a similar way, a few days ago, I had thought of advertising in the form - \"Senior citizens willing to give up their concession\" You will be surprised to know that in the railway reservation form, about 42 lakh senior citizens of the last 8-9 months in their subsidies. This is the strength of our country This is the environment in the country Once I have been appealed to the doctors of my country, they should come forward on the 9th of every month. They should check them up and guide them. I am glad that thousands of doctors have come forward. They have put a board outside their hospitals and free services on the 9th of every month to pregnant women. Crores of sisters have benefitted out of it I would like more of my doctor friends to come forward as we are together About 1crore 25 lakh pregnant women have been diagnosed under Pradhan Mantri Surakshit Matritva I would like to thank all the doctors and the medical professionals for their cooperation. I would like to take this forward This expression of service is being used in Gram Swaraj Abhiyan. We had organized a program Some things have not been shown on the television for 24 hours or are not written in the newspapers' headlines. We had organized a Gram Swaraj campaign. We had selected 17 villages on the basis of certain parameters and 7 tasks were allotted. Those villages have to complete the 7 tasks 100% One of the tasks is immunization This means people are being discriminated in the level of immunization in the health sector in the country. It is something commendable It has been possible only because of your cooperation that today the rate of vaccination has increased to 6%. 6% But it was not even 1% before Due to your commitment, the country is moving more and more towards achieving the goal of 100% immunization.\nThe resolution of immunization of every pregnant woman and infant in the country will play a crucial role in the formation of a new India by making healthy families.\nFriends,\nA healthy society is created only by a healthy family. All of us and specially you are responsible Therefore, the President also called a lobby for nation building. Come, let us join the government with the resolution of 'Surveh Bhavanusukin: Sarvansantuniramaya: Sarabradhanipshantu. Maktakdidu: Bhagbhavat. ' to make this world and its people disease free and move toward a new India I would like to congratulate this department for making all the arrangements and providing all facilities to Delhi and the country. They had made every effort to complete all these tasks in a time bound manner. This is why I had asked them to work only Once there was a situation in the Parliament that the commitments were made during the Railway budget. I noted that in the last 30, 40, 50 years, almost 1500 things were just in the railways sector. When I questioned about those things, they were not even on papers We do not want to deviate to that path. We have not come here to flash our achievements but to accomplish our solution of bringing about a transformation and to ask for your cooperation. We have started off with our hopes and aspirations of our country. Friends, I believe that you will also cooperate with us\nThanks a lot!"