"PM Modi pays tributes to Sant Kabir Das at Maghar, Uttar Pradesh\nSant Kabir represents the essence of India's soul: PM Modi in Maghar\nSant Kabir broke the barriers of caste and spoke the language of the ordinary, rural Indians: PM Modi in Maghar\nSaints have risen from time to time, various parts of India, who have guided society to rid themselves of social evils: PM\nGreetings (Namaskar)! My regards to the Saheb I consider myself fortunate today that I got the opportunity to attend this program. I bow down to this holy land\nPopular and well known Chief Minister, Shriman Yogi Adityanath Ji; my colleague in the Union Council of Ministers Shriman Mahesh Sharma Ji; My colleague in the Union Council of Ministers Shriman Shiv Pratap Shukla Ji; Minister in the state government Rita Bahuguna Ji; Minister in the state government Shriman Lakshmi Narayan Chaudhari Ji; my colleague in the parliament and President of Bhartiya Janta Party in Uttar Pradesh my friend Dr. Mahendra Nath Pandey Ji; a young, courageous, active colleague in the Parliament who is also a son of the land Shriman Sharat Tripathi Ji; Chief Secretary of Uttar Pradesh Shriman Rajiv Kumar; other dignitaries present here and my dear brothers and sisters from all over the country who are present here today,\nI have a feeling of gratification as I visit this holy land of Maghar.\nBrothers and sisters,\nEveryone has an urge to visit pilgrim centers. That desire of mine has been fulfilled today Just a while ago, I got the opportunity to offer flowers to the shrine of Sant Kabir Das Ji, I got the opportunity to offer a chador on his shrine. I also saw the cave where Kabir Das Ji used to meditate. He was providing the society for centuries, a torch-bearer, an epitome of equality and religious harmony, I bow down to Mahatma Kabir on this land of his salvation. It is being said that Sant Kabir, Guru Nanak Dev and Baba Gorakhnath Ji have met spiritual discussions while sitting at this place. I feel a kind of fulfillment by visiting Maghar. Today is Jyeshth Shukla Purnima. Also, the Yatra of Lord Bholenath (Lord Shiva) is beginning from today. I would like to convey my best wishes to the pilgrims\nAn yearlong festival - Kabir Mahotsav - has begun here on the occasion of the fifth death centenary of Kabir Das Ji. He has left an outstanding legacy behind for the human and he is going to benefit from it. Sant Kabir Ji said:\n'Teerth Gaye To Ek Fal, Sant Mile Fal Char.\nSadguru Mile Anek Fal, Kahe Kabir Vichar. '\nIt means that one person gets a holy reward by going on a pilgrimage but his reward is four fold if he is in the company of a saint.\nThis Kabir festival on the land of Maghar is going to give us such holy reward\nBrothers and sisters,\nThe foundation stone for the Sant Kabir Academy has been laid here just a while ago. The institutions for preserving the legacy of Mahatma Kabir will be built here by spending about Rs. 24 crore The social awakening for which Kabir worked throughout his life, there is a plan to develop all these things: a training house for Kabir's singings, Kabir dance training house, a research center, a library, an auditorium, a hostel and an art gallery. Sant Kabir Academy will also work for the protection and development of regional languages ​​and popular arts of Uttar Pradesh.\nBrothers and sisters,\nThe whole life of Kabir was spent in the quest of truth and countering the falsehood. Kabir emphasizes on the belief, but on knowing He was a free spirit, pennyless and austere; The servants of God before them A person with clean heart and sound mind, he was soft inside He became worthy of worship because of his deeds and not\nThe great saint had risen from the dust but he became the tilak applied on the forehead. Mahatma Kabir Das becomes a seeker of the ultimate truth. He represented an idea that immortalized him Not only did he have to awaken his spirit He came to Maghar from Kashi for this social awakening. He selected Maghar as a symbol. Kabir Saheb had said if someone has the Lord Ram in his heart then for him he is the most holy place. And he said:\nKya Kasi Kya Usar Maghar, Ram Hriday Baso Mora.\nHe came from Kashi and was initiated by Ramanand Saint Kabirdas Ji used to say:\nHum Kashi Me Prakat Bhaye Hain, Ramanand Chetaye\nBrothers and sisters,\nKabir could be called the song, flavor and essence of India's soul. He had expressed his feelings He was a disciple of Ram Ramanand so how he believed in the caste system He broke the barriers of caste based discrimination and declared And he paved the way for realization of God present in every soul by demolishing one's own ego. He is related to everyone He said:\nKabira Khada Bazar Mein, Mange Sabki Khair\nNa Kahu Se Dosti, Na Kahu Se Bair.\nNo dictionary is required He explained the most complex mysteries of life to their language with the simplicity and ease. He said: Please look inwards to discover Lord Ram in the present, you have the Lord in your heart, why do you have external rituals in your time wasted. Reform yourself and you will find the Lord\nJab Main Tha Tab does not appear, when it does not, I do not\nSab Andhiyara Mit Gaya, Deepak Dekha Mahi\n'I could not see the Lord as long as I was driven by ego but when the Lord came I vanished The dark of ignorance has gone and I saw the light. '\nFriends,\nThis is the virtue, this is the holiness in our great land that from time to time sages, wise people, godmen and saints have shown the path of eradicate the internal vices of the society that creep up with the passage of time. It was only due to the influence of those great souls and saints that the soul of the nation, the equality and harmony in the country survived during the centuries of slavery.\nIn order to show the right path to society, Lord Buddha was born, and a whole lot of saints like Lord Mahavir was born, Sant Kabir, Sant Soordas and Guru Nanak continued to show us the right way. Whether it is north or south, be it east or west, in every region of the country like the great souls the country's spirit and protected it from being tarnished by evil traditions.\nIn south, Madhavacharya, Nimbagaracharya, Vallabhacharya, Saint Basaveshwar, Saint Tirugal, Saint Tiruvalluvar and Ramanujacharya. When we look at Western India we find Maharshi Dayanand, Mira Baai, Saint Ekknath, Saint Tukaram, Saint Ramdas, Saint Gyaneshwar, Narsi Mehta; If we look at the north we find Ramanand, Kabirdas, Goswami Tulsidas, Soordas, Guru Nanak Dev, Saint Ruidas, and when we look east at find, Sri Ramkrishna Paramhans, Chaitanya Mahaprabhu and the saints like Acharya Shankar Dev who blazened the society's path. It was the teachings of these great souls that helped India to overcome hurdles and move ahead. Rather, it has been used in the name of the people of all castes and sects as his disciples. Sant Ramanand showed Sant Kabir the path of Lord Ram. And Kabir has been asking generations after generations of Lord Ram.\nBrothers and sisters,\nRuidas came long after Sant Kabir A few centuries later came Mahatma Phule, Mahatma Gandhi and Baba Saheb Bhimrao Ambedkar. All of them showed the path to end inequality in the society.\nBaba Saheb gave us the Constitution of the country He gave us equal status as a citizen Unfortunately, today is a attempt to create a platform for vested political interests in the name of these great souls. Some political parties do not want peace and development in the society, they want discord, they want chaos They feel that they can get the environment of dissatisfaction and chaos, the more political benefit they will get. However, this is also true that these people are far away from the ground realities. They do not have any idea that is the fundamental character of our country that follows Sant Kabir, Mahatma Gandhi and Baba Saheb.\nKabir used to say: look inward and you will find the truth However, these people have never read Kabir seriously. Sant Kabirdas Ji used to say:\nPothi Padhi-Padhi Jag Mua, Pandit Bhaya Na Koy.\nDhai Akhar Prem Ka Padeh So Pandit Hoy\nIf one orients his mind towards public, towards country, towards society and its development then one will find the ultimate goal - development, the Lord in the form of development. However, they are inclined towards a grand bungalow. I remember what happened when the Prime Minister's Awas Yojana was started for the poor and middle class.\nOur government wrote them letters after letters, many times we called them over the phone so that the government could come forward, it should know about the poor people. But it was the government who was interested in their bungalows They did not do anything And since the time Yogi Ji has formed the government, a record number of homes are poorly constructed in the house.\nFriends,\nThroughout his whole life Kabir followed his principles This was not the worldly principles. He followed the principles. And this was the reason for coming to Maghar. He was not over the salvation However, today we see it very well, the hunger for power of those people who talk about socialism, who give false assurance to the poor people\nJust two days ago We have completed 43 years of emergency in our country. The greed for power is so much that the people who had been subjected to the emergency at that time and those who opposed it They are not concerned about the country or society, they are concerned only about their own interest and the interest of their families. These people are those who build bungalows worth crores of rupees for themselves by betraying the poor, dalits, backwards, deprived and exploited people They are going to amass property worth crores and crores of rupees for their brothers and relatives. People of the country and the people of Uttar Pradesh\nFriends, you have seen their attitude towards triple talaq Through Through Through.. Muslim.. Muslim.. To..... However, these political parties, the people who play the vote bank politics, are the hurdles in the passage of the triple talaq bill in the parliament. They want to keep the society They do not want to see it free from its vices.\nFriends,\nWhen Kabir was born, at that time, India was under a massive attack. The common man Sant Kabirdas Ji had challenged the then emperor. And the challenge of Kabirdas Ji was:\nDar Ki Bat Kaho Darvesa Badshah Hai Kaun Bhesa\nKabir had said that the ideal ruler is he who understands the fortune of the people and tries to alleviate that. King Ram His dream state was democratic and neutral to sects. Alas! Today, there are many families who consider themselves as the master of destiny of public and they are busy in completely rejecting the teachings of Sant Kabir Das Ji. They have forgotten that the basis of our struggle and our ideals are great souls like Kabir.\nKabir dealt a blow to the dogmas. He Kabir wanted to empower those who were oppressed, who were deprived and exploited He did not want to see him as beggar\nSant Kabir used to say:\nMangan Maran Saman Hai, Mat Koi Mango Bheekh;\nMangan Te Marna Bhala, Yeh Satguru Ki Seekh.\nKabir himself relied on his labour for livelihood. He understood the importance of labor However, our policy makers never understood this philosophy of Kabir even so many years after the independence they continued to depend on the politics of vote bank in the name of eradication of poverty.\nFriends, we have made every effort in the last four years. Our government has been following the path of empowering the poor, dalit, persecuted, exploited, deprived, women and youth. We have done the job of empowering people by opening more than 5 crore bank accounts of poor people in Uttar Pradesh under the Jan Dhan scheme; By giving free gas connections to more than 80 lakh women under the Ujjwala scheme; By providing the insurance shield to 1.7 crore poor people at a premium of one rupee per month and 90 paise per day; By building 1.25 crore toilets in the villages of UP; and by transferring the money We have taken our own to provide a affordable, easy and best health care service to our poor families under the Ayushman Bharat Yojana. Self-respect for poor people and making the poor people of life easier.\nFriends, Kabir is a respected laborer, he was a doer. Kabir said:\nKal Kare So Aaj Kar\nKabir believed in doing his work, he believed in his Lord Ram. Today, the plans that are being completed at fast speed, the roads that are constructed twice as fast, new highways; electrification of railway lines that are taking place at twice the speed, the airports that are being constructed at fast speed; the houses that are being built at more than twice the speed; the optical fiber network which is being laid to every village body; The speed of all these works is just a reflection of the path followed by Kabir. This is the spirit of our government - Sabka Sath, Sabka Vikas.\nFriends,\nAs Kabir liked too many years after the independence of the country and the country is still feeling aliented. Starting from eastern Uttar Pradesh, Northern India, North-East India was starved of development. The way Kabir shook off the curse of Maghar similarly it is the effort of our government to develop every single inch of Indian land.\nBrothers and sisters,\nThe whole world recognizes Maghar as the place of final salvation of Sant Kabir. However, even so many years after the independence the condition of this place was not like it. When farmer President Abdul Kalam had visited this place 14-15 years ago He had a dream for this place. We are going to develop Maghar at a fast speed as a center of goodwill and the best way to get acquainted.\nThe government has taken over the task of development of places like Maghar as the centers of faith and spirituality under the Swadesh Darshan Scheme. Whether it is Ramayan Circuit or Baikha Circuit or Sufi Circuit, various places are developed by developing circuits like these.\nFriends,\nThe teachings of Kabir are a very important and easy for humanity, for universal brotherhood and for mutual love. His messages are filled with the feeling of all religions and social harmony.\nWhat is needed is that his message should be communicated to everyone and we should follow it in our conduct. I hope that Kabir academy will play an important role in this thing. Once again I express my gratitude to the devotees who have come to this holy land of saint Kabir from outside. We will be able to realise the dream of a new India by following the immortal message of Sant Kabir in our lives. With this hope, I conclude my speech Thank you very much\nSaheb Bandgi, Saheb Bandgi, Saheb Bandgi.\n(I bow down to him, I bow down to him, I bow down to him)."