"\nIndia's self-confidence is on an all time high: PM Modi in Lok Sabha\nIt is the Lok Sabha that has passed stringent laws against corruption and black money: PM\nIt is the Lok Sabha that passed the GST: PM Modi\nSpeaker Madam, I, on behalf of all the members of the House and on behalf of me, the entire tenure of this 16th Lok Sabha as the Chairperson, with the balance, with the balance and the moment of smile, you started the House, - There are many congratulatory officials.\nLife of Goddess Ahilya, his education; It has a great effect on your mind and you have tried every time to make the teachings received from it, to fulfill the ideals that have come from them, and on the same ideals, you will never see people on the right and people on the left side Taking that scales, have made some tough decisions, but they are based on values, have been based on ideals and for making the best practice of the Lok Sabha and Forever will be great, so I'm confident.\nThe woman organization that you started, I understand that for the new members, you have done a lot of good work in yourself. In it, Debat has played a great role in enriching its content, making information more prosperous.\nMadam President, in 2014, I was also one of those MPs who had come for the first time. Neither did I know its zodiac, nor did we know where to go from the street; Was absolutely new and used to see everything with great curiosity, what is this, what is here; Seeing all that was there. But when I was sitting here, I was just looking like this; what are these buttons, what are they trying to understand; So I saw a plate here On that plate, because I know that my first 13 Prime Ministers have done their duty by staying in this place, but I saw the plate, only three are the names of the prime minister. Why would this happen, what would be the logic, the liberals of liberal ideas, who are preaching daily, will definitely meditate on it and sometimes guide us.\nBut, that is, everything was a new one for me, I was curious and since then I have been seeing that our work, nearly a decade later, has become a full-fledged government, and for the first time since independence Congress is not in Gautam, Such a complete majority is a government. Congress was not Gauta- Such a mixed first government was made of Atalji and the Congress is not Gauta, the first government with such a majority has come in 2014 and 17 sessions were held in the 16th Lok Sabha, 8 sessions remained in which more than 100 percent of the work was done. And on average we see, with 85% outcome we are taking a farewell today.\nThe parliamentary minister has his own obligation, Tomar ji is still handling. Initially Venkaiah ji watched; They efficiently performed Now playing a key role as Vice President and as the operator of our senior house too. We are feeling the lack of Anant Kumar ji, I am congraturing one of our comrades on a laugh, but all the work that I have done.\nThese sixteenth Lok Sabha will always be proud for this, because in the country, so many elections have been held, for the first time it was our age with the highest female MP, the highest in this one itself. In it 44 women MPs had come for the first time, they have also seen themselves, and throughout the tenure, the representation of women MPs, the height of the participation and dialogue; We should register in every way, the higher was. All women MPs are the members of the congratulatory office.\nFor the first time in the country, the highest female minister in the cabinet, and for the first time in the country's security committee, two women ministers are representing - the Minister of Defense and the Foreign Minister, this is also a matter of joy in itself and it is also a matter of fact that for the first time the speaker There is a woman, along with our registrar general, yes- the secretary general too; They are also sitting here as women. Therefore, the Lok Sabha Secretariat General and all his team and the whole of the area, who handle the entire premises, everybody is the congratulatory officer. I congratulate him very much, I congratulate him very much.\nIn this House, someone does not mean that I am standing here to tell the achievements of any government here. But what this work has done by this House, if you look at the details of five years, and we all are its shareholders; Even in the opposition, he has worked to increase his power, he has helped him by staying in the side and therefore all the members of the house are proud of him.\nFor us in the last four and a half years, during that period, it is a pleasure for all of us that the country has become the world's sixth number of economy today. This is also a proud work of this tenure and we are all partners in it. Policymaking has happened here and towards the direction of becoming a trillion dollar economy, we are preparing to knock on that door, growing so fast. For this, the activity of this House has its own big role.\nToday, India's self-confidence is very high and there is great strength to go forward, confidence, strength to win, self confidence, strength to compete with crisis, confidence; Today the country is full of self-confidence. This mass has played a very big role in generating this belief, with the collective power which has led these crucial processes along the way.\nToday, all reputed institutions of the world, world institutions, continue to express their potential in relation to India's bright future, without any hesitation, in a tone of bright future. And it has naturally been this period for the country that India has made its place in the digital world, has achieved many achievements.\nIn the field of energy, in the field of energy savings, India is discussing the global warming, in the time of global warming, this is the country which led the international solar alliance. And the way in which the strength of the alliance of countries with petroleum products has been created in the world today, that day will not be far away when the impact of this decision of India will be seen in the coming decades. With the same strength, the international solar alliance fight against a global warming, concerns about environmental protection; But in order to give the world an alternate life, I believe that this tenure is playing a very big role.\nIndia has made its place in the world of space. But the launch of maximum satellite launch in this period was one of India's only, our strengths, as a launching pad, today India has become a destination for the world. He is also going to become a center of economic activity. In the direction of Make in India, India is taking bold steps towards moving forward with self-reliance in the field of manufacturing.\nIndia is heard seriously in the global environment today. And sometimes, I say, people have this illusion that Bhai is Modi or Sushma ji, in our tenure, our respect has increased in the world, wow is happening in the world. They will say that people, but the reality is that they are more. The root cause of the reality is the absolute majority government. The world recognizes the government with the absolute majority.\nOur era of 30 years in the global environment, this loss has caused a lot of damage to the country. After 30 years, in 2014, because when a leader of that country, who has a full majority, meets any leader of the world, then he knows that he has mandate and he has a power of his own. This time I have experienced for five years that there is a place in the world in the world and its full success goes to Modi, neither Sushma ji goes to; That decision of 100 million people goes to 2014.\nIn the same manner during this tenure, India got place in many institutions abroad, heard in foreign countries. Now let us see Bangladesh- resolve this land dispute unanimously in this House, it has done a great deal. After the formation of a controversial Bangladesh from the partition of India, it came in the form of a crisis, but it was also resolved by this House. And I think that we have our own specialty that we have done this work together and the message to the world, the message of consensus, has given a great power to the world. And I want to express gratitude to the House especially today; I want to express gratitude to all the parties.\nIn the same way, a new aspect of our foreign policy has emerged. Human rights in the world, human values, knowingly or unknowingly, has been the right of any one end of the world, the rest do not have anything to do with it, and we, like us, become anti-human and thus our image. Whereas humanity and Vasudhaiva are the people who talk about family, but do not know why such an image has become. But in the last five years we will see - an earthquake has occurred in Nepal; There is a crisis of water in the Maldives; Cyclone has got trouble inside Fiji; Suddenly Cyclone has suffered in Sri Lanka; The disaster caused by the people of Myanmar inside Bangladesh, may be facing trouble; Our people were stranded in Yemen, to bring them back to thousands of thousands; Removed 80 people in Nepal and sent here safely\nIndia has played a very big role in the work of humanity. Yoga has become a matter of pride in the whole world. With respect to Yoga in the world, so far as the resolution has passed, at the fastest pace, with most support, if a resolution has passed. Inside the UN, the birth anniversary of Baba Saheb Ambedkar, birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi is being celebrated. In all the countries of the world, Babasaheb Ambedkar's celebrations were celebrated, the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi was celebrated, and Gandhi's 150, no one can imagine that 'say the voice to the Vaishnava man,' which is in people's veins, Today, on the occasion of 150th birth anniversary of Gandhiji, famous singers from 150 countries of the world have given a huge tribute to Mahatma Gandhi by singing Vaishnav Jan as his. That is how we can take a soft power in the world, an example we are experiencing today.\nOn 26th January we should have seen - January 26, keeping the Mahatma Gandhi at the center, how all the states presented Gandhi amazingly. Remembering 150th Birth Anniversary and Mahatma Gandhi We celebrated Constitution Day in this House, during this tenure; During this House we discussed a special discussion for the 150th birth anniversary of Baba Saheb; We, in this House, have given time to the UN's sustainable development goal during this tenure and all met together to discuss sustainable development goals; In these, these new customs have been possible in your leadership of this House during this tenure and therefore all the members of the House congratulate your leadership, express your gratitude.\nAbout 219 bills were introduced and 203 bills were passed. And in this House who are MPs today - in relation to the 16th Lok Sabha, whenever you tell anyone about your life; If you will go to the election grounds and even after the election, when there will be a habit of writing something, then write life, then it will definitely write that he was a member of that tenure, during which time he had to make tough laws against black money and corruption has worked. In this country, such laws which had never been created before, were made by this House, and it has been done here to make a large law against huge black money accumulated abroad. This House made the IBC law associated with the bankrupt companies. Regarding the benami properties, this house was created by the House. This House made laws against criminal offenders.\nI understand that in these five years during the tenure of this House, the legal system that requires a legal right to fight against black money and corruption, should have a power of our law in the international world. Whatever has to be done for this, it has been passed from Uttam Purushartha to this house and served the coming century of the country. And that's why I believe that this leadership will give many congratulations to your leadership - not just this moment, coming generations. This House, which passed the GST bill and called a joint session at 12 o'clock at night and without trying to take credit, the former finance minister and President of that time, by GST on their hands, so that everyone gets the right; All development and development also went on in it, it has been a certified effort.\nIn the same way it is the right house which gave a very big legal power to the base bill. The base is unique to the world. Show the world that this country has done such a great job, the world is trying to know it. During this tenure, the House has done a great job in the world by doing this work.\nThe country was liberated, but I do not know what our mindset was that we could not make decisions on enemy property. Very rigidly passed the enemy property bill to work on what was going on against the wounds of India's 1947.\nIn the direction of social justice in this House, it will also create an impact for society for a very long time - for those who are called upper caste, that is, a reservation system for the poor; Without any bitterness, its biggest strength is that, without any confusion, without fear of anybody's mind, a section of the oppressed and oppressed society, their things were weighed and passed the law giving them faith. All MPs of both the parties are eligible for saintliness for this. And for this, I think this big thing is that this 10 percent reservation has happened.\nउसी प्रकार से ओबीसी के लिए कमीशन बनाने वाला विषय हो, या एससी, एसटी एक्‍ट की जो सुप्रीम कोर्ट के बाद जो misunderstanding हुआ, उसको ठीक करने का काम हो। Maternity benefit भी, विश्‍व के समृद्ध देश भी इस बात को सुनकर के आश्‍चर्य होता है कि क्‍या भारत में 12 हफ्ते से लेकर maternity leave 26 हफ्ते कर दी है। इस बात को आज विश्‍व, भारत को एक आगे की सोच वाले देश के रूप में देख रहा है, ये काम इसी सदन ने किया है।\nसदन कानून बनाता है लेकिन इस बात के लिए भी ये कार्यकाल देश और दुनिया याद रखेगी, कि जो कानून बनाने वाला ये वर्ग उन्‍होंने कानून खत्‍म करने का भी काम किया है। 14 सौ से ज्‍यादा कानून खत्‍म इसी सदन के सदस्‍यों ने करके देश को काफी उसके जंगल जैसा कानूनों का बन गया था, उसमें रास्‍ते खोजने की दिशा में एक शुभ शुरुआत की है। 14 सौ करने के बाद भी मैं कहता हूं कि शुभ शुरुआत हुई है, अभी भी कर रहा हूं बहुत बाकी है और उसके लिए मुलायम सिंह जी ने आशीर्वाद दिए ही हैं। \nएक बहुत बड़ा काम और मैं मानता हूं कि देश को इसको अच्‍छे ढंग से जैसे पहुंचना चाहिए था, हम पहुंचा नहीं पाए हैं। हम सभी सांसदों पर एक कलंक हमेशा लगा रहता था कि हमीं लोग हमारे वेतन तय करते हैं, हमीं लोग मर्जी पड़े उतना बढ़़ा देते हैं, हम देश की परवाह नहीं करते और जिस दिन सांसदों को वेतन बढ़ता था- दुनिया भर की टीका टिप्‍पणी हमारे पास होती थी और ये पिछले 50 साल से हो रही थी।\nपहली बार इस समय सभी सांसदों ने मिलकर के इस आलोचना से मुक्ति का रास्‍ता खोज लिया और एक ऐसी संवैधानिक व्‍यवस्‍था बना दी कि वो संविधान की व्‍यवस्‍था के तहत औरों का जो होगा इनका भी हो जाएगा। अब स्‍वयं इस काम के भागीदार सांसद अकेले नहीं होंगे, और सांसदों को बहुत बड़ी मुक्ति मिल गई है आलोचना से। लेकिन इसमें उत्‍तम निर्णय की जिस प्रकार से उसको जैसे registeredहोना चाहिए था, जिसकी वाह-वाही होनी चाहिए थी... 50 साल हो..... से सांसदों को गालियां सुननी पड़ी, बड़े-बड़े वरिष्‍ठ नेताओं को गालियां सुननी पड़ी है, उससे मुक्ति देने का काम किया। हमारे जितेंद्र जी ने अच्‍छा खाना तो खिलाया लेकिन बाहर हम आलोचना सुनते थे कि केंटीन के अंदर पैसा बहुत कम है और बाहर मंहगा है ये MPs क्‍यों ऐसा करते है।\nमुझे खुशी है कि जितेंद्र जी की कमेटी ने मेरी भावना को स्‍वीकार किया, स्‍पीकर महोदया ने भी स्‍वीकार किया और जो बहुत सस्‍ते में यहां दिया जाता था, आपको थोड़ा जेब में थोड़ा ज्‍यादा नुकसान हो गया। लेकिन उस मैं से भी मुक्ति पाने की दिशा में हमनें कदम बढ़ाया है, और पूर्ण रूप से पहुंचने में भी आने वाले दिन में हमे अच्‍छी ताकत आकर करके हम वो भी कर लेंगे। ऐसा मेरा विश्‍वास है।\nउसी प्रकार से इस सदन को और भी बहुत सी बातों का जरूर आनंद आएगा, हम कभी कभी सुनते थे, भूकम्‍प आएगा लेकिन पांच साल का कार्यकाल पूरा हो रहा है, कोई भूकम्‍प नहीं आया। कभी हवाई जहाज उड़े, और बड़े-बड़े लोगों ने हवाई जहाज उड़ाये, लेकिन लोकतंत्र और लोकसभा की मर्यादा इतनी ऊंची है, भूकम्‍प को भी पचा गया और कोई हवाई जहाज उस ऊंचाई पर नहीं जा पाया, ये लोकतंत्र की ताकत है, सदन की ताकत है। कई बार तीखी नोकझोंक भी हुई है, कभी उधर से हुई कभी इधर से हुई। कभी कुछ ऐसे शब्‍दों का भी प्रयोग हुआ होगा जो नहीं होना चाहिए। इस सदन में किसी भी सदस्‍य के साथ, जरूरी नहीं इस तरफ से, उस तरफ के भी ... ये सदन के नेता के रूप में, मैं जरूर मिक्षामी दुखम: कहूंगा..  क्षमा प्रार्थना के लिए जयहिंद पर्यावरण पर्व में मिक्षामी दुखम: एक बहुत बड़ा संदेश देने वाला शब्‍द है, उस भावना को मैं प्रकट करता हूं।\nमल्लिकार्जुन से हमारा भी थोड़ा बहुत रहता था। अच्‍छा होता आज उनका गला ठीक होता तो आज भी कुछ लाभ मिलता। लेकिन कभी-कभी मैं उनको सुन नहीं पाता था तो बाद मैं पूरा डिटेल देख लेता था और ये आवश्‍यक भी था। लेकिन उसके साथ-साथ मेरी विचार चेतना को जगाने के लिए उनकी बातें बहुत काम आती थी। एक प्रकार से मेरे भाषण का खादर पानी वहीं से डल जात था। तो उसके लिए भी मैं खड़गे साहब का बहुत आभारी हूं। लेकिन मैं कहूंगा... जैसे कहा गया कि लंबे समय तक पूरा समय बैठना, किसी समय हम देखते थे कि आडवाणी जी सदन का पूरा समय बैठते थे। खड़गे जी को देख लीजिए ... पूरा समय ये हम सासंदों के लिए सीखने वाला विषय है। और ये भी कम बात नहीं है कि करीब-करीब 50 साल उनके आए हैं इस जनप्रतिनिधित्‍व के। उसके बावजूद भी जनप्रतिनिधि के नाते मिली हुई जिम्‍मेवारी को जिस बखूबी आपने निभाया है, मैं आदरपूर्वक आपका अभिनंदन करता हूं। \nमैं पहली बार यहां आया था तो बहुत सी चीजें नई जानने को मिली जिसका कुछ अर्थ ही जिंदगी में पता नहीं था, पहली बार मुझे पता चला कि गले मिलना और गले पड़ना में क्‍या अंतर होता है। ये पहली बार पता चला...... मुझे पहली बार.... मैं देख रहा हूं कि सदन में आंखों से गुस्‍सा क्‍या होता है। ये आंखों की गु‍स्‍ताखियों वाला खेल भी पहली बार इसी सदन में देखने को मिला और विदेश के मीडिया ने भी बहुत उसका मजा लिया। संसद की गरिमा बनाए रखना हर सांसद का दायित्‍व रहता है और हमने इसकी भरपूर सबने कोशिश की है।\nइस बार हमारे सांसद महोदय लोगों के टेलेंट का भी बड़ा अनुभव आया है, अभी जब मैं एक दिन भाषण कर रहा था, राष्‍ट्रपति जी के ऊपर ऐसा अट्टहास सुनने को मुझे मिलता था इस सदन में। मैं जरूर ये जो entertainment industry वाले हैं। उनको इस प्रकार के अट्टहास की जरूरत है इनके लिए यूटयूब से इतना देखने के लिए allow कर देना चाहिए। शायद अच्‍छे-अच्‍छे कलाकार भी ऐसे अट्टहास नहीं कर पाते होंगे जो यहां पर सुनने को मिलता था।\nउसी प्रकार से ऐसी वेशभूषा और मैं हमारे टीडीपी के साथी नहीं है लेकिन टीडीपी के हमारे सांसद नारामलि शिवप्रसाद जी क्‍या अदभूत वेशभूषा पहन कर आते हैं। सारा टेंशन उनके attention में बदल जाता था। ये हंसी खुशियों के बीच हमारा ये कार्यकाल बीता है।\nमुझ जैसे एक नए सांसद ने आप सबसे बहुत कुछ सीखा है। आप सबकी मदद से नया होने के बावजूद भी मुझे कभी कमी महसूस होने नहीं दी, आप सब साथियों ने। सभी तरफ से सबने और आपके नेतृत्‍व में आपके मार्गदर्शन में एक प्रथम पारी की शुरुआत में मेरी जो मदद की है इसके लिए मैं आपका बहुत-बहुत आभारी हूं। मैं आदरणीय मुलायम सिंह जी का विशेष रूप से आभारी हूं उनका स्‍नेह हमारे लिए बहुत मूल्‍यवान है। सबके लिए मूल्‍यवान है, सभी वरिष्‍ठजनों का श्रेय मूल्‍यवान होता है। मैं फिर एक बार आपको ह्दय से बहुत-बहुत बधाई देता हूं।\nइस परिषद से जुड़े हुए सभी स्‍टाफ के लोगों को भी अन्‍त:पूर्वक अभिनंदन देता हूं जिन्‍होंने सभी सांसदों की देखभाल की। कार्य के लिए जो भी आवश्‍यक व्‍यवस्‍थाएं करनी पड़ती थी...की, और मैं सभी सांसदों को शुभकामनाएं देता हूं कि एक स्‍वस्‍थ लोकतांत्रिक पंरपरा के लिए जब हम जनता के बीच जाने वाले हैं तो हम स्‍वस्‍थ परंपरा को कैसे आगे बढ़ाएं, एक तन्‍दुरुस्‍त स्‍पर्धा कैसे करें, उस तन्‍दुरुस्‍त स्‍पर्धा को लेकर के लोकतंत्र को तन्‍दुरुस्‍त बनाने में हम अपनी भूमिका कैसे अदा करें।\nइसी सब शुभकामनाओं के साथ, इसी भावना के साथ मैं अपनी वाणी को विराम देता हूं। मैं फिर एक बार नतमस्‍तक होकर के सदन के सभी सासंदों का ह्दय से आभार व्‍यक्‍त करता हूं।\nधन्‍यवाद...."