"\nGovt's Social Security Schemes help with uncertainties of life: PM\nBanking the unbanked, funding the unfunded and financially securing the unsecured are the three aspects our government has focused on: PM\nThe Jan Suraksha schemes have very low premium which helps people of all age groups, especially the poor: PM\nWith Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana, one can get coverage of upto Rs. 2 lakhs by paying a premium of just Rs. 330 per year: PM\nFive and half crore people have benefitted from Pradhan Mantri Jyoti Bima Yojana: PM\nWith Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana, one can get coverage of upto Rs. 2 lakhs by paying a premium of just Rs. 12 per year: PM\nOur government is committed to serve the elderly. That is why we have launched Pradhan Mantri Vaya Vandana Yojana; 3 lakh older people have been benefited till now: PM\nThese are the people who took the decisions in life. And I have full faith in this thing All of us know that one thing in life is extremely specific and it is that life is uncertain. None of us knows that what is happening in the next moment, what tomorrow is going to our lives Social security plans are available in the market. And now this is the courage that has reached millions of people. The country's largest insurance plan or Prime Minister's Protection Insurance plan or it is a provisional pension scheme or Prime Minister's Vandana Yojna.\nSocial security schemes have been empowering the common people, especially the economically weaker sections of the society so that they can face the difficult times, so that they end up losing their lives. At a time when we formed our government then poor people did not even have their bank accounts, the matter of getting any kind of financial support was very far.\nWe put emphasis on three things: dalits, oppressed, exploited, deprived, tribals, women, to provide banking services to these unbanked people in order to empower these people; and to provide financial support to small scale industries and small businessmen; and also to provide financial security to financially insecure people It means banking the unbanked, funding the unfunded and financially securing the unsecured.\nAnd you people will be happy to note that World Bank's FinTax Report has described as a successful financial inclusion program, under which 28 crore new bank accounts are opened from 2014 to 2017 between three years. This figure is 55% The total period of the total bank accounts opened in the same period. Earlier there was a saying in our country - Ek Baju Ram Aur Ek Baju Gaon - it means on the one hand India and on the other hand the whole world.\nApart from this, the report also said that in 2014, the number of people having bank accounts in India, which was about 50-52% before our government was formed in 2014, that number has gone up to 80% in these three years. And the bank account holders have gone up This issue was discussed for years that there are provisions for social security in many countries of the world but it is not there in India\nWhen we formed the government The common man was deprived of the social security. It is true that India traditionally had the joint family system When 20-25 or up to 30 people used to live together in a family then that social structure itself used to ensure social security. However, the size of family is shrinking The social system has been changing.\nIn order to bring about change in this situation, in order to provide security cover in this new situation, today an insurance facility is being provided as Prime Minister Jan Dhan Scheme under Life Cover, Rupay Card and Accident Cover. In addition to this, a pension scheme and two insurance schemes have also started as social security schemes.\nAnd as a result of the number of subscribers of government insurance scheme which was 4.8 crore or less than 5 crore in 2014, today, the same number has increased by 10 times under the Social Security Scheme and around 50 crore subscribers were there.\nThese schemes have started under social security programs. And they have been launched at a very low premium so that people of every section, every region, people of every age group can take advantage of these schemes.\nToday, I am going to talk to those people, I know that they are related to a painful grief, however, those people who have difficult situations, those who have passed through difficult times and how these schemes have helped them when the poor people, ordinary people of our country have heard about their experiences then they also get encouraged and they also feel that they should also have these plans of benefit. And so ... .it is also painful moments again and again, however, if someone has that difficult time in some kind of help, and if other people have that experience about it then they also have difficulties from their protection of ways. in future\nMy dear countrymen, you would have noticed this thing that all of us feel pain after listening about these losses, because nobody can compensate any member of the loss, even God himself can not compensate the loss, however, if that Family receives some financial support during this difficult time, if they find something to hold on to the track And The Prime Minister's Jeevan Bima Scheme has been launched with this aim.\nUnder this scheme ... I feel that my countrymen should realize that a life insurance cover of Rs. 2 lakh in just Rs. 330. Rs. 330 for a year, it means it is less than one rupee per day. Today, you can not find anything in the market. They should try to understand that they can take advantage of this scheme. More than 5.5 crore people have taken this scheme. And claims worth crores of rupees have already been disbursed under the scheme. Some people are with us ... let us go across them, let us hear their experiences\nAll of us realise that the tragedy never forewarns you, crisis never warns anyone before it strikes And it is not like that if you are rich then tragedy will strike you and it will not strike you if you are poor.Nor is it like that tragedy will strike you if you are a poor but it will not strike you rich person It is not like that either. A tragedy can strike you anywhere However, we can ensure our financial security.\nPradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana was started with this goal only. Under this scheme an accidental cover of Rs. 2 lakhs is provided for Rs. 12 per year, it means a premium of Rs. 1 per month. Nearly 13-14 crore people have adopted this scheme so far. If we look at the population of Mexico or Japan then the number of people having this coverage is more than the population of those countries Such a vast coverage and such large number of people joining this scheme in such a short span of time reflect that people are aware of insurance and its benefits.\nIf some tragedy happens with a man All the dreams are shattered Even if someone has planned we will do the next three years; all these things remain unfulfilled Despite that, it has been a common experience Sometimes they say like this: 'We will buy insurance. It will be done We have a lot of time What is the need for insurance? And today the whole country is watching this thing and I wish that this kind of thinking about insurance will change. More and more people should join the social security schemes\nA few years ago, a daily wage earner never used to be considered as insurance. This kind of dilemma was always there that is why he should spend his current needs. The people like vegetables vendors, auto rickshaw drivers or daily wage earners or those who manage their lives by doing some other small work, it would also be considered about insurance.\nToday, this impossible thing has been made possible For our dalits, for our persecuted and exploited people, for our deprived and poor people and for our sisters and daughters The facility of life insurance has been given to people for payment of just one rupee per month. Now the security cover of an insurance scheme has also been added to the life of a section of the society. Let us talk to some more people\nLook, old age is an important period of life. There was a time when we were dependent on others. The pension facility was conceived with this aim only so that we should be financially self-dependent at that age. May we continue to receive the blessings of our elders This government is committed for senior citizens and that is why this government has done the work of making their lives easier.\nThe government has formed many schemes and policies in the last four years by taking into account the seriousness of the problems associated with the old age. Last year, the government has started the Pradhan Mantri Vaya Vandana Scheme. Under this scheme, a guaranteed return of 8% is paid for 10 years from the age of 60 years. Ups and downs in the interest rate are not allowed\n\nIf the returns are less than 8% then the government's exchequer provides for the difference Under this scheme, Senior citizens can opt for monthly, quarterly, half yearly and yearly return. Under this scheme, Senior citizens can invest up to Rs. 15 lakh More than 3 lakh people are taking advantage of this scheme so far. In addition to this, the government has been giving senior citizens the benefits of tax incentives. Tax exemption limit for senior citizens has increased from Rs. 2.5 lakh to Rs. 3 lakh a year Apart from this, the ceiling on the deduction of interest was increased from Rs. 10,000 to Rs. 50,000 It means, the interest earning of up to Rs. 50,000 on their deposits has been exempted from tax payment.\nSimilarly, what are the benefits of all the initiatives that have been taken for senior citizens? If we look at these things as then then for example a senior citizen who has a yearly income of Rs. 5 lakh back in 2013-14 before our government was formed then he was required to pay a tax of about Rs. 13,000 or Rs. 13,500, or about Rs. 13,390 However, after the formation of our government\nIn 2018-19, it has come down to just Rs. 2,600 It means ago it was more than Rs. 13,000 and now it is just Rs. 2,600 It means that it is just one third. It is such a huge change Not only on the financial issues, but the government has also worked in a planned way with senior citizens and their welfare.\nWe are all aware that the problem of old age The expenditure on treatment and medicines goes up. Jan Aushadhi scheme has started while keeping this thing in mind so that the medicines can be provided at affordable prices. Similarly, the price of stents has reduced The cost of knee transplant has also come down in comparison with the previous period.\nEarlier, senior citizens were required to present themselves in an office to prove that they were alive. However, now the facility of life has been started. We are making great efforts to provide a variety of facilities for women who are not available to us. respect We have\nThey should not be dependent on anybody in their old age and their life should be full of dignity And they should continue to get a certain amount as pension; The government has started There are more than one crore subscribers under this scheme and out of these 40% are women like our sister Archna. An amount of Rs. 4,000 has been deposited under this scheme\nIf you take a holistic view then in the last 3 years around 20 crore people have been brought under the cover of Prime Minister Suraksha Bima Yojana, Prime Minister Life Jyoti Yojana and Atal Pension Scheme. And 52% of the beneficiaries, more than half of them, are from our villages, they are from our rural areas.\nEvery scheme has two fundamental pillars behind it - first everybody should get the insurance coverage and he should get it for the lowest premium so that the poorest of the poor person can take advantage of it. Our government is sensitive towards the poor people, it lays emphasis on the people of poor people and it has been constantly working to empower them.\nWe just heard it from the beneficiaries of different schemes, and how they got a support.\nI believe that their stories are a source of inspiration for all of us It shows how important insurance is for all of us I would like to take the benefits of these insurance schemes and if there is someone around you, if there is someone in your office then you should also inform them about these schemes and these schemes of benefit to be encouraged.\nAll the beneficiaries who are present here, you are the examples of the utility of these schemes and I appeal to all of you are encouraged to be around the people. I would like to inform you that you will be in Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana and Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana in bank or post office; you can register yourself\nYou can enroll yourself in Atal Pension Scheme by visiting any bank branch. And for Pradhan Mantri Vaya Vandana Yojana, you can take advantage of this scheme by visiting any LIC office across the country.\nI would like to tell you one more thing What kind of schemes are there for senior citizens so that they can lead their life with dignity There are schemes for this purpose However, senior citizens of our country are dignified people, they provide a lot of inspiration. May be you are not aware about this thing When I have been appealing to the people of the country from the red fort that is why you need gas subsidy. You should give it up And one crore twenty five lakh people\nAt present our senior citizens get some relief for buying railway tickets However, the railways has added its form: 'do you want to give up your subsidy? Do you want to pay your ticket? '\nAll of us will take pride in this thing that the people who have availed this benefit, they came forward and they refused to avail the subsidy for the rail ticket, they paid for their full amount of money. This thing has not been publicly advertised, nor has we ever discussed this thing It was just mentioned on the form and our senior citizens who lead a dignified life. It's not small news for the country\nAnd when the people of our country do a lot of things like this, when my senior citizens do these things then all of us too feel like doing something or some other thing, something good every day for you people Please come forward so that we can continue to work for the welfare of the poor people of our country, so that the welfare of our mothers and sisters can be ensured, so that our senior citizens, very senior citizens, all the respected people get An opportunity to lead a dignified life Once again I express my sincere gratitude to all of you\nThank you."