"Share\n\nIndia is one of the most investor friendly economies in the world. Investors look for growth and macro-economic stability: PM Modi\nIndia has emerged as a bright spot in the global economy which is also driving global growth as well: PM\nGlobal confidence in India's economy is rising: PM Modi from the point of a foreign investor, India counts as a very low risk political economy: PM Modi\nGovernment has taken a number of steps to boost investment We have simplified rules and regulations for businesses and undertaken bold reforms: PM Modi\nWe have provided investors an environment which is efficient, transparent, reliable and predictable: PM\nWe have liberalized the FDI regime. Today, most sectors are on automatic approval route: PM\nGST is one of the most significant systemic reforms that our country has undergone It works on One One - One Nation principle: PM\nIndia has jumped forty-two places in three years to enter the top hundred in the World Bank's Easy Doing Business Report 2018: PM\nAgriculture is the lifeblood of the Indian economy. We are promoting investments in warehouses and cold chains, food processing, crop insurance and allied activities: PM Modi\nA 'New India' is rising. It is an India that stands on the pillars of economic opportunity for all, knowledge economy, holistic development, and futuristic, resilient and digital infrastructure: PM\nPresident of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank\nOther Dignitaries on the dais\nDistinguished Delegates from India and abroad\nLadies and Gentlemen\nI am happy to be here in Mumbai, for the Third Annual Meeting of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank We are happy to have this opportunity to deepen our engagement with the bank and its members.\nAIIB started its financing operations in January 2016. In less than three years, it has in its fold, 87 members. And a committed capital stock of 100 billion US Dollars It is poised to play a critical role in Asia\nFriends\nThe Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank is a result of collaborative efforts of Asian countries. As developing countries, we share similar challenges One of them I am happy that the theme of this year's meeting is \"Mobilizing Finance for Infrastructure: Innovation and Collaboration\". Investments by AIIB in sustainable infrastructure\nAsia still faces wide ranging disparities in access to education, healthcare, financial services and formal employment opportunities.\nRegional multi-lateralism through institutions like AIIB can play a central role in helping to raise resources.\nSectors such as energy and power, transport, telecom, rural infrastructure, agriculture development, water supply and sanitation, environment protection, urban development, and logistics require long term funds. The interest rates on these funds need to be affordable and sustainable.\nIn a short period, AIIB has approved 25 projects in a dozen countries with a total of financing of over 4 billion US Dollars. This is a good start\nWith committed capital of 100 billion dollars and huge need for infrastructure in member countries, I take this opportunity to call upon AIIB to expand from financing 4 billion dollars, to 40 billion dollars by 2020 and 100 billion dollars by 2025.\nThis will require simpler processing, and faster approval. It will also need high quality projects and strong project proposals.\nI believe that India and AIIB are both strongly committed to making economic growth more inclusive and sustainable. In India, we are a novel public private partnership model, Infrastructure Debt Funds, and Infrastructure Investment Trusts to fund infrastructure. India is trying to develop brownfield assets as a separate asset class for infrastructure investment. Such assets, having passed the stages of land acquisition and environment and forest clearances, are relatively de-risked. Therefore, for such assets, institutional investment from pension, insurance and sovereign wealth funds will be more forthcoming.\nAnother initiative, is the National Investment and Infrastructure Fund This aims to channel investments from both domestic and international sources in infrastructure. This fund has received a boost with AIIB committing 200 million US Dollars for investment.\nLadies and Gentlemen\nIndia is one of the most investor friendly economies in the world. Investors look for growth and macro-economic stability They want to have a political stability and a supportive regulatory framework to ensure protection of their investment. From the point of large scale of operations and higher value addition, an investor is also attracted by a large domestic market size, availability of skilled labour and good physical infrastructure. On each of these parameters, India is well placed and has performed very well. Let me share with you, some of our experiences and achievements\nIndia has emerged as a bright spot in the global economy With a size of 2.8 trillion US Dollars, it is the seventh largest in the world. It is the third largest in terms of purchasing power parity. In the fourth quarter of 2017, we grew at 7.7 percent In 2018, we are projected to grow at 7.4 percent\nOur macro-economic fundamentals are strong prices, a robust external sector and a fiscal situation firmly in control. Despite rising oil prices, inflation is within the mandated range. The Government is firmly committed to fund the fiscal consolidation. Government debt as percentage of GDP is consistently declining. India has achieved a rating upgrade after a long wait.\nThe external sector remains robust Our foreign exchange reserves of 400 billion US dollars provided us enough cushion Global Confidence in India Total FDI inflows have increased steadily - more than 222 billion US dollars As per UNCTAD's World Investment Report, India continues to be one of the top FDI destinations in the world.\nLadies and Gentlemen\nFrom the point of a foreign investor, India counts as a very low risk political economy. The government has taken a number of steps to boost investment We have simplified rules and regulations for businesses and undertaken bold reforms. We have provided investors an environment which is efficient, transparent, reliable and predictable.\nWe have liberalized the FDI regime. Today, most sectors are automatic approval route.\nThe Goods and Services Tax is one of the most significant systemic reforms that our country has undergone It works on One Nation - One Tax principle. It reduces tax cascading, increases transparency, and adds to logistics efficiency. All of these makes it easy to invest in business\nThese and other changes have been noticed by the global fraternity. India has jumped 42 places in three years to enter the top hundred in the World Bank's Easy to Doing Business Report 2018.\nThe size and growth of the Indian market India's per capita income has doubled in the last ten years We have over 300 million middle class customers. This number is expected to double in the next ten years. The size and scale of requirements in India gives the added benefit of economies of scale for investors. For example, the housing program in India targets ten million homes in urban areas. This is more than the total requirement of a lot So the use of new technology in house construction would have added advantage, if tried in India\nAnother example of scale renewable energy program in India. We have set a target to build capacity of 175 Giga Watt of renewable energy by the year 2022. Of this, the solar energy will amount to 100 Giga Watt. And we are well on We have added more capacity to renewable energy than conventional energy in 2017. We are also making collaborative efforts in the mainstream solar energy in the form of an International Solar Alliance. The founding conference of the Alliance held in New Delhi earlier this year. The Alliance aims at a solar capacity of 1000 Giga Watt with an investment of one trillion US Dollars by 2030.\nIndia is working on e-mobility. The challenge before us is the technology, especially with respect to storage. We will be hosting a global mobility conference this year. I hope this will help us move forward.\nFriends\nIn India, we are upgrading connectivity at all levels. The Bharatmala scheme is aimed at improved road connectivity by making national corridors and highways. The Sagarmala project has been undertaken for boosting port connectivity, port modernization and port-linked industries. Dedicated Freight Corridors are being developed to set up their railway network. The Jal Marg Development Project will be augmented on capacity of navigation on National Waterways for internal trade carried out inland water transport. Our UDAN scheme works towards regional airport development and improved air connectivity. An area which I believe still remains untapped and needs attention\nWhile we talk about the conventional concept of infrastructure, I must mention some of the modern day infrastructure on which India has worked. Bharat Net is targeted at providing last internet connectivity in the country. India has over 460 million internet users and 1.2 billion mobile phones in use. We are promoting the use of digital payments. Our United Payments Interface system or UPI along with BHIM App and RuPay Card have shown the potential of digital economy in India. Through the UMANG App, more than 100 public services were made available through their mobile phone. Our Digital India Mission aims to bridge the rural-urban digital divide.\nAgriculture is the life of the Indian economy We are promoting investments in warehouses and cold chains, food processing, crop insurance and allied activities. We are promoting micro-irrigation to ensure optimal use of water. I would like AIIB to look into potential investments in this field and associate with us.\nWe aim to provide every poor and homeless house with toilet, water and electricity by the year 2022. We are also looking at various strategies for effective waste management.\nWe have also recently launched Ayushman Bharat, our National Health Protection Mission This will provide a benefit cover of over 7000 dollars annually to more than 100 million poor and vulnerable families. The resulting expansion of health care facilities will lead to the creation of a large number of jobs. This will also promote the high quality medicines, consumables and other medical technology equipment. Jobs will also be created for ancillary activities including call centers, research and evaluation and IEC activities. The whole healthcare industry will receive a boost.\nMoreover, with the government assuring healthcare benefits, the savings of a family This increased disposable income in the hands of a poor family I see great untapped potential\nFriends\nThe Indian story of economic resurgence close mirrors that many other parts of Asia. Now, the continent finds itself in the center of global economic activity. It has become the main growth engine of the world. In fact, we are living through what many have termed the 'Asian Century'\nA 'New India' is rising. It is an India that stands on the pillars of economic opportunity for all, knowledge economy, holistic development, and futuristic, resilient and digital infrastructure. We look forward to our continuous engagement with our development partners including AIIB\nIn conclusion, I hope that the interactions in this forum will be fruitful and enriching for all.\nThank you.\nI believe that India and AIIB are both strongly committed to making economic growth more inclusive and sustainable. In India, we are applying novel Public Private Partnership models, Infrastructure Debt Funds, and Infrastructure Investment Trusts to fund infrastructure: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) June 26, 2018\nIndia is one of the most investor friendly economies in the world. Investors look for growth and macro-economic stability They want political stability and a supportive regulatory framework to ensure protection of their investment: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) June 26, 2018\nFrom the perspective of large scale of operations \u0026 high value addition, an investor is also attracted by a large domestic market size, availability of skilled labour \u0026 good physical infrastructure. India is well placed and has performed well: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) June 26, 2018\nOur macro-economic fundamentals are strong prices, a robust external sector and a fiscal situation firmly in control. Despite rising oil prices, inflation is within the mandated range: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) June 26, 2018\nThe Government is firmly committed to fund the fiscal consolidation. Government debt as percentage of GDP is consistently declining. India has achieved a rating upgrade after a long wait: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) June 26, 2018\nThe external sector remains robust Our foreign exchange reserves of more than 400 billion US dollars provide us the adequate cushion. Global Confidence in India Total FDI inflows have increased steadily \u0026 India continues to be one of the top FDI destinations: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) June 26, 2018\nFrom the point of a foreign investor, India counts as a very low risk political economy. We have simplified rules and regulations for businesses \u0026 undertaken bold reforms. We have provided investors an environment which is efficient, transparent, reliable \u0026 predictable: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) June 26, 2018\nWe have set a target to build capacity of 175 GW of renewable energy by the year 2022. Of this, the solar energy capacity will amount to 100 GW. We have added more capacity to renewable energy than conventional energy in 2017: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) June 26, 2018\nAgriculture is the lifeblood of the Indian economy. We are promoting investments in warehouses and cold chains, food processing, crop insurance and allied activities. We are promoting micro-irrigation to ensure optimal use of water with increased productivity: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) June 26, 2018\nThe Indian story of economic resurgence close mirrors that many other parts of Asia. The continent finds itself at the center of global economic activity and has become the growth engine of the world. In fact, we are now living through what many term as the 'Asian Century': PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) June 26, 2018\nA 'New India' is rising. It is an India that stands on the pillars of economic opportunity for all, knowledge economy, holistic development, and futuristic, resilient and digital infrastructure: PM"