"Share\n\nEconomy is a matter of pride for us: PM Modi\nIndia and Seychelles would work together in keeping with each other's interests on the Assumption Island project: PM Modi\nIndia is committed to helping Seychelles strengthens its defence capability, ocean infrastructure and enhances the capacity of defense personnel: PM\nExcellency President Danny Faure, Honorable Member of the Seychelles delegation,\nMedia friends,\nIt is a great privilege to welcome President and his delegation. In 2015 my memories of Seychelles, which was my first visit to the Indian Ocean region, are still in my mind. That same year, then President James Mitchell also visited India.\nThese trips show our commitment to our intense strategic partnership. Since the independence of Seychelles in June 1976, we have been special relations of both democratic countries. Today, India and Seychelles are the key strategic partners of each other. We both support the core values ​​of democracy and share equally geo-strategic vision of maintaining peace, security and stability in the Indian Ocean.\nToday's talks between President and myself have been very meaningful. Seychelles has achieved the highest Human Development Index in Africa and has emerged as one of the global leaders of Blue Economy. I congratulate President on these achievements very much.\nIndia and Seychelles are connected to the Indian Ocean. The sustainable development of ocean economy in the safe maritime environment is very important for the prosperity of our citizens. Only by successfully confronting traditional and non-conventional threats, we can take advantage of opportunities provided by the ocean. In our talk of today, we have reiterated our commitment to working jointly to take full advantage of ocean based Blue Economy. There is a deep strategic convergence on cooperation between us to deal with maritime challenges.\nAs a close partner, it is our shared responsibility that we ensure mass maritime security in our EEZ and coastal areas. We are at risk from international crimes like piracy, drugs and human trafficking and illegal exploitation of maritime resources. We will increase our vigilance and cooperation against them. India is committed to strengthen Seychelles with its defense capabilities and maritime infrastructure and increase the capacity of defence personnel. From this, Seychelles will be able to deal with both traditional and non-traditional maritime challenges effectively and protect its oceanic resources. In this context, I am happy to announce the grant of US $ 100 million credit for the defense of Seychelles. With this credit, Seychelles will be able to purchase defense equipment from India to build its maritime capacity. The second Dornier aircraft I promised during my visit to Seychelles March 2015 is ready to be handed over tomorrow. Its model is now seen in front of you all. It will reach there on time to participate in the celebration of the National Day of Seychelles on June 29.\nWe agree to work together on the basis of each other's interests in relation to the Explosion Island Project. We are widely collaborating to do surrogacy hydrography to improve the availability of navigation charts. As part of this effort, we have signed an MOU today for the exchange of White Shipping Data. During our conversation today, I have reiterated India's commitment to continuing effective contributions to Seychelles national priority projects. These projects will not only improve the economy of Seychelles, but our mutual relations will be intensified in this regard.\nUnder the Special grant, India is ready to finance three civilian infrastructure projects in Seychelles. These include Government House, new Police Headquarters and Attorney General's Office.\nToday, we have also signed an MoU, under which financial assistance from Seychelles will be given to us to start some high quality, high visibility and people-centric Small Development Projects. I have assured President for that India will always be committed to increase the capability of Seychelles by providing training under ITEC and other programs for the defense personnel, including the common citizens of Seychelles. Indian experts will be sent to Seychelles on deputation in the areas set by the Seychelles. The contribution of the Indian community in the Seychelles economy is a matter of pride for us. * Our shared culture between our two countries and the people here is a matter of pride for us and it provides many possibilities to make our relations condensate. I thank the President for giving us two big alabra turtle gifts. From Seychelles, even earlier, such longevity turtles were obtained by India. They are witness to three centuries. In India, this organism, and many other animals, animals and plants of nature are seen with great reverence and love. These longevity turtles will also be a symbol of our eternal friendship and its auspicious effects.\nI warmly welcome the President and his delegation and wish their visit to India is pleasurable. I also give greetings to the President and the Seychelles on their behalf and for the National Day on June 29, on behalf of myself and also the hundred and fifty million Indians."