"Share\n\n#MannKiBaat: PM Modi appreciates Indian cricket team for their sportsman spirit and sportsmanship during test match with Afghanistan\nOne of the best ways to unite societies, find out the skills and talent that our young have, is through sports: PM #MannKiBaat\nFourth Yoga Day celebrations on 21st June were unique; People around the world performed yoga with great enthusiasm: PM Modi #MannKiBaat\n#MannKiBaat: Yoga goes beyond bounds and forms a bond with the society, says PM Modi\nEntire country was proud to see the dedication of our soldiers to perform yoga - In the waters, on the land and in the sky: PM Modi #MannKiBaat\nYoga has united people around the world by going beyond the boundaries of caste, creed and geography: Prime Minister #MannKiBaat\nYoga has helped realise the true spirit of Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam, which our saints and seers have since the centuries of propagated: PM Modi #MannKiBaat\nDoctors are our lifestyle guides; They not only cure but also heal: PM Modi during #MannKiBaat\nIndian doctors have made their capabilities and skills: Prime Minister Modi #MannKiBaat\nSant Kabirdas ji emphasized on social equality, peace and brotherhood through his writings (Dohas and Saakis): PM Modi #MannKiBaat\nSant Kabirdas ji had said - \"Do not ask the caste, ask the knowledge,\" and appealed to people and people for their knowledge: PM #MannKiBaat\nGuru Nanak Dev ji always gave the message of embracing the whole world as one and eliminating caste discrimination in the society: PM during #ManKiBaat\n2019 marks 100 years of the horrific Jallianwala Bagh massacre, an incident which embarrassed whole humanity: PM during #MannKiBaat\nViolence and cruelty can never solve by any problem: Prime Minister Modi during #MannKiBaat\nApril 13, 1919, when innocent people were killed through power of abuse, PM #MannKIBaat\nDr. Shyama Prasad Mookerjee dream of an India which was industrially self-reliant, efficient and prosperous: PM Modi during #MannKiBaat\n#MannKiBaat: For Dr. Shyama Prasad Mookerjee, integrity and unity of India was the most important thing, says PM\nGST is a prime example of cooperative federalism: Prime Minister during #MannKiBaat\nGST is the celebration of honesty; After its rollout, IT or information technology replaced Inspector Raj in tax system: PM Modi #MannKiBaat\nNamaskar. My dear countrymen, I'm fortunate once again to face the face of 'Man Ki Baat' program. Just a few days ago, a historic cricket match took place in Bengaluru. Of course you must have realized that I am referring to the test match between India and Afghanistan. It was Afghanistan's first international match and it's a matter of honor for us that the historic match for Afghanistan was played with India. Both teams performed par excellence Besides, the bowler Rashid Khan had performed very well in the IPL earlier this year. I remember Afghan President Shriman Ashraf Ghani's words on Twitter tagging me with \"The people of Afghanistan are extremely, proud of our hero Rashid Khan. I am also thankful to our Indian friends who created a platform for our players to showcase their skills \". Rashid represents what constitutes the best of Afghanistan He is an asset to the world Then he quipped \"No, we are not giving him to anyone!\" This match will remain etched in our memories for a long time. Anyway, being the first match, it is naturally memorable, but I will cherish it for a special reason. The Indian Team What does a winning team do while receiving the trophy? The Indian team, while receiving the trophy, warmly invited the Afghanistan team who had played its first international match together for photographs. This event exemplifies the very spirit of sportsmanship Sports is a great way to unite society and to showcase the talents \u0026 skills of our youngsters. I felicitate both the teams of India \u0026 Afghanistan I will definitely hope, that in future too, we'll play with each other.\nMy dear countrymen, this 21st of June, the fourth Yoga Day presented the rarest of sights. The whole world appeared as one entity In the European Parliament in Brussels, at the UN headquarters in New York, on Japanese naval warships, there were sights of people doing yoga. Saudi Arabia witnessed its first, historical program and I am told many women. On the snow capped mountain peaks of Ladakh, Indian and Chinese soldiers performed yoga in unison. Yoga breaks all the borders and unites people Zealous citizens of hundreds of lands overlooked divisions of caste, religion, region, color and gender to change this festival in a massive festival. If people from the whole world ardently participated in programs, Yoga day, why should not be elated many times over?\nIt is a great honor for a hundred and twenty five crore people to witness members of our armed forces on yoga on land, sea \u0026 sky. A section of our brave soldiers did yoga in submarines; Some of them were selected for the snow clad mountainous terrain of Siachen for the same. Some 15 thousand feet above the earth, our air warriors astounded everyone. Spectacular was the fact that He achieved this feat not an airplane but while floating mid air. Schools, colleges, offices, parks, skyscrapers, playgrounds came alive- as yoga venues. Heartwarming was an instance in Ahmedabad. Around 750 divyang brothers and sisters assembled at one place to do yoga and thus created a world record. Yogahas broken barriers of caste, creed and geography to unite the people of the world, which is the very essence of real sentiment Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam that we have Our Rishis, sages and saints have laid emphasis on certain tenets; yoga has proved them in a concrete way I believe that the concept of wellness today is bringing about a revolution. I hope the campaign of wellness through yoga will gain further momentum More and more people will come forward to make their lives.\nMy dear countrymen, many of them have urged me on my gov and Narendra Modi app to mention Doctor's Day, the 1st of July. You are absolutely right. We think of troubles But this is a day when the nation celebrates the achievements of our doctors and expresses gratitude for their spirit of service and commitment towards society. We are a people who, by nature, revere the Mother as the equivalent of god since she is the source of our existence, our life. On the other hand, there are times when it is the Doctor who gives us re-birth. The role of a doctor is not limited to mere treatment of sickness Often a doctor plays the role of a family friend, a lifestyle guide. They not only cure but also heal. Today, doctors possess not just medical expertise; They have a vast experience on the co-relation between general lifestyle trends and their effect on our health. Indian doctors have crafted a niche for themselves in the whole world through their capabilities and skills. Our doctors have gained recognition for their expertise in the medical field, hardworking attitude and the ability to solve complex medical problems. Through Man's Ki Baat I extend my warmest felicitations on behalf of the countrymen to all our doctors, ahead of Doctor's Day on the 1st of July.\nMy dear countrymen, as a people, we are truly blessed to be born in this land, Bhoomi of India, India. India has had a rich historical canvas Every single month, every single day in fact, is a marker of an historical event or the other. Every place in India is replete with signposts of heritage. Every place has been blessed with a saint, a luminary or a great, famous personality who has contributed through his sagacity.\nThank you very much for your phone call It is correct that I am reaching Maghar on the 28th. I am sure you know about Kabirwad in Gujarat when I used to work there, I had organized a national session of people related to the tradition of saint Kabir. Once again I had been blessed with the opportunity to visit, this shrine. You must be aware that in eastern Uttar Pradesh, there is a place called Maghar. It is here that Sant Kabir Das ji attained Samadhi. Do you know why Kabir Das ji chose to go to Maghar? In those days it was believed that death in Maghar was a roadblock in one's pathway to heaven. On the opposite, breathing was the last in Kaashi. Maghar was considered unholy but Sant Kabirdas never subscribed to that view. He did not relentlessly quell many such superstitions and evil social customs of his times. That is why he went to Magadh and selected to reach Samadhi there. Sant Kabir Das ji, through his verses 'Saakis' and 'Dohas' stressed on the virtues of social equality, peace and brotherhood. These were his ideals We can feel the essence of these ideals in his compositions. They are relevant \u0026 inspiring even in modern times I quote a doha\nKabir Kaspersir is, JoJenPaperPer.\nJoparparinjanahi, Sokapirampeer ||\nThe True Saint is the one who recognizes and understands the sufferings of others. Those people who are insensitive, uncompassionate Kabir Das ji laid great emphasis on social cohesion. He was a good man. In those days, when the whole world was undergoing conflict and the morality values, he spread the message of peace \u0026 harmony He worked towards uniting the populace, bridging his differences.\n\"The world does not belong to the world,\nThis is inappropriate, compassionate \"\nThere will be no enmity in the world\nCompassion should be the universal way of life.\nIn another doha, Kabir has written\nZodiacal armor\nWhere is the crystal, where are you in the sky\nCompassion leads to righteousness,\nAnger is sure to devour you,\nForgiveness is a great virtue\nHe said\nJatin prefixes, inquisitorial\nNever ask a class his caste or creed;\nAsk him about his repository of knowledge\nHe appealed to people to rise above divisions of religion and caste and make knowledge and wisdom the sole basis of recognition. His teachings are relevant even after many centuries have gone. Since we are referring to Sant Kabir Das ji, I am reminded of a doha couplet in which he says,\n\"Gurugovinddoukhakhayelagalgumpai |\nBalihari guru you, Govinddiyobayya \"||\nSuch is the great status accorded to the Guru, the teacher. And one such guru is Jagatguru, Guru Nanak Dev. He showed us the path of millions, inspiring them for centuries. Guru Nanak Dev's teachings endeavored to eradicate caste based discrimination in prevalent in society. He perceived humankind as one and urged humanity.\nGuru Nanak Devji said that the service to the poor and the needy is service to God Wherever he went, he took many initiatives for the welfare of the society. The establishment of a kitchen free of social discrimination where a person of any caste, sect, religion or community could eat or what we know as the langarsystem was initiated solely by Guru Nanak Dev Ji. The 550th Prakash Parv of Guru Nanak Dev Ji will be celebrated in 2019. I would like to join this great festival with enthusiasm and fervor. To celebrate this festival in the whole Indian society and around the world I also urge you to suggest new ideas, new concepts, and innovations on which we can ponder and make preparations and thus we can also celebrate the Prakash parv as Prena Parv with great pride. .\nMy dear countrymen! The history of India's struggle for independence is very long There is another chapter in history. In the year 2019, 100 years of the horrific incident of Jallianwala Bagh will come to a full circle, it was an incident that shrouded the whole humanity. Who can forget that dark day of April 13, 1919, when abusing all limits of power, crossing all the boundaries of cruelty; Theguiltless, unarmed and innocent people were fired on How can we remember the completion of 100 years of this horrific event is something we canall give a thought, but this is the eternal message that this incident has been given - remember that violence and cruelty never solve any problem. It is peace and non-violence, renunciation and martyrdom that triumphant in the end!\nMy dear countrymen! Mr. Raman Kumar of Rohini, Delhi, has written on 'Narendra Modi Mobile App' that oncoming July 6 happens to Dr. Shyama Prasad Mukherjee's birthday and he wants me to talk about Dr. Shyam Prasad Mukherjee in this episode of Mann Ki Baat Thank you very much, Raman ji It feels great You know, yesterdayjune 23, was the death anniversary of Dr. Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Dr. Shyama Prasad Mukherjee was associated with many fields, but the areas which were the closest to his heart, education and parliamentary affairs, very few people know that he is only 33 years of age at the University of Calcutta for the youngest vice-chancellor .\nVery few people will be knowing that in 1937, on the invitation of Dr. Shyama Prasad Mukherjee, Gurudev Rabindranath Tagore addressed the convocation in Kolkata University in Bangla. This was the first time under British rule that the University of Kolkata was addressed in Bangla. From 1947 to 1950, Dr. Shyama Prasad Mukherjee was the first Industries minister of India and, in a sense, Helayed a strong foundation for India's industrial development, he had prepared a solid base, it was he who had prepared a stout platform. The first industrial policy of Independent India, which came in 1948, was stamped with his ideas and vision. Dr. Mukherjee's dream was for India to be industrially self-dependent, competent and prosperous in every sphere.\nHe had wanted India to develop heavy industries and also pay attention to MSME, handloom, textiles and cottage industry. For the proper development of cottage and small industries with financial availability and organizational setup- All India Handcuffs Board, All India Handloom Board and Khadi \u0026 Village Industries Board, established between 1948 and 1950. There was also a special emphasis on Dr. Mukherjee on indigenization of India's defense production, in the establishment of four most successful mega projects- Chittaranjan locomotive works factory, Hindustan aircraft factory, Sindri fertilizer factory and Damodar Valley Corporation and other river valley projects, Dr. Shyama Prasad Mukherjee contributed significantly He was very passionate about the development of West Bengal. It was the result of his understanding, prudence and activism that a part of Bengal could be saved and it is still a part of India.\nFor Dr. Shyama Prasad Mukherjee, the most important thing was the integrity and unity of India - and for this, at the young age of 52, he also sacrificed his life. Come! Let us forever remember Dr. Shyama Prasad Mukherjee's message of unity imbued with the spirit of goodwill and brotherhood and remain proactive with our progress for India.\nMy dear countrymen! During the past few weeks, I had the opportunity to interact with the beneficiaries of different plans. I got a chance to know beyond the confines of the files the changes are getting in the way. People talk about their determination, their happiness and their achievements I believe that this was not a governmental program for me, but it was a unique learning experience and during this time the joy of seeing people's faces with joy, can be the greatest satisfaction in anyone's life? When I would listen to the stories of a common man, his guileless words narrating his experience would touch my heart.\nIn far-distant villages, daughters are providing services ranging from pension to issuance of passport to senior citizens through the aegis of common service centers. Asister from Chhattisgarh collects custard apple and does business by making its ice cream. Like Anjan Prakash in Jharkhand, many lakhs of youth besides running the Yuva - Jan Aushidhi Kendras in the country are providing affordable medicines in the nearby villages. At the same time a young man from West Bengal desperately seeking a job two to three years ago is now a successful entrepreneur; And not only this is a job to ten to fifteen people. While young school students from Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Goa is working on a great topic like waste management in their school's tinkering lab. I just did not know how many such stories were shared with me, there was not a single corner of the country where people did not have a success story. I am glad that in this whole program I witnessed the achievements of the common man more than the achievements of the government, the country's power, the power of New India's dreams, the power of the resolution of the new India - this is what I experienced!\nThere are some people in society, who find no peace until they do not express their frustrated views, their depressed views and seek ways to divide rather than unite. In such an environment, when the common man comes to you talking about emerging hope, new zeal and events that have taken place in his life, it is not the government's credit An incident regarding a small village from a remote village too can be inspire the hundred and twenty five crore people. With the help of technology, through the video bridge even a single moment spent by the beneficiaries was very fun, very motivational and provided satisfaction to work more. There is a renewed joy in your life for the upliftment, and you're left with renewed fervour and inspiration.\nI am very grateful to the countrymen 40-50 lakh people participated in this video bridge program and received a new strength. I want to express my gratitude\nMy dear countrymen! I always feel that if we look around, somewhere or something Many good people We can also smell the fragrance of righteousness. In the past, one thing came to my attention and it is a very unique combination. On one hand, where we have been professionals and engineers, there were farmers, tilling the fields, our brothers-sisters associated agriculture. Now you must be wondering that these are two completely different occupations - what is the relation between these professions? But there exists a link, in Bangalore, corporate professionals and IT engineers came along and created an effortless 'Samridhi Trust' with which they have doubled the trust of this trust of successful activation by farmers. This trust was associated with farmers, The training to inculcate organic farming while teaching the latest farming techniques for the farmers in the fields. The farmers who were initially used to depend on the same single cash crop in their fields and that too was not too good for their profit, but they are not only growing vegetables but also marketing their own vegetables and getting good prices through the trust. Farmers producing grains have also become associated with this trust.\nOn one hand, farmers have a major role in the whole chain from the cultivation till the marketing of crops, while on the other hand, to make certain the farmers' participation in reaping profits is their right of guarantee of an attempt. A separate seed bank has been made to make good agricultural strains available for reaping a bumper harvest. Women have also been added to this activity and they supervise the work of this seed-bank. I congratulate these young people for this innovative experiment and I am happy that these young professionals, technocrats and others associated with the world of engineering, got out of their comfort zone to the farmer, the village, fields and barns.\nFriends! Your young-power Many other young people of our country will definitely visit your website and look at their areas of social areas. I once again felicitate the youth of my country for their innovative experiments, some of whom have had the ability to know, some people have escaped me, some people may or may not be aware of , very good luck from my side\nMy dear countrymen! It's been a year when GST was implemented. 'One Nation, One Tax' was the dream of the country today. If I have to give credit to anyone for successful implementation of 'One Nation One Tax Reform', then I credit the states of our nation GST is a great example of Cooperative Federalism, where all the states have decided to take a unanimous decision in the interest of the nation, and then such a huge tax reform can be implemented in the country. So far, there were 27 meetings of the GST Council and we can all feel proud that people from different political ideologies have been involved in these meetings. These meetings involve representatives of different states; states which have different priorities, but in spite of all this, all the decisions that have been taken in the GST Council Before the beginning of GST scheme, there were 17 different types of taxes, but now only one tax is applicable in the whole country. GST is not only the victory of integrity but it is also a celebration of honesty. Earlier, in the case of taxation and allied matters in the country, there were rampant complaints of Inspector Raj\nIn the GST scheme, information technology has replaced the inspector. Everything from return to refund is done through online information technology The check post has become extinct after the GST scheme and the movement of goods has become faster, which is not only saves but also is accruing benefits in the area of ​​logistics. GST is probably the biggest tax reform in the world. The successful implementation of such a huge tax reform in India was successful only because the people of the country adopted it and the power of the masses, fuelled the success of the GST scheme. It is generally believed that such a big tax reform, in a huge country like ours with such a large population takes 5 to 7 years for effective adoption. However within a year, the enthusiasm of the honest people of the nation, the celebration of integrity in the country and the participation of people resulted in this new tax system for making a space itself, stability achieved and according to the need, it will bring reform through its inbuilt arrangement This is a huge success in itself which is 125 crore Indians who have earned themselves.\nMy dear countrymen! Once again, while concluding this episode, I will wait for the next chapter of 'Man Ki Baat', of meeting you and talking to you. I wish you many felicitations\nThank you very much\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) June 24, 2018\nPM @narendramodi lauds the Indian cricket team for their gesture during the test match against Afghanistan. #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/3c0aTcZhWo"