"\nMetro in Delhi has positively impacted the lives of citizens: PM\nThere is a direct link between connectivity and development; Metro will mean more jobs: PM\nUnion Government has brought out a policy relating to Metros, to bring uniformity and standardization in Metro rail networks across the country: PM\nOur aim is to boost \"Make in India\" by making metro rail coaches in India itself: PM Modi\nMetro systems are a example of cooperative federalism, the Center and the respective State Govts are working together: PM Modi\nNew India requires new and smart infrastructure, PM is on working roads, railways, highways, airways, waterways and i-ways: PM Modi\nFirst of all many-many congratulations to all of you, to the people of Haryana and Delhi for operationalization of Bahadurgarh-Mundka Metro Line.\nToday, Bahadurgarh in Haryana has been linked with Delhi Metro. After Gurugram and Faridabad, Bahadurgarh is the third large area of ​​Haryana which has now been connected with Delhi Metro. Today, the length of Metro network in Haryana is 26 km.\nFriends,\nEveryone who has ever traveled in Delhi Metro is a witness to the fact that how Delhi Metro has changed the lives of people I have several times travelled in Delhi Metro. The people travelling on Bahadurgarh-Mundka line will also experience this thing from today onwards.\nPeople in Bahadurgarhhave were waiting for the Metrobecause of the Riddevelopment of industries there. Also, many colleges, institutes and universities are located in Bahadurgarh and a lot of students from Delhi travel to Bahadurgarh daily. Now it will become much easier for the millions of entrepreneurs, students and people engaged in different professions in this area to Delhi.\nUsually Bahadurgarh has been called the Gateway of Haryana, however, this Metro line has reached as a Gateway of Development.\nWhen industries will grow, this Metro will make people's life easier, new colonies will be established, and new avenues of employment will be created. The relationship between connectivity and development\nAt present, 280 kilometers long Metro is operational in Delhi. The rapid pace with which it has been expanding, very soonDelhi will be known for the fifth largest Metro Network after Shanghai, Beijing, London and New York.\nFriends, the dream that has been realized in Delhi, the kind of results of unshakable resolvesare being witnessed by the people of Delhi-NCR, the same kind of efforts are made throughout the country.\nBefore the biggest drawback in the Metro related work was that this work was done in a different way. There was no policy for the Metro and the work related to it. And that is why there was no set parameters Different departments of the interests of the politicians used to decide as per their interests.\nNow all these things have been taken into consideration after the first Metro Policy of the country in 2017. Entire transport system of cities has been integrated so that people have a station from one to another in going to problem to their offices or homes Now, if the Metro is being developed anywhere in the country, it will be developed on the same set of standards.\nFriends, it is the commitment of this government to provide a smart, easy, affordable and clean public transport system in the cities as per the requirements of the 21st century.\nToday, the Metro Network has been expanded into the 12 cities of the country. State governments have been promoted to different cities of the country In addition to this metro coaches are also being manufactured in the country.\nModern plants have been set up in Vadodara in Gujarat and Chennai in Tamil Nadu. The government has amended the procurement policy to encourage the Make in India scheme in metro projects and now it has been made mandatory for almost 75% of items that have been produced in India.\nFriends,\nMetro Network has been a great example of international relations and cooperation. Earlier several countries of the world helped us in the development of metro network and now India is gearing up to supply metro coaches to many countries of the world.\nNot only is the international relations but it is also a great example of this thing that the cooperative federalism works. Today, ifmetro network is being developed in any state of the country, it is being developed with the active participation of the center and state governments.\nFriends,\nIf we talk about Delhi-NCR then the speed with which Metro Network has been developed, it has removed the requirements of 6 lakh vehicles per day.\nThe metro has saved people's money and time. In addition to the metro, the government has been working to revamp the whole transport system in Delhi-NCR and develop it as per the requirements of the people.\nThe work on regional rapid transport system is also being done to connect Delhi to Sonipat, Alwar and Meerut through high speed rail.\nIn addition to this, the work on a network of expressways around Delhi is also being done at a fast speed. People have been making effort to finish that work.\nA few days ago, I have been dedicated to the project - Eastern Peripheral Express way. The work on Western Peripheral Express way in Haryana is also being done. The peripheral expressway has reduced the number of small and large vehicles passing through Delhi by 25-30%.\nWhile it has definitely reduced traffic, it has also brought down a major factor responsible for pollution.\nBrothers and sisters,\nA new and smart infrastructure for a new India is a commitment of this government.\nThe maximum investment in the infrastructure related roads, railways, waterways has been done in the last four years. Emphasis has been placed on improving connectivity from Kargil to Kanyakumari, from Kutch to Kamakhya. Whether these are the longest tunnels or the largest bridges, all these things are completed in time after one. The work forbuilding is 35,000 kilometers long modern highways has started in the India Mala project.\nIn the near future, while on the one hand more than 100 waterways, bullet trains will bring about a major change in the country's transport system on the other hand small towns developed in the small towns of the sky to reach the people's courage. This modern infrastructure will help our cities to become the center of growth in the 21st century. The more infrastructure will be strengthened, the more convenient the connectivity will become, the more support different modes of transport will provide the more easier the lives of people will become, more opportunities for employment creation and business will be created\nFriends,\nActive participation of all of you, the common people, is extremely essential in the efforts made by the government. Otherwise, it is not possible.\nPlease come forward, let us make even more efforts for the development.\nOnce again many-many congratulations to the people of Haryana and Bahadurgarh, May our citizens take advantage of it and get rid personal vehicles.\nI conclude my speech"