"\nPM Modi inaugurates the Mohanpura Irrigation Project \u0026 several other projects in Rajgarh, Madhya Pradesh\nIt is my privilege to inaugurate the Rs. 4,000 crore Mohanpura irrigation project for the people of Madhya Pradesh, says PM Modi\nUnder the leadership of CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan, Madhya Pradesh has written the new saga of development: PM\nIn Madhya Pradesh, 40 lakh women have been benefited from #UjjwalaYojana, says PM Modi in Rajgarh\nDouble engines of Bhopal, New Delhi are pushing Madya Pradesh towards newer heights: PM Modi\nGreetings to all of you!\nMy dear brothers and sisters of Rajgarh who are present here in large numbers,\nIt is a blessing for me and my colleagues who have gathered here in large numbers too in this scorching heat in the month of June. I appreciate your love Your energy and blessings have always encouraged the members of Bharatiya Party I am fortunate to have had the opportunity of launching the Mohanpura irrigation project worth Rs.4000 crore along with the three major water supply projects. I salute and congratulate every one of them with these projects, from people carrying the bricks on their heads to the brothers, sisters and mothers who used the spade for digging and those small and big machines. Their commitment to this virtuous work of nation building is unparalleled.\nMy dear brothers and sisters,\nLaunching the projects by pressing the button is only a formality These were really launched by your hard work and sweat. Taking decisions of public welfare, The Indian government has successfully completed four years of service on your blessings and hard work. Your presence in such large numbers is the proof of the fact that you have tremendous faith in the government of India and its policies. People who are spreading lies, confusion and pessimism are not aware of the ground realities.\nIt is a coincidence that the death anniversary of the great personality Dr. Shyama Prasad Mukherjee falls on today, the 23rd June. It is on this day he died in Kashmir under mysterious circumstances On this occasion, I would like to commemorate, salute and pay tributes to him\nBrothers and sisters,\nDr. Shyama Prasad Mukherjee used to say, \"Any nation can protect only by its own energy.\" He had immense faith in the country's resources and the talent of the people. His vision of pulling the people out of disappointment and desperation that followed after independence still inspires crores of people As the country's first Industries and Supplies Minister, he had framed the country's first Industrial Policy He used to say, \"If the government, the educational institutions of the country and the industrial organizations together promote, the country will soon become financially independent.\" His work, thoughts and ideas related to the fields of education, women empowerment and atomic energy were forward ahead of his time. The paths showcased the importance of public participation in the country's development still holds relevance.\nFriends,\nDr. Shyama Prasad Mukherjee used to say, \"The biggest duty of government is to serve the poor, the homeless and uplift their standard of living.\" This is the reason why he had done a significant work on land reforms while he was the finance minister of Bengal. He used to believe that governance should be fulfilled.\nDr. Shyama Prasad Mukherjee had emphasized on education, health and security. He used to say, \"government should provide adequate facilities from early education to higher education and to create an environment to bring out the hidden talent in the youth so that they canactively serve their villages and towns.\" In Dr. Shyama Prasad Mukherjee's life\nIt is unfortunate for our country that only a great family of contributions, contributions of many great sons of Mother India were deliberately suppressed and their contributions were made to the minds of the people.\n\nFriends,\nThe vision of the government and the IndianJanata Party is not different from that of Dr. Mukherjee You will get a glimpse of Dr. Mukherjee's vision in schemes such as Skill India Mission, Start-up India mission, MUDRA Yojana for providing bank loans without guarantee for promoting self-employment or Make in India\nYour Rajgarh District will not be known as a backward district. The government has decided to develop it as one of the aspirational districts. Now work in the areas of health, education, cleanliness, nutrition, water conservation and agriculture will be expedited here.\nUnder the National Rural Health Mission, the essential amenities are theaspirational districts. The government is now trying to ensure that every village in these districts has got gas connections under the scheme, power connections under the scheme, bank accounts under Jan Dhan Yojana, insurance coverage and vaccination of pregnant women and children under Mission Indradhanush.\nFriends,\nThese things had been done before No one had stopped them However, the party that had ruled for maximum period of time did not believe in you and your hard work. It never believed in the country's capability\nTell me; did this center government ever say the last four years? Did we ever say that something was not possible? We have always taken steps to complete our results.\nTherefore, brothers and sisters,\nWe believe in moving forward with hope and faith.\nFriends,\nThis government is committed and working hard to take the nation to new heights of development in the 21st century, keeping in mind the requirements of the country and believing in its resources.\nThe central government in the last four years and the BJP government of the last 13 years has done the work for empowering the poor, the backward, the oppressed and the deprived sections of the society and the farmers. In the last 5 years, the average annual growth of agriculture in MP is about 18% which is the highest in the country. Madhya Pradesh tops in the production of pulses, oilseeds, gram, soybean, tomatoes and garlic in the country. Madhya Pradesh ranks 2 in the production of wheat, arhar, mustard, amla and coriander and are about to make its way to the top.\nMadhya Pradesh has written a new saga of development under the rule of Shivrajji. The launch of Mohanpura irrigation project and the commencement of the work on the three water supply schemes, is an important part of this episode. This is one of the greatest projects of not only Rajgarh but also of Madhya Pradesh.\nFriends,\nFarmer brothers and sisters of about 725 villages will benefit from this project 1.25 lakh hectares of land of these villages will not only have irrigation facilities but 400 villages will also get rid of the problem of drinking water scarcity. This means we will be showered with the blessings of lakhs of mothers and sisters. No one can understand the problem of water scarcity better than mothers and sisters In a way, this is the highest level of service to mothers and sisters.\nThis project is not only an example of rapid pace of development but also an evidence of the government's way of accomplishing tasks. This project has been completed almost within 4 years. Micro-irrigation This means instead of open open the pipeline.\nBrothers and sisters,\nThere is a saying in Malwa - 'Malavataragataggan, Critical, Doug-Dagroti, Pag-Pagniar.' This is a old saying. It means that there was a time when there was no shortage of grains or water on the land of Malwa. Water was available at every step. However, due to the lapse of the previous governments, water became scarce here. However, in the past few years under BJP government led by Shivrajji, serious efforts were made to revive the old identity of Malwa and Madhya Pradesh\nFriends,\nIn 2007, barely an area of ​​7.5 lakh hectares used to be irrigated by the irrigation projects in Madhya Pradesh. Under Shivrajji's governance, it has increased to 40 lakh hectares. I would also like to tell the viewers on television that is now the state government is planning to double it by 2024. The government is spending 70,000 crore rupees to extend the micro-irrigation system.\nI want to reassure you that efforts will be made more than the target and the central government will move hand-in-hand with you\nMadhya Pradesh is also benefitting from the Pradhan MantriKrishiSinchaiyojana. Under the scheme, work is going on in 14 projects in the state. Madhya Pradesh has been given Rs.1400 crores under this project The mission of 'per drop more crop' is the help of this scheme. As a result of the hard work over the past 4 years, area under micro-irrigation has increased to 25 lakh hectares across the country out of which 1.5 lakh hectares of land belongs to Madhya Pradesh.\n\nFriends,\nYou must have noticed that I am talking to different people in government schemes with the help of video technology and NAMO app Just three days back I got the opportunity to talk to the farmers and sisters of Jhabua in this program. One of the farmer sisters from Jhabua told me about her increased tomato production.\nFriends,\nThe villages and farmers of the country play a significant role in the dream of building a New India. Hence, efforts are being made to farmers in the emergence of a new India. Steps have been taken from the market.\nFriends,\nNearly 14 crore soil health cards were distributed across the country in the last four years of which onecrore was given 25 lakhs of milk and milk products. With the help of these cards, farmer brothers are now able to know the apt quantity of fertilizers that are required for their soil. Similarly, more than 35 lakh farmers of Madhya Pradesh are availing the benefits of Pradhan MantriFasalBimaYojana.\nAll the mandis are now being linked to an online market i.e. the e-NAM platform to provide fair prices Till date around 600 mandis have been linked to the e-NAM platform. Today, 58 mandis of Madhya Pradesh have also been linked to it. That day is not far when the farmers will be able to sell their products' Common Service centers or mobile phones.\nBrothers and sisters,\nThe government has been taking steps to uplift the standards of the villages and the poor. Relentless efforts are being made specially for the mothers and sisters belonging to the Dalit, tribal and backward communities to help them get rid of the poisonous fumes.\nMore than fourcrore mothers and sisters have received free lipg cylinders for their kitchens till date. Even in Madhya Pradesh, about 40 lakh women have been given free gas connections.\nFriends,\nThis government has great respect for hard work. Today, the government of India is concerned about the entrepreneurs capable of producing maximum jobs. Although some people have a negative attitude toward labor.\nToday under the MUDRA scheme, the small entrepreneurs are able to get loans without guarantee. More than 85 lakh people of Madhya Pradesh have been benefited by this scheme.\nBrothers and sisters,\nThese double engines of development in Delhi and Bhopal are carrying Madhya Pradesh ahead.\nI clearly remember that once a highly disobedient word was associated with the Central Government. The word was 'BIMARU', which no one liked to listen Madhya Pradesh was included in the 'diseased' states of the country. Congress, that had been ruling for a long time, had never realized that it was an insult that was oppressed on Madhya Pradesh.\nThey used to consider the general public as their public and made them sing their praises. They did not pay any attention to the future of Madhya Pradesh\nHowever, The IndianJanata Party government has pulled out of that condition and made it a partner in the country's development. You have elected Shivrajji to this post but he has been working for a servant.\nI congratulate the people of Madhya Pradesh and its Government for the path of success.\nOnce again my best wishes to you all. Thank you very much\nClose your fists and say with me loudly-\nVictory to Mother India!"