"\nPM Modi lays foundation stone for new office complex for Vanijya Bhawan\nWe are breaking the silos within the work of the government; We are moving from silos to solutions: PM Modi\nIt is our collective responsibility to fulfill the aspirations of our youth: PM\nIndia is now playing an important role in the global economy, says PM\nEfforts must be made to grow domestic production, to reduce imports: PM\nMy colleague in the Council of ministers, Commerce and Industries Minister, Shri Suresh Prabhu Ji, Minister of Housing and Urban Affairs, Mr. Hardeep Singh Puri, Minister of State for Commerce and Industries Shri CR Chaudhari Ji, Officials of Commerce and other relevant Ministries and the dignitaries present here.\nFirst of all I congratulate all of you for the foundation stone for the Vanijya Bhawan. The work on it has started today and as I have been told on the dais that the work will be completed by December next year. I believe that Vanijya Bhawan will be constructed within the stipulated time and very soon people are going to start getting its benefits.\nFriends, why I am talking about the time before the other, because I have got the opportunity to either the foundation stone or the opportunity to inaugurate them during the tenure of this government, one common thing. The common thing was that the buildings of the government And the difference between a country moving towards a new India and the old system can also be these things from gauged.\nFriends, I would like to give some examples. I remember that Pravasi Bharati was dedicated to the people in 2016 but for the announcement it was made at the time of Atal Bihari Vajpayee. It took 12 years to build that building. The decision to build Dr. Ambedkar International Center which was dedicated to public last year was taken in 1992. However, its foundation was laid in 2015. It was dedicated to the public in 2017. It means it took 23-24 years to construct.\nFriends,\nI have given the new building of Central Information Commission to the nation in March this year. The demand for a new building for CIC was made 12 years back. But the construction was started by this NDA government and it was finished within the stipulated time.\nThere is another example of Ambedkar National Memorial built on the Alipur Road. This building too was dedicated to the public two months ago. The discussion for the year has come as a surprise, but, after the end of the year,\nThe story of these four symbols, the buildings in Delhi is that when the government does not function in silos, when all the departments, all the ministries work together by their silos then work is done fast. The country has moved ahead of the tendency of putting hurdles, creating confusions and delaying things.\nI am happy that today is the fifth symbol to Delhi.\nThis is my wish that the work of breaking the silos in every field of commerce will be done in an even better way. And I am confident that it will be materialized.\nFriends, today India is a very critical juncture. Our demographic dividend can be a matter of envy for any country Our youths provide a new energy to our democracy These young people are the foundation of the 21st century India Fulfillment of their hopes and aspirations is not the responsibility of just a few ministries but it is a collective responsibility of all of us\nIndia has lost the opportunity for the last century. There were many reasons behind that at that time. However, now there are equal numbers of causes, which is why India can become one of the leading countries. The fourth industrial revolution, digital technology is the basis for the revolution, which is also called the fourth industrial revolution, and India is definitely ahead of many countries in this field.\nToday, you will find that digital technology is the main thing in realizing all the goals, among all the things done by the Ministry of Commerce. Take the example of this Vanijya Bhavan. The land on which this building will be built, it was already under the control of the Directorate General of Supplies and Disposals. Now this is more than 100 years old, it is the digital technology - government-e-Marketplace- GeM. GeM is fully revolutionized the way\nToday, more than 1.17 lakh companies, small and large sellers, have joined this platform. More than five lakh orders were made to sell through GeM Goods worth more than Rs. 8,700 crore have been purchased through GeM in a very short span of time.\nThe Ministry of Commerce deserves to be praised for the way it has given the opportunity to small entrepreneurs located in far-flung areas of the country. However, I think it's the beginning of a long journey for you people.\nHow GeM can be further expanded, how it can take the country's MSME sector and small enterprises towards international commerce, a lot still needs to be done in this regard. Today, the presence of more than 40 billion smart phones, the growing number of internet users and cheap data, all these things are even easier\nFriends, there is a saying in our country that: Bharah Samarthanam Kim Door Vyavasayinam, it means that nothing is heavy for a powerful person Similarly, no place is far away for businessmen Today, the technology has made business so easy. The more this technology will be used in the country's business culture\nWe have seen that in less than a year the GST has changed the way business is done in India. Would it have been possible if the technology was not there? No. Today, the number of people joining the indirect tax regime has been expanding at a very fast pace because of GST.\nWhile only 60 lakh people were linked to our country's indirect tax system since independence, more than 54 lakh people have applied for 11 months of GST in implementing it and out of this 47 lakh more people are already GST with registered. So the total number of registered entities have already crossed one crore\nThis also shows that there is good results once things are simplified, once the path of Minimum Government, Maximum Governance followed. More and more people will now join the mainstream of development.\nFriends, you are aware that in the last four years the government has successfully implemented a friendly, development friendly and investment friendly environment. India's macroeconomic indicators remain stable despite a lot of global challenges - be it inflation or fiscal deficit or the current account balance - all the indicators have improved in the previous government during the numbers in comparison.\nToday, India is playing an important role in the world economic growth. The Economic Development of the country has reached the level of 7.7% in the last quarter. The Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) and the growth in foreign exchange reserves the last four years\nToday, India is among the top two emerging market performers in the FDI Confidence Index. Getting to the 100th spot from 142nd spot in the ease of doing business ranking, improvement of 19 points in Logistics Performance Index, getting to the 39th position in Global Competitiveness Index from the 71st position, and 21 point jump in Global Innovation Index, all these are the same vision\nYou must be aware that recently India has secured a place among the top five Fin Tech Countries However, along with these positive indices\nFriends, we need to work on our growth to get double digit growth rate of 7-8% Today the world is looking at India with the expectation that how many years India will take in the economies of the size of $ 5 trillion\nI believe that all officers in the Ministry of Commerce should take these goals as a challenge. This progress in the economic front is the common man of the country.\nThat is why you would have noticed that whenever I raise the issue of ease of trading, the easiest way of living Everything is connected with this interconnected world.\nWhen it is easy to take an electricity connection, when construction permits are granted soon, when industries, companies do not have to grapple with the processes That is why it is also a challenge for you people that whatever bottlenecks are remaining in different sectors, wherever there is work in silos, all these are as soon as possible corrected. Particularly, the problems that are being faced in the infrastructure sector, wherever the transaction cost is high, those things that act as an impediment in boosting the manufacturing, the things they lead to inexpensive services in the discretion, improve on them\nI am glad that recently the Department of Commerce has taken over the responsibility for the integrated development of logistics sector. This initiative is going to play an important role.\nFriends, having an integrated logistics action plan is the need of the hour and it's also needed for a new India. This goal can be achieved by amending the policies and current procedures.\nI have been told that the Department of Commerce has also been working on an online portal. It's extremely essential for all the ministries, for all states to work collectively to strengthen India's position in global trade and to take it to a new height This is what we call the 'Whole of Government Approach'. It needs to be adopted.\nIt is also a good step that the Council for Trade Development and Promotion has been working to create an environment in the States and Union Territories for encouraging international trade. If we want to boost India's exports then we should move forward\nI believe that the faster we move in this direction by formulating a State level export strategy, by harmonizing it with the national trade policy, by providing financial support and also by taking all stakeholders, the more it will be beneficial for the country.\nFriends, in order to increase India's presence in the international market it's extremely important to focus on new products and new markets while our traditional products and markets. We have to make ourselves strong to face the conditions in the country.\nThe results will be visible when you are moving forward while maintaining balance between short-term developmental gains and long-term sustainability. I think the midterm review related to foreign trade policy which was conducted last year, a extremely positive initiative. Every change which was made by increasing the incentives and by holding the hands of MSME sector It is also directly related to the country.\nThere is another important issue And this was the reason that I had made an appeal for Zero Defect-Zero Effect on the 15th of August in 2014 from the Red Fort. Whether it is a small factory or a big factory, every manufacturer should be encouraged for this thing that will produce such kind of products which are zero defect and nobody should send back to our exported goods. In addition to this, I had also discussed the issue of Zero Effect, it means that our products should not have any negative impact on environment\nThis awareness about the quality of product will work to bring glory to Make in India and to further strengthen the identity of a New India. You will also feel proud when you have noticed that today in the number of mobile manufacturing units in our country has increased to 120, which was just 2 in 2014, and they have been living in world class quality products.\nFriends, this is the time for accepting the challenges. The Department of Commerce should try to ensure that it will double in India's total global trade, that will take it from at least 3.4% to the present 1.6%. It's contribution to the world economy will be equal to India's GDP This will create new avenues for employment in our country and our per capita income will also go up Every department of the government and all the people of export promotion councils are here to achieve this.\nOne more solution Can we reduce our dependence on certain sectors? Whether it is import of energy or weapons and weapons in the defense sector or medical devices? Is it possible to do this through Make in India? Ten percent of the reduction in the imports through domestic manufacturing can boost the country's income by up to Rs. 3.5 lakh crore It's a effective tool for taking India's GDP growth in to double digits.\nI would like to give you an example of manufacturing of electronic goods. Whether it is a challenge for all you need to be 65% of our total requirement of electronic goods from abroad? Can you make the country self reliant in the manufacturing of electronic goods as it has done in the field of mobile phone manufacturing by accepting this challenge?\nFriends, you are also familiar with that. Emphasis has been placed on all the goods and services that are procured by all departments and institutions from domestic suppliers through an order of Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India). Every effort should be done\nAll of you, all the units of government will have to further strengthen your order. The government has taken several other important decisions Whether it is a regulatory framework or is it the regulatory framework too easy or is it the investor friendly policy or be it the stress on infrastructure and logistics, all these things are done so that India is self-dependent; so that it does not turn into a bit of the industrial revolution of the 21st century.\nMy only expectation is that this pride has been growing alongside in India, may it bring repute to the new Vanijya Bhavan which is going to be built.\nFriends, you also got one auspicious thing I got the good opportunity to plant a Bakul or Maulshri sapling in this premise. Maulshri has been respected since mythological period, it is full of numerous medicinal properties and Maulshri tree provides shade for years. I have been told that this is a plan to plant here in addition to this.\nI conclude my speech with this expectation that will give you the best of your best effort for a new India in this environment friendly environment which is equipped with modern technology.\nOnce again many-many congratulations to all of you on the construction of Vanijya Bhawan.\nThank you."