"\nYoga has become an integral part of public life in many countries: PM\nThe word Yoga, means 'to unite'; I hope that Yoga can become a binding force for the world: PM\nTraditional Indian knowledge systems, such as Yoga and Ayurveda guide us to overcome inherent weaknesses of both body and mind: PM\nYoga is not limited to exercises and postures. It involves a deep search in mind, body and spirit: PM Modi\nYoga is a deep philosophy that can help you overcome the path of salvation or freedom from worries: PM\nNamashkar, Dignitaries and invitees assembled in New York State for the inauguration of the Nature Cure Center, watching this event online and on television. Ladies and Gentlemen, Greetings on the International Yoga Day!\nThis morning, I was happy to join thousands of people from different walks of life, to celebrate this occasion, in the beautiful city of Dehradun, in the foot-hills of the Himalayas. For the last few days, I have seen pictures of people participating in the world. Indeed, in just three years, this event has grown into a world-wide public movement. It has become an integral part of public life in many countries. Its effect has been expanded far beyond its day of observation. In India, I see three different themes in the observation of International Day of Yoga. I am sure, this is the case in many other countries as well.\nFirst, it has become an offering of millions Inspired by the spirit of Yoga, they commit themselves to its pursuit.\nSecond, it is an opportunity when those, who are already introduced to Yoga, re-dedicate themselves to its pursuit\nThe third word Thousands of individuals and institutions, who have already gained from Yoga, reach out to those that are still not In the process, International Day of Yoga, is also celebrated as a festival, by many across the world. The word Yoga, means 'to unite'. So, this surge of interest in Yoga, fills me with hope. I hope that Yoga can become a binding force for the world.\nI am happy that you have chosen the International Day of Yoga, for the inauguration of this Nature Cure Center. I hope that this center will try to strengthen the elements of Yoga, in all its programs and initiatives.\nFriends,\nTraditional Indian knowledge systems, such as Yoga and Ayurveda, help us stay healthy. They guide us to overcome the weaknesses of both body and mind. These are systems, which treat people with care and respect. Their approach is not intrusive nor abrupt It often comes as a refreshing change to those conventional treatment therapies. Modern life takes place on the mind The focus of conventional systems of healthcare, unfortunately, is more on cure, rather than on prevention. There is no denying that we need conventional medicine to address the huge health challenges today. But it is also a fact that there are gap areas that remain un-addressed. Healthcare specialists all over the world now appreciate the fact that Yoga and Ayurveda can complement the traditional medicine system very well. These holistic systems focus on wellness and disease prevention. Adoption of these holistic practices leads to increased health and wellness in individuals and in communities Contrary to the perception of some people, Yoga is not limited to exercises and postures. It involves a deep search in mind, body and spirit. It's a big understanding of one-self. This leads further to social discipline, and in turn to ethics and enduring values ​​of life. Yoga is a deep philosophy that can help you to walk on salvation or freedom from worries.\nFriends,\nI have always believed that Yoga has no religion. It contains practical steps which can benefit everyone, even those who do not consider themselves religious. Modern Yoga practices These include moral and ethical principles, postures designed to keep the body fit, spiritual philosophy, instruction by a Guru, chanting of mantras, quieting the breath and stilling the mind through meditation. Yoga focuses on changing the lifestyle of the individual, so that lifestyle related disorders are easily prevented and managed. Experts of Yoga see its daily practice as beneficial in itself, leading to improved health, emotional well-being, mental clarity and joy in living. The belief that certain yogic postures and pranayama help to control many diseases is widely held in India. Now, modern science has stepped in to support for this. Science has also demonstrated that through Yoga, it is possible to exercise control over the functions of many organs in the body including heart, brain, and endocrine glands.\nToday, interest in Yoga is growing rapidly in western countries. It would be no exaggeration to say that Yoga has appreciated a lot by the Western world. I am told that in the USA alone, more than 20 million people are practicing Yoga and that this number is at an average of five per cent per year. Several modern medical institutes of the USA and Europe have adopted the concept of Yoga as an alternative or adjunct treatment for many disorders. Of late, a lot of research has been done in Yoga. The Government of India has committed to implement evidence of public health. Our National Health Policy, announced last year, strongly focuses on the prevention of diseases. We have also launched nation-wide programs for the prevention and control of non communicable diseases. India is a big country with the world's second largest population. The initiatives taken today may bring some results, but I am confident that tangible results will soon become visible.\nIn conclusion, I would like to say again that your nature cure facility will work to bring the benefit of Yoga, to all those who come here to comfort and relief. I am happy to note that the path-ways to wellness projected by your Center aims to address the personal concerns of the individuals It is also important I assume that respect for authenticity and faith in scientific approach is inherent to these objectives. With such an attitude, the center can contribute significantly to the wellness movement, and take the benefits of yoga It also gives me happiness to learn that your center will create five hundred direct and fifteen hundred indirect jobs in the area. It will be a responsible member of the community. I wish you all the very best for the venture\nThank you. Thank you very much\n"