"Share\n\nWe are working towards ensuring that income of our hardworking farmers double by 2022: PM Modi\nFor the first time, we have decided that MSP will be 1.5 times the input cost of farmers: PM\nThe country has seen record production of pulses, fruits, vegetables and milk: PM Modi\nDue to blue revolution, pisciculture has seen a jump of 26%: PM Modi\nWe are focussing on 'Beej Se Bazar Tak'. We are making a system which benefits farmers from the time of seeding in the markets.\nPM Modi says 'Neem coating of urea has benefited the farmers!'\nThrough E-NAM, farmers can now directly sell their produce in the markets; This has eliminated middlemen: PM Modi\nWe are promoting organic farming across the country, especially the eastern region: PM\nNamaste, my farmer brothers and sisters, Greetings.\nToday, it is a great happiness for me that I have got a rare opportunity to listen and know the experiences of our farmers, who are connected with us through 600 Agricultural Science Centers (KVKs) and also through more than 2 lakhs\nYou people have taken the time out for this thing, and I am able to see smiles on your faces and my TV screen on your enthusiasm and zeal. It is a great pleasure for me today. Farmers feed us, they provide food to people, they provide fodder to livestock and raw materials to all the industries, the whole credit for ensuring the food security of the country goes to our farmer brothers and sisters\nOur farmers work extremely hard in order to make food, however, the farmer's own development continues to be shrinking with the passage of time. From the beginning, A regular effort, a scientific effort was needed. However, that thing has been delayed by many years. In the last four years, we have made every effort in a balanced and comprehensive manner, to provide good quality seeds to farmers, to farmers to provide them and also to our farmers from electricity to water from access to market. And we have decided that we need to move ahead of the target of doubling the farmer's income by 2022; that we need to move forward by amending the old policies of the government; that we need to move forward by overcoming the difficulties and impediments\nAnd when we talked about the doubling the farmer's income then there was a lot of people They said: It's not possible, it is very difficult, how this thing can be done; and they created an atmosphere of gloom However, we have resolved this thing I have faith in farmers of the country, if they are ready for them Farmers are ready to work hard and produce results and they have shown it in the past.\nIn order to achieve this, we have set a target and a continuous effort is to be made in that direction by all the farmers. In order to realize, this thing has been placed on four things. First: how to minimize the cost of cultivation Second: How to make the fair prices for his produce Third: prevent the wastage of his produce And the fourth thing is to provide alternatives to supplement his income in addition to farm income.\nThe government has taken a significant decision in this year's budget. The government has decided that the MSP for the scheduled crops will be announced at least one and a half times. A lot of things And I would like to tell you that the cost of cultivation which will be calculated for the MSP will also include the cost of labour by farm labours, the cost incurred on the machines and livestock will also be included, the cost of seeds and fertilizers will also be included, cost of irrigation will also be included, the government will also be included, the interest paid on the working capital also will be included, the lease rent will also be included in it ; all these things are included in the MSP. Not only this, the labor provided by a farmer and his family members, that labor cost will also be included in the MSP after making an assessment and based on the MSP fixed.\nThe government allocates a certain amount of money in the budget. During the last five years of the previous government, the allocation for agriculture was Rs. 1.21 lakh crore We have increased it to almost Rs. 2.12 lakh crore for these five years between 2014 to 2019. It means that we have got almost doubled the budget allocation for agriculture. It clearly reflects the commitment of our government for the welfare of farmers.\nToday, there is not only record production of food-grains but also of fruits, vegetables and milk. Our farmer brothers have broken all the records of the last 70 years and they have made a new record. There is an unprecedented progress of agriculture sector in the last four years. Food grain production in the year 2017-18 was at around 280 million tons while the average of the government during the tenure of 2010-14 was about 250 million tones. Similarly, an increase of 10.5% in the average production of pulses and an increase of 15% in the production of horticulture has been registered.\nAn increase of 26% has registered in the production of fishes under the blue revolution while an increase of about 24% has been registered in milk production and animal husbandry. It is our endevour that farmers should get help in every stage of farming, it means before sowing, after sowing and even after harvesting the crop. If we say this thing in a simple manner, then the decisions are taken in a manner that how the farmers can help any of the farmers, the farming of the whole process in their right to justice - growing from the right the crop to its sale in the market - it means from seed to market.\nWe have been moving in the direction of maintaining an entire system for the welfare of farmers. We have started soil health card so that a farmer can come to know which crop should be sown. Once it has been determined that which crop is to be sown then farmers should get good quality seeds, an arrangement for the farmer's loan has made and the ambit of Kisan Credit Card is expanded so that they are capital of problem .\nPreviously there used to be long queues for getting urea. However, now farmers are easily getting urea and other fertilizers as well; They do not have to buy it from black market. Today, there is 100% Neem coated urea available to the farmers of the country.\nAfter sowing comes the irrigation Today, nearly 100 irrigation schemes are being completed under Prime Minister's Agriculture Irrigation Scheme. We have been moving forward so that every field can get water. Farmers should not face any kind of risk for their crops. An online platform E-Nam has started so that farmers can get their price when their products are supplied in the market. And the most important thing is that now the middlemen can not take a cut, can not misappropriate the farmer's profit. Let's see what benefits our farmers have got from these schemes, what kind of changes have been brought into their lives. If we hear it directly from them, then, also, other farmers of the country will also get one more opportunity to say like: yes, if a farmer of that area can do it so can I .\nMy dear brothers and sisters, today, those people who have been watching this whole conversation, they will be proud of our farmers, their hard work and on the progress made by them and also by the new experiments conducted by them. I believe that when the villages of the country When our farmers will become strong only\nMy farmer brothers and sisters,\nI have been regularly talking to this technology Even today, lakhs of people The dialogue with you people is not only being heard by me, it is also being heard by the whole country and they are learning from you The government officials are also listening to you, and they will also discuss the experiments conducted by you. And they will try to further them them. And my this program will continue to stay ahead because this program has become a university for me which teaches me something or something else every week. It teaches It provides me the opportunity to meet people in the far-flung areas of the country. With the help of technology, I have been learning and understanding. I get direct information from you people\nSo, I'm going to meet again next Wednesday. Next Wednesday i.e. on the 27th June. And on 27th June, I will talk to our poor people, to our low-middle income people and middle class people, to our farmer brothers and sisters, to our artisan brothers and sisters and I will talk about their insurance plans for their social security I will talk about those plans; about the benefits from them, from our social security insurance schemes, because we have done a very broad way. And I believe that all of you, my farmer brothers and sisters, would have certainly adopted these schemes. You will have taken advantage of Suraksha Bima Scheme I am happy that today I got the opportunity to be a student I got the opportunity to receive their hard work. Today, their hard work and their dedication have been taking place to newer heights.\nOnce again I bow down to my farmer brothers and sisters. You have taken a lot of things I am extremely grateful to you people\nThank you."