"\nIndia will emerge strong only when we empower our daughters: PM Modi\nIn about 70 years of independence, sanitation coverage which was only 40%, has touched 98% in the last five years: PM\nOur government is extensively working to improve the quality of life for the poor and middle class: Prime Minister\nGovernor of Haryana Shri Satyadev Narayan Arya ji, the popular Chief Minister Mr. Manohar Lal Ji, my colleague of the Minister Ms. Uma Bharti ji, Minister of State in Haryana Kavita Jain ji, MLA Barla ji, National Women's Commission chairperson Mr. Sharma Sharma G, all the other great greats present on the stage, came to the country from a vast number of clean I Homi brothers and sisters knowledge Land of religion and action; The land which is also called the cemetery of civilization. From where Lord Krishna showed humanity the way to life. I greet my heart with all those coming from the corners of the country on such a holy land, the path of truth and justice that has spread through the earth. This is the land of Kurukshetra, thousands of years ago a cleanliness campaign was done on this earth, it was under the leadership of Shri Krishna and the work of cleaning immorality was done. Today's era has changed, we were fighting to clean up everyday life. Perhaps the message of Geeta in the world is unique in itself. In the land of war, where lives were played in the game of death, where there was Bhishma Sangram between morals and immorality, a message that lived in the same environment for thousands of years appeared in that land. Appeared from Krishna's mouth The Gita as we know today Perhaps such a big message of humanity in the land of war can hardly leave and this country is characterized by this. This expansion of cleanliness of thousands of cleaners is the living proof of the country's new rites for cleanliness.\nCongratulating all of you on this inspiring place of Kurukshetra from all over the country, the resolve of clean India is strengthening the resolve of the new India. I have been told\nThat sister is also involved in this program through many centers across the country through technology. Along with this, a very big program is running parallel in five places in Haryana, and such a gesture is also on those places. Whether it is Faridabad, Panipat Ho, Karnal Ho, Panchkula Ho, not only from the country but also abroad, have come here today, a delegation of Nigeria here I look forward. I am told that you are a study tour since the last week to learn how the Swachh Bharat Mission achieved such dramatic success so quickly, and how it can be replicated in Nigeria I wish you all success\nI was just listening to Manohar Lal Ji. I really told the statistics, which gave the information, I was overwhelmed with truth. In the past many governments have come, but the women who have been worked for women's power and have had success in it. The details you provided with the figures. I congratulate Manohar Lal Ji for his whole team, and greet the government of Haryana by applause.\nCompanions, it is clear that today Swachh Bharat Abhiyan is imitating other countries of the world too. This is the power of your determination and dedication. Congratulations to all those of you who have received the Swach Shakti Award for this campaign today and congratulated your villagers who believe in your leadership and join you with shoulder to take that village to this height Come on. Then I salute all the people of that village too. I have seen the exhibition here just a little earlier Within one month, painting over more than two billion tiles, this is a huge achievement. Nowadays, even in a district, if beauty contest takes place, then the news of that beauty contest continues to spread in the newspaper, photographs continue for months.\nFor the first time, we have a competition in which the beautification of the toilet is named as Ijtghar and as long as we do not accept the reputation of the toilet, the nature of cleanliness will not be possible. And this was the basic intention behind this competition that as soon as the village comes, every house will see the smallest colorful place and everybody who comes to it will feel what it is. So, when it comes to know that this is our honor, this is our toilet. Everyone will feel that there is a change in this city.\nYou must be surprised that there is a place in Europe that tourism is very much in place, many travelers come. What is the reason, then the people of that house outside the house, the front wall where the door is kept is painted with different colors. Now, when he did, he felt just like the one who took the color he had taken, but slowly it became the cause of a publicity. And later every person also makes big wall of the house next to their walls, especially after coloring them. And you must be surprised that for one reason, thousands of tourists come to see the composition of that city. Perhaps in a village in India, it will come out that the coloring of the toilet will be so great, the painter will be so impressive on it that maybe the tourists will be forced to see the toilet.\nFriends, today I have come here to give special gratitude to the land of Haryana because we have achieved all the goals we have set here. When the Bharatiya Janata Party had made me the prime ministerial candidate, then from this Haryana, I started taking blessings from the people of the country. At that time, I had blessed the soldiers of Haryana, today I am taking blessings from mothers across the country, taking me from the land of Kurukshetra. From where Krishna Lord hoisted the flag of victory, I am taking blessings from you.\nFor the peers, one rank one pension for the ex-soldiers was also done on this land and which was fulfilled. Beti Bachao-Beti Teacho's scheme was also launched from this earth. And seeing this, the whole country has spread in the form of Jainadalanan. The first beneficiary of the world's largest healthcare scheme, Ayushman India, is also the bitia of Haryana. Today the third edition of the Clean Power campaign is being started from Haryana.\nThe colleagues, I tried to return the affection that Haryana gave me to, including interest. In the last four and a half years, an effort is being made to simplify the lives of every Haryana State with the government led by Manohar Lal. Giving extension to this sequence a long time ago, thousands of projects related to health and culture have been inaugurated and laid down. National Cancer Institute in Jhajjar, Ayush University in Kurukshetra, Health Science University in Karnal, National Institute of Ayurved in Panchkula, ESIC Medical College and Hospital, all these projects are healthy for the people of Haryana.\nThey are easy to make. Also, the youth will get new opportunities for employment through these projects. Apart from this, the foundation stone of the Museum associated with the battle of Panipat has been done here today. This fight gives us important lessons related to the defense, protection of the country.\n\nNow I congratulate Manohar Lal Ji for the fact that the way he has imagined the battle of Panipat in such a way, he had fought such a battle centuries ago by joining a Bharat best India whole country with shoulder. Wake up is the living evidence. Any human being can never make history by cutting the roots of history. History can make the same, which flourish with the roots of history and flourish. Some people thought that the history of India starts from 1947 and starts with the same family and that has done the sin of cutting the country from the roots of history.\n\nI am happy that an excellent job of introducing and training the upcoming generations of Haryana to revive the history of this country on modern technology is going to be started here today. I congratulate the people of Haryana for all these projects.\nCompanions, Haryana is engaged in empowering the people of the country whose roots have female power. Here the earth has given birth to many such daughters who contributed to the creation of modern India and are now empowering New India's resolve.\nHere, the daughter of Kalpana Chawla showed that the height of the sky can also be less for India's daughters. At the same time, when India is moving towards becoming a major power in the field of sports, Haryana's daughter is also leading in it.\nCompanions, I have been told that many of you sisters went to Kalpana Chawla planetarium here, you saw a woman station here. Apart from this, new techniques related to waste to waste, new technologies related to waste generation, and new technologies related to farming have also been obtained from you about many innovative experiments that are happening in Haryana. The kind of program used to be earlier in Delhi We do programs outside of Delhi. The people of Haryana will come here first and see things which are good, they will apply them here. And these efforts have been done here today in a new type of training camp work.\nCompanions, I have a clear estimate that if the daughter is empowered, the society will be empowered. This is the reason that in the last four and a half years, the major schemes or programs have been created during the last four and a half years, women empowerment has been a bigger one. Our government's efforts have been to support women at every stage of life. Beti Bachao-Beti Teacho has improved the population of the girls. Sisters have been freed from smoke by Ujjawala scheme. The National Nutrition Campaign and Prime Minister's Safe Motherhood campaign have reduced the risk of life expectant mothers. For the first time, our government has provided the provision for the punishment of the girls who have been raped and tortured for rape. In the houses given under the Prime Minister's Housing Scheme, the house is also registered in the name of women. It is preferred that women get their name only on the name of women. Varna Our society is such a composition that if there is land in the family then there is a car in the name of husband, in the name of husband, Bengali, shop, house is anything but husband's name and husband is not, then all the son of Sarah, in the name of the woman There is nothing on the name of. We decided to name the women all the houses in the Prime Minister's house plan to change this situation.\n\nFriends, for the first time, Betio is being encouraged to contribute outside the scope of the kitchen. For the first time in India, Betia became a fighter pilot. Now the daughters are being recruited even in the Military Police. Maternity leave has been increased from 12 weeks to 26 weeks for working women to get adequate time for the well-being of their newborns. Likewise, in the Prime Minister's Money Scheme, approximately 50% of the loans from around 15 crore people are given to women entrepreneurs. Under the Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana, about six crore women are associated with Self Help Groups. More than 75 thousand crore loan has been provided to such self help group. This amount is two and a half times more than the loan given in the first four years of 2014.\nCompanions, schemes related to women in this year's budget, whether it is Agnewadi or Asha Varkar, should be the National Nutrition Mission, the schemes related to the children, the special attention you have seen in the budget.\nIf I have given so much emphasis on associates, Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, then it is the dignity of sister daughters of the country behind them, they are respected. In the year 2014 when you entrusted me with the responsibility of the Principal Servant, the situation was that at that time 30 million sisters in the country had to wait for the dark toilets. Many beta would leave the school because there was no separate toilet facility for the daughters. With this truth, I have won since childhood. But the pain of millions of sisters shocked me, this is the reason that I had resolved to get rid of this insult and pain from sister-in-law of the country's sister daughters. At that time you must have seen that how those who were in power in the first place, how they had made fun of me, did not know what was said to me. How much criticism has happened .. What is this prime minister that talk of toilet from Red Fort? Abusive comments have also been made about my thinking and understanding.\nCompanions, these commentators were those people who did not care for the sufferings of sisters, I had information of this pain and also cared for millions of cousin daughters. And so I do not bite the people born with the spoon of gold to spit. He used to insult me ​​but crores of sisters did not have the respect of life, Ijtaghar how he met, how quickly I got it, I have kept this matter fixed in my childhood and I have gathered for him.\nCompanions, I am glad that all of you, every common man of the country, understood my feelings and supported full power. The result is that in the 70 years of independence, the scope of sanitation was nearly 40 percent, it has reached 98 percent today. More than 10 million toiletts have been constructed in half-a-four years; 2.5 and 5 lakh villages of six hundred districts have freed themselves from defecation.\nCompanions, Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, sisters and daughters are getting rid of humiliation and suffering. This great medium of employment is also being proven. It is estimated that due to this campaign, nearly 45 lakh people have got employment opportunities. इस अभियन ने रानी मिस्‍त्रियों को हमारे यहां पहले परंपरा थी राज मिस्‍त्री ये स्‍वच्‍छता का अभियान है जिसने राज मिस्‍त्री के बदले रानी मिस्त्रियों को जन्‍म दे दिया। और इन रानी मिस्‍त्री को सबसे अधिक सशक्‍त किया गया है। क्‍योंकि टायलेट बनाने से जो ट्रेनिंग उनकी हुई है उसको वो प्रधानमंत्री आवास योजना के तहत अपने घर बनाने या दूसरों के घर बनाने में भी इस अपने अनुभव का, अपने ज्ञान का, अपने कौशल्‍य का उपयोग कर रहे है।\nसाथियों, आपके प्रयासों की वजह आज स्‍वच्‍छ भारत मिशन एक अहम पढ़ाव पर है। मैं आपको फिर याद दिलाना चाहता हूं कि इस वर्ष 2 अक्‍टूबर को जब बापू की 150वीं जन्‍मजयती मनायेगें हमने उन्‍हें स्‍वच्‍छ भारत का वायदा किया हुआ है, इस वायदे को पूरा करने में नारी शक्ति के नेतृत्‍व की बहुत बड़ी भूमिका है।\nअब हमे ये सुनिश्चित करना है जो शौचालय बने हैं उनका इस्‍तेमाल भी हो, स्‍वच्‍छता को हमे गांव-गांव, घर-घर का संस्‍कार बनाना है। आपमें से अनेक बहनें अपने गांवों की सरपंच है, पंचायत की मेंबर है, सेल्‍फ हेल्‍प ग्रुप से जुड़ी हैं या फिर आंगनवाड़ी, आशावर्कर हैं।\nमुझे आपके प्रयासों, आपके संघर्षों की भी जानकारी दी गई है। मुश्किल परिस्थितियों में कैसे आपने अलग-अलग दायित्‍वों को निभाते हुए भारत को स्‍वच्‍छ बनाने के लिए प्रयास किया ये भी मुझे बताया गया है। जैसे जम्‍मू-कश्‍मीर के अलीना गांव की नसीमा बेगम,  नसीमा बेगम जी ने गांवों में जा-जाकर लोगों को घरों में शौचालय बनाने के लिए प्रेरित किया है। आज वहां के लोग उनसे इतना प्रसन्‍न हैं कि नसीमा जी को गांव का सरपंच ही चुन लिया।\nइसी तरह मध्‍य प्रदेश सुश्री नारा जी ने सोनी जिले में 21 गांव को खुले में शौच से मुक्‍त कराया है। आपमें से जितने भी लोग यहां है, जितनी भी बहने हैं, सबकी ऐसी ही कहानियां हैं। मैं आप सभी का अभिनंदन करते हुए ये भी आग्रह करूंगा कि आपस में एक दूसरे के काम करने के तरीके पर जरूर चर्चा करें, एक दूसरे से सीखने का प्रयास करें, उस-उस इलाके में काम हो रहा है जानने की कोशिश करें। हो सकता है अपने क्षेत्र में स्‍वच्‍छ भारत मिशन को आगे बढ़ाने के लिए और कुछ आइडिया, नए विचार आपको मिल जाएं, ये नए विचार और नया अनुभव आपके और काम आने वाला है। आप उन्‍हें अपने गांव में लागू करो, इस बदलाव को और गति दे सकती है।\nसाथियों, स्‍वच्‍छता का सीधा सरोकार स्‍वास्‍थ्‍य से है और गरीब परिवारों को इसका विशेष लाभ मिल रहा है। इससे डायरिया जैसी घातक बीमारी से हम हमारे बच्‍चों को बचा सकते हैं। हाल में ही विश्‍व स्‍वास्‍थ्‍य संगठन यानी WHO की एक रिपोर्ट आई है जिसमें कहा गया है कि स्‍वच्‍छ भारत अभियान से 3 लाख जीवन बचIना संभव हुआ है। अगर हम एक की भी जिंदगी बचा लें तो जन्‍मों जन्‍म को पुण्‍य मिल जाता है। आप लोग तो 3 लाख लोगों की जिंदगी बचा रहे हो। जन्‍मों जन्‍म का पुण्‍य आपको एक साथ जुड़ रहा है।    \nसाथियों, स्‍वास्‍थ्‍य चाहे गरीब का हो या मध्‍यम वर्ग के परिवार का देश के इतिहास में पहली बार सरकार व्‍यापक रूप से प्रयास कर रही है। चाहे बड़े अस्‍पतालों का नेटवर्क हो, आयुष्‍मान भारत के तहत देश भर के गांवों में डेढ़ लाख health and wellness centre का अभियान हो, या फिर गरीब को मुफ्त इलाज देने वाली दुनिया की सबसे बड़ी योजना आयुष्‍मान भारत एक साथ अनेक काम हो रहे हैं।\nसाथियों, थोड़ी देर पहले मैंने आपको बताया कि सिर्फ हरियाणा में ही National Cancer Institute सहित इलाज और स्‍वास्‍थ्‍य शिक्षा से जुड़े पांच बड़े संस्थानों का लोकार्पण,उद्घाटन और शिलान्‍यास किया गया है। 2 हजार करोड़ रुपये से बना National Cancer Institute लागत के हिसाब देश का सबसे बड़ा सरकारी अस्‍पताल प्रोजेक्‍ट है। यहां पर केंसर जैसी गंभीर बीमारी के इलाज के लिए अत्‍याधुनिक सुविधाएं बनाई जा रही हैं। इसी तरह यहां कुरुक्षेत्र में श्रीकृष्‍णा आयुष युनिवर्सिटी और पंचकूला के National Institute of  Ayurved के बनने से आर्युवेद से जुड़े हमारे पुरातन उपचार की प्रद्धति को और बल मिलेगा। वहीं करनाल की पंडित दीनदयाल Health Science University में स्‍वास्‍थ्‍य से जुड़े शोध हो पाएंगे। फरीदाबाद के ESIC मेडिकल कॉलेज और अस्‍पताल से जुड़े हमारे काम करने वाले भाईयों को, हमारे श्रमिक भाई और बहनों को इलाज की बहुत बड़ी सुविधा मिलने वाली है।\nसाथियों, केंद्र सरकार देश में बड़े अस्‍पतालों का नेटवर्क किस तेजी से बिछा रही है इसका अंदाजा इसी बात से लगाया जा सकता है। कि आज देश में 21 एम्‍स देश में या तो काम कर रही हैं या फिर निर्माण का कार्य चल रहा है। इनमें से 14 एम्‍स पर काम 2014 में हमारे आने के बाद शुरू हुआ है। मुझे खुशी है कि इसमें एक और एम्‍स जुड़ने वाला है। जो हरियाणा में ही रिवाड़ी में बनेगा।\nमुझे बताया गया है कि मलेठी के जागरूक लोगों ने इस एम्‍स के लिए जमीन भी उपलब्‍ध करा दी है। मैं सभी लोगों को बहुत-बहुत साधुवाद और बधाई देता हूं। अब बहुत ही जल्‍द इस पर काम शुरू हो जाएगा।  \nसाथियों, अच्‍छे और बड़े अस्‍पतालों के साथ-साथ प्रधानमंत्री जन औषधि केंद्रो पर सस्‍ती दवाईयों उपलब्‍ध कराई जा रही हैं। घुटनों और हार्ट के ऑपरेशन भी कई गुना सस्‍ते किए गए हैं। किडनी के मरीजों के लिए जिला अस्‍पतालों में मुफ्त डायलिसिस की सुविधा जुटाई गई है। आयुषमान भारत योजना के तहत तो देश के लगभग 50 करोड़ परिवारों को 5 लाख तक का इलाज मुफ्त मिलने लगा है। अभी इस योजना को लागू हुए 150 दिन भी नहीं हुए हैं, अभी तक 11 लाख से अधिक गरीबों को इसके तहत इलाज की सुविधा मिल चुकी है।\nसाथियों, आज जब मैं नारी शक्ति की बात कर रहा हूं। तो देश के एग्रीकल्‍चर सेक्‍टर की बात न करूं ये हो नहीं सकता और हरियाणा में न करूं ये तो जय जवान का भी देश है जय किसान का भी प्रदेश है। बिना महिलाओं के योगदान के इस सेक्‍टर की कल्‍पना भी नहीं की जा सकती। देश के कृषि क्षेत्र को मजबूत करने के लिए इस बजट में सरकार द्वारा बहुत बड़ी योजना का ऐलान किया गया है। पीएम किसान योजना के तहत हम ऐसे किसानों को जिनके पास 5 एकड़ से कम जमीन है उनके बैंक खाते में हर वर्ष छह हजार रूपये सीधा जमा कराए जाएंगे। ये पैसे 2-2 हजार की तीन किश्‍तों में जमा होंगे। जिसकी पहली किश्‍त बहुत ही जल्‍द देने का प्रयास किया जा रहा है।\nसाथियों, हमारा प्रयास है कि गांव का, गरीब का, किसान का, मध्‍यम वर्ग का जीवन सरल और सुगम हो। ये काम इतने बड़े स्‍तर पर, इतनी तेजी से इ‍सलिए हो पा रहा है क्‍योंकि साढ़े चार वर्ष पहले आप सभी ने एक मजबूत सरकार के लिए, पूर्ण बहुमत वाली सरकार के लिए अपने वोट का सदुपयोग किया था। और इसके लिए आज ये सारे काम संभव है।\nआपने देश में र्इमानदारी की व्‍यवस्‍था लाने के लिए अपना वोट दिया था। आपके उसी विश्‍वास पर चलते हुए बिचौलियों और गरीबों का हक लूटने वालों को सारी व्‍यवस्‍थाओं से बाहर कर दिया गया है। आज देश के हर ईमानदार को इस चौकीदार पर विश्‍वास है। लेकिन जो भ्रष्‍ट है उसको मोदी से कष्‍ट है। आप यहां हरियाणा में भी तो देख रहे हैं। कि जांच एजेंसियों की कार्यवाईयों से कैसे-कैसों का पसीना छूट रहा है।\nसाथियों,  महामिलावट के ये सारे चेहरे जांच एजेंसियों को, कोर्ट को धमकाने और मोदी को गाली देने के कम्‍पीटिशन में जुटे हैं। आप आश्‍वस्‍त रहिये ये चौकीदार न तो इनकी धमकियों से और न ही इनकी गाली-गलौच से डरने वाला है। न ही रूकने वाला है और न ही झुकने वाला है। देश को भ्रष्‍टाचारियों से और गंदगी से मुक्ति दिलाने का हमारा सफाई अभियान और तेज होने वाला है। इस अभियान के लिए आपका आशीर्वाद हमेशा बना रहे और अभी-अभी आपके राज्‍य के कई लोग शायद  कुंभ के मेले में गए होंगे, इस बार जो लोग कुंभ के मेले से आते हैं वापिस.. हर गांव में चर्चा हो रही है, हिन्‍दुस्‍तान में कि जो लोग कुंभ के मेले में गए... मुझे बताया गया कि परसों जब शाही स्‍नान हुआ, कुछ दिन पहले हुआ तब तक करीब करीब 17 करोड़ लोग यानी दुनिया के कई देशों से भी ज्‍यादा जनसंख्‍या गंगा के तट पर स्‍नान करने के लिए, 17 करोड़। उसके बाद भी स्‍वच्‍छता के विषय में उन्‍होंने जो मानदंड तय किए थे उसमें जरा भी नरमी नहीं आने दी। आप हैरान होंगे अमेरिका के एक अखबार न्‍यूयार्क टाइम्‍स ने कुंभ के मेले की चर्चा करते हुए एक article लिखा। उसमें कुंभ मेले में जो स्‍वच्‍छता है उस स्‍वच्‍छता के लिए उन्‍होंने कुंभ मेले की बहुत बड़ी तारीफ की है। देखिए ये बदलते हुए हिन्‍दुस्‍तान का ये दृश्‍य है।\nमैं इस कुंभ के मेले में ये स्‍वच्‍छता के लिए काम कर रहे, दिन-रात काम कर रहे उन सभी मेरे भाई-बहनों को आज कुरुक्षेत्र की धरती से आदरपूर्वक नमन करता हूं। और अखाड़े, संतसमाज, साधु महात्‍मा उन्‍होंने भी कुंभ के मेले में स्‍वच्‍छता को लेकर के अपने-अपने व्‍याख्‍यान, प्रवचनों में भी इस बात को बार-बार दोहराया। स्‍वच्‍छता के अभियान को साधु संतों ने आशीर्वाद दिए ये भी अपनेआप में बहुत बड़ी गौरव की बात है। मैं उन संतों-महंतों, ऋषि-मुनियों का भी आदरपूर्वक नमन करता हूं, उनका अभिनंदन करता हूं।    \nभाईयो बहनों आप देश के कोने-कोने से आए हैं, आपका आशीर्वाद हमेशा बना रहे, इसी कामना के साथ मैं अपनी बात समाप्‍त करता हूं। एक बार फिर स्‍वच्‍छ शक्ति पुरस्‍कार जीतने वालों को मैं आदरपूर्वक बहुत-बहुत बधाई देता हूं, शुभकामनाएं देता हूं।  \nThanks a lot."