"Share\n\nWe launch Digital India with a very simple focus- to ensure more people to benefit from technology, in particular in rural areas: PM\nWe have ensured that the advantages of technology are not limited to all sections of society. We strengthened the network of CSCs: PM\nThe Digital India initiative is a group of rural level entrepreneurs, says PM Modi\nThe movement towards more digital payments is linked to eliminating middlemen: PM Modi\nDue to 'Make in India', we see a boost to manufacturing and this has given youngsters a chance to work in several sectors: PM\nAlong with digital empowerment, we also want technology to boost creativity: PM\nOver the last few days, I have received the opportunity to interact with various beneficiaries of different government schemes. This is a wonderful experience for me I believe that there is a life beyond files My soul was immensely after I heard the changes and the experiences that swept the lives of the beneficiaries of these schemes. You've got a new energy to carry on my work. Today I have got the opportunity to interact with some of the beneficiaries of Digital India.\nI have been told that I will be able to interact with about 3 lakh people in the Common Service Centers in today's program. The VLEs operating these CSCs or Common Service Centers and the citizens who are enjoying their services here. Besides, the beneficiaries of Digital India via NIC have also gathered there. More than 1600 Institutions and their students, researchers, scientists and professors who are associated with NKN i.e. National Knowledge Network is also present The BPO workers from the BPOs across the country Moreover, workers of mobile manufacturing units will also interact with us and show their units.\nLakhs of MyGov volunteers across the country have also joined us. I believe it will be a unique conversation where more than 50 lakh people will be talking on a single topic. This will be a great opportunity to hear the people's experiences and interact with them.\nThe only aim was when the digital world was to empower and connect the country's common man, the poor, the farmers, the youth and the villages with the digital world. In the last four years, we have focused on this aspect of digital empowerment ranging from connecting villages with Optical Fiber Network, making millions of digital literate people, making public services through mobile phone through people of doorstep. , developing electronic manufacturing in the country, encouraging start-up or innovation to BPOs in remote areas There are several initiatives like these. Today, the senior citizens do not have to travel long distances to show their life certificates for obtaining pension. They can easily go to these Common Service Centers of their villages and get their work done. The farmers can not only get the information related to weather conditions, crops, soil etc. but also sell their products across the country with the help of a digital market i.e. eNAM with the help of their mobile phones or Common Service Centers (CSCs).\nToday, the students in the villages are not allowed to visit their schools or colleges. They now have access to millions of online books through digital library. They are no longer dependent on their plans for their scholarships Scholarships are directly deposited in their bank accounts. Everything was made possible only due to technology and Communication Revolution Till a few years ago, it was impossible for the people residing in small towns and villages to imagine that the railway tickets could be booked without hours or lPG can not be wasting hours in sinuous queues or the electricity bills, Water bills and taxes can not be paid without being physically present in government offices. However, today all these things are possible and are just a click away. It's available to people The Common Service Centers (CSCs) across the country are being strengthened to ensure that every citizen can avail the maximum services close to their homes.\nTill date about 3 lakh Common Service Centers This huge network of Digital Service Delivery Centers has spread across 1 lakh 83 thousand village panchayats. Today, lakhs of youngsters are working as Village Level Entrepreneurs (VLEs) and it is heartening to note that out of them 52 thousand ventrepreneurs are women.\nThese centers have provided more than 10 lakh people As a whole, the center is not only a source of empowerment but also has encouraged education, entrepreneurship and employment.\nToday about 60 lakh volunteers are connected to the MyGov platform. In a way, it has become a citizen-centric government Apart from providing suggestions and ideas, the youth is participating in volunteering activities at a large scale.\nMyGov has emerged as a powerful platform for delivering the various organizations, working on their possible implementation and connecting with the youth. I would definitely like to put before you the examples of various voluntary contributions made by the people. In every year's budget, the central government compiles the suggestions received by the volunteers. The logos and taglines of different schemes like Swachh Bharat Mission, Jan Dhan Yojana and Digital India were selected from the suggestions given by the citizens through MyGov. The government does not have time to this The government has formed this platform of public participation by moving forward from crowd sourcing.\nPeople from every corner of the country can also send me their suggestions and inspirational stories for 'Mann Ki Baat' through this platform of MyGov. Today, the digital India is changing the lives of crores of people. Digital India is fulfilling the 4Es - Education, Employment, Entrepreneurship and Empowerment. I hope that Digital India will improve With this expectation I would like to thank you all However, I have one request to you all. I have high expectations from the staff of Common Service Centers. They are listening to me I see them on the screen Would the employees of Common Service Centers raise their hands? Will you do me a favour? Kindly raise your hands and tell me will you do me a favor? It does not mean that I am not asking the BPO employees to do the same.\nLet me tell you. I want you all to note the date 20th June and at the same time i.e. 9.30 am, l will interacting with the farmers I'll talk about my farmer brothers and sisters Can you help me out? Just like 10-20 people are present in the Common Service Centers, can you bring 50-100 farmers to your Common Service Centers on the 20th? I would like to talk to them. Kindly raise your hands We will talk to farmers and the discussion will be related to their topics.\nThis will make your CSC very strong The country's Prime Minister will be able to directly share his thoughts with the villages through these 3 lakh CSCs. For example, I can say to people before immunization. This is will boost the immunization campaign. This method is too many times through televisions. I would like to get 50-100 farmers and your CSCs on the 20th at 9.30 am. I will talk to them about the transformation in the agricultural sector and how even a villager can avail the benefits of those schemes. I would like to hear their experiences\nFriends,\nIt was a pleasant experience for me The transformation that is sweeping the country is due to you and your finger tips.\nThe government is committed to the development and progress through Reform, Perform and Transform. Once again my best wishes to you all and thank you very much Namaste!\n"