"\nPM Modi dedicates multiple development projects worth Rs. 22,000 crores in Bhilai, Chhattisgarh\nThe expansion of Bhilai Steel Plant will further strengthen the foundation of a new India: PM Modi\nContinuous efforts are made to enhance water, land and air connectivity: PM Modi\nUnder UDAN Yojana, we are opening new airports at places where the previous government is also refrained to construct roads: PM\nNaya Raipur is now the country's first Greenfield Smart City; be it electricity, water or transport, everything will be controlled from a single command center: PM Modi\nAny kind of violence: PM Modi\nVictory to Mother India!\nBhilai Steel Plant is a precious gem of Kora of Chhattisgarh Mahtari, the symbol of its prowess. The well knownand popular Chief Minister of Chhattisgarh and my old colleague Dr. Ramaman Singh ji, my colleague from the Council of Ministers at the Center Chaudhary Birender Singhji, Minister. Manoj Sinha ji, the son of this soil and my colleague at the center.Vishnu Dev Sahayji, The Speaker of the Chhattisgarh Legislative Assembly Mr. Gauri Shankar Agarwalji, the ministers of the state government and my dear brothers and sisters of Chhattisgarh,\nI once again got the chance to seekyour blessings Like today that was 14th of the month. Exactly two months ago, on the 14th of April, I had started the first phase of Ayushmann Bharat Mission from this soil.\nIn the history of Chhattisgarh, another golden chapter is added today to firm up its future. Sometime back, work of expansion and modernization of Bhilaithe steel plant, the second airport at Jagdalpur, the launch of new command center at Raipur and so many other development projects started. Apart from this, the development of IIT campus at Bhilai and phase 2 of the Bharat Net was also launched.\nI would like to dedicate these projects worth more than Rs.22 thousand crores to my dear brothers and sisters of Chhattisgarh today. All these projects will open new opportunities for employment and education. It will link the remote areas of the state of Chhattisgarh with modern communication technology. Before for several years, Bastar was associated with guns, pistols and violence. Today Bastar is known for the airport of Jagdalpur.\nFriends,\nIt is a pleasant and an inspirational experience for us to see the rapid progress of a region that was developed by the vision of Atal Bihari Bajpayeeji and the untiring efforts of the people of Chhattisgarh.\nMy friend, the Chief Minister, Raman Singh jihas carried forward the vision of Atal ji. We will meet or talk over phone. Every time he comes up with a new idea or a project, a new hope and enthusiasm. He sounds confident of implementing them successfully\nFriends,\nWe are well aware of the fact that the law, peace and basic necessities of life remain the priority for development. Raman Singh ji, on the one hand stressed on peace, stability and law and order and on the other, he kept pushing the Chhattisgarh forward to new heights of development with new ideas and schemes. I congratulate Raman Singh ji and my brothers and sisters for this tour of development.\nBrothers and sisters,\nThis area is not new to me I used to visit this place on a two-wheeler at a time when Chhattisgarh was not carved out of Madhya Pradesh. I used to be organizational work. About 50 of us used to meet We used to discuss national and social issues of Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and others. From that time I have a close connection with Chhattisgarh You have showered so much love on me I have always been associated with you There is not a single year in the past 20-25 years when I did not visit Chhattisgarh. There's hardly any district left I have got a lot of love from the people here.\nBrothers and sisters,\nI had been to the Bhilai Steel Plant before coming here. It has been equipped with modern technology and new capacity has been added to a cost of more than 18 thousand crore rupees. Fortunately, I got the opportunity to inaugurate this modern modern plant today. Very few people will be aware of the fact that since independence all the tracks that were laid from Kutch to Cuttack and from Kargil to Kanyakumari were the result of hard work of the people. Surely, Bhilai has not only made steel but also has the standard of living of the people. The modernized steel plant of Bhilai will strengthen the foundation of New India just like steel. You are well aware that the faces of Bhilai and Durggot are a complete face lift. I believe that the steel plant will be set up at Bastar also.\nBrothers and sisters,\nMining of iron ore has played a significant role in speeding up the process of development in the state of Chhattisgarh. You, especially my tribal brothers and sisters So, after getting elected we have brought a key change in the law. We have also decided that a part of the income from the local people We have already drafted this law. Therefore, District Mineral Foundation has been set up in every mining district. Subsequently, Chhattisgarh also gained more than Rs. 3000 crore This amount is now being used for setting up hospitals, schools, roads and toilets.\nBrothers and sisters,\nSkill development is as important as Make in India for development. Bhilai has been identified as the country's one of the greatest educational hubs for decades. Despite all these facilities, a need was set up for an IIT. Your Chief Minister Raman Singh had been trying hard to get an IIT set at Bhilai even during the previous government's tenure. However, you know very well about the people who were running the government at that time. After 5 years, IITs have been able to set up 5 new IITs. Today the IIT campus at Bhilai that was set up with an expenditure of several crore rupees, is being inaugurated. This campus that was built on a cost of about Rs.1100 crore would prove to be a focal point of technology and technical education for the best students of the state of Chhattisgarh and it always encouraged them to do something new.\nFriends,\nA few minutes ago, I had got the opportunity to hand over laptops to some youngsters on this stage. I am glad that the Indian Janata Party government is continuously focusing on computer and technology education through speciala Yojana. The more we can link people with technology, the more we will deliver it. For the last four years, Digital India is being forward forward with this very vision. The Chhattisgarh government is also engaged in pushing this mission forward and carrying it to every household.\nFriends,\nThe last time I came here on the birth anniversary of Babasaheb Ambedkar, I got the opportunity to launch the phase 1 of the internet connection program i.e. Bastar Net. Today the work for Bharat Net Phase 2 has also started. Efforts will make this project worth about Rs.2500 crore by March next year. About 4000 Panchayats in Chhattisgarh have already been linked to internet. The rest 6000 Panchayats will also be linked by next year.\nFriends,\nA new foundation for the empowerment of the poor, tribal, oppressed and deprived communities are being initiated by the initiatives like Digital India Mission, Bharat Net project, the state government's Sanchar Kranti Yojana, distribution of more than 50 lakh smart phones and erection of more than 1200 mobile towers Digital connectivity is not only linking people\nBrothers and sisters,\nToday, a lot of efforts are being made to connect with the country, water and so on. As a result, we have built airport along with roads. As I already told you that my vision is to ensure that the common man travels by air. Thus, we have started the UDAN scheme and new airports in the country. A similar airport is being installed in your Jagdalpur. Flights to Jagdalpur from Raipur Now the distance between Jagdalpur and Raipur can be covered in just 40 minutes rather than 6-7 hours.\nFriends,\nToday, people prefer to travel more by air than by the AC coaches in trains due to the policies of the government. There was a time when only 6 flights used to be in Raipur in one day. Now, about 50 flights land in Raipur airport per day. These new routes will not only reduce the distance but also promote tourism, trade and business and employment opportunities.\nFriends,\nToday, Chhattisgarh has achieved a new milestone. New Raipur city has become the country's first greenfield smart city. I have got the opportunity to inaugurate the Integrated Command and Control Center in this episode. Now water, electricity, street lights, sewage and transport of the whole city will be monitored from this center. These are being operated on modern technology and data. New Raipur will now serve as an example for other smart cities of the country.\nChhattisgarh that has previously known for its backwardness and tribal communities and its forests, has got the new identity of a smart city. This is a great honor!\nFriends,\nOur plan is to provide a safe and secure life to the people. This is one of the major reasons why record-breaking youngsters have joined the mainstream and are associated with the country's development in different parts of the country along with the last four years.\nI believe that there is only one answer to violence i.e. development, development and development The trust created between people Both the NDA led government at the center and the BJP led government of Chhattisgarh have tried to develop an environment through trust through development.\nBrothers and sisters,\nThe last time I visited the Chhattisgarh, the Gram Swaraj campaign was launched across the country. There is a positive impact of this mission in the last two months. This mission is specially meant for 115 Aspirational districts that are behind the terms of development since independence. It also includes 12 districts of Chhattisgarh. The work is being carried out with a new energy It is being ensured that in villages everyone has had bank accounts, gas connection, electricity connections, LED bulbs and everyone should be vaccinated and insured.\nGram Swaraj Abhiyan This campaign will also set up a new dimension in the development of Chhattisgarh. You can not even imagine how the poor and the tribal communities are empowered in such an environment of trust and belief.\nIn Chhattisgarh, under Jan Dhan Yojana, bank accounts of more than one crore 30 lakh poor people have opened. This is the figure just of the country and not of the whole country. 37 lakh toilets for construction of more than 37 lakh toilets, free of cost 22 lakhs of poor families for free gas connections, 26 lakhs more than the money scheme for insurance without guarantee, insurance More than 60 lakh people on a premium of 90 paise per day and 1 rupee per month as well as by providing the benefit of the Prime MinisterFasalBimaYojana to more than 13 lakh farmers.\nBrothers and Sisters,\nThere were 7 lakh households in Chhattisgarh that were deprived of electricity connection. Under the Pradhan MantriSaubhagya Yojana, almost half the families of Chhattisgarh i.e. About 3.5 lakh households were provided electricity connection within a year. Almost 1100 such villages that were not electrified since independence have now been electrified. This light is brightening up.\nFriends,\nOur government is also working towards providing a home to every homeless person. In the last four years, more than one crore of 15 lakh houses were built in both rural and urban areas. Under Pradhan MantriAwas Yojana, the incomplete homes built by the previous governments. In Chhattisgarh, about 6 lakh houses have already been built. I want to make an announcement specifically for the middle class of Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and other parts of the country as we have made an important decision that is going to benefit the middle class. Earlier, interest rates were relaxed for the homes being used. There was a demand for growing the area.\nBrothers and sisters,\nI am proud to announce that the public has been met This means that now rates of interest will also be relaxed. This decision of the government is immensely going to benefit from the middle class. Today I have got the opportunity to hand over certificates and checks to the beneficiaries of the central government and state government schemes like Pradhan MantriMatruVandanaYojana, UjjwalaYojana, Mudra Yojana, stand-up India scheme and insurance schemes. My best wishes to these beneficiaries\nFriends,\nThese are not simply schemes but a solution to the present and the future of the poor, the tribals and the deprived section of the society. Our government is specially focussing on increasing the income of the people residing in the tribal and backward areas. About two months back I had launched the Vangan from Van Dhan Yojana. Van DhanVikaskendras are being opened for this It is being ensured that the forest products should get the right price in the market.\nThe government has also announced in this year's budget that 22 thousand rural markets will be developed. In the initial phase, 5000 markets or haats are developed. The government is making efforts so that my tribal brothers and farmers can have facilities within 5-6km that will enable them to connect.\nBesides, keeping in mind the tribal people, the forest rights act has been enforced in a more stringent manner. In the last four years, about one lakh tribal people and tribal groups have given land titles of more than 20 lakh acres.\nThe government has amended a law related to Bamboo You can now easily sell the bamboo grown on your farm fields. This law has provided a new avenue for the forest dwellers of growing their income.\nBrothers and sisters,\nThe government is also working in the tribal community's education and self-respect. Ekalavya Model Residential schools are going to set up the country in elevate the level of education in tribal children.\nEkalavya Model Residential schools will be set up in every block where the population of tribal brothers and sisters is either greater than 50% of total population or less than 20 thousand people live in this class.\nApart from this, a new campaign has started to make the people aware of the contribution made by the tribal people in the country's independence since 1857. The Museum of the great tribal freedom fighters\nThese schemes that will enhance the economic and social infrastructure of the state of Bihar, will also bring a uniformity in economic and social development from Bastar to Sarguj and from Raigarh to Rajnand village. The campaign to end regional uneven in the state\nToday when I was going to the Bhilai plant, the way I was welcomed and honoured by the people of Chhattisgarh I became speechless. It looked like the entire country had gathered on the streets of Chhattisgarh. There was no corner of the country that was not showering its blessings on me.It was like a mini India. I am really grateful to the people who have settled here in Bhilai and Durg from the country for reflecting the country's unity before me and for their blessings, their state's traditions.But whenever I came to Chhattisgarh, some new constructive work done . Every time Chhattisgarh sets a new target for itself. Therefore, development takes place at a rapid pace.\nBrothers and sisters,\nI believe that New Chhattisgarh will pave way for New India in 2022. I believe that with your blessings, the resolution for a new India will definitely be fulfilled. With this hope and expectation, I congratulate you and the Chhattisgarh government I end my speech here.\nThanks a lot!"