"Share\n\nOur traditions are for long stressed the importance of living in harmony with nature: PM Modi\nIndia is the fastest growing economy in the world today. We are committed to raising the standards of our people: PM\n40 million new cooking gas connections in the last two years has freed rural women from the misery of poisonous smoke and eliminated their dependence on firewood: PM\nWe have targeted generation of 175 Giga Watt of solar and wind energy by 2022: PM Modi\nWe are reducing dependence on fossil fuels We are switching sources of fuel where possible: PM Modi\nPlastics now threatens to become a threat to humanity: PM\nEnvironmental degradation hurts the poor and vulnerable, the most: PM Modi\nLet us all join together to promote plastic pollution and make this planet a better place to live: PM\nMy Ministerial Colleagues Dr. Harsh Vardhan, Dr. Mahesh Sharma, Mr. Manoj Sinha\nExecutive Director, United Nations Environment Program\nSecretary, Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change\nOther Distinguished Dignitaries from India and Abroad\nLadies and Gentlemen\nOn behalf of the one point three billion people of India, I am happy to welcome you all to New Delhi.\nOn the side-lines of this event, I hope the delegates joining us from abroad, has had some time to see the history and splendour of Delhi.\nWe are proud to be the global host for World Environment Day, 2018.\nAs we celebrate this important occasion today, we are reminded of our universal brotherhood\nThis has been expressed in the famous Sanskrit phrase- Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam - the world is one family.\nThe same ethos was reflected in the doctrine of trustee-ship, advocated by Mahatma Gandhi. He said that 'Earth provides enough to satisfy everyone's need, but not enough for everyone's greed.'\nOur traditions have been\nThis is reflective of the elements It is reflected in our festivals, and in our ancient texts.\nLadies and Gentlemen\nIndia is the fastest growing economy in the world today. We are committed to living\nWe are also committed to ensure that we do so, in a way that is sustainable and green.\nIn this direction, we have given forty million new cooking gas connections in the last two years.\nThis has freed poor women from the misery.\nIt has also eliminated his dependence on firewood.\nIt is the same commitment, which has seen over three hundred million LED bulbs being installed across India. Apart from saving electricity, this has also prevented huge excess amounts of carbon dioxide from being released in the environment.\nWe are engaged in renewable energy generation. We have targeted generation of one hundred and seventy-five Giga Waters of solar and wind energy by 2022.\nWe are already the fifth largest producer of solar energy in the world. Not only this, we are the sixth largest producer of renewable energy.\nWe aim to provide an electricity connection to every household, which will reduce the dependency on environmentally degrading forms of fuel.\nWe are reducing dependence on fossil fuels Where is possible We are transforming cities and public transport.\nWe are a young Nation To generate employment, we are working towards making a global manufacturing hub.\nWe have launched in India While doing so, we are putting stress on zero defect and zero effect manufacturing. This means manufacturing that is without defect, and which does not harm the environment\nAs part of the Nationally Determined Contributions, India is committed to reducing thirty-three to thirty-five percent of emissions intensity of its GDP during 2005 to 2030. We are on track to 2030 Nationally Determined Contribution.\nAccording to UNEP Gap Report, India is also on track to meet its Copenhagen Pledge. We will reduce the emissions intensity of India's GDP by twenty to twenty-five percent over 2005 levels by 2020\nWe have a strong National Biodiversity Strategy With only two point four percent of the world's land area, India supports seven to eight percent of the population diversity. At the same time, India supports about eighteen percent of human population. Our tree and forest cover has also increased by one percent in the last two years.\nWe have also done well in the field of wildlife conservation. The population of tiger, elephant, lion rhino and other forms of wildlife is on the rise.\nWe also recognize the need of water availability, which is becoming a major challenge in India. We have launched the massive Namami Gange initiative. This program, which has already started giving results, will soon revive the Ganga, our most precious river.\nIndia is primarily an agrarian country Continuous availability of water The Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchayee Yojana has been launched to ensure that no farm goes without water. Our motto is 'More crop, per drop.'\nWe have also launched a massive campaign to ensure that our farmers convert agricultural waste from valuable populations.\nLadies and Gentlemen\nWhile much of the world focuses on inconvenient truth, we have moved on Convenient Action\nIt was this call for Convenient Action that led India, along with France, to form the International Solar Alliance This is probably the single most important global development, after the Paris Conference.\nAbout three months ago, leaders from over 45 nations, and Heads of International Organizations, gathered here in New Delhi, for the Founding Conference of the International Solar Alliance\nOur experience shows that It needs not\nFriends\nWorld Environment Day is a very significant challenge this year.\nPlastic now threatens to become a human A lot of the recycling bin. Worse, a lot of it is non-bio-degradable\nPlastic pollution is already having a deadly impact on our marine ecosystem. Scientists and fishermen These include declining fish catches, warming ocean temperatures, and vanishing habitats.\nMarine litter is especially micro-plastic, is a major trans-boundary problem. India is preparing to join the \"Clean Seas Campaign\" and making its contribution towards saving our oceans.\nThe plastic pollution is now entering into our food chain. In fact, micro plastics have now even entered basic food like salt, bottled water and tap water.\nFriends\nThe per capita plastic consumption is in many parts of the developed world.\nOur national mission on cleanliness and sanitation - Swachh Bharat Abhiyan - Has a special focus on \"plastic waste management.\"\nA short while ago, I visited the Exhibition set up by Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change. It shows some of our success stories. Among its participants are the United Nations, Union and State Governments, industry, and non-government organizations. I hope they continue to work in curling plastic pollution.\nLadies and Gentlemen\nEnvironmental degradation hurts the poor and vulnerable, the most.\nIt is the duty of every one of us, to ensure that the prosperity does not compromise our environment.\nAs part of 2030 Agenda for sustainable development, the world has agreed to the theme \"Leave No One Behind.\"\nFriends\nThis is the Indian way And we are happy to share it with the international community on the auspicious occasion of World Environment Day.\nIn conclusion, as global host of World Environment Day 2018, I reiterate our commitment to sustainable development.\nLet us all join to beat plastic pollution and make this planet a better place to live.\nThe choices that we make today, will define our collective future. The choices can not be easy But through awareness, technology, and a genuine global partnership, I am sure we can make the right choices\nThank you."