"Share\n\nThe Awas Yojana is not just about brick and mortar. It is a better quality of life and dreams coming true: PM Modi\nWe are working towards ensuring that every Indian has a home by 2022, when India marks 75 years since Independence: PM\nWe have been working to free the housing sector from middlemen, corruption and ensure that the beneficiaries get their own home without hassles: PM\nThe housing sector is invigorated with latest technology. This is enabling fast construction of the poor in towns and villages, says PM\nPMAY is linked to dignity of our citizens, says PM\nMy dear brothers and sisters,\nGreetings (Namaskar)\nIt has always been my endeavor that whatever changes were brought into the life of common people through different schemes then I try to understand those people and that is why I often try to meet with such beneficiaries directly. Whether it is right or wrong, good or bad, whether they have problems or it is convenient for them, it's very important to know about\nThe report that is prepared by officials in the government's own importance But having a direct dialogue with the beneficiaries and getting to know about new things from them. I was talking about a lot of schemes but when I met with the beneficiaries of Ujjwala scheme then they told me a very interesting thing. They said: It has saved us a lot of water. I asked them: how did it help you save water? Then they replied that when we used to cook on wooden stoves then all kitchenware used to be too much water to wash the kitchenware four times in a day. Now we have gas stove so we are not able to do all that Now I do not believe that I can not believe it And there are lots of such things And when I myself have a dialogue with them, and in that series today I have the opportunity to talk to the beneficiaries of Prime Minister's Housing Scheme (PMAY). Or to those people whose homes have built right in front of them or those who have been associated with the construction of their houses, or those who are going to get their homes very soon.\nYou know that every person has this desire Even the poorest of poor thinks that I should have a small one And no one knows the joy of having his own house, this joy is known only to those who have got their homes, no one else knows it. And when I see you people through television, through the technology and the kind of joy is visible on your face, the sense of satisfaction that you have, a new enthusiasm for living life is there and I can see all these things. And when I myself see your enthusiasm and enthusiasm and zeal increase by ten times Then I also feel like working more Then I feel like you Because I get the joy on your faces\nA housing scheme does not mean only that's a good way. Housing does not mean only four walls and a roof. House means the place where all the facilities are available; where one can lead a life; which means happiness for the family; which has the dreams\nPMAY Having your own house The poorest of the poor people have had this desire to have a pucca house but this wish of poor people remained unfulfilled even so many years after the independence. This government made a pledge, it decided that when we will complete 75 years of our independence in 2022; There are many occasions when everyone feels like running; see brother, it's 75 years of our independence, let us do something, let us do more, let us do something something for everyone's good\nWe have also tried that whatever time we have got - four years, five years until 2022 when it will be 75 years of independence - so that we could also have the courage to run, and courage to do some work. And we had a dream that when India completes 75 years of its independence in 2022 then the poorest of the poor person, be he lives in a village or city, be he lives in a slum or on pavement, wherever he lives, that family should have a pucca house of its own And it should be just a house, but it should have electricity and a tap, and that tap should have tap water, it should have gas stove, and there should be a toilet, in a way he should feel And something like that Even the poorest of the poor person should not only have a place for taking rest but he should also get the honor. Housing for all, this is our dream and it's a great solution for us as well. It means your dream is my dream\nIt's not a easy task to realize this dream in millions This is very difficult and challenging task. And the experience after so many years after the independence tells us that all this is just impossible However, despite all these things, this is a poor man's life; It's the life of those people who lead their lives without houses that have given me this courage to take this decision. I have taken you for such a big decision And now the government machinery is devoted in implementing this thing, there are other people too The work is taking place but it only happens when ... .it does not happen just because there is a power of power It also requires people's trust and support It requires an understanding of the people You people know it very well that how the previous government tried to tackle these challenges, how the work done, how they used to start and where they end up.\nI think that today was a big change Today, we started the work; We started to build the houses in the name of temples, in the name of the communities and somewhere in the name of the slums. However, it has been proved as a result of increasing population. Later the schemes were formed in the name of individuals and families Naturally, the interest was to derive political benefits. And it made a big army of middlemen and the contractors used to earn a lot. We work on a different approach Instead of thinking in a piecemeal way, we resolved to work in a mission mode. We have decided that by 2022 we will construct three crore houses in rural areas and one crore homes in urban areas. It's natural that when the target is too big There was a time when the targets were set as per budget allocation. However, now we first decide the target, which is a needy, what the country needs and then on the basis of that we decide the target and then accordingly we decide the budget. And it is the result of this thing ... if I talk about the urban areas\nWe have sanctioned the construction almost four times more in the last four years than what was sanctioned during the 10 years of UPA government. Construction of total 13.5 lakh houses sanctioned during the 10 year period of UPA government whereas we have sanctioned the construction of about 47 lakh houses in the last four years and in a way by the sanctioned houses of the number of marks crossed 50 lakh Andseven lakhs homes out of total\nNow, after laying emphasis on new technologies in the housing sector, we have been starting Global Housing TechnologyChallenge so that the latest technology can be used in the low cost housing. Similarly, if we talk about rural areas then nearly 25.5 lakh houses have been constructed in the last four years of the previous government during the whole country of rural areas, whereas our government has created the last four years in one crore more dwellings. It means a jump of 325 percent Previously, the time frame for building was set at 18 months, however, given its importance, we have reduced the time by the speed and we are moving forward with the solution to work in 18 months instead of 12 months.\nNow the situation is like this that a house is being constructed in less than a year. Today, the construction of house is expedited. And let us see how it is done. It's not like that a house will be constructed if we just lay bricks and stones at a rapid speed. Concrete steps are being taken in every state. It's not just the scale, but size has been changed too Before a minimum area of ​​20 sq meters was fixed for building a house in the village but after coming to power we have increased it to 25 sq meters under the Prime Minister Avas Yojana. You may be wondering what the use of growing The biggest benefit is that.\nBefore a assistance of Rs. 70 to 75 thousand rupees was given in villages under PMAY. We have increased it to 1.25 lakh rupees. Now, the money for labor expenses under MNREGA for 90-95 days is also being deposited in the beneficiary's account.\nIn addition to this, Rs. 12 thousand is being provided Before it was experienced that the homes of politicians' middlemen were built but a poor person's house was not. We have made a very solid arrangement so that no one can siphon off the fund\nToday, middlemen have been eliminated because of DBT (Direct Benefit Transfer). And the money is being transferred into the beneficiary's accounts. First we opened Jan Dhan Account and now we have started sending money in those accounts. Arrangements for Geo Tagging of those homes have been made that are PMAY so that transparency can be maintained. These works have also been linked to DISHA portal through which you can monitor it. I can monitor it from my office, how much is being done, where it is being done, I can check all these details while sitting in my office.\nDuring the UPA's tenure, the selection of beneficiaries was done through the BPL list. But, now we have started doing it on the basis of Socio EconomicCaste Census and because of those we were also included And because of this thing, the maximum number of people are getting benefited by this scheme. The people of every region\nA house is not only a necessity, but it's also linked to honor and self respect. And once you have your own house then the thinking There is a new courage for making progress.\nAnd our effort is to meet this need of every family and to increase its prestige and that is why under the PMAY we have specially focused on the weaker sections of the society and women. Be it tribal or dalits or backwards or SC / STs or OBCs or minorities or our differently capable brothers and sisters, we are giving priority\nToday, homes are built on a fast pace as a result of the concerted efforts. We are the people rooted in the ground We very well understand the problem and the difficulties of the common man and this is the reason why we have been working in the laws of the common people. It has been commonplace in the governments Earlier there was no coordination between two ministries, two departments and two schemes.\nSeveral government schemes have been brought into the Prime Minister's Housing Scheme. It has been linked with MNREGA for construction and employment. A separate arrangement has been made to ensure that there is a toilet in the house and facilities of water and LPG gas. It has been linked to Clean India Mission so that the house has a toilet. It has been linked with PanditDeenDayalUpadhyay and Jyoti Yojana Yojana. It has been linked with water It has been linked to Ujjwala scheme to provide LPG. This housing unit is not allowed. But it's a tool for empowerment More than 70 percent of beneficiaries in the urban areas are women.\nIt is also being used in employment avenues.\nBusiness of every construction material from bricks to sand has been found in local level. Local laborers, masons are also getting work. In addition to this thing, the government has started the program for one lakh masons for doing the work in villages. And you will be happy to know that in some states, women masons have also been trained along with masons. It's a very important step in women's empowerment.\nGovernment has been working on four models to include more and more people in this scheme in urban areas. An assistance of Rs. 1.5 lakh per house has been given to beneficiaries in urban areas for either construction or extension of a house under Prime Minister's Housing Scheme.\nUnder the link subsidy scheme, a subsidy of 3 to 6% is provided on the home loan. The government is giving an assistance of Rs. 1 lakh per house for redevelopment of area. An assistance of Rs. 1.5 lakh per household is given to economically backward people for developing affordable housing in partnership with public sector. Earlier this was the situation that the builders used to take money but not a single brick wasted on the site for years. So in order to provide benefit to poor and middle class people and to protect the interest of home buyers; a middle class family puts in its life time saving for buying a house; we passed RERA - Real Estate Regulation Act - so that no one can cheat them. In addition to bringing transparency, home buyers are getting their rights too. And even the builders are also afraid of cheating the buyers.\nToday, there are many such examples in the country where this scheme has supported their hopes and aspirations. Having a home is everyone's first priority, having a home. Having your own home Unfortunately, earlier this was the case that though it was the top priority And sometimes it remained unfulfilled However, now this is not the case.\nWe have always heard this saying: It takes a lifetime to build your home. However, it's a different kind of government Now the publications are changing too, the country is changing and proverbs are changing too. Now the time has come Now the time has come when an inner voice will risewethin us that: now our lives are being spent in our own houses.\nI believe that since this is a massive system so there will still be some people whose old habits did not change And therefore I appeal to you people that if any is asking or some other unduebenefit for providing any kind of benefit under this scheme then you please file a complaint without any hesitation. You can file your complaint or minister in this regard.\nI have also said this thing earlier as well that India's dreams and aspirations can not be realised by these things alone. We have prepared a solid ground and now we have a limitless sky before us. Housing for all, electricity for all, banking for all, insurance for all, gas connections for all, this is the image of completeness of a new India.\nWe have been moving forward in the direction of villages and society. And that is why I have got the opportunity to talk about such a big numbers. I would like to show you a small video and thereafter\n"