"Distinguished Delegates,\nMembers of the Media,\nFirst of all, I express my gratitude to Prime Minister Lee. For their hospitality and harmony. For his persistent efforts towards strengthening relations with India. And also for personal friendship.\nIndo-Singapore relations are true in terms of strategic partnership in true sense. There is no uneasyness in our relationships, but only warmth, harmony and faith. In today's conversation, Prime Minister Li and I together reviewed progress in our bilateral relations, and discussed the future roadmap.\nI am especially happy to complete the second review of our Comprehensive Economic Cooperation Agreement. But both of us agree that second review is not our destination, only a stop. Our executives will soon start discussions to upgrade and improve this agreement.\nSingapore is an important source of foreign direct investment for India. And our top destination for investment in India from abroad. I am happy that Indian companies use Singapore as a spring-board for the ASEAN region and other countries. Investment in India is growing by Singapore companies.\nThe advancement of India provides unparalleled opportunities to Singapore in its key areas. I was very happy to see his faith in India on the Round Table with CEOs of Singapore's important companies yesterday evening.\nAir traffic is growing rapidly between India and Singapore. Both sides will soon review the bilateral air services agreement.\nWe both are very pleased with the start of our digital partnership. It is an area of ​​natural partnership with unlimited possibilities. RuPay, BHIM and UPI-based remittance app showcase the international launch Digital India and the spirit of the novelty of our partnership last evening in Singapore. Under Digital India, we will create a data center policy in India.\nToday I will see many agreements in Nanyang Technological University, which will further enhance our cooperation in higher education, science, technology and innovation. There has been good progress in our cooperation in the areas of Skill Development, Planning and Urban Development.\nWe have seen the beginning of new initiatives for water in 115 aspirational districts of India. Today and tomorrow, we have signed the agreement, they will take this cooperation to a new level. They will eventually benefit the youth of India including the rural areas.\nWe have emphasized the importance of defence and security in our strategic partnership. We welcome the continuous increase in these relations. On the 25th year of SIMBEX, I congratulate the navies of India and Singapore. Soon we will start tripartite naval exercises too soon. Considering repeated practice and naval cooperation, I welcome the completion of a logistics agreement between the navies.\nIn the coming times, dealing with cyber security and extremism and terrorism will be an important area of ​​our cooperation. We consider them to be the biggest threats to our countries\nPrime Minister Lee and I shared my concerns on global and regional challenges. We both have reaffirmed our theoretical views on maritime security and have shown our commitment to Rules Based Order.\nWe have also agreed on the need to maintain open, stable and fair international trade regime.\nI have also emphasized the importance of enhancing the importance of ASEAN unity, its centrality and regional sustainability, through the institutions led by ASEAN. I also conveyed India's firm commitment to the expansion of the RCEP Agreement and expressed the hope of a fair, balanced and comprehensive agreement.\nIn today's Shangri La Dialogue, I want to express India's perspective on peace and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific region. I would like to thank Prime Minister Lee for an invitation in Shangri-La Dialogue.\nI conveyed my best wishes to Prime Minister Lee and his whole team successfully for Leadership Transition. I know that the new leaders of Singapore will continue their glorious legacy. And will take this great country forward with the same spirit and tradition of the people's service.\nThank you.\nThanks a lot.\nI was very happy to see his faith in India on the Round Table with CEOs of Singapore's important companies yesterday evening.\nAir traffic is growing rapidly between India and Singapore.\nBoth sides will soon start reviewing bilateral air services agreement: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) June 1, 2018\nRuPay, BHIM and UPI-based remittance app showcase the spirit of the innovation of Digital India and our partnership in Singapore tomorrow evening: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) June 1, 2018\nConsidering repeated practice and naval cooperation, I welcome the completion of a logistics agreement between the navies.\nIn future, dealing with cyber security and extremism and terrorism will be important areas of our cooperation: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) June 1, 2018\nWe both have reaffirmed our theoretical views on maritime security and\nI have seen my commitment to Rules Based Order.\nWe have also agreed on the need to maintain open, stable and fair international trade regime: PM"