"Members of Indian Diaspora in Singapore,\nNamaskar to all of you!\nToday, here in this wonderful setting, we see the power of the relationship between India and Singapore. It's our heritage; our people; And, a great partnership for our times It is the grace and greatness, and the roar, of the two lions. It is always a pleasure to return to Singapore. It is a city that never fails to inspire. Singapore may be a small island, but its horizons are global This great nation has shown that the size is no barrier to the scale of achievements or the power of a nation's voice in the world.\nBut, Singapore's success also lies in the harmony of its multi-cultural society, in the celebration of its diversity, which under-lies a distinct and unique Singaporean identity. And, in this wonderful mosaic, there is an ancient thread, beautiful and colorful, that binds India and Singapore.\nFriends,\nThe course of India's centuries-old route to South East Asia also ran through Singapore. The human link is deep and enduring. It lives in the Singaporean Indians And, this evening has been lit-up with your presence, your energy, your talent and your achievements.\nWhether you are here or the chance of globalization; Did your ancestors come here generations ago, or you came here in this century; Each of you has become part of Singapore's unique fabric, and its progress.\nIn turn, Singapore has embraced you, your merit and your hard work. Here in Singapore, you represent the diversity of India. If you want to see all festivals of India in one city, or celebrate them for weeks, Singapore is the place to visit.\nThat might be true now for Indian food! I still remember the dinner Prime Minister Lee hosted for me in Little India\nTamil is an official language here. But, it is a testimony to Singapore's spirit that school children can also learn five other Indian languages. The city throbs with the finest of Indian culture. This is as much as the talented Indian community as the support from Singapore Government.\nHere in Singapore you have even started a full competition in traditional Indian games. It brings you memories of your youth and enables children to connect to kho and kabaddi.\nAnd, in 2017, International Day of Yoga was held at 70 Centers in this city. That makes it one center for every 10 square kilometres.\nNo other city in the world Institutions like Sri Ramakrishna Mission and Sri Narayan Mission have been here for decades. In their service to society, without distinction between people, reflect the values ​​that bind India and Singapore.\nIn his journey through Singapore and the region, the greatest of Indian thinkers Swami Vivekananda and poet Gurudev Rabindranath Tagore found a common chord that connects India to the East. Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose's call to march for India's independence from the soil of Singapore -Delhi let- is an enduring flame in the heart of every Indian\nAnd, in 1948 a portion of Mahatma Gandhi's ashes were immersed at Clifford Pier, just across the bay from here. Thousands from all A plane showered rose petals as the ashes were immersed. People took the water from the sea\nDay after tomorrow, I will have the honor of unveiling a placque at Clifford Pier to mark that moment of our history. The moment which underlines even today the timeless and universal values ​​of Mahatma Gandhi\nFriends,\non the foundations of this extraordinary heritage, the wealth of our human links and the strength of our shared values, India and Singapore are building a partnership of our age. It is a relationship that is truly a test of strategic partnership.\nWhen India opened up to the world and turned to the East, Singapore became a partner and a bridge between India and ASEAN. Political relations between India and Singapore are among the warmest and closest There are no contests or claims, or doubts\nIt is a natural partnership from a shared vision Our defense relations are strongest, for both My Armed Forces speaks with great respect and admiration for Singapore's Armed Forces India's longest continuous naval exercise is Singapore\nThey are Marking their Silver Jubilee now We are proud to host Singapore's Army and Air Force for training in India. Our ships regularly visit each other\nMany of you have boarded our naval ships. I, too, am looking forward to visiting a Singapore Navy ship and an Indian naval ship at the Changi Naval Base day after tomorrow.\nIn international forums, we speak in a voice in the cause of a rule-based order, sovereign equality of all countries, and free and open pathways of commerce and engagement. Economics is the heart-beat of the relationship\nIt is a partnership on the front-line of India's global engagement. Singapore is both a leading investment source and destination for India. Singapore was the first country to enter into a Comparhnsive Economic Cooperation Agreement.\nNearly 250 flights in every direction connect from Singapore to 16 Indian cities. And, that is set to grow. India is the third largest source of tourists in Singapore and its fastest growing. Our IT companies are helping Singapore stay smart and competitive.\nIn many areas of India's development priorities, Singapore is a key partner: smart cities, urban solutions, financial sector, skills development, ports, logistics, aviation and industrial parks.\nSo, India and Singapore are contributing to each other's prosperity. And, now we are building new partnerships for the digital world. Prime Minister Lee and I just made an outstanding presentation on technology, innovation and enterprise. These are the bright youth of India and Singapore\nMany of them are brilliant talent from India that have made Singapore home. They will be the bridge of innovation and enterprise between India, Singapore and ASEAN. A short while ago, we saw the international launch of RuPay, BHIM and UPI.\nIt is natural to get started in Singapore! Together, we will be using the power of mobile and digital technology for governance and inclusion. Together, we can build a new economy.\nAs Singapore shapes a new future for itself, India emerges as the new global frontier of opportunities. Even in a year of deep structural reforms like the introduction of Goods and Services Tax, we remain the fastest growing major economy of the world.\nAnd we intend to stay that-way Our economy has become more stable Fiscal deficit is down Inflation rate is down Current account deficit is comfortable The currency is stable And, the foreign exchange reserves are\nIn India, the present is changing rapidly. A 'New India' is taking shape. And, there are many reasons for it. One, economic reforms are taking place at a speed and a scale not known so far. Over 10,000 employees in the last two years have helped us move up.\nOver 1,400 out-dated laws have been repealed. India is the most open economies in the world Foreign investors can go in almost all sectors, often with up to 100% equity. Indeed, more than 90% of investments in India are through this route.\nTwo, Tax regime has changed: low tax rates, increased stability, faster resolution of tax disputes and electronic filing systems Goods and Services Tax is the biggest tax reform since independence It has unified the nation in a single market and increased the tax base.\nThis was not a easy task. But, it was successfully successfully And, it has created new economic opportunities. Our personal income tax base has also expanded by around 20 million.\nThree, our infrastructure is expanding at record speed. Last year, we built approximately 10 thousand kilometers of national highways - that is 27 kilometers daily, almost double the speed a few years ago.\nPace of rail track is also doubled. Metro Rails in several cities, seven High Speed ​​Rail Projects, dedicated freight corridors, and modernization of 400 railway stations will transform the rail sector.\nOther projects include 10 green field airports; five new major ports; 111 rivers named as National Water-ways; and over 30 logistics parks. We added over 80 thousand mega-watts of power in just three years.\nAnd, in renewable energy, we have become the largest producer in the world. That is our commitment to a green and sustainable future. Quite simply, the biggest infrastructure story of the world is unfolding in India.\nFour, our manufacturing sector is rebounding There is a sharp increase in FDI in the past three years - from 36 billion US.Solaras in 2013-14 to 60 billion US.Sollars in 2016-17. There is also a special focus on the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise Sector.\nWe have launched sector-specific modernization and productivity programs, reduced corporate tax rate, and made tax benefits more attractive and easier. The Indian Startup sector is flourishing, and is now the world's largest economy.\nMy favorite scheme is, of course, the currency scheme that offers micro credit to the poor and the excluded. Over the past three years, 128 billion loans worth more than 90 billion US dollars have been extended - 74% of them have gone to women; yes, 74% to women!\nFive We are focussed on financial inclusion In the course of the past three years, we have opened 316 million bank accounts for those who never had a bank account. Now, 99% of Indian house-holds has a bank account\nIt is a new source of dignity and identity for every citizen, a remarkable story of inclusion and empowerment more than 12 billion US dollars have been deposited in these accounts\nGovernment benefits worth more than 50 billion US dollars have been transferred directly to the beneficiaries They now have access to affordable pensions and insurance. Now here in the world has banking expansion taken on such scale and at such speed.\nSix, a digital revolution is sweeping through India Through a biometric identity for everyone, a mobile phone in almost every pocket, and a bank account in everyone's reach, every Indian's life is getting transformed.\nAnd, it is also transforming everything else in India: governance, public service, delivery of benefits to the poor, putting banking and pension within the reach of the poorest. For example, digital transactions are growing rapidly.\nIn 2017, just the UPI-based transactions grew seven thousand percent. In January, all digital transactions were valued at 2 trillion US dollars We are building broadband connectivity to two hundred and fifty thousand village councils, and we are setting up common service centers.\nThese will offer many digital services Under Atal Innovation Mission, we are opening 100 incubation centers and we have opened 24 hundred tinkering labs across India for our students to become innovators and job creators. One of the labs\nSeven, India will experience the largest wave of urbanization in the world over the next two decades. It is a challenge, but also a huge responsibility and opportunity.\nWe are working to transform 100 cities in Smart Cities, and 115 aspirational districts in new centers of progress.\nMass transit, waste management, pollution control, sustainable habitat and affordable housing are programs.\nEight, we are investing in skills and raising the standards of higher education to give a life of dignity and opportunity for our 800 million youth With learning from Singapore, we are setting up advanced Institutes of Skill Development. And, in this fiscal year, we have launched a 15 billion US dollar program, to further strengthen our higher education system\nNine, Agricultural sector is receiving a level of priority that has not since the Green Revolution decades ago. We aim to double the income of farmers by 2022, when Independent India will be 75 and a new India will be born.\nFor this, we are using technology, remote sensing, internet, digital financial system, soft credit, insurance, soil health improvement, irrigation, pricing and connectivity.\nTen, we want every citizen to enjoy what I call 'Easy's Living' by 2022. It means, for example, 50 million new homes so that there is a roof over every head in 2022.\nLast month, we reached a milestone. Every one of our 600 thousand villages is now connected to power grid. We are also working\nWe have launched this year, AYUSHMAN India, the National Health Insurance Scheme. It will cover 100 million families or 500 million Indians with annual coverage of 8000 U.S. dollars This is the largest healthcare scheme in the world.\nQuality of life is also linked to clean and sustainable development. That is one of our prime goals It is rooted in our heritage and our commitment to the planet's future. And, it is a matter of public policy and economic choices in India.\nIt includes our mission of Clean India, clean rivers, clean air and clean cities. And, all these changes are taking place A nation of 1.25 billion people, with 65% of the age of 35 years, is on the move, eager for change, and confident about achieving a new India. That is also driving change in governance and politics.\nFriends,\nThere is complete clarity and confidence about economic reforms in India. We will make it easy and smooth to do business in India. We will work for an open, stable and fair international trade regime. And, our engagement to our East will be the strongest, and economics will remain an integral part of our Act East Policy.\nWe want to see a comprehendable fair, balanced agreement that lifts up all the nations on the tide of trade and investment. We have just completed the review of India-Singapore Comprehnsive Economic Cooperation Agreement.\nWe will work with all, most of all with ASEAN, Regional Comprehnsive Economic Partnership. As India's engagement with the region grows, Singapore will remain a gateway to Asia and the broader East. This year, Sinagapore's chairmanship of Asia will take India's relations with Asia and further ahead.\nFriends,\nIn conclusion For Singapore, there is no better chance than India. Few countries have so much in common and so much in potential as India and Singapore. We are the only future for our communities.\nWe pursue a world based on rule of law, and have a stable trade regime. Above all, we have the world's most talented, dynamic, professional and committed Indian diaspora, proud to be Singaporeans, proud of their Indian heritage, ready to be the bridge between India and Singapore.\nThe future is a world of unlimited opportunities. It is to us It is up to us to be important and bold to seize it. This evening tells us that we are on the right path. The two lions will step in the future together.\nThank you."