"\nIndia-Indonesia ties are special: PM Modi\nWe are all proud of the way in which Indian is the distinguished itself in Indonesia: PM Modi\nIn the last four years, India has seen unparalleled transformation, says PM Modi in Indonesia\nBoth India and Indonesia are proud of their democratic ethos and their diversity: PM Modi\nIn 2014 the people of India voted for a government headed by a poor background. Similarly, the people of Indonesia elected President Widodo whose background is also humble: PM\nIndian diaspora in Indonesia further strengthens the vibrant people-to-people ties between both countries: PM\nEnsuring a corruption-free, citizen-centric and development-friendly ecosystem is our priority: PM\nGST has enhanced the tax compliance system in India; it has ensured a better revenue system: PM Modi\nTo enhance 'Ease of Living', we are focussing on modern infrastructure; We are making a system which is transparent as well as sensitive: PM Modi\nHello everyone to all the brothers who live in India in Indonesia.\nSalam Sore, Tamaan - Taman. (Good Evening Friends)\nMerry Christmas? (How are you.)\nSaaya Sanang Sakali Bar - Pay the Sini (I'm very happy to be here)\nI express the gratitude of the people of Indonesia, all of you, and especially President Viudo who welcomed me in this holy month of Ramzan. A glimpse of Indonesian diversity was also seen in the morning. Citizens and children wearing different costumes welcomed me. It touched my heart.\nColleagues,\nA few months ago, we celebrated Republic Day of India with all 10 ASEAN leaders. Indonesia is an important member of the largest population in ASEAN. I am grateful to President Viudo that he gave us an opportunity to hospitalize him. It is not a coincidence that in 1950 the President of Indonesia was the chief guest of India's first Republic Day.\nColleagues,\nWherever I went in the world as a representative of the hundred and fifty million Indians in the past four years, I have been trying to meet the millions of brothers and sisters like you, whose roots are in the land of Bharat. In the meantime, there was one thing that I talked about. That is the matter of unwavering reverence and respect towards mother Bharati. Here in Indonesia I can see the same spirit in front of me. Your devotion towards Indonesia, the same strong feeling you have to connect with its roots. Most of you are citizens of Indonesia but India is also inhabited in a corner of the heart.\nColleagues,\nOur culture and culture have a relationship. And all of you who have settled here today in Indonesia, are our strongest link to this relationship. If you are from here for four or five generations, then there are many people who have been here since the past two-three decades. Today, if any of you is related to the business of clothing, then there is a trade of sports goods. There is no engineer, no consultant. If there is a CA, then no banker, no spiritual teacher, no spiritual teacher Mr. Gurumam Singh ji, who had relations with India also won medal for Indonesia in the Jakarta Asian Games of 1962. I am very happy and proud too, that by all the hard work, not only did you adapt the environment here, but today you are contributing a lot to the development of Indonesia.\nColleagues,\nThere was also a time when your ancestors had to leave India due to different circumstances. Today, today there is a time when India has a strong identity throughout the world. In the last 4 years, India has done the task of advancing the world economy.\nToday India is one of the world's most open economies. Foreign investment is being done at the record level in India.\nIndia's Foreign Exchange Reserve has surpassed $ 300 billion to over 400 billion dollars.\nIndia attracting greenfield FDI has become the number one country in the world.\nOne of India's top two emerging market in the FDI Confidence Index.\nIn the Global Competitiveness Index of the World Economic Forum, India's ranking has improved from 71 to 40.\nIn the ranking of the easiest of Doing Business, India has come from number 142 to 100th place.\nThe Logistics Performance Index has improved 19 points.\nIndia's ranking has risen 21 points in the Global Innovation Index.\nIn the UNCTAD report, India has been placed in the top three of the strongest economies of the future.\nFor the first time in the last 14 years, Moody's has improved the credit rating of India.\nbrothers and sisters,\nWhile India is the world's largest democracy, in Indonesia, the roots of democracy are very strong. This is the reason that as many as 100 million Indians gave ordinary citizens like me the opportunity to become prime ministers, the people of Indonesia also chose Vidodoji as their president. Companions, India and Indonesia are symbols of social and cultural diversity and harmony. There are many languages ​​spoken here, there are hundreds of communities, even in India, the quote on the Kos-koos is changed, the quote on the four kosas is famous. I have read somewhere that the Borneo island of Indonesia has remnants of seventeen hundred years ago, which are evidence of relations with India. Just three or four days back I was in Cuttack of Odisha. On the ground where a large public meeting was organized, the name was 'Balijatra'. What does Balizatra mean? Travel to Bali in Indonesia. Hundreds of years ago, the great sailor from Odisha came out from Cuttack only to Java-Sumatra and Borneo. Even today, in October-November every year, celebration of 'Balijatra' in Odisha is celebrated with great enthusiasm. Indo-Indonesia also has a long history. When I was the Chief Minister of Gujarat, I had once told someone that many of the Muslims who came out of Kutch in the 12th century came to settle in Indonesia too. Gujrati along with them, Gujarati food was also brought to Indonesia. I am told that Babur Gujarat, Gujarati Khichadi is also made in many Muslim families in Indonesia. Even today many such words are in use, which highlight the ancientity and intimacy of India's relations with Indonesia. For the brothers like 'Sodom', 'Mati' for the demise, 'Characters' for colors or color, 'Group' or 'Samu' for group, 'Fasting' and 'Puawas', 'Bahasa' and 'Languages'; 'Rupiah' and 'Rupee' If you collect such words then the entire dictionary will be created. These similarities are natural. There is a distance of just 90 nautical miles between India and Indonesia. That is, we are 90 nautical miles away, 90 nautical miles pass. Are neighbors.\nColleagues,\nI have been told that deep cultural relations of India and Indonesia are celebrated here in many ways. Here cultural events of 'Indonesia Tamil Sangam' have also got a different identity. I have also been told about successful programs organized on International Yoga Day at Jakarta and other places in the previous year. I have also come to know that the popularity of the Indian Traditional medicines, the Panchkarma-Ayurveda centers, famous in Bali is increasingly popular. In recent years, there is a worldwide attraction towards Holistic Healthcare. This is also a great opportunity for you to become an Ambassador of traditional Indian medicine.\nColleagues,\nWell, this is also a coincidence. A few days ago, I had the opportunity to take the blessings of Mother Janaki in Janakpur of Nepal. And now in Indonesia in here, where the Kala Katha has a new land and a new environment. It is Indonesia's specialty in itself that the artists staging the Ramayana here are Muslim. Today, some time ago, President Vidodo and I saw an exhibition of kites. It was a great pleasure to see that stories and traditions like Ramayana and Mahabharata still have a special place in the normal life of Indonesia. This is a very important example of how faith and culture are cultivated and well-nurtured.\nColleagues,\nWe have been collaborating with each other at the global and regional level since the two countries were liberated in the last century. Over the past four years our intensity has increased further. Today the relationship between India and Indonesia is at a new height. Whether diplomatic, strategic or economic cooperation, India and Indonesia are together combating the challenges, using opportunities. Today, India and Indonesia have decided to take their strategic partnership to a different level. President Vidodo and I have given it a step further and have given the status of 'Comprehensive Strategic Partnership'. The exercises are being organized between our armies. There is also a growing synergy between security-related issues. Today Indonesia is India's largest trading partner in the ASEAN countries. Today our business has reached more than $ 18 billion.\nColleagues,\nAnother reason for strong relations between India and Indonesia is our people. That is all you have to do. We have a very large population that is under 35 years of age. Our government has done the right direction and encouragement for their energy over the past four years in India. That is why, the pace of working of my government is fast and scale is very broad. In accordance with the expectations and expectations of the people of the country, we have emphasized the need for good governance, Minimum Government, Maximum Governance. We are moving forward with the Citizen-First mantra. The government is taking large administrative, financial and legal steps by going to the ground level. Corruption Free, Citizen-Centric and Development Friendly Ecosystem for our government is the biggest priority. For passports, now India does not have to wait months or weeks, in two to three days the passport goes to people's home. People from 163 countries, including Indonesia, have been granted e-Visa facility. There has been an increase of about 150 percent of the number of tourists coming to India on e-Visa. In the past, more than 1,400 old laws have been abolished in India in the last few years. Goods and Service Tax - GST has given India a better tax compliance system, better revenue system.\nColleagues,\nWe are working on the Unique Combination of Modern Infrasturucture for the nation's citizens of Ease of Living and the country. We are building a system in India that is not only Transparent but also Sensitive.\nThe speed of changing railway lines in broad gauge has doubled.\nElectricity of rail lines is being done at three times the speed.\nMy government is making roads and National Highways in the villages at twice the speed.\nThe speed at which the power transmission line was being laid, the same work is being done at twice the speed.\nEarlier, compared to just 59 village panchayats, we have added more than 1 lakh 10 thousand Gram Panchayats to optical fiber.\nIn comparison to just 28 government schemes, now more than 400 schemes are getting people directly in the bank account.\nEven the LED bulb used to be found in the first three and a half hundred rupees, that too is now getting in 40-50 rupees.\nEarlier, there were only 2 mobile manufacturing companies in India, now their number has increased to 120. In India, the mobile has reduced the cost of importing to half.\nToday a large number of new engineering colleges are opening in India, management colleges, medical colleges are opening up. In the last two and a half years, more than 9 thousand start ups have been registered in India. The world's second largest start-up ecosystem is made in India. Today, the strength of India's passport has increased. India has become part of the world's powerful systems. India is one of the countries to lead Solar Energy in the interest of human welfare, to lead the International Solar Alliance. Our government is working to prepare India in line with the requirements of 21st century - aspirations and expectations. Today India is moving forward with the resolution of New India. We have to make New India by 2022, when independent India will be 75 years old.\nColleagues,\nHere is the tradition of giving each other in happiness and misery in Indonesia and on the spell of Vasudhaiva family, you are stubborn. I have been told that thousands of Indian tourists, stranded in the volcano that occurred recently in Bali, were saved not only by the people of Bali and Surabaya, but also arranging them to send them home. I admire your heart for this human behavior. And also thank you. This protection of human values ​​has been an integral part of India's heritage. We are living in the same glory in India as well. Whether there is an earthquake in Nepal or floods in Sri Lanka, India's identity is becoming the first to be seen as a country that is present during the crisis. 90,000 Indians trapped in the crisis have been brought back safely during the NDA government.\nColleagues,\nIndia and Indonesia are not the same as the name itself. This synergy is not just rhyme, rhythm also rhythm. This synergy is of our culture, of our traditions. It is our belief, it is of the system. Public relations, of democracy.\nbrothers and sisters,\nIndia and Indonesia are bound by cultural bondage. We have very old relationships. But today we all have a question as to whether it will be the subject of archeology? We will have to work together on our next generation, our People to People Contacts in the future and how to grow, how strong and alive. You will have many such people who have never visited India. There will be many people who have not been abroad for many years. I urge you, once you come to India with your friends. You will be able to experience how change is happening in India. I want to tell you that the citizens of Indonesia are getting a free visa for 30 days for a free visa. In the next few months, a big opportunity is waiting for you. In January next year, Kumbh is going to be held in Prayag in Uttar Pradesh. This fair of faith will be a new experience for you. Here you will see the enormous spirituality of your country, the tableau of New India will also be found. I invite you to join new opportunities in New India. You should come and take advantage of the environment instead. And also contribute to change it further.\nआपने मुझे यहां इतना मान दिया, सम्मान दिया, इसके लिए फिर एक बार आपका और इंडोनेशिया की सरकार को यहां के प्रशासन को मैं बहुत-बहुत धन्यवाद देता हूं।\nतेरीमा कासिह कालियान तलह बर-अदा दी सिनी (यहां आने के लिए आप सब का बहुत बहुत धन्यवाद)\nसलामत रमादान !"