"Share\n\nAgreements exchanged between India and Indonesia will further strengthen ties between both countries: PM\n2025: By 2025: PM\nIndia and Indonesia are youthful nations Both countries can learn from one another when it comes to employment generation and skill development for our youth: PM Modi\nYour Excellency\nPresident Joko Widodo,\nDistinguished delegates,\nSeelamat Siyang\nHello!\nThis is my first visit to this great and beautiful country. First of all, I express my gratitude to President Viddoo for the wonderful management of this journey and my hospitality with warmth. Describing Indonesia's diversity, citizens and small children welcomed me as a national costume, he touched my heart especially. I have deep respect for the vision of the President for his visionary leadership and his personal commitment to strengthening our partnership.\nFriends,\nI am deeply sorry for the killing of innocents of Indonesia in recent terrorist attacks. India strongly condemns such attacks. In this difficult time, India stands firmly with Indonesia. This tragic incident gives the message that there is a need to bring more speed in the efforts being made jointly on the global level to fight terrorism.\nFriends,\nThe Panchsheel philosophy of Indonesia is a living testimony of the wisdom and foresight of the people of Indonesia. It has also unified the cultural traditions with religious beliefs. Our worries are similar to marine neighbors and strategic partners. It is our duty to ensure the safety and security of the maritime routes. It is also necessary to protect our economic interests. Our special geo-strategic location is in today's changing Indo-Pacific region. We are facing similar development and environmental challenges. As partners in the Indo-Pacific region, we have shared interests in each other's progress and prosperity. And so, we have agreed on shared Vision and Principles for the Indo-Pacific region. Friends, Our Vision of \"Sagar\" - Security and Growth for All in the Region - with Act of India, coincides with President of Viddo's Maritime Fulcrum Policy. In December 2016, during the visit of President Vidyodo to India, we had prepared a roadmap. In our discussion today we assessed the progress made on its implementation. The agreements between us will help us to further improve our bilateral relations. I am happy that we have decided to upgrade our partnership to Comprehnsive Strategic Partnership. We will double our efforts to take bilateral trade to the level of $ 50 billion by 2025. And I also congratulate the positive contribution of our CEO Forum to help in these efforts.\nFriends,\nWe have strong cultural relations between the two countries for millennia. A glimpse of these was also seen in the parade held on our Republic Day this year. This year's parade depicts the festival of India's Odisha state \"Baali Jatra\" in the panes of ASEAN-India relations. This festival celebrated annually is an example of our thousands of years of cultural relations still alive. In 2019, we will celebrate the 70th anniversary of establishing our diplomatic relations, during this time, many festivals will be organized in both the countries. Indian tourists come to Indonesia, especially in Bali, by twinning Uttarakhand and Bali, this exchange will increase further, most of the population in both countries is young, for the dreams of these young people and for them In order to generate employment opportunities, we can learn from each other in the field of education and skill development. We will strengthen our cooperation in education and science and technology. Agreed. We enhance cooperation in the IT sector in India and it will welcome the leadership of ideas Indonesia to expand. It will be beneficial partnership for both countries.\nFriends,\nIndia-ASEAN partnership is a force which is for peace and shared prosperity in and around Indo-Pacific region. We value the positive role of Indonesia in ASEAN. Also, the effort of this Association for comprehensive regional cooperation and integration is also an example and inspiration. I have expressed our gratitude to President Vidodo for the strong support of Indonesia in developing India's strategic partnership in ASEAN. I wish all the best wishes to Indonesia for hosting the 18th Asian Games in August. I believe this will be a very spectacular and historic event. And in this holy month of Ramadan, I wish for the prosperity, good health and success of all the people of Indonesia on behalf of the hundred and a hundred million people of India and congratulate them on the festival of upcoming Id-ul-Fitr.\nThanks a lot.\nAamma Kasi Baniyak\nPM @narendramodi in his press comment: Our concerns in the form of maritime neighbors and strategic partners are the same. It is our duty to ensure the safety and security of the maritime routes. It is also necessary to protect our economic interests. Link at https://t.co/M5SB6j3jkq pic.twitter.com/ZTc3f9RfWo"