"\nMudra Yojana has become a job multiplier: PM Modi\nMudra Yojana has helped in relieving the entrepreneurs from the vicious cycle of moneylenders and middlemen: PM Modi\nMudra Yojana has opened up new opportunities for youth, women and those who want to start or expand their businesses: PM Modi\nMudra Yojana has transformed the lives of the poor: PM Modi\nPrime Minister Narendra Modi has said that he will help people in a strategic way.\nBrothers and sisters,\nIt's my good luck that today I got the opportunity to talk to people who have been actively involved with a scheme that is very dear to my heart, the enterprising youth and the sisters who came out behind behind tradition. You are such people who built your path instead of the traditional way and you built with power and will power. You have given a big way to the country's prosperity and happiness.\nToday, the whole country has joined me in listening to the story of your courage, of the decisions taken by you, Only last month, I had the opportunity to spend some time with the Prime Minister's residence. Their experiences, their struggle and the stories of their progress gave satisfactionand also filled my heart with pride. I had decided that day itself that if I get a chance, I would talk to the beneficiaries, I would chitchat with them. And, today, both your time and technology I can hear your experiences, realise your feelings straight and no intermediary\nThe contribution made by the country's economy You are aware that loan fairs were organized 25-30 years ago for political benefit. And the people who were politically affiliated, their minions, contractors and those doing vote bank politics, all the people used to get money from banks A lot of news items were also published. No one cared to ask We neither organised loan fairs nor did we provide space to any broker The youth of the country, the mothers and sisters of the country who wanted to do something on their own, those who wanted to talk to the bank officers directly, for them we had prepared a product - Mudra Yojana - which became a very big opportunity for those countrymen who wanted to do something We trust our small entrepreneurs, we trust their business skills; We gave them loans under the Mudra Yojanaso. Mudra Yojana not only created opportunities for self-employment but also has been working as a job multiplier.\nSince independence Who were able to get loans; The work of only those people was done In some way or other, this system kept the poor people out of the system because they did not have a big name nor any approach It was one of the big reasons because of which thousands of small enterprises could not start their business nor expand as per their abilities. For financial assistance, they have been trapped under the grip of money lenders.\nThere was a time in this country when the finance minister himself used to make phone calls for arranging loans for big industrialists. On the other hand, a small entrepreneur used to be trapped in paying 30-40% interest to money lenders in a way that he could not get out of it in his whole life. This vicious cycle was destined to be broken someday, it was broken by someone We have made efforts in this direction and we have succeeded. We have been breaking apart this vicious cycle.\nWith trust and confidence; with the government's faith in poor people, faith in their dreams and hard work of poor people ...\nHad the youth of the country got a scheme like Mudra Yojanadecades ago I am sure the problem of migrations towards cities did not have so acute If people were able to avail bank loans without guarantee, they had got the bank loans on low interest rates. Today, the poorest of the poor is getting bank loan without a collateral. Today, even a common man, without any special name or reference can become an entrepreneur with the help of Mudra loan. And, today, it is not necessary to have a friend or relative in the government Today, there is no dearth of talent in the country Everybody has some skill in one field or another, the need to recognize that skill and to encourage him. Mudra Scheme has been providing the power to the people, especially of the youth.\nWhen skills are encouraged then they blossom more and a change Suppose, someone has a skill in making embroidery on cloths; He or she started a business of making embroidery on cloths by borrowing money under the Mudra Yojana. Gradually, he or she will start a business of designer clothes. Someone got the help in his handloom business In a way, Mudra Yojana has done the work of the common man. It has done the job of getting recognition of those skills Under the Mudra Yojana, an amount of Rs. 5.75 lakh crore has been disbursed among 12 crore beneficiaries.\nIt has not been fully utilized But you will be surprised to know that Moody is such a scheme\nUnder this scheme, 28 per cent, or about Rs. 3.25 lakh crore have been given to those people In a way, these people who are employed after a long spell of unemployment\nThe most satisfactory thing in this scheme is that 74% of beneficiaries of the scheme are women, it means about 9 crore beneficiaries women. When a woman makes progress, then she is the center of economic activity. Similarly, 55 percent of total loan amount under the scheme has been given to the communities of backward communities. It means out of total 12 crore beneficiaries 55 percent of loans have been given to the entrepreneurs of SC / ST and OBC communities. We have been listening to the slogans for decades in the name of poverty, we have heard the talk about the upliftment of poor but money scheme is such a scheme which has been doing the work of giving financial and social power to the backward communities without any discrimination, it is doing the work of empowering them\nMeanwhile, many organizations have joined the bandwagon. Today, not only 110 banks, but 72 Micro Financial Institutions and 9 Non-Banking Financial Companies (NBFCs) have also been giving money loans. Banks have simplified the process of granting. Paperwork has been made simple andcollecting documents is no longer a matter of tension. Today, it is a matter of pride to be self-employed and you are a source of inspiration for that."