"Share\n\nAtal Ji had a long political career; Yet, he continued raising issues of public interest and never ever deviated from his ideology: PM\nAtal Ji's Silence: PM Modi\nWe all He has a great sense of humour: PM Modi\nA portrait of former Prime Minister, Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee was unveiled at the Central Hall of Parliament today by President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind.\nHis Excellency, President, Vice President, Speaker Madam, Ghulamati Nabi Ji, Narendra Singh Ji, family members of Atal ji and all the uncompromising lovers gentlemen.\nIn the Central Hall of Parliament, Atalji will continue to bless us in this new form and will continue to inspire us. A lot of things can be said in the form of great trust of Atal ji's life and one thing can not be less than the other. It can be said for hours, but still can not be completed and even after saying in less words, maybe even that giant person can be identified. Such individuals are very few. After spending so many years in the corridor of Parliament, despite being away from power for decades, continuing to serve the people with the sanctity of the common man, continuing to lift the voices of the common man and change the way for the sake of personal life; In you, in a public life, many workers like us are like learning a lot.\nPolitics has come in fluctuations, Jay has been defeated, but we have seen it in the life of Atal ji, never having to compromise with ideals and ideas and keep going towards the goal and sometimes it gets the right result. There is a big discussion of his speech, but perhaps in the future, if a person who researches a psychologically in the future, analyzing them in a very deep depth, the strength of his speech was in his speech, perhaps many times his strength was in his silence. When he was silent after uttering two or four things in the public meeting, it was very strange that even the last person of lakhs of people could get the message from that silence. Who was this, his communication skills, perhaps even in this age, the communication skills of silence, when speaking, and when silence was the strength that was, it was amazing. In that way he lived in his own fun. If you got an opportunity to travel together, you would see that they kept their eyes closed. Did not talk much, he was in his nature. But there was also a small thing, war, which was their specialty. Whenever there was ever atmosphere in our party meeting, if we used to have such a small thing, then we would have kept such a small thing, we used to create a light atmosphere. That is, one kind of circumstance was taken, they had absorbed themselves inside. Such personality, which is the greatest force of democracy, was dedicated to that power and there is no enemy in democracy. There is competition in democracy, there is a counterparty. Respecting honor and respect with that spirit is like learning everything for our new generation. We all like to learn how we also look at the person with the respect, along with respect, with respect to the rigorous, critical criticism, it is a matter of learning from Atal ji.\nToday is the opportunity to offer respect to Atal ji. I respect the honorable Atal ji on behalf of all my companions of the house.\nNow on, Atal Ji will be forever in the Parliament's Central Hall, inspiring us and blessing us.\nIf we start talking about the goodness of Atal Ji, it will take hours and hours: PM @narendramodi speaking at the programme marking the unveiling of Atal Ji's portrait at Central Hall\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 12, 2019\nAtal Ji had a long political career;\nYet, he continued raising issues of public interest and never ever deviated from his ideology: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 12, 2019\nThere was power in Atal Ji's silence.\nHis communication skills were unparalleled. He had a great sense of humour: PM @narendramodi"