"Share\n\nThe Expressways will greatly benefit people of Delhi NCR by reducing pollution and will bring down traffic jams: PM\nTo uplift the lives of 125 crore Indians, it is necessary that we develop modern infrastructure: PM Modi\nWe are promoting domestic manufacturing through Make in India initiative, says PM Modi\nWe are working to empower the women Through Ujjwala and Mudra Yojana, a positive change has brought in the lives of women: PM Modi\nWe are developing five places associated with Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar as Panchteerth; We are strengthening the Dalits and the marginalised: PM Modi\nOpposition mocks the steps we take to empower the weak sections and women What they do is spreading lies among people: PM\nVictory to Mother India!\nMy dear brothers and sisters who are present here in large numbers,\nFour years ago, you have given me an opportunity to support your immense support. It is clear that our government has been successful in leading the country in the right direction, from the fact that you are in the big numbers to shower your blessings in the scorching heat of the sun in the month of May.\nBrothers and sisters,\nThe love and affection is a result of the satisfaction of the master. On the completion of 4 years of the NDA Government under the leadership of BJP, The Prime Servant once again bows down to the 125 crore Indians and welcomes you.\nFriends,\nToday is an important day for the people in Baghpat in West Uttar Pradesh and Delhi NCR. Two major road projects have been dedicated - the first phase of the Delhi-Meerut Expressway and the second Eastern Peripheral Expressway. Rs. 11000 crore was spent on Eastern Peripheral Expressway while about Rs. 850 crore has been spent on the recent part of the Delhi-Meerut Expressway. This entire project costs about Rs. 5000 crores. Today, when I had the opportunity to walk on this new road, I realized that the 14-lane journey is going to make the life of people of Delhi NCR much smoother. A modern technology has been merged with greenery.\nBrothers and sisters,\nIt took only 18 months to complete this work. Today the 14-lane, 9 kilometer stretch has been inaugurated. However, the 9 kilometre stretch is also of great importance and the people of Patparganj, Mayur Vihar, Gaziabad, Indirapuram, Vaishali and Noida are well aware of it. The second phase of this expressway up to Meerut will also be done on the same pace like this 9km stretch of road. After its completion, the distance between Meerut and Delhi can be covered in just 40-45 minutes.\nFriends,\nDelhi NCR is faced with not only traffic jam and crowd but also heavy pollution which is taking a monstrous form every year. One of the major reasons of pollution in Delhi is the vehicles entering Delhi and the subsequent long traffic jams Taking this problem seriously, Our government has planned to lay down expressways around Delhi It will be done in 2 phases. I got the opportunity to inaugurate its first phase i.e. The Eastern Peripheral Expressway just a moment back\nBrothers and sisters,\nThis expressway will reduce the number of vehicles entering Delhi by almost 30%. Those vehicles will pass through the outskirts A system has been created which is not only large vehicles and trucks but also the 50 thousand cars will not have enter Delhi. Moreover, the Eastern Peripheral Expressway is the first expressway in the country, which is Access-Controlled Raw Green Field Expressway. This road has been built in just 500 days These 2 large projects are now ready for your service The energy needs will also be fulfilled by solar energy. This means, it will save time and fuel and will reduce pollution. It is also easy now to transport milk, vegetables and grains from Western UP to Delhi.\nBrothers and sisters,\nModern Infrastructure plays a significant role in raising the standard of living of the 125 crore people. This opens up the path towards 'Sabka Sath Sabka Vikas'; because infrastructure does not discriminate between caste, creed, sect and the rich and the poor. This creates equal opportunities for everyone. Therefore, our government has given the main thrust of its attention to infrastructure related to highways, railways, airway, waterway and power.\nFriends,\nWe have spent more than 3 lakh crores in making more than 28,000 kilometer of new highways in the last 4 years. I want you to hear it carefully Until 4 years ago, the highways were constructed at the rate of 12km per day. While today, the highways are built at 27km per day. Under the Bharat Mala project, a provision of RS.5 lakh crore has been made in this year's budget. Under this, highways of about 35 thousand kilometer are being constructed. Moreover, work is being done at an unprecedented rate not only in construction highways but also in railways. A widespread network of railways is being laid down in areas that were not connected with railway network before. We are doubling up our efforts to change single lines in double lines and metre-gauge to broad-guage. Speed ​​of trains is also being increased We have removed about 5500 unmanned crossings in the last four years.\nBrothers and sisters,\nA new UDAN scheme has started to make air travel cheap and open new air routes. Last year, about one crore people traveled by airways; This is more than the number of people who traveled in the air-conditioned coaches of the railways. I am telling you the story of the last 4 years. We are working on our dream so that even a person wearing slippers will be able to travel. We are also using the country's potential in waterways to the optimum level. More than 100 waterways will soon come Today Ships are sailing in river Ganga in UP UP is going to direct link Soon the large cargo ships will be able to reach the major portals of the country. Just like the river Ganga, a new scheme is being prepared for the river Yamuna.\nFriends,\nWherever new transportation systems are being set up, new opportunities for industrial development are also being opened up. Keeping this in mind, we have given the development of a new Defense industrial corridor in UP in this year's budget. This corridor will extend to Agra, Aligarh, Lucknow, Kanpur, Jhansi and Chitrakoot. These corridors alone will create new jobs for nearly two and a half lakh people.\nFriends,\nEverything for building a new India is going to be based on the expectations of the youth and the middle class. Work is progressing at a rapid pace under the Net Plan for connecting You can clearly see the pace at which our government is working. Just as I have given you the comparative figures for highway development, I would like to give you another figure which is worth noting. The UPA government led by Congress managed to connect only 59 or about 60 Panchayats with Optical Fiber Network in four years of their tenure while we have more than 1 lakh Panchayats connected On one hand Less than 60 villages and on the other more than 1 lakh villages in four years! The country can clearly see how the work is done. Make in India is giving a boost to the manufacturing sector. Four years ago, there were only 2 factories for manufacturing cell phones in India. Now we have reached today You will be glad to know that at that time only 2 factories manufactured mobile phones, while today 120 factories manufacture mobile phones out of which many are located within NCR. It has provided jobs to many youngsters. Some of them could be present here today.\nFriends,\nThe Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise or the MSMEs play significant role in manufacturing. The MSME sector provides the largest opportunities for employment after the agricultural sector. In UP is a network of nearly 50 lakh small enterprises. The center and the Uttar Pradesh government are working together The central government has also given a huge tax relief to the MSME sector. The Uttar Pradesh government has taken a major initiative under Yogi Ji. The 'One District One Product' scheme is significant in this case. The Government of India's efforts in Mission, stand-up India and Start-up India Mission and Prime Minister's Employment Generation Scheme.\nFriends,\nQuality business and trade is possible only when an apt security system is in place The people of West Uttar Pradesh are the witnesses. Today, under the leadership of Yogi, criminals are surrendering to the authority. The criminals are taking no I would like to thank both Yogi ji and Manoharlal ji for this. They have done a commendable job in UP and Haryana respectively in improving the law and order situation of both the states. They are the criminal tracking system amazingly! Before the criminals used to commit a crime here and hid in the other state or vice versa. However, today they have shut down all the paths of the mischief. I congratulate both of them\nBrothers and sisters,\nWe are prioritizing women's empowerment. 7.5 crore toilets under Swachh Bharat Mission and 4 crore gas connections under Ujjwala scheme. 75% of the estimated 13 crore loans given to women entrepreneurs under Mudra Yojana. Can anyone imagine that 75% of 13 crore loans are raised by the daughters, sisters and mothers of our country? In the last four years, we have honored our women and empowered them.\nFriends,\nApart from women, we have also taken several important steps in the past four years, such as self-employment or social security for empowering the Dalits, oppressed and backward classes of the country. More than half of the loan was given to the Dalits and the backward classes under the Mudra Yojana. The Dalit and women entrepreneurs have also benefited from the stand-up India mission. It is an honor for our government that has developed 5 places associated with the life of Babasaheb Ambedkar as Panch-Teerth or 5 Centers of pilgrimage.\nFriends,\nI can say that my people are selfish people who are engaged in politics. On the other hand, the one who is in reality related to the problems of the Dalits, the oppressed and the deprived section of the society engages him in the welfare politics and not the populist one. Apart from providing opportunities, we have also taken several important decisions for providing justice and safety to my Dalit and backward brothers and sisters in the last four years.\nWe have made the laws related to atrocities against Dalits and tribals. We have expanded the list of the numbers of atrocities against Dalits from 22 different crimes to 47. A special court is going to set up fast for trial against the atrocities against Dalits.\nBrothers and sisters,\nWe have decided to form a commission for sub-categorization of backward castes. The government wants to provide better facilities of reservation within the framework to those who are even more backward within OBC in the government and educational institutions. Therefore, we have formed this Commission for sub-categorization of OBCs.\nFriends,\nThe government is also willing to provide a constitutional status to the OBC Commission. The OBC community has been demanding it for the past 25 years. But the UPA government did not bother about it We have been framed We have framed important laws in the Parliament to provide constitutional status to the OBC Commission. But the Congress and its allies were supported. So, they stand as an obstacle So, the law is still pending in the parliament But I assure the OBC community that steps taken by Modi will surely be fulfilled.\nBrothers and sisters,\nThe reality is that Congress and its allies always create obstacles for the well-being of the poor, the Dalits, the backward classes and tribals. They even take the development They took the Swachh Bharat Mission as a joke and made the toilets for poor women as a joke. They also made fun of the fact that our government was providing free gas connections to the poor women. The people with the anti-poor mentality also made fun of the fact that we were providing the poor with bank accounts. These people who are used to nepotism do not believe that anything done for the poor is a joke. People who tear and throw away the cabinet papers do not believe in showing respect\nToday, the people are watching that the benefits of the Supreme Court. They do not even think about the instability that could be done due to their lies. They are spreading rumors and misleading the people about reservation or the laws related to the atrocities against the Dalits. I have heard that they are spreading new people and this area 18% GST will be imposed on those farmers who will give their farm on contract or share-cropping. I request the losing party to put a limit to their dirty politics. Such an extent of spreading lies! They are misleading You do not know the extent of sin I request my farmer not to pay any attention to such rumours I promise you that those who spread like lies will be tackled by the law.\nFriends,\nOur government is working on the concept of 'Gramoday Se Bharat Uday'. My country's farmers, small workers of the villages and the agricultural laborers are the focus of the concept of 'Gramoday'. A provision of 14 lakh crore has been made to strengthen the infrastructure related to the year's budget.\nMoreover, schemes like 100% Neem Coating of Urea, Pradhan Mantri Sinchai Scheme, Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana, have been benefited by the farmers and given them reassurance. Our government has decided to provide 1.5 times of the support price. I also congratulate both the Chief Ministers for framing laws, according to which the MSE regulations under the maximum products will be purchased from the farmers. They have broken all the past records I congratulate both the Chief Ministers and both the governments\nWe are working on the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Sampada Yojana which is worth an investment of 6000 crores to prevent the wastage of food grains. This scheme is going to benefit the potatoes. In this budget, a new scheme called 'Operation Green' has been announced which is the new supply chain system. This will prove to be very beneficial for the farmers.\nBrothers and sisters,\nModern techniques like organic farming, apiculture, solar farms etc. are being promoted Detailed plans are being framed so that the farmers engaged in these sub-sectors of agriculture can easily avail loans.\nOur government is also taking steps for the sugarcane farmers Last year, we had increased the support price of sugarcane by about 11%. This directly benefitted 5 crore sugarcane farmers Making revolutionary changes in the country's ethanol policy, 10% blending of ethanol with petrol has been approved. Recently a major decision has taken so that the amount due to the sugar is not delayed by the sugar mills. The government has decided to provide a subsidy of Rs.5 and 50 paise per quintal of sugarcane to the sugar mills. But this subsidy will not be given to the owners of the sugar mills. We are well aware of its misuse Instead of giving subsidy to the sugar mills, this amount will be deposited directly into the bank accounts of the sugarcane farmers. In this way, the amount will not be stuck with the sugar mills. I want to assure that the government has been sensitive towards their problems and has resolved with them for the strict measures.\nBrothers and sisters,\nWe are also preparing our cities for the 21st century along with the development of our villages. The infrastructure of the cities is being strengthened with schemes like Smart Cities Mission and AMRIT Yojana. We are making great efforts in the lower and middle income classes. We are progressing at a rapid pace in this area compared to the Congress governments. In 10 years i.e. between 2004 and 2014, about 13.5 lakh houses were approved for construction in the urban areas whereas in the last four years, there are 46 lakh houses approved and nearly 50 lakhs have reached. We have done 3 times more work than the Congress Congress has handed over the keys of 5.5 lakh houses in 10 years in urban areas, whereas our government has given 4 years in urban areas in 8 lakhs more than the keys.\nBrothers and sisters,\nUrban infrastructure is also being developed. We have seen that 38 years of rule by a single family has led to unplanned growth in urban areas. We know where the problem lies. There was no proper system of removing the sewer from the cities or for water treatment. Our rivers are carrying garbage from the cities and depositing them in the seas. Our mother Ganga, in particular, is bearing the brunt of growing population and industrial pollution. So, our government has started the Namami Gange program. The government has not only emphasized on the cleanliness of the Ganges but also is trying to ensure that no garbage is dumped in the river. So far, more than 200 projects of about 21,000 crore have been approved by the government. Apart from this, Villages are located on the banks of river Ganga. Several villages of the 5 states Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Bihar and West Bengal through which the mother Ganges flows, have been successful in this mission.\nFriends,\nSeveral major initiatives have been taken in the past. However, this government not only talks about it This is our work culture This is our capital We are sure that every penny of the public earns money Therefore, we are trying to ensure that the sewage treatment plants that are being constructed should be properly cultured because of its maximum capacity. Moreover, they are working on a short span of time. Efforts are being done to remove this Congress culture from the project.\nFriends,\nIt is being ensured that the plants that are being built will keep working in the needs that will rise 15 years later. Thus, our aim is not only to build sewage treatment plants but also to run them smoothly.\nBrothers and sisters,\nThose who have deceived the country's poor, middle class, farmers and youth for 70 years have become frustrated to see the NDA government. This huge wave of people after four years is giving them sleepless nights. The fact that they neither trusted the country's democracy nor the institutions under the constitution Their mentality has been revealed in the last four years. The country has seen the last few days in the past.\nThe Election Commission of India and the EVMs They have also questioned the Reserve Bank of India and their policies. They have committed the sin of creating a crisis of faith in these institutions. They are also questioning the agencies that are investigating their scams Moreover, they also consider the media as biased.\nBrothers and sisters,\nWho are the worshipers of that one family can never worship democracy They have even failed to acknowledge the Indian army during the surgical strike. When international agencies praise India, they can not even digest that. They even question the same agencies that produced statistics for their government and is giving new statistics for the present government showing its better performance. They question and criticize India\nFriends,\nYou and I know the cause of their frustration very well. It is quite clear to be frustrated when the people lose trust in them. However, I did not expect them to protest against the country. But when someone has your faith and blessings i.e. the blessings of 125 crore Indians then he will never get tired or stop ever\nFriends, my countrymen,\nYou can evaluate both the sides yourself On that side are the people who are their family The 125 crore people I just have your blessings, love and trust to earn I just have one work which is serving, the 125 crore countrymen Our resolution of 'Shreshtha Bharat' will be strengthened by your cooperation. I like you to come here in such large numbers. The road that has been inaugurated today is a example of what the 21st century India will look like. Its importance is only\nThanks a lot!"