"Share\n\n#MannKiBaat: PM Modi congratulates all women crews of INSV Tarini for successfully completing the 'Navika Sagar Parikrama' expedition\nDevelopment is born in the lap of adventure, says PM Modi during #MannKiBaat\n#MannKiBaat: PM Modi appreciates those who scaled Mt. Everest\nPeople from all walks of life, be it film actors, sportspersons, our soldiers, teachers, or even the people, everyone is the same opinion that 'Hum Fit To India Fit': PM #MannKiBaat\nWe are able to freely express our unique qualities while playing: PM Modi #MannKiBaat\nTraditional games promotion our logical thinking; Increase concentration, awareness and energy: PM Modi during #MannKiBaat\nOn June 5, India will officially host the World Environment Day Celebrations: PM Modi #MannKiBaat\nLet us make sure that we do not use polythene, lower grade plastic as plastic pollution, adversely affects nature, wildlife and even our health: PM #MannKiBaat\nBeing sensitive towards nature and protecting it should be our motive; we have to live with harmony with nature: PM during #MannKiBaat\n#MannKiBaat: PM Modi highlights vitality of Yoga, recalls its ancient connect\nAs International Day of Yoga nears, let us promote Yoga for unity and harmonious society: PM during #MannKiBaat\nIt was this month of May 1857 when Indians had shown their strength to the British: PM Modi during #MannKiBaat\nIt was Veer Savarkar, who wrote boldly that 1857 was not a revolt but the first fight for independence: PM Modi #MannKiBaat\nVeer Savarkar worshiped both 'Shastra' and 'Shaastra.' He is known for his bravery and his struggle against the British Raj: PM during #ManKiBaat\nNamaskar. Through 'Mann Ki Baat', I was once again blessed with the opportunity to face you face-to-face. I am sure you remember that for many years, a naval team comprised six women commanders. I want to tell you something about the 'Naavika Saagar Parikrama' These six illustrious daughters of India circumnavigated the globe for over more than 250 days on board the INSV Tarini, returning home on the 21st of May. The whole country welcomed them with open arms, with high spirits. They traversed a crowd of oceans, many a sea, over a distance of about twenty thousand nautical miles. This was a first of its kind event in the whole world. Last Wednesday, I got a chance to meet these people Once again, I congratulate these daughters and their spirit of adventure for bringing laurels to the country, for raising the glory of the navy and significantly so, for conveying to the world that India's daughters are no less. Who does not know the sense of adventure? If you see the journey of human evolution, you will notice that breakthroughs in progress have taken birth in the womb of some adventure or the other. There is an umbilical link between development and adventure; the solution to achieve something, the burning desire to do something unparalleled, the sentiment proclaiming \"I too can do it\". The number of such people may be miniscule, but they turn out to be sources of inspiration for millions of others. Recently, you must have come across quite a few happenings from Mount Everest. For centuries, Everest has been throwing the gauntlet at humankind. And for long, brave\nOn the 16th of May, a team comprising five tribal students of an Ashram School in Chandrapur, Maharashtra- Manisha Dhurve, Pramesh Aali, Umakant Madhavi, Kavidas Katmode and Vikas Soyam-scaled the world's highest peak. These Ashram School students started training in August, 2017, covering Wardha, Hyderabad, Darjeeling and Leh-Ladakh. These young boys and girls had been selected under 'Mission Shaurya'. True to its name, they brought glory to the country with their brave deed of conquering the Everest. I congratulate these young friends and members of the school in Chandrapur, from the core of my heart. Just a while ago, 16 year old Shivangi Pathak became the youngest Indian woman to scale Everest from the Nepal side. Heartiest congratulations, Beti Shivangi\nAjit Bajaj and his daughter became the first ever father-daughter duo to ascend Everest And it's not that only the young are climbing Everest On the 19th of May, Sangeeta Bahal, aged more than 50, scaled the Everest. There are some mountaineers who have shown that aside from possessing skills, they are also sensitive.\nA few days ago, under the 'Clean Ganga Campaign', a group from the BSF Scaled the Everest and while returning, removed loads of trash littered there and brought it down. This deed is commendable indeed; cleanliness and the environment People have been ascending the Everest for years and many have successfully managed to reach the peak. I congratulate these daredevils, especially the daughters of my heart.\nMy dear countrymen, especially my young friends, just a couple of months ago, when I mentioned 'Fit India', I did not think it would be such a good response; that a large number of people will come forward to support it. When I say 'Fit India', I believe that the more we play, the more you will People are sharing videos of Fitness Challenge on social media; they are tagging Everybody is now getting connected with this Fit India Campaign. People from the film fraternity, from the world of sports, common citizens of the country, members of the armed forces, school teachers or even those toiling in fields and farms, their growing notes are building up a crescendo 'Hum Fit toh India Fit' ... 'If we are fit, India is fit' For me, it's heartwarming that the captain of the Indian cricket team Virat Kohli has included in his challenge ... and I too has accepted his challenge. I believe this is a successful and this kind of a challenge will inspire us to be fit along with others.\nMy dear countrymen, many a time in 'Man Ki Baat', you must have heard me mention a thing or two about sports \u0026 sportspersons. And in the last episode, Our heroes of the Commonwealth Games shared with us, 'Mann Ki Baat', matters close to their hearts through this program.\nChhavi Yadav ji, thank you very much for your phone call It is true that sports \u0026 games that were once a part \u0026 parcel of every child's life, in every lane in the neighborhood, are fading in oblivion. These games used to be a special feature of summer holidays. Sometimes in scorching afternoons; at times after dinner, children used to play with exuberant leave for hours together, leaving all worries behind. Some games Aiming the ball on the crooked column of stone slats- Pitthoo, playing marbles, testing one's agility in Kho Kho, spinning the top, Lattoo, or applying skills in swiftly flicking the tapered-edged wooden peg and hitting it aloft-Gilli-Danda, Unforgettable games were an inseparable part of every and every child's life from Kashmir to Kanyakumari, from Kutch to Kamrup Of course, those games were known different places. Pitthoo is one such game. Some called it Lagori, at other places it was Satoriya, Saat Pathar, Dikori, Satodiya ... one game with many names! Traditional sports and games include both varieties ... outdoor and indoor as well. The unity, intrinsic to our country's diversity can be seen in these games A single game is known for its different names. I am from Gujarat I played in Gujarat called chomal Isto It is played with cowries or irrigated seeds or dice on an eight by eight square board. It used to be almost every state Known as Chowkabara in Karnataka, Attoo in Madhya Pradesh, Pakidakaali in Kerala, Champal in Maharashtra, Tamil and Tamil in Tamilya, Changaa Po in Rajasthan, it had numerous names. One realizes after a particular state, \"Oh! We used to play this game in our state as well! \"Who among us did not enjoy playing Gilli-Danda in our childhood? This is a game that is played across villages and cities. It is also known by different names. In Andhra Pradesh it is called Gotibilla or Karrabilla. In Odisha it's called Gulibadi and in Maharashtra, Vittidaaloo. Some games are seasonal. There is a cure for flying While flying a kite or playing a game, one freely expresses one's inherent unique qualities. You must have seen many a child, shy by nature, leap up with zest, the moment a game starts Even children with a seemingly serious face start expressing themselves; while playing, the innate child inside them Traditional sports and games are structured in such a way that along with physical ability, they enhance our logical thinking, concentration, alertness and energy levels. Games are not just games; They teach us values ​​in life, such as setting goals, building up determination, developing team spirit and fostering mutual co-operation. I recently found in a training program in Business Management, our traditional sports and games. These games are proven to be handy in overall development. And then, there is no prescribed age limit for participating in them. From tiny tots to grandfather-grandmother, when we were to play together in the 'Generation Gap' disappears on its own. At the same time, we also come to know about our culture and traditions. Many games also make people aware about our society, environment and other spheres.\nIt is a matter of concern, whether this sports \u0026 games will fade away from the point of extinction. It will not just be a loss of a game; It will be the loss of the spirit of childhood, something that will exist only in the verses of poetry.\nWhy are you here\nYes shohrat bhi le\nI am looking forward to seeing you\nI want to know how to do it\nWo kagaz ki kashti, wo baarish ka paani\nTake away all my riches\nBereave me of all this fame\nIf you so wish\nBut do return the monsoon that drenched me as a child\nThe puddles \u0026 my paper boats, the magic of my rains.\nAnd we will be forever to listen to this song, so we will keep our traditional sports alive It is critical that today schools, neighborhoods and youth congregations should come forward and promote these games. Through crowd sourcing we can create a very large archive of our traditional games. The videos of these games can be shot, outlining the way to play with the mandatory rules and regulations. Animation films can also be made so that our young generations for whom these games have played in our streets are about to marvel, to see, play for themselves and thus to bloom.\nMy dear countrymen, on the 5th of June, our nation, India will officially host the World Environment Day Celebrations. This is a very important achievement for India and it is also an acknowledgment as well as recognition of India's growing leadership in the direction of tackling climate change.\nThis time the theme is 'Beat Plastic Pollution'. I appeal to the importance of this theme, we should all be sure that we do not use low grade polythene and low grade plastics. wild life and our health Let us all visit the World Environment Day website 'wed-india 2018' and try to imbibe and inculcate the many interesting suggestions given in our everyday life.\nWhenever we face a torrid summer, or flood, incessant rains or unbearable cold, everybody becomes an expert, analyzing global warming and climate change. But does empty talk bring about any solutions? Being sensitive towards nature, protecting nature, should come naturally to us; These virtues should be embedded in our sanskar\nIn the past few weeks, we are all witnessed that the dust storms in the country of different regions, with heavy winds and unseasonal heavy rains There was also loss of life and property. These calamities are the result of weather patterns. Our culture, our traditions have never taught us to loggerheads with nature.\nWe have to live in harmony and in the synchronicity with nature, we have to stay in touch with nature. Mahatma Gandhi had advocated this wisdom at every step of his life. Today when India speaks of Climate Justice or plays a major role in the Cop21 and Paris agreements or the International Solar Alliance, the all world through the medium of the United States, they all are rooted in the Mahatma Gandhi of that very dream.\nOn this environment day, let us give it a good thought as to our planet cleaner and greener? How can we progress in this direction? What innovative things can we do? The rainy season is fast approaching; We can set a target of achieving record plantation of trees this time and not only plant trees but also grow till the plants grow nurture and maintain.\nMy dear countrymen and especially my young friends, you do remember the 21st of June now; not only you and I, June 21st is a part of the whole world's collective consciousness. The 21st of June has been completed and is celebrated as International Yoga Day in the whole world. The International Yoga Day is the 21st of June.\nYoga for unity and a harmonious society conveys a message that has permeated the world over. Centuries ago, the great Sanskrit poet Bhartahari had written in his 'Shataktrayam'.\nPatience Yaseen Father apologize f Janani Shantishchain Ghihini\nSatyansunurunu Dayan Chai Bhagini Bhrata Mana: Samyamaamah.\nShayyas Geometry Direction\nEte Yasi Kutimbin: Wad Sakhhe Kasamad Bhayin Yogin: ..\n[A man whose father is patience, mother is forgiveness and peace as consort, True as his friend, compassion as his sister and restraint for brother as family members and whose bed is the great earth, the great sky by the clothes and whose food is only knowledge Is indeed a yogi who will not know any fear.]\nThis observation expressed centuries ago, straightaway implies that practicing yogic exercises on a regular basis leads to imbibing beneficial attributes which are similar to our side like relatives and friends. The practice of yoga leads to building up courage, The practice of yoga leads to germination of an emotion of forgiveness in the same way as a mother has her children and mental peace is our permanent friend. Bhartahari has said that with regular yogic exercise, truth becomes our child, mercy becomes our sister, self restraint our brother, earth turns into our bed and knowledge satiates our hunger. When so many attributes have become one's partner, then that yogi conquers all forms of fear. Once again, I appeal to all citizens to adopt their legacy of yoga and create a healthy, happy and harmonious nation.\nMy dear countrymen, today is the 27th of May, the first Prime Minister of India, Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru ji. I render my pranam to Pandit ji. Memories of this month are also linked with Veer Savarkar. This was the month, the month of May 1857, when Indians had their power against the British In many parts of the country, our youth and farmers showed their bravery standing up against the injustice It is really sad that we kept the events of 1857 just as a rebellion or a soldiers' mutiny for a very long time.\nIn fact, May 1857 was not only evaluated as a minor historical incident but also was an attempt to dent our self-respect. It was Veer Savarkar who was boldly expostulated by writing that 1857 was not a revolt but was really the First War of Independence. Savarkar with his band of brave hearts celebrated the 50th anniversary of the first war of independence with great fanfare at India house in London. It is also a wonderful coincidence that the month which witnessed the First Struggle for Independence was the month in which Veer Savarkar Ji was born. Savarkar was full of special qualities; He was a worshiper of both arms or shashtra and knowledge or shaashtras.\nGenerally Veer Savarkar is famous for his bravery and his struggle against the British Raj. But besides these sterling qualities, he also has a striking poet and a social reformer who always emphasizes on goodwill and unity. A wonderful account about Savarkar has given us our honorable Atal Bihari Vajpayee Ji. Atal ji had said - Savarkar means brilliance, Savarkar means sacrifice, Savarkar means philosance, Savarkar means substance, Savarkar means logic, Savarkar means youth, Savarkar means a arrow, and Savarkar means a sword! Behold! What an accurate depiction of Savarkar by Atal ji! Savarkar marched along with both poetry and revolution Apart from being a sensitive poet, he also was a courageous revolutionary.\nSikar, Rajasthan in some of the slums of our underprivileged daughters, my dear brothers and sisters, I was watching a story on TV. Our daughters, who were forced to sift through garbage and beg to home from home in order to earn a living - today they are learning sowing and stitching clothes to cover the poor. This is an example where the girls are stitching themselves and other families. Along with this, they are going into a training course in skill development.\nThese daughters have become self-reliant today and are living their lives with respect. I wish all these girls, brimming with hope and trust, a very bright future. They have demonstrated that if you have the ability to do something and if you are determined that goal then success can be achieved despite all odds! And this is not only about Sikar, but in every corner of India, you will see something akin to this. If you observe in your neighbourhood, then you will witness the difficulties in their lives!\nYou must have realized that whenever you go to a tea shop, and enjoy tea there These discussions are also political and social in nature, the problems of the country - the problems of probable solutions with any problem are discussed at length - but often the problems and their solutions remain limited to such animated discussions only\nBut there are some people who go ahead with their work, to bring a change through their hard work and dedication; they make it a reality Such is the story of D. Prakash Rao, living in the slums of Cuttack, Orissa, who adopted the dreams of others! Just yesterday I got the good fortune of meeting D. Prakash Rao\nShriman D. Prakash Rao has been a tea seller in the city of Cuttack for the past five decades. A meagre tea seller; Today you will be wondering to know that the lives of more than 70 children are being taught through education. He has opened a school named 'Ashha Ashwasan', spending 50% of his income for children living in slums and hutments He ensures education, health and meals. I congratulate D. Prakash Rao for his hard work, his persistence and for providing a new direction to the poor children attending his school. He has banished the dark from their lives Who among us does not know the Vedic shloka 'Tamso Ma Jyotirgamaya'! However, it has been put into practice by D. Prakash Rao. His life is a inspiration to us, our society and the whole country Your surroundings too must be full of inspirational events There must be innumerable events Come, let us take positivity forward.\nThe month of June is so hot that people anxiously wait for the rain, People will wait for the moon Witnessing the moon means that the festival of Eid can be celebrated. After an entire month of fasting during Ramzan, the festival of Eid is a harbinger of celebrations.\nI hope and believe that everyone will celebrate Eid with gaiety and fervor and on this occasion children will specially get a grand 'Eidi'. I hope that the festival of Eid will strengthen the bonds of harmony in our society. Heartiest Fellies My dear countrymen, many thanks for you all. We will meet once again in another episode of 'Man Ki Ki Baat' next month.\nNamaskar\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 27, 2018\nSense of adventure Who does not know. If we see the development journey of mankind, progress has arisen in the kok of some adventure. Development is born in the lap of adventure: PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat https://t.co/mpVak6uxrs\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 27, 2018\nA sense of adventure inspires to do great things In the recent weeks, many people scaled Everest and made us proud. #MannKiBaat https://t.co/mpVak6uxrs pic.twitter.com/CovuN308Cm\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 27, 2018\nPM @narendramodi lauds 5 Tribal students from Chandrapur, Maharashtra, Ajeet and Deeya Bajaj, Sangeeta Bahl and a BSF contingent for scaling Everest. BSF contingent also brought back the dirt that was accumulated in the mountains. #MannKiBaat https://t.co/Os1tozKZZ5\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 27, 2018\nThere is great awareness towards Fitness. Everyone is saying #HumFitTohIndiaFit #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/DS6KcVxs04\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 27, 2018\nToday's #MannKiBaat PM @narendramodi is talking about traditional games. Hear https://t.co/mpVak6uxrs\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 27, 2018\nDevote #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/Y334e6gcfF\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 27, 2018\nYoungsters can easily express themselves through sports. #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/yt6a1lpihF\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 27, 2018\nOur traditional games also increase logical thinking. #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/xxTrUf6hl8\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 27, 2018\nWe should not forget our heritage Through crowd sourcing, let us make archives of our traditional sports. The youngster generation will gain through this #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/NwVw6Hce6e\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 27, 2018\nIndia is delighted to host this year's World Environment Day program. It is our duty to live in harmony #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/LLEQtAuVO3\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 27, 2018\nIn the last few weeks we have seen what happened due to unusual weather patterns.\nIndia will do everything possible for a cleaner and greener tomorrow.\nThis time, let us focus on tree planting. #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/Fw8Nf82DIS\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 27, 2018\nOn 21st June we will mark the # 4thYogaDay\nThe world has seen the way in which Yoga unites. We believe in Yoga for unity and Yoga for a harmonious society. #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/5LnUVhr6Bw\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 27, 2018\nDuring #MannKiBaat, PM @narendramodi pays tributes to Pandit Nehru.\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 27, 2018\nThe month of May is associated with an historic event in 1857. While many prefer to call it only a Mutiny or a Sepoy Mutiny, it was Veer Savarkar who called it the First War of Independence. I pay my tributes to the great Veer Savarkar: PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat"