"Share\n\nState Government and the Union Government are working for the rapid development of Jharkhand: PM Modi\nThe central government is devoting significant resources for the empowerment of the power, Dalits and Tribal communities: PM Modi\nThe coming of AIIMS will transform the healthcare sector in Jharkhand. The poor will get access to top quality healthcare: PM\nIt is our government that has made aviation accessible and affordable. We want more Indians to fly Better connectivity will also improve tourism: PM\nGovernor of Jharkhand, Mrs. Draupadi Murmu, the popular Chief Minister, Mr. Raghubar Das ji, my colleague from the Council of Ministers at the center. R.K. Singh, Mr. Ashwini, Sudarshan Bhagat ji, Minister of the Government of Jharkhand, Mr. Amar Kumar, Ramchandra ji, our MP Prem Singh, MLA Mr. Fulchand and my dear brothers and sisters who are present here in large numbers.\nFirst of all, I salute the brave Bhagwan Birsa Munda. This is the land of sacrifice. This is the land of struggle of Jaipal Singh and Shri Munda ji. This is the land of Atal Bihari Vajpayee's dreams. Its mineral reserves are\nI was told that you have been waiting for the past 2-3 hours. You have warmly welcomed us and showered your blessings on us. I am really grateful for your love and blessings When I came to Jharkhand during elections, I used to say that two engines i.e. One engine in the form of Jharkhand government and the other in the form of Central Government in Delhi, is required for the development of Jharkhand. You have seen yourself for the efforts of the Jharkhand government in the last four years in a fixed direction with pre-determined goals The results are in front of you The people of Jharkhand have experienced it very well.\nIn order to decide whether our work is going to decide and the intentions are right or not and whether we are working for the welfare of people or not, is decided by just one criterion in democracy which is the acceptance by the public. I congratulate the Government of Jharkhand the Chief Minister Raghubar Das Ji and his whole team. The results of the popular elections in the local bodies that were held sometime back show that the work done by the Jharkhand government and the central government are people of full support.\nBrothers and sisters,\nWhen I came here during the elections of 2014, I had said that I love the showered on me by Jharkhand with interest. I will return it with development The steps taken by the Central Government for one after another show the commitment of the Jharkhand. We are moving forward with a detailed plan for the welfare of Dalits, oppressed, exploited, deprived, tribal brothers and sisters, women, youth and every section of the society.\nToday, 5 projects worth around 27 thousand crores are inaugurated. The amount of 27 thousand crores is also The foundation stone of the 5 projects worth 27 thousand crores viz. Factory at Sindri, power project at Patratu, airport at the town of Baba bholenath or siva i.e. Deoghar, and pipelines at AIIMS and Ranchi, are being laid down Over 50 projects worth approximately Rs 80,000 crore You can imagine how Jharkhand is going to progress and develop compared to other states.\nI have always been saying that the people of Jharkhand are in possession of diamonds. The coal is like black diamond Even if it is dark, it has the ability to illuminate an area. It has the ability to generate light and produce energy. Keeping this in mind, with an investment of more than 18 thousand crores, a power project is inaugurated at Patratu. This coal will not only provide financial strength to Jharkhand but will also provide employment to its youth. New paths of development will open in the power plant in Patratu. We will ensure that the projects that have been displaced by this project\nI am glad that today I have got the opportunity to provide jobs. Many employment opportunities will be available to thousands of youngsters in the future.\nOur dream was to provide electricity When I took charge in 2014, about 18000 villages They had no access to electricity They did not see the electric poles or the transmission lines. We undertook the work of providing electricity to these villages. These were inaccessible, remote and neglected places. People who are immersed in vote bank politics do not bother about the neglected people They tend to worry only about their vote bank However, we may follow the magistrates 'Sabka Sath Sabka Vikas'. Therefore, our aim is to provide electricity to each of these 18,000 villages, even if it's a remote corner and the most inaccessible part of the country, with mountain peaks or thick forests. We are ready to spend lakhs of rupees to arrange for transport in such places.\nI am glad that we will be able to provide the electricity connections in these 18,000 villages before the due date. Earlier no one had the time even after 50-60 years of independence to enquire about the villages that had left un-electrified. However, once we had taken charge, people can see for themselves whether Modi is speaking the truth or not I am really amused by the fact that those 18 thousand villages are now compelled to visit those villages. Consequently, even the bureaucrats are alert all the time. They are working sincerely under pressure. A pressure is created by an announcement Some people were misleading the country by saying that even though electric poles have been erected and transmission lines have been laid and 5-25 households have been electrified, but has the work done done? Their question is very important\nThose who raise such questions should know that even after 70 years of independence, there are 4 crore or 20% of households that do not have any access to transmission lines or electricity. Those families have never seen light It's not that Modi disconnected electricity supply to those households They are to blamed the people for live in dark for 60 years. We have taken the responsibility for providing electricity connection to these 18000 villages within the time limit. We have determined to provide electricity connection to 4 crore households under the scheme. We have taken this responsibility\nThose people who abuse the rich to show their empathy towards the poor keep on repeating that Modi works for the rich It has become a trend. I want to ask them which rich section of the society resides in 18000 villages where electricity connections are provided. Who are the rich people who reside in those 4 crore households who are still in dark and where is Narendra Modi wants electricity connection? I want to ask these people who do not have the slightest idea about the workers. Therefore, brothers and sisters, I want to say that we want to include the lowermost strata of the society, the Dalits, the exploited and the deprived section of the society, in the journey of development. Out of the 4 crore families, 32 lakh belong to Jharkhand. I am happy that the Chief Minister along with the central government has taken the responsibility of providing electricity connections to these 32 lakh families. I believe that this initiative will definitely be successful.\nBrothers and sisters,\nToday I got the opportunity to re-start the Urea factory at Sindri. This factory was shut down for almost 16 years. But this factory is the time when Dr. Shyama Prasad Mukherjee was a minister in the central government from his Indian Janasangha. He had laid the foundation stone of this factory in Sindri. Later this was shut down. During 2014 elections, I had told you that we would re-open this factory at Sindri.\nBrother and sisters,\nTechnology should change over time We have taken steps to use This factory will also start in the near future. A similar factory will start in Gorakhpur of East Uttar Pradesh.\nBrothers and sisters,\nSindri and Dhanbad can be divided into the pole of anchor city. It has a lot of potential Brothers and sisters,\nThe Uurea factories will have easy access to gas These 3 factories at Barauni of Bihar, Gorakhpur of East UP and Sindri of Jharkhand will help to reduce the transportation cost of eastern part of India. The youngsters will get employment The ease of obtaining urea will help in the country's second agricultural revolution in Eastern India. We want to carry this objective forward.\nWe have started the process of Neem-coating of urea. Earlier the subsidy was given to the farmers. Urea did not reach the agricultural fields and was diverted to factories. Those who had run the government for 70 years did not realize that they should get a solution to the subsidized Urea to chemical factories. It was due to a great loss to the government's treasury.\nWe took charge and came up with 100% Neem coating of urea. Urea can not be used for industrial purposes if the oil is its fruit is applied. Urea can only be used for agricultural use. Therefore, the theft of urea could be ceased.\nThe people working for the rich are now worried about this step but now my farmers do not have to queue up for Uria. They do not have to buy Urea from the black market There was a time when they were beaten up They are now relieved. We have stopped the urea because of the unavailability of urea.\nBrothers and sisters,\nI have been fighting against corruption and deceit Several steps have been taken in this direction Today, I will get the opportunity to lay the foundation of the gas pipeline project in Ranchi. The 21st century infrastructure should include gas grid, optical fiber network, water grid, power grid and all types of modern facilities. Why should Jharkhand lag behind? Therefore, Ranchi will also be among the rapidly progressing cities that will carry India forward. With this dream, we have decided to work on the gas grid. Gas will be available to every household and in the future gas will reach 70 districts of UP, Bihar, West Bengal, Odisha and Assam through pipeline.\nIt was our dream to make kitchens smoke-free. We have started this program to get this goal. Our second step in this direction will be providing gas through pipelines and we are working on the third step. Clean cooking through solar energy is the next step so that food can be cooked using solar energy Research is going on in that direction\nToday I have also got the opportunity to run the foundation stone of AIIMS at Deoghar. A lot of patients have to transfer to AIIMS at Delhi from eastern India. The poor can not afford it We are working in the direction of providing the best facilities to the poorest of the poor by spreading the network of AIIMS in eastern India. We are starting AIIMS at Deoghar Similarly, Deoghar is also a pilgrimage center. It's the land of Lord Bholenath. This is also a Shakti Peeth People from across the country It has a great potential for tourism So, we are trying to connect through it\nThe Ministry of Tourism is also engaged in this work. It's our dream that people wearing slippers should also be able to travel by aeroplanes. This is our dream. You will be glad to know that last year the number of passengers traveled in the airplanes from railways. This depicts that changes are being brought into the lives of the common man.\nBrothers and sisters,\nWe are moving forward with many developmental projects. It's our dream to provide homes for the poor by 2022. The scheme aims to provide a home with toilet, water supply, power supply and nearby schools. By the year 2022 that will mark 75 years of independence, no person should be a home. We are moving forward with this dream.\nBrothers and sisters,\nI urge you to participate in the journey The country is now traversing the path of honesty. The common man of India lives the life of honesty. This government is with those people who are subject to honesty and struggle for honesty. So the brothers and sisters, we are moving forward You have come as your blessings I believe that Jharkhand will move to greater heights and progress towards a new Jharkhand. With this belief, I thank you all!"