"Bangladesh is a symbol of the cultural ties between India and Bangladesh: PM Modi\nGurudev Tagore connects India and Bangladesh: PM Modi\nGurudev Tagore's credential of Universal Humanism in reflecting the central government's guiding principle of \"Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas\": PM Modi\nHon'ble Chief Minister, Hon'ble Governor and friends!\nThe Bangladesh Bhawan is a symbol of cultural bondage between India and Bangladesh. This building is a symbol of the strong relationships between millions of people in both countries in terms of art, language, culture, education, family relationships and it marks the relationship that is strengthened by shared struggles against Torture. I thank Sheikh Hasina ji and the people of Bangladesh for this building. I am extremely happy to inaugurate this building in the holy month of Ramadan, from the karm-bhumi (the land where one works) of Gurudev Tagore who's the composer of the national anthem of India and Bangladesh.\nFriends,\nThe History of the University and the holy land is older than that of Bangladesh and India's independence and even older than the Partition of Bengal during the colonial era. It is a symbol of our shared heritage which the British can not divide, nor the politics of 'divide and rule'. The myriad waves of the river Ganga touch the shores of both the countries. Our similarities strengthen our relationship Bangabandhu, Sheikh Mujibur Rahman is respected in India as much as in Bangladesh. In a similar way, the respect of the great personalities like Swami Vivekananda, Subhas Chandra Bose and Mahatma Gandhi is the same in Bangladesh as well as in India.\nThe poems and the songs of the world are famous poet Rabindranath Tagore echoes in Bangladesh. Similarly, the compositions of Kazi Nazrul Islam are popular in every corner of West Bengal.\nNames of many dignitaries of Bangladesh are associated with this university. Among them are Rezwana Choudhari Bannya, Aditi Mohsin, Lily Islam, Lina Taposhi, Sharmila Banerjee, and Nisar Hossain. As a result of the vision of Rabindranath Tagore, this institution is beyond our political boundaries and bonds. Gurudev himself was a person of independent thoughts, who was not allowed in the boundaries. He belongs to Bangladesh as much as to India He was introduced to the Bengali folk songs of Gagan Harkara and Lalan Fakir on the soil of Bangladesh. The tune of his 'Amar Sonar Bangla' song was inspired by Gagan Harkara. Influence of Baul song can be seen in Rabindra Sangeet Bangabandhu was a great admirer of Gurudev's ideals and art Tagore's Universal Humanism has influenced Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman. Gurudev's 'Shonar Bangla' was an important part of Bangabandhu's enchanting speeches. The idea of ​​Tagore's Universal Humanism is a inspiration for us too. In our own words, we have reflected in the concept of 'Sabka Sath, Sabka Vikas'.\nFriends,\nWe have made our efforts to endless efforts so that the future generations are also aware of the rich cultural traditions and the contributions made by these great personalities of both India and Bangladesh. All related departments like the High Commission of India and other organizations and individuals, Indian Council of Cultural Relations etc. are engaged in this work Today, as 'Bangladesh Bhavan' has been inaugurated here, we have taken the responsibility of the renovation of Gurudev Tagore's residence \"Kuthibari\" in Kushtia district of Bangladesh.\nFriends, the shared legacy and the sweetness of Rabindra Sangeet have smeared our relations with nectar and have united us at times of happiness and misery. This is the reason that even though the struggle for the liberation of Bangladesh has crossed the border, but the seeds of inspiration were sown in this land. Although the wounds were inflicted on the people of Bangladesh for the selfish desires of the opponents, This is the reason that when Bangabandhu became the leader of liberation, the spirit of millions of Indians who were also automatically associated with that campaign. Our shared resolve and its history against tyranny and terror will continue Friends, I remember how emotional it was last year when Bangladesh had honored Indian soldiers in Delhi. It was not just the honor of 1661 Indian soldiers who sacrificed their lives for Bangladesh's liberation but also of the freedom fighters of Bangladesh. It is very rare that neighboring countries honour each other's soldiers.\nFriends,\nGolden chapters of India and Bangladesh Complex bilateral issues such as the Land boundary and Maritime boundary, which were once believed to be resolved, have now been resolved. We are also rapidly progressing in the area of ​​connectivity in terms of roads, railways, inland waterways and coastal shipping. New dimensions of connectivity are also evolving\nLast year the air conditioned train service was started between Kolkata and Khulna. We have named it 'Bandhan', which means 'friendship'. We are developing our relations with the 'Bandhan'.\nIndia has been supplying uninterrupted electricity to Bangladesh The current supply is 600 MW. This year we have a target of growing 1100 MW.\nThe Northeast India is getting internet connection from Bangladesh too. India has provided 1 billion dollars of line of credit for assisting the developmental priorities set by Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina for Bangladesh There is a good progress in their implementation. Projects have been given and some projects.\nBangladesh is progressing rapidly in the area of ​​space technology. Recently, Bangladesh has launched its first satellite, Bangabandhu. I want to congratulate Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina and the people of Bangladesh for this achievement. Today, in India we are using technologies for raising the standard of living and the transparency in the system. I am confident that in the future we will open new paths of cooperation between the two countries in the field of space technology.\nI am happy that the Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina and we are developing new energy to the two countries. She had visited India last year too. His presence in this event is an honor.\nFriends,\nBoth our aspirations The crisis of climate change is in front of us If the scorching sun is going to put challenges before us, the solution also lies in that sun's energy. Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina has put forward the vision of Power to All for Bangladesh by the year 2021. In India, our goal is to provide electricity connection to every household by next year. We have already completed the mission of providing electricity. Our resolutions are same and the way of attaining them is also the same.\nFriends,\nIndia has taken the initiative of the International Solar Alliance Many countries of the world This alliance will explore the potential of solar power across the world and will also prepare a mechanism of funding to different countries. I am glad that Bangladesh is also a part of the Solar Alliance. The Summit of International Solar Alliance was held in Delhi in the month of March this year. We were extremely pleased that the Hon'ble President of Bangladesh had participated in the Summit. This shows the strong desire of the challenges in opportunities.\nLast month I met a hundred-member young delegation from Bangladesh. I realized that their dreams and aspirations are similar to that of the youth of India. We are committed to working together for development and fulfilling the dreams of the youth.\nToday, the Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina, Bangladesh has moved on to a new path of development. India is proud as the people of Bangladesh as she has fulfilled all the criteria for achieving the level of 'developing economy'.\nBangladesh has also made significant progress in the field of social sector. I believe this remarkable work will\nFriends,\nToday, the thread of the journey of India and Bangladesh is intertwined like a beautiful garland. There is an environment of uncertainty in some parts of the world. The geopolitics of the world However, in the last few years an unflinching truth has been revealed to us; and that is the strong friendship between India and Bangladesh for progress, development, peace and stability This cooperation has been enriched not only on bilateral level but also through platforms like BIMSTEC that has promoted regional progress and connectivity.\nFriends,\nEvery country will develops It has come as a chance in this period of time. Today, the friendship and cooperation between India and Bangladesh is also a lesson for others to study and assess.\nFriends,\nPrime Minister Sheikh Hasina has set a vision to make Bangladesh a developed country by 2041. This vision is a symbol of her far-sightedness and the tradition set by Bangabandhu that concerns the welfare of every Bangladeshi. India offers her full cooperation in achieving this goal.\nI once again express my heartfelt gratitude to Sheikh Hasina ji for coming here. My Best wishes to you at the inauguration ceremony of Bangladesh Bhavan. Thank you!\n"