"\nFriends,\nHeartiest welcome to Prime Minister Mark and his delegation in India I am particularly pleased that with Prime Minister Mark, his four Cabinet colleagues, the Mayor of the Hague and more than 200 business representatives have also come to India. This is the biggest business delegation to India. And it clearly shows how much dynamism is there in our trade and investment relationship. So many possibilities are there Prime Minister Rutte first came to India in 2015. I visited Netherlands in 2017 and today it was our third summit meeting. There are very few such countries, with whom we have reached this level of high level visits in our relationships And for this momentum and for giving personal priority to the relations with India, I congratulate my friend Mark from the bottom of my heart.\nFriends,\nToday, both of us have been reviewed in our bilateral relations. And shared our own assessments of regional and global developments. And we also met the prominent CEOs of both the countries. Last year when I went to the Netherlands, I had asked my friend Mark to think positively on becoming a member of the International Solar Alliance. The expertise, the technology and the experience of the Netherlands, the whole world should benefit from it. And I am happy that today has become a member of the International Solar Alliance I express my gratitude to Prime Minister Rutte for this decision From the UN Security Council to Multilateral Export Control Regimes, India and the Netherlands have had very good and close cooperation and coordination. And now International Solar Alliance will be a new dimension of our strong cooperation in international forums.\nFriends,\nIndia is not new to Dutch companies Hundreds of Dutch companies have been working in India for many years. So far, Netherlands is the fifth largest source for total direct investment in India and in the past few years it has emerged as the third largest source. Similarly, the Netherlands is also a very attractive destination for investment companies. And so, meeting with the CEOs of both countries is very useful. I am happy that the business community in Netherlands is enthusiastic about opportunities being in India. I have also assured them of strong commitment towards economic reforms in India. Areas related to agriculture and food processing are important for India These topics are connected with our Food Security and at the same time, it is also important for our goal of the income of the farmers of India Netherlands has expertise in these areas Last year Netherlands participated as the Focus Country in World Food India Summit. And I believe that in its next edition in 2019, participation of the Netherlands will be even more. I am happy that the first Indo-Dutch Center for Excellence for vegetables has started in Baramati. We are working on other similar types of centers as well. Similarly, our cooperation in urban development is very dynamic. Waste Water Management projects in Vadodara and Delhi are making good progress. We are completing 10 years of cooperation in Science \u0026 Technology, and this successful partnership will be further strengthened by participation of Netherlands as a Partner Country in the Tech Summit, which will be held in India in 2019\nFriends,\nProviding special attention to the issues of Indian society I specifically thank Prime Minister Rutte and the Government of the Netherlands for the help in safe extraction of Indian nationals at the time of the hurricane that came in Sint Maarten in September 2017.\nExcellency,\nOnce again I very warmly welcome you and your delegation in India\nThank you,"