"\nPM Modi lays foundation stone and inaugurates multiple development projects in Jammu\nGovernment is working to ensure development of regions which is isolated for long time: PM Modi\nOur approach is \"Isolation to Integration\": PM Modi\nGovernment's focus is on Highway, Railways, Waterways, i-Ways and Roadways: PM Modi\nMy dear brothers and sisters,\nThere are a lot of old faces here Our Chamanlal Ji is here. It is a very important day today for Jammu \u0026 Kashmir This is my fourth public program Since morning, I have witnessed a flow of development from the high mountains of Leh-Laddakh to the valley of Kashmir and now at the foothills of Jammu. And because of these programs I got late and could not come here in time I want to know this\nBe it is the Zojila Tunnel that connects the rest of India with Leh or Kishan Ganga project in Bandipora or Hydro Power Project that is coming up on Chinat river in Kishtwar region. All this open up a new door for the happiness of Jammu \u0026 Kashmir The rivers flow through the state Dedicating one hydro power project to the nation and laying foundation for another, this has made a very unique and memorable day.\nJust a while ago, I got the opportunity to dedicate or lay the foundation for 4 big infrastructure related projects for Jammu. Two of them are dedicated to the Divine Mother Vaishno Devi The foundation stone for Pakal Dul project has been laid here just a while ago. You can understand that how beneficial it is to being the state from the fact that it is going to produce equivalent to one third of the electricity which is now being produced in the state in a day,\nThis project has been constructed under the Prime Minister's Development Program. This one thousand megawatt power project is ready for launch. This scheme with the investment of Rs. 8,000 crore is going to make many opportunities for this place. It will provide direct employment to around 2,500 people In addition, there will be vegetables producers, there will be milk suppliers here; It is going to give a new opportunity to generate income from the people.\nFriends, our government has been working on a new approach towards the development of the country. It means those areas of the country which were wasolated some reason, where the light of development was not so far And this is the reason, be it North-East or Jammu \u0026 Kashmir I do not know whether any Prime Minister has got such opportunity before or not, but, perhaps, I have come to Jammu and Kashmir for more than a dozen times as a Prime Minister in addition to political visits. It's true that you In a way you have raised me We have been working on the formula: development through connectivity. Be it connectivity through roads or be it connecting the hearts, no stone is being left unturned at any level. Every such step is being taken for the development of Jammu and Kashmir which has the power of converting this state in a rising star of a new India. Let's imagine the map of India when the crown jewel of India will shine like a crown made of diamonds and this sparkle will show the path of development to rest of the country\nBrothers and sisters, central government has been working on this project and we have been taking forward the plans and implementing them on the ground. Only a while ago, the foundation stone for the ring road was laid and this would be the problem of traffic jams of the city as well. The effort will be made in the next three years. When this ring road will be ready lot of facilities to all of you, the inhabitants of jumbo and also to millions of tourists who come here And you will see, this 50 kilometers long ring road will develop a new Jammu. A new junkie I can see it very clearly what kind of development It will definitely reduce the traffic jam in and nearby areas of Jammu city, not only this, the ring road will also make it very easy to transport the heavy vehicles through the Punchch, Rajouri, Naushera and Akhnoor of strategic and border areas.\nFriends, your city has been selected under the Smart City Mission. Smart systems have been developed here The state government has been engaged in this work. The government has already approved\nBrothers and sisters, for our entire focus is on infrastructure - be it highways or railways or waterways or i-ways or roadways, all these are compulsory things for the 21stcentury\nThe government's thinking is very clear that if we need to raise the standard of living 1.25 billion countrymen then we will have to first make it easy and convenient for them. In other words, you can call them - smart systems And it is the result of this thinking that a network of highways have been developed at a rapid pace across the country.\nBe it Jammu \u0026 Kashmir or Western India or North East, this is the project to connect the country with a network of highways. In this year's budget, more than Rs. 5,000 crore has been allocated for construction of 35,000 kilometers long road under this project More from Rs. 2,700 crore will be spent in Jammu \u0026 Kashmir under this project\nBrothers and sisters, the work on many highways projects have been going on in Jammu \u0026 Kashmir too. Many schemes worth thousands of crores of rupees for connecting to Srinagar and other parts of the country have already been completed. And the work has been taking place on some other schemes. Today, the work is going on many highways projects like Jammu-Punch, Udaipur-Ramban, Ramban-Banihal, Srinagar-Banihal and Kazigund-Banihal, and these projects are going to be proved lifeline for this region. Nearly, Rs. 15,000crore will be on roads In addition to this, the villages have been connected under the Prime Minister Rural Road Scheme. In the last two years, about one lakh kilometers long rural roads have been constructed under this scheme. In the last two years, more than 3,500 kilometers of rural roads have been constructed in the villages of Jammu \u0026 Kashmir\nFriends, tourism is a big source of revenue for Jammu and Kashmir, specially those places which are related to religious faith be it Baba Barfani (Lord Shiva) or Darbar of Mother Rani (Divine Mother Vaishno Devi), millions of tourists visit to visit these shrines. The government has made many efforts so that the pilgrims full of devotion should get the facilities and also the employment opportunities are generated.\nToday, the train service has reached Vaishno Devi shrine in Katra. I had got the opportunity to publicly dedicate this rail route. The Lord of the Ruins We do not want to stop at this only and this is the reason The first one is another route for visiting the shrine of mother goddess and the other one is for supplying goods to the shrine of the mother goddess through a ropeway.\nFriends, now the devotees can reach the shrine of divine mother Vaishno Devi through Tarakota route. This is an optional route for the devotees who walk on feet between Katra and Ard Kunwari. This will also provide them freedom from crowd And I have been told that this route will also be connected through a one and a half kilometers long link road to the current pedestrian's path. So that the devotees can use either the pedestrian's path to reach the temple. This is a safe and secure path for the devotees of the mother goddess where every arrangement has been made.\nFriends, in addition to this alternate route, today, I also got the good opportunity to inaugurate a material ropeway. Carriage of goods will become much more easy because of this material ropeway Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board will be able to make arrangements for providing food facilities to devotees by using these unique facilities. This ropeway is also going to provide a great help in waste. The goods will be supplied from Katra to the temple and the waste material will bring back in return journey.\nFriends, this kind of facility is also being developed for the devotees on the lines of material ropeway. Bhairon Ghati Bhawan, which is being built at the cost of Rs. 60 crore, is going to be very soon. This ropeway will have the capacity to ferry 800 people per hour. It is going to be extremely helpful for old and physically handicapped devotees When this ropeway will become fully functional then it will carry 40-45 people within three minutes This ropeway system will have an automated ticketing system on the lines of Delhi Metro. I congratulate Mr. Chairman and his entire team for the way the Shrine Board has been working to provide more facilities to the devotees.\nBrothers and sisters, infrastructure development in Jammu \u0026 Kashmir will lead to tourism and tourism will lead to employment generation However, education and skill development play an important role in employment. Central Government has approved setting up of big organizations in the field of education in the state. Whether it is IIM or IIT that is going to be built in Jammu, these institutions are going to become a milestone in the development of the state. In addition to this, the scholarships have been given to the students of Jammu and Kashmir for completing their education in the reputed universities and colleges of the country.\nBrothers and sisters, women empowerment Many schemes for providing financial and social power to women in the last four years. Nearly 9.5 crore women entrepreneurs of the country have received loans for their small businesses without any bank guarantee. More than 50 lakh women of Jammu \u0026 Kashmir are among them On the other hand, the government has been working towards providing smoke free kitchens for women under the Ujjwala scheme. Clean cooking - This scheme has been proven to be specially beneficial to mothers and sisters from the villages, be it Dalits, oppressed or backwards it has been beneficial to all the mothers and sisters related to all these communities While more than 4 crore LPG connections have been given free of cost in the country, the Ujjwala scheme has reached the kitchen of more than 4 lakh mothers and sisters in Jammu \u0026 Kashmir\nFriends, under the Clean India Mission, a movement to rid the country of open defecation has started. This is not just related to cleanliness but it is also an issue of honour women. The country and the world have seen how much the mothers and sisters of Jammu and Kashmir have done about this movement. I myself saw a 87 year old lady building in a toilet in Udhampur. She did not take anybody's help, there was just one passion to join the cleanliness mission.\nFriends, when this kind of efforts were made then the courage and conviction increased by many times. At some place, five year old girls are joining in this movement and somewhere else The depth of the feeling toward cleanliness and dignity can be gauged from this fact only. And this is the reason that the coverage of rural cleanliness has gone up 80 percent. Under this scheme, toilets in more than 8.5 lakh homes have been constructed in Jammu \u0026 Kashmir too.\nFriends, financial and social empowerment of women will be incomplete from the time. This is the reason that many efforts have been made for women of Jammu and Kashmir. Nearly 5,000women have been trained for the trade related to handicrafts, tailoring and agriculture.\nBrothers and sisters, when I came here two years ago then I had made an appeal to the youth of this place. Today, I am happy to inform you about these schemes. More than 20 lakh people have opened their bank accounts in the Prime Minister Jan Dhan Scheme. And about 8,00 crore rupees have been deposited in these accounts; I am just talking about Jammu \u0026 Kashmir More than 40 thousand of my brother and sister workers of the working class in the un-organized sector have joined in the Atal Pension Scheme which was formulated for them. More than 9 lakh people of the state have joined those two schemes with low premium which are being run by the government. And a claim amount of about Rs. 3 crore have already been disbursed under these schemes.\nFriends, the youth of this area has always been ahead in joining the armed forces. As per the tradition, a lot of avenues have been given to the armed forces. More than 20,000 people have been recruited in the army, central forces, police forces and India Reserve Battalions under the special recruitment drives.\nFriends, this is the land of braves This place has both valor and patience, it also has sweet music as well. While it has been fragrance coming from Basmati rice fields yet it has also been potential for modern factories. Our determination is very strong I have no doubt that with the blessings of divine mother Vaishno Devi and the hard work done by you, this state will scale the new heights of development.\nThank you."