"\nPM Modi attends Dean of Sher-e-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology: PM Modi\nThere is a need to bring about a new culture in the agriculture sector by embracing technology: PM Modi\nPolitics and decisions of the Union Government are aimed at growing the income of farmers: PM\nFarmers will benefit when conventional agriculture approach will be latest technologies: PM Modi\nMy young colleagues and all the dignitaries present here.\nFriends,\nThis morning I got the opportunity to visit different parts of Jammu \u0026 Kashmir. I got late in coming here, First of all, I beg your way Today, many projects of development have been done from Srinagar. Some new projects have started I have always known the capacity of farms and fields of Jammu and orchards of Kashmir and also felt the spiritual and natural power of Leh-Laddakh. Whenever I come here my faith gets further strengthened that is the region that has the ability to march forward in terms of development. We have been moving in the right direction, we have been achieving success due to the meaningful attempts.\nFriends, this university is around 20 years old and since then so many students have passed out from here And they have been making their contribution in the social life at some place or other.\nIt is the sixth convocation ceremony of the university today. I got the opportunity to come on this occasion. I express my sincere gratitude to the university administration for inviting me. I am happy that some students from the schools of Jammu are also present here today. Today, the certificates, degrees and medals have been awarded to more than 400 students. This is the result of the hard work done by you as a country. I extend my best wishes and congratulations to all of you, especially to girls as today they have emerged victorious.\nToday, you look at sports, I see it before me that there is a spark in your eyes This sparkle is there while realizing both the dreams and challenges of the future.\nFriends,\nThis is not just a degree or certificate in your hands The certificates that are in your hands, it is full of hopes and aspirations of farmers of the country. This is a certificate of those millions and millions of hopes of which farmers of this country, who are feed us, have a lot of expectation.\nTechnology has been changing with the timing and the changing technology has changed the basics of a lot of things. The one who can fight with you And because of this today I am amending you, when I got the opportunity to talk to you people, I considered it very important.\nFriends,\nThe way technology has been changing the nature of jobs and new avenues of employments are created, similarly it is necessary to develop a new culture in the agricultural sector. The more we make our traditional methods And by following this vision, the central government has been encouraging\nMore than 12 crore soil health cards have been distributed in the country so far. More than 11 lakh farmers in Jammu \u0026 Kashmir With the help of these cards, farmers are becoming aware of what is required; what is needed in their fields\nFarmers have also benefitted from 100 percent of Neem coated urea This has not only resulted in the increase in production but it has also brought down the UREA consumption per hectare.\nMicro and sprinkler irrigation has been given encouragement while keeping in mind the modern technology for irrigation and use of every single drop of water. Per drop more crop, this should be our mission\nIn the last four years, more than 24 lakh hectare area has been brought under micro and sprinkler irrigation. Union Cabinet has approved more than Rs. 5,000 crores for micro irrigation All these polices, all these decisions, they strengthen our goal of the farmer's income And you are an important part of the system.\nThis is the country's expectation of you people that after completing your education here, you will play an active role in the agricultural a profitable venture with the help of scientific approach, technological innovation and research and development. It is the responsibility of our young generation to make the agricultural and animal husbandry and other related activities.\nMy expectations have gone up I have also been informed about the model developed by you and your university to raise the farmer's income in this region. You have named it integrated farming system model or IFS Model. This model includes grains, it also covers fruits and vegetables, flowers, animal husbandry, fisheries and poultry, it also includes compost, mushroom, biogas and also has the concept of planting trees on the farms of the boundaries. Not only will it ensure higher monthly income but also provide twice as much employment in a year\nThis model that ensures a farmer's income is very important in itself. You got clean energy, you also got freedom from waste, village cleanliness has also been ensured, and your model also ensures doubling of farmer's income in comparison with the traditional model of farming. I would like to specially say that your model has been developed in this place. I would like that this model should be publicized more in Jammu and nearby areas.\nFriends,\nThe government does not want to depend on just one crop And we have been able to encourage others on that income. The development of new sectors of future in agriculture is going to be an integral part of the farmer's development.\nIn addition to the green and white revolutions, the more emphasis we will bring on the organic revolution, water revolution, blue revolution, sweet revolution, the farmer's income also increase in the same proportion. This was the thought of the government in the budget presented by us. Before an arrangement was made for encouraging the dairy sector but this time we have created two new funds with an allocation of Rs. 10,000 crore for fisheries and animal husbandry It means that now the farmers will easily get support for agriculture and animal husbandry. In addition to this, the facility of credit extended to them via Kisan Credit Cards, which was already restricted only to agriculture, now this credit facility will also be available to farmers for fisheries and animal husbandry.\nA big scheme has also recently been updated for reforming the agriculture sector. Eleven schemes related to agriculture have been included in the HaritKrantiKrishiUnnatiYojana. And an amount of Rs. 33,000 crore has been allocated for this. And this amount of Rs. 33,000 crore is not a small amount\nFriends,\nThe government is focused on making a big way. Now this kind of movement is the picking pace in different parts of the country.\nIn this year's budget, the government has also announced a plan called GobarDhanYojana. In addition to the village cleanliness, it will also help in growing the income of farmers and people engaged in animal husbandry by using the bio wastage generated in the village. It's not that wealth can only be created through byproducts Sometimes the different product of the crop can also boost the farmer's income. Be it coir waste or coconut shells or bamboo waste or residue left in the farm after harvesting the crop.\nIn addition to this, we have also made it easy to cultivate bamboo by amending the bamboo related old law. You will be surprised to know that our country was importing bamboo worth Rs. 15,000 crore every year There was no logic in it\nFriends,\nI have also asked you to buy new varieties of 12 crops here. Ranveer Basmati, maybe, this is very famous all over the country Your effort is commendable.\nHowever, the challenges faced by the agriculture sector today is just the quality of seeds. This challenge is also This is the result of the hard work done by our farmers, our agricultural scientists and policies of the government that our farmers have the record production during the last year. Be it wheat or rice or pulses, all the old records have broken. Edible oil seeds and cotton have also registered massive growth in production. But if you look at the data of the last few years then you will find that some kind of uncertainty still persists in the production. And the biggest cause of rain water\nBecause of the impact of climate change, while on the one hand a rise in the temperature has been witnessed, on the other part it is becoming rain deficient. Its impact is also being seen in Jammu \u0026 Kashmir Be it paddy cultivation or horticulture or tourism, water in enough quantities is important for all these things. Glaciers meet the need of water in Jammu \u0026 Kashmir But glaciers are melting at a faster pace And as a result of it there is water shortage in some areas and some other areas.\nFriends,\nWhen I was reading about your university while coming here I also got the FASAL project of you. You try to assess before the start of the crop season and the kind of moisture But now you need to go beyond this New technologies This strategy is required both at the level of technology as well. We will have to think about those crops And it should also be part of your continuous thinking process.\nI will give you an example of sea buckthorn Perhaps, many of you are aware about this sea buckthorn This plant which is found in the Laddakh region has the capacity to tolerate the harsh weather and temperature between minus 40 degree plus 40 degrees centigrade. May be the success of the season. Reference to its medicinal properties is also being found in the Tibetan literature of the 8th century AD. Several modern institutes of the country and the world have considered it extremely valuable. Be it the problem of blood pressure or fever or be it tumor or stone or ulcer or be it the problem of cold and cough; The medicines made from the sea buckthorn provided relief from these problems.\nAs per one study, the sea buckthorn available in the world alone can meet the entire vitamin C requirement of the world. The value addition of this agriculture product has changed Now sea buckthorn has been used in a big way in herbal tea, in jam and protective oil and cream and also in health drinks. It is very useful for armed force personnel deployed at a very high altitude. Sea buckthorn has used in many antioxidant products.\nToday, I am giving this example from this platform, I will also say this thing because whichever area of ​​the country will be selected by you people as your workplace. You can develop a model While emerging as an agricultural scientist from a student and by adding value you can become a leader of an agricultural revolution.\nThere is another important topic in agriculture, it is artificial intelligence. This is going to bring about revolutionary changes in agriculture in the near future. Farmers have been using it in a limited way, like the use of drone technology in pest control and for spraying medicines have gradually started now days.\nIn addition to this, new technology has been used in soil mapping and community pricing. Apart from this, the block chain technology will also have an important role in the coming days. This technology will make real real time monitoring of supply chains This will bring transparency in the dealings in the agricultural sector. Most important thing is that it will check the misdeeds of middlemen and it will also be wastage of production.\nFriends,\nWe all know that this product is very good. Block chain technology can help tackle this problem With the help of this technology, a product can be easily checked at any stage from production to the time it reaches to farmers\nThere will be a complete network which includes farmer processing units, distributors, regulatory authorities and consumers. This technology can be developed on the basis of a smart agreement. So there is very much corruption in this system\nIn addition to this, this technology can also set the farmers free from incurring the loss due to changing prices of their commodities. Any person connected in this chain And prices can be determined on every stage as per mutual understanding.\nFriends,\nThe government has already been linking the rural markets across the country under schemes like e-NAM. In addition to this, a effort is being made to link more than 22,000 villages and wholesale markets with the global market. The government is also emphasizing on the progress of the farm producers organization (FPOs). The farmers can very easily link themselves with villages and big markets on their own.\nNow, the technology like block chain will also make our efforts more meaningful.\nFriends,\nYou will have to think about developing such models that are friendly to futuristic technologies besides being local to local needs\nWe should focus on this thing: how we have new innovations and new start ups in the agricultural sector You should make consistent efforts And I have been told that during your course you have done a lot of work to link the farmers. You have also been doing research to develop the crops that are suitable for organic farming. This kind of different attempts\nFriends,\nIn the last four years, Central Government has approved several schemes for the farmers and horticulturists of Jammu \u0026 Kashmir Five hundred crore rupees have been sanctioned for other schemes related to agriculture and horticulture and Rs. 150 crore Cold storages are being constructed in Leh and Kargil In addition to this, a subsidy of Rs. 20 crore has been offered.\nI hopeful that the efforts made by the government, from seed to market, will further strengthen the farmers.\nFriends,\nThe country is going to celebrate 75 years of its independence in 2022. I believe that many of you students have established themselves as a good agricultural scientists. I urge you that your university and students of the university must set a target for yourself while keeping the year 2022 in mind For example, it could be deliberated that only the top universities of the country but also in the top 200 universities of the world.\nSimilarly, the students of the university can make a pledge about growing the crop production per hectare or taking the modern technology to maximum number of farmers.\nFriends,\nWhen we talk about making the technology technology and entrepreneurship driven, then the development of quality human resources is a big challenge in itself.\nThe responsibility of all institutions in the country, like your university, goes up In such situation, five Ts - training, talent, technology, timely action and trouble free approach becomes very important in my view. These five are very important for bringing about revolutionary changes. And, I am hopeful that you will keep these things in mind while deciding about your resolves.\nFriends,\nToday, you are coming out of a closed environment of your classrooms. You are coming out of this class room made of walls At this place, just a stage of your learning process has come to an end, the real life is starting from here. So, you have to keep the mindset of a student in you. You should never let this student inside you. Only then you will be able to develop a better model\nYou should make a pledge and realizes your dreams You should make your contribution in nation building. With this hope, I conclude my speech and congratulate all my colleagues. I convey the best wishes to their parents as well. Congratulations\nThank you very much"