"Share\n\nUnder Mission Indradhanush, We aim to achieve total vaccination. Till now over 3 crore 40 lakh children and over 90 lakh mothers have benefitted: PM\nSwachhata is an important aspect of any child's health. Through the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, we are sure to be a cleaner and healthier environment: PM\nMission Indradhanush has hailed globally by experts 12 best medical practices: PM Modi\nLadies and Gentlemen, I was delayed in coming, I apologize for that. First of all, I salute all of you from the land of Liladhar Balgopal Nandlal.\nToday, while witnessing Lord Krishna's leela, we are witnessing this big and sacred occasion in Earth Braj. Then I want to repeat a verse of the Bhagavad Gita in front of you. Lord Krishna had said - to give credit to Goddess Dattatreya. That is, by understanding the duty of charity without feeling any good, it is given at the right time and in the right place in the right place. He is called Satvik Dan.\nThe Akshay Vyapar Sanstha has been giving this sacramental donation of nutritious food to the childhood of the country for the last 18 years. Many of you have a lot of goodwill and good luck for this.\nCompanions, a few days later, I am going to have the opportunity to serve some children with their own hands. Thalis will be served, one plate of it will be three billion, that is, three hundred crores of plate. As here it has been said that the campaign was started from 15 hundred children and that today .. Now Mohandas was telling that 17 lakh children are joining the nutritious diet.\nI am also happy that all of you had served the first plate during the government of the revered Atal ji, today I got the good fortune of serving three billion platelets.\nCompanions, the work you are doing, is extraordinary, exceptional service, unparalleled dedication. This is an extension of our sacraments which have given us great tradition of thousands of years. I know that service and dedication is not for any respect but your efforts have recently given the country a very big identity.\nThe Gandhi Peace Prize has been given to make millions of children available from mid-day meal to the Akshay Patna Foundation. Apart from this, Swami Madhupundit Das ji has also been honored with Padmashri Award. I congratulate all of you for this.\nThese traditions of mid-day meal in associates, schools have already been in the very beginning of independence. The reason for this was also the conditions and circumstances of India. One, due to the long period of slavery, lack of resources remained here, poverty reached the peak and people had to fight for livelihood. The most negative impact of this was on our children. Now it is being ensured that nutrition in adequate circumstances, along with adequate and good quality food is provided to the children. In this work, all the people associated with the Akshay Patra are helping the country from all the people who are making food, food and service.\nAs the foundation is solid for the strong building, it is important for a strong new India to be well-nourished and healthy childhood. If the country's childhood is weak, then its development will slow down. If you focus on eating and drinking after the birth and after the birth of children, and the strength to fight diseases, then problems in health in the future will be reduced.\nBhagvat Geeta has said in the Yaktahar-Vihar-based Vastshya Karmasu. Contraceptive Yoga is a sadness Meaning, whose diet, conduct and trick are balanced, which sleeps and awakens by the rules, the path of meditation eliminates all its sorrows. In the last 55 months, the central government has stressed the health of mothers and children and their health to give them a healthy life in the last 55 months.\nThe central government has worked with totality for the nurturing of peers, children. A strong security around the childhood has been attempted. There are three sides of this circle of security - an important aspect of nutrition; Food, Vaccination and Cleanliness I am happy that all the partners associated with the Akshay Patra are pushing the Government's efforts to strengthen this security cover.\nThe direct contact of the partners, nutrition is by nutrition, our eating and drinking, if we are successful in reaching only the nutrition campaign every mother, every child, many lives will be saved. With this thought, our government had started the National Nutrition Mission in Jhunjhunu of Rajasthan last year. Given the seriousness of this mission, the month of September last year was dedicated to nutrition only.\nCo-workers, nutrition arrangements, hygiene, immunization, it is not that it was not thought about before. There have been many programs since freedom since all these aspects have gone but we have not got much success in these years. Small countries with less resources also went ahead in this area. To get out of this situation, we started working with a new strategy from 2014. Decided to run immunization campaign on mission mode Under Mission Rainbow, the goal of reaching every child in the country was decided.\nCompanions, so far, under this mission vaccination has been done for about 340 million children and about 90 lakh pregnant women in the country. The speed at which the work is going on. It is decided that our goal of total immunization is not far away.\nCompanions, we have given the vaccination campaign a boost, and the number of vaccines is also increased. In the earlier program, five new vaccines have been added, one of which is also of encephalitis i.e. Japanese fever. The most threatened we have seen in some areas of Uttar Pradesh. Now total 12 vaccine children are being planted.\nI am happy that the efforts of India, Mission Rainbow is being appreciated across the world today. Recently, a famous medical journal has selected this program in 12 best practices of the world.\nWith the support of six thousand rupees for the companions, whether the Mission Rainbow or the Prime Minister's Safe Maternity Campaign, the health of the children and the mothers, the safe pregnancy and the nutritious food during the pregnancy, this will help the mother and the mothers during the pregnancy. But the crisis that has come is greatly reduced.\nAn important aspect of the protective armor of the companions, children is cleanliness - dirt especially proves to be fatal for children because he has to live in such an environment. The life expectancies of children under five years of age are most prone to diarrhea. Through the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, we have taken the initiative to overcome this threat. Last year, there was a international report in which it was expected that only the clean India mission could save lives of about three lakh people using the toilet. This strength is cleanliness, which is giving life to the poor without any cost.\nI was telling Yogi Ji this time this time the Kumbh Mela would be known for cleanliness and anyway there was a special occasion for the Kumbh Mela that was a special occasion to give a social message. This time the Kumbh Mela has achieved great success in giving message of cleanliness to the country. Usually the discussions of the Kumbh Mela are held in the newspapers of the country and the world, most of the sadhus of Naga Baba are discussed. For the first time, the New York Times has reported on the cleanliness of the Kumbh Mela.\nI have been told that the Akshay Vyapar Institute has started the campaign of clean students, clean schools, clean houses for awareness on cleanliness in schools. Thank you very much for this one more sacred work.\nFriends, when it was a matter of health of children, it was a matter of diet and nutrition, then the pain of the mother was first ignored. In the poor families, in the handless families, the mother had to struggle in the absence of her, for her children, she had to fight with smoke for her family. The attempt to change this situation has been done in the last four and a half years. Under the Ujjwala scheme, every poorer sister-daughter kitchen has reached more than six crore gas connections in the country. In Uttar Pradesh, there is also a free gas connection to 10 million sisters. With this, the mother and child are getting rid of the loss due to smoke, and in the same time, the labor which was taking time to make the timber of the cow dung in its labor, is also avoided.\nCompanions, on one side are the mother who has been continuously cherishing the country's childhood, our life, thanks to the Gokul's land I want to show. This mother is our Goumata whose milk can not be forgotten by anyone at least in India. Gumata nurtured her hair-gopal with every kind of milk, curd and butter.\nCompanions, cow has been an important part of our culture, our tradition. Cow is also an important part of rural economy. Here Mathura has a rich tradition of cow-worship. Sister Sudi Das Ji, who has recently been honored with Padmashri, her life shows the power of our sacraments.\nWith this feeling of companions, Gokul expanding the spirit of the country, the National Gokul Mission was started by our government to make the livestock healthy and the better. This time, in the budget, it has been decided to create National Kamdhenu Commission. Under this commission, the provision of Rs. 500 crores has been made to effectively implement the care of Gau Mata and the cow and its related rules and regulations.\nNow the doors of the banks have also been opened to help the peers, the cattle-bearing families. Like crop loan, the cattle owners have also been able to get loan of up to Rs three lakhs from the banks under Kisan Credit Card. With this it is going to be very beneficial to all our livestock sisters. Also, these steps will expand the country's dairy industry. When the dairy industry is expanding, more money will be available in the pockets of the cattle and their life will be easier.\nAlong with the peasants, the cattle, which gives food to the country. The government has created a huge plan for our farmer, our farmer too. If one state is going to get the highest benefit of the PM farming scheme then it is the state of Uttar Pradesh. Because most of the farmers here are less than one or two acres or less than five acres of land. Now every farmer's families will be transferred directly to their bank accounts by the Central Government every year, six thousand rupees. These funds will reach the farmer families in three installments of two-two thousand rupees.\nOur colleagues, our audience is producing record today. And dedicated workers like you are working to empower the foundation of the country by bringing this food to the children.\nI congratulate you for your efforts, these efforts are the best example of my journey from me to. This is an example of travel from self to masses. When we become we, we get up from ourselves and think about society. When we become, then the scope of thinking increases. The idea of ​​us makes our country, our culture and our heritage more important than the person. The spirit of us is archaic.\nCompanions, New India is empowering these rites of the country. With the cooperation of all of us, that is everyone's development, everyone's development is the path of new India. Once again I congratulate you for this great stop of service to all of you. Thank you very much with this wish of your service."