"Share\n\nPM Modi dedicates Kishanganga Hydropower Station to the Nation, lays foundation stone for Srinagar Ring Road\nTo bring about change in the lives of the people, balanced development of Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh is very necessary: ​​PM\nJammu and Kashmir has immense potential for tourism sector, we are making efforts to boost tourism in the state: PM\nYouth of Jammu and Kashmir is becoming the model for youngsters across the country: PM\nIn the journey of New India, a new Jammu and Kashmir can be the bright spot: PM\nThere is no alternative to peace and stability I urge the youth of Jammu and Kashmir to be contributed towards the welfare and development of the state: PM\nNa Gaali Se, Na Goli Se, Samasya Suljhegi Har Kashmiri Ko Gale Lagane Se: PM Modi\nSolutions to all issues is in development: PM\nGovernor of Jammu \u0026 Kashmir Sriman N.N. Vohra Ji, Chief Minister Mehbooba Mufti Ji, my colleague in the council of ministers Sriman Nitin Gadkari Ji, Dr. Jitendra Singh Ji, RK Singh Ji, Deputy Chief Minister of Jammu \u0026 Kashmir Sriman Kavindra Gupta Ji, Power Minister of the State Sri Sunil Kumar Sharma Ji, Deputy Speaker of the Assembly Shri Nazeer Ahmad Khan Ji, Member of Parliament and country of Senior Leader , respected Dr. Farrukh Abdullah Ji, Member of Parliament Shriman Muzaffar Hussain Beg Ji and all the dignitaries present here and my dear brothers and sisters of Jammu \u0026 Kashmir\nOnce again I have got the opportunity to join you in Jammu \u0026 Kashmir Your love and affection There will not be a single year in the last four years When Diwali was celebrated in Srinagar after the flood, I had celebrated my Diwali here in flood victims. In addition to this I got the opportunity to celebrate Diwali with the soldiers on the border and today I am among you when it is holy month of Ramzan. This month is the occasion of remembering Prophet Mohammad Saheb and his teachings The teachings of equality and brotherhood from his life alone can take the country into the true sense of word.\nIt's also a happy coincidence that we had gathered here on the full moon of Ramzan. Today, I got the good opportunity to dedicate Kishanganga Hydro Electric Project to the nation After overcoming many hurdles this project is ready to add new dimensions in the developmental journey of Jammu \u0026 Kashmir I congratulate you Not only will this free electricity to the state, but it will also provide free of cost electricity. At present, a large part of Jammu \u0026 Kashmir's electricity requirement has been met by other parts of the country. With the start of this 330 megawatt power project, the problem of electricity shortage in the state will be solved to a great extent.\nBrothers and sisters,\nThis project is a shining example of engineering skills Many people have worked hard Water of Kishan Ganga river has been supplied to Bonar Nullah in Bandipora by digging a tunnel in the mountain. Every worker, every engineer, every employee of this project is specially praiseworthy. It was the result of your courage\nToday, I also got the opportunity to lay the foundation stone for a ring road. More than 500 crore rupees will be spent on this 42 kilometer long road. This ring road will solve the problem of traffic jam in the interior areas of Sirnagar city to a great extent, it will make your life convenient\nAnd, the development of all three regions of the state - Kashmir, Jammu and Ladakh is also necessary to bring the people of Jammu and Kashmir. A package of Rs. 80,000 crore was approved I am glad that projects worth Rs. 63,000 crore have been sanctioned in such a short span of time and more than Rs. 20,000 crore have already been spent The work of building an IIT and IIM in Jammu \u0026 Kashmir and the modernization of primary healthcare centers to the district hospitals has also been given the help of this fund.\nNew national highways, all-weather roads, new tunnels, power transmission and distribution lines, conservation of rivers and lakes, plans for farmers, cold storage, warehouses and new initiatives for providing employment to youth, many such new initiatives have taken up. The work is being done on the priority basis to make the 21st century Jammu \u0026 Kashmir as per the expectations and aspirations of the people of this place.\nFriends,\nWhenever I visit mountains I am always reminded of one proverb Before it was said that the youth and water of a hilly area This proverb is of that time when modern technology was not too wide and the man was powerless against the nature. Now the time has changed We are determined to change Both the water and youth of Jammu and Kashmir are going to be useful for this land.\nThere are several rivers in Jammu \u0026 Kashmir that have a lot of potential for hydro power. This is the part of the country We have been working on several projects in the last four years. Soon the work will start on a hydro power plant in Kishtwar at a cost of Rs. 8,000 crore\nContinuous efforts are made to provide uninterrupted electricity to every household in Jammu \u0026 Kashmir Advanced technologies like smart grid and smart meters are used. Street Lights are being modernized. More from Rs. 4,000 crore is being spent to provide electricity from villages to cities of Jammu \u0026 Kashmir and the electricity distribution system of the state.\nFriends,\nOur goal is to supply electricity to villages and households but efforts are also made to reduce the burden of electricity bill on those households where electricity is already supplied. More than 78 lakh LED bulbs have been distributed in Jammu and Kashmir under the Ujala scheme. It has been saving more than Rs. 400 crore to the electricity bulbs. The government is busy in providing electricity to every household in the state Under the Suvhagya scheme, the work is going to provide electricity to every such household\nFriends,\nIf there is anything like the biggest means of development of Jammu \u0026 Kashmir, if there is any such sector then it is tourism We have observed this for decades that this sector which produces the highest number of jobs with the least investment, it has been the fortune maker for the state of Jammu \u0026 Kashmir. However, this field no longer works on old method. Modern tourist wants facilities He does not want to wait for hours to go from one place to another, he does not want to get stuck in the narrow lanes, he wants uninterrupted supply of electricity, he wants cleanliness and he wants good air service.\nOur government has been moving forward with several plans while keeping in mind the requirements of a modern ecosystem required for tourism. The more powerful this system will become the more tourists will come in Jammu \u0026 Kashmir Not only this, the youth of Jammu \u0026 Kashmir will also get new avenues for employment and your income will increase in the same proportion.\nFriends,\nThere are several regions in the world where the entire economy is focused on tourism. J \u0026 K alone has the ability to increase the economy of the country. If I talk about tourism alone then the work of developing 12 development authorities, 3 tourism circuits and 50 tourist villages is being done at an investment of Rs. 2,000 crore However, as I have said earlier, it is extremely necessary to strengthen not only tourism but also the entire eco system of tourism.\nConnectivity is a big base for ecosystem And that is the reason that big scale efforts were made in the connectivity in Jammu \u0026 Kashmir Almost half of the total package received A network of national highways is being laid in Jammu \u0026 Kashmir\nI have inaugurated the work on the country's longest tunnel - Zojilla Tunnel - before coming here. This tunnel is going to write a new story of Jammu \u0026 Kashmir. Just imagine, if connectivity improves you can get rid of a lot of inconveniences such as if you are going to study, going to meet relatives or for treatment or for business or for sale and purchase of goods. We will be able to reduce the losses suffered by farmers from this place to a great extent because of your apples and vegetables.\nWhether it is the ring road that will be used in Srinagar or be Srinagar-Shopian-Kazigund national highway or be it Chengani-Sudh Mahadev-Goha Road, the completion of these projects will save your time and it will also reduce losses of your resources Those areas of the state which are unreachable during the snowfall, they are being linked, a helicopter service is provided for those areas. You are also aware that the government is working to develop Srinagar and Jammu in smart cities.\nOver Rs. 550 crore are being used to improve water supply and sewage system in the cities. When there will be modern facilities, modern roads then it will not only improve your life but it will also add a lot of value in the beauty of Jammu \u0026 Kashmir.\nBrothers and sisters,\nWhen we talk about making villages and cities 'smart' I am happy to note that the people of Jammu and Kashmir have been taking this mission\nI have recently seen a video of a Kashmiri girl on social media. Five year old 'Jannat' was in the lake lake. When the future of the country thinks in such a sacred and honest manner as a member of this mission I become even happier. Friends, there are many other people\nBrothers and sisters,\nI am aware that the destruction caused by the massive flood in the state has been radically changed your life. We have been making every effort to compensate the losses incurred at different places. And for this purpose, regular help is available.\nFriends,\nThere is one more very serious issue on the PDP-BJP coalition government and union government jointly. This issue is of displaced people Those who have come here from across the border because of the bad situation there, and also those who had abandoned their homes due to local problems, about Rs. 3,500 crore are being rehabilitation at different places.\nFriends,\nToday, the youth of Jammu and Kashmir When I see the names of the young people in the list of civil services, I am very happy. I remember that when a girl from Bandipora brought laurels for the country in kick-boxing the country felt immense pride. The country can not allow a talent like Tajamul And this is the reason why the central government has been working jointly with the state government to sport the sporting talents of the state. And every effort is made\nBrothers and sisters,\nSerious efforts were made to provide the youth of Jammu and Kashmir. Several schemes have been implemented in the state. The work to train more than one lakh youth of the state is underway in Himayat scheme. More than 16,000 students have received the benefit of Prime Minister's Special Scholarship Scheme. They have been given the opportunity to complete their higher education in the top colleges and universities. An offer of service has been made to nearly 60,000 students who had left the school due to different reasons.\nNew opportunities were created for the students of the state and the country. Five battalions of Indian Reserve have been sanctioned to strengthen the police in Jammu \u0026 Kashmir. I have been told that the process of recruitment is in its last stage and after that five thousand youths of the state will be employed in the security sector.\n\nBrothers and sisters, Safety and security of the country and its citizens Our security forces are completely committed to discharge this duty. I would like to say to all of you, to the Jammu and Kashmir police, the paramilitary forces and the Jawans of Indian army that you have been doing a wonderful job in the midst of a very difficult situation You are the right person to get the kind of coordination and synergy you have. The contribution of the security forces for every resident of Jammu \u0026 Kashmir who was stuck in a difficult situation is immense, be it flood or storm or the calamities like fire. Every single image of the difficulties faced by them for the people of Jammu and Kashmir is the people of the country.\nBrothers and sisters,\nToday, 1.25 billion people of the country have been working on realizing the pledge of making a New India. Jammu \u0026 Kashmir can become the most shining star of this New India There is no reason why Jammu and Kashmir can not be the best educational institutes of the country, best hospitals, best roads and most modern airport of the country. There is no reason why the children of the state can not become good doctors, good engineers, good professors or good officers\nFriends,\nThere are a lot of powers which do not like the development of Jammu and Kashmir, who do not want the happiness of the people of the state, however, friends, we need to move forward by giving these futures to a fitting reply.\nThe coalition government of the PDP-BJP working in the state under the leadership of Mehbooba Mufti Ji and NDA Government at the center has regularly been working to bring those youths back into the mainstream, who have been influenced by foreign propaganda and their own on the assault. holy land\nFriends,\nThere is no alternative to peace and stability I appeal to those youth who have gone astray that they should comeback in the mainstream. And this is the mainstream The main stream is there active contribution in the development of Jammu \u0026 Kashmir Enhancing the prestige of Jammu \u0026 Kashmir There are so much resources, so much resources, so much capability There is no reason why Jammu and Kashmir should have lost in the comparison with other parts of India. Every single stone, every single weapon picked up by the misguided youths destabilises their own Jammu and Kashmir.\nNow the state must get out of this environment of instability. They will have the mainstream of development of India for the sake of their own future. For thousands of years There is no power on earth that can drive a wedge between brothers. Those people who have been working for that end for decades, are now on the verge of disintegration.\nBrothers and sisters,\nI will once again say this thing that last year I had celebrated Diwali in Gurez among Jawans and this year I am among you on the occasion of Ramzan. And this is the feeling of Kashmir, and this is the feeling of Kashmir Everybody is respected here This is the land of that tradition This land has been enriched more by traditions, rather than by different sects and communities. Atal Ji was a follower of this Kashmiriyat and so is Modi. And I did this thing from the Ramparts of the Red Fort:\nToday's problem is not going to be solved by use of abusive language or through bullets; This problem will be resolved by embracing every Kashmiri.\nBoth the state and central governments have both policy and intention for the development of state of Jammu and Kashmir. Whether it is the process of taking back the thousands of court cases from students or be it the Ceasefire, which has been announced in the holy month of Ramzan, the thinking behind these decisions is that every young man, Kashmir of every person, should be stable and develop .\nFriends,\nThis is not just a warfire, it is also a means to expose those who spread terror in the name of Islam. I believe that people of Jammu \u0026 Kashmir can see this thing as illusions. The government has appointed an interlocutor to take this process of stability. He has been meeting the elected representatives of people and also with different institutions and bodies of the state. And I expect people to go and share their issues with him He has been trying to strengthen the peace\nBrothers and sisters,\nThe government is not leaving any thing However, I appeal to all of you, to all citizens of Jammu and Kashmir to maintain this alliance of democracy and Kashmiriyat; The biggest responsibility and the biggest role in this thing is the parents of the state, of the youth of the state and of the intellectuals and religious leaders of the state.\nLet all of us focus our entire energy only on one thing and that is the development of the Jammu and Kashmir There is only one solution for all the problems, for all the disputes and differences\nI am confident that along with a new India, a new Jammu and Kashmir, a peaceful and prosperous Jammu and Kashmir will further strengthen the developmental story of India. And because of this confidence, I openly share my feelings with you people I open my heart And I say the people of the world that all those countries have followed this path (path of terrorism) they are regretting it today. Everybody is turning back They are trying to turn around And that is why we have to take our legacy of life and peace, this life of brotherhood, the life of peace and prosperity and a happy and contented life. And the central government will not leave anything, wherever they are needed We will be able to reach our desired goals for which we have started our journey and once again the whole of the Jammu and Kashmir will once again provide the opportunity to embrace the love and affection as always.\nIsi Bhawana Ke Saath Setha-Setha Shukriya, Aj Diyu Ijazat, Khudai Thai Nav Khoshat Khush-hal.\nThank you."