"\nViolence during Panchayat polls in West Bengal is nothing but murder of democracy: PM Modi\nPeople from all leading parties, except the one that rules West Bengal This is unfortunate: PM Modi\nPM Modi praises BJP president and workers for his hard work during Karnataka elections\nPM Modi assures the people of Karnataka that the BJP will work for the progress of the state\nBecause of his relentless hard work and excellent strategy, the Bharatiya Janata Party is going to emerge victorious continuously, establishing new records, though our national president, respected Amit Bhai Shah. All the senior leaders and workers of Bharatiya Janata Party sitting on the platform, brothers and sisters.\nI am standing among you. There is no happiness in one side. On the other hand, the mind is also pressed into a heavy burden. Just a few weeks ago, due to a flyover incident in Varanasi my Lok Sabha constituency, many people who were traveling in bus, were taking the car, they were buried under it. Many have died. I talked to the Chief Minister, the officials also talked about. Any means of help can be mobilized, done. There is a lot of effort to save. But on the one hand the joy of Karnataka's victory and on the other hand this heavy burden on mind ....\nIt is very natural that such an incident in any corner of India makes it restless. I express my condolences to the families who have lost their lives. And to the Chief Minister I have said that whatever help we need from the Government of India, we are reaching out. Whatever system there is, it has mobilized everyone including the army.\nBrothers and sisters\nKarnataka's victory is an extraordinary victory. Is unprecedented victory. Because such an image was created in the country that the Bharatiya Janata Party party of North India, Hindi speaking party Neither Gujarat is Hindi speaking or Maharashtra is Hindi speaking, no Goa is Hindi speaking, Assam is a Hindi language, nor is the state of North East spoken Hindi. But a perception is made. Those who spread a lie often spread such lies that no one is ready to think again. Thus, the people of Karnataka have given a big jolt to those who are thinking distorted. It spread across every corner of India, a party devoted to solving problems of people of every region. One is India's best-running party.\nIn this election, this country can never imagine that after independence for many years of independence, the party which was the central party, ruled for so many years, led the country. Many legendary leaders were born. No one could have imagined that these parties could only degrade the Federal Constitution of India to hurt the spirit of Indian Federalism, for the sake of just electoral politics, for its poor self-interest, the Constitution of India. Fighting North and South, talking tension between the center and the state, the elections will come. The victory continues, but it is a matter of great concern to have a knot on the basic establishments of the country.\nThis election has also affected my mind very much. Because when I used to work in the organization of every organization in India, I also had the opportunity to go. Was in Gujarat as the Chief Minister, even then the country was getting an opportunity to travel. There was also the opportunity to go for the 2014 Lok Sabha election. There was always a burden on mind in some states that I do not speak the language of that state. My lack of knowledge of language .... I always keep telling myself how I will talk. But the people of Karnataka gave me so much love, so much love gave me that the language did not come in the middle. It was a wonderful experience, amazing experience.\nAnd I also want in this country, leave such tendencies that disintegrate, whether Modi likes or not. But understand the mood of the people of the country. They are people in every corner of the life living for life of Hindus. There are every linguistic people. This is a matter of pride for my country. The people of Karnataka, the people of the village, are not ready to hear. Speak the language we are sitting. 40-45 degree temporature, people do not know the name. These people are the form of Lord Janardhan God. When a blessing gives a new energy. I congratulate the people of Karnataka very much.\nPeople who are in every election .... Every election is considered as the election of 2019 in our country. It is said that each of our programs have come to play trumpet of 2019. I constantly keep listening to it. No matter how many screams are there, where do they ring? But perhaps their limitations are to think, they speak in limited language, keep writing. But I would say that the way workers have worked hard in Karnataka, they have worked hard, they have hundred hundred salute friends.\nAnd how the organization is fought with the power of the organization, by the power of the organization. And if you see the National President's program then how he worked in Karnataka. I do not believe how we should work as a worker. To learn this, you will need to go to a practice class. Only that we study physically how much work we have done. Do not understand the nuances. There is a big record in itself. Ultimately the pain brings color. There is a smell of sweat, it also feeds on the lotus, which is so sweet.\nI heartily congratulate the people of Karnataka, the workers there, and in the bright future of Karnataka, the Bharatiya Janata Party will not be far behind. This I want to convince the people of Karnataka\nToday I want to do one more thing. I talked about Kashi. I have a burden on my mind. On the other side is the pleasure of victory. But another incident, which will have to see this country seriously. Tomorrow the whole nation will be seen on TV all day .... The manner in which the democracy was killed in the elections of the West Bengal Panchayat. There is no acceptance of democracy anywhere from enrollment to voting. No nomination can be filled, and there will be arrangements for uncontested elections. The ballot box came out of the pond.\nIn large numbers innocent people are killed. It is not just the BJP workers have been killed. Everyone has to face problems except the ruling party there. There is no rest. This is what has happened against democracy. There is a lot of concern. And Bengal see the whole century. The task of guiding the country at every turn is from the land of Bengal. Bengal itself feels proud. The land of such great people .... Political self-interest has been invented.\nBrothers and sisters\nWho wins the election, who loses This is the latter thing. The wounds that are in the chest of democracy. To overcome it, all the political parties, the civil society, the country's judiciary must play an active role. I see it clearly. I have not stood to accuse any party. My concern is democracy.\nAs Amit Bhai told that there were other methods adopted in Karnataka. New methods were adopted. Something caught, nothing caught. These behaviors are a matter of concern.\nBut in spite of all this, the country can proudly even today that the Bharatiya Janata Party is a party which runs through a democratic process from within. Which is devoted to democracy, which is making every effort to strengthen democracy.\nOnce again I assure the people of Karnataka that these countries will go with the shoulder in the development journey of Karnataka. The Bharatiya Janata Party will not let Karnataka's development journey crumble, I believe in the people of Karnataka. Once again Amit Bhai, the national office-bearer, all the contributions that the workers contributed across the country, the national leadership, all the party workers, congratulate each and everybody very much. Thanks a lot."