"\nKathmandu is a special city; It is a blend of ancient and modern: PM Modi\nSabka Saath, Sabka Vikaas is as much about global wellbeing as it is about India's growth: PM Modi\nWith International Solar Alliance, India has taken the lead on the impact of climate change: PM Modi\nIndia stands shoulder to shoulder in development tour: PM\n\nShakyaji, you, your colleagues and Kathmandu's municipal corporation have organized this reception for me. I am very grateful to you It is not only for me, but it is an honor to whole India. Not only me, but 1.25 billion Indians are also grateful Every Indian has a relationship with Kathmandu and Nepal. And I am also fortunate to have got this thing\nWhenever I visited Nepal, I have had this feeling of peace and affection. And the biggest reason for this is your love, your love and the warm welcome and respect shown by you people\nYesterday, I was in Janakpur. It is a very important message What the uniqueness of Raja Janak? He caused the destruction of weapon and joined all of love and affection. This is the land that destroys the arms and binds with love and love.\nFriends, whenever I think of Kathmandu then the image that emerges as a city. That image is not just a geographical valley. It's not that only Kathmandu is the capital of our neighbor and inseparable friend Nepal. It is not the capital of the country of Mt. Everest and Lily Guraj It is not only the country of Lord Buddha's birthplace. Kathmandu is a world in itself and the history of this world is as old, as the Majestic and as vast as the Himalayas.\nKathmandu has always attracted me Because this city is fast moving It is a precious jewel in the lap of the Himalayas. Kathmandu, is not just a canopy made of wood This is a divine and grand palace of our shared culture and heritage. The city's diversity gives a glimpse of Nepal's great heritage and its large heart. Whether it is the forest of Nagarjuna or the hills of Shivpuri, whether it is calmness of hundreds of waterfalls and streams or origins of Baghmati, this city of thousands of temples, Manjushree caves and Buddhist monasteries is unique in the world itself.\nFrom the roof of the buildings here, one can see Dhaulagiri and Annapurna on one side and Sagarmatha on the other side which is known as the world as Everest and Kanchan Jangha. Where else this kind of view is possible? And if it is possible then it's only and only in Kathmandu\nThe patterns of Basantpur, the reputation of Patan, the magnificence of Bharatpur, the art of Keertipur and the elegance of Lalitpur; it seems Kathmandu has gathered So many traditions are mixed in the sandalwood. Prayers at Pashupatinath; gathering of devotees; Spirituality; chanting of 'Om Mani Padme Hum' echoing at the step taken by the Lord Buddha of Parikrma. It seems as if all the musical notes of a tune have embraced each other on the threads.\nI have been told that certain festivals, such as the festivals of Nevari community, are such that there is a unimaginable confluence of Buddhists and Hindu beliefs and practices. Tradition and culture has made the artisans and handicrafts of Kathmandu unmatched. Whether it is handmade paper or statues like Tara and Buddha; Whether it is utensils made of clay from Bharatpur or stone, wood and metal work of Patan, Kathmandu is the great amalgamation of Nepal's unique art and crafts. And I am glad that the new generation of Nepal has been following this tradition. And it is also bringing a newness to it.\nFriends, I have had the privilege of visiting Pashupatinath in both of my visits to Nepal so far. In this visit, I was fortunate to visit Janakpur Dham and Muktinath in addition to Pashupati Nath, to all three holy shrines. These three places are not only important pilgrim centers, they are India and Nepal's unshakable and unbreakable relation like Mt. Everest In future, whenever there will be a chance for me to visit, I will definitely make a request to visit Lord Buddha's birth place Lumbini.\nFriends, peace, and balance with nature, and value systems of both countries, which are filled with spiritual values, these are a legacy for all mankind and for the whole world And, therefore, it is not surprising thing that people from all over the world are attracted towards India and Nepal in search of peace.\nSome people go to Banaras and some other visit to Bodh Gaya, while some go and stay in the lap of the Himalayas, while some other people live like ascetics in the monasteries of Buddha, but the quest is the same. The solution to the malaise of modern life will be found in the shared values ​​of India and Nepal.\nFriends, Pashupatinath located on the bank of river Bagmati in Kathmandu and Kashi Vishwanath located on the banks of river Ganges, Buddha's birthplace Lumbini, Bodh Gaya - the place for hermitage, and Sarnath - the region from where the message was delivered.\nFriends, we all have a rich and common heritage which is thousands of years old. Our shared heritage is the property of youth of both countries. It has the roots of their past, the seeds of the present and the shoots of their future.\nFriends, the whole world is passing through an era of many types of changes. Global environment is full of many fluctuations and uncertainties.\nFriends, for thousands of years, this is the belief that the whole world is one family. We have been taking forward our philosophy of Sabka Sath-Sabka Vikas (Together with all, development for all) in our foreign cooperation policy with the same piousness There is a prayer in Indian scriptures:\nSurvey Bhavnuttu Sukhin: Survey Sriru Niramaya :. Survey of Bhaadra\nWhich means: May all be healthy, may all be healthy May there be no suffering Indian seers have always dreamed of this thing To achieve this ideal, our foreign policy is based on our neighboring countries with our experiences and opportunities of India. In our culture 'Neighborhood First' is not just foreign policy There are many examples. While being a developing country itself, India has been cooperating for more than 50 years for capacity building in more than 160 countries under the Indian Technical and Economic Cooperation Program, and we have been able to expand those countries of requirements according to our cooperation.\nLast year India launches South Asia satellite As a result of this, our neighboring countries are receiving its services as a gift from our space capabilities. And when I came here at the same platform for SAARC Summit then I got this thing from the same platform. At the same time, we are also focussed on modern partnerships that face international partnerships, which no one country has its own handling. For example, in 2016, India and France together conceived a new international treaty. This revolutionary step has now been converted into a successful experiment.\nIn March this year, French President Macron and the leaders of about 50 other countries participated in the first summit of the International Solar Alliance in Delhi. Such efforts will help in forging technological and economic partnerships to meet the challenges of climate change, I am confident that this will help in small developing countries of the needs of meeting.\nFriends, when Indians look at Nepal The environment in Nepal is full of optimism and the desire to have a bright future, and for strengthening the democracy, and also of the vision of a 'Prosperous Nepal, Happy Nepalese', and all of you have contributed in a very big way. creating this environment\nAfter the massive tragedy of the earthquake of 2015, the patience and indomitable courage exhibited by the people of Nepal and in particular in Kathmandu is an example for the whole world. This is a testimony to the firm commitment and hard work of your society that a new system has created in Nepal in such a short time while handling the disaster. After the earthquake, not just the buildings, in a way the whole country and society were rebuilt. Today is the democratic government at all three levels in Nepal - federal, provincial and local. And the elections for all three levels have been successfully successful in one year. This power is inherent in all you, therefore I am sincerely congratulate all of you\nFriends, Nepal has come a long way from the Lord Buddha. Bullet was the dominant power This is the journey from the war to Buddha. However, the destination is still far away. In a way, now we have reached the base camp of Mount Everest, but we still need to climb to the summit of Mt. Everest And as the mountaineers get a very strong support and company from the Sherpas of Nepal, India is ready to do the work of a Sherpa for you people in this developmental journey of Nepal.\nThis was the message that I had delivered in different words, this was the feeling that I have expressed yesterday and today during my Nepal visit, and also during the Prime Minister Oli's visit to India last month. I am saying this thing with a lot of responsibility that Nepal must move ahead according to its own needs and priorities. India will walk with your shoulders India's success lies in your success India's happiness lies in Nepal's happiness\nWhether it is the work of building railway lines or laying roads or the work of hydropower or transmission lines or of an integrated check post or oil pipeline or whether it is the job of further strengthening the cultural and people to people. Nepal and India, we are always interested in your future. We have started the work on DPR (detailed project report) for connecting with Kathmandu with India through railway. And, now, maybe it is ... I do not know how much it has received in Nepal, these days IPL matches are organsied in India and Nepal also have IPL\nYou are familiar with many recent initiatives of this journey. I have been told that the Nepalese player Sandeep Lamichane has participated in the IPL. I hope that in future our people-to-people relationship will continue to be strengthened only by cricket but also through other sports as well.\nFriends, with these words, I once again express my heartfelt gratitude to the Mayor of Kathmandu Shri Shakya ji, to the administration of Kathmandu, to the Government of Nepal, the respected Chief Minister, the respected foreign minister and to all you . And I have the same feelings in my heart as you have in your heart, the same feeling is there in my heart which is there of the heart of every Nepali, and the same feeling was in the heart of every Indian and that is:\nLong Live, Nepal-India Friendship,\nLong Live, Nepal-India Friendship,\nThanks a lot\nKathmandu is a special city. It has an important place in the history pic.twitter.com/moWqTXl9AA\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 12, 2018\nKathmandu is a mixture of ancient and modern. This city showcases the culture of Nepal. pic.twitter.com/ykNpnctf4j\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 12, 2018\nThere is something unique about the beauty of Kathmandu pic.twitter.com/c07gPVwGZg\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 12, 2018\nDuring my previous visits I prayed at Pashupatinath. This time, in addition to Pashupatinath, I went to Janakpur and Muktinath These places illustrate close ties between our nations pic.twitter.com/5L07yXZWeJ\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 12, 2018\n'Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas' is as much about global wellbeing as it is about India's growth. pic.twitter.com/FlxBgN7MhZ\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 12, 2018\nIndia has always worked for global good pic.twitter.com/hLY7Y60yUE\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 12, 2018\nIndia has taken the lead in climate change The International Solar Alliance has brought together nations from across the world. pic.twitter.com/qgd5Eokp4X\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 12, 2018\nThere is an atmosphere of hope and optimism in Nepal, says PM @narendramodi pic.twitter.com/IEbLcvWe0O\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 12, 2018\nAdmiring Nepal's spirit of resilience and commitment towards democracy pic.twitter.com/hgvyJKrFTN\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 12, 2018\nIndia stands shoulder to shoulder pic.twitter.com/ByJQITwM2T\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 12, 2018\nConnecting through cricket ... more power to people-to-people ties between India and Nepal. pic.twitter.com/V9i2lXHf2p\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 12, 2018\n"