"\nIndia-Nepal ties are special, says PM\nMy Nepal visit is a very special time when the country has successfully conducted federal, provincial and local elections: PM\nWell wishes of 125 crore Indians May the country achieve new heights: PM\nIndia's 'Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikaas' and Nepal's 'Samriddha Nepal, Sukhi Nepal' are complementary: PM\nPM Modi, PM Oli of Nepal jointly laid the foundation stone for the Arun-III project\nYour Excellency, Right Honorable Prime Minister\nMr. K. P. Sharma\ndistinguished guests,\nAttendees of media,\nHello.\nToupe take me hearty welcome and hospitality\nI love to express heartfelt gratitude to you.\nColleagues,\nAlthough I have been very old to Nepal, but this is my third visit to Nepal as the Prime Minister. From this it is clear how deeply the commitment of both Marie and my Government towards Nepal and India-Nepal relations. And whether I came as the Prime Minister, or as a general citizen, the people of Nepal have always accepted me, and welcomed me like a family member. For this personalization, for warm reception and honor, I express gratitude to the Prime Minister Mr. Oli Ji, his government, and the people of Nepal. India's relations with Nepal are also standing above the relationship of the two governments, are also family friendly, friendly, and stand on the strong foundation of mutual and deep relationships between the people.\nFriends,\nThis is my visit to Nepal - It is happening in a historic time when elections in the Federal, provincial, and local levels in Nepal have been successful. This period will be written in the golden letters in the history of Nepal. The people of Nepal have expressed their trust in the leadership and vision of Prime Minister Oli Ji for making economic and social progress and change, for nation-building. I congratulate the people of Nepal for the decision of nation-building and development tour in federal, democratic framework. India supports the aspiration of all Nepalese people for a monolithic, prosperous and empowered Nepalese best wishes for the hundred and a half million people of India to succeed in your efforts for inclusive growth and economic prosperity.\nFriends,\nLast month, we had the opportunity to welcome Prime Minister Oli Ji in India. We had a lot of discussion on our visions for the development of both countries. Today, it is my good fortune that I stand with them in the capital of Nepal. In the neighborhood, glimpse of India's vision for contact and friendship can be found in my journey.\nColleagues,\nFor India, our \"vision of everyone, the development of everyone\", and the slogan of \"prosperous Nepal, happy Nepali\" of Oli Ji for Nepal is complementary to each other. Today we once again reviewed all dimensions of partnership between India and Nepal. About five weeks ago Prime Minister Oli Ji had come to India, he had mentioned many topics to me. I am glad that in such a short span of time, teams of both countries have worked together on all issues and have solved some issues. In today's conversation I briefed Prime Minister Oli Ji about this progress in detail. We have introduced several innovative initiatives in agriculture, inland waterways and railways. This will increase the connectivity of people and businesses of both countries. I consider our cooperation in inland waterways particularly important. Nepal should not be land-locked, but land-linked and water-linked, we are committed to making every possible help and effort in realizing this vision of Prime Minister Oli Ji. Our Agriculture Ministers will meet soon And will work on preparing roadmaps for agricultural research, agricultural education and agricultural development. The survey work for new railway link between Raxaul and Kathmandu will start soon. And to further strengthen our relationship in trade and investment, we will also soon comprehnsive review of the Treaty of Trade. We are taking a new step in health cooperation. To treat cancer patients at Bhaktpur Cancer Hospital located in Kathmandu, we will soon install Bhabhraon Radio-Therapy machine developed in India.\nFriends,\nToday a new chapter is connected in our water resources and energy cooperation. Together with the Prime Minister Oli Ji, today I had the privilege of laying the foundation for the 900 MW Arun-Three Electricity Project. This project of investment of approximately 6000 crores rupees is one of the largest projects in Nepal. With employment opportunities in Nepal, this project will also create economic and commercial opportunities in Nepal. We are also pursuing our dialogues on other projects of our cooperation in the fields of Pancheshwar project, and hydropower, water resources and energy. We both also agree that connectivity is a very important factor for the development of our people. We have been connected through the Himalayan ranges and rivers since eternity. And now we want more emphasis on this connectivity through roads, railways, power transmission lines, oil pipeline etc.\nFriends,\nOur open border plays a special role in the strong relationship between India and Nepal. We will not allow the abuse of this open border by any undesirable element. Prime Minister Oli Ji and I are also committed to strengthening our bilateral defense and security cooperation. Another feature of our relationship with the Open border is our deep spiritual connection. When I came to Nepal in 2014, there was an opportunity to take the blessings of Lord Pashupatinath. This morning I got the privilege of seeing the visit of Mother Sita in Janki Temple. And I hope that in the courtyards of Muktinath and Pashupatinath ji in the morning, they will also get a good fortune to pray. Every year millions of Indian pilgrims like me come to Nepal. And so, Prime Minister Oli Ji and I also discussed today about the development of Ramayana and Buddhist circuits together to promote tourism between India and Nepal. We have also taken concrete steps.\nFriends,\nLast month in Delhi, and here in Kathmandu, we have communicated a new momentum, a new momentum in India-Nepal relations with decisions taken in our talks. Today, when I think about the future of Indo-Nepal relations, I think with very optimistic thoughts. With this hope, faith, trust and mutual sense of friendship, I once again express gratitude from the heart of the Prime Minister Oli Ji, his government, and the people of Nepal.\nIndo-Nepal Friendship\nAmar Rahos\nThank you.\nI have been very old to Nepal, but this is my third visit to Nepal as Prime Minister: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 11, 2018\nWhether I came as the Prime Minister, or as a general citizen, Nepalese people have always accepted me, and have welcomed me like a family member: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 11, 2018\nTies between India and Nepal are special. pic.twitter.com/CtWDo6zPxe\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 11, 2018\nI am visiting Nepal at a very special time. India stands shoulder to Nepal pic.twitter.com/F5PmZDdXyF\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 11, 2018\nPM Modi reaffirms India's support to Nepal pic.twitter.com/SOn9V2SqzT\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 11, 2018\nConverging visions towards greater prosperity pic.twitter.com/0PC65FzW8P\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 11, 2018\nImproving connectivity between India and Nepal pic.twitter.com/ebSlFtsJJG\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 11, 2018\nFurther pic.twitter.com/QHH0O0Xk5d\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 11, 2018\nVarious sectors through which India-Nepal connectivity will be enhanced pic.twitter.com/Lz6DlywPY2\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 11, 2018\nNew speed pic.twitter.com/WZFxwEDWmv\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 11, 2018\n"