"Share\n\nCongress culture, communalism, casteism, crime, corruption and contractor system- 6 Cs which Congress party stand for: PM Modi\nIn the NDA Government, our remote control and the high command are the 125 crore people of India: PM Modi\nPM takes a dig at Congress President's \"I am going to be PM\" remark, attacks Congress for its arrogance\nCongress is heavily involved in deal-making, allegations\nOur aim is India First. Congress is the first family: PM Modi in Belagavi\nWhy Does the Congress Need fake voter IDs? What is the Congress trying to do in Karnataka, asks the PM\nA raid was conducted in the resort in which the Karnataka chief minister was staying. PM Modi says rupees were found there\nThe 21st century is about embracing technology, we have used technology in the work of the government, which has helped bring transparency: PM\nCongress is shrinking, it has been removed from every corner from India, says the Prime Minister\nLong live Mother India. Long live Mother India.\nI came here from the helipad All the way through the way people stood up to welcome, to bless. And here too, the people who are watching this.\nBrothers and sisters\nAfter losing the elections, those who give EVM abuses, denigrate EVMs, they come face to face with Chikmagalur ....\nToday is the last day of my election campaign. The election campaign will last till tomorrow, but with the experience of so many days, I say that on May 12, the voters of the constituency will defeat the Congress party by pressing the button on the lotus flower.\nBrothers and sisters\nWhen the Congress party decides to lose the election, when it is confirmed that the Congress party can not survive, their playwriters, their eco-systems, their songs singing, yes, in their lies, yes to joining ya Immediately come into the ground. No one will get a majority in this election, the Hung Assembly will come. There can be no government in Karnataka. These kinds of lies lie in every election. It has started here too. This means the Bharatiya Janata Party is going to form the government with the absolute majority.\nBrothers False\nThis is the penance of Adishankar. This is the land of the Vedas. And from this point of view, the principle of Vedic knowledge, Advaita's theory spread all over the world.\nSharda Peeth, Rambapuri Math Such great institutions, they are still alive in spreading the propagation of this ancient knowledge.\nFrom the land which found the principle of Advaita, the land which got the principle of unity from the land, from which land got the principle of equality and harmony On the same land, the Government of Karnataka is engaged in creating wall in the middle of brother-brother, there is a dispute between caste and caste, creating tension among the sects. This is the Congress government, in the name of caste, the name of the language, the sin of sharing on the name of the sect.\nBrother in law\nCongress is just trying to divide and break, it is not so. These Congress governments are plotting to capture the places of faith, thousands of these great institutions engaged in social service. The decision was taken, it did not move forward. But the High Court showed them red-red eyes. But brothers in Karnataka Just be careful. Their intentions are not good, if they get a chance again by mistake, they are not living without occupation.\nThere is a history of centuries. Here the people of Karnataka are people of Karnataka without any discrimination or people outside Karnataka, everyone sees everyone as human. And worked for everyone's welfare. Discrimination among such religious places, making mutual quarrels between them, this sin has also been done by Congress leaders.\nThe arterial and vein in the jaw of Congress, two wanes. One wen power is hungry and the second is the power of pleasure.\nAnd so brothers and sisters\nIn 1978 .... You must have seen in 1978. When the Congress party was eliminated from North India, Madam Indiraji jumped in here. And how-how promises were made. How did you use to reach Delhi by blowing dust in the public eye? Your votes were taken What ever was the foot in Chikmagalur? What was kept ... Trust such a party on such a family .... Will trust the party .... Trust such a leader ... Her daughter-in-law, she is also trapped in trouble, then she goes to the good people of Karnataka and tears of hers. Arrived at Bellary Did good to Bellary .... Did you do good to Bellary .... Rely tell What was done ... There was a package of 3 thousand crores. Here his government is formed. Who has eaten a package of 3000 crores, did not know.\n\nThese namesake ... This nominee is MP from Amethi since 2004. Just look at Amethi's situation. That was worse than what was left. The task of grabbing the ground from the top has gone swiftly. Even if they do not do anything for their promotion in Congress, they are also nominated because they are nominal. And in 2007, he made him general secretary. Large drums were beaten. New world, new leader, new people, new thinking, such people In the corner of the corner of India, the drums were drumming. In 2007, he had said that he would bring young leadership in Congress. Youth policy will change. Today it is 11 years. Sara has stalled there right there.\nNor is he worried about the Congress, nor do they worry about the tradition of Congress for a hundred and a half years. Neither do they care for the elderly, large, senior leaders of Congress. Neither does he care about the country. In the morning and evening, at the time of sleeping, at the time of eating, bathing, while coming and going, this is happening in the mind all the time, the Prime Minister's chair, the Prime Minister's chair, the Prime Minister's chair. They think This prime minister's chair is reserved for this one family, reserved. No person can sit in it, this is his parental right.\nThere are 40 seats in the Parliament. All the states of India have been eliminated in the last 4 years. The Congress party has lost 25-30 elections. One state has gone by his hands but look at his ego. This is the ego of Namdhari, Satvata is on the skies that he will come here to become a PM, what does this ego mean in 2019? There is nothing to do with democracy in this family far and wide. And therefore, they are looking for opportunities to deny everything, to deny democracy.\nYou must have seen. Congress has been losing consistently with the last many elections. And instead of conceding congressional democracy, after the election defeat, EVMs lie louder, to convince EVMs .... Great Commission, like Election Commission, Election Commission of India today is praised in the democratic countries of the world, there is cheerfulness. His fairness is the saga of fairness. Anyone has a government, the election commission of our country has been praised. But since the Congress is losing, it is also engaged in defaming the Election Commission. For them, EVM Rong, Congress Wright. Election Commission Rong, Congress Wright When the CAG exposes scandals then this entire ECo system of Congress comes to the field to defame the CAG of our country. CAG Rong, Congress Wright. When the Congress goes berserk herself If the scandal of law comes, then the CBI is wrong, the NIA is wrong, the ED is wrong, the Congress alone is right.\nWhen the army of India refuses to cooperate with the misdeeds of Congress governments, then they are engaged in disrespecting the army against the Army, against the army, with shamelessness, from the era of Bofors. When India's Army Surgical Strikes. Then this Congress shamelessly with Army Rong, Congress Wright. It screams to speak\nThe elected vice-president in this country plays their constitutional responsibilities. And do not add yourself to the wrong doings of Congress, now he has started giving abuses to Vice President.\nNow our security forces, our police, our security forces, if they kill the terrorists, kill the Maoists, kill the enemies of the country, then they also raise question marks on them to break the morale of our security forces with the Congress.\nIf the clash between the Congress governments in the era of the Reserve Bank was closed, then the Congress people are also trying to defame the Reserve Bank.\nWhen the World Bank ... When the World Bank praises India's work in the Isis of Doing Business, glorifies the work of India, improves India's score of 42 points. Even the Congress-led World Bank, in the dock, suspects that too. And when the credit rating agency is a World Bank, IMF, Moody's, any credit agency in the world, not India, outside agency of India, and they also tell good things for India, they shamelessly say that Modi has bought all the agencies in the world.\n\nBrothers and sisters\nCongress is playing a dangerous sport. I want to tell citizens of the country, I want to be alert. I .... Congress is playing dangerous. I want to wake the country towards him. as you may know. Former Congress chief .... Since mother and son have been on bail in the 5 thousand crore scam. Since then, he has attacked the country's judiciary. They think. We are nominated. The post of PM is reserved for us. What is this Judiciary, which call us in court? And let us stand in court. Take out warrants against us, compel the bail. And therefore, who are the highest judges. Apply them to impeachment so that all the judges below will be scared and they will not be harmed. And so these games are being played.\nThe people of Karnataka have decided to send this Congress along with Ghaz. The defeat is now visible in front. The public has woken up. And therefore, they did not lie, their caste did not run; their wealth was not stored. And so they started a new game. I will release the people of entire Karnataka by the 12th of the month .... Stay awake .... Stay awake .... Stay awake ....\nElection is a celebration of democracy. Election is an atmosphere of purity. Articles of fate of 100 million people are written in elections. One voter goes to the most holy place, leaving all the work in a sacred place to vote. But in water, without water, when the fish sprouts. This Congress party is stunned by the defeat. And to carry the unconventional handcuffs, she is shamelessly shouting.\nThe news is going on in the media from last night. You have seen those stories. You may have seen how fake voter I cards have been created. In what ways are the names of fake voters written? These icons were caught yesterday in thousands of thousands. Not only this, his small bundles have been made. Who is to give it, it has been planned. The computer has been caught. The printing machine has been caught.\nBrothers and sisters\nThis method of winning the Congress election by creating fake ID cards in thousands of cases .... The people of Karnataka should never forgive the Congress. Two big steel boxes are found. In it, there are workshops for one lakh voters. Out of a four lakh voters seat, one lakh fake bribe ... How is the Congress doing sin while being afraid of defeat? Can imagine it. This one has been caught. Do not know what else will be wrong. And so say keep awake till 12th.\nBrothers and sisters\nAfter this I see another crisis. Fake voters cards have been created on the address. Now after the election. They will claim to occupy those houses with fake names. They will show their rights and they will show fake fake voters in the form of proof. How many families will take possession of these houses. You can imagine.\nBrothers and sisters\nBadami's name is echoing in Karnataka and in the country for the past few months. Badami everyone knows almonds\nBrothers and sisters\nThe candidates who have gone there.He started the work of defaming the great Badami too.\nBrothers and sisters\nYou must have seen. Tomorrow, income tax was a red one. A hotel in Badami and this hotel is that where the Chief Minister went to him some time ago and then he went there. And when income tax took the paper of crores rupees in the form of a red paper, the hand of millions of rupees was hand. Just what the candidates were playing there. Is this election, this is a sacred celebration of democracy? Will these games be played to gain power? I sincerely congratulate the local media in Karnataka because the permanent media of Karnataka has shown the courage to reach out to the true people in spite of their grandfathers. So I congratulate the media on Karnataka's heart.\n\nBrothers and sisters\nAfter the announcement of the election, the media has reported that more than 130 crore rupees have been seized. Not only gold has been caught. This government is doing this sin. Thousands of fake Icards, millions of slips, these millions of rupees, these crores rupees business, the cash worth more than 130 crores, these gold quines. what is all this. Hey rupee rupaiya, Sidha rupaiya .... These 10 percent ....\nBrothers and sisters\nThis is the family of the Congress It is the only government for the family. It only breaks the government for the family. They suck the governments only for the family. This is for the sake of family opposition governments.\nBrothers and sisters\nCoffee The coffee here brings tiredness of the good, the new consciousness fills. But this coffee board had made the state playground so far. After the formation of the Bharatiya Janata Party government for the first time, we have created a farmer's chairman, the chairman of the Coffee Board so that he is suffering from farmers' pain ....\nBrothers and sisters\nThis is our area. 5 rivers arise, 5 But the farm is still dry after that. People are craving for drinking water. Hey CM, if you keep sitting on twitter, he should have done something for 5 years. This additional fadra project. This started by the Upper Bhadra Project, the government of Bharatiya Janata Party Yedurappa. Congress came and came in the cold.\nBrothers and sisters\nWe are cultivating betel nut here. The number of betel nut in the whole country is in Karnataka alone. The lives of our farmers depend on cultivation of betel nut. But the Congress government of UPA, these nominated people, Sonia Gandhi's government affirmed that the beetle damages health. He should stop it.\nAnd Yedurappa did not write epic वो कवियों का काम होता है। सरकार को तो वचन देना होता है, वादा करना होता है, वादा निभाना होता है। कविताएं लिखने के लिए तो साहित्य परिषद में जाना होता है।\nयेदुरप्पा जी ने भारतीय जनता पार्टी के मेनिफेस्टों में वादा किया है कि कॉफी वाले किसान हो, सुपारी पैदा करने वाले किसान हो, गन्ना पैदा करने वाले किसान हो, मसाला पैदा करने वाले किसान हो, धान पैदा करने वाले किसान हो, हर किसान के कल्याण के लिए स्वयं के सीएम ऑफिस में एक रायता विभाग शुरू करेंगे और उनकी चिंताओं को दूर करेंगे।\nBrothers and sisters\nसमुद्री तट का विकास। सागरमाला प्रोजेक्ट। फिशरमैन के लिए नए हार्बर, ब्लू इकोनामी का रिवोल्यूशन। ये हमारे भारत सरकार के एजेंडा में भी है। और येदुरप्पा जी 15 तारीख के बाद सरकार बनाएंगे, उन्होंने भी वादा किया है। कर्नाटक के कोस्टल इलाके में 8 पोर्ट का कैपेसिटी एक्सपेंशन, करीब 3 हजार करोड़ रुपये की लागत और 300 लाख टन की क्षमता का निर्माण करने की दिशा में हम काम कर रहे हैं। बेलीकेरी में एक नया पोर्ट बनाने का भी हमारा फैसला है।\nBrothers and sisters\nकर्नाटक का संपूर्ण विकास हो। इस दिशा में, हम वचन लेकरके आए हैं, वादे लेकरके आए हैं। और समय सीमा में उन्हें पूरा करेंगे, ये मैं आपको विश्वास दिलाता हूं।\nBrothers and sisters\nआज तो ऐसी सरकार यहां चल रही है। वो 5 साल में पिछले 4 साल दिल्ली सरकार से मुकाबला करने में उसने टाइम खराब किया। उनको कर्नाटक में इंटरेस्ट नहीं था, राजनीतिक वायुमंडल खराब करने में इंटरेस्ट था। आप मुझे बताइए। अगर कर्नाटक को येदुरप्पा का इंजन लग जाए और दिल्ली में मोदी का इंजन उसके साथ जुड़ जाए। और अगर डबल इंजन मिल जाए ...।\nBrothers and sisters\nमैं आपसे कुछ सवाल पूछना चाहता हूं। हिंदी में पूछूंगा तो आप जवाब दोगे ...। सब जवाब दोगे ...। आप घर-घर जाएंगे ...। घर-घर जाएंगे ...। मतदाताओं को मिलेंगे ...। मत करवाएंगे ...। भारी मतदान करवाएंगे ...। ज्यादा से ज्यादा मतदान करवाएंगे ...। हर बूथ में बीजेपी को जिताएंगे ...। आप पूरी ताकत बूथ में लगाएंगे। 12 तारीख को जो आप मेहनत करेंगे। 15 तारीख को उसके नतीजे आएंगे। भारतीय जनता पार्टी की सरकार बनेगी।\nऔर इसलिए मेरे प्यारे भाइयो बहनो।\nस्वच्छ, सुंदर, सुरक्षित कर्नाटक निर्मिष सोना, बन्नी एल्लरू कै जोड़ि सी। सरकार बदली सी, बीजेपी गेल्ली सी। सरकार बदली सी, बीजेपी गेल्ली सी। सरकार बदली सी, बीजेपी गेल्ली सी। दोनों हाथ ऊपर करके पूरी ताकत से बोलिए। सरकारा बदली सी, बीजेपी गेल्ली सी। सरकारा बदली सी, बीजेपी गेल्ली सी। सब अपनी मोबाइल की फ्लैश लाइट जलाइए। सरकार बदली सी, बीजेपी गेल्ली सी। सरकार बदली सी, बीजेपी गेल्ली सी। सरकार बदली सी, बीजेपी गेल्ली सी। Thanks a lot."