"\nWe only have one minister, 'Sabka Saath Sabka Vikas': PM Modi\nCongress can go to any extent for power, their game is to plot brothers against each other, says the PM\nProtecting the girl We believe in the ministry of 'Beta Beti Ek Samaan': PM Modi in Koppal\nWe have embarked on a tour to make our villages smoke-free, we're sure cooking gas for the women, says the PM\nCongress did nothing to promote tourism and rich history of Karnataka, alleges PM\nFirst of all, I want to apologize most. And I am apologizing that here are our administrators. He had imagined the gathering of the meeting. And according to him the pandal was made but this pandal has become very small. Four times as many people from Pandal are worshiping outside in the sun. You have to beat the heat. You have suffered. I apologize for this, but I assure you. Whatever you are doing in this fever, This will not let you lose your tenacity. I will return this love of yours, your blessings, your penance with this interest. I will return to the development\nIf our country remembers Lord Rama then mother never forgets Sabari. And Ram-Sabari's dialogue uninterrupted love, faith, devotion, and his emotions give inspiration to us all today.\nWe also people of Bharatiya Janata Party, patriotism, devotion of Janata Janadan, serve the poor .... You are in service of everyone with the same emotion. We have the same mantra of people, everyone's development, everyone's development.\nBut on the other side there is a party which has ruled itself for 60 years in the 70 years of independence. But that is the mantra of that party - his family, that is his constitution. His family, this is his government. Even if they run the government, even for the family, if the government falls, even for the family, it is for the family. They can go to any extent to gain power. Break the country, break a cult, break up the caste, break the family, break the fraternity, fight brother from brother and save his chair. This is his game. The Congress Party's political thinking is so distorted. How to poison the country within the country. If you see their exploits, then clearly it will be visible.\nWhen Yeddyurappa was CM of Karnataka, he organized a campaign for the promotion, promotion, conservation and promotion of Karnataka's rich heritage. And that's where he started your field from Hampi. So that future generations get inspiration from him. But I was told that as soon as his government was formed. They started poisoning in children's brain. Yeddurappa's plan closed. And the children of school also go to tourism in school, decided to go to places on the basis of caste to go trip. What could be worse than this.\nBrothers False\nThere is more than one heritage in your area. The inheritance is given to our ancestors. This land is also known as Jain Kashi, but this government has done nothing to spread the word or did anything to spread it. Neither did anything for tourism development nor did anything to travel. No country can ever ignore its history, its cultural heritage, its social heritage.\nBrothers and sisters\nThe country's cultural heritage has the potential of For this, the Government of India has set up a Swadesh Darshan plan. With the cost of Rs.5 thousand crores, the facilities for traveling to people under this scheme should be increased. There should be separate circuit, be it a Buddha Circuit, Mahatma Gandhi, Circuit of freedom fighter, Circumference of Lord Ram, Mahavir Jain Circuit, Circuit of the desert, Circuit of beaches. We have made a plan of Rs 5000 crore for such a homogeneous scheme so that one India-India can get its strength.\nThere is also greatness of Anegundi and Hampi. This area is associated with the birthplace of Mahavir Hanuman and the important areas of Lord Rama's exile. People can go from the corners of the country. That's why we made an attractive plan to create a network of air travel. Now the wearer who wears the airplane can sit in the airplane, we have done this work.\nI congratulate the Bharatiya Janata Party Karnataka and Yeddyurappa that they have promised in such a promise that in order to attract tourists from all over the country, for promoting tourism of such type of tourism, to promote tourism. ...\nBrothers False\nTwo years ago, you will remember, I am the mother of this earth .... I mentioned to Mulla about my mind in the program. The little girl of this village, Mallama, she took the vow to build toilets, launched a campaign to build toilets and how the change came, the daughter of her daughter, Mallika did the task of showing the whole country. I am glad today, millions of daughters like Mullama are pushing the clean campaign all over the country. I salute this land which gave birth to our daughter like Mallama.\nBrothers and sisters\nToilets are not just this facility. It is associated with the honor of women. This is associated with the respect of women. Anyone can imagine. Within our village, our mother and sister have to go to the toilet. She waits for darkness. The morning goes before the sun rises. Do not be penny all day. There is no problem even if there is trouble. And by the evening the sun waits for the sun fall. Should my mothers and sisters get rid of this tyranny or not?\nBrothers and sisters\nWhen I talk of toilet on the Red Fort, people criticized me, made fun of me. And the nomads are never left behind in the joke of this worker. But how did Namdar, born with a spoon of gold, know the problem of that poor mother? They will make fun. But we live for the poor, there are people who make life for the poor.\nBrothers and sisters\nYou will be happy to know how much the country needed for this thing. Well people make fun of me But in 2014 my government was formed. Earlier, the coverage of the toilet in the village was only 40 percent in the country. With 4 years of hard work, daughters like Mullama, today they have delivered 80 percent coverage from 40 percent to 4 percent.\nYou have imagined. Mother in our country Poor mother The wooden stove cooks the burns. In my childhood, I have seen my mother making meals on a wooden stove. The whole house was filled with smoke. We used to cough up the kids at home. Mother was in trouble But we used to eat food. Such crores of mothers used to spend life in my country. And if a mother cooks a wooden stick, then the smoke of 400 cigarettes goes into her body every day. What will happen to that mother's body? And so we took the lead. Delivering from my poor poor mother, cooking from Yalekadi's stove I will give him a gas connection And I am happy today that in this short time, I have given freedom to mothers and sisters by giving free gas connections to 40 million households, using wood stove smoke.\nBrothers and sisters\nThis is another sin of Congress I want to count you. You know that today there are many districts in the country where thousands of boys are born then only 800, 850, 900 girls are born. While the number of boys in society should be born, so many girls should be born, so many girls should be born. But daughters were killed only during the mother's womb during the old governments. The government used to sleep The number of daughters decreased. We have taken the initiative, save the daughter. Do not kill daughters in the womb of a mother. Son daughter is the same, this campaign has run. And the result is that thousands of newborn daughters are born in front of thousands of sons. Later this crater will also be filled. We are doing this work.\nDaughters get education, after 18 years of age, feel the security in one life, for the daughters of the daughters under the Sukanya Samrudhi scheme, if someone deposits money, then they plan to give more interest. And today the names of daughters in the banks have been deposited in the accounts of millions of crores of rupees. When the daughter will be 18 years old, the rupee will get them with interest.\nOccasionally some people with monstrous attitude, people with distorted mentality, doing monstrous acts on our daughters, raping, ruining their lives, putting daughters to death.\nBrothers and sisters\nThis is the Modi government which has decided that if there is such demonic behavior with daughters, then those who do so will be hanged. We have made these laws.\nAssociates\nI congratulate the Karnataka BJP. I congratulate Mr. Yeddurappa that he has promised in the manifesto of the Bharatiya Janata Party, in the Bharatiya Janata Party's letter of वचन that they will further extend the women empowerment further. Yeddyurappa has promised. After the formation of the BJP government on 15th May, a woman Advancement Fund will be created for the women of Karnataka with a sum of 10 thousand crore rupees. Co-operative movement will be organized under the leadership of women, women co-operative societies will be created. Female Advancement Store will be trapped inside the entire state.\nWomen flowing in Karnataka women.\nOne big task is to make the government of Yadurappa. After 15th May, the BJP wants to be after the government. Which is the Women Self Help Group. If they take the money from interest, then only one percent interest will be given to these women Rs 2 lakh. This huge revolutionary idea has been kept by Yadurappa ji.\nFor animal husbandry and dairy industries, women get an extra work, women work in villages. Therefore, he has decided to plan a hundred crore rupees for dairy farming. 30 new clusters will be made for women entrepreneurs at a cost of 100 crores.\nBrothers False\nKarnataka has been a specialty. Here the saint, here is the rishi tradition, Mahant here, the monastery here, and temples every year there are some new plans for the welfare of the society, some are constantly doing something for the society, doing it for centuries. Are. This is the special identity of Karnataka.\nPoetry in the field of water accumulation ... This is what the poet Math Jatar has done. I think that generations will remember the coming generations. Such great work on this earth has given direction to the country. I have been told that the water initiation work was started last year. Here's a big campaign to make the society strong. I bow to them.\nBrothers and sisters\nOur farmer .... Our farmer has such strength, if the farmer gets water then my farmer can produce gold from the soil. This is our area of ​​Karnataka which was known as Bhadkhajja for centuries. Rice bowl Today is the yearning for the drop-down water. Even after Tungabhadra and Ala-Mati such a dam, these governments have come to sleep. And due to this the farmer is craving without water. But it is an arrogant leader of Congress, this egoistic government, the arrogant chief minister, does not understand himself, but is not ready to learn anything from anyone. Hey Hindustan and what other states have done for water. Beside this, decieling has done great work in Maharashtra. If you learn something from him, then today the farmer of Karnataka does not have this situation.\nYour government has ruined this 5 years. The BJP government in Maharashtra has just been 2-3 years behind. Within two years, they launched a campaign of desilting, deepened all the dams, increased water conservation and succeeded in helping the farmers in lesser quantity. And here the government wasted 5 years.\nBrothers and sisters\nI request you one. One question ask the people of Congress. Whatever Congress got. Come to vote for People in this area ask questions. Ask me .... Just tell it loudly. Sure to ask Ask your eyes in the eye ... Ask them the answers .... Ask them so much Krishna B .... For the Krishna B irrigation scheme you had promised Rs 2 thousand crore or did not ... If the promised Rs. 2 thousand crore rupees went ... Just answer it .... Tell me from here that 2 thousand no, 10 thousand crore rupees was said. Answer me .... Answer me .... Maungoge ... If the answer is not received, then give punishment. Will give punishment May throw it out on May 12.\nBrothers and sisters\nWhen Jagdish Sattar was our chief minister. My friend Jagdish Sattar had envisaged the Krishna B plan. But after leaving them, the Congress government imposed locks.\nOur farmer is powerful, our village is strong, so the farmer must be empowered. We have taken up a major campaign to bring water to the farm under the Pradhan Mantri Krishi Irrigation Scheme. Which Dam did not work for 30-35 years They have started all the work. And they are going to run the campaign to bring water to the farmers by completing all the work within and within the next one year.\nBrothers and sisters\nIn our state also, the Government of India is implementing big projects of five irrigation irrigation by putting 4 thousand crore rupees. One is complete and the other four also have to be completed soon. But if the Congress government is free from corruption, then the farmers will think of the water and not the water. They are interested in money, the farmer is not interested in water.\nBrothers and sisters\nWe have made a big historical decision. No government could do it after Independence. We have made such a big historical decision. Now whatever the farmer will produce in his farm, the expenditure will be spent in working for him. If he brings the laborer, brings the seeds, brings the medicine, brings the fertilizer, brings the machine to the rent, brings the animal to the rent, the people of his own family wages, which will be spent every one-half of the MSP Will be multiplied. We have made these decisions. We have planned to upgrade 22 thousand rural hats. So that the farmer gets the best facility to sell his produce on a five-ten km route and he gets the right price for his produce.\nWe have brought the Prime Minister Crop Insurance Scheme. In a way, it is a farmer's life saving plan. हमारे ग्रामीण अर्थव्यवस्था की रक्षा योजना है। ये प्रधानमंत्री फसल बीमा योजना से किसान को बुआई से पहले, बुआई के दौरान, फसल पैदान होने के बाद, फसल बाजार में जाने से पहले अगर कोई भी प्राकृतिक नुकसान होगा तो सभी समय उसको फसल बीमा का पैसा मिलेगा। ये देश पहली बार हमने ऐसी योजना देश में लाए हैं। इसी वर्ष में इसी फसल बीमा योजना के तहत अकेले कर्नाटक के किसानों को 1100 करोड़ रुपये की क्लेम राशि मिली है। आप कल्पना कर सकते हैं कि इतनी बड़ी राशि किसानों के पास इस प्रधानमंत्री फसल बीमा योजना जिसकी तो अभी शुरुआत है। तो भी इसका लाभ पहुंचा है।\nमेरे प्यारे भाइयो बहनो।\nयेदुरप्पा की सरकार बनानी है। किसानों की सरकार बनानी है। किसानों के कल्याण के लिए सरकार बनानी है। और इसलिए 12 मई को घर-घर जाना है। एक-एक मतदाता से मिलकरके पोलिंग बूथ तक लाना है और भारी से भारी, ज्यादा से ज्यादा मतदान कराना है।\nBrothers and sisters\nअब मतदान को 4 दिन बाकी है। मैं आपसे आग्रह करता हूं। क्या आप घर-घर जाएंगे ...। जोर से जवाब दीजिए। घर-घर जाएंगे ...। मतदाताओं को मिलेंगे ...। मतदान करवाएंगे ...। ज्यादा से ज्यादा मतदान करवाएंगे ...। कांग्रेस को उखाड़ फेकेंगे ...। भाजपा की सरकार आएंगे ...। भाजपा को जीताएंगे ...। येदुरप्पा की सरकार बनाएंगे ...। ये मिजाज आपका बताता है। 15 मई को जब परिणाम आएगा तो कांग्रेस कहीं नजर नहीं आएगी। स्वच्छ, सुंदर, सुरक्षित कर्नाटक निर्मिष सोना बन्नी ऐल्लरू कै जोड़ी सी। सरकार बदली सी, बीजेपी गेल्ली सी। सरकार बदली सी, बीजेपी गेल्ली सी। सरकार बदली सी, बीजेपी गेल्ली सी। सरकार बदली सी, बीजेपी गेल्ली सी। Thanks a lot.\n"