"Share\n\nPM Modi says 'arrogant' Congress did not have the 'courtesy' to call the president after his election\nCongress only recalling BhagwanBasaveshwara's name as election is nearing, says the PM\nTo ensure that the farmer welfare, we have brought the most prominent Prime Minister Fasal Bima Yojana: PM Modi in Bagalkot\nI urge people of Karnataka to stay vigilant and beware of the divisive politics of the Congress, says PM\nShamelessly, The Congress questions the valor of the army when they are held: PM Modi in Bagalkot\nWe want to build a new India where children get good education, young get jobs, elderly get proper healthcare: PM in Hubli\nCongress neither cares about the present or the future of Karnataka. What the cares is most about is in power, says the PM\nWe are connecting distant places with airways, we are expanding the aviation sector. We want to travel in the airways: PM\nWe ensured power to all such villages in a time frame of just 1000 days: PM Modi in Hubli\nLong live Mother India. Long live Mother India.\nChitradurga's my brother's sister\nThese are the mass upscale I am watching those two gates. Like big flood is coming. People are coming. Here too ....\nMy brothers and sisters of Chitradurga\nYou have given the love you have. You came to bless us all in such a large extent. I salute your head bowing down, bowing down to you. This Chitradurga is the land where Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan, Jai Science These mantras are the awakened experience that prevails in this earth.\nHere is a famine of 70 years in a hundred years. In spite of this, one more progressive farmer has made a new history.\nThere is also one of the heroic stories of heroes who have died for the country here. And this is the land where the yagya of a penance is going on to bring the modern science to the heights of the sky.\nChitkara of Chitra Durg is going to soon become the next hot spot of science and technology. Branches of many institutions such as ISRO, DRDO, Bark, IISc will increase the pride here. Increase the scientific identity. The DRDO Aeronautical Test Factline is doing new research here. This is a matter of pride for the country. Here is the Chitradurga unit Chandrayaan 2 of ISRO, the preparation of this mission is also being done on this earth. All the scientists engaged in this mission, I have come here today to all the technicians, and very heartily convey my best wishes.\nBrother in law\nThrough the folklore on this Chitradurga earth, it is repeatedly humming about how Veera Madkari fought with Sultans. Here is the saga of pride here. I bowed down with that brave Dalit mother's womb, who gave the answer to the invaders as the only one. What is courage and bravery, that we can learn from Dalit warlord? And their babies are the inspiration of millions of people who have the courage to fight even in difficulties despite having less resources than the invaders.\nBut the Congress Party. It is such a party that for the politics of vote bank, it has become habitual for the sake of conspiring to break the society, by churning those history and emotions and shedding vicious ganga. Look at the Congress character. Whose jayanti should be done. Celebrating her birth anniversary does not help them. Veera Merkadi and his O Abba were forgotten but they are engaged in celebrating the birth anniversary of sultans due to vote bank politics. In the backdrop of this birth anniversary, the Congress has done a great insult to the people of Karnataka and especially the people of Chitradurga. Chitradurga people have played with the feelings. The Congress has insulted the land, your history, celebrating the anniversary of those who killed the heroes of Chitra Durg, who killed poachers and those who killed the Dalit warlords.\nBrothers False\nWith the heroic sons and daughters here, with her legacy, the way the Congress party has betrayed the vote bank for their bravery. It's unforgivable. It can not be forgiven. But if you look at the history of Congress, you will come to the attention that humiliating the elders, shifting them, ruining their political future, it is in the character of Congress. It is a history, a history of the Congress, pushing hundreds of veteran politicians for a family too.\nHere's what Saput and the creators of modern Karnataka, the National President of Congress and the Chief Minister for many years of Karnataka, have done what these people did with Nijalingappa Ji, the mother of this land. This should be known to my young men. Nijalingappa ji was such a big leader, but at this point of time Congress's family, sitting in Delhi's Congress, did not give up any opportunity to humiliate such a great leader. What was the crime of Nijalingappa ji The only crime was that they raised questions in front of Nehru's wrong policies. Had raised questions in front of their economic policies. That was their fault. It was never the Congress that talked about democracy, Nijalingappa ji. Those who had just raised questions, made their plight. The leader of this earth, Mahaprash Nijalingappa was a leader fighting for the poor, the leader fighting for the rights of Dalits, was a leader fighting corruption, but the Congress did not approve of all these things to spread lies. That's why he put a full stop on Nijalingappa's politics.\nCongress party also humiliated Babasaheb Ambedkar like this. Baba Saheb Ambedkar was never accepted by the Congress party, such a large scholar, Ambedkarji, who was associated with the country's people, hoped for the common man's aspiration. It seems that during the Congress era, the title of Bharat Ratna is reserved for the same family. Generation generations continued to give Bharat Ratna to every of their children but Bhabha Ratna Congress Party did not give Baba Saheb Ambedkar even after years of his construction. When the government was formed in Delhi in support of Atal ji, then Bharat Ratna Baba Sahab Ambedkar got it.\nThousands of schemes in the country are named after the same family members .... Wherever you go inside Delhi, the monument is for the same family. Where you go to New Delhi inside Delhi, the house has been occupied for a family. The land has been occupied for a family.\nBut the Constituent Builder of India, continued to demand the Dalit, suffering, exploited and disadvantaged of this country to make a memorial at the places connected with his life, associated with Babasaheb Ambedkar, the great sage of this country, but the Congress has never listened to the poor , Dalits do not listen The Congress party never came forward to make a memorial at those important places of Baba Saheb Ambedkar.\nWe have worked on Baba Saheb Ambedkar's Punch Teerth. And for the first time, Babasaheb Ambedkar, who brought Diwali Diwali to Hindustan in the world, is in the world today .... When the last time we celebrated Baba Saheb Ambedkar's 125th birth anniversary, we forbade the UN. The work of celebrating the birth anniversary of Baba Saheb Ambedkar in all the countries of the world is done by the Bharatiya Janata Party to present the world human face to the world. Whether there is the birthplace of Baba Saheb Ambedkar in Mauo, there should be Diksha land in Nagpur, Chaitya land in Mumbai, Education land inside London, His place of land in two places within Delhi; The work of constructing these five shrines is Bharat Janata Party The government has done it. And I got the job of inaugurating it.\nNot only this. When the Bharatiya Janata Party got the privilege of being the Prime Minister for Atal Bihari Vajpayee for the first time in Delhi And we got the privilege of choosing the country's president. It was the Bharatiya Janata Party, which had the opportunity to choose the first president. We did not see the team and the world. We worked to make great scientist Abdul Kalamji the President. And when Modi became the Prime Minister for the second time and the good fortune of making the BJP President. If we had a Sufficient vote, we could also make anyone a president. But this was the commitment of the Bharatiya Janata Party that born in a poor family, born Ramadan Kovind, born in a dalit family, we became President. And we got the privilege of making the Dalit out of the earth as President.\nNow the Congress party has suffered. That Prime Minister also comes from the poor family, from the backward family. The President also became a Dalit from the poor family, from the village. Now the Congress party felt that its vote bank politics has been a big setback. Till now the dust that danced in the eyes of the dalits Now the Dalit has become awake. Now there is a big campaign to spread mischief among Dalits in the Congress party, spreading lies among Dalits.\nNot only this. After the formation of the Bharatiya Janata Party government, we are connected to the Earth. What happens to the dalits in the village, what happens to the tribals. How-to words are used for them. How is the poor people humiliated? Because we were connected to the Earth, we had finer information. So when we formed a government in Delhi, we tightened the law that humiliated Dalits and tribals. And the first thing that was included in it, 47 we made it. The first was 22, made it 47 And in every little thing, my dalits will register crime to humiliate the tribals. And the process of making the law tightened after the formation of our government in Delhi.\nThe ground of the Congress is slipping under the feet. And so the Congress Party is spreading lies every day, misleading people. But I want to convince the Dalits of this country, the victims, the deprived, the exploited, tribals and the women. I am out of the middle of you. I grew up among you. And so I am committed to your safety, for your protection. And all our programs are for your good.\nBrothers and sisters\nThere is a large number of people in our country. The family members handle it. Is not the responsibility of our divisive society and government? But inside the earlier government, only paperwork was done in the name of the people of Divyan. Sometimes the condition of this country, especially the poor family, is Divyaang, their condition can not be seen. But this is a sensitive government which has taken the lead for the Divya. If we go to the public place to go to the public place, then we have taken a huge initiative to make facilities in government buildings. Divas got a job. So we have increased the reservation.\nAnd today I want to tell you a figure. How is the government working? How is the sensitive government? How does the government, who understand the pain of suffering pain, solve? I will give you two figures. Hearing this, you will not only be shocked by the whole of India. And you will know what is the character of the Congress government and what is the character of the sensitive BJP government? The tradition of giving instruments to such poor devotees from the government started in 1992, for them, they must have a tricycle for them or a stick for Pragya Kakshu person. There have been so many governments from 92 to 2014. Total 57 camps were engaged. There were 57 camps for this aid. After 2014, after the formation of the Modi government, after formation of the BJP government 5000 camps were put up. 57 camps in 20 years and 5000 camps in 4 years. How sensitive is this government of the Bharatiya Janata Party towards the poor, the poor. This is an example.\nBrothers and sisters\nCongress party forget the heroes here Forget the heroes here but congratulate the BJP's Karnataka unit. This time in their manifesto, they congratulate him for the Mercadhi Nayakari Housing Scheme - inside the promissory note, for the families of the ST community here. In the same way, the Madara Chanayya Housing Scheme has been created to create a modern home for the SC community for the Dalit society. Congratulations to the Karnataka unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party for this too.\nPeople of Chitradurga know well how how a minister made plans for the welfare of the people in the name of the welfare of Dalits. You know this well. In the name of Ganga Kalyan, how many big scams did this minister have done and how he welfare himself. They know the children and children here. 70 years in a hundred years, where famine occurs. Where people think of the work of virtuous water for water, there are ministers of Congress who came to visit the work of 1200 Borwale and went all the way to Sara's own self. And not just that. They carry files around and through the files, moving the files night and day. Within three days-within 1800, three days before the election of the project, they were taken to their own assembly. If such practices are done with your water also, then such a Congress should not be denied nomination in Chitradurga.\nBrothers and sisters\nThey chewed your water money too. And they became the hostels for tribals, the money for their bed was killed. Such people are like this Bedsheets, cushions, nothing will be left. These days, they will be killed in your house bed too. I asked someone. How such a leader of Congress ... I said, how such a leader of the Congress, who are so interested in bed. Here the people of Congress have become habituated to hide notes under the bed. So they are interested in bed.\nBrothers and sisters\nBehind the Congress leaders, many nicknames take place. Too many name tags are found. But what I had not heard in India till now, he heard in Chitradurga. They say that there is a minister whose deal is written in front of his name, Deal. They do not work with heart until they deal. Its name is Dealer Minister. This Congress party is neither heartless nor a Dalit, this Congress party is only deal-friendly. यहां के मुख्यमंत्री तो ऐसे हैं जी। और यहां के मुख्यमंत्री ...। और यहां के मुख्यमंत्री वो अपनी सूटकेस में, बाकी तो वो बहुत कुछ रखते होंगे लेकिन कैरेक्टर सर्टिफिकेट तैयार रखते हैं। अगर कहीं पर किसी मंत्री पर आरोप लग जाए, जांच की मांग हो। तुरंत अपने सूटकेस में से कैरेक्टर सर्टिफिकेट निकालते हैं। उसके ऊपर मंत्री का नाम लिख देते हैं और नीचे साइन कर देते हैं और पब्लिक को बता देते हैं कि वो ईमानदार है।\nचित्रदुर्ग के मेरे प्यारे भाइयो बहनो।\nजो कांग्रेस पार्टी आपके वेलफेयर के लिए सोचने को तैयार नहीं है। अब वक्त आ गया है उनके फेयरवेल का। और इसलिए जो वेलफेयर नहीं करते, उनका फेयरवेल पक्का होना चाहिए।\nBrothers and sisters\nये मुख्यमंत्री जो क्लीन चिट देते फिरते हैं, उनको बिल्कुल साफ करके क्लीन स्वीप कर दो इस बार। क्लीन स्वीप करके घर भेज दो।\nBrothers and sisters\nहमारे यहां के बागवान, उनका श्रम, यहां के किसान अनार, मौसमी, केला, अंजीर, आम ...। पानी के अभाव के बीच भी उन्होंने जिस तरह से काम किया है। वे अभिनंदन के पात्र हैं।\nहोटरी कल्चर में चित्रदुर्ग का नाम ...। यहां के किसानों को बहुत सम्मानपूर्वक याद किया जाता है।\nऐसे क्षेत्र के विकास के लिए, ऐसे किसानों की भलाई के लिए हमने भारत सरकार ने एक प्रधानमंत्री कृषि संपदा योजना बनाई है। और ये फल हो, फूल हो, सब्जी हो, वैल्यू एडीशन हो, मूल्य वृद्धि हो, इसके लिए हजारों करोड़ रुपए की लागत से ये जो किसान हैं। उनको मदद करने की दिशा में हमने काम उठाया है। हमारे देश में व्यवस्थाओं के अभाव से, ट्रांसपोर्टेशन की व्यवस्थाओं के अभाव से हमारे जो इन किसानों को जो पैदावार है। साल में करीब-करीब एक लाख रुपयों का फल, सब्जी, फूल बर्बाद हो जाते हैं। इस हमारी योजना से किसानों की बर्बाद होती संपत्ति को बचा ली जाएगी।\nBrothers and sisters\nयहां के किसान को पानी चाहिए। अब यहां जितने प्रोजेक्ट लटके पड़े हैं। जब येदुरप्पा जी मुख्यमंत्री थे, उन्होंने योजनाओं को प्रारंभ किया था। कांग्रेस ने खत्म कर दिया था।मैं आपको विश्वास दिलाता हूं। येदुरप्पा की सरकार बनने के बाद पानी के सारे प्रोजेक्ट को प्राथमिकता दिए जाएंगे। भारत सरकार भी पानी के प्रोजेक्ट को प्राथमिकता देगी।\nआप मुझे बताइए। मेरे प्यारे भाइयो बहनो।\nआप मुझे बताइए। और दोनों मुट्ठी ऊपर करके जवाब देना ...। क्या चित्रदुर्ग से कांग्रेस का पूर्ण रूप से सफाया होना चाहिए ...। जोर से बताइए। होना चाहिए ...। 12 मई को कमल के फूल दबाकरके कांग्रेस को विदाई करोगे ...। घर-घर जाकरके बीजेपी को वोट कराओगे ...। एक-एक मतदाता को निकालोगे ...। भारी से भारी मतदान कराओगे ...। येदुरप्पा की सरकार बनाओगे ...। भाजपा की सरकार बनाओगे ...। कर्नाटक का भाग्य बदलोगे ...।\nऔर इसलिए मेरे कर्नाटक के, मेरे चित्रदुर्ग के भाइयो बहनो।\nमैं आज आपके पास आया हूं। एक विश्वास को लेकरके आया हूं। और मुझे पूरा विश्वास है। कि 12 मई को कमल के फूल पर बटन दबाकरके आप हमेशा-हमेशा के लिए कांग्रेस को विदाई कर दोगे।\nस्वच्छ, सुंदर, सुरक्षित, कर्नाटक निर्मिष सोना। बन्नी एल्लरू कै जोड़ी सी। सरकार बदली सी ...। सरकार बदली सी, बीजेपी गेल्ली सी। सरकार बदली सी ...। सरकार बदली सी ...। Thanks a lot.\n"