"Energy is the key driver of socio-economic growth: PM Modi\nIndia has taken a lead in addressing these issues of energy access, says PM Modi\nEnergy is also a key objective for me, and a top priority for India: PM\nThe Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi delivered the following inaugural address at PETROTECH 2019 in Noida\nNamaste\nAt the beginning, I apologize for the delay due to logistical reasons\nI am delighted to welcome you all to PETROTECH-2019, the thirteenth edition of India's flagship hydrocarbon conference.\nI would like to congratulate His Excellency Dr. Sultan Al Jaber for his contribution to the energy sector\nOver the last quarter century, PETROTECH has served as a platform to discuss solutions to challenges that we face in the energy sector.\nIn our respective countries, we seek to deliver affordable, efficient, clean and assured energy supplies.\nThe presence of over sixty countries and seven thousand delegates here, is a reflection of that common quest\nSeveral decades of public life have convinced me that energy is a key driver of socio-economic growth. Suitably priced, stable and sustainable energy supply It also helps the poor and deprived sections of society, to partake of economic benefits\nAt the macro level, the energy sector is a pivot and key enabler of growth.\nFriends\nAs we gather here to discuss the current and future of global energy, winds of change are evident in the global energy arena.\nEnergy supply Perhaps, this could be a historic transition\nThere is a shift in energy consumption from West to East.\nThe United States has become the world's largest oil and gas producer after the shale revolution.\nSolar energy and other renewable sources of energy have become more competitive. They are emerging as sustainable substitutes for traditional energy forms.\nNatural Gas is the fastest growing fuel economy in the world.\nThere are signs of convergence, between cheap renewable energy, technologies, and digital applications. This may expedite the achievement of many sustainable development goals.\nNations are coming together to tackle climate change This is visible in global partnerships, such as the International Solar Alliance, promoted by India and France.\nWe are entering\nBut more than one billion people across the globe Many more do not have access to clean cooking fuel.\nIndia has taken a lead in addressing these issues of energy access. In our success, I see hope for the world that problems can be addressed properly.\nPeople should have the universal access to clean, affordable, sustainable and equitable supply of energy.\nIndia's contribution in the formation of an era based on energy justice is significant.\nCurrently, India is the fastest growing company in the world. Leading agencies like the IMF and World Bank, the project is the same trend\nIn an uncertain global economic environment, India has shown tremendous resilience as an anchor of the world economy.\nIndia recently became the sixth largest economy in the world. According to a recent report, by 2030, India could be the second largest world economy.\nWe are also the third largest energy consumer in the world, with demand growing at more than five percent yearly.\nIndia remains a attractive market for energy companies\nWe have adopted an integrated approach towards energy planning. During the last PETROTECH Conference in December 2016, I mentioned four pillars for India's energy future. These are energy access, energy efficiency, energy sustainability and energy security.\nFriends\nEnergy is also a key destination for India. Towards this end, we have developed and implemented many policies. The results of these efforts are now evident.\nElectricity has reached all our rural areas\nThis year we aim to achieve hundred percent of electrification of households in India, through a targeted program called SAUBHAGYA.\nAs we raise production, we also aim to reduce losses in transmission and distribution. Under our UDAY scheme\nIndia's World Bank Easy of Getting Electricity Ranking, improved from one hundred and eleven in 2014 to twenty-nine in 2018\nLED bulbs distributed across the country under the UJALA scheme, have resulted in an annual savings of 17 thousand crore rupees, or about 2.5 billion dollars\nAccess to clean cooking fuel provides major benefits, especially to women and children at risk of exposure to smoke pollution.\nThe LPG connections have been given to over sixty four million or 6.4 crore households in just under three years under the Ujjwala Scheme. A 'Blue Flame Revolution' is underway. LPG coverage has reached more than ninety percent, from fifty-five percent five years ago.\nClean Transportation is getting a boost We are jumping straight from BS four to BS six fuel by April 2020. This is the equivalent of EURO six standards.\nAchievements such as hundred percent electrification, and increased LPG coverage, are possible only through people's involvement. Energy can be done only when people believe in their collective power Government is the only one enabler in converting that belief in a reality.\nThe last five years have seen major improvements in India's oil and gas sector. We have revamped our upstream policies and regulations. We have launched the Hydrocarbon Exploration and Licensing Policy to bring transparency and competitiveness in the sector.\nThe bidding criterion has been changed to revenue sharing. This has helped reduce government intervention An Open Acreage Licensing Policy and a National Data Repository\nGas pricing reforms have also been introduced. The Enhanced Oil Recovery Policy aims to improve the productivity of upstream fields.\nOur downstream sector has been completely liberalized. Market driven petrol and diesel prices reflect the international price of crude oil. India has the largest refining capacity in the world. This will grow by about 200 million metric tons by 2030.\nA National Biofuel Policy was enacted last year. Research on second and third generation biofuels is being promoted Twelve second generation bio-refineries are being used in eleven states. The ethanol blending and biodiesel program is reducing carbon emissions, and raising farmers' incomes Bio Aviation Turbine Fuel has already been tried in our civil aviation sector.\nOur government has been promoted India is becoming a attractive FDI destination. Companies like Saudi Aramco, ADNOC, TOTAL, Exxon-Mobil, BP and Shell are looking to increase their investments across the value chain.\nIndia is making rapid progress toward a gas based economy. Over sixteen thousand kilometer of gas pipeline has been constructed and an additional eleven thousand kilometers is under construction.\nExecution of three thousand, two hundred kilometers of gas pipeline in Eastern India has begun. This will connect North East India with the National Gas Grid\nThe tenth bid round for City Gas Distribution will be completed in a month's time. This will cover over four hundred districts. It will extend coverage of City Gas Distribution to seventy percent of our population.\nWe are gearing up for Industry 4.0. This will change the way the industry operates, with new technology and processes. Our companies are adopting the latest technologies This is being done in downstream retail, as well as upstream oil and gas production, asset maintenance and remote monitoring.\nIn recent years, we have deepened our international engagement with organizations such as the International Energy Agency, and OPEC We chaired the International Energy Forum from 2016 to 2018. We have been able to convert our traditional buyer-seller engagements into strategic partnerships through bilateral investments. We have also promoted our 'Neighborhood First' policy by strengthening energy engagement with Nepal, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Bhutan and Myanmar.\nI have regularly engaged with the oil and gas sector In my interactions with world leaders and CEOs, I have always maintained that oil and gas is not only a commodity of trade but also of necessity. Whether it is the kitchen of a common man or for an aircraft, energy is essential.\nFor too long, the world has seen crude prices on a roller-coaster. We need to move to responsible pricing, which balances the interests of both producer and consumer. We also need to move towards both oil and gas. Only then can we serve the energy needs of an optimal way\nAnother key issue that needs to change Together, we can get the targets we set for ourselves at COP-21 in Paris India has made its commitment to rapid strides in meeting. We are on our way to reaching target\nPETROTECH provides the perfect solution for the future. It is a good platform to reflect on how the global shifts, transitions, policies and new technologies affect market sustainability and future investments in the sector.\nI wish you all a successful and fruitful conference\nThank you."