"Share\n\nSaints, Seers and Mutts have played a strong role in the development of our nation. We are deeply inspired by them: PM\nFor years, The Congress kept saying- Gareeb, Gareeb, Gareeb However, nothing has come out of this rhetoric They fail to transform the lives of the poor of India: PM\nThe Congress' s neglect of the agricultural sector is very well known: PM Modi\nPeople of Karnataka need to know the tacit alliance between Congress and JD (S), says PM\nThe Congress Government in Karnataka is working only for 'Naamadaars' and not for 'Kaamgaars': PM\nCongress has been telling lies and dividing society here in Karnataka. Every day they do a new drama: PM\nCongress has set up a Mafia network across Karnataka. They excel in 'Vasooli': PM Modi\nAfter the Karnataka results, Congress will become PPP Congress-Punjab, Puducherry and Parivar Congress: PM\nCongress is misleading people in the name of Mahadayi waters, allegations\nPrime Minister Modi says, 'Adhunik, Gatisheel, Pragatisheel and Vikasheel is our aim\nPM Modi: Spreading lies\n'C' of Congress and 'C' of Corruption: PM Modi\nFor Congress, only one family is all For me 125 crore Indians\nLong live Mother India. Long live Mother India.\nI have had the privilege of coming before me in the brother-sister-in-law of yours. At the time of the Lok Sabha elections, it was a privilege to go to many places in Karnataka. But the scenes I have not even seen in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections. Many times more enthusiasm than that, there is also a lot of excitement where I go to Karnataka in this election.\nThe brother of your uncle sister\nThis Tumkuru India has the same pride as the cause of the nuclear test in Pokhran. At the core of this earth we salute the land of sculptors such as the famous scientist like Dr. Raja Ramanna, artist like Jaggidran, Jagannary.\nImmediately after becoming the Prime Minister, I had the privilege of praising this earth. And at the same time I also went to Siddhaganga Mutt, where Shivkumar Swamiji's philosophy, his blessing and good fortune were discussed. For the society, the contribution of Siddhaganga Mutt for this state is incomparable. It is the land of Karnataka's soil society and nation, thinking of people, anxious, self-employed saints and great men for social interest.\nBrother in law\nThese saint traditions of Karnataka, these monasteries, these temples, these beliefs, as well as education, skill development, are many such big movements for many such social works. How to change the poor person's life How did his life become easy? And so the saints here, the mahants, the monasteries and the social workers who have done the work, are going to give inspiration for the whole country.\nBrother in law\nFrom the time of the Bharatiya Jana Sangh, who have spent their lives in pursuing the Jan Sangh and the Bharatiya Janata Party. Late Shri Mallikarjunaiah, BJP general secretary and late G.M. Rajacharya and farmer leader late Boropaji, who worked hard for the development of Karnataka, today come here on earth and give reverence once again.\nToday just .... Congress Party First Look at Every Election Look at elections from Indira Gandhi's era. The Congress used to hold poor people, poor, poor, poor ... in every election. The dust of the poor used to play in the eyes and play games to win elections. But since the son of a poor mother .... The poor of this country made him the Prime Minister. Since then the Congress Party has stopped taking the name of the poor. They came to know that it is not possible to dust the eyes of the poor. Now the Congress people are from top to bottom, local, country, foreign, be here, be it from here, understand or not, gram is a tree, there is green chilli, that is red chilli is. Those who do not even have this knowledge. Those who think of making gold in potato, they have started speaking farmers and peasants-farmers every day.\nNow, brothers of my tuskuru sisters My brothers and sisters of Karnataka Brother farmers of the country\nYou think Today, Congress leaders, farmers 'debt, farmers' debt, farmer's debt Are doing politics on it. Making new announcements to get votes But once, answer that in the seventies after independence, Congress ruled for the most time. The same family ruled in that too. What did you do that the farmers of my country got drowned in debt? He had to be forced to commit suicide. During the 70 years, there was a chance to rule. If this had taken a little bit of attention towards the farmers, then my farmer siblings would not have had such a situation. The problems faced by farmers today are due to the policies of old Congress governments, due to their intention, due to their exploits. And that whole, all the governments have gone to inherit heritage. We are already washing their sins. O Congress governments do not have 50 years or less 60 years. We have not even had 50 months. You had the opportunity to work for 50 years, had the opportunity to work 60 years. At least our farmers would have brought water to the farm if my farmer gave birth to the gold from the soil. These strengths are in the farmers.\nPlease tell me that the Congress government of Delhi or the Congress government of Karnataka should have done it in the last 50 years, 60 years or should not have done the task of sending water to your farmers at your farm.\nAnd so the brothers sisters\nThis is because they are not interested in bringing water to the farmer. He gathered his money from here and at the same time he got his strength in the house of the ministers.\nWhen the Lok Sabha election was going on in 2014. Then the leader of the JDS, our country, the honorable former Prime Minister Mr. Deve Gowda ji had announced that if this Modi will come to victory, then if he becomes a government then I will commit suicide. They used to oppose us fiercely. In spite of this, there was a big fight between Karnataka and Karnataka, and between us and JDS Even then, we had said that Devgowda ji is an honorable senior leader. You do not have to commit suicide. You should live a hundred years and you too serve the society in your own way. This is the talk of the elections .... While he wanted that the defeat of Narendra Modi would be done. Yet I never left the feeling of respect and respect towards them.\nBut today I am Congress who lied every day. Everybody in the Congress speaks lies, speaks new lies every day, repeatedly lied, louder lies loudly. I want to bustle it.\nNow if someone is working to save the Congress party then JDS are doing it. You will be surprised at my point of view. But you see the survey of all the elections. Whoever believes this is a survey of the anti-BJP BJP, look at the survey. Who feels that he is a supporter of the BJP. Take a look at his survey. Take a survey of fair, neutral people. Everyone says one thing that JDS will remain on number three. There is no dilemma in it. Everyone says one thing that JDS can not defeat the Congress in any condition, the government can not make it. If the government changes in Karnataka, then it can change only and only the Bharatiya Janata Party.\nNow anyone can deny that Congress and JDS What is the reason behind the curtain in the middle of them is that the Congress and JDS are doing Nurakushu in Kukuru and the mayor of the Congress has been sitting in Bangalore due to friendship with the Congress. Why hide this point There should be courage in Congress to speak the truth to the public. Should be told clearly. Yes, that's right. He belongs to JDS and in Bangalore Municipal Corporation, he is sitting there as a mayor with the help of JDS. These people of Tukururu, people of Karnataka, stop fooling them.\nBrother in law\nI was talking to you that the Congress governments did not even care about giving water to the farmers for so many years. I just want to ask you. Upper Bhadra For the Upper Bhadra project, the farmer has been longed for years. Just like the Congress, JDS tells us where is that water, where is that project. Just answer I want to ask the leaders of the Congress who took politics in the name of these farmers. Just tell it. Why did not the farmers of Yamunathi get the water from the river Yamuna? I also want to ask the people of Congress This is the Etihola project, which will provide drinking water to the people here .... That project was composed. What is the reason is that the people of Kupadu's people used to have a drinking water project, you have lost their lives, lost their lives.\nBrothers and sisters\nHow is work Our government has barely been 50 months. But as soon as we came within these months, for the last 30-35 years, the project which used to give water to the farmers was stopped for 30-30 years, 35-35 years. After spending more than Rs 1 lakh crore on them, took the lead in providing water to the farmers in 30-35 months and the work is going on, out of which 5 major projects are on the land of Karnataka.\nWe are engaged in three types of work. How to save rain water drop-down rain How to do water conservation. The second thing is - how to do irrigation. Micro Irrigation, Drip Irrigation, Sprinkle Irrigation. Today, in 24 lakh hectares this micro irrigation work has been extended in the country.\nIt is compulsory to connect the rivers to a permanent solution to our problems. The dream of Atal Bihari Vajpayee ji .... We want to fulfill the dream of Atal Bihari Vajpayee that remains incomplete.\nAnd brothers and sisters\nWe sincerely want to complete work in the direction of connecting Hemvati and Netravati river with water. My farmer brother If there is work to connect Hemvati and Netravati then more lakhs of hectare land will be given direct benefit to our millions of farmers in Tumkuru and nearby 8 districts. And we put our strength behind such a work.\nHere are my farmers brothers\nThis is our area, Kalpataru Nadu i.e. coconut. Its largest producer. We can understand that which can not fight with nature. But nature can definitely work to reduce the kill, but this sleepy government, he does not care about it. But you have been looking for 5 years. Whatever happens to the coconut, the farmers should be whatever they want to be, but recruiters in the government ministers' house, the treasury goes up, the treasure goes up, the same thing has happened.\nMy farmer brother\nThe entire region can be rejuvenated by Kalpavriksha. Today, I want to say with great satisfaction that after the arrival of our government, we have increased the increase in Kokonet exports. As much as our previous government did, we have increased the size of Coconut Exports by more than 60 percent. And this is the reason that our farmers have got the chance of getting something.\nMy farmer brother\nI came in 2014 I had worked to advance you to the Food Processing Plant of Tumkuru. And one of our partners watched the work of the food processing plant at that time. If old governments had stressed on the value addition of what was born in our farm, then food processing would be emphasized. If our best quality agricultural products were to be sent to the world market then today our farmers do not have to be forced to go in this condition.\nWe just planted a mega food processing plant of 150 crores. About 6 thousand - six and a half thousand farmers joined him. More than 6000 people got jobs And people make noodles, biscuits, how to make food processing work moving forward .... In this work the people of this area got involved. The smallest initiative but what a big result have you brought, you are watching.\nIn order to take forward food processing, we have set up a Kisan Sampath Yojna to bring the farmers to the small circle and come forward. Earlier, there was a budget of 200, 300, 500 crores. We have taken the budget of about 1400 crore in the direction of giving this food to our farmer for food processing.\nThere was a time. This area was ahead in British times in the electrical industry. But this Congress has run such governments that today the region is in the throes for power.\nHere is the strength in agriculture. The youth here has strength, their talents are breathtaking, their skill is in their power that the net of Small Scall Industries keeps the whole life here, the power to change the life of Karnataka, but the Karnataka Government, sitting in Bangalore, is here. This strength does not even exist.\nLike the Smart City project for the development of Tumkuru, you are also among the seven smart cities in Karnataka. And 14 thousand crore rupees .... We plan to make it for Smart City. We have given 836 crore rupees to the Karnataka government but there will not have been any change in the situation of Kukuru. 836 crores has come to the treasury of Karnataka from the treasury of Delhi. These seven cities have the right to money. But it was a government that was asleep, a government dumped in corruption, and a minister engaged in filling the treasure of himself. The result is that 12 crore out of 836 crore has been spent. 824 crores is lying vacant.\nFor the development of this region, for its industrial development here, our government has started a big campaign to widen the roads by widening the roads by spending more than Rs. 4 thousand crores, new roads and employment for the youth.\nIn the same way, there are young people with engineering skills. Two years ago we had come to the factory to build a helicopter inside HAL, to change their destiny and give strength to the country.\nBrothers and sisters\nThere is a fight against corruption. There is a fight against black money. How was the business going in our country? The daughter who was not born, the daughter was born in government files. In the files, the daughter was too big, daughter also got married in the file. Between the file, the daughter also became a widow. And then the government treasury used to get money from the widow pension. And there were no one to ask where the widow is. We started the Direct Benefit Transfer Scheme with Aadhaar.\nMy dear brothers and sisters\nभ्रष्टाचार के खिलाफ कैसे लड़ाई जीती जाती थी। हमने जो हकदार लोग थे, उनको पैसे सीधे उनके बैंक खातों में जमा कराना शुरू किया। हकदारों की लिस्ट वैरिफाई की। ये जो झूठे और गलत नामों की सूचियां थी, वो बाहर हो गईं। बिचौलिये बाहर हो गए। रुपयों की चोरी अटक गई। और इसके कारण जिसका हक था, उनको तो मिला लेकिन जो लूट करके ले जाते थे, बंद कर कर दिया। सरकारी खजाने में 80 हजार करोड़ रुपये से ज्यादा चोरी होती थी वो अटक गई। ये काम करने की ताकत हम रखते हैं भाइयो।\nऔर इसलिए मेरे प्यारे कर्नाटक के भाइयो बहनो।\nमैं आज आपसे आग्रह करने आया हूं। 12 मई को कमल के निशान पर बटन दबा करके भारी मतदान करके येदियुरप्पा जी के नेतृत्व में भारतीय जनता पार्टी की सरकार बनाइए। अगर इस इलाके के किसानों का कोई भाग्य बदल सकता है तो किसान नेता येदुरप्पा बदल सकते हैं।\nऔर इसलिए मेरे प्यारे भाइयो बहनो।\nमैं पूरे कर्नाटक प्रदेश को आज तुमकुरु की पवित्र धरती से आग्रहपूर्वक कहना चाहता हूं कि इस बार कर्नाटक के उज्ज्वल भविष्य के लिए कांग्रेस पार्टी को सजा देना अनिवार्य है।\nबंधु भगिनी।\nस्वच्छ, सुंदर, सुरक्षित कर्नाटक निर्मिष होना, बन्नी एलरु कैजोडिसी। सरकार बदली सी ...। सरकार बदली सी ...। दोनों मुट्ठी बंद करके पूरी ताकत से बताइए। सरकार बदली सी ...। सरकार बदली सी ...। सरकार बदली सी ...। सरकार बदली सी ...। Thanks a lot.\n"