"Share\n\nThere was a concept of an 'steel bridge' in Bengaluru. Congress' turn it into 'steal bridge': PM Modi\nBengaluru was known as the 'computer capital' but the present government has changed it to a 'crime capital': PM Modi in Bengaluru\nCongress has changed garden city to garbage city, says PM Modi in Bengaluru\nWomen safety is one of the biggest concerns in Karnataka, crimes against women are on the rise\nCongress has no respect for our soldiers When our soldiers did the surgical strikes, the shameless Congress party questioned the attacks: PM\nGovernment of India is devoting significant resources towards improving the irrigation network: PM Modi\nWhen the BJP is elected, the lotus blooms and people prosper, but when the Congress wins only a few families shine: PM\nKarnataka has a 'Sidda-Rupaiah Sarkar'. It has created a debt-burden for the state: PM Modi\nIn Karnataka, even a single work is possible without corruption and bribery: PM\nCongress is involved vote-bank politics and dividing people on the grounds of caste; Parliamentary Standing Committee on Constitutional Status: PM\nLong live Mother India. Long live Mother India.\nAll senior leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party sitting on the platform, all the candidates of the Bharatiya Janata Party and a large number of my dear brothers and sisters of Kaluburgi in this election.\nLooking at the form of this meeting, it seems that you have to bear the heat of this May month but you do not have to tolerate the Congress government, this is your mood. This is your mood.\nBrothers and sisters\nElections come, go. There are public meetings. There are allegations and reactions, but such a massacre, such an annoyance, such a resolution to change the government, usually does not appear. Which is currently visible all over Karnataka. The people of Karnataka have resolved that 5 years have been devastated. Now a moment, Karnataka is not allowed to be wasted.\nAnd so brothers and sisters\nWhat is the reason in the country today that the Congress Party is getting discharged from every corner of the country. Look anywhere! In the last 4 years, the Congress party has had to face defeat in every corner of the country. For the first time since independence, the people of the country have developed a new faith, a new eminence, new faith in the country as an alternative to the Bharatiya Janata Party.\nBrothers and sisters\nWho did this election become our legislator in this area? Who won the party, who lost the party Whose government was formed, whose government was not? There is no election for this little work. This election is for deciding the future of youngsters of Karnataka. The fate of Karnataka farmers is to change. There is an election to give security and respect to the mothers and sisters of Karnataka. There is an election to meet the rights of the young people, the right to get what they deserve.\nAnd so my brothers\nWhen you vote on 12th May, you should just keep in mind only the bright future of Karnataka and press the button on the lotus marks. I assure you that the Delhi government will run the Modi government for the development of Karnataka, along with the BJP government of Karnataka on the shoulder side.\nBrothers and sisters\nKumburgi Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, who had spent his life for the unity and integrity of this country, has a special relationship with Kalaburgi. These were Sardar Patel who made Kumburgi a part of democratic India. When the Nizam refused to sign the letter of merger. Then the iron man forced them to bend.\nThe martyr there in the village of Gorota I salute those brave martyrs from this land today. The same kind of atrocities which the British did in Jaliwalwala Bagh had to suffer from the martyrs of Gorota in the Nizam's rule.\nBrothers and sisters\nI want to congratulate all of you, especially the workers of the Yuva Morcha of the Bharatiya Janata Party of Karnataka, who created the martyr's memorial. The Congress government could do the work that the local public did, but wherever Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel's name comes, a Congress family sleeps. And the people of the entire Congress also ran away from Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel.\nBrothers and sisters\nThis is not a new phenomenon for Congress, the dislike of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel. This is in their nature.\nBrothers and sisters\nThis is also in the nature of Congress. Not just the parliament brothers, but the other heroic martyrs of the country. These Congress party, then martyrs and patriots, to humiliate them, forget them, humiliate them, because only then can a family drive. Therefore, there has been an ongoing effort to forget history.\nYou can imagine. Our heroic soldiers went to the fortress of the terrorists and rid themselves of their sixes by having a surgical strike. And the famous newspaper of India wrote that the people there said that after the surgical strike, Pakistan had to take dead bodies in trucks. Such heroics, surgical strikes were done by our heroic soldiers. Then, with the shamelessness of the Congress, the habit of insulting the martyrs of the country, keeping the habit of insulting the heroes of the country, the Congress who forgot the dead loved ones for the motherland, also for the surgical strike. The question marks stood and said, Modiji has taken a little proof, the proof is lain.\nI just want to ask the brothers and sisters of Kumburgi.\nDo you need proof? Take my brave youth camera or take a gun ...\nBrothers and sisters\nIf the evidence is needed, the ones which were being removed in Pakistan. Just take a look at the people of the Congress, they will know what kind of heroes our brave soldiers did.\nBrothers and sisters\nBut even if his best leader can insult Vande Mataram in an open meeting, it is impossible to express positive feelings towards the patriotism of patriotism.\nAnd so brothers and sisters\nHow is this Congress party in power with the army of independence and in Karnataka also with the army? Who knows more than our brothers in Karnataka But Field Marshal Kariyappa and General Thimmaiah, who had a name in the world all over the world, the whole of Hindustan, who enjoys taking pride in their names. Remembering them today, the soldiers of our army of India go out of the dead. But what was the attitude of the Congress governments against Kariyappa Ho or General Thimmaiah? How was he humiliated? This history tells you well. In 1948, Pakistan won the war, under the leadership of General Thimmaiah, but after that feat, General Thimmaiah of saving Kashmir, repeatedly insulted Prime Minister Nehru and then Defense Minister Krishna Menon. And due to this, General Thimmaiah had to resign for the honor of his post. I want to tell the new generation of Karnataka This attitude has been towards the head of the Congress army of the Congress. Has been against the heroic son of Karnataka. This should not be forgotten by the youth of Karnataka.\nBrothers and sisters\nField Marshal Cariappa 1962 The history of India-China is still recorded in the dates of history. What was treated with them. Not only this, after the surgical strike, our current senanayak, a senior Congress leader, even said that he is a goon\nBrothers and sisters\nI want to ask you, is there ever an illiterate person in this country, ever, to our commander, our army, to the defense of the country, the soldiers who die dying, ever, any one of our heroic soldiers What can sin do .... Can you ... Did Congress force the army to say punk to apologize ... Have you pulled them out from the Congress party? Is Congress Party giving protection to them or not? On the stage, she is making her look beautiful or not ...\nBrothers and sisters\nJai jawan jai kisan. This mantra, the Indian army, is giving power to the farmer of India. Do not want to go further in the history of what they have been doing with the soldiers continuously. But my farmer\nBrothers sisters\nThis is our area which is the area of ​​pulses. Kalaburgi is also known as Toraadi Kanja in the Kharai of Palan Dal or Kannada. The farmers' hard work today has become a branded name of Kuljab Tuvar Dal in India. And all the turmeric dal of whole Karnataka is produced by the labor of my farmers here.\nBrothers and sisters\nThis year, there is a record production of pulses in Kaluburgi. Certainly the benefits of the Central Government schemes have been raised by the farmers here. The Central Government has linked the goals of National Food Security Mission with production. And its results are also found. Produce more and more farmers' dal. They found the exact price of pulses. On the establishment of procurement centers, the Government of India is constantly paying attention. The central government is moving forward in the country by making a road map on pulse production. But the Congress government of Karnataka is not sensitive towards the dal farmers.\nI was told that the Government of India decided MSP but the farmer is still waiting for the benefit of that MSP. How did such a government run that the benefit of such a big government scheme was not able to reach the farmers of my Calaburgi who produced tur dal?\nBrothers and sisters\nSuch government will not be able to give you anything even after making promises. And so I urge you. In UP, we have just become our government. Earlier governments in UP had the habit of singing songs of MSP but farmers had no such system to get the benefit of MSP. This became our government of Yogi Ji. Within three months he started his career. As much as the paddy was earlier purchased in MSP, within a single year, they bought ten times the paddy in MSP and made plans to get the money for farmers' rights.\nBrothers and sisters\nI assure you. Under the leadership of Yeddyurappa, who struggles life-long for farmers, farmers and peasants, will form the government of Bharatiya Janata Party. All the obstacles in the welfare of the farmers, they will be removed and given full rights.\nBrothers and sisters\nYou know well that within the MSP we have decided that according to Swaminathan commission, the cost will be one and a half times the MSP. We have implemented this by implementing it. Today, Congressmen If I speak of the MSP somewhere then they have a little trouble. I just want to ask them. For many years, the Government of your Congress had done the sin of giving this Swaminathan commission report to the cupboard. We have then taken out this task to implement it. I can not say the truth at least, but I will be able to remain silent. Hey so much to learn\nBrothers and sisters\nIf the farmer has strength. If he gets water, get water on time, then my farmer has the power to produce gold from the soil. The Congress party is fully responsible for the dry spell of the life-giving rivers like Krishna and Tungabhadra and the farmers of the entire region are dry. The Congress may have apathy on all these things.\nBut my farmer brothers\nI am guilty of Congress, so keep quiet to take political advantage. This is not my job. My job is to worry about the farmers. Congress has not done well .... And we took out about 100 such schemes across the country. Who was not asking for 20-20, 30-30, 40 years, had hanged, 5 is your Karnataka. Spending thousands of crores of rupees is engaged towards this work of irrigation. And with the expenditure of 4000 crores, what we are implementing the project. One of them has been completed and four are also going to be completed very soon. And its advantage is that it will benefit from all these areas of Bidar, Bijapur, Belgaum, Haberi, Kaluburgi etc. You can imagine how much profit it will be to the farmer.\nPM Crop Insurance Scheme.\nBrothers and sisters\nSuch a scheme to protect the farmers in Azad Hindustan has never been made before this. And our MPs worked to give farmers the most benefit of crop insurance scheme in their area. I congratulate them. But the Government of Karnataka, they feel that this is increasing the respect of the Government of India. Why spend money behind this in Karnataka Why play our responsibility.\nBut brothers and sisters\nThis is causing injustice to the farmers. I assure you. Farmers will get the benefits of Prime Minister's Crop Insurance Scheme in the coming days. And where-there are BJP governments, it will be our priority. In Karnataka, our priority will remain after the formation of the BJP government. Today about 14 lakh farmers have got coverage in Karnataka. But this is very low. Nearly 11 hundred crores of rupees are in the pocket of the farmers. But we want to go even further.\nSo brothers and sisters\nI would like to urge you to let us go further in this development journey.\nAnd brothers and sisters\nA big leader of the Congress is Mr. Kharage ji These are the Congress's amazing view. In this election, he is singing songs in the name of Dalits. In the last election, you were saying that you vote for us, make the government. We will make Kharge the Chief Minister. It was said that was not said .... He had misled the Dalits or did not ... Kharge asked for votes on the name of Jee and talking about Vote as a secret vote, Khargeji ... Did not do that.\nAnd brothers and sisters\nI want to ask the Congress talking to the Dalits.\nBrothers and sisters\nWhere the BJP gets an opportunity to form the government. There people win the faith and because of this our lotus flower blossoms. But where-where the Congress gets the opportunity. There just and only some families flourish. There is some speculation that how much will the family property of Khargeji have.\nBrothers and sisters\nDid these Dalits develop?\nNot only this, brothers, sisters.\nThe incidents of atrocities committed on Dalits in Karnataka are not hidden from anyone. Here is what happened with the Dalit daughter in Bidar in the neighborhood. It is still lying in the social media today. दिल्ली में कैंडल मार्च निकालने वाले कांग्रेस के लोगों से पूछ रहा हूं कि जब बिदर में दलित बेटी से अत्याचार हुआ था तो ये तुम्हारी कैंडल लाइटें कहां खो गई थी। तुम्हारे नेता कहां थे।\nBrothers and sisters\nएससी एसटी के कानून को हमारी सरकार बनने के बाद 2015 में हमने मजबूत बनाया। छोटी-छोटी बातों में भी सामाजिक भेदभाव, अनाप-शनाप भाषा का प्रयोग, समाज के कुछ वर्गों को पीड़ित करने का प्रयास, किसी भी समाज को शोभा नहीं देता। और इसलिए एससी-एसटी के लोगों को सम्मान पूर्वक जीने के लिए हमने कानून को और मजबूत बनाया। और इतना ही नहीं, हम पूरे देश में ये न्याय दिलाने के लिए हम कोर्ट का मजबूत जाल, डेडीकेटेट कोर्ट का जाल ये भी बनाने की दिशा में आगे बढ़ रहे हैं। ताकि समाज में भेदभाव की स्थिति न बने, ऊंच-नीच की स्थिति न बने, मान-अपमान के किस्से न बने। और सबलोग साथ रह करके जीने की दिशा में आगे बढ़े। उस दिशा में हम प्रयास कर रहे हैं।\nBrothers and sisters\nहम वो सरकार हैं जो आदिवासियों के कल्याण से जुड़ी हुई सरकार है। इस देश के आदिवादियों ने आजादी की जंग में बहुत बड़ा योगदान दिया। लेकिन एक परिवार का भला करने के उत्साह में एक ही परिवार को साष्टांग प्रणाम करने वाली कांग्रेस ने 70 साल में देश के इतिहास को कुचल दिया। सामान्य मानवी के पराक्रम को कुचल दिया है। हमने तय किया है हिन्दुस्तान के हर राज्य में जहां-जहां आदिवासियों ने 1857 स्वातंत्र्य संग्राम से लेकरके 1947 तक आजादी के जंग में अपनी आहुति दी है। उनके अलग म्युजियम बनाए जाएंगे। और उनको सम्मानित करके नई पीढ़ी को प्रेरणा देने का काम किया जाएगा।\nBrothers and sisters\nहमने एक बड़ा महत्वपूर्ण कानून बनाया। हमारे देश में ज्यादातर खनिज उस इलाके में हैं जहां हमारी आदिवासी बस्ती रहती है, समाज के पिछड़े वर्ग के लोग रहते हैं। हमने बनाया और हमने तय किया है खनिज में जो पैदावार होगी उसका एक निश्चित हिस्सा उसी इलाके के आदिवासियों के विकास और विस्तार के लिए खर्च करना पड़ेगा।\nऔर भाइयो बहनो।\nउसका लाभ आज कर्नाटक में भी कई क्षेत्रों को भी मिलना चाहिए। लेकिन सरकार ऐसी सोई पड़ी है। रुपये तो ले लेती है लेकिन खर्च करने की योजना नहीं बना रही है। ये इनका आदिवासियों के प्रति ये झुकाव है।\nBrothers and sisters\nउज्जवला योजना। हमारे देश में गैस सिलेंडर 9 मिलेंगे कि 12 मिलेंगे। इसकी बहस करके चुनाव लड़े जाते थे। एक गैस सिलेंडर लेने के लिए, एक गैस का कनेक्शन लेने के लिए मध्यम परिवार के लोगों को राजनेताओं के घर के चक्कर काटने पड़ते थे। हमने स्थित बदल दी। हमने सामने से कहा कि मैं मेरे देश की गरीब से गरीब मां को चूल्हे के धुएं से मुक्ति दिलाना चाहता हूं। प्रधानमंत्री उज्ज्वला योजना के तहत 8 करोड़ परिवारों में गैस चूल्हा पहुंचाने का संकल्प किया। सवा तीन करोड़ से ज्यादा परिवारों में गैस का चूल्हा पहुंचा दिया गया।\nBrothers and sisters\nकाम कैसे होता है। इसका जीता जागता सबूत है।\nBrothers and sisters\nहमारी कोशिश रही है कि सामान्य से सामान्य व्यक्ति के जीवन में बदलाव कैसे आए। विकास के नए पैमानों पर देश के सामान्य व्यक्ति को कैसे पहुंचाया जाए। और इसी काम को ले करके आज भारतीय जनता पार्टी आपसे वोट मांग रही है।\nऔर इसलिए भाइयो-बहनो।\n12 मई को कमल के फूल पर बटन दबा करके  येदुरप्पा जी के नेतृत्व में हम सब भारतीय जनता पार्टी की सरकार बनाएं। स्वच्छ, सुंदर, सुरक्षित कर्नाटक निर्मिष सोणा, बन्नी एल्लरू कै जोड़ी सी। सरकार बदली सी, बीजेपी गेल्ली सी। सरकार बदली सी ...। सरकार बदली सी ...। सरकार बदली सी ...। दोनों मुट्ठी बंद करके हाथ ऊपर करके बोलिए। सरकार बदली सी ...। सरकार बदली सी ...। Thanks a lot.\n"