"Share\n\nPM Modi highlights familar friendly initiatives of the Central Government and how the efforts made by the Center are benefitting the farmers' at large scale\nPM to Karnataka Kisan Morcha\nDue to the apathy of the Congress government in Karnataka, farmers could not benefit from the Fasal Bima scheme: PM Modi\nBudgets implemented by the NDA Government are centered at the welfare of farmers and the agriculture sector: PM Modi\nMSP for notified crops: Farmers to get 1.5 times the cost of their production, says PM\nAdopt organic farming methods and latest methods of agriculture: PM urges farmers\nHello.\nI have had the opportunity to interact today with my farmer workers in Karnataka. And when I talk about the farmer, every farmer in Karnataka always lapses one thing.\nAnd our Yadurappa did a great job in bringing it home. And you guys always sing. Neguli Hirtida Holaldi Hrutta Uluwa Yogia Nodalli This rayata song, which is sung at the time of plowing in the field, is the great poet Koempu. The farmer has been described as a yogi in the song. But this Yogi takes Hull in the hand, which is called Negulu. And hence the farmer is called Negulu Yogi. Today I am very happy and very entertained, I consider myself fortunate that I have had the opportunity to talk to Negulo Yogi of Karnataka today. Yesterday I was in Karnataka. What was the excitement and excitement? Seeing the people's participation in the meetings like I saw the enthusiasm. And yesterday evening there was a lot of talk about the farmers. There was a meeting of Chakowdi. Perhaps I have never seen such a meeting in Karnataka's history. I would like to express gratitude to the citizens of Karnataka, firstly ....\nAnd you are the workers of the peasant front. After all, the responsibility of these fronts is to bring the BJP's point of view in the area, reaching the government's point of view and reaching out to the senior BJP leaders, to the government, and this work, this is the bridge which is the bridge. I think it solves the problems of farmers. This important role is being done by the BJP workers as a farmer's front. Secondly, working full time in the same area, the masters of that field are coming. The problem comes to the masters. The solution to the solution paths comes. The new plan suggests what the solution plan might be. In a way you have a very important role.\nI would have received complaints about the Prime Minister's Crop Insurance Scheme in Karnataka now. But we had one MP who worked a lot in the field with the help of Kisan Morcha. But the Karnataka government remained depressed. He did not care how farmers benefit from the crop insurance scheme. And if the government was active in the days of the famine .... And what is the farmer? One rupee does not cost more than one penny, two paise, five paise. A huge amount comes from the government side. But they did not We have to convince the farmers that it is time that such a government should be sensitive to farmers, understand the problems of farmers, the welfare of the farmers is their priority. And you must have seen how much budget has come in the past. After every budget, the media, newspapers, magazines have written that Modi's budget is a farmer's budget, the village's budget. And hence agriculture and farmer welfare have always been a character from our government. Our nature has been the same, our way of thinking is the same. We have been taught by Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyay - every work should be handled by water to every farm. And for this, we are working towards achieving goals and delivering time, and achieving expected results.\nAnd agriculture is an area that is linked to the time because it has direct link with nature. When should he want water, when the harvest time is over, all things combine with a natural time cycle. The time does not leave the time letter of the government. The nature, the farmer and the government have to work together in matching mail. Our vision for agriculture and farmers has never been one-sided. We are integral approaches. We look forward to seeing all aspects related to agriculture with a holistic approach.\nWhether it is to take care of land for agriculture or water conservation for irrigation. The full emphasis is being given that farmers do not have to face any problem from the beginning to the end in the work of agriculture. There is a modern seed or facility of seed, conserving the product or reaching it to the market, every aspect is being given very close attention.\nAnd our government is trying to empower farmers from every seed of the crop cycle, from seed to market. Farmers can get their entire agri bicycles and help in it. Regardless of sowing, whether during sowing, whether after harvesting, our government has prepared various schemes for each phase. And the initiative we have started it. You tell the farmers in detail about how they can benefit from these schemes.\nBefore the sowing, farmers should not have financing problems for farming, and for this, Rs 11 lakh crore in agricultural credit allocated for the loan. Never been in history so much. Farmers have information about the soil of their fields. What kind of crops should be grown on it. How is the earth's mother's health, how is soil health? For this, more than 12.5 million Swim Health Health Cards have been given to farmers. The land of their fields has been scrutinized. In Karnataka alone, nearly one crore peasants have reached the Health Health Card. And the result of that is that the farmer who first sowed the crop, is now changing it. He is doing it according to the strength of his earth and the land. He is cutting down in the chemical fertilizer. He was using spare medicines, he was cutting it. It is also time to understand the bond. Which crop is mixed with double crop yields .... They started doing new things. Today, the seeds of good quality are being provided to the farmers on time. Along with this, work is being done to develop new varieties of seeds.\nDuring the sowing, farmers are not faced with the problem of compost like before. And for this we have developed a new fertilizer policy. We made a hundred percent neem coating of urea. You will be happy that for the first time after 30-40 years, the prices of NPK fertilizers have been cut in our country for the first time. But all this happens, sometimes we forget. Our job is to work for the workers of the peasants, that after 30-40 years, if the price of NPK manure is cut, then it should be remembered repeatedly or not ....\nIf we talk about irrigation, then nearly 100 projects across the country have been closed for years. There was no one to ask. We have campaigned for that revival. In Karnataka alone, five major projects that were unemployed. The farmers needed but the government did not care. The Government of India has started work on these five big projects at a cost of Rs. 4 thousand crore. More than 24 lakh hectare land is being brought under the purview of micro irrigation. In Karnataka, more than 4 lakh hectares of land have started taking advantage of Already Micro Irrigation. In the same way, farmers are getting a fair price for the crops after sowing, for this, agriculture marketing reformation in the country is also being worked very broadly. Local Mandi of the village, the Hole-Cell Market and then the Global Market linked to it. For this, the government is making efforts to seamless arrangements. For this, farmers should not go too far to sell their produce, for this, 22 thousand rural hats of the country will be integrated with APMC and e-name platform while upgrading under new infrastructure, under a new arrangement. That is, in a way, this kind of connecting system is being created with any market in the country.\nAs far as MSP is concerned. A big decision was taken in this year's budget to give a fair price to the farmers for the farmers. We decided that the MSP for notified crops would be declared at least 1.5 times their cost.\nThat's why my Kisan Morcha workers. I can tell you for hours on this topic because I have worked so hard. Because our clear view is to do good to the village, to do good to the poor and to do good to the farmer, strengthening agriculture, is very important for the economy of this country. Our new generation also has to take the work of cultivation to good work, to take up the work of cultivation till that height.\nSo I assure you The best way we have chosen, the best results are to come and live. Those results which were not received in 70 years, we have 2022 results, our intention is to get 75 years of independence.\nYou also want to ask something. Want to talk something. Of course .... If I keep telling myself the same things then I will be talking for hours. I want to listen to you too. Tell me\nPrasanna, District President of Mysore Farmer Front - Hello. Hello\nPrime Minister Modi - Hello.\nPrasanna - Hello G. I Prasanna El Gowda\nPrime Minister Modi - Prasanna G. Namaste.\nPrasanna - Hello G.\nI am the President of the Mysore Farmer Front. It was a wish to talk to you that was completed today. We are engaged in Chemical Free Farming, in Mysore, in order to double the farmer's income by the name of Mission 2024. Are in your hope\nPM Modi - 24 does not have to do in 22. Do not change the date\nPrasanna - will do it Will do in 2022 Will change We are doing all of the Post Travel Awareness Programs. My question is that under the Congress rule, the condition of the farmers is bad, in distraction, its social status has collapsed. What can we do for this.\nPM Modi - Look! It is true that Congress has always shown leap for farmers. Speaking a farmer has become their nature. Where should the farmers in the worst famine have to be supported? Any new plans should have been made for water. The public should have run the campaign to stop the rain water from the participants. The ponds were supposed to be deep. Should try to stop the water by constructing small bridges within the rivers. Rather than doing all this, the lake dried up, someone was telling me that the lake which dried up dried up dried up. He was handed over to those builders. Now, such an insensitivity to the Congress government in Karnataka, serving Anandpura, according to me, is a great privilege. But not only in the service of the Karnataka government but also in politics, in the name of farmers, misguiding the farmers, provoking their feelings, sending false reports, that is what keeps them going. And then it is the responsibility of the workers of Kisan Morcha that when such a large amount of lies are spread then we bring the truth on the basis of reality. Government of India has resolved to double the income of the farmers by 2022. In our mission, when Yeddyurappa will join the chief minister, his experience, his commitments We are going to give this work more strength. And so I would like that the farmer leader is Yedurappa ji.\nLet me explain two examples. The plans went on before. But the BJP government has implemented it with a new approach. For example, irrigation related projects were earlier as well. But now the BJP government is being together on different areas under the Prime Minister's Agriculture Scheme. Focus of water accumulation in the country, second irrigation water. Increasing the scope of micro-irrigation in the country. And the strengthening of the extension network, which is an irrigation network And so the government decided that about 100 projects of the country stuck for two-two, three-three decades will be completed in due time. And it is estimated to cost around one lakh crore. We have made provision for this. This is a continuous endeavor of the government and the impact of that is that by the end of this year, 25-50 out of the 100 will be completed. And the rest is likely to be completed by next year. Meaning that the work that had been stuck for 25-30 years was completed in 25-30 months. The complete irrigation project is reducing the cost of cultivating farmer in some part of the country. Reducing her anxiety about water. Under the Prime Minister's Agriculture Irrigation Scheme, more than 24 lakh hectares of land has been brought under the purview of micro irrigation. In Karnataka also, work on five projects was started under this scheme. One of them has been completed, the rest of the work is going to be fulfilled in the near future. The government is spending Rs 4,000 crore on these incomplete projects only in Karnataka. Beedar, Belgaqui, Gurbarga, Yadgir, Bijapur, Haveri are all areas which will benefit most of it.\nOne more example would tell you. Prime Minister Crop Insurance Scheme linked to the farmer. What was the condition of the insurance sector in the agriculture sector? These people know the whole country. The faith of the farmer was over. The insurance companies were eaten creamy. The farmer did not get anything. We reviewed his Holistic Review. Thought in new ways. If the farmer used to insure his crop, then he had to pay more premiums earlier. Earlier, his scope was too small. Under the Prime Minister's Crop Insurance Scheme, our government not only reduced the premium but also increased the scope of insurance. I am told that under the scheme last year, the claim amount of thousands of crores has been given to the farmers under this scheme. If the claim amount given per farmer or per hectare has been doubled compared to the earlier. Has doubled.\nKisan credit card. Earlier it was very limited use. अब हमने उसका दायरा बढ़ा दिया। किसान क्रेडिट कार्ड का दायरा ...। अब पशुपालन के लिए उस क्रेडिट कार्ड का उपयोग हो सकता है। कोई पोल्ट्री फार्म करना चाहता है तो उपयोग हो सकता है। कोई मछली पालन करना चाहता है तो उपयोग हो सकता है। किसानी के अन्य सभी कामों के लिए किसान क्रेडिट कार्ड काम आने लगा है। इससे मछुआरों के लिए किया है। कोस्टल रीजन में रहने वाले जो हमारे भाई बहन हैं, फिशरमैन हैं, वो भी एक प्रकार से समुद्र में खेती ही तो करते हैं। उनको एक ताकत मिलेगी। इस बजट में गांव और कृषि के लिए कुल 14 लाख करोड़ रुपए का प्रावधान किया गया है। और 14 लाख करोड़ रुपए हिन्दुस्तान के गांव और किसान के लिए, ये हिन्दुस्तान के बजट के इतिहास के लिए यह सबसे बड़ी घटना है।\nसमुद्री किनारों पर बसे इलाकों में जहां हमारे मछुआरे भाई बहन रहते हैं, वहां ब्लू रिवोल्यूशन की क्षमता है। कर्नाटक के मछुआरों को मछली पकड़ने में सुविधा हो। इसके लिए केंद्र सरकार ने अनेक योजनाएं चलाई जा रही है, आर्थिक मदद दी जा रही है। और उसका लाभ हमारे मछुआरे भाई-बहन ले सकते हैं।\nडैम रिहेबिलिटेशन एंड इंप्रूपमेंट प्रोजेक्ट यानी drip के तहत 22 प्रोजेक्ट चल रहे हैं। इंसेंटिवाआजेशन स्कीम फॉर ब्रिंगिंग गैप यानी आईएसबीआईआई के तहत 9 प्रोजेक्ट लिए गए हैं। इन पर कुल लागत करीब 1100 करोड से ज्यादा आएगी। जिसमें केंद्र सरकार बहुतेक हिस्सा देने वाली है।\nहमारे येदयुरप्पा जी का किसानों के प्रति समर्पण और उनका कमिटमेंट। कर्नाटक की जनता और कर्नाटक की किसान भलीभांति जानता है। और इसलिए किसानों का सपना पूरा करने के लिए बीजेपी की जो सरकार बनेगी वो और दिल्ली में जो बीजेपी की सरकार किसानों के प्रति समर्पित है वो, दोनों मिलकरके इतना बड़ा परिवर्तन ला सकते हैं। इस विश्वास को लेकर के किसान मोर्चा के कार्यकर्ता गांव-गांव जाएं, किसानों के साथ बैठें और छोटी-छोटी बातें बताएं। और पुरानी चीजें उन्हें याद दिलाएं। फिर उनको गले उतरेगा कि हां भाई ये तो बदलाव आया है।\nकोई और पूछना चाहता है।\nपीएम मोदी – नमस्ते।\nबिदर से किसान मोर्चा से जिला महासचिव, अभिमन्यु - नमस्ते सर। बिदर से बात कर रहा हूं। मैं क्या बोलता हूं सर कि किसान 2022 तक जिनकी इनकम जो डबल करना चाहते हैं। इसको कैसे संभव बनाएंगे।\nपीएम मोदी – देखिए एक तो बड़े आत्मविश्वास के साथ बोलिए कि ये 2022 तक होना संभव है। क्योंकि किसान ने पिछले 70 सालों से ऐसा सुना है पुरानी सरकारों से कि इसको किसी चीज पर भरोसा नहीं होता है। इसमें किसानों का कोई दोष नहीं है। भूतकाल में सरकारों ने किसानों के साथ झूठ बोला है। और उसके कारण किसानों का विश्वास टूट गया है। सबसे पहला काम, किसान के साथ आंख में आंख मिलाकरके, जमीन पर उसके साथ बैठकरके, ये धरती मां की मिट्टी हाथ में लेकरके विश्वास से बोलो। ये मोदीजी की सरकार है और आने वाले येदुरप्पाजी की सरकार है। हम 2022 में किसान की आय दोगुणा करके रहेंगे। और फिर उनको रास्ते बताइए।\nकिसान की आय बढ़ाने के लिए चार अलग-अलग स्तरों पर फोकस कर रही है। ये बराबर उनको समझाइए।\nपहला – ऐसे कौन से कदम उठाए जाएं जिनसे खेती पर होने वाले खर्च कम किया जाए। लागत कम किए जाएं।\nदूसरा – ऐसे कौन से कदम उठाए जाएं कि जिससे उनकी पैदावार की उचित कीमत मिले।\nतीसरा - खेत से लेकर बाजार तक पहुंचने के बीच फसलों, सब्जियों, फलों ये जो बर्बाद हो जाती है। एक अनुमान है कि 30 प्रतिशत बर्बाद हो जाती है। उसे कैसे रोका जाए।\nचौथा - ऐसा क्या कुछ हो जिससे किसानों को अतिरिक्त आय हो। अपनी फसल का वैल्यू एडीशन हो। अपने ही खेत में किसानी से जुड़ी हुई कुछ और चीजें हों। फार्मिंग से लेकर पैकेजिंग तक, कृषि को टेक्नोलॉजी से जोड़ने से लेकर उत्पादों के ट्रांसपोर्टेशन तक, ग्रामीण हाटों को अपग्रेड कर ई-नाम प्लेटफार्म से जोड़ने तक, फसलों के तैयार होने से लेकर बाजार में उसकी बिक्री तक, एक पूरी व्यवस्था, एक नया कल्चर की दिशा में हम होलिस्टिक एप्रोच लेकरके आगे बढ़ रहे हैं।\nअब एमएसपी की बात करें। इस साल के बजट में, और मैं चाहूंगा कि आप इसको बारीकी से सुनिए। किसानों को उनके फसलों को उचित कीमत दिलाने के लिए एक बड़ा निर्णय लिया गया। हमने तय किया कि अधिसूचित फसलों के लिए एमएसपी उनकी लागत का कम से कम डेढ़ गुणा घोषित किया जाए। अब सबसे बड़ी बात कि एमएसपी के लिए जो लागत जोड़ी जाएगी उसमें दूसरे श्रमिक जो मेहनत और परिश्रम करते हैं, उनका मेहनताना जोड़ा जाएगा। अपने मवेशी, मशीन या किराये पर लिए मवेशी या मशीन का खर्च भी उसमें जोड़ा जाएगा, बीज का जो खर्च होगा वो भी जोड़ा जाएगा। उपयोग की गई हर प्रकार की खाद का मूल्य भी जोड़ा जाएगा। सिंचाई का खर्च, राज्य सरकार को दिया गया लैंड रेवन्यू, वर्किंग कैपिटल के ऊपर दिया गया ब्याज, अगर जमीन लीज पर ली है तो उसका किराया, और इतना ही नहीं किसान जो खुद मेहनत करता है या अगर उसके परिवार में से कोई कृषि के काम में मेहनत कर रहा है। उस योगदान को, उस खर्च को भी, उत्पादन के मूल्य के साथ जोड़करके उसके आधार पर उस लागत के आधार पर किसानों को उपज की उचित कीमत मिले। इसके लिए देश में एग्रीकल्चर को आगे बढ़ाने की दिशा में काम हो रहा है। एग्रीकल्चर रिफॉर्म पर भी बहुत व्यापक स्तर पर काम हो रहा है।\nगांव की स्थानीय मंडियां, होलसेल मार्केट और फिर ग्लोबल मार्केट से जुड़ें। इसका प्रयास हो रहा है। किसानों को अपनी उपज बेचने के लिए बहुत दूर नहीं जाना पड़े, इसके लिए देश के 22 हजार ग्रामीण हाटों को जरूरी इंफ्रास्ट्रक्चर के साथ अपग्रेड करते हुए एपीएमसी और ई-नाम प्लेटफार्म के साथ इंटीग्रेट किया जाएगा। यानी एक तरह से खेत से देश के किसी भी मार्केट के साथ कनेक्ट ऐसी व्यवस्था बनाई जा रही है। किसान इन ग्रामीण हाटों पर ही अपनी उपज सीधे उपभोक्ताओं को बेच सकेगा। आने वाले दिनों में ये केंद्र किसानों की आय बढ़ाने, रोजगार और कृषि आधारित ग्रामीण व्यवस्था के नए केंद्र बनेंगे।\nइस स्थिति को और मजबूत करने के लिए सरकार फार्मर प्रोड्यूसर ऑर्गेनाइजेशन ...। और मैं चाहूंगा कि किसान मोर्चा के कार्यकर्ता इस पर ध्यान दें। फार्मर प्रोड्यूसर ऑर्गेनाइजेशन - एफपीओ इसके गांव-गाव में संगठन खड़े करने चाहिए। सरकार इसको बढ़ावा दे रही है।\nकिसान अपने क्षेत्र में अपने स्तर पर छोटी-छोटी मंडलियां बनाएं, संगठन बनाएं और ग्रामीण हाटों पर बड़ी मंडियों से जुड़ सकते हैं। आप कल्पना करिए कि जब गांव के किसानों को बड़ा समूह इकट्ठा होकरके जरूरत के हिसाब से खाद खरीदेगा तो ट्रांसपोर्टेशन का खर्चा कम होगा कि नहीं होगा। तो पैसे की कितनी बचत होगी। इसी तरह आप दवा का दाम कम कर सकते हैं। आप समूह में चीजें खरीदते हैं तो और डिस्काउंट मिलता है। और मैं समझता हूं कि सामूहिकता भाव ...। और इसके अलावा। जब वही समूह गांव में अपनी पैदावार इकट्ठा करके, पैकेजिंग करके बाजार में बेचने निकलेगा तो भी उसके हाथ में ज्यादा पैसे आएंगे। खेत से लेकर उपभोक्ता तक पहुंचने के बीच में जो कीमत बढ़ती है उसका लाभ अब सीधा-सीधा किसान उठा पाएगा।\nइस बजट मे सरकार ने ये भी ऐलान किया कि फार्मर प्रोड्यूसर ऑर्गेनाइजेशन। ये सुन लिया बराबर। एफपीओ को कॉपरेटिव सोसाइटी की तरह ही इनकम टैक्स में छूट दी जाएगी। महिला सहायता समूहों को इन फार्मर प्रोड्यूसर ऑर्गेनाइजेशन की मदद के साथ आर्गेनिक, एरोमैटिक, हर्बल खेती इनके साथ जोड़ने की योजना भी किसानों की आय बढ़ाने में एक महत्वपूर्ण मददकार साबित होगी। सप्लाई चेन मजबूत करने के लिए प्रधानमंत्री कृषि संपदा योजना की शुरुआत की गई है। इस योजना के तहत वेल्यू एडीशन के लिए भी बहुत काम हो सकता है। हमारे पैदावार को रखने के लिए गोदाम बनाने का बहुत बड़ा काम हो सकता है।\nफल और सब्जी उगाने वाले किसान के लिए ऑपरेशन ग्रीन की शुरुआत की गई है। हमने एग्रीकल्चर वेस्ट से वेल्थ बनाना ...। हम उसको पहले जला देते थे, बर्बाद कर देते थे। वो तो मूल्यवान संपदा है। वेस्ट से वेल्थ कैसे बने।\nऔर इस बजट में सरकार ने एक गोबरधन योजना ऐलान किया है। गोबरधन यानि गैलवनाइजिंग ऑर्गेनिक बायो-एग्रो रिसोर्स धन योजना। इस ग्रामीण योजना से ग्रामीण इलाकों में स्वच्छता को तो बढ़ावा मिलेगा ही। साथ ही गांवों में निकलने वाले बायो गैस से किसानों एवं पशुपालकों की आमदनी बढ़ाने में मदद मिलेगी।\nआज समय की मांग है कि हम ग्रीन रिवोल्यूशन और व्हाइट रिवोल्यूशन के साथ-साथ वॉटर रिवोल्यूशन, ब्लू रिवोल्यूशन, स्वीट रिवोल्यूशन और ऑर्गेनिक रिवोल्यूशन को आगे बढ़ाने के लिए जी जान से जुट जाएं। ये वो क्षेत्र हैं जो किसानों के लिए अतिरिक्त आय और आय के मुख्य श्रोत दोनों ही हो सकते हैं। ऑर्गेनिक खेती, मधुमक्खी का पालन, समुद्री तट पर सी-बीड की खेती, सौलर फार्म ऐसे तमाम आधुनिक विकल्प भी हमारे किसानों के सामने है।\nइसी तरह अतिरिक्त आय का और माध्यम है सोलर फार्मिंग। जिससे कर्नाटक के किसानों को बड़ा फायदा हो सकता है। ये खेती की वो तकनीक है जो न सिर्फ सिंचाई की जरूरतों को पूरा कर रही है बल्कि पर्यावरण की भी मदद कर रही है। खेत के किनारे पर सौलर पैनल से किसान पानी की पंपिंग के लिए जरूरी बिजली तो खुद पैदा कर सकता है और अतिरिक्त बिजली सरकार को बेच सकता है। इससे उसे पेट्रोल डीजल से मुक्ति मिल जाएगी, खर्चा कम हो जाएगा। एक प्रकार से जीरो कोस्ट वाली बिजली हो जाएगी उसकी। इससे पर्यावरण की भी सेवा होगी। तो पेट्रोल डीजल की खरीद में लगने वाला सरकारी धन की भी बचत हो जाएगी। बीते तीन वर्षों में सरकार ने तीन लाख सोलर पंप किसानों तक पहुंचाया है। और इसके लिए लगभग 2500 करोड़ की राशि स्वीकृत की गई है।\nफसल के जिस अवशेष को किसान सबसे बड़ी आफत मानते हैं। उससे पैसे भी बनाए जा सकते हैं। कर्नाटक में निकलने वाले बहुतायत में कोयर वेस्ट, कोकोनट सेल्स, या बंबू वेस्ट हो, फसल कटने के बाद खेत में बचा रिसूट्स हो, इन सभी को किसानों की आय से जोड़ने का काम किया जा रहा है। जबकि सभी को पता था कि बांस का कंस्ट्रक्शन सेक्टर में क्या वेल्यू है। फर्नीचर बनाने में, हेंडीक्राफ्ट बनाने में, अगरबत्ती और पतंग बनाने में भी बांस का अनिवार्य है। कर्नाटक में तो चंदन की अगरबत्ती के लिए बांस विदेशों से मंगवाना पड़ता है। बांस को किसानों की होने वाली आय को देखते हुए सरकार ने बांस के पुराने कानून को बदल दिया है। इस फैसले से कर्नाटक के छोटे उद्योगों को भी फायदा होगा। किसान खुद अपने खेत के किनारे पर बंबू की खेती करके बंबू बेच सकता है।\nसाथियों।\nहमारे देश में लकड़ी का जितना उत्पादन होता है, वह देश की आवश्यकता से बहुत कम है। सप्लाई और डिमांड के बीच इतना गैप है कि हर साल करोड़ों-करोड़ डॉलर खर्च करके हम लकड़ी बाहर से लाते हैं। देश की प्राकृतिक संपदा की रक्षा और पेड़ों के संरक्षण को ध्यान में रखते हुए सरकार अब मल्टीपरपस ट्री स्पेशिस के ट्रांस्प्लांटेशन पर जोर दे रही है। आप सोचिए। किसान को अपने खेत में ऐसे पेड़ लगाने की स्वतंत्रता हो जिसे वो पांच, दस, 15 साल में अपनी आवश्यकता के अनुसार काट सके। उसका ट्रांसपोर्ट कर सके। तो उसकी आय में कितनी बढ़ोतरी होगी। मैं तो हमेशा कहता आया हूं कि किसान अपने घर में बेटी पैदा हो और बेटी पैदा होते ही अगर ऐसा एक पेड़ लगा दे तो बेटी की शादी की जब उम्र होगी और उस समय जब पेड़ काटेगा तो बेटी की शादी का पूरा खर्चा उस पेड़ से निकल आएगा। हर मेड़ पर पेड़ का कान्सेप्ट किसानों की बहुत बड़ी जरूरतों को पूरा करेगा। इससे पर्यावरण को भी लाभ होगा। इस बदलाव में ज्यादा से ज्यादा से राज्य को जोड़ने में भारत सरकार कोशिश कर रही है। और येदुरप्पा जी की सरकार बनेगी तो कर्नाटक सबसे पहले इस योजना से जुड़ जाएगी। ये मुझे विश्वास है।\nमूल्य समर्थन योजना में किसानों की मदद के लिए समर्थन मूल्य पर खरीदी की जाती है। मुख्य रूप से खरीदी नाफेड के लिए 1500 करोड़ की सरकारी खरीद की गारंटी की व्यवस्था थी। हम किसानों से समर्थन मूल्य पर खरीदी की पुख्ता व्यवस्था कर रहे हैं। और इसलिए इस साल हमने नाफेड की गवर्मेंट गारंटी को बढ़ाकर, कहां 1500 करोड़, अब हमने उसको कर दिया है 30,000 करोड़ रुपये। सोचिए मेरे किसान भाइयो बहनो। पहले 1500 करोड़ रुपए में किसानों के लिए योजना, योजना के गीत गाए जाते थे। आज हमने उसको 30 हजार करोड़ पहुंचाया है। क्योंकि हम जानते हैं किसान के दर्द को दूर करने के लिए किसान को हिम्मत बढ़ानी पड़ेगी। और हम उसको आवश्यकता पड़ने पर और भी बढ़ाने के लिए तैयार हूं।\nअब मैं कर्नाटक की बात करूं। पिछले खरीफ और चालू रबी को लेकर अकेले कर्नाटक में चना, उड़द, मूंग आदि की समर्थन मूल्य पर 6000 करोड़ की अधिक की खरीदी की जा चुकी है। ये भारत सरकार ने इसके लिए पहल की है। तो आप समझ सकते हैं। मेरे किसान मोर्चा के भाइयो बहनो। एक-एक सवाल पर मेरे पास इतनी जानकारियां है, इतने निर्णय है, इतने इनिशिएटिव है, धरती पर इतना परिवर्तन आया है। इससे मेरा विश्वास बढ़ गया है। हम किसानों को हमेशा-हमेशा के लिए समस्याओँ की मुक्ति के रास्ते पर चल पड़े हैं। और किसान का विश्वास पैदा हो जाए। हम किसान मोर्चा के कार्यकर्ता एक ब्रिज के रूप में इस काम को कर दें। आप देखिए। चुनाव तो आएंगे, जाएंगे। मेरा किसान शक्तिवान बने, सामर्थ्यवान बने। मेरा गांव शक्तिवान बने, सामर्थ्यवान बने। हमारे किसान का कल्याण हो। हमारी पूरी अर्थव्यवस्था में किसी जमाने में जो कृषि की ताकत थी, वो ताकत फिर से लौटकर आए। उस पर हम बल दे रहे हैं।\nमुझे खुशी है कि कर्नाटक में रूबरू होने का मौका मिला। कल तो मैंने अद्भूत दृश्य देखा, अद्भूत नजारा देगा। लेकिन आज फिर से मुझे किसान मोर्चा से कृषि के संबंध में ही टेक्नोलॉजी के जरिए नरेन्द्र मोदी एप डाउनलोड करके बड़ी आसानी से अब आप आसानी से जुड़ जाते हैं। आने वाले दिनों में महिला मोर्चा, एसटी-एससी मोर्चा, युवा मोर्चा उनसे भी मैं समय निकालकर जरूर बात करूंगा। कल फिर मैं कर्नाटक के दौरे पर आ रहा हूं। I liked it very much by talking to you. Thanks a lot. मैं सभी जिस किसानों को योगी कहा गया है। ऐसे सभी किसानों को प्रणाम करता हूं, नमस्कार करता हूं।"