"Share\n\nUdupi region was naturally blessed with coastal plains and yet it failed to develop under the Congress: PM Modi\nCongress' disrespect toward Shri Deve Gowda is not acceptable If such is their mindset, how can they feel good for people of Karnataka: PM\nCongress has played politics over banking schemes for poor, says Modi in Udupi\nWe will leave no stone unturned to meet aspirations of people and make all round development of the state: PM in Udupi\nLove between me and people of Udupi is such that language no barrier among us, says PM Modi\n28th April 2018 will always be remembered in the history of India Due to the efforts of several teams of people, India's villages got electricity: PM\nThe Congress is led by leaders who have no respect for India's history. I have been shocked that 'Vande Mataram': PM Modi\nWhy did the Congress not think about the 18,000 villages lacking access to electricity: PM\nBJP is focussing on the pride of Karnataka, the development of the state. We Want a Swachh, Sundar and Surakshit Karnataka: PM Modi\nKarnataka Govt did not like the farmers in Karnataka PM Modi asks why do not ensure proper irrigation facilities\nCongress left behind a chronic illness of 60 years, and we are working hard to remove it\nLong live Mother India. Long live Mother India.\nAll the senior leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party sitting on the stage and my dear brothers and sisters from Karnataka came in large numbers.\nYour enthusiasm, your enthusiasm is that this time the people of Karnataka have decided to punish the Congress.\ngood …. You do not want an interpreter. Good luck.\nYour love is so much that the language on me can not be the obstacle between us. I bow to you for your love and bow down to you. Here a small pandal was made. Perhaps the locals here would have felt that the pandal would be filled, it would be great. But all of our arrangements fell short and the vast majority of the population\nMy dear brothers and sisters\nYou are doing penance in this heat. We will not let this penance be useless. I have returned the love you have given, and I will return it and return it as a development.\nBrothers and sisters\nI have a special relationship with Udupi. Because Balkrishna is here from Dwarka's land. Udupi's relationship became inexhaustible with Dwarka. And so also my natural bondage is formed from this earth. And this love shows me that in your heart ....\nBrothers and sisters\nDevotees of Kanakdas to Bhakta or Vasudev's visit or Madhukaracharya's Balakrishna meet. On Udupi, Lord Shrikrishna has always been under the umbrella. Today, the contribution of monasteries, temples, gurus and creators to the country and society is going to inspire us all.\nBrothers and sisters\nThis is the creation of Parasurama. How to protect the nature of Parashuram, how to cultivate nature, how to live a symbiotic with nature, the creation of Parashuram gives us the message. This is what we can say to the whole world that we are people who know the nurture of nature. We are not in our culture to exploit nature, in our tradition.\nBrothers of my Udupi sisters.\nI feel a special pride for this earth today. Young man of the same earth The young man has elevated the head of India within the world at a very young age. India's players went to Australia in the Commonwealth Games. And the child of this earth is our youngest brother, Guru Raja Pujari, he went to Gururaj from the land of Krishna and brought him medal in weightlifting to Hindustan. I have got an opportunity to meet Guruja I got an opportunity to hear from Gururaja about his feat.\nBrothers and sisters\nThis is the young man who lights the name of India in the country and the world. We were not even in politics. We came from politics late in the long run. But with Udupi, we have come to realize myths for many years. When the flag of the Jan Sangh was not waved anywhere in the whole country. In that era, 40 years ago, in Udupi, the people of Jan Sangh were chosen by people in municipality. And for many years the people of Udupi made Jan Sangh victorious here. And when there was a competition between the municipalities in India, Udupi-ruled state of Udupi was number one in the country in many parameters. And so, whether it is a matter of hygiene, talk of drying of the common man, the association of Udupi, Jan Sangh and BJP is related to the history of success. And so today I celebrate the Jana Sangh from the BJP till the millions of workers who have carried forward these great traditions.\nBrothers and sisters\nThis area of ​​Udupi, South Kannada is known as Land of Temple. This Land of Temple is only But the country should also know that this land is also Land of Banking for India. Years ago, this country got a new direction in the field of banking, the country got new strength, the country got new strength.\nBrothers and sisters\nThat's the Earth. From where Mr. Subbarao Pai, Mr. PMA Pai, Mr. Haji Saheb, Mr. AB Shetty Even today when it comes to banking sector in India, the name of this land with pride, remembers the name of these great leaders. And the land that gave the country the importance of banking, the strength of the field. After independence, nationalization of banks was done in the name of the poor. Game played to grab power But even after Independence, there was never a chance of going to the bank's door to the poor. The poor could not even think that he could go to the bank's door. You people put us in the Government of India in Delhi. Given the privilege of leading the government of the country. The Udupi which gave the country to banking. We dreamed of connecting the poor with the banking system and added it to the banking system. Over 31 crore 40 percent of the population was outside the mainstream of the economy even after so many years of independence, was out of the banking system. We added them to the banking system. Under the Jan-Dhan Yojana, they opened their accounts in the bank. And we told the poor that a bank account would be opened from zero balance. The bank is yours. Do not worry. And see the richness of the poor of my country. We had said that Zero will open balance account but the poor of my country opened their own savings area by depositing 80 billion rupees into banks. You can imagine. If these poor people had had this opportunity 40-50 years ago, they would have reached the economy today. The country's economy was so powerful. But the Congress, with the habit of running the country for a handful of people, never thought of making the poor strong. He always intended to bake his political bread by keeping the poor poor. The same result came in the welfare of the country.\nDear brothers and sisters\nBank's money should be done by the country's young man or not ... If the young man of the country wants to fulfill his dream then the money which is in the bank should be used or not. But earlier there were such governments that whatever their loved ones were looted, the rupees, which were robbed by the banks, would have robbed them. But the young man of the country wanted to stand on his feet, start a small business, do his business, get a new machine in agriculture, and set up a small industry. So the doors of the banks were locked for our young men, they were closed. They were asked. Bhai has come to take a loan from the bank, do you have to keep some jarbari? Is the ground. Is the property. Guaranteed. If he had it, why would he knock on your door? Hey do not have it. He has the power, the resolution is, he intends to do something, he wants the opportunity opportunity. If someone grabs his hand, then he is ready to walk himself.\nBrothers and sisters\nDuring the Congress rule, bank money was not used for the youth of the country for 5-6 decades. We have linked this banking system to the youth of the country. Appointed with hopeful youngsters. Added to promising young people. Connected with the designated youth. Added to the youth who intend to stand on their feet. And introduced the Prime Minister's Money Scheme. Under the Prime Minister's Money Scheme, 12 crore loans were sanctioned in this country and the amount was more than Rs 4 lakh crore. Given in the hands of young people of the country Twenty-three lacs have been approved in Karnataka alone. These young men have come forward And the young people who have started their business. He is standing on his own feet, but somewhere he is giving employment to one, then someone is giving employment to five people. Right now I got an opportunity to meet the beneficiaries of the money scheme across the country. I was surprised. They did such a work by showing it within one year and two years. Got started creating branded things. Began to capture the market. The youth power of my country, the power of my banking system and the determination power of the government. This is Triveni Sangam which is moving forward to change the fate of India.\nBrothers and sisters\nI want to ask the Government of Karnataka today. I want to ask Congress leaders. You tell me brothers Is there a place for violence in democracy ...? What is the right to get innocent people to be killed? If there is any other ideology in political ideology then he is killed ... Will the people of Karnataka, seeking favor with democracy in this election, call for the Congress party .... In the last two years, more than two dozen BJP workers were killed, slaughtered, violence took place. His crime was that he opposed your thoughts. His crime was that he used to raise voice for citizens of Karnataka. You strangled his throat.\nYou tell me Brothers in Karnataka\nViolence violence should be a departure from the Congress or should not be ... Should have been farewell to Karnataka or not .... Should be farewell to the country or not .... Should the mindset of violence be farewell or not ... What is kept by.\nBrothers and sisters Ego's too ....\nCountry today .... In the world, India has moved forward in the country of doing business. This is our Karnataka ... Since then I was small, I did not even know the politics, since then we have come to hear Karnataka's pride. People here, the life here, the peace here, everyone appreciated. But the Congress government has done the task of crushing this legacy of Karnataka. On one hand, we have increased the reputation of India in the world of doom. People from abroad come to India, invest capital. People of India are working for it, get the right. On the other hand, what the Congress is doing in Karnataka What is happening in Congress rule? On one hand, India is making plans for the Doing business and for the first time in the world 45 hands have gone ahead. Our height has increased. Our name has increased in the world. On the other hand, what is happening in Congress rule There is no interest in do's doing here. this is sad.\nThe government is indifferent to political violence. I want to make an open allegation that the Congress has been doing the job of doing business of the country in its governance. They have killed the do's killing. These are the cultures of this death killing. And so I want to urge you that politics of crime from here, politics based on criminals, dominated by the criminals' governments. If we do not end this, the future of youngsters of Karnataka is not bright. And that is why this disease came from the Congress for the bright future of Karnataka. It is very important to get rid of that disease. They are getting this opportunity in the election. On May 12, we have decided to change this destiny by pressing the button on the lotus mark. And believe me.\nBrothers and sisters\nThere are differences in politics but there are certain limitations of public life. Every person will have his own ego but the values ​​and values ​​of society also have value. When the former Prime Minister of our country, the son of the farmer, son of the son Shree Deve Gowda, came to Delhi. Whenever he asked for my time. I got them Not only this, when they come to my house, they open their door and welcome them. And when I go, I go to the door and leave them in the car and leave. Politically, they are of our opposing views. They criticize us furiously. Vote against us in the Parliament, but Devgoda J is one of the most respected leaders of Hindustan. But I heard that the Congress president was mentioning the revered Devegowda ji 15-20 days ago in election meetings today. Is this your sacrament Is this ego .... Hey, now your life is getting started. Hey Degowda ji is one of the senior leaders of this country. You humiliate them. You can imagine that its mood is such. Whose ego has reached the seventh heaven. Right now life is the beginning. If they are doing this today then how bad can they be in the coming days. It shows you from their exploits. And so Such a Congress party, such arrogant people are a very dangerous threat to democracy. Therefore, I urge the people of Karnataka. It is the responsibility of the people of Karnataka, to fulfill Mahatma Gandhi's dream. Mahatma Gandhi's last dream was The wish of his life was to scatter the Congress. Every state of the country got an opportunity to fulfill Gandhiji's dreams. Wherever people got the chance in the last four years .... Congress ... Now whose turn is .... Now it is Karnataka's turn. This Karnataka got the privilege of fulfilling the country's will. And after the game was completed in Karnataka .... Then sir .... The blessings of Gandhiji are coming upon you only.\nAnd so ... Brothers and sisters\nCongress party intolerance, violence, atrocities, law and order This remained the identity of his governments. Today, normal human is not safe. In Karnataka, the Lokayukta should be attacked, the Karnataka Police officers themselves wrote letters to the government, express concern about law and order. What could be worse than this? Protect our daughters. जिस प्रकार से कर्नाटक में बेटियों पर जुल्म हुए हैं। मीडिया में वो खबर दिखाई दे या न दिखाई दे, सोशल मीडिया में जिस प्रकार से लोगों ने जानकारियां पहुंचाई है। ये चौकाने वाले हैं।\nइसलिए भाइयो बहनो।\nमेरे देश की बेटियों को रक्षा देने के लिए, राक्षसी मनोवृत्ति के लोगों को दंडित देने के लिए हमारी सरकार ने बहुत बड़ा फैसला किया है। बलात्कारियों को फांसी के मंच पर चढ़ा दिया जाएगा, फांसी पर लटका दिया जाएगा। और न्याय जल्दी से जल्दी मिले। ये फैसला हमने किया है। ये निर्णय हमने किया है। आप जानते हैं। हम निर्णय करते हैं तो उसको लागू करके ही रहते हैं।\nBrothers and sisters\nआपने माफियाओं की कथाएं तो बहुत सुनी है। और कर्नाटक में तो हर इलाके में माफिया की बिरादरी चली है। अब एक नया खेल चला है। सैंड माफिया। उडुपी वाले बराबर सब जान जाते हैं। हाईकोर्ट को, कर्नाटक के हाईकोर्ट को कठोर टिप्पणी करनी पड़ी, सरकार के खिलाफ। और गरीब आदमी को घर बनाना हो, दो बोरी बालू चाहिए तो उसको ब्लैक में लाने के लिए मजबूर करे। यहां तक सैंड माफिया ने अपने हाथ पैर पसारे हैं।\nआप मुझे बताइए।\nइन माफियाओं के पीछे सत्ता में बैठे हुए लोगों का सहारा है कि नहीं है ...। उनके आशीर्वाद है कि नहीं है ...। जो बालू भी लूट जाते हैं, वो आपके लिए कुछ बचने देंगे क्या ...। ये लूट करने की सरकार जानी चाहिए कि नहीं चाहिए ...। हमेशा-हमेशा के लिए कर्नाटक को ऐसी वृत्ति-परिवृत्ति से मुक्ति मिलनी चाहिए कि नहीं मिलनी चाहिए ...।\nऔर इसलिए भाइयो बहनो।\nमैं आज आपसे आग्रह करने आया हूं। ऐसी सरकार जो माफिया को पालती है, कानून व्यवस्था को पी जाने की आदत रखने वाले लोग मुखिया बनके बैठे हुए हैं। तो भाइयो बहनो। कर्नाटक की हालत बद से बदतर हालत होती चली जाएगी। यही एक मौका है कर्नाटक को बचाने की।\nये हमारा उडुपी। जब भी कर्नाटक में शिक्षा की चर्चा होती है। 10वीं के एक्जाम हो, 12वी के एक्जाम हो, शानदार, शानदार परिणाम किसका आता है ...। पूरे कर्नाटक में आन-बान-शान किसकी है। उडुपी है कि नहीं है ...। और मजा देखिए। कभी भी उडुपी के छात्र इतने होनहार हैं। शिक्षा में पराक्रम करने वाले लोग हैं। पूरे कर्नाटक में उनका कोई मुकाबला नहीं कर सकता है। लेकिन कभी भी। कभी उडुपी के एक्जाम सिस्टम में गलत हो रहा है। ऐसी एक भी खबर सुनने को नहीं मिली। गर्व होता है। आज के कालखंड में ये उडुपी जैसी पवित्र जगह से हमारे नौजवान इस प्रकार का जीवन जीते हैं। तो देश का हौसला बुलंद होता है, गर्व होता है। उन माताओं-पिताओं को, शिक्षकों को, स्कूलों को उडुपी के नौजवानों को आदरपूर्वक धन्यवाद देता हूं। अभिनंदन करता हूं।\nभाइयो बहनों।\nलेकिन इतनी पढ़ाई। इतने होनहार परिणाम लेकिन जैसे ही 20-22 साल की उम्र हो जाए। बूढ़े मां-बाप को छोड़करके कहीं बैंगलुरू जाना पड़ता है, कहीं कर्नाटक से बाहर जाना पड़ता है। रोजी रोटी कमाने के लिए कहीं और जाना पड़ता है।क्या उडुपी के आस-पास विकास करके यहां के लोगों को रोजगार नहीं दिया जा सकता। क्या यहां के समुद्र तट की शक्ति, ब्लू रिवोल्यूशन के द्वारा यहां के लोगों के जीवन में रोजगार नहीं दिया जा सकता है।\nलेकिन भाइयो बहनो।\nये सरकार ऐसी है। इनके इरादे ऐसे हैं। इनकी आदत ऐसी है कि वे कभी भी इस परिवर्तन के पक्ष में होते नहीं है। उनकी आदत है अटकाना, लटकाना, भटकाना। चीजों को रोके रखना। विकास के अंदर कोई भी चीज आगे न बढ़े। 5 साल में भारत सरकार ने कडूर- चिकमगलूर-सकलेसपुर रेल लाइन का प्रोजेक्ट। 20 साल हो गए लेकिन 90 किलोमीटर की रेल लाइन, 16 साल के बाद कडूर से चिकमंगलुर तक आधा काम पूरा हो पाया है। आप मुझे बताइए। यदि राज्य सरकार जमीन ही न दे तो भारत सरकार कितने ही पैसे लगाए। क्या विकास हो सकता है क्या ...।\nये बरही सिंचाई परियोजना। what happened. 40 साल हो गए। कितने मुख्यमंत्री आकर गए। कितनी सरकारें आकर गई। जब-जब कांग्रेस सरकारें आई। काम थोड़ा आगे बढ़ा रोक दो, थोड़ा आगे बढ़ा, रोक दो। पानी के संबंध में, ऐसी उदासी सरकार हमने कभी नहीं देखी।\nBrothers and sisters\nकर्नाटक के पास समृद्ध कोस्टल इलाका है, समुद्री तट है। और हम तटीय विकास के पक्ष के हैं। सागरमाला प्रोजेक्ट के द्वारा हम हिन्दुस्तान के समुद्री तट के विकास पर काम के लिए काम करना चाहते हैं। हम हमारे फिशरमैन के लिए नए हार्बर बनाने के लिए काम कर रहे हैं। उडुपी के आस-पास रेल के दो स्टेशन का काम चल रहा है। वह बहुत जल्द पूरा होने वाला है। तटीय कर्नाटक को उडुपी में रेलवे बिजलीकरण का काम आज तेज गति से चल रहा है। और इसलिए इन्फ्रास्ट्रक्चर के द्वारा उडुपी को देश के अन्य भागों से तत्काल जोड़ने का काम, ये हमारी प्राथमिकता रही है। भारत माला प्रोजेक्ट के तहत अगल दो वर्षों में लगभग 1.5 लाख करोड़ रुपए का निवेश नौजवानों को नए रोजगार के अवसर पैदा करने वाला है।\nBrothers and sisters\nविकास के अनके प्रोजेक्ट लेकरके आज हम मछुआरों की जिंदगी बदलने के लिए काम कर रहे हैं। विकास की नई ऊंचाइयों को पार करने के लिए काम कर रहे हैं। और ऐसे समय, आपका ये उत्साह और उमंग, आने वाले 10-11 दिन आपके पास है। घर-घर जाना है। एक-एक मतदाता से मिलना है। हर मतदाता के भविष्य को कर्नाटक के भविष्य के साथ जोड़ना है। और भारतीय जनता पार्टी के लिए बटन दबाने के लिए बटन दबाने तक ले जाना आपका काम है। पोलिंग बूथ तक ले जाने का आपका काम करना है। और आप सब इस काम को आगे बढ़ाएंगे। और येदुरप्पा जी के मुख्यमंत्री पद में हम कर्नाटक में नई सरकार बनाएंगे। दिल्ली की सरकार कर्नाटक के साथ कंधे से कंधा मिलाकरके चलने के लिए तैयार है। आप दो कदम नहीं चलेंगे तो हम पीछे नहीं रहेंगे। ये हम आपको विश्वास दिलाने आया हूं। कर्नाटक की आशाएं अपेक्षाएं पूर्ण करने के लिए दिल्ली की सरकार ऐड़ी चोटी एक लगा देगी। ये मैं आपको विश्वास दिलाने आया हूं।\nBrothers and sisters\nस्वच्छ, सुंदर, सुरक्षित कर्नाटक निर्मिष सोणा। बन्नी एल्लरू कै जोड़ी सी। सरकार बदली सी, बीजेपी गेल्ली सी। सरकार बदली सी ...। सरकार बदली सी ...। सरकार बदली सी ...। सरकार बदली सी ...। एल्लरीगो नमस्कार करूं। Long live Mother India.\n"