"Share\n\nUdupi region was naturally blessed with coastal plains and yet it failed to develop under the Congress: PM Modi\nCongress' disrespect toward Shri Deve Gowda is not acceptable If such is their mindset, how can they feel good for people of Karnataka: PM\nCongress has played politics over banking schemes for poor, says Modi in Udupi\nWe will leave no stone unturned to meet aspirations of people and make all round development of the state: PM in Udupi\nLove between me and people of Udupi is such that language no barrier among us, says PM Modi\n28th April 2018 will always be remembered in the history of India Due to the efforts of several teams of people, India's villages got electricity: PM\nThe Congress is led by leaders who have no respect for India's history. I have been shocked that 'Vande Mataram': PM Modi\nWhy did the Congress not think about the 18,000 villages lacking access to electricity: PM\nBJP is focussing on the pride of Karnataka, the development of the state. We Want a Swachh, Sundar and Surakshit Karnataka: PM Modi\nKarnataka Govt did not like the farmers in Karnataka PM Modi asks why do not ensure proper irrigation facilities\nCongress left behind a chronic illness of 60 years, and we are working hard to remove it\nEmpowering the villages, the farmers and the poor is our only motive, says PM Modi in Belagavi\nJust like any fish can not survive without water, Congress can not live without power. That is why they are spreading lies: PM Modi in Belagavi\nLong live Mother India. Long live Mother India.\nOur future Chief Minister, Mr. Yedurappa, who is the hope of the people of Karnataka, in the elections held on the stage, all the leaders of the importance sitting on the stage, sitting MPs on stage, all the BJP Bharatiya Janata Party candidates in this election,\nNews of Karnataka elections in Delhi keeps coming. And the news in Delhi was that the BJP's air in Karnataka is going on. But in my first public meeting in Karnataka today, I see that the BJP's wind in Karnataka is not blowing up, the storm is going on. Your enthusiasm, these people and I see that the lesson that we had made, even less. People are standing outside in the sun. Those who are in the sunlight, are absorbed in the heat. I assure them that your penance will not go unnecessarily.\nBrothers and sisters\nToday is the first day of May, the establishment day of Gujarat, Maharashtra is the establishment day and one day in the world is celebrated as a Labor Day. Day to day working people in the country and in the world today. By wages and sweating, it is the day of those who strengthen the path of development. Especially the workers of the country, the artisans, the workers who have brought the country to today, to achieve fulfillment from the resolution and the important achievement which the country achieved on April 28. I want to dedicate this credit to my laborers, sisters, artisan brothers, sisters and hardworking sisters.\nThe date of April 28 has been marked in the golden letters in the history of the country. Because our hard-working people, in difficult terrain, by taking the crisis, 10-12 people raised transformers, raised large pillars, 18,000 villages of the country, reaching the peaks of hills, which lived in the 18th century. Were there. Electricity village was not seen. They completed the task of delivering electricity. And so I salute the workers of the country, the workers, these working people today. Manipur. His Lissang village became the last village, when the electricity reached the 18 thousand villages of the country, the work of power was completed in the time limit.\nOur Congress leaders and new Congress leaders sometimes break the limits in the exaggeration; it would have been good to get two good words for the laborers of my country, who gave electricity to these 18 thousand villages through their mouths. The poor-working people did the work of lighting the villages. If two words came out of their mouth for him, then the mind of my laborers would think that what is the strength in our hard work. But they are nominated, they can never care for the workers, they can never do it. And so it is useless to expect them.\nBrothers and sisters\nWe have completed the work of electrifying the villages on the time limit. But we are not one of those who stop there. Now our dream is that those homes do not have electricity, provide electricity to those homes. And today the poor family is there, where there is no electricity. And those who keep me crying day and night Anap-Shanap speaks the language. I want to ask them that even 70 years after Independence, 40 million households have not given electricity in the house even today. We have pioneered. The work that was not done in 70 years There are 25 million homes in our country. There are no electricity in 40 million households out of 25 crore households. We have pioneered. Under the good fortune scheme, these 40 million families will be given free electricity connections in the time limit. Nowadays, such people are doing leadership in Congress, who have no knowledge of the history of the country, who have no respect for Vande Mataram song. Those who do not know the history of the country or do not know about the sacrifice of great men. Hey, he does not know about the government's things. I just want to ask them something today.\nI just want to ask. Before coming here we had Soniaji's government. Manmohan Singh was sitting on the chair of the prime minister. And Manmohan Singh said in 2005. Just ask a question before the politician asks us questions. In that government of 2005, Prime Minister Manmohan Singh had said that in every village of the country, electricity will be provided by 2009.\nCome on, brother. You disrespect the message of Manmohan Singh, because you tear the Manmohan Singh ji's press conference in full press conference, in the press conference. Manmohan Singh does not think of Ji At least consider your ultimate revered mother. Your mother Madam Soniaji kept a step further in front of Manmohan Singhji in 2005, said that by 2009, Manmohan Singh said that every village will provide electricity, your mother had said that she will be able to bring electricity to every house, to be delivered in 2009. Until 2014 you were sitting I sat till I came. Why did not work. Why do mislead the country? And you are the poor, hard-working people of the country, who have done such a great job, they make fun of them, mock them, and insult them.\nAssociates\nI just want to talk about Karnataka. Do not do Do not do There were 39 villages in Karnataka in 2014 where electricity was not reached. Today in our 39 villages, electricity came to power. But Congress answer In the first 4 years of 2014, only two villages in Karnataka had come to power. Two villages in four years and you are asking for our account.\nBrothers and sisters\nThere is a feature of democracy. Everyone's point of view in democracy is important. The smallest person also has the power to talk about. Not only this, brothers and sisters Any big leader in Parliament and outside the Parliament, outside of the Assembly and outside the House, whatever ordinary citizen is saying, those things have to be taken seriously in democracy. We also .... Our responsibility assumes that every thing that is taken from the opposition side should be taken seriously.\nThe Congress President gave me a challenge recently. He said that if I speak for 15 minutes in Parliament then Modiji will not be able to sit. They have challenged me. They will speak 15 minutes, this is also a big deal. And I can not sit down. I can remember it. Wow what is the scene. The President of the Congress has rightly told you. We can not sit in front of you. You are so named Namdar. And what is the status of the workers that we can sit in front of you? Hey you are so named. We are the workers. We can not even wear good clothes. Where can we sit in front of you? Leave Modi Modi nominated What about this worker, okay, we are the workers. But you do one thing. If you can speak Hindi as the language you prefer during this election campaign, then if you speak the mother tongue of your mother, then mother-tongue can speak. Speak in front of the people of Karnataka, your achievements, achievements, achievements, 15 minutes in front of the people of Karnataka without having to take 15 minutes hand paper. And do one small work together During the 15-minute speech, mention the name of Lord Visvesvaraya ji at least five times to 5 times. If you do so, then the people of Karnataka will decide how much your breath is, what the people of Karnataka will decide.\nBrothers and sisters\nI was reading the newspaper in the past days. I found that there is a 2 plus one formula in Karnataka. This is nothing but the Kannada version of Congress's Family Politics. This is their .... This politically innovation of the chief minister who is waking up sometimes, mostly sleeping. Fear of defeats, the chief ministers are running away, leaving the seat and running, the runners are running away. He himself is fighting in two seats, thinking that he will be saved from anywhere. And where the people were fighting earlier, the people had blessed them, sacrificed the son on the altar. And if any of the three survive, the family carriage will continue to run, they are dreaming. There is a 2 plus one formula for CM, then one plus one formula for ministers. How many ministers' sons and daughters have been dropped in the elections. How do these two plus one and one plus one formula affect the hearts of Congress workers? I know this well, but in front of that nominee, the Congress workers will also sit quietly, some may not be able to say anything.\nBrothers and sisters\nDynasty politics has ruined the parties, ruined the country, ruined democracy. And this family politics is the reason for the devastation of Karnataka. Family Politics is on one side and People Politics on the other side. The decision is to make People Politics. This family policy is not going to run. Here the government, the people sitting in that government, the disciples sitting in the government, there is no rest, about which there is no story, corruption, talk of misconduct, the media has not brought in front of the public; Hard to save. The people of Karnataka are well known. These 10% commission, have become heavier on the mission of democracy. The mission of democracy has been devastated.\nBrothers and sisters\nOn May 12, you do not have to choose legislator only. On 12th May you have to decide what is the future of Karnataka. And by pressing the lotus flower button you have to change the fate of Karnataka. On May 12, your decision is about to open the path to honesty. Your decision on May 12 will be a strength to the dishonest people to campaign for corrupt people.\nBrothers and sisters\nAfter the ban on how-how notes of stacks of people came out of their homes in Karnataka. Who was this note? It was from the workers, not the nominators. And so brothers and sisters Those workers should get back.\nWhen we were young, we were in Gujarat, when we heard Karna's Anan Ban Shan, we also had a sew on. But in the last five years there are no reports of law and order, law and order, no human being safe. Here the government has kept this situation, there is neither law nor order. Even the Lokayukta is not safe, how can the people of Congress talk about the good of the common man? The Karnataka Police has written a letter to the Congress government. And he has written that the law and order system has become so dirty and in the way you have harassed the officers, the truth is, the officer is trying to suppress the officer. Normal human life is destroying. Wherever there is a Congress, crime is dominated, corruption is dominated, brother-nephewism is dominated. And brothers and sisters All the paths of development get stuck. This has happened in Karnataka in the last five years. In this area of ​​Chamrajnagar there is the water of drinking water. Farmers are not getting water for irrigation. The farmers were left to their location. In spite of the precious Black Grenade mines, there is a lack of employment for the youth. This area has been neglected even after immense possibilities of tourism.\nAssociates\nEspecially my farmers brothers We have dreamed, we have resolved that by 2022, 75 years of India's independence will be fulfilled. We are moving ahead in a planned manner to double the income of the farmers of Hindustan. We are especially focusing on every small need of farmer's farming. Our government has done the task of safeguarding the farmers' crops under natural calamities, floods, hail fall, famine, heavy rains, under Prime Minister's Crop Insurance Scheme. More than 14 lakh farmers of Karnataka have taken advantage of this scheme. And the amount of claim has doubled in comparison to the first, which has reached the farmers' house. Farmers got the right price for their crop. And so we have announced the new MSP scheme. The cost of the farmers, the cost of which will be declared one and a half times the MSP so that the farmers can not be robbed. We have 99 projects across the country Water projects, started work on it. In Karnataka also started work on such 5 schemes. Running fast Work is being done to bring water to every farmer's farm.\nBrothers and sisters\nWhether in the journey of development, the work of the road, the work of the road, the work of the seashore, the harvest of farmers, in every sphere, the Indian government is trying to bring a new force in the life of the common man of India. And the development of Congress also does not get used to politics. You will not have an idea of ​​how much this attitude of Congress politics has done in Karnataka in 4 years. Chamrajnagar railway line It's been 5 years. The whole plan is ready but the work is not moving forward. The government passed the budget. Now if the rail is to be set then the land should be required. In Karnataka, the land of Karnataka is a must. But it is stuck in front of Congress politics. And hence, the railway project has hung still today. The public's pie-pie should be used for public good. Today, the work of development of 80 thousand crore by the Government of India in Karnataka is running at a fast pace. There is no attempt to do politics in it too. You can imagine. Bangalore-Mysuru These are the Express we are making. The project of 7 thousand crores is going on. When that is complete, then how small will the way of the Charmarajner be? हर परिवार की कितनी बचत होगी। समय का बचत, पेट्रोल का बचत, पैसों की बचत। यहां के लोगों को कितना फायदा होगा। ये काम हम कर रहे हैं। इतने महत्वपूर्ण काम में राजनीति के झंडे गाड़े जा रहे हैं। इतने महत्वपूर्ण काम में भी रोड़े डाले जा रहे हैं।\nBrothers and sisters\nये कांग्रेस का स्वभाव है, उनका चरित्र है, उनकी आदत है अटकाना, लटकाना और भटकाना। ये काम वो हर विकास के कार्य में कर रहे हैं। और इसलिए मेरे प्यारे कर्नाटक के भाइयो बहनो। विकास के लिए वोट कीजिए। सामान्य मानवी की जिंदगी में सरलता आए। आजादी से जिन चीजों के लिए तड़प रहा है, छोटी-छोटी चीजें भी मिलना शुरू हो, विकास के बिना मिलने वाली नहीं है। भारतीय जनता पार्टी सामान्य मानवी की भलाई के लिए, कर्नाटक राज्य के स्वाभिमान के लिए, कर्नाटक राज्य के उत्तम भविष्य के लिए विकास के मार्ग पर आगे बढ़ना चाहती है। आप मेरा साथ दीजिए, दिल्ली आपका साथ देगी। यह मैं आपको विश्वास दिलाने आया हूं। मैं आप सबसे यही आग्रह करूंगा स्वच्छ, सुंदर, सुरक्षित कर्नाटका निर्मिसोणा, बन्नी एलनेरू, केजोड़ी सी। सरकार बदली सी बीजेपी गेल्ली सी। सरकार बदली सी ...। सरकार बदली सी ...। सरकार बदली सी ...। सरकार बदली सी ...। सरकार बदली सी ...। सरकार बदली सी ...। एल्लेरिगरीगो नमस्कार करूं। Long live Mother India.\n"