"Share\n\nIndia is home to a unique heritage, where the overriding thought has always been the benefit of mankind: PM\nLord Buddha's message of love and compassion can be immense\nGovernment is working with compassion to serve people, in the path shown by Lord Buddha: PM Modi\nMy colleagues from the present present, डॉ. Mahesh Sharma Ji, Mr. Kiren Rijuju Ji, Secretary General of the International Buddhist Foundation, Dr. Dhammapiya Ji, pilgrims from all over the country, ladies and gentlemen!\nThere is a belief that when a mantra is enchanted, energy is created. Today we can feel the same energy When our eyes are open, we can see each other; but at the same time the name of Lord Buddha is echoing in our minds every moment.\nThe devotion towards Lord Buddha can not be expressed in words.\nJust like people are enchanted by mantras, they are also enchanted by Lord Buddha. I am fortunate to have had this opportunity to be present among you in the blessings of the revered religious heads of this holy festival of Buddha Purnima.\nJust now Mahesh Sharma ji and Kiren Rijuju ji were saying that it's my second visit. I had had last year as well but I had a special event in Sri Lanka for Baisakh. I had got the opportunity to celebrate Buddha Purnima with the Sri Lankan people, Sri Lanka Government and the Buddhist religious leaders who came from the world.\nWe all are very busy and have our own responsibilities But we will get everything in the form of salvation just by chanting Lord Buddha's name. But the monks present here have dedicated their entire life to the message of love and harmony of Lord Buddha. They are walking on the path shown by Lord Buddha. On this occasion, I bow down to all the great souls who are spreading the message of Lord Buddha across the world. I welcome all the people who have come here from different parts of the country I have got this opportunity to also congratulate those organizations and individuals who have made efforts and contributions to this work. My best wishes for their future endeavours I would like to congratulate Central Institute of Higher Tibetan Studies at Sarnath and All India Bhikshuk Sang at Bodh Gaya for receiving the Baisakh honour.\nFriends,\nThis part of the world i.e. our India, has a bountiful of invaluable heritage which can hardly be found elsewhere\nA lot of things have been written and written about Gautam Buddha's birth, education and Mahaparinirvana over the past several centuries. Fortunately for the present generation, part of it has survived despite many difficulties.\nWe are proud of the fact that the central theme of all the ideas that have emerged from our country is human welfare. We are also proud of the fact that in this era of new ideas have never been encroached on other's rights or feelings. We do not discriminate against each other's ideologies or religion\n\nWe are proud of the fact that all the ideas that were born out of India have been forwarded to the interests of the whole humanity. We have never said and will never say that only those who follow us will be benefitted. Lord Buddha's ideas have not only created a new consciousness; but today his ideas are defining the national character of many countries of Asia.\nFriends,\nThis is the specialty of this land So our country and every Indian can proudly say that our tradition is a witness to the fact that India has never been encroached on any other country. India has never invaded other countries Our country has been traversing this path and the ideology for the past thousands of years.\nFriends,\nThe journey from Siddhartha to becoming Gautam Buddha is not just the story of achieving Nirvana. This is the story of the truth that anyone who tries to alleviate the pain and suffering of others with his knowledge and wealth walks on the path of becoming Buddha from Siddhartha. He can walk on that path to achieve wisdom\nOn the occasion of Buddha Purnima, every moment we are reminded of At a time when terrorism, racism and separatism are covering the message of Buddha under black clouds, the message of compassion and friendship becomes all more relevant and indispensable. Life is not about winning battles with destruction, violence and hatred. Life means winning hatred, violence and injustice\nIt is a fact that those who have won over the angry mind with Buddhist meditation will succeed and become immortal The confluence of truth and compassion can only enlighten the Buddha within us.\nBuddha means to turn a violent mind into a pure and calm one. The wrong message of discrimination between human beings on the basis of caste, color and language will never be given out by India or the Buddha. People of any caste, color, class or religion have always been approved by their respective individualities. For example, the Jews or the Parsis have had many thousands of years and have become an integral part of the society. We have never imagined about discriminating against them. Following the principle of equality in our lives in itself means living the life of the Buddha. Buddha became the most admired in the world due to the same harmony and equality. Even Babasaheb Ambedkar had gone on the path shown by Lord Buddha.\nToday, India is known as the land of Lord Buddha with its advancement in the mundane fields. It also enhances the greatness of India in the world. 'Budhham sharanam gachhami, dhammam sharam gachhami, sangham sharanam gachhami' has become the people of the world. This is the greatest message on the occasion of Buddha Purnima is' before you try to change others start transforming yourself; You will also become the Buddha Before finding faults in others, try to win your inner war; you will also become the Buddha. ' 'Apo deepah Aap Bhava' which means if you search for the light within yourself then you will also become a Buddha.\nLord Buddha had always been inspiring and spreading the message of compassion and peace. Equality, justice, freedom and human rights are the key values ​​of today's democratic world. But Gautam Buddha had given a clear message about these principles about 2500 years ago. In India, it was not a different idea\nAccording to Lord Buddha's philosophy, equality means that every person has a dignified presence on the earth. Every person should be given equal opportunities to access resources and avail the rights without any discrimination.\nFriends,\nIn every country, every challenge such as terrorism and casteism and other such inequalities are created by human beings other than none other than These inequalities are the root cause of injustice, exploitation, atrocities, violence and social disharmony. On the other hand, the principles of justice, independence and human rights have emerged from the theory of equality. This means that\nIf the feeling of equality strengthens in our society then the path towards Social Justice, freedom, human rights, social change, personal rights, peace, harmony, and prosperity will open up and we will be able to move forward at a faster pace.\nLord Buddha has discussed 'Ashtang' in his teachings I believe that without knowing the path of Ashtang it is very difficult to achieve the ideals of Buddha. Lord Buddha's eightfold path includes right views, right thoughts, right speech, right conduct, right livelihood, right efforts, right consciousness and right consultation.\nIt is possible to solve the problems that we are facing in today's time by Lord Buddha. In order to save the world from the impending danger it is indispensable to follow the message given by Buddha. Lord Buddha also said that one can gain only by walking on this path.\nFriends,\nLord Buddha was among those philosophers who had the need for reasoning. He had emphasized on the logical trial of his religion.\nHe also used to ask his disciples to test and measure their own ideas based on logic and reasoning without any ego. In the 2nd century, the advice given by Nagarjuna to king Uday for giving shape to Lord Buddha's messages is still relevant today.\nHe had said- 'provide the blind, the sick, the deprived, the helpless and the poor with compassion and the provision of food and water in an uninterrupted manner. The patients should be taken care of and the distressed farmers should be assisted as such as seeds and other essential things.\nThe global vision of Lord Buddha has focused on the question that the whole world will come to an end forever? He used to say that it is better to make a person capable of overcoming his sufferings and sorrows than to be sad\nI am glad that our government is moving on the path of compassion and service taking inspiration from Lord Buddha. We give top priority to solutions\nThe government has undertaken many tasks to empower the poor like such as opening more than 31 crore bank accounts under Jan Dhan Yojana at a premium of just 90 paise per day and Rupee 1 per month. Approximately 19 crore insurance was provided to the poor and more than 3 Crore 70 lakh poor women. More than 3 Crore children and more than 80 lakh pregnant women have been immunized under Mission Indradhanush. More than 12 crore loans have been sanctioned without bank guarantee under the Mudra Yojana. Now under the Ayushman Bharat Yojana the government will provide 5 lakh rupees annually to 50 crore poor families to facilitate their treatment.\nFriends,\nThe ideas of inclusiveness and togetherness have completely transformed Lord Buddha. He was the son of a king. He had all the luxuries in his life; But when he used to see a person suffering in pain, he used to be the same as them.\nThis truth gave him a vision - an understanding of wisdom, rationality, cognition, ethics and charisma began to emerge as a power within him.\nThe more we absorb this feeling today, the more you will be able to become the true human beings first. It is necessary to do this for the sake of humanity and to make the 21st century.\nBrothers and sisters,\nEven after such a long period of enslavement, it was not possible to save the cultural heritage of our country. The country that can not preserve its history and does not give its future generations the same grandeur of the heritage can never achieve perfection. Keeping this in view, our government is also working on a great vision for its cultural heritage and for the protection of the memories related to Lord Buddha.\nThere are about 18 such states in our country where there is some or other pilgrimage centers associated with Lord Buddha. Some of them are more than 2000 years old and attract tourists from across the world. In such a situation, it is an indispensable to develop world class facilities in these places. Keeping this in view, the Buddhist circuit is being developed under the Swadesh Darshan Scheme.\nThe government has sanctioned more than Rs. 360 crores for the Buddhist circuit Buddhist sites in states like Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh and Gujarat are being developed.\nApart from this, the Ministry of Road Transport has developed facilities on the roadside of Gaya-Varanasi-Kushinagar route. International conclave on Buddhism is also being organized by the Ministry of Tourism. This year, scholars from different parts of the world The objective of similar programs is to inform people about our cultural heritage so that people from the other countries also come and visit the Buddhist sites and gain knowledge about them. Besides, the central government is also assisting the neighboring countries for protection of the Buddhist heritage. The Restoration and Chemical Preservation of Myanmar's Bagan and Ananda temples are going on at a rapid pace by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI). This temple had been devastated due to the earthquake that had occurred 2 years ago.\nThe ASI is also involved in the protection of other countries like Bamiyan of Afghanistan, Cambodia's Angkor Vat and Ta Prohm, Vat Phou of Laos and Vietnam's My Son Temple. It is also engaged in conserving the Gandan monastery's manuscripts and their digitization in Mongolia.\nToday I want to request from this platform to some central government Ministries. How to bring all the translation and preservation work of Buddha's teaching compilation - 'Tripitaka' associated with the Buddhist philosophy by being a single platform on various institutions? Can we develop a new portal where we can get the teachings of Lord Buddha in simple words and also done by these institutions? I would like to appeal to Mr Mahesh Sharma and take the leadership of this project and make efforts in a specific time frame.\nFriends,\nIt is a privilege to all of us that even after 2500 years the teachings of Lord Buddha are still with us. When I say that it is a privilege then also\nOf course our predecessors have had a major role in their protection. Thanks to the contribution made by our previous generations that we are able to organize such events on the occasion of Buddha Purnima. Our previous generations had made incessant efforts in preserving this heritage for 2500 years in order to bequeath it to the future generations. Now the upcoming human history is waiting for you.\nAfter going back, I want you all to think of 5 or 10 resolutions that you want to satisfy by the year 2022 when our country will be celebrating 75 years of Independence. These resolutions can be associated with some such as protection, preservation of our cultural heritage or spreading the teachings of Gautam Buddha. However, it is my request that every person, institution and organization present today should make some resolutions to be fulfilled by the year 2022. Your efforts will be fulfilled in a New India resolution. We are aware of the challenges We are the blessings of Lord Buddha. So I believe that we will definitely fulfill our resolutions.\nI have got this opportunity to sit beside the feet of Lord Buddha, to seek his blessings and to meet you all. I consider myself blessed.\nOnce again My best wishes to you are Buddha Purnima. With this\nThanks a lot!"