"#MannKiBaat: PM Modi congratulates Indian contingent for their performance at Commonwealth Games 2018\nOvercoming many challenges, our athletes have achieved their goals at Commonwealth Games: PM Modi #MannKiBaat\nYoga is the most economical aspect of #FitIndia movement: PM during #MannKiBaat\nEntire world now marks 21st June as the International Day of Yoga with great enthusiasm. Let us also mobilize people to join it: PM #MannKiBaat\nYoungsters spend their time learning something new and that is why increasingly popular: PM #MannKiBaat\nTake up the Swachh Bharat Summer Internship: PM Modi urges youngsters during #MannKiBaat\nSwachh Bharat Summer Internship aimed at furthering the message of cleanliness; best interns to get national level awards \u0026 2 credit points: PM during #MannKiBaat\nConserve water in every possible way: PM Modi during #MannKiBaat\nEfforts have been done in the last three years of water conservation and water management: PM during #MannKiBaat\nGurudev Rabindranath Tagore was not only talented but a multi-faceted personality, whose writings left an indelible impression on everyone: PM #MannKiBaat\n#MannKiBaat: PM Modi extends Ramzan greetings to people\nWe must be proud that India is the land of Lord Buddha, who guides the whole world through his sacrifice, peace and peace: PM #MannKiBaat\nLord Buddha's life gives the message of equality, peace, harmony and brotherhood: PM during #MannKiBaat\nDr. Baba Saheb Ambedkar's life was greatly inspired by Lord Buddha, says PM Modi during #ManKiBaat\nLord Buddha's teachings show the way to eradicate hatred with mercy: Modi during #MannKiBaat\nLaughing Buddha brings good luck; Smiling Buddha associated with Pokhran test demonstrated India: PM #MannKiBaat\nAtal ji gave the mantra - 'Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan, Jai Vigyan'. Inspired by it, let us build an India which is modern, powerful and self-reliant: PM #MannKiBaat\nLet us transform our personal strengths into the country's collective strength: PM Modi #MannKiBaat\nMy dear countrymen, Namaskar Just a while ago, from the 4th of April to the 15th of April, the 21st Commonwealth Games were held in Australia. 71 countries, including India, participated therein. With an event of such scale \u0026 magnitude, which saw the participation of thousands of sportspersons from myriad corners of the world, could you imagine the mood that must have pervaded the atmosphere there? An air of excitement, zeal, enthusiasm, hope, aspirations, the determination to achieve - who wants to stay away from an atmosphere like that? These were the times when people all over the country pondered daily on the line-up of sportspersons, scheduled for their respective performances How will India's performance be, what will our medal tally look like? These questions were was natural Our sportspersons too lived up to the countrymen's expectations and displayed stellar performances, winning one medal after another Shooting or Wrestling, Table Tennis or Badminton, it was a record performance for India 26 Gold, 20 Silver, 20 Bronze, India bagged a tally of around 66 medals. This success makes every Indian swell with pride. Of course, winning medals is a moment of joy \u0026 glory for a sportsperson; It is the same as a festival for the country \u0026 her countrymen. After the conclusion of a match, representing India, when the athletes draped in the tricolor rise, displaying their medals, the notes of the national anthem being played evoke a sense of joy and fulfillment, glory and honor. This is very, very special in itself. It is a touching moment that fills one's heart with thrill; It is a moment full of zest \u0026 warmth It is a wave of emotions that engulfs all of us simultaneously Perhaps, to express those sentiments I'll run short of words. But I want to share these heroes I feel immensely proud; you too will feel so\nIndia's performance in the Commonwealth Games was excellence. At the same time, it was special Special in the sense that there were many pathbreaking 'firsts'. Are you aware that out of the wrestlers who represented India, each one of them returned with a medal? Manika Batra won a medal in each of the events that she competed in. She is the first Indian woman to win a gold table tennis category too. India clinched the maximum number of medals in shooting. Deepak Lather of Haryana became the youngest Indian Weight-Lifter to win a medal at Commonwealth Games. 15 year old Indian shooter Anish Bhanwala becomes the youngest sportsperson to win Sachin Chowdhary is the sole Indian Para Power Lifter to win a medal at the Commonwealth Games.\nThis edition of the games was special on one more count - a majority of the medalists women athletes In the squash, boxing, weightlifting and shooting - the performance of women turned out to excelence. The final contest in Badminton took place between two Indian Shuttlers, Saina Nehwal and P.V. Sindhu Everyone was thrilled for the fact that despite being the competition, the final medal winner had to be India. The whole country watched it with abated breath. I too enjoyed watching the match. This year, India fared well in Athletics too. Indian sprinters Mohammad Anas \u0026 Hema Das missed a medal narrowly, but their record performance has brought glory to the nation. I congratulate them too ... my best wishes to them Athletes who participated in these games hail from different parts of the country, even from small towns. They have reached this pinnacle, crossing a great deal of hurdles and hardships. Today, the positions they have secured for themselves, the targets they have achieved, owes a lot to the efforts and their parents, guardians, coaches, support staff, schools, teachers, the provided by their schools, during the trip in their lives Even their friends have contributed by their morale under all circumstances I also congratulate them with the sportspersons, my good wishes to them. I feel all these athletes have brought laurels to the country with their stellar performances; The reality is, their performances are not mere displays ... they are the sources of encouragement for upcoming sportspersons and the young generation of the country alike.\nLast month during 'Man Ki Baat', I had asked our countrymen, especially the youth to espouse 'Fit India'. I had invited everyone to join 'Fit India', lead 'Fit India'. I was overjoyed to see people getting connected with a lot of enthusiasm. Expressing support for this, many people have written to me, shared 'fitness mantra-Fit India' stories on social media.\nA gentleman Shriman Shashikant Bhonsale, shared his photo by the swimming pool, has written, 'My weapon is my body, my element is water, my world is swimming'.\nRooma Devnath writes, \"I truly feel happy \u0026 healthy through my Morning Walks. She further adds, \"For me, fitness comes with a smile and we should smile, when we are happy.\nDevnathji, indeed, is happiness is fitness, and there is no doubt about it\nDhawal Prajapati, sharing a photograph of himself trekking, has written; 'For me, travelling \u0026 trekking is' Fit ​​India'.\nIt was heartening to see many young people in interesting ways for Fit India. Cine artiste Akshay Kumar shared a video on Twitter. Even I have gone through it, you too should see it. He has mentioned that this exercise benefits muscles of the back and the stomach, to a great extent. Another video of his has gained popularity; In this he's trying his hand on the volleyball with others. Many other young people have shared their experiences, having joined the 'Fit India' efforts I feel movements like these are beneficial for all of us, for the whole country I would also like to mention, that the movement of 'Fit India', without any expense, is called 'YOG'. Yog has a special significance in the 'Fit India' campaign. You too must be busy with preparations ... the significance, the merit of 21st June, International Yog Day has been accepted and welcomed globally. Do start And not just yourself- your city, village, neighbourhood, school, college, men, women, everyone should make an attempt to connect. Nowadays, the benefits of yog in one's holistic physical and mental development does not need to be told ... neither in India nor the elsewhere in the world. You must have viewed an animated video depicting me, that has been widely circulated. I congratulate those for the field of animation for highlighting nuances, just the way a teacher does. You too will benefit from it\nMy young friends, you can now get out of the tests, exams \u0026 more exams; You must be wondering about spending your holidays You must be contemplating on your vacations and places to travel to! I would like to talk to you today I've seen a lot of young people in these days, spending time in learning new things. The significance of summer internship is soaring; as it is, an altogether new experience in itself. One gets a opportunity to experience life, away from closeted walls, away from paper \u0026 pen and computers. Dear young friends, today I urge you to undergo a special internship. Three Ministries of the Government of India; maybe four- Sports, HRD, Department of Drinking Water have come together to launch 'Swachch Bharat Summer Internship 2018'. College students, young people from the NCC and Nehru Yuva Center, whoever want to do something substantial \u0026 learn something for the sake of society, and the country, those who want to connect with transforming the country and for a reason, who want to do something or the other for the society with a positive energy- for them, there is a great opportunity! Even the cause of the cleanliness campaign would get a boost, and when we celebrate the 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, we'll surely reach an understanding of fulfillment. And let me tell you, the best out of the best interns who have strived in schools and colleges with excellent work will be rewarded with recognition at the national level. Not just that, those interns who accomplish their works well, will be awarded two credit points each, by the UGC. Once again, I invite students \u0026 young people, boys \u0026 girls to avail of the benefits of the internship. You can register yourself for the 'Swachch Bharat Summer Internship' on Mygov. I hope our youth will lend a hand in taking this movement of cleanliness forward. I want to know more about your efforts Do not send your stories, photos and videos Come Let us turn this vacation into a learning opportunity, for a completely new experience.\nMy dear countrymen! I try to watch \"Good News India\" program on Doordarshan whenever I get a chance and I will appeal to my countrymen that we will also see this \"Good News India\" program where we get to know as to how many people in different parts Of our country are doing good things\nRecently, I saw that they were presenting the story of some youth from Delhi, who are selflessly working in the poor children. This group of youngsters has started a big campaign in Delhi for providing education to the street children and slum dwellers. Initially, shocked to see the condition of children begging around or doing some menial jobs that this group of youngsters got dedicatedly, selflessly involved in this creative mission. Starting with just 15 children from the slums near Geeta Colony in New Delhi, it is now being run at 12 places and two thousand children have been brought under its fold. Young teachers associated with this campaign find out a free time of two hours from their busy schedule and contributed in this stupendous mission of bringing out a social transformation.\nDear brothers and sisters, in this very way, some farmers from the hilly areas of Uttarakhand have become the source of inspiration for the farmers. With their collective efforts, they have lost their fortune In Bageshwar in Uttarakhand, the main crops are sown in Mandwa, Chaulai, Corn or Barley. This is a hilly area, the farmers did not get a fair price of their produce. But, the farmers in Kapkot did not know that they were able to come out of this situation and adopted a value-addition process and changed the loss incurring in a profit-earning one. What they did was that they started production of biscuits from their agricultural produce and sold those biscuits directly in the market. Consequently, Chaulai who was forced to sell at Rs. 25 per kg 50 per Kg as biscuits.\nBesides, there is a strong belief that the land in this area is iron-rich and these iron rich biscuits are very good for pregnant women as they overcome the lack of iron. These farmers have formed a cooperative society in Munar village and set-up a biscuit factory there. Impressed by the bold initiative of these farmers, the administration has also linked this to the National Livelihood Mission. These biscuits are now being supplied upto almora and kosani besides being sold to about fifty aanganwadi kendras in Bagheshwar district. With the hard work of these farmers, the annual turnover of the society has gone up from 10 to 15 lakh rupees and with over 900 families getting employment here, people have migrated to other places.\nMy dear countrymen, we often hear that in, times to come, the world will face a war because of water. Everyone talks about this but do we have no responsibility towards conservation of water? Do we not feel that water conservation should be a social responsibility? This must be a collective responsibility. How do we conserve every single drop of rain water? And, we all know this. And, water conservation is not a new topic for us; It is neither a part of the academic curriculum nor a part of our languages. Our forefathers have lived together for centuries They gave up They found out new ways Those who you might be getting a chance to visit Tamilnadu have noticed that in some temples in the state, there are carvings on stone depictioning irrigation system, water conservation methods and drought management. There are vast stone inscriptions in these temples and devotees get a chance to read these educative messages. May it be Mannarkovil, Chiran Mahadevi, Kovilpatti or Pudukottai - you will get great stone inscriptions to this effect. Several baodis (stepwells) are famous as tourist spots but please do not forget that the living symbols of the water conservation campaigns which our forefathers have accomplished.\nAdalaj and Patan Ki Raniki Vaav (Baodi) in Gujarat is a UNESCO World Heritage Site and its grandeur is to be seen. Baodis are water temples in a way. If you want to go to Rajasthan, you must visit Chand Baodi This is one of the biggest and most beautiful baodis of India and the point to be noted is that this is a water-scarce area. April, May, June and July is the most suitable time when rainwater harvesting can be done and if we make preparations in advance, we can reap a rich harvest. Budget under MNREGA is also used for this water conservation activity. During the last three years, everyone has contributed towards water conservation and water management. An average of 32,000 crore rupees have been spent in addition to the MNREGA budget for each year on water conservation and water management. If we talk about 2017-18, 55 percent of total outlay of Rupees 64 thousand crore, which comes from around rupees 35 thousand crore, has been spent on works like water conservation. In last three years, about 150 lakh hectares of land got more benefits through water conservation and water management measures. Some people have really benefitted very well from MNREGA budget provisions made by the Government of India for water conservation and water management works. A project of reviving the rivers that had dried out in Kerala. Seven thousand workers under MNREGA worked hard for seventy days and finally successful in reviving Kuttumperoor river there. The Ganges and the Yamuna have plentiful of water but there are many other places in Uttar Pradesh like Fatehpur district where two small rivers namely Sasur-Khaderi got dried out. After receiving the reports of Remote Sensing Imagery and Inter Department Coordination, the district administration took up the responsibility of the soil and water conservation on a massive scale. They succeeded in reviving the dried out with Sasur Khaderi river with help and cooperation of people from 40-45 villages of the area. This grand achievement is a big boon for animals, birds, farmers, crops and villages. I emphasis that once again April, May, June and July are before us and we should also take some responsibility for water harvesting and water conservation.\nMy dear countrymen! When \"Mann Ki Baat\" approaches I get messages, letters and phone calls from all sides. Aayan Kumar Banerjee from Devi Tola village of North 24 Parganas in West Bengal in his comment on My Gov has written - \"We celebrate Rabindra Jayanti every year but many people are not aware of Nobel laureate Rabindra Nath's philosophy of living peacefully, beauty and with integrity Kindly discuss this point in \"Man Ki Baat\" program so that more and more people can get it.\nI thank Aayanji for drawing the attention of all listeners of \"Man Ki Baat\" towards this point. Gurudev Tagore was a personality full of knowledge and wisdom whose writings left an indelible mark on everyone. Rabindra Nath was a personality full of talent, a multi - directional personna but a teacher in his inner self can always be feeling He has written in Gitanjali - \"He, who has the knowledge, is the responsibility to teach the students.\"\nI did not know Bengali but had the habit of growing early since my childhood and in Eastern India, radio broadcast started early in the Western India. I have a faint memory that probably around 5:30 in the morning, Rabindra Sangeet used to be broadcast on radio and I had a habit to listen to Rabindra Sangeet on radio. And, whenever I got a chance to listen to poems like Anandloke and Aaguner, I used to feel as if my mind was being energised. You must have also been impressed by Rabindra Sangeet and his poetry. I pay my respectful homage to Rabindra Nath Tagore\nMy dear countrymen! Within a few days of the holy month of Ramazan will come on us The month of Ramazan is celebrated with full reverence and respect The sociological and collective aspect of fasting is that when a person experiences hunger himself, he comes to realize the hunger of others. When he is thirsty, he realizes the thirst of others This is a opportunity to remember the teachings of Prophet Muhammad-peace be upon him- and his message. It is our responsibility to follow the path of equality and brotherhood as morals from his life. Once a person asked the Prophet (peace be upon him): \"Which is the best thing in Islam?\" The Prophet Saab said, \"Feeding a poor and needy and meeting everyone cordially, whether you know him or not!\"\nProphet Muhammad (peace be upon him) believed in twin principles of knowledge and compassion He did not have an iota of ego He preached that knowledge alone defeats Prophet Muhammad Sahib (peace be upon him) believed that if you possessed anything more than your requirement, then donate it to the needy, thus donation or giving alms is important during Ramzan. People donate generously Prophet Muhammad Sahib believed that a person is rich because of his inherent spiritualuality, and not materialistic wealth. I wish all the citizens of a good month of Ramazan and I hope this will be the inspiration of the people.\nMy dear countrymen! The Buddha Purnima is a special day for every Indian. We must be proud of the fact that India is the birthplace of Lord Buddha, the very synonym of power of compassion, service and sacrifices, who guided millions of people around the world. This Buddha Purnima reminds us of all of our obligations to emulate Lord Buddha's teaching as well, pledge ourselves to follow his footsteps. Lord Buddha was the fountainhead of egalitarianism, peace, harmony and brotherhood. These are human values, which are most desired in the world today. Baba Saheb Dr. Ambedkar stressed that Lord Buddha has a great inspiration in his social philosophy. Baba Saheb had said - \"My social philosophy may be said to be enshrined in three words; liberty, equality and fraternity My Philosophy has roots in religion and not in political science. I have become derived from them, The Buddha. \"\nBaba Saheb strengthened the oppressed, exploited, deprived and crores of people standing on the brink of marginalization via the Constitution of India. There can not be a big example of compassion than this This form of compassion was one of the greatest qualities of Lord Buddha for the elimination of the people. The Buddhist monks used to travel to different countries. We have inherited the wisdom of Lord Buddha throughout Asia as part of our legacy.\nIt is a link between us and many Asian countries like China, Japan, Korea, Thailand, Cambodia, and Myanmar where Buddhist traditions and their preaching are a part of their origins. And this is the very reason that we are developing Infrastructure for Buddhist tourism, which is going to connect South East Asia with the Buddhist sites of India. I am also very pleased that the government of India is a partner in the restoration of many Buddhist temples which also includes the centuries old magnificent Anand Temple in Bagan in Myanmar. Today, when there is confrontation and human suffering, prevalent everywhere in the world, Lord Buddha's teachings show the way to ridicule I wish people spread all over the world who revere Lord Buddha and believe in the principles of compassion- I wish all of them a auspicious Buddha Purnima.\nI seek benediction from Lord Buddha for the whole world, so that we can fulfill our responsibility in a peaceful and compassionate world based on his teachings. Today, as you remember Lord Buddha, you must have heard about the idols of laughing Buddha, it is said that laughing Buddha brings a good fortune, but very few people know that the smiling Buddha is also associated with an important event in India's defense history. Now you will be wondering what is the connection between smiling Buddha and India's military might?\nYou must remember, 20 years ago today, on 11th May 1998, The Prime Minister of India, Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee had said while addressing the nation and his words filled the whole country with pride, courage and elation. The Indian diaspora was infused with new confidence. That day also was the day of Buddha Purnima. On May 11, 1998, at India's western end a nuclear test was conducted in Pokharan, Rajasthan. It has been 20 years since Pokhran and this test was done on Buddha Purnima with the blessings of Lord Buddha. India's test was not only successful but in a way, India had demonstrated its science in the fields of science and technology. We can also say 11 May 1988 is an engraved in the history of India as a demonstration of his military power.\nLord Buddha has shown the world of power Similarly, when you are strong as a nation, you can be peace with others The month of May, 1998 is not just important for the country that the nuclear tests were conducted in the very first month, but the manner in which they were carried out is also important. It has revealed to the whole world that India is the land of great scientists and with a strong leadership, India can reach loftier destinations and earn new laurels. On that day, Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee had given the ministry - \"Jai-Jawan Jai-Kisan, Jai-Vigyan.\"\nNow that when we are going to celebrate the 20th anniversary of the Pokhran test conducted on May 11, 1998, I asked the young generations of our nation to imbibe the 'Jai-Vigyan' given by Atalji for enhancing the power and power of India, to build a modern India, a powerful India and a self-reliant India. Synergize your energy Witnessing the journey that started, we are continuing on that very path with a new satisfaction in getting ahead.\nMy dear countrymen, looking forward to our conversation when we will meet for another episode of Man Ki Baat Thank you very much\nIt was a time when people all over the country used to think that what players will perform today: PM @narendramodi on 2018 CWG #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 29, 2018\nOur players also did their best by fulfilling the expectations of the countrymen and went on winning a medal one by one: PM @narendramodi during #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 29, 2018\nThis success of every Indian gives pride. Winning the medal is a matter of pride and happiness for the players. This is a very glorious festival for the entire country, for all the citizens: PM @narendramodi during #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 29, 2018\nThe Commonwealth Games 2018. The tune in https://t.co/UOc3gL2x6i\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 29, 2018\nKnow what the Gururaj has about 2018 CWG https://t.co/eMsGFViTSm #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 29, 2018\nMirabai Chanu recalls her experiences during the 2018 Commonwealth Games Tune in. #MannKiBaat https://t.co/eMsGFViTSm\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 29, 2018\nI congratulate our shooters for making us proud during the Commonwealth Games 2018: PM @narendramodi during #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 29, 2018\nOur women athletes have India very proud during this year's Commonwealth Games: PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 29, 2018\nAthletes participating in Games, from different parts of the country, have come from small towns. Many obstacles have overcome the difficulties: PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 29, 2018\nLast month I urged people to take part in the #FitIndia movement I am glad with the overwhelming support for the movement: PM @narendramodi during #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 29, 2018\nPM @narendramodi appreciates noted film personality @akshaykumar for his contribution to the #FitIndia movement. #MannKiBaat https://t.co/urTkH2yL1V\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 29, 2018\nYoga is a wonderful way to stay fit. Let us think about ways to make the # 4thYogaDay memorable #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/TMswxIFY4t\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 29, 2018\nAre you ready to take part in the Swachh Bharat Summer internship? #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/ckomCJ1H5t\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 29, 2018\nLet us contribute towards a clean India #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/yRxbR7l30M\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 29, 2018\nWhat do you want to do? Have a interesting Swachh Bharat internship? #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/qCjQOm74cz\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 29, 2018\nWhenever I can, I see the Good News India program on DD. The stories shared during the program are extremely interesting: PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 29, 2018\nConservation of water in the hearts of Indians is not a new topic, it is not the subject of books, it is not the subject of language. For centuries our ancestors have shown it alive. He has given importance to the water of one drop water: PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 29, 2018\nLet us work towards water conservation #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/YzCS3xwFmm\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 29, 2018\nLeaving no stone unturned for water conservation #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/N2xUgK3Sdv\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 29, 2018\nAnswering a question from Ayan Kumar Banerjee, PM @narendramodi is talking about Gurudev Tagore. #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/Bx8fEz505s\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 29, 2018\nThe holy month of Ramadan begins in a few days. The month of Ramadan is celebrated with full reverence and respect throughout the world: PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 29, 2018\nThis is an opportunity to remember the teachings of Prophet Mohammad and his message. It is our responsibility to follow the path of equality and brotherhood from their lives: PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat\n— PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 29, 2018\nएक बार एक इंसान ने पैगम्बर साहब से पूछा- “इस्लाम में कौन सा कार्य सबसे अच्छा है?” पैगम्बर साहब ने कहा – “किसी गरीब और ज़रूरतमंद को खिलाना और सभी से सदभाव से मिलना, चाहे आप उन्हें जानते हो या न जानते हो” : PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat\n— PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 29, 2018\nपैगम्बर मोहम्मद साहब ज्ञान और करुणा में विश्वास रखते थे | उन्हें किसी बात का अहंकार नहीं था | वह कहते थे कि अहंकार ही ज्ञान को पराजित करता रहता है : PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat\n— PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 29, 2018\nपैगम्बर मोहम्मद साहब का मानना था कि यदि आपके पास कोई भी चीज़ आपकी आवश्यकता से अधिक है तो आप उसे किसी ज़रूरतमंद व्यक्ति को दें, इसीलिए रमज़ान में दान का भी काफी महत्व है: PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat\n— PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 29, 2018\nPM @narendramodi pays tributes to Lord Buddha during #MannKiBaat . pic.twitter.com/xKUL2FFb7K\n— PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 29, 2018\nRemembering the teachings of Lord Buddha. #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/LrQm9rMQlT\n— PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 29, 2018\nWe also remember Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar.\nDr. Babasaheb Ambedkar was greatly influenced by Lord Buddha. #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/2iobSl4hgo\n— PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 29, 2018\nThe influence of Buddhism spread far and wide. Monks from India went to various parts of Asia and spread the teachings of Lord Buddha. #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/ylUka2eXV0\n— PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 29, 2018\nTaking steps to improve Buddhist Tourism circuits. #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/cVGBdbhx9U\n— PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 29, 2018\nInspired by Lord Buddha, let us further the spirit of peace and harmony across the world. #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/9vhk9TNLC9\n— PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 29, 2018\nWe remember the historic Pokhran Tests in May 1998. We salute the efforts of our scientists and recall the leadership of Atal Ji. #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/EUHhfVOz5a"