"Mahatma Gandhi always highlighted the importance of villages and spoke about 'Gram Swaraj': PM Modi\nUrge people to focus on the education of their children: PM Modi\nOur efforts are towards self-reliance in the agricultural sector: PM\nJan Dhan, Van Dhan, Gobar Dhan Trio aimed at empowering the tribal and farm communities: PM Modi\nA transformation of villages will ensure a transformation of India: PM Modi\nMadhya Pradesh's Governor Smt. Anandiben Patel, State's Chief Minister Shivraj Singh, Union Minister Shri Narendra Singh Tomar, Shri Purushottam Rupala, Minister of State Gopal ji, Mr. Om Prakash, Mr. Sanjay, my colleague in the Parliament Faggan Singh Kulaste, Smt. Sampatiya Uikey, BJP leader and an MP from Jabalpur Shri Rakesh Singh Ji, Head of Zilla Panchayat of Mandla Smt Saraswati Marawi ji I would like to proudly announce the presence of Deputy Chief Minister of Tripura. He has done a successful job during the Tripura elections. BJP won a majority in assembly elections It was a historical decision taken by Tripura.\nMost of the population of Tripura is tribal Just like there is a long history of Gonds in your state, there is a long rule of tribal people in Tripura. I am happy that today the newly elected Deputy Chief Minister of Tripura Mr. Jishnu Deb Burman is present in us. He belongs to an tribal community and comes from the royal family that had taken once the arms against the British. Today I'm proud to welcome him here on the soil of Madhya Pradesh.\nBrothers and sisters,\nToday we have gathered on the banks of Narmada. About 1300 km long mother Narmada that starts from here and flows till the coasts of Gujarat, taking care of crores of people, aiding in agricultural activities, animal husbandry, rural livelihood, has been centuries since our lives. I salute that mother Narmada!\n\nI have been fortunate enough to get ahead Stories of Rani Durgavati's courage and sacrifices have always been inspiring us. This is the uniqueness of our country The stories of Rani Durgavati and Rani Avanti Bai have taught us that we should always fight for the sake of foreign rulers; we should not only live but also the same pride. Recalling this tradition today we started this program.\nThis day also marks the Panchayat day. This is an important occasion for realizing the dreams of respected Bapu; Because Mahatma Gandhi had identified India with its villages Mahatma Gandhi had encouraged us to realize the dream of 'Gramoday to Rashtroday' Today on the occasion of the occasion of Panchayati Raj Divas I offer my salute and best wishes to about 2.5 lakh panchayats, the crores of people in this panchayat, more than 30 lakh representatives of these panchayats of which one third is our mothers and sisters who have taken leadership\nI want to assure them that the government of India will support them for the development of their villages, the empowerment of the people of your villages and to meet the resolutions. Our dreams 125 million Indians With this spirit, we should make resolutions to the village.\nEarlier, when it was used to come and visit Mandla, it was identified as the fort built by the Gond Kings. We used to say proudly that, centuries ago such a great system At that time the princely states, the princes and the rulers used to do something or the other for the welfare of the people that is still remembered and about which we can tell our future generation with immense pride. Such kind of a system used to be in that era\nWe have democracy in place The people of the villages have given a specific period of time. They have trusted us Which elected leader of the panchayat will not have the desire to accomplish 5 or 10 or 15 good work for the welfare of the people in the 5 years provided him or her? 20 years or 25 years or 30 years later during your old age, you will be able to tell your grandchildren and granddaughters about the work that you did when you were the head of the Panchayat; like the pond was created under you, the well was dug, the trees were planted in the school during your tenure. Even you would like to tell your grandchildren and grandchildren about 25 years or 30 years ago. Which head of the Panchayat does not have such an desire?\nI wish to infuse that strong desire in your heart If you want to do something for the public in the limited time period of 5 years and if that desire is extremely strong, you will definitely be able to defeat any obstacle in your way.\nSometimes when it comes to the development of the village, people talk about budget. There was a time when budget was a problem; But today it is not the major concern Today the concern is about the real beneficiaries. There is to be honest and transparency about the work done in the villages. Everyone should know about the amount of money that goes into a project and the obvious outcome. The issue\nNow you tell me There is a proper school building in a village with a qualified teacher; the teacher gets regular salary; It operates on a regular basis but if my village's 5 -25 students do not go to school, if they go and hide in the agricultural field or go and sit under the trees, and consequently they remain unbiased, then who is be blamed for this? Is it the problem of lack of funds? Is it the problem of teachers? Not at all! We need to make the people of villages understand that there is a school; There are teachers available, the government is paying the fees, and the government is offering the uniform of the students and also providing mid-day meal to the students. Come, not a single child in our villages should be out of school. Not too a single child in these villages should remain illiterate Can not take this pledge?\nOur parents had been illiterate due to the lack of opportunities and facilities. They did not get the opportunity of studying However, after getting elected in the Panchayat, in the state as well as at the center, we are interested in providing education, especially the daughters. Is not it our responsibility as the representatives of the people that after coming to power for 5 years, this time should be used for education to the children so that no child remains unpaid? Just imagine, when that child gets good education, after growing up he would say that he used to be a son of a poor mother, who used to work in the fields of the fields but the village head had dragged him out of the agricultural fields and had told him that he was not the time for working in the fields and instead he should go and study in schools. He would say- 'Thanks to my village head that I have become a doctor, an engineer, an IAS officer today. The life of my family has transformed. ' If a single life is changed because of one head, the whole country moves in the direction of change\nTherefore, my dear representatives, the Panchayatiraj Day should be the day of taking resolutions. Just look, in today's time, there were many positive changes in the field of Health Care. If our children get timely vaccines against polio, they are not affected. You tell me that even today there could be a 40 or 50 year old person who is living with the condition of a physically-challenged person, as a Divyang. Would not you be pained to see him or not? Would not he feel his condition? You will definitely feel this way\nMy brothers and sisters,\nProbably that 40-50 year old person was not fortunate enough to have timely protection against the disease. But today the Polio vaccine helps in protecting every child from the deadly disease. No child will catch Polio Different governments do the campaign for immunization against polio through televisions and newspapers; The dates are announced consistently for administering polio drops. Should I, an elected representative of the panchayat, do this job of ensuring vaccination against the disease?\nBut sometimes these representatives feel that the bureaucrat to implement No my dear brothers and sisters We are the servants of the public and not of the government We are the people So, if our power and time is to be the same work we can transform\nI emphasize on these little things, because people talk of big things but the real change comes from doing these little things with which we can change our villages.\nWe are well aware of the fact that if the soil of the field that helps the farmer to fill not only his own pet but also the society, is it poor then definitely the earth will be unhappy some or the other way. She will stop production We all die starving Our future generations will also be compelled to live in poverty. Have we ever considered the group of farmers and telling them how their indiscriminate use of Urea is deteriorating in their land? Sometimes a farmer sees that others are putting one or two bags of urea in their soil and does the same. Sometimes he sees the other farmer using the red boxed fertilizer and copies him.\nCan not the villagers decide that if the village receives 50 bags of urea, only 40 will be utilized? In this way do not you think that the money will be saved? In this way we will play an active role in conserving the health of the soil, the mother that is getting degraded due to the Urea. Our mother earth will be pleased with us and shower her blessings on us from the son that was killing me by over excess urea has now understood his mistake. Now I will produce more to fill his pet. You tell me, can we do this or not?\nI want to ask my tribal brothers, can we do this work or not?\nNow the government has made a great law. Today I am standing in the forests of Mandla. Bamboo is cultivated here There was a time when bamboo was categorized as tree When I was going through the files, I was confused as to how I could have considered a long time? As a result, my tribal brothers who live in forests can not cut the bamboo and sell them. If the forest officer catches him in a bamboo, he will be in trouble These were the problems\nThe government made a crucial decision of removing bamboo from the category of trees and putting it under the category of grass so that the farmer has farmed his farm of bamboo, bamboo sell; make different things out of bamboo and sell them in the market. This will create a new avenue of employment in villages.\nYou will be surprised to know that despite having such a huge forest of bamboo in the country, we are importing bamboo worth 12-15 thousand crore rupees. For making incense sticks, match sticks, or even for making kites we are importing bamboo from other countries. For building our homes, we do not have the permission to cut bamboo. Thousands of crores of rupees are flowing out of the country.\nNow I urge my tribal brothers and the farmers to plant good quality Bamboo in their fields. They can cultivate their usual crops and along with that they can plant. They will be able to earn extra in next 2 or 3 years The income of the farmers They get extra income from the land that is lying unutilized at the edges.\nI appeal to you and the representatives of the Panchayat. Can we make our farmers in the agricultural sector to be self-dependent? The Governor of Himachal Pradesh, Dev Vrat ji devotes his time to teach zero farm agriculture to the farmers. Can my representatives of the panchayat learn their crops or their villages?\nWe are currently running a campaign for growing Honey production and for beekeeping. If a small farmer keeps even 50 boxes for bee-keeping in his agricultural field, he can sell honey worth Rs.1.5-2 lakh annually. Even if he is unable to sell that honey and consumes himself, it will be beneficial for his health. You tell me the farmer's income will increase or not? Is it necessary to accomplish this job through budget? Not at all! These things can be done automatically, on one's own initiative. We just need to decide\nThe government provides the funds for the wages of the laborers under MGNREGA scheme. For completing the MGNREGA work for 2-3 months, May, and June, we can decide the work that needs to be done beforehand. For example, deepening a pond or stopping the water through check dams or preserving the rainwater. The MGNREGA fund\nYou tell me that if the water of the village is protected, then do not you think that underground water levels are going down will eventually rise? Will not the cost of water extraction be reduced? So, in the future, even if there is less rain, the agricultural will get a new lease of life from the protected water. The village will not starve in such a scenario\nThe problem is not I would like to appeal to the representatives of the villages to take strong decisions regarding education, healthcare, water conservation or modernizing agriculture. There is no need for a new budget in these areas. Even without a new budget\nI would like to emphasize over another aspect. We have started a scheme for opening bank accounts- Jan Dhan Yojana. Second scheme was about insurance with a premium of 90 paise. I do not believe that even the poorest of the poor can not afford 90 paise. If he has an addiction to bidi, he will spend at least Rs. 2 per day on bidi So he can very well afford 90 paise for insurance.\nYou might have seen here on the stage that I had the privilege of handing over Rs. 2 million people What was this Rs. 2 lakh for? She had purchased Life Insurance with a premium of 90 paise. Her family had objected to it. Unfortunately, the head of the family died and thanks to the 90 paise, she is getting Rs.2 lakh insurance today. The poor mother has received Rs. 2 lakh Now you tell me, this is the bad phase or not?\nMy representatives and heads of the Panchayat, there will not be any family in the village that does not have a Jan Dhan bank account and insurance with minimum premium of 90 paise. If that family meets with a unfortunate incident, it will get a financial assistance of Rs. 2 lakh The family will not be a burden on the village. Can you not do this work?\nBrothers and sisters,\nI want to\nOne is Jan Dhan, secondly Van dhan and thirdly gobardhan. We can bring a great economic transformation into villages through these three things. With the help of Jan Dhan Yojana, we can bring the mainstream of the economy.\nWe have abundant natural resources and forest resources. If there are nem trees in a village and understanding its value if a group of women collect the Neem pods that Neem trees from fall and their oil out of the churn, they can be used for Urea coating. It will be a new source of income for these women. The neem pods that once used to get wasted in the soil can now be a resource - a van. Can not bring about these changes?\nI would like to tell all my tribal brothers living in forests and the governments that today the middle state government has launched a big scheme for the tribal community of which Van dhan is of great importance.\nThirdly, Gobardhan Yojana- villages have abundant livestock. Their 'gobar' or excreta is not utilized scientifically If we look at the waste and garbage of the villages as an asset, we can produce gas, electricity and fertilizer out of it. Even without urea, the village can be good quality Fertilizer in this way Furthermore, it will prevent diseases from affecting the village and this can be done without money. This can be done by taking the advantage of the government's schemes.\nTherefore brethren and sisters,\nI appeal to all the panchayats across the country, to 2.4 lakh villages from the land of Mother Narmada, Mandla with blessings of mother Durgavati, come and take a resolution, to meet the year of 2022 that will mark 75 years of Mahatma Gandhi's dreams of India's Independence This year, 2nd October will mark 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi. This will be a great opportunity for all of us to meet Gandhi's dream of an ideal village. All of us should strive to change All of us should be used\nI launched a program today in which a new technology has been used through which citizens will be able to track the government's work progress on their mobile phone number, from which money has been approved, the purpose for which it is allotted, whether that job Has been accomplished or not, the place where it was supposed to be done, so on and so forth. Suppose you see that the well was made out of the allocated money has not yet been constructed, you can ask the government officials about it They will be compelled to get it done within a month. You tell me, in this way the system will become transparent or not? And environment of honesty will prevail in the villages The government officials will be responsible\nSo my dear brothers and sisters,\nWe should These 5 years of your governance can turn into a golden period. The village will remember your work We should move ahead with this resolution Today I got the opportunity to inaugurate an LPG plant here You must have seen the gas cylinders Now we are establishing factories for gas cylinders This factory will be established with an investment of Rs. 120 crores The work of delivering gas cylinders to the nearby districts like Satna, Rewa, Singrauli, Shahdol, Umaria, Dindori, Anuppur, Mandla, Balaghat, Jabalpur Katni, Damoh etc. will become easier The people here will get new employment opportunities. I got this opportunity to do today\nBrothers and sisters,\nWe can talk about several topics. But I want all of us to move ahead with the mantra of 'Jai Jawan, Jaai Kisan, Jai Vigyan' in the villages.\n\nI just heard Shivraj ji saying that the government of India has now come out with a law that provides capital punishment for those monstrous men who harass the daughters I saw that when the Chief Minister said that the whole pavilion was echoing with the applause from the people. The applause was not fading away The government in Delhi is the one that listens to your heart and then makes decisions.\nI would say that we should learn We should give priority and importance to the boys in our families and also teach our sons to be responsible. If we start teaching our sons to be responsible then it will never be difficult to keep our daughter safe Whoever commits a heinous offense But in our families as well, we should take care of our daughters. We need to start a mass movement. You can get rid of these troubles. I want to take these things forward.\nBrothers and sisters,\nThe government has envisaged a significant task. Unfortunately, the fight for Independence was limited only to some people. I do not know why the stories of the real sacrifices have not been included in the pages of history.\nEven before 1857 for many years during the period of colonization of many aesthetics from India had made sacrifices for self-respect, culture or freedom. Even after 1857, very few people are aware that it has been erased from the memory of the people. They had fought several great wars for the honor of India Great personalities like Durgavati, Avantibai, Birsa Munda had sacrificed their lives for the country.\nIt is my dream that a museum will be created in every state for the foresters from the tribal community who had fought against the British rulers. The school students will be taken to these museums and will be told about the tribal brothers who had sacrificed their lives for our country's culture and history. This work will be done in the future.\nTherefore my brothers and sisters,\nCommemorating mother Durgavati from the Land of Mandla, I offer my heartfelt best wishes to the people who have organized the tribal festival for the empowerment of Panchayati Raj so as to strengthen our democracy and the welfare of the mother earth and the villages. I congratulate Mr Tomarji, Rupalaji and all the officers of his department for initiating the Gram Swaraj campaign in the whole country.\nOn 30th April, an awareness program will be organized about Ayushman Bharat. Workshops will be organized on May 2nd. All the issues related to the village will be taken up I request you to join a new enthusiasm and hope.\nWith this expectation, I wish you all good luck, thanks a lot!"