"Share\n\nN Chandrababu Naidu promised sunrise for the state of Andhra Pradesh. But he seems interested only in his son: PM Modi\nChandrababu Naidu told me to turn around the infrastructure of Andhra Pradesh. But he himself took a u-turn: PM Modi\nChandrababu Naidu, instead of continuing NTR's promise of a Congress-mukt Andhra Pradesh, has become friends with them and back-stabbed NTR: PM\nBharat Mata Ki Jai ... Bharat Mata Ki Jai ...\nAll of you are gathered here with this enthusiasm, he is overwhelmed. I take this love on my head and eyes. Your love, this affection, inspires me to work continuously for you. All the people of Gitanoor are sentenced to the creation of the nation and are full of the energy of the enterprise. I salute all the devotees of Guntur like great freedom fighter Vavilala Gopalakrishnaiah, Nayudamma from here today. Brothers and sisters, there is Amravati in Guntur, which has been a great center for the faith of Indians and centuries of India's spirituality. Now Amravati is becoming the center of energy for new Andhra Pradesh and new India. The Central Government has also selected Amravati as the Heritage City under the Heart Plan so that the institutions of mythological importance can be preserved and developed here. This place is also called Oxford of Andhra, where young people come from place to place their dreams of their future. I convey my best wishes to the youngsters who have voted for the first time in this Lok Sabha election.\nBrothers and sisters, this city, this district, is witness to the oldest civilizations in the world. This area also has the potential to become the center of future Andhra Pradesh and the new India's aspirations. With this thought, shortly before, the foundation stone and projects of hundreds of millions of projects related to petroleum infrastructure have been inaugurated. These projects are important for Andhra Pradesh, it is also important for the energy security of the whole country. Friends, in the difficult circumstances, the country is not making any gas, petrol and diesel due to its requirement, the central government is making oil reserves at different places in the country. Work is being done to meet the requirements of the country's petroleum requirements for a month, if required.\nOne such oil reserve is also made in Visakhapatnam. Shortly before, this facility has been dedicated to the nation. In addition to the expansion of oil and gas exploration in Andhra Pradesh, two more projects have been laid and inaugurated. ONGC's Krishna-Godavari basin has been inaugurated today by ONGC's Senior and S1 Development Project and a new terminus of BPCL has also been laid in Krishnapatnam.\nAll these projects will provide direct employment to the youth, as well as the development of industries based on gas. Friends, we are working at a fast pace to make India a gas and clean fuel based economy. Regardless of the connections between LPG and PNG in the kitchen, CNG in trains, or factories making gas from fertilizer - wide work is being done all over the country.\nTomorrow the North Eastern Gas Grid has been launched in Assam. Many cities in the country are being connected to the city gas distribution system. It is our endeavor that our coastal line, whether south India, eastern India or western India, can be developed as hub of petroleum. Our goal is to make New India a clean, clean, non-polluting financial force. Friends, gas-based arrangements are not only for the industries, but also the manner in which the people of that district are changing, their life pattern is changing. In the coming few years you will see this change going on in hundreds of cities of India and become its partners.\nFriends, on one hand we are talking about gas-based economy, the work of giving LPG connection to the poor, poor families, poor sisters, dalit-deprived tribal sisters, free of cost is also going on fast. Through the Ujjwala scheme, more than six crore LPG connections have been given so far in the country. Brothers and sisters, today if India is moving towards 100 percent smoke-free kitchen, then there is a great power of your one vote behind it. Friends, what was the first situation, and where we have arrived - can be estimated by the number of gas connections. Giving the connection of LPG to the country started in 1955. After this, 120 million gas connections were given in 60 years. However, our government has given about 13 million new gas connections in the last four and a half years. The result of this is that in the year 2014, only 55% of the people in the country had gas connections, while today its scope has increased to 90%.\nFriends, those who left the country to live in smoke. He is now busy spreading the smoke of lies in the country. On the basis of lies, they are engaged in playing a game of maternity welfare. The effect of the accompaniment is that the Chief Minister also jumped into the comedy of forgetting the vision of development of Andhra Pradesh and condemning Modi.\nSetho, he had promised that I would turn around the Andhra infrastructure, but he himself took a U-turn. They had promised to revive the Amravati, but now they have been engaged in reconstruction of themselves. He promised the Sunrise of Andhra Pradesh, but his son, Son, is busy raising his son. He had promised to run new schemes for the poor of Andhra Pradesh, but he has put his sticker on Modi's plans. Sister-in-law, I am surprised that what has happened to the Chief Minister! He repeatedly reminds me that he is very senior to me, what is there in this dispute? You are senior, so I have not left any deficiency in your honor. You are senior, in changing party, you are senior to combine with new parties, you are senior in stabbing the back of your own father-in-law, hey you are senior, in the second election after a election, and I I am not a senior in that. You are senior, who today should be abusive in sitting in his dock tomorrow, you are senior to smash the dreams of Andhra!\nFriends, respect is their place, but when they will forget about issues of public interest, they will be able to keep their promises with their promises, as a servant of the country, I will definitely give them a reminder. Sister-in-law, you tell me, the man who inherited the NTR had promised or did not fulfill his dreams. The NTR had promised to walk on the steps that did not happen. Are they respecting NTR today?\nBrothers and sisters, you understand this, but why are not such senior leaders coming like this, what kind of compulsion has come that they have come in front of the Namdharas and have sat down bowing their heads. After all, what is the pressure, he forgot the history of his party. Friends, all of you youngsters who have come here are very important to know this. The ego of the Namdhari family in Delhi has always insulted the big leaders of the states. In the same period of insult, NTR had decided to free Andhra Pradesh to Congress and Telugu Desam Party was born. But friends, see today, the Telugu Desam Party leader who had to move towards Congress free India was to crush the pride of the Namdhars, he has fallen in front of the same Namdhars today. At that time, the party insulting Andhra Pradesh, you will remember, at that time, the party that insulted Andhra Pradesh, N. T. Ramarao Rukh was called. Today the Chief Minister is sitting here and making friends with the same person. Wherever the NTR is today, we can predict how much it will be upon seeing their souls.\nSathyo, with his principles N. Lokesh's father has gone astray because he does not want to face the truth. I have come today to tell you his truth. The first truth, he has never been able to win the election again and that is why he is afraid of losing badly in the election. Secondly, try to establish your son in politics. The third truth, the Creation of your wealth and the fourth truth that is talking to you at this time, your watchman-this has kept her sleepy. They are scared of these four truths, do not sleep, they are passing through trouble.\nBrothers and sisters, here is the problem of the Chief Minister that your watchman, my government asks for them accounting. Earlier, he had to never account for the Delhi corridors. Now Modi tells him that the money given for the development of Andhra Pradesh was given to you, the amount of tax payer was given to you, give the account of the pie and it is the same. Who is the expense of Laxmi Narayan Ji? Here you see, what is the difference. Right now I did a government program here, in a small room with government expenditure, and this big program is being done by the money and sweat of the workers of the Bharatiya Janata Party.\nThe people of Andhra, wake up, they are about to go to Delhi to be photographed tomorrow. They are going to take a big drive, they are going to play for the party, but the Bharatiya Janata Party is doing a program with the money of their workers, they are going to withdraw money from the safe of the people of Andhra Pradesh. Andhra should call for an answer I would urge that before coming to Delhi, before giving me abuses, you come to the people of Andhra Pradesh by giving us the account of your expenses. My dear brothers and sisters of Andhra Pradesh, we used to study in school, then the teacher used to call for something and then say, Go back, sit at your place and say, did not say that? I am grateful to the Telugu Desam Party that they have told me today that go-back, going to Delhi and sit again. I have full confidence in the crores of people in the country that they will fulfill the desire of Telugu Desam Party and restructure Modi.\nBrothers and Sisters, you will see that the meeting of the mahamalavata club where the Chief Minister has joined here is to keep the interest of his own political interests and his politics alive. The Club of Mahamalavata is a club of such people, where the poor are screwing up the law on almost everybody for cheating the country. Sathiyo, I was reading a statement of Chief Minister of the area here somewhere. He told that Modi does not get wealth creation. He also claimed that he gets himself wealth creation from Lokesh's father and he is also working hard for this. Friends, these are really speaking the truth, speaking the perfect truth. From Amravati to Polavaram, they are in this affair, so that their own wealth creation is created and hence, they are facing problems like a janitor. I want to remind them, whether Modi or any other, our responsibility is not for wealth creation but for us, it is the people who have given us the opportunity to see the wealth of the country, the resources and resources of our country. By our hard work, our youth, our daughters, our farmers, our entrepreneurs are doing their work to build honesty. We have to give them transparent arrangements, give equality of opportunities. We take care of all the sons and daughters of all youth, not just their sons and daughters.\nBrothers and sisters, when the leaders who handle the legacy of NTR begin to politicize allegations against others to hide their shortcomings, then it should be understood that somewhere there is something black, somewhere there is something wrong. When a Chief Minister speaks the truth constantly rather than the truth, it is clear that his land has slipped. They have realized that the trust of the public has risen from them.\nSathio, today I want to break a huge campaign of lies from Guntur. The Central Government has not left any shortfall in the last 55 months for the development of Andhra Pradesh. Yes, if there is a lack, then the government here has not told you the money that came from the center, but that did not make good use of that money. Friends, before going into its expanses, I want to remind you also that when Andhra Pradesh was partitioned, there was a Congress government at the center, the same Congress which saw interest in the interest of the people of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana in their interest. Today, Mr. Naidu has surrendered in front of the same Congress.\nSetho, after the Congress government in 2014, our government was formed. We created a new Special Assistant Package for Andhra Pradesh. We also kept in mind that the State must have received financial assistance, as it was supposed to get in the special category status. Brothers and sisters, this package was implemented in September 2016. After this, Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister himself accepted the package and thanked the Finance Minister. The same decision was appreciated in the assembly. We were sincerely working to fulfill the commitments made in this package, but failed to make proper use of this package, failed to develop the state TDP took a U-turn.\nFriends, under this package, the projects of about 3 lakh crore rupees have been approved for the Andhra Pradesh by the different Ministry of the Center. They have many government offices, education and health related institutions. Industry and Logistics Part, hubs of manufacturing are clusters, which are creating new employment opportunities for the youth of Andhra Pradesh. भाइयो और बहनो, आंध्रप्रदेश के बंटवारे के समय जो आंध्रप्रदेश रिऑर्गेनाइजेशन एक्ट 2014 बनाया गया था, उसके एक-एक बिंदु पर केंद्र सरकार काम कर रही है, इसी का परिणाम है कि आईआईटी तिरुपति, अनंतपुर की सेंट्रल यूनिवर्सिटी, वाइजाग का आईआईएम, मंगलागिरी का AIIMS, ऐसे 11 में से 10 हाइयर एजुकेशन के संस्थान आज शुरू हो चुके हैं। वाइजाग चेन्नई इंडस्ट्रियल कॉरिडोर, तीन एयरपोर्ट्स का विस्तारीकरण, मेट्रो से जुड़े प्रोजेक्ट्स, नई राजधानी की कनेक्टिविटी से जुड़े प्रोजेक्ट, ऐसे इंफ्रास्ट्रक्चर के 8 बड़े प्रोजेक्ट्स में से 6 पर काम शुरू हो चुका है।\nसाथियो, एक्ट के मुताबिक यह तमाम प्रोजेक्ट 10 साल की अवधि में जमीन पर उतरने थे। यह याद रखिए, एक्ट के हिसाब से 10 साल की अवधि में जमीन पर उतरने थे। लेकिन हमने 5 वर्ष से भी कम समय में अधिकतर पर काम शुरू कर दिया है। भाइयो और बहनो, मैं राज्यों की समस्याओं को समझता हूं, रीजनल एस्पिरेशन के प्रति पूरी तरह समर्पित हूं, क्योंकि मैंने भी लंबे समय तक मुख्यमंत्री के नाते समस्याओं का सामना किया है। और इसलिए 2014 के बाद मैंने इस बात का विशेष ध्यान रखा कि बंटवारे के बाद आंध्रप्रदेश के हितों पर कोई आंच ना आए। मैं आपको विश्वास दिलाता हूं कि आंध्रप्रदेश के विकास के लिए पूरे समर्पण भाव से हमारा काम जारी रहेगा। आंध्र के मेरे प्यारे भाइयो-बहनो, आंध्र के संस्कार, आंध्र की संस्कृति, आंध्र का विवेक, आंध्र की नम्रता-  इस देश का बच्चा-बच्चा आंध्र की उस ऊंचाई और महानता से परिचित है। लेकिन, पिछले कुछ महीनों से बाबू जिस प्रकार की भाषा का प्रयोग करे रहे हैं, डिक्शनरी में जितनी गालियां हैं, वो उन्होंने मोदी के लिए रिजर्व कर दी हैं। हर दिन एक नई गाली, हर दिन एक नई गाली, क्या ये आंध्र के संस्कार हैं? क्या आंध्र के संस्कारों को डुबोने का आपको अधिकार है, आंध्र की अस्मिता को डुबोने का अधिकार है, आंध्र के कोटि-कोटि जनों की भावनाओं को चोट पहुंचाने का आपको अधिकार है?  \nअरे बाबू गारो, यह बाप-बेटे की सरकार आज आपने देख लिया, कई महीनों से आप बोल रहे थे। मैंने अपने मुंह पर ताला लगा के रखा था। एक शब्द नहीं बोल रहा था, लेकिन ये आंध्र की जनता का प्यार है कि आप की गाली गलौज आंध्र की जनता के गले नहीं उतरी और इतना बड़ा जनसैलाब आज हमें आशीर्वाद देने के लिए आया है। बाप-बेटे की सरकार का जाना तय है, भ्रष्टाचारियों का जाना तय है, आंध्र में भ्रष्टाचार मुक्त शासन आंध्र की जनता चाहती है और इस चुनाव के बाद मिलने वाली है। हमारे देश में एक परंपरा है, जब कोई भी शुभ काम होता है तो घर के जो मुखिया होते हैं, वह एक काला टीका लगा देते हैं ताकि कोई अपशगुन ना हो। मैं आज बाबू गारो और उनके बेटे को और उनकी सारे योजकों को बधाई देता हूं कि आज उन्होंने काले गुब्बारे से, हमें कोई नजर ना लग जाए, हमारे इस अभियान को नजर ना लग जाए, इसलिए आपने यह जो किया है, इसके लिए भी मैं आभार व्यक्त करता हूं। मैं फिर एक बार आंध्र की जनता को ये जो अनेक नए प्रोजेक्ट दिए हैं, उसके लिए बहुत-बहुत बधाई देता हूं।\nमेरे साथ जोर से बोलिए, जय आंध्र, जय आंध्र, जय आंध्र, जय आंध्र, जय आंध्र...\nभारत माता की... जय, भारत माता की... जय, भारत माता की... जय।"