"Share\n\nIt is time for appreciation, evaluation as well as introspection: PM Modi on Civil Services Day\nLives of people will transform when they are on the center of decision making process: PM Modi\nStrategic thinking is vital for success: PM Modi\nDemocracy is not any agreement, it is about participation: PM\nCome, in 5 years until 2022, let us take inspiration from those who sacrificed their lives for our country.\nTechnology can become our power, PM's PM\nThe dignitaries present on the dais, officers present in the VigyanBhawan, the other officers of civil services, busy tenders their service to the nation, the ladies and gentlemen, congratulations and best wishes for the occasion of Civil Services Day\nOnce again, I got the opportunity to talk to you. Today's event is important in many ways, it is also appreciated, evaluated and the most importantly, it is also for introspection. Today's occasion is also for reflecting on those resolutions and directions which have been made in the past to see how far we have moved forward and to what extent we have succeeded and how much change we bring about the life of the common man.\nFriends, be it an individual or a system, howsoever it is needed An attempt was made of giving awards. Prime Minister's Award is one such attempt in this series\nToday, many officers have been honored with the Prime Minister's Award for doing good work in their respective fields. I congratulate all those who have received this award today and I also convey my best wishes to them also in the future.\nFriends, one of the objectives of these awards is to motivate but at the same time it also aims to expand, how to make it more comprehensive and do more; in a way it reflects the priorities of the government And this year a provision was also made for giving awards in the categories of priority programs and innovation. Under the priority programs, the awards are also publicized, Prime Minister's Crop Insurance Scheme, DeenDayalUpadhyay Skill Development Scheme, Prime Minister's Housing Scheme and digital payments.\nThe schemes for which awards have been given very important to our dreams This is very important for our economy and for improving living conditions of the common man. Be it World Bank or global rating agencies, they keep discussing about the ease of doing business but a country like India can not stop by doing business. For us it is like the common man. We can not forget that the people of the public have long experience of years; The common man still has to struggle with the government every single moment, he has got his space within the governance to get his rights. And this is the biggest hurdle in life\nIf we can accomplish this much that he does not have to ask for his right then I think the kind of change that will come in the lives of 1.25 billion countrymen. The people themselves will change the country When the son goes out for a few years and then returns even his mother wonders that he did not have an inkling of his children.\nI have been told about the applications The people sitting here are very happy. But, I can not be happy right away Because there were such districts, such officers in our country who do not want to participate in this competition They do not feel the urge to make a effort I welcome those who have not come here\nIt means that there is stagnation in their lives; Their internal energy has ebbed away and this can not be the life. If there is no determination or enthusiasm to do something new life, then life is not possible.\nAnd I do not believe that at the district level there are people who are aged and who have been bogged down with difficulties. I do not believe in this. Those people are full of energy and they have had the courage to do so. I do not believe that I will have such colleagues who believe in status quo, who have believed that it will be like this only; Such kind of person can not be my colleague There is some spark in his heart But if somebody is trying to revive the person You see that those who are in the last 25, if they get a chance then maybe the next time they are the ones\nEventually, the human touch is more important than schemes in achieving the success and it is the human touch which creates team spirit. And it is human touch alone that strengthens the determination to realize the dreams. And that's why I have said that it is our effort to reward those who are well but they should be a positive environment and they should be given more love and encouragement. I too will understand this, because no one is lazy or worthless Everybody has come with energy What is required that we (harness) that energy\nSometimes we had seen that some electric bulb in the house does not work. Sometimes the thought that straight away comes to mind is its fuse is blown off. This bulb is useless However, some wise person says: 'just a minute, let's check whether it's disconnected?' He's repairs the plug and the bulb starts working. Whether that person has got the disconnected from us? Let's check one more time, let's connect a bit more and then again he will start again shining like electricity and will start giving the full light which is capable of changing others lives.\nToday, I have got the opportunity to dedicate two books here. One contains all the finer details of those who have been awarded with Prime Minister's Award and the other one is aspirational districts. Now I believe that a large number of our officers are going to our place. In a way the movement of going back to the basics is going on.\nEven they did not know that they were the same kind of work. However, I see that almost 1,000 officers should go to those remotest districts those that have been lagging behind, according to that state, and nearly 1,000 people have come forward. And these people have not come forward because of some order, they have come forward as of their self-inspiration. And it is this self-inspiration that makes me look that aspirational districts in the leading role. You see if we work for three years, if we work for three years by setting a target within that time frame then these hundred and fifteen districts will become the driving force for the states and the country; This kind of power is there in them\nAnd everyone feels that whatever parameters we want to improve on, because this is a district in the system and if it is pushed then our record improves when we need to present them. Brother! We had a target of 100 and we have achieved 80, but this 80 has been done in just one corner.\nThe age of bicycles is gone, but during the earlier times when we used to fill air in our bicycles, we used to measure that much the air has been filled. However, sometimes, there was used to develop a balloon on one side of the bicycle's tube and the meter used to show that the air was filled in the right quantity. The bike will run or not? Because on one side there is a balloon and the rest of the tube remained empty; and that balloon used to be an impediment Sometimes, one or two districts in some states are doing so well that the particular state looks very impressive in terms of statistics but that in itself is an impediment in the whole journey of development.\nOur effort is to push the journey into one hundred and fifteen districts in an even manner. You will see there very soon. The biggest psychological impact which is created is that you have noticed that if there are three-four children in a family and if one or two of them perform well then parents always focus on those children. If a guest comes then they present that child that it had secured so many marks in the 10th He has got admission in the 12th. He is very good, he will become a doctor And what about the rest two! Let's talk about them. But, what happens those two kids? They go down the path of despair because of our actions and then they end up losing courage to stand up.\nThe same thing has happened to these districts in our country as we bring them to the Prime Minister's Awards. However, those who have difficulty there should be some local issues with them; Now they feel that: 'just leave it friends, we are not counted anywhere, we'll somehow pass two-three years.' And then he used to get transferred from that place with some politician and more lengthy politicians kurta, the more influential he will be\nAnd, that's why I believe that it's very much needed for us. Instead of a big number in our graphics system is a kind of strategic thinking. If there is a strategic thinking then people will have a proper planning, and experience plays a role in that. And you would've seen that only those people who have a tendency of working in detail.\nHave you ever seen a mother to measure salt in a vegetable weight? No, it does not happen Even if she puts salt with her eyes closed, she will be the right quantity because at one point of time she has done the detailing and now that practice is there. Now he does the things with ease If we develop a habit in our system then I believe that we can bring a huge change.\nWe need to bring up these aspirational districts in every parameter. We do not have to make a show piece by improving just one or two things. However, if it had been done through the government system then it had already been done long ago. It's not that well Even today it is possible that an officer who had started his life in one of the aspirational districts and now perhaps, he has become the chief minister of the same state. It means that the officer was talented; it means that he was outstanding; He might be in Delhi as a secretary of a very good department. It's very much possible that there was some officer who had been praised by all around and he would be the same backward district, and he had had his career of 25-27-30 years spent by here. It does not mean that there was a darth of talent Every issue will be there\nIn a country like India, our democratic system is not a contract system for five years. Our democratic system, it means the relationship between us and the people, this thinking, this is one of the biggest hurdles. And that is why people's participation is basis for the success of the countries like India - participatory democracy We have seen, all of you have done work on the district level as an officer, that is the times of natural calamities. We can easily do what called 'quantum of work'. The system remains the same but it is caused by the calamities of the entire society joins us. Everybody lends his hand and he is able to come out of that problem. And I feel that people can take the country forward in the future. How can we realize its importance?\nUnfortunately, this thing has been considered as a job of an elected body; of the political leaders This is the biggest flaw in our thinking They will keep doing what they are required to do but we are in the system of governance about whom a common man never feels that he is doing something for himself. If I do anything then the first of all then: 'Hmm, friends, 2019 is coming that's why Modi has come.' It will instantly strike in their minds and this is the job of 24x7 that they keep injecting this thing\nBut if you go then it does not look like this If you go then they feel that: 'It's not like this, sahib has come, he is working so hard, he will be something worthwhile.' He (common man) immediately connects with you people And that is why the people who are today on different level of our administrative system they should come forward to provide leadership. This is a new aspect\nBefore independence, it was the job of the British Raj After the independence, the job of people related to the administrative system is to make the common people prosperous and rehabilitate them. If this is the dream then I believe that we could start our journey. And the aims with which we have come out, this is the dream of a New India. It's true that when Mahatma Gandhi launched the Champaran movement, when he sounded the bugle for independence then it did not appear that the independence would be achieved next morning. And why freedom was not possible It's not that. Today, independence is not able to achieve but there is hope, aspiration, desires, dreams and optimism in the heart of the common man which connects him with us for further marching.\nWhat is a big inspiration than this 75 years of independence will complete in the year 2022? We experience this thing in our family life, we know that our birthday will fall in the month of May so planning starts from February-March that we should be on the birthday. Wise parents say that: 'Look this time your birthday is celebrated in a very grand way. You should do this one thing, 'He also feels that:' It's my birth day, I should do this thing. 'If there is a marriage in the family then people feel that whitewash is not done for many years, a fresh coat of paint has not been applied; it's a wedding time\nIn everybody's life there are the kind of milestones and due to those milestones the pace is determined. For us there can not be a big milestone than 2022 because the freedom fighters had sacrificed their lives for independence. There is no bigger inspiration than this\nLet us once again remember those whom we love and should remember whatever dreams they had And we should march forward, we can do a lot for the country in the next five years. We can do a lot Those who had fought for independence, they would not have thought that when the country will be free then I will become something No. They also knew that they could not get there However, he continued to sacrifice for his dreams. And since they were sacrificed so we were fortunate to get independence We also have some responsibility for the next generation. And that is why we should move\nAlso, we will have to accept this thing I have experienced one thing, because I was fortunate enough to get into the long term. In a way, I have been brought into the last 20 years. And I continue to learn from you people However, I have experienced this thing that if there is no innovation, if we do not speed up our decision making process, and, today, fortunately the technology will be our shortcomings to compensate, it will be our additional strength, we can fully simplified things Can we accept those things?\nYou will be aware that when I had just come among you people then I had insisted on a lot on this thing: 'How can we use the space technology in our governance?' I have given this task to a joint secretary level officer and I kept pressing on that work during the weekends So our officers paid attention to it It's like that they do not like any of the current process; They feel like why they should change it, they will not listen to them.\nNow gradually it has been realized that ultimately space technology is a useful thing in governance. Whosoever applied his mind, he got one or two youth along with him and asked him to apply their minds. Space technology has been playing a big role in doing the planning in detail.\nAll these facilities were not there the times of those officers who were there 20-25 years ago; We are fortunate that now these facilities are available to us. Can we use all kind of technologies for our capacity building and expanding our capacity? Can we do it? If we do those things then I'm confident that we will get the results and that is why the time demands ..., when we were hearing that 21st century was about to approach; you would have been at junior officers at that time; you would have been working in the states\nAnd a very interesting cartoon was published and it became very famous at that time. A gentleman was standing on a railway platform and a train was approaching from a distance so someone said to him: 'brother, you do not have run, it's about to reach here.' It means that the 21st century was about to begin So you did not have to run Two decades of 21st century are about to be done, 21st century needs according to our decision making process and our systems?\nToday, artificial intelligence has discussed in a very detailed manner If you talk about artificial intelligence with people then by and large is confined to driverless cars. The world has changed a lot It's possible that we may not be able to do things but it's also a tool But if we do not have an open approach towards these things\nAnd today if we are not able to cope with the changing challenges of the world.\nThere is a perception in the world about India that we have made a huge contribution in the IT revolution. But it is unfortunate that if we were not satisfied because of that we thought that a very big thing We have become complicated at the very basic level but the world has created a different world altogether by making its own things from those things.\nIt's not going to work for us if we continue to sit and praise I believe that it is going to play an extremely important role in the life of the common man and in the system of governance. If we can use those things then it will not only make our work easy but it will also create a long-term positive effect.\nWhen I said: Minimum government - maximum governance, then it is the basis of any government's success. Sometimes, it should be considered in your award giving process which is the departments that have been implementing this thinking of the government - minimum government - maximum governance?\nPerhaps, I had said somewhere I do not remember which forum I had said this thing Perhaps, it was a small meeting but when I was new here then I talked about it.\nIt is being said in Hindu mythology that if you perform the pilgrimage of the four holy places then you will achieve salvation. I do not know exactly where it has been mentioned However, a file does not reach its logical conclusion even after moving to 32-32 desks. Do not we feel that way? And I do not use the term shortcut because, probably, you may not get a chance to travel in railways, but I have spent my entire life on railway tracks so I know that it used to be written there: 'shortcut will cut you short. 'If there was a place from where a track could be crossed then it would have been written there But do not we feel that this file should come back from the other desk only it is foolproof? How long will we keep working like this?\nIs it a must Is it a must? Can we simplify these procedures? Whether the person who has worked on it in a proper manner? Whether it gets too much foolproof? It does not like that if they have not been simplified then they will remain foolproof. However, we are able to get rid of these habits. We do not change our habits\nEven if it was a time of Whatsapp, even if it was a time of SMS and we had sent a SMS to home: 'today evening we have have guests; 'We would have sent the SMS at 3 in the noon but even then at 5 pm we will ask:' have you read my SMS? 'It means that we are ready to trust the system and that's why we have been spending extra energy\nIt is civil services day. It should be for doing introspection that we have been working in the same direction or we have deviated from that path. Whether we are lagging behind too much in terms of speed? Will we be in 2070 by thinking over the things that they will achieve in 2030?\nYou could imagine that our situation in the aspirational district during our times. It's a country full of potential, it is full of power and capability, it's a country which has the tendency to accept new things and it's a country. Are we keeping ourselves alert for it? Whether the arm of a clock is driving my life or the dream of a common man has been driving me? If the arm of a watch has been driving me then the salary will be credited on the first day of every month, the amount will be deposited in the bank account and the life shall stuck there only. But if every moment of my life attaches itself with the common man then only his dreams will be realized in any case but after a kind of satisfaction generation experiencing after generation If this kind of belief is there in me then I think that I can do a lot for the country\nAnd that is why urge you people; some of you have had a year or six months; someone has five years or ten years and my young colleagues who have been listening to me at remote locations with the help of technology, I would like to assure you that I'm one of your colleagues. I do not know what happened before I am not that that kind I am a common man and your friend I want to work\nWhen I was required to visit Masoori then according to the program, I would visit the place, deliver a lecture and will come back. I said: 'I will go there and I will spend time with them. At least I will see those people, at least I will see what kind of energy is there, what kind of dreams are those people who are going to be in-charge of at least 20 percent of the districts of India in the next three years. At least I will discover myself, I will understand myself. 'And I came back from there\nAnd I am ready to work in this manner And so I want to work with you as a colleague. And we will come ... and I do not work for the elections, and please do not worry about this, there will not be a single officer in the country. Anybody by calling him over the phone despite spending 20 years in the system of governance. This is the hallmark of my life. And it is because I have no other dream\nYou could imagine that our situation in the aspirational district during our times. It's a country full of potential, it is full of power and capability, it's a country which has the tendency to accept new things and it's a country. Are we keeping ourselves alert for it? Whether the arm of a clock is driving my life or the dream of a common man has been driving me? If the arm of a watch has been driving me then the salary will be credited on the first day of every month, the amount will be deposited in the bank account and the life shall stuck there only. But if every moment of my life attaches itself with the common man then only his dreams will be realized in any case but after a kind of satisfaction generation experiencing after generation If this kind of belief is there in me then I think that I can do a lot for the country\nAnd that is why urge you people; some of you have had a year or six months; someone has five years or ten years and my young colleagues who have been listening to me at remote locations with the help of technology, I would like to assure you that I'm one of your colleagues. I do not know what happened before I am not that that kind I am a common man and your friend I want to work\nWhen I was required to visit Masoori then according to the program, I would visit the place, deliver a lecture and will come back. I said: 'I will go there and I will spend time with them. At least I will see those people, at least I will see what kind of energy is there, what kind of dreams are those people who are going to be in-charge of at least 20 percent of the districts of India in the next three years. At least I will discover myself, I will understand myself. 'And I came back from there\nAnd I am ready to work in this manner And so I want to work with you as a colleague. And we will come ... and I do not work for the elections, and please do not worry about this, there will not be a single officer in the country. Anybody by calling him over the phone despite spending 20 years in the system of governance. This is the hallmark of my life. And it is because I have no other dream\nThere is no other intention except to live in 1.25 billion people. Wherever I was, whichever system I got was the opportunity to work then this was the effort of this life of dedication. And friends, that is why I say that you are an exceptional lot in my life, and you have come as your experience. Your strength, your capability, your dreams, I want to know the realization of the dreams of 1.25 billion Indians\nAnd with this emotion let us dedicate this civil service day today to the common man and to his dreams. We should continue with this pledge May the year 2022 be the year for taking India's hopes and aspirations to a new high. I would like to express my expectations.\nThank you very much"