"\nIndia is going to a great transformation today: PM Modi\nGovernment has worked towards a developed and inclusive India, in the last four years: PM Modi\nThrough the initiatives like International Yoga Day, efforts are also being made to see that India emerges as a global thought leader once again: PM\nWorld is looking at India with renewed confidence: PM\nTechnology is bringing about accountability and transparency in governance: PM Modi\nGovernment is focusing on 'Ease of Living'; We have launched Ayushman Bharat, which is the world's largest healthcare assurance scheme: PM\nMy friend, the Honourable Prime Minister of Sweden, Mr Löfven,\nAll my enthusiastic friends of Indian Origin,\nGood evening!\nHello to all my brothers and sisters,\nI want to express my gratitude to the people and the government of Sweden, specially his Majesty the king of Sweden and Sweden's Prime Minister Mr. Löfven for Sweden.\nMr. Löfven's warm words in my address Last night he got the airport to receive and welcome me He also dropped me at my hotel.\nThis gesture and honor is only for me and the 125 crore Indians With this feeling in mind, he had participated in the Make in India program in 2016 and had also participated in a similar event organized in Sweden last year.\nI thank him for the love he has for India and the Indians living in Sweden.\nI request you to give a standing ovation to the Honorable Prime Minister of Sweden as a mark of respect.\nFriends,\nYou have carved out a niche for yourself here through innovative skills, professional attitude, cultural integration and Indian values. I would like to congratulate you for living the soul of India and Indian values\nYou all speak different languages, Tamil, Telugu, Malayalam, Kannada, Bengali or Marathi and so on. There are about 100 languages ​​and 1700 dialects in India. If I start giving you the entire list, maybe I will not be able to finish my speech until tomorrow morning.\nLanguages, conditions or circumstances may be different for everyone but one thing is binds us all together and that is the pride of being an Indian.\nThis is the feeling that binds us together, inspires us to be a different in difficult times and that gives us new energy and new resolutions.\nThis is the feeling that the words 'Vande Mataram' and 'Bharat Mata Ki Jaai' are the words that inspire us all to stand up as a token of respect.\nThis is the feeling that makes every Indian proud of the success achieved by Indians like Mary Kom and Saina Nehwal.\nFriends,\nToday is the country Today the government in India is going to greater extent to take India to New Heights in the 21st century for her welfare and self-respect. Four years ago the people of India had provided us with the mandate of 'Sabka Sath Sabka Vikas'. During the last 4 years we have made every effort to build a developed India by our efforts towards building a new India by the year 2022 when India's 75 years of independence. We have taken a vow of 'Sankalp se Sidhhi'\nAt the same time we have enhanced the respect for Indianism and India's rich tradition globally. Our efforts and your cooperation in the areas of International Yoga Day, Ayurveda, the age-old vision of Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam and the balance between man and nature and so on are the global platform on 'thought leader' as India.\nFriends,\nMoreover, regions like Africa, Small island nations of the Pacific, ASEAN, Europe or Asia today are considered India as a trusted partner and a trustworthy friend.\nHumanity looks towards India during times of crisis, be it the earthquake of Nepal or the floods of Sri Lanka. During the Yemen war, we had been rescued not only 4000 Indians but also about 2000 foreigners.\nIn the last 4 years, we have taken several such steps that have increased the faith of the world in India.\nA few days ago, you have seen that the International Solar Alliance Summit was organized in Delhi. In such a short span of time, more than 60 countries have joined this initiative for spearheaded by India for a green earth.\nIndia's membership in the three governments, the Missile Technology Control Regime, Australia Group and Wassenaar Arrangement, is an indication of India's impact and her acceptance by the international community.\nFriends,\nThe world is appreciating our technological capabilities. India's space program is one of the world's top 5 exploration programs. India's space program is not only the highest quality but also cost effective. This is the reason why we have become the hope of many other countries in the world. Last year, we had launched our neighboring countries.\nFriends,\nWe are using technology in the country to ensure accountability and transparency.\nWith the help of digital infrastructure, the engagement between the government and the citizens is completely transformed. Access to the government is no longer a privilege The common man is now able to engage and converse with the government directly. The old working style of the government has also been completely changed. The piling up of files is no longer there and the focus is on the faster pace.\nToday, setting up and doing business in India has become easier For the first time, India has made a improvement of 42 ranks in Easy to Doing Business to make a place for her in the top 100.\nThe historical reform brought in the country's indirect tax regime through GST has now become an integral part of life. There was an unprecedented growth in the country's tax base and the businessmen who used to face a lot of hurdles before due to different types of checks and obstacles are now relieved.\nYou must have heard about the use of JAM Trinity - the Jan Dhan bank account for the public, Aadhar and Mobile phones, for social welfare. A system of Direct Benefit Transfer has been created.\nThis provides direct benefits of the welfare schemes. There was a time when fake IDs used in those names that were not even born. Those IDs were used to illustrate the unborn daughters as widows and pensions meant for widows who were taken by those fake IDs. However, the situation is different now. The poor is getting the money that he deserves. You will be glad to know that with this single scheme about 83 thousand crore rupees, i.e. More than 12 billion dollars were saved from the ghost beneficiaries of eliminated.\nFriends,\nWe have left behind the old culture of doing doing lip service. We have made 'empowerment' as the tool for poverty alleviation\nThe Mantra of 'Sabka Saath Sabka Vikas' is now becoming a reality with the empowerment of the weaker sections of society and women.\nUnder Ujjwala Yojana, we are providing free electricity Our target is to reach 80 million connections by the year 2020 and in less than 2 years we have already provided 36 million connections.\nPreviously our mothers and sisters had to smoke in the smoke that 400 cigarettes but now they are getting cooking cooking fuel.\nThe availability of cooking gas has also improved Many years ago You may remember that at that time even gas cylinders were sold in black market. One had to face a lot of connection Sometimes we had to ask our neighbors for gas cylinders However, today the gas agency calls and asks whether you need a cylinder or not!\nThe entrepreneurs in every corner of the country are getting new opportunities due to micro-finance schemes like MUDRA. The scheme is for those who did not get loans or financial support for their small businesses. As a result, under this scheme, about 5.3 lakh crore rupees i.e. 12 crore (120 million) loan of about 90 billion dollars had given These are not 12 crore loans but 12 crore dreams and we have taken steps to fulfill them. This is also a medium of job creation. 74% of these entrepreneurs are women\nA system is being created for future economic progress through Atal Innovation Mission, Skill India Mission and Start-up India Mission.\nOver 1 lakh students have taken part in this year's Smart India Hackathon Thousands of people have given their suggestions regarding challenges I had also spent time with these young talents\nWe are making international partnerships to promote such efforts. Today we have signed an 'Innovation Partnership' with Sweden In the month of January, we had launched the iCreate center with Israel for Innovation and Entrepreneurship.\nInnovation, skill development and entrepreneurship will benefit only when the country's citizens improve.\nToday Just a few days back, the world's biggest healthcare assurance plan was 'Ayushman Bharat'. This is one of the biggest schemes of the world. Friends, no other scheme can compete with it Now just one phase has been launched\nIt has two components First is a network of Health and Wellness centers across the country and the second is to provide Health Insurance cover of rupees 5 lakhs to 40% of the poorest population of the country.\nBrothers and sisters,\nThis is not just reform but transformation We have vowed to transform India\nFriends,\nThis year on 2nd October is not only India but the whole world will celebrate 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi. We have decided that as a tribute to the great personality Our journey could be on the right track More about our destination\nFriends,\nWe consider this partnership with Sweden to be very crucial in building a transformed India and a New India. We want to take a new level not only with Sweden but also with other Nordic countries.\nApart from Sweden, I also had the opportunity to discuss with Prime Minister of Denmark, Norway, Iceland and Finland. In addition to bilateral talks, the India-Nordic Summit between the leaders of India and the Nordic countries concluded sometime back. We have decided to further strengthen our partnership, skills and technological cooperation.\nFriends,\nYou have played a major role in India's growth story and international standing. Even though there is only one Indian Embassy in Sweden, our Ambassador is not one. You are the Indian ambassadors.\nToday I want to request you all. Do not limit yourself There are great opportunities in the emerging New India for those who want to innovate, trade and invest in India.\nThe new India is waiting for you Now direct flights between India and Sweden have started. So there is no point in delaying\nBrothers and sisters,\nThere is a paucity of time I have reached London for a program. Thank you for giving me the opportunity of connecting with you I'm glad\nYou have come here to talk about New India Thank you very much for your hospitality and blessings I also thank the Prime Minister for expressing his love towards India and Indian community. I thank you\nThank you!"