"Share\n\n14 April is an important day for the 125 crore Indians, says PM Modi on Babasaheb's birth anniversary\nI salute the security personnel who are playing a critical role in infrastructure development: PM Modi in Bijapur\nOur government is committed to the dreams and aspirations of people from all sections of the society: PM\nAmbedkar's contribution: PM Modi in Bijapur\nThe government is working for the poor, the needy, the downtrodden, the backward and tribals, says PM Modi\nThe first phase of #AyushmanBharat Scheme has started, in which efforts will be made in primary health related areas: PM\nVictory to Mother India!\nBabasaheb Ambedkar will remain immortal!\nBabasaheb Ambedkar will remain immortal!\nBabasaheb Ambedkar will remain immortal!\nMy colleague of the Council of Ministers Mr. JP Nadda ji, the popular Chief Minister of Chhattisgarh, Dr. Raman Singh Ji, Chairman of the National Commission for Scheduled Tribes Nand Kumar Sai, other ministers of Chhattisgarh government and my dear brothers and sisters of Bijapur Bastar who have come here in large numbers\nI bow down to the gods and goddesses who have taught not only the people of the Bijapur but also the people of the whole Bastar region From the soil of Bijapur I would like to commemorate the martyr Veer Gaind Singh who had sacrificed his life while fighting against the British about 200 years ago. Similarly, another leader was born here about hundred years ago i.e. Veer Gundadhur\nThe bravery of such heroes like Gaind Singh and Gundadhur have been mentioned in your folk songs for several generations. I salute the hero Event today new stories of heroism\n\nFriends,\nMany soldiers of the security forces have never cared for their lives while dealing with the local challenges, the region's development and the people's safety. These soldiers are playing an important role in building, installing mobile towers, hospitals and schools and for strengthening the state of Chhattisgarh's infrastructure.\nMany of the security personnel involved in the development of the Chhattisgarh have lost their lives. A memorial has been built in memory of those who were martyred in Naxalite attacks I would like to greet them\n\nFriends,\nThis day, 14th April, is extremely important for the 125 million people of the country. Today is the birth anniversary of Bharat Ratna Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar ji. It is a great privilege for me to have come here today and to have got a chance to seek his blessings. On the birth anniversary of Babasaheb Ambedkar, I would like to raise your hands and say with me loudly-\nJai Bhim Jai Bhim!\nJai Bhim Jai Bhim!\nJai Bhim Jai Bhim!\nThe echo of Baba Saheb's name in the air of Bijapur and Bastar is making us gratifying! I salute the hope and aspiration associated with the name of Baba Saheb.\n\nFriends,\nOur government had started the Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Urban Mission from the soil of Chhattisgarh. Even the Pradhan Mantri Grameen Awas Yojana had started from Chhattisgarh. These schemes are expiring in the national level. Even during this visit to Chhattisgarh, I will be launching the Gram Swaraj Yojana and the first phase of 'Ayushman Bharat Yojana'. This Gram Swaraj campaign is meant to ensure that all four schemes for the last four years for the poor, Dalits, women, tribal, backward and disadvantaged communities of society, actually reach them. The Gram Swaraj Abhiyan will continue the country from today to May 5th.\nI believe that the schemes of the central government and the state government that were born here on the birth anniversary of Babasaheb will be successful in making a new record for changing the path of development.\n\nBrothers and sisters,\nBaba Saheb was highly educated He had spent a luxurious life in the prosperous countries of the world. After studying abroad, he returned to India and devoted his life to the cause of the backward and the depressed classes and the tribals. He was determined to provide opportunities to the deprived classes of lead a normal life. The classes of the society that were left behind are now aware and aware and are hungry for development. They have the right to claim their rights. Everything was possible because of Babasaheb Ambedkar's contribution.\nMy dear brothers and sisters,\nToday this son of a poor mother, who is a backward community, is the Prime Minister of the country only because of Baba Saheb Ambedkar Baba Saheb has played a very significant role in awakening the hopes and aspirations of Lakhs of people like me\nBrothers and sisters,\nThere are many people like farmers, service-sector employees, self-employed and maybe some students present here before me. I want to answer Even if you do not speak loudly Does the person work harder? On the other hand, when a person does not want to achieve anything in life, keeps sleeping all day long Is not it? A person with a dream keeps awake all the time and works hard Is not it? Ask yourself\nBrothers and sisters,\nWhen a farmer is confident that there is a good monsoon and the monsoon really starts well, then do not you think the farmer will put more effort? As soon as the sky is overcast, the farmer starts working hard because his dreams are associated with those clouds.\n\nBrothers and sisters,\nToday with the inspiration of Babasaheb I have come here to revive this new trust in the people of Bijapur and to a new faith in a new faith in this place. I have come here to tell you that the government is standing by your hopes, aspirations and desires\nBijapur district I do not know I was not a very good student in school. I was an average student Our teacher used to teach those students He used to focus on every student As soon as the teacher used to instill confidence in the students that they are not weak and encouraged, those students used to come up to the level of the students in some days. Some of those students\nI believe there will be many such people who have witnessed such an incident. You may have seen in different fields that if they are lagging behind them, they have the ability to leave them. Bijapur is not only the district More than 100 districts Even after so many years of independence, these districts continue to lag behind. They are not What is the reason that 100 more districts are still backward even after the Constitution of Ambedkar ji had made so many provisions?\n\nBrothers and sisters,\nHad the mothers of these districts have no right to have healthy children or have children who are devoid of anemia, who have a proper growth? Did not the people of these districts have the expectation of being a part of development from this country? Did not the daughters of these districts have the right to get educated and skilled? Were not expecting these things? Even after having many things like hospitals, schools, roads and clean drinking water there are many things to do. It is ironic that the backward districts are the ones with rich natural resources. Does your Bijapur District possess these things? Everything is there\n\nBrothers and sisters,\nI have come to Bijapur to tell you and assure you that although you were labeled as a backward district, now work will start on a large scale; it will be a new beginning I want to congratulate Bijapur for one more thing I had called the officers of these 100-125 districts in January and had announced that I will visit the district on 14th April that will progress at the fastest rate in three months. I want to congratulate the whole team of Bijapur for grabbing the number 1 position in the rate of progress among 100 backward districts. In a way, I have come here to salute your achievement and to take inspiration from it so that the 115 districts will realize that if Bijapur can achieve this in 100 days, rest of the 115 districts can also make it in the coming months.\nI will call these 115 aspirational districts as not only aspiring but also ambitious. Now these districts will not be dependent or backward They will emerge as new models of valor, transformation and outcome. We are moving forward with this belief.\n\nBrothers and sisters,\nYou may be wondering how I can Before coming to Bijapur, our government has studied more than 100 districts and analyzed results. Our experience of three months tells us that if all the people of the district, the administration of the district, the officers, and every village join the campaign and if you start a mass movement, then we can achieve something that could not achieve in the last 70 years after independence\nFriends,\nYou can never reach new heights by walking on old paths. World can not be replaced with old methods Rules One has to use new ways Our government is working with a new approach for the 115 backward districts including Bijapur. I want to give this example My farmer brothers are present in large numbers So they will easily understand this Our farmer brothers cultivate paddy, maize and pulses. I want to ask them about the amount of water. Do you use the same amount of water for maize that you use vegetables or paddy? Your answer will be -no. You can not use same amount of water. Paddy needs more water Different ways in different ways Is not it? If the requirements are different, the weaknesses will also be different. Keeping this in mind, every district has a plan of development. They have to do on their local resources.\nYour administration will have to frame a plan based on your needs. These small steps will take you into the race of development. The center, state government, blocks and villages will join hands in this endeavor.\n\nFriends,\nToday, on this platform, a great scheme to end social inequality and to ensure social justice is being launched. The first phase of 'Ayushman Bharat' is being launched from the soil of Chhattisgarh, Bijapur District, on 14th April, the birth anniversary of Ambedkar. In the first phase, efforts will be made in the country. Under this scheme, sub-centers and primary health centers will be developed in health and wellness centers in the country's major panchayats i.e. In 1.5 lakh villages. I tell the youngsters to know I will definitely study those suggestions Today 'Health and Wellness Center' is very popular but I want to use it as a simple word for it. But I would like to use your suggestions.\nThe goal of the government is to complete the work by 2022. By the time the country will be celebrating 75 years of Independence, a network of Health and Wellness Centers will already be in place across the country. Priority will be given to those 115 districts which are still behind in the race towards development.\n\nBrothers and sisters,\nWhy are these Wellness centers needed? I want to explain When we talk about Health and Wellness center our motive is not only to cure the disease but also to prevent the diseases. In our country, we can find a large number of patients with blood pressure and diabetes. 60% of health related deaths occur due to these 4 diseases viz. cardiovascular disease, diabetes, respiratory problems and cancer. But the diseases may be prevented if detected on time.\nThrough these Health and Wellness centers have been successful.\n\nFriends,\nI will also give you an example of how timely diagnosis is beneficial. Suppose a 35 year old person gets diagnosed with high blood pressure. If he gets diagnosed for any disease and with timely intervention, he can avoid greater expenditure and risks in the future. Today when I was inaugurating the Wellness Center, I came across a sister of 30-35 years of age. She was unaware about her diabetes. She told the doctors that she had been frequented by drinking water and felt dizzy and tired all the time. After the doctor examined her, it was diagnosed that she had high diabetes. A 30-32 year old sister did not know that she had diabetes. After coming to the wellness center, she got to know about her disease. She will follow the diet and everything henceforth She will be able to save herself from other diseases by controlling it. The Health and Wellness Center will spread the idea of ​​this preventive treatment in every village.\nThese Health and Wellness centers will work in the way Earlier there used to be a family doctor in middle class and upper class families. These Wellness Centers will now be the extension of your families. These will be associated with your daily life.\n\nFriends,\nThe idea of ​​Ayushman is not limited to the service but is also a call for public participation so that we can build a healthy, capable and satisfied New India. The next target is to provide a financial security of up to 5 lakh rupees to 50 crore poor people for serious illnesses per year. The work is going on\n\nBrothers and sisters,\nTransformation can happen only when resources are used in a proper way Today on this stage we have talked about an aspirational Bijapur along with an aspirational Chhattisgarh. Walking on the path showed by Atal ji for the past 14 years, the popular Chief Minister of the State, Mr Raman Singh, with the help of the people and a lot of hard work, is taking forward the developmental plans for the welfare of the welfare of the people. public After the formation of the NDA government 4 years ago, the resolution of development got a further boost in Chhattisgarh. Here the governance has reached the people The Chhattisgarh government has set new records by successively developing tribal areas and implementing many popular schemes. A new revolution is visible in the form of the University of Bastar and Surguja, medical colleges, engineering colleges and excellent institutes of schools and skill development in other districts\nI met a daughter named Lakshmi here. She has built a drone. Can anyone imagine that in a tribal region of Chhattisgarh-Rewa, a child of class 10th named Lakshmi has made a drone? She was telling me that she flies it at the height of 50 meters. I was delighted!\nYou must be aware that the work of Nagarnar Steel Plant is about to get over. Soon the Plant will be operational I am confident that your state is moving forward in the right direction as I see that the youngsters of Bastar are qualifying for medical colleges, engineering colleges, UPSC and PSC. There has been a revolutionary change in the health sector since the formation of BJP government in this state. There was a time when there used to be just two medical colleges in this state and I was told that today it has increased to 10. The seats of the medical colleges also increased in manifold. I am glad to see that the health facilities are being upgraded continuously in Bijapur and its surrounding areas. Highly qualified specialists are now offering their services in District Hospitals I congratulate their devotion to service from the core of my heart. I just met some of the doctors from Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh and other states who are devoting their entire time in these forests.\nI am confident that in the country where we have been so young dedicated doctors\nSometime back I got the opportunity to inaugurate the dialysis unit of the district hospital. I want to inform you all that under Pradhan Mantri Dialysis Yojana, more than 500 Hospitals of the country will offer free dialysis services. About 2.5 lakh patients have already used this facility, with about 25 lakh sessions. A network of development has been laid down in the most backward districts of Chhattisgarh like Sukma, Dantewada and Bijapur. I congratulate the government for this The central government is working on a dual strategy for the Chhattisgarh. First, the most important role in this region and the second strategy is to bring back the devastated youngsters in the mainstream of development. In the last 4 years, many important schemes have been started for the development of the state of Chhattisgarh in general and Bastar in particular. A network of more than 400 km long roads has been laid in Naxal affected areas of Bastar. The villages where Jeeps could not reach before\nUnder the scheme, every household is available with electricity connection. It will brighten the lives of the farmers, students, shopkeepers, small entrepreneurs and everyone. Thousands of solar pumps are being distributed in Bastar These solar pumps are a great extent. Many facilities like schools, hospitals, health care centers, public distribution systems, banks, ATMs and so on are provided in these regions. New mobile towers are being erected. Bastar is now getting connected to Raipur via railways.\nToday's work It will reach up to Jagdalpur in 2 years. A new steel plant will also start operating in Jagdalpur this year. This will provide the youngsters of Bastar with new employment opportunities. A new airport will come up in Jagdalpur and the work will start in a few months. Air connectivity will take this region's economy to new heights.\n\nFriends,\nBastar is transforming The Dictator-old identity associated with Bastar is also changing. Bastar will now be known as an economic hub in the future. It will be connected not only to Raipur but also to Hyderabad, Nagpur and Visakhapatnam.\nAlong with a new India, New Bastar will make life easier for lakhs of people here. They will come out of the darkness The new Bastar will be a new hope and new aspirations. It is said that sun rises in the east but that day is not far when Chhattisgarh's sun will rise from the South, from Bastar. If all these areas are bright then the state will keep shining If this region prospers, the whole state will prosper\n\nBrothers and sisters,\nIt has always been a great challenge to extend the real benefits of government schemes and services. This is one of the causes for the regional unbalance and backwardness. I am glad that the government of Raman Singh is very sensitive to this matter and is taking good initiative\nA while ago, I got the opportunity to visit the Jangla Development Center. A major objective of this center is that all government services will be found at one place and the people will not have to waste. Providing all the facilities like office of the Gram Panchayat, the government ration shop, the Patwari, hospitals and schools at one place will be a great service.\nI have been told that 14 such centers will be set up in the state. The centers of development can also work as well.\n\nFriends,\nOne way of ending in regional connectivity This is the reason for the highways, railways, Airways and I-ways or Information ways. At a time when internet and communication has become the greatest needs of the people, it is indispensable to have a good communication system in place. This is the reason for the inauguration of Phase 1 of Bastar. Under this scheme, about 400 km of Optical Fiber Network has been located in 6 districts.\nI have also been shown how the rural BPO of Jangla will help in making their life easier. The work of Bharat net project is underway in Chhattisgarh. I have been told that about 4000 gram panchayats out of 10000 Gram Panchayats have been connected to the Bharat net project and the work will get over by next year.\n\nFriends,\nRailway is another medium of connectivity.\nToday Dalli Rajhara Bhanupratap Express has flagged off. You will be happy to know that the new train that has flagged off today has all women employees - ranging from the driver to the guards The people of the country will also be happy to know that the trains in the trains of the forests of Chhattisgarh. The Dalli Rajhara-Raigarh line and Raigarh-Jagdalpur rail lines were proposed about 23 years ago but the work was not started for a long time. Even after it was started\nThis new project was envisaged by our government which led to the new rail line in the Northern region of Bastar.\nToday's foundation stone worth about Rs. 1700 crore has been laid. It will create a network of modern roads in villages of Bijapur, Kanker, Kondagaon, Sukma, Dantewada, Bastar, Narayanpur and Rajnand gaon. Under Pradhan Mantri Gramin Sadak Yojana, roads more than 2700 km long will be created. Airports are also being developed to connect large areas of Bastar and Sarguja. These regions will also be linked to the UNDAN scheme in the future.\n\nBrothers and sisters,\nFoundation-stone has also been laid down. Besides, efforts are being made to build bridges over Indravati River\n\nBrothers and sisters,\nThis government is the poor, the Dalits, the oppressed and the tribal people It is evident from the decisions, laws and the schemes made for the welfare of the poor and the tribal people in the last 4 years. Today the Van Dhan Yojana has been launched in this context. Under this scheme, we are developing centers. The government has ensured that the forest produces should reach the market. The forest products will be promoted with value addition through these centers. A new market will be created\n\nFriends,\nToday I have seen the importance of value addition here The raw tamarind is sold at rupees 17-18 per kg. If the same irrigation is sold in a good packing after removing the seeds it will fetch 50-60 rupees per kilo. This means that the price increases 3 times\n\nBrothers and sisters,\nToday we have started the Van Dhan Yojana You must have heard about the Gobardhan Yojana announced in this year's budget and along with this we have two more schemes - Jan Dhan Yojana and Van Dhan Yojana. The Trio I assure you that.\nThe Forest Rights Act is being implemented strictly considering the interests of the tribals.\nRecently the government has taken another decision related to the old law of bamboo under which bamboo was placed in the category of trees. As a result, chopping of bamboo drew legal obstacles\nHowever, the central government has modified the Forest Act and has taken out the list of trees. Now you can easily carry out your business in bamboo, grow bamboo and sell them in the market.\n\nBrothers and sisters,\nThe water, the land and the forests belong to you. You have the right over these things Government has understood this and 60 years old system We have made changes in the previous laws related to mining. As per the rules, it will be mandatory to receive a share of the funds for the local dwellers. Hence the District Mineral Foundation has been established in every district of mining.\nAfter this modification in the law, Chhattisgarh has benefited with an amount of more than rupees 3000 cr. The government has also decided that 60% of the amount under the Ministry will be implemented in the Kalyan Yojana Environmental protection, pollution control, healthcare, education and women and child welfare.\n\nBrothers and sisters,\nThe government is also working toward developing the education sector of the tribals along with their means of income. We have announced many major plans in this year's budget. As per the government's target, Ekalavya Model Residential schools will be developed in every block by the year 2022, where the population of the tribals is 50% or the number of tribal people is 20000\nBesides, the tribal honor and pride of another major task of the government. The Tribals had played a critical role in the country's freedom struggle. For the first time a government is honoring The government has decided that in order to honor the tribal freedom fighters in the different states, a world-class museum will be established so that the future generation is informed about their tribal brothers and sisters. That fight was their self-respect\n\nFriends,\nOne major way of economic empowerment and eliminating regional imbalances is Bank. Today banks have essentially become a part and parcel of our lives. Today I got a chance to inaugurate the new branch of State Bank of India here. I was told that people had traveled 20-25 km to get access to the bank. Moreover the problem aggravated due to lack of staff With this new branch you will be highly benefited.\nWe have also been entrusted with the post offices. All the banking operations will also be available in post offices. We have appointed Bank Mitras for facilitating banking operations. We have created frames for new schemes. Every citizen can make banking transactions with the help of his mobile phone.\n\nBrothers and sisters,\nPeople with Jan accounts are very well know Today, more than 31 crore bank accounts have been opened up due to the government. Even in Chhattisgarh more than 1lakh 30 thousand bank accounts have opened. These accounts are those poor, dalit, tribals and backward people\nI got the opportunity of riding the E-Rickshaw driven by Chhattisgarh's daughter Savita sahuji I was told that Savita had had a lot of difficulties in her family. Yet she managed to earn her livelihood by driving e-rickshaw. She has chosen the path of member committee With the help of a respectful life\nThis government is empowering the daughters and the sisters through many schemes like Swachh Bharat, Swasth Bharat Mission, Beti Bachao Beti Padhao Mission, Sukanya Samridhi Yojana and so on.\nThe women of Chhattisgarh have also benefited from the Ujjwala scheme. Till date about 18 lakh women. The government is trying to bring the devastated youngsters to the mainstream with the help of self-employment schemes. Therefore, bank loans without guarantees are provided under Mudra Yojana. I would like to urge the youngsters of this region to take advantage of the government schemes as much as possible. I would also like to appeal to the administration, the officers and the staff associated with the state to take the resolution of the work of development and accomplishing them in their districts at a faster pace.\n\nBrothers and sisters,\nThe government is not only framing new schemes but also making efforts to take the schemes in the public. I request you to take active initiative in the government. Your participation is the strength of the government and the strength will help in fulfilling the resolution of building a new India by 2022 at 75 years of India's Independence. It will fulfill the dreams of the great personalities like Babasaheb Ambedkar and Mahatma Gandhi. I will start again On the occasion of birth anniversary of Babasaheb Ambedkar, I would like to tell the youngsters who have deviated to the path of violence that Babasaheb Ambedkar has given us the Constitution. He has taken care of your rights in the Constitution It is the responsibility of your responsibility. You do not have to take up arms and resort to violence. I would also like to tell the mothers and the fathers However, just think about who their leader is? Not a single leader The leader was not born among you. They are outsiders The leaders do not die. They go and hide in the forests and are safe while your children are the ones who are dying in this violence Do you want to lose your children's life like this? These people are If you read their surnames and names You will understand Why are you giving them children?\nSo I would urge you to protect your interests. We have to We are making efforts so that your children can get better education, your product gets the right price and you all get a respectable life. The security forces are working day and night to ensure that your needs are fulfilled in terms of medicines, education, income etc. They are sacrificing their lives to ensure that the teachers are able to teach, roads are properly built, and telephone towers are erected. They are trying to improve\nCome brothers and sisters, let's move on to the path of development. Let us take the pledge to bring transformation into these 115 aspirational districts and let us fulfill the dream of Ayushman India.\nWith this hope I will once again congratulate you all for this great program in the forests.\nJai Bhim, Jai Bhim, Jai Hind !!"