"Share\n\nLet us work together to build a new India that will make our freedom fighters proud: PM Modi\nGovernment is committed to cooperative federalism, our ministry is 'Sabka Sath Sabka Vikas', says PM Modi\nTo prevent, control and manage diseases like cancer we need action from all sections of society including NGOs and private sector: PM\nUnder: #AyushmanBharat, we will provide preventive and curative services at primary care level to people near their homes, says PM Modi\nGovernor of Tamil Nadu,\nChief Minister of Tamil Nadu\nMy ministerial colleagues\nDeputy Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu\nOther distinguished dignitaries on the dais\nLadies and Gentlemen\nOn the upcoming festival of Vilambhi Tamil New Year on April 14th, I extend my greetings to all Tamil people. I am happy to be at Cancer Institute, Adyar.This is one of the oldest and most significant comprehensive cancer care centers in India.\nChanging lifestyles are adding to the burden of non-communicable diseases. According to some estimates, non-communicable diseases now account for about sixty percent of total deaths in our country.\nThe Union Government has planned the setting up of 20 State Cancer Institutes and 50 Tertiary Care Cancer Centers in different parts of the country.Proposals can be approved, for eligible institutions, upto Rs. 45 crore for setting up of Tertiary Care Cancer Center and upto Rs. 120 crore for setting up of State Cancer Institute I am happy to note that proposals for setting up of 15 State Cancer Institutes and 20 Tertiary Care Cancer Centers have been approved so far. 14 new All India Institutes of Medical Sciences are set up, with focus on oncology in its various facets.\nUnder Pradhan MantriSwasthya Suraksha Yojana, 8existing institutions are being upgraded with provision of oncology services. The National Health Policy of 2017 under-lines the importance of preventive healthcare.\nUnder the Comprehensive Primary Health Care aspect of Ayushman Bharat, we will provide preventive and curative services at primary care.\nWe have initiated Population-based Prevention, Control, Screening and Management of common non-communicable diseases such as Diabetes, Hyper-tension and Common Cancers.\nAyushman Bharat also includes the Prime Minister National Health Protection Mission.\nThis will cover over ten crore families. Approximately 50 crore people will be benefited through this mission. Insurance cover upto 5 lakh rupees per family, per year for secondary and tertiary care hospitalization will be provided under this mission.\nThis will be the world's largest government funded health care program. The benefits of the scheme will be portable across the country. People will be able to get benefits in both public and empaneled private facilities.\nTo prevent, control and manage diseases like cancer we need action from all sections of society including NGOs and private sector.\nThe Cancer Institute W.I.A. Chennai is a voluntary charitable organization, established by a group, voluntary women social workers under the inspirational leadership of the late Dr.Muthulaxmi Reddy.\nThis institute started as a small cottage hospital. It was the first cancer specialty hospital in South India and the second in the country.Today, the Institute has a Cancer Hospital with 500 beds. I am informed that 30 percent of these beds are free beds, which means patients are not charged.\nThe analytical oncology department of the institute was designated a \"Center of Excellence\" in 2007 by the Union Government. It was the first super specialty college in India established in 1984. These are pioneering, and praise-worthy achievements.\nDr. Shantha, in her opening speech, spoke about some difficulties being faced by the Institute. I would like to assure her that we will look in them and I would also request the Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu to see what can be done.Lastly, let me turn for a while, to an issue that has been certain vested interests over the last few days\nA baseless allegation is being made, about the terms of reference of the 15th Finance Commission, being a part of certain states, or a particular region. Let me tell you something, that our critics seem to have missed. Union Government has suggested the Finance Commission to consider incentivizing states who have worked on population control. By this yard-stick, a state like Tamil Nadu, which has devoted a lot of efforts, energy and resources towards population control would definitely benefit.\nFriends,\nThe Union Government is committed to cooperative federalism. Our mantra is Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas. Let us all work together to build a new India, which would make our great freedom fighters proud.\nThank You\nThank you very much\nA baseless allegation is the terms of reference of the 15th Finance Commission, being partial against certain states or a particular region: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 12, 2018\nThe Union Government has suggested the Finance Commission to consider incentivizing states who have worked on population control. Thus, a state like Tamil Nadu, which has devoted a lot of efforts, energy and resources towards population control would definitely benefit: PM"