"A very good morning to you all!\nThis is the 10th edition of Def-Expo.\nSome of you may have attended this event many times. A few have even been presenting it since inception.\nBut for me, this is the first time at Def-Expo. I am both delighted and over-whelmed to see such akeengathering here in this historic region of Kanchi-Puram in the Great State of Tamil Nadu.\nI am very happy to be here in the land of the great Cholas who established India's historical culture links through trade and education. This is the land of our glorious maritime legacy.\nThis is the land from where India Looked East and Acted East thousands of years ago.\nFriends\nIt is amazing to see over five hundred Indian companies, along with over one hundred and fifty foreign companies present here.\nMore than 40 countries have sent their official delegations as well. It is a opportunity like none other, not only to discuss India's defense requirements, but also to show-case, for the first time ever, in this way, India's own defence manufacturing capabilities to the world\nArmed Forces, the world over is the importance of supply chains. But it is not just on the battle-fields, but also on the factory floor of defense manufacturing enterprises, that strategic decisions are made.\nToday, we live in an inter-connected world. The efficiency of supply chains is a key factor in any manufacturing enterprise. Therefore, the strategic imperative to Make in India, to Make for India, and to the Supply to the World is strong than ever before\nFriends\nThousands of years of history of India show that we have never wanted any one's territory\nRather than winning countries through wars, India has believed in winning hearts.This is the land from where the message of peace and universal brotherhood has gone out since Vedic times.\nThis is the land from where the light of Buddhism spread to the world. In fact, from the time of Ashoka and even earlier, India has believed in using the highest ideals of humanity.\nIn modern times more than one hundred and thirty thousand Indian soldiers sacrificed their lives in the last century. India had no claim on territory. But Indian soldiers fought for restoring peace and up-holding human values.\nIndependent India has also sent one of the biggest numbers of UN peace-keepers.\nAt the same time, an important responsibility of the state is to protect its own citizens.The Great Indian thinker and strategist Kautilya wrote the ARTH-shastra more than two thousand years ago. He said that the King, or the ruler, must protect his people And, he also said that peace is preferable to war. India's defense is guided by these thoughts.Our commitment to peace is just as strong as our commitment to protect our people and our territories.And for this, the establishment through including our Armed Forces, of a strategically independent defence industrial complex\nFriends\nWe are conscious that creating a protective industrial complex is far from simple. We know that a lot needs to be done, and many pieces of this puzzle need to fit together.We are also aware that the defense manufacturing sector is unique in terms of government involvement. You need to make a license to manufacture. Since the government is almost the only buyer in India, you also need the government.\nAnd, you also need to export\nSo, over the last few years, we have made a humble start.\nOn defense manufacturing licenses, on defence offsets, on defense export clearances, on Foreign direct investment in defense, and on reforming our defense procurement, we have taken many steps.\nIn all these areas, our regulations, processes and procedures were made more industry-friendly, more transparent, more predictable and more result oriented. Issuing licenses for the purpose of the Defense Products list are revised, and most components, parts, Sub-systems, testing equipment and production equipment have been removed from the industry, especially for small and medium enterprises.\nInitial validity of Industrial License has been increased from 3 years to 15 years, with provision to further extend it by 3 years.\nOffset guidelines have been made in favor of Indian Offset Partners and offset components, even in contracts already signed\nForeign Original Equipment Manufacturers are now required to indicate the details of Indian Offset Partners and products at the time of signingoff contracts. We have also re-instated services as an avenue of discharging offsets.\nThe Standard Operating Procedure for issue of export authorizations have been simplified and put in public domain.\nThe requirements of Government-signed End User Certificate for exports of parts and components and other non-sensitive military stores, sub-assemblies, and sub-systems have been done away with.\nThe defence industry sector was closed to the private sector till May 2001, when it was first opened up to private sector participation by the government of Shri Atal Behari Vajpayee ji.\nWe have taken a step forward and revised the Foreign Direct Investment cap of 26 percent to 49 percent through the automatic route, and even up to 100 percent on a case-to-case basis.\nThe Defense Procurement Procedure has also been updated, with many specific provisions for stimulating the growth of domestic defense industry.\nWe have also de-notified some items previously made exclusively by Ordnance Factories, so that the private sector, especially the micro, small and medium enterprises can enter this space.\nFor encouraging the growth of Micro and Small enterprises in the defense sector, the Public Procurement Policy for Micro and Small Enterprises- which was notified in 2012 - has been made mandatory from April 2015.\nIn May 2014, the total number of defense licenses issued was 215. In less than four years, we have issued 144 more licenses through a much more transparent and predictable process.\nIn May 2014, the total number of defense export permissions granted was 118, for a total value of 577 million dollars. In less than four years, we have issued 794 more export permissions, for a total value of over 1.3 billion dollars. From 2007 to 2013, the targeted offsets obligations were 1.24 billion dollars, of which only 0.79 billion dollarsworth of offsets were actually discharged. That is, a achievement rate of about 63 percent.\nFrom 2014 to 2017, the targeted offsets obligations are 1.79 billion dollars, of which 1.42 billion dollars worth of offsets were realized. This is an achievement rate of close to 80 percent. Procurement from Micro and Small Enterprises by the Defense Public Sector Undertakings and Ordnance Factories has gone up about Rs. 3300 crores in 2014-15 to over Rs. 4250 crores in 2016-17. This is an increase of close to 30 percent.\nIt is heartening to note that the contribution of small and medium scale sector to defense has increased by 200 percent in the last 4 years.\nAnd, they are increasingly becoming part / of the global supply chains.\nI am also pleased that the shares of Indian vendors in the procurement order placed through defense expenditure has gone up about 50 percent during 2011-14 to over 60 percent during the last three years.\nI am sure that this will improve further in the years ahead.\nFriends,\nHaving said that, I am aware that we need to do a lot more. And, we are committed to do so.\nWe are committed to building a defense industrial complex that has room for everyone - public sector, private sector, as well as foreign companies\nWe are committed to establishing two Defense Industrial Corridors - one right here in Tamil Nadu, and one in Uttar Pradesh. These defence industrial corridors will use the existing defence manufacturing ecosystems in these regions, and further build on it.\nThese corridors will become the engines of economic development and growth of defence industrial base in the country.We have also established a Defense Investors Cell to assist and handhold the investors involved in Defense production.\nFriends'\nGovernment's support for technology, innovation, research and development is important for defense sector\nA Technology Perspective and Capability Road-map has been released to help the industry in planning and initiating technology development, partnerships and production arrangements.\nIn recent years, we have also taken various initiatives like Make In India, Startup India, and Atal Innovation Mission, to encourage innovation and entrepreneurship in the Indian commercial eco-system.\nToday, we have launched the 'Innovation for Defense Excellence' scheme. It will set up Presence Innovation Hubs throughout the country.\nPrivate venture capital in the defense sector, especially for start-ups\nNew and emerging technologies like Artificial Intelligence and Robotics are probably the most important determinants / of defensive and offensive capabilities for any defense force in the future. India, with its leadership in Information Technology domain, will benefit from this technology.\nFriends\nThe former President and a great son of Tamil Nadu and India, Bharat RatnaDr. A. P. J. Abdul Kalam had called upon him \"Dream! Dream! Dream! Dreams transform into thoughts, and thoughts in action \".\nOur dream is to develop the Ecosystem to Foster an Environment of New and Creative Entrepreneurship in the Defense.\nAnd for this, in the weeks ahead, we will undertake extensive discussions with all stakeholders, including both our Indian and Foreign companies, about our Defense Production and Defense procurement policy space. I will call you all to this exercise in active participation. is not just to talk, but to draw the right lessons. Our intention is not to lecture, but to listen. Our goal is not only to tinker, but to transform\nFriends\nWe want to move fast But, we can not\nThere was a time when, like many other aspects of governance, the critical issue of defense preparedness was also hampered by policy paralysis.\nWe have seen the damage like laziness, incompetenceor maybe some hidden motives, can cause to the nation\nNot now Not anymore. Never again.Issues that has been addressed by the previous governments, are now resolved.\nYou would've seen how the issue of providing bullet proof jackets to Indian Army soldiers was hanging for years.\nAnd, you have also seen that we have brought the process to a successful conclusion with a contract that will provide a boost to defense in India. You may also recall the long-drawn process of fighter aircraft that have never reached any conclusion .\nWe have not only taken bold action to meet our immediate critical requirements, but we have also begun a new process to purchase 110 fighter aircraft.We do not want any tangibleoutcomes without discussions in ten years. We will work with you in a sense of mission to keep our defense forces equipped with state-of-the-art systems, and to create the necessary domestic manufacturing ecosystem to achieve this. And, in all our efforts to pursue efficiency and effectiveness in partnership with you, you will be guided by the highest ideals of integrity and probity.\nFriends\nThis sacredland brings to mind the legend Thiruvalluvar, a celebrated Tamil poet and philosopher.\nHe said:\n\"In sandy soil, when deep you delve, you reach the springs below; The more you learn, the freer streams of wisdom flow. \"\nI am confident that Def-Expo will provide the opportunity for professionals and industry to develop new industries.\nThank you.\nThank you very much\nI am delighted and overwhelmed to see an enthusiastic gathering in this historic region of Kanchipuram in the Great State of Tamil Nadu.\nI am very happy to be the land of the great Cholas who established India's historical civilization links through trade \u0026 education: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 12, 2018\nThis is the land of our glorious maritime legacy.\nThis is the land from where India Looked East and Acted East thousands of years ago: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 12, 2018\nIt is wonderful to see that over 500 Indian companies \u0026 over 150 foreign companies are here.\nMore than 40 countries have submitted their official delegations as well: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 12, 2018\nOur commitment to protecting our people \u0026 our territory For this we are ready to take all the necessary measures to make our Armed Forces, including through the establishment of a strategically independent defence industrial complex: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 12, 2018\nWe are conscious that defense is unique in terms of government. involvement You need the government to a license to manufacture\nSince the government is almost the only buyer, you need the government to grant an order\nYou need the government export to PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 12, 2018\nOver the last few years, we have made a humble start.\nOn Defense manufacturing licenses, on defence offsets, on defense export clearances, on Foreign direct investment in defense, and on reforming our defense procurement, we have taken many steps: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 12, 2018\nThe Defense Procurement Procedure has been revised with many specific provisions for stimulating growth of domestic defence industry.\nWe have also de-notified some items previously made exclusively by Ordnance Factories, so that private sector, esp. MSMEs can enter this space: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 12, 2018\nIn May 2014, the total number of defense export permission granted was 118, for a total value of 577 million dollars. In less than four years, we have issued 794 more export permissions, for a total value of over 1.3 billion dollars: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 12, 2018\nWe are committed to establishing 2 Defense Industrial Corridors: 1 in TN \u0026 1 in UP This will utilize defence manufacturing ecosystems in the regions and further build on it. The corridors will become engines of economic development \u0026 growth of defence industrial base: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 12, 2018\nWe have launched the 'Innovation for Defense Excellence' scheme. It will set up Defense Innovation Hubs all the country to provide the necessary incubation and infrastructure support to the start-ups in defense sector: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 12, 2018\nThere was a time when the critical issue of defense preparedness was hampered by policy paralysis.\nWe have seen the damage like laziness, incompetence or maybe some hidden motives, can cause to the nation\nNot now, Not anymore, Never again: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 12, 2018\nYou would've seen how the issue of providing bullet proof jackets to Indian soldiers was hanging for years.\nYou have also seen that we have brought the process to a successful conclusion with a contract that will provide a boost to defense in India: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 12, 2018\nYou will also recall the long-drawn process of the procurement of fighter aircraft that never reached any conclusion\nWe have not only taken bold action to meet our immediate critical requirements, but have also initiated a new process to purchase 110 fighter aircrafts: PM"