"\nHIRA model of development - Highways, i-Ways, Railways, Airways is on in Tripura, says PM\nUnder PM Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana, farmers with less than 5 acres will get Rs 6000 per year in their bank accounts: PM\nThrough PM Shram Yogi Mandhan Pension Scheme, labors in unorganized sector will get Rs.3000 per month as pension after 60 years of age: PM\nLong live Mother India\nLong live Mother India\nA large number of people were present, my dear brothers and sisters coming to bless me!\nMother Tripura Sundari has once again got good fortune to come among all of you on earth. Here is the satisfaction of what you have changed over the decades, I can see on your face. Now while people were on the whole path, I was seeing that the liberation that you received 11 months ago, the happiness of that salvation was seen on your face. In the past 11 months you have experienced democracy and development in real life. To take the development of Tripura, to take the faith of Tripura to a new path, I congratulate the famous Chief Minister and Deputy Chief Minister and their whole team.\nFriends, before coming here, I had the opportunity to unveil his statue of Maharaja Bir Bikram Kishore Manikya Bahadur Ji in the airport campus; Those who have dreamed for Tripura, who tried to fulfill those dreams, to get the statue of such a great person to the airport is to fill every person who comes here with positiveness. The statue of Veer Vikram ji is going to inspire every person of Tripura for the vision of development.\nFor the development of Tripura, the Central Government has left no shortage. For the last four and a half years, adequate funds were released for Tripura, but due to the attitude of the previous government, the work was not done here. But the present government is now engaged in accelerating the development of Tripura. I have been told that for the first time in the history of the state, for the first time on the basis of MSP, on MSP basis, Paddy has procured from farmers in Tripura state for the first time. I am surprised, the leaders who flouted big speeches in Delhi- when there was a government of their party, who did not even work for buying the farmers' paddy on MSP; The country will have to recognize such people. They have to be exposed. Besides, the attention of lakhs of employees has been taken into account by implementing recommendations of the Seventh Finance Commission. These work-those who do politics in the name of the workers, do politics in the name of workers, give lectures of the rights of the workers to the world, they ruled Tripura for so many years, but never cared about the report of the pay commission. In a way, Tripura, which was kept separate by the earlier government, is now truly involved in Tripura mainstream of the country.\nWith the expansion of the common man's interest in Tripura, I have just inaugurated hundreds of millions of projects. Whether the Garcia-Belonia section of the Agartala-Saburum railway line or the new Campus of the Tripura Institute of Technology, it will connect the youth here with new opportunities.\nFriends, when I came here during the election, I talked about the HIRA model of development, HIRA People speak in elections, forget things; I am remembering from the front. Hira, I had advocated HIRA. It meant highway, I-way, railway, airway- HIRA.\nNational Highway Project from Agartala to Suborrah, Railway line should be, Hamsafar Express, Agartala-Deodhar Express; Second Terminal being built in Agartala airport; These projects are the tableau of Tripura's same HIRA model. These projects are going to create new employment opportunities in Tripura, here are the possibilities of industries.\nWe are making Tripura the new Gateway of South East Asia, which has been thrown out of Tripura as a land lock state. With the help of Bangladesh Government, Tripura is going to get the benefit of water connectivity through the port of Chittagong and Ashuganj Port. The work on the bridge of Feni river is also underway. When this bridge is completed, deepening the river Gomti will be completed, Tripura will not only be in North-East but will be on the way to becoming the commercial hub of South East Asia.\nNow tell me, did Gomti river come after Narendra Modi's prime minister? Was not that before? Was not it before? Viplab ji became the chief minister even before, did not he? Did you see? The former government was not seen. We have decided to drive that ship by deepening it.\nBrothers and Sisters, during the last few months, the government here has made constant efforts to simplify your life through technology. Ration of the poor, land issues or other services- The rest of the country has been working fast to facilitate the public from the Internet. This digital campaign has got equal rein on intermediaries. And I was told that in our Tripura, more than 62 thousand people were getting the benefit of government schemes, those who were not - not just on paper, grew up on paper and took money on paper. These fictitious people were robbing your money and paying whom they were safe- you know very well.\nFriends, in this way, for the last four and a half years, we have excluded eight crore fake beneficiaries of such fraudulent transactions across the country from the system. These were those who used to eat ration of other poor people, used to eat pensions, scholarships went off. Who made this whole arrangement - tell me, who prepared this system of intermediaries and brokers? Explain slightly - who are responsible? Who wasted that?\nSethio, who had a government for 55 years in Delhi, and for two decades there was a government, in fact the duo of these two partners had committed this sin, it was amazing. This fellowship of the gangsters and corrupt officials, the maternal intermediaries of middlemen, who drove the people of Tripura and the poor and middle class of the country.\nCompanions, maternal and maternal colleagues, these colleagues have been the biggest patrons of brokers, middlemen. Once again, they are dreaming in Delhi that, as soon as possible in Delhi, to become a forced government, compelled; They are having more trouble with a strong government. Do you want me to know that the country needs a strong government? Such a big country can run without a strong government? Can the decisions without strong government be made? Can the country move forward without a strong government? Can a future of youngsters without a strong government? They need a forced government, because there will be a compulsive government, there will be facilities to fill their homes, the facility to serve their descendants will be available, the field will be open for maneuvering. You tell me, brothers, sisters- should the country not get a strong government?\nThe competition is going on for abusing Modi today. Olympics is going on olympic This work is going on in a mismatch. See the extent of opportunism - you tell me, in this delusional gathering, hold hands in Delhi, take photographs, go to Calcutta, hold hands and take photos; Are they ready to see each other's faces in Tripura? Are you? Are you in Kerala? Are you in Bengal? But to confuse the country, they are running a campaign of maternity relief by joining hands in hand. And what to do - whenever you meet- slap Modi. They think that the public is covering their conscience just like them, they do not understand the game of this maternal marriage. In fact, they are still living in the old ones that no one can catch their lies. Just as you showed them the truth in the assembly elections, in the Lok Sabha elections, the people of the country will now tell what it means to lie to people.\nBrothers and Sisters, if anyone asks them, what are your plans for the brother farmer, what is the agenda? As soon as you ask what will you do for the farmer - should they answer or not? Should not give or answer? But what they do, you remember - you will ask them for the farmer, they will blame Modi so much. If you ask them what to do for the laborer, what will you do for the laborer? Should they answer or not? Do not answer, they will give a bigger slogan to Modi than him. Ask them what to do for a better future of the youth, instead of answering them, they will also offer Modi a lot of abuse. The more questions, the more the abuse goes up. They have only one answer to every question - blame Modi, blame Modi, loudly slap Modi, give as much as possible to Modi; This is their job.\nBrothers and sisters, in fact, these partners of maternal grandmother have come to know that the youth of the country, the poor of the country, the farmers of the country - they are seeing their aspirations on Modi, seeing them with hope and confidence. Modi works with a belief that works, the expectation is more than that, and it is well known to all the opponents - even the opponents know well.\nFriends, giving more detail to the work done by the government in the last four and a half years, the way of 'all-round development' has been further strengthened in this year's budget. A farmer, a young man, a laborer or a middle class, has arranged such a system in the budget for everyone, as did the earlier thought.\nBrothers and Sisters, in this budget, we have worried about those people about which only slogans have been introduced during the time of previous governments, only votes have been cast. Now you should tell, those who work in homes, who are involved in the construction of roads or houses, who run rickshaws, run the rahdi or jammal - crores of unorganized laborers in such unorganized sectors for the unorganized laborers What did the governments do? This communist party worker, the workers of the laborers tell themselves, but they do not have any idea of ​​doing anything for the unorganized labor. These were the partners of the Delhi Government, who ran such a long government here, but they did not always remember the unorganized labor. Did anyone make any big plans for this class till date?\nFriends, earlier governments could not do this work because their intention was not clear. The tea-vendor's government has made a big plan with the right intention. The name of this scheme is 'Prime Minister Shrimayogi Mudhodan Yojana'. Under this, like unorganized employees, like other workers, even unorganized labor workers, laborers also get a regular pension of Rs 3000 after the age of 60 years. Those who earn less than Rs 15,000 in monthly earnings, can join this scheme by giving a small monthly contribution of an average of 100 rupees. As much as the contribution will be in the labor, the central government will put in their pension account every month.\nIn the same way, many arrangements have been made for farmers, cattle man and fishermen. The biggest plan of history for farmers has been made- PM Kisan Yojana. Under this, the Tripura government will deposit 6000 rupees directly to the central bank in the bank accounts of nearly 12 crore farmers across the country, and it will be deposited in three installments of two-two thousand rupees. And my efforts will be to reach the account of farmers as soon as possible, the first installment of the first installment. It will be given to the farmers who have five acres or less land.\nSimilarly, for farmers, credit cards like farmers are being provided so that they can avail cheap loans from banks for their needs and avoid getting entangled in the moneylender's clutches.\nIt has been decided to make separate department for fishermen. This will solve the problems related to fishermen as soon as possible.\nFriends, all these programs will give strength to the schemes that have been running for the last four and a half years. Like the Ayushman Bharat Scheme, the poor families of Tripura have been ensured free treatment of up to five lakh rupees.\nUnder the Ujjwala scheme, the poor are getting the connection of LPG for free.\nUnder which the house is not being given to the toilet under the Prime Minister's Housing Scheme and under the Clean India Mission. The accidental and life insurance facility of up to two lakhs rupees has been made available to the poor on a daily premium of one rupee and 90 paise.\nI have been told that in connection with more than two lakh gas connections in Tripura within 11 months; Such small Tripura state, more than two lakhs of gas connection in 11 months, more than 20 thousand households have been given to poor and more than 1.25 lakh toilets have been made. These schemes are being used today to raise the standard of living of the poor.\nSathyo, Tripura is also identified by the tribes. This year's central budget has seen a huge increase in the budget for the tribals. Together, nomadic tribe has also been decided to form a commission for the first time to identify this community.\nBrothers and Sisters, our Central Government has stepped towards fulfilling the long-standing demand of empowering the autonomous council. By changing the law, we not only want to make the council self-reliant, but also want to increase the council's rights. I hope that after every change in law, every region will have a balanced development and rapid growth will happen.\nFriends, Panchadhara of development i.e. children's education, earning the youth, medicines to the elderly, irrigation for the farmer and hearing of the people, we are continuously strengthening this path. Tripura Institute of Technology is a very important part of our campaign to connect the youth of Tripura with education and earnings. इस इंस्‍टीट्यूट से यहां के युवाओं को शिक्षा के बेहतर अवसर मिलेंगे और उनके उज्‍ज्‍वल भविष्‍य की नींव सशक्‍त होगी। त्रिपुरा की शिक्षा व्‍यवस्‍था को मजबूती देने के लिए राज्‍य की सरकार निरन्‍तर अनेक कदम उठा रही है। पहले की सरकार ने जो अव्‍यवस्‍थाएं फैला रखी थीं, उनको दूर किया जा रहा है।\nसाथियो, मुझे बताया गया है कि युवाओं को कमाई के समान अवसर देने के लिए राज्‍य सरकार ने एक गलत परम्‍परा को यहां की व्‍यवस्‍था से हटा दिया है। पहले सरकारी नौकरियों में एक पार्टी को और उनके डर से जुड़े, लोगों को ही लिया जाता था। इस परम्‍परा को अब पूरी तरह खत्‍म कर दिया गया है। अब त्रिपुरा के हर युवा को मैरिट के आधार पर चयन करने के लिए पारदर्शी व्‍यवस्‍था तैयार की जा रही है।\nमुझे ये देखकर संतोष होता है कि अब यहां हिंसा का, डराने-धमकाने का दौर चला गया है और त्रिपुरा शां‍ति से विकास की नई ऊंचाई को छूने के लिए निकल पड़ा है।\nमुझे इस बात की भी खुशी है कि त्रिपुरावासी अब आराम से माता त्रिपुरेशवरी का आशीर्वाद ले सकता है, हवन कर सकता है, पूजा, हवन, दीवाली, होली- सभी त्‍योहारों को पूरी आजादी के साथ सभी त्रिपुरावासी मना सकते हैं।\nभाइयो और बहनों, 11 महीने पहले आपने जो नए त्रिपुरा के लिए अपना वोट दिया था उसको और शक्ति देने के लिए, अब नए भारत के लिए नया जनादेश भी आपको देना है। अगरतला और दिल्‍ली में विकास से डबल इंजन चलता रहे, इसके लिए आपको जुटे रहना है। आपके विश्‍वास से ही विकास के नए रास्‍ते खुलेंगे।\nमैं फिर एक बार आपके आशीर्वाद के लिए, इस विशाल संख्‍या में आने के लिए हृदय से आपका बहुत-बहुत धन्‍यवाद करता हूं।\nमेरे साथ बोलिए-\nLong live Mother India\nLong live Mother India\nLong live Mother India\nThanks a lot."