"Share\n\nIndia's energy future has four pillars - Energy access, energy efficiency, energy sustainability and energy security: PM at # IEF16\nOur government believes in an integrated approach for energy planning and our energy agenda is inclusive: PM Modi\nIndia's energy consumption will grow 4.5% every year for the next 25 years, says PM Modi at # IEF16\nWe are entering an era of energy abundance, says PM Modi at 16th International Energy Forum\nMinister for Energy, Saudi Arabia\nMinister for Petroleum and Natural Gas, India\nSecretary General, International Energy Forum\nDistinguished Delegates\nWelcome to India\nWelcome to the 16th International Energy ForumMinisterial Meeting.\nI am happy to see such a large participation of energy ministers from producing and consuming nations, Heads of International Organizations and CEOsin this forum.\nAs you come together today to discuss the future of global energy, the world is experiencing a great transition in energy supply and consumption.\nConsumption growth has shifted to nonOECD countries: Middle East, Africa and developing Asia;\nSolar Photo-Voltaic Energyhas become economicalcompared to all other energy sources. This is changing the supply paradigm;\nAbundant availability of natural gas globally with increased percentage of LNG and natural gas is contributing to the primary energy basket;\nThe US may be the biggest producer of oil. It is predicted to meet a major portion of the additional oil demand in the next few decades;\nCoal may gradually go out of favor as a major contributor to the primary energy in the OECD World and later in developing countries;\nThe Transport sector will see huge changes in the electric vehicles;\nThe World is committed to the climate change agendabased on the COP-21. The energy intensity of economies will change with green energy and energy efficiency;\nLast month I came across a energy forecast, prepared by an agency, according to which will be the key driver of global energy demand in the next twenty-five years. India's energy consumption will grow by four points two percent a year for the next twenty-five years.This is the fastest among major world economies. The report also mentions that the gas demand will be triple by 2040.The number of electric vehicles will rise to three hundred and twenty million by 2030, up from three million today.\nWe are entering an era of energy abundance. However, one point two billion people still do not have access to electricity. Many more do not have accessto clean cooking fuel. We must ensure that this situation is not exploited to the detriment of the under-privileged. People have universal access to clean, affordable, sustainable and equitablesupply of energy\nLet me share some of my thoughts with the hydrocarbon sector and our endeavor to achieve energy security.\nOil and Gas are a commodity of tradebut too of necessity. Whether it is the kitchen of a common manor for an aircraft, energy is essential.\nThe world has too long seen prices on a roller-coaster\nWe need to move to responsible pricing, which balances the interests of both producer and consumer. We also need to move to transparent and flexiblemarkets for both oil and gas.Only then we need the energy needs of humanity in an optimal manner.\nIf the world has grown as a whole, It is the interests of producerssthat other economies keep growing steadily and rapidly. This will ensure growing energy markets\nEfforts at artificially distorting prices are self-defeating, as history has shown us. They also cause undue hardships, especially those who are at the bottom of the pyramid in developing countries.\nLet us use this platformto build a global consensus on 'responsible pricing.' This will serve both producers and consumers of mutual interests.\nGiven global un-certainties, India also needs energy security. My vision for India's energy future has 4 pillars- energy access, energy sustainability and energy security.\nEnergy in general and hydrocarbons in India India needs energy which is accessible and affordable to the poor It needs efficiency in energy use\nAs a responsible global member of the comity of nations, India has been committed to combating climate change, curbing emissions and a sustainable future. The launch of the International Solar Alliance is a step towards fulfilling this commitment.\nFriends\nCurrently, India is the fastest growing company in the world. All leading agencies such as the IMF, World Bank, and ADB are estimating India to grow at 7 to 8 percent in the near future. Our government has been able to achieve high GDP growth with low inflation, well controlled fiscal deficit and stable exchange rate. This macro-economicstability is boosting both consumption and investment in the economy.\nIndia is also blessed with demographic dividend.The working age population as a share in total population, is one of the highest in the world. Our government is boosting local manufacturing through Make in India and Skilling of youth in industries such as textile, petro-chemical, defense, engineering etc. This, in turn, is also the indexing of our energy consumption.\nWe have also revamped our up-stream policies and regulations and brought transparency in the sector through the launch of Hydrocarbon Exploration and Licensing Policy. The bidding criteria has changed into revenue sharing which will help reduce government intervention. Currently, a bidding round is open till the 2nd of May. I request you to participate in our endeavors towards growing production. The Open Acreage and National Data Repository will help companies participate in the fields they are interested in.\nThe Enhanced Oil Recovery Policya's to promote the latest technology in productivity of up-stream fields.\nOur Down-stream sector has completely liberalized with market driven petrol and diesel prices. We have moved towards digital platformsin fuel retail and payments\nOur government has encouraged private participation across the oil and gas price chainfrom up-stream production to down-stream retail.\nOur Government is an integrated approach to energy planning. And, our energy agenda in India is inclusive, market based, and climate-sensitive. This, we believe, will be a long waytowards achieving three energy related components of the United Nations Sustainable Development Agenda.Namely:\nUniversal access to modern energy by 2030;\nUrgent action to tackle climate change - in line with the agreement;\nMeasures to improve air quality;\nFriends,\nWe believe access to clean energy Women's benefits It reduces indoor pollution, and hardships are faced in collecting bio-mass and firewood. It gives them time for further self-development, and taking up additional economic activities.\nIn India, through the Ujjwala Yojana we provide free LPG connections to women from poorhouseholds. The aim is toprovide clean LPG cooking connections to 80 million poor families.35 million connections have already been made in less than two years.\nWe propose to shift to BS Six fuels by April 2020, which is equivalentto the EURO Six standards. Our refineries are under-going massive up gradation. They are targeted at meet the ambitions in the future. In fact, here in New Delhi, we have already started offering BS Six standard fuel this month.\nWe have also launched a vehicle scrapping policy that will replace old vehicles with cleaner and energy efficient vehicles.\nOur oil companies are assessing their investmentkeeping in view the energy diversification strategies.\nToday, oil companies are also investing in wind and solar capacities, gas infrastructure, and also thinking of investing in Electric Vehicle and Storage areas.\nFriends\nAs we are all aware, we are now looking towards industry 4.0, proposing to change the way the industry operates in the future with new technologies and processes like Internet of Things, Artificial intelligence, robotics process automation, machine learning, predictive analytics, 3-D printing, etc.\nOur companies are also adopting latest technologies. This will improve efficiency, and the increase in safety and reduction costs only in-stream retailbut also in up-stream oil production, asset maintenance and remote monitoring.\nIn this backdrop, India provides the perfect setting for hosting this event, to ponder over the future of the energy sector. To reflect on how global shifts, transition policies and new technologies will affect market sustainability and the sector in future investment.\nFriends,\nThe theme of IEF-16 is \"The Future of Global Energy Security.\" I am told that the agenda aims to address issues like global shifts in producer-consumer relations, universal energy accessand affordability, and promoting investments in oil and gas to meet demand.Maintaining the energy security and co-existence of new and existing technologies These are all our peripherals\nI believe that the discussions at this forum will go a long way in benefitting the world in accessible, affordable and sustainable energy.\nI wish you all a successful and fruitful Ministerial Conference.\nThank you"