"Share\n\nPM Modi flags off Indian Railways' first #MakeInIndia 12,000 HP electric locomotive in Bihar's Madhepura district\nI am glad that the people of Bihar have shown the spirit of oneness for the Swachhta campaign, says the PM\nWe are taking forward Mahatma Gandhi's ideals through Swachhagra movement: PM Modi\nIn the last one week, more than 8,50,000 toilets have been constructed in Bihar, this is a great achievement: PM Modi in Motihari\nVillages built along the Ganga coast is freed from open defecation on a priority basis: PM\nThe demand for LPG has risen because of the emphasis on clean fuel and the success of the #Ujjwala Yojana: PM Modi\nBy building a toilet, a woman has found and safety and health parameters have also shown a marked increase: PM\nI would say: Mahatma Gandhi,\nAnd you guys will say: Long Live, Long Live\nMahatma Gandhi ... Long live, Long live\nMahatma Gandhi ... Long live, Long live\nMahatma Gandhi ... Long live, Long live\nSwachchagrahi brothers and sisters from all corners of the country who are present here on this holy land of Champaran; I bow down to all the respected people Everyone knows that Bapu started his movement of passive resistance from Champaran. And we got this powerful weapon in the form of passive resistance to get freedom from the British. A century after the Satyagrah movement has passed, but it is still effective even after And how many more years will it remain effective? Modern time demands that we move from Satyagrah to Swachchagrah.\nMahatma Gandhi had started his campaign for cleanliness from Badahwa Lakhansen of Champaran at the time Champaran movement. Today, we are taking forward the cleanliness campaign of Bapu by moving from Satyagrah to Swachchagrah. RauaSamankeSojhaBani\nShrimanSatpal Malik Ji, the governor of Bihar present on the dais; ShrimanNitish Kumar Ji, my colleague in the Council of Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad Ji, Ram Vilas Paswan Ji, Sushri Uma Bharti Ji, Radha Mohan Singh Ji, Giriraj Singh Ji, Shri Ram Kripal Yadav Ji, Shri SS Ahaluwalia Ji, Mr. Ashwini Kumar Chaube Ji, Deputy Chief Minister of Bihar Shriman Sushil Kumar Modi Ji, Member of the Council of Minister of Shri Shravan Kumar Ji, Shri Vinod Narayan Jha Ji, Shri Pramod Kumar Ji and thousands of Satyagrahis present here and all people connected with this program through video conference, ladies and gentlemen,\nThose who say that history does not repeat themselves they can come here and see themselves as that 100 years old history still exist here before us. In a way the Swachchagrahis are sitting here before me, they are the ones who have a part of the ideals of Gandhi, ideas and deeds of Gandhi live inside.\nI bow down to that part of Mahatma Gandhi present in all Swachchrahis. The world had witnessed the similar image of people's movement hundred years ago on this holy land of Champaran and today once again the world has been remembered the holy.\nHundred years ago, people from all over the country came to Champaran. He had worked under the leadership of Gandhi Ji by visiting lane by lane. Today, 100 years after that, the people from different countries are working hard, working day and night by working with the enthusiastic and young Swachchagrahis. Today, in this massive crowd, someone is Kasturba, someone is Raj Kumar Shukla, someone is Gorakh Prasad, someone is Sheikh Gulab, someone is Lomraj Singh, someone is Harivansh Rai, someone is Sheetal Rai, someone is Bin Muhammad Munees, someone is Doctor RajendraBabu, someone is a darling and someone is Ram Navami Babu and someone is JP Kriplani Ji.\nToday's Swachchagrah is providing a new direction to the millions and people of the country as hundred years ago The Satyagrah has provided a great opportunity for such a great people. On to Champaran; Today, thousands of Swachchagrahis have gathered here from different corners of the country by following this slogan. I bow down to your enthusiasm, your vigor, your energy and your enthusiasm to work for the country and the desires of the people of Bihar.\nBefore coming on, I have also visited an exhibition on cleanliness. New technologies, new industries have been explained in this exhibition. This is also the time for completion of those programs which have been completed on 100 years of Champaran Satyagra. However, for us it is more of an occasion to begin urging people rather more for cleanliness than the culmination of the programs.\nBrothers and sisters, this is the same Bihar which has shown the path to the country on three very difficult occasions during the last 100 years. When the country was under the shackles of slavery then Bihar had developed Mohan Das Karam Chand Gandhi a great soul; it had made him the father\nAfter the independence, when millions of millions of farmers face the danger of being deprived of the land then Vinoba Ji started the movement. Babu Jay Prakash has called the call and saved the democracy, and the third time when the country was threatened.\nI'm extremely proud that the people of Bihar have once again demonstrated and established their leadership capabilities. I am aware that some people may ask that the situation of cleanliness in Bihar There is a reason behind that. The work done by Bihar in the last sometimeunder the leadership of Nitish Ji and Sushil Modi has boosted everyone's morale.\nFriends, Bihar was the only state in the country where coverage of cleanliness was less than 50 percent. But today our secretary Mr. Parmeshwar Ji has told me that Bihar was able to break this barrier after a week longSwachchagrahAbhiyan (cleanliness mission). In the last one week alone, Bihar has completed the work of construction of 8 lakh 50 thousand toilets. And this speed and progress is not ordinary This data proves that very soon Bihar will be able to expand the coverage of the national average.\nI sincerely congratulate the people of Bihar, to every cleanliness warrior and to the government of Bihar for this extremely challenging effort.\nJust a while ago, I also got the chance to honor a few Swachchrahi colleagues (cleanliness warriors). I appreciate the efforts made by them, I convey my best wishes. And I have noticed that the number of women who are fully participated in this thing Our mothers and sisters And today I have not got the opportunity as an individual but I strongly feel that and I would like to go beyond the thing.\nThe officers working for the government are anonymous, their work can not get any recognition. They have never come in the picture However, there are some things that I feel like share.\nToday, our Secretary in the Government of India Mr. Parmeshwar Ji Aiyyar; whether he is present here? He should be sitting below the dais; He has been looking after this project He has gone to the US by leaving the job of IAS. He was leading a comfortable life in the USA. After formation of our government, we made an appeal. And I'm glad that he has come back to India by giving up that glamorous life. He had been an IAS officer for years and then he had left the job You have just seen him on television, TV channels have focused their cameras on him just a while ago, please turn your cameras towards him. Yes. It's him He again came back and I joined him in the government.\nHe'll be cleansing toilets And today if I have colleagues like Parmeshwar Ji, if there are thousands of cleanliness warriors who have come from the country then my belief is strengthened that we will be able to realize the dreams of Bapu Ji when we celebrate 150th birth anniversary of him\nDuring the previous period, we used to have thousands of hands. That is the God of thousands of hands But we have never heard of a Prime Minister But given the thousands of cleanliness warriors sitting before me, I would like to say all the humility that Prime Minister of the country too has thousands of hands\nYour commitment, your hard work, your support; These cleanliness warriors who left their villages to do the work of cleaning in the lanes of Bihar, while still being dedicated to cleanliness in their own areas, these Swachchrahis have been providing a new momentum, new energy and a new life to the Bapu's movement of moving from passive resistance to cleanliness campaign; And so I will again congratulate to all of you\nFriends, be it the cleanliness mission or be it fight against black money and corruption or the development of facilities related to common man, the central government has been walking with shoulder with Nitish Ji and his team. For development of Bihar, for social and economic empowerment of the people, the policies and strategies of both government and Bihar government are complimentary to each other.\nFrom this platform, I have got the opportunity to either publicly dedicate or lay the foundation 6,600 crore related to Bihar's development Be it water or railways or be it roads or petroleum; many such schemes are going to prove important for Bihar and special for Champaran And if we see that in a way these schemes are also related to cleanliness and protection of environment\nBrothers and sisters, the restoration of Motihari Lake is also among those projects. Our Motihari district is being named after that lake, the lake that has been part of the history of Bihar, the restoration work of that lake has started today. When Gandhi was here in Champaran for the Satyagrah then he had said about this lake that the lake's view in the evening gives happiness. This city is beautiful But the beauty of the Moti Lake, which was experienced by Gandhi Ji, has been gradually fading away with the passage of time.\nI'm aware that the citizen of this place has made his contribution. The awareness campaign has run away from social media to roads. By joining in the efforts of the people, only the lake will be restored\nBrothers and sisters, cleanliness is also linked to water. The foundation stone for a water supply scheme with a cost of around Rs. 100 crore has been laid under the Amrit Scheme so that Betia does not struggle for clean water. This is going to benefit more than 1.5 lakh people.\nOne more effort has been related to cleaning the life giving mother Ganges. The government has been working with the Ganga to Gangotri to up to Ganga Sagar. Bihar is a great part of this mission Eleven projects worth more than Rs. 3,000 crore have now been approved in Bihar to stop the drainage of polluted waters of homes and factories. There is a plan to lay 1,100 kilometer long civil pipeline with that money. And the foundation stones for four projects out of these have been laid today.\nThe work has been taking place on those four projects the foundation stones for which were laid when I visited Mokama last year. The work on the remaining projects will start very soon. The villages located on the banks of the river Ganges have been declared free from open defecation on priority basis.\nIn five states, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal, from where the river flows through, many villages are located on the banks of Ganga. Waste management schemes have been implemented in those villages that are located on the banks of river Ganga so that the waste generated in the river is not destroyed. I'm hopeful that the banks of Ganga will soon free from open defecation.\nSometime back a 'Waste Festival' was celebrated in Banaras. I would urge the people of the cities located on the banks of Ganga that you should celebrate the wealth of wealth. And you will be wondering about the waste\nBrothers and sisters,\nClean fuel is also a part of cleanliness drive. The government has completely failed to set up every single mother and sister from the poisonous smoke through the Ujjawala scheme. More than 3.5 crore families in the country Nearly 50 lakh women, 50 lakh families of Bihar's have also been benefitted under the scheme.\nFriends, but due to the priority given to clean fuel and due to the success of the Ujjwal scheme the demand for the gas cylinders has been rising. Today the foundations for establishing LPG plants in Motihari and Sagoli have been laid so that the people of Champaran and nearby areas do not face problem in getting gas cylinders. Nearly 90,000 cylinders will be refilled in a day.\nIn addition to this, in Motihari, the foundation stone has been laid for a petroleum-oil lube terminal. Once it is ready then not only will it meet the requirements of the petrol and diesel of Champaran and nearby districts but it will also help in Nepal.\nBrothers and sisters,\nThese projects are the expansion of that vision of the central government under which the country has been considered as the growth engine for the country. The kind of work to develop the infrastructure from eastern Uttar Pradesh to Bihar, to West Bengal and then up to Odisha and also in the states of North East has been done by our government, it is such that has never done before.\nNitish Ji too is a witness to this thing that how the schemes have been formulated by taking into account the needs of eastern India including Bihar. New projects have started Especially, our government has been doing a lot of emphasis on improving connectivity in these areas.\nGiven the requirements of the 21st century, the work on the development of all these things like the highways, waterways, i-ways in these areas have been taking place at a fast speed. Today, the foundation stones for national highway projects worth about Rs. 900 crore has been laid. Aurangabad to Chaurdah, which is a four-lane section, today, the work on making it six lane has started. This project will benefit the people from both Bihar and Jharkhand.\nSimilarly, the foundation stones for two railway projects for Champaran have been laid. The railway track between Muzaffarnagar to Sagoli and Sagoli to Balmiki Nagar will be converted into double line. This will not only benefit the people of Champaran but it will also make the travel and tradeof of the people from Uttar Pradesh to Nepal easier.\nFriends, I got the opportunity to inaugurate a new train on the occasion of Champaran movement. This train will run between Katihar to Old Delhi. The government has specially named it Champaran Humsafar Express. This train which is equipped with modern amenities will be very helpful for you people for travelling to and from Delhi.\nBrothers and sisters,\nToday, the first phase of an electric locomotive factory in Madhepura has been dedicated to the public. This factory is important for two reasons First, it's a great example of Make in India Second, it is becoming a big source of employment in this region. Indian Railways has been working on this project in collaboration with a French company. This factory will manufacture powerful engines I just got the opportunity to show the green flag to a 12,000 horse power engine.\nFriends, there are very few countries in the world The average speed of goods trains in India will be more than doubled.\nThere is one more reason because of that project in detail.\nBrothers and sisters, this project was approved in 2007, but the project did not receive any power even 8 years after it was sanctioned and the files were rotting. Three years ago, NDA government started work on this project\nAyushman Bharat: In our country, for the poor people, another important thing after cleaning is health. If someone falls sick in the poor family then that family will get up to Rs. Five lakhs in a year for the treatment of the disease Now the family will not face hurdles in money. Ayushman Bharat, The Government of India is going to implement this new scheme.\nMy government has certain ways of doing things Now the tendency of putting brakes, putting things behind the back burner and misdirection. The work culture of keeping the files closed. The government has completed its every mission, its every solution with the support from the public.\nBut those people who are not allowed to do this They are not able to tolerate the empowerment of poor people They feel that if the poor person becomes strong then they will not be able to tell the lies, then they will not be able to misguide him That is why the hurdles have been created in the work of the government from road to parliament.\nFriends, you have a government which has been trying to make amity among people On the other hand some opponents have been trying to break\nFriends, I would like to specially praise the able administration and patience of Nitish Ji. The way he has been fighting against the corrupt and anti-social forces of Bihar is that not easy. The central government fully supports his campaign against corruption.\nNDA Government has been doing the work in a time bound manner with a solemn solution by following the formula of Sabka Sath - Sabka Vikas.Previous governments may not understand the importance of work in a time bound manner, but Gandhiji always used to stress on timely completion of work in addition to Satyagrah and Swachchagrah. Gandhi Ji always kept a pocket watch with him And he also used to say this thing: 'when you can not waste a grain of rice or a piece of paper then you should not waste a single minute'. This is not our time, this time belongs to the nation and it must be used for the country.\n1.25 billion Indians have been working in the mission mode by Gandhiji. It is their insistence on cleanliness because of the coverage of the cleanliness which was 40% in 2014 now has expanded to over 80%. It means that more cleanliness has achieved during the tenure of this government than what was achieved in 67 years after the independence\nFriends, in the last three and a half years more than 350 districts and more than 3.5 lakh villages of the country have declared themselves open from open defecation. Nearly 7 crore toilets have been constructed in the country in the last three and a half years. This is due to the power of the people because of that last one week alone, from 4th April onwards, when the Satyagrah to Swachchagrah Week was celebrated; About 26 lakh toilets were constructed in Bihar, UP, Odisha and Jammu \u0026 Kashmir These are the four states which have resolved that they will extend the coverage of a much faster speed.\nFriends, you are very well aware that how the Clean India Mission has changed the lives of millions and women of the country. The women are getting all three things - dignity, safety and health - I've been told that now people in Bihar have also started calling toilets as Izzatghars (the place of honor). Construction of toilets have also ended a huge social imbalance. It's also becoming the reason for economic and social empowerment.\nLast year, it was reported in the United Nations that on an average Rs. 50,000 of those families have been saved in a year Otherwise the same amount is being spent on the treatment of diseases, on visiting hospitals and due to absence from work.\nAs per a study conducted by another international agency, it has been revealed that for the children of those villages which have been declared free from open defecation, the incidence of suffering from diarrhea has come down and their mental and physical development is also taking place in a proper way Because now the kids are falling sick less frequently, they have been taking schools from schools. Therefore those villages that have declared themselves free from open defecation have also registered improvement in the school results.\nFriends, it is a case study for the universities of the world. The Clean India Mission has reached its nod and corner of the country by becoming the people's movement. I feel that people's movement to change the human behavior has not taken place in any other country in the 21st century to now. India has certainly been changing The change is taking place in habits and behavior.\nHowever, now every Swachchrahi present here in Gandhi Maidan, every one from the youngest kid of the country to the oldest person, will face the real challenge This challenge is about maintaining the insistence on cleanliness from roads to railway stations and bus stations, front of the house and shop, in front of schools and colleges, in markets and in lanes and, in corners and in the locality. Clean India Mission will not be complete unless every single person has the right to cleanliness at his own level. Clean India Mission will not be completed unless the cleanliness becomes part of the life of every single person That is why we will be able to complete the Clean India Mission in 2019 to the extent we will insist on the cleanliness. And we will be able to pay our similar emotional tribute to the Holy Bapu on the second of October the next year.\nFriends, Gandhi Ji had placed farmers, laborers, teachers, lawyers, doctors, engineers and everyone in the same line here Champaran. Only then Satyagrah succeeded As a Swachchrahi (cleanliness warriors) our roles should be similar to that It should be our constant effort that is the message of cleanliness.\nAnd that is why I will urge on every Swachchrahi present here that you should give the maximum publicity to the book mentioned in the booklet that has been given to you. The more you make the people aware, the Clean India Mission will succeed. The government has also been making this effort that there should be at least one cleanliness champion in every village of the country. More than 6.5 lakh cleanliness champions have been working on the cleanliness of the country, they will work on the people's lives.\nThe work to provide housing to poor in the country has been progressing rapidly under Prime Minister's AvasYojana. I'm hopeful that Bihar will also carry out the work on the poor at the same speed at that work of construction of toilets.\nAll of us can do one more thing: all the anniversaries that will fall between today and the 2nd of October the next year, birth or death anniversary or any festival, then specially the Clean India Mission for that occasion on people. For example, tomorrow on the 11th April, it is the birth anniversary of great social reformer JyotibaPhule Ji; Baba Saheb Ambedkar's birth anniversary is falling on the 14th of April. In addition to talking about that great soul on these special days, a request will be made.\nEven otherwise, let me tell you about your knowledge that the government is going to start Gram swaraj from 14th of April. Under this movement, all our MPs, MLAs, elected representatives, be they are in a local village body or a municipal council or city council, they all must have their areas in Clean India Mission related to some or some other work related to their own . Please persuade others, make request to people by visiting the door to door that they should make the areas clean and hygienic.\nBrothers and sisters,\nThe future generation Every Satyagrahi has a healthy, hygienic and prosperous nation. When Champaran Satyagrah was taking place then we were not even born No one was there in that movement However, we can work day and night to make the Champaran Swachchagrah a success.\nI know that this task requires extreme patience And I also know this thing that the Swachchrahis (cleanliness warriors) have had this kind of burning desire to bring about a change in the country. Champaran Swachchagrah has become the national song for today's youth, which gives them the power to understand the challenges, to overcome them and to fight and not to stop. This movement by the people also provides guidance for the future.\nI'm absolutely confident that our insistence on cleanliness will write a new chapter of a clean, beautiful and prosperous new India I convey my best wishes to all the Swachchrish participants in this grand function here. I would also like to say that India will complete 75 years of its independence in 2022. And we have been celebrating the 150th anniversary of Gandhi Ji from the second of October 2018 to the second of October 2019. In order to realize the dream of a New India, we have to eradicate those social evils, those vices from our society, that have been damaging the country, that have been weakening it. We have to make an India that is free from filth, free from corruption. We have to liberate our country from these feelings of casteism, free from the feelings of superiority and inferiority and of अस्पृश्यता, we have to set the country free of communal tensions and this communalism.\nWhen we will continue with these resolves only then we will be able to pay tribute to freedom fighters in 2022; We can pay tribute to Gandhi Ji when his 150th anniversary will be in 2018-19. With these feelings, by respectfully bowing down and while congratulating the youth for doing this great service to the country, I once again appealed to all of you, the people of the country: Mahatma Gandhi did a lot for us, please come forward and we should we try to realize one dream of Gandhi Ji - the dream of a clean India\nThis work is not a government event This program does not belong to the Prime Minister or Chief Ministers, nor is it the central government or state governments This program belongs to 1.25 billion people of the country, it is the poor people of the country, this program is for social justice in the country. And that is why we should join this program wholeheartedly\nWith this feeling I once again honored, I once again congratulate all those Swachchrahis and I respectfully thank all of you\nPlease start again.\nI would say Mahatma Gandhi and you will say it twice: long live; long live\nMahatma Gandhi; long live, long live\nPlease say with all your strength\nMahatma Gandhi; long live, long live\nMahatma Gandhi; long live, long live\nThank you very much"