"Share\n\nIn one way the correct meaning of PSE is - Profit and Social benefits generating Enterprise: PM Modi at CPSE Conclave\nFor public and private sector, the formula of success remains the same - the 3 Is, which means Incentives, Imagination and Institution Building: PM\nI believe that Idealism and Ideology are not enough for economic decision making, they need to be replaced with pragmatism and practicality, says the PM\nPSEs can contribute towards the formation of New India through 5 Ps - Performance + Process + Persona + Procurement and Prepare: PM\nTo date, we have been treating PSEs as navratana companies. But now, its time to think beyond it Can we think about making new India jewel, asks PM\nMy colleague, Heavy Industries and Public Enterprises Minister Anant Geete, Minister of State Babul Supriyo, my colleagues Mr. P.K Mishra and Mr. P.K Sinha, Senior Officials of the Central Public Sector Enterprises who have come from across the country, other dignitaries present here, ladies and gentlemen\nAnant Geete ji does not sing but Babul ji sings. This is a new beginning I welcome you all at the CPSE conclave I congratulate you all. I could clearly see your diligence, enthusiasm, and big and your clarity of thoughts in the presentation given in the past 1-1.5 hours. I got the opportunity to get a glimpse of your vision and thoughts on various aspects ranging from corporate governance to innovation, technology and New India. I do not know whether any former Prime Minister has ever got a similar opportunity!\nI would like to congratulate all the people who were involved in the discussions and related teams. They have had a deeper discussion and collected many references. They have got the opportunity to think out of the box.\nI am told that you have been engaged in the past few months. You have done a lot of research in order to get your related fields Even I try to incorporate my thoughts into your discussions and some of your subjects so that there is a balance of thought between you and me In a way everyone has contributed in some or other way in the process of discussion and debate.\nMany day-to-day challenges The government is unavoidably working on these problems. In the last 4 years, the government has also given operational freedom to the public sector so that they perform better\nFriends,\nThe public sector undertakings have made significant contributions to the country's economy after independence. At that time, India was in need of funds, technology and investment in different sectors. It was not easy to get these things Therefore, at that time the public sector enterprises helped to meet these requirements. A number of good brands came up These Enterprises had their domination over many sectors like power production, designing of the equipment related to power, steel production, oil, mineral, coal and so on. At the time when the private sector had not proliferated, you had expedited the process of economic growth. Even today, you are not only strengthening India's economy but also acting as a catalyst to the industrial activities.\nFriends,\nUsually the assessment of a CEO of a private company has made his shareholders. Profit is also important for public sector enterprises, but at the same time they have to take into consideration the welfare of the society\nWe can not keep ourselves limited We have to take into consideration the whole society In a way, PSE actually refers to Profit and Social Benefit generating Enterprises. This means they should not only generate profit for the shareholders but also the generic benefits for the society. Social benefits of talk when the PSE staff and all the officers You have to face a lot of difficulties while working in difficult areas under difficult circumstances where there is lack of facilities. Yes you are determined\nThe government is able to take a big step It would not have been possible without your hard work, be it providing electricity to every village of the country or providing LPG connection to the mothers and sisters. We have also seen the scope and the timeline of the work in the presentation.\nFriends,\nWe can not be satisfied with a good and a rich history in this era. There is a need to present challenges I believe that idealism and ideology are not enough in economic decision making. Pragmatism and practicability should also be taken in account. In the 21st century economy Innovation and Enterprise should be the mantras that will guide and be the driving force for any sector.\nThere are no separate mantras for the public sector or public sector. When I think of success, the concept of three 'I will come in my mind. These three 'I's are: Incentive, Imagination and Institutional building Economists say that incentives are one of the greatest tools for bringing change in human behavior not only in business but also in our lives. We usually see that if we want to work, we will try to motivate him. Similarly, even if you have to get rid of procrastination and stagnation. Incentives need not always be financial The photo of the best performing employee can be put on the bulletin board or just a pat on the back by the chairman.\nI clearly remember that once I went to a pharmaceutical company in Baroda Whenever a product was made, its description was publicized A competition used to be organised Even though the employees were not scientists, they used to search for an apt name enthusiastically for which they were rewarded later. Their contributions were equally important as that of the scientists. Therefore, there is a need to think in terms of providing incentives and the manner in which those should be provided. You know how to It has to be taken forward\nThe second thing I have mentioned is 'Imagination'. It has taken a different form altogether since the time the PSEs were formed. Several successful private companies did not have sustained for two decades. It is a fact. There is a number of reasons. But the major reason is not to change the future. Here, the imagination of leadership comes handy I have stayed in Ahmedabad for many years. There was a time when the big chimneys of the great magnificence. Due to lack of new technology But today not a single chimney gives out smoke Why? This was due to lack of imagination. There was a habit of living on outdated things Those who can not adapt themselves to changes by making changes, or do not have a long-term vision or can not take decisions are those who remain stagnant. Gradually they are headed toward destruction Today, diversification has become extremely important\nThirdly, institution building is one of the greatest tests of leadership. I am not talking about political leadership All people are here They have to provide leadership in the whole field of work. A Team Should be formed Individual-centered systems do not last long\nFriends,\nTill date we have been classified as PSEs as Navratnas. It's high time that we classified them as 'New India' Ratnas that will help in a new India. Are you ready to make changes in technology and processes to become and make 'New India' Ratnas?\nI believe your participation in the creation of a new India will be more effective by following the 5P formula. The 5P means - Performance, Process, Persona, Procurement and Prepare\nFriends,\nAll of you have done your business for operational and financial performance in your organizations You have to prepare yourself for competing with the world's best companies in your related sectors. Today it is being said that India will be a 5 trillion dollar economy in a few years. India's Public Sector Enterprises have a major role in achieving this goal by improving the GDP growth rate.\nFriends,\nI was told that Net Value Addition by the PSUs in the period 2017-18 was about 5%. It is the need of the hour Your collective efforts should be in this direction so that the PSUs will become the third generation of direct and indirect taxes.\nThere is a saying - 'Udyogsampannam saamupaiti Lakshmi' which means that Lakshmi goes to industrialists. It is important for the PSUs to be prosperous.\nToday, the Return on Equity of all the PSEs of government is about 11%. It is less than that of the private sector and is a good business venture. It is extremely low in my opinion So, I would like the CPSE management to make a definite strategy.\nSimilarly, the second 'P' is 'Process'. The process should bring transparency, accountability and should deliver more effectively in a global scale.\nWe should ask ourselves how the Indian PSUs will achieve global greatness in the next 5 to 10 years in New India. How the PSUs should bring more innovation, redefine them to increase the GDP and change their policies I believe there is a need to think about these lines\nIt is indispensable for the Public Sector Undertakings to be competitive in this Global scenario. You must have seen that the public sector enterprises of many European countries are doing the areas of power, atomic energy and solar energy. We can also learn a lot from their working model.\nFriends,\nThe way the business environment has transformed globally, there is a need to incorporate the flexibility along with the speed in decision making. When the government Enterprises suffered from the lack of risk taking. In such a scenario, decision making should be streamlined at every level. Therefore, the next 'P', i.e. Persona becomes important\nIf you have a talent pool We have to ensure that the right talent is being forward forward and whether we are able to make bench strength.\nOne is bound to progress if one incorporates 3 things i.e. flexible decision making, good talent and technology I am told that you, in your presentation, have been given the technology given technology in the innovation in the field. It is highly appreciated\nProcurement is also important Friends, changes in procurement policy can strengthen the country's Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises - MSME I want to present a fact before you The PSUs had procured more than Rs.1,30,000 crores in the year 2016. Out of this, the purchase of only Rs. 25,000 crores had made the MSME sector. Can not you all frame a mechanism by which more and more goods can be purchased from the micro and small industries of the country? You can help\nYou must be aware of a scheme of government of India i.e. Government e-Market (GeM) portal You have also mentioned this in one of your presentations. It is a good system It has got new energy in the MSME sector. In a short time, business worth Rs. 6500 crore has been done on this online platform. If you use this platform more and more, it will only bring transparency but also the benefit of the MSME sector. When you buy more and more items from the small business community, new opportunities for employment will open up in remote areas.\nBesides, the more MSMEs get funding and technical assistance from your organizations. Capacity building of the MSME sector should be one of your goals Probably you have mentioned in your solution today The more you share your experiences with the small industries, the more self-sufficient and self-dependent!\nI want to confirm that the payment to the MSMEs is not delayed. You are well aware of the problems\nThe manufacturing sector of the country can get a boost from Central Public Sector Enterprises You can play a major role in rejuvenating the sectors like rural housing, renewable energy, solar energy, textile, pharma, tourism etc.\nI will also request you to hold the annual general body meeting at a new tourist destination, not the conventional ones like Agra. The people will get to visit it That tourist destination will develop in a natural course. Suppose there are 300 companies and every company holds 25 meetings in a year in 25 different tourist spots, then tell me whether the economy will be developed or not? Do the infrastructure of that region will develop or not? You are usually holding the meetings in cities like Mumbai, Bengaluru, Chennai and staying in 5 star hotels. Can you hold the meetings in such new locations as well? Now you see, this is your routine but this is help in boosting the country's tourism sector. You do not have anything This will happen only when your vision merges with the country's vision. Therefore, I would like to request you to take these small steps for nation building and the country's tourism sector will get a boost. This is the sector that has the ability to provide the highest employment out of total capital invested. This soil has the ability to provide what the world is not able to provide. But we have never tried How should we do that?\nFriends,\nOur preparation for the future takes us to the fifth 'P' i.e. 'Prepare' The Indian PSUs must prepare themselves in the technological innovations such as artificial intelligence. Quantum computing, electric vehicles and robotics. It is estimated that by the year 2020, India's share in the global market will be about 20%. It is a market of around 20 lakh crore rupees. It is also estimated that the share of internet in Things in industrial manufacturing is approximately 60%. Are the Indian PSUs framing the future strategy keeping this in mind? Are you analyzing the data?\nFriends,\nNew technologies such as digitization, analytics, e-mobility, and block chain. These technologies can create new\nopportunities for your business You can also take advantage of the new innovations in financial market and the availability of a large capital pool for investment today.\nFriends,\nWhen you move ahead with your needs I am sure the PSUs of our country have the ability to become a new India change agent.\nToday on this occasion, I wish to put forward 5 questions as 5 challenges before you. I am not going to say anything else from your presentation. I want to present my own way I believe you will be able to do these things successfully These 5 challenges will redefine your role in New India. I will not get into the details\nMy first question: India will complete 75 years of independence in the year 2022. Will the Indian PSUs be able to increase their geo-strategic reach to the maximum by 2022? If yes then how? My second question: how do the PSUs help the country? You might be thinking that whose job is it? I want to give a example I went to the farmer in Haryana This incident is 25-30 years old. His field was very small He had requested me to do something new. He was 30-35 years old but was very enthusiastic. The five star hotels of Delhi used to import special vegetables like baby corns, small tomatoes etc. He decided to stop the imports and instead grow the same vegetables. In just 3 years, he managed to stop importing If a son is a farmer, he can do wonders These self-reliant PSUs have played a major role in making the country self-reliant. Now, it's time to make your presence felt in the global economy. Though you have mentioned this in your presentation What's the technology and equipment? My third question: how should the PSUs share the innovation and research among themselves? Today we are working in isolation As a result, the human resource is getting wasted. Someone has completed a work while the other is starting the same work from the scratch. If you work in coordination, you can imagine the leap in this area. So, I am talking about an integration\nMy fourth question: can the CSR fund be utilized according to the dream of New India and to get rid of the problems that the country is facing? What should be its roadmap? How do we accomplish it collectively? You have mentioned about your experiments You have made huge contributions in making toilets. And as a result we have seen such a drastic change in the country. Thus, it is necessary to focus on challenges.\nFinally my fifth question: Which development model will be Indian PSUs provide the nation by 2022? Will we keep on dragging the same old system or bring a new system in place?\nI am putting forward these challenges in the form of questions because you have to take decisions, frame policies and strategies and also implement the same. When you discuss these questions in the board meetings, the new pathways will open up. You will get a new direction\nFriends,\nYour contribution is necessary to increase India's Geo-strategic reach in the new world order. Today you are the people of the world Before such opportunities were few We should not let go of this opportunity You must be aware of the fact that some countries have used their PSUs to increase their influence in other countries.\nIt's a fact that one-fourth of the 500 big companies of the world are PSUs of some or the other country. These companies are the medium of good amount of investment in their respective countries. So, you should think about these lines as much as possible. Today So, you have a good opportunity to increase PSU to PSU contact\nToday the Indian PSUs are waving their flags from Brazil to Mozambique and from Russia to Australia. The need of the hour is that these PSUs should now have a comprehensive strategy for overseas investment. You also have to keep in mind while framing the strategy that your return on investment should be as much as the geo-strategic reach. This government has signed a number of MoUs Work is going on in many sister cities Can our PSUs promote Make in India in a planned and a systematic way together the industrial bodies and Institutions of those cities?\nActually one state becomes the sister state of the other Similarly, one city becomes the sister city of the other. However, the other units are left behind. Just signing We have to maximize this. There may be 50-100 areas in the cities Therefore, I appeal for new strategic views. There is a similar challenge of import bill in front of all of us There are many products that can be reduced. Government has reduced In such scenario, there is a good opportunity for you in this area. This is a big challenge You just have to try\nYou can set a deadline for 2-3 years to reduce the import by any product by 10-15-20% whatever you decide\nIf we are competitive and quality sensitive and focused on products that are imported but can not be replaced by innovation, then import bill in a significant reduction.\nFriends,\nI want to give an example of the defense sector India has been one of the world's biggest arms importer countries in the last 60-70 years. I do not want to get past policies At that time no one could even think that Foreign Direct Investment will be opened in the defense sector too by the government.\nI believe that the PSUs of the defense sector should think about this as a good opportunity. The more our PSU focuses on technology transfer and joint ventures, the more will the 'Make in India' get stronged and the defense sector will become more self-dependent. Today India is building a fighter aircraft like Tejas and making world class submarines and warships. We are also technologically capable. In such scenario, we have the opportunity to keep the domestic market as well as the overseas markets.\nAnother important aspect is the integration of innovation with research. Our Scientific Institutions like Council of Scientific and Industrial Research, Indian Council of Medical Research and Indian Council of Agricultural Research have the best R \u0026 D infrastructure. CPSEs also have modern research infrastructure in respective fields. You have also developed many techniques and innovative products. But it has also been noticed that the innovation in the different agencies is limited to that. I believe it is the need of the hour to prepare an integrated infrastructure of innovation and research by 2022. When information sharing between the CPSEs and the government departments increase, the cost of research will also reduce and the system will be more efficient. This sharing can take place at different levels ranging from infrastructure to skill pooling, and the use of modern equipment and technologies.\nFriends,\nIn the last few years the public sector has done much better according to its balance sheet. Last year, the net profit of the CPSEs was more than Rs. 1, 25,000 crores. Two percent of this amount i.e. around Rs. 2500 crore can be used as Corporate Social Responsibility\nWe have been thinking about the country's priorities. You have shown on your presentation that in the year 2014-15, donations were made from the toilets in Schools. The results are in front of everyone. I suggest that a similar theme should be selected and a large part of the CSR\nYou must be aware of the 115 districts selected by NITI Aayog that has not been able to reach other districts of the country. I have named those districts as aspirational districts Can the development of these aspirational districts be the theme of this year?\nYour organization can also take the task of skill development as a part of Corporate Social Responsibility. You can associate your organization with many universities, colleges and ITIs for a huge campaign on skill development.\nBesides, the more you support the National Apprenticeship Program, the more you get benefited out of it! I would like to go and study the plans and plans of India as soon as possible, The youth will come forward to learn more about Moreover, they will also act as a talent pool for you.\nThus, you have to make more number of incubators and tinkering labs so that we can provide innovative ideas to students at a early age. There is a need to tap Often, youngsters can provide an innovative solution\nFriends,\nYour experienced and resource-rich institutions can also provide new models for development Your institutions can become the centers of the region If you are all determined, then the country can get hundreds of new model smart cities in 1-1.5 years.\nYour institutions can prove to be a role model for many areas like paperless work-culture, cashless transactions, waste management etc. You have reached and resources. With R \u0026 D you can show good results. This will be a great service.\nI would like to insist on the maximum efficiency, corporate governance and proper use of resources. No person or institution or a country can prosper There is no shortage of resources in India We have the will-power and the trust in ourselves\nIn the last 4 years, you will not have heard a negative tone from the government - such as the complaining about the difficulties or problems I believe we can take our country to new heights. This is the promise of this government There is no scope of resources in our country Come, let us move ahead together\nI believe that this is the way The ideas that have emerged and are emerging out of this discussion will not only be implemented but also be monitored.\nI believe that the combination of energy and experience, enterprise and enthusiasm will yield unprecedented results. To me PSU stands for: Pragati, Seva and Urja (Progress, Service and Energy). And 'S' i.e. Service is at the center!\nCarrying forward the dream of New India along with a new energy and feeling of service will certainly lead to the path of Progress. This is my belief.\nI hope your policies regarding the country's future are successful and your participation in the solution for new India is the maximum Before ending Can I meet all the leaders after hundred days? I would be grateful if you can educate me about the framework that will be done today. I want to learn a lot from you If I am able to spend more time with you and learn from you, I can bring those changes into the government So, I would like you to reach 100 days of meetings and meet the responsibilities and meet me. It's not that everything is hunky dory, the future is bright or the people are enthusiastic or the results are bound to be achieved. But we have to move in that direction even if it means moving 100 steps. We can set deadlines, the team and the resources for achieving the small goals. You are the corporate world You need not be told all these things You must have studied management after paying a hefty fee. I do not want to get into the details of what they have learned and implemented. However, I hope you all get over today's discussion. I hope you can take advantage of these things. Now I want the correct roadmap with measurable targets. They should not be superficial You will see the transformation soon. Best wishes to you all Thanks a lot!"