"Share\n\nPM Modi appreciates Lok Sabha Speaker Smt Sumitra Mahajan for timely completion of new construction of Western Court Annexe\nAt the core of Dr. Ambedkar's ideals are harmony and togetherness: PM Modi\nWorking for the poorest of the poor is the government's mission, says PM Modi\nThe Honourable speaker, Madam SumitraJi, my colleagues in the Council of ministers, Shri Anant Kumar Ji, Shriman Hardeep Singh PuriJi, the chairperson of the House Committee Shriman, Suresh AngadiJi, all the honourable members of Parliament were present,\nTai ji has said about the prime minister's time for such a small event; But, I do not think that's a small event. It's not a small event. When people watch the scenes of Parliament on television, they would see that Madam Speaker is pulling up the MPs, asking them to go back to their seats. Sometimes people will feel that the MPs are irritatingMadam Speaker They had been watching watching SumitraJi sitting like a mother on the chair and these five hundred people in the House troubling her\nToday the country will also see the kind nature of a mother, her concern for the MPs when they face problems. And because of her motherly concern for them, this building was built. These suitable arrangements have been made for guests of the MPs and also for the newly elected MPs.\nPeople will feel that Madam Speaker comes forward not only to keep in mind but also to take care of all the MPs. Her concern for the MPs is that of a mother for her children ..\nTherefore, attendance program is a matter of great luck. Members of both the Houses of Parliament including me are grateful to you, because you have created this facility for our family of MPs.\nGenerally, the work done by government departments is worse than that of a contractor. However, one will realize once a government agency decides to do a good job and that it can execute in time and the budgeted amount.\nAll these things have been done by Mr. Hardeep's Department in a proper way. So I convey my sincere congratulations to all those officers\nToday, a grand thing is annexed with our Parliamentary system This is an historical place.Those who have read the records of 1926knowLalaLajpatRaiJi used to stay here, MotilalJi Nehru used to stay here. You will get the opportunity to connect with such a heritageplace I am sure that a good work has been done in this system\nAnd as Tai Ji has said that we are the kind of people who inaugurate the facilities the foundations for which were laid by us. And today you would've seen this thing that we have done it before the deadline. I think the project has completed and delivered 4 to 6 months ahead of the schedule.\nWhen new MPs come here they stay in stay in five star hotelsspending a lot of money. This is because MPs who have not contested the election or have not re-elected by the people do not vacate their house As a result, newly elected MPs are required to stay in hotels.\nYou have done a great service to the MPs The newly elected MPs will come and stay here instead of living in hotels and it will also remove the burden on government exchequer. So in a way this facility will not just provide convenience, but also to the newly elected MPs.\nMycolleagues ShrimanMeghwalJi and Shriman Suresh Ji, and as the speaker said that both of them have completed their dedication. My colleague Mr. Rudi too I felt that it was constructed for MPs I do not have much knowledge about architecture but Mr.Rudi was very enthusiastic about it However, it's very natural for everyone to be happy.\nYou will be aware that there are two such places in Delhi which were planned to be built in the memory of Doctor Baba Saheb Ambedkar during the government of AtalJi. However, when the governments were being run then they had been run in this manner that everybody rushed to do the politics in the name of Baba Saheb Ambedkar\nThose decisions which were taken during the tenure ofAtalJi were not implemented. However, we completed them in the stipulated time after forming the government.\nAnd second thing, when I laid itsfoundation I said that I will dedicate this to publicin April 2018. And today I'm happy to inform that on April 14th on Baba Saheb Ambedkar's birth anniversary, Alipur Road on the house, where he lived public on 13th of April\nThere is some respect, there are some ideals and there is a commitment which runs in our veins. And we have demonstrated this through our deeds Perhaps no other government had given this kind of respect and honourand to the tributes to Baba Saheb Ambedkar And instead of dragging Baba Saheb in politics if Baba Saheb Ambedkar is the place where the brotherhood is at the place of importance and this is to be abandoned by the progress of it.\nWe have moved forward by following the motto of SabkaSath-SabkaVikas for the welfare of everyone and we are the people who live and die for the rights.\nMahatma Gandhi showed this path to us that we should first be concerned about the society of the last man. And it is the responsibility of the government And the government has discharging its duty.\nI once again heartily congratulate this whole team and convey my best wishes to all of you\nThank you."