"\nGovernments can not What makes change is partial governance: PM Modi\nThe biggest assets of any nation are Shram Shakti and Ichcha Shakti. Once the people decide to bring about change, everything is possible: PM\nEssential to know the root of every problem and think about 'out of the box' ways to solve them, says PM\nWhat will drive innovation is IPPP-Innovate, Patent, Produce, and Prosper: PM Narendra Modi\nWe want to give more autonomy to our high education sector Work is being done to create institutions of eminence: PM\nPM Narendra Modi\nEven at 8 - 8.30 in the evening, the youngsters from my country have been engaged in such a great work of the country's progress. My country is transforming; it is moving forward.\nI congratulate my young friends I specifically congratulate HRD Minister Shri Prakash Javdekar and his whole team for organizing this event of Smart India Hackathon.\nIt has always been a great experience for the smart innovators of smart India. The efforts that you are doing in order to find solutions are highly appreciated.\nYou have been engaged in your mission for the past few hours; But I can feel your enthusiasm, hope, zeal and aspirations. There is no sign of fatigue or stress I am very happy The goals of New India are strongened when such efforts are done by today's generation for nation building.\nFriends,\nI had also attended the previous Smart India Hackathon When I was asked to attend this event again, I readily agreed without a second thought. I said that I want to meet the youngsters, listen to your opinions and try to learn from you.\nI believe that there is no greater mistake than that Similarly, it will also be wrong on the part of a government that is believed to be the only one. Therefore, I strongly advocate on participation and participative governance.\nNo challenge in this world is greater than the willpower and manpower of 125 crore Indians. If the people of a country with a favourable demographic dividend that has 65% of its population below the age of 35 years, nothing can be impossible.\nThe youngsters are specially filled with enthusiasm, zeal and hope that a new India Yes, we will able to provide India its place that is rightfully deserves in the 21st century.\nThis is one of the major reasons that I never let go of any of the young professionals, young CEOs, young scientists and young bureaucrats. Your enthusiasm is the main driving force of the dream of New India.\nHowever, the question arises whether the dream of New India is possible with limited efforts? The answer is 'No'! It is necessary to identify the root of the problems and the problems of out-of-the-box and modern solutions.\nThis effort of our government has laid the foundation of the Smart India Hackathon.\nI have been told that half of the 60 projects that were finalized during the last hackathon, are about to be completed and the second half will be completed by the next 2 to 3 months. I am glad that this year more than 1 lakh youngsters have taken part in this event compared to 40000 last year. This year even the state government has participated in the program with the 27 ministers of the central government. I have been told that in some months from now, the hardware version will also be added to the software in Hackathon.\nI congratulate all the youngsters, the different ministries and the government\nI have been told that you are going to solve the challenges like flood management and forest fire. I believe that the path from technology to change\nFriends,\nIn the area where knowledge is power, innovation is the driver of growth. This means that knowledge is the power of innovation. The greater the innovation Innovation is not just a word It is either an event or a competition where the winners and everyone goes back after celebration. Innovation is a continuous process. You can innovate only when you are able to understand the problem in depth, pose questions, put forth new ideas and the government of India will implement those ideas Therefore, I put forth the concept of IPPP which means Innovate, Patent, Produce and Prosper. These four steps can help our country successfully develop a rapid pace. With greater innovation, faster patents and production, we can develop more on a rapid pace.\nTherefore, our government is constantly encouraging innovation. An environment of innovation and entrepreneurship has created the help of Atal Innovation Mission (AIM). Our aim is to create an ecosystem that introduces students to future technologies at a very young age so that students do not have to wait for the engineering colleges in order to learn about Internet of Things, Artificial Intelligence, Block Chain Technology, 3D and robotics\nWe have selected around 2400 schools to create a mind-set of innovation among the children at a early age. Our government wants to increase the number of schools to 30000 in the near future. The students of classes 6th to 12th are being focused on Atal Tinkering Labs. Modern technology has been introduced to children by implementing the concept of education and learning in these Labs. The job will be half done if a mind-set is developed during the teenage. Thereafter, we are also focusing on strengthening and encouraging research work in higher technical education and important announcements.\nThe government has announced the PMRF i.e. Prime Minister's Research Fellowship and I would like you to take advantage of it. Under this scheme, Prime Minister Fellowship will be offered best students pursuing BTech, MTech or MSc in the institutions like IIT, IISc or NIT. Every year 1000 students will be selected. The students will be given financial assistance of Rs.70000 to Rs. 80000 per month for 5 years. A research grant of Rs. 2 lakh will also be provided by the government for producing research paper in international conferences and seminars.\nOne thing that has been progressed rapidly after the Second World War. A major emphasis was placed on the development of those countries. Innovations in large institutions also form the basis for economic growth.\nTherefore, the government is focusing on giving greater autonomy to the higher education institutions. The government is also trying to create 20 world class 'Institutions of Eminence' in the country. Out of these, 10 public sector institutes will be given a financial assistance of 10000 crore rupees by the government.\nOn one hand we are developing an ecosystem for the future while on the other hand we have been working towards developing such projects like start-up India. I want to inform you that since the launch of this scheme about 6000 start-ups have been approved. The government is providing financial assistance to these start-ups.\nFriends,\nIt is necessary for us to adapt to the culture. It was a painful time for us when other countries got items like turmeric, neem and basmati patented Therefore, our government has taken steps to improve the system of patent and copyright. Consequently, till February of this year more than 11300 patents have been registered as compared to 4000 in the year 2013-14. I believe you are proud to hear this. Compared to the previous government, almost threefold increase in the patent registration was seen in the period of present government. Trademark registrations have also increased three-fold in 3 years. In 2013-14 about 68000 Trademarks were registered which has now gone up to two and a half lakh.\nOur government is focusing on not only innovation and patenting but also on production. Today 'Make in India' has become a brand You will get a clear picture with this example. Friends, about 4 years ago there were only two factories in our mobile phones. You are all in the same field; So you will be glad to know that within 4 years the factories that are operating in the country for manufacturing mobile phones have gone up from 2 to 120 with the rapid pace of 'Make in India'.\nAs soon as innovation, patent and production start at the highest level, prosperity also gains momentum. However, another question is also connected with it. Innovation is for whom? Is it for us or for the country? Is it satisfying our needs?\nI am deliberately posing these questions in front of my young friends. The research paper may get published in the International Gazette or in the field of scientific Technology. But only when the invention becomes useful for the people of the country. Therefore, this should be taken in consideration What should be the innovation? It should be something\nOrganizing multiple hackathons in the country For example: Health-Hackathon, Law-Hackathon, Architecture-Hackathon, Agricultural-Hackathon and Rural-Hackathon. We can find many such areas Our country needs different and innovative brains, agriculturists, architects, doctors, lawyers and managers.\nI hope these hackathons will prove to be a new platform for new talents. We will be able to bring new innovations in sanitation and waste management and public transport through them. This will reduce the day to day challenges Besides, your innovations will also serve the country.\nI have been told that you are using drones to produce high resolution images in the Hackathon. Now any innovation related to the country\nYou will be surprised to know that our government has linked the photographs taken from the drones to the government for monitoring.\nGeo-tagging and mapping play significant roles in monitoring the schemes like Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana for houses, Pradhan Mantri Sinchai Pariyojana for the completion of incomplete projects and MGNREGA.\nLast month during the meeting, the reconstruction of Kedar Ghati was being monitored live with the help of drone cameras. Although there was a little disturbance in the connectivity, but I could see a broad picture.\nI could monitor the whole work from Delhi. If you bring innovation in everything then the use of such things will be very common in the future.\nI want to inform the young friends who are not aware about the PRAGATI meetings. Our government has developed a modern system for monitoring. Under this, we sit in the Prime Minister's office and the officers of the states. Different issues like the delay in completion of the plan, the root problem in the schemes and the amount of work done are assessed.\nFriends,\nIn the changing times, the economic progress of any country is dependent on its innovation quotient. There is no scope of resources in our country The young people I have one request You may have a number of dreams Do not let any dream die If you have the desire to go to any extent to your dreams then you will definitely be able to achieve that dream.\nRemember, your generation as well as mine are those people who did not get the opportunity to fight against the country's independence, to spend the life in the prisons or to die for the country. However, we have got the opportunity to live We have got the opportunity to live So put your talent and power to use for the country Make efforts for the country's welfare.\nFriends,\nI know that you are sitting here since morning and will be engaged till tomorrow night. 36 hours is a lot of time. I would like to hear In such a stressful situation, you should also relax by doing pranayama, taking deep breaths and stretching A little relaxation I am also doing the seeding of the work Since I am present in front of you, first of all I will go to different areas I was told that the opportunity to talk to the youngsters of Panipat first."