"Share\n\nPM Modi lauds the contribution of Kutchi Leva Patel community in various welfare activities and the development of East Africa\nKutch which was considered as a deserted place, has been converted into a prime tourist destination: PM Modi\nThe double engine strength of the Center and the State Government is being carried out in development activities in Kutch region: PM\nMy greetings to the elderly, mothers and sisters; and love for the youngsters and the children\nThis is an era of Technology. I am able to connect with you all from thousands of kilometres away due to this wonder 'technology'! I can see the happiness and the excitement on your faces.\nToday we are celebrating the silver jubilee of Nairobi West Complex. I convey my heartfelt gratitude to you for your efforts in the culture and tradition of Kutchi Leva Patel Society in Kenya.\nBrothers and sisters,\nThough the complex exists for the past 25 years but the contribution of Kutchi Leva Patel society in the development of East Africa is more than 125 years old. All of you have been active Everybody is aware of your welfare activities in the fields of education, health and poverty alleviation.\nSchools, hospitals and homes at affordable prices. The charity that you are running in the women and the poor women is also commendable. Indeed the contribution of Indian diaspora to Kenya is not only limited to all the hard work\nSeveral Indians like Makhan Singh, Mr. MA Desai, Mr. Pio Gama Pinto has played a significant role in the freedom struggle of Kenya. The People of Indian Origin has its hard work for establishing industries and in the social service sector for the development of Kenya.\nThis is the reason why the Indians who were taken to Kenya for the railway lines during the colonial period is now the prosperous section of people there. Keeping India alive in their hearts, these people are continuously making efforts to develop new energy in the fields of education, medicine etc. Three great personalities like Manilal Premchand Chandaria, Mr. Feroz Navroz and Dr. FRS D'Souza were honored with Pravasi Bharatiya Samman It's a great gesture on your part that when I visited Kenya in 2016, I was welcomed by the government in a grandiose way. I clearly remember that in Kasarani Stadium you were present in thousands and had showered love and blessings on me. I was overwhelmed Many people were there in the program.\nFriends, although the decades old circumstances have placed India away from you, but there is still a place on its soil. Your heart keeps you in a unbreakable way.\nThere is a saying in Gujarati language, 'kalam ne jya vavi tya ugi nikali'. All of you have justified this saying You are welcome Most of you have Kenyan passport However, the fact is that you have always kept alive Indian-ness within you I can not even say this in my program. There is another saying, 'kachhdo khele khalak me, jee mahasagar me bach, je te hekro kachhi vase, o tadiyandi kutch'. This means that just as a crocodile plays and roams about in the ocean, similarly the people of Kutch roam around in the whole world and wherever a Kutchi settles down, that place becomes a new Kutch in a few days.\nI have seen myself that Kutchi brothers and sisters can turn into a challenge in a way. After the devastation of Gujarat earthquake in 2001, people feel that Kutch will never be able to rise again However, the hard working people of Kutch proved them wrong in just a few years.\nThe dry and arid land of Kutch has now turned into a tourist spot. Once upon a time, Kutch used to be a deserted place without a sign of development or connectivity. However, today the same Kutch has found a beautiful place in the country's tourist map. Many of you could have attended the Ranotsav; if you have not asked It is not just a depiction of Kutch's culture but also a great economic trend. There is a remarkable change in Kutch's development over the years. I would like to like The people of Kutch had to leave their homes and cattle during the summer months. They used to crave for water The cattle used to die Now our government has provided Narmada water to that region of Kutch through the Sardar Sarovar Dam. Water has reached up to Tupper dam. Consequently today many villages and cities of Kutch are getting Narmada water. The central government and the state government are the two engines of development for Kutch. They are providing the power of double engines. Thousands of crores of rupees have been invested in the last few years. The idea of ​​making Coastal Economic Zone of about 50000 acres in Kutch is underway. There is also a plan to develop\nLast year the government flagged off the Ghogha-Dahej ro-Ro service. Similarly, a RO-RO service is being planned in Akhat of Kutch. We are planning to start this service between Kutch and Jamnagar. The government has also given a detailed feasibility report of this project. This Ro-Ro Ferry service will reduce the distance between Saurashtra and Kutch. The economic development of Kutch is also developing the whole of Gujarat and consequently the development of Gujarat. The Gujarat model has developed in the last 17-18 years by the people of Gujarat. It has now become the model of India A few years ago an event named Vibrant Gujarat was conceptualized to attract investment The same model has been adopted by different states of the country, from North to South and East to West. Today, looking at the development of Gujarat, the Presidents, Vice Presidents and Prime Ministers of different countries. Israel's President Benjamin Netanyahu, Japan's Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, China's President Mr. Xi Jinping and Kenya's President have visited Gujarat in the interest and showed that the developmental activities are closely watched.\nKenyan President had also attended the Vibrant Gujarat Summit He had participated enthusiastically I would like to urge those who have not visited India in the Kumbh Mela which will be held next year in January in Allahabad. The Kumbh Mela is held after 12 years. Everybody, especially the elderly people usually have deep interest in the meeting. Next year in January 2019, this will continue for about one-and-a-half month in Allahabad. It's my request that there should not be any Indian, who has born and brought up in Africa, and has not yet seen India\nIt is a beautiful opportunity to see and understand the country in a cultural and spiritual way. Plans should be made now to bring them to India. If you plan to attend the Kumbh Mela, you must also visit the Ranotsav in Gujarat. India is passing through a period of change and progress and moving forward in terms of economic policy or policy of social progress. To speed up the process, we have been working to eliminate corruption and to tackle terrorism.\nOur government has given a new dimension to India's foreign policy as well. India has strengthened the relationship not only with Kenya but also the entire African continent in the last three-four years. During the tenure of our government, three of us - the President, the Vice President and the Prime Minister have visited more than 20 countries. Besides, India-Africa Summit was also successfully organized in India where 54 African countries from the delegates participated and 41 African countries of the heads of the countries were also present. It was a record in a way.\nIndia had also announced the financial assistance of 10 billion dollars for the development works in Africa during the Summit. In the month of May last year, a successful meeting of the African Development Bank was held in Ahmedabad and several ministers, representatives and heads of banks from the African countries were present there. Recently India has established 18 new embassies in African countries because many people of Indian origin are also staying in small African countries who demanded the establishment of embassies. You will be glad to know and I wish to inform the Africans that recently Indian government has decided 18 new embassies and High Commissions will be started in the countries of Africa. The work will start soon\nThe new High Commissions and Embassies will be helpful in strengthening the relationship between India and Africa. Apart from this, this will be helpful Our government is building a strong relationship with Kenya. The Indian government is providing financial assistance in the field of education and the social sector to Kenya. India is investing mainly in the areas like production, food processing, affordable homes and universal Healthcare. Our government is also creating new opportunities for skill development. I still remember the meeting with the Alumni Association of India. The Alumni Association of India has created a group of students who have studied in India in the last 50 years.\nFriends,\nI believe that if there are any permanent ambassadors for strengthening India's relations with the world, then it's you, the Indian diaspora, the people of Indian origin and the Indian community across the world. Generally the government appoints an ambassador All of you are aware of the significance of M-Pesa for digital transactions and transparent economy.\nM-Pesa has become a model In India, there were many decisions The Bhim app is very popular in India You can also download the Bhim app on mobile phones. You have a special relationship with Kutch You prepare the pudding as soon as the Kutch receives rain. This is the extent of love You have the conversation I urge you all to explain the people of Kutch about the changes that have been brought by M-Pesa. Similarly, the Katchi brothers should also learn to transact digitally through Bhim app. If you request them, they will listen to you\nThe People of Indian Origin, It is a matter of pride for you Our government has always tried to connect with the people of Indian origin or the migrant Indians in any of their problems. Earlier, a separate Ministry used to work for the NRIs but we received feedback and information from the NRIs that there was a lack of coordination with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Therefore, we have amalgamated both the Ministries to solve this problem as per your demands. Earlier, PIO and OCI schemes were also distinct. Many people did not know We have simplified the process of these two schemes and have eliminated the differences between the two. We have come up with a portal - MADAD, for real time monitoring and response of India's Foreign Affairs Ministry and consular governance. You can now visit this portal and interact with the government. Now The Pravasi Indian will be organized after the regeneration of every 2 years. Apart from this, Regional Pravasi Indian is also celebrated. In the last 4 years of our governance, this is a brilliant example of India's changed mind-set.\nBrothers and sisters,\nYou must have realised that in the last 3 to 4 years, the world's perception towards India has also positively changed and the sentiments of the country towards India too have positives. One can One can clearly see all the changes in the system and the results in every field; be it economic development or social development This is your country Every Indian has the ability to fulfill his dream of a new India and take it to new heights. Accomplishing the dream of new India will become easy Once again my best wishes for the success of the Silver Jubilee celebration of Mr. Kutchi Leva Patel Society. Thanks a lot!\nJai Swami Narayan!"