"Share\n\nInputs received for every #ManKiBaat is an indicator about what month or time of year is it: PM Modi\nThe world's opinion about change Today, the whole world sees India with great respect: PM during #MannKiBaat\nMahatma Gandhi, Shastri Ji, Lohia Ji, Chaudhary Charan Singh Ji or Chaudhary Devi Lal Ji, considered agricultural and farmers as the backbone of the country's economy: PM during #ManKiBaat\nFarmers will now get MSP 1.5 times their cost of production, says PM Modi during #MannKiBaat\nAgriculture Marketing Reform in the Country is working for broadly for the farmers for their price: PM during #ManKiBaat\n#MannKiBaat: A clean India and healthy India are complementary to each other, says the PM\nPreventive Healthcare is the easiest and economical The more we know people about preventive healthcare, PM during the #MannKiBaat\n#MannKiBaat: To lead a healthy life, it is vital to maintain hygiene; country's sanitation coverage almost doubled to 80%, says PM Modi\nOver 3,000 Jan Aushadhhi Kendras are operational across the country today, which are providing more than 800 medicines at affordable prices: PM during #MannKiBaat\nTo provide relief to patients, prices of heart stents have been brought down by 85%, cost of knee implants have been reduced 50-70%: PM during the #MannKiBaat\nAyushman Bharat Yojana will cover around 10 crore poor and vulnerable families or nearly 50 crore people, providing coverage up to 5 lakh rupees per family per year: PM says in #ManKiBaat\nT20 by 2025, says Prime Minister Modi during #MannKiBaat\nYoga guarantees fitness as well as wellness; It has become a global mass movement today: PM during #MannKiBaat\nThis year marks the beginning of 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi: PM Modi during #MannKiBaat\nYears ago Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar envisioned industrialization of India He considered the industry to be a successful medium for sure: PM during #MannKiBaat\nToday India has emerged as a bright spot in the global economy, world is looking at India as a hub for investment, innovation and development: #MannKiBaat during PM\nInitiatives like Mudra Yojana, Start Up India, Stand Up India is fulfilling the aspirations of our young innovators and entrepreneurs: PM Modi during #MannKiBaat\nDr. Babasaheb Ambedkar saw 'Jal Shakti' as 'Nation power', says PM Modi during #ManKiBaat\n#MannKiBaat: Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar is a inspiration for millions of people like me, belonging to humble backgrounds, says PM Modi\nMy dear countrymen, Namaskar Today is the holy day of Ram Navami. My heartiest greetings to countrymen on this pious, festive occasion. We have seen how much power of 'Ram Naam', the chant of Lord Ram's name, permeated every moment of revered Bapu's life. A while ago, when distinguished dignitaries of all ASEAN countries were here on the 26th of January, they were among the cultural troupes from their respective countries. And it's a matter of immense pride that a lot of these countries have presented the Ramayana in front of us. This signifies that Ram \u0026 Ramayan continues to inspire and have a positive impact, not just in India, but in that part of the world too. Once again, my best wishes to Ramnavami.\nMy dear countrymen, just like every time before, I have received a large number of letters, e-mails, phone calls and comments from you. I read a post written on MyGov by Komal Thakkar ji, where she referred to Sanskrit for on-line courses starting Alongwith being IT professional, your love for Sanskrit has gladdened me I have been instructed in the direction I will also request listeners of Mann Ki Baat who are engaged in the field of Sanskrit, to ponder over ways \u0026 means to take Komalji's suggestion forward.\nShriman Ghanshyam Kumar ji of Village Baraakar, District Nalanda, Bihar - I read your comments on the Narendra Modi App. The concerns you have raised on the depleting ground water level are really of great importance.\nShriman Sakal Shastriji, you mentioned 'Karnataka' ... you are beautifully maintained, a delicate balance between words when you wrote 'Ayushman Bharat'; 'Long live India' will be possible only when we express' Ayushman Bhoomi; 'Long live the land'; and that will be conceivable only when we begin to feel You have urged one and all of the birds and animals, during summer time Sakal ji, I have conveyed your sentiments to our listeners.\nShriman Yogesh Bhadresha has asked me to talk to the youth about his health. He feels that our young people are physically weak, compared to other Asian countries. Yogesh ji, I feel I should talk to you on 'Fit India'. In fact, all you young people can come up to a movement of Fit India\nRecently, the President of France paid a visit to Kashi, Varanasi based Shriman Prashant Kumar has written that glimpses of that tour are extremely touching, appealing \u0026 left a deep effect. Social media on shared those photos and videos Prashant ji, The Government of India has already done that on social media and the Narendra Modi App, beginning that very day. You may now like them, re-tweet them, post them to your friends.\nAnagha, Jayesh and many other children from Chennai have written and posted to me their heartfelt thoughts on the gratitude card, the post script to the book 'Exam Warriors'. Let me tell Anagha, Jayesh \u0026 other children that these letters enliven me up after a hard day's work. Now, if I started including those all those phone calls, comments, whatever I could read or hear, many of which touched my heart; If I exclusively speak about them, maybe I need some way or other\nThis time, maximum number of letters are students who have written about exams. They have shared their vacation plans They have expressed their concern on the birds and animals. Our farmer brothers and sisters have written on Kisan Melas, Farmer Carnivals and activities, revolving around farming, being held across the country. Quite a few active citizens have sent suggestions on the subject of water conservation. Ever since we have started conversing with each other in 'Man Ki Baat' through the medium of radio, I have noticed that a pattern that in the sweltering heat of this season, most letters are summer time related to the topic around focus. Just before examinations, letter pour in, touching the anxieties of our young student friends who are about to appear During the festival season, our festivals, our culture, our traditions are focused on This means, Mann Ki Batein, matters close to our hearts, alter with the change in season. And it's equally true that our heartfelt thoughts are a change in a person's life, figuratively speaking. Why should not things change? In the words of yours, in your experiences, in the examples that you quote, there is immense inspiration, unfathomable energy, unparalleled warmth; a solution to something In a way, this is the best way to travel. When I come to read in your letters, I am a witness to the non-deprived children of nine schools, Ahmed Ali, has built the non-indispensable will-power of this country. When I heard the story of Kanpur based Dr. Ajit Mohan Choudhary, of how he visits the underprivileged on footpaths and offers free medicines to them, it gives a chance to feel the brotherhood that prevails in the country. Thirteen years ago, on account of a delay in medical treatment, a taxi driver from Kolkata, Saidul Laskar lost his sister. He vowed to build a hospital in order to ensure that none of the underprivileged people suffered from medical assistance. In this mission of his, Saidul sold off family jewellery and raised funds through charity. His cab passengers too contributed big-heartedly A young engineer girl donated his first salary for this noble cause. This way, after mobilizing funds for twelve long years, Saidul's mammoth efforts paid rich dividends. Today, through hard work and a firm resolve, a thirty-bedded hospital has finally come up at Punri Village near Kolkata. This is the power of New India In Uttar Pradesh, when a woman builds 125 toilets after overcoming steep challenges, inspiring women to exercise their due rights, it gives us a glimpse of 'Matri-Shakti', the power of maternal love \u0026 caring. Innumerable shining examples like these are the hallmark of our country. Today the whole world has changed The name 'India' is now a sense of awe and respect; The reason behind it is 'Purusharth', the resolute yet selfless inner strength of such prominent sons and daughters of Mother India. Today, the entire country, the youth, women, the marginalized, the underprivileged, the middle class, in fact every section has a new confidence to awakened ... YES, we can go forward, the country's great strides. An atmosphere of positivity built on a self-confidence filled with hope has pervaded all over. This self confidence, this very positivity will by a catalyst in realising our resolve of New India, of making our dream come true\nMy dear countrymen That is why a large number of letters on agriculture have been received. This time, I requisitioned and viewed videos of discussions with our farmers on DD Kisan Channel of Doordarshan and I feel that every farmer should get connected to this DD Kisan Channel of Doordarshan, see it and his practices in his / her own farm. From Mahatma Gandhi to Shastri ji, Lohia ji, Chaudhari Charan Singh ji, Chaudhari Devi Lal ji - they all recognized agriculture and the farmer as important aspects of the nation's economy and also for the common man's life. How attached was the Mahatma Gandhi attached to the soil, they farms and the farmer is reflection from this sentence, in which he said, \"To forget how to dig the earth and to the soil is to tend, Similarly, Lal Bahadur Shastriji is generally insisted on conservation of trees, plants and vegetation and also highlighted the importance of an improvised agricultural infrastructure. Dr. Ram Manohar Lal had talked of making a mass awakening on a comprehensive scale about the necessary measures to ensure a better income for our farmers and provide better irrigation facilities and to increase food and milk production. Chaudhari Charan Singh in his speech in 1979 had urged our farmers to use new technology and new innovations to adopt and their important significance underlined. I recently visited the Krishi Unnati Mela organized in New Delhi.\nIt was a pleasant experience for our farmers and brothers and sisters and scientists and to listen and understand their experiences in the fields of innovations in the agricultural sector. But one thing that impressed me most was Meghalaya and the hard work of the farmers. This state is a small area Our farmers in Meghalaya, in the year 2015-16, achieved record production as compared to the last five years. They have shown that if once the targets are set, spirits are high and with a strong resolve, the set targets can most certainly be attained. Today, the farmers have to work hard in their fields. This is a great boost for our agro-producers. I have received a number of letters in which a large number of farmers have written about MSP and they want to\nBrothers and sisters, in this year's budget, a big decision has taken it to ensure that farmers get a fair price for their produce. It has been decided that the MSP of notified crops will be fixed at least one and a half times their cost. If I could elaborate on this, MSP would include cost of other workers employed, expenses incurred on animals and machinery taken on rent, cost of seeds, cost of each type of fertilizer used, irrigation cost, land revenue paid to the State Government, interest paid on working capital, land rent in case of leased land and not only to the farmer himself or any other person of his family who contributed his or her labor in agriculture. be involved in the cost of production Further, a comprehensive exercise on agricultural reforms is being undertaken across the country in order to ensure that our farmers get a fair price for their crop. Efforts are on to connect local village mandis to wholesale market and then on the global market. Twenty-two thousand rural haats in the country will be upgraded by making the necessary infrastructure and these will be integrated with APMC and e-NAM platform- so that the farmers do not have to go to distant places for sale their produce. In other words, such a system is being set up in farms.\nMy dear countrymen, this year Mahatma Gandhi's 150th birth anniversary celebrations will begin. How should the country celebrate it? Swachch Bharat is already our resolve; Besides this, how can our 125 crore countrymen pay the best tribute to Gandhiji by working in close harmony? Which newer program can be started? What new practices or procedures can be adopted? I request you all to share my thoughts. What's the logo for 'Gandhi 150'? What should the slogan, mantra or a catch-phrase? Send your suggestions on all of these We are going to pay a memorable tribute to Bapu and have to take the country to newer heights by drawing inspiration from Bapu.\nThanks, you have rightly said it and I believe that Swachch Bharat and Swasth Bharat are supplementary to each other. In the health sector the nation has now moved forward from the traditional approach Earlier, every aspect related to the Health Ministry alone But now, all departments and ministries- be it the sanitation Ministry or Ayush Ministry or Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers, Consumer Affairs Ministry or the Women and Child Welfare Ministry or even the State Government- they are all working together for health and stress. Being laid on affordable health with side preventive health. Preventive health care is the least expensive and the easiest one as well. And, the more we become aware about preventive health care, the more beneficial will it be for the individuals, the family and the society. The first requirement for a healthy life is cleanliness. All four of us have taken care of the last four years or so, sanitation coverage is almost doubled and risen to around 80 percent. Also, there is a great deal of healthcare. Yoga has gained worldwide recognition as a measure of preventive health care. Yoga is a guarantee of both fitness and wellness. It is the result of our concerted efforts and commitment that Yoga has now become a mass movement and reached every house. Less than a hundred days are now left for International Yoga Day on 21st June. On the previous three International Yoga Days, people in our country and people all over the world participated with great zeal and enthusiasm. This time too, we need to ensure that we do yoga ourselves and motivate our family, friends and all others from now on to do yoga. Yoga has become popular among the youth, the senior citizens, men and women Usually, the country's Television and electronic media do a variety of programs on Yoga the whole year. Can we, start now, till the Yoga Day, devise a campaign to spread awareness on Yoga?\nMy dear countrymen, I'm a yoga teacher. But yes, I definitely am a Yoga practitioner and yet some people, through their creativity, have made a Yoga teacher as well and 3-D animated videos of my yoga practice sessions. I will share these videos with you so that we can do aasans and pranayam together. Efforts are being undertaken to make healthcare accessible and affordable. Presently, more than three thousand Jan Aushadhi Kendras have been opened across the country and more than eight hundred medicines are being made available at a affordable price. More such centers are being opened. I appeal to the listeners of 'Man Ki Baat' to provide this information about Jan Anshadhi Kendras to the needy ones - it will cut their expense on medicines. This will be a big help to them The cost of heart stent for heart patients has been reduced to 85%. The knee implants also has been regulated and reduced by 50% to 70%. Under 'Ayushman Bharat Yojana', the Government of India and insurance companies will jointly provide 5 lakh repees for treatment to about 10 crore families or say 50 crore citizens per year. In the present 479 medical colleges, MBBS seats have been increased to about 68 thousand. New AIIMS is being opened in various states with a view to provide better treatment and health facilities. One new medical college will be set up for every three districts A target has been fixed to make the country TB-free by 2025. This is an enormous task. Your cooperation is needed All of us need to make united efforts to become TB-free\nMy dear countrymen, April 14 is the birth anniversary of Dr. Baba Saheb Ambedkar Years ago, Dr. Baba Saheb Ambedkar spoke of India's industrialization. According to him, this industry was a effective medium by which the jobs could be made available to the poor and the poor. Today, the campaign of Make in India is progressing successfully in consonance with Dr. Ambedkarji's dream of India as an industrial super power-that is his inspiration today.\nToday India has emerged as a bright spot in the global economy and today the world's highest foreign direct investment or FDI in the world, India to flowing The whole world is looking at India as a hub for investment innovation and development. That the development of industries could only be possible in the cities, the kernel of the idea of ​​Dr. Baba Sahib Ambedkar and that was the reason he banked on urbanization of India In continuance with his vision, smart city mission and urban mission were launched in all cities of the world, so that all types of amenities are good roads, water supply, health facilities, education and digital connectivity are available in the big cities and small towns of the country Baba Saheb had strong faith in self-reliance He did not want anybody to languish in poverty forever He also believed that poverty can not be amaliorated Today our monetary policy, Start Up India, Stand Up India initiative has become the seedbed for our young innovators and young entrepreneurs. In the 30s and 40s when only roads and railways were being talked about in India, Baba Saheb Ambedkar mentioned about ports and waterways It was Dr. Baba Saheb who envisaged water power as 'nation power' He is the person who is the person of the country. Today there are landmark efforts, our country New seaports are being constructed on a number of seaways of India and infrastructure are being strengthened at old port.\nIn the era of 40s, while most of the discussions were centered around the Second World War, the looming cold war and the partition-that was during those times. Ambedkar had laid the foundation of Team India's spirit in a way. He has talked about the importance of federalism, federal system and stressed on the work of the upliftment of the country. Today, we have adopted all aspects of governance in the Ministry of Co-operative Federalism and going a step further, we have adopted competitive cooperative federalism but most importantly, Dr. Baba Saheb Ambedkar is a inspiration for millions of people like me, who belong to backward classes.\nHe showed us that to succeed it is not necessary for the person to be born in an illustrious or rich family, but even those who are born in poor families in India can also dare to dream their dreams And of course, this is exactly what happened as many people mocked. Baba Saheb Ambedkar, tried to pull him back and made every possible effort to ensure that a poor and backward family did not progress in life, be something and succeed in life. But, the picture of New India is altogether different.\nIt is an India which is the Ambedkar's, the poor and the backward On the occasion of the birth anniversary of Dr. Ambedkar from April 14 to May 5 'Gram-Swaraj Abhiyan,' is being organized. Under the aegis of this campaign, separate programs on rural development, poverty will amelioration and social justice will be held throughout India. I urge you to join\nMy dear countrymen, a spectrum of many festivals will happen on us in the next few days- Lord Mahavir Jayanti, Hanuman Jayanti, Easter and the Baisakhi. The day of Lord Mahavir's birth anniversary\nThe life and philosophy of Lord Mahavirji, the apostle of non-violence will inspire us all I extend felicitations to all on the occasion of Mahavir Jayanti. The very name of peace, harmony, justice, mercy and compassion. Vaisakhi will be celebrated in Punjab and parts of western India in April; Simultaneously, the twin festive connects of Jud-Sheetal and Satuwain in Bihar, and Poila Vaisakh in West Bengal will envelop everyone with joy and delight. All of these festivals are connected in one way or another to our fields and granaries, and through these festivals, we have produced priceless gifts for nature, Once again, my best wishes to all of your festivals coming our way. Many many thanks\nJust like every time before, I have received a rather large number of letters, e-mails, phone calls and comments from people across India: PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 25, 2018\nI read a post on MyGov by Komal Thakkar ji, where she referred to Sanskrit for on-line courses starting Alongwith being IT professional, your love for Sanskrit has gladdened me I have instructed the department to express you in this direction: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 25, 2018\nI will also request listeners of #MannKiBaat who are engaged in the field of Sanskrit, to ponder over ways \u0026 means to take Komalji's suggestion forward: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 25, 2018\nYogesh Bhadresa has asked me to talk to the youth about his health ... Yogesh ji, I have decided to speak on 'Fit India'. In fact, all young people can come together in a movement of 'Fit India': PM @narendramodi during #ManKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 25, 2018\nThis time, people have written me about exams, the upcoming vacations, water conservation among other issues: PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 25, 2018\nA variety of inputs for #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/74IdTmkDbk\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 25, 2018\nWhen I get to read in your letters, how Ahmed Ali, a rickshaw driver of Karimganj in Assam, has built nine schools for poor children on his will - then there are visions of this country's indomitable will: PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 25, 2018\nWhen I got to hear the story of Dr. Ajit Mohan Chaudhary, Kanpur, that he looked at the pavement and saw the poor and gave them free medicines - then got an opportunity to feel the bondage of this country: PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 25, 2018\nWhen a woman from Uttar Pradesh creates 125 toilets in spite of numerous conflicts and inspires women for her rights - then there are visions of maternal power: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 25, 2018\nMany motivation forces introduce my country. Today, the attitude of looking at India has changed: PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 25, 2018\nFor the next few months, farmers are very important for the brothers and sisters. For this reason, many letters have come with agriculture: PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 25, 2018\nGreat people like Mahatma Gandhi, Lal Bahadur Shastri ji, Dr. Ram Manohar Lohia Ji, Chaudhary Charan Singh Ji and Chaudhary Devi Lal spoke about the importance of agriculture and welfare of farmers: PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/QoAYo2bIeY\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 25, 2018\nIn this budget of the year, a big decision has been taken to give the farmers a fair price for the crops. It has been decided that for the notified crops, MSP will be declared at least one and a half times their cost: PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 25, 2018\nDuring this month's #MannKiBaat program, there was a lot of farmers who wrote to PM @narendramodi. pic.twitter.com/pOKF6TvKLd\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 25, 2018\nEnsuring greater prosperity for our farmers #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/yFuYZcRrpU\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 25, 2018\nHow to make the 150th birth anniversary celebrations of Bapu memorable? Let us think of innovative ways #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/UyIB6Ctyty\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 25, 2018\nLet us work towards fulfilling the dreams of Mahatma Gandhi. #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/1LtVumG8J6\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 25, 2018\nA healthy India #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/zQDCDruOM9\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 25, 2018\nPM @narendramodi speaking on the importance of preventive healthcare. #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/7ZzoNNE4PY"