"Share\n\nOur saints and seers have guided the nation. They have not only protected but also furthered our culture: PM\nPM remembers Bhagwan Basaveswara, says government has adopted his ideals\nPM Modi launches various initiatives of the Center\nSaints and seers have a vital role to play in maintaining unity of the nation and eliminating social evils: PM\nThe Reverend Shri Shail Jagadguru Mahaswami Ji, Shri Ishwar Pandit Sharma Shivachar Swami Ji, Shri Gauri Shankar Shivachar Swami Ji, Shri Renuka Shivachar Swami Ji, Shri Sugureshwara Shivachar Swami Ji, Shri Doctor Rajshekhar Shivachar Swami Ji, The Reverend Shri Shiv Kumar Swami Ji, Shri Varalinga Swami Ji, saints from all over the country who are present here in Shrishailam, devotees, ladies and gentleman, and my colleague and the most popular leader in Karnataka Shri BS Yeddyuruppa Ji,\nFirst of all my best wishes I was able to visit Shrishailam, one of the most holy places in the country, in person to receive the blessings of Shri Shail Jagad Guru Mahaswami Ji and all of you sages and saints. However, due to busy schedule it could not happen. That is why I'm connecting with you people through technology and I offer my deepest regards to people from here only.\nTalking about the significance of Shrishailam, Maharshi Ved Vyas had said that the people who visit the shrine get salvation from all kinds of attachments. Shrishailam Samam Kshetram Na Bhoota Na Bhavishyati, This sentence is best suited for this place.\nNot only Mallikarjun Ling, one of the twelve Jyotirlings of India, is located in this region, but Bhramramba Shaktipeeth and one of the founding masters of Veer ShaivDharm Shri Jagadguru Surya Singhasan Panditadhya Gurupeethare also located here. So in this way, this Shrishailam region is the confluence of the trinity of the Jyotirling, Shaktipeeth and the seat of Jagadguru.\nLord Basveshwara made this place his last resting place in the feet of Lord Shiva. Well known Allam Prabhudev and Akkamaha devi also got united with the Lord in this region only. The place of worship of Shiva devotee Siddha Rameshwar of Solar is also Shailam. Hemreddy Allamma became famous because of her devotion to lord Mallikarjun. This is such a divine place of India which gives its blessing and energy to the whole country.\nMahaswami Ji, in this holy place of confluence, a vital program for making national awareness will be organized here. Thousands of people from across the country, specially from Karnataka will reach there to witness this event by walking hundreds of kilometers on foot. I humbly bow down to every devotee participating in this great Yajna of national awareness and faith.\nUgadi means beginning of a millennium. Ugadi is a festival of beginning of human life, it is a festival of beginning This is a festival of new hopes and aspirations. It's a festival of nature; it's a festival of environment It's a festival\nTomorrow, people in Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra and several other states of the country will start the construction of new homes, will buy new vehicles, new tractors, will start a business or will start some new work in their shops.\nI would like to share my best wishes I wish that they should get plenty of blessings and rewards\n\nBevooBela Prasad is a fine example of this thing that is how our traditions make life. I hope that tomorrow's all you like the taste of BevooBela or UgadiPachadhi. As the Prasadam is the little sour, little sweet, life is also like that. Victory and defeat, happiness and misery, these ups and downs of life, how easily these fundamental principles have been made to our value system, this thing is never understood by those people who are not aware of the country of history.\nAll of you are very well aware that the greatness of the prolonged period of the slavery of our glorious history. However, our traditions had that strength that they withstood that assault So what was that strength in our country, finally it was who was held during that period?\nIt was the power of sages and saints like you who protected the spiritual and cultural pride of the country at that time.\nAfter the independence, there was some hope However, it has been unfortunate the leaders of that period associated the country with the snake charmers, magic and stunts. Not only this, one of the important things of our glorious past\nThis country is indebted to the accomplished saints like you who have not tried it in their efforts On the one hand you are protected the country, spiritually and culturally and on the other.\nIn a way, tomorrow's event is that occasion of spiritualuality and knowledge in which whichever takes a dip will achieve ultimate salvation and success. In a way, these programs and the ancient traditions of Kumbha During the Kumbha fairs too, an attempt was made to encompass our country. Saints and Sages, The wise masters gather and discuss the happiness and misery of the society. There is another unique feature of Kumbha fair Every 12th year the saints and sages gather on the occasion of Kumbha and then it is decided that what will be the future And whatever was decided during that time, in a way, itbecame like the resolutions made by the society\nIt's a matter of pride for all of us that these types of great traditions which guide the society, which are the subject of its internal vice, are still being done today. People will come from far flung areas to the Rashtriya Jan Jagriti Conference organized in Shrishailam, they will meet each other and understand each other. And they will be united as pereness\nLord Basweshwar had said 'KarmannevehKarmaniEiziVisheshatShatgum', it means that living a short life to achieve a defined purpose is 100 years without having a purpose. This thing: to lead a life by having a purpose of life, to understand how to live life by setting an objective\nYou are very well aware how our government has adopted these words of Lord Basweshwar in our way of working. It is our effort to formulate every scheme with a well laid out objective and should be implemented in stipulated time.\nToday, the impact of this work culture is that more than 31 crore Jan Dhan bank accounts have just opened for poor people in just four years.\nOur government has provided the insurance shield to 18 crore poor people at a premium of only one rupee per month and 90 paise per day.\nOur government has provided free gas connections to more than three and a half cros women under the record time in the Ujjwal scheme.\nMore than 1.25 crore accounts of daughters were opened under the SukanyaSamriddhi Yojana. More than 3 crore children and more than 80 lakh pregnant women have been vaccinated under the mission Indradhanush.\nMore than one crore houses have been constructed in the last three years under the Pradhan MantriAvas Yojana.\nThe government has sanctioned more than 11 crore loans without bank guarantee under the Mudra scheme. More than five lakh crore rupees have been disbursed to youth under this scheme.\nToday, the speed of building roads, the speed of laying the rail tracks and the speed of adding power to the power capacity has become possible. done day and night\nRecently our government has announced one more scheme. And this scheme will alleviate a very big tension of the life of around 45 to 50 billion people of the country. This scheme is called Ayushman Bharat. The government will provide an insurance cover of up to Rs. Five lakhs in a year for the treatment of serious diseases\nOur government has been successful in making the life of the poor people of the country.\nOur government has understood the power of people's movement and given importance to it. And it's the impact of this thing that today the coverage of the sanitation in the country has gone up to 80% under the Clean India Mission. It was around 40% before 2014. It means we have doubled the coverage.\nSimilarly, it is the work of cleaning the rivers or be it Digital India Mission or be it the effort of augmenting the solar power capacity in the country, all these things have been taken as people's movements. Your contribution will work as an inspiration in further strengthening of the people's movements.\nRecently, our government has started a national nutrition program for the challenge of malnutrition. In this program, the work has been done as a new approach.\nProviding the nutritious food to women and children alone does not mean providing nutrition to them.\nOur government has been looking at a holistic way. If only the nutritious food is provided but if there is an unclean environment around the mother and the kid, if they are not getting vaccination in time, if the proper care is not given to the mother during the pregnancy and if the child does not get proper time of mother during the initial months then the bad effect of all these things can be seen in the form of malnutrition.\nIt means there are many conditions that are responsible for malnutrition. And it is also important If child marriage is the reason why there is some other place. Shortage of food may cause the condition of some place and some other place it could be vaccinated.\nTherefore I urge you people that those people who are participating in the awareness movement at Shrishailam should also be given information about this scheme. What is the local conditions there, this issue should be deliberated and the administration should be informed about that. Nutrition is not the subject related solely to women,\nToday, the country is passing through a very important phase. The people of the country want to see the country free from its variants at the earliest. Your contribution is very important for not only making people aware and putting an end to evils like casteism but also for an end to all the evils like black money and corruption that has been damaging the country. It's also very important to make people aware about the efforts.\nThe central government has made every possible effort for the nation building but the blessings of all our energy.\nI conclude my speech by once again bowing down to Shri Shailjagadguru Mahaswami Ji and all other saints and sages present there. I express my gratitude"