"Share\n\nSome people were 'born' entitled to prestigious national honours like the India Ratna, while others, toiling hard their whole life despite their identity of recognition unrecognized: PM\nGovernment has committed to all round development of North Eastern States: PM Modi\nPrevious government had made a state of civilization but we are uprooting this domain from the society: PM\nLong live Mother India\nLong live Mother India\nMy dear brothers and sisters in large numbers\nI look forward to it, there is a road and still thousands of people are coming in. I think there will be a big field ahead. In the past, I got the chance to do four major programs and I saw that the excitement in Assam is growing, such a rising that there is a rally, the second breaks the record of the first one. And today I have seen that you have broken records of all the four rallies.\nThese blessings of Assam, these blessings can not be anything except the blessings of Mother Kamakhya. I am convinced that in the newspapers that come out of Guwahati, all these news will not come tomorrow, the reason is what they will see now. But when I saw this morning I thought there was something. The papers here have been poor, but hard work, but their boss will not allow that hard work to complete.\nToday, a new history is involved in the development of North-East. A few days ago, thousands of crore projects related to development of Assam and North-East have been inaugurated, inaugurated and laid-off. These works of development can only be achieved when our sages, Munis, sacrifices, the path shown to us by the martyrs, we have to make a move to follow that path. Today, I salute the devotees like Lord Shankardev, Madhavdev, Ajan Fakir, Swargdev Chulung, Sukabai, and I bow to this land today. The legendary hero of this land, GeneralLachit Borphukanji, is well-built in the particles of the particles.\nI wish also for the success of Sant Srimant Shankar Dev Sangh's Annual Convention, which is happening in Morigaon. I also pay my tribute to Bharat Ratna doctor Bhupen Hazarika.\nSageo, Bhupen Da played an important role in reaching Assamese language and culture to the country and the world; For the disadvantaged and exploited, they continued to raise the voice. The tune of Bhupen da circulated new consciousness in the life of the settlers around Brahmaputra, while also trying to awaken humanity spread in the expanses of the Ganges.\nFor the Saathio, Assam and the country, for the society, with his songs, the great personality which contributed so much to his soul; Dates are delayed in identifying the true nation-rat of India devoted to the underprivileged, victims and exploited, decades have passed. We all would have been happy if Bhupen was alive and could take the honor of Bharat Ratna with his hands, but this could not be possible. Who is responsible for this, you have to make those decisions.\nSameeo, today I am missing Gopinath Bardoloi, another great sage of Assam, he is also missing them. In order to give true tributes to Bharat Ratna, Assam also had to wait for decades of revered Atal Bihari Vajpayee Ji. Right now I had interpreted BC and Eddie in the Parliament; You will hear the parson. BC and AD, that is, BC means before Congress and AD means after dynasty.\nI would like to ask those people who have praised the BC and AD as to why did you play hard to ignore the true gems of India? After all, why did it happen that for some people, Bharat Ratna was reserved for them and it was decided for them and decade had passed for honoring those who laid their lives for the honor of the country. The answer is seeking a corner of India with Assam.\nToday, I am proud that at the time of the Bharatiya Janata Party government, we have got the opportunity to do Govind Bordoloi and Bhupen Hazarika, Bharat Ratna, to do the sacred work.\nFriends, those who forgot their heroes also forgot the development of the North-East, Assam. Many of the colleagues who sit here will remember those discussions when the neglected paradise in the newspapers, the neglected state of the nation, used to print such headlines. Here people were complaining that nobody lives in the East of Kolkata or forgets Delhi.\nMy brothers and sisters, now what are the news in newspapers today, remember also. Infra push in North-East, first in the state of rail connectivity, air connectivity for the first time, anywhere in the villages Accessibility, the release of the longest railway-road bridge in the country incomplete for years; Now such news comes in the newspapers.\nBrothers and Sisters, the interim budget presented a few days ago, it also shows our devotion to the development of North-East. In this budget, the Central Government has increased the budget for more than 21 percent of the entire North-East including Assam. Apart from this, the people of north-east Assam have benefited a lot even from the tax disbursed to those earning up to five lakh rupees.\nMy Chief Minister was telling me that a large number of young people in Assam will now be out of the purview of tax, they will not have to pay taxes.\nIn spite of this, brothers and sisters, this time, the budget of the Assam government is also getting much more. I congratulate the Assam government and the citizens of Assam for this budget which has given new heights to Assam's development.\nMany projects have been inaugurated and laid out in keeping with their dedication to respect for the development of Sathyo North-East and Assam.\nThe inauguration of Biori-Gauhati Natural Gas Line, the Hollang Modular Gas Processing Plant, and LPG Storage Basel in Numaligarh, all these projects are making Assam a major hub of oil and gas, the country's The economy is going to give a lot of strength. Whether it is a bio-fuel project or a gas pipeline going to Barauni; This clean fuel and clean energy based strengthen our economy's resolve.\nBrothers, sisters- we have to try that we strengthen the Northeast economy in every way. In this endeavor we are improving the connectivity of North-East. Whether the bogiwil bridge or the Bhupen Hazarika bridge; We have been trying to fulfill the incomplete plans honestly for years.\nToday, I got the opportunity to inaugurate the Bridge connecting North and South Gohati on Brahmaputra river. This will reduce the distance between North and South Gohati from 1.5 hours to 15 minutes. Right now it can be visited only through the ferry. After the construction of this bridge made of nearly two thousand crores, the hassle of going to the state capital region of Gohati will also be less.\nFriends, in the last four and a half years, nearly 14 thousand crore projects have been completed in our oil and gas sector by Assam, Rs 14,000 crore projects in Assam. Work on about six and a half thousand crores projects is going on fast today.\nToday the foundation stone of the bio-refinery made of Rs. 1200 crores has been laid in Numalali fort. This is the largest of the 12 modern bio-refineries being developed across the country. Bamboo will also be made 6 million liters of ethanol every year. How much profit will the farmers have, how much benefit will be to those living in the forests; You can calculate it. These projects are going to be the source of additional income of nearly 50 thousand families. Apart from this, the capacity of the Numalai Garh Refinery has been agreed to almost three times. In Assam it is a huge investment from the Central Government.\nWe are working fast on ethanol bonding and bio-fuel to reduce the import from foreign countries and to generate additional income for farmers tribals. Carts or airplanes, we are now heading towards achieving the goal of blending about 10 percent of the bio fuel in the fuel.\nToday, the foundation stone of North-East gas grid costing around 9 thousand crores has been laid for brothers and sisters, bio-fuel as well as natural gas from Assam to maximum areas of the country. In this, the coalition of five companies will be seen in its eight states of North-East.\nIn the eastern part of the country, along with a gas-based industry and pipes, a big campaign is being undertaken to bring gas to households. To empower the Prime Minister Energy Ganga Scheme, a natural gas pipeline line from Gohat to Barauni in Bihar has been laid today. This will help in connecting the homes of many cities of the country with piped LPG-PNG.\nBrothers and Sisters, today we have been growing rapidly towards connecting every household of the country with LPG gas, along with extensive work on piped gas. I will tell you a figure, which will tell you the speed and scale of our work. In the year 2014, there was a connection of pipelines to 2.5 million households, and today it has almost doubled, that is more than forty six lakhs. The speed at which the work is going is coming from the number of million in the coming years. Similarly, the number of CNG stations has increased from 950 to around 1500 across the country.\nApart from expanding the city gas distribution network in Sethio, Assam, two new projects have been laid. It will also benefit the people of Trashcher, Helakandi and Karimangj district of Kamrup and Kamrup Metropolitan. To meet the demand of LPG cylinders in North Gauhati, to be a storage vessel or to a modular gas processing plant in Tinsukia, it will simplify the lives of ordinary people and create new employment opportunities.\nBrothers and Sisters, in the last 50-55 months, the Central Government and the State Government are continuously engaged in setting up Assam on the map of development of the country. I congratulate Sarwananda Sonowal and his team that they are working very hard to get Assam out of corruption and earlier work culture.\nSetho, the way the previous government has made corruption as part of the system, its sins are still familiar and suffering, but the government here has given a strong message by taking action against the corrupt people.\nFriends, all of you are seeing how strictly dealt with the robbers of the poor, the people of the country's security, are being dealt with strictly. Those who escaped from the country by diving, they are being brought back, being handed over to the law of India. The whole country is watching that how the corrupt people are scared by the watchman's guard, and every morning, new abuse every day, new abuse every day, give it to them. How to advance Assam, what will be done for the North-East, what are the plans for the country; They are silent on this, do not speak, but there is only one honorable one - who can blame Modi more, the competition is going on.\nFriends, these people- they have the same identity, maternity dissolution This is tantrums, they are engaged in provoking the society, and we are stuck for the development of Asmita and Assam of Assam. We have been consistently saying that there is no place in any part of the country including Assam for intruders. In order to free Assam from the intruders to Assam, we have raised the voice of the public every time.\nThis is the reason why we have signed the Chitmahal agreement to prevent infiltration from Bangla country and now India-Bangladesh is stepping in to seal the border completely. We have taken action in the supervision of the Supreme Court on the old government being saved by implementing the NRC. It is our endeavor to complete this process at the appointed time.\nAlong with friends, NRC, I have come to say to all of you that a big confusion is being spread about the law related to citizenship. The country that wasted so many years, they are spreading these illusions for their own benefit; Such people need to know. People sitting in Delhi, people sitting in the air-conditioned rooms, people who oppose us in the Parliament, just look at this Nazariya; What is the mood of Assam? If you see it, then you will know.\nThe Bharatiya Janata Party-NDA government is fully committed to protect your rights on language, culture and resources of the brothers, sisters-Assam and North-East states.\nBrothers and Sisters, it is our endeavor, the clause 6 of the Assam accord should be implemented as soon as possible and a committee has been constituted by our government for this. And I am confident that this committee will report your feelings, your interests, your hopes, and your hopes.\nYou also know this well that the parties, the group, the swampy party, the Mahamilivati ​​Dal are busy spreading confusion. He has never shown honesty in implementing the Assam accord for 30-35 years. Let me tell you, 36 years have passed, should Assam should have been applied? Have they done injustice to Assam or did not they? And those who are standing with those people for their own personal interest, should also open their self-interest or should not?\nAnd so brothers and sisters, I have come to you today, the 36 year old demand will be done by you if someone fulfills the Modi government, and people who are asking us questions, the people of Assam ask them questions, 36 years have lost their lives Were? Where did you sleep? Stop playing the game of emotions from the people of Assam.\nBrothers, we will not allow my Assam to be ruined for political interests, for vote bank politics. The manner in which the voters of Vote Bank's politics have brought Assam to the crossroads, I have come out to fight these vote bank politicians - brothers, sisters; I came out to take the iron. पहले देश बचना चाहिए, देश की एकता बचनी चाहिए, हमारा असम बचना चाहिए।\nसाथियो, आसाम और उत्‍तर-पूर्व के लोगों के साथ मेरा स्‍वाभाविक लगाव है। आपका स्‍नेह और आशीर्वाद मेरे लिए बहुत महत्‍वपूर्ण है। जितना अधिकार आपका मुझ पर है, उतना ही दायित्‍व मेरा भी आपके प्रति है, और इसलिए मैं citizenship amendment bill पर भी आज इतनी बड़ी विराट जनसभा में आपसे बात करना चाहता हूं।\nसाथियो, हमें भारत के संसाधनों पर कब्‍जा करने के इरादे से भारत में घुसने वालों, यहां पर कब्‍जा जमाने के लिए घुसने वालों और आस्‍था की वजह से अत्‍याचार के कारण अपनाघरबार छोड़ने के लिए मजबूर लोगों का हमें फर्क समझना चाहिए। नागरिकता संशोधन का विषय सिर्फ आसाम या नॉर्थ-ईस्‍ट से जुड़ा नहीं है।\nएक मिनट-एक मिनट आपका प्‍यार- आशीर्वाद, धन्‍यावाद।\nनागरिकता संशोधन का विषय सिर्फ असम या नॉर्थ-ईस्‍ट से जुड़ा नहीं है, बल्कि देश के अनेक हिस्‍सों में मां भारती पर आस्‍था रखने वाले, भारत मां की जय बोलने वाले, अपने-आपको अपनी आस्‍था के अनुसार जीने के लिए समर्पित करने वाले ऐसी संताने हैं, ऐसे लोग हैं जिनको अपनी जान बचाकर मां भारती की गोद में आना पड़ा है। चाहे वो पाकिस्‍तान से आए हों, अफगानिस्‍तान से आए हों या फिर बंगलादेश से; ये nineteen forty seven से पहले भारत का ही हिस्‍सा थे।\nजब आस्‍था के आधार पर देश का विभाजन हुआ; हमसे अलग हुए देशों में जो अल्‍पसंख्‍यक यानी वहां जो अल्‍पसंख्‍यक थे, उन देशों में; मतलब वहां हिन्‍दू अल्‍पसंख्‍यक था, सिख वहां अल्‍पसंख्‍यक था, जैन वहां अल्‍पसंख्‍यक था, बौद्ध वहां अल्‍पसंख्‍यक था, पारसी वहां अल्‍पसंख्‍यक था, ईसाई वहां अल्‍पसंख्‍यक था; ऐसे लोग वहां रह रहे थे। उनको आशा थी कि वहां माहौल अच्‍छा बनेगा बाद में, सुख-शांति से गुजारा करेंगे, लेकिन उनके साथ जो हुआ, अगर उनको मिलोगे तो पता चलेगा कितनी यातनाएं झेल करके अपनी आस्‍था की खातिर, मां भारती की गोद में आए।\nउनको संरक्षण देना, ये हिन्‍दुस्‍तान का कर्तव्‍य है, भारत का कर्तव्‍य है। ये एक राष्‍ट्रीय commitment था, जिसे हमने पूरा किया है। और मैं असम के लोगों को, नॉर्थ-ईस्‍ट के लोगों को ये भरोसा देता हूं कि इससे असम और उत्‍तर-पूर्व की कोई क्षति नहीं होने दूंगा।\nमैं आपको ये भी ध्‍यान दिलाना चाहता हूं कि आवश्‍यक जांच-पडताल के बाद ये बात भी आप लोगों के ध्‍यान में रहे, आवश्‍यक जांच-पड़ताल के बाद, राज्‍य सरकार की सिफारिश के बाद ही किसी को नागरिकता प्रदान करने का निर्णय लिया जा सकता है, अपने-आप कुछ नहीं होता है। बिना जांच-पड़ताल, बिना राज्‍य की सिफारिश के किसी को नागरिकता देने का प्रश्‍न ही नहीं उठता है।\nसाथियो, मेरी सरकार असम और असमिया हितों के लिए पूरी तरह समर्पित है।Assam accord के अनुरूप ही हमारी सरकार छह समुदायों- छह समुदायों- अहम, मोटक, मोरन, शुटिया, कुशराजवंशी और साहजन गोष्‍ठी को जनजाति का दर्जा देने पर भी काम कर रही है। इसके लिए राज्‍यसभा में बिल लाने का काम भी हमारी ही सरकार ने किया है। और मैं आज इस अवसर पर ये भी कहना चाहता हूं कि इन छह समुदायों को tribe का दर्जा देते समय ये भी सुनिश्चित किया जाएगा कि असम की वर्तमान जनजातियों के हितों, उनके अधिकारों, उसकी पूरी तरह रक्षा की जाएगी।\nआपने देखा होगा, अभी हमने एससीएसटीओबीसी, इनके अधिकारों को जरा भी आंच आए बिना 10 पर्सेंट समाज के अग्रिम जाति के लोग माने जाते हैं, सवर्ण समाज माना जाता है, उनके गरीबों के लिए दस पर्सेंट आरक्षण किया। किसी का नुकसान किए बिना भी हम कर सकते हैं, ये हमने दिखाया है। इन छह जातियों के संबंध में भी,‍ जितनी पुरानी जनजातियां हैं, उनके हकों की रक्षा करते हुए हम इस व्‍यवस्‍था को बनाएंगे।\nसाथियो, हर प्रकार की नकारात्‍मकता को पीछे छोड़ते हुए समृद्ध असम और सम्‍पन्‍न भारत के अपने बड़े संकल्‍प की तरफ पूरी शक्ति से आगे बढ़ना है।\nअंत में एक बार फिर तमाम विकास परियोजनाओं के लिए मैं आप सबको बधाई देता।\nLong live Mother India\nLong live Mother India\nLong live Mother India\nवंदे - मातरम"