"Share\n\nThe farmers of Meghalaya have broken the record of five years of the year 2015-16, I appreciate them for this: PM Modi\nThe agriculture sector of our country has shown the path to the whole world in many cases: PM\nOur aim is to double farmers' income by 2022 as well as address the challenges farmers face: PM Modi\nMore than 11 crore Health Health Cards have been distributed in the country: PM\nUnder Prime Minister Krishi Sinchai Yojana, irrigation facilities are being ensured for farms: PM Modi\nWe have announced Operation Greens in this years budget Farmers growing Tomato, Onion and Potato have been given top priority: PM\nWe are committed to ensure that benefits of MSP reach the farmers: PM\nThe government has decided that for the notified crops, the minimum support price, will be at least 1.5 times their input cost: PM Modi\nAgriculture Marketing Reform is a very big scale in the country for ensuring fair price of crop: PM Modi\nThe government is promoting the Farmer Producer Organization- FPO: PM Modi\nIndia has immense scope for organic farming. Today is more than 22 lakh hectares of land in the country under organic farming: PM Modi\nI urge the farmers not to burn crop residue. It harms the soil as well as poses threat to environment: PM Modi\nMy colleague's colleague Mr. Radha Mohan Singh, Chief Minister of Madhya Pradesh, Mr. Shivraj Singh Chauhan, Chief Minister of Meghalaya, Mr. Konrad Sangma ji, my colleague Mr. Shree Purushottam Rupala Ji, Mr. Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, Mrs. Krishna Raj, Scientist, and The focal point of this event came from all over the country, my farming brother and sister\nAll of you are very welcome at the National Agricultural Advancement Fair. Such advancement fairs have a big role in empowering New India's path.\nThrough this fair, I am getting an opportunity to talk to two leaders of New India together, at one time. A watchman from New India is our farmer, our food adder, who is working hard to nurture the nation. The second watchdog is our scientific brother who is making the life of the farmer easy by developing new technology.\nI have been told that thousands of farmers, even in agricultural sciences centers across the country, are directly connected to us through technology at this time. I also congratulate him on this occasion.\nBrothers and sisters, before coming here I went to the huge fair here. I talked to many scientists, talked to farmers, I saw new technologies related to agriculture. The information given on new technologies from Live Demostration is definitely going to come.\nToday, I have had the opportunity to honor the farmers, who have done better work in the field of agriculture. I congratulate all the states and the people who have been awarded the Krishi Karman and Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Agricultural Incentive Award.\nThese rewards are of great respect to your hard work, and there is also a medium for encouraging millions of Kisan brothers.\nToday many states have been honored for record grain production. I would like to talk about Meghalaya in particular which has been given a different award. Companions, the small state in this area has shown great work. The farmers of Meghalaya have broken the record of five years of production during the year 2015-16. At present, the youth chief of Meghalaya is present on the forum. I urge that for this achievement, he also organized an honor program for farmers in Meghalaya.\nCompanions, today, my belief is strengthened that when the goal is clear, it is not impossible for us to spend the day and night to achieve the goal, then nothing is impossible. He is encouraged by the farmer of our country that he can achieve difficult goals too. We should not forget that what was the situation of grain production in the country after attaining independence. From that time of trouble, our ancestor brought us out. Today, record grain production, record production of lentils, record fruits - vegetables production, record milk procurement is happening in the country.\nSo I bow to every farmer of the country, every mother and sister engaged in agricultural advancement.\nCompanions, in our country, agricultural sector has shown the path to the whole world in many cases. But over time the challenges which got associated with farming are very important in today's era. These challenges only reduce the income of the farmer, harm them, increase farming costs.\nWith the overall totality of these challenges, our government is continuously working towards dealing with Holistic approaches. The direction of these different actions is one- doubling the income of the farmer, the goal is one- making the lives of the farmers easier. We are moving forward on this resolution path very fast.\nToday more than 11 crore Health Health Cards have been distributed in the country. On the basis of information received from the Health Health Card, the farmers who are cultivating, while increasing their yields, the expenditure on fertilizers is also decreasing.\nEven 100% neem coating of urea has reduced manure consumption and increased production of grains per hectare.\nThrough our brothers and sisters, Prime Minister's Crop Insurance Scheme, our government has provided crop insurance to farmers on the lowest premium. While capping on insurance, the provision was made that the entire amount should be insured. After this scheme, the amount of claim received per farmer has now more than doubled. This is a very big step towards our government in relieving the farmers.\nUnder the Prime Minister's Irrigation Scheme, every farm is being worked with the vision of water. Irrigation projects which were incomplete for decades, are being completed by spending more than Rs. 80 thousand crores.\nThrough the Prime Minister's Kisan Samadya Yojana, our government is strengthening the entire supply chain, from farm to market, creating modern agricultural infrastructure. Operation Greens, which is announced in this budget, is also connected to the new supply chain system. It will be beneficial for fruits and vegetables producing farmers, and especially those of Top, that is, Tomato, Onion and Potato growers.\nIt has also been requested to implement the Model Act related to the farmers' interest and implement them with the State Governments. These laws will work to empower the farmers after implementation in the states.\nFarmers get modern seeds, get the necessary electricity, there is no trouble to the market, they get the fair price of the crop, for which our government is doing day and night.\nThe colleagues have announced a major decision to give a fair price to the farmers in this budget.\nThe government has decided that for the notified crops, the minimum support price - that is, the MSP, will be declared at least 1.5 times their cost. I want to explain it in more detail to my farming brothers. The costs for the brothers and sisters, MSP will be added, the value of the labor of the second labor, the livestock or machine cost, the cost of the seed, the value of the seeds, the value of all types of fertilizers, the above was done on irrigation The expenditure, the land revenue given to the state government, interest given above the working capital, rent given for leased land, and other expenses included.\nNot only this, the contribution of the contribution made by the farmer himself and his family members will be added to the cost of production.\nThis is a very important step related to the income of the hard working farmers of the country. We are working closely with state governments for the full benefits of the announcement of minimum support price.\nFarmers, farmers and farmers are also being worked at a very broad level on agricultural marketing reforms for the fair price of the crop.\nIt is very necessary to adjust the local market's wholesale market and then to the global market.\nThe government's efforts are that farmers do not have to go too far to sell their produce. The Rural Retail Agriculture Market - i.e. Gram's concept is the result of this budget. Under this, 22 thousand rural hats of the country will be upgraded with the necessary infrastructure and then they will be integrated with APMC and e-Nam platforms. That is, in a way, within a 5-6 kilometer radius of a farm, the farmer will have such a system, which will connect him to any market in the country.\nFarmers will be able to sell their produce directly to these consumers on these rural hats. In the coming days, these centers will be able to increase the income of farmers, employment and new centers of agriculture based rural and agricultural economy.\nThe government is encouraging the Farmer Producer Organization- FPO to further strengthen this situation. Farmers can also join rural hats and big boards in their area, by creating smaller organizations at their level.\nCompanions, a very old saying that unity has power. This applies also to Farmer Producer Organizations. Imagine, when a large group of farmers of the village gather and buy fertilizer, it will bring them transport, then how much money will be saved. In the same way you will be able to get the big discount in the price of the medicine, in the seed. Apart from this, when the same group collects its produce in the village, packing it and selling it in the market, it will also get more money. Farmers will get more benefit from the cost of rising from the farm to the consumer.\nThe brothers and sisters, in this budget, the government has also announced that 'Farmer Producer Organizations' will be given exemption on income tax like cooperative societies. With the help of the 'Farmer Producer Organization' to help women self-help groups to connect with organic, aromatic and herbal cultivation, it will prove to be an important step in increasing the income of the farmers.\nA new chapter is also associated with this program in this direction today, with peers, peasant brothers, easily able to sell their crops.\nLast month, at the National Agricultural Conference, I had thought of E-Marketing Portal for marketing of Organic Products. It is a very pleasant experience for me to see her launch in such a short time today.\nE-Marketing Portal will play a big role in delivering biological or organic products from farm to market and from consumer to consumer door. Information about products, its market and supply chain information will now be easily available to farmers and consumers.\nMy emphasis on brothers and sisters, Organic Products, is because they are as old as they are. The truth is that we are one of the world's oldest organic farming countries. Today, more than 22 lakh hectares of land is organic farming. But the second truth is that the next step after organic farming is the Value Addition, marketing, we have left behind in it. E-Marketing Portal will help greatly to overcome this shortcoming.\nCompanions, the Government is engaged in promoting organic farming throughout the country under the traditional agricultural development scheme. Especially the North East is being developed as a hub of organic farming.\nIn future, in the fields of agriculture, the advancement of such new sectors will be helpful in the advancement of the farmers. With Green and White Revolution, the more we focus on Organic Revolution, Water Revolution, Blue Revolution, Sweet Revolution, the more the income of the farmers will increase.\nWe will play a very big role in this advancement, our Krishi Vigyan Kendra, spread across the country. Today 25 new Krishi Vigyan Kendras have been launched and these have been added to the number of them in our country about 700.\nI look at these agricultural science centers as the new lighthouse of modern agriculture. Lighting from these centers will illuminate the agriculture world of the country. Especially important is the work of Krishi Vigyan Kendra - to bring new technology, new information to the farmer. I hope that all of you will continue to play their role in the fullest sense in this work.\n\nMany of the peers, the agricultural sciences centers that have been awarded here today, are also playing important roles in bee keeping. Beekeeping is not just earning, it is associated with whole humanity. The great scientist Albert Einstein once said that\n\"If the bees disappear from the earth, then mankind can live only for 4 years\"\nBehind this thought, the usefulness of bees was hidden in agriculture and horticulture. According to experts, 70 percent of the 100 species of crops are such that they can not produce without bees. Bee not only helps in pollination but also gives nectar as honey.\nSo this is the way that not only helps to increase the yield of the farmer but also makes the means of earning extra in the form of honey. This leads us towards Sweet Revolution. According to a thick estimate, at a small level, farmers can earn up to 2 to 2.5 million by beekeeping in 50 boxes.\nSimilarly, another means of additional income is solar farming. This is the technique of farming which is not only meeting the need for irrigation but also helping the environment. Farmers from the solar panels on the edge of the field only take the necessary power for pumping water and together with the additional power the government can sell. This will give him freedom from petrol and diesel. This will also serve the environment if the government money involved in procurement of petrol and diesel will also be saved.\nIn the last three years, the government has provided around 3 lakh solar pumps to the farmers and for this the amount of about 2.5 billion rupees has been approved.\nMy farming brothers and sisters, our government is also doing a meaningful endeavor in the direction of Waste To Wealth. In this budget, we have announced the Gobar Dhan Yojana. Go-Bar Money i.e. Galvenizng Organic Bio-Agro Resource Money Scheme A large quantity of bio-waste is released in the village, which causes a bigger cause of dirt in the village. Under this scheme, this waste will now be replaced in compost, bio gas and bio-CNG. I hope this scheme will also help in increasing the income of the farmers.\nMoney can also be made from the crop which remains a farmer's biggest disaster. Coir Waste, be Coconut Shells, Bamboo Waste, Residue left in the field after harvesting, Rescue is being done to connect all these to the income of the farmers.\nसाथियों, हमारे यहां कुछ क्षेत्रों में एक गलत परंपरा पड़ गई है Crop Residue जलाने की। इसे कुछ लोग पराली जलाना भी कहते हैं। वास्तव में हम देखें तो फसल क्या है?मिट्टी से लिए गए पोषक तत्व, हवा, पानी, सूरज की रोशनी, और बीज की ताकत। जब हम Crop Residue को जला देते हैं तो ये सारे अहम तत्व जलकर हवा में चले जाते हैं। इससे प्रदूषण तो होता ही है, किसान की मिट्टी को भी नुकसान होता है।\nयदि किसान पराली जलाना छोड़ें और मशीनों केमाध्यम से पराली को खेत में ही मिला दें, तो उन्हें बहुत लाभ होगा। ये देखा गया है कि पराली को खेत में मिलाने की वजह से मिट्टी की सेहत में जबरदस्त सुधार आता है, खाद की आवश्यकता में कमी आती है और पैदावार भी बढ़ती है। कुल मिलाकर ये किसान की आय में बढोतरी करती है।\nइसलिए आज इस मंच से मैं फिर आग्रह करूंगा कि किसान भाई पराली जलाना छोड़ें। अब तो सरकार किसानों को मशीन खरीदने के लिए ज्यादा आर्थिक सहायता भी दे रही है। जब स्वस्थ धरा होगी, तो खेत भी हरा होगा।\nसाथियों, सरकार इस बात का ध्यान रख रही है कि आय बढ़ाने के लिए किसान जो भी नए विकल्प अपना रहे हैं, उसके लिए उन्हें पैसे की कमी न आए। हमारा निरंतर प्रयास है कि किसानों को लोन लेने में परेशानी न हो। इसलिए इस वर्ष सरकार ने खेती के लिए दिए वाले कर्ज को 10 लाख करोड़ रुपए से बढ़ाकर 11 लाख करोड़ रुपए से ज्यादा कर दिया है।\nइस वर्ष के बजट में पशुपालन के लिए, मछलीपालन के लिए जो Infrastructure Development Fund बनाया गया है, उसके लिए सरकार ने 10 हजार करोड़ रुपए का प्रावधान किया है। सरकार ने National Bamboo Mission के लिए भी लगभग 1300 करोड़ रुपए दिए हैं।\nएक और प्रयास हम कर रहे हैं उन किसानों के लिए जो जमीन किराए पर लेकर खेती करते हैं। जिसे कुछ जगहों पर बंटाई पर खेती करना कहा जाता है। ऐसे किसानों को औरआसानी से कर्ज मिल सके सके, इसके लिए भी केंद्र सरकार, राज्यों के साथ मिलकर काम कर रही है।\nअकसर देखा गया है कि छोटे किसानों को कॉपरेटिव सोसायटियों से कर्ज लेने में दिक्कत आती है। इसके लिए देश की सारी प्राइमरी एग्रीकल्चर कॉपरेटिव सोसायटियों के कंप्यूटरीकरण का काम तेजी से किया जा रहा है।\nसाथियों, कृषि हमारी सभ्यता और संस्कृति के मूल में रही है। हमारे सामाजिक और आर्थिक जीवन का ये सबसे अहम हिस्सा है। लेकिन ये भी सच है कि सदियों से जिन रास्तों पर हम चले हैं वो रास्ते हमें नए लक्ष्य तक पहुंचा दें, ये तय नहीं। इन नए रास्तों पर चलने के लिए हमारी मदद करेगी टेक्नॉलॉजी। मुझे उम्मीद है कि इस उन्नति मेले में जिन किसान भाइयों ने टेक्नोलॉजी के नए प्रयोग देखें हैं, वो उसका इस्तेमाल भी करने की कोशिश करेंगे।\nअलग-अलग स्तर पर हो रहे ये प्रयोग देश के अन्य हिस्सों मेंकिसानों तक पहुंचें, इस दिशा में भी प्रयास बढ़ाए जाने चाहिए।\nमेरा एक आग्रह और है। साथियों, इस तरह के आयोजन अकसर दिल्ली में होते रहे हैं। मैं चाहता हूं कि देश के दूर-दराज वाले इलाकों में, ऐसे इलाकों में जहां आजीविका का आधार सिर्फ और सिर्फ खेती हो, वहां पर भी ऐसे कार्यक्रमों की संख्या बढ़ाई जाए। इन कार्यक्रमों के जरिए वहां के लोंगों तक आपके प्रयास भी पहुंचेंगे और टेक्नोलॉजी भी।\nइसके अलावा इस तरह के जो मेले होते हैं, उसकी Impact Analysis भी कराई जानी चाहिए। इस मेले में हजारों लोग आते रहे हैं, लेकिन उससे उनकी जिंदगी में बदलाव क्या आया है, इन मेलों में किस तरह की टेक्नोलॉजी को ज्यादा पसंद किया जाता है, किसान की जिंदगी कैसे आसान हुई है, अगर संभव हो तो इसका एक अध्ययन भी होना चाहिए। मुझे विश्वास है कि ये स्टडी, हमें भविष्य की तैयारियों में मदद करेगी।\nसाथियों, हमारे यहां शास्त्रों में कहा गया है-\nगच्छन् पिपिलिकः योजनानां शतानि अपि याति ।\nअगच्छन् वैनतेयः एकं पदं न गच्छति ।\nयानि अकेली चलती हुई चींटी, धीरे-धीरे करके सैकड़ों किलोमीटर की दूरी तय कर सकती है लेकिन अपनी जगह रुका हुआ गरुड़, एक कदम भी आगे नहीं जा पाता। कहने का मतलब ये कि बहुत छोटे-छोटे प्रयास करके भी हम सफलता प्राप्त कर सकते हैं।\nसाथियों, वैसे मैंने आपको चींटी का उदाहरण दिया तो उससे जुड़ी एक और बात याद आ गई। मैंने कहीं पढ़ा है कि जीवित प्रजातियों में अकेला मानव नहीं है जो खेती करता है। इंसान के अलावा दो- तीन और प्रजातियां हैं जो अपने लिए भोजन को पैदा करती हैं और चींटी भी उन्हीं में से एक है।\nदुनिया के कुछ जंगलों में चीटियां बहुत व्यवस्थित तरीके से फंगस यानि फफूंदी की खेती करती हैं। वो बाकायदा खेत बनाती हैं, खर-पतवार हटाती हैं, पानी की व्यवस्था करती हैं और यहां तक की Antibiotics का भी इस्तेमाल करती हैं।\nभाइयों और बहनों, लाखों वर्षों से ये चींटियां आज भी बची हुई हैं, तो उसकी वजह है इच्छाशक्ति। दुनिया की सबसे पुरानी और सबसे छोटी Agriculturist हमें ये सीख देती है कि कोई भी लक्ष्य असंभव नहीं है।\nआइए, हम सभी मिलकर भारतीय खेती की और उन्नति का संकल्प लें, भारतीय खेती का गौरव लौटाने का संकल्प लें, इस लक्ष्य को प्राप्त करें।\nएक बार फिर आप सभी को शुभकामनाओं के साथ मैं अपनी बात समाप्त करता हूं।\nThanks a lot !!!"