"\nFor me, Rising India means the rise of 125 crores Indians: PM Modi\nIn many countries it is believed that government leads changes But now common citizens lead change and government follows: PM at # News18RisingIndia Summit\n#SwachhBharatMission has become a public revolution. The country's people have accepted digital payments and made it their weapon: PM at #News18RisingIndia\nIndia is the fastest growing country to make digital payments at large: PM at #News18RisingIndia\nThe transformational shift in India is due to people and their will power: PM at #News18RisingIndia Summit\nThe #UjjwalaYojana is not only changing the face of kitchens, but also the face of the nation: PM Modi at #News18RisingIndia summit\nOur Govt is focused on Act East and India Act Fast for East: PM Modi at # News18RisingIndia summit\nIsolation to Integration, is the only way to a 'Rising India'. And we have adopted this ministry: PM at #News18RisingIndia summit\nThis Government is focused on the ministry - No Silos, only Solution: PM Narendra Modi at #News18RisingIndia summit\nWe now have around 80% sanitation coverage in the country: PM Modi at #News18RisingIndia Summit\nYoga has become a mass movement today: PM Modi at #News18RisingIndia summit\nIt's very important to have affordable and easily accessible healthcare. Government has opened Jan Aushadhi Kendras that provides medicines at affordable prices: PM at #News18RisingIndia summit\nWe aim to bring health wellness in every panchayat and make healthcare affordable to people. We have reduced prices of heart stents and knee implants: PM at #News18RisingIndia summit\nWe have launched #NationalNutritionMission This will have a positive impact on mother and child: PM Modi at #News18RisingIndia summit\nThe power sector is undergoing transformations to fight shortage: PM Narendra Modi at #News18RisingIndia summit\nIndia is moving from power to power surplus, network failure to exporter We have also moved towards 'One Nation One Grid': PM Modi at #News18RisingIndia Summit\nIndia is the world's leading solar revolution in the world. In the last 4 years, India's influence on world stage has increased consistently: PM at #News18RisingIndia Summit\nIndia is working towards eradicating TB by 2025, which is fine years ahead of global goal: PM Modi at #News18RisingIndia Summit\nIndia helped 48 countries during the crisis in Yemen Our motto of 'Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas' is not just restricted to our country, but covers the world: PM Modi at #News18RisingIndiaSummit\nIndia has contributed massively to world economy Our contribution has increased by 7 times: PM Modi at #News18RisingIndia Summit\nIndia is today among the top two emerging economies and one of the most popular FDI destinations: PM Modi at #News18RisingIndia Summit\nEditor-in-chief of Network 18 Group Rahul Joshi, guests from India and abroad, friends from media present here, ladies and gentlemen,\nFirst of all, I express my gratitude to all of you for giving me the opportunity to participate in the Rising India Summit.\nFriends, when we say: rising, the first feeling that we get is about going from light to darkness It's a feeling of a better future, feeling of moving forward from our current or existing situation.\nWhen we say 'rise' or 'rising' in the context of a country its connotation becomes comprehensive. What is this 'Rising India'? Whether this 'Rising India' is just the strongening of the economy or is it the Sensex is at a record high or is it the Forex reserves a record high at the time or is it the country to record foreign investment in coming?\nFriends, for me Rising India means the rise of self respect 1.25 billion people of the country, it is the rise of the self-esteem of the country. And when the will power, the resolves of these 1.25 billion people unite the impossible becomes possible, the extremely difficult task becomes achievable.\nToday, this collective will power is realising the solemn pledge for making a New India.\nBrothers and sisters, in many countries, this should be the concept that the government should lead the development, it should lead the change and the citizens should follow that. However, in the last four years, we have reversed this situation in India. Now the citizen of the country leads and the government follows him Clean India Mission has become a people's movement. Media too has played the role of a partner in this thing.\nThe citizens of the country have made the digital payment a strong weapon for themselves in the fight against black money and corruption. Today, India is one of the fastest growing markets for digital payments.\nThe way people's support is being extended to the government's every action against corruption is also a testimony of the facts.\nNo matter what our political opponents say but because of the inspiration from the people of the country, the government could take big decisions and implemented them in the succeeding. The recommendations which were made decades ago, the laws which had been passed decades ago but were not implemented due to pressure from the corrupt regime, these laws and decisions were also implemented by this government. And now on the basis of these laws the action is taken on a large scale.\nFriends, the transformational shift that is coming to India, it is coming because of its will power The same will have been reducing the feeling of the people\nBrothers and sisters, be it the rise of the country or a society or an individual, if there is no feeling of equality, nor the society will succeed, nor will the resolutions be realized. So, if we look at it as a vision And I would like to explain its results to the viewers Network 18 through a video.\nFriends, Ujjwala has not been just changing the face of kitchens, but it has also been changing face of millions and millions of families. It has been corrected in our social system\nFriends, The whole day today, I was there in Manipur Several schemes have been launched there which are important for North-East, including the inauguration of a Science Congress, and the Foundation Laying ceremony of a Sports University. As a Prime Minister, it was the 28th or 29th visit of the North-East.\nYou see, why is it so? Why is there so much focus of our government on Eastern India and North East? And those people who think that they have not been able to get away from the people\nFriends, emotional integration of eastern India and giving consideration to the demographic dividend is extremely important.\nThat is why our government has been following the formula of: Act East and Act fast for India's East. And when I say: Act East then its connotation is not just confined to the north-east states but it also includes eastern Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal and Odisha.\nThis is the region of the country which has been left behind in the country's developmental journey. A big reason behind the development of this region Hundreds of projects in this region have either been or have been stuck for decades. Our government has started the work of remitting this unbalance by restarting the projects that have either been incomplete or have been stuck.\nYou will be surprised to know that an important gas crake project in Assam has been stuck for the last 31 years. After formation of our government,\nToday, the work for opening the fertilizer plants located in Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh, Baruni in Bihar and Sindari in Jharkhand, which has been non-operational for several years too fast speed.\nThese plants will get gas from the pipeline that are being laid between Jagdishpur to Haldia. This pipeline will develop an entire ecosystem based on gas pipelines in the important cities of Eastern India.\nThis was due to our efforts that our work on Paradip Oil Refinery in Odisha was speeded up and now Paradip is moving forward for a island of development. Also, it is due to the effort made by our government that work on the strategically extremely important Dhola-Sadiabridge connecting Assam and Arunachal has been speedily completed.\nThe infrastructure in the eastern India has successfully been strengthened in every possible direction. The government has been working to develop the waterways The development of a waterway between Varanasi and Haldia will play a major role in transportation.\nA dozen new airports are being constructed in the Eastern India under the Udaan scheme to improve the connectivity. Six out of these airports are being constructed in the North-East You should be aware that the first commercial flight has landed in Sikkim a few days ago.\nWhen the issue of new All India Institute of Medical Sciences, the issue of newIndian Agricultural Research Institutes came up to our government accorded priority to the Eastern India\nAlso, the establishment of a central university in Motihari in Eastern Champaran, the work place of Mahatma Gandhi, was done by this government.\nFriends, millions of new job opportunities have been created in these regions\nMoving away from the concept that 'Delhi is far away', we have taken the doorsteps of Eastern India We have been including every region on the mainstream of development by following the formula of SabkaSath-SabkaVikas.\nFriends, I would like to show you a map. This map is a proof how a large unbalance has been addressed in the whole country in the last four years and the villages of Eastern India have been illuminated.\nI often say that there were 18,000 such villages in the country where there was no electricity too many years after the independence You will be surprised to know that 13,000 out of these villages were located in Eastern India. And 5,000 out of these 13,000 villages were in the North-East Now the work to supply\nNow our government has started the project to supply electricity to households. The government is going to spend more than Rs. 16,000 crore for this\nThe light that has come in the lives of the people of Eastern India, this path, the path of - from Isolation to Integration - would further brighten Rising India\nFriends, there is a saying in the corporate world: You can not measure what you can not measure. Not only have we adopted this formula in our work culture but we have also taken it even more - 'measure to manage, and manage to create mass movement'.\nWhen a mass movement is being created, and when the public and government participate in a broad way it produces long-lasting and better results. I would like to take the example of the health sector\nWe have been taking the health sector in a multisectoral manner by focusing on its four pillars.\nPreventive Healthcare,\nSupply-side interventions,\nMission-mode intervention,\nWe have simultaneously focused on these four sectors. If there is only one Ministry for health care in the country - the Health Ministry - and if it continues to work alone then only silos were created and no solutions Our efforts have been: No Silos, Only Solutions\nThe Ministry of Consumer Affairs and Ministry of Women and Child Development in addition to the Ministry of Health Ministry So in this way we have tried our predefined goal.\nIf I talk about the first pillar - Preventive Health then it is the most affordable and also the easiest one.\nWe know that And we have activated the Ministry of Drinking Water and Sanitation. Now see the result, there were toilets in 6.5 crore households in the whole country till 2014 but now there are toilets in 13 crore households, it means a growth of 100%.\nToday, the sanitation coverage has gone up to 80% from 38% earlier. This is also a growth of more than 100%. This message that lack of cleanliness brings sickness with itself, while cleanliness wards off them also have every household to percolate.\nYoga has reestablished its identity once a medium for preventive health care. Yoga has become a mass movement\nWe have brought the concept of wellness center into this year's budget. The government's effort is to establish a wellness center in every major village panchayat of the country.\nWe have laid special emphasis on immunization program. Before the formation of our government, the rate of vaccination in the country was just one percent, today it has gone up to 6.7%.\nFriends, it is also necessary to have a affordable health care in addition to preventive health care. Health care should be accessible and we have taken several steps to make it accessible and affordable for the common man.\nWe have activated the Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers that have been working in this direction. More than 3,000 Jan Aushadhi stores have opened across the country where more than 800 medicines have been available at affordable prices.\nWe have activated the Ministry of Consumer Affairs so that the heart patients can get the stents at a affordable price and the ministry made special efforts for this thing and as a result, today, the price of a heart stent up to 85% . In addition to this, the cost of knee implants has also been regulated and because of its cost has come down by 50 to 70%.\nIn this budget, we have announced another major scheme and that is Ayushman Bharat. The poorest of the poor people of the country are going to get a great relief through the Ayushman Bharat scheme. Nearly 10 crore families, it means about 45-50 crore citizens will be free from the concerns. If anybody falls ill, the expenses up to Rs. 5 lakhs in a year will be colleached by the government of India and the insurance company.\nFriends, the second largest pillar of health Our government has successfully been trying to ensure other services related to healthcare sector.\nOur government has increased the number of medical seats to solve the problem of the disease in the country, specially in rural areas\nFriends, when our government had assumed power in 2014 there were 52,000 undergraduate and 30,000 post-graduate medical seats in the country. Today, there are more than 85,000 undergraduate and more than 46,000 postgraduate seats in the country\nIn addition to this, new AIIMS and Ayurved Science Institutes are being established. Moreover, it has been planned to establish one medical college in every three parliamentary constituencies.\nThese efforts will be directly benefited from the poor The work to strengthen the human resources in the fields of paramedical and nursing has also been done. If the number of medical professionals increases the affordability and access to medical care also increases.\nBrothers and sisters, mission mode intervention is\nThere are some challenges which will require working in the mission mode. And only then will help those challenges and its results will be visible.\nWe have activated the Ministry of Women and Child Development so that they are free from diseases and become healthy and strong.\nAppropriate nutrition for mother and child has been insured under the PradhanmantriSurakshitMatritvaAbhiyan and PradhanmantriMatriVandana Yojana.\nNational Women's Day This is the latest and a great step in the When mothers and children get proper nutrition their healthy life is also assured. Our government is trying to develop\nFriends, I would like to join you in the video.\nThe happiness that you have seen on the faces of those people, for me it is the Rising India\nHow is this change come about?\nYou would recall that the country often remained free of electricity in July 6 years ago due to failure of a power grid What happened was a breakdown of a system, it was a breakdown of the system of governance.\nThis was the level of silos in the governance that at one point of time the Ministry of Coal The Ministry of New and Renewable Energy did not\nThe work of finding solutions by breaking down the silos has been done in a very broad way.\nToday, the Ministry of Power, the Ministry of Renewable Energy and the Ministry of Coal have been working for the best solutions for the energy security of India.\nIf coal is used for our energy security today the renewable energy can provide us sustainable energy for our future generations And this is the reason that we have been moving from the state of power surplus, from the state of network failure to the state. The dream of One Nation-One Grid has also been realised due to the efforts made by the government.\nFriends, the atmosphere of defeat, the atmosphere of despair and hopelessness can never take any country forward. You too have seen that the people of the country have developed a sense of confidence in the system of governance of the country. The kind of changes that people have before them, that people who have witnessed their life time have given this confidence to every Indian that the 21st century has its weaknesses behind by leaving forward by moving forward, that the 21st century of India down its shackles and it can be realized in the dream of Ek Bharat-Shreshtha Bharat. And this strong belief of people is the basis for a Rising India\nBrothers and sisters, this is the reason that today is the whole world is giving respect to this Rising India. A comparison between the head of state and the heads of government who had visited India during the last ten years of the last government and the number of heads of state and heads of government who have visited India last four years volumes in itself Today, the number of Heads of State and Heads of Government who came to India in a year is almost twice the number of heads of state and heads of government who used to be the previous government of the tenure during India. is such an image of a Rising India\nFriends, India has not only given a new direction to the development of the whole world. Today, India is leading the solar revolution in the whole world. You have seen that the event related to International Solar Alliance was successfully organized five days ago. More than 60 countries have agreed to implement Delhi Solar Agenda which was launched in the conference. In the 21st century, this effort by India on an issue like the entire humanity.\nFriends, the way India's influence on the world has increased in the last four years, continuous work has been done to achieve that as a well laid out strategy. India has conveyed the message of peace, development and sustainable development.\nBe it the United Nations or G-20, India has raised those issues on the whole world. India is the country which has established this fact on international forums that is just one country or one region for terrorism is not a problem but it is a problem that the world in every single country.\nHow the flow of black money and corruption in different countries impedes the development of the world and how it remains a challenge for effective financial governance, this topic also raised by India in a forceful manner\nFriends, this is only because of India's self-confidence that we have resolved to completely eradicate TB by 2025, five years before the deadline of 2030 which is the whole world is trying to meet. I'm confident that India will be able to demonstrate this to the whole world by achieving this goal by 2025.\nBrothers and sisters, today, Rising is not just two words for the world. These two words symbolises the power of 1.25 billion Indians who have been applauded by the whole world today. And this is the reason that India has started getting membership of those institutions for which it has been several years.\nAfter joining the Missile Technology Control Regime, India has also joined WASENAR Arrangement and Australia group. India won elections for International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea, for International Maritime Organization and the United Nations Economic and Social Council The way India won the election for International Court of Justice\nFriends, this is the impact of India's growing influence that when there was a crisis in Yamen and India was safely getting out of its citizens from the country then many other countries also appealed to India. You will be proud to hear that India's safely rescued the people\nOur policy of giving the maximum importance to human values ​​in diplomacy has made the world realise that India has not only been working for its interests but it has also been working for the interest of the whole world. Our formula of SabkaSath-SabkaVikas has not been confined within the borders of the country\nToday, we have not only been working for Ayushman Bharat but we have also been working for Ayshman World. The awareness about the Yoga and Ayurved that has been generated worldwide by Rising India.\nFriends, now talking about the economy, in the last three-four years, India has strongened the world economy in addition to its own. The country now contributed more than 7% to the growth of world economy.\nIndia has been doing well in all macro-economic parameters it is inflation or current account deficit or fiscal deficit or GDP growth or interest rate or FDI inflow.\nToday, whatever the discussion takes place in the world about it And precisely this is the reason that a lot of rating agencies of the world have been upgrading India's rating\nToday, India also figures in the top three prospective hostages of the world.\nIndia has rated as the top two emerging market performers in the FDI Confidence Index.\nIndia has described as one of the most favorite FDI destinations in the world in UNCTAD's World Investment Report.\nWe have risen by 42 places in the World Bank's Easy to Doing ranking in just three years.\nIndia has achieved a growth rate of 7.2% in the third quarter of FY 2017-18. Economic experts are of this view\nFriends, before 2014, India's tax system was known as unfriendly, unpredictable and non-transparent for investors. Now this situation is being changed GST has established India as one of the largest markets in the world.\nFriends, the government has been working on a holistic approach by the people of the poor people, the lower middle class and middle class people.\nWe have announced the launch of a new scheme under RISE - Revitalizing Infrastructure and Systems in Education - in this budget. Our government is going to spend more than one lakh crore rupees in the next four years to improve the education system.\nThe government has also been working to set up 20 world class institutes in Eminence in the country. We have been working in association with private and public sector institutes in the field of higher education. Also, a financial grant of Rs. 10,000 crore will be given to 10 selected institutes in the public sector under this mission\nSimilarly, we have been running the programs like Stand-up India, Start-up India, Skill India Mission to encourage the self-employment among the Indian youths, especially to the entrepreneurs working in the MSME sector.\nParticularly, the Pradhanmantri Mudra Scheme has been a powerful medium for the empowerment of youth and women. Our government has approved more than 11 crore loan so far from the start of this scheme. Loans worth more than Rs. 5 lakh crore have been disbursed to the borrowers without any bank guarantee. We have decided to grant loans 3 lakh crore under Mudra scheme in the year's budget.\nIf we look at all these efforts as a bouquet of flowers, these things have provided aspirations of middle class and urban youth and new employment opportunities.\nI hopeful that an individual or a region has been left behind in the mainstream of development but when he grows at a fast speed and when justice is done with his capabilities and resources the story of a Rising India will get further momentum.\nIn the end, I would like to once again remind you about the year 2022, and about the journey of achieving targets through resolutions. Has the media resolved something new? Have you prepared a roadmap? Have you thought about realizing the dream of a new India by 2022?\nI would be happy if you, my friends from the media accept some challenge and promote your channels and then telecastthe follow up\nFriends, in a way, 1.25 billion countrymen are like gods And every single institution, every single unit of the country needs to work for the welfare of the country, for nation building and for taking forward this journey of development in a resolute manner.\nWhatever the resolutions you have, I will convey my best wishes to you.\nOnce again\nRead Full Presentation Here"