"Share\n\nWoman power in Manipur has always been a source of inspiration for the country: PM\nIndia's growth story will never be complete until the eastern part of our country progresses at par with the western part: PM\nKhurumjari.\nEik-Hoigi Government-Boothaja-Biriba Manipur-Gi Praja Pum-Namaku Thagat-Chari\nFirst of all,\nYesterday, the state government has completed one year under the leadership of Chief Minister Mr. N. Biren Singh Ji. How the government is being run, how the work on development schemes is being done, what is the meaning of stability, what is the impact if both the state government and the central government work together, today all these questions for the answer This grand image of Manipur\nThe spark in your eyes and your happiness reveal that the state government has been performing. All of us are very grateful to you people are turned up in such a big number from far flung areas to bless us.\nI convey my sincere confessions to the people of Manipur, to its administration and the state government for the work done and the achievements made in the last one year.\nI remember that when I came here in the last year then I had said that our government will do that kind of work in 15 months which was the last 15 years in the Congress government. It is still three months short of 15 months The government of Biren Ji has changed the negativity that had crept in the society due to the previous government. Be it law and order or be it corruption or transparency, or the work related to infrastructure, the government of Manipur has been working on a rapid pace on all these fronts.\nFriends,\nToday, I have got the good opportunity either worth Rs. 750 crore for the development of Manipur These schemes are directly related to the dreams of youth of Manipur, directly related to their talent and employment, directly related to their empowerment and employment. I am confident that these schemes will take the development to the new heights.\nBrothers and sisters,\nToday, sports are not just allowed to be a medium of entertainment or just a mean to stay healthy. This is itself an industry Today, it's a full time career too It has been a success of our government to provide every facility to the country. Given the talent and capabilities of millions of youths of the north-east, the central government had specifically decided to establish a national sports university here with an investment of Rs. 500 crore I am happy that two courses have started from January this year. When the work on the campus, the foundation for which has been laid by me today, will be completed then it will help more in the field related to the youth.\nBrothers and sisters,\nOur government has been working in the country. Recently we have launched a national program for the name of Khelo India. Every year up to Rs. 5 lakh will be spent on each of thousands of talented athletes who will be selected under the Khelo India program. I also urge the people of Manipur to take advantage of this scheme. We have also focussed on the identification and development of talent at school level. Recently, Khelo India School Games were organized in Delhi under this scheme. I am happy that Manipur established its reputation in that as well and secured the fifth place in the medal tally. Manipur won 34 medals, including 13 gold medals, by leaving behind I convey many congratulations to the youth of Manipur for this feat. Apart from Manipur, Children from other states have also come out with excellent performances in these games.\nFriends,\nToday, another big project related to sports here The first Multi Sports Complex of Manipur has now been handed over to the youth of the state.\nYouths of the state will not only receive training in this Multi Sports Complex but they will also be able to organize good tournaments here.\nBrothers and sisters,\nManipur is that state which has the ability to improve women's empowerment through sports. The women players of the state have brought laurels to the country in the events like Olympics and Commonwealth Games. This state has given several champions like Mary Kom, Mirabai Chanu, Bombayla Devi, Laishram and Sarita Devi in ​​the games like football, wrestling, boxing, weightlifting and archery.\nWoman power in this state has always been a source of inspiration for the country. Rani Gaidinliu, I I am also privileged to inaugurate today in a park dedicated in her name.\nFriends,\nGirls' education is the foundation for women empowerment. Only sometime back the Central Government launched nationwide 'Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao' Program. The program has elicited nationalwide positive results. I am happy that the government is working to reduce the problems faced by girls in Hill and Tribal areas for their education. The state government has undertaken construction of a new hostel for girls in the tribal areas. I am fortunate to inaugurate one such hostel today. Women in Manipur are participating in the fields. An all women market was envisaged so that women do not face any difficulties in selling their products. Manipur Government led by Mr. Biren ji is getting such markets built in the whole state. I have just inaugurated one such market I would request Mr. Birenji to also popularize the government This is a platform that you can sell products to the government. Women in Manipur can get huge benefit from this. Today I also inaugurated 1000 Anganwadi Centers in the State. These centers will work as a medium for improving the health of thousands of mothers and their babies.\nThey will also benefit from the recently launched National Nutrition Mission on Women's Day. The purpose of the mission is to provide a nutritious food, cleanliness, and vaccination.\nDoctors, Teachers and Nurses posted in remote and far flung areas of Hill Districts face many difficulties due to lack of proper accommodation. To address this problem, I have laid the foundation stone for construction of acomodation for teachers, Doctors and Nurses at 19 specific locations in hill and remote areas. I am sure this will go a long way in motivating medical personnel to render services.\nFriends\nOur Government's vision for the North East has been transformed by 'Transformation by Transportation.' Work is also available in the remote areas of Manipur by helicopter service. Government is also working on various road projects. I have also laid the foundation of an important road project today.\nManipur has a lot to offer on tourism front: Forests and wildlife, blue hills, lush green valleys, picturesque tea gardens, and diverse culture. Highly educated English speaking youth in the region make a perfect tourist destination. If tapped well, the sector can emerge as the largest employer in the region.\nI also laid the foundation stone for eco-tourism at CheiraoChing, which is a popular hill near Imphal. The foundation stone for a tourism project has also been laid.\nFriends\nI have always maintained that India's growth story will never be complete until the eastern part of our country progresses at par with the western part. The North-East can be the new engine of India's growth. We are addressing the special needs of the North East region.\nVarious Ministries have been providing special dispensation for the North East under their ongoing schemes. All Union Ministries are mandated to spend 10% of their budget in the region and the full use of this entitlement is the endeavor of my Government. I have mandated my Cabinet colleagues to visit and their stock of schemes for their effective implementation. Till date more than 200 such visits have taken place by the Union Ministers. I have visited the North East more than 25 times in the last 4 years.\nThe Central Government has given a huge thrust on improving the infrastructure in the region. In the last three years, on average an average of Rs.5,300 crore has been spent in the development of the Rail Network in the North East Region, which is the previous 5 years in average spending of two and a half times. May 2016 in Jiribam to the first passenger train to flagged off the flagship gauge rail network in the Jiribam Station in Manipur. I, Today, North East India out of seven states in the Rail Network Projects are going to connect with the rest of the state capitals including Imphal in North East to broad gauge network.\nOne of the highest bridges in the world having pier height of 141 meters is built on Jiribam-Imphal New Line Project A tunnel of 11.55 km length on the same route will be another milestone feature of this project.\nAt the beginning of 2014 the state had only 1200 kilometer of total declared length of National Highways. But, in the last four years, we have announced another 460 kilometer length of roads as National Highways, which is an increase of 38%. In the next 3 to 4 years, the Central Government is going to invest about Rs.30,000 Crore for the National Highways and other important roads in Manipur State.\nApart from building national highways, we are also focusing on connecting rural habitations with main roads under Prime Minister Grameen Sadak Yojana. The Central Government has released more than Rs.1000 Crore in the last 4 years under this scheme to the state. We have connected 150 habitations during this period. All these efforts are considered for our commitment for developing road connectivity in the state.\nThe Union Government has approved a new Central Sector Scheme \"North East Special Infrastructure Development Scheme.\" This will fill up gap in specific sectors of infrastructure.\nFriends,\nI had requested all the Directors General of Police during their 2014 Annual Conference held in Guwahati to broad base police recruitment. Accordingly, in order to maintain cosmopolitan character of Delhi Police, we have taken steps to increase the number of Police Personnel from the North East Region. I am happy to share that 438 candidates including North East States from 136 female candidates joined the 2016 in Delhi Police. Of these, 49 candidates are Manipur State.\nRecently, Government of India has sanctioned ten India Reserve Battalions for North Eastern States which include two battalions for Manipur. These two battalions will directly provide job opportunities to about 2,000 youth in the State\nWe have established an administration that is citizen-centric and, we have started the process of regular and structured interaction with the public. These interactions were unheard of in the history of Manipur. \"Meeyamgi Numit\" and \"Hill Leaders' Day\" are efforts in this direction. I am told, 24 such interactions have happened in which more than 19 thousand people have met the Chief Minister.\nI am told, that the public grievances very seriously A Grievance Cell has also been set up in the Chief Minister's Office with a toll free number.\nThe 'Go to Hills' initiative is a welcome step. The Chief Minister with his whole cabinet has also travelled to all the hill districts.\nOnce Manipur decides something, no force can prevent it from happening In April 1944, it was in the land of Manipur that Netaji Bose's INA gave the clarion call for freedom. It energized the nation\nToday, Manipur has decided to play a new role. In the last one year, Manipur has demonstrated what is the best governance.\nFriends,\nThe love that you guys bestowed on us a year ago that today we are able to do all these things.\nI would like to assure you people that the team of Shriman N. Birensingh will continue to get full cooperation from my side.\nOnce again I congratulate the state government for completing one year and to the people of the state.\nOnce again\nMayamaboo,\nThagat-Chari\n\nThe brightness of your eyes, your happiness is telling how good the state government is doing. As a large number you have come to bless us from remote areas here, we all are very grateful for that: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 16, 2018\nThe Negativity that had come into the society with the previous policies and decisions of the government has been changed by the government of Biren ji. Law and order, corruption and transparency, or work on infrastructure, Manipur government is working fast on every front: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 16, 2018\nFor the development of Manipur, I had the privilege of launching or inaugurating about 750 crores plans. These schemes are linked to the dreams and employment of young people, empowerment of women, and connectivity. I believe these schemes will take the development of the state to new heights: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 16, 2018\nWoman power in this state has always been a source of inspiration for the country. Rani Gaidinliu, I I am also privileged to inaugurate today in his name: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 16, 2018\nI am happy that the government is working to reduce the problems faced by girls in Hill and Tribal areas for their education. The state government has undertaken construction of a new hostel for girls in the tribal area. I am fortunate to inaugurate 1 such hostel today: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 16, 2018\nToday I also inaugurated 1000 Anganwadi Centers in the State. These centers will work as a medium for improving the health of thousands of mothers and their babies. They will also benefit from the recently launched National Nutrition Mission: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 16, 2018\nDoctors, Teachers \u0026 Nurses posted in remote areas of Hill Districts due to lack of proper accommodation. To address this problem, I have laid the foundation stone for construction of teachers, Doctors and Nurses at 19 specific places: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 16, 2018\nI have always maintained that India's growth story will never be complete until the eastern part of our country progresses at par with the western part. The North-east can be the new engine of India's growth: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 16, 2018\nToday, seven out of eight states of North East India are connected to Rail Network. Projects are going on to connect the rest of the state capitals including Imphal in North East to broad gauge network: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 16, 2018\nAt the beginning of 2014, the state had only 1200 kms of total declared length of National Highways. But, in the last four years, we have announced another 460 kms of roads as National Highways: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 16, 2018\nI had requested all the DGs of Police during their 2014 Annual Conference for Broad base police recruitment. I am happy to share that with 438 candidates, 136 women candidates in North East States join Delhi Police: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 16, 2018\nRecently, Government of India has sanctioned ten India Reserve Battalions for North Eastern States which include two battalions for Manipur. These two battalions will provide direct employment opportunities to about 2,000 youth in the state: PM"