"\nWe have set the aim of eradicate TB from India by 2025, says PM Modi\nToday I'm confident that in the duration of 1 year we'll be able to achieve 90% immunization: PM Modi at End TB Summit\nWhether the mission of getting relief from TB is in India or any country, Frontline TB practitioners \u0026 workers have a big role: PM\nMany ministers from all states and related officers are present in the event, indicate how we, as Team India, are determined to eradicate the TB from India: PM at End TB Summit\nUnion Health Minister,\nMinister of State for Health,\nNigeria Health Minister,\nDirector General of World Health Organization,\nOther dignitaries present on the stage,\nGuests from all over the world,\n\nLadies and Gentlemen,\nYou have come to India to attend the 'End TB Summit'. I am very thankful to you and welcome you from the core of my heart.\nFriends,\nTuberculosis (TB) was declared an emergency by World Health Organization approximately 25 years ago. Since then, different efforts have been prevented. Of course, we all have come a long way, TB but the ground reality is that we still have not been successful in preventing TB\nFriends,\nI believe that when a task is being done for ten years or twenty years without the expected results then we should think about changing our approach We need to analyze the way the work is being done, and in the very broad way. When you are seriously analyzed\nI am glad that with this thought, India's Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, together with the WHO, South East Asia Region and Stop TB Partnership, has brought representatives from many countries of Asia, Africa and the world together on a single platform today. A major meeting of the General Assembly will be held in the United Nations in September this year. Today's preparations for the whole humanity I hope that the \"Delhi End TB Summit\" will prove to be a landmark event eradicate TB permanently.\nFriends,\nRecently, another related initiative of India has completed one year. Last year, the proposal of \"Delhi Call for Action to End TB in the WHO South East Asia Region by 2030\" was accepted with consensus. Processes initiated after this proposal is coming out as a very positive initiative Given the way TB affects people's lives, health of society, impacts on country's economy and country's future, it is now indispensable to get rid of TB within the stipulated time. In India, the effect of TB is more than any communicable disease and most of its victims are also poor. Therefore, every step taken to eliminate TB\n\nFriends,\n2030 is the deadline fixed for eliminating TB across the world\nBut today I am announcing from this forum that India has decided to end TB 5 years before the target year i.e. by 2025 instead of 2030. Our government is following a new strategy for the mission of eradicating TB from India. You have also seen a glimpse of the new strategic initiatives that have been initiated by the presentation. All stakeholders are responsible for the elimination of TB and our government is motivating them to work together\nBrothers \u0026 Sisters,\nThe National Strategic Plan, which was created to eliminate TB in India by 2025, is now fully operational. The budget related to TB In this year's budget, our government has made provision for spending more than $ 100 million per year. Direct financial support is being transferred from the bank accounts of the patients who are not financially True identification of TB patients, timely information about active cases, effectiveness of the medicines, tracking drug-resistant TB The government is also engaging in the private sector in these schemes with the principle of 'Treat every TB patient at the very first opportunity'. Apart from this, our emphasis is on the maximum use of technology and new innovations. State-of-the-Art Information \u0026 Communication Technology systems and related platforms are based on Internet-of-Things For the management of the program, modern technology is used to provide mobile-health solutions for treatment monitoring and for disease surveillance.\nWe also developed the indigenous molecular diagnostic machine for reading Digital X-Ray. This machine-based Artificial Intelligence has been named True NAAT. This machine also emphasizes on the campaign of Make in India. India TB Research Consortium has also been set up to further strengthen the TB related subjects like vaccine, better medicines, diagnostics and implementation.\nState governments are also playing a major role in eradicate TB from India I have written letters to all the Chief Ministers of the country urging them to join the campaign in order to strengthen the Cooperative Federalism. The presence of the ministers from the states and the related officers in such a large number is the proof of our determination as a Team India.\nFriends,\nFrontline TB physicians and workers have a vital role to play in getting rid of TB Moreover, the people who take regular medicines, gets treatment and defeats the disease after getting infected with TB, is also appreci-worthy The patient of TB, who conquers this disease with his willpower, becomes an inspiration for others. I firmly believe that with the help of patients' willpower and our passionate TB workers, every country will be successful in achieving this goal. Here, I will specifically ask people in the Health Sector from India to do their best because the deadline of TB Free India for them is 2025 instead of 2030. We will continue to implement the policies in the right way and with the right strategy So no one can stop me from achieving this goal.\nFriends,\nWe can achieve our goal by connecting as many people as possible, by making people aware at the local level, by examining methods of treatment for TB, i.e. multi-sectoral association For this, every level of government and administration, panchayat, municipality, district administration, state government, must use its full force to make 'TB Free Village, Panchayat, district or state at their own level.\nFriends,\nFor some people, meeting of target of TB free by India 2025, But, this is impossible impossible For the past four years our government is working on a new approach to achieving this goal.\nBrothers \u0026 Sisters,\nWe do not see problems, challenges in isolation When the efforts were made in a holistic way, the results could certainly be achieved. I do not want to tell you about our immunization program Immunization in India has been going on for 30-35 years. Neither, since 2014 we were able to reach the goal of complete coverage. If we had continued with the same pace, India would have taken the universal coverage under immunization.\nFriends,\nOur immunization coverage was growing at just one per cent. Now, in just three-three and a half years, this has increased to more than 6 per cent per year and in the next one year, we are going to achieve the goal of 90 percent immunization coverage. Our guests from other countries should be wondering how was this possible?\nFriends,\nThe new approach that I have been thinking about We first marked those districts of the country and those areas which were out of the ongoing immunization coverage for years or the areas. By targeting these areas our government started Mission Indradhanush, added new medicines for vaccination and started working on ground level. Today we can clearly see the results.\nFriends,\nWith such a new approach, our government is also working on Swachh Bharat Mission. As a result, the per centage of cleanliness in the rural areas of the country which was almost 40 percent in 2014 is now increased to almost 80 percent. In such a short time, we have doubled the coverage We are rapidly moving towards open defecation free by India by October 2019. I am giving these two examples today on this international forum, because I want to emphasize again every country in front of that huge and compelling goals are achieved. Yes, the first requirement for that is When the goal is not fixed, nor can you move ahead\nFriends,\nI am convinced that India will fulfill its resolution to become TB free by 2025 with this enthusiasm by moving towards a fixed target with fixed strategy. Friends, Health Sector Experts You understand very well that multi-sectoral interventions are necessary. I have been told about many interventions such as medicines, monitoring of treatment, research, financial assistance for nutritious diet to tackle TB But along with this, there are some other initiatives that are going on in India which can prove to be very helpful in reducing the effects of TB One of them is Swach Bharat Mission, which is said in detail. Similarly, the Ujjwala scheme of the Government of India is also playing a vital role in reducing TB cases. Under this scheme, the government is working to provide free gas connections to 8 crore poor women. With LPG connections at home, the women, their children and their families are getting rid of smoke from the firewood and also are the risk of catching TB. Four days back, on International Women's Day, our government has started a national level Poshan Mission. The purpose of this mission is not only to give nutritious food to the people but also to create an eco-system in which the probability of malnutrition is minimal.\nFriends,\nIn this year's budget, India has announced the world's largest health assurance scheme. This scheme is named as Ayushman Bharat meaning \"Long Live India\". Through this our government will work to strengthen the primary, secondary and tertiary health care system in the country. 1.5 lakhs health and wellness centers are being set up by the government in the country. These wellness centers will serve as primary health care centers, where there will be diagnostic services and people will also be provided with cheap medicines. In addition to this, 10 crore poor families will get health assurance of Rs 5. lakh per year for the treatment of serious diseases.\nBrothers \u0026 Sisters,\nOur Indian philosophy and Indian ancient science have always been very clear about health. We had been told here-\nMay all live happily,\nSurvey Sriru Niramaya\nSurvey: Bhadrani Pasyantu, Maa Kastidudhkhbhbhate\nThat is,\nMay All be Happy, May All be Free from Illness\n\nMay all see what is auspicious, May no one Suffer\nDue to this philosophy, scientific methods like Ayurveda and Yoga were born on the land of India. This is the Indian minds for hundreds of years. These methods of curative, Promotive and Preventive Health Care are now getting international recognition. Our government is also moving forward with the confluence of ancient Indian practices and modern medical practices. I will also urge the Ministry of Health to increase the scope of research on the contribution of Ayurveda in the diagnosis of TB and its results should be shared with our fellow countries. Our Mantra of 'Sabka sath Sabka Vikas' is not limited to regional boundaries. To create a TB Free World, India is happily ready to move hand-in-hand with every country We will cooperate with every country which requires first line drugs, commodities and technical support in the fight against TB.\nFriends,\nThe Father of the Nation, Mahatma Gandhi, had said that any other person is successful or unsuccessful on its impact on the last needy person. Our government is committed to reaching out\nToday, on this occasion, I urge every person, every government, every institution, and every representative from the civil society to take a decision on TB-Free India and reaching out to that last person affected by TB .\nThe resolution of a TB-Free India will also help in the resolution of a TB-Free World.\nI conclude my speech with my great wishes. Thank you very much for this event. Thank you!\n"