"Share\n\nGovt is committed to the continuous development and upgradation of DLW, which is a symbol of the industrial development of Varanasi: PM Modi\nThere is immense potential for tourism in Varanasi, and all efforts should be made to keep the city clean: PM Modi\nWaste to wealth ... We are moving in this direction. Initiatives like the Kachra Mahotsav will further the cause of cleanliness: PM Modi\nAyushman Bharat Scheme is going to transform the health sector. It will provide top quality healthcare to the poor: PM Modi\nPOSHAN Yojana will help us tackle problems like malnutrition among children: PM Modi\nThe presence of a large number of mothers, sisters and brothers and sisters here.\nIt is my good fortune that today I had the opportunity to lay foundation stone of many plans for the development of Benaras. But first of all, I want to thank millions of lakhs of people today, I want to congratulate lakhs of lakhs. Today, Benaras has done amazing. The manner in which the President of France welcomed the Banaras in the form of a flame of today; People in every home of France will definitely ask where Benaras is, where the President of France has such a big reception.\nIf we had not fired the car, then we would still be traveling there while accepting the greetings of people in the car on the road, such a huge crowd. There are all the ghats of the Ganga, every inch of the road should be an inch of land, today is a wonderful sight, the love of the people of Banaras, your blessings, and this is what our love frustrates the friendship of France and India by rain and rain. The lesser thanks to Benaras for this, the less I can do.\nToday I had the opportunity to go to the feet of the widow. India is playing a very big role in running a solar energy campaign all over the world. France and India are doing a great job on solar power by meeting. Guests from many countries of the world had come to Delhi today, all of them convincingly accepting the power of the sun god and taking important decisions in the direction of the development of the coming highway on the basis of sun power. And under this, I got an opportunity to launch a project of Solar-producing power plant in Mirzapur. This is a campaign to bring about a major change in the life of Hindustan and I want to increase it further so that the solar panel on the rooftop solar panel and the cooking stove in the house; Now there is no need for gas - cooked from the Solar stove - not even the cost, there is no loss of environment, a big campaign of clean cooking.\nThere are 25 million families in India, a huge market and I urge the youngsters to urge IITN to compete for innovation, to develop such technology that our mothers and sisters are now in the house to burn a firewood Do not be dependent. With the blessing of the sun god, cooked comfortably and spent in cooking in the house, in the fuel, that too will be closed. A poor and middle class family can be a huge service.\nNot only that, today I have had the opportunity to connect Kashi and Patna, start a new railway service. There was a long demand that a fast moving train connecting Kashi and Patna started. Today it has started. The train will run from Kashi at 6 in the morning, will reach Patna at 10.15 pm. And in the evening, it will run at five o'clock, at nine-a-half nights at night, it will return to Kashi. In the shortest possible time, the fast-moving train connecting Kashi and Patna, today, the Kashi-Patna Janshatabdi Express got the opportunity to start me. I congratulate the Railway Minister on behalf of Mr. Manoj Sinha ji, how many people are working on the use of rail for the services of the people. And the result of that is that today the very old will of Kashi and Patnavis is being implemented today.\nWhenever I come to Kashi, in a way my second house is formed, if the identity of DLW and Kashi, in the spiritual spiritual world, if Kashi's identity is linked to Har Har Mahadev, then Kashi's industrial identity would be through DLW. is. And so, the greater the growth of the Indian Government DLW, the greater the expansion, the more modernization, the employment opportunities available to more and more people; Many new schemes for this are also going forward in the direction of DLW, which will be done by those schemes in the coming days to fill a new energy in the lives of the people here.\nToday about 800 crore rupees - the festival of Holi has just celebrated, the work of development of 800 crores filled the new color in the color of this Holi, filled the new fragrance in the color of the Holi, the new flavor in the color of the Holi Fills. Today I got an opportunity to provide housing keys to poor families here I was asking them - where were the first ones? Everyone was telling- someone lived in a raw house, someone used to say in the slum-hut, someone used to say- did not do such a bistha, they went away somewhere, they went away somewhere; It was such a life. I asked him if I got home then I feel good? Go home and see? It was nice? Feeling no shortage? I was asking all the things. And later I would ask the children to teach what? All eyes were bowed, blushing. I requested that you have a responsibility - now you have got a good home to stay, you should teach your children.\nBut I am happy that Yogi has come and has taken the initiative to implement the housing scheme in a mission mode. The plan of the Government of India is not of today, there was a plan even during the old government. And I said here in Kashi that they could not give it to the name, but Yogiji made a list of beneficiaries, presented to the Indian government, the Indian government allocated funds and within six months within five thousand More houses were given to the people. And in the coming days, it is our dream to give eight lakh families a house, and I am sure that in the leadership of Yogiji it will be possible and possible in time-bound.\nToday, it is also right that development is so important to infrastructure. Connectivity is of great importance. Be the train, be the road; These are very important. Today Shivpuri, Fulvaria, four lane road are also being constructed. Two railway crossings, two new overbridges will be built in the same place. We are working on modernization of railway stations in Benaras.\nToday I got the opportunity in the Garba Festival People would be surprised that now there was a trash festival too. Those who do not like Modi, they will also criticize that there is no saving left to Modi, now the garbage festival is doing. We have to move forward the hygiene campaign. Wealth may be created in Waste. Useful things can be made by junking junk and it can become a mass movement. And here's the one who has come here, I will say to them, this garbage festival has been exhibited, you must definitely see him - small children, bottles we throw, which throws the newspaper, how many good things have been made from it. And if you keep it inside the house then people will be attracted to see it. How much can be used for the same thing.\nAnd I saw a musical party here, the great superb musical party is singing songs of cleanliness, but what are his musical instruments, they have set up excellent musical instrument with empty cartons. They can tasting good music by playing blank cartons. That is, I have seen this trash festival today, how can it be best, how can I use the best thing out of nothing?\nVaranasi has to give priority to cleanliness. The tourists around the world have to force Varanasi to come. Varanasi has everything, it has been for centuries but today, if we have to do today then one thing is to do, the rest have gone to our ancestors. Varanasi's name, elegance has produced our ancestors, we just have to keep Varanasi clean.\nThe world-world will be inspired to come to Varanasi, and to run the campaign today, here 17 years after the requirements which are going to be met, in a way, after 20 years, whatever needs will be fulfilled today. The operation of sewer water treatment system has also been started. With the cost of about Rs 600 crore, this treatment plant is going to be here for you. And because of that, I can advertise how much people will benefit in the coming days.\nIf you had seen Kashi, then the strings were hanging. I have campaigned for Kashi to get rid of those strings of flock. And started the work of putting the underground wire across the country, from Benaras. Even in Benares, the work is going on very fast.\nIn the same way just when Yogiji had invested summit, at that time I had declared a defense manufacturing corridor, and 20,000 crores due to defense manufacturing corridor and employment of nearly 2.5 million people, its possibilities contained in it. Are. Yogiji's government and the Indian government are moving forward at a rapid pace in the direction of furthering that work.\nI want to congratulate Yogi for this also that he has taken special care of the farmers. Earlier, MSP was declared in Uttar Pradesh but paddy was not procured. I am glad that the purchase of paddy compared to earlier has increased fourfold due to Yogi's efforts. Farmers have got the opportunity to get their produce money.\nNot only this, the payment of sugarcane farmers has increased its speed, its quantum, also has increased by 40 percent. So you can imagine that the benefits of these schemes of development should be the work of infrastructure, whether it is the work of agriculture, whether it is the work of electricity, whether it is the speed of railways, the introduction of a new railway line Today, I have got the opportunity to do many such projects, today's foundation stone and release.\nWe all have to take Kashi to new heights of development. After taking many schemes, State Government and Government of India are working in Kashi, in eastern Uttar Pradesh. In the coming days, we are going to implement a very important plan for the countrymen. 'Peaceful India', together with the insurance company under this 'Ayushman India', by arranging an insurance plan, poor families also, if they If someone gets sick here - so one person is not sick, the whole family gets sick. The financial condition is devastated. All the dreams of the family, all the plans are dispersed. So poor if he is sick, he gets caught, does not dare to go to the hospital. It is not possible for him to have a mortgage, nothing happens to him. Will this happen to the citizens of my country?\nBrothers, sisters, I do not approve of this. And so we have planned that there will be poor families where there is no possibility of treatment, in the country about 10 million families - that is, about 500 million citizens, 50 million citizens, if they are in their family If there is a disease, then under the 'Ayushman Bharat' scheme, the government and the insurance company will get the cost of hospitalization up to Rs five lakh in one year. The result will be that if the poor who first used to go to the hospital, he would now have a small disease. Because he knows that money is going to give Modi government. He believes that it is not good to be sick, if there is a roti koti, then I should first get treatment, he will do it.\nPrivate parties, who do not open hospitals in small towns, do not make them, because they think that people will not come, if they will come, will not give money. But now it is possible to get money so people will also make their own private hospital. A network of hospitals in the country will be created. People who provide services in terms of healthcare will be ready. New jobs will be created in the health sector. And we will be able to do a great work towards making the country healthy.\nMalnutrition is a major problem in our country. We have started the nutrition mission. By spending around 9 thousand crores in the coming years, our children are weighing according to age, according to their age, they should be heightened, fit, and free from the problem of malnutrition, how is the arrangement for the necessary nutrition? How are the arrangements for training? How to train mothers in particular?\nWe have taken a lead in all those topics and have brought us the Prime Minister Nutrition Mission Plan PMPM. And in the coming days, this Nutrition Mission Plan should be a poor family from poor, family of middle class, daughters of 12-14-16 years old, if daughters of 12-14-16 years old, if they are not fit, their physical development It would not be according to age! If he will become a mother in a few years, then even a mother can die, the child born can also die. Either a child born may be born with some illness and that mother has to be consumed in the service of that child throughout the life. We are moving towards implementing these Prime Minister Nutrition Mission Plan to get these most emancipated.\nKashi people, get all the benefits of development for our Kashi. All the schemes related to our Ganga are moving at a faster pace and its benefits are also going to come in the coming days.\nOnce again I congratulate the Yogiji's government for speeding up the multifaceted project at a fast pace, and I extend my heartfelt congratulations to the plans of the Government of India at a fast pace and once again the wonderful welcome of the Kashishians I bow to my head and bow to it.\nThanks a lot"