"Share\n\nIndia-France strategic partnership may be just 20 years old but spiritual partnership between both countries exists since ages: PM\nIndia and France have strong ties in defense, security, space and technology sectors: PM Modi\nIndia welcomes French investments in the defense sector under the #MakeInIndia initiative: PM Modi\nMy friend, Macron, the President of France,\nRespected members of the delegation, The Media,\nNamaskar!\nI warmly welcome President Macron and the delegates accompanying him. Mr. President, a few months ago you had welcomed me warmly in Paris last year. I am very glad that today I have got this opportunity to welcome you on the soil of India.\nMr. President,\nBoth of us are sharing the stage. We both are not only the leaders of two powerful, independent and diverse democracies but also the successors of two rich and capable heritage. Although our strategic partnership is 20 years old but the spiritual partnership of our civilizations is centuries old.\nSince the 18th century, the French thinkers have been peeping within the soul of India through the stories of Panchatantra, through the great men like Sri Ramakrishna and Sri Aurobindo and through the Vedas, Upanishads and epics. Many ideas of the great greatities like Voltaire, Victor Hugo, Romain Rolland, René Daumal and André Malraux were inspired from India.\nThe President,\nToday our meeting is not only a meeting of the leaders of two countries but is a confluence of two civilizations with similar ideas and their collective heritage. It is no coincidence that the echo of 'Liberty, Equality and Fraternity' is found only in France but also in the Constitution of India The societies of the countries Our brave soldiers have sacrificed their lives in the two world wars for these values\nFriends,\nThe presence of France and India on the same stage is a golden sign for an inclusive, open, prosperous and a peaceful world. The autonomous and independent foreign policies of the two countries are focussed not only in their interests or the interests of the countrymen but also for the upholding the universal human values. Today, the two countries India and France can face any global challenge by walking-hand-in-hand. Mr. President, your leader The International Solar Alliance was launched in Paris along with the French President in 2015. The International Solar Alliance Founding Conference, that will be held tomorrow, is a vivid example of our awareness regarding shared responsibilities. I am glad that this auspicious task will become the President of France.\nFriends,\nThe history of bilateral cooperation between India and France in the areas of defense, security, space and high-technology is age-old. There is a bipartisan agreement about the two countries. The graph of our relations has always been growing irrespective of the government of the two countries. You have received the details of today's agreement. So, I would like to present my views on three specific aspects. First, our relations in the defense sector are very intense and we consider France as one of the most trusted defense partners. Regular discussions and military exercises are held between our armies Our relations in defense equipment and production are strong We welcome France's commitment to make in India\nToday, I consider the agreement of 'reciprocal logistics support' between our armies as a golden step in the history of our close defense cooperation. Secondly, both of us believe that the future of the Indian Ocean region is going to play a very important role for the prosperity of the world. We are committed to strengthen our cooperation in the areas such as the environment, the maritime security, the marine resources, freedom of navigation and over flight. So, today we are releasing a joint strategic vision for our cooperation in the Indian Ocean region.\nThirdly, we believe that the most important dimension for the future of our young people, especially our young people. We want the youngsters to know and understand each other's country, stay there and work so that thousands of ambassadors are ready for extending the relations. We have signed two important agreements today. One is for recognizing one another's educational qualifications and the second is about migration and mobility partnership These two agreements will be ready\nFriends,\nThere are many other dimensions of our relationships If I start mentioning all, it will be mentioned in all. Our cooperation ranges from railways, urban development, environment, security, space, i.e. from the ground to sky There is no area untouched We are also involved in the international panel. India and France have strong relations with African countries. They provide a strong base for developing another dimension of our cooperation. Tomorrow the International Solar Alliance's Founding Conference will be co-chaired by President Macron and me. We will also be accompanied by the president, governments and many other ministers. For the sake of Planet Earth's future, we are committed to the success of the International Solar Alliance.\nPresident, I hope that day-after-tomorrow in Varanasi, you will experience the taste of ancient and the evergreen soul of India, that is the essence of India's civilization and that has inspired many thinkers, writers and artists of France. In the coming two days President Macron and I will continue to exchange ideas. I once again warmly welcomed President and his delegation warmly in India.\nThanks a lot!\nY wy ramersi\nWe are not the only leaders of two strong independent countries and two diverse democracies,\nWe are the successors of two rich and capable heritage.\nAlthough our strategic partnership is 20 years old, the spiritual partnership of our countries and our civilizations is centuries long: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 10, 2018\nIt is not a coincidence that the echo of Liberty, Equality, Fraternity is recorded not only in France but also in the Constitution of India. The societies of our two countries are standing on the foundation of these values: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 10, 2018\nHistory of India and France's bilateral cooperation in defense, security, space and high technology is very long.\nBoth countries have bipartisan consent about bilateral relations.\nGovernment should be of anybody, only the graph of our relations goes high: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 10, 2018\nToday the agreement of reciprocal logistics support between our armies\nI consider it a golden step in the history of our close defense cooperation: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 10, 2018\nWe believe that the most important dimension for the bright future of our bilateral relations is our people-to-people relationship. We want our young people to know each other's country, see each other's country, understand, work so that thousands of Ambassadors are ready for our relations: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 10, 2018\nTherefore, today we have made two important agreements,\nA compromise is to recognize each other's education abilities, and\nSecond, our migration and mobility partnership\nIs of\nThese two agreements will prepare a framework for closer relations between our countrymen, our youth: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 10, 2018\nTomorrow's International Solar Alliance's Founding Conference\nCo-chaired President McRion and I will.\nFor the sake of Planet Earth's future,\nWe are all committed to the success of International Solar Alliance: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 10, 2018\n"