"Share\n\nIn every state where development parameters are strong We can learn from them and work on weaker districts: PM\nA spirit of competitive and cooperative federalism is very good for country: PM\nPublic participation in development process yields transformative results: PM Modi\nEssential to identify the areas where districts need improvement and then address the shortcomings: Prime Minister\nRespected Sumitra Taiji, my colleague, Mr. Anand Kumar, Deputy Speaker Mr. Thambidurai, Honorary Speaker of all Legislative Assemblies from all over the country Sir, all senior leaders, MPs, legislators of all political parties\nI would first like to thank Sumitraji for the creation of this program. We all know that in our normal life we ​​feel like people go to a large pilgrimage area, take their parents, and when they go to the big pilgrimage, they go there and make a resolve in their mind that Bhai will do this in life or in family I will do this; Someone takes any resolution. Everybody in their pilgrimage area.\nToday all of you are not just in one program. Imagine - Where are you sitting? This is the house where I first entered life in May of 2014, before that I did not see the Central Hall. Chief Minister can come here, there was no bar for the Chief Ministers, but I have never had such an opportunity. And when the country gave a majority and the leader was to be elected here, then I came to this central hall on that day. This is the Central Hall, where there was a meeting of Expansion of the Constituent Assembly, it took place for years. You are sitting in the place where ever there Pandit Nehru will sit there, Baba Saheb Ambedkar should have been sitting somewhere, now Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel will be sitting, Rajagopalacharya will be sitting, Doctor Rajendra Babu will be sitting and earning Munshi sitting.\nThat is, such great men in the country - whose names give us a new inspiration - they used to sit here, talk about the Constituent Assembly, that place you sit there today. That is, a feeling of purity in itself, if we remember these things - then it is ourselves.\nThe constitution makers and especially Baba Saheb Ambedkar described our constitution as a social document. And this is true, in our world, the specialty of our constitution is not due to the streams, not due to the rights, is not due to the division of the work; But in the country, the evils of the people who had gone home for years, from one of the hardships to get rid of it, which came out of a churn of nectar, he found the place within the word of our constitution; And that was the matter of social justice. Now mostly we discuss social justice, it is necessary to remain confined to the state of the society, it is also necessary, but sometimes it seems that there is another scope of social justice too.\nSomeone should tell me that there is electricity in a house, there is no electricity in the adjacent house - does social justice not make it on us that there should be electricity in his house also? There is electricity in a village, but there is no electricity in the adjacent village - is not the message of social justice that if this village has electricity then should it be in that village too? A district is flourishing, has gone a long way, but the second district is left behind - is there no obligation to talk about social justice that even the district should be at least equal to the same? And so the principle of social justice motivates us all for this obligation.\nIt may be that the country, which has all been expected - would not have reached there, but five districts have reached very good in our own state, but three districts have remained far behind, it has the potential to reach only five, those three Can also be brought to the level of five. If some districts within the state some districts can do very well, that means there is potential inside the state, but some districts are left behind, can we decide what?\nWhat is our nature in our country, we give exams when we study in school, if we are weak in geography, then we think we will put emphasis on mathematics in mathematics so that if there is less marks in geography then I will compensate but in the first class Will go out Everybody, in this way, we are just like people who grew up. Even when the target comes to the state, or if the Indian government also decides to target, what do they do? Those who are easily giving results, they force them, please dar. And the result of this comes - those who do well, they become consistently good, and according to the data, the result is also good that the wow is good, the percentage has been fixed, but those who have gone backward They come in the state of backwardness. And so, strategically, we need to move our development model to a little bit closer. It is good to see if we look at states. The atmosphere of a competitive cooperative federalism is made. And I also accept this view. These scenes are a living form of federalism in itself - where members of the Parliament sit together with the legislator, discuss the area, the state and the country and worry about it. This federalism has got a new dimension in itself from this opportunity.\nWhether we are co-operative federalism, the states have started to compare and if any state remains behind then there is criticism too. They also do not think that we will do anything - this environment is created, but if the country wants to meet those expectations, then we will run according to the same parameters and according to the same unit, then maybe there will be no suitable results. .\nAn Experiences of Sanitation Campaign When the ranking started of cleanliness - between city and town; If there was a competition between the metropolis and the metropolis, then a competition was created and if the city was left behind, the people of the village began to raise their voices, that the city was ahead, the city went ahead, why did we stay dirty? A movement arose from that, a competition was born.\nWhen you see this topic, Bhai, after all, what is making good progress in the country, why the country is not moving forward? Why changed conditions? So one thought came out of it that why not we sort out those districts in the country, set some parameters and base those figures which have been officially published. Some figures are on the criteria of 2011, there are no subsequent surveys, but whatever is available. Extract forty-eight parameters and find out that Bhai is behind these 48 parameters, but who are the districts? And the experience came that the five-ten parameters are behind, most of them are behind the parameters.\nWhat is it? Even in the state, 10 districts are moving forward, but five districts are behind, they pool it, they work to pull backwards. All district, push it, it is very necessary in practical terms and in the same way came the idea that with the definitive parameters, identify who is required zive ertzm documentation to pay special attention to the district. It has been homework for almost a year. Discussions at different levels, meetings took place, identification turned out. Later, those 115 districts, who are DMs, are collectors, say district magistrate, somewhere, they were called here. His two day workshop was done that where is Bhai problem?\nNow politics- We are people like you, and you and I are no different, all are same. What is the nature of the people, what is the nature of it, it is okay - tell the budget, where are the money? But if you look carefully, if a district goes ahead with the available resources, the second is left behind even if the same resource is present; Meaning is not a resource issue, perhaps governance is a issue, leadership is a issue, coordination is a issue, effective implementation is a issue, and so how do we change these things? And in all the collectors of that, I also sat, talked, all senior government officials of the Government of India sat with them.\nOne thing came to my attention, I am not asking to criticize anyone, but in a house, such people are sitting today that if I open up anything, then it will not be bad. I was surprised, usually the district collector, their average age is almost 27, 28, 30. Young IS officers, they get an opportunity to go there in three to four years, but in these 115 districts, I saw more than 80 percent of the district collectors I got, they were 40 plus, some were up to 45.\nNow tell me that the officer of the age of 40-45 is in that district; the children have grown up, they are worried about admission, they get work in the big city, they live in his mind; If something happens to children's education - that remains in their mind. Dasura- Most of the state cadre, who are the promoters of the state cadre, have been thinking of going there, thinking that they are backwards, the district is backwards, send it to the person's carriage - the beginning starts from there. . If we all decide together that the 115 districts will be able to apply fresh officers in the next five years, there is the power to do that, you see, things will start to change.\nI am talking to Chief Ministers that you, and trust him that Bhai is giving you the challenge. Sent there - meaning the officers started discussing inside-in-die What to do - There is no political link, man? What did you put here here? This psyche begins.\nSometimes it seems to us resources Now let me tell you that a good work of vaccination is being done in Bhai district but it is not happening in the adjoining area. What is lacking? I do not believe there is any shortage. But who needs motivation, who needs a perfect plan, people's participation is required, lacks that there is no vaccination, vaccination is not there, the door has opened for the diseases, the door has opened, the diseases are coming; They are moving one after another.\nSchool dropout-school? is. Is the teacher? is. Is the building is. Everything is there. Is the budget? is. But here the dropout is low, there, only two sight in the next. To say means that the matter is not stuck on the resource.\nThe second you may have seen where the officers and local leadership have given leadership in a mission mode; people have added; You see - seeing a very big result is available.\nPublic participation and all in one direction- whether our panchayat is the head, become a member of the Panchayat, become a member of the municipality, become the head of the municipality, the district panchayat ho, the tehsil panchayat, all those who have opportunity to represent in their social life As a legislator, if an aspirational district of this kind has come in my area as an MP, we will decide that we all have four work in one direction, then Pu Received by will, this one will work to complete, we will power, we add more people. You see, the change will start.\nSometimes the change comes from being closely involved - someone who is healthy, running, jumping, working person; The food is eating properly, family life is fine, the arrangements are good, there is no dilemma- but gradually the weight is decreasing. So he does not think, no, at the beginning, he does not say, I do a little dyeing. I'm feeling a bit fitter in the past. Even if weight is low, then he thinks what happened? Then weakness begins to begin, even then life is living its way, it is still alive. But a good experienced doctor says that hey brother check once. And when you make a check, it is known that man has diabetes, and due to that such a very healthy body, once the diabetics entered, and as soon as he addressed diabetes, whatever medicines he started, diabetes Had not been done - The rest of the parameters were restored.\nI think our districts also have the same situation. Once we see what is that which is going to weaken these districts, we address it and try to bring about change from it; You see no district will be behind.\nImagine 115 districts, 30-35 left wing extremism, which I have specifically told the Home Ministry to give special attention to it, how can we solve those problems, but around 80-90 districts like this We can address that easily. What should be the planning of the district now? In a district, you must have seen, there will be a tehsil, perhaps it would have been very good in vaccination, a tehsil would be such that perhaps there would be a positive signal in the dropout, the dropout would be very less. There will be strength in it somewhere. In those areas which have weak points, look slowly towards the village, Bhai. In this village three things are very good but two things are less, address the two.\nOnce, and this will not work much harder. For the shortcomings of the 115 districts, and when you will give a presentation to the people of the Policy Commission, I just sat together with all the ministers two days ago and presented the presentation. I've been looking at the government's presentation for the past 20 years, but it is so precise, very clear and a layman can also understand that Bhai is the way to this, that's the best presentation I gave by Amitabh Kant, now the presentation of the Policy Commission. They are also going to give you, they are going to show you.\nThere is a topic in it that Bhai is so far behind your district, which is the average position of your state in this matter, that is the best performing district of your state. So far behind the National Average and the country is far behind from the best performing district. These four parameters are viewed from time to time. You will also find that if my country's 200 districts can go forward, my district can also go ahead. If thousands of tahsils of my country can go forward, then my tahsil can move forward too. And let us follow this matter, we are sitting here all the political parties. There was a time when hard core politics in the country, politics of the day, politics of the movement, the politics of the statement, the politics of struggle; It used to be a lot of work आज वक्‍त बदला है, आप सत्‍ता में हैं या विपक्ष में, जनता के काम आते हैं कि नहीं आते हैं, इस बात को जनता देखती है।\nआप कितनी लड़ाई लड़ी, कितने मोर्चे निकाले, कितनी बार जेल गए, वो आज से 20 साल पहले matter करता था आपके political carrier में, आज स्थिति बदल चुकी है। आज तो वो चाहता है, और आपने देखा होगा, जो बार-बार चुन करके आते हुए प्रतिनिधि हैं, उनका अगर आप analysis करोगे, तो इसलिए नहीं चुन कर आते कि उन्‍होंने कितनी बार संघर्ष किया, लेकिन आप बिल्‍कुल देखना-उनके जीवन में एक-दो चीज ऐसी होती हैं जो बिल्‍कुल राजनीति से परे, सत्‍ता संघर्ष से परे, जनता के सुख-दुख से जुड़ी हुईं और वो उसमें identify होता है, ऐसा वो तो पहुंच गया होता है। वो हर बार उसके विषय में कुछ न कुछ करता है, चाहे अस्‍पताल जाता होगा, मिलता होगा; उस छवि से उसकी बाकी राजनीति चल जाती है।\nहमें भी कोशिश करनी होगी कि hard core politics, आप छोड़ दें- ऐसा मैं नहीं कहता हूं, लेकिन समाज की रचना ही छुड़वा रहीं है। समाज में जो जागृति आई है, वो ही छुड़वा रही है। वे चाहते हैं‍ कि मेरे सुख-दुख के समय कौन मेरे साथ है? मेरे जीवन में बदलाव लाने के लिए कौन मेरे साथ है? इसका बहुत बड़ा प्रभाव होता है। हम अपने क्षेत्र में तय करें कि भई मैं girl child education में 100 percent काम करूंगा। मैं अपना initiative एक चीज बदलाव करेंगे, अपने आप सिस्‍टम बदलना शुरू कर देगा।\nकोई कहेगा कि भई इंद्रधनुष योजना है, वैक्‍सीनेशन की डेट है, उस दिन तो मैं फील्‍ड में रहूंगा ही रहूंगा, मेरे volunteers को रखूंगा, हमारे समाज जीवन में जो लोग हैं उनको भी इकट्ठा करूंगा। इंद्रधनुष स्‍कीम के तहत मैं वैक्‍सीनेशन का काम पूरा करूंगा। अब पहले हमारे यहां वैक्‍सीनेशन 30 पर्सेंट, 40 पर्सेंट, 50 पर्सेंट; सरकार खर्चा नहीं करती थी, ऐसा नहीं था- सरकार खर्चा करती थी। बजट खर्च करते थे। गुलाम नबी जी जब हेल्‍थ मिनिस्‍ट्री देखते थे तब भी होता था। लेकिन जन-भगीदारी के अभाव में वो चीजें अटक जाती थीं।\nइंद्रधनुष योजना के तहत एक विशेष प्रयास आरंभ किया, अब वैक्‍सीनेशन करीब 70-75 तक इसे पहुंचाया। लेकिन क्‍या हम 90 पर्सेंट तक पहुंचा सकते हैं? एक बार 90 पर्सेंट पहुंचाएंगे तो 100 पर्सेंट में मुसीबत नहीं आएगी। और अगर वैक्‍सीनेशन हो गया pregnant women का और बच्‍चों का, पोलियो मुक्ति अपने-आप हो जाएगी और गंभीर प्रकार की बीमारियों से बचने का काम अपने-आप हो जाएगा।\nव्‍यवस्‍थाएं है, योजना है और कोई आवश्‍यकता नहीं है कि नए बजट की जरूरत है। जो बजट है, जो resources हैं, जो man power है, वहीं अगर mission mode में काम करें तो परिणाम उत्‍तम मिल सकता है, इसी एक भूमिका के साथ aspiration और उसको मैंने backward शब्‍द प्रयोग करने से मना किया है, वरना psyche वहीं से शुरू होती है।\nआपको मालूम होगा पहले हमारे यहां रेलवे में तीन क्‍लास हुआ करते थे। First class, second class and third class. फिर बाद में सरकार ने आज से 20-25 साल पहले थर्ड क्‍लास कैंसिल कर दिया। डिब्‍बे में कोई फर्क नहीं किया लेकिन सार्इक्‍लोजीकली बहुत बड़ा चेंज आया कि जो आदमी उसमें बैठता था उसके प्रति नफरत, अच्‍छा ये थर्ड क्‍लास में जा रहा है? अब वो बदलाव आ गया। डिब्‍बा वो ही है, बैठने की जगह वो ही है, और इसलिए अगर हम backward शब्‍द करेंगे तो फिर, यार छोड़ो यार, मैं तो उस backward district का‍ विधायक हूं। अच्‍छा-अच्‍छा तुम भी backward हो? वहीं से शुरू हो जाता है। हमें देश में backward की स्‍पर्धा नहीं करनी है, हमें देश में स्‍पर्धा forward की करनी है। और हम, हमारे इन इलाकों को, इन क्षेत्रों का विकास सामाजिक न्‍याय का काम है, अगर उस district का डेवलेपमेंट हआ, मतलब अपने आप सामाजिक न्‍याय का हक बन ही जाएगा।\nअगर सब बच्‍चों को शिक्षा मिलती है हमारे क्षेत्र में, इसका मतलब सामाजिक न्‍याय का एक कदम हआ। अगर सब घरों में बिजली है, मतलब सामाजिक न्‍याय का एक कदम हुआ। सामाजिक न्‍याय की जो विभावना इसी सदन के इसी सभागृह में हमारे महापुरुषों ने हमारे सामने रखी थी, उसको एक नए स्‍वरूप में, और जिसमें संघर्ष की संभावना बहुत कम है- तुझे मिला, मुझे नहीं मिला, भाव का कम है, सबके लिए करना- इस भाव को लेकर चलते हैं तो कितना बड़ा परिणाम हम प्राप्‍त करें सकते हैं।\nऔर मुझे विश्‍वास है सभी राजनीतिक दल के नेता यहां मौजूद हैं। उन्‍हीं क्षेत्र के विधायक और सांसद यहां मौजूद हैं। एक बार आप ठान लें। अभी मैं मेरा दौरा करता हूं, तो मै aspirational district के जो अफसर मुझे मिले थे पहले, जिनका दो महीने पहले अभ्‍यासवर किया था, उनको मैं वहां बुलाता हूं, पूछता हूं। अभी मैं परसों झुंझनू था, तो मैंने राजस्‍थान के पांच aspirational district को भी बुला लिया था और हरियाणा के एक थे, उनको भी बुला लिया था। मैंने पूछा, बताओ भाई- आधा घंटा बैठा था उनके साथ, बताओ भाई क्‍या हुआ? मैं देख रहा हूं कि अगर हम लोग भी उनका एक helping hand के रूप में काम करेंगे, हम हिसाब-किताब मांगें तो वो थक जाएंगे।  क्‍यों नहीं हुआ? मेरे इलाके में क्‍यों नहीं हुआ? फलानां, वो ठीक है, वो राजनीति का अपना स्‍वभाव है- लेकिन, अरे भई तम चिन्‍ता न करो, मैं रहूंगा। अच्‍छा लोग मदद नहीं करते, मैं आता हूं तुम्‍हारे साथ, चलो, उसका हौसला बुलंद हो जाएगा। हम उस सरकार में बैठे हुए लोगों को उनका हौंसला बुलंद करें।\nजन-भागीदारी को बढ़ाएं। क्‍यों न हम उस इलाके के जितने एनजीओ हैं, उनको इकट्ठा करें? जितनी युवा की activity हैं, उनको इकट्ठा करें, कि देखो भाई ये स्थिति बदलनी है हमें। हमारे पास resources हैं, परिणाम नहीं आ रहा है। हमें बीच की खाई भरनी है और हम करेंगे। शासन व्‍यवस्‍था अपने-आप दौड़ने लग जाएगी क्‍योंकि उनको भी जब परिणाम मिलने लगता है तो उनका हौंसला बुलंद हो जाता है। तभी तो आप हैरान होंगे 115 districts में कुछ district ऐसे हैं कि जिसका नाम सुनते ही हम भड़क जाएंगे, अच्‍छा ये भी बैकवर्ड है? यहां तो इतना बड़ा industrial development हुआ और ये नाम बैकवर्ड है? कारण क्‍या- वो industrial development या किसी एक चीज के कारण इसका तामझाम इतना बड़ गया कि नीचे जैसे वो डायबिटिक पेशेंट का होता है ना, बाकी चीजों का कोई ध्‍यान ही नहीं रहा, एक ही बड़ी चीज का जय-जयकार होता गया। ऐसे भी district ध्‍यान में आए, कि अपने-आप में बहुत नाम कमाया हुआ district, लेकिन बारीकी में देखें तो पैरामीटर में लड़खड़ा गया था। और वो एक ऐसी चीज उसके पास थी कि वो कोई भी जाकर अभिभूत हो जाता है, वाह- इतना बढ़िया है? लेकिन नीचे गड़बड़ होती थी।\nतो ऐसी भी कुछ चीजें ध्‍यान में आई हैं। कुछ लोगों के मन में ये रह सकता है कि भई मेरा district नहीं आया, मेरा ऐसा है। मैं समझता हूं अभी तो एक 2011 के जो figures थे, उसके आधार पर कुछ लिया है, कुछ figures बाद में मिले। राज्‍यों को भी बताया गया‍ कि भई ये district आपके select किए हैं, आपको अगर लगता है कि बदलना चाहिए तो, एक पांच-छह राज्‍य ऐसे हैं जिन्होंने district change करवाया था।\nबाकी एक इसको कोई राजनीतिक रंग न दिए बिना- उसका हुआ, मेरा नहीं हुआ- उस भाव को छोड़ करके, हम सब मिल करके, एक साल- मैं ज्‍यादा नहीं कर रहा हूं दोस्‍तो- एक साल, अगर एक साल हम सब लग जाएं और ये अगर पैरामीटर बदल जाए तो आपके राज्‍य के पैरामीटर्स बदल जाएंगे, देश का चित्र बदल जाएगा। Your human development index, दुनिया में हम 130-131 नंबर पर खड़े हैं।\nआज विश्‍व में भारत की अगर जिस प्रकार की आशा-अपेक्षाएं बनी हैं, हम human development index की दृष्टि से उसको अगर हम अपना improvement करते हैं, और ये 115 district  में improvement होगा तो देश का improvement अपने-आप होने वाला है, extra कुछ करना नहीं पड़ेगा।\nऔर इसको अगर करके चलेंगे, योजनाओं का फायदा भी है। देखिए, कभी-कभी क्‍या लगता है- जैसे मनरेगा है- गरीब, जहां रोजगार नहीं है, उनको रोजगार मिले- ये उसका मूलभूत लक्ष्‍य है। अनुभव ये आया है कि जहां सबसे ज्‍यादा गरीबी है, वहां कम से कम मनरेगा होता है, और जहां समृद्धि है, वहां ज्‍यादा मनरेगा होता है। ज्‍यादा लोगों काम-क्‍यों? कारण यही है कि जो अच्‍छे स्‍टेट हैं वहां गुड गवर्नेंस  है जो उसका natural benefit मनरेगा में भी जाना जाता है और जहां पर गरीबी भी है, मजदूरी की जरूरत भी है, मनरेगा का पैसा भी है, लेकिन गवर्नेंस में weakness  है, तो पैसा उन गरीबों तक पहुंचता नहीं है।\nहकीकत में जो देश के अच्‍छे, आर्थिक समृद्धि वाले राज्‍य हैं, वहां तो मनरेगा का minimum पैसा जाना चाहिए और जहां गरीबी है, उन राज्‍यों में सबसे ज्‍यादा जाना चाहिए, लेकिन संसाधन समस्‍या नहीं है। Good governance is a problem, coordination is a problem, focus activities is a problem. इन चीजों को अगर बल देते हैं तो हम बहुत बड़ा परिणाम ला सकते हैं।\nमैं फिर एक बार सुमित्रा जी का हृदय से आभार व्‍यक्‍त करता हूं कि एक अच्‍छे समागम के माध्‍यम से, दो दिन के मंथन से, इन 115 districts के भाग्‍य को बदलने का काम- संविधान सभा जहां बैठी थी, जहां हमारे महापुरुषों ने बैठ करके चिंतन किया था, राष्‍ट्र के लिए जो सपना देखा था; उसी सदन में बैठ करके आज हम अपने एक नए आयाम की ओर कदम रख रहे हैं। मेरी आप सबको बहुत-बहुत शुभकामनाएं हैं। मैं फिर एक बार यहां आने के लिए आप सबका हृदय से धन्‍यवाद करता हूं।\nThank you."