"Share\n\nJhunjhunu: PM Modi launches expansion of Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao movement and National nutrition Mission\nPM Narendra Modi strongly pitches for children\nDaughters are not burden, they are our pride: PM\nMothers, sisters, brothers and my young friends who are present here in large numbers,\nToday is the 8th March. For more than a hundred years the whole world has been observing the International Women's Day which falls on this date. But today the whole country is connected withJhunjhunu Thegrand view of the Today's event in Jhunjhunu is the help of technology. I have come here; I have come here after doing a lot of analysis In fact, you have pulled me here You have compelled me to come here, the reason being the commendable job of carrying forward the BetiBachaoBetiPadhao campaign in this district. Every family of this district has done a commendable job! Naturally I had this urge to visit the soil of Jhunjhunu.\nWasundharaji was saying just a short while ago that this is the land of heroes. She is talking about the power of this land. Jhunjhunu has proved its excellence in every sector be it social service, education, charity or sacrificing lives for the country. It has never accepted defeat and it knows how to carry on whether it is war or drought. So, the country will get a new strength and inspiration from the work that is being carried out by Jhunjhunu.\nThe success of BetiBachaoBetiPadhao gives an understanding of the situation. But sometimes it hurts that in a country like India, which is famous for its great scriptures, culture and the great personality like Vivekananda, we are compelled to make repeated requests, make budget allocations and make people aware of such schemes to be childish. What is the deep rooted social evil?\nI think, there can not be a big pain For many decades, we have chosen to abandon or sacrifice our daughters just because of this social evil and wrong mentality. When you hear of the number of girls as 800, 850 or 900 against 1000 boys The society can work only\nSeveral decades of killing of the child has resulted in a disbalance in the society. The wrongs of four-five generations have accumulated now The previous losses will take time to recover. However, it's high time that we move toward the number of boys born. Equal number of boys and girls will be brought up now If we move forward with the expression of 'equality of boys and girls', we will be able to correct the mistakes of the four-five generations in the next two-three generations. However, there is one condition to it - we should not create a disbalance in the boys and girls.\nI am glad that the ten districts will be honored today. These districts have succeeded in the number of births of boys. I congratulate the award-winning states, districts and the whole team for taking the responsibility of this sacred task.\n\nAnd I would like to urge all other officials of the country, our government officials and the government to make it a mass movement. Unless every family joins it and the mothers-in-law take the leadership, this work will take longer. But as soon as the Mother-in-Law takes the leadership and makes it clear just once that there will be a daughter in the house. So, we have to make a social movement and a mass movement.\nThe Government of India accepted that challengeand started a program in Haryana, where the situation was very worrisome, two years ago. It was difficult to explain it in Haryana. My officers had suggested that the condition might be worse if they had gone there I had said that I will start from the worst affected place. Today I congratulate Haryana They have improved in the situation The increased in the number of daughters at birth creates a new faith and a new hope. And, in view of the success that has achieved in these two years, today, on 8 March, International Women's Day, the Government of India has now expanded the scheme to all districts, from 160-161 districts of the country. This will improve the situation We are working in that direction.\nWe have been asked about the validity of this age-old perception. Today's experiences and events tell us that girls are not a burden\n\nIn India, when we heard of achievements like satellite launches or the Mangalyan mission we realized thatbehind these achievements in space technology were three women scientists This is the power of our daughters When we see a woman fighter pilot from Jhunjhunu The country feels proud when our daughters bag gold medals or for that matter any medal in Olympics.\nSome people think that the son will be a support during their old-age However, the situation is different now. I have seen such families where there are four sons with each having a bangle of their own and fancy cars but their parents are spending their old-age in old-age homes. On the other hand, I have also seen such families where there is a single daughter but she takes care of her parents, works hard, earns for her parents. Often she does not marry\nSo, we have come out of this distorted mindset. This social movement is the responsibility of all of us Some people may That's fine. But its success depends on So, unless we are considering the sons and daughters as equals, the daughters will continue to be killed in mothers' laps\nThere was a system prevalent in the 18th century in which the girls were immersed in a large vessel full of milk but sometimes I feel that even in the 21st century, we are worse than the people of the 18th century. This is because in the 18th century, at least that girl child could take birth, was fortunate enough to see her mother and breathe for some time on the earth. Later, she used to be the victim of the greatest social crime.\nBut today, the crime is even worse. She is killed in the mother's womb itself. Neither the mother looks the girl's face nor the daughter sees her mother's face With the help of modern technology, the daughter is killed in the mother's womb. I believe that there is no greater crime in the world than this. Unless we consider the daughters as our pride, we can not eradicate this social evil.\nToday, I got the opportunity to meet the families and the mothers where daughters were born. They were so happy! I asked them that they did not know what the girls were born? They said they are not aware of it but when their daughters were born they had personally distributed sweets in their entire locality and celebrated the occasion.\nWe have to change this situation and the government is working in that direction.\n\nToday, I got the opportunity to meet the families and the mothers where daughters were born. They were so happy! I asked them that they did not know what the girls were born? They said they are not aware of it but when their daughters were born they had personally distributed sweets in their entire locality and celebrated the occasion.\nWe have to change this situation and the government is working in that direction.\nToday we are launching another scheme - National Poshan Mission Now when you want to criticize the PM, you should not think of 'Narendra Modi but the Poshan Mission'. You will see the way\nSometimes the development of the body of a child - girl or a boy, stops Sometimes the baby born is under-weight Lack of awareness plays a major role in such cases. We need to get out of this problem Once again I would like to reiterate that this is the job the government alone. The things will change if it turns into a mass movement\nThis is the first time that work is being done to fight against malnutrition. Every government had some or other scheme However, it has been noticed that most of the people are not allowed to fight. But experiences suggest that the entire ecosystem has to set right. If the water is of poor quality, then the required nutrition will never be proper\nVery few people are aware of the fact that child marriage is one of the causes for malnutrition. Marriage and giving birth at an early age without the proper development of the body leads to poor nutrition and poor development of the body. So, we should have the right time at every stage of life; proper medication during illness, mother's milk immediately after birth However, there is a misconception here that mother's milk should not be given immediately after birth. This is the mistake we commit If the baby is provided with Mother's milk immediately after birth, it gets the required nutrition for proper development of body and does not affect health issues later in life. This is the strength of mother's milk but we do not take it seriously.So, if we understand the greatness of the mother, worship her and protect her, the child in her lap will also be free from malnutrition.\nNutrition is just one aspect. Sometimes the government runs the vaccination program but we do not get the facilities provided by the health centers. We have a fixed budget, officers and people Consequently, the people are affected by some or other disease.\nIn the film we have seen that 30 to 40% of children contract diseases because of the unhygienic practice of washing the hands before meals and die. Who will make it a habit and teach the mothers Sometimes the child puts something in his mouth. Who will say also be washable\nThis is the bright future of our children This is our collective responsibility to improve our lives. We are thus, implementing this scheme on a mission mode by amalgamating all the scattered schemes like water issues, medicines and so on. We must have seen that a certain age when the child goes to school, a inferiority complex develops in him What is the reason? There were five short children and the others short. The shorter children will get the same height They will be obsessed with it You are likely to get the hang of However, we never work on these things scientifically\nToday, there is a specific height setlist for every age group. But our country is way behind in this aspect We should strive towards our children healthy, with the right weight and height holistically by the year 2022 that marks the 75 years of Independence, so that we proudly declare the world before that we have achieved this in the field of nutrition. We have to build a scenario where we can see our jolly children everywhere\nWe have allocated about Rs. 9000 crores for this scheme. There will be fixed standards, ASHA workers, volunteers at village level with access to technology They will collect data on a regular basis. Any changes in the The problems will be analyzed and we will look for solutions Sometimes even if the growth of a child is good for 8 months, but the sudden fall of the rainy season Therefore, it is a challenging task I believe that we can fulfill our resolutions. The work under Indradhanush Mission has been expedited and we are trying to achieve 90% vaccination by the end of the year. Under Pradhan MantriMatruVandanaYojana, the government is giving Rs.6000 to each pregnant woman and about 23 lakh women have got this benefit under Swachh Bharat Mission.\nSimilarly, mothers are forced into inhale as much smoke by burning the firewood in their homes as the smoke of 400 cigarettes everyday. We have started providing free gas connections under Pradhan MantriUjjwalayojan to get rid of this problem. Today around three and a half million families have been provided free gas connections. We have to make our country healthy by We have to take these schemes that are launched today, forward. If our children are empowered, our country will automatically be empowered\nWith this resolution, I urge you all to join this movement I call upon my countrymen, this is an act of humanity, it is for the future generations and for the future of India Please join us\nAnd now join me in saying loud -\nVictory to Mother India - Victory to Mother India - Victory to Mother India\nThanks a lot!"