"Transparency and accountability are required for democratic and participative governance: PM Modi\nEmpowered citizens are strongest pillars of our democracy: PM Modi\nFive Pillars of Information highways- Ask, Listen, Interact, Act and Inform, says PM Modi\nIndia is fast moving towards becoming a digitally empowered society: PM Narendra Modi\nA new work culture has developed; Projects are now being executed with a set time frame: PM Modi\nGeM is helping a big way in public procurement of goods and services. This has eliminated corruption: PM Modi\nOver 1400 obsolete laws have been canceled\n\nI am very happy to inaugurate this new building of Central Information Commission. This has been completed before time. I congratulate the staff of the buildings. I was told that this building has received the environmental friendly GRIHA-IV rating. This building will not only help in the environment I hope that this new building will help in a more efficient functioning of the better coordination and integration. This will also expedite the hearing received by the Commission. The speed in this case means that there will be speed in settling the problems.\nFriends,\nToday I also have the opportunity to launch the Central Information Commission's mobile app. Citizens will be able to file an appeal and a complaint smoothly. In addition, the information provided by the Information Commission will also reach them at the earliest.\nI have been told that there is a number of steps taken by the citizen service for the Central Information Commission. CIC is using the modern techniques for complaints and complaints.\nIt is really a matter of satisfaction that the highest number of cases were disposed of I hope that keeping in mind the grievances and the need to provide facilities to the citizens of the country according to the Commission.\nFriends,\nTransparency and accountability are very necessary for democratic and participative governance. Such organizations work as a catalyst for trust based governance. Such institutions are very important for growing people's trust in the government, making the use of human resources of the country so that the decisions can be taken in the expectations and aspirations of the citizens of the country.\nFriends,\nI believe that an empowered citizen is our country You have seen that the last 4 years the central government has tried to make the people empowered and informed by different means We will find many instances in the history when the information was treated as a one-way channel. It had serious consequences Therefore, our government is working on the principle of modern information.\nThis is a highway where arrangements have been made to move both directions.\nFriends,\nThere are five pillars of today's modern information highway on which we are working together.\nThese five pillars are -\nAct\nInform\nThe first pillar - 'Ask' means to have a detailed discussion on government's policies and projects for better governance. Every type of question People can connect with the government through MyGov, the world's largest citizen engagement platform.\nI will give you the latest example of SRIJAN-Station Rejuvenation Initiative by Joint Action. In this interesting initiative of the Railways, the public is going to guide\nBrothers and sisters,\nThe second pillar of the information is 'listen'.\nToday is a government in the country The government pays the suggestions given on CPGRAMs and the social media. Often, the government has framed policies and made changes in the public.\nFriends,\nInteraction, the third pillar of the information highway, is as important as the questions and suggestions. I believe that interaction also establishes an emotional connection between the government and the citizens.\nPeriodic surveys are also done Every year we organize the 'Rate my Government' initiative in the month of May. Similarly, the Information Highway is 'Act'.\nIf there is a lack of action after the question-suggestions-dialogue process, then all the hard work is worthless.\nTherefore, we are working in a proactive manner. Even in case of the GST, changes were made of people The formation of the National Anti-Profiteering Authority for the benefit of the dialogue process Apart from this, you must have seen how the ministers and the ministries are settling many complaints just by looking at the tweets. Today many problems of people are solved by just tweeting\nFriends,\nThe fifth pillar of the information highways is 'inform'.\nIt is the duty of the government to provide citizens with correct information about their actions. That's why our government has developed real-time, online information. It is the first time that this government has done the work of updating people on various websites. For example, the number of toilets constructed under the Swachh Bharat Mission, the progress of the scheme, the number of LEDs distributed under UJALA scheme, loan sanctioned under the MUDRA scheme and many other important details online available.\nBrothers and sisters,\nIt was seen that different people used to ask similar or same questions. Thus, the cost of words and resources Therefore, our government is uploading the information related to the Common Ministers\nOne of the benefits of this activity is that the citizens will now have online access to information and statistics related to plans. Moreover, every ministry is sending SMS via SMS Friends,\nToday is the fastest way of digitally empowered society Information Technology is the only way to simplify processes. Digital technology is being expanded to make citizen services more convenient\nWith help of Jan Dhan accounts, Aadhar and Mobile i.e. JAM Trinity, the government is deciding that the benefits of the government By transferring money directly to the People's bank accounts, the government has avoided more than Rs.57,000 crore.\nAll the work under MGNREGA and the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana is being geo-tagged and monitored via satellite images. The irrigation projects that were stuck for many decades are now being monitored with the help of drones. I also want to mention about the meeting last week. Last week We were monitoring the reconstruction process in the PMO with the help of drones. This technology has probably been used for the first time in the Prime Minister's office. The Drone cameras have been directed towards Kadar ghati and the way Baba Bhole's Temple is being repaired.\nFriends,\nThe meeting of PRAGATI also became a way of giving These rights are not enshrined in law but I believe the people have these rights as well.\nIt is the right of the people that they see all the schemes and projects of government getting completed on time.\nThere were several projects that were stuck for decades but our government has taken the responsibility of completing them. So far plans of about Rs 9.5 lakh crore have been reviewed in the PRAGATI meeting. With these endeavors, transparency is growing and has a great impact on our work culture.\nAll these things like completion of projects on time and speed in the construction of next generation infrastructure etc. were possible because the system was improved on ground level and transparency was brought in\nLet us take the example of this building. The Central Information Commission was formed almost 12 years ago. Since then the work of the commission was in rented buildings.\nAfter the formation of the NDA government in 2014, all the procedures were expedited, Rs. 60 crores was sanctioned for this building\nMore importantly, the construction work that was completed by the end of the year.\nI remember that last year I got the opportunity to inaugurate. Ambedkar International Center in Delhi The decision to establish this center was made in 1992. However, nothing happened for 23 years. After that, this government only has laid the foundation stone and has also inaugurated the building. This change in the administration could be seen from the Parliament from the roads and from the Prime Minister's Office to the Panchayat Bhawan.\nYou must be aware of the fact that recently the Department of Commerce Ministry was shut down. It was the Directorate General of Supplies and Disposals. There were about 1100 employees in it who have now been shifted to different departments. You must also be aware\nFriends,\nThe new ones The creation of Government e-Market for public procurement of goods and services is a result of the same. GeM portal is playing a major role in eliminating corruption in government procurement and making the process transparent.\nNow the country's small entrepreneurs and the tribal people living in far-flung areas of the country can sell their products directly to the GeM portal.\nBesides, the government has also tried to bring transparency in the system.\nThe interviews for Group C and D Jobs have been done away with The number of registers has been reduced from 56 to 5 for complying with Labor laws. All forms are now filled online.\nEfforts are to reduce human interface and for digitizing that system in every window where government-public interaction takes place\nCitizens are given reliable and meaningful information through Artificial Intelligence and data mining.\nFriends,\nIt was our government that has abolished more than 1400 non-essential laws. You have seen that in the last two-three years the government has formed a transparent system in giving the Padma awards. The people who have spent their lives in far-flung areas of the country and have made many contributions to the welfare of the society have got this transparent system due to the opportunity to come forward.\nFriends,\nWhen the distance between the government and the public is narrowed, new and effective ways of communication are made, the people are thinking of themselves as an integral part of the decision making process.\nYou have personally seen how a small appeal has made people up-up their LPG subsidies. 'Give it up' is a great example of the public and this government.\nSimilarly under Swachh Bharat Mission, the kind of awareness that has been made toilets and their use has never happened before. The people have associated themselves with the Swachh Bharat Mission from the core of their hearts by breaking all the barriers of age, class and caste. This was done Today we are getting positive results by making awareness in the areas where the birth of a girl child was considered as a crime.\nTwo days later the scheme 'Beti Bachao Beti Padhao' will complete three years. On this occasion, our government is organizing a direct conversation with the daughters.\nFriends,\nAs the transparency in the system improves, the flow of information becomes smooth and the people of the government also increases. In the last three years, three-and-a-half years, our government has been able to increase the system by making changes in the system.\nCertainly the Central Information Commission has also played an important role in this flow of information.\nFriends,\nToday I want to discuss this topic. There is a need to seriously consider the principle of 'ACT Rightly' just like the RTI Act in our country. This means we should not forget our duty while enjoying our rights. It is important for the citizens to become aware of their rights.\nI believe that people can be informed about ACTIVELY more effectively with the help of institutions like CIC where public interaction is so high.\nOften it has been noticed that some people start misusing the rights that are available to the common man for their benefits. The system has to take the burden of these wrongdoings\nFriends,\nForgetting the duties The technology and the new facilities should be used for human welfare. It should be ensured that it should not be misused for someone's selfish desires\nWhile assessing the current situation and keeping in mind the challenges of the future, every responsible institution will have to work by creating a balance between the rights and the responsibilities.\nI conclude my speech with the hope that the Central Information Commission will continue to work\nOnce again I extend my best wishes to you all.\nThanks!"