"Share\n\nIn an effort to connect all the capitals of North East states, Itanagar has also been connected with the Railways: PM\nNot only airports, the lives of people in the state of Arunachal Pradesh will improve with new and improved rail and road facilities: PM\nArunachal Pradesh is India's pride. It's India's gateway, Center will not only ensure its safety and security, but also fast-track development in the region: PM\nMy dear brothers and sisters\nThe rising sun symbolizes energy, hope and aspirations. Arunachal's name is the name of the sun itself. It is the land of the rising sun. Because of this, this land is also a symbol of the faith of the whole country. Arunachal gives strength to our faith, makes our resolve more capable. In the past 55 months, I have come among all of you many times. One reason for that is the desire of all of you, and with the constant inspiration to work with the new energy and freshness for the country, it is also very pleasant for me to come to Arunachal Pradesh. And when every citizen meets, Jai Hind greets him with speech. Such a mind gets pleasure, so much energy is available and I bow to the earth which makes Jaihind a part of life once again, I bow myself once again.\nFor the last 55 months, the BJP government led by NDA government and led by our friend Khandu, here has been sincerely devoted sincerely to make everyone's life easier to empower Arunachal. . Even today, I have had the opportunity to lay foundation stones and release of projects worth more than Rs 4,000 crore for strengthening Arunachal Pradesh.\nIn addition to these projects, about 13 thousand crore projects in your state are working fast. The power sector of the state will also be strengthened as today's projects will improve the connectivity of Arunachal Pradesh. From these projects where the health of a state's health services will be improved, on the other hand the culture of Arunachal will also be encouraged. Congratulations to all of you for all these projects.\nBrothers and Sisters, after Independence, keep 55 years of the same party on one side and on the other side compare our by keeping our last 55 months in the center. What has been done for Arunachal and the entire North East, the picture will be clear in front of you.\nArunachal has rich water resources. There is an unprecedented ability to generate electricity, but the development was not possible at that pace, as it should have been. It has been an important area connected with the security of the country. Strategic considerations have been an important area. Nevertheless, the necessary facilities have not been built here. The situation was that neither the young men were cared for nor the jawans on the border.\nCompanions, the earlier governments have given little attention to the fact that the area has a lot of trouble and trouble over the people. The country ... and you had been demanding for decades that modern infrastructure is needed in all the areas including Arunachal Pradesh, but the first ones did not even care about it. Colleagues, this government is continuously trying to change this situation. I have repeatedly said that New India will only be able to grow with its full power when East India will grow at a fast pace in the North East. It is also development resources and also the pride of culture. This development is also to add different areas and also to connect the masses.\nFor the development of Arunachal and the North-Eastern in the last 55 months, brothers and sisters, along with everyone, development of all, have never given any lack of fund and lack of will power. In the last year, the state has been given a fund of Rs 44,000 crore, which is almost double as compared to the previous government. Apart from this, the central government is also working on other projects of thousands of crores. In this episode of development, the inauguration and foundation stone of two airports in Arunachal is being held today. Probably this is the first time that any state in India has completed work on an airport and the work on another started. This is an important opportunity for Arunachal Pradesh as there was no such airport for so many years of independence, where large passenger ships are coming regularly. There was a connectivity of the airport to Guwahati, and from there you had to go through the way of the road, or in helplessness, or helicopter in emergency.\nColleagues, from today, Teju airport is ready to provide passenger services related to the general public. The Teju airport was built almost 50 years ago and after that no one thought that it could be used to connect the people of the country. Our government expanded this small airport by spending nearly three hundred million rupees. Here's the modern facilities mobilized. After this, Arunachal Pradesh's air connectivity will be from Guwahati, Jorhat and Lehagain. And also, I tell you, Arunachal Pradesh is naturally rich enough, if people of Delhi and big cities can get flowers of different colors, fresh flowers, or even see them, they will probably be watching the same day.\nNow, by making this airport, we can take a few hours from here to fruitful Hindustan in big markets, my farmer can earn.\nCompanions, a few months back commercial flight was started for Arunachal. Now this extension of this airport will double you. The government's endeavor is that you get all the benefits of a very cheap air travel under the flying plan of Arunachal Pradesh. The collapse of the Hollongigreenfield airport at a cost of around Rs 1,000 crore has also happened today. Just a few months ago, I had the privilege of launching the first greenfield Pakyoong Airport in the 100th and North East of the country. I assure you that this second Greenfield airport will also be inaugurated from time to time. And you know that we do the same as the foundation of our foundation.\nArunachal's connectivity with India is also being strengthened with the help of the partners, along with the airwaves, roadways and railways. An effort will be made to prepare the tunnel, which will be constructed at a cost of approximately Rs 7 crore, at the earliest. When this tunnel is formed, it will be easy to reach Balwada from Tawang. You may be able to resolve the problems of your travels throughout the year. Recently, the Brahmaputra, the largest rail road bridge in the country, has also been inaugurated. Apart from this, many areas of Arunachal Pradesh are getting huge profits.\nThe brothers and sisters, whether the connectivity in Arunachal Pradesh is from the village, the city or from other parts of the country, the central government is working on thousands of projects worth crores today. In this, the new National Highways are being constructed by spending about 50 thousand crore rupees; in the last two years only about one thousand villages have been linked to the roads. Trans Arunachal Highway, which is being built at a cost of around Rs 4 thousand crore, is working on it too fast.\nIn addition to peers, road connectivity, unprecedented work on railways is being done in Arunachal Pradesh. ENTANAGAR has also been connected to the railway under the campaign to connect every state capital of the North East with the railway. Arunachal AC Express which runs between Naharlongun and Delhi runs twice a week. In addition to expanding the railway network across Arunachal Pradesh, survey work has been started in seven places. Survey work has been completed in three of these places. Tawang is also working on a big plan to connect the rail network with speed.\nElectricity connectivity is also important with brothers and sisters, highways, railways, airways. In today's very good congratulations to Arunachal Pradesh, I congratulate the Chief Minister and congratulate his whole team for becoming the state of electricity to almost every family under the good fortune. What Arunachal has achieved today is going to be achieved very soon in the entire country. Under the good luck scheme, in the last one-and-a-half years, the homes of nearly two and a half million families in the country, the darkness has been removed from those houses, it has been removed. Electricity connection has been given for free.\nOur government is also focusing on power generation for providing power to all the households as well as providing electricity to every household. Today, a 110 MW Pare Hydroelectric Plant has been inaugurated, with Arunachal getting power only, other States of North East will also get the benefit. At the same time, the work of about three thousand crore rupees has been started from today to improve the transmission system. This will provide power to remote areas of the state. Also, another major task will be that the electricity system here will be connected to the grid. When basic amenities such as peers, connectivity and electricity are made in a state, then there is only life easier for the common man, tourism is also strengthened. Tourism is a sector where everyone earns. The guide earns, the hotel earns, the taxpayer earns, the shopkeeper earns, the toys earn money, earns the blossom, and the tea maker also earns.\nYesterday I had a tweet in reference to the beauty of North East, in reference to the possibilities of tourism in North East, and I had requested the people that if you went to the North East, then share a photo of the experience there. I am surprised that in a few seconds thousands of people tweeted that they had gone to the North East, what happened, their photo tweeted. How promotions can be promoted to tourism and how the people of the country, from abroad, also from abroad, tweeted. You will also be surprised if you go to that hash tag and see how the country and the world feel proud of you.\nNeither nature has left any shortage for Arunachal nor there is a lack of places associated with spirituality and faith. With the formation of new airport, the number of tourists and tourists from India and abroad will also increase here by laying a new railway line. This will create new opportunities for employment for the youth here and Arunachal's economy will also be strengthened.\nBrothers and Sisters, the Central Government is committed to further development of the culture, language, food and shelter of every region of the country, and to protect them. This diversity is a precious treasure of India, it is our pride, and in the ideology of the BJP, we have strong urges towards India's culture. This is the reason that our government has launched its 24-hour TV channel Arun Prabha to give strength to the Arunachal culture. All the modern facilities have been provided here for your channel. Due to this channel, now the news of the far-flung areas of the state will reach you more quickly. I hope that the channel here will be a wonderful carrier of culture here. Introduce Arunachal's goodness to the people of the entire country. Similarly, the film and television institute created in Jote will give new opportunities to the youth here and there will also be a better expression of culture.\nBrothers and Sisters, our government is working to ensure the Panchadhara of development, the education of children, the income of the youth, the medicines to the elderly, irrigation for the farmer and the public hearing. In particular, in the sports sector, historical work is going on in the country to deliver affordable and best healthcare to every person of the country. Health and wellness centers are being created under the Ayushman Bharat Scheme and for the serious diseases, free treatment is being ensured to the poor in the big hospitals.\nWith the inauguration of 50 Health and Wellness Centers here, companions will be able to get good health facilities in the remote areas, along with serious diseases will be identified in the early stages. This health and wellness center is going to work a lot especially for pregnant women and emergency situations.\nCompanions, Arunachal Pradesh's poorer families, like the rest of the country, are getting the benefit of Ayushman Bharat PMJAY, Modicare. Under this scheme, free treatment is provided to the poor families up to five lakh rupees in case of critical illnesses. This scheme has not been done for 150 days yet. About 11 lakh people have benefitted from treatment in the country. I have been informed that PemaKhandu ji is engaged in further extension of these efforts of the Government.\nA large number of schemes have been launched for the farmers in this year's budget to provide financial strength to the farmers' health, along with the companions, common man's health. PM Farmers' Award Fund Under this PM Farmer's Honor Fund, every farmer family who has five acres or less land will be deposited in his bank account every six thousand rupees in central bank accounts from the Central Government in his account. And it will be every year. Three to two thousand rupees per year will be transported in a year so that it can be linked with agriculture. This will benefit many farmers of Arunachal Pradesh too.\nBrothers and Sisters, we are trying to give the power to the farming, together with the promotion of organic farming too. I am told that the government here is working very fast in this direction. And I assure you that whatever help you want from the Center, the help will be provided completely.\nBrothers and Sisters, Arunachal Pradesh is proud of the country, it is also the development of India, Gate way of India's security. Governments of BJP will continue to work on this Gate way. With the blessings of all of you, this Prime Minister is joining the entire region, including Arunachal, to create a zone of development. एक बार फिर आज शुरू हुई परियोजनाओं के लिए मैं सभी अरूणाचल के मेरे प्‍यारे भाईयों-बहनों को बहुत बधाई देता हूं। जय हिंद का नारा जिनकी जुबां पर हर पल रहता है ऐसे मेरे अरूणाचलवासी मेरे साथ बोलिये –\nजय हिंद.... जय हिंद....\nजय हिंद.... जय हिंद....\nजय हिंद... जय हिंद....\nThanks a lot."