"Share\n\nI am always willing to interact with youth, according to their desires and aspirations and work: PM Modi\nBetween the 19th and 20th centuries, there was a collective solution among people to defeat the forces of colonialism: PM\nElection results of Northeastern states have given a joy to the nation: PM\nThere was a sense of alienation among the people of Northeast, but it has changed in the last four years There is an emotional integration: PM\nOnly integration can counter radicalization, says PM Modi\nIndia is a youthful nation, 65% of its population is under the age of 35. The youth has the ability to transform the nation: PM\nSince forming government in 2014, we have initiated steps that are youth-centric: PM Narendra Modi\nInnovation is the bedrock to build a better future: PM Modi\nThe great revered Swami Gautamanand ji Maharaj, Swami Jitkamanand Maharaj, Swami Nirbhayand Saraswatiji, Swami Vireshanand and Saraswati Maharaj, Swami Paramanand ji Maharaj, Saint and scholars from the country and my young companions present in large numbers.\nGreetings in Kannada\nThis stadium of Tumakuru is glowing with the energy of thousands of Swami Vivekanandas and Sister Niveditas. This saffron color is growing even more. I wanted to personally take the blessings of this energy and was really excited to be present there when I received the letter from Swami Vireshanand and three days back. However, there is sometimes constraints of time. And you all know that the parliament session will begin from tomorrow. So it was a little difficult for me to be present at present but thanks to the modern technology that I got the opportunity to connect with you all through it.\nThere's always something or other to learn So, I try to engage in conversation with the youth more and more so as to listen to their experiences and learn from them and so that I am able to continue their efforts in accordance with their dreams, dreams and aspirations.\nI am fortunate to have received this opportunity to inaugurate this event of the great youth convention and the sadhu-language program. I still remember the love that was showered on me by the youngsters and the people of Tumakuru. 3 years back when I visited Tumakuru to seek the blessings of the respected Shivkumar Swami Ji. The respected Shivkumar Swami Ji is committed to the penance of nation building with blessings of Lord Basvesvara and Swami Vivekananda ji. He has sacrificed his life for the country's welfare. I always pray to God for his good health and long life.\nFriends,\nIt is rare to have celebrations of three important occasions together but this is a divine combination of three festivals in Tumakuru. I believe that 25th anniversary of the establishment of Ramkrishna Mission, 125th anniversary of Swami Vivekananda's address in Chicago as well as 150th birth anniversary of Sister Nivedita, in itself has a great significance. It is really a achievement to have thousands of youngsters attending the grand event! I will again extend my greetings to the respected Swamiji, Ramkrishna Mission, Senior citizens and to present everyone on this occasion.\nToday, the focus of the program is on Swami Vivekananda. We are aware of Swamiji's love for Karnataka. Before leaving America and Kanyakumari he had spent some days in Karnataka. Swami Vivekananda had linked our spiritual thoughts to the need. He has been linked to our glorious past I am glad that today I am able to make efforts to bring our country forward by linking the spiritual extension with the present generation through the program and the Youth Convention.\nBoth the sages as well as the youngsters have assembled here from across the country. We will be able to discuss about both pilgrimage and technology on the same platform. On one hand we will talk about innovation. A model of spiritual festival and youth festival is being developed in Karnataka. I hope this program will inspire others in our country This confluence of the old traditions\nIf we look at the period of India's freedom struggle in the 19th-20th century, we will find a collective pledge at different levels. This collective resolution was to free the country from the shackles of slavery Everyone in this society - a saint or a devotee, a theist or an atheist, a teacher or a disciple, a worker or a professional; had associated himself with this common pledge\nAt that time, our great saints were aware of the fact that the divided society with the different castes did not fight with the British rulers In order to get rid of this weakness, they started many socio-religious reform movements in different parts of the country. The country was united with the movement; and these campaigns were started The leaders of these movements united the people, elevated the people to one equal platform Understanding the need of the country, they merged their spiritual journey with the nation building. Service to the people has become synonymous to service to God\nFriends,\nThat was the period when people from all walks of life-students, professionals, teachers, lawyers, scientists, doctors or engineers have joined the independence struggle. These professionals have given the country's independence movement; and after independence\nWhen these efforts were merged, the country was both intellectually and socially and the United people of India resolved British resolutions to satisfy their resolution.\nAfter several decades of independence, the same strength, the same resolution and the same determination We sometimes see the power of that resolution today. Day before yesterday, the country was painted in the color of Holi and yesterday the election results in the Northeast have once again created a festival mood in the country.\nProbably you are wondering why I am talking about this topic in this program. I believe that I should express my feelings See, I am not watching this victory in the Northeast from the prism of politics. The important thing is that the nation was involved in the happiness of the people of Northeast. Such occasions where the accomplishment of the people of Northeast gets the accomplishment of the whole country, rarely seen We saw that the people, in line with the feelings of the people of Northeast, were glued to their TV sets since morning, as if they were the part of the elections there. Every Indian has the same feeling\nI believe that for my brothers and sisters of Northeast, the mandate that they have provided, in itself is a great change! The Ramkrishna Mission, the Vivekananda Center and several workers, from the youth to the saints have committed their lives for the welfare of the people of Northeast. So, the people sitting there So, the mood of the whole country after the elections in Northeast shows that the feelings of the nation are inter-twined The strength of these feelings is immense for the unity of the country and for promoting 'Ek Bharat Shrestha Bharat'.\nFriends,\nEarlier the policies and the schemes had been alienated from the mainstream. They were feeling cut-off from the stream of development This feeling was the root cause of many other problems For the past four years, our government has made efforts to fill these loopholes. We have vowed for emotional integration of the Northeast and have also fulfilled that.\nI am extremely satisfied by the results of the Tribal areas of Tripura. I want to elaborate on this. Friends, there are 20 assembly seats in the small state of Tripura. An illusion is created in our minds that tribal areas are Naxalite-dominated areas or left-wing extremism with Maoist-affected regions. Attempts were made to alienate the regions with these rumors so that the land becomes a breeding ground for the separatists. However, the election results in Tripura have set a good example. The people of Northeast have defeated hate-politics by voting in favor of Indian Janata Party\nFriends,\nRadicalization can be tackled only with integration. Steps are being taken by our government so that no community or section of the society feels alienated However, the whole country should strive\nWe can feel the impact of the stadium of Karnataka. The dignitaries present on the stage\nFriends,\nThis pledge for nation building can be better understood with a quote of Swami Vivekananda. Swamiji had said -\n\"Life is short, but the soul is immortal and eternal, and one thing being certain, death, let's take up a great idea and give it to our whole life.\"\nLife is short and uncertain Therefore, we should set a resolution and commit our lives to it.\nToday, in the presence of thousands of youngsters, I want to ask a question to you all - 'what should this resolution be?' Many a time it has seen that when a youngster is posed with this question, he is unable to answer it directly. Often he is confused with his purpose. Friends, only when we are clear about our purpose in life, we will be able to prove something and contribute to the society. If our goals are not clear, we will not able to achieve it. If you are confused about which platform to reach the platform, you can not reach your destination.\nThere is another famous saying of Swami Vivekananda ji-\n\"Take up one idea. Make that one idea your life, think of it, dream of it, live on that idea, let the brain, muscles, nerve, every part of your body be full of that idea and just leave every other idea alone This is the way to success. \"\nI want to urge the youngsters who are going to attend the festival for their resolutions and what they want to do in the future.\nBrothers and sisters,\nToday, India is the youngest nation of the world 65% of the population is below 35 years of age. The power of the country It can be After we got elected in 2014, many plans were started, keeping the youth power in mind, to tap this energy of the youth for nation building.\nYou must be aware of the fact that as soon as we came to power, a separate ministry was created for skill development. Skill development was also before but it was scattered among 40-50 ministries and their mandate also differed. Sometimes this came in conflict with one other Today, a single ministry is doing the job Skill Development Centers are being established in every district under this ministry. Short term and long term training are available to meet the requirements. The government has come up with the Pradhan Mantri MUDRA Scheme to provide loans without guarantee so that the youth can start their business. Till date about 11 crore loans have been given under this scheme. More than 1 crore 14 lakhs loans have been approved. Thanks to the scheme, today the country has almost 3 crore new entrepreneurs My young friend, this is really great significance! In such a short time, 3 billion new entrepreneurs are contributing to the country's economy.\nThe youngsters of the products have the ability to develop and self-employment.\nThe government has made a policy change so that the local products are given priority in government procurements. Apart from this, an online system called GeM, i.e., Government e-Market has been developed through which any young man or a person from a village can sell directly to its / her products or services. There is no need for middlemen or any big company The government can directly buy from the common man. We are also encouraging the young entrepreneurs. 20 states have already joined hands\nFriends,\nDue to these efforts of the government, today the youth can seek training as per the requirement of the industries and can sell their products in the market. The youngsters of Karnataka The Government has started schemes like Start-up India and Stand-up India to give wings to the hopes and aspirations of crores of youngsters like you. For the first time, our government has added employment with tax incentives. The government is providing tax incentives to the companies. The Government is contributing to the Provident Fund of the youngsters that are getting deducted. Those companies whose turnover is up to Rs. 2 crores and who are making payments are also getting tax benefits\nI believe that there is no shortage of 'Sense of Mission' in the youth They want to put their innovative ideas and solutions on the ground in a more efficient and economical way. Therefore, our purpose is to encourage you to achieve the purpose.\nFriends,\nInnovation is the basis of a better future. Applying this thought in our education system, we are making efforts to incorporate innovations in the schools' culture. The government has introduced the Atal Innovation Mission (AIM) to transform the ideas into the children in innovation. So far more than 2400 Atal Tinkering Labs has been approved in the country.\nThe central government is working on another great mission with the work of setting up 20 World class 'Institutes of Eminence' in the country. Under this mission, selected 10 public sector organizations will be provided financial assistance of Rs.10 thousand crore for a set time period. These 'Institutes of Eminence' would revive India's position back into the modern education.\nIn this Budget, we have started a new scheme - RISE. Under this scheme, the government will spend 1 lakh crores in the next 4 years to change the education system.\nThe Prime Minister's Research Fellow Scheme has also been announced by the government in the budget. Under this scheme, 1000 meritorious engineering students will be provided with Rs 70,000- Rs. 80,000 per month for 5 years to pursue PhD program\nKeeping in mind the strength of our human resources and the needs of the future, the benefits of the schemes of the central government are also easily accessible to the youngsters of Karnataka. The efforts were made by the central government in the fields of Artificial intelligence, Internet of things etc. are opening new opportunities for the youth Smart Cities Mission has made it easy to access the talent of young people, ensuring better utilization of their talent.\nFriends,\nSister Nivedita had once commented - what should be done so that the Indian students do not copy ideas of other countries and be complete in them? Further extending this point she said-\n\"Your education should be an education of the heart and the spirit, and of the spirit as much of the brain; It should be a living connection between yourself and your past as well as the modern world! \"\nThis means that it is very important to create a link between our past and the future. The strong is the bond with our tradition; the stronger\nBrothers and sisters,\nThis feeling of respect for our traditions could be seen in the Central Government of Khelo India scheme. I would say that those who play will blossom Thus, we have made a major change in the policy. To promote Guru-Shisya tradition, the government will not only honor the current coach but also every other coach who has played a role in the player's sports tour. All the coaches will be given\nKeeping the traditions in mind, indigenous sports like Kabaddi and Kho-kho are also being promoted in the Khelo India program. The government is trying to provide a platform after identifying the talent in all sports. The government has planned to provide financial assistance of Rs. 5 lakhs each to 1000 selected players\nFriends,\n'Vidyarthi Devo Bhava': This slogan is not only for you but also for a mantra for us. With your permission, I would like to add - 'Yuva Devo Bhava, Yuva Shakti devo Bhava'\nI think the youth I believe that Youth is not a situation or just the years of a mental state. The young generation They believe in learning from the beginning and the future better. Therefore, they are able to work and make efforts. The youth wants to become the better and the present.\nSo, I love you You must have heard of 'Ek Bharat Shrestha Bharat' Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel had worked hard to unite the country. It is our responsibility to make this united India as the best! You must be interested in learning French or Spanish language. It is a good thing It is always good to learn However, have we ever considered the language of our country? It is a vast country with 100 languages, 1700 dialects. We can also learn 5-50 lines of our languages. We can learn some songs of another state. I believe that this power is necessary to unite the country We can develop it naturally and spontaneously Even I tried speaking Kannada in bits and pieces; but as soon as I started You did not bother whether my words were correct or not, whether it was grammatically correct or not or the use of idioms was apt or not. You just feel that you are making efforts to connect with us. This is the power of uniting the country\nMuch of the responsibility of taking forward the campaign of 'Sankalp se Siddhi' and the dream of a new India I once again extend my best wishes to the country's youth and would like to emulate the ideals of Swami Vivekananda and Sister Nivedita. We should remember that the service to people is service to God We should see Lord Shiva in the living beings This philosophy should be applied for transforming the country - be it the Swachh Bharat Mission, Beti Bachao Beti Padhao, or schemes for the welfare of farmers, or technologies for farmers. We should move ahead with one or the other objective. I believe that the young people here will move forward by seeking inspiration from the great saints and scholars.\nI hope you are the Narendra Modi app I want to connect with you all Please connect with me Talk to me and convey your feelings to me I want to tell you that although I can not talk to you in Kannada language and had to speak in Hindi as I do not know this language, but if you want to hear and read this speech in Kannada language I will tell my team To upload the main parts in Kannada language on the Narendra Modi app so that you can better understand your thoughts and feelings in your language and take it forward.\nI once again congratulate Ramkrishna-Vivekanda Ashram for today's 10-triveni Sangam. I salute the saints, Sivagiri Mutt and my best wishes to all the youngsters.\nThanks a lot!"