"Share\n\nWhen the sun sets it is red in color and when it rises it is saffron: PM after saffron surge in Tripura\nElection analysts in India will have to understand BJP's journey from no one to number one, says Shukla from Shikhar Tak, says the PM\nDemocracy has risen to end the misrule in Tripura. People have replied with their votes, says PM Modi\nWe sent more ministers to the north east in the last 4 years than any other government since independence: PM at BJP HQ\nPM Modi's victory over democracy: PM\nShilpi of the Vijay travel of Bharatiya Janata Party, Mr. Amit Bhai Shah, the National President of our party, all the senior leaders of the party and my workers, brothers and sisters filled with excitement and enthusiasm. I first of all the workers of the Bharatiya Janata Party .... We'll stay for two minutes. After an awakening is complete, you will speak. ...Long live Mother India. Long live Mother India.\nCompanionship\nMany Bharatiya Janata Party workers have given martyrdom. Due to political ideology, our innocent workers have been killed. Fear and delusion with these two weapons, especially Maoowodi thought, Lieutenant parties, what they have oppressed. It is the strength of democracy that the poor, illiterate, illiterate voter has also given the answer to this injury by vote. The pain of losing our workers as much as we had, the same pain was to every citizen of Tripura. And so I respect the National President for this matter, that he said that I dedicate this victory to the martyrs by taking moisture in the eye. I urge you most that in the event of unprecedented events and atmosphere of this victory, we will stand two minutes before we pay tribute to those martyrs.\n... peace of peace peace\nAssociates\nJai and defeat in democracy are very natural. And this is the beauty of democracy, but it is very important for the political parties to digest the victory as much as it is necessary to have Sportsman Spirits against defeat. If there is democracy in the rugs, defeat can also be accepted with play. Since 2014, I have been seeing constantly, those who have been repeatedly praying for democracy. They have lost the rituals of accepting defeat with the game of humiliation. I still see the statement of Lieutice, it is shocking. I am convinced that the intellectual class of the country will present this anathema in front of the country, this undemocratic mentality.\nI was the most voted voter in all the North East nationals. I want to express my heartfelt gratitude on behalf of the Bharatiya Janata Party. Because between the propaganda, the truth of the Indian Government and the Bharatiya Janata Party in far-off North East has reached the hearts of the common man. And people living in such a situation, sometimes removing old ones for them, accepting new ones is very difficult, sometimes even within the city, it is difficult. But how many sufferings they will suffer, how many evils have to be seen in front of their eyes, how many troubles must have survived that today their anger appeared in a democratic manner in the box. Political analysts of India need to understand that no one from Won travels from No One to Won, travel from zero to peak. And you know that when the sun rises, it is reddish and when sunrise happens, then saffron is released by color. Yesterday the country was painted with many colors in Holi. And today all the colors have become colored in color.\nWhat I will mention, may be that people who are constantly trying to conquer the election victory. Or quickly, an issue is looking new so that they can move away from it. Well there is a large tribe. May be whatever I say they will come to their work. I have heard what I am saying. I have neither any knowledge nor any belief in it. But I have heard. It is said that those who are Vaastu Shastra people who make the building, they have a belief that Vastu Shastra has a belief. If I did not build the house then I do not know what happens. He says that according to Vastu Shastra, the composition of the building, in which the North East, which is the corner, is the most important. And so Sara Focus Vastu Shastri creates the house keeping the North East at the center. This means that once the North East is cured, the whole building gets cured.\nBrothers and sisters\nToday I am happy that my country's North East has probably come forward to lead this nation of development today. Political analysts of the country have to see that on the basis of the power of the organization, political parties have the responsibility of democracy through public relations, that they tell their opinion to the voter, explain, motivate them to accept it. There is a long process, but unfortunately, politics of caste ran, the politics of caste ran, the politics of bomb-gun went, my-your politics ran. He gradually diminished that basic soul. The North-East elections have consistently proved this and the victory journey of the Bharatiya Janata Party. And I would say to the political pundits of the country that once it is thought deeply on this. By taking the workers from general to normal, taking their faith, reaching the common people regularly, telling them the right thing can also win their hearts and the elections can also be won. How can this political party change the power of the Bharatiya Janata Party?\nThis whole team led by Amit Bhai, Tripura, Nagaland and Meghalaya have shown this among the limited resources. An illusion that there is a big name, flashing on the TV, the face is spectacular, the speech is excellent, then there is political leadership. To any leader of these three states ..., the media still do not know who is the true leader. That is, see the strength of the organization. No celebrity, no big heroism, a normal human .... Finding the TV, the newspapers and the political pundits, who was finally there Who was behind it Modi-Shah, Modi-Shah will continue, but the root of victory is there. We are getting the bouquet.\nMaybe. I do not have a complete figure. But perhaps if the average edge of the Legislative Assembly of India is seen, the elected team of Tripura's BJP, is the youngest elected team. Some of our candidates were so afraid that the age of 25 could not be reached and our enrollment could not be canceled. And so, before filling the nomination, the berth certificate had to be checked because they were such small workers in appearance. It seemed as if admission had happened in college. But such our child army. The military army of political life, he has done this awesome.\nThe attention of the political pundits of this country ..., I do not have the chance to watch TV today. But right now I was coming in the way, looking at the paper what happened - what happened. These things have come to our attention that young people of such a young age have also got the trust vote. Meaning of how the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Government of India worked.\nYou will know that when you in 2014 gave me the opportunity to become Prime Minister in Delhi. And gave the BJP the opportunity to form the government. In those days, there were atrocities with the children of North East in Delhi. You must remember. At that time, Rajnath Singh had a regular meeting with the young men of North East. It was a surprise for the people of the North East. Now that there is a government sitting in Delhi that there is some injustice to a boy in North East within Delhi so it is so sensitive for him. The first message went in 2014. Later, the Home Ministry took the decision that within Delhi, the youth of North East decided to fix the quotas inside the Delhi Police and implement it. Now the Political Pandit will be doing analysis ... These diaries will not have these things as how-how ....\nBecause people in North East always felt that Delhi is far from us. We created this situation that Delhi had made its way to the door. It was the government of Atal Bihari who made the donor ministry. It was the government of Atal Bihari who decided to keep every department for 10 consecutive amounts of development for the North East to be dredged. But later, he was just like that. We came forward and made that point forward. And added some things in it. Today, the Government of Donor, any government in India should be of the state, of the Center, no ministry is mobile. Our donor ministry is mobile, which once goes to the states of the full Donor Ministry in the North of the North East, where it serves and resolves the answers to North East questions. And going to a state in the month, it's going on continuously. These political pundits will not even know this. Because they do not do any TV interviews, they do not rhetoric. These work. These guys ...\nVery few people will know. After the country's independence, the number of ministers outside the North East will have gone to the North East. In 70 years, we have sent so many ministers in four years, four years into the North East. In every fifteen days, some minister spends 24 hours with the government of India with a day or night in some district. We understood his feelings. Which was the price of alliance. They seemed to be ignoring us. Continuing to finish him, he continued for four years continuously and quietly.\nWorkers of Bharatiya Janata Party decided that this work is to be done. Many activists .... And in Tripura there was such a thing that working somewhere meant that after going out of the house you had to go to the parents asking that I do not know whether I will return in the evening or I will not return. This has worked in recent times. Therefore, the workers of Bharatiya Janata Party across the country would like to say that Kerala is or Tripura or Bengal. Even in some states, news has also started in Orissa these days. In the last six months in Karnataka, for the political reasons, the Bharatiya Janata Party workers were murdered, more than two dozen workers were murdered.\nThe rise of Bharatiya Janata Party They do not have the ability to fight a democratic battle. They are trying to kill us by adopting the path of violence. Believe my workers of this country. This is the example of Tripura in front of us. A drop of our workers is never too useless. And despite that we kept quiet. And sometimes we take any steps then come ... vanadata, vanadata, van data. These van data is not mandata. This is Janandhan's Manadet, that we should take steps for the betterment of the country .... And we are taking steps for that.\nYou can imagine. And when I used to see the work of the organization, in this area, I had a lot of opportunity to travel. Used to travel eight to eight, ten to ten hours Even after reaching, the bag in the hand, which house will keep, would not have been available. We did not have that strength, not even the people working for the party. Sometimes someone had to go near a familiar person and had to start and go there. But today, the same Bharatiya Janata Party has emerged as a tree in every corner, has emerged from the hard work of the workers.\nFor the complete change, for the development of something completely, one word usage is more prominent - 360 degrees. 360 degree i.e. Perfect is your approach, this is supposed to be so. To get results, look at everything in every corner, every closely. These 360 ​​have their own importance. Recalling those martyrs of Tripura, recalling those martyrs of Karnataka, remembering those martyrs of West Bengal, remembering those martyrs of Kerala, in the corner of India, the killing of our workers for political reasons. Is it possible to remember all such martyrs, can we make the resolution, reaching the height of 360 degrees ....\nI do believe. Speaker will decide. Decide on how to proceed at the right time. But we are all workers. Whatever work will be done for the people, the party that will work for us, we will all bring together the desired results in the coming days of meeting together. Fear and illusionist, the best answer to the deceiver is the voter in a democracy. And democracy has answered all the lies.\nBrothers and sisters\nI am glad Because Amit Bhai I have seen from student life. Today, success comes after success in his leadership. So you can imagine how proud it is. And Bharatiya Janata Party ... It is a matter of great happiness that a party is such that whose president is moving forward while achieving a victory after one another. And there are such groups in the country where people climb up in the post but they become smaller in the stature. The height of the Congress party has never happened so small as it has happened today.\nI just went to Puducherry. I did a speech in Puducherry. I had spoken, so I said .... There are chief ministers of the Congress in Puducherry. Is the union territory. I congratulated him publicly. Bharatiya Janata Party's program was They were with us. They went to the airport. I publicly congratulated I said that Narayan Samiji, you are the most fortunate person in Congress. Nobody like you has been blessed. Because I said that after June, there was such a Congressman for Congress, such a Congress. Or was the chief minister in the Congress In any age, we also used to rule. आखिरकार तो स्पैसी मैन ही बचाने पड़ते हैं। पूरी कांग्रेस में आप ऐसे स्पैसी मैन बन जाओगे कि आपको पूरी कांग्रेस कंधे पर लेकरके नाचेगी। देखो, हमारे पास एक मुख्यमंत्री है, एक मुख्यमंत्री है।\nमैंने कहा था कि आप नोर्थ ईस्ट में समाप्त हो जाओगे, अब कर्नाटक में भी समाप्त हो जाओगे। पंजाब तो न ये उनको अपना मानते हैं और न ही वो इनको अपना मानते हैं। वो स्वतंत्र फौजी है। कांग्रेस पार्टी का कद इतना छोटा पहले कभी नहीं था। लेकिन सब राजनीतिक दलों को सतर्क रहना होगा। भारतीय जनता पार्टी को विशेष रूप से सतर्क रहना होगा कि कांग्रेस कल्चर कहीं इधर-उधर घुस न जाए।\nमैं इस चुनाव में, विशेष करके हमारे सुरक्षा बलों को बधाई देना चाहता हूं। क्योंकि स्वभाविक रूप से नोर्थ ईस्ट में चुनाव में हिंसा की वारदात की घटनाएं इतनी तीव्र हुई है भूतकाल में। लेकिन इस चुनाव में, चुनाव के दरम्यान हमारे कार्यकर्ताओं की जो हत्याएं हुई, चुनाव के दरम्यान एक हुई। बाकी जो हुई वो चुनाव से पहले हुई। 500 से अधिक हमारे कार्यकर्ताओं पर हमले हुए। कभी-कभी तो जीवन और मौत के बीच लड़ाई लड़नी पड़े, उस प्रकार के हमले हुए। लेकिन कुल मिलाकर चुनाव संपन्न कराने में, शांति बरकरार रखने में हमारे सुरक्षा बलों ने बहुत उत्तम भूमिका निभाई। मैं ह्रदय से उनका अभिनंदन करना चाहता हूं। मैं भारत के इलेक्शन कमीशन को भी बधाई देना चाहता हूं क्योंकि इस इलाके में संकट रहता है। लेकिन शांतिपूर्ण चुनाव संपन्न कराने में, सुरक्षा बलों से उचित काम लेने में क्योंकि सुरक्षा बल चुनाव घोषित होने के बाद सरकार के हाथ में नहीं होते हैं। वो पूरी तरह इलेक्शन कमीशन के अंडर में होते हैं। लेकिन उन्होंने जो कुछ भी किया। इसके लिए सुरक्षा बल विशेष रूप से अभिनंदन के अधिकारी हैं। इलेक्शन कमीशन अभिनंदन का अधिकारी है। मैं फिर एक बार भारतीय जनता पार्टी को अभूतपूर्व विजय दिलाने वालीमतदाताओं को अभिनंदन करता हूं, वहां के नागरिकों का अभिनंदन करता हूं।\nमैंने चुनाव सभाओं में कहा था, हम वो इंसान हैं जो चीजों को पूरा करने में लगे रहते हैं। हमने कहा था, क्योंकि वही नजर आता था। जब भ्रमण करता था तो पता चल रहा था कि किस प्रकार का बाइब्रेशन है। तब मैंने कहा था कि आप जो प्यार दे रहे हैं, आप जो आशीर्वाद दे रहे हैं। हम उसे ब्याज समेत लौटाएंगे। और मैंने कहा था कि जब हम ब्याज समेत कहता हूं तो विकास करके ब्याज समेत लौटाएंगे। मैं आज फिर वहां के नागरिकों को विश्वास दे रहा हूं यहां से कि हम विकास को उस ऊंचाई पर ले जाएंगे कि आपके प्यार को ब्याज समेत विकास के द्वारा लौटाएंगे। तभी हम चैन से बैठेंगे। इसी एक विश्वास के साथ सबका बहुत-बहुत धन्यवाद। देशभर के लोगों को बहुत-बहुत बधाई धन्यवाद।\n"