"Share\n\nPM Modi on Islamist Heritage Conference, says' Modi is in the philosophy of 'Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam' - that is the whole world is one family\nEvery Indian is proud of the rich diversity the country has: PM\nIndian democracy is a celebration of our age old plurality: PM Narendra Modi\nIn India, we believe in taking everyone into the journey towards development: PM\nYour Majesty the King of Jordan Janaab Abdullah Ibn Al Hussain,\nExcellencies, Religious scholars, top leaders and distinguished guests\nIt is a great happiness and pride for me today as the King of Jordan is present in this gathering of some select leaders and religious scholars of India.\nThis is the best way to learn about your Majesty. The important role that you played in the real identity of Islam, can not be expressed in words. It can be just felt\nThe book by His Highness Prince Ghazi which has just been discussed, is also the result of efforts made in your leadership in Jordan.\nI am very hopeful that it will be great help to the curious minds to understand.\nWith the kind of ease, with the kind of simplicity and sobriety you have accepted my request to attend this event.\nYour Majesty,\nYour country is Jordan, which is a friend of us, is an indelible name in the annals and religious books. Jordan is located on such a holy land from where the message of God reverberated in the whole world in the form of prophets and saints.\nYour Majesty,\nYou are a wise man in your own right and you are very much familiar with India You know it is very well that all the major religions of the world have flourished in India's cradle. All the religions and sects of the world have flourished on the Indian soil. They breathed, they all got life here Be it the Lord Buddha two thousand five hundred years ago or it is Mahatma Gandhi in the last century. The fragrance of peace and love has spread across the whole world from the garden of India.\nThe soothing effect of this message has worked as well. Leave alone philosophy and religion, it is there in the Indian psyche that every human being's heart is lighted by the same spark. In all of them\nYour Majesty,\nIndia's capital Delhi was known as the Indraprastha in the olden days. The philosophy of Sufi saints also struck deep roots in its soil.\nThe mausoleum of a famous Sufi saint named Hazrat Nizamuddin Auliya, about whom there was a discussion here just a short while ago, is a short distance from here. The name Dilli has been derived from the word Dehleej.\nThis door of the land of two rivers - Ganga-Jamuna is the gateway to India's mixed Ganga-Jamuni culture. The ancient Indian philosophy and the mixed tradition of the love and humanism of Sufi saints have given us the fundamental unity of the humanities from here.\nThis feeling of unity of humanity has given us the philosophy It means that India and Indians have established their identity as the world.\nThe cultural and social diversity and plurality, and the openness of our outlook have remained India's identity for ages. This is the hallmark of India. Every Indian is proud of this diversity of our rich heritage, no matter which language he speaks or whether he lights the lamp in a temple or kneels down in a mosque or offers prayers in a church or sings, Shabad in a Gurudwara.\nYour Majesty,\nAt present the colorful festival of Holi is celebrated in India. The New Year according to the Buddhist tradition has started a few days ago. The whole country will celebrate Good Friday at the end of this month and after a few weeks it will celebrate the birth anniversary of Lord Buddha. Thereafter, there will be the holy month of Ramzan at the end of which the festival of Eid-ul-Fitr will remind us of the sacrifice and mutual harmony and concord. These are some of the examples of those festivals of the festivals of peace and harmony.\nFriends,\nIn the world's largest democracy, India, Democracy is not just a political system but it is also the fundamental basis of equality, diversity and concord. Indian democracy is a celebration of our age old plurality. This is that power because of which every Indian has respect for country's glorious past, he believes in the present and is confident about its future.\nFriends,\nThe rich diversity of our tradition provides us that support which is extremely necessary in the challenges like terrorism and extremism in today's world which is full of uncertainties and apprehensions; which has been plagued by violence and malice. This legacy of us and our values, the message of our religions and their principles are those powers on the basis of which we can overcome the challenges like violence and terrorism.\nFriends,\nThose who carry out barbaric attacks against humanity may fail to understand that the religion is the cause of religion. The movement against terrorism, extremism and radicalisation is not against any sect. It is against that mentality that misleads our youth and drives them to commit crimes.\nYour Majesty,\nIn India, it is our effort to take the everyone's progress It is because the destiny of the whole country is linked with the progress of every citizen. It is because of the happiness of the country\nGentlemen,\nYour presence here in such a large number is indicative of the fact how much the yearning, how much you have been showing for the future generations. This also symbolizes the fact that you are not only emphasized on the progress of youth but you also place emphasis on providing the teachings of human values.\nHolistic happiness and all round development is possible only when you will see that the Muslim youths have Quran Sharif on one hand and computer on the other. The essence of religion can never be inhuman. Every sect, every creed, every human being Therefore, the need of the hour is on the one hand to connect our youths to a humane Islamic make them modern science for progress on the other.\nYour Majesty,\nThe steps, which have been taken under your guidance, are extremely helpful in containing the fire of barbarism. It's a matter of happiness for us that the two Indians too have been signatory to the 'Aman Declaration' and they are present here among us. It is our effort to create this kind of responsible awareness with the help of influential leaders like you and the cooperation of friends like Jordan and with the leaders of all sects and religions.\nAll our efforts will be further strengthened. India would like to walk in with your efforts toward de-radicalization. More than a thousand Indian Ulemas, religious scholars and leaders are present here to give assurance to this effect. They are also present here so that they share their thoughts and guidance from your leadership. I am very grateful to you for accepting the invitation.\nGentlemen,\nI thank you very much for participating in this event.\nThank you very much\nYour saint and our friend country is an indelible name in the history books of Jordan and in the texts of religion.\nJordan is inhabited on such a holy land from where the pagam of God's Word becomes the voice of the prophets and saints, around the world Ganguly: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 1, 2018\nThe world's religions and religions flourish in the soil of India. Here in the climate, he got life, he breathed. Whether it was Lord Buddha 2500 years ago or Mahatma Gandhi in the last century. Peace and happiness of peace and tranquility spread all over the world: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 1, 2018\nFrom here, the ancient philosophy of India and the combined tradition of the love and humanism of Sufis have given the basic unity of mankind. This sense of human integrity has given India the vision of 'Vasudhaiva kutumbakam'. India has given a whole family to a family Believes to have his identity with him: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 1, 2018\nEvery Indian is proud of the specialty of its diversity.\nOn the heritage of heritage, and on heritage of diversity. No matter what language it speaks Whether it is burned in the temple or prostrate in the mosque, whether it is praying in the church or sings in the guru: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 1, 2018\nThe world's largest democracy, democracy in India is not only a political system but a fundamental basis for equality, diversity and harmony. Indian democracy is a celebration of our age old plurality: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 1, 2018\nIt is the power on which, in the mind of every Indian you have respect for glorious past, there is faith in the present and trust in the future: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 1, 2018\nOur legacy and value, the message of our faith and their wisdom are the strengths on which we can overcome the challenges of violence and terrorism.\nThose who attack on humanity against humanity probably do not understand that the loss is of that religion which they claim to stand for: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 1, 2018\nIt is our effort in India to take everyone along with everyone for the promotion.\nBecause the fate of all the nations is related to the growth of every urban. Because of the prosperity of the country, the happiness of every one is futile: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 1, 2018\nThe religion of religion can not be inhuman. Every tradition, every sect, every tradition is only for promoting human values.\nTherefore, the most urgent need is that our youth should be linked to human Islam on one side and on the other hand, modern science and the means of promotion can be used: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 1, 2018\n"