"Congress is certain to be defeated in Karnataka for its mis-governance: PM Modi\nEvery section of society is unhappy with the Congress government in Karnataka: PM Narendra Modi\nAgriculture sector, the NDA government is taking several steps for the transformation of the sector: PM\nKarnataka: PM Modi questions Congress' misrule for 48 years and urged people to compare it to 48 months of the NDA Government\nMore than Mr. Siddaramaiah, it is 'Seedha Rupaiyya' that drives the work of the Government in Karnataka, says PM Modi\nCongress' is a 10 percent government in Karnataka No work is done here without any commission: PM\nSagaro Padey Yule I would like to greet Sedidin Karnatak da food daat Mahajanare Narijan Nari Ganu Nanna. Saint Basashweshwar, Saint Kanak Das, Pujya mother, Chennai, Swami ji Everige Nun. O mighty women of Owane, Wakamatikara sand naik Shantivari gopal gond mahini arke salute.\nOn the stage, the President of the Bharatiya Janata Party state and our senior leader Mr. Yedurappa Jee, Mr. Anant Kumar ji, Mr. Sadanand Gowda, Jagdish Shettar Ji, MP Mr. Siddheshwar ji, our friends Bhai Ishwarappa ji, Govind Karjol ji, Mr. Ramesh Jee, Shobha ji, Ramlu ji, N Ravikumar, Arvind Nimbabande, Shriman Shankar Gaur Patil, Prahlad Joshi jee, Ishwarchand ji, Shriman sadasi ji Yogi Swami, Karunakara Reddy, G, MP Renukacharya, BP Harish, Arun Kumar, SB Ramachandra, Yashwant Rao Yadav, assay Ravindra Nayak, Mr. Basava Rao hero, Mr. Mazar Vijurppa hero and appeared in a large number of my farmer brothers and sisters.\nToday, I had the privilege of receiving blessings of the farmers, brothers and sisters of Karnataka, but it is also a matter of great happiness for me that even on the birthday of our senior leader Mr. Yadurappa, I got an opportunity to congratulate him. . First of all, I want to congratulate all the leaders of the Karnataka Bharatiya Janata Party, all the small and marginal workers today with heart. Because you have initiated the campaign, the Rayya Bandhu Yadurappa, this is a unique campaign in itself. Connected to the soil of Karnataka, associated with the earth of Karnataka, every farmer's brother donates his feelings a significant rice is reflected in his process of charity, his hope, expectations and feelings with him. And when the power of manpower joins, then what form does it take? When I was Chief Minister in Gujarat, Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel resolved to make the world's highest statue. These farmers were sons, grew up in the farmers' lap. Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel was the leader of the biggest movement for farmers with Mahatma Gandhi. The world's largest statue, if someone goes to America, sees the Statue of Liberty. This is the monument of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, statue of unity, the idol of unity and its elevation is double than Statue of Liberty. But it's a specialty. 6 lakh villages of Hindustan, every village had been praying. Give us the donation of iron, which is the tool you used to keep your farm. We took a piece of such an iron from each village. She was melded. And it is being used to make this statue of Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel. In the same way your rice is your rice, your brother-in-law Yedurappa campaign, the way the piece of iron is going to make a memorial of Vallabh Bhai Patel, the world's largest Sardar. This will make your handful of rice a new Karnataka. The fate of the villages of Karnataka will change. The fate of the farmer will change.\nAnd so brothers and sisters\nNot only on the birthday of Yeddyurappa, I would like to go to village-village, house-to-house, and I will go from one March to 15 March, without stopping. I will urge my farmer brothers I will urge the brothers and sisters of my village that now only BJP workers do not run this program. Every farmer believes in this program. Every farmer will be involved in the work of rice for the construction of his fortune. You see how change comes.\nBrothers and sisters\nNow this is the decision of the Karnataka Government. He has reached such a situation with the burden of his sins that he will not be able to save the Congress of Karnataka's Nadagiri and Karnataka too. And you see the whole country. Where the people of the country have got the opportunity, the first thing that has to be done is to remove the Congress, get the Congress out, take the Congress out. Because the country has come to know that the root cause of our problems is the Congress culture. If it is a Congress culture then every kind of thing comes immediately to us. There is no good thing seen. In Karnataka, the Janata Janardhan is so excited about this government's departure. And I have had the opportunity to go to the last two-three places. I have seen the mood of public-janardhan, which has seen anger towards this government. Every person is upset with this government.\nBrothers and sisters\nSuch hatred has arisen. Perhaps such governments are very few, as hatred is against this Congress government today.\nBrothers and sisters\nThe Bharatiya Janata Party has been working for this decade for decades, if India's destiny is to be changed then the fate of the villages of India will have to be changed. The fate of farmers of India will have to change. So you must have seen that since you have given us a chance to serve us in Delhi. We are going to make decisions after one and the other in the government by taking care of these basic things in the welfare of farmers, development of agriculture, change in the village in our every plan. Even if there is more farmers' crop in our country, it is also troubling, even if there is a shortage of crops, even if there is a distressed natural disaster,\nBrothers and sisters\nOur farmer lives on the favor of the above person. Can anyone be given protection? I had come to Karnataka only to say one thing. Our government started the crop insurance scheme. And to farmers, such a prime crop insurance scheme has been planned that due to which if the farmer's crop is ready, in the middle of going from the farm to the market, if any major disaster has occurred and the crop is wasted, Planned. If the water is filled then insure it, sow it in the fields of farmer, sleeping. And thinks it will rain till June 15, it will come on June 20, July will come, it will come in August but there is no rain. Even if the Indian government has provided such insurance, the farmer will get minimum price so that his year is not wasted.\nBrothers and sisters\nToday the farmers are getting the money for the crop insurance. 11 thousand crore rupees in Karnataka alone If the Indian government had announced a package of 10 thousand crore rupees then there would be applause. Modi is the leader of the biggest farmer. It is said that Even if he announced a package of 10,000 million rupees all over the country, he would not have been so acclaimed. But we brought such a plan that alone 11 thousand crores of rupees have been paid to my farmer brothers in Karnataka.\nBrothers and sisters\n2022, 75 years of independence. Our dream is to double the income of the farmers, double the income of the farmers. In five years, the scientists are moving forward to double the income of the farmers. And first of all, how is the health of the land, how is the land's health? How is the kind of land we cultivate, which is our farm, its health? And so firstly the work of self health card started. The result has come that the farmer has come to know about the production of which land will be used. The land is worthless for which crop. Which fertilizer will take, what kind of seeds will it take? Which medicine is needed or not. As a result, it has come to an end that the waste of farmers was stopped. The right yield started to grow. It started to be more than before. And if they use these three-four consecutive seasons, then there will be a huge change in their land too, the land will be more fertile. My farmer will get the direct benefit.\nWe were having MSP, big discussions. I am asking the Congress leaders - a family ruled for 48 years, he ruled the country and a tea guru who ruled for 48 months. People born in rich families ruled for 48 years, were unable to worry about farmers. Within 48 months, within the MSP, the expense which will be the cost, which will be the cost, has been one and a half times MSP. And in the coming days the farmer will get one and a half times his cost. And till a reign of 48 years, a family ruled till the country even after ruling. In the 48 months we have given our farmers, brothers, sisters. Not only this. We get the cost of cold storage, warehousing, eNAM, e-market, many such schemes, from seed to market, to the farmer's crop, value addition of it, what he produces .... Cotton, here it was called Manchester. But the leadership of such people came that all the mills were closed. People became unemployed. It has kept it lately. And so what will the cotton producer do? Here peanut Varna was previously believed that groundnut oil i.e. in Gujarat, was the area where groundnut oil was used. Wiped away all this because they did not care for the farmers.\nAnd so brothers and sisters\nWe have to increase the value of farmers to increase the value of farmers. We have to increase the value of the crop. Made a huge event of the International Value Edition. Invaders from around the world Brought new technology And our farmer who produces, that crop will be vegetable, fruit, flower, value addition. If the milk is sold then less money is available but the milk sells it out of the butter and then gets more money. If you sell ghee and sell it then get more money. If he adds value, then he earns more money. If raw mango sells then get less money. If the cooked sold mango, then get more money. If you sell raw mango after picking it will get more money. We want that the farmer who produces should increase the value. We have made a huge campaign this time around the budget. And under the name of Operation Greens, in the name of Mission Greens, the White Revolution happened. And the work of milk revolution happened in our country. We are the vegetable producing farmers here. It does not get much time, it gets worse. The farmer gets ruined. And if you get more vegetables then you do not get the price. And so we have planned in the name of Mission Greens. Thousands of rupees will be invested.\nAnd TOP - Tomato Onion and Potato. What is the situation of potatoes here. Here are your chief ministers. Some people do not believe that the government of Siddaramaiah is operating in Karnataka but the reality is that there is a government of rupees directly. This is the direct rupee, everything is done in a straightforward manner, only then work is done. You tell me Do you want direct rupee culture? What should be the direct rupee culture ... Do you want this direct rupee culture? What should these direct expenditure happen ... From the direct rupee, will the person get justice?\nAnd so brothers and sisters\nThis direct rupee should go now. A sincere government should come. And that's why Karnataka is not a direct rupee business, Karnataka is the voice of people, people working for the people.\nAnd so brothers and sisters\nYou will be surprised. The Indian government has given so much money to this government, but money is not seen on the ground. And so here the business, every minister, every office, go to the police station, go anywhere, only direct rupee runs. Nothing moves anything else.\nBrothers and sisters\nHow much India has helped Karnataka When the Congress government was in Delhi, Karnataka got 73 thousand crore rupees under the Finance Commission. After our government, NDA BJP government. Today, Karnataka gets Rs 2 lakh crore from the finance commission. Where did the Congress give 73 thousand rupees, Where did the BJP government come from Rs 2 lakh crore\nBut brothers and sisters\nThere is such a government in Karnataka that they can not even spend money. Many such schemes are currently operating in Karnataka, working under the Government of India. Some plans have reached near completion. Nearly Rs 21,400 crore Project All Ready is working today. We are moving ahead with that work at the cost of Rs. 830 crores towards making Damnagiri-Haveri National Highway six lines. The work of that National Highway is being extended, at the cost of Damnagiri-Chitradurga National Highway 1000 crores. It is clear in our heart that the people of Karnataka are good. The people of Karnataka are hard-working. Karnataka is such a state, people here are people who have something to do for the country. There are people who give something to the country. If its Karnataka will move forward, if the power of Karnataka will increase then the strength of the country will also go forward. And the country will also move forward.\nAnd so brothers and sisters\nWe continued to help the government here with open arms in every subject. But until the case of 10 percent is not formed, here it does not work. The first 10 percent, 12 percent, 15 percent, the same is discussed, every street is discussed. No one will be a citizen of Karnataka, which is not aware of this business. Still, now buy foodgrains. My farmer brother The Indian government gave them money to buy foodgrains. His job was to buy these food grains from the farmers. If their prices fall, stop them. Money was given by the Indian government. But you will be surprised. Still, the cost of 50-55 crores of rupees was not spent. If this was a sensitive government against the farmers, then these rupees are not lying in the treasury.\nBrothers and sisters\nHealth of our country's children The health of our mothers sisters And so under the National Health Mission, the government is running many schemes. If our country's childhood becomes fit, then my India will also become fit. Our mothers and sisters of our country, if they are healthy then the children born to them will also be fit. Give them money for him. you will be surprised. If someone is sick and does not have money, then the neighbors go and pay the money. लेकिन यहां एक ऐसी सरकार बनी है। भारत सरकार के पैसे देने के बाद भी 500 करोड़ रुपया अभी भी बिना खर्च किए ऐसे ही पड़ा हुआ है। जो सरकार में केंद्र के द्वारा सामान्य मानवी के तबीयत के लिए, स्वास्थ्य के लिए, हेल्थ के लिए पैसा दिया गया। उसको भी खर्च करने का सामर्थ्य नहीं है। उसके दिल में आपके प्रति संवेदना होगी कि नहीं होगी। ये समझना मुश्किल नहीं है।\nBrothers and sisters\nEducation. हर कोई कहता है, गरीब से गरीब से पूछो। आप एक ड्राइवर से पूछिए। आप मजदूर से पूछिए। आप एक ऑटो रिक्शा वाले से पूछिए। उसको पूछिए आपकी इच्छा क्या है। वो कहेगा बच्चे को अच्छी शिक्षा देना है, बच्चों को पढ़ाना है। उसकी इच्छा रहती है। भारत सरकार सर्व शिक्षा अभियान, माध्यमिक शिक्षा में सुधार। 400 करोड़ रुपया अभी भी बिना खर्च को पड़ा हुआ है। ऐसी नाकामी सरकार, नाकाम करने वाली सरकार।\nBrothers and sisters\nटेक्निकल एजुकेशन। आज टेक्निकल एजुकेशन का महत्व बढ़ता चला जा रहा है। करीब-करीब 80-90 करोड़ रुपया, वो बिना खर्च किए पड़ा हुआ है। हमारे देश में, आज गुजरात देखिए। मैं गुजरात में मुख्यमंत्री था। वहां पर एक नर्मदा नदी, तापी नदी। बाकी सूखा। 10 साल में 7 साल में सूखा पड़ता। हम रोते नहीं बैठते थे। हमने सरकार के पाई-पाई उपयोग करके वर्षा के पानी को बचाने का अभियान चलाया। छोटे-छोटे डैम बनाए। छोटे-छोटे बांध बनाए। चेकडैम बनाए। पानी को रोका। पानी जमीन में गया। और करीब 12-13 मीटर पानी का लेबल ऊपर आया। और पानी बचाने के कारण, गुजरात जो सूखा प्रदेश माना जाता, एग्रीकल्चर में कभी नाम नहीं होता था। उसने लगातार 10 प्रतिशत एग्रीकल्चर ग्रोथ करके एक बड़ा विक्रम स्थापित किया। लेकिन ये सरकार ऐसी है यहां कर्नाटक में। वाटर शेड के पैसे दिए। कर्नाटक को अकाल के दिन थे। अकाल में पानी की जरूरत थी। किसानों को पानी चाहिए लेकिन इन्होंने वाटर शैड के कार्यक्रम में भी ...। अभी तक करीब-करीब 100 करोड़ रुपया, उसको भी खर्च नहीं कर पाए।\nBrothers and sisters\nस्मार्ट सिटी। कर्नाटक की अर्बन बॉडी का आज देश में नाम है। बैंगलुरू, मैसूर को कौन नहीं जानता है। उसके भी 300 करोड़ रुपया बिना खर्च किए पड़ा हुआ है। स्मार्ट सिटी के लिए दिया हुआ 300 करोड़ रुपया वैसे के वैसे पड़ा हुआ है। स्वच्छ भारत मिशन। हमने उनको पैसे दिये। स्वच्छता से स्वास्थ्य के लिए गारंटी बनती है। वर्ल्ड बैंक कहती है, यूएनओ कहता है, डब्ल्यूएचओ कहता है। स्वास्थ्य को दुनिया में महात्मय दिया है। लेकिन यहां पर उसके प्रति भी उदासीनता। भारत सरकार के दिये हुए 75 करोड़ रुपया, ये भी आज वैसा का वैसा पड़ा हुआ है। प्रधानमंत्री मातृ वंदना योजना। 88 करोड़ ...। मैं एक लंबी लिस्ट गिना सकता हूं, लंबी लिस्ट गिना सकता हूं।\nलेकिन भाइयो बहनो।\nमुझे कहना यही है। कि ये ऐसी सरकार है जिसको जनता के लिए नहीं ...। वह दो ही काम करती है एक - दिल्ली के आकाओं को खुश करना और दूसरा - यहां पर राजी-नाराजी में लोग रहते है, हर एक को टुकड़ी फेंकते रहना। यही काम करता है। और लोगों को ऐसे ही, एमएलए को पकड़ के रखो। गाड़ी चलाओ।\nBrothers and sisters\nYou can imagine. इस देश में किसी सरकार के सीटिंग मंत्री के घरों में कभी रेड नहीं पड़ी। इनके यहां डायरियां मिलती है, पैसे मिलते हैं। उनके नेताओं के घर से नोटों के बंडल के बंडल मिलते हैं। ये कहां से आए भाई। ये पैसे कहां से आते हैं। ये किसके पैसे हैं। ये सीधा रुपैया नहीं है तो क्या है जी। ये सीधा रुपैया नहीं है तो क्या है ...। जिस प्रकार की बर्बादी कर्नाटक में हुई है, ऐसी सरकार को एक मिनट नहीं चलने देना चाहिए। एक मिनट ...।\nऔर भाइयो बहनो।\nदिल्ली में आपका भला हो, इसके लिए जीजान से जुटी हुई सरकार है। अगर कर्नाटक में भी आप हमारी योजनाओं को आगे बढ़ाने वाली सरकार बना दें। आज मैं विश्वास दिलाता हूं। जो काम ये इतने वर्षों में नहीं कर पाए हैं। हम आने वाले पांच वर्ष में करके दिखा देंगे।\nऔर इसलिए भाइयो बहनो।\nआज येदुरप्पा जी के जन्मदिन पर, आज एक किसान नेता के जन्मदिन पर, आज इतने बड़े किसान समूह के बीच में धान का अभियान चला रहे हैं, चावल देने का अभियान चला रहे हैं, एक संकल्प का अभियान चला रहे हैं। हम कर्नाटक को भी समृद्ध बनाएंगे, सुखी बनाएंगे। हम कर्नाटक के किसान को सुखी करेंगे, समृद्ध करेंगे। हम कर्नाटक की माताओं-बहनों को सुरक्षित करेंगे। हम कर्नाटक के नौजवानों के सपनों को पूरा करेंगे। हम कर्नाटक के मध्यम वर्गीय की आशा अपेक्षाओं को पूर्ण करने में कोई कमी नहीं रखेंगे। हम गरीबों के कल्याण के लिए जीएंगे। इन सपनों के साथ, इन सपनों के साथ हम भारतीय जनता पार्टी की सरकार बनाएं। येदुरप्पा के नेतृत्व में हम आगे बढ़े। कर्नाटक को नई ऊंचाइयों पर ले जाएं।\nभाइयो बहनों।\nइतनी बड़ी विशाल संख्या में आए। मुझे आशीर्वाद दिये। इसलिए मैं बहुत-बहुत आभारी। ईबारी बीजेपी सरकार। ईबारी बीजेपी की सरकार। बन्नी बीजेपी गेल्ली सी। बन्नी बीजेपी ...। बन्नी बीजेपी ...। समस्त कनन्ड़ गिरीगे, अनन्त नमस्कार करूं। Long live Mother India. Long live Mother India. Long live Mother India. Thanks a lot."