"\nIndia has the Democracy, Demography and Demands altogether: PM Modi at India-Korea Business Summit\nWe have worked towards creating a stable business environment, removing arbitrariness in decision making, says PM Modi\nWe are a de-regulation and de-licensing drive. Validity period of industrial licenses has been increased from 3 years to 15 years and more: PM\nWe are working with the mission of Transforming India from an informal economy in a formal economy: PM\nIndia is the fastest growing major economy of the world today: PM Modi\nWe are also a country with the largest start up eco-systems: PM Modi at India-Korea Business Summit\nMinister of Trade, Industry and Energy of the Republic of Korea;\nMinister for Commerce \u0026 Industry, Government of India;\nPresident and CEO of the Chosun-ilbo Group;\nBusiness Leaders of Korea and India;\nLadies and Gentlemen,\nI am very happy to be here Such a large gathering of Korean companies in India is really a global story. I take this opportunity to welcome you The relationship between India and Korea dates back centuries. It is believed that an Indian Princess travelled to Korea and became a queen in Korea. We are also bound by our Buddhist traditions. Our Nobel Laureate Rabindranath Tagore composed a poem - 'Lamp of the East' - in 1929 about Korea's glorious past and its bright future. Bollywood movies are also very popular in Korea. And at the Pro-Kabaddi League in India a few months ago, some of the loudest cheers, were reserved for a Korean Kabaddi player. It is also a good co-incidence that India and South Korea both celebrate their Independence Day on the 15th of August. From Princess to Poetry and from Buddha to Bollywood; We have so much in common\nAs I mentioned earlier, I have always been fascinated by Korea I visited Korea when I was Chief Minister of Gujarat. I used to wonder how a country of the size of Gujarat can make such economic progress. I love you I admire the way in which they have created and sustained their global brands. From IT and Electronics to Automobile and Steel, Korea has given examples. Korean companies are appreciated for their innovation, and strong manufacturing capability.\nFriends!\nIt is heartening to note that our trade is 20 billion dollars last year, for the first time in six years. My visit to 2015 Your open market policies have found resonance with India's economic liberalization and 'Look East Policy'. Over 500 Korean companies are operating in India too In fact, many of your products are home-hold names in India. However, South Korea ranks only 16th in FDI Equity inflows to India. India offers a lot of potential for the Korean market and enabling policy environment.\nSince you are already present in India, you already know the ground realities. Also, through your interaction with Indian CEOs, you must have already discovered the direction in which India is going. However, let me take a few more minutes. I would like to use this place to stay in India. If you see the globe, there are very few countries where you have three important factors of economy together.\nThey are: Democracy, Demography and Demand In India, we have all been together\nBy Democracy, I mean the system based on liberal values ​​which ensures free and fair play towards one and all;\nBy Demography, I mean a vast and talented pool of young and energetic workforce;\nBy Demand, I mean a big and growing market for goods and services.\nA growing middle class is creating more growth in the domestic market. We have been working on a stable business environment, ensuring the rule of law, and removing arbitrariness in decision making. We seek positivity in day to day transactions. We are widening the areas of trust; instead of digging in doubt This is a complete change of government's mindset. A shift from issuing authority to business partner to achieve 'Minimum Government, Maximum Governance' And when this happens, the simplification of the rules and procedures starts automatically.\nAfter all, this is what is doing doing business demands through such measures, we are now working towards 'Ease of Living'. We are a de-regulation and de-licensing drive.\nValidity period of industrial licenses has been increased from three years to fifteen years and more;\nThe Industrial licensing regime has been greatly liberalized;\nNearly 65 percent to 70 percent of items previously under licensing can now be produced without a license;\nWe have said that factory inspections will only be need-based and only on the authorization of the higher authority;\nIn FDI, we are one of the most open countries now\nMost of the sectors of our economy are open for FDI More than 90 percent approvals have been put on automatic route;\nThere is practically no requirement of government in investment sector except for Defense sector;\nIncorporating a company along with allotment of statutory numbers is just a one day affair;\nWe have carried out thousands of reforms on the business, investment, governance and cross border trading front. Some of them like GST are historical\nMany of you may have been experiencing the ease in operations due to GST;\nWe have been completely abolished more than 1400 old laws and Acts, which were just complicating governance;\nSuch measures have propelled our economy into a high growth trajectory.\nFDI inflows have increased in the last three years. There is a new energy and vibrancy in the domestic industry.\nA new start up eco-system has been un-veiled;\nWith unique ID and mobile phone penetration, we are going to be moving towards a Digital Economy;\nOur strategy is to leverage the strength of hundreds of millions of Indians who have come online in recent years;\nThus, a new India is emerging which will be modern and competitive and yet caring and compassionate;\nOn the global platform,\nIndia has climbed 42 places in the World Bank's Ease of Doing Business Index in the last three years;\nWe moved up 19 places on the Logistics Performance Index of 2016 of World Bank;\nWe have improved 31 places in the last two years in the Global Competitiveness Index of the World Economic Forum;\nWe have also upped our list of global innovations Index of WIPO in two years;\nWe are among the top 10 FDI destinations by UNCTAD;\nOurs is a globally cost competitive manufacturing eco-system;\nWe have a vast pool of skilled professionals with knowledge and energy;\nNow, we have a world class engineering education base and strong R \u0026 D facilities;\nIn the last two years, we have moved towards a low tax regime on corporate side where we have lowered the tax from 30 percent to 25 percent for new investments and small ventures.\nWe are working with the mission of Transforming India from:\nAn old civilization in a modern society;\nAn informal economy;\nYou can imagine the range and span of our work. We are already the third-largest economy by purchasing power Very soon, we will become the world's fifth-largest economy by nominal GDP We are the fastest growing major economy of the world today. We are also a country with the largest start up eco-systems\nOur vision is to create a globally competitive industry and services base with skill, speed and scale. So, we are continuously working in our investment climate. We would like to promote manufacturing in a big way. For this purpose, we have launched a campaign called \"Make in India\". This includes bringing our industrial infrastructure, policies and practices to the best global standards and to convert into a global manufacturing hub. This initiative has been supplemented by programs like 'Digital India' and 'Skill India'. Cleaner and Greener development and Zero defect\nWe have committed to the world and are moving forward for adoption of better environmental technologies. I have already said that there is huge potential for cooperation between India's software and Korea's IT industry. Your car making and our designing capabilities can be put together Though we have become the third largest producer of steel, we need to add lot of value in it. Your steel-making capacity and our resources of iron ore can be put together for better products.\nSimilarly, your ship-building capacity and our agenda of port led development can become a driver of our partnership Housing, smart cities, railway stations, water, transportation, railways, sea ports, energy renewables, IT infrastructure and services, electronics, are all very promising sectors in my country India and Korea are major economies in the region Our partnership is immensely successful in regional growth, development, sustainability and prosperity in Asia. India is turning to the bigger economic engagement. Similarly, South Korea is trying to diversify its overseas markets.\nBoth stand to gain by deepening their partnership India is a huge and emerging market. It can also be a bridge for Korean business to penetrate the Middle East and African markets. You may recall that the need for a hand-holding agency was during It was announced that a dedicated team will be established in Korean Investments in India. Accordingly, \"Korea Plus\" was formed in June 2016. The mandate of Korea Plus is to promote, facilitate and retain Korean investments in India. It is considered as the first reference point for Korean Investors in India. Korea Plus has facilitated more than 100 Korean Investors in a short span of about two years. It works as an investment partner of Korean companies. This shows our commitment towards welcoming Korean people and companies; ideas and investments\nFriends!\nI would like to conclude by saying that India is now ready for business. India is now a free destination for enterprise You will not find such a free and growing market anywhere in the world I further assure you that whatever is required to be promoted here Because we value your involvement and contribution in our economy At a personal level too, I assure you\nThank You!\nFrom Princess to Poetry and from Buddha to Bollywood; India \u0026 Korea have so much in common: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 27, 2018\nI love the enterprise of the Korean people I admire the way in which they have created and sustained their global brands. From IT and Electronics to Automobile and Steel, Korea has given the exemplary products to the world: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 27, 2018\nIf you see the globe, there are very few countries where you have three important factors of economy together. They are: Democracy, Demography and Demand In India, we have all three together: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 27, 2018\nWe have been working on a stable business environment, removing arbitrariness in decision making. We seek positivity in day to day transactions. We are widening areas of trust; instead of digging in doubt This is a complete change of the government's mindset: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 27, 2018\nWe are a de-regulation and de-licensing drive. Validity period of industrial licenses has been increased from three years to fifteen years and more: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 27, 2018\nWe are working with the mission of Transforming India from:\nAn old civilization in a modern society,\nAn informal economy: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 27, 2018\nWe are already the third-largest economy by purchasing power Very soon, we will become the world's fifth-largest economy by nominal GDP We are the fastest growing major economy of the world today. We are also a country with the largest start up eco-systems: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 27, 2018\nA need for a hand-holding agency Thus, 'Korea Plus' was formed in June 2016. Korea Plus has facilitated more than 100 Korean Investors in just 2 years. This shows our commitment towards welcoming Korean people, companies, ideas \u0026 investments: PM"