"Share\n\nOur first PM was there for 17 years, his daughter for about 14 years, his son for next five years and the same family also ran for government with a long time with remote control: PM\nCongress Government in Puducherry has done injustice against people on the issue of development: PM\nPuducherry has all the resources and its people had the ability to touch new heights of development: PM\nPuducherry: PM Modi highlighted various initiatives of the Center like Mudra Yojana, Jan Dhan Yojana and Digital Saksharta Scheme\nAyushmann Bharat Yojana will benefit poor the most, says PM Modi\nThrough Sagarmala project, the government is strengthening the ports and ushering in an era of port-led development: PM Modi\nLong live Mother India. Raise both hands up and fist off. Long live Mother India. Long live Mother India. Long live Mother India.\nPuducheri sahodar, Sahodari kale vallakam Mangalya Pak Puducheri Vande Roma Santosham Puducherry alanganur All the senior leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party sitting on the platform and my dear brothers and sisters of Puducheri came to such a big spot in such a deep sunshine at a small place like Puducherry.\nI have come to Puducherry today after a long gap. Puducherry is the city of divine and perfect people. It can always be felt in this virtuous land that makes the country culturally and spiritually and empowered. You are very fortunate because you live in this holy city. And I too feel fortunate to come here today.\nAssociates\nPuducherry is a specialty. This is a village for the villagers and the city is for the people of the city. We have been told here - Guest Devo Bhava:. You have shown this historical city by its historical great deeds. When Shri Arvind Ghosh, who had escaped from the British, came to Puducherry, then you were hugged with both hands and made him a guru of guru. When the poet Bharti came here in the same environment, you welcomed him with his heart. Puducherry gave them the path to making a nation poet. Through his poems, he worked to connect Kanchi and Kashi. Mother Bharti has worked to raise the heart and mind of every Indian. Shri Vipinajan, freedom fighter also welcomed his heart. For nation building, Puducherry's contribution for independence is such a legacy that still fills with glory. In the period of slavery, the magazines which used to be banned thinking it was a crime, it was the responsibility of awakening the magazines printed by Puducherry. The people here have participated in one or two independence movements.\nAfter the Tsunami disaster, the way you and the people of Karikkal, especially those who performed the task of rebuilding, reflects your patience, your senses and your will. Companionship I salute this great land of Puducherry once more.\nCompanionship\nPuducherry has resources, strength, will will power, but what is the reason that development has been kept in the forefront. Why is it so that Puducherry is not in the forefront of the developmental parameters in the country? Every citizen of Puducherry asks if Puducherry is using his full power. Is the youth here, getting a fair opportunity to move forward ... Are the industries here performing well ... Is the people here is alive of your life, of whom you are the officer ....\nBrothers and sisters\nHas done injustice to this earth. After one successive governments have made a mistake in understanding the potential here. The development of Puducherry has been brake for several decades. When we talk about development then it comes to mind that our country was liberated in 1947. There were many such countries which were liberated after us. But today those countries have gone far ahead of India on many dimensions of development. We must seriously think that in our political culture, in our system, in our government culture, there is such a shortfall that we are still behind in this journey of development and from other countries. I want to draw the attention of scholars from all over the country from Puducherry's land today. Let's look at a history.\nOur first prime minister has been governing this country for nearly 17 years. After that, his daughter took over the country's business for almost 14 years. And then his son took over as the Prime Minister for five years. And in the last 10 years you saw from 2004 to 2014, how did this family run the country's government with remote control? If a total accounting is made, then this family has operated this country's governance directly and indirectly for almost 48 years.\nMy dear countrymen\nHe ruled for 48 years. Our government will be 48 months away in this month. Now we must consider. On one hand, the country's Buddhist class has to consider. We lost what we found in 48 years of a family. And what we have achieved in this 48 months. He ruled for 48 years and we have shown 48 months by giving to the country. If we talk about 48 years, our 48-month government, his business of 48 years, when it is comparable or we talk of development, making it easier for normal human life, then in this view, what comparison can be. Puducheri was rich ... but now his glow has become gloomy. The co-operative sector is also nearly dead. Where transport sector across the country is being modernized. At the same time, the condition of the transport sector in Puducherry is getting worse. The city's infrastructure, the power distribution system, also the victim of Congressional culture remains your beloved.\nCompanionship\nAlthough Puducherry is a Union Territory, but like the Congress government for many decades at the Center, Congress's time has also been the maximum time. Why backward in Puducherry development? The answer will be to answer this to the government, the Congress party, the Congress leaders, the people of the country, the people of Puducherry. The big leaders of Congress, sitting in Delhi, talk about democracy. But I want to ask, I want to ask the Congress and the Rathis. Despite the big talk of democracy, the elections of panchayats in Puducherry have been stopped for years. Here the Panchayats are not allowed to do the elections. The people of this village are not given their rights. These responses will have to be given to Congress leaders sitting in Delhi. This work of defying democracy, he keeps working on the throats of democracy and talks bigger in Delhi.\nThose nominated MLAs under the law, they have the right to work just like the Representative in all the work of assembly, but I am told that no roll is allowed to be played inside the assembly, the throat of democracy is thrown away.\nToday I want to give a special greetings to the Chief Minister of Puducherry, Mr. Narayan Sami. Advance wants to congratulate because after the month of June, Narayan Sami is going to get so much cheer in Congress, his status is going to grow. The entire Congress party is going to show Kare Narayana Sami as a special man everywhere. You know why ... I know .... I tell you. See the elections are going on in the North East. There is a Congress government there. She is about to go. Later, the Karnataka election is about to take place. There is a Congress government left, he is about to go. Then alone Narayana Sami is the only survivor in the whole country. Therefore, after the month of June the Congress party will have to tell Narayan Sami on the shoulder and tell the whole country that we have a Chief Minister left.\nCompanionship\nAccording to the Puducherry area, it is among the smallest states in the country which has the power to give direction to the whole country. Like a light house, Puducherry can show the way to the surrounding people, the surrounding states, shining brightly. Through the work associated with low cash economy, establishing a new eco system associated with tourism, creating an environment-friendly transport, becoming a state with a hundred percent LED bulb, can be a new example of the Puducherry development in a new innovative way. There are so many heritage properties here. The city's heritage is. How to be cared for, how to preserve them. He can also guide Puducherry to the country by developing it as a model. You think How many countries in the world come out to see a particular historic city. In heritage tourism Puducherry has the power to lead the whole country.\nThere are possibilities and resources in Puducherry too. Declare himself free from defecation in open. And I believe that if Puducherry wants to create a new faith and can be made whole Puducherry free of open defecation.\nBrothers and sisters\nWith the preservation of the ancient heritage of Puducherry, the central government is also engaged in the modernization of modernization. New Puducherry will progress with its old cultural, spiritual and historical heritage. Keeping these things in mind, our government has started developing Puducherry as a smart city. More than Rs. 1800 crores will be spent in this work. With this amount tourism sector will be strengthened here. The transport sector will be improved. Good delivery of government services will be ensured to the citizens. Historical buildings will be preserved. For this purpose, a special purpose vehicle (SPVP), named Puducherry Smart City Development Ltd, has been made last year. 500 crore rupees will be spent separately through a French agency to improve the water supply system in Puducherry. This place is the hub of medical education in the country. Of the 9 medical colleges, the central government's Jither Hospital is the most important. Central Government has sanctioned a project of Rs. 450 crore for modernization of Jither Hospital.\nCompanionship\nThe tourism department's logo here is Puducherry Give time a break This place not only takes time but takes the ordinary person on a different journey of spirituality. Central Government has sanctioned 85 crores under Swadesh Darshan Scheme for promotion of tourism in the Coedal Circuit. Similarly, over 100 crores of rupees have been released for the Heritage and the Spiral Circuit. The work of beach restoration is also being done in collaboration with the National Institute of Ocean Technology and Economics Ministries. All these projects will take tourism sector of Puducherry to new heights. Apart from this, our government flight plan is also helping to increase connectivity with Puducherry. Flight service has been resumed from Puducherry under the flying plan. And with this Hyderabad and Bangalore city have also joined you in the air service.\nCompanionship\nThis investment of thousands of crores is coming with new opportunities for employment with you. The stronger the basic infrastructure will be in the cities, the stronger the connectivity, the more cameraman will come. More tourists who come here will be more than that. The development of tourism sector will give new strength to the youth of Puducherry. Today, I want to mention another scheme of the central government among all of you, whose benefits are being raised by the youth here. The name of this scheme is - Prime Minister Money Scheme In Puducherry, which has a population of 12-13 lakhs, over 3 lakh 25 thousand loan has been given in the last three years under this scheme. That is, thousands of people have been given crores of rupees for self-employment without bank guarantee. I will urge the youth of Puducherry to make the most of the money scheme. If you want to start your work in tourism, textile, education, manufacturing, health sector, any sector, the central government is with you. Bank accountants of 1.5 lakh people have been opened through the Jan Dhan Yojana at Puducheri by the Central Government. Only two hundred and fifty lakhs of people have been provided security through two insurance plans on 90 paisa per day and one rupee per month premium.\nBrothers and sisters\nIn this budget our government has announced a huge plan related to your health concerns. The name of this scheme is - Ayushman Bharat Scheme. Some people are saying this Ayushman Bharat Scheme to Modi Care. So people think that there are two plans. Those who call Modi Care and those who are called Ayushman Bharat. Both have made different names for the same scheme. Under this scheme, the government is giving insurance to every poor family for treatment of up to Rs 5 lakh in a year for serious illness. With this plan, the big concern of about 100 million poor families i.e. about 45 to 500 million people, will be overcome.\nCompanionship\nPuducherry is the first Union Territory of the country which has achieved 100% public funding coverage. 100 per cent base coverage has been achieved in the scheme of scheduled caste welfare. I am told that under MNREGA, all the workers are now transferred money directly to the bank account. Through the Prime Minister Rural Digital Literacy Campaign, the Government of India has started the task of making 28 thousand people living in rural areas digitally literate.\nBrothers and sisters\nThe Central Government is also trying to modernize the fishing work for our fishermen brothers. The kind of tolers used now They are very old in terms of technology. And so when we go to our fisherman's brother Samar, when these old tollers go to the ocean, the path often wanders. This problem can be solved by the use of more and more lengthy technique of technology. And hence the central government is giving financial help to fishermen for long liner tollers under a scheme. देश में कोस्टल इंफ्रास्ट्रक्चर को मजबूत करने के लिए हमारी सरकार सागरमाला कार्यक्रम पर भी काम कर रही है। इससे पोर्टलेट डवलपमेंट के साथ ही समुद्री तटों पर रहने वाले लोगों के जीवन में बहुत बड़ा बदलावा आएगा।\nसाथियों।\nसवा सौ करोड़ भारतीय मिलकर इस समय संकल्प से सिद्धि की यात्रा पर बढ़ रहे हैं। हम सभी का सपना न्यू इंडिया का है। ये सपना तभी पूरा होगा जब न्यू पुदुचेरी का संकल्प सिद्ध होगा। देश का प्रत्येक शहर, प्रत्येक गांव अपने-अपने संकल्प को पूरा करने में जुट जाएंगे तो कोई भी शक्ति हमें  न्यू इंडिया के निर्माण से रोक नहीं पाएगी। Come. पुदुचेरी के गौरव को और बढ़ाने के लिए संकल्प लें। न्यू पुदुचेरी का संकल्प लें।\nऔर इसलिए भाइयो बहनो।\nआज जब मैं इतनी बड़ी मात्रा में इस छोटे से प्रदेश में आपको देख रहा हूं। दूर-दूर से यहां आने के लिए और मुझे आशीर्वाद देने के लिए, इतना प्यार जताने के लिए मैं पुदुचेरी वासियों का ह्रदय से बहुत-बहुत आभार व्यक्त करता हूं। मेरे साथ भारत माता की जय दोनों हाथ ऊपर करके बोल करके हम न्यू इंडिया, न्यू पुदुचेरी के संकल्प को आए बढ़ाएं। Long live Mother India. Long live Mother India. Long live Mother India. वल्लकम। ननरी वल्लकम।\n"