"Share\n\nMr. Aurobindo was man of action, a philosopher, a poet; There were so many facets to his character and each of them was dedicated to the good of the nation and humanity: PM\nAuroville has brought together men and women, young and old, cutting across boundaries and identities: PM Modi\nMaharishi Aurobindo's philosophy of consciousness integrates not just humans, but the whole universe: PM\nIndia has always allowed mutual respect \u0026 co-existence of different religions and cultures: PM Modi\nIndia is home to the old tradition of Gurukul, where learning is not limited to classrooms. Auroville too has developed as a place of un-ending and life-long education: PM\nI am happy to be here today on the golden jubilee week of Auroville. Sri Aurobindo's vision of India's spiritual leadership continues to inspire us, even today.\nIndeed, Auroville is a manifestation of that vision. Over the last five decades, it has emerged as a hub of social, cultural, educational, economic and spiritual innovation.\nFriends,\nIt is important today to remember the vast extent of action and thought of Mr. Aurobindo.\nA man of action, a philosopher, a poet, was so much like his character. They were the best of the nation and humanity.\nIn the words of Rabindra Nath Tagore:\nRabindranath, O Aurobindo, bows to thee!\nO friend, my country's friend, O voice incarnate, free,\nOf India's soul!\nFriends,\nAs The Mother had observed, Auroville was a universal town. The purpose of realizing human unity\nThe big gathering here today, is a reflection of that idea For ages, India has a spiritual destination for the world. The great universities of Nalanda and Taxila hosted students from all over the world. Many of the world's great religions were born here They motivate people from all walks of life,) to take a spiritual path in their day to day transactions\nRecently, the United Nations has announced June 21 as International Day of Yoga, recognizing a great Indian tradition. Auroville has brought together men and women, young and old, cutting across boundaries and identities.\nI understand that Auroville's Charter was hand-written in French by the Divine Mother herself. According to the Charter, the mother set five high principles for Auroville\nThe first high principle of Auroville is that it is related to all humanity. This is a reflection of our ancient credo of VasudhaivaKutumbakam - the world is one family.\nI am told, that the inauguration ceremony of Auroville in 1968 was attended by delegates of 124 nations. I learn that today, it has over two thousand, four hundred residents from forty-nine countries.\nThis leads us to the second high principle of Auroville Anyone who is willing to serve in the Divine Consciousness is entitled to live in Auroville.\nMaharishi Aurobindo's philosophy of consciousness integrates not just humans, but the entire universe. This match with the ancient saying in the Ishavasya Upanishad. It is said that Mahatma Gandhi to mean \"everything down to the tinyest atom is divine\".\nThe third founding principle of Auroville is that will emerge as the bridge between the past and the future. If one looks at the world and India was in 1968 when Auroville was founded, the world was living in compartments and in a state of cold war. The idea of ​​Auroville saw the world getting integrated by trade, travel and communication.\nAuroville was conceived with the vision of enveloping This will show that an integrated world The fourth founding principle of Auroville is that it will connect the spiritual and material approaches of the contemporary world. As the world progresses through science and technology, it will be increasingly long and requires spiritual orientation for social order and stability.\nAt Auroville, the material and the spiritual, co-exist in harmony.\nThe fifth basic theory of Auroville is that it will be a place of un-ending learning and continuing progress, so that it never stagnates.\nThe progress of humanity calls for continuous thinking and re-thinking, so that the human mind does not become frozen in one idea.\nThe very fact that Auroville has brought together such a huge diversity of people and ideas\nIndian society is fundamentally diverse It has fostered dialogues and a philosophic tradition. Auroville show-cases this ancient Indian tradition to the world\nIndia has always allowed mutual respect and co-existence of different religions and cultures. India is home to the old tradition of Gurukul, where learning is not confined to classrooms; where life is a living laboratory Auroville too has developed as a place of un-ending and life-long education.\nIn ancient times, our sages and 'Rishis' would perform 'yagya' to begin great endeavours. Occasionally, those yagyas will shape the course of history.\nOne such 'Yagna' for unity was performed here exactly 50 years ago. Men and Women In the mixing of the soil,\nThe world has received positive vibrations from Auroville, in many forms, over the years.\nBe it un-ending education, environmental regeneration, renewable energy, organic farming, proper building technologies, water management, or waste management. Auroville has been a pioneer\nYou have done a lot to promote On the occasion of 50 years of Auroville, I hope you can improve your efforts in this direction. Serving young minds through education will be a big tribute to Sri Aurobindo and the Mother.\nMany of you may not know, but I too, have been a follower of your efforts on education. Shri Kireet Bhai Joshi, an ardent disciple of Sri Aurobindo, and the Mother, was an eminent educationist\nHe was also my Education Advisor, when I was Chief Minister of Gujarat. He is not amongst us today. But his contribution to the field of education in India, is worth remembering.\nFriends,\nThe Rig Veda states: \"Ano Bhadra: Krritwo Yantu Vishwat:\"; Let noble thoughts come from us\nMay Auroville\nMay people from far and wide May Auroville be the center where these ideas are synthesized.\nMay be the service to a world!\nMay it be the guardian who calls for breaking down May it continue to invite you to all the possibilities of humanity's one-ness\nMay the spirit of Maharishi Aurobindo and the Divine Mother, continue to guide Auroville to the eventual fulfillment of its lofty founding vision.\nThank You\nIt is important today to remember the vast extent of action and thought of Mr. Aurobindo. A man of action, a philosopher, a poet, was so much like his character. And each of them was dedicated to the good of the nation and humanity: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 25, 2018\nAuroville has brought together men and women, young and old, cutting across boundaries and identities. I understand that Auroville's Charter was hand-written in French by the Divine Mother herself. According to the Charter, the mother set five high principles for Auroville: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 25, 2018\nMaharishi Aurobindo's philosophy of consciousness integrates not just humans, but the entire universe This matches with the ancient saying: \"Ishwasamam Idam Sarvam.\" It is said that Mahatma Gandhi to mean \"everything down to the tinyest atom is divine\": PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 25, 2018\nAs the world progresses through science and technology, it will be increasingly long and requires spiritual orientation for social order and stability. At Auroville, the material and the spiritual, co-exist in harmony: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 25, 2018\nThe fact that Auroville has brought together such a huge diversity of people and ideas makes dialogue and debate natural. Indian society is fundamentally diverse It has fostered dialogue \u0026 a philosophic tradition. Auroville show-cases this ancient Indian tradition to the world: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 25, 2018\nIndia has always allowed mutual respect \u0026 co-existence of different religions and cultures. India is home to the old tradition of Gurukul, where learning is not limited to classrooms. Auroville too has developed as a place of un-ending and life-long education: PM"