"#MannKiBaat: India is the land to many great scientists, says PM\nDay by day machines are becoming smarter and more intelligent through self-learning: PM Modi #MannKiBaat\nPM Narendra Modi #MannKiBaat: Technology and artificial intelligence can be used widely in the life of poor and underprivileged\nPM remembers Sri Aurobindo, says as a sage he has challenged every aspect of life to find answers and show the right way to humanity #MannKiBaat\nTo know the facts, one has to be curious, says Narendra Modi during #ManKiBaat\nImportant to remain vigilant, follow rules to avert accidents due to human malignity: PM during #MannKiBaat\n#MannKiBaat: PM Modi lauds anonymous heroes who reach out rescue and relief operations soon after any disaster\nNarendra Modi during #MannKiBaat\nPM speaks about 'Gobar-Dhan Yojana' during #MannKiBaat, says it will generate revenue as well as clean energy\nFarmers should see animal dung and garbage not just as waste, but as a source of income, says PM Modi #MannKiBaat\nPM Modi appreciates first trash Mahotsav in Chhattisgarh during #MannKiBaat #MyCleanIndia\nIndia is heading towards women-led development from only women development: PM during the #MannKiBaat\nIndia's Nari Shakti, through their self-confidence has showed their potential: PM Modi during #MannKiBaat\nPM Modi congratulates people of Elephanta Islands as three villages get electricity for first time, says it is a new development phase #MannKiBaat\n#MannKiBaat: PM Modi conveys Holi greetings to the nation, says the festival is about spreading peace, unity and brotherhood\nMy dear countrymen, Namaskar\nLet us start today's Man Ki Baat with a phone call.]\nPhone Call ...\nThank you very much for your phone call My young friends have asked me many questions related to Science; They keep writing on quite a few points. All of us have seen that the sea looks blue, but we know from routine life experiences that water has no color at all. Have we ever thought why water acquires color in rivers and seas? The same thought happened to a young man in the 1920s. The same question was given to a great scientist of modern India. When we talk about science, the first name that strikes us is that of India Ratna Sir C.V. Raman. He was awarded the Noble Prize for his outstanding work on light scattering. One of his discoveries is the Raman Effect.\nWe celebrate the 28th of February as National Science Day since on this very day, he has said that the phenomenon of light scattering, for which the Nobel Prize was awarded on him. This land has given birth to many a great scientist. On the one hand, there was a tradition of great mathematicalians like Bodhayan, Bhaskar, Brahmagupt and Aryabhatt; On the other, in the field of medicine, Sushrut \u0026 Charak has given us a place of pride. Right from Jagdish Chandra Bose and Hargobind Khurana to Satyendranath Bose have brought laurels to India The famous particle has been named after Satyendranath Bose. Recently I got a chance to take part in a program in Mumbai - the inauguration of the Wadhwani Institute for Artificial Intelligence. It was interesting to know about the ongoing miraculous achievements in the field of Science. Artificial intelligence aids in making robots, bots and other machines meant for specific tasks. Through self learning, machines today can increase their intelligence to a smarter level. This technology can be harnessed to better the lives of the underprivileged, the marginalized and the needy. In that program on Artificial Intelligence, I asked for the scientific community on how artificial intelligence could make life easier for our divyang brothers and sisters Can we make better predictions of natural disasters using Artificial Intelligence? Can we use it to provide help on crop yield? Can Artificial Intelligence be used as a tool to simplify the outreach of health services and modernize medical treatment?\nA few days ago, I got a chance to accompany the Prime Minister of Israel to Ahmedabad, Gujarat for the inauguration of 'I create'. There is a young person referred to developing a digital instrument that converts the written word in voice. This is a help for those who are unable to speak I feel we can harness artificial intelligence in many such fields.\nScience and Technology are value neutral They do not possess any value in themselves. Any machine will work It is fully dependent on what we want it to perform. Here human objectives assume significance; the use of science for the sole purpose of human welfare, the endeavor to assist human life.\nThomas Alva Edison, The inventor of the light bulb, failed many a time in his experiments. Once, on being asked about it, he quipped, \"I have devised ten thousand ways of how to make a light bulb\". What I mean to say is, Edison has transformed Coincidentally, I am fortunate today to be in Auroville, the land, the karmabhoomi of Maharshi Arvind. As a revolutionary, he challenged British rule, fought against them and questioned subjugation. Thus, as a great sage, he questioned every aspect of life. Extracting answers The relentless quest to ask questions And this is the very essence, the real inspiration behind scientific inventions and discoveries. Never rest till every 'why', 'what' \u0026 'how' are answered I congratulate our scientists, and all those connected with Science on the occasion of National Science Day. May our young generation be inspired for truth \u0026 knowledge; May they be motivated to serve society through Science I wish them the best\nFriends, safety in the times of crises, disasters are topics on which many messages keep coming in- people keep writing to me In a comment posted on Narendra Modi Mobile App, Shriman Ravindra Singh from Pune has referred to the Occupational Safety. He writes that in our country, the safety standards at factories and construction sites are not up to the mark. Since the 4th of March is National Security Day, the Prime Minister should include safety in the Mann Ki Baat program in order to raise awareness on safety. When we refer to public safety, two aspects are very important- proactiveness and preparedness. Safety is two types - one is safety during disasters and the other is safety in everyday life. If we are not aware of security in daily life, if we are not able to reach a certain level, it will get extremely difficult during the time of disasters. We often read signboards on streets bearing lines such as - 'Vigilance error - Accident loss' -' Lose alertness - invite mishaps' or 'A forgotten loss, sneeriness and smile' - 'One mistake may cost you dear- rob you of your joy \u0026 smile 'or leave the world so fast, now add friendship to security -' Do not be a hurry to leave the world '- Do not protect yourself or save yourself. Do not play around with safety, your life will be treated cheap '. Beyond that, these sentences serve no purpose in our lives. Leave aside Natural disasters; Most of the mishaps are a consequence of some mistake or the other on our part. If we stay alert, abide by the determined regulations and regulations, we will not only prevent the catastrophes harming society. There are times when we come across many slogans but their letter and spirit I urge the fire brigade under corporations and municipalities to visit school children once a week or a month and perform mock drills for them. This will have a dual benefit - the fire brigade will go through a course in readiness and the new generation will get lessons in alertness. And all this at no added cost In a way it will be a natural part of the overall learning curve. India is a land of geographic and climatic diversities. As far as disasters are concerned, this country has been the brunt of many a natural as well as man made disaster, such as chemical \u0026 industrial mishaps. Today, the National Disaster Management Authority, NDMA is the vanguard when it comes to dealing with disasters in the country. During earthquakes, floods, cyclones, landslides, NDMA reaches the area within no time. They have issued guidelines; They will continue to offer training on a regular basis. In Districts prone to floods and cyclones, an initiative named 'Aapada Mitra' has been launched for training volunteers. Training and awareness is a very important role. Two-three years ago, thousands of people will lose their heat. After that, NDMA organized workshops on heat wave management as part of a campaign to raise awareness in people Mass participation In 2017, the death toll on account of heat wave was remarkably down to around 220 or so. This proves that if we accord priority to safety, we can actually achieve safety. I laud the role, played by innumerable individuals, citizens who are on the same path as a rescue and relief operation, whereever a disaster strikes. And there are numerous such unnamed, unsung heroes Our Fire \u0026 Rescue services, National Disaster Response Forces Armed Forces, Paramilitary Forces ... These brave hearts go beyond the call of duty, sometimes risking their own lives Organizations like NCC and Scouts are also contributing in this task; They are getting trained too Recently we have made an attempt to be a joint operation for disaster management between the countries of the lines of the United States of the United States of America. India has made a pioneering effort - BIMSTEC, Bangladesh, India, Myanmar, Sri Lanka, Thailand, Bhutan \u0026 Nepal - these countries involving a joint disaster management exercise. It was a novel humanitarian experiment on a large scale. We have a risk conscious society In our culture, we often talk about safety of values; We now need to realize the values ​​of safety. We've got to make it our life, our being. In the day to day life, during air travel, we must have frequent air hostesses giving out a rather longish speech, safety instructions at the beginning of a flight. We have heard it But today if one of us is taken in an aircraft and asked about the location of equipments, say life jackets, and how to use them, I can say for sure that none of us will have the right answer. So, was there a provision for giving our information? Yes, there was Was there a scope of direct visibility? Of course there was. But we did not respond actively WHY? Because by nature, we are not conscious And that is why our ears hear when we sit in the air, but no one realizes that 'these instructions are for me' We experience this in all walks of life. Let us not think that If all of us are conscious and aware of our own security, the essence of safety will be inbuilt\nMy dear countrymen, in the current budget, has been turned on turning 'waste to wealth' and 'waste to energy' through Bio gas, under the Swachch India Campaign. An effort was made which was named GOBAR-Dhan - Galvanizing Organic Bio Agro Resources. The aim of this GOBAR-DHAN scheme is ensuring cleanliness in villages and generating wealth and energy by converting cattle dung and solid agricultural waste in Compost and Bio Gas. India is home to the highest cattle population in the world, close to 300 million in number, with a daily output of 3 million tons of dung. Some European countries and China use animal dung and other bio-waste to produce energy. But India was lacking full capacity utilization Under the Swachch Bharat Mission (Rural), we are taking this stride in this direction.\nA target has been set to use cattle dung, agricultural waste, kitchen waste to produce Bio gas based energy. Under the Gobardhan Scheme our farmers will be encouraged to consider dung and other waste as not just a waste but income as a source of income. Under the aegis of 'GobarDhan Yojana', many benefits will accrue to rural areas. It will be easy to keep the village clean and sanitized, livestock health will improve and farm yields will increase. Biogas generation will increase self-reliance in energy use Farmers and cattle herders will be helped in augmenting their income. There will be new opportunities for newer jobs linked to waste collection, transportation, biogas sales etc. An online trading platform will be created for better implementation of 'Gobar Dhan Yojana', it will connect farmers to buyers so that farmers can get the right price for dung and agricultural waste. I urge entrepreneurs, especially our sisters residing in rural India, to step forward, and through creation of self-help groups and cooperative societies. I invite you to become part of the movement involving clean energy and green jobs, to become a part of the initiative, convert into your village to wealth and by converting dung into 'Gobar dhan.'\nMy dear countrymen, till date, we have been listening about the myriad types of festivals - be it music festivals, food festivals, film festivals and many other kinds of festivals. But in a unique effort in Raipur, Chhattisgarh, the state's first 'Trash Mahotsav' was organized. The objective behind this festival was sponsored by Raipur Municipal Corporation, which was used to generate awareness of cleanliness and the methods used by the city's waste. A well-organized activities were organized during the festival Different types of artifacts were made using garbage. Many Workshops were organized on the basis of waste management. The music performed on the theme of hygiene was made. Raipur inspired various types of such garbage or trash festivals in other districts too Many people taking initiative on their own way shared innovative ideas, organized discussions, conducted poetry recitals A festive atmosphere regarding cleanliness got geared up. The way the school took part in the whole effort was amazing For the innovative way in which importance of waste management and cleanliness was displayed in this festival, I congratulate the people of Raipur Municipal Corporation, the whole populace of Chhattisgarh, its government and administration.\nEvery year on March 8, 'International Women's Day' is celebrated. There are many programs that are held in our country and the world. On this day, women are also felicitated with 'Nari Shakti Puraskar' who have performed exemplary tasks in the past. Today the country is moving forward from the path of women-led development. On this occasion, I remember the words Swami Vivekananda He said that 'the idea of ​​perfect womanhood is perfect freedom' - this idea of ​​Swami ji about one hundred and twenty five years ago expresses the contemplation of women power in Indian culture. Today, it is our duty to ensure the participation of women in every field of life, be it social or economic life, it is our fundamental duty We are part of a tradition where people were identified due to women-Yashoda-Nandan, Kaushalya-Nandan, Gandhari-Putra, These were identities of a son. Today our women power has shown inner fortitude and self-confidence, has made herself self-reliant Not only has she taken herself abroad\nAfter all, our dream of 'New India' is the one where women are strong and empowered and are equal partners in the development of the country. A few days ago, a gentleman had given me a very sound proposal. He has suggested that on 8th March, myriad events will be 'Women's Day', why can not we felicitate mothers and sisters who have completed 100 years in every Indian village or city? Can a program of paying respect for such centenarians be held? I liked the idea and I'm bouncing it with many examples of what women power can achieve, if you look around yourself, many such inspirational stories will appear. I just received news from Jharkhand wherein under the 'Swachh Bharat Abhiyan', about 1.5 million women in Jharkhand - and this figure is a small one organized a hygiene campaign for an entire month! Under the auspices of this campaign starting from January 26, 2018, these women constituted 1 lakh 70 thousand toilets in just 20 days and made a record of sorts. There were about one lakh 'Sakhi Mandals,' 14 lakh women, 2 thousand women Panchayat representatives, 29 thousand water carriers, 10 thousand female cleaners and 50 thousand women workers in this campaign. You could imagine what a mammoth undertaking it was! These women of Jharkhand have shown that women power is an integral component of 'Swachh Bharat Abhiyan', which will change the course of the campaign of cleanliness in general life, the effective role of hygiene in the nature of the people ingeneral.\nMy dear Brothers and sisters, I was just watching the TV news two days ago that 70 years of independence after electricity was Elephanta island of three villages, and this was the people among the people in much joy and enthusiasm. You all know very well, that Elephanta is located 10 km from the sea from Mumbai. It is a very important tourist destination. The caves of Elephanta are marked as the World Heritage sites by UNESCO and tourists from all over the country and abroad. I was surprised to know that despite being a major center of tourism its close proximity from Mumbai, electricity was not reached after so many years of independence. For 70 years, the lives of the denizens of three villages of the Elephanta Island, Rajbunder, Morbandar and Centabandar, were engulfed by darkness, which has been dispelled now and there is brightness in their lives. I congratulate the administration and the populace there. I am glad that now the villages of Elephanta and the caves will be electrified. This is not just electricity, but a new beginning of a period of development. There is no greater contentment and joy than the fact that the lives of the countrymen are full of shine and are there in their lives.\nMy dear brothers and sisters, we just celebrated the festival of Shivaratri. And now the month of March beckons us with ripe crops in the fields, playful golden earrings of wheat and the captivating blossom of mango appealing to the mind. But this month is also very special for all On 2nd March In the festival of Holi, the importance of colors is as per the 'HolikaDahan' because it is the day when we burn our inherent vices in the fire. Holi makes us forget our rancours and gives us a chance to be a happy and happy news of a part, and it is the message of love, unity and brotherhood. I wish a very joyous festival of Holi to all my countrymen, I wish you color len felicitations. I wish and hope that this festival is forever a festival of colorful cheer in the lives of all countrymen- this is my wish. My dear countrymen, thank you very much\nPM @narendramodi speaks on India's contribution in the field of science. pic.twitter.com/6aqoDJNvvl\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 25, 2018\nLeveraging Artificial Intelligence for betterment of all humans pic.twitter.com/TX9Grsrol7\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 25, 2018\nHuman objectives guide outcomes of technology pic.twitter.com/gPWSG59cLy\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 25, 2018\nPaying tributes to Maharishi Aurobindo pic.twitter.com/sRmOEOrmdK\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 25, 2018\nStaying alert \u0026 vigilant will help prevent accidents pic.twitter.com/vadsIA658J\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 25, 2018\nI appreciate the heroes who work in relief and rescue operations across the country #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/VT6twikxEc\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 25, 2018\nBIMSTEC countries came together to help #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/PyqVdWwJUa\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 25, 2018\nThere is a need to be a risk conscious society \u0026 imbibe values ​​of safety. #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/ba4Rvv1JfO\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 25, 2018\n'Waste to Wealth' \u0026 'Waste to Energy' #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/d0y4QCKDuE\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 25, 2018\nA different kind of festival celebrated in Chhattisgarh. #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/n3IEJRFOpo\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 25, 2018\nMoving from Women Development to Women #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/eA4ROFOA86\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 25, 2018\nAfter spending 7 decades in dark, 3 villages #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/L3BG6KYz9L\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 25, 2018\nHoli gives the message of spreading peace, brotherhood \u0026 unity among all #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/ESxyvojlXa"