"Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurates the Amma Two Wheeler Scheme in Chennai, Jayalalithaa to pay tribute\nWhen we empower women in a family, we empower the whole house-hold: PM Modi\nWhen we help with a woman's education, we will ensure that the family is educated: PM\nWhen we secure his future, we secure future of the whole home: PM\nLadies and gentlemen,\nOn the occasion of the birth anniversary of SelviJayalalithaaji, I pay my tributes to him and extend my greetings to you. Wherever she is, I am sure, she will be very happy, to see the happiness on your faces.\nI am glad, today, to be able to launch one of his dreams projects- the Amma Two Wheeler Scheme I am told, that on Amma's 70th birth anniversary, seventy lakh plants will be planted across Tamil Nadu. These two initiatives will be a long way in the empowerment of women, and the protection of nature.\nFriends\nWhen we empower the women in a family, we empower the whole house-hold. When we help with a woman's education, we ensure that the whole family is educated.When we facilitateher good health, we help keep the whole family healthy.When we secure his future We are working in this direction.\nFriends\nThe Union Government has focused on improving the \"citizen of the living\" for the common citizen.All our schemes and programs have this goal towards oriented.It is financial inclusion, farmers and small business, healthcare or sanitation for easier availability, it is The basic ministry, with which the NDA Government is at the Center\nOver 11 crore loans sanctioned under the Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana. An amount of 4 lakh, 60 thousand crore rupees has been given to people without any bank guarantee. And most importantly, seventy percent of the beneficiaries are women.\nThe success of this scheme, therefore, is proof that the women of India are now stepping out of the age-old shackles, and seeking self-employment. We have taken many other steps too, for women empowerment. In the recent Union Budget, we announced that the EPF contribution for new women employees will be reduced from 12 percent to 8 percent for three years. The Employer contribution will remain 12 percent.\nUnder the Stand Up India scheme, women entrepreneurs will be given loans worth 10 lakh rupees to one crore rupees.We have also made a change in the Factory's Act, and suggested to States, that they allow women to work in night shift as well . We have also extended maternity leave from 12 weeks to 26 weeks.\nUnder the Pradhan MantriAwaas Yojana, the registry of the house is done in the name of the woman.\nThe Jan Dhan Yojana has also benefited from women in a big way.Out of 31 crore Jan Dhan Bank Accounts, 16 crore are of women.\nThe percentage of total bank accounts held by women, has gone up from 28 percent in 2014, to 40 percent now. The Swachh India Mission has given women's respect and dignity, which is their right.Rural sanitation coverage has increased from 40 percent to 78 percent.We have worked in a mission mode, to provide toilets for girls in all government schools.\nFriends\nThe schemes of the Union government are protecting nature, even as they are empowering people.29 crore LED bulbs have been distributed under the Ujala scheme.They have led to a savings of 15 thousand crore rupees electricity bills. They have reduced carbon dioxide emissions by a significant amount.\nThe Union Government has so far given over 3.4 crore free gas connections under the Ujjwala Yojana.As women's benefit from a smoke-free environment, the reduction in kerosene use is also the environment. Nine and a half lakh women in Tamil Nadu are so benefitted far, from this scheme\nKeeping in mind, the issues of gas supply and sanitation in rural areas, the Union Government has come up with the Gobar-Dhanscheme.The aim is to convert animal\ndung and agricultural waste in compost, bio-gas, and bio-CNG. This will raise incomes, and reduce expenditure on gas.\nFriends\nMore than 24 thousand crore rupees worth of projects are currently being implemented by the Center, in Tamil Nadu. All these projects have started after the NDA Government assumed office. They include solar power plants, crude oil pipelines, national highways, and port related works. More than three thousand, seven hundred crore rupees have been sanctioned for the Chennai Metro Rail\nWhen there was a Congress-led government at the Center, Tamilnadu received 81 thousand crore rupees under the 13th Finance Commission. After the NDA came to power, Tamil Nadu received One lakh, 80 thousand crore rupees under the 14th Finance Commission.This is an increase of about one hundred and twenty percent.\nThe government is working to provide a home to every poor person by 2022. About one crore homes have been built in the last three years.\nTamil Nadu has given about 700 crore rupees in 2016-17, and about 200 crore rupees in 2017-18, for rural housing. For urban housing, the state has given over 6000 crore rupees.\nFriends\nFarmers in Tamil Nadu have also benefited from the Pradhan MantriFasalBimaYojana. I am told that claim amounts worth over 2600 crore rupees have been given to farmers in Tamil Nadu so far, under this scheme.\nThe Union Government is working on modernization of fishing in Tamil Nadu under the Blue Revolution Scheme, we are providing financial assistance to fishermen for long liner trawlers. Last year, we gave the state government 100 crore rupees, convert over seven hundred and fifty boats to long liner trawlers Besides making their life easier, such as the fishermen earn more.\nIndia's vast ocean resources, and long coast-line offer immense possibilities. The Union Government is working on the Sagarmal Program, to overhaul our logistics sector.This will reduce the cost of both domestic and foreigntrade.It is also the Indian coast line .\nWe have announced the Ayushman Bharat Scheme in the latest Union Budget.Each poor family will be given the facility of free medical treatment for a cost of 5 lakh rupees per year, identified hospitals at this. It will help to cover 45 to 50 crore people across the country.\nThe Pradhan MantriSurakshaBeemaYojana and the JeevanJyotiYojana have provided insurance cover to more than 18 crore people. We have also taken other steps like providing medicines at economical rates, through more than 800 Jan Aushadhi Kendras\nWe are committed to working hard\nI wish you all the very best.\n"