"Share\n\nIt is amazing how Daman has become a mini-India People from all over the country\nI congratulate the people and local administration for making this place ODF. This is a big step: PM\nThe Government is taking several steps for the welfare of fishermen, says PM\nOur entire emphasis on the 'blue revolution' is inspired by the commitment to bring a positive difference in the lives of the fishermen: PM\nMy beloved brothers and sisters of tremendous repression in large numbers\nPerhaps in the history of repression, such a great mass may have never come before and never, for the development of Diwas, about a thousand crores of rupees will have been implemented - it may have never happened before .\nBrothers, sisters, Daman-Diva, Dadra Nagar Haveli- This new area of ​​development has created a whole new atmosphere. Today repression has become a form of small India. There will be no state of Hindustan in repression where two-five, two-five families of them are not oppressed. Everyone has made repression their house. And so, the things we see in Delhi-Mumbai, the same social life we ​​see in oppression. A brotherhood, a brotherhood, a group of people speaking in many languages ​​and today when I was coming from the airport, I was looking across both sides, like every corner of India is full of excitement and excitement.\nBrothers, sisters,\nSuppression of hygiene in such a manner of suppression of hygiene, suppression has become a tourist destination, and when it is clean, people want to come out from the outside. If tourism grows then people here get the roti. And today Daman has been associated with Diwas, has joined helicopter service and therefore, the people of South India who want to come to visit, would like to go somnath, they will want to go to see the lion of Gir, they will be suppressed and helicopters Will go in; You see how much of the repression will be developed. And now even Divya has also been associated with Ahmedabad. That is, in a way, the main stream of Divine and Daman development has been linked.\nBrothers, sisters, I was told that suppression in the Union Territories has been adopted by itself as an ODF, open defecation free, freedom from being defeated in the open. More than 2,000 rest houses are built here I sincerely congratulate the administration and the conscious citizens here for this purpose in your heart that you have opened this open defecation free, public freedom from defecation. This is a movement of maternal respect, in a way, there is a movement of respect for women.\nAnd once I went to Uttar Pradesh, once in my own Lok Sabha constituency, there was a campaign to make toilets, so I saw that the Uttar Pradesh government has done a great job - they have put a board on the toilet and have named it - Ijtgharghar. And reality, toilets - this is a hallmark. It is very important for the toilets to be respected for our mothers and sisters. So today you have done that work too!\nThere is a green movement in Daman - a hygiene campaign, talk of e-rickshaw, talk of CNG taxis. And I, now you will also see a new form of repression - here the sisters and daughters will take an e-rickshaw and they will be running in suppression and also protect the environment of oppression. And in the oppression - in a way, this is a peaceful place, it is not a riotous area. There is an area of ​​people who join together - when mothers, sisters, they will start e-rickshaws, they will come in the form of those passenger naturally, there will be greater respect for mothers and sisters, and a new identity of suppression Will be formed.\nWhether there is a CNG movement, an e-rickshaw issue or an LED bulb is installed here - around one lakh 40 thousand bulbs have been divided into such small area and due to which the electricity in the houses in the houses of electricity The reduction of electricity bill is left over. With the introduction of an LED bulb, savings of nearly seven crore rupees in middle-class family alone have been done in the electricity bill in Daman. And this is going to happen every year.\nI think that the plans which have been made here in a big way, even today our factory is engaged in the country but the workers are left on their luck. They come in the factory, work but where do they live, where do they eat, do they have any dignity? He does not pay any attention to it.\nI heartily congratulate Mr. Praful Bhai Patel with heartily that suppression is an industrial city. People from all over the country come here for wages, and 15-15, 20-20 people live in each and every small room. When he goes to the job, the other group goes to sleep. She comes back from the job, she goes to sleep and goes to the previous job, shift system also goes for sleeping.\nA good type of living arrangement for people coming to work in oppression by making such a good model of public-private partnership - that too is getting started today. This will change the lives of the laborers. And the biggest, the businessmen who have come forward to partner with the government in this, I assure them - these laborers, if these workers of our workers get a better place to live, Whatever your strength, they put the whole thing inside the production of your factory, increase your productivity.More than the money you are investing in your houses, these laborers, we By doing better productivity, increase your profits in a year, I believe it.\nIt is a matter of great happiness that most of our workers here today are staying here alone, leaving the parents in the village, and whoever they get, they eat and eat. But today, these workers get good food for the brothers and sisters; A laborer could spend - in many paisa; To organize a public food for this, it is also being started here today. Its benefits are also to be received in the coming days by the workers of the brothers here. Find good food, get a place for good sleep, get a morning meal for morning bath - I think the workers are under the suppression of this suppression and I will never go back for the development of this country, it is my complete confidence.\nWater treatment plant- Even today, there are many cities in our country where 100 percent treated water probably will reach or not reach. It is difficult to say. But now I was told that due to the water treatment plant in the oppression, now the people of Daman get treated water. He gets the potable pure water, i.e. the dryness of the common man, his concern is here today\nFor reducing child mortality, infant mortality in our country, to redeem malnutrition in our country, billions of rupees are spent on behalf of the Indian government. But today Daman has taken a new initiative. This scheme of Government of India in the family - where there are 14-18 years old daughters, where there are mothers, where there are small children, they get nutritious food - hence the work of giving them a diet kit every month, and their Today, I have the privilege of giving some families to my hands.\nI hope that this is the help which the Government has received from these families, should not be used so that now it has come and brought it first in the house, they will stop it, it is not to be so. This is extra from the one who used to spend the money - only then will you develop the body of your 14 -18-year-old daughter.\nIf that girl's body develops, she will be strong; When the mother becomes, the child will also get empowered. And the country of which the child is empowered, the country will also be empowered; This work is going on under this scheme.\nBrothers, sisters- Diu, now it's number one in the smart city. Multiple schemes are associated with diu. Here was your university's dream, was not it? How long would you stay from Surat-Narmada University? The Government of India has decided to give you a university too.\nOur fisherman's siblings, VAT on caricines, VAT on kerosene I am glad that the duty of VAT will be continued for our fishermen, so that ... but along with this I want to tell my brothers and sisters and I want to say to Mr. Praful Bhai and MP from here - We're not just stuck here. Now the Government of India has taken steps to provide a long range boat for our machi brothers, sisters under the blue revolution. If you get five-ten fishermen together, make a circle- you will be given a loan from the bank, you will be given subsidy and you will be able to take this new boat and go to the deep sea and in the deep sea you can get the maximum catch, Can take fish. You keep wandering near here, and after 12 hours of work you bring the fish, they will come in by doing this with the help of the new boat and they will come back in two hours.\nI want to take a special project on the seashore of Diu, on the seashore of Daman and under that project, the cultivation of sea bead is done by the Machhimar families here, in the salt water inside the ocean. And those who are born, they can cast people in our fields, there can not be any better fertilizer than this, there can not be any better crop than this, this work can be done very comfortably. And I would like that the whole family take this imitative and present this work a new model, a model in front of the country. And I believe that this work can be done very easily in the area of ​​Diu-Daman.\nBrothers, sisters, whether there is connectivity, should be digital connectivity, talk about getting LED bulb in homes, make roads, build bridges; We are working towards connecting Divya even through the sea route. You can imagine, where you were 15-15 hours, you would reach half an hour, in an hour - how much time would be left, how much money would be saved, and how much benefits will be made to the people here.\nBrothers, sisters repression, go to new heights of development. Our Divya-Daman, the entire region from Silvash should stand in front of the country as a model, this is my belief and today you have blessed me with such a great amount of blessings, I have given blessings I am very grateful to you."