"Share\n\nThe results of the assembly elections have made our resolve, to ensure the progress of every group in the state of Chhattisgarh, even stronger: PM Modi\nWhy is the Congress so bothered if the country is getting health benefits of 5 lakh rupees?\nIf someone has done no wrong, why would they scared of investigations?\nNearly all the members of the 'First Family' of Congress are being investigated in cases of serious crimes like tax evasion and property scams: PM Modi\nNobody prefers 'milawat,' because not only is it bad for health but also bad for the country: PM\nNo matter how much these 'Maha-milawati' groups come together, the Chowkidaar is going to stay alert of their corrupt actions: PM\nLong live Mother India….\nOn the stage, the National Vice President of the Bharatiya Janata Party and the former Chief Minister Mr. Raman Singh ji, my colleague of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Vishnu Dev Sai Ji, present on the stage ....... Bhai Amar Aggarwal, Shri Ramvichar Netam G, our partner in the Parliament, Mrs. Kamala Patlaji, former MLA Satyanand Rathia, Shri Ram Pratap Singh, Mr. Girdhar Gupta, Bhupendra Savanni, O.P. Chaudhari ji, Roshan Agrawal ji and my dear brothers and sisters in large number ... .. and I see a large number of people are coming here, coming out so far in this season so far Let's show your faith and allegiance to the Bharatiya Janata Party in itself ... and just Varun Devta ji has come and blessed, your love, your enthusiasm, your enthusiasm, always I am Has been making money. My relationship with you is very old, when we were not anywhere in the corridors of power, even when I used to be in Chhattisgarh Madhya Pradesh area, I used to sit in and sit with you for the organization's work, talk to you And in the workers here, in the people here, the feeling that I felt for the Bharatiya Janata Party was very unprecedented, against Atal ji, who gave Chhattisgarh a lot. Rati had faith that the people here, he was unequaled. And so to come to Chhattisgarh ... When I was the Chief Minister in Gujarat, I wanted to visit you again and again and after becoming the Prime Minister, I have come more often than I have been to Chhattisgarh earlier than a Prime Minister.\nSathiyo, this is my first Chhattisgarh tour after the assembly elections, I congratulate the voters of the state for their responsibility towards democracy. You have given a mandate that every worker of BJP has offered to him on his head, Jay and defeat are a part of life, after these elections, after these elections, the poor, tribal, dalit, oppressed, exploited, deprived, Our resolve has been strengthened for the development of every business, trader and trader. The roads which work here, the work of the railway, the construction of the new airport, the work of industrial and business, I assure my dear brothers and sisters of Chhattisgarh, we will bring it further and will do more. Will do well. Friends, today I have come among all of you for the new mandate of new India, by the blessings of Mother Chandrahasini, Mother Nathal Dai, Devi Dori Dai, Shri Satyanarayan Baba and Mr. Priyadarshan Ramji.\nBrothers and sisters, Jashpur Saint Gahira Guru and Avadhoot Baba, Lord Rama have been in the rituals. Raigad Maharaja Chakradhar CG, the land of freedom fighters Kishori Mohan Tripathi and Todaram Jogi ji, this land gave literature like Mukutdhar Pandey, donors like Kirori Mal, Lohariwal and social activists like Ramkumar Agarwal, Dayaram Tyndhwar ji. I bow to all these great figures. This land gave the Bharatiya Janata Party a dedicated leader like Pathar Ramji Agrawal and Dilip Judeo Ji, who has squeezed the party with his blood and sweat. It is the responsibility of such people representatives that today the Bharatiya Janata Party is expanding in the whole of India, just like the tree.\nFriends, the elections keep coming and going, the governments come and go, but the resolve to raise the level of life of normal human lives remains unchanged. Two months ago, when there was a new government in Chhattisgarh, we also congratulated with the hope that after 15 years, they will start something new with some new thinking, for the youth of Chhattisgarh, Will work. Brothers and sisters, what did they do if they did new, you do not even know, but the truth is that those who were already doing better, are also stopping them. It is very important that you consider the Congress Government's first two major decisions. We have a saying that in keeping the characteristics of a son ......... .. this is what you say! This government worked in the beginning, it shows what their intentions are, what their thinking is, what their modes are. Sister-in-law, the government here has done the first work, Ayushman Bharat - PMJAY, ie how did Modi decide how to remove Chhattisgarh ... The second decision was taken, the second verdict did, the CBI would not let the state come into the state. Hey brother, what are you afraid of? What will get worse? If poor in your state becomes healthy, you get the benefit of Ayushman plan, the poor should get free treatment up to Rs 5 lakh every year, you do not have to give anything, why do you deprive that poor of that poor, that tribal Want to do\nBrothers and sisters, in fact the Congress romance is suppressed under the favor of middlemen. From Raipur to Delhi, the Congress Sultanate is full of robust mechanism of brokers and middlemen. This is the reason that the new government here, first of all, decided to withdraw from Ayushman India. This plan was very successful, working to give life to poor families here, but now the poor have been stripped of the right to be treated under the direction of the poor, Ayushmann Bharat. And you also know, I also know why they do this. I want to know, I want to know from the Congress, what are they going to punish the poor of Chhattisgarh? Today the poor of the country has stood with Modi, they are very prick to them. They think that in our 55-year business, we had made our monopoly by chanting the garlands of poor people in the morning and evening. Poor means we, who is this Modi, whom the poor accepted, adopted the poor. And who is Modi, who wants to work in the integrity of the poor and the same thing has kept them upset. But, the people of the Congress understand, you have misled 55 years in the name of poor people, wasted the poor, their dreams never spilled, never sprayed. We have got a new belief within the 55-month-old poor, new passion, new dreams, and finding ways to overcome their finger by catching their finger. And so, now the poor started to stand on their feet to fight against poverty. It sticks to you, you fooled the poor for so many years, today the poor is asking for your account. That's why your eyes are piercing. And so, when you come to Chhattisgarh, you are snatching the help you get from the poor.\nSathiyo, Chhattisgarh now seems to be returning to old age. Cancer, Heart Attack, Kidney Disease In the event of such many serious diseases, the poor siblings of Chhattisgarh will be able to sell their entire land and home and this is what the sitting leaders of the Congress Is a sample of In the scientific, Ayushmann Bharat scheme, there is a selection of beneficiaries, in the scientific manner. Nobody's name can be removed from the list, no one's name can be added by forgery and money goes directly to the hospital account, the patient does not have to pay one rupee to the hospital. This is the direct help to the poor, how can the Congress, who work with middlemen, tolerate. Any such scheme in which there is no broker, no middleman, it does not come to Congress. Friends, those who have been consumed with cream for generations, who have been longing for 15 years, how can they keep such chalk-wise planning of the watchman? They will bring such a plan, in which you also eat, I also eat, it has a complete system, they have interest in it.\nIt is the result of this policy and policy of brother and sister, scam, scam that the government here decided to impose a CBI probe. Tell me one thing, if someone has not done anything, then will he be scared of any investigation? Darega, what will dare? Can any agency ask for any reason without any reason? If there is corruption in the states 'honest taxpayers' money, then the CBI has the right to take action or not? Friends, you do not have any confusion in it, but Congress has a problem in it. The problem is because he has just started hiding his corruption. After all, even this person has got the same rituals from Delhi and for the next elections, they have to make Chhattisgarh an ATM, the Congress party's. If the CBI will sit here, how will ATM be created? Because Delhi people have to send some goods by packing boxes to them, in lieu of this arrangements are being made here. And so, against almost every member of the nominated family of the Congress, today there are serious cases in the courts. Some are exempted on bail, some are living with advance bail. What are the cases running - tax evasion, land scam and property scandal The condition is that most of the family members are out on bail today or are sitting with advance bail. Between their attempts to escape the law, the watchman is alert. They are busy pulling out every Raj, their brokers from abroad and abroad, their brokers, uncle and uncle are being brought to India and are being referred to the investigating agencies.\nBrothers and sisters, seeing this strict action of the janitor, now this has gone a little bit distraught. From different parts of the country, there is an attempt to adulterate people who had once been out of the Congress while bashing them. These people have got a chance to compete with each other to increase their numbers by giving more blows to Modi. This is the mahmilavata, that is the only cryptory of entry in the Mahimulavata, tell you how much you can give to Modi, if you can give more, then there is an entry in the maternity leave. They have no plans for the future of the country, so these adulterers have made Modi the only issue. Do not you keep doing Modi or Modi in the morning and evening? Do not do that? Brothers, you need to be cautious with these adulterated people, surrounded by allegations of corruption, these people have no ideology. Their real politics is that they themselves do corruption and keep the corrupt people together, give protection. But, together with all these great mergers, the watchman is not going to sit quietly. I am not one of those who feared to open their book, avoiding hands on the powerful sultans of the country. You must have heard that I have said in the Lok Sabha yesterday, I will not favor any page or will do any good on any page.\nThe comrades, cheats and fraud have been living in the rage of Congress. The debt forgiveness was promised to the farmers of Chhattisgarh, how many people were forgiven for the debt? What happened? Did not you tell? And did not say that was said to do in ten days? Finish the vote for the game! Would you forgive such people? And I have been told that only a small amount of loan has been waived for those farmers who have taken loans from rural banks or cooperative banks. What happened to those who had taken loan from national banks, are not farmers, do they have no debt on their heads, should they be given debt waiver or should they not? And before the election, why did not you tell, you know that fraud is the same thing, once you get the vote, take the chair and then the public, at the public's whereabouts, the leaders go to the court and do their duty. The biggest thing is, what happened to the poor farmers, who borrowed money from a moneylender or borrowed from a relative? Who will do that? Sameeo, in the name of debt forgiveness, these are the modalities of the Congress which fills the middlemen. After 10 years, after every 10 years, the elections appear in front, then the farmers' debts come from apology apology. To win the election of the first 2009, the debt came with forgiveness. Now it has come in 2019, but the truth about the debt forgiveness is that the middleman is good and the farmer is again under the burden of debt. Friends, even if debt forgiveness is done very honestly, even in the country, 20-25 or 30 of the hundred people in your village get the benefit of it. What are they doing now, in this, less than that, the other farmers, do not farm, because they are more poor, they should be left for it. No, this is the way of discrimination, Modi is not approved. That is why, the BJP government has come out with the PMKASan Nidhi Yojana in this budget. Under this, the farmer will be transferred directly to his bank account in a year, 6 thousand rupees. There is no middleman, no brokerage, nothing, it will benefit about 12 crore farmers from all over the country, including Chhattisgarh, who have 5 acres or less land. This means that in villages of Chhattisgarh, more than 90 farmers in a hundred will get the benefit of this scheme- 90 out of 100. Sathio, PM farmer's honor fund scheme is not like debt forgiveness, once in 10 years It comes The plan that Modi has brought will benefit the farmers every year, from the debt waiver scheme of the Congress, once in 10 years, 50 thousand crore rupees, they used to go to these number of farmers. मोदी की जो योजना है, वह किसान सम्मान योजना के तहत, अभी का अगर मैं हिसाब लगाऊं तो अगले 10 साल में, साढ़े सात लाख करोड़ रुपया, कहां 50 हजार और कहां साढ़े सात लाख करोड़ रुपया, किसानों के खाते में, बैंक में जमा होने वाले हैं। आप मुझे बताइए कि इससे किसानों का लाभ होगा कि नहीं होगा, कर्ज करने के मजबूरी से बाहर आएगा कि नहीं आएगा, फसल पकने के समय जो उसको जो जरूरी चीजें हैं, वो ले पाएगा कि नहीं ले पाएगा? सोचिए, ये देश की ग्रामीण अर्थव्यवस्था की कितनी बड़ी मदद होने जा रही है।\nसाथियो, कल ही देश के किसानों के लिए एक और अहम फैसला हुआ है, जिसकी जानकारी मैं आपको देना चाहता हूं, आज अखबारों में कहीं कोने में छोटी-मोटी खबर है, लेकिन ये बहुत बड़ी बात है, जो आपको पता होना चाहिए। भाइयो और बहनो, अब तक देश के छोटे किसानों को, बैंकों से, बिना गारंटी एक लाख रुपये तक का कृषि कर्ज मिलता था, अब जो ताजा फैसला हुआ है, उसके बाद देश के छोटे किसान, 1 लाख 60 हजार रुपये तक का कर्ज बिना किसी गारंटी के ले पाएंगे। अब उन्हें, बिना बैंक गारंटी ज्यादा कर्ज मिला करेगा, हमारी सरकार के प्रयास से। सभी बैंकों ने मिल कर, ये निर्णय लिया है कि किसान क्रेडिट कार्ड के तहत जो भी चार्जेज बैंक लेते थे, वह अब नहीं लिए जाएंगे, बैंकों को प्राप्त होने वाले चार्जेज, जैसे प्रोसेसिंग फीस, दस्तावेज का चार्ज, खाते से जुड़ा चार्ज, इंस्पेक्शन का चार्ज, ये सभी शुल्क समाप्त कर दिए जा चुके हैं। मैं इंडियन बैंकर्स एसोसिएशन को, किसान हितैषी निर्णय के लिए, बधाई देता हूं।\nभाइयो-बहनो, हमारी सरकार किसानों की छोटी-छोटी आवश्यकताओं को पूरा करने के लिए प्रतिबद्ध है। किसानों को कम ब्याज दर पर ऋण मिल सके, उसके लिए ब्याज दर में छूट के लिए, जो राशि उपलब्ध कराई जाती थी, उसे पिछले 5 वर्षों में दोगुना किया जा चुका है। अब इस साल के बजट में, फसली ऋण को बढ़ाकर, 11 लाख 68 हजार करोड़ रुपये किया गया है। यानी किसानों को खेती से जुड़ी अपनी जरूरतों के लिए, अब ज्यादा राशि कर्ज के तौर पर मिलनी तय हुई है।\nभाइयो-बहनो, हमारी सरकार गरीबों की सरकार है, गरीबों के लिए है, गरीब के दर्द, उसकी तकलीफों को समझने वाली सरकार है। बीते साढ़े चार सालों में हमने लगातार कोशिश की है कि गरीब की जिंदगी आसान बने। सरकार के इन्हीं प्रयासों का असर है कि देश में गरीबी कम होना शुरू हुई है। भाइयो-बहनो, इसी कड़ी में इस साल के बजट में, प्रधानमंत्री श्रम योगी मानधन योजना की घोषणा की गई है। मेरे मजदूर भाइयों-बहनों के लिए, श्रमिक परिवारों के लिए, जो घरों में काम करते हैं ऐसे लोगों के लिए, जो सड़कों या घरों के निर्माण में जुटे हैं, जो मिट्टी या लेबर का काम करते हैं, रिक्शा चलाते हैं, ठेला चलाते हैं, ऐसे करोड़ों भाइयों-बहनों के लिए देश के इतिहास में पहलीबार कोई योजना बनी है। ये वो वर्ग है जिसके नाम पर देश में सिर्फ, नारे ही लगाए, राजनीति ही की गई, कभी उनके भले के लिए सार्थक प्रयास नहीं हुए। सरकार की नई योजना के तहत, ऐसे श्रमिक साथी, जिनकी महीने की कमाई 15 हजार रुपये से कम की है, उनके लिए 60 वर्ष की जब उमर होगी तो 3 हजार रुपया मासिक पेंशन का प्रावधान किया गया है। इसका लाभ देश भर के ऐसे लगभग 30-40 करोड़ साथियों को होगा। 30-40 करोड़ कल्पना करिए आप और इसके लिए औसतन 100 रुपये तक का मासिक अंशदान, श्रमिक बहन-भाई से लिया जाएगा। और जितना पैसा श्रमिक भाई-बहन रखेगा उतना ही उसके खाते में पैसा, भारत सरकार अपना हिस्सा रखेगी। यानी, कोई मजदूर भाई अगर 100 रुपये अपनी पेंशन के जमा करवाना शुरू करता है, तो असल में उसके पेंशन खाते में कुल 200 रुपया जमा होगा।\nभाइयो-बहनो, ये तमाम योजनाएं, उन कार्यक्रमों के अतिरिक्त हैं, जिनका लाभ बीते साढ़े चार वर्षों से आप सभी तक पहुंचाने का हम प्रयास कर रहे हैं, जैसे गरीब, दलित, आदिवासी को पक्का घर दिया जा रहा है, उज्ज्वला के माध्यम से मुफ्त का गैस कनेक्शन दिया जा रहा है, मुफ्त में बिजली का कनेक्शन दिया जा रहा है। ऐसी अनेक योजनाएं पहले की तरह ही जारी रहेंगी। साथियो, जिन ईमानदार कर दाताओं के पैसे से ये सुविधाएं संभव हो पाती हैं, उनके लिए भी केंद्र सरकार ने पहलीबार बहुत बड़ा कदम उठाया है। 5 लाख रुपये तक की इनकम को, टैक्स से बाहर कर दिया गया है। इससे सीधे-सीधे करीब 3 करोड़ कर दाताओं को लाभ होगा। अगर बचत, बीमा और होम लोन जैसी दूसरी छूट का इस्तेमाल हमारे मध्यम वर्ग के कर दाता करेंगे, तो ये लाभ इससे भी ज्यादा लोगों तक पहुंचने वाला है।\nभाइयो-बहनो, देश और छत्तीसगढ़ को आगे बढ़ाने में, हमारे आदिवासी बहन- भाइयों का बहुत बड़ा योगदान है। आजादी में अनेक नायकों ने बलिदान दिए। ऐसे नायकों से देश को प्रेरणा मिलती रही है, इसके लिए देशभर में स्मारक स्थलों का निर्माण हो रहा है। छत्तीसगढ़ के साथ-साथ, अन्य राज्यों में भी, राज्य स्तरीय म्यूजियम बनाने में केंद्र सरकार मदद कर रही है। साथियो, ये तमाम काम, अगर आज ये चाय वाला एक चौकीदार कर पा रहा है, तो सिर्फ इसलिए, क्योंकि साढ़े चार साल पहले, आपने एक मजबूत सरकार के लिए, बहुमत वाली सरकार के लिए आपने वोट डाला है। अब कुछ शक्तियां, सरकार बनाने के लिए जुट रही हैं, ताकि उनका लूट का कारोबार फल-फूल सके, इस साजिश के प्रति इस महामिलावट के प्रति, आप सभी को जागरूक रहना है और मैं समझता हूं, गरीब से गरीब व्यक्ति हो, झुग्गी-झोपड़ी में रहता हो और बाजार में कुछ खरीदी करने जाए, घी हो, तेल हो, कुछ भी और अगर उसको पता चले कि इसमें तो मिलावट है, आप मुझे बताइए, कोई भी व्यक्ति मिलावट पता चलने के बाद हाथ लगाएगा क्या? खरीदेगा क्या, खरीदेगा क्या? उसको मालूम है अगर मिलावटी चीज मैंने खाई, तो मेरी सेहत को नुकसान होगा कि नहीं होगा, बच्चे बीमार हो जाएंगे कि नहीं हो जाएंगे? घर में भी, गरीब आदमी भी, अनपढ़ आदमी भी कभी मिलावट को हाथ नहीं लगाता है। दो पैसा खर्चा ज्यादा होगा तो चलेगा लेकिन मिलावट का माल बच्चा भी पसंद नहीं करता है। जैसे इंसान की सेहत के लिए, बच्चों के उज्ज्वल भविष्य के लिए, मिलावट गरीब को भी मंजूर नहीं होती है, वैसे देश के लोकतंत्र की सेहत के लिए, देश के विकास की सेहत के लिए, देश को भी मिलावट नहीं चाहिए। ये महामिलावट, ये देश को बीमार करने वाली बीमारी का दूसरा नाम है। इस महामिलावट से देश को चौकन्ने रहना होगा, जागरूक रहा होगा और महामिलावट को किसी भी हालत में हमें घुसने नहीं देना है।\nभाइयो-बहनो, दिल्ली में बैठे लोग कल्पना भी नहीं कर सकते हैं कि छत्तीसगढ़ में आज भी यही मिजाज है। दूर-दूर तक मैं लोगों को देख रहा हूं, जहां तक मेरी नजर पहुंच रही है, जन-सैलाब नजर आ रहा है। ये आपका प्यार, ये जनशक्ति, भारत के भविष्य को नई ताकत देती चली जा रही है और इसके लिए मैं आपका आभार व्यक्त करता हूं। आप इतनी बड़ी मात्रा में आशीर्वाद देने के लिए आए हैं, मेरे लिए बहुत बड़ा आशीर्वाद का ये बल मुझे काम करने की नई ऊर्जा देता है।\nछत्तीसगढ़िया सबसे बढ़िया...छत्तीसगढ़िया सबसे बढ़िया.... भारत माता की.... भारत माता की....।"