"\nA definite change is now visible in India, says PM\nChange in the economic and social content, represents the essence of the New Rules for the New India and the New Economy: PM\nIndia, once mentioned in the 'Fragile Five' is now fastly moving towards becoming a \"Five Trillion Dollar\" economy: PM\nIndia is playing a key role in the whole world's growth, the country's share of the world GDP has increased 2.4% in 2013, to 3.1% in 2017: PM\nA new approach and a new work culture has developed in India: PM Narendra Modi\nSpeed ​​+ Scale + Sensitivity = Success: PM Narendra Modi\nUnprecedented investment is being made today in infrastructure, agriculture, technology, health sector, and education sector: PM\nGuests from India and abroad who are here to attend Economic Times Global Business Summit, all the dignitaries present here, ladies and gentlemen\nAll of you were gathered here to deliberate on New Economy-New Rules at a time, which is a very important period of the time for a new India. The question is: what is this that is new?\nEconomic Times is being published every day; the paper quality is the same everyday; the printing is also the same everyday; And the font and style of writing is the name of the news paper written by you is also the same even then we say that a new newspaper is being published every day. The difference is in content and people will say that this is a new news item.\nFriends, our government is going to complete four years of its term in the next few months. The country is the same, the bureaucracy is the same but even then there is a clear change visible in India and abroad. The new rules of a new India, of a new economy are inherent in the change that has come about in the economic and social content of the country.\nYou will be aware that four years ago when Indian economy was discussed in the whole world then it was called Fragile Five. The world used to be the laugh at us and they used to look at us with disdain saying that this country will have its own and it will also Today the discussion is not about the fragile power but it is India's target of becoming a trillion dollar economy. Now the world wants to walk\nFriends, India's growth has been making a significant contribution in the global growth.\nIn the last three-four years, India has strengthened the global economic growth with its own.\nIf we look at theworld GDP data in the nominal terms then we come to very interesting trends As per the data given by the International Monetary Fund, India's contribution in the world economy is the nominal terms of 2.4%, which has been increased to 3.1% during our government of about four years.\nDuring the four years of our government the country increased its share in the world economy which was earlier achieved in eight years. There is even more surprising facts emerging out of the IMF data. Whatever growth was there in the world economy in the nominal terms in the last four years, 21% of it was due to India's economic growth. Now you yourself will imagine that a country which is just 3% of world GDP, it has been 7 times more in the contribution of world economy.\nToday, if you look at any macro-economic parameter be it inflation or the current account deficit or fiscal deficit or be it GDP growth or interest rate or be it FDI inflow, India has been doing well in all these parameters\nIn the first three to three and a half years, our government has brought down the current account deficit to an average of one per cent from an alarming level of four percent.\nOur government has brought down the fiscal deficit to 3.5% which was around 4.5% during the previous government.\nDuring the three and a half years of our government FDI inflows worth $ 209 billion in the country.\nToday, the country's foreign exchange reserves up to $ 419 billion from $ 300 billion. It is though that has recovered from $ 24 billion raised as special foreign currency non-resident deposits (FCNR) during the crisis of 2013.\nThe outlook for Indian rupee remains better due to the growth with high productivity and alsobecause high inflation rate has been kept under check. The reduction of more than one percent in the interest rate has been beneficial for the customers, housing sector, and other industries.\nOur government has succeeded in improving all the economic indicators year after year. But was it possible to get the old approach? No. This change was not possible by following the old approach.\nThis change has come as a new work culture. It has been moving forward with a pledge of making a new India by having confidence in its own capabilities and in its own resources.\nIn the last three years the country's economic world has learned new one. And that is competitiveness.\nUnless there is a race to move forward, unless there is a healthy competition then it will not be possible or pick up an elevated horizon.\nFriends, today the whole world has been validating India's competitiveness, it salutes this competitiveness.\nUNCTAD's world investment report says that India is the favorite destination for the FDI in the world.\nIndia is also among the top three prospective hostages of the world. India is among the top two emerging market performers as per the FDI Confidence Index.\nIn just three years, we have improved the World Ranking of business ranking by 42 points. Today, we have reached the 100th spot from the 142nd. Some of the rating agencies of the world have also been upgrading India's ranking. Now India is one of the most open economies of the world.\nFriends,\nGST was the only one Today GST is a reality It's going to be seven months of the implementation of India's biggest tax reform since independence. The GST has given the country a better tax compliance system and a better revenue system. It has been promoted the faster movement of goods; It has brought down the cost of transportation, and it has created an environment of competitiveness in the export sector.\nBrothers and sisters, there were only 6 million traders in our country which was part of our indirect tax regime even after seventy years since independence. More than 4.4 million new people have applied for a new company for seven months of implementation of GST. This has not only been strengthened in the business culture but also has given the tax credits to the tax payers.\nFriends, you are aware that what kind of legacy our government has got in the twin balance sheets of the government You are also familiar with the previous system in the banking sector, that is how well the environment of crony capitalism had been entrenched in the banking system. We have carried out a major reform of Insolvency and bankruptcy\nToday more than two thousand insolvency professionals and 62 insolvency entities have been working round the clock. Our government has solved more than 2,700 cases in the last three months alone.\nThere was another challenging issueregarding the exports. If we look at the import-export data for the financial year 2015-16 then we will find that both have registered a decline of around 15%. There were several reasons for this. There is one more possibility and economic experts should deliberate over it.\nFriends, after the formation of government in 2014 the first major decision which was taken by our government in the fight against the black money was formed by a SIT. In its report, theSIT has said that there was a very serious issue of over-invoicing in import and exports. The government took the steps to tackle the issue of over-invoicing. Now, it is a subject of a study by the economists that trade deficit in any major changes without the same kind of decline both in exports and exports registered. Whether the over-invoicing was done or was it the base correction?\nVineet Ji, please do not get this thing tomorrow that: 'Modi offered his explanation for decline in the exports' I will think over it I would also be aware that after a long period of difficulties the recent data of exports suggests that the situation is improved.\nFriends, we experience this thing in our daily life that when we boil water then it transforms into steam after a certain temperature is achieved. Water neither boils or inverted in the steam before reaching that temperature. Similarly, speed, scale and sensitivity are required. When the work is done with speed, scale and sensitivity then success is beingached. Our government has abolished the earlier culture of putting roadblocks, the culture of making confusion and the culture of keeping things in suspended animation. And there is a new speed in the whole system\nPresently, we have been converting the railway lines in Broad Gauge at twice the speed of conversion during the previous government. During this government, now the same work of construction is the national highways and rural roads have been done at twice the speed compared to the previous government. Today the same work of laying the power transmission lines has been done on the previous government. Today the work to add electricity generation has been done on a faster pace than the previous government.\nWhile during the previous government only 59 village bodies had been linked with the optical fiber network after doing the work for three years while in this government we have linked more than 1.1 lakh villages with the optical fiber network within three years.\nPreviously the fund for only 28 schemes was directly transferred to bank accounts under the direct transfer of benefit scheme. Now more than 400 schemes have been linked\nYou just imagine, earlier a small LED bulb was selling around around Rs. 350. We have gradually brought it down to Rs. 40-50 Even today, in many countries of the world this LED bulb still sells for $ 3 but our government has brought down its price to less than a dollar.\nBefore 2014, however, today there was number more increased to about 120. As a result of the thing, the import of mobiles in the country has come down half from the high figure of Rs. 50,000 crore recorded during 2014-15.\nWhether they are Does this change have come about by itself? This government has shown that the kind of will power Precisely, these are the new rules of a new economy. Brothers and sisters, we have emphasized on the best utilization of resources, we have emphasized on the budget based on the developmental policies.\nToday, the kind of investment that has been made in the infrastructure sector, in agriculture, in technology, health sector and education sector in the country, For the first time airplane policy has been formulated in the country We have created new possibilities of bringing into the FDI in the defense sector.\nOur government has been developing the country's transport sector; It has been done by the twenty-first century. All these investments, all these government schemes have been bringing millions of employment opportunities. In the last four years, our government has laid emphasis on the job centric and people centric growth, and also on that type of economy, which ensures that the country of the poor people of financial inclusion and at the same time middle class\nFriends, our government does not know about everything We have been moving forward by taking everyone's opinion, by considering the following of the ministry of Sabka Sath-Sabka Vikas. Our government's concerns and needs with full sensitivity\nRight from the day it has been our effort to percolate the sensitivity in the system both horizontally and vertically I myself have been interacting with farmers, youths, students and young CEOs on several occasions on different platforms. We have created this kind of systems. Our government has provided a lot of attention to grievance redressal.\nFriends, sometimes those solutions that appear perfect theoretically turn out to be the reason behind the creation of practical problems. They can only be understood when the government tries to understand everything in detail in a sensitive way. For example, the latest decision regarding bamboo, 100% Neem coating of uraya, the decision to abolishinterviews for the jobs in group C and D, the decision to endthe requirement of compulsoryattestation by a gazetted officer, all these things already done as well But this was not worth the feeling of lack of sensitivity and due to the public\nFriends,\nIn our country, the health sector has always been a sector that lacked holistic attention The schemes related to health had been formulated earlier as well but they lacked sensitivity We have been insuring good health along with good healthcare.\nThe rate of expansion of immunization program in the country has gone up six times due to the mission Indradhanush.\nMore than eight hundred medicines have been available at affordable prices through more than 3,000 Jan Aushadhi stores. Our government has brought down the price of stents up to 80% and it has regulated the cost of knee implants. We have arranged for 2 to 25 million free of cost sessions of nearly two hundred and fifty thousand diabetes patients.\nAyushman Bharat Health Insurance Scheme that will benefit nearly 10 crore poor families Under the scheme, every poor family will be provided an annual health insurance cover of Rs. 5 lakh for treatment of serious diseases\nFriends,\nThe basis of digital India mission is to transform our society into a digitally empowered society and to convert the economic system of the country into a knowledge economy. The trinity of one billion bank accounts, one billion accounts cards, and one billion mobile phones will create an ecosystem that will be unique in the world.\nFriends,\nMSME ecosystem is the backbone of our economy We have been working in this sector. The focus has been given to higher credit support, capital and interest subsidy and also to innovations in order to bring the maximum number of small industries into the formal sector.\nFinancial Technology or FinTech The use of FinTech has been promoted in order to provide financial access to MSMEs and for growing their growth rate. Its increasing use has also been strengthened.\nFriends, when I attended this program, then I had discussed the topics of housing for all, power for all, clean cooking for all, health for all and insurance for all.\nIn the last three years more than 1 crore houses have been constructed in the country. Saubhagya Yojana has started running 4 crore homes with electricity. Free gas connections have been provided to 3.4 million women under the Ujjwala scheme.\nOur government has provided the protection cover to more than 18 crore poor people at a premium of 90 paise per day and a premium of one rupee per month. A claim amount of more than Rs. 2,000 crores has been disbursed to poor people under this scheme.\nFriends,\nAll the government's policies, appointments, decisions, intentions and rules are the only one objective: We have been empowering the poor by following the formula of Sabka Sath, Sabka Vikas.\nIn the last three and a half years more than 31 crore bank accounts have been opened for the poor people in the country. It's not like that just bank accounts have opened, today more than Rs. 75,000 crore have been deposited in these accounts\nDuring this period, the government has constructed more than 6 crore toilets in the country. The coverage of rural cleanliness in the country has expanded to 78% which was 40% in 2014.\nThe government has granted more than 11 crore loans under the Mudra scheme. An amount of more than Rs. 4.5 lakh crore has been disbursed to the youth The country has got around 3 crore new entrepreneurs due to this scheme.\nMore than 11 crore soil health cards have been distributed so far. More than 20 lakh hectares have been brought under micro irrigation scheme.\nFriends, one more significant decision related to the new economy has been taken in this year's budget.\nA minimum support price of at least 1.5 times of cost of production This cost will cover the expenses by the farmer on hiring laborers, the expenses incurred on his own cattle / machine or for the hire of other's machine or cattle, the price paid for the seeds, the price paid for all types of compost, the expenses incurred on irrigating the land, the land revenue paid to the state government, the interest paid on the working capital, the rent paid for hiring the land on lease, and other expenses. It's not just that, the value of labor input provided by the farmer himself and his family will also be included in the cost of production of calculating the MSP.\nIt's an extremely important issue. However, some economists are indicating that this may lead to price rise.\nFriends,\nThis kind of economists should also consider this thing: What is our nation? I feel that we should support every decision to increase the farmer's incomeand if the government identifies the efforts of income in these efforts then we should increase our participation without any hesitation.\nFriends,\nOur government has done the work of institutionalizing the last three years. The system has been transparent with the help of technology and leakage has been prevented.\nThe government has stopped the siphoning off of more than Rs. 57,000 crore in the wrong hands by using DBT Registration of more than 2 lakh suspected companies have been terminated. The bank accounts of the directors of these companies have also been frozen and they have stopped being the directorship in any other company.\nOn this occasion, I would like to appeal to the industry of the country, to the people of all sectors, and to all the professionals that please always keep this mind in mind. of our country\nI would like to appeal to one more thing that those who have been entrusted with the responsibility of enforcingthe rules and ethics in the financial institutions must discharge their duty with utmost sincerity, especially those who have been given the responsibility of monitoring and vigilance.\nI would like to make it clear that this government will take strong action against the financial sector. This system will not tolerate misappropriation of public money. And this is the basic formula of the New Economy, New Rules.\nFriends,\nThe issue of a new economy has been discussed here. An idea also happened when I gathered This is I feel that the issue of a positive impact that the conduct of Lok Sabha and Vidhan Sabha elections will be on the country's economy too. This issue is not allowed to India only Foreign companies have also been affected Investment In some countries, the timing, the month and even dates are already being fixed. What kind of impact is this thing on the development of those countries?\nIndia's economic development, the continuous efforts in achieving good governance in India, the policies and programs aimed at achieving the global standards in India, the world that is having a comprehensive economic and trade with the efforts, the priority given to the decision to sustainable development as a focus of innovations, all these things are being understood by the world and they have been attracting the world towards India. India can emerge as a frontline force in the modern times and in the new global scenario. India can lead the world in terms of technology and in terms of innovation.\nWe have that capability, we have those resourcesthrough which we can rekindle in the dream of a New India. And our development will not only be limited to us. It will bring prosperity for the whole world.\nPlease come forward so that we can reise our solemn pledge, so that we have a chance in front of every challenge in the new India.\nI will repeat my speech.\nThank you very much"