"Share\n\nWe will more and more tourists arrive here. This will generate income opportunities for people: PM Modi in Meghalaya\nUnder PMGSY, we provided around Rs 470 crore for construction of 1100 KM of road: PM Modi in Meghalaya\nWe will ensure good governance by the philosophy of 'Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas': PM\nPM Modi in Phulbari, says Modi in 21,000 houses in Meghalaya and provided more than 100 crore to the government\nWe have planned to spend around Rs. 180 crore for building of new Shillong airport, says the PM\nThe current government has wasted your 50 years I urge you to give us a chance to serve the state: PM Modi in Meghalaya\nSiban Shibon Lyngdoh, President of the Bharatiya Janata Party, on the stage, all senior leaders of the party sitting on the stage, all the Bharatiya Janata Party candidates and the huge number of brothers and sisters in the election.\nIt seems that the gathering of these flowers It seems that this time the flower turn. And this season is also a bit of autumn. So the old leaves fall and new leaves come in. I am feeling in politics too. That old old man is going to go down and the lotus flower is blossoming. I was watching from the helicopter .... No one can imagine. That is why this huge Viraat Sansagar in this small region. I see people everywhere, I see people. And so it is clear that the time is to change the fate of Meghalaya. This is the time of change in Meghalaya. For years, you have seen the same party, survived the same party. And so they also consider you a takon for grants. Let's assume that this state is our blessing. No one else can come here. We do good to people or not. We do not listen to or listen to the complaint of Janata Janardhan. Here we make or not make paths in the village. We do not concern or do not worry about farmers here, do not care or do it. There is no political challenge for us here. And so we will do it with our own will;\nBrothers and sisters\nIt may be that some people love them but once you change the face, then right how else is the other. And you feel, you've wasted fifty years. Wasted fifty years If we give opportunities, there will be a passion inside us and we have an intention to do some work in our mind. If you do not feel well after five years and you do not feel well, then take us out. Once changed, then look right. Today the people of Meghalaya have a good government. Everybody's company will help in everybody's growth. What is its politics? To change the future of the youth here, make such plans so that they do not have to leave their village. How to create such plans. I assure you. This country also had the first apprehension about what the Bharatiya Janata Party party will do in Delhi. They do not have the experience. Just like you did not listen ... Used to listen or did not listen .... Did not listen like this ... But in 2014 we sat You tell me\nToday the country is progressing or not doing .... India's dancer is ringing in the whole world or not ... It's ringing ... Whether or not India's wo ... Wow is happening in England .... Getting in France ... Getting in Germany ... What is the reason ..... What is the reason .... What is the reason .... What is the reason .... Hey Modi is not the reason. These reasons are you people, the country's 100 million citizens. Because after 30 years you made a complete majority government in Delhi. And due to this .... And the government got one step after another. The result of that is that in the country today, the world is getting cheering in the world.\nBrothers and sisters\nMake a change in Meghalaya once. Once the Bharatiya Janata Party formed a strong and stable government, look at it. And once the Meghalaya will become a BJP government. I have come to promise you that my BJP government will give an account of the time and place of Janaradhan, the accounts of the pie-pie. Have any Congress leaders ever given an account of their work ... Have any questions answered .... Have your problems resolved .... Have you fulfilled the promises made ... What are the results of this election in the election? Here are the reasons for the election being given to Modi. If you have been sitting here for fifty-five years, the people of Meghalaya have just calculated, what have you done in these years?\n\nBrothers and sisters\nGet here somewhere. What is the way. What is a paved road? What is the tarrok road Have I seen in the inner village of Meghalaya .... Is it ... Is there a road somewhere in the village .... Just tell me what's up the road here .... What is the road to the road ... It seems that the farm is going on. If you have to cultivate on the road then cultivate it. It has been kept in that condition ... Delhi Government gives money. The Delhi Government gives money to connect the road to the village. If there is a cost of 100 rupees then 80 rupees comes from Delhi. If there is a cost of thousands of rupees then 800 rupees comes from Delhi. One lakh rupees is spent, 80 thousand rupees comes from Delhi. For one crore rupees, then Rs 80 lakh comes from Delhi. You tell me Brothers and sisters What is the reason that there are so many rupees from Delhi but the road is not seen anywhere, then where are these rupees? Where did these rupees come ... You've never counted. In the election itself, you have to make an account of the date on 27th date. And always try to punish them. The new government that will come, will work with such enthusiasm. Resolve all these problems. I assure you that.\nYou tell me brothers If there is a BJP government in Meghalaya, there will be a BJP government in Delhi. Dream of Delhi Government to do good to the North East. If you run your Meghalaya with an engine, then it will be faster if you run it with double engine and it will be faster. Meghalaya needs a double engine or not .... Should not ... So one engine of Meghalaya and another engine Delhi If two engines were taken, then the two governments will work together to complete the work that has not been done in these 50 years.\nBrothers and sisters\nIn the last four years, in order to make the road to Meghalaya, about 500 crore rupees were given, under the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana, 470 crore. There were 1100 km of roads in villages. How much money was given, but this government is such that half the work could not be completed. And do not know where the roads went, where did the money go? Do not know what happened. At first there was a government in Delhi which is never asked accordingly. You are also good, we are good, you are too big, we are too big, you are mine, mine too. If this was the business, then the account was not asked. Since we have come, we are demanding the account of what we have spent. People of our donor ministry go every month to some state of the North East. We say what you have done, first calculate it. Show us what we have done. We will go to see and take money after that. Now they do not have the courage to ask, because if you do work, do not show them. This condition is laid out.\nBrothers and sisters\nThese people have misused your innocence so much that your honesty has done so much misery that they have forced you to live a life of trouble. And so today I have come to urge you.\nBrothers and sisters\nLast time I came. 260 km Shillong-full road, two national highways, 1000 thousand crore rupees and 10 thousand crore rupees in the coming three-four years, we will spend your road behind.\nBrothers and sisters\nIn the fifty years, the work of Rs 10,000 will not be heard, we want to do so in the coming days. If the North East gets connectivity to Meghalaya, get rail connectivity, get road connectivity, get air connectivity, people here have strength, here is the power in the earth, Meghalaya heaven can become my brothers sisters\nBrothers and sisters\nWe plan to spend about 180 crore rupees in Shillong Airport. ... and because of this, normal person is also normal, these days I have made a flying plan, with the highest profit going to North East. And the ticket is cheap so that the person wearing the slippers can go in the airplane. At the time of the illness, to go on airplanes, the poor man could go in it, at such a low cost, in the coming days, in the coming days, in the future of the small planes of the North East, Working in a very large scale. And its benefits .... Who are building Shillong Airport In that airport, Boeing 737, Air Bus 320, was able to land there. This new Shillong Airport, big airport, at the cost of 180 crores. You can imagine that the possibility of industrial development will increase here, the possibility of tourism will increase. The possibility of employment for the common man will increase. And to strengthen that work .... In the same way, we have taken a huge task in the direction of connectivity under Shilong to Silchar, Imphal, Dimapur, Aizawl, Agartala, Tezpur under all the flying plan. And in the coming days, private parties will come and they will be built.\nBrothers and sisters\nWithin the meghalaya government has been sitting for so many years. And what is their record? What is the identity of this government on the tongue of people. The identity of this government - scam in the recruitment of teachers. Have not done that .... There has been a scam in the recruitment of teachers that has not happened .... He has not got what he should get ... It's not true that ... The rupee has not been found ... Rupees went somewhere or did not go ... Should such people be examined or should not ...\n\nBrothers and sisters\nFrom mine to farm-farm China, there is no such topic in which there is no question mark, there is no scope for scandals. They have done these things. Ground allotment, there is a nutritional diet for children. Even in those, those who eat out of the stomach of the children can make your future ... Should Meghalaya remain in the hands of such people ... And so brothers and sisters This election is an opportunity. This is a government where no work is done without commission. There is an army full of collectors in everything. A big business of intermediaries is gone. Here such works are being done that the widow gets pension, the money goes away, the check bursts, the government's treasure is empty, but the daughter who has never been born, she also becomes a widow on paper in the government and years Till the pension goes too. The daughter who is not born can become a widow and money goes out. Government servant, got job He is not a human either. That's the name on the paper. Money is going on in his name. Where is that girl? Not born\nBrothers sisters\nThe way these are working and we are working under the Act East Policy. We are working on giving priority to development. And it is our endeavor that in our country, through the East East Policy, the infrastructure in the entire North East is modern, the means of transport should be modern, road connectivity, air connectivity, rail connectivity, digital connectivity, work on it. Are there. Its advantage is that it is our neighbors which are neighboring countries, Bangladesh, Myanmar, they can grow our business and if the business of Meghalaya sells goods here in these neighboring countries, then how will our people of Meghalaya be happy and prosperous? You can guess this. We are working on strengthening it.\nBrothers and sisters\nOur vision has been in the North East - Importance of Transportation. That's why we have said - Transformation Boy Transportation. As the traffic increases, the more convenience the person will get, the more benefit the life here is going to be.\nPower sector, electricity I'm surprised More than 900 villages where electricity did not reach The government of the same party was. Even here in his government, Delhi, his government There were 900 villages, where there was no pillar of electricity.\nBrothers and sisters\nI took the lead from Delhi I will not force the 900 villages of Meghalaya to live in the 18th century. Government of India will spend the cost and will send electricity to 900 villages. And today we have completed that work. Now there was electricity in the village. Now we have taken the initiative that now electricity should be reached at home too. And those who are still living in the 18th century. Even today there is no electricity connection. Lakhs of families deprived of electricity in Meghalaya for free under the Government of India's Good Luck scheme Give them a power connection, this is our promise, we will fulfill it. And we have decided to spend more than 300 crores for this. We planned a LED bulb. LED bulb is very cheap. Which gives light more and reduces power bill. About three lakh 20 thousand LED bulbs have arrived in Meghalaya. And the result of this is that in those families whose use of LED bulb is used, due to low electricity bill, bill alone has reduced bill of Rs 20 crores in Meghalaya alone. Those whose home has a LED bulb, money saved in their pockets.\nBrothers and sisters\nAnd this government of Meghalaya is not using an LED bulb in a single municipality. Had he used the LED bulb, the LED bulb on the street lights of the municipality would have saved millions of rupees from the government and used to help the poor. But there is a government that is there, it is a government that is considered to be a grant for grants, which you do not care about.\nBrothers and sisters\nThere is a lot of possibility of tourism in Meghalaya. Heritage Tourism is in Meghalaya. Handiwork Tourism is in Meghalaya. Eco Tourism is in Meghalaya. Wildlife tourism is in Meghalaya. Adventure Tourism is in Meghalaya. There is nothing but brothers and sisters.\nNot a camper. Even after having such an opportunity for tourism, the Meghalaya government is not interested in these works. The arrangements should be made for this. Should try to bring people from all over the country. The people of the world should try to get here. Connecting with you, the Government of India wants to give this great power to the field of tourism. और टूरिज्म एक ऐसा क्षेत्र है, जहां कम से कम लागत से ज्यादा से ज्यादा कमाई होती है। कम से कम पैसे लगते हैं लेकिन टूरिज्म से ऑटो रिक्शा वाला भी कमाता है। बस वाला भी कमाता है। फूल बेचने वाला भी कमाता है। चना-चबैना बेचने वाला भी कमाता है। हैंडीक्राफ्ट बेचने वाला भी कमाता है। छोटा गेस्ट हाउस वाला भी कमाता है। हर कोई उससे कमाता है।\nऔर इसलिए भाइयो बहनो।\nमेघालय में टूरिज्म की इतनी संभावना है जिसको हम आगे बढ़ाना चाहते हैं। 2022, आजादी का 75 साल होने वाला है। हमारा एक सपना है। हर गरीब को जिसके पास भी रहने के लिए अपना घर नहीं है। ऐसे हर व्यक्ति को, ऐसे हर परिवार को उसका अपना रहने का घर होना चाहिए। दिल्ली सरकार ने भी बीड़ा उठाया है, मेघालय में भी जो घर नहीं वाले लोग हैं, कोई किराये पर रहता है, कोई झुग्गी-झोपड़ी में रहता है, कोई फुटपाथ पर जिंदगी गुजारता है। ऐसे सबको अपना मकान मिले, इसकी योजना बनाकरके हम आगे बढ़ रहे हैं।\nBrothers and sisters\nये सरकार कैसी है। हमने मेघालय सरकार को 21 हजार घर बनाने को मंजूरी दी। उसके लिए 100 करोड़ रुपए से ज्यादा की राशि उनको दे दी। लेकिन मैं हैरान हूं कि 15-16 हजार मकान भी अभी तक, काम आगे बढ़ नहीं पाया। ऐसे ही एकाध ईंट आदि डाल दी और कागज पर लिख दिया कि काम चल रहा है। पैसे दे चुके हैं, गरीब को घर की जरूरत है। लेकिन सोई हुई सरकार है, गरीब बेघर है।\nइसलिए मैं कहना चाहता हूं भाइयो बहनो।\nपैसे हैं। हम काम करना चाहते हैं। लेकिन यहां एक ऐसी रूकावट बनी हुई है, एक ऐसी सोई पड़ी सरकार है। जिसके कारण भारत सरकार कितना ही काम करना चाहे पर काम कर नहीं पाते हैं। इसलिए मैं आपसे कहने आया हूं। अब जो घर अधूरे पड़े हैं, उनके लिए भी केंद्रर सरकार ने अलग से 200 करोड़ रुपए उनको दिए। उसमें से भी बहुत बड़ी मात्रा में धन अभी पड़ा हुआ है। ये धन पड़ा हुआ क्यों है। पहले की सरकार होती तो नहीं होता। ये इसलिए है क्योंकि हम हिसाब मांगते हैं। काम का हिसाब दो, आगे का पैसा निकालो। पैसा यहां रख दिया है लेकिन काम का हिसाब नहीं दे पा रहे हैं। पैसों की चोरी भी नहीं कर पा रहे हैं, खर्च भी नहीं कर पा रहे। इसके कारण वो परेशान हैं।\nBrothers and sisters\nये पैसा जनता जनार्धन का है। ये आपके हक का पैसा है। इसके लिए, मैं तो हैरान हूं। यहां के तो मुख्यमंत्री स्वयं डॉक्टर हैं। लेकिन आपके मेघालय में हेल्थ सेक्टर का क्या हाल है। क्या डॉक्टर हैं क्या गांव में ...। पारा मेडिकल के स्टॉफ हैं क्या ...। दवाई उपलब्ध है क्या ...। क्या इस सरकार को कुछ चिंता है क्या ...। चिंता भी नहीं है।\nBrothers and sisters\nये आज मेघालय में प्रेगनेंट वूमन, अस्पतालों का हाल ऐसा है कि वो डिलेवरी के लिए अस्पताल में जाने के लिए हिम्मत नहीं करती हैं। वो अपने घर में ही जिंदगी और मौत का खेल खेलने के लिए तैयार हो जाती है लेकिन सरकार के अस्पताल पर भरोसा नहीं करती हैं। ऐसे डॉक्टर मुख्यमंत्री यहां बैठे हुए हैं। पचास प्रतिशत महिलाएं, पचास प्रतिशत महिलाएं मेघालय में अस्पताल में डिलेवरी जाने की हिम्मत नहीं कर रही हैं, अपने घर में किसी को घर में बुलाकरके, जीए या मरें उसी के भरोसे अपनी जिंदगी छोड़ने को तैयार है लेकिन ये डॉक्टर मुख्यमंत्री पर उनको भरोसा नहीं है।\nBrothers and sisters\nइन माताओ बहनो को कितनी पीड़ा होती होगी। इनकी जिंदगी को कितना खतरा होता होगा। लेकिन इनको कुछ परवाह नहीं है। इसलिए मैं कहता हूं। हम आपकी जिंदगी की चिंता करना चाहते हैं। हम आपके साथ खड़े रहना चाहते हैं। एक बार पूरे मेघालय में, जिस मेघालय में फूलबारी हो, उस मेघालय में तो फूल की ही बारी होना चाहिए। ये करके चलना चाहिए। और इसलिए मैं आपसे कहना चाहूंगा कि नेशनल हेल्थ स्कीम के तहत करीब-कराब 500 करोड़ रुपया, 470 करोड़ रुपया। इनको दिए गए हैं। अगर ये राशि ईमानदारी से खर्च की गई होती तो ये पचास प्रतिशत महिलाओं की जो हालत है, वो नहीं हुई होती। मैं समझता हूं।\nहमने एक योजना बनाई आयुष्मान भारत। और मैं चाहता हूं कि देशवासियों को इसका लाभ मिले। लोग इसको मोदी केयर कहके पुकारने लगे हैं, मोदी केयर। केंद्र सरकार एक इंश्योरेंस व्यवस्था ला रही है। गरीब परिवार होगा, सामान्य परिवार होगा। अगर उसके परिवार में कोई बीमारी आ गई। ऑपरेशन की जरूरत पड़ी, दवाई की जरूरत पड़ी, अस्पताल में भर्ती होना पड़ा। उसको गांव से कहीं बाहर ले जाना पड़ा। 5 लाख रुपया, एक साल में दवाई या उपचार के लिए 5 लाख रुपए तक का खर्च होगा, तब तक पैसा भारत सरकार इंश्योरेंस कंपनी के द्वारा देगी। किसी को 5 लाख रुपया तक उसको खर्च नहीं करना पड़ेगा। हर साल 5 लाख रुपया, ये बहुत बड़ी योजना, ये दुनिया की सबसे बड़ी योजना हम लेकर आए हैं।\nऔर इसलिए मैं मेघालयवासियों को कह रहा हूं। अगर दिल्ली की सरकार और मेघालय की सरकार साथ मिलकरके काम करेंगे तो मुझे विश्वास है भारतीय जनता पार्टी की सरकार एक बार मेघालय में बनाइए। ये सारी योजनाएं आपके दरवाजे पर आकरके दस्तक देगी। ये मैं आपको विश्वास दिलाता हूं। हमने आपने देखा होगा, पहले छोटा काम होता था तो दिल्ली भागना पड़ता था। मैंने ऐसी स्थिति बनाई है कि दिल्ली की सरकार को नोर्थ ईस्ट के कोने में लाकरके खड़ा कर दिया है। हर महीने डोनर मंत्रालय का सचिवालय नोर्थ ईस्ट के अलग-अलग राज्यों में आता है। यहीं पर आकरके अफसरों के साथ बैठकरके समस्याओं की सुनवाई करता है और समस्याओं से मुक्ति दिलाकरके विकास के काम को आगे बढ़ाता है। मैंने केंद्र सरकार का कोई न कोई मंत्री पंद्रह दिन में से एक दिन नोर्थ ईस्ट में होना चाहिए। सिर्फ राज्य के बड़े केंद्र में ही नहीं पिछले जिलों में भी जाना चाहिए। ये काम पिछले चार साल से लगातार चल रहा है। आजादी के बाद केंद्र सरकार के जितने मंत्री नोर्थ ईस्ट में आए होंगे, चार साल में उससे भी ज्यादा मंत्रियों को मैंने नोर्थ ईस्ट में भेजा है। और लोगों से मिलकरके काम करने का प्रयास किया है।\nBrothers and sisters\nविकास की नई ऊंचाइयों को पार के लिए हम मिलकर चल रहे हैं तब, जब हम आज विश्व के अंदर भारत के संपर्क बढ़े हैं। उसका लाभ भारत के सामान्य मानवी को किस प्रकार से मिल रहा है। आप जानते हैं, दुनिया में टेरोरिज्म का खतरा है। और टेरोरिज्म का खतरा होने के कारण दुनिया में सामान्य मानवी की जिंदगी कितने खतरे में है। ये आप भलीभांति जानते हैं। और किस-किस प्रकार की स्थितियां बनी। जो लोग यहां जातिवाद का जहर फैला रहे हैं, जो लोग यहां साम्प्रदायवाद का जहर फैला रहे हैं, वहीं दूसरी तरफ हम सबका साथ, सबका विकास। इसी एक मंत्र को लेकर हम आगे बढ़ रहे हैं। इस देश का हर नागरिक हमारा है। इस देश पर इस देश के हर नागरिक का उतना ही हक है जितना जितना हक इस देश के प्रधानमंत्री का है। ये हमारी विचारधारा है। आपको मालूम होगा। ये आतंकवाद का तूफान चल रहा है। इराक के अंदर लड़ाई चल रही थी। हमारे देश की 46 बच्चियां, केरल की बच्चियां, ये हमारी बेटियां, इराक में नर्स के नाते काम कर रही थीं। आतंकवादी उनको उठाकरके ले गए। और इन नर्सों में से ज्यादात नर्स ईसाई संप्रदाय से थी, केरल की थी।  \nBrothers and sisters\nहमने बीड़ा उठाया था। कि मैं अपनी बेटियों को वापस लाऊंगा, उनकी रक्षा करूंगा। और आज जब मैं मेघालय आया हूं। तो मैं गर्व के साथ कह सकता हूं कि उन 46 बेटियां, जो ज्यादातर ईसाई समाज से थीं, केरल से थीं, मेरे देश की बेटियां थी हम इराक में आतंकवादियों के चंगुल से इन बच्चियों को सुरक्षित ले आए। और केरल में उनके परिवार को हाथोंहाथ उन्हें सुपुर्द कर दिए।\nBrothers and sisters\nसरकार कैसी होनी चाहिए। आपको पता होगा। हमारे देश का फादर एलेक्सी प्रेम कुमार। ये फादर एलेक्सी प्रेम कुमार मूलत तमिलनाडु का लेकिन अफगानिस्तान में इसाई समाज के लिए काम करता था। भगवान ईशु का संदेश दे रहा था, शांति-भाईचारे की बात करता था। लेकिन अफगानिस्तान में आतंवादी उसको उठाकर ले गए। और फादर एलेक्सी प्रेम कुमार को 18 महीने तक अफगानिस्तान में आतंकवादियों ने अपने चंगुल दबोचकर रखा था। सरकार की सांसें फूल रही थी। उनका परिवार आशा छोड़ चुका था कि अब उनका बेटा वापस नहीं आएगा। चर्च भी निराश हो गया था। चारो तरफ लग रहा था कि ये फादर नहीं बचेगा।\nलेकिन भाइयो बहनो।\nहमने आशा नहीं छोड़ी। हम भिन्न-भिन्न प्रकार के प्रयास करते रहे। ढूढ़ने के लिए टेक्नोलॉजी का प्रयोग किया, जो भी कर सकते थे किया। आज मुझे खुशी है कि 18 महीने के बाद फादर एलेक्सी प्रेम कुमार को जिंदा हिन्दुस्तान वापस ले आए, आतंकवादियों के हाथ ले आए। जब मैंने ने खुद उनके परिवार को फोन किया। उनकी बहन थोड़ा अंग्रेजी बोल लेती थी। उससे जब बात की तो वह मानने को तैयार नहीं थी। एक तो प्रधानमंत्री फोन करे और दूसरा उसका भाई डेढ़ साल बाद जिंदा मिल सकता है। ये उसको कल्पना नहीं कर सकती थी। ये हमारी सरकार फादर को बचाने के लिए दिन-रात हमने एक कर दिया। ये हमारी सरकार। यहीं कलकत्ता की एक बेटी। बंगाल में काम करने वाली ज्यूलिप डिसूजा। ये हमारी बेटी बंगाल की बेटी है ज्यूलिप डिसूजा। वो भी अफगानिस्तान में चर्च के लिए काम करती थी। भगवान ईशु का संदेश देने का काम करती थी। इस बेटी को आतंकवादी उठाकर ले गए। एक जवान बेटी आतंकवादियों के हाथ में पहुंच जाए। आप कल्पना कर सकते हैं, कैसी मुसीबत सामने खड़ी हो गई। पूरी सरकार के लिए कितनी चिंता होगी। हमे लगा। बेटी हमारी है। हम जी-जान से जुट जाएंगे लेकिन बेटी की जिंदगी बचाएंगे।\nऔर भाइयो बहनो।\nआज मेघालय की धरती से यह कहते हुए मुझे गर्व हो रहा है कि एक महीने के भीतर-भीतर, एक महीना आतंकवादियों के चंगुल में रही, एक महीने के भीतर-भीतर सही सलामत जिंदा उस बेटी को वापस ले आए। और आज वह हिन्दुस्तान में अपने घर में काम में लग गई है।\nBrothers and sisters\nइतना ही नहीं फादर टोम। ये फादर टोम यमन में,यमन में आतंकवादी उठाकर ले गए। वो भी बेचारा चर्च के लिए काम करता था, भगवान ईशु का संदेश पहुंचा रहा था लेकिन आतंकवादियों का वो शिकार हो गया, उठाकर ले गए आतंकवादी। फादर टोम भी लंबे समय तक आतंकवादियों के कब्जे में रहा। हम दिन-रात कोशिश करते रहे। यमन के साथ जिन-जिन देशों के साथ संबंध थे, उनको विनती की, कुछ मैसेंजर भेजे।\nऔर भाइयो बहनो।\nएक लंबे कालखंड के बाद फादर टोम को जिंदा हम हिन्दुस्तान वापस ले आए। जब फादर टोम मुझसे मिलने आए। मैंने देखा था। कुछ नहीं बचा था शरीर में, हड्डियां बची थी। ये हाल हो गया था उसका। आते ही मैंने उसके स्वास्थ्य की चिंता की, उसके मेडिकल ट्रीटमेंट की चिंता की।\nBrothers and sisters\nइस देश का हर नागरिक हमारी जिम्मेदारी है। इस देश में संप्रदाय के आधार पर राजनीति करने वाले हम लोग नहीं है। सबका साथ सबका विकास, इसी मंत्र को लेकर चलने वाले लोग हैं। और उसी के तहत हम हमारे देश के किसी भी इलाके में कोई संकट हो, हम हर किसी के लिए काम करने वाले लोग हैं। मैं मेघालय वालों से भी कहना चाहता हूं कि एक बार परिवर्तन करके देखो। यही वक्त है जो दिल्ली की सरकार आपके लिए जी जान से जुट जाएगी। मेघालय में ऐसी सरकार बनाइए। इन लोगों से एक बार मुक्ति लेकरके तो देखिए। एक बार खुली सांस का, हवा का अनुभव तो कीजिए। और कमल के फूल पर बटन दबाकर विजयी बनाइए। मेरे साथ बोलिए। Long live Mother India. Long live Mother India. Long live Mother India.\nBrothers and sisters\nमैं सचमुच में बताता हूं। दिल्ली में बैठकरके किसी को पता नहीं चल सकता है कि मेघालय में ऐसा वेव चल रहा है। आप इतनी बड़ी संख्या में आशीर्वाद देने आए। Thanks a lot."