"PM Modi says, \"My vision for the north-east is transformation by transportation\"\nIndia's development is not possible without the development of the north east: PM\nBe it bureaucracy, music, art, sports, textiles, the people of Nagaland have contributed to our nation: PM\nA strong and stable government is in the interest of the Nagaland: PM Modi\nWe are focusing on enhancing road, air and rail connectivity in Nagaland: PM Modi\nWe are encouraging farmers to shift toward organic farming, this will add to their earnings: PM Modi in Nagaland\nNarendra Modi in Nagaland: Youth of Nagaland is extremely talented, says Modi\nKishore Lala Nagteyi saluted all Manusheh, BJP, NDDP, Power Ranges, six Koi have given development Naga Basti Panchayati. The Vice President of the Bharatiya Janata Party, sitting on stage, Mr. Visasoli Lahongu, Member of Parliament and my friend Mr. Nefiyu Rio G., all the senior officials, all the candidates who sit on the stage and all my dear brothers and sisters from far away.\nOur country is so diverse, how wide it is, yet how united it is that its power is realized in Nagaland. The different tribes, communities but the songs of the Jana Gana Mana do all in one vowel. I am looking forward to myself in front of me today in a panoramic view of India's best India. In the remote corner of the country, the wave of our alliance in Tansang, many of our friends sitting in Delhi will see this crisis When all along with and with this one mantra, every corner of India, every state of India, with every society of Hindustan is tried and taken honestly and then people coming in such a large number bless us. Give up. Those who vote in the politics of the vote bank, who have the habit of sharing, breaking, fighting with each other. Today, you have given a convincing answer to all of them with your presence. You came in such a large number and blessed me. You have poured love So I express my gratitude to your heart. I salute this land. I salute the great traditions here. I salute each and every citizen here.\nAssociates\nTalented people of Nagaland have made an invaluable contribution in the development of the country. Become bureaucracy, be the army, be a sports sector, textile sector, music, Nagaland people have always enhanced their values. I have always been a fan of the hard work of people of Nagaland, their loyalty and their bravery, the rich culture of Naga Samaj. Now this country is moving ahead with the determination to fulfill the resolution of New India. Now the development of the people of Nagaland, the people's determination will play a very important role in fulfilling the dream of New India. With the contribution of all of you, the task of building the nation will go on fast. The dream of New India, the dream of New Nagaland will also come true.\nAssociates\nI want to commend the people of Nagaland for this matter, that they have made a collective effort for peace and stability. This journey of progress and development of Nagaland will be faster then. When we take all of us together and move forward. And so in the last few years, the way political instability has seen people in this area. Now it's time to move forward. Take four-four times the cabinet swearing in four years, this situation is going to block development. It is therefore necessary that there will be a stable and strong government in Nagaland. Who is dedicated to development and development of Nagaland only, works for development.\nAssociates\nThere will always be a big challenge in the way of development - corruption. It is very necessary that the amount of money the government plans to spend, the full benefit of the general person. It is also very necessary that the Central Government sends Nagaland for the development, its pie-pie should be spent for your development. In our country, once a Prime Minister had said that a rupee goes from Delhi and he goes to the village and goes to 15 paise. We are working to resolve this situation by taking the resolution. The government of Bharatiya Janata Party in Nagaland will ensure that the amount sent from Delhi for your development has reached to you. Through modern technology, we are ending the remaining holes throughout the country, ending the leakage, which caused looting of government money. There has been a gradual decline in it.\n\nAssociates\nOur government is also making a serious effort to resolve the political problem here. I hope that in the next few months Naga people will be respected and will be able to find solutions to respect their political rights. For that we all have to walk together, everyone has to walk with them. The solution to this concern of Nagaland people will further strengthen the democracy of our country. As a family we can afford to develop for all the country, it will pave the way. Our government respects every voice emerging for the betterment of Nagaland. Our government has always opened the path of dialogue with every person who has faith in the country's democracy. Our organization is always ready to talk to them on their concerns, whatever the organization there is in the civil society here is in Tresang. Eastern Nagaland, ENPO Area is a very backward region. We will pay special attention to the ENPO area along with Nagaland.\nAssociates\nOur Constitution protects the rights of citizens of every country. For the diversity of their scriptures, the sense of walking with everyone together makes sense differently throughout the world. It is our duty to protect the rights of Nagaland. Your unique lifestyle is India's national pride. And the Central Government and I myself are fully committed to protecting it. India's growth story can not be fulfilled until our country has a balanced development. Development of Eastern India should not be equal to Western India. That's why our government has given special emphasis on the development of 8 states of Athalakshmi i.e. North East. The Government is working on the Act East Policy. Due to which the People-to-People relationship between North-East and India, especially ASEAN countries and Bangladesh, is growing. Increasing contacts among the people will increase economic prosperity in the entire North-Eastern region. Better relationships with Myanmar can be used for better cross-border trade. The central government has laid a lot of emphasis on improving the infrastructure in this area.\nMy vision is to the Northeast - Transformation Boy Transportation. The government recently approved the North East Special Infrastructure Development Under this, hundred percent funding is done to meet the shortfall in funding in infrastructure construction. The government will give approximately five thousand three hundred crores in three years. The new plan includes roughly the construction of infrastructure related to projects that promote water supply, power, connectivity and especially tourism, education, health and social infrastructure. The government is giving special attention to meeting the special needs of the North Eastern region separately. So that the development of this area is equivalent to other areas. In this direction various ministries are giving special exemption to the North East under all their plans. For all central ministries, it is mandatory to spend 10% on the North Eastern Region for their budget.\nBrothers and sisters\nConnectivity in Nagaland is a big problem. Whether it is road, rail or air connectivity, or power connectivity. The central government is constantly making efforts to end this problem related to connectivity. When the NDA government was formed under the leadership of Bharatiya Janata Party at the center. Then there was a 1000-km national highway in Nagaland. In less than four years, we increased the National National Highway to Nagaland. We reached 1,500 km from the thousand. Currently, work is being done on a project worth Rs 6000 crore in Nagaland. In the next three to four years, the central government is going to invest more than 10 thousand crores behind the roads in Nagaland.\nTalk about rail connectivity in the same way. The Central Government is spending more than Rs. 5500 crores for the construction of new railway lines all over the northeast. The government is working to connect every state of the northeast with the broad gauge line of every state's capital. The work of Dimapur-Kohima new railwayline has been started at a cost of 3000 crores. In order to connect the far-flung areas of the country with air connectivity, the central government has started the scheme of flying names. The purpose of this scheme is to fly - the general citizen of the flying country. I would like to be able to travel by airplane with an airplane easily. I was told that under the flying plan, the proposal has been received by the government under Flight Plan between Dimapur to Shillong Airport. After the service starts, the people here will get the facility of direct flights to Shillong.\nIn order to improve power connectivity and power connectivity in Nagaland, the central government is also spending about Rs 800 crore. It is the result of the Central Government's efforts that in the last three years, electricity has been provided to those villages of Nagaland where there was no electricity even after so many years of independence. Now the work of electrifying every village of India, the work of electrifying every village of Nagaland .... Now our next step is to bring electricity to every home. Under the good luck scheme, there are still one lakh families in Nagaland, who do not have electricity. Our goal is to have electricity near all those families. And this power connection will be given for free.\n\nAssociates\nThe population of Nagaland is about 20 lakhs. In the state of 20 million, 60 percent of the households have electricity connection. Nearly 40 percent of the state's electricity does not have electricity connections, it shows how governments have been operating in the state and in the country. Government of India, every family has electricity, electricity, electricity, and electricity costs will be reduced. Therefore, nearly 10 lakh LED bulbs have reached every home in Nagaland. For this reason the house where the LED bulb is reached. Electricity bill of nearly Rs 50 crore has been reduced in entire Nagaland. Such families have survived the electricity expenditure.\nYou know, the campaign to build a smart city in the country from the challenge is going on. Here Kohima got the number for the smart city. Government of India has come forward to spend 1800 crores for making a smart city in Kohima. We plan to get our home from the poorest of the poor. 2022, when there will be 75 years of independence, there should not be a single family in India which does not have a house to live in. Right now, we have approved the construction of 8500 houses in Nagaland. 160 crores rupees have been given by the Center for the construction of new homes and old schemes under separate schemes.\nBrothers and sisters\nThe Central Government is constantly working to improve Health Insurance, Health Infrastructure in Nagaland. Here is the problem of institutional delivery problems, the information is to the Central Government. Therefore, in the last four years, Nagaland has been given Rs 400 crore under the National Health Mission. This time in the budget, the Government of India has come up with a very big plan of the world. In this scheme, 100 million such families, if there is disease in those families, there is no money to get medicines, there are no money to get the operation. There is a serious illness. We have decided under the Ayushman Bharat Scheme that in such families, if the disease came and the cost of the medicine had to be spent, the operation had to be spent. In one year, up to Rs 5 lakh will be spent, which will be spent by the government of India for the expenditure of Rs 5 lakhs. This important scheme has been started by the people of Ayushman Bharat Yojna today in the name of Modi Care, Modi Care in India.\nAssociates\nIn our country, the North East is an area where the Indian government wants to give its emphasis on organic farming. There is so much power here that we can force the whole world to buy for the world that is born in the fields here in the whole world. Such a thing can be done here. And so 100 percent of our state became an organic state, we are working in that direction. This will also reduce the cost to the farmer and he will get more benefits also. Sikkim has made a 100% organic state in our North Sikkim state, Sikkim. And other states of the North East are competing to become an organic state. For this, we have taken all steps to develop more than ten thousand organic clusters across the country. In the North-East, 100 Farmer Producer Organizations have also been formed. More than 50 thousand farmers have been added to this.\nIn the past, the governments sitting in Delhi were so far away from the mood of the area, they were so far away that they did not know the fundamental power of the place. Due to this, Bamboo, Bambu has been considered tree in our country till date, considered to be a tree. And saw it because of it, but could not cut it, could not sell it. Now the Government of India decided that my brother-sister of my North-East, my sister-in-law of Nagaland, is likely to have such a large amount of Bambu. Can cultivate bamboo. Why not give them the right to sell, to sell, so we have removed Bamboo from the category of the tree and brought it to grass category. Which is going to change the future here. We revived the National Bambu Mission once again, started an Initiative for this. और पहली बार 1000 करोड़ रुपया सिर्फ बंबू के लिए खर्च करना तय किया है। इसका सबसे ज्यादा फायदा नोर्थ-ईस्ट को मिलेगा, यहां के किसान को मिलेगा।\nमेरे प्यारे भाइयो और बहनो।\nनागालैंड के इनर्जेटिक नौजवान, यहां की क्रिएटिव महिलाएं, यहां के इनोवेटिव किसान, यहां का डेमोग्राफिक ..., राज्य को नई ऊंचाइयों पर ले जा सकता है। नागालैंड में स्पोर्ट्स का टैलेंट है, जो राज्य को नई पहचान दिलाने में सक्षम है। नागालैंड में शिक्षा और स्वास्थ्य के क्षेत्र में जो प्रगति की है, उसकी वजह से और ज्यादा संभावनाएं बनी है, जिसको आगे बढ़ाने के लिए भारत सरकार, भारतीय जनता पार्टी श्रीमान रियो हम सब मिलकरके आपके भविष्य के सपने को दिनरात जुटा देंगे।\nनागालैंड के युवा अंग्रेजी भाषा से भली-भांति काम्फरटेबल हैं। इस वजह से आईटी, आउटसोर्सिंग, बीपीओ विदेश में, यहां के लोगों के लिए बहुत सारे अवसर हैं। यहां के नौजवानों को अपने पैरों पर खड़े रहने के लिए सामर्थ्य मिले, और देश के विकास में वो योगदान कर सके। इसके लिए स्किल इंडिया, स्टैंड अप इंडिया, डिजिटल इंडिया, स्टार्ट अप इंडिया जैसी अनेक योजनाओं के तहत यहां के नौजवानों को भारत सरकार सहायता कर रही है। और मुद्रा योजना के तहत बिना कोई गारंटी बैंकों से ऐसे नौजवानों को लोन देकर के, उन्हें अपने पैरों पर खड़े होने और आगे बढ़ने के लिए हम प्रेरित कर रहे हैं। इतने छोटे से राज्य में ये मुद्रा योजना को आए हुए ज्यादा समय नहीं हुआ है। इतने कम समय में 27 हजार से ज्यादा हमारे नागा वासियों को मुद्रा योजना से पैसे मिले हैं और वो अपने पैरों पर खड़े होकरके काम कर रहे हैं।\nइस वर्ष बजट मे हमारी सरकार ने आदिवासी इलाके में रहने वाले बच्चों की शिक्षा से जुड़ा भी एक बहुत बड़ा ऐलान किया है। ऐसे ब्लॉक जहां पर 50 प्रतिशत से अधिक जनसंख्या अनुसूचित जनजाति की होगी, 20 हजार से ज्यादा आदिवासी लोग हैं, वहां पर नवोदय विद्यालय की तर्ज पर एकलव्य मोर्डन रेसिडेंसियल स्कूल खोले जाएंगे।\nमेरे लिए खुशी की बात है, जब मैंने दिल्ली में सुना कि नागालैंड की कई संगठनों ने, नागालैंड की सिविल सोसायटी ने, नागालैंड के जागरूक प्रबुद्ध नागरिकों ने मिलकरके यहां पर पारदर्शी और शांतिपूर्ण चुनाव के लिए एक बीड़ा उठाया है, जागृति पैदा करने का काम किया है। मैं ऐसे सभी संगठनों का, ऐसे सभी व्यक्तियों का, ऐसे सभी महानुभावों का जो लोकतंत्र को ताकत देने के लिए आगे आए हैं। उनका मैं ह्रदय से अभिनंदन करता हूं, उनका बहुत-बहुत धन्यवाद करता हूं।\n27 तारीख को मतदान होगा। मैं आप सबसे आग्रह करता हूं कि 27 तारीख को बीजेपी और एनडीडीपी गठबंधन को आप भारी मात्रा में वोट देकरके एक स्थिर, मजबूत और पूर्ण बहुमत वाली सरकार बनाइए और बीजेपी और एनडीपीपी को रियो के नेतृत्व में विजयी बनाइए। ये मैं आग्रह करता हूं।\nमैं विश्वास दिलाता हूं कि बीजेपी और एनडीपीपी की नई सरकार बनेगी। तो यहां के विकास के लिए एक आपकी पसंद का इंजन लगेगा। और उसको आगे बढ़ाने के लिए दूसरा इंजन दिल्ली की भारत सरकार पूरी तरह लग जाएगी। आप कल्पना कर सकते हैं कि हमारा नागालैंड कितना आगे बढ़ेगा।\nमोई इराम दूर भा आहे छे। मोई इराम दूर भा आहे छे। नागा लागे नेओम आरा मोईके खाली हाथ ना पाठावी। मोरोन धारा बीजेपी एनडीडीपी एलायंस के वोट दिवी। कुकनाएम। जय नागालैंड।"