"The UP government has ushered in an era of positivity, says PM Modi\nPolitics is being kept in mind in employment generation opportunities in Uttar Pradesh: PM Modi\nPolicy + Planning + Performance lead to Performance and it is now Uttar Pradesh's time to give a super-hit performance: PM\nMSME sector plays a major role in UP's economy, we need to strengthen it further: PM Modi\nOne-District, One Production will be backed by Center's Skill India, Startup India and Stand up India initiatives: PM Modi\nUttar Pradesh will now shun red tape and roll out red carpet for investors: PM\nWe announce development of 2 defense corridors in this year's Budget, one of them will be in UP which will add to growth in Bundelkhand region: PM\nNarendra Modi is the only people-centric development: Narendra Modi\nUttar Pradesh Governor. Ram Naik ji, Chief Minister Mr. Yogi Ji, my colleagues, our senior ministers and representatives of this city of Lucknow, Home Minister. Rajnath Singh, a senior politician and the former Prime Minister of Mauritius. Anerood Jugnauth ji, The Hon'ble Minister's Foreigners, the investors, entrepreneurs and all the dignitaries present here.\nChange is something This Investor's Summit is being organized at such a great level and the presence of investors in large numbers I congratulate the Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh Mr Yogi Ji, all his colleagues in the Cabinet, the Bureaucracy, the Police Department of the State of the Uttar Pradesh for successfully taking the road to prosperity and development in such a short time\nThe people of UP know about the conditions and the same reasons. What did we expect for the industrialists when it was too difficult for even the common man to lead an environment in fear and insecurity? I do not think it is possible to talk about development, opportunities for youngsters, the middle-class aspirations in that kind of an environment The Yogi Government has taken the positivity and toward the negativities, desperation and frustration. I congratulate him for that Now the foundation of Uttar Pradesh is ready on which grand and divine edifice of 'New Uttar Pradesh' will be built. So, I will once again congratulate you for your contribution in this sacred work.\nFriends,\nThere is a old saying-\n'Kos kos par badle paani, chaar kos par vaani'\nUttar Pradesh For the past hundreds of years,\nLucknow is famous for its chikan work while the mangoes of Malihabad is exported worldwide; Bhadohi is famous for carpets; zardosi of Benares, Bronze pots of Moradabad are exported abroad and the glass of Firozabad shines bright Moreover, Petha of Agra and Kannauj's perfume are world famous. We have the bright morning of Benares as also the evening of Awadh; we have Tajmahal, Sarnath, Ayodhya, Mathura as well as Kashi. This land is known for both Ramleela as well as Krishna's Raas. It is blessed with rivers like Ganga, Yamuna and Sarayu.\nIt is also known for great institutions like IIT Kanpur, IIM Lucknow and Benares Hindu University. Uttar Pradesh has a glorious history and an equally glorious present. This can be gauged from the state's textile sector, the tourism sector, the culture, agriculture and education. This can form the growth engine of not only the east India but also for the whole country.\nBrothers and sisters,\nToday, Uttar Pradesh is the number one state in terms of production in food grains, wheat, sugarcane, milk and potatoes. It ranks second and third in the country in the production of vegetables and fruits. It is the second largest city in the world.\nI wish to congratulate my brothers and sisters for the rest of the years. However, there is a urgent need to discuss some issues.\nThe question is - 'what will happen in the future?' Is the capability of UP limited to this? Has UP reached its potential?\nFriends,\nUP has values ​​and virtues, but at the same time There is a need for value addition not only in the work culture and business culture but also in every other sector of UP I am happy that Yogi ji has taken steps and formulating schemes for keeping this aspect in mind.\nPolicies were made by linking industrial investment with employment Separate schemes have been made for the different sectors by Yogi ji's government\nPolicies with long-term effects are being implemented for different sectors like textile, electronics, manufacturing, IT, tourism, renewable energy and self-employment. Now in UP the industrialists will have red carpet instead of red-tapism The Digital Clearance System for the Industry This will be a single window portal through which the industryists will get online permission within the given time limit. Human interference will be minimum Definitely this is an important step in terms of ease of doing business in UP The Yogi government is fulfilling the promises made to women and the youth very seriously.\nI was told that this year rice procurement has increased four times and the payment for sugarcane has increased by almost 40%. The UP government is now associated with 'Power for All' campaign and it's local industries too to benefit greatly\nFriends,\nUP has blessed with the fertile Gangetic plains. Sixty percent of the population falls into the working age-group. UP Government is now linked with the 'Power for All' campaign. The local industries are also going to benefit immensely.\nI wish to reiterate that UP has immense potential Progress is I believe the citizens of UP and the Yogi government are ready for a super hit performance. In this era, the industry is 4.0 technology making the whole value chain more flexible, efficient and of better quality.\nI have seen some special techniques in the exhibition There is a lot of scope in the field of Information Technology, Consumer Electronics, and electronics manufacturing. Uttar Pradesh has the highest number of smart cities and AMRUT cities in the country.\nBrothers and sisters,\nA few days ago I had attended a similar investment summit in Maharashtra. The Government of Maharashtra had set a goal of turning it into a 'trillion dollar economy'. Today I want to share another idea with you all. Can UP and Maharashtra compete with one other in this area of ​​achieving the trillion dollars mark? Can UP government compete with different levels? This will help in development and new avenues of employment. This healthy race will strengthen the spirit of competitive federalism.\nFriends,\nThe Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises or the MSMEs play a significant role in the economy of UP. It has a huge network After agriculture, MSME is the sector that provides maximum employment to the people\nI was told that UP has about 50 lakh MSME units. The hard work of lakhs of people have made UP the leading exporter in handicrafts, processed food products, carpets, ready-made garments, leather products etc. There are special products of every state that have been kept alive by the MSME sector. We need to re-think new opportunities for employment and the growing sectors.\nI am glad to know that the UP government has started the 'one district, one product' scheme. I believe that this is a game changer. We were already familiar with the cluster approach but the 'one district, one product' has created a holistic ecosystem. With this scheme, skill development, product marketing, packaging and branding at local level can also be done very easily.\nBrothers and sisters,\nI used to say during the election campaign that when a state gets the power of a double-engine, it progresses at a rapid pace. The 'one district, one product' will get a backup power It will be benefited with the help of the center's Skill India Mission, Stand-up India Mission, Start-up India Mission and the MUDRA Scheme.\nUnder this scheme, the central government has given more than 10 lakh crore rupees of loans. It has provided more than 4 lakh crore rupees loans without bank guarantee for self-employment In this budget, our government has decided to give 3 lakh crore rupees as MUDRA loans. I believe that the 'one district one product' along with the MUDRA loan will help in rejuvenating the MSME sector.\nFriends,\nWe also have the ability to connect with expertise with efficiency. If someone is making a world class pot in Meerut, we also have the opportunity to develop the firm in the world class branding and marketing. If there is a world class distribution system and a world class service then automatic world class talent will get drawn towards it\nFriends,\nThere is a major challenge in the agricultural sector. There is a lot of wastage that takes place while the products from the farms to the markets. According to an estimate, every year the farmer brothers of the country lost about 90 thousand - 1 lakh crore rupees due to this reason.\nFor example, potatoes - UP ranks first in production of potatoes. Earlier potato chips used to be ready at homes Now see, if potato chips are set up at local level, farmers have easy access to them. Farmers will have access to a thousand crore market. Dasheri mangoes are famous here but at the same time due to lack of proper storage and marketing facilities, the mangoes get perished. There is a need to think about providing a grid of storage or marketing infrastructure for the national and international markets. Several nutritious products are made of mango pulp. We just have to strengthen the connection between the farmers and the industry. UP is the leading producer of milk but how to maximize value addition to it? How to fix 'farm-to-fork'? We have to take steps in that direction\nPradhan Mantri Kisan Sampada Yojana has been implemented by central government to reduce the wastage of crops, grains, fruits and vegetables and to strengthen the link between the products and the demand of the industries. This is an important step in the direction of increasing the farmers' income. The government has allowed 100% FDI in the food processing sector.\nFriends,\nThere are immense possibilities in UP to turn the agricultural waste and by-products into wealth. It has a good potential in ethanol production as it is the leading state in sugarcane production. The impact of development in UP in the biofuel sector can be felt from Delhi NCR. It will be a big step I am happy that you have a biofuel policy This policy will help All these steps collectively will help us to realize the goal of doubling farmers' income by 2022.\nFriends,\nToday on this special occasion, I want to make one important announcement This announcement is important for not only In the Budget it was announced that the country will get 2 Defense Industrial Corridors. One of them is proposed in UP The Industrial Corridor in UP will extend in the regions - Agra, Aligarh, Lucknow, Kanpur, Jhansi and Chitrakoot belt keeping in the development of Bundelkhand region. There is a possibility of 20,000 crore rupees in the corridor This will provide employment to almost 2.5 lakh people\nYogi ji's government is going to industrialize Purvanchal and Bundelkhand by making Purvanchal Expressway and Bundelkhand Expressway.\nBrothers and sisters,\nEarlier UP had only 3 airports - in Lucknow, Varanasi and Gorakhpur. Now the work of building 2 more airports at Kushinagar and Jewar is also being started. Besides, under UDAN scheme is being developed in 11 cities like Agra, Kanpur, Allahabad, Bareilly, Jhansi, Chitrakoot, Muradabad, Aligarh and Azamgarh. Soon these cities have the facilities of flights. This is my dream that the common man should get access to air travels.\nThere are not many functional airports in UP Still there is a growth of 30%. This is more than the national average. You can imagine the type of change that will be the new airport.\nUttar Pradesh has the largest rail network in the country UP has a rail network of 9 thousand kilometer. UP has a significant place in National Highway network. The economy of UP will get a new power after the completion of Eastern and Western dedicated freight corridors. Both the corridors meet at Dadri in UP This corridor along with the Delhi-Mumbai Industrial Corridor and the Amritsar-Delhi-Kolkata industrial corridor will give a fillip to UP's development.\nVaranasi and Haldia will also help in industrial development of UP Moreover, the extension of metro in Lucknow, Gaziabad and Noida and the new metro rails in Meerut, Kanpur and Varanasi will help in developing world class transport infrastructure in UP Also, the optical fiber connectivity in UP panchayats under Bharat Net Pariyojana will help in connecting the rural areas with the world. Modern highways, railways, subways, metro-ways, waterways and information ways together will create an infrastructure that will take new heights in the 21st century.\nBetter connectivity, industries and manufacturing units will be helpful in seamlessly switching from one mode to another mode of transport. With reduced obstacles in transportation, business will flourish easily; tourism will develop and result in job growth\nFriends,\nOften tourism is seen as a multiplier for growth. UP has a historical and cultural heritage UP There is a need to strengthen Tourist Center ecosystem There are many possibleibilities in UP in the fields of Heritage tourism, handicrafts tourism, ecotourism, wildlife tourism and village tourism that can be tapped.\nUttar Pradesh is among the top states in attracting both national and international tourists. It can rank first. I believe that the new tourism policy that I am going to declare in this summit is going to help. In UP, the tourism sector has also been categorized as an industry.\nNext year i.e. In January 2019, Mahakumbh will be organized in Prayag. This is the biggest event of its kind. Last year the United Nations has recognized Kumbh as an Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity. This is a great opportunity for the people of Uttar Pradesh government. The 2019 Kumbh should be a memorable and well-known people from the Kalpavasis to the vistors from across the country and abroad. Our goal should be to provide employment opportunities to the youngsters. We have to ensure that tourists from all countries should visit Kumbha It should be organized at a global scale. The world should be able to identify UP and India with it.\nFriends,\nSuch an Investors' summit was first organized in Gujarat followed by other states like Madhya Pradesh, Chhatisgarh, Maharashtra, Jharkhand and Assam and this summit has finally reached UP. It is important that now the MoUs of the investors' summit should be done as soon as possible.\nI would like to specially mention about Yogi ji's promise of personally monitoring the MoUs. He will follow the activities himself You should get ready for you\nOur government, whether at the center or the state has always focused on job-centric and people-centric growth We are prioritizing both the ease of doing business and the ease of living to create an economy with financial inclusion of the poor. It is because of government's policies and plans that now about 31 crore bank accounts of the poor have opened under Jan Dhan Yojana. More than 18 crore poor people have been given insurance with premiums of 90 paise per day and 1 rupee per month. The government has built around 1 crore houses for the poor and middle class citizens in the last 3 years. More than 6 crore toilets have been constructed under Swachh Bharat Mission More than 3 crore 30 lakh poor women have given free gas connections under Ujjwala scheme.\nIn this Budget, the goal of the scheme is increased to 8 crore. Pradhan Mantri Saughya Scheme has started the house of every poor citizen of the country. 4 crore poor people\nWe have announced the Ayushman Bharat Yojana in the Budget 10 crore poor families will get health insurance under this scheme. If any member falls sick, the government will provide up to 5 lakh rupees for his treatment and medicines for 1 year through the insurance company.\nOur government is trying to make the better of these types of schemes. The government is ensuring that the benefits of the structural changes and the policy interventions should reach the farmers, the poor, the Dalits, the backward and the deprived people of the society.\nFriends,\nThere is a need for new ethos, new hope and new investment for a new Uttar Pradesh and a new India. I hope the investors' summit of UP will be successful in opening new avenues for investment. I would like to end my speech with this hope. I once again thank you all. I would like to express my gratitude from the bottom of my heart to Mr. Anerood Jugnauth ji I believe that the efforts of Yogi ji to carry UP's new heights of development, will get your support and blessings and the growth of UP will play an important role in building India. We will fulfill this dream together With these expectations\nThanks a lot! Namaste!\nWhen the change occurs, the front looks.\nBeing an investor summit at such a wide level in Uttar Pradesh, so many investors and entrepreneurs are united in the investor summit, there is a big change in itself: PM @narendramodi https://t.co/nNpo5XLc8Y\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 21, 2018\nI congratulate UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, his colleagues of the Cabinet, the bureaucracy here, the police here, and the people of Uttar Pradesh that he has brought his Uttar Pradesh on the path of prosperity and development in such a short time: PM @narendramodi https://t.co/nNpo5XLc8Y\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 21, 2018\nBringing the state towards Positivety with a negativity-filled atmosphere, the Yogi Sarkar has done the task of separating frustration and frustration: PM @narendramodi https://t.co/nNpo5XLc8Y\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 21, 2018\nThere is such an expansion of resources and strength in Uttar Pradesh that has been distinguishing almost every region for hundreds of years: PM @narendramodi https://t.co/nNpo5XLc8Y\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 21, 2018\nUttar Pradesh is today the number one state in the production of grains, in the production of wheat, production of sugarcane, production of milk, production of potatoes in the country. Fruits and vegetables at number one in the country are produced here: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 21, 2018\nTo bring the state towards Positivity through a negativity-filled atmosphere, the Yogi Sarkar has done the task of separating frustration and hopelessness: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 21, 2018\nI am very glad that the Yogi ji's government is making its decision keeping this matter in view, making policies: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 21, 2018\nPolicy decisions are being made in UP by linking industrial investment with employment generation. Yogi ji's work is being done by different government schemes in different sectors: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 21, 2018\nYogi Sarkar is fulfilling the promises made to the women, young people, with full sincerity: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 21, 2018\nI have said before,\nProgress comes only from Potential + Policy + Planning + Performance. UP is now ready to give Super-Hit Performance: PM @narendramodi https://t.co/nNpo5XLc8Y\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 21, 2018\nMicro-Small and Medium Enterprises - whom we call MSME, have a huge contribution in the UP's economy. After agriculture, MSME sector employs the highest employment opportunities: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 21, 2018\nI am happy to know that the Uttar Pradesh government has kept this important fact in mind.\nOne District-One Product has launched: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 21, 2018\nOne District-One Product plan will get Backup Power from the Central Government Mission of the Central Government, from stand up India - Start-up India mission ... Besides this, the biggest benefit will be through Prime Minister's Money Scheme: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 21, 2018\nOne big challenge related to farming is to reach the market from the farm in large quantities\nCrop and fruits-vegetables get spoiled: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 21, 2018\nPradhan Mantri Kisan Samada Yojana has been launched by the Central Government to reduce the crop-grain-fruits-vegetables waste. Under the scheme, the entire supply chain and infrastructure are being modernized: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 21, 2018\nThere are immense possibilities for Wealth from Agriculture By-Products, Agriculture Waste in Uttar Pradesh. Especially due to being at the forefront of UP in the production of sugarcane is very potent for ethanol production: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 21, 2018\nToday, I am going to make an important announcement on this occasion.\nIt was proposed this year that two Defense Industrial Corridors would be built in the country. One of them is proposed in UP: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 21, 2018\nKeeping in mind the development of Bundelkhand, in particular, it has now been decided that the Defense Industrial Corridor in UP will expand to Agra, Aligarh, Lucknow, Kanpur, Jhansi and Chitrakoot: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 21, 2018\nWill prepare infrastructure that will take Uttar Pradesh to new heights in the 21st Century: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 21, 2018\nKumbh will also be held at Prayag in the beginning of the next year. This will be the biggest event of its kind all over the world: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 21, 2018\nOur government is focusing on People Centric Growth, whether in the center or Job Centric in the state: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 21, 2018\nFor the creation of New India, new zeal for the construction of new Uttar Pradesh, new hope is needed, with new hope: PM @narendramodi"