"Share\n\nThis is the strength of the farmers of our country that the production of pulses has increased from 17 million tons to 23 million tons in just one year: PM\n100% neem coating of urea has its effective utilization: PM\nDue to Soil Health Cards lesser fertilizers are being used and farm productivity has gone up by 5 to 6 percent: PM Modi\nWe have announced 'Operation Greens' in this year's budget, we are going to top priority to Tomato, Onion, Potato: PM Modi\nPromoting use of solar energy will lead to increase in the income of farmers: PM\n\nThe scientists who have come here from across the country, the farmer-friends and all the dignitaries present here,\nWe have gathered here to discuss a very important, serious and a relevant topic.\nI have seen your presentation I would like to congratulate you all for this painstaking exercise. It is true that agriculture is a subject that has been shaping and strengthening our civilization for thousands of years. Our scriptures say-\n'Krishi Dhyan', 'Krishi Medhya'\nJantonav Jeevanam Krrishi '\nThis means that agriculture provides property and intellect and is the basis of human life. Therefore, it is an age-old concept Indian culture and Indian techniques have shown this direction; India has aquatinted the world While talking about this topic, we should keep in mind, the present as well as the future.\nYou will find this sort of description in history when people from overseas used to be wondering about India's agricultural practices. Such advanced practices and technologies were used in our agriculture! The great farmer poets such as Ghaagh and Bhadari used to guide farmers in the weather conditions vis-a-vis farming through their poems. However, during the long colonial rule, all these experiences and agricultural infrastructure were wiped out. After Independence, our farmers again took control of their hard work. After Independence, the farmers who were the yearning for grains had made India self-sufficient in food grains. Last year our farmers with hard work had increased the yield of food grains and vegetables like never before. The immense capability and strength of the farmers resulted in the increase of production of pulses from 17 million tons to 23 million tons in just 1 year. After Independence, although the agricultural sector has expanded, the development of the farmers kept on shrinking. The income from agriculture started reducing compared to other sectors. The next generation of farming in the search for better job opportunities in cities and started doing small odd jobs. The income security of the farmers, who were providing food security to us, started eroding. You are aware of these situations, in fact better aware than me I'm talking about the past situations because sometimes analysing the past situations leads us new pathways and we have to deal with them for new approaches. We realize that there are flaws in previous approaches that there is a need for improvement. These analyses should be the basis of doubling the country's farmers. This goal would be like that of agriculture sector.\nJust as these small problems were resolved, this goal expanded into a full-fledged agricultural movement.\nFriends, we've seen that whenever a bull is tied in the fields with a long rope, it starts moving round and round. It thinks that it is moving forward but the fact is that it gets tied up and starts running within that confinement. We have a great responsibility of liberating the agricultural sector from a similar confinement.\nDiscussions are being related to issues from the market. In the era of self-sufficiency, efforts are being made to create an ecosystem that will be beneficial to the farmers. The government has formed an inter-ministerial committee comprised of NITI AYUG, several scientists like you, farmers and other stakeholders in the agricultural sector to come up with solutions and the government has fixed a direction and is moving on that path.\nIn the recent Budget, the government has given a right decision for their crops. Pasha Patel has also mentioned about that scheme very enthusiastically. Under the scheme, the farmers will be assured of 50% more than their production costs i.e. one and a half times the value of their crops The government is closely working with the government governments.\nWe need to remove the limitations of the previous schemes and turn it into a fool-proof arrangement.\nBrothers and sisters,\nThe government has focused on the income of the farmers.\nFirst, steps required to reduce the costs of farming; second, steps required to give their crops; Third, how to reduce the wastage during the transport of the crops from farm to markets; and fourth, All the policies, technical decisions and legal decisions of the government are based on these four levels. We have tried to link more about our results.\nThe decision of Neem coating of urea has decreased by the input-cost of farmers drastically. 100% Neem coating of urea has increased efficiency Today, the same piece of land Less use of urea reduced their input cost and increased the productivity. Therefore, there is an increase in income. This change was possible due to Neem coating of urea.\nBrothers and sisters,\nTill date, more than 11 crore farmers have been given Soil Health Cards Soil Health Card due to increase in productivity due to Now the farmers are aware of the amount of fertilizers required on the soil. According to a study in 19 states, the soil of the health card in the agricultural sector due to the use of chemical fertilizers used and an increase in productivity by 5-6%. However friends, the complete benefit of the soil health card scheme can be realized only when every farmer will avail the benefit of the scheme. This will be possible when the whole ecosystem is fully developed. I would suggest that the package of products provided to farmers based on the results of soil health testing should be included in the training module of B.Sc Agricultural Courses in the Agricultural Universities. This module should be linked to skill development.\nWe are thinking of providing this course. With the help of the certificates, the students can set up their soil testing laboratories inside the villages. We are making efforts so that they get loans under MUDRA Yojana. When all the labs will get linked to the Central database and the statistics of the soil health will be available on the central portal, both the scientists and the farmers will be benefited. A system should be developed by which the agricultural scientists can not tell farmers about soil health, availability of water and climate.\nFriends,\nOur government has given the country's Agricultural Policy The method of implementing For example, Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchai Yojana; Under this scheme, the focus is on two different areas. First, increasing the scope of micro-irrigation in the country and second, to strengthen the existing irrigation network.\nTherefore, the government has decided to first complete the 99 irrigation projects that have been suspended for 2-3 decades. For this, more than 80 thousand rupees have been allocated. As a result of the continuous efforts of the government, about 50 projects will be completed by the next year. This means that efforts are being made to 25-30 years in 25-30 months by this Government. The irrigation projects that are getting completed. More than 20 lakh hectares of land has been covered under micro-irrigation by Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchai Yojana.\nYou are well aware of the insurance sector in the agricultural sector. The farmers had to pay more premiums for insuring their crops. The scope for the insurance was also limited. The government has not only reduced the premium but has also increased the scope for the insurance scheme under the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana.\nFriends,\nI was told that the claim amount of Rs. 11thousand crore has been dispatched to the farmers under this scheme. The claim amount given per farmer or per hectare has doubled. This scheme is saving the lives of several farmers. It is saving many families. Unfortunately, this achievement will never become a headline and will be ignored. Therefore, it is everyone's responsibility to link this scheme with more and more farmers.\nThe government is making efforts so that at least 50% of the sown crops are covered under the scheme by the year 2018-19.\nBrothers and sisters,\nOur government is developing market architecture in the country's agricultural sector. The farmers can benefit also more if the center and the government are coming up with the United States.\nTherefore, for the welfare of the farmers, the government has asked to implement the Modern Acts The government is trying to bring a land lease act associated with agricultural produce and livestock marketing, the simplification of the warehousing guidelines and many such decisions.\nThe center and the state governments will have to work together for the income of the farmers by 2022. Transportation during harvest of loss is prevented by Pradhan Mantri Kisan Sampada Yojana. There is a special focus on stronging the agricultural sector. The entire supply chain will be improved, cold storage and warehousing.\nThe 'Operation Green' has been announced in the budget It will be highly beneficial to farmers. Just as Amul model was successful in growing the yield of milk and the income of lakhs of farmers; similarly the 'Operation Green' will also benefit 'TOP' (Tomato, Onion and Potato)\nFriends, it is necessary to integrate the rule and returns market and the APMC at village level with the global market.\nI was told that a commission was formed during British rule. Even that commission was the formation of a market for farmers at every 5-6km I am fortunate to implement the idea that was envisaged 100 years ago. In the Budget, the concept of Grameen Retail Agricultural Market i.e. GRAM is a result of this. Under the scheme, the infrastructure of 22 thousand rural markets will be developed and upgraded and will finally be integrated into the APMC. This means that the farmers will have a system at a distance of 5, 10 or 15 kilometres, which will help you connect with them. Farmers will be able to sell their products directly through the rural haats (markets). In the coming days, these centers will become the focal points of farmers' income, employment generation and Agriculture based rural economy. The government is giving a boost to the Farmer Producer Organization (FPO) to strengthen this system The farmers can also connect with rural haats and big markets in the area. By becoming a member of such organization, they will be able to buy in bulk, sell in bulk, thus increasing their earnings.\nIn the Budget it was announced that just like the cooperative societies, the Farmer Producer Organizations will also be exempted from Income Tax Connecting the women Self Help Groups with the aromatic, herbal and organic farming with the help of FPO. Friends, today the need of the hour is integrating water revolution, blue revolution, sweet revolution and organic revolution. These are the fields The farmers also have many modern alternatives such as organic farming, beekeeping, seaweed cultivation, solar farming and so on. There is a need to make them aware as much as possible\nI would like to have a digital platform to spread the message, especially about traditional and organic farming. The farmers should be aware of the market demand, big customers, supply chain and organic farming through this digital platform.\nThe government is also working towards providing easy loans to the farmers. In the Budget, an Infrastructure fund was formed with 10 thousand crore rupees keeping in view the fisheries and animal husbandry sectors. The loan amount in the last 3 years has been increased from 8 lakh crores to 11 lakh crores in this budget so that the different organizations and banks from the loans for getting any problem.\nApart from ensuring easy loans to the farmers, the government also wants to get on time It has been noticed that often the small farmers find it difficult to get loans from cooperative societies. Therefore, it has been decided by our government that all the Primary Agricultural Societies will be computerized. After 63 thousand societies are computerized, the loaning process will be more transparent.\nThe Jan Dhan Yojana and Kisan Credit Card have also made the loan easy for the farmers. Friends, I was told that according to a decades-old law, bamboo was considered as a tree and therefore could not be felled without permission. I was surprised to hear that! Everyone knows the value of the construction sector. Bamboo is used in making furniture, handicrafts, incense sticks, kites and also for match sticks. However, the process of seeking permission for felling bamboo was so cumbersome that the farmer used to be the cultivator of bamboo in his field. We have now changed this law This decision will help bamboo farmers to increase their income.\nWe are making another change which is related to Agro-species. Friends, the production of timber in our country is much less than the requirement The gap between demand and supply is huge. Therefore, the government is focusing on the plantation of multipurpose tree species. Just imagine how much the farmers can benefit in terms of income if he has the freedom of planting such trees that can be felled after 5 years or 10 years or 15 years as per his requirement.\nThe concept of planting trees on the boundaries will not only satisfy the need of the farmers but also the country's environment. I am happy that 22 states of the changes The maximum use of solar energy in the agricultural sector will also increase Keeping this in view, in the last 3 years, the government has approved about 3 lakh solar water pumps for farmers. For this, an amount of about 2.5 thousand crore rupees has been approved. This has saved a substantial spending on diesel. Now the government is focusing on providing a grid connected solar pump so that the electricity can benefit from the farmers financially.\nFriends,\nThe by-product that is generated from the fields of income Previous We are well aware of the wastage For example, the fruits of a banana tree are sold but can not be used. The stems They are forced to pay thousands of rupees to dispose of these stems. Even after that, these stems are thrown away somewhere on the roadside. However, this can be used for manufacturing industrial paper or fabric.\nThere are several campaigns that are going to different parts of the country which are working on agricultural waste, coir waste, coconut shells, bamboo waste and the left-overs in the field after harvest. All of them can help in their income.\nIn the Budget the government has also launched the Govardhan Yojana. This scheme will not only help in growing the rural hygiene but also the income of the farmers and farmers engaged in animal husbandry. It's not only the product that can be turned into wealth but also the main crop. For example, Ethanol is produced from sugarcane. Our government has made a major change in the ethanol policy and has now approved 10% of the ethanol blending in petrol. This means that the surplus after sugar can be used in the production of ethanol production. The condition of the sugarcane farmers\nOur government is changing in the way A new culture is being established in the agricultural sector. This culture will be our strength, comfort and will satisfy our dreams. This culture will help us complete the journey of 'Sankalp se Siddhi' or attainment through resolutions by 2022. India will rise only when the country's villages rise. When the country will be empowered, the farmers will automatically be empowered\nSo, the ideas that I have heard today through the presentation Pasha Patel was complaining that only 8 minutes was given him Even though it is true that you have to present your views in a very short time but small groups in all information and analysed everything and all the hard work done by you, will not go unnoticed. At the government level Probably some of the ideas will be implemented immediately This was necessary to change the mind of the farmers The more we connect with them, the more you have a better understanding of their problems! So, we have been able to discuss these things with you.\nSecondly, I would like to know how to take it forward First of all, all the concerned departments of India, their officers and the ministers are present here How do we co-ordinate between these ministries based on all recommendations under the leadership of Niti Aayog? How do we come up with actionable points after discussion and how to set priorities? I believe that no work gets stuck due to lack of resources.\nSecondly, we believe that we have come out of the cycle of old traditions. We have to accept science and technology and also get rid of the science of destruction. We will need it at some point of time but if it gets outdated then we need not hold it back We will come out of that But for that we need to put extra efforts For example if we talk about start-ups, is it possible for them to work on agriculture universities? Similarly, can we arrange for programs like Hackathon for the students of agriculture? Few days ago, for the Hackathon program, the students from the engineering colleges had come up with about 400 issues of the government. About 50-60 thousand students started discussion and debating on these issues continuously for about 36 hours and gave suggestions to the Government. These youngsters provided perfect technologies for the problems\nI would like to link our agricultural universities to Hackathon. The IITs, IIITs and engineering colleges celebrate robotic week or nano technology week. This is a good thing Similarly, can not these institutions also celebrate agri-tech week and festival too? All the technical brains of the country are discussed and discussed on issues related to India. An element of competition can also be included in it.\nWe can carry this forward. Similarly, all the issues mentioned in the soil health card. Today the Pathology Laboratory is where we go for blood tests. There are private pathology laboratories. Why can not we have soil testing labs in every village? Is it possible? The universities should provide certificates for the same and they should get loans under MUDRA Yojana. They should get access to technology equipment In this way the farmers will be encouraged to get their soil tested and seek guidance. We can develop the systems and if we emphasize on testing the labs in every village then lakhs of youngsters will get employment. This will also act as a catalyst in multiplying the agricultural activities and the scientific temper.\nJust like Soil test is necessary, there is also a need to test water in the same lab. It is the farmer thinks - if last time he had bought seeds in a cloth bag he would prefer that instead of the seeds in plastic bag. He thinks only those facts while purchasing\nThe farmer can be guided using digital animation in his mobile phone. He should be told about the things that he should keep in mind while purchasing seeds. He will understand and start asking questions\nIn Gujarat and in the whole country There is digital connectivity We should think about how we can use the animation I believe that we can bring a great change with these suggestions and all. Like, I was talking about animal husbandry There are several areas that we do not have laws\nI would like to urge all the related departments to make laws so that these things are boosted, the flaws are eliminated and a standardized system is developed. All the suggestions were really informative for me I could learn a lot I have always been interested in these topics. However, today there were many things that were new to me These will be useful to you as well as our departments. I believe this discussion was definitely fruitful\nCan we organize such a program in the states where presentations will be made, the farmers will be present, or will there be people with the expertise in this field? Such an exercise can be conducted there too This is because our country is so vast that sometimes one experiment works in one state but the same experiment fails in the other. There are a set of beliefs in one and yet another in the other states.\nIf we can carry it forward state-wise or say agro-climatic region-wise, it will be extremely beneficial. Thirdly, can we have university-level debates on all of these issues for final year or last-but-one-year students at least? Till we have a 'meeting of minds' and the discussion trickles down to the lowest level we can not get results.\nTherefore, to take it forward we have a roadmap which will include the universities, students and expertise. Probably these things will not be useful there, but how to make them useful in the places where are is needed?\nWe could not add value addition extensively In Gujarat, when we launched Jyoti Gram Yojana for 24 hour electricity supply, it was considered as one of the revolutionary events in our country. How did the 24 hour electricity supply benefit the villagers? Was it watching Television or just for using it at night? That's all? We had organized an event to make them life.\nThere is a village near to Gandhinagar where chillies are cultivated Now there is a problem in our country Whenever one farmer cultivates a crop then every other farmer in that area will cultivate the same crop, like the chillies. Consequently, the prices fell The income of that village never rose higher than 3 lakh rupees after selling all the chillies. It was not possible. So the villagers decided to form a society Since they had had 24 hours electricity supply and purchased of chillies for making chilli powder. They bought processors and finally completed the package. The chillies that were to sell in 3 lakhs brought 18 lakh rupees of income to them after a plan of 3-4 months.\nWhat is the meaning of this translation? Export and import in the world are going on a rapid pace. These are the things\nIndia is a vast country A long distance needs to be covered Yet the products will be rejected. You may be aware of some of the things If India has produced a good quality mat, it will be rejected on the ground. That's it! The business ends then and there So, we have to strengthen the investigation through paperwork to get rid of these obstacles. We have to I am fighting against this injustice with many countries. I am struggling to make them understand that their rules are wrongly interpreted This interpretation is wrong and their bases are wrong.\nBecause of that we had to make great efforts so that our mangoes could be exported to the other countries. However, we have to explain to our farmers that there is a strong lobby in the international market but we will have standardized our system and processes globally.\nSo, I had once talked about 'Zero defect, zero effect' concept in the manufacturing sector from the Ramparts of the Red Fort. We have to follow the global standards, be it for the agricultural product or its packaging. If we do not form labs and institutions for certifying organic farming then our organic products will not be accepted in the international market.\nI have been told that today's growth of aromatic business is 40%. The entire base for this Since agriculture is the base of aromatic business, it can provide employment to so many people in a country like India We can link So, I believe that India is full of flavors. We can provide a lot of comfort and provide natural products. So, we have been able to keep in mind the international market. The other day I was interacting with the people of Gulf countries. I asked them to suggest the type and quality of fruits and vegetables. We will provide the technology and process. But Kindly buy the product from his field only You may also develop your cold storages, storage, and transportation.\nI have been discussing these topics with different countries. However, I want to tell you that your hard work is going to benefit greatly. I do not know what the case was earlier but I asked the officers They were telling me that sir like a thing before This is the first time that people from agro-economics, scientists, agriculturists, progressive agriculturists and policy makers, together with debates and discussions through this churning and many inputs.\nI believe this is the right direction. Please do not be disappointed if something is not implemented. Probably It's such huge government machinery If you want to move a small scooter, it hardly takes any time; but if it is a huge train, it will obviously take some time! But rest assured, we will definitely make it together\nThis job has to be done with you all. I can tell you full confidence We will work together We have to satisfy our solution of doubling the farmers' income by 2022. That could be from agro-products, animal husbandry, sweet revolution or blue revolution. We have reached the farmers' development. With this hope, I am very grateful to you\nThank you!"