"Share\n\nSaints and seers from our land have always served the society and made a positive difference: PM\nThe strength of our society is that we have always changed the times and adapted well to new contexts: PM\nIt is our duty to provide good quality and affordable healthcare to the poor: PM\nThe supreme worshiper Acharya Maharaj ji, all Pujya Muniraj ji, and Pujya Ganatya Mata, and all the Aryaak Mataji and governor of Karnataka, sitting on the stage, Mr. Vajubhai Va, my partner of the Council of Ministers Sadanand Gaudaji, Ananth Kumar Ji, Piyush Goyal ji, Mr. Manju Jee, Mr. Vastri Shree Kurse of the Managing Committee, Mr. Bhattaraka Swamy, District Panchayat Hassan Yakshi Smt. BS Sweta Devraj ji, MLA Mr. N. Balakrishnaji and a large number of pilgrims, all the devotees, mothers, sisters and brothers coming from every corner of the country.\nIt is my good fortune that in the 12 years, which is a great honor, I have a duty to serve the country in the same tenure as the Prime Minister. And so in the same period as the responsibility of the Prime Minister, I have had the privilege of receiving blessings from everyone on this sacred occasion.\nBy coming to Shravanabelagola, Lord Bahubali, Mahamastak Abhishekam, this opportunity, and here today, attaining the blessings of all the teachers, Bhagwant, Muni and Mataji together, achieving their blessings, this is a very good fortune in themselves.\nWhen the Government of India had some proposals, by looking at the facilities of the passengers here; Well, some arrangements are such that the Archaeological Survey of the Department has a lot of difficulty in doing some things. There are some such laws and regulations, but in spite of all, the Government of India can take part in the management for the convenience of the passengers coming here, who have the responsibility to set up the system, Have tried to fulfill their obligation and this is a matter of great satisfaction for us.\nToday I also had the opportunity to open a hospital. Many people believe that there are many religious instincts in our country, but social tendencies are less. This perception is not right. The saints of India, Mahant, Acharya, Muni, Bhagwant - everyone is in the form, where they are, they are employed to do something good for the society.\nEven today, our great saint has been a tradition that if we are hungry 20-25 kms of hunger, then our system of saint's tradition is such that somewhere, the arrangement for feeding him is run by some saint.\nMany social work- work in the field of education, work in the field of health, work to get rid of intoxicants, these many tendencies are still in our great tradition by our sages and by doing the same tireless efforts. Are.\nToday, while I was looking at Gomtecusudi, I felt that in front of you today, I will show you in front of him. The type of Bahubali is described in Gomteksududi; Gomtec, this whole place has been described-\nGood clean water supply\nGyead Sindhu Water Bahudandam, Tam Gomtesham Panana Mircham\nAnd this means - whose body is as clean as the sky, whose two cups are as clean as water, whose ear is rounded up to the Pallavasakandh, whose both sides are long and beautiful like Gajraj's trunk - I salute\nPujya Swamiji can shower blessings on me, rain My mother also remembered. I am very grateful to him for giving this blessing. This tradition of bringing change in society and life in the country has been a tradition of Indian society. Things that are outdated, those who enter the society and sometimes they are given the form of faith.\nIt is our good fortune that only such a person is born from our society system, such Saint men are born, such a person is born, such acharya Bhagwat is born, that at the time, by showing the right direction to the society, Things are encouraged to live a life of opportune by getting rid of them.\nThis is the kind of opportunity for Aquarius to be found in every 12 years. Here all social thinkers together. Where to take the society for 12 years now, society has to leave the path and follow this path because everybody from the country, Saint, Muni, Bhagwant, Acharya, Sarv Mataji come and experience the fields of the region. . There is meditation, contemplation, discussion and discussion. And from that to the nectar form for the society, some things we get in the form of offerings. And to whom we make great efforts to bring us to life.\nToday, in a changing era, a hospital here today gave me a chance to open. A huge social work with such a huge opportunity You must have seen our government take a very big step in this budget.\nAyushman India- Under this scheme, any poor family, if there is a disease in the family, then only one person is not sick, in a way, two-three generations of that family become sick because there is such an economic loan Children can not even fill up and the entire family gets ruined. One disease eats the whole family.\nAt such a time, the society and the government, we all have the obligation to hold such a family in crisis during her distress, worry about her. And that is why the Government of India should get sick in the family one year under the Ayushmann Bharat scheme. In one year, the Government of India will manage the cost of treatment up to Rs 5 lakh, the cost of the medical expenses, the cost of operation, the cost of living in the hospital, the expenditure up to Rs 5 lakhs, through insurance. This is the step taken in India after independence, in the whole world, nobody has thought of such a big step in the whole world, nor has anybody picked up what this government has picked up.\nAnd it is only possible that when our scriptures, our sages, our Munis gave us the same sermon-\nSurvey Sukheena Bhavantu Surya Niramaya Survey\nAnd this survey, saru niramaya - to fulfill this resolution, we are taking one step after the other. I have the opportunity to receive blessings of all the Acharya, all the Munivar, the blessings of all the mother's blessings, and the blessings of Pujya Swamiji. I consider myself fortunate enough.\nOnce again I feel blessed after coming to this sacred occasion.\nThanks a lot.\nSaints and seers from our land have always served the society and made a positive difference: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 19, 2018\nThe strength of our society is that we have always changed the times and adapted well to new contexts: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 19, 2018\nIt is our duty to provide good quality and affordable healthcare to the poor: PM @narendramodi"