"Share\n\nWith the advent of Artificial Intelligence, Bots and Robots, there is no doubt that our productivity will further go up: PM\nTechnology opens full new spheres and sectors for growth, it also opens up a completely new paradigm of opportunities: PM\nThe road ahead for Artificial intelligence will be on and will be driven by Human Intentions: PM Modi\nThe evolution of technology has become rooted in the ethic of Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas: PM\nWe need to Make Artificial Intelligence in India and Make Artificial Intelligence work for India, says PM Modi\nOur government is the firm belief, that's the power of twenty-first century technology to eradicate poverty and disease: PM Modi\n\nGovernor of Maharastra, C.Vidya Sagar Rao, Chief Minister of Maharastra, Devendra Fadnavis, Minister in the Maharastra Govt. Shri Vinod Tawde,\nVice Chancellor of Mumbai University, Shri Devenand Shinde,\nRomesh Wadhwani ji, Sunil Wadhwani ji,\nLadies and Gentlemen, I am happy to be here today at the inauguration of the Wadhwani Institute of Artificial Intelligence.\nLet me begin by congratulating Romesh Wadhwani ji and Sunil Wadhwani ji, The Government of Maharashtra, and Mumbai University for coming together to make this Institute a reality. This is a prime example of how the public sector and the private sector can combine with good intention to build a world-class institute aimed at benefiting the poor.\nI have had different interactions with Indian diaspora across the globe during the last three and a half years or so. I have felt an intense desire, to make a contribution to India. Through this Institute, Romesh ji and Sunil ji have blended this desire with a futuristic vision of a prosperous and vibrant India. In doing so, they have been able to emulation.\nFriends, today India is one of the fastest growing economies of the world. We are using technology in a non-paralleled way from aeronautics and from space missions to service delivery. We are also witnessing a wave of entrepreneurship ranging from small enterprises to big-ticket investments. These are just a few indicators to show, how well-placed we are to fare in the upcoming fourth industrial revolution.\nFriends, with the advent of Artificial Intelligence, Bots and Robots, there is no doubt that our productivity will further go up. But, there are also rising fears\nof human redundancy\nmind and the machine Such fears are not un-established or new\nAt every stage of technological evolution, we have faced such questions and questions. This leads to two views of the future. First brings hope and desires and second brings fears of disruption\nTechnology opens completely new spheres and sectors for growth It also opens up a completely new paradigm of opportunities. With each wave of new technology, many new opportunities arise. New opportunities have always been out-numbered Human ingenuity has always been prevailed This optimism stems from my firm faith in Ancient Indian Thinking that blended science and spiritualuality and found.\nI am reminded of the Knowledge from the Suktat from the Yajur Ved Tattareya Aranyaka: \"Satya Sarvam Prestisham\". The spirit of the scientific inquiry into the pursuit of Truth\nOur ancient texts go on to further list the mental faculties that help in the pursuit of the Truth. Belief, dedication, mental capacity, manisha (intelligence)\nManasa (mind), peace, elevated state of consciousness, memory, memory and science of application.\nFrom the scientific inquiry, this is the pursuit of the truth. It is this Vision of Technology for Development that I am inspired by and it is the spirit of Scientific Advancement that gives me hopeism about the future.\nThe road ahead for Artificial Intelligence will depend on and will be driven by Human Intentions. It is our intention that artificial intelligence With every industrial revolution, the scalability of technology has increased manifold. This has given us increasingly more power to make an impact. It is the ethic of development that will ensure equity for all people. The March of Technology can not be the expense of technology. The evolution of technology has been rooted in the ethic of Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas.\nFriends, Can we take the global lead on making artificial intelligence that is less about making humans redundant and more about human abilities and expanding human capabilities. Can we make the future less about machines dis-placing humans to become a better future than human beings by converting their weaknesses?\nFriends, at the intersection of Artificial Intelligence, Big Data and Human understanding is the solution of many problems we are facing. We need to Make Artificial Intelligence in India and Make Artificial Intelligence work for India\nI would urge you all to identify the grand challenges that artificial intelligence may solve for India. We are a nation of ten different languages ​​and hundreds of dialects. Artificial Intelligence that makes these languages ​​and dialects over easy I have always believed that the Divyangs are our asset and the nation owes it to them empower them\nCan we have Artificial Intelligence and Robotics that enhances their abilities as empowering them to perform tasks and bring out their true potential Can the combination of teachers and Artificial intelligence help us bridge the teacher's student ratio. This will help us deliver quality education to every student\nacross India Can Artificial Intelligence help us take quality healthcare to every corner of India by expanding capacities of our healthcare workers. Can Artificial Intelligence help us predict natural calamities? Can Artificial Intelligence help us detect serious health conditions before they manifest physical? Can Artificial Intelligence help our farmers make the weather, crop and sowing cycle?\nFriends, our government is the firm belief, that's the power of twenty-first century technology to eradicate poverty and disease. In doing so, we can bring prosperity to our poor and under-privileged sections. We are committed to achieving this vision. The Digital India Initiative, aims at transforming India into a digitally empowered society and a knowledge economy. Under Bharat-Net, we are providing broad-band Internet connectivity to our villages. This digital infrastructure / provides the backbone for innovative IT solutions for service delivery, and innovative applications.\nThe Union Government's National Skill Development Mission is also aimed at\nto ensure a rightly-skilled workforce, keeping in mind global job requirements of the next few decades. We have also launched the Atal Innovation mission to promote a culture of innovation and entrepreneurship. Its objective is to serve as a platform for promotion of world-class Innovation Hubs, Grand Challenges, Start-up businesses and other self-employment activities, specially in technology driven areas. The Atal Innovation Mission is established in Atal Tinkering Laboratories in schools across India with a vision to promote one million children in India. Through these steps, we aim to keep pace with emerging technologies.\nFriends, I am sure, the scientists, researchers and pioneers at this Institute, will have the best interests of India in their hearts, as they go about their work. I wish them well in their efforts I hope that India will be a unique position to show the whole world how artificial intelligence can be applied safely and responsibly\nI am happy to inaugurate this institute, and hope that it will remain committed.\nThank You\nThis organization is a prime example of how the public sector and the private sector can combine with good intention, to build a world-class institute, aimed at benefiting the poor: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 18, 2018\nWith the advent of Artificial Intelligence, Bots and Robots, there is no doubt that our productivity will further go up. But, there are also rising fears of human redundancy because there is a competition between the mind and the machine: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 18, 2018\nTechnology opens up entirely new spheres and sectors for growth, it also opens up a completely new paradigm of opportunities. With each wave of new technology, many new opportunities arise: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 18, 2018\nNew opportunities have always been out-numbered the lost ones: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 18, 2018\nThe road ahead for Artificial Intelligence will depend on and will be driven by Human Intentions. It is our intention that will determine the consequences of artificial intelligence: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 18, 2018\nThe march of Technology can not be the expense of technology. The evolution of technology has rooted in the ethic of Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 18, 2018\nCan we take the global lead on making artificial intelligence that is about redundant and more about human abilities and expanding human capacities: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 18, 2018\nCan we make the future less about machines displacing humans to become a better future than human beings by converting their weaknesses in their strengths: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 18, 2018\nWe need to Make Artificial Intelligence in India and Make Artificial Intelligence work for India! I would urge you all to identify the grand challenges that artificial intelligence can solve for India: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 18, 2018\nCan the combination of teachers and AI help us bridge the gap in teacher's student ratio. This will help us deliver quality education to every student across India. Can AI help take quality healthcare to every corner of India by expanding capacities of healthcare workers: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 18, 2018\nCan Artificial Intelligence help us predict natural calamities?\nCan Artificial Intelligence help us detect serious health conditions before they manifest physical? Can Artificial Intelligence help our farmers / weather, crop \u0026 sowing cycle: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 18, 2018\nOur government is the firm belief In doing so we can bring prosperity to our poor and under-privileged sections: PM @narendramodi"