"Share\n\nIt is an impressive fact that there are improvements in 9 out of 10 parameters in Easy to Doing Business - such as Easy to Getting Electricity, Ease of Paying Taxes etc: PM\nIndia will develop, will grow only when our states develop: PM Modi\nWe are making a transparent eco-system for the creation of new India that minimizes the need for face interactions with government agencies: PM\nIn the last 3 years we have abolished more than 1400 works that have ceased to be relevant: PM\nPotential + Policy + Performance equals Progress: PM Modi\nThere are two factors that are the hallmark of the government works - reform oriented budget and result oriented policies: PM\nOur budget is not limited to outlay, our budget is not limited to outputs. Our budget is an outcome budget: PM Modi\nThe structural and policy changes that the government has made to the welfare of the poorest and most vulnerable of our society: PM\nThe government will now provide, under Ayushman Bharat, health insurance for Rs. 5 lakh per annum to every poor family in the country: PM Modi\nThe government will spend Rs 1 lakh crore in the next 4 years to strengthen and improve the education system, says the PM\nGovernor of Maharashtra, Mr. C. Vidyasagar Rao, Chief Minister Mr. Devendra Fadnavis, entrepreneurs from abroad and other noblemen. All of you are welcome in Magnetic Maharashtra.\nI am very happy to have Magnetic Maharashtra, who is a dedicated and prosperous Maharashtra state.\nHello my brother brother!\nI do not have much knowledge of the nuances of science, but I have been told that the combination of both Direction and Magnitude is included in the magnetic field.\nBefore coming here I was in Navi Mumbai Airport and JNPT programs. These two events of today are a glimpse of both Maharashtra's Magnetic Field's Direction and Magnitude. Well, it is also fact that the more you are near the center, the power of the magnetic lines is equally felt.\nYour enthusiasm in this event here today, your passion, this full charged atmosphere is proof of how powerful the Magnetic Lines of Magnetic Maharashtra is.\nCompanions, these events are a great example of cooperative competitive federalism.\nToday, there is a competition among all the states of the country, the competition is going on.\nThese types of events are being organized in different states of the country to attract investment in such different areas, infrastructure, agriculture, textile, healthcare, education, solar energy.\nThe state is focusing on where in the field to be invested according to its own needs.\nRecently, I had the opportunity to participate in \"Advantage Assam\" Investors Summit in Assam. Until a few years ago, no one could have imagined that there could be such a good branding with the investment in the North East.\nSuch events are happening in Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, many states. The process that started in Gujarat, is being seen in the whole country today.\nCompanions, I congratulate the Maharashtra Government for this event. In the last three years, the Maharashtra government has taken unprecedented steps to strengthen the environment of investment. Continuous efforts of the state government have helped in making record changes in the ranking of the World of Easy's Doing Business. Reforms of the Fadnavis government have played a big role in transforming Maharashtra.\nOf 9 out of 10 parameters of Ease of Doing Business, such as the Ease of Getting Electricity, Ease of Paying Taxes, there is a very noticeable factor in itself to be improved in all these things.\nChanges are taken at such a wide level when a new work culture is developed in the governance through the Policy Reform. When the process is de-bottle-necking to solve the problems encountered in the project, when inter-departmental co-ooperation is increased,\nWhen decisions are taken in Time Limit.\nThe Magnetic Field I was talking to before, it is like that. The effect is seen on the investment, the development of the state is visible. And this is the reason why last year in Maharashtra Infrastructure Projects, every State was ahead of every state. In the ranking of Frost and Sewolves, Maharashtra was declared the number one state in Overall Development. In the year 2016-17, the amount of foreign direct investment that has come into the country has been invested in nearly 51% of Maharashtra. Similarly, in February 2016, when the Make in India Week was celebrated, there was an agreement worth about 4 lakh crores in the industry segment. Of these, work on investment projects of 2 lakh crores has already started.\nToday Infrastructure Projects in Maharashtra are drawing the attention of the whole world. The Delhi-Mumbai Industrial Corridor project has been counted among the 100 Most Innovative Projects in the World. The construction of Navi Mumbai Airport, the construction of the Mumbai Trans Harbor Link, is going to come in the coming days, due to the huge changes in the lives of the crores of people in this area. Apart from this, around 350 km metro network prepared in Mumbai, Navi Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur is also coming up with new possibilities of both development and investment.\nCompanions, a special project that I would like to discuss, is Maharashtra Prosperity Corridor. These projects have the potential to take Maharashtra's rural areas, its agricultural sector, Agro-based Industries, to a new height of development. The construction of the 700-kilometer long Super Comunication Expressway in Maharashtra, 24 new Nodes like the smart city along the expressway, new employment opportunities for at least 20 to 25 lakh people of the state lies in it.\nI am happy that Maharashtra Government has now decided to make the state a state with the country's first Trillion Dollar Economy. It is not difficult to achieve any goal on Shivaji Maharaj's land. And I hope that the Government of Maharashtra will also achieve this goal with their blessings and this state will become the state with the first Trillion Dollar Economy state.\nCompanions, I believe that the country's development is possible only when the states also develop. The development of Maharashtra symbolizes the growing power of India that we are able to determine such big goals. This is a living example of changed thinking, changed circumstances in the country.\nI remember how big a headline was made when India first came to the Trillion Dollar Economy Club a few years ago. But a few years later, the gift of scandals got climbed. Then there was a different kind of atmosphere in the country. Then there was talk of Fragile Five, not the Trillion Dollar Club.\nThe result of the continuous efforts of the government in the past three-and-a-half years is that the talk of the Five Trillion Dollar Club is now started. Large agencies of the world are saying that in the next few years India will join the Five Trillion Dollar Club.\nCompanions, these beliefs have not come as such. Behind this, there is a vision of creating a friendly, development friendly and investment friendly environment, the effort behind it. By taking small issues, understanding the smallest challenges, we are sorting out the problems. We have taken the governance to that level, in which the intervention of the government is minimal.\nCompanions, the country progresses when Holistic Vision happens. When Vision is Inclusive and Be Comprehnsive. Today, we are moving forward in that direction, where State policy is driven, Governace performance is driven, Government is accountable, Democracy is participative. We are building a Transparent Ecosystem in the country for the creation of New India, which is at least dependent on the government machinery. The rules are being simplified for this, the procedures are being simplified, where law is required to be changed, the laws are being changed there. Where laws are required to be terminated, the laws are being terminated.\nSome of you present here will be aware that in the last three years, the Government of India has over 1,400 legislation abolished. Even the new laws are being created, it is being taken into account that they do not complicate things, but simplify it. As far as Human to Human Interface is concerned with government processes, we are doing it. Regarding Labor Laws, it is a matter of tax compliance, we are using technology to make all the process easy.\nFriends, We believe, Potential + Policy + Planning + Performance leads to Progress\nThe result of this thought is that the speed of national highways to be created, the speed of construction of new rail lines, the speed of electrification of railway lines, the speed of building by the government, speed of freight on ports, speed increase in solar power, Compared to earlier, I can tell fifty more things, it has two times, three times as compared to the first.\nCompanions, we have made Optimum Utilization of Resources on one hand, on the other hand, have progressed towards Resource based Development Policies, and are focusing on Development Policies based budget. In the last three-four years our government has reformed in the budget, the thinking related to the budget has changed, it is not only developing a new work culture across the country, but also transforming socio-economic life. .\nRail budget has now become a part of the budget. We had ended the artificial wall of Plan, non-plan in the budget. The time of the budget has changed even now a month ago. Due to all these decisions, now the amount allocated in the budget goes to the departments prematurely, the departments are now getting more time to work on the schemes. The pace of work that slowed down due to monsoon, its effect is now largely over.\nPolicy interventions that have made the structural changes, the benefits of the country's farmers, the poor, the dalit-backward and the deprived sections of society, have been ensured every year by our every budget, were restored is.\nFriends, Our Budget is not limited to outlay, our Budget is not limited to only output, focuse of our Budget is out-coming. We are already working on all these areas, Power for All till 2022 by Housing for All, by the end of 2019.\nIn this year's budget Clean and Fuel for All, Health for All, these two concepts have been worked on and fast. We have increased the target of giving free gas connections to the poor families under the Ujjwala scheme from 5 crore families to 8 crore families. The number of total families in India is approximately 25 million. Out of that 8 crore families\nThese are not just some plans but they show which direction we are moving towards. This philosophy of socio-economic welfare of the poorest of the country, its social and financial inclusion, as a basic belief of our budget can be experienced.\nMany countless schemes like Janshan Yojana, Swachh Bharat Mission, Skill India, Digital India, Money Planning, Stand Up India, Start Up India, empower the poor, low-middle, middle class, young people, women. .\nThe great careers we have associated with Health Care have been drawing the world's attention towards us. The people of big corporate houses are here, their management is sitting here. You will know that till the salary slab in the private companies, that person gets health assurance of up to Rs 5 lakh for the whole family. Generally, the person who has earned Rs. 60-70 thousand for one and a half lakh rupees gets this break in place.\nNow this government is such that as per our government Ayushman Bharat Scheme, a decision has been taken to give health insurance to a family of five lakh rupees to the poorer of the country in a year. And nearly 10 million families, i.e. more than 50 million people, will get the benefit. This scheme will also save people from the double hazard of severe financial crisis due to serious diseases. Under the Ayushman Bharat Scheme, we have also decided to open 1.5 lakh wellness centers in the big panchayats of the country. You can imagine that these decisions How to change the country's Health Care system. These plans will prove to be very important for every sector related to affordable healthcare institutions, new doctors, new paramedical staff, health care in the country.\nWe have also launched a new Initiative to strengthen education infrastructure in the country. Under this, our government is going ahead with spending a one lakh crores plan to improve the country's education system in the next four years.\nIn the same way, we are expanding the scope of the monetary policy for the promotion of self employment and especially the entrepreneurs working in the MSME sector of the country's youth. Since then, since the scheme has started, so far, about one and a half crore loans have been sanctioned here. So far, people have been given a loan of 4 lakh 60 thousand crores without guarantee. Even in this year's budget, we have decided to give a loan of Rs 3 lakh crore.\nSuch separate missions are promoting the ease of living in the country's poorest, middle class of the country. The more you increase the ease of living, the more people will be empower. The more people empower, the more our social and economic development will be sharp.\nAs I talk about the country's rural sector, in this year's budget, we have decided to spend more than Rs 14 lakh crore for the development of agriculture, rural infrastructure. This amount will be spent on farming activities, it will create more than 3 lakh kms of roads in the villages, 51 lakh new houses will be built, around two crore new toilets will be made, electricity connections will be given in two million poor houses.\nAll these efforts will increase agricultural growth and also create millions of employment opportunities in the rural sector. This year, we have increased the expenditure on the country's infrastructure to more than Rs 1 lakh crore. The new bridge, new roads, new metro, new airport, Mumbai, are connected to the Maximum Aspirations of the City and especially address the Aspirations of the middle class of the country.\nIn today's Global World, in the era of disruptions and discontent, we have to make the path ahead with the present and the future needs and we all have to meet together. When all of us, while working towards understanding the needs of the country, will work to understand the aspirations of the people of the country, only then will be able to fulfill its resolve of New India. Only then will we be able to do justice with India's vast demographic dividend.\nI sincerely hope that the Maharashtra government, the bureaucracy here, the crores of citizens here, will fulfill their resolve and complete the time.\nIn the end, I end my conversation while expressing gratitude to the charismatic masses of Magnetic Maharashtra, its hardworking people, entrepreneurs. Then once again I am very happy to give this event a heartfelt heart. Assure all the greats that come from the country and the world that the Government of India is committed to the development of the nation by joining with the State Governments. If the world's 1 / 6th population is good then the world will be as good as you can imagine.\nThanks a lot !!!\nये आयोजन कॉपरेटिव कम्पटीटिव फेडरेलिज्म का बेहतरीन उदाहरण है।\nआज देश के सभी राज्यों में आपस में कम्पटीशन हो रहा है: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 18, 2018\nतमाम अलग-अलग क्षेत्रों में निवेश आकर्षित करने के लिए इस प्रकार के Events का आयोजन किया जा रहा है।\nराज्य अपनी-अपनी जरूरतों के हिसाब से किस क्षेत्र में कहां निवेश होना है, इस पर ध्यान दे रहे हैं: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 18, 2018\nहाल ही में, मुझे असम में हुई \"Advantage Assam\" Investors Summit में हिस्सा लेने का अवसर मिला था: PM @narendramodi https://t.co/nKkYBp9qQn\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 18, 2018\nपिछले तीन साल में महाराष्ट्र सरकार ने Investment का माहौल मजबूत करने के लिए अभूतपूर्व कदम उठाए हैं।\nराज्य सरकार की निरंतर कोशिशों ने वर्ल्ड बैंक की Ease of Doing Business की रैकिंग में रिकॉर्ड बदलाव लाने में मदद की है: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 18, 2018\nपिछले साल महाराष्ट्र Infrastructure Projects में हो रहे Total Expenditure में देश के हर राज्य से आगे था।\nफ्रॉस्ट and सुलेवोन्स की रेंकिंग में महाराष्ट्र को Overall Development में देश का\nनंबर एक राज्य बताया गया था: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 18, 2018\nआज महाराष्ट्र में चल रहे इंफ्रास्ट्रक्टर प्रोजेक्ट्स पूरी दुनिया का ध्यान खींच रहे हैं: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 18, 2018\nएक विशेष प्रोजेक्ट जिसकी मैं चर्चा करना चाहूंगा, वो है महाराष्ट्र समृद्धि कॉरिडोर।\nये प्रोजेक्ट महाराष्ट्र के ग्रामीण इलाकों को, यहां के Agriculture Sector, Agro-Based Industries को विकास की नई ऊँचाई पर ले जाने की क्षमता रखता है: PM @narendramodi https://t.co/nKkYBpr2eX\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 18, 2018\nशिवाजी महाराज की भूमि पर कोई भी लक्ष्य प्राप्त करना कठिन नहीं है: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 18, 2018\nमहाराष्ट्र का विकास भारत के बढ़ते हुए सामर्थ्य का प्रतीक है कि हम इस तरह के बड़े लक्ष्य तय कर पा रहे हैं: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 18, 2018\nदेश प्रगति तब करता है जब Holistic Vision हो। जब Vision Inclusive और Comprehnsive हो।\nआज हम उस दिशा में आगे बढे है जहा-\nState policy driven है"