"The Sagarmala project is not only development of ports but also port-led development: PM\nThe Government of India is devoting significant efforts toward the development of waterways: PM Modi\nIndia's aviation sector is growing tremendously, this makes quality infrastructure in the field of prime importance: PM\nOur government had the honor of bringing an aviation policy that is transforming the sector: PM Modi\nGovernor of Maharashtra ShrimanVidyasagar Rao, the popular chief minister of the state ShrimanDevendraFadnavisJi, my colleague in the union council of ministersShrimanNitin Gadkari Ji, Ashok Gajapathi RajuJi, minister in the state government ShrimanRavindraChahvanJi, MLA Shriman Prashant Thakur, and my dear brothers and sisters large numbers,\nTomorrow will be the celebration of birth anniversary of Shiva Ji Maharaj. And a day before that, today, this festival is the district of Raigarh itself in a happy co-incidence. Today, I got the opportunity of two programs - first as our shipping sector, port sector and waterways have got a new spirit under the leadership of our Nitin Gadkari Ji and today under thatthe fourth terminal of JNPT in Mumbai is public to be dedicated.\nWe have been hearing this term globalization, world trade from several years. However, we could not provide any benefits to the country just by sitting at home and discussing the potential of the world trade. World trade will be beneficial only when you have the world class infrastructure to join the global trade.\nRoyal personality, the first national personality to identify the sea power was Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj. And that is why, today there were so many forts built which has been linked to the sea and because of that a feeling of sea prowess is there. Today, after so many years when we remember Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj and when we publicly dedicate this fourth terminal of JNPT then we could imagine that what kind of foresight our great forefathers did and what kind of foresighted vision they used to think.\nIf India wants to take a place for itself in the sea trade then India must increase its sea prowess manyfolds The more we develop our ports, the more they become modern and the turnaround time minimized and faster speed at ships sailing of the number increased and our goods of millions of tons world market. And sometimes there is a competition in the goods Once an order has been finalized, once the economy has been firmed up then the goods are supplied in less than the buyer makes the profit. And if the supply is delayed then he is incurs the loss. But it can be supplied only when our port sector has that kind of convenience.\nIt's not that we just want to develop ports under the Sagarmala project We place emphasis on the development of a new height of development because it's a challenge for us, how we can take advantage of this opportunity as we have taken advantage of seven and a half thousand kilometers of a shoreline; and we have got a geographic location that has a potential of becoming a world power.\nThe government of India has taken this task on itself. The world talks about environmental and one of the important sectors to solve the problem. We have identified more than 100 waterways And if we feel that if we use waterways, if we use our rivers and sea shores for the transportation of goods in the whole country then we have a fraction cost at the goods supply. And we can also make our positive contribution by using the environment and we also make global warming against the ongoing fight in our positive contribution.\nToday, a green field airport in Navy Mumbai, and this is the first large project of green field airport of this size in the freedom sector since independence. Now you could imagine that the last twenty years The promises were made in many elections. Several MLAs had been elected; Many people did not believe in this promise. Several governments did not build And what is the reason behind that? The biggest hurdle behind this was the work culture of the previous government.\nIn 1997, when AtalBihariBajpai's government was in power then it was dreamed of, then it was taken away And when I became Prime Minister, I do not have any other work as I got free time So I only do this thing in in and day out Then it came to my mind after continuously searching for these things that it's not only Navy Mumbai airport but there are many other important projects in India which was approved around thirty years ago, the approval was given in the file; sometimes the announcements were made twenty years ago; and sometimes a politician had installed a plaque, he got his photo published and also the project never came out of that file and papers. So this was something that surprised me and which caused concerns\nSo I started a project under the name of PRAGATI I myself deliberate over these projects with all the chief ministers of the country, with all the secretaries in India by using technology and I myself review their monitoring. And in that thing, as Devendra Ji was talking about a while ago, that is not something that has happened in this regard. It was on papers, tomorrow someone will come, tomorrow, someone will issue a statement that it was approved in their time There is no kind of people And, that is why, brother, please solve the problem by including all the departments through PRAGATI. Why did you make a mistake if the policy was formulated at that time? And if you have not made a mistake then why it is not implemented? Please take the following questions? And you will be happy to know that with the help of monitoring through the project, the projects that were stuck for 20-30 years; and it was the culture of the previous governments to procrastinate, to put a spanner in the work and to confuse. This thing was happening You will be surprised to know that there were projects worth Rs. 10 lakh crore which were kept suspended, which were stuck, and which were lost And we have implemented them. We arranged funds for them and today those projects are going on a fast pace. And the Navi Mumbai Airport was one of them.\nOur aviation sector has been growing at a rapid pace. As our GajapathiRajuJi explained in detail just a while ago thattoday there is more traffic at Mumbai airport alone than what was 20-25 years ago. You just imagine that today in Mumbai alone is the kind of air traffic. Today, the time has changed so much that if you go to an airport then you will find long queues of the aircraft as you see the long queues for boarding a bus. And you can see these things at many airports of India\nWe have been lagging far behind in terms of infrastructure in this sector as per the requirements of a rapidly growing aviation sector. Our effort is to increase the speed; our effort is to meet these requirements We! You must have heard many years ago that the 21st century was approaching; You must have heard it since the decade of 80s that 21st century was approaching, it was published in news papers on daily basis. Everyday 21st century was discussed by the then Prime Minister. But the matter never moved forward beyond the word: the 21st century.\nIf someone think about what kind of aviation sector would be needed in the 21st century 20-25 years ago then probably today we will not be required to work This is such an important sector and there is no reason for having two views over its importance. However, no government after the independence framed an aviation policy. We are framed the aviation policy after assuming power. We will again commit a mistake as there was an image of a common man. During the government of AtalJi we had an aviation minister, at that time I used to work in a corner in the organization. I asked him why he has kept the image During that period only the people of level I asked him that he should use the image of a common man who was there in the cartoons made by Lakshman that the common man travels by air And then it was the time of the government of AtalJi\nWe asked why not a person who is in the country We brought our plans We have been working in the direction of making 100 airports functional or by improving the ones.\nThe aircrafts will fly to smaller destinations, small aircrafts with the capacity of 20-30 people, as today people need speed And we framed a scheme, especially for the North-East, under which the cost is Rs. 2,500 And we have been busy on the north-east because the region is full of difficulties and connectivity is extremely important there.\nBrothers and sisters, the total number of aircrafts which has been purchased or operated, the total number of planes that are in operation around 450. Four hundred and fifty is the total number of planes, private and government all put together, that is operational in our country today We have reached only to 450 planes since independence. You will be happy to note that in this year alone more than 900 new aircrafts have booked by the people in the aviation sector. It means while only 450 aircrafts since independence and on the other hand 900 new aircrafts have booked just one year. You can imagine how fast the aviation sector has been growing.\nAnd Aviation sector brings new potential for employment And as Devendra has told you just a while ago How much the economy receives due to water, due to land, and due to air? There is a study in the world that if 100 rupees are invested in the aviation sector then around 325 rupees are being generated through the time. It has this kind of strength There is a lot of potential for employment And it will also promote India's tourism sector\nIndia is a country full of so much diversity that if there is proper connectivity then the foreign tourists can not see a district properly even if they spend a whole month in that district. Our country is so full of diversity This aviation sector, its power will provide a new power to the country's tourism sector. And tourism is such a sector where maximum livelihood can be created. So in tourism sector everyone will earn - be it a taxi driver or an auto rickshaw driver, be it guest house owner or be it a flower seller or be it someone who offers services of a priest outside a temple; Everyone earns\nAnd we have directly linked our efforts to tourism sector. And I believe that thisfoundation of laying Greenfield airport in Navi Mumbai today, and I will always continue to ask in every program. Because you people We are working hard to get the country out of that work culture. But we will do it If you have given us the work then we will finish it in any case\nAnd the kind of project I see these days in Mumbai and Maharashtra then I got some broad visualization about the period of year 2022 and immediately after the year 2022. Please try to visualize a little what it will be like Perhaps you could not think of it in the last 20-25 years. If we think of the year 2022, 2023, 2024, and 2025 then you will see that aircrafts will start from this airport in Navy Mumbai.\nDuring the same period your vehicles will be running on the 22 Kilometer long Trans Harbor Link Road at full speed. During the same period, the work on the double line suburban corridor in Mumbai was done on a fast pace. Similarly, at the same time, in your region, all projects related to sea, all projects related to water, land, and railways will start emerging before your eyes. And on the other hand the grand statue of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj will also be ready. You can imagine how the scenario will change.\nSo I convey my best wishes to all of you that very soon you get the opportunity to take a flight from this airport while also congratulating to ShrimanDevendraJi, my colleagues in my team at the center GajapathiRajuJi and Nitin Gadkari Ji and to all of them.\nThank you."