"Share\n\nWe will break the backbone of terrorism in Jammu and Kashmir and fight it with our all: PM\nIndian government has committed to restore dignity of displaced Kashmiri Pandits: PM Modi\nPM Modi congratulates people\nI have the opportunity to talk to the young people who have given me the confidence and confidence of the future, which I have come to experience, is also encouraging for me, my energy is going to increase. First of all, I thank the young people all over the country who have come to these inquiries and programs. Let me tell the partners who are joining all over the country, that the temperature here is very low in Srinagar. Maybe night would be minus. In spite of this, there are many young Kashmiri brothers and sisters present here. It shows the spirit of Kashmir. Shows the feelings of the Kashmiris.\nGovernor of Jammu and Kashmir, Mr. Satpal Malik, who is present on the stage, my associate Dr. Jitendra Singh in the Cabinet, all my brothers and sisters present here.\nCompanions, today when I have come to Srinagar, I pay tribute to those hundreds of heroes, including Shaheed Nazir Ahmad Vaani, who made supreme sacrifice to protect the nation for peace. Shaheed Najir Ahmad Vani honored Ashoka Chakra for his indomitable courage and bravery. Youth like Shaheed Vaani show the path of living for the country and devoted to the country, to every youth of Jammu and Kashmir and the country. I congratulate millions of people of Jammu and Kashmir. Those who have elected the elections of Panchayats and urban bodies after years and choose their nominees.\nYour loyalty to democracy is a great message for people who are full of hate. Trying to spread negativity among some people, regardless of the threats you have reached, the number of polishing booths you have reached, it fosters the spirit of the development of Jammu and Kashmir in the future of your children.\nCompanions, today I have had the opportunity to lay foundation stones and open plans of about Rs 7,000 crore. All these projects are going to help ease the lives of people in Srinagar and surrounding areas. Congratulations to all of you for these projects related to education, health and infrastructure.\nCompanions, as you saw today, Srinagar is in favor of a very big program related to the education system of the country. Many of you may have noticed that as many big programs were launched four or four and a half years ago, or the central government started a scheme. All that was in Vigyan Bhavan in Delhi. But we have changed the culture of old governments only.\nOur government started the Ayushman Bharat scheme from Jharkhand, started the Ujjwala scheme from Uttar Pradesh, Prime Minister's security insurance scheme, Pradhan Mantri Jyot Jyoti Yojana in West Bengal, started the national campaign related to Hendloom, Tamil Nadu, daughter save- Betty started the study of Haryana, the nutrition campaign started by going to Rajasthan.\nNow all of us are present in Srinagar today for an important program related to the whole country and launching the program nationwide today I am doing with the land of Srinagar. Today, the National High Level Education Campaign, which is the second phase of RUSA project has been started, from here, there are 70 new model degree colleges, 11 professional colleges, one women university, more than 60 entrepreneur, innovation and foundation stone of the carrier hub And has been inaugurated. Many of these institutions are also here for Jammu and Kashmir.\nCompanions, it shows which direction is going on in New India. What is our way to build a new India? A new temperament for research, innovation, incubation or startup is being developed in the country. Atal Tinkering Labs being built in schools across the country, our resolve of Jai Jawan Jai Kisan, Jai Jain and Jai Research is going to strengthen and strengthen Atal incubation centers. Witnessing this empowerment, we have made Srinagar, Jammu and Kashmir is formed.\nCompanions, this is the impact of the startup India campaign that today India has become the third largest startup nation after China and the US. More than 15 thousand startups have been identified in the past three-four years. Of these, almost 50 percent of startups are installed in Tier One Tier-II cities.\nAlong with colleagues, startups, the country's expansion of technology in our rural areas is also our priority. Today more than three lakh common service centers across the country are offering digital services to the villagers. Millions of young people are also joining the job. Today, the first BPO of the state has also been opened in Bandipora today to open new doors for the youth of Bandipura.\nThe foundation stone of the project and the inauguration of the project has been done today. It is being started in such districts of the country which are trying to move forward in the development race. In the second phase of RUSA, excellent educational institutions are being prepared in four hundred districts of the country. There is another big step towards equality of opportunities. I am sure that the youth of these districts will get good institutions when they get good institutions near their home, they will find their talents better, they will be able to find their skills further.\nCompanions, when I talk about the confidence of New India, there is a solid foundation behind it. The daughter of Jammu and Kashmir, there are many partners in the country like Tajamool Islam, who is nine years old who go ahead to do something even in difficult situations.\nThe central government wants to give this enthusiasm to all the young colleagues, this excitement and more. For this, a very big talent hunt program is being run in the country under the India Campaign. Excellent sports facilities are being built in small towns and towns. A plan to build multi purpose sports hall has also been started in 22 districts of Jammu and Kashmir. Even today one Indoor Stadium has been inaugurated in Ganderbal.\nAttempts have been made to accelerate the pace of development in the last 7-8 months in Jain, Jihadis and Jihadis. Here the administration of the common man's life is easy to get here. I have been told that many such projects which were held for ten-ten, twenty-two years have also been completed now, in the last two months, recruitment of hundreds of doctors, or a bridge of Baramulla, many such projects are completed Have been done. I congratulate every citizen of Jammu and Kashmir that all of you have declared the state free of open defecation before the scheduled time in September last year. Congratulations! I am also told that Jammu and Kashmir has been targeted to become the first state in the country where drinking water from pipes will be available to every village and village, it is a very commendable effort.\nIn our colleagues, our government has made an honest effort to achieve the goal within the stipulated time frame. All of you will remember that from Lal Kitil, I announced for more than 18,000 villages of the country within a thousand days to give electricity to those villages who lived in the dark even after so many years of independence. That goal has been completed within the time limit. After this, the campaign to provide free electricity connections to crores of families of the country is being run under the Sadbhavna Yojana. About two and a half million connections have been given. And very soon the rest of the houses will be illuminated. I am glad that the connection of electricity has reached to almost every family in Jammu and Kashmir. For this, I congratulate all the people related to the power department, every engineer, on behalf of the people here. Congratulations to the entire team of the state government.\nAlong with providing electricity to all the houses in Jammu and Kashmir, there is also an attempt to provide sufficient electricity. Leh, Ladakh, Kargil Ho Jammu or now in Srinagar, now I have the opportunity to inaugurate several large projects related to power generation and transmission and make the foundation in one day. Given the power requirements here, for the first time since independence, the work is being done at such a large level. Our government has tried that before the water of India's right was flowing into waste. Many of his power projects have been started here with the same thinking in the interest of Jammu and Kashmir.\nCompanions, these projects are the result of Government's priorities for infrastructure across the country, the country is fast moving forward in building roads, electricity, education, or in the creation of health infrastructure. To strengthen Jammu and Kashmir's health infrastructure, two AIIMS in Jammu and Pulwama have been laid today. These two institutions are going to make a big difference in the health sector of the state. '\nCompanions, we are making modern hospitals, running the world's largest health care scheme, Ayushman India PMJ. Such a great health care scheme has never been used for poor people in the history of the country. Under this scheme, free treatment of the poor is up to five lakh rupees every year.\nAbout 50 million poor sister brothers in the country are in its purview. Out of which three lakh beneficiaries belong to Jammu and Kashmir.\nOver 100,000 poor have been treated free of cost in the country so far due to the Sahyogas, Ayushman Bharat Scheme. Right now the plan has just completed 100 days. In such a short time, major surgery of 10 million people in their trouble in a way that was waiting for death for two to three years. They will get new life today. Under this scheme more than ten thousand of our poor brothers and sisters are getting free treatment every day. And these fifty million people, this is the biggest plan in the world. Our Ayushman Bharat Scheme is for more people than America, Canada and Mexico who are total population. You can imagine how big the work is.\nPlans like companions, Ayushman India are also the best example of an India best India. Because beneficiary of Jammu and Kashmir can take advantage of this scheme anywhere in the country. Suppose you went to Mumbai from here and got sick, if you are registered here, then in Mumbai hospital you can avail without spending. Someone from Mumbai has come roaming around here in Srinagar. There is some trouble and they can take advantage of this. The government has made arrangements to make all arrangements. This power of sharing of resources is the biggest strength of our country. It is the spirit of India that can be done in every difficult situation, it is the spirit of India, that is the spirit of Kashmir.\nCompanions of this Kashmiri, it is a matter of urgency that the Kashmiri Pandit brothers and sisters who have had to leave their homes, their lands, and their ancestral memorials during the violence. They should be settled here with full respect.\nThrough the Prime Minister Development Package we are trying for this, the state administration has started making transit housing in Vesu and Sefpura. Today, I have had the opportunity to lay the foundation of a scheme that will extend the facility of transit accommodation in Bandipura and Ganderabal. This scheme is also part of the Prime Minister's Development Package\nFriends, displaced families will get a new roof after about 7 hundred floors have been built here. The government will endeavor that whatever you want to come back here They got place here with full security and respect.\nThe government is also committed to provide employment opportunities to the peers, Kashmiri migrants. Under the announcement of 2015 in the PM Development Package, the state administration has given approval to three thousand appointments. I am sure that these recruits will soon happen.\nCompanions, as I mentioned earlier, the heroes of Jammu and Kashmir are young like Shaheed Nazir Ahmad Vani, Shaheed Muhammad Orojzeb and Tajmoor Hussain. Who have been dedicated to peace and better future of the country. Hero is the one who has won to fulfill the dreams, he is the biggest coward. Who kills another's dreams.\nToday, the whole country is in awe of seeing the innocent, unarmed, Kashmiri sons, daughters killed, just because the young people want peace, they want to live, they are being made the target of terrorism. This is the truth of terrorism here. Today I assure you the youth of Jammu and Kashmir and the entire country that this terror will be fought with full force. Every terrorist will be retracted. We have told the whole world by having a surgical strike. That is what is the new policy of India and the new system.\nWe will continue to break the backbone of terrorism in Jammu and Kashmir. Development of J \u0026 K Development of people here is our priority. And always will be, I once again wish you all the best for infrastructure projects, to start with all the education related schemes. Many congratulations. And I assure you. Those who dreamed of Atal Bihari Vajpayee, they have not given up on one thing in the heritage that they have given us in the heritage. We will show that spirit by realizing it and whether it is for Ladakh, whether it is Srinagar or Jammu, with the taking of one citizen and everyone with the mantra of all development, we will invite the same happy Kashmir, the peaceful Kashmir, the whole of India. The Kashmiri, who gives greenery, will be able to take whatever steps are required to fulfill those dreams, Kashmir, on the day of prosperity.\nहमारा हर यहां का परिवार, हमारा हर यहां का हर बच्‍चा, उनका उज्‍ज्‍वल भविष्‍य, यही भारत के उज्‍ज्‍वल भविष्‍य का जीता जागता संबंध है। उन संबंधों को बरकरार रखते हुए हम इस बात को आगे बढ़ाने के लिए भरसक प्रयास करते रहेंगे इसी विश्‍वास के साथ मैं आप सबको हृदय से बहुत-बहुत शुभकामनाएं देता हूं।\nधन्‍यवाद."