"Ours is a party committed to Rashtra Bhakti: PM Modi\nGenerations of Karyakartas have given their life for building the BJP: PM\nJan Sangh and BJP leaders have always been on the forefront of all leading mass movements after Independence, says Shri Modi\nIn thought, in action and in implementation, the BJP's core is true democratic: PM\nThe NDA government under Atal Ji ignited a hope of Indians: PM Narendra Modi\nThe respected National President Mr. Amit Shah ji, the revered Lal Krishna Advaniji, Dr. Joshi, all the senior leadership leaders of the party sitting on the stage and all the fellow brothers and sisters who were constantly associated with the development of the party.\nI first Amitbhai and his whole team a lot Hradypurwk want to compliment the construction of offices in the deadline, which was dreamed up with his suit office building as well as her role, her elegance and her future plans, these things It's ready with it. To accomplish this task in such a great way, this work is not done just by budgeting. This work happens when there is a dream, there are groups of people who work, they are also with the team spirit, then this type of thing is complete. In the leadership of the National President, Organization Tolly has done this work very well, has been perfected.\nDr. Shyama Prasad Mukherjee, Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay Ji, the guidance of these great men started the journey which our people started. Somewhere in the second generation, somewhere in the third generation, the fourth generation is working on the occasion. And all of them, with one goal, to carry forward the journey with the intention of doing something for the country. Wherever all the greats will be there, their soul will be the moment of utmost satisfaction. They would have been happier, the seeds they had sown, today are shining the people of Kotwata.\nThis bouquet of democracy of India looks very pleasant, looks sweet. Like colors, flowers, fragrances, thoughts will vary, but this is the beauty of our democracy. That our multi-party democracy, which is the brother of different parties sitting in the House. They continue to manifest the aspirational aspirations of the masses through their own perspective. The specialty of India's democracy is also its election. All the parties have their talks with Janata Janardhan. But still there is a need to create democratic parties in our country, their style of work, a lot in these subjects. There are different ways of running political parties in many countries in the world. The political parties that India has, they have their own methods.\nThe parties associated with the freedom struggle are also in the political life of India today. Those political parties, born after Independence, are also in the service of the country today. There was a period of our country that when the freedom of patriotism during the freedom movement, the emotions that were there, it was easy to get involved in politics in different ways. He also led his own way. Perhaps in the freedom movement, perhaps the Congress will have been associated with the party but after independence, different views in political life, the creation of a separate party. A period later came like this. There should be a strong team of nation-wide for the need of a healthy democracy in the country very fast, there should be two teams and one. There was a voice from the country.\nIn the form of Indian Jana Sangh, organizational work started in every corner of India to create a party. There was still time to support the people's support and the public's criterion. But as a organization, the nationwide presence began to appear. The country's unity, integrity, the country's farmers, the country's poor, the country's laborers, their coordination, in the same language, in the same voice, started to raise voice through different people. This was a great contribution of Jana Sangh, there was consolidation, ideological arrangement. The attitude of looking at the nation was clear. And to him by an organizational structure and to tightening the political criterion, to Tulte at all scales, to get struck by crises, leave never the way to struggle, never dare take losing and ideals and values Were gone. We do not lose from it, this is the only feature of continuing to keep new energy from the same satisfaction. After independence in this country, as many national interest agitations were held. After all the agitations, nationalism, patriotism, nationalism, and all these agitations were led by Jan Sangh or Bharatiya Janata Party. And we are proud of this matter. And so our party is painted with the color of patriotism in a manner. For our nationality, our party, which culminated in dying, battling and renouncing austerity, was formed. There are different parties, there are different types.\nThe Bharatiya Janata Party and I remember equally Advani Ji, organizational democratic arrangements, were studying deeply about it. Without a compromise, Bhandari ji had the leadership to work very closely for how to run the party under the Constitution, how to increase the membership, how the procedures are correct, and how it works. Because of these things, the body of the Bharatiya Janata Party is still a hundred percent democratic body. And also to democracy, to apply also, different parts of individual Aspreshn then, democratic be mass, democratic thinking, democracy at work, democracy in decision-making, decision-making for the full variations such as India Democracy, this is the education of the people of the Bharatiya Janata Party as we are people. Today, when we have the opportunity to serve the people through the power of the people, then this democratic culture is being used very much.\nAttempts to take everyone together When there was a multi-party system in India, it was natural that the coalition politics became very natural. Selfish ambition is a different matter, but a different practice is required in a democratic way to carry companions. Led by Vajpayee, with peers as NDA add the power of political parties Lekrke coalition politics, a new hope for the country to create a balance between regional Aspreshn to be raised is, they use the Bharatiya Janata Party Succeeded in leadership In 1997, there was little effort in the name of the United Front, but such success and its root cause, democracy in our rugs. In our conduct, in our thoughts, our culture has democracy. And because of that, we are moving forward as soon as possible to walk with everyone.\nToday this building has been built. This is not a building made of brick and stone. Since the birth of the Jan Sangh, the hundreds of thousands, thousands of people and millions of activists who have continued to grow till now reached 11 crores. The result of all their hard work. All of them have hoped aspirations, expectations are linked. And so this office of the wall, maybe our workplace. For every executive activity we will be bound to the walls. But the border of India is the limit of our work. And we have the obligation of people taking energy and arrangements from here to feel India's border as our work area.\nOffice, this is BJP office or it is my office. From the heart of every Bhartiya Janata Party worker, the voice should come out that it is my office. It has its own strength, its power, it has a strength. This is my office. When my quote becomes, then the intensity of an emotional attachment increases with it. We do not have this office to fulfill our dreams, our aspirations, personal politics and roadmap. This office is just for the fulfillment of the aspirations of the people of this country and just about all.\nThese thousands of people and millions of people have not created the political map of these people and the roadmap for them. And so the soul of this office is our worker. The dream of this office is a citizen of the country, he has welfare. The hope of their life will be a sacred place to be determined to fulfill the aspirations, by looking at this office with that role, we will try to make our life even in the mold of this office.\nI believe, how big is the building, maybe we are big in the world, but with the belief that the workers feel like their home, such a office, hardly the Bharatiya Janata Party where the family is the house, the same It is possible. And it will stay. With this belief, I dedicate this new building to more than 11 million people of our nation. I hope to give hope to the people of the country. Amit Bhai and his whole team completed this. So far, while the Bharatiya Janata Party and Jin-Jin personalities of Jan Sangh has its own leadership, expending their lives for it, given his youth expending today salute all those men will give you all greetings. I wish a lot of good luck."