"Share\n\nAs a nation, we are proud of our long history and tradition of harmonious co-existence between man and nature: PM\nOver the years, the World sustainable Development Summit has spreads about our actions to the pureness of Mother Earth: PM\nPM Narendra Modi says, India believes in growth but is also committed to protecting the environment\nWe in India are focused on the ease of living-good governance, sustainable livelihood and through Cleaner Environment: PM\nIndia has always believed in good governance Sabka Saath Sabka Vikas is an extension of this philosophy: PM\nThrough the scheme, we are working on electrifying every home-hold in this country, mostly by the end of the year: PM\nTo give employment to our youth, we have decided to make a global manufacturing hub: PM Modi\nDistinguished dignitaries on the dais,\nGuests from India and abroad,\nLadies and Gentlemen\nI am very happy to be here at the inaugural of the World Sustainable Development Summit. To those joining us from abroad: Welcome to India Welcome to Delhi.\nOn the side lines of the Summit, I hope you have some time to visit this city. This summit is a reinforcement of India's commitment to a sustainable planet.\nAs a nation, we are proud of our long history and tradition of harmonious co-existence between man and nature. Respect for nature is an integral part of our value system.\nOur traditional practices Our goal is to be able to live up to our ancient texts which say, \"Keep pure For the Earth is our Mother and we are her children\".\nOne of the most ancient scriptures, the Atharva Veda, spells out\n-Matabhoomi: Son of Happiness:\nThis is the ideal we want to live We believe that all resources and all wealth belong to Nature and the Almighty We are just the trustees or managers of this wealth. Mahatma Gandhi too, advocated this trusteeship philosophy\nRecently, National Geographic's Greendex Report of 2014 which assesses the environmental sustainability of consumer choice, rated India at the top for its greenest consumption pattern. Over the years, the World sustainable Development Summit has been spreading consciousness about our actions.\nThis common wish was performed on COP-21 in Paris in 2015.Nations took a stand to come together and work towards the common cause of sustaining our planet. As the world committed to change, so did we While the world was discussing 'Inconvenient Truth', we translated it into 'Convenient Action'. India believes in growth\nFriends, with the thought that India, along with France, initiated the International Solar Alliance It already has one hundred and twenty one members It is probably the most important global achievement after Paris. As part of the Nationally Determined Contributions, India has committed to reduce thirty-three to thirty-five percent of emissions intensity of its GDP during 2005 to 2030.\nOur goal of making a carbon sink of two point five to three billion tons of carbon dioxide equivalent by 2030had once expressed difficult to many Yet we continue our steady progress on that path According to the UNEP Gap Report, 2005 to 2020 by 2005 levels by its Copenhagen pledge of reducing the emissions intensity of its GDP by twenty to twenty-five percent.\nWe are also on track to 2030 Nationally Determined Contribution The UN Sustainable Development Goals put us on the path of equality, equity and climate justice While we are doing all that is required of us, we expect that others too will join in to fulfill their commitments on Common but Distinguished Responsibility and equity.\n\nWe must also stress on climate justice for all vulnerable population. We in India are focused on the ease of living-through good governance, sustainable livelihood and through Cleaner Environment The campaign for clean India has moved from the streets of Delhi to every nook and corner of the country Cleanliness leads to better hygiene, better health, better working conditions and thereby better income and life.\nWe have also launched a massive campaign to ensure that our farmers convert agricultural waste from valuable nutrients, instead of burning them\nWe are also happy to host the 2018 World Environment Dayton highlight our commitment and our continuing partnership to make the world a cleaner place.\nWe also recognize the need of water availability, which is becoming a major challenge. That's why we have introduced the massive Namami Gange initiative. This program, which has already started giving results, will soon revive the Ganga, our most precious river.\nOur country is primarily agrarian Continuous availability of water The Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchayee Yojana has been launched to ensure that no farm goes without water. Our motto is 'More crop, per drop.'\nIndia has a fairly decent report card on bio-diversity conservation. With only two point four percent of the world's land area, India harbors 7-8 percent of the recorded species diversity, while supporting nearly eighteen percent of human population.\nIndia has gained international recognition for ten out of its eighteen Biosphere reserves under UNESCO's Man and Biosphere Program. This is a testimony that our development is green and our wildlife is strong.\nFriends,\nIndia has always believed in good governance\nOur mission of Sabka Saath Sabka Vikas is an extension of this philosophy. Through this philosophy, we are sure to get some of our most deprived areas of experience.\nIn this day and age, access to electricity and clean cooking solutions are basics. These forms of any kind\nYet, there are many people who are struggling in the solution. People are forced to use un-healthy cooking techniques I have been told that the smoke in a rural home is a serious health hazard. Yet, few talk about it Keeping this in view we have launched two far-reaching initiatives- Ujjwala and Saubhagya. From the time that they were launched, these schemes have already impacted the lives of millions. With these twin programs, the time when the mothers will fetch from the dry wood from forests or made cow dung cakes, to feed their families. Soon too, the images of traditional firewood stoves will only stay in a picture in our social history texts.\nSimilarly, through the scheme, we are working on electrifying every home-hold in this country, mostly by the end of the year. We recognize that only a healthy nation Keeping this in mind, we have launched the world's largest government funded health scheme. The program will support 100 million poor families\nOur 'Housing for All' and 'Power for All' initiatives also stem from this same agenda of providing the basic amenities of life to those who can afford to\nFriends!\nYou know that India is a sixth of the global community. Our development needs are enormous Our poverty or prosperity will lead to global poverty or prosperity People in India have waited too long for access to modern facilities and means of development. We have committed to complete this work sooner than anticipated. However, we have also said that we will all be in a cleaner and greener way.\nYou are a young nation. To give employment to our youth, we have decided to make a global manufacturing hub. We have launched the campaign in this However, at the same time, we are insisting on Zero defect and zero effect manufacturing.\nAs the world's fastest growing major economy, our energy needs are immense. However, we have planned to draw One 175 Giga-Watts of energy from renewable sources by 2022.This includes 100 Giga-Watts from Solar Energy and other 75Giga-Watts from Wind and other sources. We have added more than 14 Giga-Watts to solar energy generation which was just about three Giga-Watts three years back.\nWith this, we are already the fifth largest producer of solar energy in the world. Not only this, we are the sixth largest producer of renewable energy.\nWith growing urbanization But we are focusing on mass transport systems. Even for cargo movement to long distances, we have started working on national water-way systems. Each of our states is preparing an action plan against climate change.\nThis will ensure that while we are working towards our environment, we also safe-guard our most vulnerable areas One of our biggest states, Maharashtra, has already adopted a plan of its own in this direction. We intend to achieve one of our sustainable development objectives on our own, but cooperation remains the key - Collaboration between governments, between industries, and between people The developed world can help us achieve them faster\nSuccessful climate action needs access to financial resources and technology Technology can help countries like India develop sustainably and enable the poor to benefit from it.\nFriends,\nWe are here today to act on the belief that we as humans can make a difference. We need to understand that our earth, our one And so, we should rise above our trivial differences of race, religion, and power, and act as one to save her.\nWith our deep rooted philosophy of co-existence with nature and co-existence with each other, this planet is a more secure and sustainable place making the journey of the journey.\nI wish the World Sustainable Development Summit a great success.\nThank You"