"\nPM Modi inaugurates the Arunachal Civil Secretariat in Itanagar, Arunachal Pradesh\nI can tell you with great pride that ministers and officials from the Center are visiting the Northeast very regularly: PM\nI am delighted to visit Arunachal Pradesh and be among the wonderful people of this state: PM Modi in Itanagar\nFor farmers, we are sure to get better access to markets, says PM\n#AyushmanBharat will take the lead in providing quality and affordable healthcare: PM in Itanagar\nPM Modi says that development will originate in Arunachal Pradesh in the coming days \u0026 this development will illuminate India\nA large number of my dear brothers and sisters.\nWhen India has to look towards the rising sun, the sunrise has to be seen; So, the whole of India has to face Arunachal first. Our entire country, the hundred and fifty million people - see sunrise, then do not see the sunrise without looking at Arunachal. And the light from which Arunachal sits, darkness spreads; In the days to come, there will be such a light of development which will come to light India.\nArunachal has got the fortune to visit me many times. Even when the work of the organization came, even then came the Chief Minister in Gujarat, and after becoming the Prime Minister, for the second time today among you, I got the chance to present my vision.\nArunachal is such a state that if you go through the whole of India, take a tour for a week and travel for a day in Arunachal - more than once you hear the Jai Hind in whole of India throughout the week, Jai Hind in Arunachal You will hear in the day. This means that in India, such a tradition will be found in Arunachal Pradesh, where the nature of social life has started from Jai Hind to greet each other and has joined Jai Hind. Patriotism filled with rage, love for the country; These Arunachalas in their midst; By doing this penance, it has made it part of your raga, made part of the particle particle.\nThe way in which north-east has the highest Hindi language to understand-if there is a state then my Arunachal is the state. And I am surprised that, in these days, I have been touring north-east, where you know where the prime ministers used to do so before, they could not even come here. And I am a prime minister that I can not live without you. But in these north-east days I go, I see that all the young men are standing with the banner and demanding that we have to learn Hindi, teach us Hindi. This is a big revolution. I can talk to the people of my country in their language; this is the halo and the young generation; It has come with great power in itself.\nToday I got the opportunity of three programs here. From the Government of India's budget, through the Government of India's plan, through donor ministry, this brand has got the people of Arunachal in Saugas. The work of the Secretariat has started. Occasionally we see in the newspapers, the bridge becomes but the leader does not have time, so the bridge is not inaugurated and it lasts for months. The road becomes, the leader does not have time; The road is just like that.\nWe came and started a new culture. We started this new culture that you do not wait for the leader, do not wait for the prime minister. If the plan is complete, start using it; Whenever there is an opportunity to come, the person will make an announcement on that day, the work should not stop. And congratulate me on Premma ji that she started work and the work of inauguration was going on today. How can you save money? How can money be used? We can understand this very well, even with small decisions, can see.\nNow when the government is scattered and scattered, there is no department here, no one there, no one is sitting there, someone sitting somewhere. The house is also old, the officer who sits, also thinks how to go home early. If the environment is okay, the office environment is fine, then there is a positive effect on its work culture. The more clean the files are, the files are kept in a manner; Or else, what happens to the officer when the office goes on, firstly chairs the chair so that the soil flies, and then sits. But he does not know that he flies like this, later he falls there. But due to being a good office and all the units coming in the same campus, now a person comes from the village, he has work in the secretariat, then he is poor, he does not say that he is not here, go away, then go away from there. Will have to go a kilometer away. Then there will go, someone will say no, then you will have to go to the third office two kilometers away. Now he comes here to some wrong department, he will say that Babuji has come to you is a good thing, but go to the adjacent room. The common man will also be very facilitated due to this arrangement.\nSecond, the government can not run in the moneylenders All go together in one direction, then the government becomes effective. But if there is a coordination in technical form then its strength is slightly lower, but if there is a smooth coordination, then its strength is very high. If there are all the offices in a campus, it is easy to get together, even in the canteens, the officers go together, and discuss each other's problem by doing a solution. That is, the coordination increases in the decision-making process, delivery system gets faster, decision making process becomes very simple. And so, due to the new secretariat, the people of Arunachal to fulfill the aspirations of ordinary human life .... In the same way, today is an important work, and I am proud of myself. Mr. Dorjee Khandu State Convention Center inaugurating itanagar today. This is not just an open house building. This can be a win-win energy center of Arunachal's dreams in a way. A place where there will be facility for conferences, there will be facility for cultural activity and if we want to increase tourism in Arunachal, then I will also tell the different companies of the Indian government that there is now a convention center, your general board meeting Go in Arunachal. I will tell the private people that Bhai is fine, he has done a lot in Delhi-Mumbai, go, if it is so cute my state is Arunachal, just see the rising Sun going there. I will push people And such a large amount of people will start coming. So nowadays there is an area of ​​tourism conference tourism. And if such a system is formed then it is very natural for all people to come.\nWe have started a new experiment in the government too. We have been running from Delhi for 70 years and people looked towards Delhi. We have come here to take the government to every corner of India. Now the government should not go to Delhi, every corner of India, they are running it.\nWe summed up one of our agriculture summaries, then in Sikkim, called the ministers of the whole country. We said just look, Sikkim, see how the work of organic farming has happened. In the coming days, large meetings of the Ministries of different departments of the Government of India in different states of North-East are alternately in different places. Perhaps Morarji Bhai Desai, the last prime minister, had come in the meeting of the North-East Council. After that no one was released, they are very busy, neither PM. But I have come only for you, come to you for your sake and have come for your sake.\nAnd so I stayed in the meeting of the North-East Council, and discussed in detail. Not only that, we have ordered the ministers from the entire Delhi government that in turn, every minister will take his staff and go to different states of North-East. There should not be any week in the month that there is no minister of any government in any part of some state of North-East, and it has been running continuously for the last three years.\nNot only that, the Donor Ministry was sitting in Delhi to do good to the North-East. We said, done it well; Now do another job. The full Donor Ministry comes every month, its full secretariat, North-East. Goes to different states, stops there, and the government for the development of North-East - what should the government of India do, by discussing it together, it is planned, reviewed, monitored, accountability And because of that, transparency comes also, the work starts appearing below. So, in this way the system that is standing, the convention center that has been created, it also brings a new opportunity for many Indian Government meetings, and it will also benefit.\nToday, a medical college, medical hospital; I got the chance of his foundation stone. We feel the need to do a lot in the field of health in our country. One is human resource development, the second is Infrastructure, the third is the most modern technology equipments; We are working to give strength to the health sector in all three directions.\nWe have a dream that as soon as possible, there should be at least one big hospital and a good medical college among the three parliament constituencies in India. In India, such a large amount of medical college will be formed and if the local child, student, if there is a medical college there, then there are diseases, natural illnesses, he has a lot to know about it.\nIf he is studying in Delhi then the second subject will be taught, and Arunachal's disease will be something else. But while studying in Arunachal, he would know that the people here are normally four to five kinds of problems. Due to this there is a qualitative improvement in the treatment, because there is a local touch in human resource development. And so we want to take medical education to the remote-interior. And second, when he goes out of the medical college, he likes to stay there later, likes to worry about those people, and because of this, he also gets a lot of food and people also get health facilities. Are. So, I am happy that today I have got the opportunity to do the construction work of Arunachal Pradesh, which will benefit in the coming days.\nGovernment of India has good health facilities in every village, far away from it, because not everyone has major illness. The neglected side of normal diseases, due to inconvenience, let's cure in a few days, then take any of these things and take it away, and then leave the vehicle again, then become ill, and until he gets serious illness, Do not run. To change this situation, in the budget of the Government of India, in 22 thousand panchayats of India, I figure maybe something is my fault; 1.5 lakhs or two lakhs; Where we are going to be wellness center, wellness center; So that people of two or three villages in the vicinity could avail the wellness center. And from that wellness center there should be things of minimum parameter, arrangements, staff available there. This huge work, the rural health sector, we have announced this time in the budget. Wellness Center, this is our effort to reach almost all the Panchayats of India.\nAnd what I was saying was 22 thousand, that's for the farmers. We are going to work for the modern market in the country so that 12, 15, 20 people in the vicinity can come to farmers in that market and sell their merchandise. So in every panchayat a wellness center and two or three in a block, about 22 thousand, large centers of purchase and sale for farmers; So on both of these side we are working for rural facilities.\nBut a bigger task beyond this - to take care of the sick person in our country, we have taken several steps, taken holistic steps, not in pieces. For example, on the one hand, human resource development, making hospital on the other hand, making medical colleges, setting up infrastructure, on the third side- if the disease came into the house today, family of middle class, daughter is married, then buy a car Be fixed; The bus will bring the car in the next Diwali-if it is decided and suddenly it is known that there is a disease in the family, the daughter's marriage also stops, the dream of bringing a family car to the middle class comes from the poor and comes on the bicycle. The family worries about the disease of the person. Now this situation can not survive such expensive medicines, such expensive operations and the middle class human.\nThis government especially, because many schemes are beneficial for the poor, but there is inconvenience to the middle class. If we were to have a heart disease earlier, if the stent was to be applied, then its value was about lakhs, five hundred thousand and 1.5 lakhs. And he used to be poor, he used to ask the doctor that sahib stent, the doctor used to say that if you put it half a million, then apply it one lakh. Then he would ask, what is the difference between these two? So he used to explain that if one lakh is there then he will be able to remove the five year-year, but no one will worry about 1.5 million people - life will be full. So who will say that I live for five years to finish life? He will do only one and a half million.\nHow much is our brother's expense? Our government tried to convince them about meetings, talks And my dear countrymen, my dear Arunachal brothers and sisters, we have reduced the price of stents by 70-80 percent. Today in today's 15 thousand, 20 thousand 25 thousand in the same disease, which was in lakhs and one hundred thousand, he gets the necessary treatment.\nMedicines, we have about 800 medicines, which are needed daily. Nearly three thousand hospitals have started a public-drug project in the hospitals. Prime Minister Bharatiya Jana Drug Project- PMBJP Now, around 800 medicines- the first medicines used to get in Rs 150, the same medicines, the same quality can be found in only 15 rupees, so has done such a arrangement.\nNow one has done that poor people, despite this, ten million families are such that after taking ill they do not take the medicine, nor do they have money. And if the poor of this country is ill then he can not even earn roti. पूरा परिवार बीमार हो जाता है और पूरे समाज को एक प्रकार से बीमारी लग जाती है। राष्‍ट्र जीवन को बीमारी लग जाती है। अर्थव्‍यवस्‍था को रोकने वाली परिस्थिति पैदा हो जाती है।\nऔर इसलिए सरकार ने एक बहुत बड़ा काम उठाया है। हमने एक आयुष्‍मान भारत- इस योजना और इसके तहत गरीबी की रेखा के नीचे जीने वाले जो परिवार हैं- उसके परिवार में कोई भी बीमारी आएगी तो सरकार उसका Insurance निकालेगी और पांच लाख रुपये तक- एक वर्ष में पांच लाख रुपये तक अगर दवाई का खर्चा हुआ तो वो पेमेंट उसको Insurance से उसको मिल जाएगा, उसको खुद को अस्‍पताल में एक रुपया नहीं देना पड़ेगा।\nऔर इसके कारण प्राइवेट लोग अब अस्‍पताल बनाने के लिए भी आगे आएंगे। और मैं तो सभी राज्‍य सरकारों का आग्रह करता हूं कि आप अपने यहां health sector की नई policy बनाइए, प्राइवेट लोग अस्‍पताल बनाने के लिए आगे आएं तो उनको जमीन कैसे देंगे, किस प्रकार से करेंगे, कैसी पब्लिक-प्राइवेट पार्टनरशिप करें, उनको encourage करिए। और हर राज्‍य में 50-50, 100-100 नए अस्‍पताल आ जाएं, उस दिशा में बड़े-बड़े राज्‍य काम कर सकते हैं।\nऔर देश के मेडिकल सेक्‍टर तो एक बहुत बड़ा revolution लाने की संभावना इस आयुष्‍मान भारत योजना के अंदर है और उसके कारण सरकारी अस्‍पताल भी तेज चलेंगे, प्राइवेट अस्‍पताल भी आएंगे और गरीब से गरीब आदमी को पांच लाख रुपया तक बीमारी की स्थिति में हर वर्ष, परिवार को कोई भी सदस्‍य बीमार हो जाए, ऑपरेशन करने की जरूरत पड़े, उसकी चिंता होगी। तो ये आज भारत सरकार ने बड़े mission mod में उठाया है। और आने वाले दिनों में इसका लाभ मिलेगा।  \nभाइयो, बहनों- आज मैं आपके बीच में आया हूं, तीन कार्यक्रम की तो आपको सूचना थी लेकिन एक चौथी सौगात भी ले करके आया हूं- बताऊं? और ये चौथी सौगात है नई दिल्‍ली से नहारलागोन एक्‍सप्रेस अब सप्‍ताह में दो दिन चलेगी और उसका नाम अरुणाचल एक्‍सप्रेस होगा।\nआप अभी- हमारे मुख्‍यमंत्री जी बता रहे थे कि connectivity चाहे digital connectivity हो, चाहे air connectivity हो, चाहे रेल connectivity हो, चाहे रोड connectivity हो, हमारे नॉर्थ-ईस्‍ट के लोग इतने ताकतवर हैं, इतने सामर्थ्‍यवान हैं, इतने ऊर्जावान हैं, इतने तेजस्‍वी हैं, अगर ये connectivity मिल जाए ना तो पूरा हिन्‍दुस्‍तान उनके यहां आ करके खड़ा हो जाएगा, इतनी संभावना है।\nऔर इसलिए, जैसे अभी हमारे मंत्रीजी, हमारे नितिन गडकरी जी की भरपूर तारीफ कर रहे थे। 18 हजार करोड़ रुपये के अलग-अलग प्रोजेक्‍ट इन दिनों अकेले अरुणाचल में चल रहे हैं, 18 हजार करोड़ रुपये के भारत सरकार के प्रोजेक्‍ट चल रहे हैं। चाहे रोड को चौड़ा करना हो, Four line करना हो; चाहे ग्रामीण सड़क बनाना हो, चाहे national highway बनाना हो, एक बड़ा mission mode में आज हमने काम उठाया है, Digital connectivity के लिए।\nऔर मैं मुख्‍यमंत्रीजी को बधाई देना चाहता हूं। कुछ चीजें उन्‍होंने ऐसी की हैं जो शायद ये अरुणाचल प्रदेश दिल्‍ली के बगल में होता ना तो रोज प्रेमा खंडू टीवी पर दिखाई देते, सब अखबारों में प्रेमा खंडू का फोटो दिखाई देता। लेकिन इतने दूर हैं कि लोगों का ध्‍यान नहीं जाता। उन्‍होंने 2027- twenty-twenty seven, दस साल के भीतर-भीतर अरुणाचल कहां पहुंचना चाहिए, कैसे पहुंचना चाहिए- इसके लिए सिर्फ सरकार की सीमा में नहीं, उन्‍होंने अनुभवी लोगों को बुलाया, देशभर से लोगों को बुलाया, पुराने जानकार लोगों को बुलाया और उनके साथ बैठ करके विचार-विमर्श किया और एक blueprint बनाया कि अब इसी रास्‍ते पर जाना है और twenty-twenty seven तक हम अरुणाचल को यहां ले करके जाएंगे। Good Governance के लिए ये बहुत बड़ा काम मुख्‍यमंत्रीजी ने किया है और मैं उनको साधुवाद देता हूं, बधाई देता हूं, उनका अभिनंदन करता हूं।\nदूसरा, भारत सरकार भ्रष्टाचार के खिलाफ लड़ाई लड़ रही है और मुझे खुशी है कि प्रेमा खंडुजी की तरफ से मुझे उस काम में भरपूर सहयोग मिल रहा है। Transparency, accountability, इस देश में संसाधनों की कमी नहीं है, इस देश में पैसों की कमी नहीं है। लेकिन जिस बाल्‍टी में पानी डालो, लेकिन बाल्‍टी के नीचे छेद हो तो बाल्‍टी भरेगी क्‍या? हमारे देश में पहले ऐसा ही चला है, पहले ऐसा ही चला है।\nहमने आधार कार्ड का उपयोग करना शुरू किया, direct benefit transfer का काम किया। आप हैरान होंगे, हमारे देश में विधवाओं की जो सूची थी ना, widows की; जिनको भारत सरकार की तरफ से हर महीने कोई न कोई पैसा मिलता था, पेंशन जाता था। ऐसे-ऐसे लोगों के उसमें नाम थे कि जो बच्‍ची कभी इस धरती पर पैदा ही नहीं हुई, लेकिन सरकारी दफ्तर में वो widow हो गई थी और उसके नाम से पैसे जाते थे। अब बताइए वो पैसे कहां जाते होंगे? कोई तो होगा ना?\nअब हमने direct benefit transfer करके सब बंद कर दिया और देश का करीब-करीब ऐसी योजनाओं में करीब-करीब 57 हजार करोड़ रुपया बचा है, बताइए, 57 हजार करोड़ रुपया। अब ये पहले किसी की जेब में जाता था अब देश के विकास में काम आ रहा है। अरुणाचल के विकास के काम आ रहा है- ऐसे कई कदम उठाए हैं, कई कदम उठाए हैं।\nऔर इसलिए भाइयो-बहनों, आज मेरा जो स्‍वागत-सम्‍मान किया, मुझे भी आपने अरुणाचली बना दिया। मेरा सौभाग्‍य है कि भारत को प्रकाश जहां से मिलने की शुरूआत होती है, वहां विकास का सूर्योदय हो रहा है; जो विकास का सूर्योदय पूरे राष्‍ट्र को विकास के प्रकाश से प्रकाशित करेगा। इसी एक विश्‍वास के साथ मैं आप सबको बहुत बधाई देता हूं। आप सबका बहुत-बहुत धन्‍यवाद करता हूं।\nमेरे साथ बोलिए- जय हिंद।\nअरुणाचल का जय हिंद तो पूरे हिन्‍दुस्‍तान को सुनाई देता है।\nजय हिंद – जय हिंद\nजय हिंद – जय हिंद\nजय हिंद – जय हिंद\nThanks a lot."