"\nIndian diaspora has played an important role in strengthening Indo-Oman ties, says PM Modi\nPrime Minister Narendra Modi\nHis Majesty Sultan has an inseparable bond with India My presence in the stadium named after His Majesty holds a huge significance: PM Modi in Muscat\nAs a nation, we believe in change Every Indian is trying to make 'New India vision' a reality: PM Modi\nPM Modi in Muscat: We Indians believe in Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam (The world is one family)\nWe make laws where it is necessary, but after our government came to power, about 1,400 laws have been done, says the PM\nNext generation infrastructure is developing in country, the needs of 21st century: PM Modi in Oman\nGreetings! My dear countrymen who are present here in such a large number,\nWhat kind of great power of our country is this, that if I start greeting people in different languages ​​and dialects of spoken in our country, then it will go on for several hours. This is not a different country Today, I see a mini India, outside India, before me on the soil of Oman. Indians from every corner of the country, Indians working in different sectors before me\nPlease join me in chanting aloud with all your strength ... Bharat Mata Ki ... Jay (Victory to mother India); Bharat Mata Ki ... Jay; Vande Mataram; Vande Mataram; Vande Mataram; Vande Mataram; Vande Mataram; Vande Mataram\nBrothers and sisters, this is my first visit to Oman I got you here from Dubai about two hours ago. Perhaps you had never seen this thing on TV that at the invitation of the President of Dubai, I got the opportunity to address the inaugural address in the World Government Summit as a Chief Guest on the subject of Technology and Development. This is not limited to just a delivery in a program.\nThis event is itself a respect for India's development. This official visit is taking place but I've visited Oman about 10 years ago. I was going to Africa as the then Chief minister of Gujarat and during that journey I had passed through Salalah. I had stopped for a brief period and today I am fortunate to meet all those whom I met at that time. I would like to meet you Today, that opportunity is there\nI heartily thank the government and administration of Oman for making those arrangements Friends, the relations between India and Oman are hundreds of thousands of years old Even five thousand years ago, the ships made of wood used to visit Oman from the Lothal port in Gujarat, and during the return journey the vessels used to go up to Sri Lanka in the south while Indian shores beyond Lothal passing through. The systems have changed in the thousands of years. There was an apolonged period of slavery of India but our centuries old business and cordial relations remained the same.\nAfter India's independence, the institutions develop into the business, economic and social relations between both countries. The Bina refinery located in the central province of Oman. On the other hand more than one thousand five hundred joint ventures of Indian companies have been working here in Oman India and Indian talents have been working as ambassadors in the development and growth of Oman. Usually, one of the ambassadors is being nominated from the government. You will have noticed that a policy formulation by the current requirement per the last three years in the Gulf countries in India's ancient and friendly relations with India. We have been taking these relationships to new heights and linking them with different dimensions.\nYou will also have noticed that the interest of the Gulf countries in India has increased alongside India's growing stature and progress. Do you people notice this things are not? Do you know from people India's relations with the Gulf countries are becoming more important in every sector It's natural that a new momentum, a new energy has come into India's historic relations with Oman. Geographically, Oman is the nearest neighbor of India. And it's our good fortune that India has very old and cordial relations. Also, his majesty sultan had an inseparable bond with India\nToday, my presence in this stadium is that is named after His Majesty Sultan to have a audience with you. This reflects that how much warmth His Majesty has done for Sultan himself. We are very grateful to him for this special gesture.\nI'm going to see his greatness I will convey my best wishes for his health and long life and also 1.25 billion Indians and all of you And I will tell you that the friendship between our two countries Today, you get the home like environment in Oman and it is not without any reason. The home like environment that you people get here is the reflection of those values ​​of people and leadership of this place that we consider very important for diversity and coexistence in India\nMy eight hundred brothers and sisters in Oman are India's goodwill ambassadors. Oman, you have shed your sweat and you are sacrificing your place for this place. I am happy that the government of Oman Brothers and sisters, the cultural values ​​of Indians are like that. Exactly this is what happens or not? We mix the way sugar mixes in milk or not? Do not we? And we make the milk sweet This is our values, this is our nature and we have inherited this thing as our legacy. Because we are those people who follow the principle of VasudhaivKutumbkam, which means the whole world is one family. The nature of adapting as per the time and society, giving respect to every tradition, while maintaining our conduct and our customs and traditions, this is the uniqueness of India. And so you are a worthy person, you are a wonderful work of winning the heart of the common people of this place by following Indian values ​​at a distant place from India.\nAnd precisely this is the reason that even today India has been moving forward with all success even the world map has changed, even if the top countries of the world disappeared. No matter how hard the path can be, we are the ones who know how to overcome the difficulties. The restlessness that we have for the change; It is in our veins, it's our commitment to come out of the trouble with hope and excitement.\nBrothers and sisters, today every Indian has been fully dedicated to the dream of a New India. He has been working day and night. And you guys sitting here in Oman, if something good happens in India then there is no limit of your joy, you will be very happy. And if you come to know about something bad then how are you become become; this is our uniqueness - this feeling of belongingness\nWe have been moving in the direction of making the kind of India. Where the poor and where the hope to realize those dreams rises; where he gets the opportunity to work hard to realise those dreams; where he gets the support and guidance of times And with this role the country has been moving forward with the path of development with much more vigor and speed than earlier to realize the dream of a new India by taking together 1.25 billion countrymen. We have been doing many things for the common people, the maximum governance of the people.\nWe have included all these things in the culture: simplification of the processes; repealing unnecessary laws; reducing the size of forms in the government office from 40-50 pages to 4-5 pages; making system for online filling of those forms; giving a sincere hearing to the grievances of the people\nIt's the same government, the same people and bureaucracy, same tools and resources, it's the same file and the same clerk, everything is the same but different results produced. A change is being felt In the changed India, now the poor people are not insulting turned away from the banks In the changed India, the government is coming home to provide the gas connection, to provide the electricity connection.\nToday in our country; and you people in Oman may feel like this: Modi Ji, how is it possible You may not believe it This word: insurance, it felt like it was the people of the people Today, you have given the opportunity to work in this kind of government in Delhi that the poor people have given life and safety insurance at a premium of 90 paise per day and another scheme is a premium of one rupee per month. Ninety paise, because I'm a tea seller that's why I know that you can not even have a cup of tea by paying 90 paise. You know what is a government which is sensitive and when it formsulate such a policy then such a scheme of results. You people will get satisfaction from the fact that when there was a difficult for those poor families who had covered the insurance cover under these schemes then they were there for them. For these families, this is not something that is old; it was hardly a year ago. An amount of around Rs. 2,000 crore has been disbursed as claims under these people Some of you would have been aware about this thing, you would have got to know about this thing if it happened with your family members or relatives.\nFriends, you do not have to face hardship to get a new passport or its renewal. We have extended the passport facilities in the post offices as well, so that the problems faced by the common man, who had this kind of apprehensions whether he would get a passport even after 15 days or not, can be solved. And today because of decentralization and efficiency and because of bringing in the post offices in the system, these days passportsare provided in a day or two.\nIf somebody wants to do business in our country, if he wants to float a new company or wants to invest in some capital then there was a time when it used to take several days to register a new company. I can say this thing with satisfaction that today it is being done in just 24 hours. Previously you had said that the government used to announce this kind of things that: we made that or that law, we did that thing This is what you used to hear or not? I want to give news Laws are made when there is a need and we have also made laws but after formation of our government we have been repealed around 1400-1500 laws which were not required these days. Repealing of 1400-1450 laws it means that an average one law is being canceled during my tenure. The accumulation of these laws becomes a burden on the common man. We change these laws to allow him to breathe freely, and to set him free from the old burden.\nIf you have taken a closer look at this time then we have announced such a scheme in this budget which has attracted the attention of the whole world. You would've seen it, it's possible that you could not have heard the name But the scheme that we have announced in the budget is Ayushman Bharat Yojana. Under the Ayushman Bharat Scheme, we have been providing health insurance cover to 10 crore poor families of the country, it means about 45-50 crore people, we have announced Ayushman Bharat Scheme for health insurance to these people. And it is that kind of scheme which will benefit 40-50 crore people, and its benefit will be that a family will get free treatment of up to Rs. five lakh in a year, the government will pay the bill of up to Rs. 5 lakhs for the treatment of diseases.\nNow I have said Ayushman Bharat Then also you will have also felt that: friends, we have not heard of it but the last few days have you noticed that Indian news papers have given it a new name. Good! Has anyone heard it! Indian news papers have presented it as Modi Care and even our opponents are not opposing the scheme. They just say: brother, it's a good scheme Brothers and sisters, India is such kind of country that if it decides on something then it will accomplish it any case Many such schemes have been successful in 1.25 billion people easier.\nBrothers and sisters, governments come and go, people come and go The important thing is that the governance is being provided by the government. There was a style of governance earlier as well, under which schemes did not materialize for 30-40 years. I was Chief Minister of Gujarat There is a dam - SardarSarovar Dam-and its foundation was laid by Pandit Nehru and his work has just completed the last year. Sometimes, this was the case that although a dam was constructed but no work was done on the canal system. Although sometimes the bridges were constructed. Though the poles were being erected but the electric wires were not laid on them and sometimes the wires were kept on their clothes as electricity was not supplied. New trains were announced but no one used to track Sometimes even the drawings of the tracks were not drawn on the papers. The kind of style of misgovernance the country could not progress in the 21st century. It has to change itself. And this change is compulsory Moreover, because of the long list of scams Now we have come out of the situation\nToday, four years are about to complete but no one says that how much Modi has taken away\nAnd, I would like to say this with humility and satisfaction while bowing down my head that I will never hurt those hopes and expectations with which this country has given me responsibility. But today it's just opposite Wherever I go, whosoever I meet, even my opponents they do not level allegations against me, but what they do instead, they ask me: Modi ji please let us know how much has come. Before people used to ask how much has been siphoned off and now they ask Modi I think this is the confidence that has grown in the country. And that new hope is providing support to the new India.\nToday, we have been working in a citizen friendly, development friendly and responsible administration. And as I said earlier today its results could be seen today.\nToday, the speed of all these things like the speed of construction of roads, the speed of laying of railway tracks, the speed of electrification of railway tracks, the speed of building new airports, the speed of construction of houses for the poor by the government, the speed of opening of bank accounts or the speed of providing gas connections, all the works are completed\nYou will be surprised to know that we are able to realize Several governments came and demitted office, the whole world has changed but India did not own its aviation policy. We formulated the aviation policy after forming the government And we activated those airstrips that were located in small towns and district headquarters of tier-II and tier-II towns. We launched a campaign to build new airports.\nAnd my dear friends, you will be happy to note that today there are about 450 aircrafts flying in our country in both public and private sector It means that we have reached the level of 450 aircrafts during the period of 70 years. And in this one year, the different private companies, people from private sectors have placed the order of nearly 900 new aircraft. 450 aircraft during the 70 years and on the other hand the booking of almost 900 aircraft in this one year. Why? Because in our policy, we have said that we want that a person wearing a slipper too should travel in airplane.\nFriends, if you had not improved things at the grass root level then it would never have been possible to see the kind of growth and speed Huge and long lasting changes The entire system must be changed and when these changes take place only then the country jumps 42 places, from 142nd to 100th, in the World Bank's Easy to Doing Business Ranking and now the whole world is wondering.\nBrothers and sisters, now the next generation infrastructure is being developed in the country by considering the requirements of the 21st century. Specially, we have been developing the transport sector in such a way that different components support each other. Highways, airways, railways and waterways are being integrated as per second's requirement.\nThe government has started the construction of 53,000 kilometer long national highways under Bharat Mala project - 53,000 km. The work on railway corridors The metro has been expanded to the 11 large cities. Just last year I got the opportunity to publicly dedicate the Kochchi metro. The work to expand on the Chennai Metro\nIn this budget we have made provision for a great budget for metro in Bengluru. Similarly, we have been running a program under the name of Sagarmala for the country's coastal economy and infrastructure related to the coastal economy and sea shores.\nWe have started aBlue Revolution Scheme for our brothers and sisters from the fishing community and the government of India has been providing financial assistance to purchase modern trawlers. The government has been developing more than 100 waterways in the country. Rivers could be used for transportation. We have identified 110 such waterways that will not only protect the environment And because of the consumers\nBrothers and sisters, those who will come to India in 2022-23 And that will be the bullet train. The work on the bullet train between Mumbai and Ahmedabad has started last year. This train will take you to Ahmedabad from Mumbai in two to two-hours-fifteen-minutes.\nIndia will not only get an incremental improvement in the existing system but the country is also going to get a modern technology and a new service delivery system. Friends, now the decisions are not postponed in India Now the country has developed a new habit The time to delay Now we have been moving forward with the challenges. The schemes are being completed This is a example of a changing work culture in India. This is a New India This is the living example of a New India. And this is the reason why that's why in the early days of this kind of noise was there in the country that so many crores have been lost in this scam and so many crores have lost in that scam.\nBrothers and sisters, the country's money is being saved, when decisions are taken and a transparent policy. The country's money is being saved when the work is being done in a efficient manner and when the available resources are used in the best possible way.\nWith the help of technology, by using direct benefit of transfer scheme, our government has saved more than Rs. 57,000 crore were being siphoned off in wrong hands. We have done the work of saving every single penny of the poor. Direct Benefit Scheme means that the money for the subsidy or for the pension or the scholarship and wage payments is directly transferred to the beneficiary's bank account. Before this money was siphoned off by the middlemen by using fake names. Now our government has put an end to all these things. Similarly, the money of the people of the country, especially the middle class is being saved through our scheme.\nBrothers and sisters,\nIn our country, the LED bulb which used to sell for more than Rs. 350 a piece before 2014, the same LED bulb is now available for Rs. 40-45 a piece. In addition to being affordable LED bulbs, the families that have been able to save around Rs. 15,000 crore in electricity bills per year.\nFriends,\nYou will be surprised to know that the country would have to spend more than Rs. 45,000 crore on production that much electricity which was saved by using LED bulbs. If these two figures are combined - the saving of the people and saving of the country - then there is an estimated saving of Rs. 60,000 crore\nThere is another example of fertilizer sector. Brothers and sisters, because of our policies the production of urea has gone up by 18-20 lakh tones without setting up a new plant; and I'm talking about almost all the old plants, and it is done by growing the efficiency and preventing leakages. In order to produce this 20 lakh tons of uranium 7-8,000 crore which has been saved and urea has been made available. It's not limited to this only, foreign reserves worth about Rs. 3.5-4,000 crore have been saved, which was spent on purchasing uranium from abroad. In addition to this, the government has saved around Rs. 800 to 900 crores on account of subsidy. It means that we have saved around Rs. 12,000 million of the country in the fertilizer sector alone, through policy interventions and monitoring. And this money belongs to you people\nBrothers and sisters,\nWe have started taking a second look at the agreements signed in the field of petroleum and gas, we started taking a closer look. See, these agreements have been signed for a period of 20-25 or for30 years. And we studied them and since now India has more prestige so we discussed the issues with those countries And you will be happy to note that we have negotiated the agreements signed with Qatar and Australia and now they have been amended and now we have to pay Rs. 12,000 crore less We have saved Rs. 12,000 crore of the country\nBrothers and sisters,\nI have given you example of just four schemes and the saving of the country 1.40 lakh crore My brothers and sisters, please tell me that money worth Rs. 1.40 lakh crore which was wasted earlier Whether that money belonged to poor people or not Does it belong to the poor people or not? Whether that money should have been saved or not? Did that money be used for the poor people or not? This government has launched a massive battle against the corruption and black money in the country with this approach, with this kind of commitment towards honesty. Those people who did not pay tax to the government despite earning crises of rupees, those who amassed wealth on other's name, those who floated fake companies, those who deal in black money, now these big sharks are being investigated by government\nYou will be wondering to know that in the last one year the registration of about 3.5 lakhs dubious companies have been terminated by the government.\nFriends,\nThe hard earned money sent to India by my countrymen contributed in the country's economy. And when they send the hard earned money and when that money is being used in developing the facilities in the country then it has a multiplier effect and the people present here also get a satisfaction. What a wonderful result is being produced if the money earned by honest means is being spent honestly and we have taken on the honesty\nFriends,\nWe are aware of these challenges We have been in constant touch with the government of Oman about the problems faced by you. The work to reduce your problems has also been done with the help of 'migrate system' and 'Madad portal'.\nIt is the result of many such initiatives taken by the government, that is, every Indian living abroad, he has the confidence that if he faces any problem then the government of his country will be there to take him back to the country. This government of India has become an honorary member of his country.\nFriends, our approach of SabkaSath, SabkaVikas is bringing about a change in the thinking of the whole world. The announcement of International Yoga Day by the United Nations, formation of the International Solar Alliance at India's instance, are the examples that define India's growing reputation and capabilities. The country has been benefited from your work. I would like to discuss this with you The impact of your resolves to realise the dream of making a new India will also feel in India. I'm confident of this thing All my dear brothers and sisters, today, I got the audience I conclude my speech with the wish that will be healthy and safe. I love you\nPlease join me in saying with all your strength - Bharat Mata Ki Jay (Victory to Mother India), Bharat Mata Ki Jay, Bharat Mata Ki Jay\nVande Mataram; Vande Mataram; Vande Mataram; Vande Mataram; Vande Mataram; Vande Mataram\n"