"Share\n\nModi is in Dubai, says Modi\nThe 6 R's - reduce, reuse, recycle, recover, redesign, re-manufacture - and technology will take a point where we are joy: PM Modi\nIn Dubai, PM Modi says\nTechnology has empowered the common man, who has given a boost to the minimum government, PM: #WorldGovernmentSummit\nWe have created an innovation ecosystem in India through the start-up India program, India has become a start-up nation: PM Modi in Dubai\nIndia's unique identity program (Aadhaar) is the biggest in the world, with support, we have stopped $ 8 billion of leakage: PM Modi\nUnited Arab Emirates Vice President, Prime Minister and Defense Minister, and His Highness Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, ruler of Dubai,\nAbu Dhabi's Yuvraj and Deputy High Commander of His Armed Forces, His Highness Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan,\nHis Excellency, President of the Government and Head of International Organizations,\nThe honorable members of Raj family,\nMedia friends,\nLadies and Gentlemen,\nHello!\nGood Day!\nYour Highness Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, you have very warmly welcomed me.\nIn this sixth edition of the World Government Summit, I have been honored with the honor of the chief guest and the honorable guest country of India. It is not only for me, it is a matter of pride and great happiness for the 100 million people of India. I thank you heartily for this.\nIn the form of Prime Minister, many times I have been traveling to the Gulf region. After 2015 I have come to the UAE for a second time. Whenever I come here, I feel a special attachment.\nNearly 1.2 million non-resident Indians have found a home away from their home in India, in Dubai, and 33 lakh non-resident Indians in the entire UAE. India is grateful to the UAE and Dubai for this, you are grateful.\nI greet you and all the Dubaiites, the Americans, greetings and greetings from the Indians.\nFriends,\nDubai is unmatched in its use of technology for development. Here the desert sands have been transformed into golden richness. A miracle and miracle have come true.\nThere is a vision behind the glory of reaching the heights of today's sky in Dubai, and behind the imagination of the future. And there is also resolution. Behind them is Technology, Innovation and Enterprise. I saw them in the Museum of Future a while ago.\nThe UAE has not allowed successful experiments in technology to be confined to labs. Used in his life. Its won-awake I had got to see in Mazdar.\nIncubation in the areas of administration of technology by the Dubai Future Accelerator, and many such efforts, predict the future. And also his call.\nThe energy of these efforts, only listening to their dynamism has a good effect. But seeing Rupee is inspiring.\nTherefore, it is appropriate that the World Government Summit is held in Dubai. And this special event is going on under the subject of Technology and Development.\nFriends,\nIn the journey of human beings on earth, technology is imprinted on every small scale of development.\nAbout 200 years ago, 94% of the world's nearly one billion people lived in poverty. Today, though the world's population is more than seven billion, that is, about nine and a half percent of the population is in poverty.\n200 years ago our average age was less than thirty years. Now it is more than seventy years, that is, more than two-fold.\nIn the last 25 years, the mortality rates of mothers in India, i.e. maternal mortality has decreased to one-third, and around the world, about halfway.\nScientific achievements like Stem cells and regeneration techniques have shown the way to treating diseases not only for diseases, but also for treating organ fractures.\nWith the weather forecast, farmers can save their crops. Millions of crores could be saved through disaster management. It may be that technology in the future may also make us predict the disasters like earthquake.\nIn essence, technology has basically influenced human existence. Technology has played a big role in reaching a high level of quality of life.\nOne aspect of development is that thousands of years have passed since the Stone Age in the Industrial Revolution. Then it took just two hundred years for the communication revolution. And from there to the digital revolution the distance was fixed in a few years.\nNow technology is changing with the speed of thought, i.e. at the speed of thought\nNecessity is not the mother of invention, invention needs are born. Technology has become a huge medium of disruptive change.\nFriends,\nAccessibility and its expansion of technology has empowered the common man.\nAnd this empowerment has been encouraged by 'Minimum Government, Maximum Governance'.\nE-governance's 'E' is actually the first letter of effective, efficient, easy, empower and equitable.\nFriends,\nMore than two thousand years ago, a great thinker and strategist Kautilya of India composed the 'Economics'. Apart from the other topics, he gave the responsibility of the administration: \"Radical Heaven's Upliftment\" That is, the government should take a fast for development.\nIn my view, a major role of government is to ensure that the power of technology is used for the development of every person. And by this use, the speed and ease of service in the service of the citizens.\nI also believe that the government should be cautious about the changes and challenges generated by the progress in technology. So that the use of technology remains creative\nTechnology is a gift that does not mention ethical values ​​in user manual. Therefore, sometimes the material of progress makes the means of human destruction and vandalism.\nExamples of misuse of technology by some people used for radicalisation of cyberspace.\nDespite all the progress, poverty and malnutrition have not been eliminated from the world. But on the other hand, a large part of the money, time and resources seems to increase the capacity of missiles and bombs.\nWe have to be alert that we make technology a tool for development, not destruction.\nThat technology enhances the natural potential of human beings, not reduce it. Do not displace him.\nFriends,\nSometimes it seems that human technology is not only conquering nature but it is making the mistake of making a tool of struggle. The price of this is very heavy.\nFor the future of humanity, we do not have to struggle with nature, we need a path of symbiosis.\nThe stairs on this path are six 'R': Reduce, Reuse, Recycle, Recover, Redesign and Remanufacture. The destination that we will get from these steps will be 'Rejoice', that is, Anand.\nFriends,\nThe real purpose of human existence is not just prosperity. Rather, there is happiness. Have fun\nThere is a prayer in Indian scriptures, \"Survey Bhavantu Sukhinah:\" That is, all are happy. It is compulsory to achieve happiness of holiness and balance.\nYour Highness,\nIn order to establish the Ministry of Happiness and the Ministry of Future, you have to recognize the true purpose of man's existence and its efforts as well.\nIn India, Madhya Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh have also taken initiative in this direction.\nThe government and all the stakeholders should think together about how to make goals for overall development and overall happiness.\nFriends,\nHow and how the students and their parents have to fight against the storms in the examination season! Most of us have a very good experience (smile).\nFor a few days, I will talk about crores of children from all over India on an interactive platform simultaneously, as our children's exams do not lose their fright due to the fear of its consequences.\nIndia's philosophy is, 'Sadhya Vidya or Vishukanya'. That is, the Vidya is that which becomes the means of salvation. Use of technology can bring a huge education-revolution in long-distances online education. This will also empower poor poor education of poor children in remote areas.\nFriends,\nThere are many golden chapters of science and technology in India's thousands of years of history.\nWhether it is the hypothesis of zero or the calculation of the pie. The decimal system or the origin of Arabic Numerals. Be Metallurgy or Three Dimensional Line Mathematics. Beating bricks or building world-class ships.\nThese achievements and the contribution of mathematicians and scientists like Aryabhatta, Pingal, Brahmagupta, Sushruta, Charak, and not just for India, have been available for the development of everyone.\nFriends,\nThe challenges facing today's India - poverty, unemployment, housing, education, natural calamities - victory over them is possible only by the development of everyone. That is why the basic spell of my government is 'Sabka with, Sabka Vikas'.\nWith the use of technology for this goal, we are expanding participation in inclusive development, transparency in governance, especially in all sections - especially women - empowerment and policy-making of common citizens.\nThe 'base' program for giving a biometric link and unique identity number to every Indian is the largest program of its kind in the world.\nThis unique digital identity has been linked to 31 million new bank accounts and consumers' mobile. With this, about 70,000 crore rupees (i.e. 10 billion dollars) are directly accessible to the general public of the government's financial schemes, which were outside the bank system. It also made it possible to stop misuse of the amount of more than $ 56 billion (i.e. 8 billion dollars).\nIn India there is a revolution in digital payment and less cash. Using a technology, a tax system i.e. possible GST is possible across India.\nWith the initiative of Government e-Market (GEM), small business can sell its salute to the government. So far, transactions worth Rs 28 lakh crore have been carried out.\nThe aim of our Start-up India program is to create a complete ecosystem for innovation in India. In the last two years, there has been an increase of 40% in startups and incubators in India. The growing participation of youth in the Hackathons has given rise to new and successful projects.\nMore than 65 percent of India's population is under 35 years of age. By promoting innovation among them and for this we want to realize the dream of 'New India' with international partnerships.\nTwo experiments of technology are remarkable for our goal of doubling the income of farmers by 2022: First, Soil Health Card provides information about the soil to the farmers. And second, the portal of Agricultural Mandals, which is trading 36000 crores.\nFriends,\nIn Indian philosophy, the central beauty of the sun is central importance. 'Surya Soul Jagatsthushish' That is, the Sun is the Soul of the world. We have targeted 175 gigaft renewable energy capacity including 100 gigaft of solar power by 2022. In the last three years we have crossed the figure of 66 GHz.\nWith the initiative of International Solar Alliance, India has started a similar effort with other countries, so that the benefits of abundant available solar energy can also be given to the less developed countries.\nWith the distribution of 28 million LED bulbs by the government in last 3 years, saving not more than just 2 billion dollars, but also 4 GHz power. Not only this, 30 million tons of carbon dioxide also became less\nThe next revolution will be the storage of solar energy. Looking at its importance for balanced and sustainable development, all stake holders should make a concerted effort.\nFriends,\nLast month, Satellite Launch Program of India created Century. The cost of our accomplishments in the field of space is many times less than the world. India's Mars Orbital Mission is credited less than the average price of the Hollywood movie.\nWith the help of Space Technology, the catch of fish has increased from 2 to 5 times. And in the time it takes, there is a reduction of 30 to 70 percent.\nGeo-tagging of more than 20 million community assets made up of government's major employment schemes is gathering all the important information.\nFriends,\nIndia lost the opportunity of Industrial Revolution But now we have targeted leadership not only excellence in cutting edge areas of technology.\nIn addition to manufacturing and IT, we are paying special attention to Big data analytics, cyber-physics, nanotechnology, artificial intelligence, cyber security, advance energy storage, renewable energy, next generation genomics, cloud technology, advance GIS, etc.\nAchievements in these areas will ensure that the hundred and fifty million Indians - the sixth part of humanity - overall development make significant contributions to the development of the whole world.\nFriends,\n'Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam' - that is, the whole world is a family - it has been a vision of India. We have also been implementing our foreign cooperation with all the people.\nUnder the Indian Technical and Economic Cooperation Program, which is more than 50 years old, having capacity building in more than 160 countries or developing infrastructure in developing and under-developed countries, India does this cooperation according to their needs.\nBenefits of tele-education and tele-medicine from Pan-Africa e-Network are also reaching remote areas in African countries.\nSharing the experience of solar energy has led to the brightness of the house in Africa through trained African solar mamas in India.\nLast year, India left the South Asia satellite. This will result in our gift capabilities to our neighboring countries, as a result of our space capabilities.\nFriends,\nIt is certain that the problems faced by the world in the coming decades will have to be solved. And technology will play a big role in it.\nIt is also decided that if the century of 21st century is to be a century of Asia, it will become even more important to share experience on the forums like World Government Summit.\n'Tamso Ma Jyoturgam' - that is, we go from darkness to light, it has been praying in India for thousands of years. This objective can be achieved only when the use of technology is empowering everyone through holistic, balanced, sustainable and inclusive development.\nI invite you to the whole world through you that let us together add science, technology and governance to the future of humans with a closer future.\nLet us come together to use technology to eliminate extinction and exploitation for centuries.\nIt is a matter of great happiness that India has been able to find capable partners in the form of United Arab Emirates for such efforts.\nI hope this version of Summit will have a detailed, intensive and useful discussion on the future of technology, development, administration and the world.\nआपसे मुखातिब होने के लिए मुझे यह अवसर प्रदान किया गया, इसके लिए मैं एक बार फिर से बहुत-बहुत धन्यवाद करता हूं।\nशुक्रन जज़ीलन। "