"Share\n\nPM Modi lays the foundation stone for the first Hindu temple in the UAE via video conferencing.\nPM Modi unveils a model of the first BAPS Hindu temple of the UAE and officially launches the project\nOur relationship with UAE is not just that of a buyer and a seller It has become too much, says PM\nIndia's leap in World Bank's Easy to Doing Business Rankings from 142 to 100 is unprecedented: PM Modi\nI thank the Gulf countries, which provided approximately 30 lakh people from India, home to the environment, away from home, says PM Modi\nI am very fortunate to have fun once again His highness crown prince of Abu Dhabi visited India in 2016. In 2017, he was the chief guest of our extremely important Republic day function. Maybe After several decades, India's relations with the Gulf countries have become so deep, so comprehensive, and so vibrant.\nToday, our relationship with the Gulf countries is not just confined to a buyer-seller relationship but it has become a partnership India takes pride in that more than 3 million Indians living in the Gulf countries have become partners in the region of the developmental journey. I express my heartfelt gratitude to the Gulf countries, I salute them. They have provided this kind of good environment to more than 30 lakh Indians.\nIndian community also sowed the seeds of their dreams along with the dreams of the local people and also with the same commitment. And, in a way, we have been able to experience a very good partnership among the human groups in the Gulf countries. In UAE, people were wondering when his highness crown prince took the initiative of building a temple in Abu Dhabi when I came here last time. I would like to express my gratitude to his highness crown prince on behalf of all 1.25 billion Indians. The construction of a temple! And that too in the form of a bridge of goodwill! We have been raised in a tradition, in which humanity is a medium for a medium. And where a holy place is a catholic agent of humanity, where And I believe that this temple will be unique in terms of architecture, in terms of technology, and in terms of messaging any case. The whole world is one family. The whole world is one family. And because of this thing it will also become a medium for acquiring a unique Indian identity.\nI would like to tell all those people who have been related to the construction of the place of India, have given them so much respect to India's cultural traditions that now it is our responsibility end, not to commit any mistake\nIt will be a compelling responsibility for all those related to the construction of the temple, for all the future devotees that there should not be anything that could hurt the high ideals and principles of humanity even a bit. I have seen this\nToday, the country is scaling new heights of development. It's a matter of pride for India that today the country has given a special status in a global level summit. I have been invited to address the summit. Here, it is not difficult for you to gather information about India You have such knowledge about India that if you talk about one thing then you will talk about ten things And in a way a mini India resides here There is not even a single corner in this country And that is why you can experience very well how fast India has been moving and realizing their dreams.\nWe have also witnessed those days of despair when it is like: friends, let's leave it, nothing is going to happen Friends, let's pack your belongings and go somewhere else. We have been among those periods of despair, apprehension and confusion.\nThere was a time when the common man used to ask, if it was possible? Whether it will happen Whether it is done in our country? And by continuing moving forward from that position, the country has reached such a position within four years that today the country has not been asking, today the country is not thinking whether it will happen or not; whether it's possible or not? Friends, why should we tax our mind! From that kind of feeling, the inner feeling today has reached this stage where people ask: Modi ghe say when this thing will happen There is no complaint instead\nIn 2014, we were at the 142nd position in the ease of doing business ranking at global level. It means it is a bit easier to count if you start counting from the last number. But it would take a lot more time if you start counting from the beginning No other country in the world has jumped forty-two spots to reach the hundredth spot in the World Bank's ease of doing business ranking in such a short span of time. However, no one should be impressed. We want to improve further and we want to bring them to India as soon as possible by doing whatever changes in the policy, or be it changing road map for implementation or be it.\nGlobalization is the thing in which all the people meet their responsibilities by connecting with everyone and by having everyone together, we have those heights that are the last person or last of the welfare country in the world and only then can we show that the whole world is a family in the real sense of the word by living the life as per that message \"Basudhaiba Kutumbakam\".\nThe destiny has entrusted India with some responsibilities for her global role. Today, the world says that the 21st century belongs to Asia Then it will not happen automatically; It's like that we will continue to keep your hands like this\nWe will have to work hard in order to make the 21st century a century of Asia even if there are no immediate gains. We have to work hard keeping in view our long term interests. Mahatma Gandhi used to talk about Shreya (what should be done) and Priya (what is liked by us). It should be our effort that we should move forward in steps in the direction of those objectives that must be fulfilled. We may or may not like these\nThere are some people who can quickly For others it is a problem If I replace currency then the poor section of society immediately understands that it's a solid step in the right direction. However, the one who spent sleepless nights continued to weep even after two years.\nGST law should be implemented or not It's done now. So it's true that if we move to a new house after the beginning of the year we feel very happy during the night that we have constructed a good house, it's a newly built house. However, when the wallet is going on We later realized that it is a new home and the bathroom is on. Whether everyone has experienced this thing or not? If there are going to be so many problems in one person's life due to the changes then it's natural to face hick ups when the system is 70 years after and the country which has 1.25 billion population and which has these habits and internalized where two-three generations have spent their life with those habits. Then there will be difficulties However, it's worthwhile to do so\nThis is the way which was shown by Mahatma Gandhi. And today GST has been moving forward by getting the approval as a system by overcoming its shortcomings in such a short span of time. The country is changing\nI was in Abu Dhabi yesterday and had signed several agreements. Lower Zakum Relation Agreement: This is the first ever investment of an Indian company in the upstream sector of middle-east. The brighter aspect of the partnership has begun. I just wanted to say this. But, I have to be in the next program. You have turned up in such large numbers; you have showered so much love My eyes do not even reach the other side. I am extremely grateful to all of you\nI'm going to fly I'm going to return after visiting five countries within 70-80 hours. Jordan, Palestine, Abu Dhabi and now I am in Dubai and from here I will go to Oman. Today evening I am going to have the good luck of meeting in the Indian community. I need to share some of my thoughts\nOnce again, I express my heartfelt gratitude to all of you. And I assure you that whatever dreams have you, we are going to realize those dreams together and ahead of time I assure you of this thing Once again I thank you very much\nNamaskar."