"Share\n\nThe old and strong historical relations between India and Palestine has stood the test of time: PM\nRemarkable courage and perseverance has been demonstrated by the people of Palestine in the face of constant challenges and crises: PM\nIndia is a very old ally in Palestine's nation-building efforts, says the Prime Minister\nIndia hopes that Palestine soon becomes a sovereign and independent country in a peaceful environment: PM\n\nYour Excellency President Mahmoud Abbas\nMembers of the Palestinian and Indian delegations,\nMembers of the Media, Ladies and Gentlemen,\nSabah-al-Kher (Good Morning)\nIt is a great pleasure for an Indian Prime Minister to come to Ramallah for his first ever visit.\nPresident Abbas, I would like to thank you for the words that you have said in my honor and also for the very warm and grand welcome extended to me and my delegation.\nExcellency, you have very cordially bestowed me with the highest honor of Palestine. This is a matter of great respect for the whole India and it is also a symbol of Palestine's friendship and goodwill for India.\nThe old and strong historical relations between India and Palestine has stood the test of time. Our foreign policy is a continuation of our foreign policy.\nI am happy to stand here in Ramallah with President Mahmoud Abbas who is a very old friend of India. I was privileged to welcome him during his New Delhi visit last May I am happy to update\nDuring this visit, I got the opportunity to pay tributes to Abu Omar. He was the top leaders of his time. His role in Palestine Abu Omar also had a distinguished friend of India. Visiting the museum has helped him become Once again I offer my heartfelt tributes to Abu Omar.\nLadies \u0026 Gentlemen,\nRemarkable courage and perseverance has been demonstrated by the people of Palestine in the face of constant challenges and crises. You have demonstrated rock like determination to deal with the circumstances and that too at a time when there was a vulnerability of the environment and the insecurity which hampers the progress and which puts in jeopardy the benefits which have significant struggles after acquired.\nThe difficulties and challenges against which you have moved ahead is really commendable. We appreciate your goodness and your faith\nIndia is a very old ally in Palestine's nation-building efforts. We have collaborated in the areas of training, technology, infrastructure development, project assistance and budgetary support.\nAs a part of our new initiative, we have started a Technology Park project here in Ramallah which is currently under construction. After its creation, we hope that this organization will work as a center which enhances employment skills and services.\nIndia is also collaborating to set up an institute of diplomacy in Ramallah. We believe that this institute will emerge as a world-class training institute for the young diplomats of Palestine.\nOur capacity building cooperation involves mutual training for long and short-term courses. Training and scholarship slots for Palestine in leading Indian educational institutions of different sectors like financial, management, rural development and information technology recently extended.\nI am happy that during this visit we are expanding our development cooperation India will continue to invest in Palestine in the projects of health, educational infrastructure and women empowerment center and also in a printing press.\nWe consider this contribution as a building block for the creation of an energetic Palestine State.\nAt the bilateral level, we have reached the Ministerial level Joint Commission Meeting.\nLast year, for the first time, there was an exchange between the young delegations of India and Palestine. Investing in our youth and cooperating in their skills\nIndia is also a young country like Palestine. Our Aspirations for the Palestinian youth are the same as we have for Indian youths and which offers opportunities for progress, prosperity and self-reliance. They are our future and inheritors of our friendship.\nI am happy to announce that we will increase the exchange of young people from 50 to 100 from this year.\nLadies \u0026 Gentlemen,\nIn our discussion today, I once again assured President Abbas that India is committed to the interests of the Palestinian people.\nIndia hopes that Palestine soon becomes a sovereign and independent country in a peaceful environment.\nPresident Abbas and I had discussions on the recent regional and global developments related to the peace and security of Palestine and its peace process.\nIndia is very hopeful about this region.\nWe believe that the issue of Palestine is finally resolved in negotiations and understanding through which a peaceful coexistence can be obtained.\nIntense diplomacy and judiciousness alone can help\nWe know it is not easy. But we must continue\nYour Excellency, I Express my heartfelt gratitude\nI, on behalf of 1.25 billion Indians, also extend warm greetings for the progress and prosperity of the people of Palestine.\nThank you."