"\nWe are focussing on 3Ts for Tripura - Trade, Tourism, Training of the youth: PM Modi\nScams like the 'Rose Valley' have been ruined the poor in Tripura. Those who looted the poor should be brought to book: PM Modi in Sonamura\nPeople in Tripura aspire for more and better employment opportunities: PM Modi in Sonamura\nEverybody for scrupulous Voters will teach them a lesson, says PM Modi\nWhy have the recommendations of 7th Pay Commission not been implemented in Tripura? PM Modi asks\nWe want to ensure affordable and quality healthcare for all through #AyushmanBharat Yojana: PM Modi\nCenter sends money for Tripura's development but it remains unused, says PM Modi in Tripura\nVeer Bikram's dream of modern Tripura has been destroyed by CPI government: PM Modi\nGurumatha, Chhayya Ahem, he is the son of Vipassaro, Tripura, Hastany Yo, Loko Roko no and Ani Jagmatayi Khaaham or Bharo.\nAll senior superintendents of the party, and Mr. Sushal Bhowmik, candidate from Sonamura in this election, Mr. N.C. Deobarama, candidate from Tiljala, Mr. Ramapada Jamatia, candidate from Bagma, Mr. Jishnu Deb Burma from Chariam, Mr. Pranjeet Singh from RK Pur. Ms. Pratima Bhowmick from Roy, Dhanpur, Mr. Vibhishan from Rajnagar Chandra Das, Mr. Virendra Kishore Deb Burma, from Golagati, Bill Mrs. Arunachandra Bhowmik from Aniaya, Mr. Aashash Vaidya from Rashimukh, Mr. Ankhiya Mog Chowdhary from Jolibari, Mr. Shankar Roy from Suboram, Mr. Jiten Majumdar from Kakraban, Mr. Vipal Kumar Ghosh from BJP candidate from Matabari, Mr Pramod Riyan from Shan Tibajar, Bharul from Boksenagar Subhash Chandra Das from Islam, Nalchrat\nSpeak all with me\nJai of Bharat Mata, Jai of Bharat Mata, Jai of Bharat Mata\nThanks a lot\nProbably in India and especially in Delhi, no one will have an idea of ​​what is happening in Tripura. In a way, Tripura is fighting for its rights in the true sense. This election is not a BJP or a partner party but people of Tripura are contesting the elections. Is contesting for their rights. Here the young man has come to the election field for employment. Here the government servant has stood up to demand the 7th salary punch, 7th pay commission. The entire Tripura wants to go to new heights of development and therefore landed in the field. And these elections are the government on one hand, the name is also the government, the government in hand and the public on the other side. And history is a witness when it comes to the common ground, when the mood of the people changes, then it is uprooted and thrown out of good governance. And so I am clearly seeing that now the era of development in Tripura is going to come, and that's why you have taught us, you have taught us, let's meet ..., let's meet ..., let's meet.\nBrothers sisters\nIn our country, every 51 Shakti Peethas recite virtue. A shrine, a democratically goddess, Goddess Tripura Sundari, this is the place of her, I bow to this earth.\nBrothers sisters\nWhen we talk about Tripura, in the heart of every Tripura people, the former Maharaja Vir Bikram Kishore Manikya, Veer Bikram Kishore Manikya ji, who for the welfare of Tripura, for the unity of the country, the development of the people here For the sake of avoiding the split, the way in which it worked closely. It was the misfortune of all of us that a few days before the arrival of independence, the Maharaja left us. But Maharani talked to Sardar Patel, talking to Gandhiji, took the initiative to save Tripura. And that's why I would like to bow down to such a great tradition, a great show of showing something for the country, even today.\nBrothers sisters\nFor the last 20-25 years, such a delusion has been created, we used to hear the name of a magician government in Bengal, but here is a hidden magician who has made such a delusion, such a madman, someone in the country The waste here is not allowed to enter the corner, bad location. People were shown their bank account and white kurtas but how many black roles have been put in, the country was kept in the dark. And hence it is the demand of the time that Tripura has to be brought out of this dark age, Tripura has to take on new heights of development. The people of the Communist Party have a red flag in any corner of India. And if in the factory, if the worker gets a little less rupees, even two rupees, then lock the whole factory, strike it, Make it difficult to live You tell me what are the minimum wages in Tripura today, do you meet? What do you get from citizens of the country? There is a difference between saying and showing and doing, not the difference .... They have deceived you or have not ... Should the people of Tripura get the minimum wages that people and people in the country should meet or not? Here the laborer should meet or should not be found. Here the workers in the field should meet or should not be found. Here the worker working here should meet or should not be found. Why not get the brother? The people of the country, the Communists have been sitting for twenty-five years in Tripura, but are not ready to accept any valid right of citizens here. Things are big in the country. You tell me dearness had increased or did not grow .... According to inflation, these are our governmental friends who should be paid or should not be paid .... Meet the IAS, get the IPS because it comes in the Government of India's plans. But what is the reason that Born in Tripura, working in government in Tripura, working for 15-20 years, if the government goes left then go left, without the right to give the money to the government, despite what he has said. It's not that crime .... Such a government should be punished for a crime or not. Will not we give the punishments to criminals by pressing the button on the lotus mark in this election .... They will throw them out of the borea boreya or will not throw them .... And then let's go and see whether it will not be ..., then let's go and see whether it will happen.\nBrothers sisters\nI am surprised that after 96, I was told that no new salary has been improved. These are the people associated with them in Delhi, they do not let these things come out. And you, this injustice will continue to happen with you. Why is not the 7th pay commission applied? If the government did not apply in any corner of the country, then they would come out with a red flag and set fire there on these people. But twenty-two, sitting in government for twenty-five-and-a-half years. And there is so much scaryness of molestation, it is so suppressed that even after the release of 96 after the release of the child, even if the children are unable to get good education, then there is no facility for medicines in the old parents' illness. So also sitting quietly. Because he knows that if he wants to speak anything then he will have to lose his job in life all the time, such a fear has remained.\nBrothers sisters\nPlease tell me whether the government of Bharatiya Janata Party should come and give 7th par commission to all the government's Mulajim should not be given ... You should tell or not ... They should get the right or should not get it .... Brothers sisters, the Bharatiya Janata Party has promised you that the minimum wages for the workers in the country, all the people here, should meet the people of Tripura whether they should meet ..., should not meet or should not be met. .. Minimum Wages Every poor should meet or should not be met .... Brothers sisters, the Bharatiya Janata Party promises to meet the people of Tripura who will get together in the country.\nBrothers sisters\nHere the word democracy comes in handy only to press the button in the election. And even if it is oppressed in the elections, whether it is Kerala in the elections, whether it is West Bengal or Tripura, where it has reached the red flag, it is to use democracy for itself, to break in its own way, and to stave off democracy. Running has created this tradition and also in Tripura. You tell me, those who speak against the Tripura government have to take life on the palm or not have to go ... These people oppress or do not ... He scolds the poor man that if you do not get votes in your village, then you have got a ration card. Do not do that ... I tell you that I have written everything on the computer, they have no power to snatch away from you.\nBrothers sisters\nEven today, if Tripura costs Rs 100, then 80 rupees out of 100 rupees comes from Delhi Government, comes from the Government of India. But without getting money here, either money is not spent, either money is not accounted for.\nbrothers Sisters\nYou tell me, what was this rosary, brother, what was brother Rosivali? The poor of Tripura were looted or not looted .... Millions of families have been destroyed or have not been ... Due to the rollwallis, the people here had to commit suicide or not ... And who is the person who earns a rosary, punish them or not? In the roarwaliyi, the poor who have been looted, who have been looted by the convicts, give them such punishment, brothers and sisters, so that no one can dare to snatch any one of the poor.\nBrothers sisters\nToday the youth of the country has to give employment, the mothers and sisters have to give a life of respect, to take care of the elderly, if Tripura is not developed without development. And despite them, the party government has made it all in one. If someone is murdered, before going to the police station, they have to go to the house of the Lal Salam, they have to offer a sacrifice, then there is an FIR lodged. The police say that your complaint is correct, but first take a message from there, take a message from there, send messages from there, then work will be done. Your ration card has the right, but unless the Communist Party kills it, you can not get a ration card. You can not get a ration card. Is this a democracy? This is not a new form of slavery ... This is the scandal to keep people in slavery ....\nBrothers sisters\nWe have come up with a discussion of development. Our mantra has been, Transformation by Transportation Good roads, railways, airports, people here have facilities to fulfill their dreams and that's why our government took a very big decision when Atal Bihari Vajpayee was the Prime Minister. And the same verdict is one, the state of our northeast, the state of the North East has formed the basis for their welfare. He created a separate Doon Ministry and told every Ministry of Government of India that 10 per cent of your budget will have to be spent for the development of North East. Made such an important decision. Our government has come up with an Act of East Policy, because it is our opinion that unless India's eastern region, North East region development, then the country's development will be unbalanced, the fate of the country can not change. The fate of the country changes when the fate of Tripura changes, the fortune of the country changes. And so we made many plans for the development of Tripura. These people are also spreading lies that if the BJP government comes, then it will be closed, dhikkana will stop, the fruits will stop. The BJP government has been sitting in Delhi for four years. Have you got any right? What's your plan to stop, why are you spreading this lie, brother, why are spreading it? And this lie also will have to answer. How are the allegations against his sisters, their ministers, and the BJP government will come, then they fear that when they go to escape they go.\nBrothers sisters\nIt is said that when some planetary system is bad, then those who believe in it, they wear the rings of different colors and do not wear them. But if you wear a wrong stone ring then the condition gets worse, those who are also get worse. Therefore Tripura has worn the wrong ruby. Your fate will not change unless you get it wrong. And so this ruby, you put such a ring on it, you have rooted such a stone and have been rooted for 25 years. How many governments change in Delhi, the stars change in the sky, the planets change, the sun goes here, the moon runs here, all but it is sticking to such a stone that you can not even benefit from its good days. And hence you do not want ruby ​​now, get rid of rubies. Now you need diamond. Diamond should diamond Need diamond or not .... Need diamond or not .... Need diamond or not .... And when I say diamond then my direct meaning is diamond's H mean highway, i mean iyive (digital connectivity), r mean road, a mean air. Highways, Eyes, Roadways, Airway These should be diamond Tripura, which will take Tripura to a new height. And we will get you, your rubies and diamond, which will be your diamond.\nBrothers sisters\nWe are ready to work for the entire connectivity of this area. In the construction of infrastructure, the government has recently approved the North East Special Infrastructure Development Scheme. And under this, 100 per cent of the hundred hundred rupees for infrastructure, 100 per cent of the Government of India will get the money from the safe. And for this, the government has decided to impose close to Rs 5,300 crore. Will your appearance change or not? Brothers sisters and water supply, power supply, connectivity, due to which common life of Tripura, is of the living, it will be strengthened. Brothers sisters, Tripura, we have brought diamonds and together with Tripura T, they want to emphasize with Tripura's T and on three. And those three are training for trade, tourism and youth. These three t, one side diamond infrastructure and these three t which will do a lot of work to bring about your change in life. We have come up with that work.\nभाइयो  बहनों\nपिछले तीन वर्षो में पूर्वोत्तर क्षेत्र में रेल नेटवर्क के विकास के लिए वार्षिक तौर पर करोड़ों रुपये खर्च किए गए हैं। त्रिपुरा में सभी मीटर गेज को हमने ब्रॉड गेज में परिवर्तित कर दिया है। अगरतला अब देश की राजधानी नई दिल्ली के साथ रेलमार्ग से जुड़ गया है। एक नई राजधानी त्रिपुरा की आवश्यकताओं को पूरा कर रही है और दिल्ली के साथ सीधी कनेक्टिविटी दे रही है। अब त्रिपुरा के लिए दिल्ली दूर नहीं है।\nभाइयो बहनों\nत्रिपुरा के अंदर सड़कों के विकास के लिए राष्ट्रीय राजमार्गों की लंबाई में हमारे आने के बाद त्रिपुरा को न्याय मिले इसका हमने बीड़ा उठाया और 80 प्रतिशत से अधिक बढ़ोतरी हमारी दिल्ली में सरकार बनने के बाद राष्ट्रीय राजमार्गों पर हुई है। सरकार ने 1,700 करोड़ रुपये की लागत से करीब-करीब सवा सौ किलोमीटर रोड के तीन प्रोजेक्ट पर काम शुरू कर दिया है। 128 करोड़ की लागत से सबरूम में फेरी नदी पर पुल का निर्माण भी हमारी योजना में शामिल है भाइयो बहनों। हमने आने वाले 3 वर्षो में 11 हजार करोड़ रुपये नार्थ ईस्ट के लिए, कनेक्टिविटी फिजिकल कनेक्टिवी के लिए लगाने की दिशा में हमने काम किया है। अगरतला का एयरपोर्ट 450 करोड़ की लागत लगाकर के अगरतला का टर्मिनल बिल्डिंग उसके निर्माण की हमने मंजूरी दे दी है। आप कल्पना कर सकते हो, त्रिपुरा की शान कितनी बढ़ने वाली है।\nभाइयो बहनों\nहम एक उड़ान योजना लेकर आए हैं। उड़ान योजना के तहत हवाई चप्पल पहनने वाला भी हवाई जहाज में जा सकता है इतना सस्ता कर दिया है। ढाई हजार रुपये में यात्रा की व्यवस्था, और जिसका सबसे ज्यादा लाभ नॉर्थ ईस्ट को मिलने वाला है, त्रिपुरा के दूर दराज के लोगों को मिलने वाला है, त्रिपुरा के नौजवान के मिल रहा है। भाइयो बहनों, भारत के अंदर नए-नए एयरपोर्ट बनाना और सीधी कनेक्टिविटी नॉर्थ ईस्ट के लोगों को आसानी से मिल जाए उस दिशा में हमने काम किया है।\nभाइयो बहनों\nआजकल की दुनिया ऐसी है कि एक बार अगर टेलिफोन की कनेक्टिवटी छूट गई तो ऐसा लगता है दिन चला गया, जैसा सब खो गया, मोबाइल फोन की कनेक्टिविटी के लिए वो बेचैन हो जाता है। ये चलता क्यों नहीं है, ऐसा होता है कि नहीं होता है...। भाइयो बहनों, हमारा नौजवान तो आजकल सबकुछ उसी में देखता है, दुनिया की खबरें भी उसमें देखता है, अपनी आवश्यकता भी उसी से ढूंढता है,पढ़ाई के लिए पेपर्स भी उसी से मिल जाते हैं, जो भी उसको सजेशन चहिए वो भी उसको मिल जाते हैं। और इसलिए पिछले साल फरवरी में अगरतला भी इंटरनेशनल इंटरनेट गेटवे, आईआईजी और बीएसएनएल के लिंक पर हमने ट्रैफिक आरंभ कर दिया है। कॉस बाजार बांग्लादेश, उस रास्ते से, हमारे पड़ोसी देशों से दोस्ती बड़ाकर के काम होता है। इंटरनेशनल इंटरनेट गेटवे पर आने वाला ये त्रिपुरा, यह हमारा अगरतला देश का तीसरा शहर है। यह सौभाग्य मुंबई को मिला, चेन्नई को मिला अगर तीसरा किसी को मिला तो ये आपके अगरतला को मिला है। कोई कल्पना कर सकता है कि दिल्ली में ऐसी सरकार बैठी है कि जिसको सिर्फ मुंबई और चेन्नई नहीं अगरतला भी याद आता है। और यहां पर वो सुविधा देता है जो मुंबई और चेन्नई को देता है।\nभाइयो बहनों\nहमारी सरकार ने एक महत्वपूर्ण फैसला किया है। आप हैरान होंगे दिल्ली में बैठकर जो सरकार चलाते थे, इनको हमारे उत्तरपूर्व के राज्यों का थोड़ा भी ज्ञान होता, थोड़ी भी संवेदना होती, त्रिपुरा की जिंदगी में क्या चहिए , क्या नहीं चहिए इसकी समझ होती, तो मेरे देश में आजादी के 70 साल बाद भी बांस बंबू, बंबू काटने पर रोक। मेरा गरीब आदिवासी त्रिपुरा के जंगलों में बांस उगाता है, खुद का घर बांस काटकर बनाना है तो, वो भी नहीं कर सकता है। कारण, दिल्ली में बैठे हुए लोगों ने त्रिपुरा को क्या चहिए क्या नहीं, नार्थ ईस्ट को क्या चहिए, क्या नहीं, समझ नहीं। और इसलिए उन्होंने जो बंबू ग्रास की श्रेणी में आता है उसको पेड़ की श्रेणी में डाल दिया और सारे जंगलों के कानून उस पर लगा दिए। सरकार ने आपकी अर्थव्यवस्था का जो आधार बंबू है हमने उसको पेड़ की केटेगरी से निकाल कर के  ग्रास की श्रेणी में डाल दिया, अब आप बंबू का उपयोग, काट सकते हैं, बेच सकते हैं। और दूसरी तरफ देश अगरबत्ती बनाने के लिए बंबू बाहर से लाता है। बताइए क्या ये हम हमारे त्रिपुरा के लोगों को मिलना चाहिए कि नहीं मिलना चाहिए...। यहां की रोजीरोटी में काम आना चाहिए कि नहीं आना चाहिए...। लेकिन उनको पता ही नहीं है कि देश के किस कोने में कौन सी चीजों की जरूरत है और इसलिए गलत निर्णय करते हैं। हम इस बात को बढ़ाना चहते हैं, हम तो चाहते हैं खेत के कोने पर भी लोग बंबू उगाएं, देश की आवश्यकता के अनुसार बंबू हो और इसलिए हमने इस बार बजट में नेशनल बंबू मिशन की रचना की है और 1,300 करोड़ का बजट इस बंबू के लिए लगाने का काम किया है। अभी मुझे इतनी सुंदर बेंत भेंट दी गई, कितना उत्तम काम त्रिपुरा के लोगों ने बंबू के ऊपर किया है, ये ताकत है, दुनिया के अंदर हम नाम रौशन कर सकते हैं, हमारी इस कला के द्वारा। और इसलिए हमलोग उसकी दिशा में काम करना चाहते हैं।\n\nभाइयो  बहनों\nत्रिपुरा की सरकार, उस पर जो दाग लगे हैं उस दाग से कभी बचने वाली नहीं है। हमारा देश विविधिताओं से भरा हुआ देश है, और उन विविधिताओं को बचाना, उन विविधताओं का सम्मान करना, उन विविधिताओं का विकास करना, ये देश के उज्ज्वल भविष्य के लिए बहुत आवश्यक है। जंगलों में रहने वालों की अलग विविधिताएं हैं विशेषताएं हैं, आदिवासियों की अलग विविधाएं-विशेषताएं हैं, समाज की भिन्न-भिन्न भाषा बोलने वालों की अलग अलग विविधिता-विशेषता है। हमारा प्रयास है कि त्रिपुरा में भी परंपरागत रूप से जो विविधिता-विशेषता वाले समूह हैं, उनकी परंपराओं की रक्षा हो, उनका गौरव बढ़े और देश को उसकी पहचान हो। उसके लिए विशेष रूप से प्रयास करने का निर्णय भी हमारी सरकार करेगी और दिल्ली सरकार पूरी मदद करेगी, ये मैं आपको विश्वास दिलाने आया हूं।\n\nbrothers Sisters\nये लोग अगर आपको धमकी देते हैं कि अगर आप वोट नहीं दोगे तो राशन कार्ड चला जाएगा, आप अगर वोट नहीं दोगे तो आधार कार्ड चला जाएगा। आप लिख कर रख लो, आपका कुछ नहीं चला जाएगा, ये धमकी देने वाले चले जाएंगे, ये धमकी देने वाले चले जाएंगे। और इसलिए मैं आप सबसे आग्रह करने आया हूं कि इस चुनाव में आपके दिल की जो आवाज है, जो आपके रगों में दौड़ रही है, जिस बात ने आपके दिलो दिमाग को गर्म करके रखा है, जो आपका मंत्र बन गया है, जो आपका नारा बन गया है। वो सिर्फ जनसभाओं में नहीं वो पोलिंग बूथ के अंदर जाकर के वोटिंग मशीन में से निकलना चाहिए। बटन दबाकर के निकलना चाहिए। चलो पलटोई, वो उस मशीन में से आवाज आना चाहिए। चलो पलटोई, जैसे ही बटन दबाओगे तो आपकी आत्मा सुनेगी हां अब मशीन भी बोल रहा है चलो पलटोई। और इसलिए मेरे भाइयो बहनों त्रिपुरा के उज्ज्वल भविष्य के लिए ये जो माणिक जड़ा हुआ है, उसे निकाल कर हीरा धारण कर लो और थ्री टी के द्वारा ट्रेड, टूरिज्म और ट्रेनिंग के आधार पर हमारे त्रिपुरा को नए विकास की ऊंचाई पर ले जाओ। इसी अपेक्षा के साथ दोनों मुट्ठी बंद कर मेरे साथ बोलिए और पूरी ताकत से बोलिए पच्चीस साल पुरानी सल्तनत को उखाड़ फेंक देना है भाइयों, लोकतांत्रिक तरीकों से फेंक देना है। जुल्म करने वालों को जाना पड़ेगा, इस विश्वास के साथ चलो पलटोई का नारा साथ लेकर के चलना है। और इसलिए मैं आपसे नारा बुलवाता हूं, पूरी ताकत से बोलिए।\n\nभारत माता की जय, चलो पलटोई…, चलो पलटोई…, चलो पलटोई…, बहुत-बहुत धन्यवाद\n"