"Share\n\nCenter has taken an historic move by giving 10% reservation to the economically weak of the General Category: PM Modi\nGovernment will stand with the children of 'Ma Bharti' who have faced persecution in Pakistan, Afghanistan and Bangladesh: PM\nI understand the pain of Kashmiri Pandits We never forgot the situation\nBharat Mata Ki Jai, Bharat Mata Ki Jai, Bharat Mata Ki Jai\nSitting on stage, Mr. Ravindra Raina, Dr. Jitendra Singh, Avinash Rai, Shamsher Singh, Nirmal Singh, Jugal Kishore Ji, Chandramohan ji, Kavindra ji, Purnima Jee, Sharma, Chandra Prakashji, Abdul Gani ji, Kike Maniyal ji, Rajiv Ji , Shyam Chaudhary ji, Sukhanandan ji, Bali Bhagat ji, Priya Sethi ji, Ajay Nanda ji, all my great brothers and sisters sitting on stage and my dear brothers and sisters .\nI see that there are so many people outside the pandal outside, they are enjoying the sunshine too. It is a good fortune for me to come again in Jammu under the umbrella of Mother Vaishno. Whenever I come here the energy here encourages me to work more rigorously. This same affection for you keeps me aware that I have to work constantly. You have to work hard to meet your hopes and expectations. When I was sitting here. Many old faces were attracting my attention by doing their hands up. All the old faces, with whom I have had the chance to work for years, today I have had the chance to see them all. The partners today gave me the opportunity to open the foundation stone of several projects worth Rs 6000 crore, which gave new momentum to the development of Jammu. The new campus of AIMS, Engineering College in Jammu, the new campus of Indian Institute of Mass Communication, other projects of Infrastructure will help to make the life of the people easier and easier.\nBrothers and Sisters, which is going to be a state of the art of seven hundred and fifty fairs, is going to be built here, this will give good health services to Jammu residents. There will also be many new opportunities for other meritorious students of Heishahar. With the help of AIIMS, the construction of five medical colleges in Anantnag, Baramulla, Doda, Kathua and Rajouri is going on fast. For these colleges, the central government has released a fund of more than seven and a half crore rupees. The studies will start soon in these colleges. This would mean that there will be more than five hundred seats in MBBS in the state.\nDo you want children here to get opportunities in medical college? Do not want to want that? Do not hear? Hears, sure? There were 500 MBBS seats in Jammu and Kashmir in last 70 years, which is going to be more than two times after the BJP government's effort. In addition to the AIIMS Medical College, the Kapurthala Engineering College and the Indian campus of Indian Institute of Mass Communication in Jammu are giving new opportunities for professional education to young colleagues. I am told that the work of the building of IIT is also completed here and work for the IIM building is going to start.\nThe comrades, the central government is dedicated to giving equal opportunity to the youth. Recently, taking a historic decision, work has been done to provide 10 percent reservation to poor youth of general category in education and government services. This will benefit many young and talented young young people of Jammu. Apart from this, the government is going to increase the number of educational institutions in the country by about 25 per cent. Traffic and other infrastructure of brothers and sisters Jammu is being strengthened too. To improve the road network here, connecting remote areas, the BJP government has provided a provision of Rs 40 thousand crore for the work in the Prime Minister's Development Package for this purpose. I am happy that the work of Road, Bridge, Tunnel, National Highway, which is being constructed with this package has started fast now. The distance between Sajwal and Indrpattan from Sajwal pool, built on Chenab river, will be reduced from just 50 kilometers to just 5 kilometers. The obstacles have now been removed for the construction of the Senani Sudh Mahadev Gowa Road at a cost of 2100 crore. Now it will be working fast on this. Likewise, Jammu Akhnur section, which is being built at a cost of Rs. 5100 crores on Jammu Akhnur Punj Highway, is also working fast. Along with connectivity in Jammu, the infrastructure of electricity is being strengthened as well. The electricity power project will be built on Chenab in Kishtwar, and the power requirement of Jammu and Kashmir will be fulfilled only. Thousands of people here will also get employment. Along with this project, the government has also arranged to run the night hydroelectric power project. As soon as the project is completed, the state will get an additional eight hundred MW of additional power. One such project was hanging for the last 40 years. Even on the Shahpurkandi dam project, Jammu Kashmir has now reached an agreement with Punjab. The state will get electricity as well as 32 thousand hectares of Saba and Kathua districts will be brought under irrigation.\nBrothers and sisters You knew the attitude of the previous governments to ignore the needs and feelings of the country. Now, take the matter of Kartarpur Corridor, if the meditation had taken place, then today our land of Guru Nanak Dev Ji was in our country, it was part of India. Similarly, there are many mothers of mother Bharti in Pakistan, Afghanistan and Bangladesh who have been tortured with. Nobody has paid attention to the pain of our brothers and sisters. We have brought a proposal to amend the Citizenship Act with a resolution. This is part of the resolution of the country, which, according to which we will stand with all those who were once part of India, but separated from us due to circumstances created in 1947. Now if it is exploited on the basis of faith, then the country must stand with them. India will always stand to protect the rights of all these people. Their rights of justice and life will be protected.\nCompanions, on this occasion, I want to talk about another very important topic, very emotional topic too. This topic is my Kashmiri Pandit, Kashmiri migrated brothers and sisters. The government of the Center, his rights, his respect, is committed to his pride, is dedicated. In the period of violence and terrorism that he had to leave his house, who suffered the pain, he never forgot the Hindustan. I do not say on every occasion, but that pain is always in my mind. And so when the package for Jammu and Kashmir was announced three and a half years ago, then an initiative was made for the Kashmiri Pandit brothers and sisters of Kashmiri. Now I am satisfied that when I arrive in Srinagar, the plan to expand the transit accommodation in Bandipura and Gandharbal is going to be the foundation of the project. Work has also been started on the three thousand posts that were promised to the Kashmiri migrants under the Prime Minister's Package.\nBrothers and Sisters, when we could not get many things in the coalition, in government. We were giving very priority to the Panchayat elections in the state, but then they could not be possible. Now the way people took part in the Panchayat elections in the past. There was no incident of violence More than 70 percent of the voting was done. It is unprecedented in itself. The citizens of Jammu and Kashmir deserve a compliment for this. The administration here is eligible for congratulations. Terrorism is now being dealt with strictly in the state. Many projects in the past have also accelerated. I assure that there will be no shortage left for the balanced development of Jammu and Kashmir to empower the democracy.\nBrothers and Sisters for the Government of the Central Government and the interest of the people of the country, it is paramount for us. The budget that has been presented two days ago, has strengthened our resolve for development, everyone along with it. This budget is poor, farmers, laborers, employees, businessmen, young people, elderly, women, dalits, tribals, everyone is going to accelerate development. For the first time in the country's 70-year history, the BJP government has come up with a historic plan for farmers, which could not be imagined before.\nCompanions, more than 12 million small farmers of the country who have land up to five acres, will now be sent directly to the bank account every six thousand rupees every year. The banks which launched Modi's campaign to open accounts, then those who believed in him as great and intelligent were ridiculing him, making fun of him, he did not get tired. Now it is known how the benefit of the Janhanan account is to reach. In the three installments of two-two thousand rupees, this money will be deposited in the farmers' accounts, out of which the first installment will be coming in the accounts of farmers only in the coming time.\nPeers, PM Farmer's Honor Fund, which is called in short, PM farmer Listen to 75 thousand crore rupees through this scheme, 75 thousand crore rupees, seventy five thousand core rupees are going to reach farmers directly. There is no middleman, no broker, it is going to help millions of small farmers who have never received government help.\nMy friends, now tell me if you are a patient, what would you like to be sick every six months and then when you go to the doctor, the doctor caught a few pockets, injections, bucks and bucks. The same sequence is running throughout the life. If you go to the doctor every six months or once you go ill and go to the doctor then the doctor will treat you to eradicate the disease. Who will go to brother? Will you go to such a doctor who has to be sick again and again, that will go to the person who will uproot the disease? Who will go to? Definitely you will go to the person who is raising the root. But till now our only treatment for farmers was being adopted. Make sick, two pods, make sick, poodle two The debt of the farmer has never ended and the debt of the farmer has never ended. And the middleman's jab becomes thick. Let me give you an example: Congress has announced debt waiver for the farmers to win the elections in 2008-09, 10 years ago. Farmers of the country had a debt of six lakh crores at the time, I have been talking about ten years ago today. When the government with the remote control was operating. There was a loan of six lakh crores. Out of six lakh crores, in the name of debt forgiveness, contested for votes, farmers 'vote for money, dust in farmers' eyes, sit on power, did what came after coming? You will be shocked. There was a loan of six lakh crores, only Rs 52 thousand crores was waived. It was the matter to forgive six lakh crore debt. Betrayed and done with farmers only 52 thousand crores. And when the CAG examined it, then there were 30-35 lakh people in it, who were not entitled to the debt waiver. Now tell me, who were these 30-35 lakh people, what was that claw, which empty the treasure? Where did those bucks go? I do not have the need to tell that, because the public trekkers of the country's nomads know the public Bhalibhanti. The country also knows that those who were then forgiven by debt, again became debtors, got drowned in debt. Now when 10 years have passed, then the Congress has completed the noise of debt waiver. Elections come, and they have a debt waiver fever, because they had such a herb that they should pick up the dust in the eyes of the well-fed farmers and then leave them. But once again the same truth of Congress is coming out.\nNow you see what happened last days. The Congress government has just been formed in Madhya Pradesh. What did you do there They came to the polls on the debt waiver of the farmers, in Madhya Pradesh, the debt of such farmers was waived, which had no debt at all. And how many rupees have been received for those who have debt. You will be surprised. 13 rupees loan is waived, 13 rupees In Rajasthan, the government came forward and stood up. His colleagues, their policy and policies, have never been able to liberate the farmers from debt. Filling the pockets of middlemen in the name of farmers, filling pockets, this is the case. Assuming for a moment that the debt of the farmers will be waived honestly, then what will be the situation, it is not going to work honestly, even then, if the mother is sitting at the feet of Lord Vaishno, then we should think once Let's do that honestly. Who will benefit from this, I want to explain to you. If in Karnataka, if he promises a debt waiver, if he applies 100 percent and will really do it with conviction, then more than 30-40 farmers of the 100 farmers will not get the benefit. 30-40 out of 100 and how dishonest people will be involved in it, they are different. In Rajasthan, in the same way if it fulfills the promise of debt forgiveness honestly, even in Rajasthan, only 20-30 out of a hundred will get benefits, much will not get much benefit. Even if he has his government in Punjab, even if he honestly applies what he has said, then only 20-30 out of 100 will get the benefit. More people will not get the benefit. On the average of their debt waiver of 2008, only 20-30 people got the same. That is, the debt forgiveness of the Congress is always 70-80 percent people, farmers living outside them, what the crime of those farmers, what the crime of those poor farmers who could not go to the bank's door? What crime of that farmer? Only the people who are big in their side were made plans for them. The scheme that we have come by will get benefits of 12 crore farmers across the country. This means that 90-95 farmers out of 100 will be entitled to it in every village. Have you imagined? Companions, this is the second and foremost reason for their disappointment. आपने देखा होगा जब हमारे वित्‍त मंत्री बजट पढ़ रहे थे, तो विपक्ष का चेहरा कैसा था, सब कुछ लटक गया था, होश गवां बैठे थे। क्‍योंकि पाई-पाई का उपयोग, जनहित में उपयोग, सामान्‍य मानव के कल्‍याण में उपयोग यह उन्‍होंने कभी न सोचा है, न सीखा है, न किया है। एक तो कर्ज माफी से मिलने वाला कर्ज चला गया, बिचौलियों की दुकानें बंद हो गई। और दूसरा उनके चुनावी गुब्‍बारे की हवा भी निकल गई। कर्जमाफी से इस सलतनत वापसी की कांग्रेस की इस 10 वर्षीय योजना से अब किसान सचेत हो चुका है।\nभाईयों और बहनों, मैं आपको बताना चाहूंगा कि परसों बजट में घोषित की गई पीएम किसान सम्‍मान योजना का लाभ केवल एक बार नहीं, एक बार की योजना नहीं है, यह हर वर्ष मिलेगा। और यह तो हर वर्ष... और इनका क्‍या था, 10 वर्ष बाद, आप देखिए हिसाब जरा, 10 साल में एक बार, 50-60 हजार करोड़ रुपये कर्ज माफी करके 10 साल तक अपने आप को किसानों का मसीहा बताते रहते थे। भाजपा सरकार ने जो योजना बनाई है अगर उसको आने वाले 10 साल के हिसाब से देखा जाए तो आने वाले 10 साल में यह पीएम किसान योजना के तहत जो हर वर्ष किसान के खाते में छह हजार रुपया जाने वाला है, उसका अगर मैं 10 साल का हिसाब लगाऊं, तो साढ़े सात लाख करोड़ रुपया किसानों के खाते में जमा होंगे।\nसाथियों, पीएम किसान समृद्धि योजना बीते साढ़े चार वर्ष से किसानों की स्थिति को सुधारने के लिए किया जा रहा प्रयासों का एक बड़ा पढ़ाव है। बीच से बाजार तक अनेक प्रयास निरंतर किये जा रहे हैं। खेती पर होने वाला खर्च कम करने की कोशिश के साथ-साथ किसान को पैदरावार की उचित कीमत मिले, इसके लिए भी अनेक प्रयास किए गए। यह हमारी सरकार ही है, जिसने एमएसपी पर किसानों की बरसों पुरानी मांग को पूरा किया गया है। रबी और खरीब की 22 फसलों का समर्थन मूल्‍य डेढ़ गुना से अधिक तय किया गया है। अब राज्‍य सरकारों को इस बात के लिए प्रोत्‍साहित किया जा रहा है कि यह समर्थन मूल्‍य किसानों तक पहुंचे।\nसाथियों, इस बजट में जय किसान के साथजय जवान के लिए भी बहुत बड़ा फैसला लिया गया है। जम्‍मू तो डोगरा परंपरा, शौर्य की भूमि है। मैं जम्‍मू कश्‍मीर के हजारों फौजी परिवारों को बधाई देता हूं, क्‍योंकि देश का Defense Budget तीन लाख करोड़ रुपये के पार कर गया है। इससे हमारी रक्षा तैयारियां तो मजबूत होगी ही, हमारे जवानों को भी लाभ मिलेगा।\nभाईयों और बहनों, देश इस बात का भी साक्षी रहा है कि कैसे चार दशकों से ‘one rank one pension’का मुद्दा लटका हुआ था। नीयत में क्‍या अंतर होता है इसका अंदाजा इसी बात से लगाया जा सकता है कि कांग्रेस की सरकार ने ‘one rank one pension’के लिए 2014 में ऐसे ही आंकड़ा मार दिया थाबजट में 500 करोड़ का, जबकि केंद्र की भाजपा सरकार इसके लिए अब तक 35 हजार करोड़ रुपये से ज्‍यादा आवंटित कर चुकी है। यह कितना झूठ बोलते थे। 500 करोड़ में घोषणाएं करते थे, जरूरत थी 35 हजार करोड़ की। लेकिन सेना की जवान की आंख में भी धूल झौंकने में उनको कोई शर्म नहीं आई। इसमें भी लगभग 11 हजार करोड़ रुपये का तो एरियर ही है, जो देशभर के सैनिक परिवारों के खाते में पहुंच चुका है।\nसाथियों, आज जम्‍मू और कश्‍मीर पुलिस हो, हमारा central forces के जवान हो, सेना के जवान हो, मुश्किल परिस्थितियों में भी देश और शांति के दुश्‍मनों से लौहा ले रहे हैं। मैं शहीद नजीर अहमद वाणी, शहीद औरंगजेब, इम्तियाज़ अहमद मीर जैसे अनेक बहादुर साथियों को आरदपूर्वक श्रद्धासूमन अर्पित करता हूं। मैं हर शहीद के परिवार को विश्‍वास दिलाता हूं कि देश की सरकार आपके साथ हर कदम पर खड़ी रहेगी। मैं सीमा पार गोलीबार का सामना कर रहे परिवारों को भी आश्‍वस्‍त करता हूं कि उनकी सुरक्षा के लिए हरसंभव कोशिश की जा रही है। एक तरफ तो दुश्‍मन को करारा जवाब दिया जा रहा है, वहीं दूसरी तरफ सीमा पार 14 हजार बंकर बनाए जा रहे हैं, ताकि आप सभी सुरक्षित रह सके।\nभाईयों और बहनों, देश की सुरक्षा और देशवासियों का जीवन स्‍तर ऊपर उठाने के लिए नये भारत के निर्माण के लिए केंद्र सरकार पूरी तरह से समर्पित है। आप सभी के सहयोग से नया भारत सक्षम भी होगाऔर सुरक्षित भी होगा। एक बार फिर से विकास की सभी योजनाओं के लिए मैं आप सबको बहुत-बहुत बधाई देता हूं। मेरे साथ पूरी ताकत से बोलिये –\nLong live Mother India!\nLong live Mother India!\nLong live Mother India!\nThanks a lot."