"Tagline of #AdvantageAssam is not just a statement, but a holistic vision says PM\n#AyushmanBharat is the world's largest healthcare program designed for the poor: PM Modi\nThe formalization of businesses of MSMEs due to the introduction of GST, will help MSMEs to access credit from the financial sector, says the PM\nGovernment will contribute 12% to EPF for new employees in all sectors for three years: PM\nOur government has taken up several path breaking economic reforms in last three years, which has simplified procedures for doing business: PM Modi\nPrime Minister of Bhutan Tshering Tobgay Ji,\nGovernor of Assam Professor Jagdish Mukhee Ji,\nChief Minister of Assam Shri Sarbananda Sonowal Ji,\nThe delegates from all over the world, especially the delegates from ASEAN who are present here,\nEntrepreneurs from all parts of the country are present here and other dignitaries,\nAji Aei Hon-Milonat Uposthit Apona Lok Hokoloke Moi Antorik Hubhesa Gyapon Korinso.\nLogite Okhomor Homuho Raijo-Loi Mor Gobheer Shordha Gyapon Koriso\nI welcome you all to this 'Global Investors Summit'. Your presence in this summit reflects how much is the path of development. The presence of Prime Minister Tobgay as the chief guest is, especially a testimony to the deep friendship between India and Bhutan.\nFriends!\nWe adopted Act East Policy of the North\nThe Act East Policy requires increased people to people contact, trade ties and other relations with countries on India's east, specifically the ASEAN countries. The tag-line of this summit is very suitable\n'Advantage Assam: India's Express way to Asia' is not just a statement but it is also a holistic vision. Recently, we had the ASEAN India Summit celebrating 25 years of our partnership ASEAN-India partnership, may be 25 years old but our ties with these countries go back to thousands of years. It was a privilege for India to host the Heads of 10 Asian countries as our honored guests at the Republic Day function in New Delhi.\nBangladesh has recently opened a consulate in Guwahati, becoming the first country to do so. I am happy to learn that the Royal Government of Bhutan has also opened Bhutanese Consulate in Guwahati yesterday.\nBrothers and sisters,\nIndia's growth story will grow at a faster pace only when there is a fast paced and balanced development of the people in the north-east, of the society here and of course the whole region.\nI believe that the whole region of eastern India from Imphal to Guwahati and from Kolkata to Patna will become the new center of energy for the development of India. This is our vision and this is our approach\nThe results of the efforts made by the central government in the last three and a half years and by the government of the last one and a half years while the following is now visible clearer than ever. Today, the scale at which this program has been organized. This has become possible because the old thinking in our country is 'nothing could change in this country' has changed Today, people are optimism and courage instead of despair\nFriends,\nToday, roads are being laid at twice the earlier speed, work to convert railway tracks to two-lanes is being done twice before the speed, and electrification of railway tracks are taking place at twice the previous speed.\nBrothers and sisters,\nWe are looking at our plans for a direction which will bring about qualitative changes in the lives of the poor, lower middle class and middle class. We are joining the schemes with peoples' needs, the kind of schemes that will make their lives easier and improved.\nYou must have heard that 'Ayushan Bharat Scheme' in the budget This is the largest scheme of its kind in the world.\nFriends,\nThe one who has been raised in the midst of poverty, who has moved ahead while the pain of poverty, is well aware that a poor man's biggest concern is the disease of treatment. When a family member falls seriously In order to bring the poor out of the agony, we are linking more than 10 crore families with this Ayushman Bharat Scheme. Under this every poor family will be provided the free treatment of up to Rs. 5 lakh in the designated hospitals This scheme will benefit about 45 to 50 billion people of the country. The potential for creating a chain of hospitals in tier-II and tier-III cities has increased. It will become a source of assurance for youth This will create large scale opportunities for capital investment in the hinterland. I would call upon the state governments to formulate policies for establishing new hospitals. In addition to Ayushman Bharat Scheme, the government has reduced the health related concerns of the poor through two other schemes.\nThis government has provided a shield to more than 18 crore poor people through Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana and Jeevan Yojana. It has freed them from a big worry Apart from this, this government has done many other things like the sale of more than 3,000 Jan Drugs Centers, up to 85% in stents of cost, knee implant of the cost of regulation - all these have has been providing big relief to middle class\nFriends\nWhether it is ASEAN countries or Bangladesh, Bhutan or Nepal, in a way all of us are farming countries. Farmer's progress can take a new height of development. That is why our government has been working on the goal of doubling the farmer's income. In order to achieve this goal, on the one hand the thrust of the government is to reduce the input cost of farmers and on the other is also to ensure that farmers get remunerative prices. This year the government is going to spend more than 14 lakh crore on agriculture and rural sector. Just two days ago we have announced a major decision to farmers. Under that at least 50 percent more price than the cost of their produce, it means the price of at least one and a half times higher input cost than assurance. In addition to 22 thousand rural markets as rural agricultural market and those will be linked with e-NAM (electronic National Agriculture Market) platform.\nBrothers and sisters,\nA few weeks ago, we have taken another very important decision and since I'm in North-East today I'd definitely like to talk about it.\nFriends,\nScientifically bamboo falls into the category of grass. However, 90 years ago our law makers categorized it as a tree. As a result where the bamboo is grown for its logging and transportation a permit is required. I feel that if the people of any region of the country have suffered So many years have passed since the independence and many governments But the work of taking bamboo out of the category of the welfare of millions of farmers and tribals did not make up until our government came to power. Now we are restructuring the National Bamboo Mission with a cost of Rs. 1,300 crore The people of North East, especially the farmers of this region are going to get one more benefit through the budget.\nBrothers and sisters,\nWhile it is easy to get loan for agriculture, it is not possible for farmers to get loan related to other related activities like poultry, fishery, honeybee keeping and animal husbandry. Now we have decided to constitute two infrastructure funds with an outlay of Rs. 10,000 crore specially for fisheries and animal husbandry Also, the government has made it easy to borrow a loan through Kisan credit cards.This government has taken a decision on the way of affordable housing and carried out reforms which will help in realizing the government's goal of providing a home to every poor person of the country\nMore than one crore homes have been constructed in the last three years under the Prime Minister Avas Yojana. We have just announced in this budget that 51 lakh new homes will be constructed next year as well as the same number of houses this year. The government has been giving a lot of relaxation to lower middle class and middle class by keeping their expectations in mind.\nBesides, RERA - Real Estate Regulation and Development Act has brought the transparency in this sector and it has become easier for middle class to get homes. Of late in the field of affordable housing has increased significantly and I appeal to the foreign investors to participate in this sector in a big way.\nBrothers and sisters,\nA big example of this thing is that how a government scheme - Ujala Yojana - has brought about energy revolution in the country and providing a big relief to the middle class. LED bulb which was selling for Rs. 350 a piece of the government is now available for Rs. 40 to 45. As per an estimate, a household where 5 LED bulbs have been installed that is able to save Rs. 400 to 500 on electricity bill every month So far more than 28 crore LED bulbs have been distributed across the country. And because of this item 15,000 crore per year. Also, the demand for LED bulbs has gone up in the Asian countries and it is a good opportunity for Indian traders.\nFriends,\nFinishing the work by setting the goals Dhola Sadia Bridge which was dedicated to public by me, the people of Assam understood this thing that if the bridge was to be built as earlier then that bridge will be under construction even today. We have done the work of revamping the way of governance. And as a result of this thing it's not only that we are completing the project in time. Similarly, we were also moving into the direction of completing the Ujjwala scheme, which is aimed at setting the poor women free from the stomach.\nOur goal was to provide free gas connections to five crore poor women by 2019. As of now, we have provided relief to more than 3.3 crore women through the scheme. But in this budget we have decided that now free gas connections will be given to more than 8 crore poor women under Ujjwala scheme.\nFriends,\nThe way the aspirations of our young generations have been neglected in the 10 years before 2014 can not be easily forgotten. The youth of this country However, when he went to borrow a loan from banks then he was asked to furnish a bank guarantee. We have removed this compulsory condition of furnishing a bank guarantee through Mudra scheme. This scheme has given three crossover new enterprises to the last three years. They are the people who have started their own work, those, who are doing their own business. In this budget, the government has set a target of providing loans worth Rs. 3 lakh crore people for self-employment under the Mudra scheme In addition to this, this government has been doing the work of empowering the youth through Stand up India, Start up India, Skill India Mission. Moreover, the government has been reforming the labor laws, simplifying the processes, following the theory of Shramev Jayate.\nWhile the earlier the industrialists were required to maintain more than 50 registers for compliance with labor laws, now it can be done through five registers only. We have made most of the processes based on internet through Shram Suvidha portal. Now a new company can be registered in the country in a day, while earlier it used to take up a week. These reforms have benefitted most of the country's youth and small entrepreneurs.\nFriends!\nDevelopment of MSME sector is a priority for us as this is the back-bone of our industries.\nIn this year's budget, we are giving a big relief to MSMEs by reducing rates of income tax to 25% on companies reporting a turn-over of up to Rs. 250 crore This will benefit about 99% of companies\nThe formalization of businesses of MSMEs due to introduction of GST, will help MSMEs access credit from financial sector Now, Government will contribute 12% to EPF for new employees in all sectors for three years\nThis Budget has provided additional deduction to employees of 30% of the wages paid for new employees under the Income Tax Act.\nWe are also rolling out of e-assessment of income tax. Further, the women employees' contribution to EPF will be 8% for first three years against the existing rate of 12%.\nPaid maternity leave has increased from 12 weeks to 26 weeks, along with provision of crèches to incentivise women employment in the formal sector All these efforts, will strongly support 'Make in India' Also\nFriends,\nToday, I'd like to express my gratitude to the business class of this platform because not only it accepted GST - the system for economic unification of the country - but it also included this in its business culture. Our government has also taken another big step in form of insolvency and bankruptcy code for bringing economic transparency in the country.\nThe need for this kind of code was felt in India. This is the government that has solved this problem.\n\nFriends!\nThe Union Government has taken up several path breaking economic reforms in last three years, which has simplified procedures for doing business.\nIt is a result of these reforms that India ranks 100 among 190 countries in the Doing Business Report, the World Bank, after climbing up 42 ranks!\nThe position of India has improved in many other ratings like Global Competitive - ness Index of World Economic Forum and Moody's rating from stable to positive in November 2017.\nOur policies have ensured that inflation remains below 5% mark. Now, we have the Foreign Exchange Reserves of US Dollars 418 Billion Many new sectors have been opened for 100% FDI through automatic route like Automobiles, Textiles, Tourism, Ports, Roads \u0026 Highways.Today, India is one of the most preferred destinations for FDI India has received the highest ever annual FDI of USD 60 billion in 2016-17.\nThe world sees India today, as an emerging power house for economic growth.\nI am happy to note that Assam is the first among the North Eastern States in the Ease of Doing Business Report. I am sure that with the present leadership of the State Government, Assam is going to further improve its current position to emerge as one of the most sought after states for industrial investment in the country.\nFriends, today our focus is on infrastructure investment and next year we will be investing about Rs. 6 lakh crore in this sector.This year we aim to complete more than 9,000 kilometers of national highways.\nWe will be developing 35,000 kilometers of roads with investment of Rs 5.35 lakh crore under 'Bharatmala' project\nThe Railways will make an investment of Rupees 1.48 lakh crore in 2018-19\nOur target is to re-develop 600 major railway stations in coming years. All these investments will speed up growth and are expected to generate lakhs of jobs in the coming years.\nFriends,\nToday, I would like to discuss a more topic. Bhupen Hazaria, the great son of this land, had written a poem when he was just 13 years old. At that time it was British rule\nAt that time late Bhupen Hazarika had written:\n'Ognijugau Firingauti"