"Sports should occupy a central place in the lives of our youth: PM Modi\nSports News\nKhelo is not only about winning medals It is a effort to give power to the people.\nMy colleague in the Council of ministers Col. Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore, Shri Anil Baijalji, Rahul BhatnagarJi, Shri Narendra BatraJi, Sushil Kumar Ji, all the players who bring laurels for the world and their trainers and all my young friends who are world of different corners from I have been completely allocated to all the cities in the future.\nToday, emerging players from the United States Khelo India is not a program, but it's a mission How sports can acquire priority in the common people of India? Parents should also realize the importance of sports in the careers of their children. How can this feeling that sport is also an important aspect for the development of life be strengthened in our school systems, in our educational eco system? If priority is to be given to five-seven things then sports will also be a part of that priority list.\nToday, instead of this approach that we should save some time after completing every work and then play a little bit, how can we move ahead of this thinking with the resolve that: 'let's play and blossom'? Those players who have brought laurels for India and are present here, it's not that they have become sportspersons without any effort. Somebody recognized their talent Parents would have tried to stop them during the initial stages, even those players were told this thing in the schools that: you are so good in your studies why you are wasting your time in sports? There was a lot of such obstacles. But there has been someone who had taken their hands, who had fought for their goals and then those sportspersons would have themselves completely sports for themselves.\nToday, there is no dearth of talent in India A country with a population of 1.25 billion people, where 65% youth are down the age of 35, can not India make its mark in the field of sports? We say that India should make a lot of progress Progress of India does not mean that India will only progress only when its military goes up or India progresses only when it is an economic super power. It's not that. India will only reach the top of the world when we are in the field of life, if Nobel prizes are given then India should be all over the place, if Oscar awards are announced then India will be the place where all the world discusses about scientists then India should be all over the place and when sports is discussed then India should be all over the place\nIf we move ahead to take India in the top of the world then it will surely happen, if it does not happen today then it will certainly happen tomorrow. And I'm able to say this thing with self-confidence because I have full faith in the talent of the country, and have full faith in the young generation of the country\nKhelo India program - as I have said that it is not only limited to this thing that will be a competition and the winners will get the medals. An attempt has begun with a scientific approach, with a holistic approach and a comprehensive strategy at the grass root level by keeping it in mind. building of human resources so that the rules of sports reach the ground level in an even manner.\nThe most important thing is the hunt: searching talent in every single corner of the country And this talent can not be searched through an online exam In case of sports it is the best answer. The talent in the field of sports only emerges in the playground. It is only flourishes in the playground. And therefore games should be played in schools on regular basis and its records were maintained there and records maintained while the talent was identified. And the talented ones will get help in real sense of the word and if they get good training then I'm confident that the youth of my country will never turn his / her back any matter how much hard work and struggle is needed and he / she will give the result in any case\nAnd that is why the government has taken a significant decision. One thousand children will be selected Those who are high-spirited, capable and have inherent qualities, those who have the necessary stamina and qualities for sports, those who have cleared all the tests then each of these 1,000 children will receive a Rs. 5 lakh per year\nEvery year one thousand children will be selected and within five years. Training facility for their progress will be made available, they should get the best of the best coaching in the world, they should get the opportunity to go anywhere in the world where they will be the best of the best training. And their parents who are sometimes feeling like being back due to monetary reasons and these days experience suggests that children from tier-II cities are coming forward. And if their families do not have resources then one gem of India will not be stuck there And that is why this facility of five lakh rupees will also be used for them. What kind of nutritional requirements have they? What should be done for maintaining their mental sense? Work will be done in all directions.\nAnother important change that we have brought about: these days, when the players come back to winning accolades for the country then a healthy environment is created in the states. States announce several prizes, members of the society also announce several prizes, but only those coaches are recognced who used to be the last moment during the players. This must be done in any case\nHowever, the coach who had identified the player when he / she was just a kid; The coach who made the first four-five years; These sportspersons must have been trained by many coaches afterwards but the first coach who had initiated the player in this field and that is why we have decided that those players who bring laurels for the country and whatever awards for their announcements and whatever awards decided for their coaches and now therefore all those coaches and trainers who had contributed during the entire career of the sportsman would also be entitled for the awards.\nIt's a big thing And that is why those people who are dedicated to sports do not do it for money and fame, they have an internal commitment. Even you had noticed that when international sports were organized and when Indian players participated in them then they were very hard, they give their best. However, the moment they hold the tricolor in their hands after winning the competition then their entire body language changes. All the fatigue just disappears. If they were hurt, even if they were a bloody injury They run like anything while holding the tricolor in their hands.When a sportsman tricolor in his / her hand holding by the world in any of the run then they can fill the entire India with energy, a new spirit with\nAnd once we establish this tradition and sport If you have had the opportunity to study the civilization ofMohanjeDaroand those theories: the thousands of years old system of living; Dholavira in Gujarat, archaeologists have found that five thousand year old site. And when I visited the site for the first time then the guides of the site told me that five thousand years ago there was a massive sports stadium in Dholavira for accommodating thousand of people and even today its ruins could be seen there.\nI mean to say that the tradition of sports is new to India We will have established ourselves as a modern eco system, with modern rules and the latest resources in the global context.\nToday's opportunity of 'Khelo India', all those kids from every corner of the country who are present here under this 'Under Seventeen', and sports, this spirit of sportsmanship develops automatically. All those who have come here for the feeling of Ek Bharat-Shreshtha Bharat They will go back by internalizing the diversity of India. We may not know the language but the scent, the sense of belongingness will give us a new energy, a new strength.\nWith this feeling alone I convey my best wishes to all the sportspersons. When the game will get over on 8 February, when you return to your places then you will go back after a lot of new things.You will go back after making a lot of new friends and after having the opportunity to experience the one India in this stadium You will go back by acquiring this natural tendency: how to behave yourself in a group\nI convey my best wishes to all those children, and also to their coaches and parents. And so with these wishes I announce the opening of the firstKhelo India School Games.\nThank you."