"Share\n\nThere should be no politics on the issue as it relates to the women, the bill can not be passed: PM\nLet us think about the well-being of rural India, our farmers, Dalits, tribal communities, Mazdoors: PM Modi\nThe Budget 2018 will add new vigor to India's development and will fulfill aspirations of people, says PM\nNamaskar Friends The Budget Session This session begins with the address In the last session it was our effort and the nation had hoped that there will be no politics on critical issues like Triple Talaq so that the Muslim women will get their rights. However, the order of the Supreme Court, the bill on triple talaq can not be passed by the Parliament. I hope and appeal to the political parties across the country to join hands in the triple Tailak bill. It will be the best gift of 2018, in the new year\nBudget Session is very important Entire global community is very optimistic about the Indian economy. It comes at a time when the world is looking at us, be it the Global Credit rating agencies, World Bank, the IMF, which has been very positive in their opinion about the growth and the road ahead. This budget will provide a new energy to the fast growing economy of the country. It will be fulfilling the hopes and aspirations of the common man. A month after the Budget session, various committees deliberate on the budget proposals. The past experience shows that those deliberations are the political interests. Cutting across party line even the MPs from the ruling party highlights its short comings while the members of opposition highlight its major feature. In a way it provides a healthy environment and environment for debate and discussion.\nIn the all party meeting yesterday I have been urged that we should take maximum help of the debate in the committees and to ensure that the common man benefits from most of the budget. Our objective should be reached from the dalits, oppressed, underprivileged and to those who do not have any access to these benefits. We also need to see how the villagers, poor, farmers and laborers are benefited. Let's have a detailed discussion, come out with positive suggestions and make a road map to march ahead.\nI make a humble request to all parties that we will pass the bill on Triple Talaq. We have passed the bill and protect the Muslim women: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) January 29, 2018\nThis budget session is important The world is extremely hopeful about India The budget will add new vigor to India's development and will fulfill aspirations of people: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) January 29, 2018\nWe should make most of our system of parliamentary committees and discuss aspects of the budget. Let us think about the well-being of rural India, our farmers, Dalits, tribal communities, Mazdoors: PM @narendramodi"