"NCC camps to motivate every youngster to do: PM\nNational Cadet Corps is not about uniform or uniformity, it is about unity: PM Modi\nYouth of India is unable to tolerate corruption We will try to uproot the menace of corruption: PM\nPromote digital transactions through the BHIM App and to motivate others to join that platform: PM to NCC Cadets\nIt's almost a month with many new friends, everybody came here with his or her distinct identity, with his or her own distinct background but within a month, such an atmosphere was created which made you all into an unbreakable bond. A bond of kinship and when you will be meeting from the cadets from other states then you will be surprised to know about their uniqueness and their diversity. You will leave this place with so much curiosity that you will feel like a citizen of India the more you know the country, the more you know about India the country The seed of this value systemis naturally sown within us in every NCC camp. It seems that we are participating in the parade, it seems that we have come here wearing the uniform, it seems like we are ready for the path but we do not even realize when we start this massive India within us ; how do we become so full of the country We do not even know how to do something for India? Such an eco system, such an environment that makes us think about the country, think about its future and our role, our duty in this thing every single moment. We are going to get back after getting inspiration for all these things. NCC cadets participating in the parade at Raj Path and those who did not get the opportunity to participate in the parade or those on the road, those who work in the background, those who labored extremely hard for a month, for every such person , the guests from 10 countries, the whole country and Indian Diaspora spread across the world They were proud of every step taken by you and they felt that our country was going forward. When you showed your extreme courage then every countrymen felt that the courage of the country. This environment should not be confined to this place only The real test begins after that.\nNCC is known for its discipline and unity. NCC is not a mechanism NCC is a mission NCC is not just anuniform or a uniformity but it is a unity in true sense of the word. And so with this feeling ... Finally why this parade, this camp, this discipline, this hard work is aimed at achieving what? Why all these things? Why the money of the poorest of the poor person of the country is being spent on all these things? This kind of nucleus, this kind of individuals will be continuously created in the country with a mission mode thatcontinue to inspire others, so that the determination of the country continues to increase and that is why a way it's an try to develop the lives and develop If we leave all these things here and these memories are going to be used for the rest of life then something is missing. We should take pride in the fact that after the independence of the country the NCC act has been enacted before the rules and regulations for the armed forces. Nation building was connected with the young generation\nToday, NCC has completed 70 years The journey of seven decades, and millions and millions of NCC cadets like me moved on the path of life.\nFriends, we get an understanding of mission from NCC On the completion of 70 years of NCC the time demands that we should take a look at these things like: where we have come from What should be the form of this NCC and what are new things that should be added in the NCC? What should be its expanse? NCC completes 75 years of its existence and we should make that mission for taking NCC to such heights that something new in every corner should be there. country, it should bring about some changes, it should rise up to the feeling of pride due to the functioning of NCC and due to the working of NCC cadets. Today, when we are completing 70 years then we should prepare a mission for 75 years with this resolve.\nI do not believe that corruption The society has a feeling of hatred against corruption. Why should we feel angry against corruption, why should we just express our anger and anger against corruption? Will this thing be enough? Then we will have to continue to pay attention to this battle for a long time. This fight against corruption, this fight against black money is aiming at And if the youth of my country is safe then it is going to make the future of our country\nBut, I, I want to ask something from NCC cadets. I know that you will never disappoint me The youth of my country will not disappoint me I am not going to ask for votes nor am I going to ask your help so that we can progress on political front. If I want your help, the help of youth of my country, then I want your help for this country free from this corruption which is like a termite. You might feel like that At best, you may decide that: we will not bribe anyone or at best we will not accept any bribe You will do that There is one thing, if you make a pledge, if you make a rule that every year you will associate at least 100 new families with this thing, then what is that thing? If accountability is there, if transparency is there Can you make a pledge that wherever we go for purchasing things, wherever there is an exchange of money, then we will not do it in cash, all of us have become mobile users Will we download the BHIM App and make every purchase through BHIM App? And whether you will insist on using the BHIM App at the shop where you purchase things, whichever store or mall you can visit, whether you will insist on using it or not? You must do it Please develop a habit of this thing You will see this kind of transparency will be there, fixing will become so easy and we will be able to take strong steps in the direction of making a corruption free India. And it can not be done If my NCC cadets take this task on a mission mode then no one will have courage Even if an extremely corrupted person succeeds in a high office even then he will be forced to follow the path of honesty.\nSometimes there was a lot of disappointment in the country Today, you have been passing through such a period, corruption is due to some three chief ministers who are behind bars. Who can say that there is no God, who can say that there is no justice in the house of God? Now there is no one to protect them. And that is why today I would like say this thing before the NCC cadets, and through them to the NCC cadets across the country and be it the youth of NSS or be it the youth of Nehru Youth Center and be it schools of students and colleges or be it the young people of the country, I seek your help Please come forward and join me in this fight. Please come forward, by working together if we will rid the country of this term then we will be able to win the country.\nIf we eradicate the evils then it benefits When the money is spent in the proper manner When the money is spent in the proper manner then it creates good schools, good teachers to the poor person When the money is used properly, then the roads are being up to the villages, when the money is properly utilized then the country of oppressed, exploited and excluded people for something to do is created.\nAnd the young people of my country that is why the discussion about that people are going to be the people of technology, who are aware about the changing times, they know that this data is going to be a The very powerful thing in the world That day is not too far In the digital world, in the world of data, Aadhaar has given a big reason to India.\nAnd now due to Aadhaar are those benefits which should be accumulated. that was also a method of corruption The girl who never used to be a grown up, married in a widow and the widow in the records of a government office and widow pension paid him from the government exchequer. This kind of business was going on but now the legal claimants can not be identified due to Aadhaar and they have started getting their rights due to direct transfer of benefits. And youth of my country, this has been implemented in some schemes, at present it's not 100%, it's just a start but because of it around Rs.60,000 crore has been saved which was siphoned off in the wrong hands. All this is possible And so my young should move forward in the direction of a cashless society with the cash and by optimally using the BHIM App for all the selling and purchasing and even if we need to pay the fee then we will pay the bhim app through . Then you will see\nMy young friends, you have got a good experience in the life. You have got the opportunity to experience the country in the country with a very short span of time. You people got that feeling; You got a new touch of India With this new spirit, with this new solution, with this new aspiration, all of us should collectively move forward with a solemn pledge to make a New India. We should take the country forward, we should make a new India with the power to fulfill the dreams of our freedom fightersby 2022 when India will celebrate 75 years of its independence\nMy best wishes\nThank you."