"Share\n\nThe country lost Kalpana Chawla is a young age, but her life is an example for the whole world: Modi during #MannKiBaat\nNari Shakti has united the society, the world, with the thread of unity: PM Modi during #MannKiBaat\nToday, women are leading from the front in every sphere. They are pioneering new achievements and establishing milestones: PM during #MannKiBaat\n#MannKiBaat: PM says, our women-power is breaking the barriers of society and accomplishing unique achievements and setting new records\nBapu's teachings are relevant even today, says PM Modi during #MannKiBaat\nIt is necessary for all people of the society to truly benefit from the development, and for this our society should get rid of the social evils: PM during #ManKiBaat\nCome, let us all take a pledge to end the evils from our society and let's build a new India that is strong and capable: PM during #ManKiBaat\nIf something is impossible Major transformations can be brought from Jan Andolan, says the PM #ManKiBaat\nPM during the year #MannKiBaat\nThe path of peace and non-violence, that is the way of Bapu: PM Modi during #MannKiBaat\nMy dear countrymen, Namaskar This is the first episode of 'Man Ki Ki Baat' in the year 2018. Just a couple of days ago, we celebrated our Republic Day festival with gaiety \u0026 fervor This is the first time in history that heads of 10 Nations attended the ceremony.\nMy dear countrymen, Shriman Prakash Tripathi has written a long letter on Narendra Modi App, urging me to touch upon the subjects he has referred to. He writes, \"The 1st of February is the anniversary of astronaut Kalpana Chawla. She left us in the Columbia space shuttle mishap, but not without a source of inspiration for millions of young people the world over \". I am thankful to Bhai Prakash ji for his long letter with the sad departure of Kalpana Chawla. It's a matter of sadness for all of us that we lost Kalpana Chawla at that early age, but her life, her work is a message to young women across the world, especially to those in India, that is, no higher limits for Nari Shakti .... the power of women If one possesses the will and determines, something is impossible, nothing is impossible It's a matter of joy that women in India are taking fast steps in advancement in all fields, bringing glory to the nation.\nIn our country, respect for women, their status in society and their contribution have proved to be awe inspiring to the whole world, since ancient times. There is a long tradition of Vidushis ... women exponents or women champions Many Vidushis of India have contributed in the verses of the Vedas. Lopamudra, Gargi, Maitreyee ... it's a long list of names. Today, we talk about 'Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao', 'save the girl child, educate her'. But centuries ago, it has been mentioned in our ancient texts, in the Skand Puran:\nDashputra-Samakanya, Dashpatranra Prashradhan\nIn fact, I am interested in it:\nThis means, the equivalent of ten sons The 'Punya' that you earn through ten sons amounts to the same earned through just one daughter. This underscores the importance that has given women in our society. And that is why, in our society, women have been accorded the status of 'Shakti' This woman power binds closely together as a whole, the family as a whole, on the axis of unity \u0026 oneness. Be it the erudition of the Vidushis of the Vedic Period ... Lopamudra, Gargi, Maitreyee; be it the learning \u0026 devotion of Akka Mahadevi or Meerabai, be it the governance of Ahilyabai Holkar or Rani Lakshmibai of the valor, woman power has always inspired us. They have always brought glory to the Nation.\nShriman Prakash Tripathi has further cited some examples. He writes that the flight of our courageous Defense Minister Nirmala Seetharaman in a Sukhoi 30 fighter plane is inspirational for him He also refers to INSV Tarini, with an all women crew on board under the command of Vartika Joshi, which is currently circumnavigating the globe. Three braveheart women Bhavna Kanth, Mohana Singh and Avani Chaturvedi have become fighter pilots and are undergoing training on the Sukhoi-30. An Air India Boeing jet with an all woman crew led by Kshamata Vajpayee flew Delhi to San Francisco, USA and back. This are all women achievers You are absolutely right. Today women are not just advancing in myriad fields; they are leaders Today there are many sectors where our women power is playing a pioneering role, establishing milestones. A few days ago, Hon'ble President took a initiative. He met a group of extraordinary women who have achieved some significant new in their respective fields. Women achievers of our country ... the first woman Merchant Navy Captain, the first female passenger train driver, the first female fire fighter, the first female bus driver, Antarctica on the foot set to the first woman, Mount Everest ... First Ladies' in every field Our woman power achieved extraordinary feats, breaking old age They proved that perseverance, grit and a firm resolve, all types of obstacles and barriers could be broken and crossed, to chart out an all new path ... a path that could act as a beacon of inspiration not just their contemporaries, but for generations to come It will infuse a fresh energy, newer enthusiasm into them A book has been compiled on these women achievers, first ladies, so that, the whole country comes to know about the women and derive inspiration from their life \u0026 work. This is also available as an e-book on the Narendra Modi Website.\nThe country's woman has contributed in a lot to the positive change in our country \u0026 society these days. Today, as I speak to women empowerment, I would like to refer to a railway station. You must be wondering what a railway station has got to do with women empowerment Matunga station in Mumbai is the first station in India. All departments have women performing duties ... the commercial department, Railway Police, Ticket Checking, Announcing, Point persons, It's a staff comprising over 40 women. This time, after watching the Republic Day Parade, many people wrote on Twitter and other social media that a great highlight of the parade was the women participants including the BSF biker contingent. Daredevil stunts performed well for our foreign guests. Empowerment is another form of self reliance. Today our Nari Shakti is the assuming leadership roles. It is becoming self dependent By the way, this also reminds me of tribal women of Chattisgarh, who has done something extraordinary and set a remarkable example. When we refer to Adivasi women, a stereotypical image comes in our minds, including the forests, pathways in the woods and women carrying kindlewood on their heads. But the woman power of Chattisgarh, the tribal women had this stereotype broke and presented all new picture of themselves Dantewada in Chattisgarh is a Maoist infested region. Violence, torture, explosives, guns, pistols ... the Maoists have created a scary rule of terror In this dangerous environment, Adivasi women are becoming self-dependent by driving e-rickshaws. In a short span of time, a number of women have become part of this phenomenon. This has three benefits-on the one hand self-employment has empowered them; On the other, the Maoist infested region is witnessing a transformation. And simultaneously as a result, I laud the efforts of the District Administration which has given them a significant role in the successful endeavor of these women by providing availability of grants and training to them.\nTime and again we keep listening people utter 'There is something special that we as a people possess ... no threat is enough to annihilate our existence' What is that 'Special Something'? That 'Something' is flexibility, the ability of transformation. Leaving out things that are beyond the constraints of time And this is a major feature of our society ... relentless efforts towards self-improvement, self correction. We have inherited this culture The benchmark of any living society is its self correcting mechanism. In our country, there were unending endeavours against social ills and evil practices, both individually \u0026 collectively. Just a while ago, Bihar launched a interesting initiative. In order to uproot social ills in the state, the world's longest human chain spanning over thirteen thousand kilometers was formed.\nThis campaign made people aware of social maladies such as child-marriage and the dowry system. The whole state thus resolved to fight against these social evils. Children, the elderly, the youth full of energy and enthusiasm, women, girls turned out to participate in this battle. The human chain that started from Gandhi Maidan in Patna gained momentum, touching the state borders. In order to ensure that the fruits of progress properly reach all sections of society, it is imperative that our society is free of these ills. Come, let us pledge to come together to wipe out these evil customs from our social fabric ... let us build an empowered, capable New India. I appreciate the people of Bihar, the Chief minister, the administration, in fact every member of the massive, special initiative towards social welfare.\nMy dear countrymen, Shriman Darshan from Mysore, Karnataka has written on My gov. He was undergoing an expenditure of six thousand rupees a month on medicines alone for treatment of his father. Earlier, he was not aware of the Pradhan Mantri Jan Aushadhi Yojana. But now that he's coming to know the Jan Aushadhi center, he has begun buying drugs from there and his expenses have been reduced by about 75%. He has expressed his wish that I mention this in 'Man Ki Baat', so that it reaches the maximum number of people and they will benefit from it. Over some time, many have written on this subject; Many of them have been talking about it I too have seen videos put on social media by beneficiaries of this scheme. It is a matter of joy It gives you inner satisfaction. I feel good to see Shriman Darshan ji think about sharing with others The motive behind this scheme is making healthcare affordable and encouraging. Medicines available at the Jan Aushadhi Centers are 50% to 90% cheaper than branded drugs available in the market. This is great help for the common man, especially for senior citizens who require medicines on a daily basis and results in a lot of savings. Generic medicines sold under this scheme strictly conform to set standards set by the World Health Organization. That is why the good quality medicines are made available at affordable prices. Today, over three thousand people have been set up across the country. This has led to not only availability of cheaper medicines but also new employment opportunities for individual entrepreneurs. Affordable medicines are now available at 'Amrit Stores' at Pradhan Mantri Indian Jan Aushadhi Centers \u0026 At Hospitals The only purpose behind this step is to ensure availability of quality and affordable health service to the poorest of the poor, so that a healthy and prosperous India comes into being.\nMy dear countrymen, Shri Mangesh from Maharashtra has shared a photo on the Narendra Modi Mobile App. It was such a striking photo that my attention was magnetically drawn towards it The photo showed that a pawson was participating in the 'Clean Morna River' with his grandfather. I came to know that the citizens of Akola had organized a cleanliness campaign to clean the Morna river under 'Swachh Bharat Abhiyan'. The Morna river was a perennial river flowing throughout the year The second painful fact was that the river was completely filled with wild grass and hyacinth. A lot of garbage was being dumped in the river and along with its banks. An action plan was chalked out and on January 13th, a day before Makar-Sankranti, in the first phase of 'Mission Clean Morna' sanitation of the two sides of the Morna river on fourteen places spread over an area of ​​four kilometers, was carried out.\nThis noble and grand task named 'Mission Clean Morna', comprised of more than six thousand denizens of Akola, more than 100 NGOs, colleges, students, children, the elderly, mothers, sisters, almost everybody participated in this task. On January 20th, 2018, this Sanitation Campaign continued in the same vein and I've been told that this campaign will continue to be every Saturday morning until the Morna River is completely cleaned. 'Mission Clean Morna' shows that if something is going to do something, then nothing is impossible. Huge social reforms can be brought about through mass movements I congratulate the people of Akola, the district and the municipal corporation's administration, all the citizens who were associated with this mass movement, I laud your efforts which is not only very much appreciated but the country of other citizens\nMy dear countrymen, these days you must be a lot about the Padma Awards. These awards also attract attention in newspapers and television also. But if you scrutinize, then you will be proud of the fact that there are many loftier personalities amidst us and you will naturally be proud of the very fact that today the common man has any recommendations without the Padma Awards for cited. There was a certain methodology of awarding Padma Awards every year, but this entire process has been changed for the past three years. Now any citizen can nominate any person in our country Transparency has been brought about in the whole process by making it operable online. In a way, the selection of these awards has been completely transformed. You may have noticed that many ordinary people are not visible in big cities, newspapers or on television are being awarded with Padma citations. Now the identity of the awardee is not the deciding factor of the award, rather than his work is growing. You must have heard the name of Arvind Gupta. It will gladden your heart to know, that Arvind ji, a student of IIT Kanpur, spent all his life making toys for children. He has been making toys from garbage for over four decades so that children can increase their curiosity towards science.\nHe has been trying to get inspired from scientific experiments using waste; on this end he has been encouraging children by showing him films made in 18 languages ​​in three thousand schools across the country What a wonderful life, what a dedicated mission! A similar story is that of Sitavaa Jodatti from Karnataka. She has not been hailed as 'Goddess of women empowerment' just for nothing! For the past three decades, in Belagavi, she has made a great contribution. At the age of seven she got herself as a devadasi but in a turnaround, for the welfare of the Goddasis, she has spent her whole life. Not only this, she has done unprecedented work for the welfare of Dalit women too. You must have heard the name of Bhajju Shyam of Madhya Pradesh, Shri Bhajju Shyam was born in a very poor tribal family. He was employed in a small job for his living, but he was also fond of painting in the traditional tribal art form. Today, due to this hobby, he garnered the respect not only in India but the entire world. He has exhibited his paintings in many countries like Netherlands, Germany, England and Italy. The talent of Bhajju Shyam ji, who made India proud in many countries abroad, was also recognized and honored by the Padma Shri.\nYou will be pleasantly surprised to hear the story of Kerala's tribal woman Lakshmikutti. Laxmikutty is a teacher in Kallar and still resides in a hut made of palm leaves in an tribal tract amidst dense forests. She has created five hundred herbal medicines relying solely on her memory. She has mastery in synthesizing medicines used for treatment of snake bites. Lakshmi Ji is continuously serving society with her knowledge of herbal medicines. Identifying her anonymous person, she has been honored with the Padma Shri for her contribution to society. I would like to mention another name today, that of 75 year old Subhasini Mistri, hailing from West Bengal, who was selected for the award. Subhasini Mistri is a woman who, in order to build a hospital, cleaned utensils in the homes of others and also sold vegetables. At the age of 23 she lost her husband due to lack of proper treatment, and this incident inspired her to build a hospital for the poor. Today, thousands of poor people are treated free of cost in this hospital I am convinced that there are many women and women in our country filled with gems, Bahuratna-Vasundhara, many gifted women and men who remain faceless or unknown The failure to identify such people is also a loss to the society, the Padma awards are only a medium of acknowledgment, but I would also like to tell the countrymen that people around the world are serving, The fate of society, millions of people who have been working for a life time for their bestowed with one or other useful attribute should be acknowledged in our midst. They do not labor for any honor, but their work inspires us These people should be invited to share their experiences. Beyond awards, there should be some more efforts in our society.\nMy dear countrymen, we celebrate Pravasi Bharatiya Divas on January 9th every year. It was on 9th of January, when our revered Mahatma Gandhi returned to India from South Africa. On this day, we celebrate the unbreakable bond that exists between Indians and Indians living around the globe. This year we organized a program on Pravasi Indian Day, where all MPs and Mayors of Indian origin were invited. You will be pleased to know that in our program, Malaysia, New Zealand, Switzerland, Portugal, Mauritius, Fiji, Tanzania, Kenya, Canada, Britain, Surinam, South Africa and America, and many other countries where our mayors or Indian MPs Origin exist, all of them participated I am happy that the people of Indian origin who live in different countries are going to serve those countries and at the same time they have maintained their strong relationship with India as well.\nThis time, the European Union, has sent me a calendar, in which they have displayed the contributions by Indians in different fields of life living in different countries of Europe; Whether working in the field of cyber security, or dedicated to Ayurveda, entertaining the society through music, or through poetry; someone researching on climate change or working on ancient Indian texts, someone driving a truck for livelihood, who went on to construct a Gurudwara or has built a mosque - wherever our people are, they have their own way in the land of embellished or adorned their adoption I would like to thank the European Union, for recognizing the people of Indian origin and helping them in their example.\nThe 30th of January is the birth anniversary of our revered Bapu, who showed us a new path On that day we also observe 'martyrs day' in solemn memory of the great martyrs who sacrificed their lives for the protection of the country and pay our homage at 11 in the morning. The path of peace and non-violence, is the path of Bapu and this is not only applicable to India or the world, but also for a person or a family or a society. The ideals that Bapu practiced in his life, things that he has given relevant even today. They were not just mere theories At present we were on the record What can be a bigger tribute than taking a vow that we will tread the path of Bapu - and walk, as far as possible?\nMy dear countrymen, with my best wishes to all of you are 2018, my speech draws to a close Thank you very much Namaskar.\nThis is the first episode of #MannKiBaat in the year 2018. Just a few days ago, we celebrated our #RepublicDay with great fervour. This is the first time in history that heads of 10 nations attended the ceremony: PM @narendramodi https://t.co/dnSgAXuRAi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) 28 January 2018\nPrakash Tripathi wrote on the NM App- \"1st February is the death anniversary of Kalpana Chawla. She left us in the Columbia space shuttle mishap, but not without a source of inspiration for millions of young people the world over\". #MannKibaat https : //t.co/dnSgAXuRAi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) 28 January 2018\nKalpana Chawla inspired women all over the world: PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/ff8dBf3QLK\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) 28 January 2018\nIt is in our culture to respect women #MannKiBaat https://t.co/dnSgAXuRAi pic.twitter.com/YAwIjyNuDf\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) 28 January 2018\nWomen are advancing in many fields, emerging as leaders. Today there are many sectors where our Nari Shakti is playing a pioneering role, establishing milestones: PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat https://t.co/dnSgAXuRAi pic.twitter.com/BJ86unQJPC\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) 28 January 2018\nA few days ago, the Honorable President of India met women achievers, who distinguished themselves in different fields: PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) 28 January 2018\nHere, I would like to mention the Matunga Railway station which is an all-women station. All leading officers there are women It is commendable: PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) 28 January 2018\nIndia's Nari Shakti has contributed a lot to the positive transformation in our country and society: PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) 28 January 2018\nI want to appreciate the women of Dantewada in Chhattisgarh. This is a Maoist affected area This is making opportunities, it is also changing the face of the region and is also environment friendly: PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) 28 January 2018\nOur society has always been flexible: PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/t6DQodhnEW\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) 28 January 2018\nI want to talk about something very unique in Bihar A human chain was formed to spread awareness about dowry and child marriage. So many people joined the chain: PM @narendramodi during #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) 28 January 2018\nDarshan from Mysore, Karnataka has written on My Gov. He was undergoing an expenditure of six thousand rupees a month on medicines for his treatment. Earlier, he was not aware of the Pradhan Mantri Jan Aushadhi Yojana.\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) 28 January 2018\nBut now that he's coming to know the Jan Aushadhi center, he has begun buying medicines from there and the expenses have been reduced by about 75%. He has expressed that I mention this in #MannKiBaat, so that it reaches the maximum number of people and they can benefit: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) 28 January 2018\nTowards affordable healthcare and 'Ease of Living.' #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/RO0BvoqvBu\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) January 28, 2018\nMangesh from Maharashtra shared a touching photograph on the NM Mobile App, of a elderly person and a young child taking part in the movement to clean the Morna river. pic.twitter.com/KP2hR9CjFK\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) January 28, 2018\nMission Clean Morna River is a wonderful initiative, where people come together to clean the river: PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) January 28, 2018\nI am sure you feel proud after reading about the Padma Awards We have honored those who have not seen great cities but have done transformative work for society: PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) January 28, 2018\nPM @narendramodi talks about some of the Padma Awardees. #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/4OE0CFoR9X\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) January 28, 2018\nHonouring those who have done pioneering work across India #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/1f7mfcRoD7\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) January 28, 2018\nOn 30th January we observe the Punya Tithi of Bapu. Peace and non-violence is what Bapu taught us His ideals are extremely relevant today: PM @narendramodi"