"Share\n\nIn 1997, India's GDP was $ 400 billion, but after two decades now it is 6 times, says PM Modi\nIndia has always believed in values ​​of integration and unity, 'Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam' which means the whole world is one family: PM Modi at Davos\nWEF is a shared community in a fractured world, says the PM\nPM is PM: PM\nAt Davos, PM Modi says concerted action is necessary to tackle climate change\nThe big threat ahead of world is artificial creation of good and bad terrorist: PM Modi\nWe in India are proud of our democracy and diversity: PM\nDemocracy is not a political system in India, it is a way of life, says PM Modi at Davos\nIn India, we are removing red tape and laying red carpet for investors: PM\nInnovation and entrepreneurship is making young Indians job givers, not job seekers, says PM\nDemocracy, demography and dynamism are shaping our destiny today: PM\nWe should all work together, we should build a heaven of world: PM Modi\nHis Excellency, The President of the Swiss Federation,\nHonourable Heads of State and Government,\nMr. Klaus Schwab, Founder and Executive Chairman of World Economic Forum,\nSenior and reputable entrepreneurs, industrialists and CEOs of the world,\nFriends from Media, ladies and gentlemen!\nNamaskar,\nI am very happy to be present in the forty-eighth annual meeting of the World Economic Forum in Davos. First of all, I would like to appreciate. Klaus Schwab for his initiative and for making the World Economic Forum a strong and a broad forum. He has a great ambition He has linked this agenda very firmly to economic and political thought. I also want to express my gratitude to the Government of Switzerland and its citizens for the warm welcome and hospitality extended to me.\nFriends,\nThe last Prime Minister of India to have visited Davos was Mr. Deve Gowda in 1997. In 1997, India's GDP was slightly over 400 billion dollars Now it has increased about 6 times after two decades That year the topic of this forum was \"Building a Networked Society\". Today, 21 years later, the subject has become outdated considering the achievements in the field of technology in the digital age. Today we are not only a networked society, but also living in the big data, artificial intelligence and Cobots. In 1997, the EURO currency was not in vogue; The Asian financial crisis was not known at all, nor was BREXIT expected In 1997, very few people had heard of Osama bin Laden and the name of Harry Potter was also unknown. At that time the chess players did not have any major fear of losing to a computer while Google was not there in cyber space and Amazon of that time only dense forests and river.\nTweeting that time was the work of the birds, not humans That was the previous century.\nToday, after two decades, our world and our society are in a complex network. In that era, Davos was ahead of its time, and the World Economic Forum was a symbol of a futuristic entity. Even today Davos is ahead of its time\nThis year's theme is \"Creating a Shared Future in a Fractured World\". That is, building a future With newer changes This shows the image of far-reaching changes in the world. There are new and serious challenges to peace, stability and security in front of the world.\nTechnology driven transformation is deeply affecting our lifestyle, work-style, dealing with issues, conversation and even international groups, politics and economy. One of the greatest examples of the three dimensions of a Technology viz. connecting, bending and breaking - were found in the use of social media. Today Data is the greatest asset Both opportunities as well as the biggest challenges of the world. Mountains of data are being created It is believed that the controller of data will dominate the future.\nSimilarly, the rapidly changing technology and expansion of destructive forces in the areas of cyber security and nuclear security have become even more serious. On the one hand, the new branches of science, technology and economic progress, have the ability of showing new ways of prosperity to the humanity. On the other hand, these changes have also created fault-lines that could possibly be harmful Many changes are making such walls which have made the path of peace and prosperity inaccessible and difficult for the whole humanity. These fractions, these divides and these obstacles are the manifestations of lack of development, poverty, unemployment, lack of opportunities, and monopoly on natural and technical resources. In this environment, we have many important questions.\nIs our world system promoting these fault-lines and distances? Which are those forces that promote separation over unity and promote conflict or conflict over cooperation? And what are the tools we have? What are the paths through which we can erase these cracks and distances and meet the dream of a happy and a shared future?\nFriends,\nAs a representative of India, Indianism and Indian heritage, the topic of this forum for me is the contemporary yet time-transcending. It is eternal because in India we have always believed in uniting human beings from time immemorial, not in breaking relationships or dividing them. Thousands of years ago, the Indian thinkers said in Sanskrit texts: \"Vasudhaiva kutumbakam\", meaning that the whole world is a family. All of us are bound together as a family; our destinies This perception of Kutumbakam is definitely more meaningful to narrow the distances today. But one of the biggest challenges of this era is the lack of consensus between us to deal with these challenges. In a family, even though there are some differences and quarrels, there is an sense of harmony and cooperation; the sense of inspiration comes from the challenges All the members come together and face the challenges and together they share achievements and pleasures. But one of the issues that concern today is that the challenges of the human rights against these challenges are even more difficult.\nFriends,\nThe number of challenges I am pointing to is too very high and widespread. Here I will mention only three major challenges which are the biggest threat to human civilization. The first danger is Climate Change. Glaciers are retreating Arctic ice is melting Many islanders have submerged or are in that process The effect of extreme weather conditions is increasing day by day - extreme heat and extreme cold conditions; heavy rain and floods on one hand and droughts on the other. Under the circumstances, we should have come out of our limited narrow divisions to get united. But did that happen? If not, then why? And what should we do in these conditions? Developing countries and communities to provide the necessary resources and appropriate technology to help out in many countries or people?\nYou had heard many times about deep synergy with nature in the Indian tradition. Thousands of years ago, in our scriptures, the humanity was told - \"Bhoomi Maata, Putro aham Prithvyaha\" i.e., we are the children of the Mother Earth If we are the children of Mother Earth, then why is there a war between man and nature today?\nIn the beginning of the most prominent Upanishad 'Ishopanishad', written in India thousands of years ago, the author, 'Tatvadrasta Guru' had told his disciples about the changing world:\n'Ten Tyaktane Bhunjitha, Madhudhakasseviddhnamam\nThat is, by observing the Divine presence everywhere, renounce the unreal and enjoy the Real. Do not covet Buddha gave a prominent place to the virtue of 'Aparigraha' which means use according to the needs (non-greediness), in his principles The principle of trusteeship of Mahatma Gandhi, the Father of the Nation, was also the same- 'consumption as per requirement'. He had opposed the exploitation due to greed One should ponder over the fact that how he has reached the point of a point where he has begun the exploitation of the nature for satiating his greed from a point where he used to sacrifice and consume only as per his needs Is this our development or collapse? Such a poor state of mind! A horrific peek inside our self-interest! Why do not we introspect?\nThere is a absolute remedy against the fierce mismanagement of the environment today - the reconciliation between ancient Indian philosophy of human and nature. Moreover, the total understanding of Indian traditions such as Yoga and Ayurveda, born from this philosophy, can not only be heal the environment and fracture between us, but also provide physical, mental and spiritual health and balance. A massive campaign has started By 2022 we have produced 175 gigawatt renewable energy in India In the last three years, we have achieved 60GW which is more than one-third of the target\nIn 2016, India and France jointly envisioned a new international treaty based organization. This revolutionary step As an International Solar Alliance, it is a reality after the necessary Treaty ratification. I am happy that in March this year, French President Emmanuel Macron and leaders of the members of the Alliance will participate in the first summit of the Alliance on my joint invitation, in New Delhi.\nFriends,\nThe second major challenge is terrorism In this regard, you are well aware of the growing and changing nature of this serious threat to India and to the whole humanity in the world. I want to do just two dimensions here First, the artificial distinctions created The second serious aspect which I want to focus on is that the educated and accomplished youth are radicalized and getting involved in terrorism. I hope that the serious challenges posed by the False Lines of terrorism and the fractures generated by them, and their solutions will be discussed in the forum.\nFriends,\nThe third challenge is that many societies and countries are becoming more and more self-centered. It creates an impression that globalization is shrinking. The consequences of such attitudes and wrong priorities can not be underestimated by the climate change or terrorism. Although everyone talks about the interconnected world but the globalization is fading. The ideals of the United Nations are still valid. World Trade Organization is also broad-based But do the structure, system and methodology of the world organizations formed after the Second World War still reflects the aspirations and dreams of today's humanity and today's reality?\nThere is a great gap between the old system of these institutions and the needs of the developing countries. Contrary to globalization, the forces of protectionism have emerged. Their intent is to not only globalization but also to turn the trend toward the natural flow of globalization. As a result, new types of tariffs and non-tariff barriers are seen Bilateral and multilateral trade agreements and negotiations have been stalled. Cross-border financial investment has decreased in many countries And the growth of global supply chains has also stopped The solution to this worrisome situation against globalization is not possible. Its solution is to change It is time to make smart and flexible policies. The Father of the Nation, Mahatma Gandhi said, \"I do not want the walls and windows of my house on all the sides. I want the air of the cultures of all countries to come to my house easily. 't want this wind to destabilize my feet.' Today's India is following Mahatma Gandhi's philosophy and ideas with full confidence and fearlessness, and is welcoming worldwide.\nFriends, India's democracy is the basis of the country's stability, certainty and sustainable development. Democracy is not just a political system but a life's philosophy, life style, with different religions, culture, language, dressing-style and variety of food. We Indians know the importance of democracy and independence for the maintenance of unity in diversity very well. Democracy in India does not only sustain our country but also provides the necessary environment, road map and complements the dreams of hopes, aspirations, expectations and dreams of more than 125 crore Indians for their proper development.\nDemocratic value and inclusive economic development and progress have the power to bridge all the rifts For the first time in 2014, a single political party has been given a full majority by sixty crore voters in India to form government in the center. We resolve not just a single class or some people, but everyone. My government has a motto: \"All of us sabka vikas 'ie'collective efforts, inclusive growth.' Our vision and mission for progress is inclusive. This inclusive philosophy is my government of every policy of the basis - People by opening bank accounts for the first time, or bringing digital technology to the poor by direct benefit transfer or promotion of gender justice through 'Beti Bachao - Beti Padhao'.\nWe believe that progress or development will happen in true sense only when everyone walks together. These are not minor reforms that we are making in our economic and social policies, but a radical transformation. The path we have chosen is that of 'reform, perform and transform'. Today, the way we are making the investment Consequently, today, investing in India, traveling to India, working in India, manufacturing in India, and exporting products and services from India to the world, everything has become much easier than before We have tried to get rid of license-permit raj. By removing the red tape we are laying the red carpet. Almost all sectors of the economy are open for foreign direct investment More than 90 percent of automatic route is possible The Central and State Governments have done hundreds of reforms. We have eliminated over 1,400 old laws, which were posing as hurdle in business, in the administration, and were the cause of concern in the common man.\nFor the first time in 70 years of Independent India's history, an integrated tax system has been implemented in the form of Goods and Service Tax - GST. We are using technology to increase transparency and accountability. Our commitments to transform India and our efforts have been welcomed by the business community around the world. In India, democracy, demography and dynamism are shaping development and destiny. The decades of control had the capabilities of the people and the youth of India But now, the bold policy decisions of our government In the short span of less than three and a-half years, the long-term and major changes that have taken place in India and are happening are the successes of 125 crore Indians' expectations, their foresight and change to acceptance of ability . Now the people of India, young people of India are capable of building a 5 trillion dollar economy in 2025.\nMoreover, you could imagine that when they were job-givers rather than job-seekers through innovation and entrepreneurship, many avenues for the country and for your business opened. You are the world's leaders, and you are familiar with the changes in the world, the improvement in ranking and India, and our way forward. But more importantly, the people of India have welcomed our policies and new initiatives for a changing future and these are golden signals of a good future. Voluntary giving up of subsidy and expressing their faith in our policies and reforms by democratic methods such as elections - Such evidences confirm the widespread support for these unprecedented changes in India\nFriends,\nLooking at all these fault-lines in the world, it is imperative First of all there should be a link and cooperation between the world's greatest forces. The competition among the major countries of the world should not be a barrier against one another. To counter the shared challenges, we have to work together with a strong vision. Secondly, adherence to the international rules and regulations have become more important than ever on a time when we are going through a period of uncertainty due to the changing world order. The third important point is that there is a great need to improve the world's major political, economic and security related institutions. They should be promoted in accordance with the situation of participation and democratization today. The fourth important thing is that we need to accelerate the economic progress of the world. The recent signs for economic growth Technology and digital revolution increase the likelihood of finding new solutions and challenges like poverty and unemployment.\nFriends,\nIn such efforts, India has always extended her support. Not only from today, not from the time of its independence, but since ancient times India has been able to cooperate with everyone. In the last century, when the world went through a crisis of two world wars, despite having no personal interest, economic or territorial interests, India stood for the protection of the high ideals of peace and humanity. More than 1.5 lakh Indian soldiers sacrificed their lives These are the same ideals for which India has contributed the largest number of soldiers in UN peacekeeping operations since the establishment of the United Nations. These are the same ideals that motivate us to help our neighbors, allied nations and human beings during crisis and natural calamities. Whether there is a earthquake in Nepal, or flood, hurricanes, or any other natural disasters in our neighboring or friendly countries, India considers it as the most sacred duty to help as a first responder. In Yemen, when the flames of violence started to be the citizens of many countries, we did not only save Indians but also more than 2,000 civilians from other countries While being a developing country yourself, India has been collaborating in capacity building and development cooperation. Be it a country of Africa or a neighbor of India, or a country of South East Asia, or of Pacific Islands, our collaboration framework and our projects are those countries of priorities and needs based on.\nFriends,\nIndia does not have any political or geographical ambitions We do not exploit the natural resources of any country The direct result of the cordial coexistence of diversity on the Indian soil is for thousands of years, that is why we believe in multi-cultural world and in multi-polar world order. India has proved that all disputes and differences can be resolved through democracy, respect for diversity, harmony and coordination, cooperation and dialogue. This is India's tested recipe for peace, stability and development. Moreover, a predictable, stable, transparent and progressive India will continue to be the good news in an otherwise state of uncertainty and flux. An India where enormous diversity exists The Indian sages and Munis, from the ancient times used to say, not for India special or the Indian psyche: - \"Sarve Bhavantu Sukhinaha Sarve Santu Niramayaha, Sarve Bhadrani Pashyantu ma kaschid dhagbh Bhavet\" meaning, 'all should be happy, all should be healthy, be good to everyone and do not get any sorrow '- this is the dream.\nCumulative, with nine nuns, have semen.\nTejaswantinamastamastu Maa Vidvashava.\nThis thousand year old Indian prayer means that we should work together, walk together, our talents bloom together and the feeling of jealousy should never enter within us. The great Indian poet and Nobel laureate of last century, Gurudev Rabindranath Tagore, had envisaged a 'heaven of freedom' \"where the world has not broken up in fragments by narrow domestic walls.\" Let us together create such a 'heaven of freedom' where there is cooperation and coordination, and not rifts and fractures Let us all together help the world get rid of these fault lines and unnecessary walls.\nFriends,\nIndia and Indians Thirty million people of Indian origin are living in different countries. When we consider the whole world as our family, then we Indians too I invite you to work in India If you want Wealth with Wellness, work in India; If you want Peace with Prosperity, live in India; If you want Wealth with Wholesome life, be in India If you come to India, you will always welcome Thank you very much from the bottom of my heart for giving me this valuable opportunity to interact with you. I thank the World Economic Forum, Mr. Klaus Schwab and all of you!\nI am happy to be in Davos to address the @wef This Summit seems to find solutions to the world faces. I thank the people and Government for the warm welcome here: PM @narendramodi #IndiaMeansBusiness https://t.co/plnF2ehgs8 pic.twitter.com/pO40NbSkza\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) January 23, 2018\nFor the last time in Davos the visit of the Prime Minister of India took place in 1997, when Mr. Deve Gowda came here. In 1997, India's GDP was more than just 400 billion dollars. Now, after two decades, it has almost 6 times: PM @narendramodi @wef #IndiaMeansBusiness https://t.co/plnF2ehgs8\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) January 23, 2018\nIn 1997, Davos was ahead of his time, and this was the introduction of the World Economic Forum future. Even today Davos is ahead of his time: PM @narendramodi at the @wef #IndiaMeansBusiness https://t.co/plnF2ehgs8"