"\nOur government's mission is 'Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas': PM Modi\nCentral Government is committed to connecting every citizen of the country with the mainstream of development: PM\nNo stone will be left unturned for development of Leh, Ladakh and Kargil: PM\nBefore coming here someone told me that there is very cold in Leh. Temperature below zero is below. All of you came here in such a cold, I am really emotional and I bow to everyone. After landing from the airport, many older mothers came to bless outside the airport. In so many mines degree temperature, he was standing in the open. I too descended from the car and went down to bow down to them. Mind is so unobtrusive. That these love, blessings are the affection of these mothers and they do not give nature in such a very uncomfortable situation, then a new energy is available, new strength is available. You see this affection of people, seeing this affection, which I was feeling very cold. Now she is not feeling too much.\nMr. Satpal Malik, Governor of Jammu and Kashmir, who is on the stage, my associate of the Cabinet and the son of Jitendra Singh of Jammu and Kashmir, Dr. Jitendra Singh Ji, President of the Jammu and Kashmir Legislative Council, Mr. Haji Anayat Ali Ji, Ladakh Sweep Hill Development Council Leh President Mr. J.T.Magyal ji, Chairman of Ladakh Swave Hill Development Council Leh, Mr. Feroz Ahmad Ji, Legislative Council Sector Member Mr Charing Doreje living and present here my dear brothers and sisters ...\nLadakh is the land of heroes. Whether it was in 1947 or the war of 1962 or the battle of Kargil, the brave soldiers of Leh and Kargil have ensured the security of the country. Ladakh is also the source of many rivers that are beautifully decorated with such beautiful hills. And truly in all of us is the gift of heaven. In 9-10 months, I once again got the opportunity to join you. The difficult circumstances you live in Challenge every difficulty. That is a big motivation for me. That's all you have to do and work harder for. The affection that you give me ... I have to grow it with interest and return it to him. I realize that the weather comes with difficulties for all of you. There is a problem of electricity, there is water problem. There is a problem in the condition of illness. Fodder has to be arranged for animals. It has to wander far and wide. I have got a lot of luck here but before I was living among you I used to work for my party organization. So long time you have been among the people. I have seen myself while living here, people have seen difficulties facing them.\nThe government is fully committed to overcome these problems. And so I myself often come to Leh, Ladakh and Jammu and Kashmir. The last time you had laid the foundation stone of a number of projects related to electricity, you still have seen your inauguration, foundation stone and opening ceremony of projects worth Rs 3,000 crore, making your life easier. is.\nDraj hybro electric project will allow leh and many villages in Kargil to provide adequate and affordable electricity. While Srinagar-Ullevastin Drawer is the Kargil Transmission Rack, I had the opportunity to do the Shilanyas. And today I get the privilege to do the same. The project of over 2 thousand crore is now going to reduce the power problem of Leh-Ladakh.\nThis is the way to work with our colleagues, our government. The old culture of hanging and wandering has now left the country and in the next five years, I have to give up the tradition of hanging and wandering the country. The project is laid, the full power is done, its work is completed on time.\nThe projects that have been inaugurated, inaugurated and laid out by the brothers and sisters today will improve the connectivity of Leh-Ladakh's country and other cities of the world, tourism will increase, employment opportunities will be increased and the youth will be encouraged to study here. There will also be good facilities here. Here the weather is so beautiful that if we create a good educational institution here, then I believe that young people will prefer to study in Leh-Ladakh from the corner of India. And we should see those dreams, and I have such dreams in my mind.\nCompanions, all of us respected great Kushak Bakula Rimpochej had spent his entire life for a dream. Connecting Leh-Ladakh to the best India and strengthening the spirit of unity and integrity of the country was the biggest dream of the revered Rimbo.\nThe Central Government is giving a new extension to connectivity here to realize their dreams. Two big projects connecting Leh-Ladakh with rail and air routes are underway. For the first time rail line connecting this area with the railway map and the new and modern terminal building of Kushok Bakula Rimpochee Airport will prove to be the driving force of development here.\nCompanions, the building that was built here three decades ago. Over time, connecting it with modernity, it was never thought of to develop new features in the past. Today the foundation of the new terminal building has been taken and it will be inaugurated very soon. And I assure you the foundation of the foundation which was done earlier today, I am doing the same today whose foundation laying today, I am coming to give you the blessings of your blessings. The terminal will be able to handle more passengers as well as providing modern facilities.\nSimilarly, initial survey has been conducted on Bilaspur, Manali, Leh rail line. Work has started in many places. When this railway line is ready then the distance from Delhi to Leh will be greatly reduced. In winter, the entire roads are cut off from the rest of India. These rail lines will overcome this problem to a great extent.\nCompanions, in any area, when connectivity starts to be good, then the life of the people there is easier then the means of earning also increases. Tourism has the highest benefit of it. The area of ​​Leh-Ladakh is an important place in the world for artistic, art, culture, beauty and nature sports. Here the government has raised another step for the development of tourism. It has been decided to open five new tracking routes here today.\nThe central government has increased the legality of protected area permit from these seven days to 15 days on these routes. With this, tourists coming here will be able to take full time to enjoy the journey, and the youth will get more employment.\nCompanions, I have been told that more than 3 lakh tourists have visited Leh this time and about one lakh people have visited Kargil. In a way, half of the tourists that have arrived in Kashmir have already come to this area. That day is not far when Leh-Ladakh's tourism will achieve new heights.\nThe brothers and sisters, the central government is engaged in ensuring Panchadhara development of children across the country ie education of children, income of youth, medicines of the elderly, farmers' sinking and hearing of the people. Efforts are being made to strengthen all these facilities in Leh-Ladakh and Kargil. In Ladakh, 40 percent of the total population is young students. All of you have been seeking university here for a long time. Today your demand has also been fulfilled, and for this I extend my greetings and greetings to all and especially to my young companions. Today, the cluster university has been launched. In this, the institutions of the degree colleges running in Nubra, Leh and Jaska Kargil will be used. For the convenience of students, its administrative offices will also be in Leh and Kargil.\nCompanions, Leh-Ladakh is in those parts of the country, where schedule tribes have a considerable amount of population of my tribe siblings. The budget presented by the Central Government two days ago. In this, a lot of emphasis has been given on the development of SC ST. For the welfare of scheduled tribes, the budget has been increased by about 30 percent. While more than 35 percent of allocation for the development of Dalits has been allocated this time in the budget. For the provision of SC ST welfare in the budget, which has been provided for more than 11 thousand crore rupees This is going to increase education, health and other facilities.\nThe brothers and sisters, the central government is trying to connect every citizen of the country with the mainstream of development. Those who have not been able to get full advantage of development due to some reasons. In this budget, the government has made a very big decision for the revolving community in the budget. These are those people who can not live up to the same place because of their lifestyle, sometimes due to the weather, in such a way it is very difficult to reach the benefit of the government's plan. Now for these people, the government has decided to set up a welfare development board so that the government is going ahead with the development work. The benefits of these development works to these families, to these community communities which have not been reached even after 70 years of independence. Reach them fast And who are these people ...... Sapera, Bhanjara and those who are strangers in the bullock cart ... Such are the nomad people. There are shifts, they do not stop anywhere, they keep walking with their livestock. It takes two years to arrive at your place. We have made this very big decision to worry about such families.\nApart from this, the Government has also declared historic announcement for the farmers of the country in the budget. PM Kisan Mandal in the short form, he is called PM kisan The benefits of this scheme are to be taken up by several farmer families of Leh-Ladakh. The government has decided that the farmers who have less than five acres of land and almost all of them are here. All possessed less than five acres of land ... their bank accounts will be directly deposited in their bank accounts by the central government on 6 thousand rupees every year. You will meet these three installments in two thousand two thousand. Seasonally fixed accordingly. Whose first installment is my attempt to reach soon. And so I am going to send its guide to all state governments today. Send information that your farmers here ... send their list, their base number immediately. So that money from them will be deposited in their account. And it is not that Bhai speaks, making promises, then doing Nade ... not, I have to implement. The more active the machinery of all states, the faster it will be.\nAnd hence potatoes, peas, cabbage are getting encouragement to its productive farmers. And for the cabbage here I remember equally If I used to work in the organization then I used to come back from Delhi to return to Delhi. So the workers who were familiar to me used to request me only that we will give the amount of sahab baggage. Carry a cabbage and bring it. And I also used to take a lot of vegetables from here. Those families liked it to eat this vegetable. And for all this new scheme, I tell you, there is a plan for farmers. He is going to give them a very big force. And those who sit in the air conditioner rooms in Delhi do not know them. In the inaccessible mountains, in the desert, in the backward areas, the poor farmer is no matter how big a person is six thousand rupees. These air conditioners do not know the people sitting in the room. They do not understand.\nFor this new scheme I congratulate all of you on behalf of the people of the country heartily.\nCompanions, Leh, Ladakh, Kargil is the top of India, our master, this crown of mother Bharati is our pride, for the last four and a half years, this region has been the center of our development's priorities. I am happy that the change in the Ladakh autonomous hill development council act has been changed. And the council has given more powers now in matters related to the matter.\nNow the autonomous council itself releases the money coming in for the development of the region. The powers of the council's rights and decisions to take decisions have also been increased. With this, important topics can be resolved faster and more sensitively. Now you will not have to go to Srinagar and Jammu again and again for your needs. But most of the work will be done in Leh and Ladakh right here.\nThe colleagues, the central government is working on the basic mantra of development and development. We have been trying every day for the last four and a half years continuously by taking any mantra of development and development for everyone, without any corner of the country.\nI assure the people here. That no core construction will be left for the development of Leh Ladakh Kargil.\nThe Central Government has now read a long list of our friends, but I assure you, I do not go to the barricades. But I am most familiar here and this is my biggest advantage, I am a prime minister who has come to wander in every corner of India. That's why I have a great deal of things. I know the nuances by the officers but I have experience. I assure you that the Central Government fully respects your hopes and ambitions. And today the foundation of this foundation stone and the launch is a link to it.\nOnce again, I congratulate you for all the projects that make life easier. Even during this winter season, you came to bless me from far away, I have been very grateful to all of you for reaching this huge number. Speak with me with full force .......\nLong live Mother India\nLong live Mother India\nLong live Mother India\nLong live Mother India\nThanks a lot"