"Share\n\nYoungsters are filled with energy and enthusiasm ... What they need is encouragement, mentorship and institutional support: PM\nIntent leads to ideas, ideas have the power to drive innovation and innovation will eventually lead to a new India: PM Modi\nNever dreaming It is good for children to have high curiosity quotient: PM\nNeed of the hour is for innovations and solutions to the problems the world faces. Innovate to transform lives of the common people: PM to youngsters\nThank PM of Israel for the desalinisation motorable machine, it will benefit people in border areas: PM Modi\nHis Excellency, Prime Minister of Israel, Mr. Benjamin Netanyahu, Mrs. Sara Netanyahu, Chief Minister of Gujarat Mr. Vijay Rupani Ji, Deputy Chief Minister Mr. Nitin Patel, all intellectuals, innovators, research scholars, officers and those present here and sisters and my young people associated with iCrate Friends\nI am happy that in the presence of the Prime Minister of Israel today, this institution is being dedicated to the young innovators of the country. I am very grateful to Mr. Netanyahu. He accepted the invitation to come to Gujarat and came with the family. Before going to this program, we went to the Sabarmati Ashram, where there was an opportunity to pay homage to Pujya Bapu. There was also a chance to blow up the panthe\nWhen I went to Israel last year, I had made up my mind - this institution should have a stronger relationship with Israel; And since then I was waiting for my friend Mr. Netanyahu to come to India. I am happy that he not only came to Gujarat, but today we are inaugurating the campus of this institution in his presence. I welcome Shri Netanyahu and the other members of the delegation who came with him once again to welcome him and express his gratitude.\nToday, when we are offering iCreate, I would like to recall late Professor N. V. Vasani. I remember equally that when iCreate was imagined here, the responsibility of converting it was initially to Professor Vasani. But unfortunately for a long time they remained unconscious, left us and went away. Today they are not among us, but their efforts in the early period and the caravans were added later that today we are able to see all iCreate in this grand form.\nIf the farmer sows a small plant, then many generations of generations will get the fruits of that big tree and seeing the farmer's spirit wherever it is, it is certainly happy. Today, on the inauguration of iCreate, we all are experiencing the same happiness that one who sowed the seeds has come up today as the tree tree.\nThe importance of an institute can not be judged at the time of his birth. We all know that today there is not only India but Gujarat is the name of Gujarat in the pharmaceutical sector, the name of Gujaratis. But very few people will know its background. From today about 50-60 years ago a pharmacy college was started with the efforts of some visionary industrialists of Ahmedabad, it was started; And that was the country's first pharmacy college. And that pharmacy college has created a strong Eco system in the field of pharmacy in Ahmedabad and entire Gujarat. We all expect this from the students and iCreate from here, students today expect the students to illuminate India's name throughout the world in the field of innovation.\nI remember when iCreate was launched a few years ago, then at that time I had said that I want to connect with Israel iCreate. My motto was that the benefit of Israel's experience, the benefits of its Startup Environment, to this institution, to young people of the country. Israel's technology and creativity affect the whole world; Especially in areas that are related to India's needs, India's innovators can also take advantage of Israel's advantage.\nWater conservation, agricultural production, long-term maintenance of agricultural products, food processing, farming in low-water areas towards desert, cyber security - there are so many topics in which India and Israel can have a partnership.\nThe people of Israel, the people of Israel, have proven in the whole world that the size of the country, the country's resolve takes the country forward, raises it.\nI had the privilege of meeting with the former President of Israel and the great Stateman, Mr. Simon Pérez, and I still remember one of his things. Mr. Simon Pérez was saying, 'We will prove that innovation has no limits and no barriers. Initiation His talk has proved to be 100 percent true today. Innovation has a huge role to bring in closer India and Israeli people.\nI would like to repeat one more thing of brothers and sisters, Mr. Simon Pérez, today. He used to say, \"The greater the dream the more spectacular the results\". The big dreams will be as big a result. This Israeli thinking strengthens his chemistry with Noble Prize. Israeli scientists are the witnesses of the Nobel Prize in different fields.\nBrothers and sisters, equally well known for Albert Einstein, the famous scientist - \"Imagination is more important than knowledge\". These Imagination- these dreams, these imaginations take us to new masters. These dreams, and these dreams have to never die. These dreams never have to stop. We all have responsibility for the nurturing of children's curiosity. Do not hesitate, this is an enemy of innovation. Observe the little children around you. If you ask them to sleep early, they ask immediately, why should they sleep? If you tell them that I like this music then they ask immediately, why do you like this music? Once in a class of mathematics the teacher explained that if there are three fruits and given to three students, then each one will get a reward, and if there are six fruits and given to six students, even then each one will get a result. Then the teacher said that if there are as many students as fruits, then each one will get a result. Then a student stood up and found an eye in the teacher's eye and asked him if the fruit is zero and even if the student is zero then will each student get a reward? After listening to this, the whole class started laughing. The teacher also started to see that child. But you would be happy to know that the child was no one else. It is said that the student was the knower of mathematics, the great sage, Srinivasa Ramanujam, and that one question had clarified an important question of mathematics that if the seed is divided with zero then the answer can be one.\nOur youth also have energy, enthusiasm too. They should have a little encouragement, a little mentorship, a little network, a little bit of institutional support. When it meets a little bit of innovation of youth, it is sure to have big results. Today we are working towards making the whole system innovation friendly in the country. Our mantra is - Born from curiosity - Intent, Made with the power of Intent, Ideas of Ideas, With the power of innovation and innovation, our new India\nFriends, in the mind of every person, there is a desire to innovate something new in the mind of every young man. Thoughts come in her mind and go away. The thoughts that come are your property. But those thoughts go, lose, do not fall on any surface; I think it is a society, a government, lack of system. I am changing this system. The thoughts of young people can not be over, we all have the obligation to look at it. The youth can make their dreams come true, give their power to the whole world, and to create helpful institutions for them, it is the responsibility of the government and the society. With this thought, this iCreate has been born.\nI am glad that iCreate has given great help to the youth of the country to fulfill their dreams, realizing their innovative ideas. When I go about iCreate's innovative products, I have seen it today, I am very happy. I have been told that many innovations such as Bio scan Labor Store, spectrums part, Icon are possible with the help of iCreate and the first condition of success is courage. Anyone who can be brave can make any decision. Do not you agree with me? Do not agree or young? If there is no courage then the person can not make a decision. I congratulate the courageous youths doing innovation through iCreate.\nAlways keep dragging between the Convention and the innovation. Whenever someone wants to do something new, one class makes fun of him, he opposes. Most people know about Kalidas's 'Meghdoot' and 'Shakuntala', but very few people will know that Kalidas has made a fun talk about the Convention and the innovation- the goods Vikramaginamitram- which they wrote. Kalidas ji has said in that goods Vikrami friendam-\nPuranmiyevev and neither sadhu sarva nahi chap kaa nawanamitayavadyam.\nCentury: Examination Ordinarily False: Perceptualism: ..\nThat is, only because something is old, it is not necessary that it will be good. Similarly, if something is new then it is not necessary that it will be bad. The intelligent person weighs everything on the basis of qualities and the fool makes his mind based on the sayings of others. Centuries ago, it has been called Kalidas, and how well kalidas have solved the tension between the convention and the innovation.\nFriends, this is the capability of our scientists that, in the amount of money the film of science fiction is made in Hollywood, less than that, real Mangalyaan is also reached on the real planet Mars, it has been proved by our scientists. Just four days back, ISRO has made a century in satellite launch, and such success does not come like this. The dedication required for this should be diligence, which requires high flying of dreams, that energy is filled with coding in Indian youth and I feel day and night.\nBrothers and Sisters, you have seen that the 'I' of iCreate is in the small letter. When iCreate's name was fixed, why I kept 'I' small, there is a reason behind this. Friends, the biggest obstacle to creativity is 'I' bigger With creativity, if 'I' is capital, it is bigger, then it means ego and ego are being obstructed, and hence this institution has been kept free of ego and ego from the beginning. But there was one thing more important in this. Creativity started with small 'i' but the dream was kept out of the big 'I', i.e. from person to person and reaching out to India. Our goal was to jump a bigger jump from 'i' to big 'I'. Starting from one person to the whole of India\nToday it is necessary that innovation will be done to solve the problems faced by our young country. Need based innovation. How to improve the quality of life of a normal human being at minimal expense, innovate for it. If malaria is a threat, then we should innovate- how to avoid poor families from malaria? What kind of system should you create? If there is trouble with TB, if there is a problem with seakel-cell, if there is trouble with dirt. We are seeing wastage, watching wastage of food, looking wastage of agricultural production. I think there should be innovation to solve these problems.\nToday a huge campaign of clean India is going on in the country. Can we innovate about cleanliness? Waste to wealth, there are immense possibilities of innovation in this one topic. For the growth of innovation, creativity, entrepreneurship and technology in the country, such a vision and the country of dedicated institutions like icreate are very much needed.\nKeeping this in mind, a number of schemes like Startup India, Standup India, MUDRA are being run at the central level. The Government has approved more than 2,400 atal tinkering labs across the country under the Atal Innovation Mission. It is our endeavor to have a platform ready in the country to make new experiments in a modern environment to meet those innovative ideas, even among the school students.\nDuring my visit to Israel last year, we also established a fund of 40 million US Dollar which would be a joint venture of India and Israel. This will help the talents of both countries to do something new in the direction of technology innovation. In this joint venture, special attention will be given on food, water, health care and energy sector. We also envisaged the innovation bridge. Under which the exchange between the two countries startup\nI am happy that during this process some winners were selected through the innovation challenge and today they have been given Startup Awards too. You saw now - both the Israeli team and the India team - both came here on stage. India- Israel innovation bridge is an online platform. In the coming days, it will emerge as a very big connection between the startup of the two countries.\nTwo days ago when the CEOs of both the countries were meeting in Delhi, then there we had asked to support this effort. Companions India has unlimited maritime power. Our coastline of more than 7,500 kilometers, about 1,300 small islands and some islands are larger than Singapore. An exclusive economic zone of approximately 25 lakh square kilometers - this is our strength, which is no match. The use of this force will be more in the progress of the country, new innovation is needed. New innovations can become new energy for blue revolution. Our fishermen can change the lives of their brothers.\nI thank the Prime Minister of Israel that during my visit last year, I saw a motorable machine that made seawater clean and worthwhile. He himself drives me and took me. Not only that, the one device he brought with him today, his live demo, you just saw on the screen. In the Banaskantha district, this new system has been employed in a village in Border. With this, people on the BSF Post and the people of nearby villages will get clean drinking water, there will also be an opportunity to test such technology in India.\nBrothers and Sisters, I am happy to inform you that 25 out of the 28 Centers of Excellence has been prepared with cooperation in Israeli agriculture sector. They are getting help in exchange of capacity billing, information and genetic resources. Three centers of excellence in these centers have been established in Gujarat. After this program, I and the Prime Minister are going to Pratinik taluka, Bhairad village of Sabarkantha district. Even there, with the help of Israel, the center of excellence in agriculture sector is created. वहीं से हम video conference के माध्‍यम से कच्‍छ में खजूर पर जो research center चल रहा है, उसके साथ भी हम बातचीत करेंगे। भदराड सेंटर से गुजरात के किसानों को सब्जियों की नई पौंध distribute की जा रही है। इस केंद्र में 10 हजार किसानों को ट्रेनिंग दी गई है और 35 हजार से ज्‍यादा किसान इस सेंटर को देखने आ चुके हैं। यहां के कुछ लोगों को इजराइल में भी प्रशिक्षण दिया गया है। भारत और इजराइल के बीच ये सहयोग, ये परस्‍पर विकास की भावना, दोनों ही देशों के उज्‍ज्‍वल भविष्‍य के लिए बहुत ही महत्‍वपूर्ण है।\n21वीं सदी में दोनों देशों का ये साथ मानवता के इतिहास में नया अध्‍याय लिखेगा। साथियो, एक-दूसरे की संस्‍कृतियों का सम्‍मान, एक-दूसरे की परम्‍पराओं का सम्‍मान हमारे संबंधों को हमेशा मजबूत करता रहेगा। भले ही कम संख्‍या में हो, लेकिन ज्‍यूज समुदाय के लोग अहमदाबाद और उसके आसपास के इलाके में सुकून के साथ अपनी जिंदगी गुजार रहे हैं। वो गुजरात के इतिहास के साथ, गुजरात की संस्‍कृति के साथ घुलमिल गए हैं। गुजरात के ज्‍यूज समुदाय ने अपनी जगह देश के अन्‍य हिस्‍सों और इजराइल तक में बनाई है। भारत और इजराइल के संबंधों का विस्‍तार और बढ़े, और मजबूत हो, इसी कामना के साथ मैं अपनी बात समाप्‍त करता हूं और आज इस अवसर पर iCreat को साकार करने में जिन लोगों ने सहयोग दिया है, उन सभी को मैं विशेष रूप से धन्‍यवाद देता हूं।\nश्री नारायण मूर्ति जी, श्री दिलीप सिंघवी जी, सहित तमाम महानुभावो ने iCreat को create करने में बड़ी भूमिका निभाई है, अपना बहुमूल्‍य समय दिया है। मैं आशा करता हूं कि इस संस्‍था में innovation का जो वातावरण बनेगा, वो पूरे देश के नौजवानों को सशक्‍त करने में बहुत बड़ी भूमिका निभाएगा। और मैं प्रधानमंत्री जी का, श्रीमती सारा जी का हृदय से आभार व्‍यक्‍त करता हूं। मेरे अच्‍छे मित्र के रूप में हमारी दोस्‍ती, दो देशों की दोस्‍ती में एक नई ताकत बनकर उभर रही है। आज उन्‍होंने भारत के लिए जो एक विशेष भेंट-सौगात लाई हैं, जिसका वीडियो अभी आपने देखा। मैं समझता हूं कि आपका ये तोहफा भारत के सामान्‍य मानवी के हृदय को छूने वाला है। और इसके लिए मैं आपका हृदय से आपका बहुत-बहुत आभार करता हूं।\nमैं फिर एक बार आप सबका बहुत-बहुत धन्‍यवाद करता हूं और iCreat को अनेक-अनेक शुभकामनाएं देता हूं। Thank you."