"Share\n\nThis is a time for 'Sankalp Se Siddhi.' We have to identify our targets and work towards achieving them by 2022: PM Modi\nPM Modi remembers contribution of former VP and former Rajasthan CM, Shri Bhairon Singh Shekhawat, says he works towards modernising Rajasthan\nPrime Minister Narendra Modi calls for quick response of senior leader and former Union Minister Jaswant Singh\nFor them (UPA), 'Garibi Hatao' was a attractive slogan. They are nationalized the banks but not the doors of the poor: PM Modi\nJan Dhan Yojana changed this and the poor get access to banking facilities: PM\nIt was our commitment to make OROP a reality and we made the possible possible: PM Modi\n\nGreetings to my dear brothers and sisters who are present here in large numbers!\nTwo days ago the festival of Makar Sankranti was celebrated in every corner of India. The essence of evolution is associated with Makar Sankranti. Development is an intrinsic issue in Makar Sankranti. After the festival of Makar Sankranti is a major effort or an initiative, a project is going to start from the soil of Rajasthan. I want to congratulate Vasundhara ji and Dharmendra Pradhan Ji for organizing this program for the commencement of this work. Generally, when any government or a politician lays the foundation-stone of something then the people ask about the possible work related to it. So after this program, awareness will be spread across the country. When some work is actually commenced, the common man believes that.\nI am glad that I got this opportunity to be a part of this tour of development by inaugurating this program. When the officers were given me the details of the project and after they felt that they had given information about the Prime Minister, I asked them about the date of inauguration I was reassured about the date. India will celebrate 75th year of independence in the year 2022. The heroes of India - the freedom fighters who had sacrificed their lives and had raised the slogan of Vande Mataram, had a dream of a free India, Grand India and a Divine India The country became independent Now, India will complete 75 years of its independence in the year 2022. It is the responsibility of all Indians, and 125 crore citizens to build the India, which is the great freedom fighters by the visualization and it will be dedicated to them. . It is time to fulfill the resolutions. Today, you have taken the resolution to start the work of this refinery by 2022. I am confident that this resolution will be fulfilled and 75 years of independence of the country will start getting new energy from here. Therefore, I extend my best wishes to Government of Rajasthan, the efforts of Government of India, to the Department of Mr Dharmendra and to all my brothers and sisters of Rajasthan.\nThe land of Barmer is blessed with blessings of Rawal Mallinath, Saint Tulsiram, Mother Bhatiyani, Mother Nagnechi, Saint Ishwar Das, Saint Daru ji Megh and countless such saints. Today i salute that land\nThe Land of Panchpadra provided the country with freedom fighters like the late Gulabchand Salecha ji who had led the salt Satyagraha much before Mahatma Gandhi's Satyagraha. Gulabchand has started drinking water, train connectivity and opening the first college in this area. I also salute this son of Panchpadra\nBrothers and sisters,\nToday I want to remember Bhairon Singh Shekhawat ji on this soil. I want to mention all the great contributions made by Mr. Bhairon Singh Shekhawat today who had made efforts to modernize Rajasthan, to make a crisis-free Rajasthan and who have this Barmer refinery of thought. Today on the land of Barmer I want to request all the people present here to pray to the Almighty for the son of Mr. Jaswant Singh Ji so that he gets well soon and the country will once again reap his experience of benefits. And I believe that God will listen to our prayers.\nBrothers and sisters,\nUnfortunately, there is a tendency of forgetting history in our country. Recalling the sacrifices made by freedom fighters inspires every generation to create a new history and we should keep seeking such inspiration. You must have seen that the Prime Minister of Israel has come here on a visit to India. He has visited India after 14 years. I was the first Prime Minister since Independence My countrymen and my heroes of Rajasthan, I would have visited Haifa in Israel and had offered my soldiers to their soldiers, who had sacrificed their lives about 100 years ago in the First World War. It was led by a brave Indian son Major Dalpat Singh ji. Major Dalpat Singh Shekhawat had liberated Haifa, leading the army in World War 1 about 100 years ago.\nThere is a place named Teen Murti Chowk in Delhi. It is the statues of three great heroes As soon as the Prime Minister of Israel landed in India, both of us visited the Teen Murti Chowk The Teen Murti Chowk was built in memory of the sacrifices made by Major Dalpat Singh and this time the Prime Minister of Israel visited the place to greet him. Both of us had visited the place and the Teen Murti Chowk were renamed as Teen Murti Haifa Chowk so that the history and Major Dalpat Singh are not forgotten and the tradition of Rajasthan is always remembered. I got this job two days ago\nBrothers and sisters,\nThis is the land of Heroes This is the land of martyrs There will not be any event in the history of sacrifices in which the heroes of this land will not have shed their blood I salute all such heroes today\nBrothers and sisters,\nI used to visit Rajasthan quiet a lot On certain occasions I came here for the work of my organization and sometimes as the Chief Minister of the neighboring Gujarat. I have many times Every time I used to hear from the common man that Congress and famine were twin brothers Wherever Congress goes, the famine follows. Under Vasundhara ji, who had the opportunity to serve the people of Rajasthan\nBrothers and sisters,\nBut we have to move ahead of this We have to carry Rajasthan forward. Rajasthan's is the development of the country\nBrothers and sisters,\nDharmendra ji and Vasundhara ji were complaining and they were right about their complaints. Is it just the refinery of Barmer? Was the foundation-stone of such a refinery laid and photographed only here? Was not it an attempt to cheat people? I would like to invite all those people who are inducted to do little research to find out whether this is the work culture of Congress governments - to make tall promises and misleading the public? This matter is not limited to the refinery of Barmer This is part of their work culture and habit.\nAfter I became the Prime Minister Out of my habit I asked that so many announcements were made during the Railway Budget, can you tell what happened after that? Brothers and sisters, you will be shocked to know that in a place like Parliament, which is considered as the temple of democracy, the country is being misled. Several governments were formed earlier and more than 1500 schemes were announced in the Railway Budget which did not exist in reality.\nThere are some people in Parliament who just clap when Rail projects are announced for their areas and the Railway Minister gets satisfied Later on, there is no further pursue the projects further. After we came to power we decided to stop this tradition. We will make only those many schemes ................\nMoreover, if we talk of One Rank One Pension; my soldiers are sitting here; they will tell you. Was not the demand for the past 40 years? Were not the people? Before this election This is their habit In One Rank One Pension and circulating photographs clicked with retired army men\nLater, when on 15 September 2013, I announced in Rewari, if our government comes to power, One Rank One Pension scheme will be implemented for ex-servicemen, under a lot of pressure they hastily announced for 500 Crore Rupees One Rank One Pension in the interim budget Much like the same way they did the foundation stone of this refinery\nSee, this is a kind of victory. In our budget, we had allocated money for one rank one pension. We made the implementation of one rank one pension as we We used to delay in the matter You will be surprised to know that even though their budget mentioned 500 crore rupees, the actual implementation of One Rank One Pension was not there. What were the eligibility criteria for a rank one pension? What is the burden? You will be surprised to know that only the refinery was on the papers. There was no plan nor any list but only an election promise.\nBrothers and sisters,\nI was able to complete that work but it took me one-and-a-half years as it was time to compile everything on papers. Everything was in a mess. The residential addresses of the ex-servicemen could not be located. The correct figures were not available. I was astonished to see that these things, meant for the country's soldiers who are always willing to sacrifice their lives, were in a mess. I started collecting the data and after all calculations, brothers and sisters, the figure which I had earlier thought to be 500 crore, 1000 crore, 1500 crore and 2000 crore to total up to 12000 crore! The Congress Party was trying to implement this program with just 500 crore rupees. Was it an honest initiative? Did they really want to give something to the soldiers? Were they honest? I do not think that the finance minister of that time was so weak. However, they placed 500 million rupees for the foundation stone of the refinery and marked that in the budget itself and ended the topic there itself.\nBrothers and sisters,\nAs I said, the amount totalled up to 12 thousand crore rupees. So I called the representatives I said, \"I want to give you the promised amount but it's not worth the money in government's treasury. It will be difficult for me to give 12 thousand crores at once. the amount totals up to 12 thousand crore rupees. I want to give it in an honest way. So I need your help. \"\nThe army men told me- \"Sir Prime Minister, kindly do not embarrass us. You can openly tell us how we can help you?\" I said- \"Well, I do not need anything. I will not be able to give you the whole 12 thousand crores at one go.If I do that go , then I will have stopped some of the welfare schemes for the poor. This is a grave injustice to them. So just a single request, will it okay for you all if i give the amount in four instalments? The One Rank One Pension Now they had a dedicated Prime Minister They could have easily said - \"Modiji, the previous governments have cheated us. We do not want to wait anymore. If possible, then hand over the amount to us or else we will go our way.\" They did not\nThe army men of my country are still the army men from their hearts and minds even without the uniform They will think of the last breath Immediately they said - \"Sir Prime Minister, we have faith in your words. You will give it in four or six instalments but kindly decide this matter once for all. We will accept whatever you decide.\"\nBrothers and sisters,\nIt was the strength of the army personnel that I could get a decision and the date I have given them four instalments. 10 thousand and 700 crores have been deposited in their accounts and the rest instalments will reach their accounts. So, it had become their habitat to the foundation-stones and to run in the government machinery in that way.\nYou tell me, we have been listening to the slogan of 'poverty poverty' for the past 4 decades. You must have seen the game in the elections which are also dragged. But have you ever seen any of them? You will not find any Even after 70 years of Independence they will say - go and dig the pit and take some time to eat If there was a real concern for them, then my country's poor did\nWe want to empower the poor The banks were nationalized but remained inaccessible to the poor. After 70 years of independence, when we formed the government, a decision was made to bring the mainstream in the journey of country's development. So we brought the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana Today about 32 crore people have bank accounts under this scheme. Brothers and sisters, at that time I also said that the poor have got the option of opening a zero balance account. The country's poor may be financially poor, but they have a rich mind-set I have seen some wealthy people who are poor in terms of their mentality. We have given them the provision of zero balance account but the poor feel that some amount should be deposited in it. My dear brothers and sisters, I am happy and proud to inform you that the people who opened zero balance accounts today have 72 thousand crores in their Jan Dhan accounts. Ironically, the rich wants to withdraw money from their accounts. This is how poverty should be fought against\nBrothers and sisters,\nYou are aware of the fact that before the people of the country Each MP was given 25 coupons in a year to provide gas connections to 25 families. Sometimes we have heard of cases where the MPs used to sell the coupons in black.\nBrothers and sisters,\nShould my mother and sisters spend their lives in the fire? Is this the way how do we welfare for the poor? Those mothers and sisters are compelled to smoke in the firewood while cooking. The smoke is equivalent to smoking 400 cigarettes. Even the children of those families are seriously affected by it.\nBrothers and sisters,\nWe have taken the responsibility The welfare of the poor can not be done by slogans We need to change their lives We came up with Ujjwala Yojana under which gas connections were provided approximately 3 crore 30 lakh families. We have freed crores of mothers from the firewood and smoke. Now tell me, will every such mother will shower her blessings on Narendra Modi while cooking or not? She would take the pledge to protect us, because she knows that this is the right way to fight against poverty.\nBrothers and sisters,\nEven after 70 years of Independence, there were 18,000 villages without the access to electricity. In the 21st century, those people were compelled to live in an 18th century-like situation. They may be thinking- \"Are we still independent nation? Is this the so-called democracy? I go and vote during elections. But what kind of government is this that 70 years of independence after our villages in electricity? Brothers and sisters, I have taken the responsibility of providing electricity to these 18000 villages.About 2000 villages electrified. The work is on a fast pace. Now they have 21st century-like conditions in the living room.\nEven after 70 years of Independence, there are 4 crore families without any access to electricity. We have taken the responsibility of providing free electricity to the 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi. The children of those families will be able to study after that We have to empower the poor We have to move ahead with all these challenges\nBrothers and sisters,\nThis refinery will change the face and fate of this region. You can imagine how the big industry in such a desert will help in providing jobs to the locals. It offers jobs not only in the industry but also out of the chains created by it. Small industries will come up because of this, as it is a big infrastructure - water, electricity, gas connection, optical fiber network etc. In other words, the whole economy of the area will change\nWhen officers and bureaucrats arrive here When people will start coming here in large numbers to work from other parts of India and also from Rajasthan like Udaipur, Banswara, Bharatpur, Kota or Alwar or Ajmer, then healthcare facilities also develop.\nTherefore brethren and sisters,\nA sea change will sweep the area within 5 years; you can easily visualize that. Today the program that will be inaugurating here is a loss for me and for the Indian government. The government had saved about 40 thousand crore rupees.\nBut Vasundhara ji has the samskaras (values) of the Royal family as well as the Marwaris. She had tried to extract as much as possible from the government. This is possible only with Indian Janata Party The Chief Minister is indispensable to get her wish fulfilled for the welfare of her state even if the center has the same government. I congratulate Vasundhara for his efforts in saving money and advising the Indian government for framing the right scheme. Consequently, both Vasundhara and Dharmendra ji worked together to make the stalled project a reality. I congratulate both of you and best wishes to you all. Speak along with me loudly- Victory to Mother India !!\nThe country will get from the Land of Barmer This refinery is going to represent I hope that this energy will start from here With these wishes - khamma ghani !! (Greetings in Marwari language)"