"Share\n\nWe stand on the cusp of a new chapter in India-Israel relations for betterment of lives: PM\nIn India, we have been steady steps over 3 years in both macro as well as micro-level, to make a difference. Our motto is Reform, Perform and Transform: PM\nTo enable entry of capital and technology, most of the sectors including defence, have been opened for FDI ... We are now among the most open economies: PM\nIndia's development agenda is huge It represents a huge economic opportunity for Israeli companies: PM Modi\nHis Excellency Benjamin Netanyahu, Prime Minister of Israel,\nBusiness Leaders of India and Israel,\nLadies and Gentlemen\nI welcome Prime Minister Netanyahu and members of the Israeli delegation. The CEOs of both countries Prime Minister Netanyahu and I have just completed a fruitful interaction with Indian and Israeli business leaders. I have had high hopes from this interaction and partnership of CEOs, which started last year.\nFriends!\nI have always had a deep respect for Israel and its people. I visited Israel in 2006 as Chief Minister of Gujarat. Again last year in July, I visited Israel, the first such visit from India.\nIt was a very special visit I experienced at close quarters the remarkable spirit of innovation, enterprise and perseverance that drives Israel. There is new energy and purpose that has in-vigorated our ties over the last few years. It will help you We stand on the cusp of a bright new chapter in India-Israel relations for our people and the mutual opportunities for betterment of their lives.\nThe role of business and industry is crucial in the transformation of our ties. It is your joint efforts that will add real value to our interaction and produce concrete successes. Given the scale of the Indian economy and the relevance of cutting-edge Israeli technologies for us, even sky is not the limit!\nFriends!\nI am delighted that the last two months of the Israeli visit during the announcement of 'India-Israel Industrial R \u0026 D and Technological Innovation Fund (i4F)' This fund, used to be over 5 years, is a welcome opportunity for the talent pool of the two countries in the pursuit of path-breaking technology solutions that can be commercially exploited.\nI strongly encourage enterprises in both countries to use this platform. Equally exciting is the pick-up in science and technology exchanges through joint R \u0026 D projects like as areas like \"Data Analytics\" and \"Cyber ​​Space Security\".\nI am happy to note that India-Israel Innovation and Technology Conclave is going to be held in India in July 2018. I hope this conclave will spur co-development of new technologies In fact, the ground-work for this will start from iCREATE day after tomorrow. We are both going to Gujarat to inaugurate this campus, which is a leading innovation hub.\nFriends!\nI am taking prime minister Netanyahu to rural areas of Gujarat because the real power of technology and innovation lies in the benefit of the common man. Israel is universally known as the start-up nation with a unique eco-system for innovation and incubation.\nThe credit for Israeli entrepreneurs You have made a strong, stable and innovative economy You have made a country of 8 million people, shine as a global power-house of technology\nWhether it is Water Tech; or Agri-Tech; Whether it is food production, its processing or conservation; Israel had a bright example with new breakthroughs and advances. Whether it is physical or virtual security; whether it is on land, water or space; your technology has won admiration In fact, hailing from a water deficient state in India, I have specifically appreciated Israel's water efficiency.\nFriends!\nIn India, we have been steady steps over three years on both macro as well as micro-level, to make a difference. Our motto is: Reform, Perform and Transform\nThe results are two-fold On the one hand, our procedures, processes and systems are getting aligned. Secondly, we are able to maintain rapid pace.\nIn spite of deep structural reforms, we are among the fastest growing major economies. FDI inflows are at an all-time high, with 40% rise. The tremendous work is being done for young people. 65% of our population is below 35 years of age and is hungry for technology-enabled growth.\nThis is our greatest opportunity as well as challenge For this purpose, we have started the Start-up India campaign. There is a great potential for India. The India-Israel Innovation Bridge will act as a link between the start-ups of the two sides. I have been saying that Indian Industries, start-ups and the academic institutions must collaborate with their Israeli counterparts to access the vast reservoir of knowledge.\n\nIndia has size and scale\nIsrael's sharpness and edge\nThere will be many ideas and technologies that can be useful for or can be commercially scaled up in India.\n\nFriends!\nToday, we have emerged as one of the largest manufacturing countries. But we are not done yet We are positioning India as a global manufacturing hub leveraging the energy of our youth.\nThe 'Make in India' initiative is helping to achieve this. Through these initiatives, combined with the new eco-system of a formal economy and a unified tax regime, we are trying to create a NEW INDIA.\nWe are specially interested in developing India in a knowledge-based, skill-supported and technology-driven society. A grand start has already been made through Digital India and Skill India. To enable this transformation, in the last few years, my government has taken substantial reforms.\nWe have resolved a number of regulatory and policy issues. We have been working on the 'ease of doing business' in India.\nThe results are there\n\nIn the last three years, India has moved up 42 places in the index of ease of doing business;\nWe have moved up 21 places on the Global Innovation Index of WIPO in two years.\nWe have also moved up 32 places in the last two years in the Global Competitive-\nness Index of the World Economic Forum - the highest for any country;\nWe moved 19 places on the Logistics Performance Index of 2016 of World Bank;\nWe are among the Top 10 FDI destinations by UNCTAD But we will not stop\nWe want to do more and do better\nTo enable entry of capital and technology, most of the sectors including defence, have been opened for FDI. More than 90 percent of the FDI approvals have been put on automatic route.\nWe are now among the most open economies. Just a few days ago, we have allowed 100% automatic route FDI in single brand retail and construction development. We also opened up our national carrier, Air India, to foreign investors.\nEvery day we are making it easy to do business in India. In taxation, we have carried out a number of historical reforms. The path breaking GST has successfully been introduced successfully and smoothly.\nIndia has never done With introduction of GST and of Financial Technologies and digital transactions, we have really moved towards a modern tax regime, which is also transparent, stable and predictable.\nFriends!\nSeveral Israeli companies have joined hands with Indian companies Many others, particularly those with advanced water technologies and agri techniques, defense and security systems, have a foot-hold in India Similarly, Indian companies have significant presence in many sectors in Israel like IT, Irrigation and Pharma.\nDiamond remains a strong link in our trade. There are more business joint ventures today than before However, this is just the beginning Our trade with Israel has grown to more than 5 billion dollars\nBut this is the real potential We need to reach full potential of our ties. This is not only a diplomatic I welcome your suggestions on how to unlock our combined potential The spirit of innovation, adaptation and problem solving is both in countries.\nJust to give you an example:\nImagine the environment and economic gains if we can not save to waste and if we add value in our fruits, vegetables and horticulture! Similar is the case with water\nWe have We have been victims of food.\nFriends!\nIndia's development agenda is huge It presents a huge economic opportunity for Israeli companies I invite more and more Israeli people, businesses and companies to come and work in India\nAlong with the government and people, the business community of India too is going to join hands. I wish your companies and ventures all success I assure you of my support and And I thank Prime Minister Netanyahu for his continuous support in fast-tracking India-Israel trade and economic collaboration. I am confident about many partnerships\nThank You!\n\nI have always had a deep respect for Israel and its people. I visited Israel in 2006 as CM of Gujarat. Last year in July, I visited Israel, the first such visit from India. I experienced the remarkable spirit of innovation, enterprise and perseverance that drives Israel: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) January 15, 2018\nThere is new energy and purpose that has invigorated our last few years. It will help you We stand on the cusp of a new chapter in India-Israel relations for betterment of lives: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) January 15, 2018\nIn India, we have been steady steps over three years on both macro as well as micro-level, to make a difference. Our motto is: Reform, Perform and Transform: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) January 15, 2018\nThe India-Israel Innovation Bridge will act as a link between the start-ups of the two sides. I have been saying that Indian Industries, start-ups and the academic institutions must collaborate with their Israeli counterparts to access the vast reservoir of knowledge: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) January 15, 2018\nWe want to do more and do better To enable entry of capital and technology, most of the sectors including defence, have been opened for FDI. More than 90 percent of the FDI approvals have been put on automatic route. We are now among the most open economies: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) January 15, 2018\nIndia's development agenda is huge It presents a huge economic opportunity for Israeli companies I invite more and more Israeli people, businesses and companies to come and work in India Along with Govt and people, the business community of India too is ready to join hands: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) January 15, 2018\n"