"Share\n\nSwami Vivekananda emphasized on brotherhood He believes that our wellbeing lies in the development of India: PM\nSome people are trying to divide the country and the youth Our youth will never be misguided: PM\nIndia has had many saints, who have served the society and reformed it: PM Modi\n'Seva Bhav' is a part of our culture. All over India, there are many individuals and organizations, selflessly serving society: PM\nMy best wishes to all of you on the occasion of birth anniversary of Vivekanand and National Youth Day Today, having seen this incredible sight of Belagavi, this grand view, everybody here has become immersed in spirit of Vivekanand. An all religion conference has also been organized here today. My best wishes for you too\nThe kind of enthusiasm I can see, has fused everyone's mind and consciousness into one Today, a world record has been created here\nAll these have become possible due to the blessings of reverence Siddhaling Maharaj Ji, Yallaling Lord Ji and Siddh Rameshwar Mahaswami Ji. The energy of their blessings I also feel that energy and blessing. Brothers and sisters, it has always been a pleasant experience for me. One can see a grand image of Ek Bharat - Shreshtha Bharat.\nOne rarely comes across a different place like this I salute all of you and also the land of Belagavi. It is the land of Queen Chenamma of Kittur, it is the land of great warrior Sangoli Rayanna who took over the British. Swami Vivekanand had stayed in Belagavi for ten days. He also stayed in the famous Mysore palace. From Mysore he went to Kerala and Tamil Nadu. He got a new inspiration in Kanyakumari and it was that inspiration that propelled him to Chicago and he won the love of whole world.\nThis year marks the completion of 125 years of Swami Vivekanand's Chicago address. I had specially gone to Chicago on the completion of 100 years of that speech. So many years passed since that speech, we are still feeling that 'oh! Swami Vivekanand Ji had said this thing, how correct he was! We do not remember to remember Vivekanand Ji, he is always present in our thoughts.\nVivekanand Ji had given a very powerful message on what should be a Indian. That mantra of the country Every single line of that mantra is full of power and inspiration. He said: 'O India, you do not know O brave, please say with pride that I am an Indian and every Indian is my brother. You say it is loud with pride: Every Indian is my brother and India is my life, India's land is my heaven and India's welfare is my welfare. 'Vivekanand like that. Vivekanand was fused with the spirit of India, he was completely one with the country. He considered India's happiness and sorrow as his own. He fought with every evil He demolished the wicked propaganda that projected India abroad as a country of snake charmers and jugglers. He has been promoted as India's reputation in the world. He had the courage to move forward with the knowledge, science, language, social reform and a progressive world.\nHe had the spirit of a fighter who fought against the social evils like the untouchability, discrimination and hypocrisy. This feeling made him the warrior ascetic Swami Vivekanand had raised his voice against the caste based discrimination during his visit from Colombo to Almora. He said bluntly: 'There is not anybody as great as you are in terms of knowledge and philosophy; Your behavior of this kind is extremely condemnable. 'Nobody probably can muster the courage even today to say those things with as much frankness as he had said about this 100-125 years ago.\nFriends, we have to change this environment, this mentality. If we were to follow Vivekanand then we would have given ourselves ourselves to caste based prejudice and discrimination. In the past decades, your own monastery has worked on eradicate every kind of caste based discrimination due to the inspiration from Siddhaling Maharaj Ji. You have been providing necessary assistance to the poor and marginalized sections of the society. People associated with your monastery have been receiving relief from floods from village to village. When the free medicines are distributed to the poor, when free medical camps are organized and food and clothes are distributed, do we worry about caste? No.\nWith great difficulty and the efforts of the people over the decades are going to be free from the shackles of casteism. However, some anti-social elements have set their heart on millions of people and millions of people like you. These people have been re-conspiring to divide the society in the name of caste. However, today's young generation India's youth can not be tricked Such youth who have vowed to end the casteism, evil social practices and superstition from the country are like Vivekanand. They are the symbol of India's new, brave, courageous and development oriented face.\nEvery such youth who has been pro-actively discharging his duty in nation building, who has been working for realizing the serious pledge for making a new India is a Vivekanand. Every person who has been dedicated to the service of the country in some agricultural field, some factory or some school or some college or in some of your lane or your locality is Vivekanand.\nThe one who has been taking forward the Clean India Mission, which has been providing digital literacy to people by visiting village is a Vivekanand. The one who has been working for the oppressed, for the oppressed, exploited and excluded person is a Vivekanand. The person who has been using his energy, ideas and innovations for the welfare of society is Vivekanand.\nFriends, last year a program - Smart India Hackathon was organized In this program more than 40,000 youth have come forward to provide digital solutions to nearly 600 problems of the country. For me all these people are like Vivekanands Millions of millions of ordinary people, the makers of a new India by the name of the ginger of India's soil inside them are our Vivekanands of modern times. I bow down to them, I bow down to every Vivekanand present in this program, I will bow down to every Vivekanand of our country.\nBrothers and sisters, in our country, which has a thousands of years old history, which has seen changes in the passage of times. However, some evils also crept up in the society.\nThis is the uniqueness of our society that whenever the kind of social evils crept in then the work of reforming the society itself started by a member of the society itself. This kind of great social reformers always put their services in the center. They only educated the society through their consciousness, speeches and deeds They explained the common man in his own simple language.\nIt was sort of a people's movement and the expansion of which was seen on a period of hundreds of years. This movement was strengthened in the South by the ideas of saints like Madhvacharya, Nimbarkacharya, Vallabhacharya, Ramanujacharya; and in the west by the ideas of Meerabai, Ekknath, Tukaram, Ramdas, Narsi Mehta; and in the north by the ideas of Ramanand, Kabirdas, Goswami Tulsidas, Surdas, Guru Nanakdev, Sant Raidas; and in the east of the ideas of Chaitnya Mahaprabhu and Shankar Dev. It's also a unique strength of our country that was never equated with religious movements. The balance between the three - knowledge, devotion and karma - has always been accepted in our country. In terms of knowledge, these saints always searched for the fundamental question 'who I am in the end'.\nDevotion was another name for dedication and works. It was the influence of many such saints that the country was able to move forward. During that period, in every part of the country, in every region and in every direction, our saints have tried to revive a social awakening by coming out of temples and monasteries. We can say with pride that India has such a great tradition, there have been great saints and preachers who have used their penance and knowledge for nation building.\nIn this series there have been countless great souls like Swami Dayanand Saraswati, Raja Ram Mohan Roy, Jyotiba Phule, Mahatma Gandhi, Baba Saheb Ambedkar, Baba Amte, Pandurang Shastri Athwale, Vinoba Bhave. These people made the service focal point of their activities and also carried out social reforms. Anything that has been done for them\nFriends, your monastery has also followed this tradtion of renunciation and service. Your monastery is also known as the unattached ascetics; unattached means free from any kind of temporal involvements When more than 360 of your monasteries spread, the best service to humanity is the best service to the mother earth.\nThis is a good example of that 'the god likes service to humanity'. The service has been given to our country and to be a feeling to serve. It is our tradition to make arrangements for providing food and shelter to the poor people. These arrangements were made by common people with the blessings of our hermits and ascetics. Even today this tradition is being kept alive in many villages and cites and it has been flourishing.\nBrothers and sisters, India has always spread the message of humanity, democracy, good governance and non-violence in the whole world India has not only adopted the democratic values ​​but also included them in its administrative system, a new approach as the top countries and world of great thinkers before the democracy looking at.\nLord Basaveswara had given the concept of democracy and equality to the world in the 12th century. He has developed a system named 'Anubhav Mandap' where people of all types, poor, oppressed, persecuted and excluded people. Everybody was equal to I was also fortunate that I got the opportunity to publicly dedicate the statue of Lord Basaveswara in Britain when I visited the country in 2015.\nI still remember that at that time then the Prime Minister of Britain had mentioned the Magna Carta. But, in a way, long before the Magna Carta, Lord Basweswara had introduced us to the first parliament.\nLord Basaweswara said: 'When there is no exchange of ideas, when there is no debate with logic even Anubhav Goshthi does not remain relevant, and where this kind of things take place God also does not live there.' He had described this exchange of thoughts and deliberation as powerful and as necessary Women were allowed to talk openly in the Mandap.\nWomen from every section of society used to express their ideas. Some of them were like those who were not even expected to come in the midst of the so called civilized society of that time but even those types of women used to come in Anubhav Mandap and express their ideas. It was a very significant effort for women empowerment in that era. I had been publicly dedicated to the translation of Lord Basaveswara's teachings in 23 languages ​​only last year.\nI hopeful that they have been helpful in conveying the message of Lord Basaveswara to the masses. I also salute the former Vice President of India Shri B.D. Jatti and also remember his contribution to the festival. I would like to specially mention Mr. Arvind Jatti\nFriends, I have been told that reverend Rameshwar Mahaswami Ji had resolved to once again start the Mandav. He wanted to install the monastery here. It's a great pleasure that his dream is realised under the leadership of Mr. Murugha Rajendra Mahaswami. The message of equalality will be spread in the country trough this experience Mandap. I would like to say, 'I will love you'\nFriends, when our country will celebrate 75 years of independence in 2022 then whether we will celebrate that occasion with our internal vices? No. All of us have pledged to make a New India Your contribution will make this route from realization to more easy. Whether you can make a serious commitment in the field of providing education to the daughters, or in the field of skill development of youth or in the field of cleanliness or in the field of digital literacy spreading or solar energy promoting?\nI am aware that you have already been working in such areas. However, whether a pledge can be made by setting a target? For example, can you make a pledge that support will be made for two or five thousand villages open defecation free in the next two years? Can a pledge be made that in the next two years there will be LED bulbs in every household of five thousand villages identified by you?\nFriends, the government has been working in all these sectors. However, you have a great role in generating awareness and in inspiring people. I am confident that when you people will step forward then the power of millions will help in realizing your resolutions.\nAt present, ten thousand Vivekanands have gathered in Belagavi, then the lakhs of them will gather Our social system will be further strengthened when your work is successful and the dream of Ek Bharat and Shreshtha Bharat and when the dream of a strong India that Swami Vivekanand had seen accomplished.\nI conclude my speech with these words Once again, all the saints present on the dais. Once again I convey my best wishes to all of you on the occasion of National Youth Day\nThank you very much\nSwami Vivekananda emphasised on brotherhood He believes that our wellbeing lies in the development of India: PM @narendramodi https://t.co/mH5WSFU7Je\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) January 12, 2018\nThere was a lot of propaganda against India in the western world that Swami Vivekananda proved wrong. He also raised against social evils: PM @narendramodi https://t.co/mH5WSFU7Je\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) January 12, 2018\nSome people are trying to divide the country and the youth Our youth will never become misled: PM @narendramodi https://t.co/mH5WSFU7Je\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) January 12, 2018\nIt is India's youth that is taking the Swachh Mission to new heights: PM @narendramodi https://t.co/mH5WSFU7Je\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) January 12, 2018\nIndia has many saints, who have served the society and reformed it: PM @narendramodi https://t.co/mH5WSFU7Je\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) January 12, 2018\nService is a part of our culture All over India, there are many individuals and organizations, selflessly serving society: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) January 12, 2018\nLet us work to make our nation ODF: PM @narendramodi https://t.co/mH5WSFU7Je"