"\nPM Narendra Modi addresses the National Youth Day in Greater Noida via video conferencing\nOur ISRO scientists have made us proud yet again, ISRO today created a century in satellite launching: PM\nPM Narendra Modi says, 'Our strides in space will help our citizens \u0026 improve our development journey'\nPeople say today's youth do not have patience, in a way this factor is a cause behind their innovation: PM\nI had called to organize mock parliaments in our districts, such mock parliaments will further the spirit of discussion among our youth, says the PM\nFirst of all I wish to congratulate all the nationmen on one more important achievement of our scientists ISRO has successfully launched PSLV-C40 sometime ago.\nPSLV has installed total 31 satellites in the space including a satellite of Cartosat-2 series. 28 satellites are of foreign countries. Today, ISRO has made one more record. It has scored a century of satellite launches.\nISRO's success today will help the country's farmers, fishermen and scientists in the ground level information. This will be a success.\nOnce again I extend my best wishes to ISRO and its scientists who have always been proud to be the country's economic developer.\nOur scientists have given an invaluable gift to the country in the New Year and on the occasion of birth anniversary of Vivekananda and National Youth Day.\nFriends, I really want to talk to people,\nThis mini-India has gathered in Greater Noida, it's presenting a grand view of Ek Bharat and Shreshtha Bharat (One India and Great India), I want to have a audience with this mini-India in person.\nHowever, due to some engagements, I am getting connecting\nI want to make a complete request about this kind of programs i.e. what all happened in the program, what issues were discussed and what was the outcome if I am not able to reach this kind of program in person. I will try to collect all the issues here.\nFriends! National Youth Festival is getting started today. I wish, I have won the National Youth Awards\nI've been told that a lot of programs will be organized here in the next four days. National Youth Parliament will also be organized This time in Mann Ki Baatprogramme has mooted the idea of ​​organizing a mock parliament in every district of the country. In a way, this is in series of that idea.\nThis is a great opportunity to deliberate and make pledges on the issues of a new India. This is the 22nd festival and I would expect that in your deliberations this issue should also be discussed when the 25th youth festival will be celebrated then what kind of pledges will be made? Where will we reach by preparing a roadmap?\nSimilarly, when the country will celebrate 75 years of its independence in 2022, then in the youth festival will be celebrated. You people should also discuss this thing I am hopeful that whatever experiences you will get in these four days will be the rest of your life, which will give you direction for the rest of your life.\nMy young friends, this time the theme for youth festival is: getting success by making pledge You must have heard these words many times in the last 6-7 months. Sankalp Se Siddhi (Success by making pledges), what it is all about?\nIt's a mobile app that is running, running and running. That is why today I would talk about the pledge and its realization in great detail.\nWhat is 'pledge' all about? What is to be achieved?\nFriends, our country will complete 75 years of its independence in 2022. You had read about freedom struggle in books only. I myself have heard or read about I can not differently\nMy young friends, we had not participated in the freedom struggle so it's our responsibility to realize those dreams that dream of those freedom fighters.\nIt is the responsibility of all of us to fulfill the dream of making them that our brave freedom fighters used to dream when British police used to lash them and they used to suffer all kinds of tortures in those dark jail cells. When we will imagine those dreams, those concepts then we will be able to make a pledge for making their dreams What kind of India will be, this New India will be? When you people go to the bed tonight after participating in the day long programs\nYou should reflect on what you are changing\nWhat is that thing about which you always think which is not right When you were coming here by train or when you were in school, college or in the house or were in your locality and then you have thought that something is not right and it has changed, you must know that issue today night as well. You should reflect on those issues, that should remember you Vivekananda Ji and I can say this thing with confidence that whatever you have experienced, whatever thing has happened to you, and you have to think about that thing changing and if you can connect with that thing tonight then that will will become your confidential pledge Tonight, on the 12th of January, those issues will become your religious pledges. That thing will not be your pledge for sharing with others or for the gaining any publicity but it will be your solemn pledge to yourself and it will start for that work again tomorrow morning\nFriends, the university campus where you are present is named after Gautam Buddha.\nThe city where you are present - Greater Noida - it is also Gautam Buddha Nagar and hence I will share a small story related to Gautam Buddha. It's a small incident, not a big one\nOnce a disciple of Lord Buddha asked him, whether he would have been able to achieve salvation. Lord Buddha replied - No, only a few will get it.\nSome will not get the salvation The disciple asked why was so? Then the Lord said only those who will be properly understood his teachings will be able to attain the salvation and rest of them will be wandering.\nFriends, you will get the same knowledge from the same teacher but how do you get that, what kind of pledges you make yourself these things will be your success or failure.\nLook, both Pandavas and Kauravas had the same Guru.\nBoth of them got the same kind of education It was because of the values ​​of Kauravas and Pandavas were different. You will meet a lot of people who will guide you in your journey of life but you will decide that after getting knowledge of path you will have to follow, what kind of pledges you have to make\nThis is the essence of Gautam Buddha's philosophy of AppaDeepoBhav. Become your own lamp Nobody will be able to make a pledge\nNobody will be reminded Whatever you have to do, you will have to do yourself\nBrothers and sisters, Swami Vivekananda used to say that a 'youth is who works in the direction of his future. Whatever the young people like you do today, that thing will determine the direction of the future Therefore, you will make today, those projects will be made after realization.\nThere was a famous lyricist in Uttar Pradesh, he had written a lot in films - his name is ShrimanMazroohSultanpuri One of his couplets is:\n'I started off alone towards my destination but the people kept joining and it turned into a caravan.'\nFriends, everybody will have started off alone at some point of time or the other.\nIf you have a clear conscience, if you have a clear objective and strong determination then people will automatically start getting associated with you Today, I have the same expectation from you that you should not wait before taking your first step, you should not wait before making a new start after a serious pledge, and you should just make a serious pledge and start off.\nThe whole government, the whole country is in your side I would like that those young people who want to do something on their own, who want to realize their dreams, they will get every kind of help\nWhen they start off then they should not worry about the bank guarantee, they should not worry about tax liability and they should not worry about the crowd of paper work.\nI hope that the youth of my country will become job creator, it should come forward for innovation and that is why this direction is continuous.\nFriends, our government has approved loans to 10 crore borrowers under Prime Minister Mudra Scheme A figure of 10 crore is very huge.\nThese people had given loans worth Rs. 4 lakh crore without any bank guarantee. Just imagine, a amount of Rs. 4 lakh crore has been disbursed to these people without any bank guarantee, without asking how these loans will be repaid.\nPeople have started their own businesses in villages, in cities and in rural areas. They have been realizing their dreams These people, these small and medium entrepreneurs are now becoming the employment providers.\nBrothers and sisters, there is only one basis for this massive scheme of the government. We are confident that when the youth of this country determines something then he can do wonders. These types of youth are full of energy. Someone is producing electricity from the small waterfalls in mountains, someone is producing electricity from waste and someone else is producing the material from the waste material, someone is providing health services in villages by using technology, and someone else has set up a food processing. unit in his farm. These types of millions of young people have been working for nation building.\nYou have courage and you also have the courage That is why the government is making efforts A little bit of support and rest\nFriends, the government is paying attention to this thing that people can get skill training as per the requirement of modern times.\nThis is the first time that any government has shown this kind of seriousness. Otherwise earlier people used to become silent.\nBrothers and sisters, just reading this thing in the books that is how to fly a plane and understanding it's finer details in the book is education. However, flying in real life is skill. If someone just gets the education but no skills then it's difficult to get employment\nThat is why we have been moving forward by focusing on skill development. It has been ensured that youths are skilled in addition to getting education.\nMillions of youths have been trained under the Skill India Mission. The Government has been setting up Prime Minister Skill Development Centers across the country. India International Skill Centers have also been set up. The work is being started for hundreds of multi-skill training institutes. This is the first time when the financial support is granted to those companies. A part of the apprenticeship amount paid by the companies to students reimbursed by the government.\nUnder the national apprenticeship scheme more than 7 lakhs The government has given a target of providing apprenticeship training to 50 lakh youths in the next two-three years. The work to provide training to youth under the Prime Minister Youth Scheme has more than three thousand institutes.\nIt is the effort of the government to provide training to the youth, as per the requirement of our industry. The skills of people are also being developed while keeping the needs of foreign countries in the mind.\nFriends, I have full faith in the youth, I have full faith in the power of youth power, in the energy of young people of the country If the dreams of the country\nThat is why we have been focusing on our attention on that.\nFriends, some people say that today's youth is impatient. But I say that the new generation\nThere should be patience in life, impatient life is also not correct but this kind of patience is also not required that a person can not think about new things and the life becomes stagnant. There is a lack of patience that is why today's youth has been working on a rapid pace, they are innovating and also producing results.\nYour innovations are related to social issues, it is Clean India Mission or BetiBachao-BetiPadhao project or be it Waste to Wealth. Nobody can have a better understanding than you The government has started this innovation in mind. Emphasis has been placed on making an eco-system for innovation in the schools and colleges of the country. Establishment of approximately 2,500 atal tinkering labs across the country has been approved for the scientific temper in the students and also to provide the right direction to their creativity.\nAtal Incubation Centers have been set up to promote the innovation-entrepreneurship in sectors like manufacturing, transport, energy, agriculture, water and sanitation. These centers will provide financial assistance to start-ups and also guide them in the right direction.\nBrothers and sisters, the start-up program is very important in the country. The government has set up a start-up fund with a quantity of Rs. 10,000 crore\nCredit guarantee and tax exemptions are the new start-ups. Government is providing legal assistance to them so that they can get their innovations patented I am giving you this information because this information will help you get ahead of your colleges.\nToday, whatever resolutions you people will make this information will help you inrealising them. No one will stop you from your company or your start-up. At that time you will get help from these initiatives of the government\nBrothers and sisters, it is not necessary that they get the facilities Today, so many foreign companies are being managed by the youth who went from India. They are presidents, chairman and CEOs of those companies They have left their indelible impressions on these companies. Have they gone straight to reach? No. Have they gone straight to the lines of politics? No. They have hard hard They have struggled\nThey had their dreams, and they had shed the sweat day and night only then they had reached there\nIndian youths have the ability that wherever they have gone they are brought here for the country and for themselves. You have seen that just two days ago Anchal Thakur has won the first international medal for India so far in the sports of skiing. A few days ago Manushi Chihalar had brought laurels for the country\nI believe that those six girls who have reached the circumnavigate the world. These are different voyages of achieving successes by making pledges and they have been encouraged for everyone.\nFriends, today, I will also urge you to make a living\nRajyavardhanji is present on the dais now and I believe that he is a minister later but first he is an Olympian, and a wonderful shooter.\nEven other, our courageous, go-getter young chief minister Shriman Yogi is not a sportsperson. These days a lot of people in many states have failed I have seen that our yogi has been playing twitter-twitter in these days and he has had a lot of experts in the field. Anyway, if I focus on sports onlythen sport, in a way, is a medium for getting education which not only makes the body energetic but which also revives your mind We learn discipline from sports\nPlayground Playgrounds teach us to work hard What is the meaning of team spirit? Whether we win or lose but sportsmen spirit that we learn in the playground that remains in our lives. That is why I say that: who played, they flourished as well You people should play hard and flourish abundantly\nYou should also include Yoga in your life along with sports. I have been told that you can do Yoga daily in this youth festival. You people should go back with this practice You will become physically and mentally strong due to Yoga\nMy friends, please come and expand your personality.\nIn this young festival your friends are those who have come from different states, you should talk to them a lot, please understand them and their languages, understand their eating habits and their way of living.\nMy experience suggests that whatever you will like in the youth festival, these things will remain with you, the rest of your life for the people you use.\nFriends, this is also a solution that will help to achieve Ek Bharat and Shreshtha Bharat (One India and Great India).\nFriends, our respected ShrimanAtalBihari Vajpayee Ji used to say: 'We have to take the journey of our public life to the pinnacle of success, our efforts shoulder to shoulder, work together by steps and India of future our hard work. '\nPlease come forward, all of us together, youth of the country by working together, and 1.25 billion people should work extremely hard together in our building and we should make a new India.\nSwami Vivekananda, and also the path shown by him, the path of social harmony, the path for getting rid of the concept of superior and inferior. was shown by him, the path of living and dying for the country which was shown by him, and on the occasion of birth anniversary of such a great soul I conclude my speech with these wishes that people will be with the inspiration, determination of youth\nThank you very much"