"Share\n\nPrime Minister Narendra Modi\nIn which whichever part of the world Indians went, they not only retained their Indianness but also the life of that country: PM\nAspirations of India's youth and their optimism about the country are at the highest levels: PM Modi\nIndia, with its rich values ​​and traditions, has the power to lead and guide the world dealing with instability: PM Modi\nAt a time when the world is divided by ideologies, India believes in the message of 'Sabka Sath, Sabka Vikas': PM\nMy best wishes to all of you on the occasion of Pravasi Bhartiya Day. In this tradition of Pravasi Divas, this first Pravasi parliamentary conference is a new chapter today. I extend warm welcome to all the friends who have come from North America, South America, Africa, Europe, Asia, Pacific region and also from all corners of the world.\nWelcome to India! Welcome Home!\nYour forecasts, your old memories are connected Some of your forecasts went abroad for business and education. Some of them were forcibly taken out of the country while some others were taken out They have been left to their body, their mind on this land And that is why when you land on any airport of India then those parts of their souls feel happy\nAt that time your throat gets choked, some emotions want to express themselves in the form of tears. You people try your best to control the outpouring of those emotions but you do not succeed Your eyes become moist due to tears but they also lit up due to your visit to India I can understand your feelings This love, this love, this respect, the scent of air of this place, that smell of this land, I bow down to that land. We all can imagine how happy your fathers would be today by seeing you here today. Wherever they may be, they will be the happiest to see\nFriends,\nIndia never went out of the hearts of those people They kept alive Indian civilization and values ​​in whichever part of the world they settled. And it's not surprising that wherever people of Indian origin settled they adopted that place as their home by fully integrating with it.\nWhile on the one hand they kept alive Indian values ​​within themselves, and on the other they fully integrated themselves with the language, with that country of food and attires.\nPeople of Indian origin have left their impressions in the fields of sports, arts and cinema on global platform. If I talk about politics then I can see that a mini-world Today, the people of Indian origin are Prime Ministers of Mauritius, Portugal and Ireland. People of Indian origin have occupied the offices of heads of state and heads of government in many countries. It is a great honor for us that the former President of Guyana Shri Bharat Jagdev is present today with us. All of the countries you've played\nFriends,\nIndia - the motherland of your ancestors are proud of you Your achievements and successes are a matter of pride and respect for us. When the media reports are the news of you people, you can also get an office or even news of filing of nomination by you people then it has a great readership and viewership in India. How are you people affecting the geo politics of the whole region, how you people have been working in the respective countries of the policies, the people of India, these stories are great interest. They also discussed these developments here: look, one of us has occupied that high office. You people deserve praise for this happiness, for making us proud.\nBrothers and sisters,\nYou have been living in different countries You would have experienced that in the last three-four years that the approach about India has changed. There is a greater focus about India; the attitude of the world The main reason behind this thing is that India itself is changing, it has been transforming itself. And in addition to the changes in economic and social levels, this change has also come as the level of ideas as well. India has come a long way from this kind of thinking that: 'nothing will change; It will continue to run. nothing is going to happen. ' This time the hopes and expectations of Indians are at the highest level. You will see a complete transformation in the systems; You will see the impact of an irreversible change in every sector.\nIndia received a unprecedented FDI of $ 60 billion in 2016\nEase of Doing Business Ranked improved by 42 notches in the last 3 years.\nWe have scaled 32 notches in the World Economic Forum's Global Competitiveness Index in the last 2 years.\nOur Global Innovation Index has improved by 21 notches in the last 2 years.\nLogistics Performance Index has improved by 19 points\nToday, institutions like the World Bank, IMF and Moody's have been looking at India in a very positive manner.\nMore than half of total investment in the sectors like construction, air transport, mining, computer - software and hardware, electrical equipments have been in the last 3 years alone.\nIndian economy in every sector of education Our guiding principle is: 'Reform to transform'. Our goal is to make the whole system transparent and accountable. Our objective is to completely eradicate the corruption\nFriends,\nWe have abolished the web of hundreds of tax in the country through the GST - Goods and Services Tax - and integrated the country economically. There is not a single sector like Mining, Fertilisers, Textiles, Aviation, Health, Defense, Construction, Real Estate, and Food Processing, which we have not brought in reforms.\nFriends,\nToday, India is the youngest country of the world Youth have unlimited dreams and expectations The government has constantly been working so that they can channelize their energy into the right field, so that they can do their own business on their own.\nSchemes like Skill India Mission, Start up Scheme, Stand up Scheme and Mudra Scheme More than 10 crore loans have been sanctioned under the Mudra scheme for self-employment. More from Rs. 4 lakh crore have been disbursed to people This scheme alone has provided 3 crore new entrepreneurs to the country. The government has increased the investment in the infrastructure and transport sectors by keeping the requirements of the 21st century in mind. This thing has been given special importance in the policy. What kind of logistics will need in future? Highways, Railways, Airways, Waterways and Ports are being developed in such a manner so that they are connected to each other.\nFriends,\nToday, new railway tracks in India have been placed at twice the speed. Doubling of tracks has been taking place at more than twice the speed. National highways have built at twice the speed More than double new renewable energy\nWhile the cargo handling growth in the shipping industry was negative, it has registered a growth of 11%. New employment opportunities are due to all these efforts Small scale industries are getting new work at local level. For example, if you talk about Ujjwala scheme then it is not limited to providing free gas connections to poor women. This scheme has given relief from kitchen smoke to more than three crore women Kerosene free but also has one more advantage too New cooking gas dealers have been appointed and the number of gas delivery men have gone up after the launch of Ujjwala scheme. It means that in addition to social reforms the economic empowerment of society is also taking place.\nBrothers and sisters,\nOur culture which is the world When I have gone to the United Nations for the first time then I have put forward the proposal. All of you are aware that not only in 75 days this proposal was cleared unanimously but it was co-sponsored by 177 countries. Today, the way millions and people around the world celebrate 21st June as Yoga Day, it's a matter of pride for you and for us\nThis method of holistic living is a gift of rich traditions of India\nFriends\nI, along with the President of France, has proposed to form an International Solar Alliance on the Climate Agreement. Now it has become reality We have been making a global platform for solar technology and financing.\nThis method of living by maintaining balance with the nature is very important.\nBrothers and sisters,\nWhen an earthquake struck Nepal or when there was a flood in Sri Lanka or when there was a shortage of water in Maldives then India reached there as the first responder.\nWhen there was a crisis in Yemen then we safely evacuated our 4,500 citizens, but we also evacuated 2,000 citizens of 48 other countries\nProtecting the human values ​​even the times of grave crisis is part of Indian tradition.\nFriends,\nIn 2018, it will be 100 years of World War I. More than 1.5 lakh Indian soldiers have sacrificed their lives in the first and second world wars. And it was when India was not directly involved with those wars. India did not have any interest in any country in both world wars. The world will have to recognize that a great sacrifice was made by India And this tradition has continued even after the independence India is one among those nations who make the maximum contribution to UN peacekeeping forces. This is India's message of sacrifice\nThis relation of self-interest, this feeling of service and relation is our identity.\nIndia has a special acceptance in the world And along with India, the society of people of Indian origin, you also have a special acceptance.\nFriends,\nWhenever I visit any country then I always try to meet people in that country. And I was fortunate enough to meet you And the biggest reason behind my efforts is that if there are any permanent ambassadors for promoting India's relations then they are the people of Indian origin. It is our constant effort that we should be in regular touch with non-residents and their problems.\nEarlier there was a separate ministry for overseas Indians but we received the feedback from non-residents that there was a problem of coordination with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We merged both the ministries in one after getting feedback from you people You will be aware that there were two distinct schemes - PIO and OCI and most of the people did not know about the distinction between the two. We simplified the process and created one scheme by merging them.\nOur Minister of External Affairs, Sushma Swaraj Ji, not only keeps an eye on the problems of Indian citizens but she also keeps an eye on the people of Indian origin 24x7, you will find her very active. Under his leadership, Minister of External Affairs has created a Madad portal for real time monitoring and extending help for consular complaints. At present, Pravasi Bhartiya Day has been organized in every alternate year. In addition to this, the regional Pravasi Bhartiya Das has also been organized. Sushma ji is just coming back after participating in such a conference in Singapore.\nBrothers and sisters,\nToday, the building in which we are all present, this building has been dedicated to all of you - the people of Indian origin on the 2nd of October 2016. It is a great pleasure that in such a short span of time this center has emerged as an Indian I will urge you people that you should visit the exhibition on the life of Mahatma Gandhi which has been organized here.\nWe have seen the results of the efforts aimed at connecting with the minds of overseas Indians in the quiz competition - Know India More than 5,700 overseas Indian youths of over hundred countries participated in the competition. Their enthusiasm and attraction for India is very encouraging for all of us While getting inspiration from them, this year was also a big scale.\nFriends,\nIndia also gets your contribution in your respective countries. India's progress and development We consider overseas Indians as our partners in our efforts. Overseas Indians have been assigned a special place in the action agenda for India's development till 2020 by Niti Aayog.\nBrothers and sisters,\nOverseas Indians have had many ways for contributing to India's developmental journey. India is the largest recipient of overseas remittances in the world\nWe are indebted to every Indian living abroad for this important contribution in India's economy. There is one more way for investing in Indian economy. Today, if India is the most attractive destination for FDI in the world then the contribution of overseas Indians in creating awareness and facilitating this thing is immense. I think that given the importance that you people enjoy in your society In this context, the Diaspora of people of Indian origin can be immensely contributing in promoting the tourism.\nFriends,\nCEOs and leaders of some of the world's companies They fully understand India's economy That is why we are grateful to them for their strong faith in India's developmental journey. Today, every Indian settled abroad considers him a stake-holder in India's growth. And they want to be a part in this change; They want to shoulder their responsibility They want to see more of their country on the global stage. We know about the importance of your business A Scheme called VAJRA means Visiting Assistant Joint Research Faculty has been started.\nYou can work in Indian institutions for up to three months under this scheme.\nToday, I appeal to all you from this platform that you want to associate yourself with this scheme and also encourage Indians to get your partner. You will also feel good when your experience will benefit young generation of India Nobody else has the kind of capacity that you have introduced to India's requirements.\nThe values ​​of Indian civilization and culture can guide the whole world in this chaotic environment. The concerns over the health And you can tell the world about your old tradition of holistic living. In such a time when the world community is getting divided in different ideologies and at different levels you can give the example of India's inclusive philosophy of Sabka Sath - Sabka Vikas (All with development) When the concerns over extremism and radicalization are on the rise in the world then you can reiterate Indian culture's message of 'amity between all religions.\nFriends,\nAll of you are aware that in 2019 a Kumbh Fair will be organized in Prayag-Allahabad. It is also a matter of pride for all of us that recently Kumbh fair was included in the UNESCO's Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity list. Uttar Pradesh government has started its preparations on a comprehensive scale. I'd like to urge you people that when you visit India next year then you should be ready to pay a visit to Prayag. If you tell other people in your country about this grand event then they will also be aware about this legacy of Indian culture.\nBrothers and sisters,\nThe world is facing some big challenges and in order to overcome the ideas of Gandhi Ji is still relevant. Any dispute can be solved by following the path of non-violence and passive resistance. If there is any ideology that can counter extremism and radicalization then it is the ideology of Gandhi Ji; it's the ideology of Indian values\nFriends,\nWe want to move forward by joining hands with you in a successful India and for realizing the dream of a New India. In this conference we want to get benefit from your experience We want to inform you about the development of a new India. Wherever you may be, whichever country you live in, we want to become a partner in your developmental journey.\nFriends,\nThe 21st century is called Asian century. And India will certainly have an important role in it. Wherever you may be living, you will feel the effect of this role, will feel the impact of growing stature of India We will be encouraged to work even harder when your heads are held\nBrothers and sisters,\nIndia is the country which has always played a positive role in the global arena. We have never assessed our policy towards any country on the scale of profit and loss but we have seen it human values ​​of the prism.\nOur model for giving development aid is not based on give and take But it depends on the requirements and priorities of recipient countries. We have no intention of exploiting anybody's resources nor do we want any country's territory. Our focus has always been on building and resource development. On every platform, we have made efforts to move forward by taking it on a bilateral or multilateral platform, be it the Commonwealth or India-Africa Forum Summit or be it Forum for India-Pacific Islands Cooperation.\nWe have given them a strong relationship with ASEAN countries by taking forward our relations. The world will be able to see how strong India-ASEAN relations are a few days from now\nFriends,\nIndia has been supporter of happiness, peace, prosperity, democratic values, inclusiveness, cooperation and brotherhood in the whole world. These are the same values ​​that connect you with your people. This is our attempt and it is our commitment as well that the world will continue to prosper for the world, peace and prosperity in the world.\nFriends,\nOnce again I express my heartfelt gratitude to you for accepting our invitation and for taking time out from your busy schedule in this conference. I am confident that this conference will be successful I hope that I will get another opportunity to meet you in the next day.\nThank you very much"