"\nOnce the people of India decide to do something, nothing is impossible: PM Modi\nBanks were nationalized but that did not give the poor access to these banks. We changed that through Jan Dhan Yojana: PM\nAll round and inclusive development is essential. Even in the states with strong development indicators there would be areas which would require greater push for development: PM\nServing in less developed districts may not be glamorous but it will give an important platform to make a positive difference: PM Modi\nFriends, this is the beginning of the year 2018. My best wishes to you all! This is the first official program in this building. It was inaugurated on 7th December 2017, but this marks the first official program which is being organized in this building. But I am glad that this is a great man whose ideas and thoughts have been discussed at global level. The significance of the on-going program in this building increases manifold because Babasaheb had been battling for Social Justice throughout his life.\nOur Constitution also provides a Framework for those requirements. Now Social Justice is not limited to just one social order. An area In such a situation only one village or one entity does not remain backward but this injustice is being done to the people as well. as their facilities, rights, opportunities and every such thing is being compromised. Therefore, 115 districts will become a part of every effort to achieve systematic solutions of Babasaheb Ambedkar's social justice for their development. So, in that sense, I believe that the first program in this building is a masterpiece.\nYou have been discussing and debating for the past 2 days. I can say that something is impossible in our country Even after the nationalization of banks, the system remained inaccessible to about 30 crore people But once this country is determined that whatever has happened is the story of the past and now this is not acceptable, the opening of Jan-Dhan accounts is a mass movement so that the person in the remotest corner of the country realizes that he has become a part of the mainstream This very country, the government and the people have proven this fact and that too within the time limit\nThere should be toilets; programs were being implemented; budget allocations were made; Reported and progress made We used to be satisfied on knowing that we have progressed 5 steps or 6 steps or 7 steps. We used to solve the problems The lack of toilets and problem of sanitation led to dropout of girls from schools. Real time monitoring under 4 million more schools in the toilet making of the same team and system achieved the average of the previous average. Everyone had uploaded photographs and anyone could verify them. This very country and this very government system has proven itself\nWhen it came to providing electricity to 18000 villages in 1000 days, the officers said that on the normal course it would take 5 to 7 years to complete. But once they accepted this as a challenge, the same team with the same set of rules, system and techniques successfully carried out the work of 18,000 villages in a time bound manner.\nSoil testing was a new topic and the farmer was not familiar with these things. Moreover he did not know anything about the benefits. But once they were told that soil testing should be done and soil health card should be made and the soil should be analyzed, the same system, same set of people, same team decided to accomplish it. I was told that the target would be achieved before time as per one report.\nWith these examples I want to tell you all that we have immense potential We are leading the system in the age of immense possibilities and we can give birth to a number of achievements. I am gaining experience; Learning and my beliefs are growing stronger We worry about the pending things I believe that every government at some point of time would have felt the pain of having a low 'ease of doing business' score. Everybody has never thought about this way? How long will we stay behind in the world? Today it is indispensable for India to position itself in the global order. There is no other option The attraction towards India could be changed into a chance.\nWith that belief the hurdles on the way of ease of doing business were identified and new paths were charted. A small workshop was organized systematically and the chief ministers and chief executives were called and sensitized. The department came up with new solutions; a lot of homework done and rolled out Consequently, no other country than India had the opportunity to make such a big leap in the ranking of ease of doing business. In the year 2014 our rank was 142 which improved to 100 in 2017. We moved forward by 42 ranks How was this possible? It was not because of an editorial page or a politician's photograph on TV or because of a splendid speech by a politician. This was possible only because of your efforts, hard work and dedication; by you So my belief has been strengthened and I believe that we can solve the problems of the causes. Things that are imposed can also be accomplished, but with half-hearted efforts The things done with half-hearted efforts are lifeless and do not have any results.\nYou are those people who have gone through the same circumstances; You are the makers of today but an gap of 15, 20 or 25 years has been created. Today the world has transformed, the aspirations of the people have changed; The system has changed and the system has changed. You know you have gone through the same situations What should I do? Will I not be able to fulfill those dreams which I had taken to Mussoorie at that time? 5 or 7 years later, such responsibilities may change and I will not be able to satisfy them.\nToday is one of the greatest opportunities What do you think? What does your experience say? How do your experience be prioritized while creating a roadmap? I could see all your features in your presentation. I can say that the person is well aware of the fact that everything else is fine, the budget is fine but the root cause of the problem is somewhere else If someone solves this problem then a new pathway can be opened up\nToday I could feel the clarity of your presentation. I could feel the faith and conviction in your presentation and your self-confidence. I was not only looking at the person who was making the presentation. I could see a spark in the eyes of everyone. I could see the 'New India'.\nSo it is a collective sentiment. It is the perfect way beforehand. I have worked in public life and I have spent many years in my life.\nEven in our schools, our teacher used to teach us first of three hours exams in the first easy-to-end questions and then after the difficult ones. As a result we have developed that mindset. In this process did not reach and the sick Therefore, we are able to live in our comfort zone. If a department feels the need of showing some work, to achieve some all India target in agriculture or MSME or any industry, some sincere people are selected who are pushed to work and the department of average is good. Thus, there are some people who work on overburdened with work and the national level goals and figures in this way.\nWhen I was the Chief Minister, initially I did not get any benefits. When the Planning Commission existed our turn used to come at the end. But I had learned this technique So I used to be conscious in the month of January as to which departments did not use the budget I used to identify the departments that were struggling to use their allocated budget amount. I used to send the gaps I noticed that whatever I did not achieve in the beginning was later later and that too in greater quantity. This is the people who have the habit of performing We should come out of the old mind-set Adding two teaspoon of sugar to a sweet tea will not make much of a difference as sugar will be consumed; But if sugar is added to a sugarless tea, it will be a sweet experience indeed. Therefore, in our attempt to focus on 115 districts, efforts are being made. Even in a well-developed state, one or other district is backward As a result even psychologically it affects For example, if an officer gets enrolled in a backward district, everyone else starts pointing out, \"Oh! You got this district! \" Such a district can never grab opportunities Officers and teachers Pass time and try to move out of that place The government too keeps quiet and accepts the way It avoids taking action or punishment A psychology of just passing the time develops Consequently, the districts remain in the same place without any improvement. The experts of development sciences know that the state which is developing looks good initially but gradually after a point like areas pulling down the not-so-developed regions. In that case, it becomes hard to control the situation which may take 5 to 7 years. One should not let this saturation point to be reached when it becomes extremely difficult for the backward regions to catch up with the developed ones as that state can never develop in that case.\nOne way to change Now you have formed many strategies Problems of every district India is full of diversity Every one has its unique issues Every one also has its own opportunities Is it possible to achieve the targets by focussing on low hanging fruits based on five or six parameters? This is important because as per the experience, you may have experienced by and large in these regions, even if you are extremely enthusiastic, committed and dedicated, you will find some people in your office to say demotivate - 'there is no point working here, nothing will change, you are wasting your time, you are new to us unaware ' They will shower you with such knowledge So, to change the psychology, Success stories build their confidence - yes this is possible! Your foremost strategy should be turned into the pessimistic mind-set to a optimistic system. What can you do? Like, I have suggested one way of achieving the low hanging fruits immediately. You only do the work and achieve the targets.\nThe second task is not so easy - mass movement. Initiating a mass movement By and large, there is always a sparking point for potentialities in a negative way; but to create a mass movement 'Meeting of mind' is extremely important. Gradually a single layer, then double layers, and multiple layers will develop to a team and a system where your ideas will become the ideas of your team. Ultimately what was the purpose of this two-day workshop? This was it. There should be a perfect alignment of the ideas and thoughts of the Indian government and you all. A meeting point has been decided by negotiating. 'Meeting of mind' needs to be made only after will click\nThis is a two-day exercise that does not show anything at all. It was also possible They also wanted to incorporate the experiences that you have done. So, this workshop has its own greatness. Can you get a tehsil in your district? Can a district be chalked out? This program churns that kind of thinking What can happen? What are our capabilities? What are our limitations? But if adopt a casual attitude then you will not be able to convince people He could not find it interesting\nSuppose there is a person locked inside a room He takes his hands out People out People are standing in a queue to shake hands You tell me what will happen? Try to imagine There is a person locked inside a room with only the hands out through a hole on a door and you have to stand in a queue to shake hands. You can imagine what will happen But if you are told that the person inside the locked room is Sachin Tendulkar, the scenario suddenly change. The way of shaking hands will also change Just look at the power of information If the people you want to get involved in your work is well informed You can imagine how your third generation will feel proud of it They will start associating themselves with it\nPublic participation-it is not possible Swachh Bharat Mission - Media has played a very positive role with visible impacts The team has made it from top to bottom. It has made a natural impact and consequently everyone is contributing in his or her way and feeling. You must have seen that children of the core of success of Swachh Bharat Abhiyan They have turned out to be ambassadors of the program. Even in their homes the kids stop their grandfathers from littering. They say 'Modi ji is prohibited that act' This strength of messaging brings the change Is it appropriate to say about 'malnutrition' or should we say about 'nutrition'? Shall we call it a backward district or an aspirational district? This is an impact on the psychology.\nWe should make our vocabulary positive This too is a cause for developing a positive mind-set. You can automatically report this activity in your surroundings. I want to know He had this typical habit He was older Now the people of Gujarat in particular and the country in general have this habit of inquiring about a person's well-being on a meeting. So if someone used to enquire about his health while meeting he used to retort - 'I have problems with my sleep ....' So on and so forth. In a way it used to be used by him. Those who know who you know him well once decided in a practical way that whenever we will meet him we will start our conversation in a positive way: 'wow! You look great! Looks like you are in your best of health! ' Suddenly there was a glow on his face. The situation changed His pessimistic attitude had gone gone Our conversations should be Which one will work: malnutrition or nutrition? You will find the right direction. For example, the word ASHA worker is itself loaded with too much strength and positivity. That lady is working there Whatever he does, the people get hopeful of positive outcomes\nSuch narratives will be different for different languages A single word is not used Secondly, talking of malnutrition, can we have a poetry competition on nutrition? Now you all feel that how Modi's poetry competition leads to nutrition? But see, in schools Can we have programs organized on nutrition? I clearly remember, once I attended a 15 minute program conducted by children of Anganwadi. One child played the role of a tomato, another of a carrot and yet another of a cabbage and delivered their dialogues - like I am a carrot and these are my benefits. In this way, all the children came to know about the benefits of carrots and were encouraged to consume carrots. Before the child never touched carrots But after the program itself the child himself started demanding carrots - 'Mother I will eat carrots' What I mean to say is that people who are involved in mass movements through slogan competitions? In the beginning, the result of Nutrition may not be visible but gradually it will gain momentum.\nNow suppose we meet some influential people of an area and ask them to cook meals and serve some of the special occasions like birthday, marriage anniversary or death anniversary, get 70-80 days in a year here. They will be satisfied with anganwadi children You can see a positive change in the environment.\nIf we talk about school dropouts, sometimes tour programs What type of activities is organized? They are sometimes taken to temples or to the banks of a garden Can these children be taken to a nearby primary school? These kids will see the school students playing in the ground and themselves will play with them. They have the midday meal The children of anganwadi will start developing 'I want to attend this school. It is a good school, big school with a nice playground. ' It is a small thing\nYou may be aware that I started a small program. Whenever I am invited to a convocation ceremony I request the university to allow 50 special guests as well as be seated in the front rows. Well, no one can refuse the request made by Prime Minister. They are under the impression that they will be from BJP It is natural to think that way as the convention Then I reveal that 50 poor students from government school should also be invited as special guests. Whenever these students look at the students wearing gowns and their caps receiving special caps, aspirations have created their minds in the same platform on one day. This can not be achieved even with a long lecture. It is necessary for the people of aspiration districts to have aspirations in them. We will identify the aspirations I am not asking to develop new aspirations but to channelize those already existing In this way we can accomplish tasks by public participation.\nEvery school conducts assembly in the morning Every day a student can talk about some 10 minutes for our target of 2022, be it help or nutrition and so on. In this way the subjects start spreading. What I mean to say is that if we connect these things to the masses we will not be able to achieve the results.\nSecondly, suppose we have some 6 target points We can get One Target properly then move on to success Can we develop these 6, 10 or 15 things as models within 3 to 4 months? Then this will set an example for the people of other districts. People will feel that their districts or villages If we go by this tradition then I believe the targets set for the 115 districts will also be achieved.\nAnother issue is that of infrastructure It is true that there is a constraint of budget but if a condition is imposed on the masses to plant trees on the roads of both sides of the roads as a prerequisite for the construction of the road, automatically a sense of responsibility They will start planting trees immediately and later the road MGNREGA through construction and contractors arrive. The aspirations of the people should be shared with the public participation. Simplicity increases with public participation. There is one more problem. A few officers are really creative and dynamic He comes up with new ideas and initiatives Unfortunately, there is a lack of stability. Sometimes the officers are transferred within one or 1.5 years Anyway, with outcomes new paths will be discovered But if we form a team, even without any leadership, the team is a strong one, with division of the road, clear roadmap, monitoring system, and a fixed time frame, results can be automatically obtained. I believe we should try in that direction You can very well accomplish that with the enthusiasm and excitement that I could see You do not know but these 115 districts of the society will become soon after their heads up and will never stop after that.\nYou must have seen some places in India that later developed due to one or two main reasons You will find 50 to 100 such areas in India that are suddenly developed. With a breakthrough, things will start develop Can imagine that even if these 115 districts move forward by ten steps then how much is this country going to transform? Even the government will start focusing on those areas and prioritising them.\nIt is a human condition to train in a train. Similarly, a person would wish for a comfortable seat to get more leg space while travelling in an aeroplane. This is human nature and I do not think that as bad. While getting posted we all know that some districts are good and some are backward and undesirable. If someone is posted in a backward district, his friends will also say- 'Man, you are stuck now! But do not worry it's just a matter of 6-8 months'. This psychology begins from there only I believe that the developed districts will But the young officer could never improve his life there. He jumps in that road and continues with his hunky dory life. But the person, who rides on a difficult terrain, bears the pain in a posting, some of the colleagues of the eyes, will one day realize that even though it is life of a difficult phase, it made him a strong person\nYou will see that whenever you talk to an officer of a high stature, he would have worked hard, passed exam, completed his training in Mussoorie and entered the service but there were hidden struggles in his life that had him work with dedication . He would tell you all that happened while he was working as a Deputy Director and how one incident changed his life. All people of high stature have had a great deal of hardships while those who were born with a golden spoon in their mouths, may be a good posting with a big bungalow of 2 acre area; but that person faces hurdles later in life even though in the first phase he leads a easy-going life.\nI believe that the 115 districts are fortunate because they have become satisfied in their life Nobody notices the well developed areas There is nothing to be satisfied about even for you It was the same But if someone plants a single sapling in a desert, You are those who have got this opportunity to deal with the challenges You can evaluate yourself - the way you have progressed from your initial position. Challenges have their own strength and I do not think those people who have never faced any challenge in their lives as fortunate. Only those who are capable of facing challenges This help a person in his journey of life I can feel the positivity in this room. I believe that this is a great strength in itself This is the month of January and Babasaheb's birth anniversary is on 14th April. Can we prepare a timetable till 14th April to monitor the progress of 115 districts? I wish to visit the district that will be making a rapid progress and spend time with the team to understand its modus operandi. I will try to learn that myself There is nothing new in what we are doing in 3 months; The system is in place but we have to instil new energy and new strength by incorporating public participation and other new experiments. After that I would like to make it a routine in my work\nI believe that the country should move forward and make big strides. The country should change and the people should change It usually starts with a small unit. This is a cumulative effect It works like a catalyst and you are the change agent I believe that this vision, strength and potentials will work like catalyst to accomplish the objectives by the year 2022 that marks 75 years of India's independence. In the bureaucratic world we usually hear the contributions made by the great officers who once worked with Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel or some other officer who has been working on that period in some other great personality. We often hear the discussions about officers of high stature and seek inspirations from their contributions; The way they provided a new direction and history is a witness to their contributions. But in the district level There was an officer too at that level who could have spent some of his work in that work. For the past 70 years, we have heard about the contributions made by the high level officers, took inspiration from them. But it's high time a voice was raised from the district. It should produce a success story We should now get the news of success stories of the district level too.\nI was quite active on social media But at that time I was quite involved. Two days back I was surfing the internet I came across a tweet from a lady, IAS officer who was quite interesting. Now she is a senior officer Her photograph was also displayed She had written - \"It is a moment of great satisfaction in my life. Why? \"She continued -\" I was a junior officer at that time. Once I was traveling by a car when I came across a child who was grazing his cattle outside a school. I had stopped my car, called the teacher of that school and asked him to admit the child. I rebuked the child and compelled him to join the school. After 27 years, a head constable saluted me during one of my visits and asked me-'Madam, could you recognize me? I am the one who was grazing his cattle and you had sent me to school. \"The officer tweeted further that a small thing can bring about a sea change. We have opportunities in our lives\nThe country has many expectations from us If something goes wrong, then the people of the country blame the Almighty No other country has such a good fortune as India, because even today the people blame their fate or the Almighty; but never the government No one can get a big public support and faith If we fail to identify this then maybe there will be a day So friends, the job of transforming the fate of 115 districts will also become the fate of the country. We can form a strong foundation for our new India from that work. My best wishes to you all Thanks a lot!"