"Share\n\nBe it the freedom movement, literature, science, sports or any other domain, the essence of Bengal is evident: PM Modi\nIt is a matter of pride that India has produced some of the finest scientists to the world: PM\nLanguage should not be a barrier but a facilitator in promoting science communication, says PM Modi\nIn the last few decades, India has emerged rapidly in the field of science and technology Be it the IT sector, space or missile technology, India has its ability to prove: PM\nFinal result of latest innovations and researchers must be the common man: PM Modi\nToday it's a very good opportunity. I was a great son of the country who had sacrificed his life for the country. This is a passion to work tirelessly, to sacrifice yourself for the country that brings us together in this manner that is beyond the concerns about the day, time and period of the day.\nI convey my best wishes to all of you, especially the scientific community on the occasion of 125th birth anniversary of Acharya Satyendra Nath Bose\nFriends, I have had the pleasure of interacting with the famous scientists in the beginning of every year. I am glad that today, a auspicious opportunity allows me to share some thoughts with you.\nToday, we open a year-long celebration of the 125th year of Acharya Satyendra Nath Bose, who was born on this day in 1894. I have learned a great deal about his achievements and society.\nFriends, Deshbandhu Chitranjan Das had mentioned this thing in his poetry -\n\"There is an eternal truth inherent in the water and soil of Bengal.\"\nThis is that truth that takes the thinking and deliberations of people from Bengal to that level which is difficult to attain. This is that truth which of Bengal becomes the pivot of the country and held it together for centuries.\nBe it freedom movement or be it literature or science or be it sports, in every sphere of influence of water and soil Swami Ram Krishna Paramhans, Swami Vivekanand, Guruwar Ravindranath Tagore, Subhash Chandra Bose, Shyama Prasad Mukherjee, Bankim Chandra, Sharad Chandra, Satyajit Ray, you name any field and one of the stars of Bengal will be shining there.\nIt's a matter of pride for India that this land has given many top scientists to the world. Apart from Acharya S.N. Bose, there are many names like J.C. Bose, Meghnad Saha and countless such names, who have given a very strong foundation of modern science to the country.\nThey have given the people through their ideas and inventions. Even today, we have been learning from their commitment and creativity.\nFriends, we have a lot to learn from the life and works of Acharya S. N. Bose. He was a self-taught scholar He succeeded despite many constraints These include the lack of formal research education, and little connectivity with the global scientific community. His path-breaking work in 1924 was due to his single-minded devotion to uncharted science.\nIt laid the foundations of Quantum Statistics and a basis for modern Atomic Theory. Einstein's biographer Abraham Pace considered his work as one of the last four revolutionary papers on old Quantum Theory. The name of Satyendra Nath Bose has been immortalized in the history of science by concepts and terms, like Bose Statistics, Bose Einstein Condensation and Higgs Boson.\nThe fundamental importance of his work may be gauged from the fact that many Nobel Prizes in Physics have been awarded subsequently to researchers carrying forward his ideas to diverse physical applications.\nProfessor Bose was a crusader for teaching in science. He started the Bengali science magazine Gyan-o-Bigyan.\nTo promote understanding and understanding of science in our youth, it is vital that we promote science communication in a big way. Language should not be a barrier but a facilitator in this task.\nFriends, India's scientific research eco-system has traditionally been very strong. There is no paucity of talent, or hard work or of purpose.\nIndia has emerged as a very rapid pace in the field of science and technology in the last few decades. Be it IT sector or space technology or missile technology, India has left its mark on the whole world These successes of our scientists and technology experts are\nThe whole world watches in awe when more than 100 satellites have been launched in the space by a single rocket of ISRO. At that time we Indians rejoice on this prowess of our scientists by holding our heads high.\nFriends, it is a great injustice with you and the country if the hard work done by you people in the labs and the sacrifices you made by the people labs within the confined. आभासी कन्फर्मेशन ऑफ कन्फर्मेशन फंक्शन\nThat is why today it is extremely essential that the final outcome of our research and our innovations are clearly laid out. Whether your research is making a poor person's life easier, whether it is able to alleviate the problems of middle class?\nWhen the basis for our scientific experiment will be the solution for our social-economic problem then it will be easy for you.\nI believe that the scientists of our country will continue to provide the country as creative technology solutions due to their out of box thinking that will benefit the general people and who will make their life even more easier\nI've been told that various scientific organizations have started their research and development projects while keeping the mind in the subjects like solar power, clean energy, water conservation and waste management. It is our collective responsibility that kind of products and results do not remain confined to laboratories.\nDistinguished Scientists and Students, You are also studied and are probably also experts of Quantum Mechanics. I have not studied it But I understand that there are many lessons that can teach us in day to day life. A classical particle can not escape easily But a quantum particle can!\nFor one reason or another, we have been confined ourselves in isolation. We hardly cooperate, collaborate and share our experiences with fellow scientists of other Institutions and National Laboratories.\nTo reach our true potential and to take Indian science to its rightful glory, we should like a quantum particle that escapes its confinement. This is even more important today, as Science becomes hugely multi-disciplinary and requires concerted efforts.\nI have been talking about the need for greater sharing of physical and research infrastructure, which is expensive and has a increasingly short life time.\nI am told that our science departments are now working on a multipronged approach. I understand that a portal is being developed for sharing of scientific infrastructure that will allow transparent and efficient tagging and sharing of resources.\nA mechanism is the strong collaborations between academic and R \u0026 D institutions City based R \u0026 D Clusters are being created to bring together all Science and Technology partners from Academia to Institutes, to Industries to Startups.\nThe success of this effort will depend on our strategy. It needs full-hearted support The mechanism should ensure that a scientist from the remotest corner of the country has seamless access to resources in, say, IIT Delhi, or say, a CSIR Lab in Dehradun. Our goal should be to ensure that the whole of our efforts\nFriends, science and technology works like a extraordinary engine for development, growth and transformation. Once again, I would like to appeal to people, to the scientific community of the country to decide the direction of your innovations by keeping in mind our socio-economic challenges\nYou are aware that millions of people in our country, specifically thousands of children in the tribal community are being affected by sickle cell anemia. For decades, research has been conducted on this thing but can we make a pledge that we will provide a cost effective simple solution of this disease to the world?\nCan we develop new varieties of our pulses that are cheaper and have more protein to tackle the problem of malnutrition? Can we further improve the quality of our grains and vegetables? For our rivers, for cleansing the rivers of outgrowth of undesirable vegetation and for making our rivers pollution free?\nCan we develop new medicines, new vaccines for controlling the spread of diseases like malaria, tuberculosis and Japanese encephalitis? Can we identify those areas where we can blend our traditional knowledge with a creative way?\nFriends, for various reasons, we missed the first Industrial revolution. We can not miss similar opportunities today. Upcoming sectors such as Artificial Intelligence, Big Data Analytics, Machine Learning, Cyber-Physical Systems, Genomics, and Electric Vehicles are new challenges that require your attention. Please confirm, that as a country, we keep pace with these emerging technologies and innovations.\nThe way our scientific community tackles these challenges, will determine our success in smart manufacturing, smart cities, industry 4.0, and the Internet-of-Things Our scientific ecosystem should connect directly with innovators and entrepreneurs to cultivate, channelize and empower them.\nFriends, the strength of our demographic dividends The government has been running programs such as stand-up India, start-up India, skill development mission and Pradhanmantri Mudra scheme. In this series, we have been trying to develop 20 such institutions in the country that can leave their world, which are recognized as world class institutions.\nThe government itself has been inviting the private and public sector institutions in the field of higher education for the Institutes of Eminance Mission. We have modified the rules and amended the laws. The institutes of public sector which will be selected will be given a financial assistance of Rs. 1,000 crore within a stipulated time\nI call on SN Bose National Center for Basic Sciences and other such institutes that they should plan and work in the direction of making their institute a part of top ranking institute.\nToday, I will urge you people for one more thing that you should create this kind of eco-system in your institutes that further motivates students and youth for research.\nIf a scientist spares some of his or her time for increasing the inclination of just one child for studying the science and for research then it can make the future of lakhs of students of this country. This is the biggest tribute to Acharya S.N. Bose on his 125th birth anniversary.\nFriends, in 2017, all of us, all 1.25 billion Indians have been collectively made a solemn pledge. This solemn pledge is a new India. This is a pledge for getting rid of internal vices of our country by 2022. This is a pledge for making of our India which was a dream of our freedom fighters.\nThe year of 2018 is very important for realization of this solemn pledge. This sacred promise of realization for all our energy, our complete strength.\nEvery person of every country, every family, every department and every ministry has contributed As a train when it leaves a station then within 5-10 minutes it gets its top speed, similarly this year of 2018 is meant to reach our top speed.\nThe scientific community of the country too and also has every person associated with Science and Technology will have the focus of their innovation and research for making a New India.\nYour innovations will strengthen the country Be it a basis or be it direct transfer of benefits or be it soil health card or be it monitoring of schemes through satellite or drones, all these facilities have been created only\nScientific institutes can make a big contribution in determining that what can be done for the job-oriented economic growth. Your role is extremely important especially in the development of technology as per the requirements of rural areas and in areas like technology to villages.\nFriends, new innovations have been waiting for people in the fields like housing, drinking water, power, railways, rivers, roads, airports, irrigation, communications and digital infrastructure.\nThe government is with you, resources are with you and in terms of capabilities. And the country will succeed The pledges of land will be materialized when your pledges will be realised.\nFriends, inaugurations serve a purpose, only if you have a follow-up plan of action I am happy to learn that one is exciting and important follow-up events lined up\nI am told that over 100 outreach lectures in schools and colleges are planned. Several national and international conferences, and competitions on 125 solutions to scientifically challenging problems are also done on the agenda.\nBrilliant ideas retain their relevance far beyond the time. Even today, the work of Acharya Bose continues to inspire scientists.\nI wish you all the best, in your endeavor to succeed in the emerging frontiers of scientific research. I feel confident that through your tireless efforts, the nation will have an ever better and bright future.\nI wish you all a very fulfilling and creative New Year.\nJai hind!"