"\nIn Bengal, PM Modi praises Harichand Thakur, Bibhutibhushan Bandopadhyay, Rabindranath Tagore\nPolitics of the farmer loans a effort to throw dust in their eyes: PM Modi on Congress\nPM Modi says the rural population has suffered under Mamata Didi Govt and she is out of violence out of fear and desperation\nOur budget has benefited 3 crore taxpayers, 12 crore farmers and 40 crore labourers: PM Modi\nI now understand why Mamata has been scared It is your love for us that scares her: PM in Bengal\nLong live Mother India. Long live Mother India.\nHello!\nIn the name of the place whose name is Durga, so huge number of people came to bless you, this is the biggest fortune for me. Now I have given my address in Thakurnagar and the unprecedented enthusiasm of the crowd there, and more enthusiasm ... and I was seeing that the mothers and sisters were in great numbers ... and I think twice as many people in the field He had come, he had a lot of trouble, I for his blessings, for love ... I salute all those who came to Thakur Nagar. But at the same time they faced problems which were difficult, some sisters have difficulty, some children have difficulty, I express my condolences towards them and I also apologize for that.\nBrothers and sisters, I also urge you ... your enthusiasm on my eyes, your love is my strength, but patience should also be with love. This field is so big, even after that I have been looking a lot. I see people everywhere around me. Brothers and sisters, patience is also important because it is very natural to be upset about the manner in which the government here is dealing with the TMC party, BJP workers here. I got the full information of whatever happened here last night. I see a worker in front of which the straps are lying on his nose, his nose has been injected, but he tells him that he has come and stood here. I want to tell every worker from West Bengal that your penance, your passion, your sacrifice will never be useless. It will take some time. When Diya starts to extinguish, then finally a little more emphasis is placed at the end. I used to think whenever I sat in Delhi ... Sister herself was so troubled in the rule of the communists, herself has troubles, she has passed herself from the ways of strangling democracy, so I was thinking that she would never go on that path Will not go. And I wondered why this is happening in Bengal ... but I am now aware that this is your love, which has kept her sleepy. It is your enthusiasm, excitement, and that is why they think that they also strangle democracy in the manner of the communists ... by disturbing the innocent citizens ... they will think of burning the vehicles of the people who come in the program. If they straighten their political owl then they should understand ... or communists have had success in suppressing Bengal ... nor do violence of TMC, in changing the mood of Bengal, in pressing L'occurring. The government which does not care about democracy, the party workers who have been given the exemption of all kinds of violence and the manner in which the government's Mulajim behaves, then suppose that and write down my words that they decide to go is. Bengal is going to change, I am clearly watching ... the holy land of Bengal will not tolerate this situation for a long time.\nHere in the earth, there is so much power in the tradition that after making the government in the name of the mother-goddess Manush, the people of the people will be removed from the way by removing the same way. Sageo, Bengali tradition has a huge contribution in the views and rituals of the Bharatiya Janata Party. Each word of every BJP worker, Swami Vivekananda goes one by one, making a mantra of life for one sentence. The origin of our party is the same Jan Sangh, whose father Dr. Shyama Prasad Mukherjee was the gem of this earth. The thoughts of Dr. Mukherjee and his insistence towards an India-the best India have inspired the ideology of BJP. Brothers and sisters, the Central Government is engaged in the abduction of Eastern India for the development of new India and certainly West Bengal has a big role in it. This is the reason why efforts are being made to develop all types of infrastructure to increase connectivity here. A long time ago, the railway project of hundreds of crores has been released.\n\nThe electrification of the Andal-Sainthia-Pakur-Malda section, the Khana-Sainthia section and the Hijli Narayan section will make you all very profitable. This will also facilitate the movement of many natural resources, including coal, as well as the time taken for going to North Bengal. Friends, for the development of West Bengal in the last four and a half years, a huge increase has been made in the budget to strengthen its infrastructure. But unfortunately, the government here is not serious about the development projects. The situation is that work on almost two dozen large projects worth Rs 90,000 crore involving infrastructure in West Bengal can not be started either, and if anything has begun, then it is working at the dead speed. .\nThese projects are connected with topics like Road, Railway, Waterway, Electricity, Coal, Petroleum and Health. The central government is not getting any support from the state government for this project. Today, the world knows the truth that TMC does not take control of the project where there is no share of syndicate where there is no cream. The central government's plan to bring development to West Bengal can not be speeded up till the anti-development government is here. Sathiyo, the West Bengal government is struggling to crush the dreams of the poor and the middle class, but the central government is trying to give these dreams a new flight to the aspirations. Yesterday you saw the budget presented in Parliament. One of the most progressive cities of West Bengal, I congratulate the middle class of the country, from Durgapur to our youth, for this wonderful budget. What is the development of everyone and everyone is seen in this budget. There are farmers, workers or middle class, historical provisions have been made for everyone. Friends, there was a demand for a long time in the country, our youth, our middle class was demanding that income up to Rs. 5 lakhs would be exempt from tax. The task of fulfilling this demand ... If the old demands of so many years have been fulfilled then the government of Bharatiya Janata Party-NDA has done it.\nTaking the historic step in this budget, those earning income of five lakh rupees were excluded from the tax bracket. And I said yesterday I was saying again today. Now this is the trailer. Because this was an interim budget, after the election we will come up with the general budget, we will present a picture of the new path of new India in front of you. With this decision of the government, more than three crore middle class taxpayers will get direct benefit from the government. That is, a very large class, and especially in our young age, which are in the early stages of their careers, they are going to get a lot of benefit from this. Now, at the beginning of their career, they will have more funds for their home, home furnishings for the future. In addition, there is a direct discount in tax in addition to this, apart from this, the rebate has been increased to reduce the tax, such that the standard deduction limit has been increased from Rs. 40 thousand to Rs. 50 thousand.\nFriends, it often happens that some people have jobs, children's education or care of elderly parents ... they have to keep two houses for different personal reasons. Many times people in big cities also buy houses because when a daughter or son goes to that city for higher education or for a job, then he will be in his own house. In such a situation, the government has now decided that the tax which was levied on the non-residential rent of the second house will not be taxed anymore. That is, without worrying about the rental income of the second house, you will be able to buy your second home. Similarly, the people who are selling their house and after selling the house they have received less than Rs. 2 crore and if such people invest in the same amount of money in two different small houses, then they will get rid of income tax, leave now Will be given. Our today's social system is becoming such that parents often think that buying two small two homes for two children selling their own big house. First they had to pay taxes for this. Now our government has decided that they will not have to pay taxes for this now. There is also a large amount of income income for my brothers and sisters of middle class and income. Now the government has also decided that the limit of tax deduction should be increased to Rs 2 lakh 40 thousand from the limit of one lakh 80 thousand on the income generated from the rent. On the interest received above the money deposited in the bank and post office, TDS was still free on the amount upto Rs 10,000. Considering the need of middle class, especially women and senior citizens, this amount has now been increased to Rs 40 thousand.\nFriends, this time the announcements that have been made in the budget have expanded our efforts lasting four and a half years. The result of the government's efforts is that during the previous government where the inflation rate was around 10 percent, it has stopped coming around four percent in the last four and a half years. Every month the mobile and internet bill comes in thousands of families, it has now been reduced to a few hundred rupees. With the LED bulb being cheap, every year the electricity bill of middle class is saving more than Rs. 50,000 crores. Fifty thousand figure is very big. Thousands of rupees are being saved to the middle class due to the cost of treatment of many diseases like heart scan, Ni surgery and diabetes.\nSister-in-law, a big announcement was made for the farmers too. In the history of independent India so far no government has ever planned this big scheme for the farmers. The name of this scheme is PM Kisan Adhash Nidhi Yojana. Under this, more than twelve million small farmers of the country ... not once ... every year ... 6 thousand rupees will be transferred directly into their bank accounts every year. This means that the plan will cost 75 thousand crore rupees in one year. Our government is preparing that the farmers should get the first installment, as soon as possible, in their account. Brothers and sisters, we could have made a lot of debt woes, such as before the 2008-2009 elections, Congress had dramatized, had announced debt waiver, we could have done too, but our policy is clear, the policy is clear. And because of which we have come with a permanent plan in the interest of the farmer. Those who benefit from this scheme ... those farmers, most of whom have never got the benefit of debt waiver. One more thing to note is that the plan is not one time. Now this scheme will be with the small farmers of the country forever. Sociologists, make a rough estimate, for the cheating of naive farmers, in the Congress math almost every 10 years, the number of loan waivers is on. Ten years ago the Congress government had claimed that it waived debt of Rs 52 thousand crore for farmers. Now ten years later he is talking about debt waiver. At the same time, the BJP Government has decided to get 7 lakh 50 thousand crore rupees for the farmers in 10 years through the Prime Minister Kisan Adhash Nidhi, which is the scheme we have started. Now tell me, in 10 years 52 thousand crore and in 10 years 7 lakh 50 thousand crore, which scheme is big? Is PM Farmer's scheme is not that big, is it not that farmers are going to benefit? Second, the benefit of their scheme, which were big farmers, who could take loans, reached such two or three crores, our plan will reach 12 million farmers. Now tell me, this 12 crore plan is not that big. They used to bring once in 10 years, we are going to pay money every year. It's not that big. But these truths are not lying, they are lying and do not forget that when the Congress apologizes, on the one hand, the loans of small farmers of 10-15 rupees are waived and on the other hand millions of rupees are forgiven for such people The farmers who do not have to go Now the math of Congress, the country's farmer is also watching and understanding. And so I will say again this is the biggest plan for farmers in India.\nAlong with farmers, the Central Government has taken care of the workers who work in factories, mills, companies, small industries, mines, and ranches and pans in homes. My workers, brothers and sisters of the unorganized sector, whose number is around 40-42 crores ... there are few people working in the house ... there are drivers, laborers working on the farm ... there are crores, their This big plan has been made for ... Prime Minister Shrimayogi Mudhodhan Yojana. With this, the workers who earn less than 15 thousand rupees have been ensured regular pension of Rs 3 thousand after 60 years. For this, only a small amount of up to Rs 50 and 200 rupees will be given in the month and let me know as much as the money will give to the worker ... the Indian government will also deposit it in it. Friends, these schemes have been announced in the budget, it is an extension of our resolve to 'develop development with everyone'. The government is also running the Atal Pension Scheme for small and small daily wage laborers, in which a pension of 1000-5000 has been ensured on very nominal contribution. More than 1.5 million people across the country ... 9 lakh workers in West Bengal have joined. इसी तरह प्रधानमंत्री जीवनज्योति और प्रधानमंत्री सुरक्षा बीमा योजना के तहत 2-2 लाख रुपए तक का बीमा...इसका कवर सुनिश्चित किया जा रहा है। ये बीमा भी सिर्फ 1 रुपए महीने और 90 पैसा प्रतिदिन के मामूली प्रीमियम पर दिया जा रहा है। बहुत ही कम समय में इन दोनों योजनाओं से देश भर में लगभग 21 करोड़ लोग जुड़ चुके हैं जिसमें लगभग 80 लाख लोग हमारे पश्चिम बंगाल के भी हैं। आपमें से भी जिसने अभी तक इस सुरक्षा कवच को नहीं अपनाया है उनसे मेरा आग्रह है कि इससे जुड़ें ताकि मुश्किल समय में आपको यहां-वहां भटकना ना पड़े। ये केंद्र सरकार की योजना है, इसलिए इससे जुड़ने के लिए आपको सिंडिकेट से डरने की जरूरत नहीं है।\nसाथियो, भाजपा सरकार विकास की पंचधारा यानि बच्चों की पढ़ाई, युवा को कमाई, बुजुर्गों को दवाई, किसान को सिंचाई और जन-जन की सुनवाई के लिए प्रतिबद्ध है। वहीं दूसरी तरफ पश्चिम बंगाल की टीएमसी सरकार गरीबों के लिए शुरू की गई योजनाओं का लाभ गरीब तक पहुंचने नहीं दे रही बल्कि अब उन्हें रोकने भी लगी है। ऐसी निर्दयता की मैं कल्पना नहीं कर सकता। भाइयो-बहनो, बिहार और छत्तीसगढ़ के साथ पश्चिम बंगाल पिछले साल आयुष्मान भारत का सबसे बड़ा लाभार्थी बनकर उभरा लेकिन यहां की सरकार ने अब आयुष्मान भारत का लाभ गरीबों को देने से इनकार कर दिया। इस योजना के तहत राज्य के गरीबों को पांच लाख रुपए तक मुफ्त इलाज मिलना सुनिश्चित हुआ था। अभी 17 हजार से अधिक गरीबों का अलग-अलग अस्पतालों में इलाज ही चल रहा था और बीच में ही पश्चिम बंगाल की गरीब विरोधी सरकार ने उनको अधर में छोड़कर ही योजना से हाथ खींच लिया। इससे बड़ी संवेदनहीनता, इससे बड़ी निर्दयता कोई नहीं हो सकती। अब आप ही बताइए जो अपने स्वार्थ के लिए गरीबों को धोखा दे दे, वो क्या कभी किसी का भला कर सकते हैं। गरीबों के जीवन से खेलने वालों को सजा मिलनी चाहिए कि नहीं मिलनी चाहिए। और ये किया क्यों उन्होंने, मुझे किसी ने बताया जिन गरीबों को इसका लाभ मिला, बिना पैसे किसी का हार्ट का ऑपरेशन हो गया, किसी के नी का ऑपरेशन हो गया, किसी सगर्भा बहन को संकट के समय बचा लिया गया और जब लोगों ने उनको पूछा कि आपको ऐसे कैसे मदद मिल गई तो  बेचारे गरीब भोले-भाले लोगों ने...उनके मुंह से निकल गया कि मोदी जो योजना लाया है ना उसके कारण मेरा ऑपरेशन हो गया, मेरी जिंदगी बच गई। अब ये बंगाल के गरीब के मुंह से मोदी का नाम निकला तो दीदी की नींद खराब हो गई। दीदी को लगने लगा ये आयुष्मान भारत योजना...अगर गरीबों की बीमारी ऐसे दूर हो जाएगी और हर बीमार जब ठीक होगा और मोदी-मोदी बोलेगा तो दीदी का क्या होगा। ये मोदी शब्द सुनने के कारण...ये दीदी ने पश्चिम बंगाल के लाखों गरीबों को इतनी बड़ी सुविधा से वंचित कर दिया। ऐसी निर्दयी सरकार को एक पल रहने का अधिकार नहीं है भाइयो-बहनो।\nसाथियो, इन्होंने पश्चिम बंगाल को देश का पहला ऐसा राज्य बना दिया जहां पढ़ाई पर भी टैक्स लगाया जा रहा है- ट्रिपल टी टैक्स। ट्रिपल टी का आपको पता है...आप जानते हैं? पश्चिम बंगाल का बच्चा-बच्चा तृणमूल तोलाबाजी टैक्स से परिचित है। ये टीएमसी का ट्रिपल टी- तृणमूल तोलाबाजी टैक्स, कॉलेज में एडमिशन हो, टीचर की भर्ती या ट्रांसफर हो, लोग बताते हैं कि सब जगह तृणमूल तोलाबाजी टैक्स लगता है, लगता है ना? सब जानते है ना? ये ट्रिपल टी से परिचित हैं...पक्का?\nपश्चिम बंगाल के अनेक स्कूलों में टीचर नहीं है। ट्रिपल टी के चलते अनेक टीचर्स स्कूल में पढ़ाने के बजाए कोर्ट के चक्कर लगा रहे हैं। साथियो, जगाई- मधाई सिंडिकेट, ट्रिपल टी...इस कल्चर को चुनौती देने वाला आज तक कोई नहीं था, इसलिए पश्चिम बंगाल की परंपरा और महान संस्कृति से खिलवाड़ करने की छूट इनको मिल गई। अब ऐसा नही हो सकता। बीजेपी सामान्य जन की, गरीब की, किसान की, कामगार की, बेटियों की, युवाओं की आवाज बन के खड़ी है। साथियो, बीजेपी सज्जनों की संस्कृति, बंगाल की परंपरा को बेड़ियों में जकड़ने नहीं देगी। मैं आपको विश्वास दिलाने आया हूं भ्रष्टाचार और कालेधन के खिलाफ आपके इस चौकीदार ने एक बहुत बड़ा अभियान सफाई के लिए चलाया है। गरीब, किसानों, मध्यम वर्ग से जुड़ी योजनाओं का जो पैसा खा जाते थे अब उनकी दुकानें बंद हो गई हैं। देश का सबसे शक्तिशाली नामदार परिवार भी आज टैक्सचोरी और धोखाधड़ी के आरोप में अदालत के चक्कर काट रहा है। साथियो, देश को लूटने वालों को जो पहले मौज में थे, बड़े-बड़े रक्षा सौदों में दलाली खाकर विदेश भगा दिए गए थे, ऐसे लोगों को उठा-उठा कर भारत लाया जा रहा है और उनसे हिसाब लिया जा रहा है। ये राजदार इन सभी के काले कारनामों के राज खोलते जा रहे हैं।\n\nभाइयो-बहनो, आपके इस चायवाले ने अच्छे-अच्छों की ये काली कमाई और गोरखधंधे बंद कर दिए हैं। आपने देखा होगा कि कोलकाता में इसलिए कैसे-कैसे लोग इस चौकीदार को हटाने के लिए इकठ्ठे हुए और शपथ ले रहे थे! जरा फोटो देखना कितने डरे हुए थे! किसी का बेटा किसी गुनाह में है, किसी का भतीजा गुनाह में है, कोई खुद गुनाह में है, किसी का भाई कोने में है और इसलिए कलकत्ते आए। वो लोग 4 वर्ष पहले तक एक-दूसरे का चेहरा देखना पसंद नहीं करते थे, जो चीख-चीख कर एक दूसरे को जेल भेजने के एलान करते थे वो ही गले लग रहे थे। काले कारनामों की, चिटफंड से लेकर रक्षा सौदों में धोखाधड़ी करने वालों को ये चौकीदार पसंद नहीं है।\nमैं आपको यहां पश्चिम बंगाल का एक और उदाहरण देता हूं। साथियो, रियल एस्टेट सेक्टर में कालेधन को रोकने के लिए, कुछ बिल्डरों की मनमानी रोकने के लिए केंद्र सरकार ने RERA कानून बनाया, लेकिन पश्चिम बंगाल सरकार इस कानून को अपने राज्य में लागू करने से घबरा रही है। अगर ये कानून लागू हो जाएगा तो अब जो नए फ्लैट, नए घर बिल्डर बना रहा है, वो उन्हें तय समय पर बनाकर देने पड़ेंगे। कोई भी काम कच्चे-पक्के में नहीं होगा, इस कच्चे-पक्के के खेल में जो लॉबी जुटी हुई है, उसकी ममता दीदी की सरकार में क्या अहमियत है वो आप भी भलीभांति जानते हैं। ये चिटफंड हो, शारदा हो, पेंटिंग हो...सारे तार एक ही दरवाजे पर जा रहे हैं।\nभाइयो और बहनो, मुझे जो ये पानी पी-पी कर कोसा जाता है, गालियां दी जाती हैं उसकी वजह यही है कि मैं भ्रष्टाचार और कालेधन के खिलाफ कार्रवाई कर रहा हूं और इसी वजह से ये लोग इतना बौखला गए हैं कि जांच एजेंसियों तक को पश्चिम बंगाल आने से मना कर रहे हैं। अरे दीदी, अगर कुछ गलत किया नहीं है तो इतना डरने की भी जरूरत क्या है। अरे किस बात का डर लग रहा है...अरे आपको तो याद होगा मुझे भी गुजरात में 9-9 घंटे तक बिठाकर दिल्ली से आई जांच एजेंसियां पूछताछ करती थीं। वहां भी सीबीआई अपना खेल करती थी...उस समय की यूपीए की सरकार सीबीआई का दुरुपयोग हमारे खिलाफ करती थी, जो चाहे वो करवाती थी। लेकिन हमने कभी संस्थाओं को अपमानित नहीं होने दिया, हमने कभी गुजरात से सीबीआई को निकालने का निर्णय नहीं किया। हमने कहा और-और को लाना है तो ले आओ, हम ईमानदार हैं, हमे कुछ होता नहीं। लेकिन वो डरे हुए हैं, उनको तो बीजेपी के प्रेसिडेंट के आने पर भी जमीन खिसकने को लग जाती है। कभी हेलिकॉप्टर को मत उतरने दो, कभी यात्रा मत करने दो। अरे दीदी, ये तुम्हारे ये खेल कितने दिन चलने वाले हैं।\nभाइयो-बहनो, ये लोग जितनी भी गालियां देते रहें, आप सभी के आशीर्वाद से कालेधन और भ्रष्टाचार के खिलाफ मेरी लड़ाई जारी रहेगी। बताइए मुझे लड़ना चाहिए कि नहीं लड़ना चाहिए...भ्रष्टाचार को खत्म करना है कि नहीं खत्म करना है...मैं जी जान से लड़ रहा हूं कि नहीं...ईमानदारी से लड़ रहा हूं कि नहीं लड़ रहा हूं...पूरी कोशिश कर रहा हूं कि नहीं कर रहा हूं? ये आपके आशीर्वाद के कारण कर रहा हूं औऱ मैं आपको विश्वास दिलाता हूं पश्चिम बंगाल को जगाई-मधाई और सिंडिकेट राज से मुक्त करने में हम पूरी तरह बंगाल की जनता के साथ हैं। आपका यही विश्वास है जो मुझे दिन-रात दौड़ने के लिए प्रेरित करता है, ताकत देता है। इसी विश्वास को बनाए रखते हुए एक बार फिर से नए बजट से मिलने वाले लाभ के लिए मैं देशवासियों को, बंगालवासियों को, दुर्गापुरवासियों को हृदयपूर्वक बधाई देता हूं। इतनी भारी संख्या में आकर जो आशीर्वाद दिए उसके लिए भी आपका बहुत-बहुत धन्यवाद।"