"Share\n\nChristmas is the time to remember the invaluable teachings of Jesus Christ: PM during the #MannKiBaat\nWe believe in 'Nishkaam Karma' We are the believers in 'Parma religion': PM during #MannKiBaat\n#MannKiBaat: Guru Gobind Singh ji's life, filled with courage and sacrifice, is a source of inspiration for all of us, says PM\nIndian democracy welcomes our 21st century 'New India Voters': PM Modi on new age voters #MannKiBaat\nThe power of vote is the biggest in a democracy It is the most effective means of bringing positive changes in the lives of millions of people: PM during #MannKiBaat\n#MannKiBaat: The young voters of 18 to 25 years of age are the 'New India Youth.' They are filled with energy and enthusiasm, says PM\nOur vision of a 'new India' is one that is free from the menace of casteism, communalism, corruption, filth and poverty: PM Modi during #MannKiBaat\n#MannKiBaat: PM Narendra Modi speaks about organizing mock parliament in India's districts to educate new age voters\nLet us welcome the new year with the smallest happiness and commence the journey from A 'Positive India' towards a 'Progressive India': PM Modi #MannKiBaat during\n#MannKiBaat: Swachhata Andolan is a clear demonstration of how problems can be changed and solved through public participation, says Prime Minister\n#MannKiBaat: PM Modi speaks about Haj, says government has done away with 'Mehram' aspect\n'Nari Shakti' can take India's development tour to new heights: PM Modi during #MannKiBaat\nMy dear countrymen, Namaskar This is the last edition of 'Man Ki Ki Baat' this year and it's a coincidence that this year is the last day of the year 2017. You and I have shared many thoughts and ideas the whole year. Your steady stream of letters to 'Mann Ki Baat', your comments, this exchange between minds always infuses new energy in me. A few hours later, the year will change, but this sequence of our conversation will go on, just the way it is We will renew this exchange of thoughts on newer topics in the year, we'll share new experiences. Heartiest New Year Over the last few days, the festival of Christmas was celebrated across the world with gaiety and fervor. People in India too celebrated Christmas with warmth and cheer. The pious occasion of Christmas reminds us of the great teachings of Jesus Christ, who has laid much emphasis on 'spirit of service'. The essence of the spirit of service\nThe Son of Man\nBut to serve '\nAnd to give his life\nTo all humankind\nThis conveys the immense significance of service. Be it any religion, caste or creed, tradition or color in this world; The spirit of service is an invaluable hallmark of the highest human values. In our country we refer to 'NishKaam Karma', selfless deeds, meaning a service done without any expectations. It is mentioned in our land 'Sewa Parmo Dharma' ... service is the noblest way of life, 'Jiv ​​seva hi shiv seva' ... service to living beings is service to god. Gurudev Ramkrishna Paramhans used to cite, 'serve living beings as if worshiping the Almighty. The concept is that the world over, these are shared, common human values Come, let us remember great men \u0026 their ideals; Let us be reminded of the essence of holy occasions; let us infuse a new awakening, a new drive in our great value system. Let us try \u0026 live, abiding by them\nMy dear countrymen, this year was also the 350th 'Prakash Parv' of Guru Gobind Singh Ji. The iconic life of Guru Gobind Singh, full of instances of courage \u0026 sacrifice is a source of inspiration to all of us Guru Gobind Singh ji preached the virtues of sublime human values ​​and at the same time, practiced them in his own life in letter \u0026 spirit. A Guru, a poet, a philosopher, a great warrior, Guru Gobind Singh ji, in all these roles, performed the great work of inspiring people. He fought against oppression and injustice His teachings to people focused on breaking the cordons of caste and religion. In this endeavor, he has to lose a lot on his personal front. But he never let it happen in his dog's ugly head in his path. In every moment of his life, the message of love, sacrifice \u0026 peace is palpable His personality was filled with the virtues. I am fortunate that at the beginning of this year, I got a chance to participate in the 350th birth anniversary celebration organized at Patna Sahib. Come, let us all resolve to imbibe \u0026 abide by lessons from his great teachings \u0026 exemplary life and mold our own life in accordance with them.\nThe 1st of January, 2018, i.e. tomorrow, in my view, is a special day. You'll be surprised, since the New Year comes every year! But, when I refer to it as special, I really mean it as special People born in the year 2000 or later; Those born in the 21st century will gradually begin to become eligible voters from the 1st of January, 2018. The Indian Democracy welcomes the voters of the 21st century, the 'New India Voters' I congratulate our youth and urge them to register themselves as voters. The whole nation is eager to welcome you as voters of the 21st century. As voters of this century, you too must be feeling proud. Your vote will be the bedrock of New India The power of the people The vote is the most effective tool And it's not just about getting the right to vote It's about you determining \u0026 deciding the course of the nation in the 21st century, your dreams in the 21st century. You too can be the makers of 21st century India and this opportunity comes in, very specially, on the 1st of January. And today, in this edition of Mann Ki Baat, I want to talk about our successful young men and women between 18 and 25, all infused with energy and resolve.\nI consider them 'New India Youth', 'New India Youth' stands for aspirations, enthusiasm \u0026 energy. I firmly believe that the dream of our 'New India' will be realized through the skill and fortitude of these energetic youths.\nWhen we talk of new India then that new India will free from the poison of casteism, communalism, terrorism and corruption; free from filth and poverty In the New India everyone has equal opportunities and desires and wishes of everyone will be fulfilled. New India will be a place where peace, unity and amity will be our guiding force. My New India Youth should come forward and deliberate on how this New India will be formed One should decide on one's own path and also decide on a way to connect with them. You should move ahead Right now, while you have got a idea that we could organize a mock parliament in every district of India? Where the youth between 18 and 25 could sit together and brain storm about new India, find ways and chalk our plans. How can we realize our resolves before 2022? How can we build a dream of our freedom fighters? Mahatma Gandhi had transformed into the freedom movement in a mass movement. My young friends, the need to be a mass movement for making a glorious 21st century India; A mass movement of development, a mass movement to build a capable and strong India\nI propose that a mock Parliament will be organized around 15th August in Delhi comprising one young person selected from each district who will participate and deliberate on how a new India is formed in the next five years. How can resolve be transformed into reality? Today, a lot of new opportunities have been created for the youth. Our youth are coming in areas like skill development, innovation and entrepreneurship and achieving success. I wish that the new India Youth get information and details of all these new opportunities and plans at one place and a system is created so that every young person on turning 18 should automatically get it all and benefit from it.\nMy dear countrymen, I had talked about positivity during the last episode of Mann Ki Baat. I am reminded of one Sanskrit Shloka-\nUtsaaho Balwaanarya, Naastyutsaahaatparam balam |\nSotsaahasya cha lokeshu na kinchidapi durlabham ||\nThis means that a man is full of enthusiasm Nothing is impossible for a man having positivity and zeal In English too, it is said, 'Pessimism leads to weakness, optimism to power'. During the previous episode of Mann Ki Baat, I had appealed to the countrymen to share their positive moments of 2017 and to welcome 2018 in a positive environment.\nI am very glad that a large number of people gave positive feedbacks on social media platform, MyGov and the Narendra Modi App and shared their experiences. Lakhs of tweets were posted on Positive India hashtag (#), which reached out to more than 150 crore people. In a way, a wave of positivity which emanated from India All tweets and responses were really inspiring. It was really a delightful experience Some countrymen shared those events of this year which left a special impact on their minds, a very positive one at that. Some people even shared their personal achievements\n# SOUND BITE #\n# My name is Meenu Bhatia. I reside in Mayur Vihar, Pocket-1, Phase-I, Delhi. My daughter wanted to do M.B.A. I needed to take a bank loan, which I got very comfortable and my daughter was able to continue her studies.\n# My name is Jyoti Rajendra Waade I am speaking from Bodal One rupee per month was being deducted toward insurance premium which my husband had subscribed to. He died in an accident Only we know of the time Help from the government help us\n# My name is Santosh Jadhav. A national highway has been constructed in 2017 through our village Bhinnar. As a result of this, our roads have improved\n# My name is Deepanshu Ahuja I live in Mohalla Saadatganj, District Saharanpur, Uttar Pradesh. Two actions taken by our Indian soldiers deserve a special mention - one was the Surgical Strike carried out in Pakistan, which was launched by terrorists of launching pads and secondly Doklam in Indian soldiers by displaying the unique valour. These are without parallel.\n# My name is Satish Bewani. We had a problem of water scarcity in our area and we used to depend on a military pipeline for the last forty years. Now an Independent Pipeline has been constructed. So, this is our achievement in 2017.\nThere are a large number of such people who have brought in the positive transformation in the life of their own people. In fact, this is the new India which we are all collectively building. Let us enter the new year with such little achievements, start our new year and take a concrete steps in the journey from 'Positive India' to 'Progressive India'. When we all talk about positivity, I also feel like sharing one experience. Recently, I came to know about the inspiring story of Anjum Bashir Khan Khattak who is a topper in Kashmir Administrative Service Examination. He actually extricated himself from the sting of terrorism and hatred and topped the Kashmir Administrative Examination. You will be surprised to know that terrorists had set their home on fire in 1990.\nTerrorism and violence were so much of his home For a young child, such an atmosphere of heart attack, but Anjum did not let it be so. He never gave up hope He chose a different path for himself. He overcame the negative story and scripted his own success story. Today, he has become a source of inspiration not only in Jammu \u0026 Kashmir Anjum has proved that although the conditions are, the clouds of despair and disappointment can easily be cleared by taking steps.\nJust last week, I had a chance of meeting some women I was amazed at the spirit that they had, the enthusiasm that was there in their hearts and the dreams they nurtured. I was listening to them on how they want to make progress in different aspects of life and, how their lives were filled with hope. I talked to you, there was no sign of despair; there was only enthusiasm, optimism, energy, dreams and an sense of resolve. Whatever little time I spent with these girls They are the strength of our nation, they are the future of my country\nMy dear countrymen, whenever there is a reference to famous religious places, not only of India but of the whole world, it is about the Sabrimala temple of Kerala. Millions of devotees come to this world famous temple, seeking blessings of Lord Ayyappa Swami. It is a huge challenge place in such a big religious place. And especially, since this place is located in the hills and forests. But, Sabrimala temple itself is an example to show how this can be converted into a sanskar, a habit and what a tremendous power public participation! One police officer P. Vijayan initiated a program Punyam Poonkavanam and commenced a voluntary campaign of creating awareness on cleanliness. And, he started a tradition that the yatra of devotees will remain incomplete if they do not have any kind of work in the cleanliness program. No one is big or small in this campaign. Every devotee considers doing the physical work in the cleanliness drive as a part of the Lord's worship. Every morning, there is a unique pleasant scene of cleanliness here. Although big a celebrity be, or though rich one could be or still high an official be it - every one contributed as an ordinary devotee in the Punyan Poonkavanam program and becomes a part of this cleanliness drive.\nThere are many such examples before us. This cleanliness drive in Sabrimala and the contribution of Punyan Poonkavanam in this is so immense that each devotee contributes and participates in it.\nHere, a strong resolve of maintaining cleanliness is also important.\nBapu's unfinished task of building a 'Clean India' and 'a filth-free India'. Revered Bapu fought for this cause all through his life and made all out efforts. And, all of us took a resolve that the 150th birth anniversary of revered Bapu, We will make some contribution in making the direction of Clean India which he dreamed of. Efforts in the direction of the whole country A change can now be seen in the form of public participation in rural and urban areas alike. Cleanliness Survey 2018, the biggest in the world, will be conducted from 4th of January to 10th March, 2018 to evaluate achievements in cleanliness level of our urban areas. This survey will cover a population of 40 crores in more than four thousand cities.\nDuring this survey, the matters to be surveyed include independence from defecation in the open cities, collection of garbage, transport facilities to lift garbage, processing of garbage using scientific methods, efforts to usher in behavioral changes, innovative steps taken for capacity building maintaining cleanliness and public participation in this campaign Separate teams will go to cities for inspection. They will talk to you They will use the cleanliness app and also about improvements and improvements in different types of service centers. It will also be observed that the cities have created a system wherein the cleanliness of cities will become public habit, or the city's habit for that matter. It is not just the cleanliness Every citizen and people's organizations have a big responsibility. And I appeal to every citizen to actively participate in the cleanliness survey. And take the full onus to ensure that your city should not be lagged behind and your street or mohalla should not look to be wanting. I am very sure that using blue and green dustbins to collect is dry and wet garbage.\nFor waste-collection the theory of reduction, reuse and re-cycle is very effective. Now ranking of cities will be done on the basis of this survey- if your city has a population of more than one lakh, ranking will be done on the national level and if the population of your city is less than one lakh ranked on regional level Achieving the highest ranking should be your dream and you should be all out efforts in this direction. Be sure that you do not stay lagging behind in the Cleanliness Survey to be conducted from 4th January to 10th March, 2018. This will become the talking point in every city. You are a dream - 'Our city - our efforts', 'Our progress - country's progress' Let us all, once again reminding the revered Bapu and taking a resolve to build a clean India, put in our best endeavors.\nMy dear countrymen, there are a few things which are appearing on our lives. Today, in this episode of Mann Ki Baat, I want to share one such thing with you It has come to our notice that if a Muslim woman wants to go on pilgrimage, she must have a 'Mehram' or a male guardian, otherwise she can not travel.\nWhen I first heard about it, I wondered how it could be possible! Who had drafted such rules? Why this discrimination? And when I went into the depth of the matter I was surprised to find that - even after seventy years of our independence, we were the ones who had these restrictions. For decades, injustice was rendered to Muslim women. Even in many Islamic countries But Muslim women in India did not have the right And I'm happy that our government paid heed to this matter.\nOur Ministry of Minority Affairs issued corrective measures and we ameliorated this restriction by phasing out a tradition that has been practiced for the past seventy years. Today, Muslim women can perform Haj without 'mahram' or male Guardian and I am happy to note that this time about thirteen hundred Muslim women have applied to perform Haj without 'mahram' and women from different parts of the country from Kerala to North India , have expressed their wish to visit the Haj pilgrimage. I have suggested that the Ministry of Minority Affairs should ensure that all women who have applied to travel alone be allowed to perform. Usually there is a lottery system for selection of Haj pilgrims but I would like that single women pilgrims should be excluded from this lottery system and they should be given a chance as a special category I do not only reiterate this wholeheartedly but it is my firm belief that women's power and on the basis of their talent and we continue to pursue this path of progress on this path. It should be our constant endeavour that our women also get equal rights and equal opportunities just like men get so that they can continue progress on the path of progress.\nMy dear countrymen, 26th January is a historical festival for all of us But 26th January, 2018, will be remembered through the ages. The Republic Day will be celebrated with leaders of all ten asians\nThis time, not one but ten chief guests This is unprecedented in India's history The year 2017 has been special for both ASEAN and India ASEAN completed its 50 years of formation in 2017 and in 2017 25 years of India's partnership with ASEAN were completed. On 26th January the arrival of great leaders of 10 nations is the world\nMy Dear countrymen, this is the season of festivals, by the way our country is a country of festivals. There is hardly a day which does not have a festival ascribed to it. All of us have just celebrated Christmas and the New Year is on its way. May the new year bring greater happiness, glad tidings and prosperity for all of you Let us move forward with all renewed zeal, enthusiasm, fervor and new resolutions. The month of January is the period of the northward movement of the Earth on the celestial orbit around and in this month Makar-Sankranti is also celebrated. This is a festival linked with nature Though all of our festivals are associated with nature in one way or the other, but in our country blessed with the bounty of cultural diversity, there are different ways to celebrate this wonderful episode of nature in different forms. Lohdi is celebrated in Punjab and North-India, while UP-Bihar eagerly await for Khichdi and Til-Sankranti In Rajasthan, it is called Sankrant, Magh-bihu in Assam and Pongal in Tamil Nadu - all these festivals are special in their own right and they have their own importance. All of these festivals are celebrated between 13th and 17th January\nThese festivals may have different names, but their origins stems from attachment to nature and agriculture. Felicitations to all of these festivals. And once again, best wishes for the new year 2018 to all of you\nI love you We will converse again in 2018\nThank you\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 31, 2017\nService is a part of India's culture #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/FiIO8goQr5"