"Share\n\nOur saints and seers have not only fought social evils but their thoughts and actions guide us even today: PM\nSri Narayana Guru strengthened the bond of unity among citizens in the society: PM Modi\nPeople of the country now want it to be free from all social evils and weaknesses: PM Modi\nIt is the last day of the year 2017 and I am fortunate to have had the opportunity of seeking the blessings of Shri Narayana Guru and all the sages present on the stage today. I hope that with the blessings of Mr. Narayana Guru, the first ray of the year 2018 will bring peace, goodwill and a new light of development for the whole world and the country Visiting Sivagiri Mutt has always been a spiritual bliss for me You have increased that pleasure further by giving me the opportunity to inaugurate the Sivagiri pilgrimage. I am extremely grateful to Shri Narayana Dharma Trust and all of you.\nBrothers and sisters,\nOne of the features of our country and the society is that the process of removing the internal weaknesses and evils from our society is going on continuously. From time to time Saints, sages and the great souls have played a major role in expediting this process. The pious souls have spent their lives.\nA pious soul like respected Swami Narayana Guruji had attacked the society against casteism, class discrimination and communism and to unite the society. It was not a easy task for Shri Narayana Guru to achieve this success in the field of education or his efforts in removing the social evils and अस्पृश्यता. He had to face a lot of trouble\nFriends,\nShri Narayana Guru Ji's Mantra was-\n\"Freedom through Education,\nStrength through Organization\nEconomic Independence through Industries. \"\nHe has suggested some measures to improve the society and to the empower the Dalits, the deprived and the oppressed. He believes that the poor, the Dalits and the backward people will be able to teach He has known that the soul will be filled with faith and introspection. Therefore, he had established the institutions to promote education and culture not only in Kerala but also in the nearby states. Today, many organizations are involved in the vision of Sri Narayana Guru.\nShri Narayana Guru had worked in the direction of associating every person. He had promoted truth and cleanliness in the temples instead of talking of miracles. He had modified every ritual that tended to vitiate the atmosphere of temples. Shri Narayana Guru Ji came up with the new management system by removing those non-essential rituals in the worship. He had the right to worship in temples Sivagiri pilgrimage, in a way, is also an extension of social reform. It is a symbol of the vision of Shri Narayana Guru that the Sivagiri pilgrimage has been associated with education, cleanliness, the power of truth, unity, knowledge, science, farmers and has incorporated their goals in the pilgrimage.\nHe had said-\n\"Make use of all that knowledge in practical life. Then the people and the country This is the main purpose of Shivagiri Pilgrimage \"\nI am happy that for the past 85 years every time the Sivagiri pilgrimage, experts from these fields have been invited and their experiences are heard. Even today the experts from different countries are participating in this program. I welcome all of you, felicitate you and hope to learn something new.\nBrothers and sisters,\nSivagiri pilgrimage is a type of river of knowledge in which the person takes a dip achieves the divinity.\nEven during the Kumbh Mela, there is an attempt to unite the vast country. Saints and Sages come together and discuss the problems of the society. Even if there are some changes over the years, yet there is a specialty of the Kumbh Mela. After every 12 years the Saints gather and decide the future of the society, the direction in which the society should work. These are social resolutions in a way After that, every 3 years it was analyzed at different places like Nashik, Ujjain and sometimes in Haridwar during the Kumbh Mela. Everything was properly reviewed\nI hope that when you meet on this occasion in the end of the year, there is a meaningful dialogue about the result of the past year. Have we moved a few steps ahead on the path shown by Shri Narayana Guru for achieving the goals or not?\nFriends,\nBe it the Sivagiri pilgrimage or the Kumbh Mela or any other tradition that strives to liberate the country from its internal evils, these are still very important today. Such pilgrimages People come from different states with different ideologies, get to know each other's traditions and unite in the process.\nFriends,\nAdi Shankaracharya had propagated his philosophy of Advaita on the Holy Land of Kerala. The simple meaning of Advaita is the absence of duality - where me and you are different entities, we are one This expression is the intrinsic meaning of Advaita and Sri Narayana Guru had shown this path. Shree Narayana Guru had not only lived by his principle but also he had seen the path to the whole global society.\nBrothers and sisters,\nEven before the commencement of the Sivagiri pilgrimage, Religious Parliament was organized in the Advaita Ashram under the leadership of Shri Narayana Guru Ji. People from different walks of life In this Religious Parliament, an appeal was made to the whole world to leave religion-based conflicts and to walk on peace, goodwill and prosperity.\nI was told that at the entrance of Religious Parliament the following words were written under the guidance of Guruji-\n\"We meet here not argue and win,\nBut to know and be known \"\nThis effort is to communicate with each other and understand\nToday if we talk about the global environment, we find that our sages could foresee the crisis and were constantly warning us.\nBrothers and sisters,\nDuring the nineteenth and twentieth century a lot of contributions were made by social and religious reform leaders in the freedom movement The society which was divided in different castes and creeds did not fight with the British. In order to overcome this weakness there was a massive movement against casteism The central idea of ​​those movements and the reform programs was that there was a need to move forward and to break the shackles of slavery and freedom from the internal weaknesses. Those who took charge of these movements They associated their spiritual journey with nation building. When the people started dissociating from their communities, the country rose up The united people of India\nFriends,\nToday the country is facing the same situation once again. People of this country want to see their country free from its internal weaknesses Thousands of such institutions There is a need to work in the direction of awakening the people and removing not only racism but also other evils of the society. Even though we had broken the shackles of slavery on August 15, 1947, the imprints of those chains are still visible on our socio-economic system. We can\nBrothers and sisters,\nGreat souls like Jyotiba Phule, Savitribai, Raja Ram Mohan Roy, Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar and Dayanand Saraswati had fought for a long battle for the honor and respect of women of the society. Today their souls will be pleased to see how many massive steps have been taken in the country.\nThe fact that many Muslim mothers and sisters have suffered due to Triple Talaq for such a long time is not any longer anymore. They have found the way to get rid of Triple Talaq.\nBrothers and sisters,\nSaints, sages and monks have told us-\n\"Naraneen should be done if you do not do it\".\nIt means that one can be Narayan only by completing something and not by narratives or doing rituals. This accomplishment itself is our Mantra of 'Sankalp se Siddhi' (Attainment through Resolve). This is the journey towards new India for 125 crore Indians.\nThis journey will be expedited in 2018. We will all take your nation to new heights by taking the money, corruption and benami properties, working against terrorism and racism and moving with the Reform of the Perform, Perform and Transform 'Sabka Saath Sabka Vikas' in the year 2018. I would like to end my speech with these promises and intentions.\nOnce again my best wishes to you all and the devotees of Shri Narayana Guru for the Sivagiri pilgrimage and the New Year.\nThanks a lot!"