"\nWe live in an era in which connectivity is all important: PM Modi\n'I do what' and ends at 'Mujhe Kya': PM Modi\nAtal Bihari Vajpayee is the 'India Marg Vidhata.' Modi has shown the way towards development: PM\nMy dear brothers and sisters, today the whole world is celebrating the festival of Christmas. Jesus Christ's message of love and compassion Many celebrities Today is the birthday of the two gems of India. One is India Ratna is Madan Mohan Malviya Ji and the other is India Ratna is Shriman Atal Bihari Vajpayee Ji.\nJust a while ago our Chief Minister said that when a prime minister goes to any state, that state feels very happy, that state feels very good, but I have not come to visit any state Uttar Pradesh has raised me by adopting me; It has educated me and shaped me for my new responsibilities. This is the same Uttar Pradesh where Banaras made me an MP for the first time, this is the same Uttar Pradesh, 22 crore people of which, played a big role in giving country to a stable government.\nBrothers and sisters, today I got the privilege of traveling in Metro from Botanical Garden and today's age is such that without connectivity life comes to a standstill. Without connectivity If we see this Metro, its significance can not be limited to just that now, it has crashed into millions of rupees and it has benefited from great citizens. These facilities have far-reaching effectss. As a resident of Noida, as a resident of Uttar Pradesh and as a citizen of the country, these arrangements, in a sense, are really beneficial for all the people.\nSometimes, there is not a single subject in our country which is not painted by the brush of politics and hence sometimes the best things of development are evaluated on the scale of benefits. Even today, we have a large amount of petroleum products in the country. It is our endeavor that in 2022, when India will be completing 75 years of its independence; the petroleum products that we import from abroad; On the other hand the requirements of our country is increasing steadily; This requirement is going to increase further in 2022, we want to take some such steps that in the growing need, we can reduce some percent of what we are doing today? Can we keep our country in money? And hence Mass Transportation, Rapid Transportation, Multi Modal Transportation, They are the need of the hour. Today, there was some problem in spending money; Priorities are to be slightly But because of this, it is going to benefit from a lot of people in the near future. Solar energy has also been associated with this Metro. Around 2 MW electricity will be generated using solar power Because of this Metro, people who travel by private vehicles will now obviously prefer Metro So there will be considerable savings of money that were spent on them. It will also benefit our environment And I want that travelling in Metro is a matter of prestige in our country Every person should say, no, I will not use my vehicle We will have to bring this change in our mentality which will enable us to save our country from many problems. It is a great honor for us that on 24 December 2002 Atal Bihari Vajpayee became the first Metro passenger of the country. It has now been 15 years since that event. It started at that time and now it has spread to a network of more than 100 kms and in the coming days it is going to increase further and that day is not far away when our network is world of top five networks , which will become a great honor for our countrymen\nToday, we celebrate the birth anniversary of Atal Bihari Vajpayee as well. Sometimes in our country, we assume that things will remain as they have been, no one is going to bring any change. Sometimes we say that we are a very poor country, we do not have anything This property is rich and prosperous but the people of the country have been kept away from that wealth and prosperity. So if we observe closely then only one thing comes to mind that there is one important reason behind the root cause of the problems and that is the lack of good governance, the absence of good governance It happens, it is okay, mine, yours, things get entangled in that and it has become a habit You go for any work and people will look at you and ask, what's in it for me? Do they ask it or not? Is this the practice or not, and if the response from person in the front is insipid, if he says that there is nothing in it for you other person, say, this is what I have to do, it should be your work know This situation has ruined our country and I have taken the initiative to change it.\nI know how to do it, I know it very well. But you must tell me, should the decisions be taken only when there is political gain and if there is no political advantage then we should not make any decisions. % ‧ does not exist And so the brothers and sisters, the country has elected a government which wants to work according to policies, who wants to work with clear intentions and who is working with the common man. All our decisions are going to bring about the common man.\nThis Metro is being inaugurated today, crores of rupees have been spent on it. I do not believe that any of the top 10 industrialists in India will come here to travel by it. You are the people who travel in this People have come here with great pride to travel in it and I have also been here for you people.\nYou must have seen that the progress of those states is better where there is a thrust on good governance. And wherever reforms in the governance starts, it's governance system improved, government accountable, employees responsible for the responsibility, the whole system and administration accountable, then we have problems in a automatic reduction witness. During his regime, Atal Bihari Vajpayee emphasized on good governance, he stressed on connectivity for the country. Meet any MLA or MP of the country, today one thing is definitely requested and that is Request for Prime Minister Rural Road Scheme.\nIn this country, there has been a great effort to forget those things, after all who dream of taking the roads to every village, very few people know that it was the dream of Atal Bihari Vajpayee. If anyone started the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojna, it was Atal Bihari Vajpayee and because of that every village in India is now being connected with a paved road, and since the time the power is in power, we have initiated that 2019 by every initiative Village will be connected with a paved road, and we will complete the work started by Vajpayee Ji.\nGolden Quadrilateral, The task of connecting whole India There was a time when the work of making roads in India was associated with Sher Shah Suri. After that the task of connecting India by making a golden quadrilateral was imagined only by Vajpayee Ji and he gave him a lot of inspiration in his tenure. Looking at this new connectivity of roads, this new road design, now the whole country believes that we are coming at par with the world. This dream of Metro, of whom the first passenger was Atal Bihari Vajpayee. Today's metro work is going on in many cities. 50% of the cities and the world is also wondering that the work on metro is being done at such a scale as any country and the world of investors in this deep interest.\nWe have abolished approximately 1200 laws. When I was fighting elections then I had said in one of my speeches that the earlier period of government has boasted that this law has made it, we have made that law. It is a good thing, making law is a privileged responsibility of the parliament and they should be made as per the need of the hour. But during the election campaign I had said that I want to abolish one law every day This web of laws is the greatest hurdle in the path of good governance. If you want to do some work then you can find three laws related to that. If the officer wants to do the job then he will use one law, if he wants to do it again, then there is the third law. Common man faces a lot of problems because of this and hence this government has abolished approximately 1200 laws till now.\nThis issue of good governance, I remember very well that, when I was the prime minister, special news articles were published in the newspapers, special reports in the box were published, and what was that about? After Modi became Prime Minister, people have started to reach office on time Now tell me, is this a good news or it is a news that makes you sad Many people are happy that afterwards, people have started to come on time but I am feeling very sad, what is the status of my country, if an officer is on office at the time of arrival then also country joy. This is a live example of what kind of sad times they have witnessed\nToday I want to heartily congratulate our energious Chief Minister Shri Adityanath Yogi Ji. He is taking Uttar Pradesh forward in a very good way, he is moving forward on the path of development in all directions. He is emphasizing on good governance. But looking at his clothes, people were spreading this false image that he can not have modern approach in life. He will be superstitious in nature, bound by old beliefs, but I am happy that today, the same noida for which an image was created that no chief minister can visit this place, without saying anything, his conduct alone by Yogi Ji has proved that this impression was untenable I'm heartily congratulate Yogi Ji.\nIf Chief Ministers live by the fear that visiting some place will take their position then such individuals do not have any right to become a Chief Minister. Any society imprisoned We are living in the era of technology. Devotion has its own place When I became Chief Minister in Gujarat, now it is not that only in Uttar Pradesh There are many states in India, there are many such places where some types of superstitions and beliefs are prevalent. You must have seen that a Chief Minister bought a car, and I'm talking about this modern age, and somebody told him something about the color of the car so he lemons, green-chilies and car in what not, what inspiration will be such people give to the nation? Those who live by such blind faith are very harmful to the public life. There are many governments and Chief Ministers in the whole of India who are trapped in such beliefs and assumptions.\nWhen I became the Chief Minister of Gujarat then six or seven places were brought to my attention. If someone goes there then he no longer remains a chief minister, he loses his position. So I took the initiative and asked him to do the same. I visited all such places in Gujarat where, because of such superstitions, no chief minister has gone in that direction in the last three or four decades and I visited every such place with prominence, and even after that I got the opportunity to serve as the Chief minister for the longest term Now what was the fault of that village, that tehsil or that city? But today, Yogi ji, on his own has removed this stain from Noida. You deserve a lot of congratulations\nBrothers and sisters, good governance and birthdays of Atal Bihari Vajpayee Ji, When I talk about good governance, I want to talk about good governance. You see, if a new urea factory has started then the production of urea will increase, any little kid will know that. But without any new urea factory in the country, immediately after the formation of our government, good governance was emphasized, necessary policies were laid, roadmap was created and implemented. Even without starting a single urea factory, nearly two million tons more urea was produced. Same factories, same machines, same raw material, same labor, after the change of emphasis on good governance. Without commissioning of any new factory, from the same old system, an increase of production of urea by 18-20 lakh tons, it happens because of good governance.\nBrothers and sisters, the roads and paths are the same, the roads and paths are the same, the railway department is the same, the decision-takers are the same, the way the files moved in the same way; the reason that the length of track what was laid before in one day, and after the formation of our government, that length has more than doubled Reason: clear policy and clear intentions and emphasis on good governance. Similarly, the work of double lining, where there is an existing line, what is the reason that in government's formation after the government of this form of converting the single line tracks in double line tracks. The reason is good governance\nBrothers and sisters, construction of roads and highways, before the kind of work on construction, the national highways were done in a day, it is not that the government has not become rich, but putting every penny to the best possible use, every machinery is being utilized effectively, time is utilized efficiently It is the result of the principles of good governance that the work of building is the national highways has doubled in comparison with the previous government. The reason is good governance\nBrothers and Sisters, Today our country is in the era of global trade. Today our seas and ports are important We had negative cargo handling. There was no growth and whatever was there The world has not changed we have changed, the government has changed, intentions have changed, more emphasis And the same cargo handling which had negative growth earlier, today it has grown by 11 percent.\nBrothers and Sisters, Renewable Energy, Solar Energy, Wind Energy, Hydro Power Project, Nuclear Power Project, the way we are working today in all these areas, we have doubled the capacity of the renewable energy to be compared to earlier. Brothers and sisters, this is just good governance.\nDuring the previous government, if someone went to buy an LED bulb, which consumes less electricity, you will be surprised to know that three years and a half years back, that LED bulb was sold at Rs. 350, today it sells at 40-50 rupees. 28 million LED bulbs have been given Indian households, more than 14 thousand crore rupees have been saved, in those homes where LED bulbs have been installed. Some of them saved 200, some of them saved 500, some people saved 1000 rupees and some others saved 2000 rupees. Not only this but approximately 6,000 crore rupees of middle class families have been saved due to prices of LED bulbs. This is a live example.\nBrothers and sisters, if there is good governance then schedules are set in the scheduled time frame. The country is governed by the policy; it is not governed on anyone's whims The policy is in black and white due to which there is no discrimination. And when there is no chance of discrimination, then the chances of corruption are also greatly reduced.\nBrothers and sisters, by taking inspiration from the austerity of Atal Bihari Vajpayee's life and through good governance in our country, we are trying to bring newer heights. Together with everyone, we are moving forward with this formula. And when we talk about development then it should be all inclusive, it should be comprehensive; development with all, development for all, it should be linked with the formula of involvement of all, it should be done while keeping the future in mind. And so we are moving forward with good governance. And the way Atal Bihari Vajpayee Ji did the work of connecting every corner of the country, the way he worked on the connectivity, work on construction of roads, so if I have the good governance of Atal Bihari Vajpayee Ji in one sentence then I will say, Lord of Indian Roads. The work of taking the world from roads to new heights and connecting the people was done by Vajpayee Ji. Today, on his birthday, on the holy festival of Christmas, on the occasion of the birth anniversary of Mahamana Ji, I feel proud to publicly dedicate this metro to the country which connects Uttar Pradesh and Delhi. Once again I express my gratitude to the Uttar Pradesh Government for inviting me to this program. I express my gratitude to the people of Uttar Pradesh, I express gratitude to the people of Noida.\nMany-many thanks"