"Share\n\nSupport for BJP shows the nation is ready for reform agenda and every citizen wants India transformed\nThe Aspirations We have to fulfill them: PM Modi\nThe way the people of Himachal Pradesh has supported us, shows that people are fed up of mis-governance and misdeeds by the incumbent government in the state: PM\nModi has once again rejected those who have tried to sow seeds of casteism, says PM Modi\nSix crore Gujaratis are one and they want to move forward Let's all embrace a second, we can not and will not be divided: PM Modi\nBharatiya Janata Party National President Mr. Amit Bhai Shah, all the senior leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party sitting on the stage and all the workers who are immersed in the huge number of triumphs in the celebration of victory, all the workers who were sunk in happiness First of all I salute the people of Gujarat and Himachal that they chose the path of development. The way of development will solve the problems of public common only. And if today India has to go ahead in the era of global competition, then India will have to overcome new heights of development.\nElections in municipal corporation, municipality, municipality, municipal elections were going on in Uttar Pradesh. It was said loudly that due to GST, the Bharatiya Janata Party would get stuck in the cities of Uttar Pradesh. Similar rumors were prevalent even before the Gujarat elections. In the last few days in Maharashtra, local bodies were elected after GST. In those elections, the Bharatiya Janata Party got unprecedented support in Maharashtra.\nI urge the intellectuals of the country who wish for the good of the country that we who sit here assess the common man of the country and we go in the wrong direction. It is not good for those who think that way; the area and the people are thought to be, they do not benefit, and the country has a frequent loss. All these election results have proven to be one thing that the country is ready for reform, everybody doing a performance is watching the positive. And believe in relation to being transform, they are continuously showing these elections.\nElections in democracy are accountable for government work. Today the expression of the middle class, especially in the country, has increased so much so that such expectations have increased, the expectations will be fulfilled as quickly as possible, it is inherently in mind. The previous governments did not expect the expectations of common man in this country. Let's have a brother pass, as he did, he was an era. Today's time is going on with the common man's new hopes, new expectations, new aspirations, new dreams of the country every moment.\nBrothers sisters\nThe manner in which Himachal Pradesh shows results, gives evidence that if you do not grow, if you are involved in wrongful deeds, wrong work is your priority, then after five years, the public does not accept you. The people of Himachal Pradesh have given a positive vote, have voted for development. Election of Gujarat This is an unprecedented election in the history of the Bharatiya Janata Party. In today's environment, if any government comes back after winning five years, its victory is written as editorial in a very big victory in India. The victory of any government is seen as a huge event for the political analysts of India for the last 30 years.\nGujarat is an exception. In 1989, Gujarat is contesting 12 Lok Sabha seats and 12 out of 12 wins. Assembly election comes in 1990 The BJP was contesting 90 seats and our partner was Chiman Bhai Patel, he used to fight over 90 seats, he got 70 seats. Bharatiya Janata Party got 67 seats. We formed the government in 90 Later, the Congress party, together with Chiman Bhai Patel, formed a government by ransacking it. Elections came in 1995. Bharatiya Janata Party alone contested and won 121 seats with the Bharatiya Janata Party winning two-thirds majority. Live in 1998, win in 2002, win in 2007, win 2012, win every Lok Sabha, win every assembly.\nBrothers and sisters\nConstantly win so much. Just win on the issue of development. This is a fact which is a reality showing a new direction in the politics of India on which the people of Gujarat gave permission to seal it. The conquest of Gujarat elections in my personal form is a matter of double happiness. This is a matter of personal happiness for me because usually a person who has been there for a long time, there is talk of decline after the departure of him, everyone seems impossible, starts to compare, where Modi Where are they? There is an ongoing effort to dematerialize. Today I am happy that after the departure of Gujarat three to three and a half years ago the way Gujarat workers have handled the way in which it has given leadership, it is a double happiness environment for me that after my departure my partner There is no shortage of development in Gujarat. And therefore, I would like to congratulate the leaders of Gujarat BJP, workers with heartfelt heart. I also want to request the people of Gujarat.\nThe attacks were going on from all sides, the storm of up-propaganda went on. The Congress party only looked like it was in the ground but except how many forces it had started that once in Gujarat it was dropped. How-How Conspiracy Made. How-how tricks were made development. There can be persecution for development in terms of development, but to make fun of any development, this will not happen in public life. I know Since exit polls, some people were so worried that this BJP is going to win Gujarat again. So, what are the things to do to reduce the joy of that victory, for the last three days, you must have seen, a lot of preparations were going on.\nBrothers and sisters\nEveryone can have their own thoughts The defeat of the Bharatiya Janata Party may be the number of people who are happy, but if a single party is winning, winning the issue of development, sometimes it is the courage to accept this truth. All our friends will keep It will not be wrong to hope so much.\nBrothers and sisters\nThere are continuous elections coming in our country. Every election is painted with a new color. The truth is that after the Lok Sabha elections in May 2014, there is an atmosphere of development in this country. The hunger of development is awakening. The priority development of governments has gone on. Do not you like the BJP or not, but please do not please the country to distract from the path of development. The day the BJP loses, you celebrate a month, there will be no harm to the country. But when the country is cooperating with the Mantra of development, then I will say to all the people of the country that the opportunity has come, a government that has the power to make decisions. There is a government whose intention is not faulty. There is a government whose policies are neat. There is a government that takes on collective leadership. There is a government which is putting its full strength in cooperative federalism in India to give strength to cooperative compatitism Federalism.\nEverybody's company will help in everybody's growth. This is what mantras came from. This victory is what is the victory of the public on this victory. I want to talk to the citizens of Gujarat especially here today. After 30 years, 30 years ago, the poison of racism in Gujarat was thrown into Jehan so much that millions of people like me were consumed by 30 years of 30 years. Then he came out of Gujarat and got rid of the caste of casteism. Everybody's company will help in everybody's growth. And move forward in the direction of development. Where are they going forward. If there is some rest, then try to complete it as soon as possible. With this sense, Gujarat came but some people in this election due to power hunger, some people. I did not come here to criticize anyone here today. But I want to tell the people of Gujarat that in the last few months, efforts have been made to cultivate the seeds of racism once again. The people of Gujarat have denied that they are eligible for congratulations. But the people of Gujarat will have to be more aware than ever before. Gujarat's mantra is everyone's development with everyone. Even after this victory with the people of Gujarat, you have given us so many blessings.\nEven then, I am daring to say that my brothers and sisters of Gujarat.\nSix and six crore Gujaratis are one, they are good people, and there are people walking in the belief of moving forward. Leave whatever happened, forget who did it. Let's get bonded in the bondage of that unity again. Embrace each and every one. One brother can not separate us from us. One of our Gujarati can not be different from us. Come meet me again. In the last few months, some people played the game. You did not let him succeed. But those people will not leave their actions ahead. And, therefore, unity and brotherhood between the society by taking the mantra of unity and strengthening. Because Gujarat is Gujarat alone. The country also enjoys the benefits of development of Gujarat. Development of states is also essential for the development of the country. States like Gujarat have more responsibility. Gujarat is not behind the development of the country. Double fast forward than the fast moving forward. Cross the new heights of development. Make social unity stronger. Everybody's company will help in everybody's growth. Go ahead with this mantra. I again congratulate all the workers who have worked hard once again.\nThis victory is normal. It's an unusual victory. This victory is uncommon on every political scale. In achieving this extraordinary victory, the President of India, a working president, a strategist president, recognizing the power of every worker and joining that power in the work, the efforts of millions of workers of the Bharatiya Janata Party Are. And the result of that is that our victory journey has continued. 30 years of continuous In a state that is constantly winning from 1989, it is a big event for the whole world. No matter how many people try, the people who can not accept the victory of the Bharatiya Janata Party do not need to waste time for them. We will take the confidence of victory, 2022 to get the dream of New India, and 75 years of independence. The great men who had dreamed for independence. To fulfill those dreams, we have our own life span. We were not fortunate enough to have no good fortune to die for the country in the war of independence. We were born after independence. But the good fortune to die for independence may not have been given but we have got the opportunity to live our lives, to live our lives, to make India a grand India. We should not lose that opportunity.\nCongratulations to all of you with this feeling of taking the country to new heights. Congratulations to millions of people in the country. I congratulate all the workers, the National President, his team with great satisfaction. Speak with me Long live Mother India. Long live Mother India. The winner will win, the development will win. The winner will win the development only. Development is our mantra. To move forward for development. The country has to walk on new heights of development. Thanks a lot."