"\nTuirial Hydropower Project in Mizoram will boost the socio-economic development of the state: PM Modi\nTuirial Hydropower Project will boost eco-tourism and provide a source of assured drinking water supply: PM\nWe are betting on the skills and strengths of India's youth. We believe in 'empower through enterprise': PM Modi\nBuilding a New India by 2022 requires us to work on the twin goals of growing economic growth as well as ensuring that the fruits of growth are shared by all: PM\nVision of New India can be realized only if fruits of development reach all, says PM Modi in Mizoram\nGovernment wants to transform 'transformation by Transportation' through investment in infrastructure\nFriends,\nChibai Vek Ule\nIin Dam Em\nThis is the first time that I have got the opportunity to visit. This was the only state among the North-Eastern states that we were able to visit. So first of all I seek your forgiveness However, I had visited Mizoram before becoming Prime Minister. I am very well aware of this place I have a good time It's very natural that those old memories have been refreshed once again.\nMy visit to your beautiful State today, brings back fond memories, of good times for the people of Mizoram.Let me begin by wishing you, and indeed, all the people of Mizoram, Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.\nMay the new year bring happiness and prosperity to all\nAs I arrived in Aizawl a short while ago, I was thrilled to witness once again, the enchanting beauty of Mizoram: the \"Land of the Hill People.\"\nA Land of peace and calm\nA people so warm and hospitable\nA State with one of the highest literacy rates in India\nAt the beginning of the term of the term of the development of North-Eastern States. Atal Ji used to say that a big objective of economic development was completely eliminated. And he took a lot of steps in that direction.\nWhen we formed the government in 2014 I had made a rule that at least one cabinet minister will visit the north-eastern states every fortnight. And the visit will not be like this, a minister will come here in the morning, participating in the event and goes back in the evening. I wanted that my colleagues in the cabinet should understand the problems of their ministers and then formulate the policies of their ministries.\nFriends,\nI am told that in the last three years my colleague in the Council of ministers has made more than 150 visits to the North-Eastern states. We have been working with this vision that you do not need to come to Delhi, you do not need to send messages to Delhi.\nWe call this policy - Ministry of DoNER At Your Door-step. In addition to ministers, even the Secretary of the Ministry of Development of North East visits some or other other states of North-East every month and stays here along with his officers. And as a result of all these efforts made by the government, the projects related to North-Eastern states have taken up the pace and those projects which have been stuck for years today, these same projects are in a fast pace.\nAs a result of the efforts of the Union Government, the scheme for the benefit of the North-Eastern region has gained momentum. Projects stuck for years, are now progressing\nI just had a glimpse of the impressive exhibition set up here by Self Help Groups, comprising of all the eight North-Eastern States. I congratulate the members of these Self Help Groups, for their immense talent and potential. It is a potential that the Union Government is committed to hone, and develop.This is one of the key objectives of the Deen Dayal Antyodaya Yojana.\nSelf Help Groups are also benefiting through credit linkages by the North Eastern Development Finance Corporation, with interest subsidy being provided by the Union Government.\nI am told, the Ministry of Development of the North-East Region is also supporting the activities of the North Eastern Handicrafts and Handloom Development Corporation; and the North Eastern Regional Agricultural Marketing Corporation\nThese Public Sector under-takings are engaged in training and hand holding artisans, weavers and farmers, for marketing and food processing.\nTechnologies and products developed by Institutions such as CSIR, ICAR and the IITs should be studied for possible adoption in the north-east, to enable value addition of local produce.\nFriends! Today we gather here to celebrate a significant mile-stone in the history of Mizoram:\nThe completion and dedication of the 60 Mega-Watt Tuirial Hydro-power Project This comes 13 years after the last major central sector hydro-power project in the North-Eastern Region - the Kopili Stage-II.\nTuirial Hydro-Power Project is the first major Central Sector Project to be successfully commissioned in Mizoram. It is the first large hydro-power project in the State. It will produce 251 million units of electrical energy every year, and boost the socio-economic development of the state.\nWith the commissioning of this project, Mizoram becomes the third power-surplus State in the North-East, after Sikkim and Tripura.\nThe project was first declared and cleared by the Union Government of Prime Minister, Vajpayee ji, way back in 1998, but got delayed.\nThe completion of this project is a reflection of our commitment to complete projects and usher in a new era of development in the North Eastern region.\nApart generating electricity, the reservoir will also open new avenues for navigation. This will provide connectivity to remote villages The huge reservoir, spread over an area of ​​45 square kilometers, can also be used for development of fisheries.\nThis project will boost eco-tourism, and provide a source of assured water supply. I am informed that the state has a hydro-power potential of 2100 Mega-Watts, of which we have so far tapped only a fraction\nI see no reason why Mizoram can not become a net-power exporter Our aim is not just to make the North Eastern States power surplus We also aim to develop a state-of-art transmission system which ensures that additional power is transferred to other power deficient parts of the country.\nMy Government is investing close to Rupees 10,000 crore for a comprehensive improvement in the power transmission system in the North Eastern States.\nFriends,\nIn our country, even after 70 years after independence, there are 4 crore such households in our country. You can imagine how the people of the 18th century There are thousand of households here in Mizoram that have been constrained to live the life without electricity. In order to provide electricity to such households, the government has recently launched a scheme - Pradanmantri Sahaj Bijli - Har Home Yojana - or SAHHAGYA. Our objective is to provide electricity to every household as soon as possible.\nMore from Rs. 16,000 crore will be spent under this scheme The government will not charge any money from those households We want to see the light in our lives.\nFriends,\nIf we compare with the other parts of the country then it can be seen that the number of entrepreneurs in the north-east has not gone up to the extent that it should be done. A big reason for this thing was that our young people were not able to start their business. The government has started schemes like Pradhanmantri Mudra Yojana, Start-up India and Stand-up India by taking into account this requirement of youths. The Ministry of DONER has created a venture capital fund of Rs. 100 crores while giving special attention to the North-East I call upon the youth of Mizoram to take advantage of these central government schemes. Youth of this region has the capability and courage to do wonders in the world of Start-ups Government of India is committed to the hands of these youth.\nWe are betting on the skills and strengths of India's youth. We believe in 'empower through enterprise' - which is the right eco-system for innovation and enterprise to flourish so that our land is home to the next big ideas that can transform humanity.\nIn 2022, India will complete 75 years of independence, the next five years provides a opportunity to plan and build on our achievements, to make a quantum leap in all spheres of development.\nBuilding a New India by 2022 requires us to work on the two goals of growing economic growth. In the spirit of everyone, everyone's development, every Indian, irrespective of caste, gender, religion, class must equal opportunities to partake in the new prosperity.\nMy government believes in competitive and cooperative federalism, where there is a healthy competition between states. I am convinced that the drivers of change\nWe have taken a number of initiatives to infuse healthy competition among states. A Committee of Chief Ministers made recommendations to rationalize Centrally Sponsored Schemes. We have accepted the recommendations.\nDespite the fiscal constraints, the sharing pattern of core centrally sponsored schemes for North Eastern States has been 90-10. For other schemes, it stands at 80-20\nFriends, The vision of New India can be realized only if the fruits of development reach all.\nThe Union Government has plans to focus on around 115 districts which are relatively backward when evaluated on various social indicators. This will also benefit the backward districts of North Eastern States including Mizoram.\nJust yesterday, we approved a new Central Sector Scheme. The North East Special Infrastructure Development Scheme will fill the gap in creation of infrastructure in two sectors.\nOne sector is physical infrastructure relating to water supply, power, connectivity and special projects promoting tourism.\nThe other is social sector projects of education and health. The new scheme has been designed after due consultations with State Governments. However, to ensure continuity, all ongoing projects under NLCPR will be provided fund for completion by March 2022.\nThe new scheme will be 100 percent centrally funded as the NLCPR, where 10 percent contribution has come from the State Government.\nThe Central Government will be providing Rupees 5300 Crore to North Eastern States under the Scheme over the next three years.\nLack of connectivity is one of the biggest hurdles in the development of the North Eastern Region. We aim for a transformation through investment in infrastructure.\nThe Union Government has sanctioned over 3800 kilometers of National Highway with an investment of Rupees 32000 crore during last three years, out of which about 1200 kilometers of road has already been built.\nThe Union Government will be investing another Rupees 60,000 crore under Special Accelerated Road Development Program in the North-East and Rs. 30,000 crores under Bharatmala in the next two to three years to build a network of high-ways and roads in the North East Region. We are committed to bringing all the State Capitals of North East on the Rail map.\nThe Government of India is executing 15 new Rail Line projects of 1385 km length, at a cost of over Rs 47,000 crore.\nThe railways reached Mizoram last year, with the inauguration of the rail line connecting Bhairabi in Mizoram with Silchar in Assam.\nI had laid the foundation for a new line to take rail connectivity to Aizawl in 2014.\nWith the support of the State Government, the State Capital Aizawl with broad gauge rail line.\nThe Union Government has been proactively following the 'Act East Policy'. As a gate-way to South East Asia, Mizoram stands for gain immensely from this. It can emerge as a key transit point for trade with Myanmar and Bangladesh.\nVarious bilateral projects are completed Some of the major initiatives include the Kaladan Multi-Modal Transit Transport Project, the Rih-Tedim Road Project and Border Haats.\nAll these will increase the scope for economic links, and contributed to the total economic growth and the North-Eastern Region.\nFriends, The high literacy rate, scenic beauty and availability of large English speaking population in Mizoram make a perfect blend to develop the state as a model tourist destination.\nThe State offers significant scope for adventure tourism, cultural tourism, eco-tourism, wild-life tourism, and community-based rural tourism. If developed well, tourism can emerge as the biggest employer in the state. Union Government has already sanctioned two tourism projects worth 194 crore rupees for the last 2 years in the Mizoram, eco-tourism and adventure tourism. 115 crore rupees for implementation of these projects\nThe government is also committed to provide assistance for maintenance and up-keep of various wildlife sanctuaries and national parks in Mizoram with a view to attract tourists. Let us work together to make Mizoram one of the top tourist destinations in India.\nFriends,\nThis part of our country can easily declare itself Carbon Negative Our friend Bhutan has done that If the state governments intensify their efforts then all the eight states of North-East can become Carbon Negative. The recognition of states as Carbon Negative can not be established in the world. Other states of North-East can increase their efforts to get ourselves declared as 100% organic states on the lines of Sikkim.\nCentral Government has started\nThe government has been developing 10,000 organic clusters across the country under this scheme. Hundred Farmer Producers Organizations have been set up in the north-east too. More than 50,000 farmers have been connected with them. Also, the arrangements have been made so that the farmers of this place can sell their organic produce in Delhi.\nFriends,\nOur country will celebrate 75 years of its independence in 2022. And Mizoram can make a pledge that by 2022 it will be able to develop itself as a 100% organic and carbon negative state. I would like to assure the people of Mizoram that the central government is fully complied with this pledge. We have been solving your smallest problems by understanding them I would like to give you a example of bamboo\nThe Bamboo is a source of livelihood for millions of people of North East, has been a very restrictive regulatory regime. You could not transport or sell the bamboo produced in your own field without a permit. Our Government with an aim to reduce this pain, has changed the regulatory regime. Now there will be no requirement of any permit or permission for producing, transporting and selling Bamboo and its products produced by farmers in their own fields This will benefit millions of farmers and will add to the farmers' income by 2022.\nIt's not possible that I come to Mizoram and do not talk about football Mizoram's player Jeje Lalpekhlua has attracted him And in a way football is a part of every household in Mizoram. I have been told that a pilot project by FIFA and Aizwal Football Club are further strengthening the local talent.\nFootball fans of the whole country had clapped for Mizoram when it was won in Santosh Trophy for the first time. I congratulate the people of Mizoram for their achievements in the field of sports. Football is such a soft power through which Mizoram can get worldwide recognition.\nThe soft power of football can become Mizoram's global identity. There are many other prominent sports people from Mizoram who have brought glory to the state and the country. These include the Olympian Archer C. Lalremsanga, boxer Ms. Jenny Lalremliani, weight lifter Ms. Lalchhahimi, and hockey player Ms. Lalruatfeli\nI am sure, Mizoram will continue to provide sportspersons who will excel at the world stage.\nFriends,\nThe economies of some countries are the only This type of countries can be used by people. Given the immense potential of sports in the north-east of central government has been setting up a sports university in this region in Imphal.\nIt will become easier for the region of the region Also, we are preparing for this thing as well that after the establishment of the University will be its campuses should be opened only as well as in other countries as well, so that this region of a sportsperson is also well in other countries visiting by sports training. .\nI see Aizawl wearing a colorful and festive look, and fully geared up for Christmas. I wish you all again\nThank you.\nEin Vaya Choonga Ka-Lom Ei Mangachcha\nI am happy to be in Mizoram This is the first time that you have visited this state before that. I admire the beauty of Mizoram and friendly nature of the state: PM @narendramodi in Aizawl https://t.co/vbG9VFN31Q pic.twitter.com/BPXLSzVScq\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 16, 2017\nDuring the tenure of Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee had worked for the development of the Northeast. We have taken forward this vision and are devoting resources for the progress of the Northeast. My ministerial colleagues are frequent visiting the Northeast: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 16, 2017\nThere are over 150 Ministerial visits Our initiative- The Ministry of DoNER has been able to include the development of the Northeast. It has enabled us to understand the aspirations of the Northeast even better: PM @narendramodi in Mizoram\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 16, 2017\nToday we gather here to celebrate a significant mile-stone in the history of the Mizoram: the completion and dedication of the 60 Mega-Watt Tuirial Hydropower Project: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 16, 2017\nIt is the first large hydropower project in Mizoram. It will boost the socio-economic development of the state: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 16, 2017\nThe project was first cleared by the Union Government of PM Vajpayee ji, way back in 1998 but got delayed. The completion of this project is a reflection of our commitment to completing ongoing projects and usher in a new era of development in the North Eastern region: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 16, 2017\nApart from electricity, the reservoir will also open new avenues for navigation. This will provide connectivity to remote villages The huge reservoir, spread over an area of ​​45 square kilometer can also be used for development of fisheries: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 16, 2017\nThis project will boost eco-tourism and provide a source of assured drinking water supply: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 16, 2017\nKeeping in mind the North-East, the DONER Ministry has also created a Venture Capital Fund from the amount of 100 crores: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 16, 2017\nI urge the youngsters of Mizoram to get maximum benefit from these schemes of the central government. The youth here are encouraged to be in the world of start-up, they have the potential. Government of India is committed to the handholding of such young people: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 16, 2017\nWe are betting on the skills and strengths of India's youth. We believe in 'empower through enterprise' - which is the right ecosystem for innovation and enterprise to flourish so that our land is the next big ideas that can transform humanity: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 16, 2017\nBuilding a New India by 2022 requires us to work on the twin goals of growing economic growth as well as ensuring that the fruits of growth are shared by all: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 16, 2017\nIn the spirit of 'All along, everyone's development' every Indian, irrespective of caste, gender, religion, class must have equal opportunities in partake in the new prosperity: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 16, 2017\nVision of New India can be realized only if fruits of development reach all. Government plans to focus on around 115 districts which are relatively backward when evaluated on various indicators. This will benefit backward districts of North Eastern States including Mizoram: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 16, 2017\nIt is said that the lack of connectivity is one of the biggest hurdles in the path of development of the North Eastern Region. My Government wants to 'Transformation by Transportation' through investment in the North Eastern Region: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 16, 2017\nWe are committed to bringing all the State Capitals of North East on the Rail map. The Government of India is executing 15 new Rail Line projects of 1385 kilometers in length, at a cost of over Rs 47,000 crore: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 16, 2017\nThe Union Government has been proactively following the 'Act East Policy'. As a gate-way to South East Asia, Mizoram stands for gain immensely from this. It can emerge as a key transit point for trade with Myanmar and Bangladesh: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 16, 2017\nThe high literacy rate, scenic beauty and availability of large English speaking population in Mizoram make a perfect blend to develop the state as a model tourist destination: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 16, 2017\nThe Bamboo which is the livelihood for millions of people of North East, has been a very restrictive regulatory regime. Because of this, you can not transport or sell the bamboo produced in your own field without the permit: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 16, 2017\nOur government with an aim to reduce this pain, has changed the regulatory regime and now there will be no need of any permit or permission for production, transporting and selling their own fields in farmers by producing bamboo and its products: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 16, 2017\nThis will benefit millions of farmers and will add to the efforts to double the farmers income by 2022: PM @narendramodi"