"Commissioning of the INS Kalvari in Indian Navy will strengthen our defense sector: PM\nINS Kalvari a fine example of 'Make in India' initiative, says PM Modi\nGuided by the theory of SAGAR - Security and Growth for All in the Region, We are the highest priority to Indian Ocean region: PM\nGovernor of Maharashtra, Shri Vidya Sagar Rao, Defense Minister, Smt. Nirmala Sitharaman, Chief Minister of Maharashtra, Shri Devendra Fadnavis, Minister of Defense for State, Shri Subhash Bhamre, National Security Advisor, Mr. Ajit Doval, Ambassador of France, Mr. Alexander Jigaral and other French guests, Chief of Navy, Admiral Sunil Lamba, Commanding in Chief, Western Naval Command, Vice Admiral Girish Luthra Ji, Vice Admiral D.M. Deshpande Ji, CMD, MDL, Mr. Rakesh Anand, Captain S.D. Mehndale, other officers and staff of Navy, Officers and staff of MDL (Mazgaon Dock Shipbuilders Limited), other dignitaries present here in the program.\nToday is an important day for 1.25 billion Indians, a day full of pride. I heartily congratulate all my countrymen on this historic achievement Dedicating INS Kalvari submarine to the nation is a very auspicious opportunity for me I also offer a lot of good wishes to the Indian Navy\nAfter an gap of about two decades, India is getting such a submarine Kalvari's addition to Naval Fleet is a big step taken by us in the defense sector. Indians have shed sweat to manufacture, they have used their energy This is a great example of Make in India I heartily congratulate every worker, every employee involved in the making of Kalvari. I thank you very much for the making of Kalvari. This submarine is also a great example of the rapidly growing strategic partnership between India and France.\nFriends, this year is the golden jubilee of the Indian Navy's Submarine Arm. Just last week, Submarine Arm has won Power of Kalvari, or it could be said that the power of Tiger Shark will strengthen our Indian Navy. Friends, India's maritime tradition is very old, five thousand years Lothal of Gujarat was one of the world's earliest sea-port Historians say that trade with 84 countries is conducted through Lothal Our relationship with other countries of Asia and Africa has progressed through the sea waves only. Not only for business but culturalurally also Indian Ocean has linked us with other countries of the world and helped us to stand them.\nIndian Ocean has carved the history of India and now it is giving power to modern India Our coastline of more than 7500 kilometers, about 1300 small islands, about 25 lakh square kilometers of Exclusive Economic Zone, creates such a maritime power that is unmatched. The Indian Ocean is very important These oceans shoulder the burden of two-third of the world's oil shipments, one-third of the world's bulk cargo and half of the world's container traffic. Three-fourths of the traffic passing through it Waves rising in this ocean to 40 countries and up to 40 percent of the world's population.\nFriends, it is said that the 21st century is the century of Asia It is also decided that the path of development of the 21st century will pass through the Indian Ocean. And so Indian Ocean has a special place in the politics of our government. This vision is reflected in our vision. I also mention it by a special name - S. A. G. A. R.- or if I say SAGAR i.e. Security and Growth for All in the Reason, \"SAGAR\". We are fully aware and cautious about our global, strategic and economic interests in the Indian Ocean and hence the whole region of the modern and multi-dimensional Navy of India is leading for peace and stability. The way India's political and economic maritime partnership is increasing and the regional framework is being strengthened.\nFriends, the powers vested in the sea gives us economic power for nation building, and therefore, India is also serious about those challenges which are not only faced by India but also by this region in other countries. Whether it is terrorism coming through the sea or the problem of piracy, smuggling of drugs, India is playing an important role in dealing with these challenges Our Mantra of Development of Everyone Together is the same as it is water, air or land.\nConsidering the whole world as one family and moving forward with the spirit of Vasudhaiva Kutumbkam (World is one family), India is constantly meeting its global responsibilities. For its fellow countries, India is the first responder in their time of crises and hence when Sri Lanka is flooded, Indian navy is the first to reach their help. When there was a water crisis in the Maldives, ships filled with water immediately When a cyclone hits Bangladesh, Indian navy rescues the stranded Bangladeshi people in the middle of the sea. On humanitarian grounds, Indian navy never lagged and promptly came forward to help the victims of typhoon in Myanmar. Not only this, when the Indian Navy rescued more than four and a half thousand Indian citizens during Yemen crisis then it also made other 48 other countries from the people safe and secure from that crisis. Humanitarian aspect of Indian diplomacy and Indian security system is the specialty of India, it is our distinctiveness\nI remember when an earthquake hit Nepal, how Indian Army and Air Force took over the relief operations. Over 700 flights, more than a thousand tons of relief material, taking thousands of earthquake victims from one place to another, extricating hundreds of foreign nationals, this \"amiability\" is in India's psyche, it is in India's nature. India can never stay without the work of humanity\nFriends, a able and strong India has a great role Today we are working in different countries of the world. Their army is going to share experiences. Last year alone, naval forces of 50 countries were involved in the International Fleet Review. One can hardly forget the panoramic scene in Visakhapatnam at that time.\nThis year also the Indian Navy has attracted the world's attention with its valor in the Indian Ocean. Indian Navy performed brilliantly with the Navy of the US and Japan during Malabar Exercises, held in July. Similarly, India has continued a series of exercises during various months with the Navies of Australia, Singapore, Myanmar, Japan and Indonesia. Indian Army has also conducted joint exercises with the countries like Sri Lanka, Russia, America, Britain, Bangladesh and Singapore.\nBrothers and Sisters, this whole picture is a witness to the fact that the countries of the world today are willing and committed to move with peace and stability.\nFriends, we are aware that the country has changed. We are doing our utmost to develop our defence readyness to meet these challenges, proactive steps are taken. Along with military power, Economic Power and Technical Power, power of international relations, power of public confidence and the soft power of the country, all these must have synergy in them between them. This is a demand of the present times.\nBrothers and Sisters, in the past three years, a change has begun in the eco-system related to defense and security. A lot of new initiatives have been taken While on the one hand we are addressing the topic of essential goods, at the same time, pro-active agenda is also being developed. From the licensing process to the export process, we are bringing transparency and balanced competition across the system. Our government has taken several steps to encourage foreign investment Now 49 percent FDI can be done via automatic route. The option to have 100% FDI in some areas of the defense We have also made major changes in the Defense Procurement Process which is also encouraging Make in India. This is also possible new opportunities for employment.\nI have been told that it took around 12 lakh man-days to build INS Kalvari. During the course of its course, the technical competence that Indian companies, Indian industries, small entrepreneurs and our engineers have got, in a way, a \"talent treasure\" for the country. This skill-set is an asset for us, which will continuously benefit the future in our country.\nFriends, we have made radical changes in our defense exports policy, so that Indian companies have defense products of manufacturing and world-wide exports to them. A list of about one hundred fifty non-core items has been created, so our military forces easily protect products that were made here. Military forces do not require approval from Ordnance Factories for their purchase, they can buy such products directly from private companies.\nIn order to make the country self-reliant in the defense sector, the government is implementing the strategic partnership model with the Indian private sector. It is our effort that just like foreign countries, Indian companies should be manufacturing, from fighter planes to helicopters and from tanks to submarine in our country These Strategic Partners will further strengthen India's defense in the future.\nThe government has also taken many steps to accelerate the procurement of defense. Financial powers have also been increased at the level of Ministry of Defense and Services Headquarters. The whole process has been made more simple and effective With these important reforms, the strength of our defense system and the capabilities of the forces of the country will be further enhanced.\nBrothers and sisters, our government's security policy is not only making an impact outside but also being a positive impact on the country's security. You all know how the terrorism is being used against India It is the result of our government's policies and the bravery of our soldiers that we have not allowed such forces to succeed in J \u0026 K In Jammu and Kashmir, more than 200 terrorists have been killed in this year. There is also a significant decrease in stone pelting incidents.\nIn the Northeastern states also, there was noticeable improvement in the situation. Naxal-Maoist has also come down. This indicates that more and more people in these areas are now returning to the mainstream of development. On this occasion today, I am thankful to all those who have laid down their lives State police forces, para-military forces, our military, all the agencies engaged in security and those working clandestinely, this country of 1.25 billion people have been thankful to them. I congratulate them, I thank them\nFriends, the strength of our security forces and therefore, keeping in view the requirements of the security forces, without delaying them for the decisions, their standing with this government of priority and it is in nature of this government This was our own commitment, due to which the issue of One Rank One Pension, which has been fulfilled since decades, that promise is now fulfilled. So far about 11 thousand crores of rupees have been paid as arrears to more than 20 lakh retired army personnel.\nBrothers and Sisters, on this occasion, I would like to remember the 6 brave Indian Navy officers, who are on an all ocean revolution mission. I would like to honor them With the inspiration of Defense Minister Smt. Nirmala Ji and message from India's women power, a lot of courage these six brave heart are going forward.\nFriends, only you are managing these unfathomable Indian capabilities in land, sea and air Today a new journey begins with INS Kalvari\nKeep you strong and safe \"Shamah Nau Varunah\" is the only motto. With this wish, I salute you once again with good wishes. I concluded today while the Golden Jubilee year.\nMany many thanks\nBharat Mata Ki Jai (Long live Mother India)\nToday is a day of great pride for 50 million Indians. I congratulate all the citizens on this historic achievement: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 14, 2017\nIt is a matter of great luck for me to devote INS Kalwari submarine to the nation. I also bestow great wishes to the Indian Navy on behalf of the people of the country: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 14, 2017\nThis is a great example of 'Make In India'. I also heartily congratulate every worker, every employee of Kalvari building: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 14, 2017\nI also thank the French for the collaboration of Kalvari. This submarine is also an excellent example of the rapidly growing strategic partnership of India and France: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 14, 2017\nCalvary's power, or say Tiger Shark's strength will strengthen our Indian Navy: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 14, 2017\nIt is said that the 21st century is of Asia. It is also certain that the path of 21st century development will be through the Indian Ocean. Therefore, there is a special place in the Indian Ocean's policies. This approach reflects in our vision: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 14, 2017\nI call it a special name - S. A. G. A. R.- \"Sea\" i.e. Security and Growth for All in the Reason: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 14, 2017\nWe are fully aware of our global, strategic and economic interests in the Indian Ocean, are cautious. Therefore, the Modern and Multi-Dimentional Navy of India leads the alliance for peace in the region, stability ahead: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 14, 2017\nAs India's political and economic maritime partnership is increasing, the regional framework is being strengthened, it is easier to achieve this goal: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 14, 2017\nThe powers vested in the sea provide us economic power for nation building. Therefore, India is also serious about those challenges, not only in India but also in different countries of the region. PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 14, 2017\nWhether there is terrorism coming through the sea, there is a problem of piracy, smuggling of drugs or illegal fishing, India is playing an important role in dealing with all these challenges: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 14, 2017\nOur mantra of all development and development is very similar in water and space. Considering the entire world as a family, India is continuously playing its global responsibilities. India has made its first responder in its crisis for its fellow countries: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 14, 2017\nThe human aspect of Indian diplomacy and the Indian security mechanism is ours ... Samarth and strong India play an important role not only for us but for the entire humanity: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 14, 2017\nCountries of the world want to walk with India in the path of peace and stability: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 14, 2017\nChanges in the entire eco system related to defense and security have started in the last three years: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 14, 2017\nAbout 12 lakh Mandays are engaged in the construction of INS Kalwari. During the course of its creation, \"Technent Treasure\" is a technique for the country which has been given to Indian companies, Indian industries, small entrepreneurs, our engineers. This SkillSet is an asset for us: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 14, 2017\nThe favorable impact of our government's security policies is not only external but also on internal security of the country. You all know how terrorism is being used as a proxy war against India: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 14, 2017\nThe result of the government policies and the bravery of our soldiers is that in Jammu and Kashmir we did not allow such forces to succeed. In Jammu and Kashmir this year so far, more than 200 terrorists have been killed in collaboration with Jammu and Kashmir Police and security forces. There has also been a sharp decline in stone-throwing incidents: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 14, 2017\nOn this occasion, I express my gratitude to every person who dedicated his life to the security of the country. The state police force, the paramilitary force, our armies, every agency engaged in security, which looks like every agency that does not see, is proud of the hundred and fifty million people of this country: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 14, 2017\nThis was our own commitment, due to which the commitment of 'One Rank One Pension' pending for several decades has changed in the past: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 14, 2017\nToday a new journey begins with INS Kalwari. The sea god keep you strong, safe: PM @narendramodi"