"Share\n\nPeople want to get rid of evils like corruption and black money in the system: PM Modi\nNDA Government's aim is to create a transparent and sensitive system that caters to all: PM Modi\nWe are working to meet the needs of the poor and free them from all the problems they face: PM\nMudra Yojana is giving wings to the aspirations of our youth: PM Modi\nNon-Performing Asset (NPA) is the largest liability on the NDA Government's past by the economists of UPA: PM Modi\nWe are formulating new policies keeping in mind the requirements of people; We are repealing old and obsolete laws: PM\nMajor reforms have been carried out in the last three years in several sectors: PM\nPresident of FICCI Mr. Pankaj R. Patel Ji, President-elect Mr. Ramesh Shah Ji, Secretary General Sanjay Baru Ji and other dignitaries present here,\nAll of you are sitting here This year, FICCI is also completing its 90th year. It's a great issue for any organization I love you\nFriends,\nIt was sometime near to the year 1927 when the Simon Commission was constituted. The way Indian industry is the galvanized itself against the commission as that time it is very inspiration and historic event. Industry had raised the voice against the Simon Commission by rising above its self interest. As every organization of Indian society came forward for national interest, Indian industrialists also devoted their energy in nation building.\nBrothers and sisters,\nAs 90 years ago, the common man had come forward to take the responsibility of the nation, similarly the same era has once again started. You can understand the level of people's expectation, anticipation these days. People have been fed up with these internal vices, corruption, black money and they want to get rid of all of these.\nThat is why today is the institution of a political party or an industry body like FICCI is this time for them to be deliberate and formulate their future strategy by understanding the requirements and feelings of the people.\nFriends,\nMany things have been achieved in the country but this is also true that many challenges have come before us in all these years Even 70 years after the independence we had a system under which poor people are fighting against this system in some way or the other. He is struggling for very small things If that poor person wanted to open a bank account then system created hurdles If he wanted to get a gas connection then he was required to do different doors. The Commission was required to pay in many places.\nMy government is doing the work We are making such a system that is not only transparent but it's also sensitive as well. Such a system that takes into consideration the problems faced by the people.\nThat is why we got such a splendid response when we started the Jan-Dhan scheme. You would be wondering to know that we could not fix a target as well as many people we did not have any such information, any information in this regard.\nToday, when I see that more than 30 crore poor people have Jan-Dhan scheme through their bank accounts opened then I realize that I have never had this information that banks turn down poor people - sometimes by scolding them. that what a great requirement of people has been fulfilled One study has also revealed that large areas in such areas where such accounts are opened, those areas in inflation rate have come down. It means what kind of big change this scheme has brought about the lives of poor people.\nBrothers and sisters,\nOur government has formulated its schemes by taking into account the problems and problems faced by the people and their requirements. This vision has been given priority. The lives of people are easy and it leads to increase in the ease of living.\nUjjawala plans to start smoking in the kitchen. We have given free connections to more than 3 crore women Now it has been revealed in another study that the fuel economy has come down in the rural areas. It means now the poor people\nWe have been working to solve every single requirement, every single problem faced by poor people by understanding them. More than 5 crore toilets have been constructed so that poor women do not have face embarrassment, so that their health and safety are not put to risk.\nPradhanmantri Avas Yojana has started that poor people can have their own home, so that they spend on rent on the same amount.\nFriends,\nYou will find a completely different world altogether in far flung areas, in the villages of the country that is completely different from these glittering lights of VigyanBhawan, different from this decoration and the atmosphere. I have come here from that world of poverty. Limited resources, limited education but unlimited, unrestricted dreams. That world has taught me to work, to take decisions and to implement them.\nAs the Mudra scheme has been meeting This was the requirement of a bank guarantee. If any young person wants to do something on his own then the first question he encounters is that he will arrange the funds? The government is offering this guarantee under the Mudra scheme. In the last three years we have been sanctioned about 9.75 crore loans. More than 4 lakh crore have been disbursed to youth without bank guarantee. The government of India is standing in the youth with a large requirement of youths and as a result of the country has got almost three crore new entrepreneurs in the last three years.\nThese are those people who have received their first bank loans under the Mudra scheme. These three crore people have further expanded, strengthened the country's small industries sector, MSME sector.\nGovernment is also encouraging start-ups The biggest requirements of start-ups In order to meet this requirement, the government has created a fund of funds under the SIDBI. Following this decision, the investment made by SIDBI has been leveraged by more than four times with the help of other investors. Because of this thing it has got easier for those start ups which have new ideas\nBrothers and sisters,\nThe investment made by Alternate Investment Funds are important in the eco-system for start-ups. The investment is significantly increased in the last three years. And you will notice that the government has been taking decisions, formulating policies. You will not notice this policy during the previous government At that time, loans worth billions of rupees were given to some top industrialists; The loans were sanctioned\nFriends,\nFICCI mentions about itself - industry change You can get the industry's voice to the government You keep publishing your surveys, keep organizing seminars However, I am not aware that FICCI has done any survey or not on the issue of the government. These days there is a lot of noise around Non-Performing Assets, NPA-NPA, that is the biggest liability handover to this government by some 'economists' sitting in the previous government.\nI am also interested to know what the organizations like FICCI were doing when some people were sitting in the bank for some facilitating loans. The people sitting in the previous government knew this was wrong, the bank knew it, and the institutions related to the market knew that it was wrong.\nThis was the biggest scam of UPA government It is bigger than the Commonwealth, 2G and Coal Scam. In a way the people sitting in the government looted the hard earned money from public Was it referred to any survey, any study even once? Whether any institution made any attempt to wake them people?\nFriends,\nThe government has been taking steps to rectify the sorry state of our banking system, to strengthen our banking system. When the interests of banks are protected, when the interest of customers is protected\nIn such a situation, institutions like FICCI have an important role to play in the spreading awareness, in the correct information to the people and industry. For example, now some rumors have been exposed in the Financial Resolution and Deposit Insurance Bill - FRDI Bill.\nThe government has been working to protect the interest of customers. However, fully opposite news are being disseminated. The contribution of institutions like FICCI is extremely necessary in any way to mislead the industry and the common people.\nYou will have to think how they will maintain a balance between the government's voice and the voice of the public. I will give you an example\nFriends,\nIt was a old demand of industry that GST should be passed, it should be implemented. And when it has implemented then what is your organization making it more effective? Those people who are on social media, they must have noted it for several days users who were posting the bills issued by restaurants that the tax might have fallen down but some restaurants have made basic bills by increasing prices by noting them. It means the benefits of the customers.\nThe government is making its own efforts to deal with such situations However, whether FICCI has made any attempt to public, among the businesses?\nBrothers and sisters,\nSystems like GST can not be created overnight. And we have been trying to change the system created in the last 70 years. And it's our target to link\nBe it a turnover of Rs. One lakh or rupees 10 lakhs, we have been trying to bring in the simplest system. It is not the government wants to collect The government has been doing all these things because the more formal, the more transparent the system will become equally beneficial to the poor. In addition to this, due to this formal system they will easily get credit from banks, the quality of raw material will improve and the cost of logistics will come down. It means even the small businesses will become more competitive in the global business. I believe that FICCI must have a big scale program.\nBrothers and sisters,\nI've been told that MSME vertical of FICCI was constituted in 2013. The MSME vertical of this 90 year old organizations was constituted just four years ago! I would not like to comment any further but I would definitely like to see that this vertical of yours helps in expanding the schemes like Mudra Yojana, Start-up India, and Stand-up India. Our small scale industries will be able to work with more energy\nThe system that has created the name of GeM - Government EMarket place; You will have to increase your system. Now even the small time manufacturers can sell their products through the GeM\nI have one more expectation from you You should do something so that the amount of small companies that are due There are rules but it is also true that the payment of small businesses gets stuck with the big companies. Their dues are cleared after three-four months He hesitates to demand the business relation. You people should make some effort to alleviate\nFriends,\nThere were many reasons why they were not able to take full advantage of the industrial revolution in the last century. And today there are plenty of factors\nThis government has been formulating new policies by understanding the requirements of the country. It has been canceled due to old laws and enacting new ones.\nRecently we have taken a bunbo In our country there was two laws to determine whether or not Now the government has settled this issue that the bamboo is grown in forests. This decision will benefit those millions of small businessmen who have been working in the bamboo related industries.\nFriends,\nI've been told that the maximum number of FICCI's members are those who are associated with manufacturing sector Companies associated with sectors like Engineering goods, Infrastructure, Real Estate and Construction Materials make up for one fourth of FICCI family.\nBrothers and sisters,\nThen why the news of arbitrariness by the builders did not reach the previous government? Middle class was suffering, it was not able to get the homes even after paying their lifelong earnings to the builders? And why no solid steps taken? Why? Laws like RERA could have been passed as well but they were not enacted. This government alone understands the problems faced by the middle class and it puts an end to the arbitrariness by the builders by enacting a law.\nBrothers and sisters,\nWe alone understood the fact that the government plans did not get a full year after the presentation of budget in March. Three-four months were wasted due to monsoon. That is why And as a result of those departments got the funds in time and they also got one full year to work on the schemes.\nFriends,\nThis government formulated new policies with regard to urea, textile sector, aviation sector, a new policy for integration transport sector and one more for heath sector. And it's not like that\nWhen we changed our policy with regard to urea then new urea plants were set up in the country and urea production in the country increased by 18 to 20 lakh tons. The new policy in the textile sector will create one million (10 million) new jobs Policy change in the aviation sector will provide the facility of taking the people to slippers. The integration of transport sector will reduce the burden on different modes of transportation.\nIn the last three years more than 87 important reforms have been carried out in 21 sectors. Important changes were brought about in the defense sector, construction sector, financial services sector, food processing and many more. And you are able to see\nIndia has reached the 100th position from 142nd position in just three years. India's foreign exchange reserves increased to Rs. 40,000 crore dollars from Rs. 30,000 crore dollars India's ranking in the Global Competitiveness Index has improved by 32 points. India's ranking in the Global Innovation Index has jumped by 21 points and by 19 points in the Logistics Performance Index. If we talk about FDI then in the last three years, India's foreign direct investment has gone up about 70%.\nBrothers and sisters,\nA large number of FICCI members You will be aware that the last two years alone\nSimilarly, be it air transport sector, mining sector, computer software and hardware or be it electrical equipments, half of the direct direct investment in all these sectors have been in the last three years.\nI'd like to place some more data I believe that you will be aware of this data released in the last two three days\nFriends,\nThe sale of passenger vehicles in the domestic market has gone up by 14% in November. The sale of commercial vehicles that reflects the economic activity in the country has registered a growth of 50%. The sale of three wheelers, that is an indicator of employment, has registered a growth of 80% in the month of November. The sale of two-wheelers, which reflects the growing income of middle class and in growing income in the rural areas, has registered a growth of 23%.\nFriends,\nYou know that this kind of big changes only take place when the common man's trust in the economy goes up These reforms are also an evidence of the government that has been taking administrative, financial and legal steps. These reforms also testify that the social reforms carried out by the government are automatically leading to economic reforms, they are playing an important role in job creation.\nFor example, if I talk about Pradhanmantri Avas Yojana (PMAY) then this government has been working on the target of providing 20 people. This purpose is for cities and villages in millions of homes. And the manpower for building has been arranged at the local level only. The construction material used for this is being sourced from local markets. Similarly, the work of laying gas pipelines in the country is also a result of the development of the city gas distribution system in many cities. A new eco system of job market is being created in those cities where CNG is supplied.\nBrothers and sisters,\nIf all of us work by understanding the requirements of the country only then requirements and expectations of public will meet. Companies associated with FICCI should also consider producing those things in the country that India has been constrained to import from outside. In so many areas, the goods are manufactured by the raw materials sourced from us. We need to get out of this situation\nFriends,\nOur country will celebrate 75 years of its independence in 2022. All of us have pledged to make a New India The scope of work of institutions like FICCI is so vast, their responsibility is so great that they are expected to come forward and make new pledges for a new India. FICCI will have to consider what new pledges it can make by considering the future requirements of the country. You have so many sectors Sectors like food processing, artificial intelligence, solar power, health care can benefit from FICCI's experience Can your organization work for the country's MSME sector?\nBrothers and sisters,\nWe have a lot of things to do, we just need to make a pledge and we need to materialize that When our pledges will be materialized But we need to keep one thing in mind what happens in the game of cricket, some batsmen start playing slow in the anticipation of a century when they scored 90 runs, FICCI should follow them. You just wake up and hit a four or a six and cross the mark of 100\nI conclude my speech by conveying my best wishes to FICCI and its member one more time.\nThank you very much"