"\nThe country is indebted to Baba Saheb, for his contributions to nation-building: PM Modi\nDespite his struggles, Dr. Ambedkar had a inspirational vision for the nation to overcome its problems: PM\nToday's generation has the capability and the potential for eradicate social evils: PM Narendra Modi\nWe should make our political democracy, as well: PM Modi\nUnion Government is making every effort to complete projects and projects within their intended period: PM\n'New India' is where everyone has equal opportunities and rights, free from caste oppression and progressing through the strength of technology: PM\nMy colleagues of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Thawar Chand Gehlot ji,\nShri Vijay Sampla ji,\nSecretary Social Justice and Empowerment, Lata Krishna Rao ji;\nAnd all the dignitaries present here;\nBrothers and sisters,\nI am really fortunate to dedicate the Dr. Ambedkar International Center (DAIC) to the country In addition, my joy has doubled due to the fact that I had laid the foundation-stone for this international center in April 2015. This grand international center is ready for a very short time but its scheduled time before I congratulate every center\nI sincerely hope that this center will prove to be a great inspiration for Babasaheb's teachings.\nDr. Ambedkar International Center for Social-Economic Transformation is a part of the Dr. Ambedkar International Center The center will also play a significant role in research in social and economic issues.\nThis center will also be a platform for the discussion on how to focus on economic and social issues by incorporating the 'Sabka Sath Sabka Vikas' also known as 'inclusive growth'. This center will\nFriends,\nI believe that this center will prove to be a new generation who will come here and understand Babasaheb's vision\nFriends, many great souls were born in our country from time to time, who also became the face of social reform but also country of the future building and country of thought process shaping in a significant role. The strength of Babasaheb is evident from the fact that over the years the efforts have been made to suppress his ideas and to negate his contribution in the nation's building process, but no one can erase the ideas of Babasaheb from the minds of the Indians.\nI would not be wrong to say that the people today are more influenced by the views of Babasaheb than the family who were behind the conspiracy. We are indebted to Babasaheb for his contribution. Our government is making efforts to spread the ideas of Babasaheb to more and more people, especially to young generation\nThis is why the government is trying to develop those places that are located in Babasaheb as pilgrimage centers. Dr. Ambedkar National Memorial is being built in the house where Babasaheb died in Delhi's Alipur Similarly, the birthplace of Babasaheb is an important tourist destination in the state of Madhya Pradesh. The London residence of Babasaheb is being transformed into a memorial by the BJP government of Maharashtra after its purchase. Similarly, Ambedkar Memorial is being built on the land of Indu mill in Mumbai. Deekshabhoomi is also being developed in Nagpur The 'Panchteerth' or the five pilgrimage centers are in a way tribute to Baba Saheb on behalf of today's generation.\nBy the way, a sixth pilgrimage center has also been developed in the virtual world last year. This pilgrimage center is dedicated to the country and providing impetus to it digitally. Bharat Interface for Money i.e. The BHIM app that was launched last year was a tribute to Babasaheb's financial vision. BHIM app has proved to be a poor, the Dalit, the backward and the exploited people.\nBrothers and sisters,\nWe are well aware of the struggles But besides the struggles, his life is also full of inspirations. Far from the despair he dreamed of an India would be free from all the evils and will be included in all. A few days after the first meeting of the Constituent Assembly, on December 17, 1946 he had said-\n\"I have not got the slightest doubt in my mind as the future evolution and the final shape of the social, political and economic structure of this great country. I know today we are divided politically, socially, and economically But I am quite convinced that given time and circumstances will not be possible in the world. With all our castes and creeds I have not seen the slightest hesitation that we will some form a united people. The type of conduct suggests that we have that capability of moving the path of unity by moving together with all the components. \"\nAll these words are related to Babasaheb Ambedkar. How confident! There is no strain of disappointment! The person who was the victim of social evils\nBrothers and sisters,\nWe must admit that even after so many years of independence since the formation of the Constitution, we have not been able to fulfill those dreams of Babasaheb. Some people give more importance to the caste in which they have taken birth I believe that today's new generation is capable of eliminating these social evils. Mainly the changes that have taken place in the past 15 to 20 years They understand that the country is divided on the basis of the caste and the country can not progress on the divisions. So I have an unwavering trust in the youth while I talk about freeing the 'New India' from the bondage of caste system. Today's youth holds the power to fulfill Babasaheb's dreams\nFriends,\nWhen the country became a Republic in the year 1950 then Babasaheb had said-\n\"We should not be satisfied only with the political democracy. We also have to make our political democracy a social democracy. Political democracy can not survive without a base of social democracy.\"\nThe Social Democracy was the Mantra of freedom and equality for every Indian. This equality is not only in terms of the rights But even after so many years of independence Even the basic amenities such as electricity connection, water connection, a small house, life insurance is far from accessible.\nIf you look at our government's way of work and our work culture for the past 3 to 3 and a half years, you will notice that we are trying to fulfill that dream of Babasaheb's social democracy. The schemes and the policies of this government focus on strengthening the social democracy. If we look at the Jan Dhan Yojana we will see that it has provided the right of connecting with the banking system. They have been elevated to that class of people who have bank accounts and debit cards.\nThe government has helped to open bank accounts of more than 30 crore poor people under the scheme. RuPay debit cards have been made more than 23 crore people Now even the poor have achieved some kind of equality as they can also quote up the ATMs with their withdrawal money. Earlier he used to be scared of this queue and could never imagine the ATMs being queuing up.\nHow many of you get the opportunity to visit your village after every 4 or 5 months? I request those who are not allowed to visit Go and ask someone from your village about the Ujjwala scheme. You will see how the Ujjwala scheme is eliminated the difference between the families which was created by gas connections in some houses and firewood in the rest of the households. This is a major example of how the government has eliminated the social discrimination. Now even the poor families cook their gas at ovens. Now the poor woman does not have the firewood.\nThis is a difference which can be easily understood by the people. When you go to your village The Swachh Bharat Mission has created equality among the women in the villages. The presence of toilets in some houses and the absence of the same in the others. This used to make a threat to the health The level of sanitation has increased to more than 70% of the villages while it used to be 40% before.\nThe government has also come up with insurance policies to strengthen social democracy. So far, 18 crore people have joined the Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana and Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana. Through these schemes, a premium of only 1 Rupee per month is required for accident insurance and 90 Paisa per day for Life Insurance.\nYou will be surprised to know that under the schemes, a sum of rupees 1800 crores has been given to the poor. Just imagine today the poor in the rural areas\nBrothers and sisters, the essence of Babasaheb's ideology has been rooted in many forms:\nEquality of respect,"