"Share\n\nOur government is developing a new work culture in bureaucracy and making it responsive, says PM Modi\nIndia's success in the ICJ elections shows how India's standing is the nations among the rising: PM\nDigital platform has been facilitated for farmers to sell their products online from anywhere in the country: PM Modi\nThe poor now has access to health and life insurance at a minimal cost, says PM Modi\nPrime Minister says Pradhan Mantri Yojana Yojana (PMUY) scheme has transformed the lives of millions of women\nThe LED bulb scheme has helped the medium income families to save up to Rs 14,000 crore, says PM Modi\nThe influence of Indians is visible when there are elections abroad and slogans like #AbKiBaarTrumpSarkar, #AbKiBaarCameronSharkar used used: PM Modi\nI have been taken for a political price for corruption, but I am ready for it: PM Modi at HTLS 2017\nShobhana Bhartia Ji,\nAll the dignitaries present here,\nBrothers and sisters,\nOnce again I got the chance to come in you I get a lot of familiar faces I express my gratitude to Hindustan Times Group and its readers for inviting me again.\nFriends,\nTwo years ago when I attended the summit then the topic was \"Towards a Brighter India\", in just two years, in just two years today we have been talking about \"The Irreversible Rise of India\". It's not just It's a reflection of the change in the thinking of the country.\nIf we look at the country in its totality, then today the kind of positive attitude has been brought about in the country that had never before been there. I am able to recall that the poor, the youth, the women, the farmers, the exploited and the deprived people have never had this kind of confidence in their capabilities, their resources and their dreams.\nThis confidence has been brought about when all of us, we 1.25 billion Indians have been tirelessly working day and night for this thing The trust of countrymen on their own, on the country, is the formula for the rise of the country\nToday is Gita anniversary, it has been clearly stated in the Gita:\nUddharet Atmana Atmanam Na Atmananam Avasadyet Atmev-Atmano Atmev Ripur Atmana\nPlease,\nYou are your enemy, you yourself is your enemy\nAnd that is why Lord Buddha had also said this thing:\n'Appa Deepo Bhav,' it means you should become your own lamp.\nThe growing confidence of 1.25 billion countrymen, it is becoming a strong base for the country.\nWho has been driving an auto rickshaw out this hotel, who has been pulling a rickshaw, who has been working for a tent after sleeping in his field of damaged banks The duty of a sentry in the snow, 'Towards a Brighter India' by the subject beyond the 'Unreversible Rise of India', which has been the most important of all. '.\nFriends,\nIn 2014, people did not vote They had cast their votes in the country It was brought here for those changes in the system that are stable, permanent and irreversible. After so many years after our independence, the weakness of our system\nIt was a system that was not able to do justice Everywhere It's not just my effort but it is my commitment as well as this fight between the people and the system stops and we bring about irreversible change in their lives and increase their ease of living.\nSo that the people do not have to take trouble for small things like railway and bus tickets, for gas and electricity connections, for getting admission in to a hospital, for getting passport and income tax refunds.\nFriends, the biggest priority for this government is a corruption free, citizen-centric and development friendly eco-system. It should be such an eco system that is based on the policies, technology and transparency where the possibilities for leakage and unregulatedities are minimized.\nIf I talk about Jan-Dhan scheme then it has brought about such a change in the lives of poor people. The poor people who have been turned back from the door steps of the banks in an insulting way Jan-Dhan account holders have also been given Rupay Debit Cards In our country of 1.25 billion the number of such people is more than 30 crore\nThink about the self-confidence of that poor person when he deposits his money in a bank account, when he uses his Rupay debit card. This self confidence, this courage is now permanent, nobody can now change it.\nUjjawla scheme is like this only. It has been permanently changed the lives of more than 3 crore rural women It's not that they have got a free gas connection but they have got safety, health and time for their families.\nThe Clean India Mission, due to millions of such women and millions of women. Not only that the government has made toilets but it has also set millions of women and girls free from that pain that they used to bear while waiting for the evening.\nSome people will continue to click the photographs of some filth orthogues, but they know what kind of irreversible change this campaign has brought about on ground.\nBrothers and sisters, I do not know how many people sitting in this hall will be able to relate with this thing that they will give a parking attendant while going out from here, today a poor person's life can be insured in less than that amount\nJust think that accidental insurance for less than one rupee per month and life insurance cover for a premium of 90 paise per day. Today, more than 15 crore poor people have joined these schemes of the government. An amount of around Rs. 1,800 crore has been provided as poor people under the schemes. Had any other government given this kind of fund?\nThis kind of important thing has been done for the poor people but I do not think that anybody paid attention on it. This is also a reality and I move forward. One more example is of LED bulb During the tenure of the previous government, its price was about Rs. 300 to 350, now it is available for a middle class family around Rs. 50. After the start of Ujala scheme about 28 crore LED bulbs have been sold in the country and it has resulted in saving of over Rs. 14,000 crore for the people\nIt's not that there will be a full stop in the electricity bill or on this saving. This saving, it will be a continuous process and now this is saving\nBrothers and sisters, I did not know what to do However, I know this much that no one can stop us from taking those decisions that will bring about permanent changes in the system, those decisions which are in the interest of the country.\nThose people who are of the view that they can not be changed immediately through a magic wand they are full of pessimism and frustration. This approach prevents us from doing anything new and innovative.\nThis approach prevents us from taking decisions. So the approach of this government is different altogether For example, if you talk about the Neem coating of urea During the previous government, the percentage of Neem coated urea was 35%. And it was known to the whole system that it will not be used if we do the nem coating of just 35% of urea. If we need to stop the diversion of urea, if we want to stop its diversion to factories then we have to do the Neem coating of 100% of yurea. But this decision was not taken earlier, the decision of doing 100% Neem coating of urea.\nBrothers and sisters, this decision has not only stopped the diversion of urea but it has also increased its efficiency. Now farmers have used less uranium for the same area of ​​the land and it's not just that\nSimilarly, we have been creating a digital platform in the country through which a farmer can sell This is going to be a very big E-Nam - electronic national agricultural market, more than 450 markets (Mandis) have been connected online through this platform. In future, this platform will be of immense use to farmers in fetching.\nRecently, the government has started a scheme in the agricultural sector - Kisan Sampada Scheme to strengthen the supply chain and storage system in the country. The objective of this scheme is to prevent the loss of those perishable agricultural and horticulture products that perishes before reaching the market. Under the scheme, the government is strengthening the food processing sector so that the field of a farmer can also work like an industrial unit.\nThe government is going to spend more than Rs. 6,000 crores on creation of food parks, on the modern technology related to food processing sector and for the formation of the agro-processing sector.\nBrothers and sisters, the demand for organic farming and organic products has been continuously going up with the time. Many other states of the country are able to become 100% organic on the lines of Sikkim. Particularly, this can be encouraged in our Himalayan states. For this purpose, the government has been working on the scheme to promote organic farming by making 10,000 clusters.\nRecently, we have taken a significant decision. Brothers and sisters, until now Bamboo was considered as a tree and therefore it was very difficult for farmers to harvest the bamboos, now the government has removed the trees of the trees.\nIt will benefit those farmers in the far flung areas, especially the farmers of north-east who have been engaged in the making of bamboo furniture and bamboo handicraft. And you will be surprised to know that the bamboo was not considered in the government.\nThis contradiction has now been removed after a gap of 10-12 years.\nFriends, The decisions are taken in our government, they are taken by understanding This kind of decisions were not taken before that They wanted to see the country free from inherent problems.\n\nBrothers and sisters, the first system of the country It was black money which was controlled by every major sector of the country. In 2014, 1.25 billion Indians had voted to change this system. They had voted for a permanent solution for the things plaguing the country, they had voted for a new India\nYou can feel the kind of behavioral change brought about in the demonetization. It is the first time since independence that the people are being frightened. The black money which was the basis of parallel economy, it has come as the demonetisation.\nThe important thing is that the money that has come back to the banking system has also brought evidence with it. The kind of data the country has got is less than a treasure. With the help of mining of this data we got to know that in our country 400-500 companies were operating from a single address and a single company used to up to 2,000 bank accounts. Was not it a strange paradox? On the one hand poor people were facing problems in opening a bank account on the other companies.\nWhatever irregularities were committed in these accounts during the note ban So far around 2.25 lakh companies have been de-registered We have also fixed the responsibilities of the directors of these companies as it has been successful. Now they have been barred from being directors in any other companies.\nFriends, it's such a step that will strengthen the culture of a healthy and transparent corporate culture in our country. Implementation of GST is also an important step in the country's economy. The system that was created in the last 70 years, the weaknesses, the compulsions that have crept in doing business, now the country has moved forward.\nA new chapter of transparency has been opened in the country through the GST. More and more traders have been involved in this honest system. Friends, one such irreversible change has been strengthened by Aadhaar number. Aadhaar is a powerful thing through which this government wants to make the people\nThe delivery of subsidized ration, scholarships, expenses on medicines, pension and the subsidy given to the poor from the government. Such a system has been created by linking the power of mobile and Jan-Dhan accounts which was incomprehensible a few years ago. It's a system that is irreversible.\n\nIn the last three years, millions of people have been removed from the system with help of Aadhaar. Now it is going to be a powerful weapon against the Benami property.\nBrothers and sisters, this government has completely changed the old method of public procurement. We have developed a new system under the name of GeM - government e-market place.\nNow the government awards tenders and public procurement is being done through this system. Now owners of cottage industries, small time handicrafts manufacturers, people who are out of manufacturing at their homes, they can sell their products from the GeM\nBrothers and sisters, we are moving forward toward a system\nAnd the day when most of the purchases and selling in the country, most of the financial transactions, the technical and digital address then the organized corruption would be significantly controlled. I'm aware that what kind of political cost it is\nFriends, when the plans pick up the pace only There is no reason why the speed of a lot of government schemes has gone up. There are similar tools, same resources but the system has picked up a pace. It has been possible because the government has developed a new work culture in the bureaucracy. It is making the bureaucracy more responsive.\n• Today, it's the result of the same thing that 22 kilometer long national highways have been constructed while during the previous government the figure was 11 kilometers per day.\n• During the three years of our government, 120,000 kms of rural roads were constructed.\n• During the last three years of the previous government, 1100 kms long new railway lines were laid, during the three years government this figure is 2100 kms.\n• During the last three years of the previous government, 2,500 kms long railway lines were electrified; During the three years of this government more than 4,300 kms long railway lines have been electrified.\n• During the last three years of the previous government, the capital expenditure of around 1.49 lakh crore was made. A capital expenditure of around 2.64 lakh crore has been made during the three years of this government.\n\n• During the last three years of the previous government, a total of 12,000 MW of renewable energy capacity was added, during the three years of this government, a total of 22,000 MW renewable energy capacity has been connected to the grid.\n• If we compare the growth of shipping industry then during the previous government its growth was in negative while in the government shipping industry has registered a growth of more than 11%.\nFriends, if we have not rectified the things, then it is possible to provide this kind of momentum?\nDid the government have taken these decisions? No. It's not easy to bring about big and durable changes It needs the overhaul And when these changes take place only then the country reaches at the 100th spot from 142nd in terms of the easing of doing business.\nBrothers and sisters, all of them are aware what we have inherited when we assumed power in 2014. The condition of economy and governance, fiscal order, banking system, everything was a bad shape. And when you people were required to write this thing in a few words, when you wanted to write a headline then you used to write: policy paralysis.\nJust imagine, our country was counted in fragile five. Most of the countries of the world are the opinion that they will tackle their economic crisis but these fragile five will not only sink themselves but they will drag them down too\nToday, where is India at global level, whats its situation? You are very well aware Be it a big or a small country, most of the countries of the world India has been successfully growing its influence at the international level. Now we do not have to stop any circumstances, we have to continue continuing March.\nFriends, when a country stands up with a self confidence then irreversible or reversible becomes unreal. When the last 70 years have happened in the event that it is possible, then it is possible.\nIndia's success in the elections for International Court of Justice is the reflection of the change in the thinking of the whole world. Brothers and sisters, when Yoga gets unanimous recognition at the United Nations then it reflects its Irreversible Rise.\nWhen International Solar Alliance is being constituted as an Indian initiative, then it reflects her Irreversible Rise.\nFriends, our government has linked diplomacy with humanism, with human sensitivities. When the earthquake strikes Nepal then India is the first country to engage in the relief and rescue work. When there is a flood in Sri Lanka then Indian navy becomes the first to reach there When Maldives faces water crisis then India sends ships full of waters. When there is a crisis in Yemen then India is not only saves more than 4,000 of its citizens but it also safely evacuates 2,000 people of 48 other countries. This is the result of India's growing image and confidence that today is the largest country in the world.\nWhen this kind of slogans like 'this time Cameron government' and 'this time trump government' are raised then it is the recognition of the Indian Diaspora. Brothers and sisters, when every institution, every society, every person will begin to bring about changes while recognizing its powers only then the dream of a new India will be realised. Today, the time demands that every institution engaged in the development of country makes a pledge while keeping in mind the requirements and challenges before the country.\nWe will have to realize these pledges by 2022 when the country will celebrate 75 years of its independence I can not give any advice But I would like to remind you people Abdul Kalam He said:\n\"Why the media in our country is so negative? Why is it so in our country we are so embarrassed about our own capabilities and achievements? We are such a great country, we have so many amazing stories of our successes but even then we refuse to acknowledge them. Why is it so? \"\nMany years ago If you intellectual people find it appropriate then you must discuss this thing in your newsroom, in your elephant towers I'm hopeful that people will bring about irreversible\nI'd like to urge on the entire media industry from this platform that you will make a pledge and inspire others as well. As you have played an active role in converting the clean India campaign by considering it your own, similarly please come forward in this journey of realsing the success through pledges\nWith these words, I conclude my speech Once again, many more congratulations to Hindustan Times for this event.\nThank you very much\nJai hind\nFor this government, Corruption Free, Citizen-Centric and Development Friendly Ecosystem is the biggest priority. Based on policies, based on technology, an ecosystem based on transparency in which the scope of the leakage, the scope of the scope is: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 30, 2017\nMore than 15 crore people of the country have joined the insurance scheme of the poor government. Under these schemes, a claim amount of Rs 1800 crore has been given to the poor. If any other government had given so much money, he would have been presented as a messiah. This is also a fact that I accept and accept\n: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 30, 2017\nIn the previous government, the LED bulb 300-350 was sold, it is now available for about Rs 50 in a middle class family. Since the launch of the Ujala scheme, about 28 million LED bulbs have so far been sold in the country. These bulbs have an estimated savings of more than 14 thousand crore people: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 30, 2017\nI did not know whether the government had already stopped anyone from doing so or not. But I know that by taking decisions to make permanent changes in the system, by taking a decision in the country, nobody will stop. Therefore the approach of this government is different from that: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 30, 2017\nSo far, bamboo was considered to be a tree in a country's law. Because of this, the farmers suffered a lot due to bamboo cutting. Now the government has removed the bamboo from the list of trees. This will benefit the far-flung areas of the country, especially the North-east farmers: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 30, 2017\nDecisions are taken with our holistic approach in government. Such decisions were not being taken earlier, so everyone in the country was in anxiety. Apart from seeing the country free from internal evils, the construction of new systems was also seen as being: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 30, 2017\nThe system we had here had made corruption a courtesy. In 2014, hundreds of crores of the country voted to change this system, voted for the treatment of diseases of the country, for the permanent treatment, he had voted to make New India: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 30, 2017\nAfter demonetization, there has been a change in behavioral behavior in the country. This is the first time since independence, when the corrupt people are scared before the transactions of black money. They have a fear of getting caught. The black money that was the basis of the Parallel Economy first came in the Formal Economy: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 30, 2017\nOne such Irreversible Change is getting help from Aadhaar number. Aadhaar is such a power that this government wants to ensure the rights of the poor. The basis of cheap ration, scholarship, medical expenses, pension, government subsidies, access to the poor has a big role: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 30, 2017\nWith the addition of the power of mobile and mass, the system has been built, which could not be thought about until a few years ago. In the last 3 years, millions of fake names have been removed from the system with the help of Aadhaar. Against the Anonymous property, this is going to be a big weapon: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 30, 2017\nOn the day that most of the purchases and transactions of money in the country started becoming a technical and digital address, organized corruption will be largely stopped from that day. I know, how much will it cost me politically, but I am ready for that too: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 30, 2017\nWhen there is speed in the schemes, then the country progresses. There may have been some change, due to which the speed of the government plans has increased. The tools are the same, the resources are the same, but the system has got a speed. This is because the government is developing a new work culture in the Bureau: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 30, 2017\nChanges in the whole system have to be made for large and permanent changes. When these changes happen, the country reaches 142 to 100 in the ranking of Ease of Doing Business in just three years: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 30, 2017\nWhat did we get in inheritance when we came in 2014? The condition of the economy, the condition of governance, the fiscal order and the condition of the banking system, all got disturbed. Our country was counted as Fragile Five: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 30, 2017\nToday Globally India stands, in what position, you are well-acquainted with him. बड़े हों या छोटे, दुनिया के ज्यादातर देश आज भारत के साथ कंधे से कंधा मिलाकर चलना चाहते हैं। अंतरराष्ट्रीय मंच पर भारत अपना प्रभाव लगातार बढ़ा रहा है। अब तो रुकना नहीं है, आगे ही बढ़ते जाना है: PM Modi\n— PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 30, 2017\nजब योग को United Nations में सर्वसम्मति से मान्यता मिलती है, तब उसका Irreversible Rise दिखता है। जब भारत की पहल पर International Solar Alliance का गठन होता है, तब उसका Irreversible Rise दिखता है: PM @narendramodi\n— PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 30, 2017\nये भारत की बढ़ती हुई साख और बढ़ते हुए विश्वास का परिणाम है कि आज विदेश में रह रहे करोड़ों भारतीय अपना माथा और ऊँचा करके बात कर रहे हैं। जब विदेश में “अबकी बार कैमरन सरकार” और “अबकी बार ट्रंप सरकार” के नारे गूंजते हैं, तो ये भारतीयों के सामर्थ्य की स्वीकृति होती है: PM"