"\nIn Bengal, PM Modi praises Harichand Thakur, Bibhutibhushan Bandopadhyay, Rabindranath Tagore\nPolitics of the farmer loans a effort to throw dust in their eyes: PM Modi on Congress\nPM Modi says the rural population has suffered under Mamata Didi Govt and she is out of violence out of fear and desperation\nShriman Shantnu Thakur of All India Matuaa Mahasangha, Kailash ji of Bharatiya Janata Party, Mr. Mukul Roy Ji, Smt. Soma Thakur ji, Mr. Suresh Pujari Ji, Mr. Padmanabha Thakur, our fellow in the Parliament, Mrs. Rupa Ganguly, Mr Pratap Banerjee, Shriman Kishore Barman Ji, Mr. Tapan Kiran Mazumdar ji, Mrs. Mausimi Vishwas ji, Mr. Anthathatha Mand Mr., Mrs. Devashish Mitra, Mrs. Devashree Chaudhary, Mr. Savar Dhania ji, Mr. Sampat Thakur ji, Mr. Amitva Roy, Dr. Archana Majumdar, Mr. Pradeep Banerjee, Mr. Aurobindo Biswas, Mr. Arun Halder, and a large number of Matraas All the devotees associated with the federation All of you come to bless me in such a large number, I express my heartfelt gratitude.\nI salute this land of Swami Vivekananda, Ramkrishna Paramahansa, Chaitanya Mahaprabhu, Maharishi Aurobindo, Gurudev Ravindra Nath Tagore, Leader G Subhash Chandra Bose, Kazi Narsul and Dr. Shyama Prasad Mukherjee, people like human beings, workers and revolutionaries. Sathiyo, Thakur Nagar has been witness to a social movement. Thakur Harish Chandra Ji started this tradition, he is expanding the rich Bengali tradition. His efforts to integrate the thinking of equality and equality in the social life of the country and connecting the oppressed class with justice and confidence is going on widely today and I am feeling proud of coming between the descendants of Thakur Harish ji. From this land of Thakurnagar, I pay tribute to the feet of all the great men.\nSathiyo, Banguaon gave the title to the country and the world as the Vibhuti Bhushan Bandyopadhyay, whose classic composition Pather Panchali has given the country and the world a great cinema, then the situation of our villages is also created for future generations. In the long period of 1,000 years of slavery, how many of our villages have brought poverty, hunger, unemployment reached this level, its picture in their composition. In the absence of earnings, young people were forced to flee and in the absence of health facilities, the disease hunted the innocent lives.\nCompanions, unfortunately even after Independence, the situation of the villages was not given as much attention as it should have been given. Here in West Bengal, the situation is even worse. 'The pass has passed' - The new India can no longer live in this situation, and with this, the government of the Center is doing an honest effort to change this situation for the last 4 and 4 years with this thought. Becoming a village, a farmer, engaged in simplifying the life of the worker, giving an extension of its priority has taken a historic step yesterday. For the first time in the history of the country, huge plans have been announced for farmers and workers. From the schemes announced in the budget yesterday, more than 250 million small farmers of the country, it is decided to get 30-40 crore workers, my laborers and direct income to more than 30 million middle class families. .\nKeep calm, the ground is small, stand where you are, where you are, I am very grateful to you for your enthusiasm and excitement for your love.\nLong live Mother India.\nLong live Mother India.\nAfter seeing this scene, I understand why the sister has come to the violence. This is your love, because of the fear of those who pretend to defend the democracy, are bent on killing innocent people. I was telling, as yesterday I said that this budget is just a start. When the full budget comes after the election, the future picture of farmers, workers and youth will become clear.\nNow, every year, the government of central government will deposit the assistance of Rs 6,000 directly to the bank account, along with all the farmers who have land for 5 acres of land, from Thakur Nagar, West Bengal, now across the country. No syndicate tax, no syndicate tax will be allowed to enter. No middleman, no interruption, money will be deposited directly into the bank account. Now you should have come to understand why Modi was giving so much emphasis on opening the account in the bank. In West Bengal, more than 30 million people's wealth accounts were opened in the country.\nFriends, this amount is going to be received by farmers, it is going to be deposited in your account in 2 to 2 thousand rupees in 3 installments in a year. The first installment of Rs. 2 thousand rupees will be available very soon, will be deposited in your account. The small farmer is now going to get a lot of help from his small needs such as seeds, fertilizers, medicines, so that farmers will be able to increase their income further. In our country many times, in our country, by doing debt waiver politics with farmers, unheeded efforts have been made to throw dust in the eyes of farmers. The selfish parties of naivety of the farmers have benefited many times. In the 10-12 years after the elections, after seeing the elections, these selfish parties were not doing anything good to the farmers. A few farmers benefited from it, and especially the small farmers would have been waiting till independence. Even the farmers who got the benefit of the debt waiver, they would also become a debtor after a few years. You may have seen that in some states, votes have been sought from farmers in the name of debt waiver. What has been the result, the debt of farmers is being waived, which has never taken a loan. The person who took the loan, promised 2.5 million rupees of forgiveness and apologized 13 rupees. This story is from Madhya Pradesh. At the same time, in Rajasthan, the government has raised itself, there is now a pretext that we did not know that excusing the debt of farmers would increase such a huge burden. The farmers who are unable to pay the loan in Karnataka have been deployed to them. This is the Congress farmer and agriculture policy, which is getting support from the CM here.\nFriends, we have to make a clear difference in the principles of government, their principles, policy and integrity. This PM Kisan Samman Yojana has been planned, it is estimated to cost about 75 thousand crore rupees.\nI request you that now there is no place in the field, your own people are having trouble, do not do that, do not you do it, your love is on my head-eyes - but this is your excitement, It fell, this ground fell short and due to this you are getting inconvenience. Good luck to me today that I had the opportunity to attend this special festival of Matuaa Mahasangh. I will always give you the blessings and love you have given as a gift to God, but by telling me a little thing, I have to go ahead for a program, and so my point is here, After independence, after the independence of India, the country of taxation was liberated and divided the country, then the people who were there thought that let's live life there too. Will, but torturing people there from communal bias, atrocities and as a result, people had come there except their respective countries. Someone had to come from Afghanistan, someone had to come from Pakistan, someone had to come from Bangladesh. Sometimes the Hindus had to come, the Sikhs had to come, sometimes the Jains had to come, sometimes the Parsis had to come. For such people of the society there is no place other than Hindustan, such people should get the right to live in India or not to get it, should be given the right to be respectful or not, should there be any crime of such people? And so, my dear brothers and sisters, we have brought laws of citizenship. I tell the TMC party here, you support the law of citizenship, let the parliament pass in. These should be given to my brothers and sisters, the pieces of the country, their lives have been destroyed.\nSpeak with me, Bharat Mata Ki ... Jay, Bharat Mata Ki ... Jay, Bharat Mata Ki ... Jay\nThanks a lot !"