"Share\n\n# GES2017 brings together leading investors, entrepreneurs, academicians, think-tanks and other stakeholders to propel the global entrepreneurship ecosystem: PM\nIn Indian mythology, woman is an incarnation of Shakti - the Goddess of power We believe women's empowerment is crucial to our development: PM at #GES2017\n# GES2017: Indian women continue to lead different walks of life. Our Space Programs, including the Mars Orbiter Mission, have had great contributions from women scientists, says PM\nIn India, we have got constitutionally provided for not less than one third of women representation in rural and urban local bodies, ensuring women's participation in grass-root level decision-making: PM at # GES2017\nI see 800 million potential entrepreneurs who can make the world a better place: PM at #GES2017\nOur Start-Up India program is a comprehensive action plan for foster entrepreneurship and promote innovation. It aims to minimize the regulatory burden and provide support to startups: PM at # GES2017\nWe have launched the MUDRA scheme to provide easy finance of up to one million rupees to entrepreneurs; more than 70 million loans have been sanctioned to women entrepreneurs: PM at # GES2017\nA historical overhaul of the taxation system has recently been undertaken, bringing in the Goods and Services Tax across the country: PM at # GES2017\nTo my entrepreneur friends from across the globe, I would like to say: Come, Make in India, Invest in India - for India, and for the world, says PM at #GES2017\nWe are happy to host the 2017 Global Entrepreneurship Summit in partnership with the United States of America.\nThe Summit is being held in South Asia for the first time. It brings together leading investors, entrepreneurs, academicians, think-tanks and other stakeholders to propel the global entrepreneurship ecosystem.\nThis event is not only binds the Silicon Valley with Hyderabad but alsoshow-cases the close ties between the United States of America and India. It is under-linesour shared commitment towards encouraging entrepreneurship and innovation.\nThe topics selected for this year's summit include healthcare and life sciences; digital economy and financial technology; energy and infrastructure; and media and entertainment These are all important issues, related to the well-being and prosperity of mankind.\nThe theme \"Women First, Prosperity for All\" makes this edition of GES stand out. In Indian mythology, woman is an incarnation of Shakti-the Goddess of power. We believe women are empowerment\nOur History References to Women of exceptional talent and determination Gargi, an ancient philosopher, around the seventh century BC, challenged a male sage (Sage) to a philosophical discourse -something unheard of those times. Our warrior queens like Rani Ahilyabai Holkar and Rani Lakshmibai fought bravely to defendtheir kingdoms. Our freedom struggle is very important with such inspirational instances.\nIndian women in different walks of life Our space program, including the Mars Orbiter Mission, has had great contributionsfromwomen scientists. Kalpana Chawla and Sunita Williams, both of Indian origin, have been part of US space missions.\nThree out of four oldest High Courts in Indiaare now headed by women judges. Our sportswomen has done the country proud. This is very city of Hyderabad is home to Saina Nehwal, PV Sindhu, and Sania Mirza, who have brought laurels to India\nIn India, we have constitutionally provided for less less than one third of women representation in rural and urban local bodies, ensuring women's participation ingrass-root level decision-making.\nMore than sixty percent of workers in our agriculture and allied sectors are women.Our milk co-operatives in Gujarat and Shri Mahila Griha Industry Lijjat Papad, are highly successful and globally acclaimed women-led co-operative movements of the examples.\nFriends\nOver the next two days, you will meet many women who have dared to be different, their own walks of life. They now inspire a new generation of women entrepreneurs. I hope the deliberations in the summit will focus on how women entrepreneurship can be further supported.\nLadies and Gentlemen\nIndia has been an incubator for innovations and entrepreneurship over the ages. The ancient Indian treatise, Charaka Samhita, introduced the world to Ayurveda. Yoga is another ancient Indian innovation. The whole world now comes together, to celebrate Yoga Day on 21st June every year. Many entrepreneurs are involved in promoting Yoga, Spirituality, Traditional Ayurvedic medicinal and herbal products.\nThe digital world we live in today is based on the binary system, the foundation of computing The invention of zero and its recognition as a number, which is the foundation of this binary system, happened with Aryabhatta's work in India. Similarly, many nuances of modern day economic policy, taxation system, and public finance policies are outlined in our ancient treatise Arthashastra by Kautilya\nAncient India's expertise in metallurgy and minting of coins is also well known.Our many ports and harbors and the world's oldest dockyard at Lothalbear evidence to vibrant trade linksages. The tales of Indian voyagers travelling to foreign countries reflect the entrepreneurial character and spirit of our forefathers.\nWhat are the core qualities that differentiate a entrepreneur?\nAn entrepreneur uses knowledge and skills to meet. They are patient and determined. Swami Vivekananda said that \"every work has passed three stages - ridicule, opposition, and then acceptance. Those who think ahead of their time are sure to be misunderstood. \"\nThe power to think differently and ahead of the times for the betterment of mankind is what sets entrepreneurs apart. I see that power in India's young generation today. I see 800 million potential entrepreneurs who can make the world a better place.\nThe number of smartphone users in Indiais projected to grow to 500 million by 2018. This offers immense potential for the growth of any entrepreneurial venture, in terms of outreach and job creation.\nOur Start-Up India program is a comprehensive action plan for foster entrepreneurship and promote innovation. It aims to minimize the regulatory burden and provide support for startups. Over 1200 redundant laws have been scrapped, 87 rules for FDI has been eased in 21 sectors, and several government processes have taken online.\nOur government has taken steps to improve the business environment. The jump in India's ranking in the World Bank's Easy to Doing Report, from 142 to 100, in three years, is a result of this.\nWe have improved on indicators like dealing with construction permits, getting credit, protecting minority investors, paying taxes, enforcing contracts and resolving insolvency.\nThe process is still not complete. This is an area where we are satisfied with 100. We will strive towards 50\nWe have launched the MUDRA scheme to provide easy finance of up to one million rupees to entrepreneurs. Since its launch in 2015, over 90 million loans worth 4.28 trillion rupees have been sanctioned.Of these, more than 70 million loans have been sanctioned to women entrepreneurs.\nMy government has launched the \"Atal Innovation Mission\" We are opening Tinkering Labs in more than 900 schools for innovation and entrepreneurship among children. Our \"Mentor India\" initiative engages leaders from guide and mentor students through these tinkering labs.In addition, 19 incubation centers have been created in various universities and research institutions. These will nurture innovative start-up businesses to become scalable and sustainable.\nWe have created Aadhaar - the world's largest biometric based digital database. This currently covers over 1.15billion people and digitally authenticates over 40 million transactions daily.We now digitally provide various government schemes to beneficiaries of financial benefits through Direct Benefit Transfer using Aadhaar.\nAbout 300 million bank accounts with deposits of over 685 billion rupees have been opened through Jan Dhan Yojana. These bring previously un-banked sections of society in the formal financial system. Of these, 53 percent accounts are women.\nWe are steadily working toward a low cash economy and have launched a Unified Payment Interface App called BHIM. In less than a year, this platform is facilitating at most 280 thousand transactions daily.\nHaving almost completed our program to connect all villages with electricity, we have launched the Suhhagya scheme. This will provide electricity connections to all families by December 2018.\nWe have launched a program to provide high-speed broad-band internet access to all rural areas by March 2019.\nUnder our clean energy program, in just 3 years, we have doubled the renewables capacity from 30 thousand megawatts to about 60 thousand megawatts. Solar energy generation has increased over 80 percent in the last year. We are working on a national gas grid. A comprehensive national energy policy also in the pipeline.\nOur Swachh Bharat Mission to improve sanitation and cleanliness, and the rural and urban housing missions under-line life of dignity towards our commitment.\nOur infrastructure and connectivity programs like Sagarmala and Bharatmala offer entrepreneurs many business opportunities for investment.\nOur recent World Food India initiative has helped us engage with entrepreneurs in the food processing industry and agricultural waste sectors.\nMy government understands that an environment of transparent policies and a rule of law is available for entrepreneurship to flourish.\nA historical overhaul of the taxation system has recently been undertaken, bringing in the Goods and Services Tax across the country. Our Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code introduced in 2016 is a step toward resolving timely resolution for stressed ventures.We have recently improved this further, preventing willful defaulters from bidding for stressed assets.\nTough measures have been adopted to tackle the parallel economy, check tax evasion and control black money.\nOur efforts have been recognized by Moody's recent upgrade of India's government bond ratings from Baa3 to Baa2. This upgrade comes after a gap of almost 14 years.\nIndia has improved from its rankfrom 54 in 2014 to 35 in 2016 on the World Bank's Logistics Performance Index. This signifies the relative ease and efficiency with which products in and a country from moved in.\nAn investment-friendly environment needs to be sustainable from the macro-economic perspective. We have succeeded in containing the fiscal and current account deficits, and curbing inflation. Our foreign reserves have crossed 400 billion dollars, and we continue to attract large foreign capital flows.\nTo my young entrepreneur friends from India, I would like to say: every one of you has something valuable to contributing towards a new India by 2022. You are the vehicles of change and instruments of India's transformation.\nTo my entrepreneur friends from across the globe, I would like to say: Come, Make in India, Invest in India - and for the world. I invite you to become a partner in India's growth story. And once again assert you of our whole-hearted support.\nI am informed that President Trump has declared November 2017 as National Entrepreneurship Month. America has also observed National Entrepreneurs' Day on November 21st. This summitwill definitely resonate with those themes. Let me conclude by wishing you fruitful, engaging and rewarding deliberations at this summit.\n\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 28, 2017\nImportant topics are the focus of #GES2017 pic.twitter.com/RaIM9Gd6iy\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 28, 2017\nA theme that emphasizes on achievements of women # GES2017 @ GES2017 pic.twitter.com/g652QI6wsF\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 28, 2017\nIndian women in different walks of life @ GES2017 # GES2017 pic.twitter.com/YEHxyZ0zyG\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 28, 2017\nWomen are the forefront of cooperative movements in India @ GES2017 # GES2017 pic.twitter.com/v7Hh38oqAc"