"Share\n\nIf there is any creation made by man who is immortal its India's constitution: PM\nIt's not easy to make a constitution which binds the country, says the PM\nConstitution is not just a book but also includes social philosophy says, PM\nOur Constitution has kept us on the path democracy, says PM Modi\nGST is unified the nation \u0026 dream of one tax a nation has been possible, says PM\nLegislature should have the freedom of making laws, the executive should have independence in taking decisions: PM\nNearly 18 lakh pre litigated and 22 lakh pending cases have been cleared: PM\nChief Justice of the country, Justice Mr. Dipak Misra, my colleague in the Cabinet and Law and Justice Minister, Shri Ravi Sankar Prasad, Chairman of Law Commission, Dr. Justice B..S. Chauhan, Vice Chairman of Niti Aaaog, Dr. Rajiv Kumar, Minister of State for Law and Justice, Shri P.P. Choudhary and all other dignitaries present in this hall.\nBrothers and sisters,\nThis is the day today Our Constitution The adoption of this written text 68 years ago was a historical moment. On that day, we are in future. Every and every word of those rules is\nToday is also an example. After independence when crores of people dreamed of moving ahead with new hopes and their spirit was over. In a country which has more than a dozen religions, which has more than a hundred languages ​​and more than 1,700 dialects, where people who have been living in forests besides cities and towns have their own faiths with it, it is a simple task all of them on one platform and prepared this historical document that respects their faiths\nEvery person sitting in this hall is witness to the fact that our Constitution cleared all the tests that came up from time to time. Our Constitution has proved that those people who have been used to say that our Constitution will not be able to provide all the problems that our country faces in the days to come.\nThere is not a single subject that has not been explained in our Constitution. Keeping this feature of our Constitution in mind is the Constitution of the Constituent Assembly, Mr. Sachchidanand Sinha Ji said: \"If any manmade document can be called immortal then it is the Constitution of India.\"\nOur Constitution is as alive as it is sensitive It is equally capable as well as accountable Baba Saheb Bhimrao Ambedkar himself had said about the Constitution that it was usable and flexible and it was capable of keeping the country together in times of war and peace. Baba Saheb also said that if any wrong is constituted by the Constitution In mind then the constitution will be implemented.\nBrothers and sisters, in these past 68 years. As a guardian our constitution has kept us on the path of democracy; And as a part of the family of the guardian we all are present here in this hall. Government, judiciary and bureaucracy\nFriends, today the Constitution has been granted As the members of a family, have we been following those values ​​which have been our nation by our guardian, our Constitution? Have we been working to cooperate with each other like the members of a family?\nBrothers and sisters, today is the question of the people of judiciary or before the government. Every step, everybody The question is whether these institutions have been cooperating, supporting and strengthening each other while understanding the needs of the country for the development, while understanding the aspirations of people?\nI do not like it but I would like to share it with you There is a lot of discussion over what is the difference between the hell and heaven. And those people are used to explain it in their own way. They used to tell that some people once decided to show what is hell and what is heaven to some curious ones. They were both seen as hell and heaven. There were heaps of grains and happiness and prosperity in both the hell and heaven. The occupants of the heaven were very happy but the occupants of the hell were in a very bad situation. And it was the situation of people there that they had very long spoons tied to their hands. The spoon extended from their shoulder to beyond their hands so that they could not bend their hands Hands of both the occupants of hell and heaven were tied in the same way However, those people who were in the hell when they tried to eat food then the meal used to fall behind and that's why they were starving to death. सब कुछ However, the situation of heaven was different. Their hands were also tied in a bamboo strap in the same way so that can not bend. But they have found a way, they used to lift the food and offer it in front of them. The other person used to lift food and offered it All the stores were brimming with the food grain but those people who adopted the path of strengthening others made it heaven for themselves and those who followed the path of strengthening themselves have made it hell for themselves.\nBrothers and sisters, 75 years ago when in 1942 Gandhi Ji had made an appeal for the quit India movement the nation found a new energy. This energy was properly channelized in every village, every lane, every city and every town and as a result of it we got the independence after five years. Now, when we will celebrate the 75 years of our independence after five years, then we will have the opportunity to work for freedom. And for this purpose, every institution that obtains power from constitution will have channelized its energy and will have to own only one purpose to realize the dream of a new India.\nFriends, today this thing is very important as many decades this kind of strong sentiments of public have been witnessed in our country. Today, India is the youngest country of the world And every constitutional body of the country is required to work We have missed out on this opportunity in the 20th century. And in order to take India to new heights in the 21st century, in order to make it a new India all of a pledge The pledge of working together The pledge to strengthen each other\nBrothers and sisters, in one of the debates of the Constituent Assembly, in order to meet the challenges before the country Dr. Rajendra Prasad has thoroughly explained the importance of coming together. He said: \"We assure everyone that we will work relentlessly to eradicate poverty, to remove filth, to end hunger and disease, to eliminate discrimination and exploitation and to ensure better living conditions. We are out on a big mission We hope, we will get everyone's cooperation and sympathy in this move and get support of every section of society. \"\nBrothers and sisters, because of the thinking of those thinking of a social document. This is just not a book of law but it also has a social vision. 14 August 1947, it means this thing which was said by Rajendra Babu just days before the independence is equally relevant today. Eventually the goal of all of us is to make the life of the common man of the country better and set him free from poverty-filth, set him free from hunger and disease. To give him equal rights And these things can only be done by restoring a balance in every institution and by making a pledge\nIn the same meeting, Dr. Sarvapalli Radhakrishnan made another important submission. He said: \"Till the time we eradicate corruption in high offices, uproot nepotism, remove the greed for power, profiteering and black marketing, we will not be able to increase in efficiency nor the ability to easily provide the things people need in their day to day lives. \"\nFriends, these things are just moments before the independence 14 August 1947, there was an sense of responsibility and along with the sense of an inner weakness of the country there was also an feeling of how these weaknesses overcome. It's unfortunate that so many years after the independence has not been removed. That is why it is necessary to deliberate this issue on all three levels of executive, judiciary and legislature as well. We do not have to declare others as right or wrong We all know our weakness and strengths\nBrothers and sisters, this time is a golden period for the country This kind of self-confidence in the country has been generated after several years. Certainly, the will power of 1.25 billion Indians And we have to move forward to realize the dream of a new India. There is no dearth of capability and resources but we will keep the time in our minds. If we think that we have enough time, if we believe that everything will be done by future generations, every risk will be taken by them Whatever we are required to do, we have to do it now, do it in this period only We can not stop by believing that we will not be there.\nFriends, we may or may not be alive The systems that will leave behind should be such that will create a safe, confident and self-reliant India A system that will make people's lives easier, that increases their ease of living.\nFriends, I have always believed that the government's role should be more than a facilitator than a regulator. Today, even you will be experiencing this thing Maximum two to three days. Otherwise, it used to take a month or two. For the last two-three times you did not wait for months You must be aware that the system has acquired a speed. And this pace is not only possible but it is also making the life of poor people.\nJust imagine how much time and money of the youth have been saved by removing the need for an appointment for the vacancies of group C and D. Earlier, they were required to obtain a document from a certified gazetted officer, now it is no longer required. And due to this thing they do not have to run from pillar to the post. They do not have a message or an MLA\nFriends, you will be surprised to know that in our country 27,000 crore rupees were lying unclaimed. This money was deposited by workers, laborers in their PF accounts and later it was not claimed due to the change of employer. Once someone has left a city then who is able to go back This was a big problem for our workers It was resolved by Universal Account Number. Now a employee is no where he or she works he or she has got UAN number and can withdraw his or her provident fund.\nFriends, it was said in Brihadaranyak Upnishad:\nTadetat - Kshatrasya Kshatram Yad Dharmah,\nTasmad Dharmat Param Nasti,\nAtho Abaleeyan Baleeyam Sama Sanshate Dharmen,\nYatha Ragya Evam\nIt means law is the emperor and is nothing The power of an emperor lies in the rule of law and it is the rule of law that empowers, that gives the poor, the weak Our government has tried to increase the ease of living.\nIn the last three and three and a half years more than 1,200 old laws have been repealed. As Sardar Patel had unified the country as well as the work of unifying the country in a common thread has been performed through GST. The dream of one nation-one has been realized after decades. Similarly, be it the amendment in the law for the disabled people, be it making the ST / SC law more stringent or be it RERA for curbing the arbitrariness of builders, all these things are done so that the common man in their routine life can be minimized\nFriends, everyone present in this hall is aware that despite a direction from the Supreme Court, the constitution of a SIT on black money was delayed by three years and it was constituted within three days of the formation of this government. This decision was equally important for common man as much as it was black money and corruption. Every corruption, every transaction of black money in the country departs poor of their rights in some or some other way, it creates problem in poor's life.\nBrothers and sisters, we have taken a lot of small and big decisions but they were taken while keeping in mind the problems faced by the public. Our decisions were not only suitable but also the sensitiveness of the government. Friends, the improvement in the ease of doing business ranking of the country is the direct result of focusing on the ease of living. While we were at 142nd spot in terms of ease of doing business ranking before 2014, now we have reached to the 100th position. I'm happy that many steps have been taken in this direction. I've been told that this year 18 lakh pre-litigation and 22 lakh pending cases have been resolved only through the Lok Adalats conducted at the national level.\nBrothers and sisters, this data is also proof that the kind of disputes that can be solved through mediation and mutual discussions have also been agitated before our courts in large numbers. I do not know that these cases were stuck for how many years. But the resolution of these disputes It has also been enhanced in the respect for Lok Adalats in our country I feel that the Lok Adalats can play an important role in solving those millions and pending cases in our country\nI have been told that the Chief Justice of India has also written letters to all judges of the pending cases. He has considered the delays in the hearing of appeals as a weakness of our Criminal Justice System. I also liked this suggestion too much that special benches can hear some cases even on Saturdays. In order to reduce the pendency of cases states like Gujarat and Tamil Nadu had been experimenting with evening courts. This type of experiment\nFriends, increasing use of technology in the judicial system will also be helpful in making people's lives easier, in enhancing the ease of living. The more we expand e-Courts, the more we expand National Judicial Data Grid, the more it will be the problems faced by the people in courts. When the courts of the country will be connected via video conference then it will increase the convenience of both courts and jail administration. I have been informed that in the past two years almost five hundred courts have been jailed through video conferencing I've also been told about the Tele Law Scheme, which is legal advice given to poor people, living in far flung areas. The more this scheme will be expanded I am also very much liked This clock has recently been installed in the Department of Justice and the information about Top Performing District Courts is being given through the clock. Plans are ready for installation of this kind of justice clocks in the courts Justice Clock, in a way this is a mechanism for conducting a ranking of courts.\nAs a result of the rankings of cleanliness ranking, the classification of feeling is their ranking as well as the Justice Clock system of this expansion, and if there is some modifications made after it can be used in some kind of professional competition among the courts It's my experience that as soon as this feeling of competition is there I'm not an expert of law but I think that competition among the courts will also improve. Yesterday, respected Mr. President has expressed concern about the poor people Friends, the objective of all our efforts should be that poor people are no longer afraid of courts, they should get timely justice and courts on legal processes.\nFriends, today on the occasion of constitution day I would like to specially wish those youths who are going to get the right to vote from the 1st of January 2018. These are those young people who have been born in the 21st century and just after a few months they will vote in the elections. The responsibility of making the 21st century a century of India lies on the shoulders of these youth. And it's the responsibility of all of us to provide this kind of system to the youth that empowers them, that strengthens them.\nIn this context, I'd like to raise a very important issue before you intellectuals. This is the issue of conducting simultaneous elections in both the center and states. A debate on the issues Some political parties have also expressed concerns over the burden, over the resources of the country that are required for conducting elections at the interval of 4-6 months.\nFor example, if we talk about the expenses of conducting general elections in 2009 then it was almost Rs. 1,100 crore whereas around Rs. 4,000 crores was spent on conducting the general elections in 2014. And the money spent by candidates was also this figure. The requirement to deploy thousands of employees for every election and the movement of lakhs of security force personnel. And once the model code of conduct has been imposed then it is difficult to government On the opposite to this situation there are many countries in the world where there is a fixed date for the election and people know when the elections will be conducted in their country The benefit of this system is that the countries are not in the election mode all the time. And their policy planning process and its implementation becomes more efficient and it does not pose any burden on their resources either. India already has the experience in conducting a positive one. However, due to our shortcomings that process was broken. Today, on the auspicious occasion of constitution day I will urge you to take this discussion forward.\nBrothers and sisters, when there are no restrictions on any individual, government or institution then it's certain that they will face trouble some day. It's the strength of our system that we can improve ourselves from time to time and move forward in a disciplined manner. If we talk about the people's representatives and political parties then they have accepted many restraints over themselves, they have accepted those restraints in the interest of country and society.\nFor example, a lot of people will not know that the model code of conduct that is being imposed during the election is time is not based on any political party has voluntarily accepted it. Similarly, there are so many laws that have been allowed to run under the political system under some limit. Efforts have been made to ensure the probity and transparency in the politics. Be it any institution, the more powerful system of self regulation and checks and balances it has become more strong it will become and also other organs associated with it will become more strong.\nToday, when the balance of powers is our constitution is being discussed then we will have also to keep in mind that the balance between the judiciary, the legislature and the executive is our constitution of the backbone. And due to this balance our country was able to ward off any attempt to derail it from the path of democracy.\nFriends, at that time, the Supreme Court in an historical judgment said: \"Under the basic structure of the Constitution, the three constitutionally separated organs, each other's boundaries in accordance with the Constitution, as per Constitution. This is the logical and natural meaning of the theory of sovereignty of the Constitution. \"Baba Saheb considered the constitution as a fundamental document. A document that defines the position and powers of the executive, the judiciary and the legislature.\nDr. Ambedkar had said: \"The purpose of the constitution is not only limited to creation of three organs of the Union but also to define the limits of their powers. And if it is also necessary because the limits are not defined the institutions will become autocratic and start exploitation. Therefore, the legislature should be free to enact any law, the executive should be free to take any decision and the Supreme Court should be free to interpret the laws. \"Today, we have reached here by following these teachings of Baba Saheb and celebrating this Constitution day with pride. The Supreme Court has been given this feature of the constitution, on this balance between the three institutions related to the basic structure of the constitution in many judges. In 1967, the Supreme Court has said in its verdicts: \"Our Constitution has very minutely established the boundaries of the Legislature, Executive and Judiciary. The Constitution expects them to exercise their capabilities without overstepping their boundaries.\nBrothers and sisters, today, when we have been making every possible effort to realize the dream of a new India then this teachings of the constitution becomes even more relevant. We have to fulfill the expectations and desires of people Today, the whole world is looking at India Those countries have been looking at the solutions for so many challenges. Many countries want to walk In such a situation, all of them - the legislature, the executive and the judiciary will have to move forward while keeping in mind the limits.\nFriends, I congratulate the law commission and Niti ayog for organising this event. All three organs of the constitution have expressed their views on this occasion. Several experts, intellectuals have expressed their views. And everyone's views have their own importance This kind of dialogues are extremely important in order to strengthen the democracy. It shows our maturity We should collectively take forward all the actionable points acquired through this event. We should also talk about a continuous feature.\nBrothers and sisters, today the time demands that all of us should strengthen each other, one institution should be able to understand the needs of others. When these three institutions will focus on their duties enshrined in the constitution only then they will be able to say rightfully the country of the country: \"Please follow your duty and think about society and country by shedding the mentality of why I bother.\"\nFriends, in the dispute over rights there is an apprehension that duties will take a back seat and the country can not move ahead if we shirk our duty.\nOnce again, I would like to convey to you all the best wishes of the Constitution Day.\nI thank you very much and wish that we move forward with a new enthusiasm, with a new pledge and with a new capability toward 2022, towards the 75th year of our independence\nThank you very much"