"\nConstitution of India is the soul of our democracy: PM Narendra Modi during #MannKiBaat\nOur Constitution is comprehensive Equality for all and sensitivity towards everyone: its PM: Modi during #MannKiBaat\n#MannKiBaat: Baba Saheb Ambedkar ensured welfare of every section of the constitution while drafting the Constitution, says PM Modi\n9 years back on 26/11: PM Modi during #ManKiBaat\nTerrorism is the biggest threat to humanity. Not only is it a threat to India but also to countries across the world; World must unite to fight this news: PM during #MannKiBaat\nIndia is the land of Lord Buddha, Lord Mahavira, Guru Nanak, Mahatma Gandhi has always spread the message of non-violence throughout the world: PM during #ManKiBaat\n#MannKiBaat: Our rivers and seas hold These are our gateways to the whole world, says PM\nWhat if there is no fertile soil anywhere in this world? If there is no soil, there will be no trees, no creatures and human life will not possible: PM during #MannKiBaat\nOur Divyang brothers and sisters are determined, strong, courageous and resolute. Every moment we get to learn something from them: PM Modi during #MannKiBaat\n#MannKiBaat: It is our endeavor that makes every person in the country is empowered. Our aim is to build an all -clusive and harmonious society, says PM\nWhether it is the Army, the Navy or the Air Force, the country salutes the courage, bravery, valor, power and sacrifice of our soldiers: PM Modi during #MannKiBaat\nMy dear countrymen, namaskar! A while ago, I had a chance to have an indirect dialogue, with young friends from Karnataka. The Times Group Newspaper \"Vijaya Karnataka\" started a new initiative. And, then they published some selected letters I read those letters and liked the initiative. Even these little kids are confronting the nation; Know the deliberations Kirti Hegde from North Kannada has appreciated Digital India and Smart City schemes and she put forth a suggestion that we need to transform our education system and said that the present-day students do not like classroom reading, they know more about nature . And if we want to teach knowledge about our children then in future\nA child Reeda Nadaf from Laxmeshwara has written that she is the daughter of a military man and feels proud of being so. Which Indian would not be proud of our soldiers? And, you are a soldier 'daughter should naturally take pride in that. Irfana Begum from Kalburgi has written that her school is 5 kilometres away from her village and she has started early in the morning and it gets quite late in the evening. She says that as she does not find time to spend her friends and has suggested that there should be a school nearby. But, my countrymen, I liked this initiative for a newspaper that helped me get it and I got a chance to go through these. This is a very good experience for me\nMy dear countrymen, today is 26/11 The 26th of November The Constitution of India was adopted by the Constituent Assembly on this day in the forty-nine. Our Constitution was implemented on the 26th of January, 1950 which we celebrate as our Republic Day. The Constitution of India is the spirit of our democracy. This is the meeting of the Constituent Assembly They all worked hard for three years And, whoever reads that debate will feel proud about what the vision is about. Can you imagine how hard their work was done in the Constitution of our country which has such big diversities? They must have seen a great sense of understanding and farsightedness and that too at a juncture when the country was getting rid of the bondage of slavery Now, this is the responsibility of all of us to make a new India in the light of the thinking of our Constitution. Our Constitution is all encompassing. There is no area, no aspect of nature which remains untouched.\nEquality for all and sensitivity It guarantees fundamental rights to each and every citizen, whether underprivileged or oppressed, backward or deprived, a tribal or a woman. It protects their fundamental rights and safeguards their interests. It's our duty that we abide by our Constitution in letter and spirit. Citizens and administrators alike The message that our constitution conveys is that no one should be harmed in any way It is but natural to remember Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar on the Constitution Day today. Seventeen separate committees were constituted by the Constituent Assembly on various important issues. One of the most important of these drafting committee and Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar was the chairman of this drafting committee. He is playing a pivotal role in it. The Constitution of India, which we feel so very proud of, bears an indelible stamp of his capable leadership He ensured the welfare of every section of society We remember him and bow before his on Mahaparinirvan Diwas on 6th of December. Babasaheb's contribution in making the country prosperous and strong can never be forgotten 15th of December is the birthday anniversary of Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel. Sardar Patel rose from being a farmer's son to be known as the Iron Man of the country, undertaking the extraordinary task of uniting India in one nation. Sardar Saheb was also a member of the constituent Assembly. He also was the Chairman of the Advisory Committee on fundamental rights, minorities and tribals.\n26/11 is our Constitution Day but how can the nation forget that on this very day nine years ago, terrorists have launched a attack on Mumbai. The country remembers and bows to those brave citizens, policemen, security men and every one who lost their lives then This country can never forget their sacrifice Terrorism has taken a ugly shape and has become a global threat almost as a daily routine. We, in India, are facing the last 40 years on account of terrorism. Thousands of our people But, a few years ago, when India used to talk about the serious threats of terrorism many people in the world were not ready to take it seriously, Now that, terrorism is knocking on their doors, every Government in the world, In humanity, the government is having faith in democracy. Terrorism has threatened humanity across the globe Terrorism has challenged humanity It is bent upon destroying the humanitarian forces So, not only India but all humanitarian forces will have to keep fighting unitedly to defeat the danger of terrorism. Lord Buddha, Lord Mahavir, Guru Nanak, Mahatma Gandhi - this is the land which gave the message of love and non-violence to the world.\nTerrorism and extremism are trying to weaken and destroy our social fabric. That is why, the need for the hour is that humanitarian forces will become more alert and cautious.\nMy dear countrymen, we will show Navy Day on the 4th of December. Indian Navy secures and protects our maritime boundaries I congratulate all those who belong to the Navy. All of you must be knowledgeable Be it the Indus, the Ganges, the Yamuna or the Saraswati - our rivers and seas are both economically and strategically important. This is our gateway to the whole world. This country, our land has an unbreakable bond with oceans. And as we peep in our history, we come to know that about 800 to 900 (eight to nine hundred) years ago, during the rule of the cholas, the Chola Navy was considered one of the strongest navies. This navy had a big role in the expansion of the Chola-rule and in making it an economic super power. Numerous references of voyages and expeditions of the Chola-Navy are found in today's \"Sangam - literature\". Very few people may be aware that most of the women allowed their warships pretty later. But in the Chola Navy, a big number of women played leading roles and that too about eight to nine hundred years ago; to the extent that women actively took part in battles The Chola rulers possessed a very rich and sound knowledge of ship building. When we talk of navy, who can ignore Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj and the capabilities \u0026 the power of his navy. Konkan coast, where the sea has a significant role, was under Shivaji Maharaj's realm. Many forts associated with Shivaji Maharaj like Sindhu Durg, Murud Janjira, Swarn Durg, etc. were either located on sea coast or were encircled by sea. The security of these fortifications was the responsibility of the Maratha Navy. There was a combination of large ships and small boats in the Maratha Navy. His naval forces were very efficient and skilled in attacking the enemy. And how do we refer to the Maratha Navy and not remember Kanhoji Aangre! He took the Maratha Navy to newer heights and established Maratha Naval Bases at a number of places. After Independence, our Indian Navy showed its valor on various occasions; be it the liberation struggle of Goa or the Indo-Pak war When we talk of the navy, we see only war but the Indian Navy has come forward in humanitarian ventures as well. In June this year when Cyclone Mora hit Bangladesh and Myanmar, our naval ship INS SUMITRA rendered a big help in rescue operations; Many fishermen were rescued from the sea and handed over to Bangladesh.\nIn May-June this year when there was a severe flood in Sri Lanka, three vessels of our navy reached there immediately and helped In September, during the Rohingya crisis in Bangladesh, our naval ship INS GHADIYAL delivered humanitarian assistance there The Government of Papua New Guinea sent a SOS-message to us in June and our navy rendered help in the fishing boat. On 21st November, during an incident of piracy in a merchant vessel in the Western Gulf, our naval ship INS TRIKAND reached there. Carrying medical services to FIJI, sending urgent relief, or delivering humanitarian aid during crisis to a neighbor - our navy has always rendered glorious service We Indians, always nurture an feeling of pride and respect toward our security forces- be it the army, the navy or the air force, and every countryman the courage of bravery, valor, chivalry and sacrifice. They sacrifice their youth for the country so that 125 crore people live in peace. We observe ARMED FORCES FLAG DAY every year on 7th December. This is a day to feel proud of our country's armed forces.\nI am happy that the Ministry of Defense has decided to run a campaign from December 1 to December 7, during which they will reach out to the people of the country. Throughout the week everybody, old or young, should wear the flag A movement to instill respect for our forces will come in the country We can distribute ARMED FORCES FLAGS on this occasion. Experiences and acts of valor of those armed forces who are our neighbors or acquaintances and related videos and pictures posted on hash-tag armed forces flag day (#armedforcesflagday). People from the forces could be invited Our new generation can get information about the forces This is a collection of funds for the welfare of the jawans of our armed forces. This amount is spent through the military Kalyan Board on the dependents of those who lost their lives and also for those who got injured during wars, for their rehabilitation. More information about sending in monetary contributions could be on kbs.gov.in. You can also make cashless payment for this. Come, let us do something on this occasion, which will raise the morale of our armed forces. We should also favored towards their welfare\nMy dear countrymen, World Soil Day is on the 5th of December. I want to tell my farmer brothers and sisters An important component of the Earth is \"soil\". We are In a way, the whole food chain is connected to the soil. Just imagine, what will happen if there is no fertile soil in the world? The very thought is dreadful There will be no soil, no plants and trees will grow; how will human life be possible? How will animals and birds survive? This concern was touched on a long time ago in our culture and that is why we are aware of the importance of the soil from ancient times. In our culture, there has been efforts to fortify a feeling of devotion and gratitude towards our farms, and at the same time scientific farming methods and techniques adopted in the manner that the soil to potters provide. In the life of the farmer of this country, both aspects have been important- respect to his soil and preserving \u0026 nurturing it scientifically. We all feel proud of the fact that the farmers of our country are rooted in traditions and also take interest in modern science, they keep trying and resolve. I had heard about the farmers, of Tohoo village in Bhoranj block of Hamirpur district in Himachal Pradesh.\nFarmers were used here for chemical fertilizers indiscriminately which deteriorated the soil-health. Produce reduced which resulted in lower income and gradually the productivity of the soil too was going down. Some enlightened and alert farmers in the village noticed and understood the gravity of the situation, and after that got their soil tested on time and followed the advice of quantities of fertilizers, micro-nutrients and organic fertilizers. And, you will be surprised about the results. In the Rabi season of 2016-17, wheat production per acre increased three to four times and their income also increased by four to six thousand rupees per acre. Besides, the soil quality also improved. Cut in fertilizer consumption I am very glad to see that my farmer brothers have come forward to implement the suggestions made in the soil health card and they are getting better results. And, now the farmer also realizes that proper soil care is needed if production is to be increased and that if we take care of our soil, it will also care for all of us.\nOur farmers have got more than 10 crore soil health cards made so that they may understand their soil better and accordingly sow the crop.\nWe are the mother of the Earth because of the use of fertilizers like uras? This has been proved by all the scientific methods that cause an excessive use of urea. The Farmer is the son of the soil, how can a farmer see the mother earth falling sick? The need of the hour is to revive the mother-son relationship Can our farmers, the sons of our soil make a solution that by the year 2022, when we complete 75 years of our independence, they are currently using what is being used in half of the Uria usage. If this son of the soil, my farmer brother once made this resolve then we will see the health of earth A transformation will start in the life of the farmer.\nAll of us are experiencing global warming, climate change now There was a time when winter would set in even before Diwali. And now, December is knocking on our doors, yet winter is advancing at a leisurely pace. But the moment in winter sets in, we all have experienced that we do not like coming quotes our quilts a bit. Despite such inclement weather there are some extraordinarily aware people who deliver results. You will be amazed to learn that Tushar, an eight year old differently - abled, divyang lad from Madhya Pradesh has taken a decision to make his village Open defecation free. It was a young boy in a huge task at hand. But his grit and determination were exponentially greater and stronger The eight year old is speechless, but he is a whistle as an armament. He would wake up at 5 in the morning, visit families, one by one, awaken them and used gesticulations to wean them away from Open defecation. Covering 30 to 40 homes everyday, spreading the message of cleanliness, this boy transformed the village into Open defecation free. Promoting the virtues of cleanliness, this little lad has done inspiring work. This proves that cleanliness suffers from no barriers of age; there are no boundaries A child or a elderly person, a women or a man, everyone needs cleanliness. And everybody should Our Divyang brothers and sisters are firm in their resolve; they are competent, capable, courageous and determined\nWe get to learn something They are doing well in every walk of life Whether it is the field of sports, any kind of competition or a social initiative, our Divyang brothers are second to none. You must be aware that our Divyang sportspersons won 4 medals in the Rio Olympics through their stellar performances They also emerged champions in the T-20 Cricket World Cup for the Visually Challenged Myriad competitions take place all over the country Recently, the 17th National Para-Swimming Competition held in Udaipur Divyang Brothers and sisters from different parts of the country participated \u0026 displayed their stellar skills. One of them becomes to 19 year old Jigar Thakkar from Gujarat, whose body suffers from 80% muscle atrophy.\nJust look at his fortitude, resolve \u0026 perseverance Despite his 80% muscle atrophy, the 19 year old Jigar Thakkar won 11 medals in the National Paras Swimming Competition. It is the account of this feat that he has not been selected as one of 32 Para Swimmers for the 20-20 Paralympics by the Sports Authority of India. They will be awarded training at the Center for Excellence at Gandhinagar in Gujarat. I salute the spirit of the young Thakkar and wish him the best. These days special emphasis is being on accessibilities \u0026 opportunities for persons with disabilities, Our Divyang brothers Our endeavor is to ensure that every and every person in the country is empowered Let the essence of 'Sama' and 'Mama', that is a confluence of collective \u0026 the person, foster a sense of syncretic harmony in our society; let us move forward together, together\nA few days from now, the pious occasion of Id-e-milad-un-nabi will be observed. Paighambar Hazrat Mohammad Sahab was born on this day I extend best wishes to all countrymen And I hope that this holy occasion of Id will give us new inspiration, fresh energy and the strength to resolve, new to the foster peace \u0026 communal amity.\n(Phone call)\n'Hello Mr. Prime Minister, I am Neerja Singh calling from Kanpur. I wish you all to reflect on the whole time, if you will share your ten best thoughts, so that we all remember these opinions and we have learned something from them. . Thank you\nEnd of phone call\nYou are quite right that 2017 is near completion, and the year 2018 is knocking on the door. And you have given some sound advice. But continuing from your point of view I feel like adding something more to it and modifying it a bit. And as in our villages, our elders, the old people of the village are always reminding us - forget the sorrow but also do not forget the joy You too can not forget I would propagate this wisdom We want to in the auspicious in 2018, enter the new year with the resolution of the auspicious\nWe know that in our part of the world, and probably all the world around the end of the year, we can take a stock, contemplate, and draw plans for the next year. In our media many interesting events of the year The previous year is both positive and negative memories. But do not you think that we should enter the year 2018, remembering the positive events, to do some good?\nI would like to say that all the 5-10 positive things that you had had heard, seen or did have had the experience of being a victim of a spirit benevolence Can we not contribute in this endeavor? Can not we share 5 of our positive life? Whether they are conveyed through photographs, in the form of a short story, or as a small video, I invite you to welcome the year 2018 in a beneficial environment, with positive memories, with positive thinking and with positive tidings.\nCome, let us share our positive experiences with #PositiveIndia (Hashtag Positive India) on the Narendra Modi App or MyGov portal. Remember to recollect the incidents that inspire others If you remember positive events, then you will be in a mood to do good around you. Positive events Positive thoughts can be found in a positive way.\nLet's all be together the strength of this collective momentum and its effect And I will definitely share the positive thoughts that arrive on #positiveindia (hashtag positive India) with the rest of our denizens in the next episode of 'Man Ki Baat.'\nMy dear countrymen, I will be back you are next month, with another episode of 'Man Ki Ki Baat.' Many - Many thanks!\nA few days back, students from Karnataka wrote to me I was very happy to read a lot of issues: PM @narendramodi during #MannKiBaat https://t.co/IDYtT30WsP\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 26, 2017\nPM @narendramodi speaks on Constitution Day and pays tributes to our Constitution #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/MhyoEQZulk\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 26, 2017\nThe makers of our Constitution worked hard to give us a constitution. #MannKiBaat https://t.co/IDYtT30WsP pic.twitter.com/WMPz2RPtHQ\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 26, 2017\nOur Constitution safeguards the rights of the poor and weaker sections of society #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/GjgGIf1W6r"