"Share\n\nDigital technology has emerged as a great enabler It is paved the way for efficient service delivery and governance: PM Modi\nWe are using mobile power or M-power to empower our citizens: PM\nThrough better targeting of subsidies, the JAM trinity has prevented the tune of nearly ten billion dollars so far: PM\nCitizens of India are increasingly adopting cashless transactions; BHIM App is helping the movement of a less cash and corruption free society: PM\nTechnology breaks silos; PRAGATI has put back on track infrastructure projects worth billions of dollars, which were stuck in red-tape: PM\nCyber-space Our startups today is the solution to everyday problems and improving lives: PM\nNations should take responsibility to ensure that the digital space does not become a playground for the dark forces of terrorism and radicalization: PM\nHis Excellency Mr. Ranil Wickremesinghe, Prime Minister of Sri Lanka\nMinisters from India and abroad\nSecretary General of ITU,\nDelegates from over 120 countries\nStudents,\nLadies and Gentlemen\nI welcome you to New Delhi, for the Global Conference on Cyber ​​Space. I also welcome all those who are joining this event remotely from across the world, over the internet.\nFriends\nWe all know how cyberpace has transformed the world over the last few decades. The senior generation in the gathering here, would recall the bulky mainframe computer systems of the seventies and eighties. A lot has changed since then. Email and personal computers brought about a new revolution in the nineties. This was followed by the advent of social media, and the mobile phone as an important vehicle of data storage and communication. Expressions such as the Internet of Things, and Artificial Intelligence, have now become commonplace. This indicates that change continues\nThese rapid developments in the digital domain have mirrored immense change in India as well. Indian IT talent has been recognized worldwide Indian IT companies have made themselves global\nToday, digital technology has emerged as a great enabler. It has paved the way for efficient service delivery and governance. It is improving access, in domains from education to health. And it is the future of business and economy Throughout the ways, it provides the less privileged sections of society, a more level playing field. On a macro-scale, it has contributed to the emergence of a flat world, where a developing nation like India can compete on a level footing with developed nations.\nFriends\nTechnology breaks barriers We believe it validates the Indian philosophy of \"Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam\" - the world is one family. This expression reflects our ancient, inclusive traditions. Through technology, we are able to give this expression, and indeed the best of democratic values.\nEmpowerment through digital access, is an objective that the government of India is specially committed to us. \"Digital India\" is the world's largest, technology-led transformative program. We are using mobile power or M-power to empower our citizens\nI am sure you are already aware of Aadhaar, which is the unique biometric identity of a person. We have used this identity to free our people from queues and cumbersome processes. Three factors: first, financial inclusion through our Jan-Dhan bank accounts; second, the base platform; and third, the mobile phone, has greatly helped reduce corruption We call it the J.A.M. or JAM trinity Through better targeting of subsidies, the JAM trinity has prevented the tune of nearly 10 billion dollars so far.\nLet me share some examples of how digital technology is becoming a great facilitator for \"ease of living.\"\nToday, a farmer can access a variety of services, such as soil-testing results, expert advice, and a good price for his produce, at the click of a button. Digital technology is therefore contributing to increased farm incomes\nA small entrepreneur can register on the government e-marketplace, and bid competitively for goods. As he expands his business, he also contributed to lowering the cost of procurement for government. This leads to increased efficiency, and greater value for public money.\nPensioners no longer need to present themselves in front of a bank officer, to provide proof of life. Today, a pensioner can leverage the Aadhar biometric platform, to provide this proof with minimal physical effort.\nWomen form a significant part of the IT workforce. Digital Technology has facilitated many new enterprises led by women. In this way the IT industry has contributed towards gender empowerment.\nCitizens of India are increasingly adopting cashless transactions. For this, we created the Bharat Interface for Money - or BHIM App. This App is helping the movement of a less cash and corruption free society.\nThese examples show the power of technology in improving governance.\nFriends\nWe are using the digital domain to facilitate participative governance, or Jan Bhagidari. When we took office in May 2014, many people, specially youngsters expressed their views and work for the nation. It is our firm belief that there are millions of Indians, whose transformative ideas can go a long way in India.\nTherefore, we launched the citizen engagement portal, MyGov. This platform enables citizens to share their thoughts and ideas on important issues. In many key policy areas, we received thousands of valuable suggestions. Many logo and emblem designs for various government initiatives today, are the result of crowd-sourcing, and competitions on MyGov. In fact, even the official app for the Prime Minister's Office, is the result of a competition floated on MyGov, which received brilliant responses from youngsters. MyGov is a prime example of how technology strengthens democracy\nLet me turn to another example. On assuming office, I realized that important government projects and initiatives were often lost on account of government functioning, and the lack of focusing decision-making. Therefore, we devised a cyberspace based platform, called PRAGATI or Proactive Governance for Timely Implementation. PRAGATI, in Hindi, literally means progress.\nOn the last Wednesday of every month, I meet top Union and State Government officials for a PRAGATI session. Technology breaks silos Sitting in our related offices, aided by the cyber world, we discuss and resolve important governance issues. I am happy to share with you that the PRAGATI sessions have resulted in faster decision-making, through consensus, in the larger interest of the nation PRAGATI has put on track infrastructure projects worth billions of dollars which were stuck in red-tapes.\nI have even tried some of my own, through Narendra Modi Mobile App This App The suggestions I get is very useful.\nToday, we launched the UMANG Mobile App, which will provide over a hundred citizen-centric services. At the back-end, these services will be catered for many different departments of the Union and State Governments. This integrated approach will add an automatic layer of \"peer performance pressure\", in the work of these departments.\nFriends,\nWe will be happy to share our experiences On the other hand, India is looking for scalable models and innovative solutions in education and health, using digital technology. We also want to make cyberpace an enabler for the differently-abled Recently, during a thirty six hours Hackathon, college students suggested solutions to chronic problems that were put forward by Ministries. We look forward to learn from global experiences and best practices. We believe that growth is only when we all grow together\nCyberspace remains a key area for innovation. Our startups today, are the solutions for common everyday problems, and improving the lives of people. I am confident that the global investor community, will recognize the immense potential to be tapped from India's startup pool. I invite you to invest in this space, and be a part of the unfolding story of Indian startups.\nFriends\nThe internet, by nature, is inclusive and not exclusive It offers equity of access, and equality of opportunity Today's talk is being shaped by Facebookers, Tweeples, and Instagrammers. Social media platforms are making cyberspace participative for all. News that experts tell us from studios, is now supplemented by experiences. This transition, to a blend of expertise and experience, is the contribution of the cyber world The internet has become the ideal platform for youngsters to showcase their creativity, capability and capacity - be it an insightful blog, a beautiful musical rendition, artwork, or theater ... the sky is the limit\nFriends\nThe theme of the Conference: \"Secure and Inclusive Cyberspace for sustainable development\" also highlights the importance of securing this vital asset for humanity. The global community needs to deal with the issue of cyber-security with confidence, as much as with resolve. Cyberspace technologies must remain an enabler for our people\nThe quest for an open and accessible internet often leads to vulnerability. Stories of hacking and defacement of websites are the tip of an iceberg. They suggest that cyber attacks are a significant threat, especially in the democratic world. We need to ensure that the vulnerable sections of our society do not fall into the evil designs of cyber criminals. Alertness towards cyber-security concerns, will become a way of life\nOne of the major focus areas should be the training of well-equipped and capable professionals to counter cyber threats. Cyber-warriors who will remain alert against cyber-attacks The term \"hacking\" may have acquired an exciting, even if dubious overtone. We need to ensure that cyber protection becomes an attractive and viable career.\nOn a related note, nations must also take responsibility to ensure that the digital space does not become a playground for the dark forces of terrorism and radicalization. Information sharing and coordination among security agencies is essential to counter the ever-changing threat landscape.\nSurely, we can walk the fine balance between privacy and openness on one hand, and national security on the other. Together, we can overcome the differences between global and open systems on one hand, and nation-specific legal requirements on the other.\nFriends\nEmerging digital technologies might impact our future in ways that we can not yet foresee Important questions of transparency, privacy, trust and security may need to be addressed. Humanity We must ensure that it continues to stay that way.\nThe large multi-stakeholder participation at this event, is the proof of the global endorsement that this platform has received. Nation states, the industry, academia and civil society, all need a formal collaborative framework This will enable a secure cyberspace which improves quality of life.\nFriends\nThis conference is probably the biggest ever I am told that all the background and logistics are handled digitally I hope delegates from around the world have found a smooth and seamless experience.\nI conclude by wishing you fruitful and productive deliberations and results. I once again welcome you, and wish the conference all success\nThank you.\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 23, 2017\nThe senior generation would recall the bulky main-frame computer systems of the 70s and 80s. A lot has changed since then. Email and personal computers brought about a new revolution in the nineties: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 23, 2017\nThis was followed by the advent of social media and the mobile phone as an important vehicle of data storage and communication: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 23, 2017\nIndian IT talent has been recognized world-wide Indian IT companies have made a name for themselves globally: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 23, 2017\nToday, digital technology has emerged as a great enabler. It has paved the way for efficient service delivery and governance. It is improving access, in domains from education to health: PM @narendramodi https://t.co/uxvpZ8neJw\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 23, 2017\nWe in India, give primacy to the human face of technology and are using it as the \"call of ease.\": PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 23, 2017\nWe are using mobile power or M-power to empower our citizens: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 23, 2017\nThrough better targeting of subsidies, the JAM trinity has prevented the tune of nearly ten billion dollars so far: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 23, 2017\nDigital technology is contributing to more farm incomes A small entrepreneur can register on Government e-Marketplace and bid competitively for supply of goods to Government. Pensioners no longer need to present themselves in front of a bank officer to provide proof of life: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 23, 2017\nCitizens of India are increasingly adopting cashless transactions. For this, we created the Bharat Interface for Money - or BHIM App. This App is helping the less cash and corruption free society: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 23, 2017\nWe are using the digital domain to facilitate participative governance or Jan Bhagidari: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 23, 2017\nIt is our firm belief that there are millions of Indians, whose transformative ideas can go a long way in taking India to new heights: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 23, 2017\nOn the last Wednesday of every month, I meet top Union and State Government officials for a PRAGATI session. Technology breaks silos Sitting in our respective offices, aided by the cyber world, we discuss and resolve important governance issues: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 23, 2017\nI am happy to share with you that the PRAGATI sessions have resulted in faster decision-making, through consensus, in the larger interest of the nation PRAGATI has put back on track infrastructure projects worth billions of dollars, which were stuck in red-tape: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 23, 2017\nI have even tried some of my own, through Narendra Modi Mobile App This App The suggestions I get through the app are very useful: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 23, 2017\nCyber-space Our startups are available today. I am confident that the global investor community will recognize the immense potential to be tapped from India's startup pool: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 23, 2017\nThe internet, by nature, is inclusive and not exclusive It offers equity and opportunity of opportunity: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 23, 2017\nSocial media platforms are making cyber-space participative for all News that experts tell us from studios This transition, to a blend of expertise and experience is the contribution of the cyber world: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 23, 2017\nThe global community needs to deal with the issue of cyber-security with confidence, as much as with resolve. Cyber-space technologies must remain an enabler for our people: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 23, 2017\nWe need to ensure that the vulnerable sections of our society do not fall into the evil designs of cyber criminals. Alertness towards cyber-security concerns, should become a way of life: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 23, 2017\nNations must also take responsibility to ensure that the digital space does not become a playground for the dark forces of terrorism and radicalization: PM @narendramodi"