"Share\n\nOur efforts are aimed at transforming India and ensuring everything in our nation matches global standards: PM\nIndia has always contributed to world peace; Our contingent in the UN Peacekeeping Forces is the biggest, says PM\nIndia is the land of Mahatma Gandhi; Peace is integral to our culture: PM\nWe should make efforts to ensure 21st century becomes India's century: PM\nGreetings,\nMy visit did not have been incomplete You have come from different places You have come today This is the result of your love, your love towards India. At the beginning, I would like to specially thank you people But I would like to congratulate you people for the discipline that has shown today. This is itself a very big force and I'm easily able to meet you all, this thing is in itself a great reason for happiness, and all of you deserve this and this thing for congratulations.\nThis is the first visit to this country, but this area is extremely important for us. Because, in a way, we feel a lot of affinity with these countries. We have a natural affinity for them Due to some or some other causes There will be hardly any country in this region which will not be familiar with the lord Ram or Ramayana; There will be hardly any country which does not have respect for Lord Buddha This is itself a great legacy and the Indian community that inhabits in this region very well shoulder the responsibility of nurturing and glorifying this legacy An ordinary Indian can contribute to many times more than what is done by the Embassy. And I have experienced that today every Indian in the world speaks about itself as a pride and confidence. It's a big thing for any country For centuries, Indian Diaspora all over the world and Indians have a tendency of globetrotting, our foresters left our shores centuries of years ago and India has the uniqueity that wherever we settled, this place will be our own as well. It's not a small thing to do, but it does not make sense. And wherever you went, you showed your strong self-confidence there. Unless you have settled, the number of years, the number of generations that you have been living out of India, it is possible that the language connection also broke down, but if you have a good sleep in the country without any problem. And if you take pride And that is why this is the effort of the present government to take the country to those heights of development so that we can get the capability to have parity with them then I do not think anybody can stop India from going forward. Whatever the difficulties are there, they are available only after the time of parity and once we cross those hurdles then we get a level playing field. And Indians have that kind of capabilities in their arms, their brains and hearts that no one can stop them from the marching ahead. And that is why in the last three and three and a half years the government has made a consistent effort that has 1.25 billion people of whatever capabilities, whatever its natural resources and whatever cultural heritage it has and people of India in any period, you take any period be 100 years, ago, 500 years ago or thousand years ago or be 5,000 years ago, there will not be a single event in the history. .\nWhenever I meet people of any country of the world, and when I tell them that during the first and second world wars, we did not have to hoist our flag anywhere, nor did we capture any intention world but more than 1.5 lakhs soldiers from our country had sacrificed their lives in search of peace. We did not desire or seek anything in the first and second world wars, however, 1.5 lakh Indians embraced martyrdom in search of peace and any Indian can say that we are the people who are the world, we are not the ones who want something from it and we are certainly not the ones who snatch away from others.\nToday, any Indian can take pride in India's association with the peace keeping force of the United Nations that if there is strife anywhere in the world then through the United Nations, the peace keeping forces play their role. And if there is anyone in the whole world making the maximum contribution to the peace keeping forces then these are Indian soldiers. And even today, Indian soldiers are in the forefront. The land of Buddha and Gandhi spreads peace - these are not mere words. We are those people who have demonstrated this thing in our lives, who have assimilated the peace, peace is in our veins and that is why our ancestors gave us this formula VasudhaivaKutumbkam (The world is a family), the formula that we have demonstrated through our lives However, the world acknowledges the strength of all these things only when India is strong, when India is capable and it is moving forward to new heights in the field of life only then the world acknowledges these things. The level of one's knowledge about the substances of life, irrespective of a glorious history, irrespective of the greatness of your legacy, the world acknowledges all these things only when the present is also equally bright, and is full of energy and strong. And that is why it is our duty to make the 21st century a century of India if it is the century of Asia, it is studying and our past from the inspiration taking it as important. And I do not think it's difficult After the last three and a half years I can say this You may have seen in the past some time as the government of India Now there is no apprehension that there will be some negative news and what people ask us when we go to our office. Now when you step out of your house you have the confidence - No, only good news will come from India It's a country of 1.25 billion people, its main theme, the main theme of the government and the society is only revolving around the positivity alone Every time the decisions are taken in the country It's a country of 1.25 billion people and how the economy will work if 30 crore families are still out of the banking system 70 years after the independence.\nWe started this work on our own, we started Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Scheme and banks were feeling uneasy as zero balance of cases too cases And everyone knows that in Manila And banks argued with them: Sir, at least please allow us to charge them for the stationary. I told them that the poor people of the country They should have a respectable access to the banks That poor fellow used to think that he did not enter the air-conditioned bank And then that poor fellow was forced to visit a money lender and all of us know what the moneylenders do. The bank accounts of 30 crore countrymen were opened under the zero balance scheme. And sometimes you have seen the rich community I have seen both rich people and small heartedness You must have seen the poorness of the poor people We have opened zero balance bank accounts but today I can say this thing with pride that these poor people have developed a habit of saving in those Jan Dhan Accounts. Before they used to stash their money in the wheat stored in the house, they used to keep it under their bed, and mothers used to be apprehensive that if their husbands had bad habits then he would spend it somewhere else. But you will be happy to note that in such a short span of time 67,000 crore rupees have been deposited in Jan-Dhan accounts. The poor people have become active in the mainstream of the country's economy. It's not a small change, the person who was outside the system, who did not have the power and capability, today, the same person has come here.\nThere are many initiatives that never discussed them. Some people even wondered whether these things were feasible? We have accepted that our country will continue to run the way it is. Why it will be like this only? If Singapore can be clean, Philippines can be clean, why can not India be clean? Which country would prefer in living? No one wants that. But someone has to take initiative, someone has to take the responsibility, without worrying about success or failure. We have tried to take it forward from where Mahatma Gandhi left it. And I tell you that today more than 2.25 lakh villages in India have now become open defecation free. So what a big change it has brought to the quality of life\nNow in our country, those of you who have visited India in the last 20, 25, 30 years or those of you who are still in touch with India, must be knowing that gasing cylinder, getting a gas connection in a household is considered to be a big thing and if one would get a gas connection in the house, if agas cylinder came to the house, then the environment in the neighborhood used to be like thatsomebody had a Mercedes car, meaning it was considered a very big achievement that we have got a gas connection in our house Members of Parliament used to get 25 coupons in a year so that they could be 25 families in their constituencies. What they used to do I do not want to say, that used to be in newspapers, means connection for gas cylinder. You must remember that when elections were held in 2014, BJP was one at end and Congress party was otherend Bharatiya Janata Party gave me the responsibility to lead that election A meeting was held in Congress Party and the whole country was waiting to know After the meeting, a press conference was held in the evening. What was said in that press conference, it was said that if we win the elections in 2014, then we will give 12 cylinders in a year instead of 9 cylinders that we give right now.We have 12 cylinders, do you remember it or not, meaning 12 cylinders instead of 9 cylinders, Congress was fighting on this issue Till 2014 was the scope of thinking, it is not a thing of too far from now and the country was also applauding: 'Great! We will get 12 cylinders instead of 9.'\nGiving gas cylinders and gas connections to five crore families, to those mothers who cook food by burning wood-sticks in stoves. Now tell me how do you feel on hearing that the scope of thinking is to increase gas cylinders from 9 to 12, and on the other side there is a person who says in three years he will provide gas cylinders to five crore families And he will give these connections for free.\nA mother who is poor, when she cooks food on a stove by burning woodsticks, scientists say that in one day, smoke of four hundred cigarettes goes into the body of that mother. What's her crime? Who does not worry about his health, and the children who play there, they can not stay untouched from theirs, what will their condition? And bringing thewoodsticks and if those are soggy, then how painful it will be used in cooking, how difficult it will be Should they be freed from that problem after 70 years of freedom or not, and some people have this approach The basic thing which I want to tell you is that sometimes the poorness of thoughts can be very big problems.\nOnce from Red Fort, I asked the people, I said that brothers, if you can afford then why you need gas subsidy? What interest do you have in 800, 1000 or 1200 rupees in a year, just give it up, and you will take pride in it 1.25 crore families of my country, - 1.25 crore households, it's not a small number, they have voluntarily given up the gas subsidy and Modi did not like it in government coffers.\nModi decided that we will give that poor people and we successfully move forward in the direction of free gas connection to 3 crore families.We have already provided 3 million families to gas connections. My commitment is about 5 crore families There are total 25 crore families in India, from 25 crore families have made promises for 5 crore families and we have already provided it 3 crore families. There is a surprise in this also, since you all are our own family, so I can tell you something.When government subsidy given, it seems that people have benefitted from it. So what did I do, I linked it with a bot, meticulously identifying it, and because of this it was discovered that gas subsidy was paid in the name of such people that were never born. I mean to say where it is gone? Tell me, where it could go? It was going to have somebody's pocket or not, now I have brushed it and it has stopped I just did this much that this kind of subsidy was given to those people who have never been born, and it is not a big thing and do you know what are the results, we saved 57 thousand crore rupees. And we have not saved this amount just once, every year 57 thousand crore rupees were spent, now tell me where is it used to go? Now the people in whose pocket it used to go, would they think about Modi, would they ever come to take a photo? Would they come? Would they like Modi? Tell me if we should work or not? Should there be a change in the country or not? Harsh decisions should be taken or not? Should we take the nation forward or not?\nBy coming here you have blessed me and I can assure you that I will leave no stone unturned to fulfill the purpose. What was the news that used to come before 2014, or in 2G, this used to be the news or not? After 2014, what has been asked from Modi, please tell how much money came? See, this is the change There was a time when the country was worried about how much today and today the time is such when people are eagerly asking, Modi Ji please tell how much has come?\nFriends, there is no dearth in our country, our country has all the possibilities to move forward, we have every capability, keeping that mind in many important policies with the march ahead. The country is scaling new heights of development and we are moving forward with public participation. We are moving forward, taking the most common people with us and its results will be so good that you too can not live on a long time. It felt like you were in such a big number and blessed me\nMany many Thanks."