"Share\n\nGovernment of India's 'Act East Policy' puts this (ASEAN) region at the center of our engagement: PM Modi\nTask of transforming India is a growing scale: PM Modi\nDigital transactions have increased significantly We are using technology to reach out to people: PM\nKeeping our emphasis on 'Minimum Government, Maximum Governance', about 1200 outdated laws have been repealed in the last three years: PM\nWe want to make India a global manufacturing Hub and we want to make our youngsters job creators: PM\nMr. Joey Concepcion\nChairman, ASEAN Business Advisory Council;\nExcellencies;\nLadies and Gentlemen!\nAt the beginning, I apologize for the delay. In business, like in politics, both time and timing are very important. But sometimes we can not help it I am happy to be here in Manila, on my very first visit to the Philippines.\nThere is a lot that India and the Philippines share in common:\nWe are both pluralistic societies and vibrant democracies.\n• Our economies are among the fastest growing economies in the world.\n• We have large, young and aspiring populations that are innovative and enterprising.\n• The Philippines is a services power house just as India is.\nAnd, just as in India, here in Philippines too, the government wants to see change, bring about inclusive growth, development infrastructure, and fight corruption. No surprise so many of our top IT companies have invested here They are making thousands of jobs and promoting the Philippines service sector world-wide.\nFriends,\nThis morning we witnessed a brilliant performance of the dance drama 'Ram Hari' based on the Ramayana at the Opening Ceremony of the ASEAN Summit. It depicts the way historically the people of India and ASEAN has bound together These are not only historical bonds This is a living shared heritage The Act East Policy of Our Government puts the center of our engagement on We have an exceptionally good political and people-to-people relationship We want to bring our business\nFriends,\nThe task of transforming India is a massive scale. We are working on ensuring good governance which includes easy, effective and transparent governance.\nTo give you an example: We have started open auction for natural resources including telecom spectrum, coal mining and other minerals and even private radio channels. This is a contributed about 75 billion US dollars in revenue. Using technology, we are enhancing responsibility and reducing discretion and corruption. We are using our unique ID system in financial transactions and taxation for this purpose and results are already visible. These steps, coupled with demonetization of high value notes The number of new tax payers filing income tax returns has more than doubled. Digital transactions have increased by 34 percent in one year, as we We have used technology to reach out to people An online citizen engagement platform, MyGov has harnessed ideas, suggestions and inputs on policies and programs from 2 million pro-active citizens.\nWe have also introduced a new frame-work called PRAGATI-Pro-active Governance and Timely Implemntation under which I am able to review project complaints and redress public grievances through video conference with officers across the country. In keeping with our emphasis on minimum government and maximum governance, 1200 out-dated laws have been repealed in three years.\nNew laws and institutions for Bankruptcy and Insolvency as well as IPR and Arbitration are now in place. 36 white industries have been taken out from the environmental clearance. Incorporating a company is now just a one day affair. We have simplified industrial licensing, and introduced online application process for environmental and forest clearances. All these have made a new business very easy The results are obvious.\nIndia has climbed 30 places in the World Bank. It is the biggest jump by any country this year and a recognition of India's long term reform trajectory.\nAnd, the world is taking notice:\n- We have moved up 32 places in the last two years in the Global Competi- -tiveness Index of the World Economic Forum;\n- We have also moved up 21 places on the Global Innovation Index of WIPO in two years.\n- We have moved 19 places on the Logistics Performance Index of 2016 of World Bank;\nFriends,\nMost of the sectors of our economy are now open for FDI More than 90 percent of FDI sectors are automatic approval route.India has emerged as a front-runner in attracting foreign direct investment. Compared to last three years, we have received 67 percent more FDI in this year. Now, we are a globally integrated economy Moreover, these mile-stones have been achieved even before some major recent reforms.\nThis year in July, we have implemented the highly complex task of migrating to a uniform. This has done away with a vast range of state level and central level tax through-out India. This is not small achievement given the vastness and diversity of our country. At the same time, we strongly believe that this is not enough\nFriends, A very large part of India's population had no access to banking services. This deprived them of the opportunities for savings as well as access to institutional credit. With the Jan Dhan Yojana, within a matter of months, the lives of millions of Indians were transformed. 197 million bank accounts were opened in one year.\nTill August this year, 290 million such accounts were opened in Indian banks Nearly 200 million Ru-pay cards were issued for easy cash-less transactions. Access to banking services by the poor has also played a major role in tackling corruption in government Now, subsidies meant for the poor get directly deposited in their accounts in the form of direct benefit transfers, eliminating leakages and any discrimination. More than 146 million people are receiving direct cash subsidies through bank accounts. Today, the government is using Direct Benefit Transfers for 59 different schemes. Subsidies worth almost 10 billion US dollars are directly transferred to the beneficiaries\nFriends,\nOne of the major themes of this summit is entrepreneur - ship We have launched a campaign called Make in India Through this initiative, we are committed to transform India as a major player in the global value chain. We want to make a global manufacturing hub. At the same time, we want our young to be job creators; not just job seekers For this purpose, we have launched launches called Start up India and Stand up India. A major constraint in freeing up the entrepreneurship of small enterprises is lack of collateral for finance. For the first time in India, collateral-free loans have been disbursed to more than 90 million small entrepreneurs under the Mudra scheme. Very close to the population of Philippines This is a recognition of the contribution of small entrepreneurs in the economy and to empower a person who has a work-able business idea but no collateral. I see the importance of entrepreneur-ship in the Philippines and in the ASEAN region. The ASEAN Mentor-ship for Entrepreneurs launched at the Summit is a commendable initiative that addresses the needs of entrepreneurs. Indeed, for the near future, South and South East Asia will be the growth engine of the world. Therefore, building connectivity with ASEAN is a key objective for India We want to build ground, sea and air connectivity to this dynamic area. Work is already on in the construction of the tri-lateral highway through Myanmar and Thailand to connect with other countries in South East Asia.\nWe are working on the early settlement of the agreement between India and ASEAN and are exploring coastal shipping services with countries that are our immediate maritime neighbors. In the area of ​​air connectivity, ASEAN countries enjoy a daily service to operate the four great cities in India and the eighteen other destinations. We have taken steps such as electronic visa system to boost tourism to India. Out-bound tourism from India is one of the fastest rates in the world. Given the primacy of connectivity, India is organizing a ASEAN - India Connectivity Summit in New Delhi next month with All Asian countries participating in the ministers, officials and business representativs. Just as India sees this region in business opportunities, I am confident that the ASEAN business Community recognizes the potential for business in India While some of you are already deeply involved in India, others are just discovering the possibilities that are to be tapped. To co-incide with the ASEAN-India Comme - Morative Summit of ASEAN leaders in January next year, we are also organizing the Asia-India Business and Investment Meet and Expo. I invite you all to attend it.It will be the biggest Asia Focused Business event India has ever organized. India wishes to participate in your growth story and we invite all of us to participate in ours.\nMabuhai!\nMuramam salute!\nThank you!\nGovernment of India's 'Act East Policy' puts this (ASEAN) region at the center of our engagement: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 13, 2017\nThe task of transforming India is an unprecedented scale. We are working day and night towards easy, effective and transparent governance: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 13, 2017\nDigital transactions have increased significantly We are using technology to reach out to people: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 13, 2017\nKeeping our emphasis on 'Minimum Government, Maximum Governance', about 1200 outdated laws have been repealed in the last three years. We have simplified processes to start companies and other clearances: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 13, 2017\nMost sectors of the Indian economy are open for foreign investment: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 13, 2017\nLarge sections of India's population did not have access to banking services The Jan Dhan Yojana changed that in a matter of months and transformed the lives of millions: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 13, 2017\nWant to make India a global manufacturing Hub and we want to make our youngsters job creators: PM @narendramodi"