"\nPM Modi to visit Philippines, to participate in the Asia-India and East Asia Summits\nPhilippines: PM Modi to participate in Special Celebrations of the 50th anniversary of ASEAN, Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) Leaders' Meeting\nPhilippines: PM to hold bilateral meeting with President of the Philippines HE Mr. Rodrigo Duterte \u0026 other Asian Association Summit Leaders\nPM Modi to visit the International Rice Research Institute (IRRI) and Mahavir Philippines Foundation Inc. dduring his Philippines visit\nFollowing is the text of the Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi's departure statement before his visit to Philippines.\n\"I will be in Manila on a three-day visit starting 12th November. This is my first bilateral visit to the Philippines where I will also participate in the Asia-India and East Asia Summits. My participation in them symbolizes India's commitment to continue deepening relations with ASEAN Member States, in particular, and with the Indo-Pacific region, in general, within the framework of my Government's Act East Policy.\nApart from these Summits, I would also participate in Special Celebrations of the 50th anniversary of ASEAN, Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) Leaders' Meeting and ASEAN Business and Investment Summit.\nThe ASEAN Business and Investment Summit will boost our close cooperation to further enhance our trade ties with ASEAN member-states, which constitutes a significant 10.85% of our total business.\nDuring my first visit to the Philippines, I look forward to having a bilateral meeting with President of the Philippines HE Mr. Rodrigo Duterte I will also have interactions with other ASEAN and East Asia Summit Leaders\nI also look forward to connecting with the Indian community in Philippines. During my stay in Manila, I will also visit the International Rice Research Institute (IRRI) and Mahavir Philippines Foundation Inc. (MPFI).\nInternational Rice Research Institute (IRRI) through Scientific Research and Development has developed better quality of rice seed and helped the community to address food scarcity issues. A large number of Indian scientists are working in IRRI and contributing to R \u0026 D in this field. My cabinet approved on 12 July 2017 a proposal for IRRI to set up its South Asia Regional Center at Varanasi. This will be the first Research Center by IRRI out of its headquarters in the Philippines. The Varanasi Center will help increase farmers 'income by enhancing and supporting rice productivity, reduction cost of production, value addition, diversification and enhancing of farmers' skills.\nMy visit to Mahavir Philippines Foundation Inc. (MPFI) will demonstrate India's support for its activities in distributing free prosthesis \"Jaipur Foot\" among the needy amputees. Since its establishment in 1989, MPFI has fitted nearly 15,000 amputees in the Philippines with Jaipur. Government of India is making a modest contribution to the foundation of its noble humanitarian activities.\nI am confident that my visit to Manila will give a new boost to India's bilateral relations with the Philippines and also further strengthen the politico-security, economic and socio-cultural pillars of our engagement with ASEAN. \"\nI will travel to Philippines on a 3-day visit, starting 12th November. I will take part in the Asia-India and East Asia Summits, which symbolizes India's commitment towards deepening engagement with ASEAN and India-Pacific Region. https://t.co/BMGDT8MobR\n- Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) November 11, 2017\nDuring the Philippines visit, there would be bilateral talks with the President of the Philippines HE Mr. Rodrigo Duterte India seeks further diversification I will also have interactions with other ASEAN and East Asia Summit Leaders\n- Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) November 11, 2017\nThe other important engagements include special celebrations of the 50th anniversary of ASEAN, Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) Leaders' Meeting and ASEAN Business and Investment Summit.\n- Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) November 11, 2017\nI look forward to interacting with the Indian Community in Philippines There will also be visits to the International Rice Research Institute and Mahavir Philippines Foundation Inc."