"Share\n\nToday, newspapers do not just give news. They can also mold our thinking \u0026 open a window to the world: PM\nIn a broader context, media is a means of transforming society. That is why we refer to the media as the fourth pillar of democracy: PM\nIt was used to mask the local newspapers, that the Vernacular Press Act was enacted in 1878: PM\nEditorial freedom must be used wisely in public interest: PM\nA lot of the media discourse today revolves around politics. However, India is more than just politicians: PM\nIt is the 125 crore Indians, who make India what it is, says PM\nAt the beginning, I express my condolences and sympathies to the families of all those, who have lost loved ones, or faced immense hardship in the recent incidents of heavy rain and flood in Chennai and other parts of Tamil Nadu. I have been assured I also express grief at the passing away of senior journalist, Thiru R. Mohan.\nThe Dina Thanthi has completed seventy five glorious years I commend the contributions of Thiru S.P. Adithanar, Thiru S.T. Adithanar, and Thiru Balasubramanian ji, for the successful journey so far. Their stellar efforts over the last seven and a half decades, have made Thanthi one of the biggest media brands. Not just in the state of Tamil Nadu, but in the whole country I also compliment the management and staff of the success\n24 hour news channels are now available Yet, for many, the day still starts with a cup of tea or coffee in one hand, and a newspaper in the other. I am told that the Dina Thanthi offers this option today, through seventeen editions, not only in Tamil Nadu but also in Bengaluru, Mumbai and even in Dubai This remarkable expansion over seventy five years, is a tribute to the visionary leadership of Thiru S.P. Adithanar, who started this newspaper in 1942. Newsprint was a rare commodity in those days. But he started the newspaper by printing on\nThe font size, simple language and easy to understand narrative made people popular among the people. In those times, it brought them into political awareness and information. People used to read this newspaper. Thus began the journey, that continues till today, when its balanced coverage makes Dina Thanthi popular, from a daily wage earner, to the highest political functionary in the state.\nI came to know that Thanthi means telegram. Dina Thanthi means \"daily telegram\". Over the last seventy five years, the traditional telegram, delivered by the postal department, has become obsolete, and gone out of existence. But this telegram, continues to grow every day Such is the power of a noble idea, backed by hard work and commitment.\nI am happy to learn that Thanthi group has instituted awards for promoting Tamil Literature in the name of its founder Thiru Adithanar. I full-heartedly congratulate the awardees: Thiru. Tamilanban, Dr. Irai Anbu and Thiru. V.G. Santhosham. I am sure, this recognition will be a motivating factor for those who have taken a great profession.\nLadies and Gentlemen\nMankind's quest for knowledge Journalism helps quench the thirst Today, newspapers do not just give news. They can also mould our thinking and open a window to the world. In a broader context, media is a means of transforming society. That is why, we refer to the media, as the fourth pillar of democracy I am fortunate today, to be among those who demonstrate the power of the pen, and show how it can be vital.\nDuring the dark days of colonialism, publications such as the Sambad Kaumudi of Raja Ram Mohan Roy, The Kesari of Lokmanya Tilak, and the Navjeevan of Mahatma Gandhi, lit a beacon, and inspired the freedom struggle. Across the country, there were pioneers in journalism. They helped create a mass consciousness and awakening, through their newspapers. Perhaps it is the high ideals of those founding pioneers, that so many newspapers established in the days of the British Raj, continue to flourish today.\nFriends,\nWe should never forget that the success of the people, the society, and the nation That is how we achieved freedom After independence, the rights of citizens gained importance in public talk Unfortunately, over time we seem to have neglected our individual and collective sense of duty. This is in some way contributed to many ills that plague our society today. The need of the hour is to create a mass awakening towards \"engaged, responsible, and aware citizens.\" The civic sense of \"entitlement\" must be suitably balanced by a civil sense of \"responsible engagement.\" This should happen, of course, through our education system, and the conduct of our political leaders But the media too, has a key role to play here.\nLadies and Gentlemen\nMany of the newspapers In fact, the then British Government was fearful of the Indian Vernacular Press. It was to be spoken in the local newspapers, that the Vernacular Press Act was enacted in 1878.\nIn our diverse nation, the role of regional newspapers - newspapers published in regional languages ​​- remains as important today, as it was then. They carry content in a language that is easily understood by people Very often, they cater to vulnerable and socially disadvantaged groups Their strength, their impact, and thus, their responsibility, can never be under-estimated They are the messengers of the intent and policies of the government, in far-flung areas. Equally, they are the torch-bearers of the thoughts, feelings and feelings of our people.\nIn this context, it is really heartening to note that today, among our vibrant print media, some of the largest selling newspapers, are published in regional languages. The Dina Thanthi, is the course, one among them\nFriends\nI have often heard people wonder, as the amount of news that happens in the world.\nOn a serious note, we are all aware that there is very much that happens in the world. It is the editors who select and decide what is important They decide what should be given space on the first page, what should be done This, of course, casts on them, a great responsibility. Editorial freedom must be used wisely, in public interest Equally so, the freedom to write, and to decide what is to be written, does not include the freedom to be \"less than accurate,\" or \"factually incorrect.\" As Mahatma Gandhi himself told us: \"The press is called the Fourth Estate It is definitely a power, but, to misuse that power is criminal. \"\nEven though media may be owned by private individuals, it serves as a public purpose. As scholars say, it is an instrument to produce reform through peace, rather than by force. Therefore, it has as much social accountability as the elected government or the judiciary. And its conduct should be equally, above board Thiruvalluvar, \"There is nothing in this world except ethics, which will bring both reputation and wealth together\".\nFriends\nTechnology has brought great change in the media. There was a time, when the headlines of the day, written on a village blackboard, carried immense credibility. Today, our media spans the entire range, from that village blackboard, to online bulletin boards.\nJust as education now focuses on a lot more learning outcomes, our attitude towards content has changed. Today, every citizen analyzes, discusses, and attempts to cross-check and verify the news. Media, therefore, must make an extra effort, to maintain credibility Healthy competition among credible media platforms\nRenewed emphasis on credibility, brings us to the subject of introspection. I firmly believe that reform in the media, whenever required, can only come from within, through introspection. Indeed, we have seen this process of introspection happen on some occasions, such as the analysis of the report of the 26/11 Mumbai terror attack. Perhaps, it should happen more often\nFriends\nI recall a quote our beloved former President, Dr. APJ Abdul Kalam: \"We are such a great nation. We have so many amazing success stories. Why? \"\nI observe, that a lot of the media talk today revolves around politics. It is only fair that politics be discussed at length, in a democracy. However, India is more than just us politicians It is the 125 crore Indians, which make India what it is. I would be happy to see media attention a lot more, on their stories, and their achievements.\nIn this endeavor, every citizen has a mobile phone. Citizen reporting can be a valuable tool in the sharing and sharing of ideas. It can also be immensely help in directing relief and rescue efforts in times of crisis, or natural disasters.\nLet me also add, that is the time of natural disasters, Natural calamities can occur in the world Climate change is a challenge Can media take a lead in the fight against it? Can not just use a little space, or a fixed time daily, to report, discuss, or increase awareness about what we can do to combat climate change?\nI take this opportunity, to appreciate the message of the Swachh Bharat Mission. As we strive to achieve Swachh Bharat by 2019, the 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, I am touched by the constructive role that media has played, both in generating awareness and mass consciousness towards cleanliness. They have also pointed out the work that remains to be done, before we can claim our goal.\nLadies and Gentlemen\nThere is another key area, where media can play an important role This is the initiative of Ek Bharat, Shreshtha Bharat. Let me explain this with one example.\nCan a newspaper, some of the columns of space, every day for this cause? Every day, they can write a simple sentence in their language of publication, along with its translation, and trans-literation, all major Indian languages.\nAt the end of the year, the readers of the newspaper have been exposed to 365 such simple sentences, in all major Indian languages. Imagine the positive effect Further, schools can be encouraged to discuss this in their classrooms daily for a few minutes, so that children too, are exposed to the strength and richness of our diversity. So, this step will not only serve a noble cause.\nLadies and Gentlemen\nSeventy five years may be a significant amount of time in a human life-span. But for a nation, or an institution, it marks just a significant milestone. About three months ago, we celebrated the 75th anniversary of the Quit India Movement. In a way, the journey of the day is Thanthi, has mirrored the rise of India as a young, vibrant nation.\nSpeaking in Parliament on that day, I gave a call for creating a new India by 2022. An India is free from the evils of corruptions, casteism, communalism, poverty, illiteracy, and disease. The next five years should be about Sankalp se Siddhi - accomplishment through resolution Only then can we As a newspaper that was born when the nation embraced the Quit India Movement, may I suggest that the Dina Thanthi has a special responsibility in this regard. I hope that you will use this opportunity, to reflect on your readers, or for the people of India, over the next five years\nEven beyond the immediate target of five years, maybe on the occasion of its platinum jubilee, the thanthi must think about What is the best way to continue to stay relevant, and serve the people and the nation in the instant news at the fingertips. And in doing so, continue to maintain the highest standards of professionalism, ethics, and objectivity\nIn conclusion, I once again appreciated the efforts of the publishers of Dina Thanthi in the service of the people of Tamil Nadu. I am sure, they will continue to help in shaping the fortune of our great nation.\nThank you.\nToday, newspapers do not just give news. They can also make our thinking \u0026 open a window to the world. In a broader context, media is a means of transforming society. That is why we refer to the media as the fourth pillar of democracy: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 6, 2017\nThe then British Government was fearful of the Indian Vernacular Press. It was to be spoken in the local newspapers, that the Vernacular Press Act was enacted in 1878. The role of newspapers published in regional languages ​​remains as important today, as it was then: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 6, 2017\nI have often heard people wonder, as to the amount of news that happens in the world, every day always just fits the newspaper: PM @narendramodi on a light note.\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 6, 2017\nEditorial freedom must be used wisely in public interest The freedom to write, does not include the freedom to be 'factually incorrect' Mahatma Gandhi said: \"The press is called the Fourth Estate. It is definitely a power, but, misuse that power is criminal. \": PM Modi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 6, 2017\nEven though media may be owned by private individuals, it serves as a public purpose. As scholars say, it is an instrument to produce reform through peace, rather than by force. So, it has as much social responsiveness as the elected government or the judiciary: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 6, 2017\nToday, every citizen analyzes \u0026 attempts to verify the news. Media, therefore, must make an extra effort to maintain credibility. Healthy competition among credible media platforms is also good for our democracy: PM Modi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 6, 2017\nA lot of the media discourse today revolves around politics. However, India is more than just us politicians It is the 125 crore Indians, which make India what it is. I would be happy to see media focus a lot more, on their stories, and their achievements: PM Modi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 6, 2017\nNatural calamities can occur in the world. Can media take a lead in the battle? Can not say climate change just a little space to report or increase awareness about what we do to combat climate change?"