"Share\n\nCongress \u0026 corruption are inseparable Their leaders are out on bail and they are talking about a check on corruption: PM\n'Mafia' - 'Mining Mafia', 'Forest Mafia', 'Drug Mafia', 'Tender Mafia' \u0026 'Transfer Mafia': PM\nFor Congress, it is never 'Dal Se Bada Desh' For them only their party's interest comes first: PM\nHimachal needs double engine for development One, a BJP led government at Center and other a BJP government in the state: PM\nLong live Mother India. Long live Mother India.\n(These people of the police, remove this curtain or that the second meeting is going on, remove it, brother, there are more people than those who are here, open them, open them, give them some help.\nThe people of Himachal Pradesh and the people of the Council of India in the Government of India, Mr. Jagat Prakash Nadda, popular musicians Mr. Ram Swaroop Sharma, State General Secretary Ram Singh Ji, Mr. Jai Prakashji, Mr. Bhimsen G. and Bharatiya Janata Party's promising candidate from Kullu, Mr. Maheshwar Singh ji, Maheshwar Singh IA My bug Mr. Govind Thakur ji from Manali, Ramlal Markandeya from Lao city, Mr. Surendra Shourie from Barzar, Mr. Jawahar Thakur ji from Daring, Mr. Kishoriji from Anne, Kullu, who has been offered to bless our promising candidates. My dear brothers and sisters\nbrothers Sisters.\nWhat is going to happen on 9th day and what is going to be on the 18th day, after seeing this, there is no need to think. Today the Kulu people have done amazing I used to come to the Dussehra fair, even then many people did not come.\nbrothers Sisters.\nIn such a large amount, wherever I am watching, people are seeing me. In such a big way you came to bless, I congratulate you on your heart, I glorify you.\nbrothers Sisters.\nThese Himachal, its mountains, its bush, its waterfalls had become a part of my life in a way. Had ever used to think, then the power Mahadev used to go. Quiet, secluded, where you feel like doing meditation, such a place. I did not feel like leaving the place. In a way I was reconciled with the life here. When your love and blessings were between you, where did you think that it would have to become a chief minister and you would never have to become a Prime Minister. Perhaps it is the power of your love, the power of your blessing. This earth created me, this earth made me. I have learned a lot from Himachal For this, I can not forget Himachal throughout my life. And as much love as you have given it, that loan is on me. I will pay that loan with interest, I assure you that. I will also do it by developing and squaring. I will change the life here and I will make a mistake. Here are the older generation people, perhaps such a huge public meeting will not have ever been seen on Earth. For the last 20 years, hardly any election will happen, when I have not had the privilege of coming to Himachal. And I have seen the elections, have seen barici. And before ever it seemed that the Bharatiya Janata Party is contesting the elections.\n(If they can open them, then open them, brother, people are getting disturbed, you are far away, you understand your suffering very well, see people also can not see this side, open them, do not worry Power is Mahadev who will protect you, do not worry.)\nbrothers Sisters.\nWhen I used to work in Himachal, came to the polls, as a Chief Minister, he used to campaign in campaigning. But it was always experiencing that Congress is contesting elections, anywhere the Bharatiya Janata Party is contesting elections. Ever felt that the legislator is fighting the election. Never felt that leaders are contesting elections. But this is the election. What i'm feeling These parties are fighting no parties, no candidates are fighting, no leader is fighting. I can say that the people of Himachal Pradesh are fighting elections here. The people have made the mind. And this is not the case that people are only going to vote to win the Bharatiya Janata Party. People will vote in this election but two people want to do the job. An Indian Janata Party government is formed and the other who has loot Himachal, get punishment, get strict punishment from the link. You do not know what is the power in your finger. 9th Constitution of India has given such strength to your finger. You can throw the entire Sultanate by throwing the button and throwing it.\nbrothers Sisters.\nIt is the power of democracy, it is the power of democracy. Therefore, every voter should never underestimate the right to vote. He should use a lot of it. In the interest of Himachal, there should be a strong and strong government by voting in large numbers in the interest of the public Janardhan.\nbrothers Sisters.\nThe government was formed but with very little majority. Become a government and build a heavy majority. There is a big difference between these two. It is not enough to just become a government. This time, Himachal has an opportunity to create a new history. This is the opportunity to make a government in Himachal this time with a three-fourth majority. Do not let go and you will know that when the government is formed by the majority of three quarters then what is the strength of the government to make decisions. What is the power to run the government forward. You tell me Today the whole world is being cheered by Hindustan or not ... Explain with full strength. It is happening that is not happening .... India is also cheering the Jaipur ... India is cheering in Jaipur too ... India is also cheering the hail in Germany ... India is also cheering in Jaipur ... India is cheering in Jaipur too ... Sri Lanka is also happening ...\nbrothers Sisters.\nHindustan was also before. These countries were also the first ones. What is the reason today is the sting of Hindustan in the world. What is the reason today is the sting of Hindustan ... What is the reason .... What is the reason .... What is the reason .... Modi is not the reason. The world is getting cheated in this world, it is not due to Modi. This shouting is happening, the hundred and fifty million are being due to my Hindustani.\nbrothers Sisters.\nAfter thirty years, these thirty years are not short. After thirty years, there is a complete majority in India, a government with a lot of magnanimity. This is the effect of the same. And when people of the world meet Modi, they shake hands and embrace, they do not see Modi, they see hundreds of hundred Hindus. This is power. Do you want Himachal to be stingy? If you say such words then how will you feel. Do you want Himachal's sting? There should be jai cheer in every corner of India .... Himachal's On Ban Shan should spread all over .... Himachal should have cheers all around .... brothers Sisters. If he wants to, then make the Bharatiya Janata Party government with a majority of three-fourths. The entire Hindustan will be going to Himachal-Himachal Pradesh.\nbrothers Sisters.\nAfter all, what is the situation of Congress? What is the question in front of Congress in this election? What is the discussion with regard to Congress in the mind of the common man? There is a ur discussion - corruption, corruption, corruption. You tell me When India was free, then what was the disease? 70 years ago when Mahatma Gandhi was alive, was there corruption in this country? Did people have to lock ... What was left out of the house was also a steal ... These countries did not even have such evils during the period of slavery, even in the British era. The evils that have entered our country today. Who is responsible for these evils .... Who is responsible .... Who is responsible .... Who brought corruption in the country .... Who brought corruption in the country .... Who Caused Corruption? Who brought brother-nephew to .... Who played the game of his career? Who created the poison of casteism .... Who made the fire of communalism .... Who killed the country ... If you do so much then you will do something or not. Will not do that They should be wiped or not .... Should not get punishment or should not get it.\nbrothers Sisters.\nUnresponsive, they feel like this, there is no one to ask. Some Congressmen feel that the above sentence will have to be punished, who has seen it after going up. Forget the Congress, do not waste any time above, for you, for yourself. This Janata Janardhan is the form of God. You'll get the punishment right here. This is where people are going to give\nCongress and corruption Can anyone differentiate them both ... Can anyone separate corruption and Congress ... Tree and root Roots and trees are connected like ... They can not be separated from each other. Who will do .... Tell me who will ... All their leaders are a surety leader. The whole party is on bail. And all the people are roaming around on bail today on charges of corruption. If you are going to bail in serious charges of corruption, how will they be able to talk about removing corruption?\nAnd so if the youth of our country has to make the future, save it. So brothers sisters The country will have to be expelled from the evils of corruption. The 70-year business has delivered him like this. I know how hard it is to fight, how much fighting has to be fought. How many new enemies have to be born every day Because the people who were robbing the country, now it has come to be robbed. And so they look a little worried. Now tell brothers, sisters. This is godland. There should be no place for demonization in this godland .... There should be some place for charity ... Is Mining Mafia This is a demon that is not ... Mining is not that Mafia Monster .... These forest mafia This is the forest mafia demon that is not ... That's not a demon. These transfer mafia This is not the transfer mafia demon that is ... These tender mafia This is a demon that is not ... These drugs mafia. This drug is not a mafia demon that is ... That's not it ....\nbrothers Sisters.\nEver since Kullu Manali used to come to the young man. Adventures used to tourism. But the situation has become such. If a young son is coming to Kullu Manali, then parents say that there are some people doing such things. He worries him. The drugs mafia has left it. You are also familiar with this, I am also familiar. And so until we save the young generation of Himachal, we will not free our Kullu Manali from the drug mafia, then who will work to save our young generation? And now you agree Sometimes people think that when the government is formed then it is for five years. Now, in a span of five years, good government comes, what is the difference between bad government. Take out these five years just like that. It is wrong to think so. Even though the government is five years old but just think The young man whose age is 18 years, 20 years, has been 22 years, 25 years have passed. Ready to read. Five years are worth to him. When he is 25 years old, he will be 27 years old. It is 20 to 25, 22 to 27 years old, when he has to make all the decisions in life. The direction of whole life is fixed at the same time. And at the same time, if there is a dictatorial government, then the whole life of that young man is destroyed.\nAnd so the brothers sisters\nThe question is not of five years. The question is about the whole life of my young people. And so when we choose a government, we have no right to make a mistake at once. This is a habit in Himachal, once it, once he Five years, five years, five years, five years, he Once, break this vicious cycle and make the Bharatiya Janata Party's government for a long time and then see where we reach Himachal.\nAnd so the brothers sisters\nWe have to move forward on the issue of development. You must have heard. The Congress party is not worried about the election of Himachal Pradesh. What is the Congress Party in Himachal? What does the promotion somewhere ... What is the vote? Her leader asks votes ... Closed all the shops and went home. The candidate, he is thinking, keep the money that has come from the party, keep it, the future is going to work, it is not ready to spend. They have come to know, the people of Himachal know that the Congress Party has gone. The Congress party also knows that there is no escape. No leader comes to them. The ground is completely empty. What else are you doing Elections are going on one side. I have heard that the Congress party is going to burn Modi's effigies across the country on 8th of November. On November 8th. Why Why is Bhai on 8th November? Election on 9th November is in Himachal. Do a lot but do not. Modi's effigy will be burnt.\nbrothers Sisters.\nThis November 8 has kept them sleepy. This is the same on 8th November, on the day it was said, Rs 500 and Rs 1000 rupees were noticed at 12 o'clock. Please tell me that when the notes of 500 and 1000 rupees were noticed then your note was not known. You did not even go that ... You did not even go that ... You had a little problem too. You forgot Modi or did not do it .... You thought Modi worked courageously. You had problems too, but you do not have any complaint with Modi now. It's been a year. Their anger is still not cold. Because the sacks of their sacks were filled, they have gone. The full garage had a garage, a heap of notes. Now tell me. Will he leave Modi ... Whichever life he took, he was robbed. And Modi fired with a bang. They will have trouble or not ... If you do not burn the effigy, then what will you do? The effigy will foil. Why is it so angry now, I know. Because they have come to know what Modi is going to do next. I have said that Anonymous property. These big men have kept the land in the name of their driver. अपने रसोइये के नाम पर, खाना पकाने वालों के नाम पर फ्लैट लेकर रखे हैं। दूसरे के नाम पर गाड़ियां लेकर रखी हुई हैं। घर में काम वालों के नाम पर बंगलों लेकर रखा है। सारी बेनामी संपत्ति। अब मोदी उसके पीछे पड़ा है। उनको पता चल गया है कि मोदी ने सूची बनाना शुरू कर दिया है। आप मुझे बताइए। ये बेईमानी से जमा किया है वो निकलवाना चाहिए कि नहीं निकलवाना चाहिए ...। जरा पूरी ताकत से बताइए। निकालना चाहिए कि नहीं निकालना चाहिए ...। देश को लूटने वालों से पैसा देश को वापस मिलना चाहिए कि नहीं मिलना चाहिए ...। पाई-पाई का हिसाब चुकता होना चाहिए कि नहीं होना चाहिए ...। ये काम करते रहना चाहिए कि नहीं रहना चाहिए। और हिम्मत से आगे बढ़ना चाहिए कि नहीं बढ़ना चाहिए ...। बेईमानों को सजा देनी चाहिए कि नहीं देनी चाहिए ...।\nभाइयों बहनों।\nये आपके आशीर्वाद की ताकत है। कि मैं कठोर फैसले ले रहा हूं। हिम्मत के साथ फैसले ले रहा हूं। देश को लूटने वालों को अपनी जगह दिखा रहा हूं। और इसलिए कांग्रेस पार्टी के लोग, ये मोदी को डराने का खेल बंद करो। हम सच के सामने शाष्टांग दंडवत करना जानते हैं लेकिन झूठ के सामने झुकना हमें मंजूर नहीं।\nभाइयों बहनों।\nये नोटबंदी। ये बात पहली बार नहीं आई। जब इंदिरा गांधी प्रधानमंत्री थी। तब तो 500 और 1000 की नोट भी नहीं थी। सौ रुपए की नोट हुआ करती थी। वोसौ रुपए की नोट बंद करने के लिए इंदिरा जी के जमाने में एक कमेटी ने रिपोर्ट की थी। उस समय के उनके साथी मंत्री यशवंत राव चव्हाण बड़े उत्साह और उमंग के साथ वो रिपोर्ट लेकरके इंदिरा गांधी के पास लेकर गए थे। कि देश का भला करना है तो ये सौ रुपए की नोट को रद्द करना बहुत जरूरी है। और ये रिपोर्ट है। उस समय ये हाल हो गया था। सौ रुपए के नोट को बंद करने की जरूरत हो गई थी। यशवंत राव चव्हाण को इंदिरा जी ने देखा। पल दो पल उनको देखती रही। यशवंत राव चव्हाण सोचते रहे कि मैडम बोलती क्यों नहीं है। जरा उनके सामने देखते रहे। थोड़ी देर के बाद, मैडम ने पूछा कि क्यों चव्हाण साहब। हमें कांग्रेस पर ताले लगा देने हैं क्या ...।  क्या हमें चुनाव नहीं लड़ना है क्या ...। क्या हमें भविष्य में चुनाव हार जाना है क्या ...। अगर कांग्रेस पार्टी को जिंदा रखना है, चुनाव जीतना है तो नोटबंदी की बातें लेकर मेरे पास मत आया करो। जाइए उसको ठंडे बस्ते में डाल दो। इंदिरा जी ने यशवंत राव चव्हाण को नोटबंदी करने के विचार को मना कर दिया था।\nभाइयों बहनों।\nउस समय इंदिरा जी ने कांग्रेस के बजाय हिन्दुस्तान की चिंता की होती। दल से बड़ा देश हमारा होता। अगर उस समय नोटें कम थी। सौ रुपए से ज्यादा कीमत नहीं थी। उस समय ये सफाई कर दी होती तो मोदी को आकरके इतना बड़ा काम करने की जरूरत नहीं थी। आपने नहीं किया जो करने की जरूरत थी। मुझे करना पड़ा। इसका परिणाम क्या आया। आप हैरान हो जाओगे सुनकरके। तीन लाख कंपनियां। तीन लाख आंकड़ा बहुत बड़ा होता है। अगर कुल्लू में एक कंपनी पर ताला लग जाए तो हफ्ते भर अखबार का पहला पेज उसी की चर्चा करता है। अखबार भरे के भरे होते कि मोदी के राज में कुल्लू में एक कंपनी बंद हो गई। 24 घंटे टीवी चैनल पर डिबेट चलता कि कुल्लू में एक कंपनी बंद हो गई।\nभाइयों बहनों।\nनोटबंदी के बाद, बैंकों में पैसा जमा हुआ। जिन्होंने जमा किया उनको लगा कि शाबास जमा हो गया चलो अब चैन से सो जाए। उनको पता नहीं था कि मोदी ने ऐसी पूछ लगाकरके रखी थी कि कौन आया, किसने रखा। सब पकड़ में आ गया। सब डिब्बे में आ गए। तीन लाख कंपनियां। देशवासियों तीन लाख कंपनियां, ये आंकड़े छोटा नहीं है। ये सारे इस कारनामे में लगे हुए पाए गए। और मोदी सरकार ने 3 लाख कंपनियों पर ताले लगा दिए। और किसी की आंख से आंसू नहीं निकल रहा है। और किसी अखबार की सुर्खियों में नहीं छप रहा है। 24 घंटे की टीवी रिपोर्ट में इसकी चर्चा नहीं हो रही है। कोई उनके लिए रो नहीं रहा है। कोई छाती नहीं पीट रहा है। 3 लाख कंपनियां बंद हो जाए। और कैसी-कैसी कंपनियां। एक कंपनी ऐसी जिसके ऑफिस में तीन कुर्सी और एक टेबल की जगह है। इतनी छोटी कंपनी। तीन लोग बैठ सके, इतनी जगह है। लेकिन उस कंपनी के बैंकों में 2 हजार एक सौ खाते हैं। दो हजार एक सौ एकाउंट वाली कंपनी, छोटे से कमरे में। इधर से लेना, देना, देना, देना, फिर छू। ये सब पकड़ा। तीन लाख कंपनियों में उनका जो कारोबार था, उसकी जांच चल रही है। बहुत बड़े इस विषय के जानकार उसमें लगे हुए हैं। अभी तक 5 हजार कंपनियों की बारीकी से जांच की गई। तीन लाख में से 5 हजार। 5 हजार कंपनियों में 4 हजार करोड़ रुपए का घपला पाया गया। बताइए 5 हजार कंपनियों में 4 हजार करोड़ रुपए का घपला पाया गया। जिस दिन 3 लाख कंपनियों का खाता खुलेगा तो क्या कुछ नहीं निकलेगा। इसका आप अंदाज कर सकते हैं। क्या ये बेईमानी चलने दूं क्या ...। चलने दूं क्या ...। ये जो पाप चल रहा है वो चलने दूं क्या ...। आपने इस काम के लिए मुझे बिठाया है क्या ...। आपने मुझे जिस काम के लिए बिठाया है उसको करूं या ना करूं ...। आपने जो काम मुझे दिया है उसको मुझे करना चाहिए कि नहीं करना चाहिए ...। स्वच्छता अभियान चला रहा हूं। आप गली मोहल्ले की सफाई कर रहे हैं। मैं इन लुटेरों की सफाई कर रहा हूं।\nBrothers sisters\nएक तरफ देश को बुराइयों से बाहर निकालना है और दूसरी तरफ देश को विकास की नई ऊंचाईयों की ओर ले जाना है।\nभाइयों बहनों।\nटूरिज्म। कितनी संभावनाएं हैं। अगर हिमाचल को अच्छे रोड मिल जाएं, रेल कनेक्टिविटी मिल जाए, एयर कनेक्टिविटी मिल जाए। मुझे बताइए कौन हिन्दुस्तानी होगा जिसे हफ्ते दस दिन रहने का मन न कर जाए। कौन होगा दोस्तों। इसलिए हमारी सरकार हिमाचल में इंफ्रास्ट्रक्चर बनाने में लगी हुई है। टूरिज्म को बढ़ावा देने में लगी हुई है।\nभाइयों बहनों।\nकांग्रेस पार्टी के चरित्र की तीन बातें हैं। आप उनकी पूरी सरकार को इन तीन चीजों में आसानी से देख सकते हैं। जब भी विकास आए तो कांग्रेस ये तीन चीजें करके ही रहेगी। ये कांग्रेस के स्वभाव में है। पहले अटकाना, फिर लटकाना और तीसरा भटकाना। ये कांग्रेस का चरित्र है। विकास को या तो अटकाना, नहीं अटका पाए तो लटकाना, अटकाना लटकाना नहीं हुआ तो भटकाना। आप मुझे बताइए। अटल जी ने रोहतांग पास की टनल का निर्णय किया था। उस समय मनाली में था। अटल जी के साथ मैं यहां आया था। मैं यहां मनाली बहुत बार आता था। तब हिमाचल में मेरा क्षेत्र था। मैं भी जरा हवा में तैरना सीखता था यहां। एक रौशन करके था, वो मुझे सीखाता था। उस समय अटल जी के समय के साथ यहां आया था, तब निर्णय किया था। आज 17 साल हो गए, उस बात को। अटलजी ने शिलान्यास किया था। ये कांग्रेस का अटकाना, लटकाना का ही एक नमूना है। अब जाकरके हमारी सरकार बनने के बाद, तीन साल में ये काम इतनी तेजी से चला कि दोनों छोर से खोदते-खोदते हम इकट्ठे हो गए। और पूरी टनल खुल गई। थोड़े ही दिन मे काम पूरा हो जाएगा।\nभाइयों बहनों।\nआप अगर मुझे निमंत्रित करोगे तो मैं उसका उद्घाटन के लिए जरूर आऊंगा। अटल जी ने जिस काम का प्रारंभ किया, उसके लिए उद्घाटन के लिए आना, ये कितने आन बान शान की बात हो सकती है। और उसके कारण देश की सुरक्षा को, हिमाचल के टूरिज्म को कितना बड़ा फायदा हो सकता है। इसका कोई अंदाज नहीं कर सकता है कोई। ये काम अटल जी ने शुरू कराई। लेकिन बाद में ऐसी सरकार आई कि अटका, लटका और भटका। फिर हमने आकरके उसको ठिकाने पर लगाया। और काम पूरा किया।\nभाइयों बहनों।\nटूरिज्म। कम से कम खर्च करके अधिकतम लोगों को रोजगार देने वाला काम है। जब टूरिज्म बढ़ता है तो टैक्सी वाला कमाता है, गेस्ट हाउस वाला कमाता है, खिलौने बेचने वाला कमाता है, ऊनी शॉल बेचने वाला, मफलर बेचने वाला कमाएगा, बिस्कुट बेचने वाला कमाएगा। माता जी के दरबार में खड़े फूल बेचने वाला भी कमाएगा। अरे चाय बेचने वाला भी कमाएगा।\nऔर इसलिए भाइयों बहनों।\nहिमाचल आज हिन्दुस्तान का टूरिज्म डेस्टिनेशन का सबसे बड़ा अवसर है। यहां एडवेंचर टूरिज्म का अवसर है। यहां पर स्पोर्ट्स टूरिज्म का अवसर है। यहां पर इको टूरिज्म का अवसर है। यहां मन को प्रसन्नता करने के लिए बहुत बड़ा अवसर है। प्रकृति को प्रेम करने वाले के लिए बहुत अवसर है। और इसलिए भारतीय जनता पार्टी हमारी हिमाचल की सरकार और दिल्ली में भारतीय जनता पार्टी की सरकार, हम टूरिज्म को बढ़ावा देना चाहते थे।\nभाइयों बहनों।\nमुझे मालूम नहीं आजकल बिजली महादेव जाना है तो कितनी सुविधा है। लेकिन जब मैं जाता था कि मेरा दम उखड़ जाता था।  इतनी तकलीफ से वहां पहुंचता था। रास्ते वास्ते कुछ नहीं था। लेकिन ऐसी जगह अगर डवलप कर दी जाए तो कितनी सुविधा बन सकती है। और इसलिए, मैं आज इसी बात को लेकरके आग्रह करने आया हूं।\nमेरे भाइयों बहनों।\nआओ। विकास की राह पर तेज गति से जाने के लिए डबल इंजन लगाइए। एक इंजन दिल्ली में मोदी सरकार और दूसरा इंजन हिमाचल की धूमल सरकार। दो इंजन लग जाए। दो इंजन लग जाए। आप देखिए हिमाचल किस तेजी से आगे बढ़ता है। मेरा आपसे आग्रह है कि 9 तारीख को भारी मतदान कीजिए। कांग्रेस पार्टी को ऐसी सजा दीजिए ताकि हिन्दुस्तान के और भागों में भी लोगों को पता चले कि देश की जनता पाप को स्वीकार नहीं करेगी, भ्रष्टाचार को स्वीकार नहीं करेगी, बेईमानी को स्वीकार नहीं करेगी। और हर राजनीतिक दल को भी एक  संदेश दे देगी। ऐसा चुनाव का नतीजा हिमाचल की जनता दे। इसी अपेक्षा के साथ। दोनों हाथ उठाकर मुट्ठी बंद करके मेरे साथ बोलिए। Long live Mother India. भारत की जय। भारत की जय। Thanks a lot."