"\nCorruption is the only identity of Congress party: PM Modi\nPeople of Himachal Pradesh have decided to teach a lesson to those who have cheated them: PM\nWelfare of people has never been a priority for the Congress party: PM\nCongress is using all possible means to blame us but our fight against black money \u0026 corruption continues: PM\nLong live Mother India. Long live Mother India. Long live Mother India. Former senior Chief Minister of Himachal Pradesh, our senior leader of the Bharatiya Janata Party, and its MP, Mr. Shanta Kumar, the MP of the Council of Ministers, at the center of the Council of Ministers of my Council of Ministers, Mr. Thavarchand G. Gehlot, the General Secretary of the State Pawan Rana, District President Bhai Vinay Sharma, Mr. Rakesh Sharma, Mr. Trilok Kapoor, Mr. Himanshu Mishra, Former MLA Mr. Duloram ji, Mr. Umesh Dutt ji, Ghanshyam Sharma ji, Sanjeev Soni ji, Mahendra Gadhwal, Mr. Karan Jamwal, Mr. Surendra Thakur ji, Mr. Arvind Sharma ji, the promising candidate of Bharatiya Janata Party Yogendra Nagar From Mr. Gulab Singh Ji, Ms. Indu Goswami Ji from Palampur, Mr. Ravi Dhiman Ji from Jaysinghpur, brother Vipin Parmar Ji from Shula, Baijnath Mulkaraj boyfriend live and we arrived to brief blessing, came from Palampur My dear brothers and sisters. Shantin In such a large number you have come to bless today.\nbrothers Sisters.\nThis land belongs to Bhole Baba Baidyanath, mother of Chamunda, mother of Himani Chamunda, this Ashapoori mother, this fortress, is the land of the heroes who sacrifice for the country. And since I have come in contact with Himachal. I have always seen The way Shimla is a center of economic activity of Himachal. Palampur is also an important center of economic activity in a manner.\nbrothers Sisters.\nWe have seen so many elections but who are not elected who become the legislator, this is not being fought for this limited purpose. This election is not being fought by the limited purpose of who becomes the Chief Minister. This election is not being formed whose government has not become a government, this limited goal is not being done. These elections are happening to determine the fate and grandeur of Himachal. Some people think that someone comes for five years and what happens if someone else comes. You do not have an idea, it makes a lot of difference. Umar, who has been twenty-eight years old, and has come to a nimble government for five years. For the 18th generation of twenty years, five years are important for him, when all the decisions of his life are to be taken. At the same time, if there is a vacant government You tell me The elections will be for five years, the government will be for five years. The future of that young man will be the one to make the whole life quadruple.\nSo my brothers sisters\nThe question is not of five years. The question is the lives of the people of Himachal, the future of the people of Himachal is done. The fate of the young people of Himachal is. So when a good government lives, everyone remembers. There was a work in his time, it was good. When a bad government comes in, it also spoils the things that are made. And we are the people of the Bharatiya Janata Party, we have become habituated to taking hard work ahead of habit. It is a habit of running the government, living by the light of others. What was the reason for Varna that Shanta Kumar, who became the first Chief Minister of the Bharatiya Janata Party? What was the reason that did not spend life comfortably? Not as fun as the Chief Minister He pioneered, I will bring people drinking water. The people of the mountains can not know, the people of the mountain can know, how to put water pipes on the mountains, pour water pipelines, how difficult it is to work. The work was difficult, the money was too expensive. The water pipeline of the water pipeline was also not to be printed but there was a change in the life of the mothers of Himachal sisters, there was a change in the lives of millions of families here. Therefore, Shanta ji gave full strength to water. And I remember. We were small, lived in Gujarat. There were news in the newspapers in Gujarat at that time, then at that time, news about Bhagiratha's work of sending water to Himachal was printed. Varna Shantaji too, the age was small, Saraswati sits on her tongue. Instead of doing such austerity, they could find an easy way, looted applause.\nbrothers Sisters.\nHimachal made Dhumalji's government. On one hand, there was a threat to tourism due to the terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir. There was a vision of Dhumal ji. Atal ji's government was in Delhi. And the tourism of India goes somewhere else, made a successful effort to bring him to Himachal. At that time, the Tourist Destination of Hindustan was the first to get Himachal first. Dhumal came again. Himachal's fortune is to change. So the young people here will get good education. Then, going to any corner of India, Mother Bharti will be able to serve. He stressed on education.\nbrothers Sisters.\nWhen the Bharatiya Janata Party got the opportunity to work here If you remember Shanta Kumar then you will remember him as a watery government. Remember the water as the chief minister. Remember to be the Chief of the day working hard for development. If Dhumal ji remembers the government, you will remember to bring Hindustan across India to Himachal to promote tourism. Remember to be educated. How do you remember the Congress governments ... How to remember .... What are the chief ministers of the Congress recognized by .... Just plainly tell it. What is their identity .... What was the identity of every government ... What is the reason that why all the ministers of Congress seem to be stained with corruption? They think that they have come for five years, get as much as you can. Take it from here, take it from there. Now I do not understand who will deposit it for whom, whose work is going to come. And if someone thinks that justice is going to be done in God's court. This is democracy. These judgments are the Janata Janardhana God. And justice is going to be done in public court. Those who have looted Himachal, who have robbed the country. Those people who have sinned to get their blessings, the punishment for them is to give public public awareness.\nbrothers Sisters.\nOur country has been 70 years of independence. You will be surprised. Even after the 70 years of independence, there are 14 thousand families in Himachal, whose home is coil, there is no light of electricity. Their home is not bright. Even today, these families are forced to live in the eighteenth century. Even today, the burning of the soil gives its life. And in our country the total family is 25 crores. Out of this there are four crore families, who do not have electric light, there is no electricity line. Should I get electricity from poor or poor families after getting 70 years of independence? Just tell it with full strength. Must get or not get ... My poor family should not get the power facility .... Do not want electricity for their children, education. Do they even want to watch TV in the house if electricity should be given or not? If they have to charge the telephone then they should get the electricity or should not get it. Electricity is not luxury in the 21st century. Just as human beings need water in the same way, electricity is needed as well. Electricity is also required for industrial business, development. The tourist will come, will book a room in a great hotel, but if the electricity goes down then why the tourist will come again.\nBut brothers sisters.\nThe misfortune of our country is The concern of common man is not in the nature of the Congress governments. We have pioneered. Through the Prime Minister Good Luck Scheme, all 14 thousand families of Himachal Pradesh will be provided free electricity connections. What was the first rule? If you have to take electricity connection, and your house is at the edge. The last pillar is 200 meters, then the government used to say. You have to take electricity from your house, from that pillar to the pillar, you have to put so many pillars, you have to put such a wire, you will also have to pay the cost. Now tell me sir. Will a poor 200 meter wire cost me? The poor would like to spend only in the dark in life, he can not afford the pillars and strings. we decide. These expenses will not be made public now. The government will be given the treasure. Will be transported to his house. And the electricity connection will be given for free. Their children will read Will come forward by reading Brothers will be working to change the fate of the country. And so you tell me.\nThe poor of our country should also have their own house to live or not .... The poor should also have their own house or not .... The middle class family also hired. He also wants to have his own house. The poor stole the belly and deposits the money. And if he deposits money, he thinks that after a few years he will make a house and then make a house.\nBut brothers sisters.\nEven today there are millions of families in our country who do not have their own house to live in. We have pioneered. And I want you all to be blessed Brothers sisters We will be 2022, 75 years of independence, then every family in India wants to make it their home. In our country there is a loan from the bank in the house. But if any previous government has to take loan from the middle class, if there is a house to build, then there was no arrangement for giving concession in the loan. There was no congestion arrangement. After the ban on the ban, we decided that if the middle family wants to build a house then it will get a loan from the bank with cheap interest so that he can build a house and save the lives of the children.\nbrothers Sisters.\nToday the middle class family in India is growing, its number is increasing. Neo middle class is emerging in the country. The middle class family is more than her estertion. If he has a bicycle in his house then he thinks he's got a scooter. He's a scooter then he thinks he's got a car. If there is a house of three rooms, then he thinks that make the house of four rooms. The middle class family is going to speed up the development journey of the country. Being honest is to lead a life. Every law is to obey the rule. People are obsessed with shame. If the government does not care for such middle-class families, if they leave them on their luck, then who will push the country forward, who will change the fate of the country?\nAnd so the brothers sisters\nHow do we reduce the burden of middle-class families? The middle class family never asks for something free from anyone. He demands his rights, demands hard work. She needs an opportunity. We are bringing one plans after another. We have launched the LED bulb campaign. And what is the advantage of LED bulb? If you put the LED bulb from the previous bulb, then light comes slightly more, the light is a little better. If you apply five lattu, then work with three lattu, it is very bright. If the electricity bill comes from the other normal lotus, there is a small family, then the bill of two hundred and fifty rupees is reduced. Avoiding two hundred and fifty rupees in the middle class family's electricity bill is a huge service. When it was the first government, I do not know how used to be exploiters, how they used to be in collusion. LED light, LED bulb was. His price came in the old government three hundred rupees, three and a half hundred rupees before our arrival. A middle-class man was not ready to remove his new outfit because no one would bring three hundred and three hundred rupees. We saw him from Baricia. We said, why is brother so dear? Started licking the legs, started consuming the mind and my family's sisters sisters. Which was found in three hundred and three hundred rupees in the era of Congress, today it has started getting forty fifty rupees. If one family takes four lots, then one thousand rupees is saved. How much help is avoided to save a thousand rupees in the middle class family. And due to lower power consumption, due to lower electricity bills, the cost of LED bulb has been less than 60 to 70 thousand crores of rupees in this country. 60-70 thousand crores worth of being wasted, some people stopping from going to the pocket.\nbrothers Sisters.\nThere can be no work without any attack. We have shown it. In power generation, if there were to generate such electricity then at least 40 thousand crores would have been invested in the electricity factory, they were saved. Electricity savings came to power. Electricity started in the poor house.\nbrothers Sisters.\nWe are walking about the mantra of development. But the Congress party is in trouble. I have heard The Congress party is going to mourn a week in the coming days. Is natural Apart from mourning, there is nothing left. He is going to burn Modi's statue throughout the country. Modi is about to remove the meaning. Candles are going to burn. I can understand the pain of my Congress brothers. It is a matter of regret that one tea became the Prime Minister. A poor mother's son reached here. They feel that this is my reservation, so far no one can come. They do not know, they are the people of Hindustan. This is the public, the public knows everything.\nAnd brothers sisters\nModi came but did not sit in peace. Something keeps doing something new They think that if Modi does not stop or if not, maybe it will be hard for somebody to live before anyone of the Congress people, the corrupt people of the thieves, who steal the money of the people before the election of 2019 elections. They are afraid of them. That's why they created the atmosphere. मोदी को कहीं से भी टोकते रहो, दबाव पैदा करते रहो। अब वो कह रहे हैं 8 नवंबर। याद है ना। पिछले साल 8 नवंबर रात को 12 बजे। पांच सौ की नोट गई, हजार की नोट गई। आपकी भी गई थी ना भाई। आपके भी पांच सौ और हजार की नोट गई कि नहीं गई ...। आपको मोदी पर गुस्सा है क्या ...। मोदी पर गुस्सा है क्या ...। आप मोदी से नाराज हो क्या ...। आप मोदी का पुतला जला रहे हो क्या ...। इसलिए नहीं जला रहे हो क्योंकि आपके पास जो पांच सौ और हजार की नोट थी, वो आपके पसीने की कमाई की नोट थी। और बैंक में जाकरके सीना तानकरके आपने अपना काम पूरा किया। जिनके पास बोरे के बोरे भरकर पड़े थे, बक्से के बक्से भरे पड़े थे, दराज में नोटें पड़ी थी। हिसाब किताब नहीं था। अब उनको बैंकों में जमा कराना पड़ा। और अब हिसाब देना पड़ रहा है तो मोदी को गाली देंगे कि नहीं देंगे ...। मोदी का पुतला जलाएंगे कि नहीं जलाएंगे ...। मोदी की हाय-हाय बोलेंगे कि नहीं बोलेंगे ...। लेकिन जिन्होंने बेईमानी की है, वो कान खोलकर सुन लो। पुतले जलाने से मोदी डरता नहीं है। लेकिन भ्रष्टाचार की जिस लड़ाई को मैंने छेड़ा है और देश के कोटि कोटि जनों ने आशीर्वाद दिया है। ये लड़ाई अब रूकने वाली नहीं है। आप मुझे बताइए। जिन्होंने देश को लूटा है, वो देश को लौटाना चाहिए कि नहीं लौटाना चाहिए ...। पाई-पाई का हिसाब देना चाहिए कि नहीं देना चाहिए ...। ये जनता के हक का है या नहीं है ...।\nभाइयों बहनों।\nजो आप चाहते हैं, वो काम मैं कर रहा हूं। इसके लिए मुझे आशीर्वाद चाहिए। उत्तर प्रदेश के लोगों ने हम पर जो आशीर्वाद बरसाए हैं। इसके कारण इनके हौसले पस्त हो गए हैं। वो डर रहे हैं। उनको लगता था कि 2019 में दिखा देंगे हमारी ताकत। लेकिन अब उनको लगा, ये जो उत्तर प्रदेश ने इतनी बड़ी ताकत दिखाई है शायद 2024 में भी मोदी से निपटना मुश्किल हो जाएगा। और इसलिए अब उनके पास पुतले जलाने के अलावा कोई चारा नहीं बचा है। मैं आपको बताना चाहता हूं कि अब देश को लुटने नहीं दिया जाएगा। हम एक के बाद एक फैसले कर रहे हैं। हम ऐसी व्यवस्था खड़ी कर रहे हैं। अब देखिए, आधार कार्ड से, जन धन एकाउंट से, अगर मनरेगा में काम करता है कोई मजदूर, उसके बैंक में पैसे जमा हो रहे हैं। बिचौलिए सारे खत्म हो गए। उसके हक का पैसा उसको मिलने लगा है। इसलिए उनकी परेशानी होना स्वभाविक था। हमारा किसान। मैं जब मुख्यमंत्री था तो मैं भी भारत सरकार को चिट्ठी लिखता था कि हमारे किसान को यूरिया चाहिए, यूरिया चाहिए। और भारत सरकार कोई जवाब ही नहीं देती थी। हमारे देश में यूरिया लेने के लिए किसानों को रात-रात कतार में खड़ा रहना पड़ता था। कुछ राज्यों में यूरिया लेने वाले आने वाली किसानों की भीड़ पर पुलिस को लाठी चार्ज करना पड़ता था। एकाध बार तो गोली भी चली थी। फिर भी किसानों को जितना चाहिए था, उतना नहीं मिलता था।\nभाइयों बहनों।\nहमने आकरके रातोंरात, कोई यूरिया के कोई कारखाने नहीं लगते हैं। लेकिन जो बेईमानी चलती थी, हमने उसको रोक दिया। आज 20 लाख टन यूरिया अतिरिक्त तैयार होने लगा उसी कारखानों में। Not only this. हमने यूरिया का नीम कोटिंग किया। पहले यूरिया किसान के नाम पर निकलता था, सब्सिडी किसान के नाम कटती थी। लेकिन जाता कहां था, केमिकल फैक्टरियों में चला जाता था। और किसान के नाम पर लूट चलाई जाती थी। और दिल्ली सरकार के खजाने से ये सिर्फ मिलीभगत चलती थी। हमने नीम कोटिंग करने के बाद एक ग्राम यूरिया भी किसान के सिवाय किसी के काम नहीं आता है। चोरी गई कि नहीं गई ...। बेईमानी गई कि नहीं गई ...। किसानों की मुसीबत गई कि नहीं गई ...। आज किसान को जब चाहे, जितना चाहे यूरिया मिलता है। नीम कोटिंग के कारण उसको अतिरिक्त लाभ भी मिल रहा है।\nभाइयों बहनों।\nपैदावार बढ़ रही है। जमीन की सेहत ठीक हो रही है। इस काम पर हम लगे है। ये पालमपुर वीरों की भी धरती है, वैज्ञानिकों की भी धरती है। भारत सरकार की तरफ से इतने वैज्ञानिक, दो हजार से ज्यादा वैज्ञानिक, इसी एक क्षेत्र में किसानों के लिए अनेक प्रकार के प्रयोग कर रहे हैं, शोध कर रहे हैं। हम भी चाहते हैं कि आधुनिक टेक्नोलॉजी का प्रयोग करते हुए हमारे किसानों को सर्वाधिक लाभ मिले।\nभाइयों बहनों।\nहमने प्रधानमंत्री कृषि योजना पर बल दिया। प्रधानमंत्री फसल बीमा योजना पर बल दिया है। जिसके द्वारा हमारे किसानों को लाभ मिले, हमारे किसानों को फायदा मिले। हमारे किसान की जिंदगी में कोई मुसीबत आ जाए। तो प्रधानमंत्री फसल बीमा योजना से उसकी साल बर्बाद होने से बच जाए। ऐसे हमने कदम उठाए हैं। अभी हमने एक निर्णय किया। अभी आपने देखा होगा टीवी में। दो दिन दिल्ली में दुनियाभर के लोगों को बुलाया था। वर्ल्ड फूड इंडिया नाम का इवेंट किया। हमारे किसान जो पैदा करते हैं, उसकी मूल्य वृद्धि हो, हमारे फलों काबर्बादी से बचाकरके उसकी मूल्य वृद्धि हो। उसका पैकेजिंग हो, दुनिया के बाजार में जाएं। दुनियाभर की टेक्नोलॉजी को लाए। 65-70 हजार करोड़ रुपए का पूंजी निवेश, किसानों की संपदा पर काम करने वाला दुनियाभर से आएं। हमने एक और नियम बनाया। जो कोका कोला बेचते हैं, पेप्सी बेचते हैं, फेंटा बेचते हैं, ये जितनी बोतलों में पानी बेचते हैं। हमने कहा, नियम से आपको उसमें 5 प्रतिशत फलों का रस मिलाना होगा। अगर फलों का रस मिलाएंगे तो हिमाचल के मेरे किसान जो फल पैदा करते हैं, उसका रस बोतलों में मिक्स होगा। हमारे हिमाचल के किसानों को फल बेचने के लिए भटकना नहीं पड़ेगा। ये बड़ी-बड़ी कंपनियां आपके फल खेतों में से लेने के कतार में लगकर खड़े हो जाएंगे। ये काम हमने किया है।\nभाइयों बहनों।\nहमें हिमाचल को विकास की नई ऊंचाइयों पर लेकर जाना है। और इसके लिए हमें आपका आशीर्वाद चाहिए। और ये निश्चित है, हिमाचल में भारतीय जनता पार्टी की सरकार बनना तय है। 18 तारीख को हिमाचल फिर एक बार दिवाली मनाने वाला है, ये बिल्कुल दीवार पर लिखा हुआ है। भाइयों बहनों। मुद्दा ये नहीं है कि सिर्फ बीजेपी की सरकार बने। मुद्दा ये है कि देश को पता चलना चाहिए कि हिमाचल की देव भूमि से कांग्रेस पार्टी को जड़ से उखाड़कर फेंक दिया गया है। अब कांग्रेस बच नहीं सकती। कांग्रेस का कोई भविष्य नहीं हो सकता है। और भाइयों बहनों। इसी बात को लेकरके 9 तारीख को भारी मात्रा में मतदान हो। मैं खासकरके इस कांगड़ा लोकक्षेत्र की माताओं बहनों से विशेष आग्रह करता हूं कि इस बार पुरुषों से ज्यादा मतदान माताओं बहनों का होना चाहिए, महिलाओं का मतदान बढ़ना चाहिए। पूरे हिन्दुस्तान को सबक मिलना चाहिए। वो सिर्फ वीर पुत्रों को जन्म देती है, ऐसा नहीं। वो मजबूत सरकार बनाने का भी काम करती है। वो देश को भव्य और दिव्य बनाने का काम करती है। वो हिमाचल के भाग्य को बदलने के लिए काम करती है। मैं ऐसे सभी लोगों को भारी मात्रा में मतदान करने के लिए निमंत्रित करता हूं। हम सब का मंतव्य रहना चाहिए, संकल्प रहना चाहिए, पहले मतदान फिर जलपान। घर में तब तक जलपान नहीं करेंगे, जब तक मतदान करके नहीं आएंगे। सुबह से ही भारी मात्रा में मतदान हो। और हिमाचल भव्य बने, हिमाचल दिव्य बने, हिमाचल की जनता जनार्धन का भाग्य बदले। इसके लिए भारत जनता पार्टी के कमल निशान पर बटन दबाएं। भारतीय जनता पार्टी को विजयी बनाएं। मेरे साथ पूरी ताकत से बोलिए। Long live Mother India. Long live Mother India. Long live Mother India. Thanks a lot."