"Share\n\nIndia has Walked the Talk; Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been named as one of the top reformers.\nWith GST, we are moving toward a modern tax regime, which is transparent, stable and predictable: PM\nWe are specially interested in developing India on a knowledge based, skill supported and technology driven society: PM Modi\nOur mantra is reform, perform and transform. We want to do better and better: PM Modi\nMiss Kristalina Georgieva,\nMy Colleagues in the Council of Ministers,\nSenior Officials, Business Leaders,\nLadies and Gentlemen!\nToday, it is the holy occasion of Guru Parab. The holy remembrance of Guru Nanak Dev Ji inspires us to lead a life full of truth, leading a life full of commitment towards the truth and integrity of the country. After two years, the whole human being is going to get the opportunity to celebrate the 550th Prakash Parv (birth anniversary) of Guru Nanak Dev Ji. I like my best wishes for you\nI am very happy to be here today. I sense a well-deserved mood of celebration here The World Bank has recognized the successful work done by doing business. We are now the top ranking in the rankings. In a short time\nI thank Ms. Kristalina Georgieva for being with us on this joyous occasion. It shows World Bank's commitment to encourage nations to undertake reforms. Her presence today will motivate our team\nOver the last three years, I have been constantly telling the domestic and foreign investor community that we are making efforts to improve our business.\nAnd Friends! India has Walked the Talk\nThis year, India's jump in ranking is the highest. India has been identified as one of the top reformers Congratulations to all You have done the country proud\nThis improvement is important:\n• Because it is an indicator of Good Governance in the Country;\n• Because it is a measure of the quality of our public policies;\n• Because it is a benchmark of transparency of processes;\n• Because, ease of doing business, also leads to ease of life;\n• And, ultimately, it reflects the way people live, work and transact in a society.\nFriends!\nBut all is related to stakeholders For me, the World Bank report shows that the commitment and hard work. Continuous efforts\nAnd even if you are aware that I do not have any other work. And that is why, in future, I see potential work in this thing too My country, 1.25 billion people of my country and in order to bring about some changes in their lives; and that is why I'd like to assure you that I will not fall short in fulfilling those expectations that this world is expected of me\nI say this because, India has reached a position from where, now it is easy to improve further. Our efforts have been gathered momentum In management terms, we have achieved critical mass for a swift takeoff.\nFor example, this report has taken into account the implementation of the Goods and Services Tax or GST As you all know, GST is the biggest tax reform in the Indian economy. And it affects many aspects of doing business With GST, we are moving toward a modern tax regime, which is transparent, stable and predictable.\nAnd when the issue of GST has been discussed here, so at the time when a lot of people from the business world are present here, from this platform, I'd like to say all the traders of the country that when we have a pledge to implement the GST then people did not confirm whether it will be implemented or not, whether it will be implemented from July first or not It was implemented. And even after the implementation they felt: 'We have been hit very badly and it is Modi, he will carry out any reform in it.' And at that time we said: 'let us observe it minutely for three months because India is such a massive country and it is not like that only in Delhi It's not that. The common man We will learn and understand ways,\nAnd when a meeting of the GST council was convened after three months then all the issues that had been resolved. For some other issues, some states have not been convinced so we have formed the committee of those states and officials. And today I am happy to inform you that though I have not received the verbatim report but the GST Council by the committee which was formed by the committee, they have formed the committee collectively and that meeting in what is happening about the information I have, I do not still have the full report with me but I can tell you that those issues were raised by the traders, all those suggestions that were made by the businesses, positively almost all of them are going to be accepted. And if no state will create any hurdle in the GST council meeting scheduled for 9th and 10th then I'm confident Whatever reforms are needed to strengthen India's business world and Indian economy, those reforms cleared. And even after that those new issues that will come in the future, as we need to adopt a new system and we will have come out of a system that is several years old, then it is necessary that only the government has to be wise solve them, when all the stakeholders give their results only And GST is going to be a good example of this thing. This thing reflects in the process of GST.\nThe World Bank report has only taken into account the reforms carried out till 2017 when GST was implemented in July 2017 after that. So you can imagine that our initiative will be counted in the discussion that will take place in 2018.\nThere are many other reforms that have already happened, but need gestation and stabilization time, before they are taken into account by World Bank There are a few other reforms where our team and the World Bank team need to find common ground. All this, combined with our conviction to do better, gives me the confidence that India will occupy a place of pride in the World Bank report next year and in the after years\nI compliment the World Bank for engaging with countries. I also compliment them for the year's report - 'Reforming to create jobs' There can be no denying that business is a major force in our lives. It is an engine for growth, employment generation, wealth creation and delivery of goods and services that make our lives comfortable.\nWe are a young country and job creation. So, to leverage the energy of our youth, we are positioning as a start-up nation and a global manufacturing hub. For this purpose, we have launched various initiatives, such as Make in India and Start-up India.\nThrough these initiatives, combined with the new eco-system of a formal economy and a unified tax regime, we are trying to create a NEW INDIA. An India where opportunities were created and harnessed We are specially interested in developing India in a knowledge based, skill supported and technology driven society. A good start has been made through the Digital India and Skill India initiative.\nFriends!\nIndia is swiftly changing for the better I wish to list some more global recognitions which indicate this:\no We have moved up the last two years in the Global Competitiveness Index of the World Economic Forum. This is the highest for any country;\no We have also moved up to one of the places on the global innovation Index of WIPO in two years.\no We have moved to the place of logistics performance Index of 2016 of World Bank;\no We are among the top FDI destinations by UNCTAD.\nSome people do not understand the improvement in India's ranking from 142nd spot to 100th spot. They are not moved by this. Some of these people have already served in World Bank Today, they are also raising questions about India's ranking. Had this kind of reforms, like insolvency code, bankruptcy code and creation of commercial courts, had been carried out during your tenure then our ranking would have improved much earlier. And the credit for improvement Did the situation of the country be improved or not? They did nothing\nIt's just a coincidence that the World Bank started the process of releasing the ease of doing business ranking in 2004. It's an important year. And all of you know who was in the government since then till 2014.\nI'm such a Prime Minister who has not even seen the building of the World Bank, although the Prime Minister who had run the World Bank\nAnd I ask them that they should cooperate with us instead of the ranking of the World Bank so that we can take the country to a newer height We should collectively take a pledge for marching ahead to make a New India.\nOur mantra is reform, perform and transform. We want to do better and better I am happy to note that for the first time, the World Bank is helping us in this exercise at the sub-national level too. In a federal democracy like India, it is often not easy to take on every stakeholder while undertaking reforms. However, over the last three years, there has been a sea change in response to governments, both at Central and State level. State Governments are looking at a business friendly environment. While often competing with each other in implementing business reforms, they are also helping each other in implementing them. This is a exciting universe where competitiveness and cooperation co-exist.\nFriends,\nThe agenda for boosting growth and employment, required many structural changes, many tough decisions and many new regulations. Besides this, the mind-set of the bureaucracy required fearlessly and honestly. Over the last three years, The Union Government has done a lot on these fronts. We have resolved a number of regulatory and policy issues.\nAlongwith manufacturing, we are also developing So, we are continuously working in our investment climate. In the last three and a half years, we have undertaken bold foreign direct investment reforms in twenty one sectors, covering eighty seven areas of policy.\nI kept hearing it for two years - big bang reforms, big bang reforms, now they have stopped it because people have come to know that the speed, level and size of reforms are such that critics are able to keep pace with it.\nThese reforms have touched significant sectors like Defense, Railways, Construction Development, Insurance, Pension, Civil Aviation and Pharmaceuticals. More than 90 percent of FDI approvals have been put on automatic route. This is a big deal. We are now among the most open economies for FDI\nThis has resulted in increased FDI inflow, which is the year after year. The FDI inflows of 55.6 billion US dollars for the year ending March 2016 were an all-time high. The following year, India registered an FDI inflow of 60.08 billion US dollars, thereby scaling an even higher peak. As a result, the total FDI received in the country has gone up by 67% in a short span of three years.\nDuring the current financial year till August, total FDI of 30.38 billion US dollars has been received, which represents an increase of 30% as compared to the corresponding period last year. In August, 2017, India received a total FDI of 9.64 billion US dollars, which is the highest ever in any month.\nFriends!\nOver the last three years, we have systemically and critically evaluated business regulations. We have tried to understand the pain points of businesses with regards to interact with government We engaged with businesses on a regular basis;\nI have often emphasized that technology should be used to transform governance. Use of technology should minimize physical interface and assist time bound decision-making. I am happy to see that a number of Government Departments and State Governments are deploying technology to improve governance and deliver services.\nAlongwith the tools of technology we also need a complete change of mind. Total re-engineering is required both at the level of Mind and Machine. The past mindset of excessive control This is our goal and my government is determined to achieve this purpose.\nWith this purpose, a comprehensive exercise was undertaken to redesign laws and re-engineer government processes to make business environment easier and more conducive. An attempt was made to align the Indian regulatory environment with international best practices. Though, we were putting in efforts to improve India's rank in the Doing Business Report, reforms undertaken by Government is far more extensive. To give you one example; we have abolished more than 1200 archaic laws and Acts. They have been deleted from the statute book. Similarly, thousands of important reforms have been carried out as well. The World Bank's requirement\nAll Ministries of the Central Government, Public Sector Undertakings, State Governments as well as regulators should recognize international best practices, consult their stakeholders and align their regulations and processes with international best practices. I have no doubt that people working in these agencies are second to none in the world in respect to their capacity and commitment to public service.\nFriends, even though this ranking is being called easy of doing business but I think it is also with ease of doing business ranking it is also a raking for Easy Living Living Improvement in this ranking means that the life of the common man and the life of the middle class people of the country is easier.\nAnd I say that because whatever parameters have been used for this ranking, most of them are related to the life of a common man, to the life of a youth of the country\nIndia's ranking has improved so much in the last three years The government has adopted the path of reforms to reduce the difficulties in the life of a common man. The process of filing tax returns in the country has been reformed in a big way in the last three years. Now people can not wait for the refunds as per income tax returns. Earlier you were required to visit the offices many times for PF registration and for withdrawing money from PF account. Now everything is being done online\nMy young friends can now register their new company in just one day. Hearing of commercial cases had been made easier In the last three years it has become easier to obtain construction permit in India Getting a power connection has become easier The issuance of passport which used to be used for months is now a week. If this is not the Living of Life then what is it?\nI want to make a special mention of the fact that while the ease of doing business is important for all businesses, it is critical for small businesses including small businesses. This sector provides the bulk of employment in the country and to make them more competitive. The work on these small businesses and manufacturers\nOnce again, let me congratulate the team on the various aspects of our commitment and dedication. I am sure that together we will write a new chapter in India's history and transform India so that the dreams and aspirations of our people take the wing.\nI would like to thank you I am told that the experience of bringing about decisive changes in a large country like India without affecting the growth process may be a example for many other nations. There is always scope to learn from others. If required, we will be happy to share our experience with other countries\nThank You!"