"Share\n\nFood Processing It has been practiced for ages: PM Modi\nIndia has jumped 30 ranks this year in the World Bank Doing Business Rankings: PM Modi\nThere is also immense potential for food processing and value addition in areas like organic \u0026 fortified foods: PM Modi\nOur farmers are central to our efforts in food processing: PM Modi\nExcellencies,\nCaptains of Business and Industry,\nLadies \u0026 Gentlemen,\nI am happy to be a part of this august gathering of global leaders and decision makers of the food processing sector. I welcome you all to World Food India 2017\nThis event will provide you a glimpse of the opportunities that await you, in India. It will showcase our potential in the food processing value chain. It will provide a platform to connect with various stakeholders, and collaborate for mutual prosperity. And, it will present you, some of our most delightful cuisine, which has stimulated taste buds across the world\nLadies and gentlemen\nIndia's strengths are in agriculture, are many and diverse The second largest arable land area, and as many as 127 variverse agro-climatic zones, give us global leadership in a number of crops like bananas, mangoes, guavas, papayas, and okra. We are second, globally, in terms of production of rice, wheat, fish, fruits and vegetables. India is also the world's largest milk producer Our horticulture sector has shown an average growth rate of 5.5 per cent annually over the last ten years.\nFor centuries, India has welcomed traders from distant lands, who came in search of our distinctive spices. Their travels to India Our trade synergies with Europe and South East Asia are the well known Even Christopher Columbus was attracted to Indian spices, and reached America, as he searched for an alternate sea route to India.\nFood Processing It is also the humblest of households. Simple, home-based techniques, such as fermentation, have resulted in the creation of our famous pickles, papads, chutneys and murabbas that now excite both the elite and the masses, the world over\nLadies and gentlemen\nLet us turn, for the big picture\nIndia is today one of the fastest growing economies of the world The Goods and Services Tax, or GST, has eliminated the multiplicity of taxes. India has jumped thirty ranks this year, in the World Bank Doing Business rankings. This is the highest ever improvement for India, and the highest jump for any country this year. From a rank of 142 in 2014, we have now reached the top 100.\nIndia was ranked number one in the world in 2016 in greenfield investment India is also rapidly progressing on the Global Innovation Index, Global Logistics Index and Global Competitiveness Index.\nStarting a new business in India is now easier than ever before Procedures for obtaining clearances from different agencies have been simplified Archaic laws have been canceled, and the burden of compliances has decreased.\nI now turn particular, to food processing\nThe Government has undertaken a range of transformational initiatives. India is the most preferred investment destination in this sector. It is a priority sector in our \"Make in India\" program. 100% FDI, is now allowed, for trading, including through e-commerce, food products manufactured or produced in India A single-window facilitation cell provides handholding for foreign investors. There are attractive fiscal incentives from the Union and State Governments. Loans to food and agro-based processing units, and cold chains, are classified under priority sector lending, making them easy and cheap to obtain.\nThe unique portal - Nivesh Bandhu - or \"investor's friend\" - that we have just launched, brings together information on central and state government policies, and incentives provided for the food-processing sector. With resources for the local level, with processing requirements It is also a platform for business networking, for farmers, processors, traders, and logistics operators.\nFriends\nPrivate sector participation has increased in many segments of the value chain. However, more investment is required in contract farming, raw material sourcing and making agricultural connections. Many international companies in India have taken a lead in contract farming initiatives. This is a clear opportunity for global super-market chains consideration as India as a major Outsourcing hub.\nOn one hand, there are opportunities in post-harvest management, like primary processing and storage, preservation infrastructure, cold chain, and refrigerated transportation. On the other hand, there is immense potential for food processing and value addition, especially in niche areas like organic and fortified foods.\nIncreasing urbanization, and a growing middle class, are getting an ever-growing demand for wholesome, processed food. Let me share just one statistics. Over a million travelers have a meal on a train in India, every single day. Every one of them Such is the scale of opportunity that is waiting to be tapped.\nLadies and Gentlemen\nLifestyle disease is raising consciousness globally There is a growing aversion to the use of artificial colors, chemicals and preservatives. India can provide solutions, and offer a win-win partnership\nThe combination of traditional Indian food, with modern technology, processing and packaging, can help the world rediscover the health benefits, and refreshing taste of Indian food ingredients such as turmeric, ginger, and tulsi, to name just a few. The perfect blend of hygienic, nutritious and tasty processed food, with added benefits of preventive healthcare, can be produced economically, here in India.\nThe Food Safety and Standards Authority of India has been engaged in ensuring that processed food made in India, matches global quality standards. The harmonization of the food additives standards with Codex, and the building of robust testing and laboratory infrastructure, will go into a long way.\nLadies and gentlemen\nThe farmers, whom we respectfully call our \"Annadaata\" or the providers of food are food processing in our efforts to central. We have a stated goal of doubling farm incomes within five years Recently, we launched a national level program, the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Sampada Yojana, to create world-class food processing infrastructure. This is expected to leverage investment of five billion US dollars, two million farmers and more than half a million jobs over the next three years.\nThe creation of Mega Food Parks is a key component of this scheme. Through these food parks, we aim to link agro-processing clusters with key production centers. This will offer immense value in proposition in crops such as potato, pineapple, oranges and apples Farmer groups are being encouraged to set up units in these parks, thereby reducing wastage and transportation costs, and creating new jobs. Nine such parks are already operational, and more than thirty others are the process of coming up across the country.\nTo improve the last mile delivery, we are improving governance, by increasing access to digital technology We plan to link our villages via broadband connectivity, within a clear timeframe We are digitizing land records, and providing different services to people on mobile platforms. These steps are building real-time transfer of information, knowledge and skills to farmers. The e-NAM, our national agricultural e-market, is connecting our agricultural markets nationwide, thereby giving our farmers the benefit of competitive pricing, and freedom of choice.\nIn the true spirit of cooperative and competitive federalism, our State Governments also have the efforts of the Union government to simplify processes and procedures. Many States have come up with attractive food processing policies. I urge every State of India to identify at least one food product for specialization. Similarly, every district can also select some food items for production, and one item for specialization.\nLadies and Gentlemen\nToday, our strong agricultural base provides us a solid food processing sector. Our vast consumer base, rising incomes, favourable investment climate and a government are able to ease the business, all make India 'the place to be' for the global food processing fraternity.\nEvery sub-sector of food industry in India offers immense opportunity. Let me give you some illustrations\nThe dairy sector has emerged as an important area for the rural economy. We now aim to take it to the next level by increasing levels of production.\nHoney is the gift of humanity It offers many valuable by-products, such as bee wax. It has the potential to increase farm incomes Currently, we are in the sixth place India is now ripe, for a sweet revolution\nIndia contributes over six percent of global fish production. We are the world's second largest exporter of shrimps. India exports fish and fisheries products to about 95 countries We aim to make a big leap in the sea economy through the blue revolution. Our focus is on development of untapped areas, such as ornamental fisheries and trout farming. We also want to explore new areas, like pearl farming.\nOur commitment to sustainable development, is the heart of our thrust for organic farming. Sikkim, in north-eastern India, has become India's first fully organic state. The whole north-east offers opportunities for making fertilizers.\nFriends\nIn order to be successful in Indian markets, understanding Indian food habits and tastes is a key requirement. To give you just one example, milk based products and fruit-juice based drinks are an intrinsic part of Indian food habits. That is why, I have been suggesting manufacturers of aerated drinks, the potential of blending five percent of fruit juice in their products.\nFood processing also holds solutions to nutrition security. For example, our weed grains and millets have high nutritional value. They can also withstand adverse agro-climatic conditions. They can be called \"nutrition rich and weather smart\" crops. Can we take a venture based on these? This will raise some of the poorest of our farmers, and also our nutrition levels. Such products, will, of course, find resonance across the world.\nCan we link to our potential, the world's requirements? Can we link Indian traditions with the future of mankind? Can we connect India's farmers with markets around the world? These are some questions\nI am confident that World Food India will help us in this direction. It will also provide valuable insights into our rich culinary landscape, and highlight our ancient wisdom of food processing.\nI am also happy to note that the Department of Post has released a set of twenty four commemorative postage stamps on this occasion, to illustrate the diversity of Indian cuisine.\nLadies and Gentlemen,\nI invite you to be a part of the exciting growth tour of India. I assure you of my whole-hearted support, when required\nCome Invest in India\nThe place with unlimited opportunities from farm to fork\nThe place to produce, process, and prosper\nFor India, and for the world\nThank You\nFood Processing It has been practiced for ages. Simple, home-based techniques, such as fermentation, have resulted in our famous pickles, papads, chutneys and murabbas that excite both the elite and the masses across the world: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 3, 2017\nIndia has jumped 30 ranks this year in the World Bank Doing Business Rankings. India was ranked number 1 in the world in 2016 in greenfield investment India is also rapidly progressing on the Global Innovation Index, Global Logistics Index and Global Competitiveness Index: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 3, 2017\nPrivate sector participation has increased in many segments of the value chain. However, more investment is required in contract farming, raw material sourcing and making agricultural connections. This is a clear opportunity for global chains: PM @narendramodi #WorldFoodIndia\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 3, 2017\nThere are opportunities in post-harvest management, like primary processing and storage, preservation infra, cold chain \u0026 refrigerated transport. There is also immense potential for food processing and value addition in areas such as organic \u0026 fortified foods: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 3, 2017\nOur farmers are central to our efforts in food processing. We launched the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Sampada Yojana to create world-class food processing infrastructure. This will leverage investment of US $ 5 billion, benefits 2 million farmers \u0026 build more than half million jobs: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 3, 2017\nFood processing holds solutions to nutrition security Our pea grains \u0026 millets have high nutritional value. They can withstand adverse agro-climatic conditions. Can we take a venture based on these? This will raise incomes of farmers \u0026 also increase nutrition levels: PM"