"Share\n\nCongress has become a laughing club They have been charged with corruption but they say there will be zero tolerance against corruption: PM\nCongress should introspect why the whole country is turning away from the Congress leaders \u0026 their party: PM\nCongress party has ruined 'Dev Bhoomi Himachal': PM\n'5 Raakshas' has devastated HP 'Van Mafia', 'Khanan Mafia', 'Drug Mafia', 'Tender Mafia' \u0026 'Transfer Mafia'. These should end: PM\nWe are proud of our jawans. How can Congress leaders talk about Azadi of Kashmir \u0026 question sacrifices of our jawans: PM\nCongress is a party that now deals only with 'Bharashtachaar', 'Pariwaarwaad', 'Jaatiwaad': PM\n\nMr. Premkumar Dhumal, the future Chief Minister of Himachal, present on the stage, was the Chief Minister of the Bharatiya Janta Party of Himachal Pradesh, the Chief Minister of Success, the strongest cornerstone of development, which has kept the most popular MPs of this Kangra region, Mr. Sita Kumar G. Bharatiya Janata Party candidate in this election, our old partner from this assembly constituency Mr. Kripal Parmar ji, Mr. Arjun Singh from Gwali, Rita Dhiman Ji from Indora, Rakesh Pathania Ji from Dhurpur, Mr. Hansraj Ji from Chura, DS from Dalhousie Thakur ji, Pawan ji from Chamba These are all our candidates. When the results come on 18th. I believe that by your blessing, as your Representative, will serve you as your best servant, that is my belief. Vice President of the State, Bhai Rajiv Bhardwaj, the present MLA of Indorea and our hard-working workers Bhai Manoj Dhiman Ji, Bhai Sanjay Kularia ji, Ranbir Singh ji, Jai Singh ji and my dear brothers and sisters in huge numbers.\nThis earth, the warrior of independence, the great man in 24 years old Umar sacked the British teeth. Such a hero wazir Ram Singh Pathania salutes the land of ji. Dear Brothers and Sisters of Himachal You are about to choose a government of your choice by pressing the button on 9th day. You are about to create your favorite government. The opportunity to farewell to those who have looted Himachal is on 9th day. Who gave you these ideas? Who has the power to send the Sultanate home by pressing the button? What is the strength that the citizens of India today make the government of their choice. Lakkavadhi great men like Veer Vazir Ram Singh ji Pathania, fought against the British Sultanate, spent youth in prisons and kissed the hanging papers. Mother Bharti is free from chains. So you sacrificed yourself. It is his contribution that we today choose our government by pressing the button.\nI have come to apply for citizens from Himachal's cousin brothers. When you press the button on 9th, for a moment, I am not asking for much time, remembering the sacrifice of Wazir Ram Singh Pathania for a moment and then pressing the button after that. I will assure you that no mistake will happen to anyone. Right press the button at the right place. If you remember the great men of freedom who will sacrifice for freedom, then the button will be repaired at the right place and the right government will be formed and the fate of Himachal Pradesh will also change.\nbrothers Sisters.\nWhen my today's program was going on, I was a little enthusiastic. There were two reasons. I said that Bhai Himachal is going to win, why do you run me? Secondly, I said that Bhai had worked in Himachal for so many years, every street was going to the locality, no block would be like this, where I have not had the good fortune to go. I said, where will you do the public at 11 o'clock in the morning? It will start cold in the mountains. Where do the people come from? It is 12 o'clock in the mountains and it has to be done before 3 o'clock. So the people here told me that sir, once we try it. Come see at 9 o'clock and see if it is mood. And today I have to accept publicly that my idea is wrong. You people have come true, people in such a big way come here. It is difficult to gather in Himachal so soon. But what I see today, from here I can not see a single roof, on which people are not standing in such a large number. I do not know whether it would be heard on the terrace or not. But in such a large number, you come to bless you, come to resolve the lotus feeding. I bow to bowing down and bowing down. I congratulate you.\nbrothers Sisters.\nIn the election of the Congress party, they will have to give thanks. there's nothing left. The public has got a chance to get around, cleanliness is going on, cleanliness campaign is going on. In spite of this, see their courage. I am feeling that the Congress Party has become a laughing club, Laughing Club The Congress Party Election Manifesto is written in it and the Chief Minister himself is on bail. Bail is on which issue? What is your chief minister on bail? Speak loudly on what issue .... The TV will listen and the whole country will listen. On which issue are you on bail .... What is the case on them? The case is going on corruption. There are serious allegations. Despite this, the TV shows are showing the Manifesto tomorrow on TV. And in Manifesto, the Congress government will be made in Himachal then there will be zero tolerance on corruption. What does it do to your throat ... Does anyone's neck fall ... Does the Congress party say that their zero tolerance towards corruption will be tolerable? This is the story of Himachal's child who is ready to accept .... Does anyone's neck fall ... Now tell, they have the courage to say no. Can such courage be in someone ... If there were any other party, if there was another leader of the public party, then the head would hide and run away.\nbrothers Sisters.\nThousands of millions of jobs have to be done in social life. There may be a mistake in doing two or four tasks. But this is our country like this. If you want to do something honest and make a mistake, then my country is such that he pardons you. But if done with the intention of intention and mass mobilization, the country never forgives anyone. Should the Congress Party have a sense of self-restraint, the country habit of forgiving the mistakes? What is the reason? In every corner of India, the country has left the Congress and the Congress leaders to get a punishment. Just like the people of the Congress, give their opinion. But it is necessary to be soul to be self-centered. But those who do not have it, what is going to happen to them. People of Congress These god land. You tell me What is left of this godland has kept it? These brave land This brave, what is left of the land is kept in it. Himachal is the identity of Godboys in the heart of the children of this country. We used to read in old stories, used to hear that there was a fight between gods and demons. And if God used to do anyusome work then the monster used to create obstacles in it. And finally the monsters were defeated.\nBut brothers and sisters\nWe did not even hear this in the Puranas, that in the presence of the demons, the work of generating demons was done by people sitting in some government, we have never read this in the Puranas. But today we have to say with great sadness. To say with great pain, it is said that the present government has given the opportunity of five monsters to grow in Dev Bhoomi Himachal. And these five monsters are so flourishing, they have become so powerful that they have forced the government sitting in Shimla to dance on their gestures. Behind the scenes, due to the five monsters, it is clear. From there they receive blessings, they are protected from there. Do you have to redeem the godland once again and do not have to do it .... We have to free the demons or not ... Five monsters who are bent on mixing the future of Himachal's younger generation in the soil. My youngest son of Himachal, you decide whether you have to give your fate to these five demons or to make Godbhoomi a God-God again. The time to do this justice is present on November 9. These are the five monsters, which must free Himachal. And people in this area know well these monsters. People from all walks of life know it well.\nIs a monster - mining mafia. That's not it .... Speak out loud. That's not it .... This mining mafia business is running or not ... These mining mafia who are plundering your land property are destroying the Godland. What are the brothers if not the monsters? Should these mining mafia be freed or not .... Should this be avoided by mining mafia or not ....\nbrothers Sisters.\nWhen Dhumal was the Chief Minister and I used to work here. And then Dhumal ji would grow in forests for forest protection, long-life trees were ready, all the people participated in this big campaign for this and used to visit themselves. The panchayats of the people used to explain that we have to keep Himachal green.\nbrothers Sisters.\nToday the first mining monster in Himachal, Second Forest Mafia. That's not it .... The forests are being harvested or not being harvested .... The forests are being plundered or not being looted .... These jungle are going to be looted. These are your future being robbed brothers sisters. And so this is the second demonic tendency in the Godland. Forest mafia A Mining Mafia Second Forest Mafia. One loots the land estate, the other robs the forest property.\nThe third mafia who loots your future by coming into your home. Robots your dreams. Loots your sacraments That is what ruins our young generation, the drug mafia that ruins our young generation. The land which is the land of goddess Mothers, which is a dying dead country for the country, hardly any village would be like this, hardly any area will be such that the family of Lal Mata is not posted on the border to serve Bharti. This is the land of soldiers. Here the hero, the young generation here is not only the pride of that family, but also the pride of that community, not only the pride of that village. Every young man of Himachal has the pride of mother Bharti. The pride of Hindustan is.\nYou tell me The pride of my country can be destroyed by the drunken drugs of these youths and the destruction of my youth of Himachal. The dreams of old parents can be shattered. Are such drugs mafia that are ravaging your children in your house, lifting up your children? Such drugs should be the culprit of the Mafia or not ... Should not be that should be ..... I specifically request the mothers of Himachal sisters today. Mother of my Himachal. You are a mother who is born with a lot of bravery. I urge you mothers to vote in this election to suppress these drugs mafia, to protect the future of your brave sons by pressing the button. I urge all the mothers I urge the mothers of Himachal to vote 5 percent more than men this time. Give protection to the heroic sons .... No mother, no mother, let her sons be handed over to the drugs mafia. I want blessings from my mothers sisters. The Bharatiya Janata Party government will work hard against the drugs mafia, I have come to convincing you.\nbrothers Sisters.\nAnd the fourth demon, the fourth mafia. That is Tender Mafia. Who will get the tender. Someone's brother, someone's nephew Neither rules, nor laws. Just keep on, give it. Running is not going to happen ... Running is not going on .... This should get rid of the tender mafia or should not get it .... There is a capability in which it has the right, he should get work or should not get it. The one who does the good work should get the job or should not get it. Does anyone have any relation, should he be guilty? Is there no recommendation, therefore your employment, business should be stuck ....\nSo brothers sisters\nBhai, nephew tender system has devastated Himachal. With this tender mafia, we have to develop Himachal, if in true sense. The proper use of the public's pie-pie is to get rid of the tender mafia. And hence this is a great opportunity to free Himachal from the tender mafia, 9th on the polling booth and press the button to go.\nAnd the fifth is the demon, the fifth is the monster, that is the transfer mafia. You have to get transferred, deliver it, keep it there. He has to get rid of it, send it so, I will get it. From here to Shimla, there is a permanent line. And shamelessly, such rates, are spoken, rated. If you go to eat in a restaurant, then it is rated, you will eat it, so much so that if you eat it then so much so. They have the rates too, if you want to transfer here, so posting should be here. Now tell me. Those who get the money by paying money, find posting. They will do your work or do good to your wallets .... Who will do it .... Is there any way to avoid that tradition? Himachal should avoid such a transfer mafia or not ... Five types of demon Five types of demon, mining mafia, forest mafia, tender mafia, transfer mafia. There is an opportunity to destroy the five demons who destroy the land, on 9th, going to the polling booth and pressing the button.\nIn the olden times, we used to hear a story that there was a monster who made life difficult for the divine powers. People of divine power, when they used to strike, they cut off their head, cut their hands, cut them into pieces, but they had such a fast, they were alive. Divine power is adorable; it is a big fight, it is so big a fight, it kills it so much, it bites, why do not it die. So there was a sky that there is a big palace across the seven ocean. The palace has seven doors. There is room in a geologic crossing seven doors. After landing the seven stairs, they arrive in the room. There is a gold cage in it. There is a wand in that gold cage. इस राक्षस की आत्मा, उस सोने के पिंजरे में जो पंखी है, उसके अंदर है। जाकरके उस पंखी को मारोगे तब जाकरके राक्षस मरेगा। भाइयों बहनों। ये जो पांच दानव है, उनकी आत्मा भी उस पोलिंग बूथ के बटन में है। उस बटन को सही दबाओगे तो जाकरके ये पांच दानव मरने वाले हैं।\nइसलिए भाइयों बहनों।\n9 तारीख को मैं आपसे आग्रह करता हूं। भारी मतदान हो। और मैं आज हिमाचल में, मैंने हिमाचल का अन्न खाया है। हिमाचल ने मुझे पाला पोसा है। बहुत बड़ा बनाया है। उन माताओं बहनों से हक के साथ कहना चाहता हूं। 5 प्रतिशत ज्यादा वोटिंग, मेरी मां-बहनें इस बार करके दिखाएं। बीड़ा उठाएं। अपने बच्चों की रक्षा के लिए उठाना है।\nभाइयों बहनों।\nये हिमाचल हमारी वीर भूमि है। देश की ऐसी कोई लड़ाई नहीं है, जब मेरे हिमाचल के वीरों ने मां भारती के लिए बलिदान न दिया हो। कश्मीर में हिन्दुस्तान प्रोक्सी वार लड़ रहा है, क्रास बोर्डर टेररिजम। पड़ोस में से आतंकवादियों को भेजा जाता है, ट्रेनिंग करके भेजा जा रहा है। शस्त्र और सारे इंतजाम के साथ भेजा जा रहा है। हमारे वीर सेना के जवानों को मौत के घाट उतार दिया जाता है। आए दिन हिमाचल के किसी न किसी गांव में कश्मीर से कोई न कोई मेरे वीर जवान शहादत पाकरके तिरंगे झंडे में लपेट करके अपने गांव लौटता है। उस वीर मां के आंख में आंसू होते हैं। बेटे को मां भारती के लिए बलि चढ़ाया है। छोटा सा बच्चा, शहीद वीर पिता के पास खड़ा रहकरके शपथ लेता है कि मैं भी सेना में जाऊंगा और दुश्मनों को मारके रहूंगा। विधवा, नौजवान विधवा, पति का शरीर सामने है। बेटे के हाथ पकड़के कहती है, तुम सैल्युट करो, हमने भी तो मातृभूमि के लिए आगे जाना है। ऐसा मेरा हिमाचल, ऐसे मेरे वीरों की भूमि।\nकश्मीर के लिए अनगिनत मेरे देश के जवानों ने बलिदान दिए हैं। सेना ने बलिदान दिये हैं, बीएसएफ ने बलिदान दिये हैं, सीआरपीएफ ने बलिदान दिये हैं, पुलिस के जवानों ने बलिदान दिये हैं, निर्दोष नागरिकों ने भी बलिदान दिये हैं। Why? पाकिस्तान कहता है, कश्मीर को आजादी। पाकिस्तान से आकरके पहुंचे हुए आतंकी कहते हैं कश्मीर को आजादी। पाकिस्तान से प्रेरणा लेकरके काम करने वाले अलगाववादी कह रहे हैं कश्मीर की आजादी। और उसके खिलाफ हिन्दुस्तान का मेरा नौजवान सीने पर गोलियां झेलता है, लड़ाई लड़ता है, मरते दम तक दुश्मनों को छक्के छुड़ाने में लगा रहता है। लेकिन मेरे देश का दुर्भाग्य है। इतने वीरों की शहादत के बाद, लाफिंग क्लब बन गई कांग्रेस पार्टी, कांग्रेस के नेता ये कहे कि कश्मीर की आजादी की मांग सही है।\nभाइयों बहनों।\nक्या कांग्रेस के नेताओं को हमारे वीरों का अपमान करने का हक है क्या ...। ऐसे हमारे जवानों को अपमान करने का हक है क्या ...। पूरी ताकत से बताइए। अपमान करने का हक है क्या ...। हमारी शहादत का अपमान करने का हक है क्या ...। किस मुंह से कश्मीर की आजादी की बात बोल रहे हो। जो इतने साल शहादत दी। लाखों परिवार के घरवार चले गए। और आप क्या भाषा बोल रहे हैं। कांग्रेस पार्टी का एक भी नेता, उस नेता की आलोचना करने को तैयार नहीं है। आप मुझे बताइए। क्या ऐसी कांग्रेस पार्टी के भरोसे, अब देश में कुछ भला होने की आशा है क्या ...। जरा भी आशा है क्या ...। मुझे बता दीजिए, सब सफा हो चुका है कि नहीं हो चुका है...।\nऔर इसलिए भाइयों बहनों।\nमैं हिमाचल की धरती से आज आग्रह से कहने आया हूं। सिर्फ बीजेपी की सरकार बने, ऐसा नहीं लेकिन सारे पुराने रिकार्ड टूट जाए, ऐसी सरकार बनाना जरूरी है। जो जीते वो भी भारी बहुमत से जीतने चाहिए ताकि उन्हें सबक मिले। वर्ना ये तो यही सोचते हैं। ठीक है, पांच साल बाद फिर से आ जाएंगे। ये चक्कर बंद होना चाहिए। एक बार गए तो गए। वापस आने का मौका ही नहीं मिलना चाहिए। वर्ना ये सुधरेंगे नहीं और सार्वजनिक जीवन की बीमारियां भी नहीं सुधरेगी। इस बार ऐसी सजा दो कि फिर कभी वापस आने का अवसर न आए। और फिर कभी कोई पाप के रास्ते पर हिन्दुस्तान में जाने की हिम्मत न करे, ऐसी सजा देने की जरूरत है।\nभाइयों बहनों।\nमैं जानता हूं कांग्रेस पार्टी के नेता। उनकी पार्टी के नेता पहले क्या कहते थे। उनके परिवार के मुखिया पहले क्या कहते थे। अब वो भूल रहे हैं। और आजकल दुनियाभर को नए-नए उपदेश सीखाने में लगे हुए हैं। हम जब कहते हैं कांग्रेस मुक्त भारत तो उनको चुभता है। कांग्रेस संस्था नहीं रही। कांग्रेस महात्मा गांधी वाली नहीं रही। कांग्रेस आजादी के दिवानों वाली नहीं रही। ये भ्रष्टाचार में लिप्त, परिवारवाद में डूबी हुई जातिवाद का जहर फैलानेवाली, संप्रदायिक रंग में रंगी हुई ये कांग्रेस पार्टी, संस्था नहीं, विचार नहीं, व्यवस्था नहीं, कांग्रेस पार्टी सड़ी हुई सोच का नमूना है। और इसलिए हम जब कांग्रेस मुक्त भारत कहते हैं हिन्दुस्तान में इस सड़ी हुई सोच से भारत को मुक्त करने का अभियान हम चला रहे हैं। लेकिन जब हम कांग्रेस मुक्त भारत कहते हैं तो आपको बुरा लगता है।\nआपको मैं याद दिलाना चाहता हूं। पंडित नेहरू देश के प्रधानमंत्री हुआ करते थे। और उस समय उन्हीं की बोलवाला चलती थी। विरोधी दल का तो नामो निशां नहीं था। मीडिया भी उन्हीं के साथ था। सबकुछ उन्हीं के पास था। पंचायत से लेकर पार्लियामेंट तक सबकुछ वही लोग थे। उस समय जनसंघ का जन्म हुआ। जो बाद में भारतीय जनता पार्टी के रूप में उभरे। हमारा पूर्वाश्रम जनसंघ है। शांता कुमार जैसे लोगों ने जनसंघ के बीज बोए थे। पंडित नेहरू उस जमाने में कहा करते थे। हमारी जो आलोचना करते हैं, जरा सुन लें। मैं पंडित नेहरू की कही हुई बातें दोहरा रहा हूं। पंडित नेहरू कहा करते थे, हम जनसंघ को जड़मूल तक उखाड़कर फेंक देंगे। धरती में से जड़ों तक को उखाड़ करके फेंक देंगे। हम तब पालने में थे, बच्चे भी नहीं बने थे। उस समय जनसंघ को खत्म करने का बीड़ा पंडित नेहरू ने उठाया था। इतिहास गवाह है, दीये की रौशनी में चल दिये थे और कीचड़ में से कमल खिलाकर लौटे हैं। हम कांग्रेस मुक्त भारत कहते हैं, तो हम उस सड़ी हुई सोच से देश को मुक्त करने के लिए देश का जनजागरण कर रहे हैं।\nभाइयों बहनों।\nऐसी कोई पार्टी हो सकती है जिसको हिन्दुस्तान की जनता का विश्वास चाहिए, हिन्दुस्तान की सरकार चलाने का इरादा चाहिए लेकिन हिन्दुस्तान पर भरोसा नहीं है। क्या ऐसे लोग देश के लिए योग्य है क्या ...। चीन के साथ डोकलाम के अंदर भारत की सेना बड़ी धीरता के साथ खड़ी हो गई। पराक्रम, पुरुषार्थ, अप्रतिम धैर्य, 72 दिन तक जहां रात को माइनेस डिग्री टेम्परेचर होता है। हमारे सेना के जवान डिगने को तैयार नहीं थे। सामने चीन खड़ा था, इधर हिन्दुस्तान की फौज खड़ी थी। कुछ भी हो सकता था। पूरे देश में चर्चा और चिंता थी कि मोदी जी क्या करेंगे। लोग कहते थे कि मोदी जी 1962 भूलना मत। लोग हमें भी डरा रहे थे। लेकिन हमें भारत के संस्कारों पर विश्वास था, भारत के धैर्य पर विश्वास भरोसा था। हमारी सेना की सूझ-बुझ पर भरोसा था।\n72 दिन तक डटे रहे, तब इस देश के लिए बहुत बड़े दुख की बात है। और ये देश ऐसे पाप करने वालों को कभी माफ नहीं कर सकती है। भारत की संसद में बारह पन्द्रह साल से बैठा हुआ कोई व्यक्ति जिसके परिवार के लोग, पिता प्रधानमंत्री रहे हों, दादी प्रधानमंत्री रहे हों, नाना प्रधानमंत्री रहे हों। जन्म से जिसको राजपरिवार में पलने बढ़ने का अवसर मिला हो, वो देश पर भरोसा न करे, सरकार पर भरोसा न करे, सेना पर भरोसा न करे। और चीन के राजदूत से मिलकरके पूछे कि डोकलाम में क्या चल रहा है। ये देश का अपमान है कि नहीं है ...। आप मुझे बताइए। ये देश का अपमान है कि नहीं है ...। ये देश का अपमान है कि नहीं है ...। भारत के संविधान का अपमान है कि नहीं है ...। भारत की चुनी हुई सवा सौ करोड़ देशवासियों की चुनी हुई, सवा सौ करोड़ देशवासियों का अपमान है कि नहीं है ...। सवा सौ करोड़ देशवासियों के प्रति अविश्वास है कि नहीं है ...। वीर जवानों के प्रति अविश्वास है कि नहीं ...। उनको हिन्दुस्तान के राजदूत से पूछने के बजाय, भारत के विदेश मंत्रालय से पूछने के बजाय, चीन के राजदूत से पूछ रहे हो कि डोकलाम में क्या चल रहा है।  चीन वाला क्या बताएगा भाई। कोई बताए चीन वाला क्या बताएगा। क्या आपकी समझदारी नहीं है या आपके इरादे में गड़बड़ है। जिनको ये प्राइमरी नॉलेज नहीं है, प्राइमरी नॉलेज। माफ करना मुझे, जिनको ये प्राइमरी नॉलेज नहीं है, क्या देश भरोसा कर सकता है क्या ...।\nऔर इसलिए भाइयों बहनों।\nमुझे विश्वास है हिमाचल में भाजपा की सरकार बनाने वाले हैं। 18 दिसंबर को धूमल जी के नेतृत्व में भारतीय जनता पार्टी की सरकार बनाने वाले हो, ये मुझे पता है। क्योंकि मैं रगों से, मन मंदिर से बिल्कुल जुड़ा हुआ इंसान हूं। लेकिन सरकार बनाना हमारा मकसद नहीं है। सिर्फ कुर्सी कब्जा करना हमारा मकसद नहीं है। हमें हिमाचल के हर नागरिक को साथ लेकर के भव्य, दिव्य हिमाचल बनाना है। आपके सपनों का हिमाचल बनाना है। आपकी आशा, आकांक्षाओं का हिमाचल बनाना है। विकास की नई ऊंचाइयों पर जाने वाला हिमाचल बनाना है। हिन्दुस्तान में टूरिज्म के लिए आन बान शान के साथ हिमाचल आने का मन कर जाए, ऐसा हिमाचल बनाना है। हिमाचल के नौजवान को रोजगार का अवसर मिले, ऐसा हिमाचल बनाना है। हिमाचल, जम्मू कश्मीर फलों फूलों की दुनिया है। मेरा यहां किसान, हमने अभी एक काम किया है जिसका सर्वाधिक लाभ हिमाचल के किसान को मिलने वाला है, जम्मू कश्मीर के किसान को मिलने वाला है। ये जो कंपनियां बोतलों में पानी भरके भेजती है, कलर वाला पानी। कोका कोला, पेप्सी, फेंटा न जाने क्या-क्या नाम है। हमने उन कंपनियों को कहा है कि आप जो कुछ बेच रहे हैं, उसे बेचिए लेकिन उसमें 5 प्रतिशत फलों का पक्का, सच्चा जूस उसमें मिक्स करना पड़ेगा।\nभाइयों बहनों।\nआप मुझे बताइए। ये पानी जो अरबों खरबों का व्यापार होता है। हर बोतल में 5 प्रतिशत सही फ्रूट जूस आएगा तो फलों का बड़ा बाजार खड़ा होगा कि नहीं होगा ...। ये कंपनियां फल लेने के लिए कतार लगाएगी कि नहीं लगाएगी ...। यहां की संतरा हो, यहां का आम हो, यहां लिची हो, उसको तुरंत खेत से मार्केट मिलेगा कि नहीं मिलेगा ...।\nकल भारत सरकार दिल्ली में एक बहुत बड़ा कार्यक्रम करने जा रही है वर्ल्ड फूड इंडिया। हमारे किसान जो उत्पादन करते हैं, उसका वैल्यू एडिशन कैसे हो, फूड प्रोसेसिंग कैसे हो। दुनिया के अनेक देशों को हमने बुलाया है। आइए कारखाने लगाइए और मेरा जो किसान पैदा करता है, उसको दुनिया के बाजार में ले जाने के लिए उसका वैल्यू एडिशन कीजिए, मूल्य वृद्धि कीजिए। ताकि मेरे किसान को सबसे ज्यादा कीमत मिले, सही समय पर मिले। और फसल को संभालने की सुविधा न होने के कारण 20 प्रतिशत, 25 प्रतिशत उसकी जो फसल बर्बाद होती है, उससे भी मेरा किसान बच जाए। इसके लिए कल से दिल्ली में दो दिन का एक बड़ा अभियान पूरे विश्वभर को हमने निमंत्रित किया है।  मेरे देश के किसानों के लिए किया है। और खासकरके हिमाचल और जम्मू कश्मीर के किसानों को उसका फायदा मिलने वाला है।\nभाइयों बहनों।\nहम विकास के मार्ग पर आगे बढ़ने वाले लोग हैं। और उसमें हमें आपका साथ चाहिए, आपका सहकार चाहिए। हिमाचल में विकास की बहुत संभावनाएं है। हिमाचल में रोजगार के लिए अनेक संभावनाएं बनी हुई है। उन्हीं को लेकरके आगे चल रहा हूं। आप सबसे आग्रह कर रहा हूं। आज मेरा चुनाव अभियान का पहला अवसर है। आने वाले दो-तीन दिन में बीच-बीच में आने वाला हूं। अलग-अलग स्थान पर जाउंगा। और मुझे विश्वास है इस बार हिमाचल पुराने सारे रिकार्ड तोड़ देगा और ऐसी मजबूत सरकार बनाएगा। ये मिजाज अपने आप में बता रहा है कि भ्रष्टाचारियों के लिए हिमाचल में कोई जगह नहीं है भाइयों बहनों। मेरे साथ पूरी ताकत से दोनों मुट्ठी बंद करके 9 तारीख को सुबह-सुबह वोट देने का संकल्प लेते हुए मेरे साथ बोलिए। Long live Mother India. Long live Mother India. Long live Mother India. Thank you.\n"