"Share\n\nWe are proud of Sardar Patel's contribution to India before independence and during the early years.\nPM is forgettable: PM Modi\nIndia is proud of our diversity We are home to so many cultures, languages, lifestyles: PM Modi\nVictory to Mother India!\nLet Sardar Sahib be immortal!\nThe young loved ones of Maha Bharati who have come here in large numbers,\nToday is 31st of October, the birthday of Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel. 31st October is also commemorated as the Prime Minister, Smt. Indira Gandhi ji On the birth anniversary of the great Sardar Sahib, let us recall the efforts of the country After independence, this great man through his skill, struggles, strength and supreme devotion towards the nation had saved the country on several occasions of crises at a time when the country was on the verge of disintegration. He had not only steered the country out of problems but also contributed significantly to consolidate the small princely kingdoms that wanted to secede from India after the British had left. He did not let the intensions of the British to eliminate the existence of India by dividing his kingdom. This was the long term vision of Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel that integrated the country into a thread by using his diplomacy and strategies. No efforts were made to acquaint the new generation with Sardar Vallabh Patel. Attempts have been done either to erase their names from the pages of history or to undermine his role. But history is witness to the fact that whether some political ideology or a political party gives him recognition or not, the young generation does not want to forget him As a result, when the opportunity has come before us we commemorated the contributions made by that great personality in a special way. So, we have come up with this campaign - Run for Unity. I am glad that the young generation is participating in the show with great enthusiasm.\nOnce the country's first President, Dr. Rajendra Prasad, who had compelled us to think He had said - \"Today, we have the name 'India' to refer to as our country. Today we have a country called 'India'. This is only because of the administration of Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel's statesmanship and tremendous hold. \" He had more said, \"Despite this, we have forgotten Sardar Sahib.\" Sardar Sahib's contribution to forgetting the first President of India\nIndia is a nation full of diversities. We have time and again reiterated that the unique feature of our country is unity in diversity. This is our minister But unless we acknowledge this specialty of our country and feel proud of it, this will remain just a slogan. We will not be able to use it for nation building Every Indian can feel proud of the fact that India has embraced every cult of the world, every tradition and every ideology in some or the other form. It has a variety of dialects, dressing styles, food habits and beliefs. We have learned from our country for its welfare. Today, even the people from the same traditions and cultural backgrounds are intolerant towards one another and can too kill one other. In the 21st century some people are propagating violence in the world just to be one's beliefs as others' to the superior. On these occasions India can proudly say that we are the Indians who are respected for every religion, culture and culture of the world. This is our legacy and strength This is our path of a bright future. This is our responsibility No one can underestimate the love of a brother and a sister. For the brother and the sister to sacrifice Yet, in order to preserve the sanctity of this ritual, we celebrate Raksha Bandhan We try to improve the relationship of the brother and the sister every year. Similarly, despite the country's unity it is necessary to reinforce the nation's cultural heritage. It is necessary to recall It is necessary to remember\nThe country is vast. Generations keep changing Not every incident Therefore, it is necessary to echo the mantra of unity and search for the path to unity in a country with so much diversity Our country should be one and united It's the responsibility of 125 crore Indians to secure the unity and integrity of the country given to us by Sardar Sahib. So we should think about Sardar Patel Every generation will know Today, on 31st October, we are celebrating the birth anniversary of Sardar Sahib. Eight years later, we will celebrate 150th birth anniversary of Sardar Sahib. What new example of Unity will we set on the 150th birth anniversary of Sardar Sahib? How can we promote this feeling of unity within the people? We will move ahead with these resolutions\nThe year 2022 will mark 75 years of independence Innumerable patriots such as Bhagat Singh, Sukhdev, Rajguru, Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, Mahatma Gandhi and Sardar Patel had lived and died for the country. By the year 2022 when 75 years of independence will be done. We should take a resolution in our hearts as well as that resolution to be fulfilled. Every Indian should have a resolution Every Indian should make great efforts to fulfill those resolutions. That resolution should be the welfare of the society, and the country's pride. We should associate ourselves with such a resolution I believe that the need of the hour is to take a resolution today on the birth anniversary of the great freedom fighter Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel for the year 2022.\nYou all have come in large numbers and have got involved with this event enthusiastically. All the youngsters are also associated with it. I urge you all to take a oath on National Ekta Diwas. Remembering Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, let us take a oath which I am presenting before you and you will repeat after me with a resolution inside your minds. You will repeat after your right hand: \"I will declare that I will dedicate myself to the unity, integrity and sovereignty of the country and will also put my countrymen in it. I take this pledge in the spirit of unity of my country which can be made possible by the foresightedness and contribution of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel. I would like to take the pledge to make my contribution to the country. \"\nVictory to Mother India!"