"PM Modi dedicates the 110km Bidar-Kalaburgi railway track to the nation\nWe have started direct benefit transfer scheme \u0026 successfully eliminated middlemen: PM\nPM Modi slams Congress, says it only believes in 'Atkana', Latkana '\u0026' Bhatkana '\nPM Modi said lakhs of shell companies have been de-registered, post demonetisation\nMany initiatives started by the citizens, says the PM\nMr. Jadurappa, President of the Bhartiya Janta Party, and my senior partner in the Parliament sitting on the stage, Mr. Ananth Kumar Ji, the Minister of the Council of Ministers at the Center, Shri Sadanand ji, Mr. Piyush Goyal, Minister of Railways of India, Mr. Jagdishji, Ishwarappa G, my partner Ramesh ji of the Council of Ministers at the Center, Ananth Kumar Hegde ji, MP Mr Prahalad Joshi, Shri Bhagwant Khua, MLA KV Shay Ppa, Mr. Raghunath Mlkapur, Mr. Lord Chauhan, sitting on stage all senior Excellencies, MLA VJ Patil G and so on come to a large number of my dear brothers and sisters.\nAll of you come to bless such a large number, for this I am very thankful to your heart. Just a while ago, I had the opportunity to get the departure of the Kulbargi rail from Bidar. For a number of years, you had the dream that Bidar would get such rail connectivity so that Bengaluru too would be closer to it and Mumbai too was close to it. When Atal Bihari Vajpayeeji was the Prime Minister of the country, then the decision was made concerning this rail line. That almost 20 years has passed since that point.\nAfter 20 years, on one side, I am happy that let's run the train, after all, the train started running. The pain on the other hand is how did we drive the country? The project which was going to be completed in less than 400 crores of expenditure, increased its cost by 300 percent. The work that was to take place in three years, it took 20 years to complete. For many years the entire project was stuck. Half incomplete work, something started at the time of the previous government, they would also have taken seriously. If the required amount was distributed then the project would have been completed at least seven years before today. But that did not even happen. When we gave you responsibility for us. Your MPs are our great personalities. The whole Karnataka group, all the MPs used to come together to push the railline forward, move forward. 60-65 percent of the work was done after the arrival of our government.\nI also congratulate Yeddurappa when he was the chief minister and the government sitting in Delhi had lifted his hand. Then Yedurappa ji showed his mood swings to Delhi. And he said that Karnataka will spend fifty percent of the money but I need this rail. He made a big decision. But then the speed at work should probably be the way to do that government work. People should think that a lot of work is going on. Congress has the culture of working culture, hanging, scolding and wandering the work. You will find thousands of such projects in India. They used to get started so that they could get a political mileage, then they would have been hanged. Sometimes they used to go astray.\n\nbrothers Sisters.\nIf the country has to move forward, then this scam, hanging, wandering. Without stopping this methodology, the country can not achieve its stated goal. And we have pioneered. No ruckus will run, neither hang up nor do not wander. When my responsibility in Delhi came, I would have just taken a review of what works, what is happening, what is happening. And then I say, tell me when my brother will be. So most officers answer sir. No-will not be too quick. No-no, will start immediately.\nI would say, immediately, no-no tell a date. In the time frame, responsibility should be fixed. If public funds are to open accounts then they should open in the deadline. Every poor bank account of the country should be opened. We have opened\nThere should be toilet for children in government schools. There should be toilet for the girls. They are, walk, see, do. This path was not approved by us. We took the decision. Schools in Hindustan should have toilet within the time limit. And we made it\n18 thousand villages were forced to live in the 18th century. There was no electricity You can imagine, my country in the 21st century. 18 thousand villages still live in the dark. I asked the officers. He said, 7 years, it will take 8 years. I keep on listening. I said, do some less. Speak, no sir. It is very difficult. I said, no-no, do not reduce anything. And they looked at me, did not answer anything.\nOnce I declared it on 15th August from the Red Fort. Give electricity to 18 thousand villages in a thousand days. Then the whole department was found. Thousands of days have not happened but electricity has reached more than 15 thousand villages. And in thousands of days, it will also reach the remaining villages.\nThere is no shortage of those who shed tears in the name of farmers in this country. If the farmer gets water, then he can produce gold from the soil. But you will be surprised. These dacoities, hanging, wandering people left many water projects, many reservoirs, somewhere incomplete in this country. Wherever the reservoir was built, the water was not prepared. Wherever the water has been filled, the water has not been used to reach the water. Stopping, hanging, wandering, this is his work style. We took the lead. Prime Minister Agriculture Irrigation Scheme How did the farmer get water? In the first phase, 90 people who were stranded, hung up and wandered 90 projects. The task of completing it at the cost of thousands of crores is going on fast. And water reached the farmers' farm, for this we have taken the initiative.\nPrime Crop Insurance Scheme Insurance plans came but the farmer's faith did not flourish. Did not want to join him. While addressing the farmer, solving his problems, such a package was needed so that in the true sense, the farmer should get protection in times of crisis. I congratulate our MP Mr. Khwaja ji. They talked about the prime minister's crop insurance scheme to every farmer's house in this area. Motivated the farmers. Over one lakh farmers joined this scheme. And they got compensation of one hundred and fifty million rupees under this scheme. The farmers got a hundred and fifty million in this area.\nbrothers Sisters.\nFor whom is the government? If a rich person becomes sick, then what is the need of the government? Hundreds of doctors will stand in line at his house. The air ambulance will be taken to the largest hospital. The government needs the poor to get medicines in the hospital in the disease, worry about it, it is the responsibility of the government. If the son of Amir is to be read, a large teacher will be queuing up in his house to teach the child. The government's responsibility for the poor is to run a good school. Government is for the poor And that's why we made as many plans as we All these plans The poor and the poor should sit at the last end. We emphasize on that.\nYou will be surprised. I started a progress program. In that progress program, I sit with the Chief Secretary of all the states, all the secretaries of the Government of India, with video conferencing. And I stand on the hanging of the old-fashioned, suspended project. And I ask how long it has been hanging for so long, why has it been hanged. First spent three hundred and four hundred crores and no work was done in 20 years. Why did this happen. There is no answer in the government office. Thirty-thirty, forty-four-year-old project, declared in Parliament, funds allocated in the budget, Netaji has laid the foundation stone, photographs have been printed in the newspaper, but the project hangs on paper. I sit every month, remove old things.\nMy brothers and sisters of Bidar You will be happy, working hard So far, I have brought these hanging, stuck, abandoned projects to more than Rs 9 lakh crore. More work started The work which should have been in thousand rupees. Today the cost of the cost has risen to a rising rupee. This work of Gunhawi is done by the Criminal Negals, Old Government.\nAnd so the brothers sisters\nIt is not that the country does not have the strength. It is not that people of the country have no dreams. It is not that the people of the country are not ready to pursue the country by sacrifice and penance. All possibilities exist but that method was such that the policy was paralysis, due to which no work was completed.\nbrothers Sisters.\nYou would be surprised how these people played the country. There is a bigger task in the railway, railway, double line. How did the previous government, in the last three years, do that work in the first three years? In the last three years, in the last three years, the new railway line was added 11 hundred km new railway line. We have put 21 hundred km new railwayline in the next 3 years. That is, I have worked at almost double speed.\nOne task is to proceed in the railway, doubling, double line. Like we did double the double line, do double line, so that there is no traffic jam, go to the train, to get the train on time. The previous government used to work 13 hundred km of docking in three years. We showed 26 hundred km in three years. We did double the work also. In order to modernize the railways of the country in the same way, reducing the power of diesel, rail tracks running on the rail lines, engine engagements, electrification work, in this work of electrification, the old government has 25 hundred Did the work of km.\nYou will be happy for the young people of Bidar. We completed 4 thousand 3 hundred km in three years. It also takes money to do the work, it seems to people to do this work. The young people get new opportunities to do new jobs. The first person got work, the double people get the job. Money is also used for the right people in the right place. Then the country progresses.\nWe started Direct Benefit Transfer. Earlier, different schemes were run in the name of the poor. But it does not seem that the poor would have got it or did not get it. Such widows went to the pension, the child was not born, but she became a widow in the government office and she used to get money from the government treasury.\nWe started the Direct Transfer Benefit Scheme. Start verification from Aadhaar number. And not yet completed Has started so far. Only then can you apply it on very few schemes. My dear brothers and sisters You will be happy. How much was stolen, how money was used to kill people. How did steal How was the right of the poor to be robbed? We resulted in direct transfer benefit. The one who is right, now he has started getting money. Those who were middlemen, have become their friends. Remove the intermediaries, we have successfully carried forward this campaign. What is the result of it, you know. 57 thousand crore rupees, these figures are not low. 57 thousand crore rupees which was stolen before reaching the government treasury, we have saved all 57 thousand crore rupees which will be delivered to the people who are entitled. Now tell me brother These 57 thousand crores who used to go in pocket, now stop going to their pocket. Their shops closed, their brokerage was closed. Now such people will love Modi ... Will you ... Will not anger on Modi or will ... Where you get the chance, we will not blame Modi or will ...\nThis is not the reason why Modi is attacking in the day, that is not because I have done some damage to the country. The reason for this is that I have suffered a huge loss of his and his followers. You tell me Should the country's money be looted .... Should the country's money be looted .... Should the money be given in the hands of the dishonest ... It should be stopped or should not be stopped .... Should not fight or should fight it .... Your blessings are with me .... Your blessings are with me .... Your blessings are with me .... This fight will move forward. The people of the country should get the pie-pie details of the people of the country.\nAnd so the brothers sisters We are speeding up the development journey. The youth of the country became an interpunior. He is not looking for employment, my young person should be employer. We implemented the money scheme. The youth of the country who wants to stand on their feet with that money scheme. Promising daughters who want to move forward on their own Without collateral guarantees, we started giving money, loans to such youths from banks. You will be happy Crores of young people got loans from the bank. They started new businesses. And at the cost of millions of crores rupees, they have successfully managed to provide employment to crores of youth.\nThe village poor farmer, his life changed, his life changed. In that direction, we are working towards taking the country forward. Infrastructure is a very important role for the country to pursue. Road network is needed, rail network is needed, highway should also be given, they should also come. Railways should also, Air should also, Water should also It is needed for progress in today's era.\nJust three days ago in the cabinet, we took a very important decision. 2022, when independence will be 75 years. About 84 thousand km The work of 84 thousand km roads will be taken in hand. At the cost of Rs 7 lakh crore, these roads will be set up in the entire country.\nWe are working towards reviving the new airport in highways, railways and the country. Under the flying plan, small small town People travel by air from there. Our dream is that, who wears airplanes, they should also fly in the airplane. और ये काम हम करके रहेंगे। देश में टायर टू, टायर थ्री सिटी, छोटे-छोटे शहर उनको हवाई जहाज के नेटवर्क से जोड़ने का हमारा इरादा है। आने वाले एक साल में सैकड़ों नए जहाज जुड़ने वाले हैं भारत में।\nYou can imagine. आज ट्रैफिक में ग्रोथ हो रहा है, उसका लाभ सामान्य वर्ग के, मध्यम वर्ग के, निम्न वर्ग के परिवार को मिलने वाला है। हम जब भ्रष्टाचार के खिलाफ लड़ाई लड़ रहे हैं। कांग्रेस पार्टी संवेदनाहीन बन गई है। मैं हैरान था। गुजरात में भयंकर बाढ़ आई थी। शायद ऐसी बाढ़ पच्चीस-तीस साल में पहले नहीं आई थी। उसी समय राज्यसभा में चुनाव चल रहा था। गुजरात के लोग बाढ़ में मर रहे थे। खेत बह चुके थे। पशु मर चुके थे। किसान तबाह था, गांव बर्बाद था। उनके सारे चुने हुए विधायक बंगलुरू में मौज कर रहे थे। और उसी समय एक मंत्री के यहां रेड पड़ गई इनकम टैक्स की। नोटों की गड्डियां की गड्डियां मिल गई। देश की जनता नोटों के थैले भर भरके कारोबार चलाने वालों को माफ नहीं करने वाली है।\nरह रहकरके उनको याद आता है। ये डिमोनेटाइजेशन किया, हमारा लूट गया, लूट गया। महीने में दो-तीन बार तो वो चिल्लाए बिना रहते नहीं कि इतना लूट गया इन लोगों का कि वे बड़े परेशान हैं। आप हैरान होंगे। नोटबंदी के कारण जो नोटें बैंकों में जमा हुई। उसकी पूछ मैंने उस समय भी भाषण में कहा था। कौन कहां से आता है, कहां जाता है, कहां रखता है। उसको बराबर ध्यान में रखा है।\n3 लाख कंपनियां। आप हैरान हो जाओगे भाइयों। 3 लाख कंपनियां बोगस कंपनियां हाथ में आई है, जो ये काला धन, बैंकों में लेन-देन करते थे, हवाला करते रहते थे। एक-एक कंपनी एक हजार बैंक खातों को चलाती है। 3 लाख कंपनियों पर  हमने ताला लगा दिया लेकिन इस देश में कोई मोदी का पुतला नहीं जलाया। कैसे पापी लोग होंगे। 3 लाख कंपनियां बंद हो जाए। मोदी हिम्मत के साथ ताले लगा दे।\nदेश को लूटने वालों को कटघरे में लाकरके खड़ा कर दे लेकिन कोई आवाज नहीं उठ रही है भाइयों बहनों। ये तीन लाख कंपनियों को बंद किया। अभी टेक्नीक की मदद से अफसर लोग लगे हैं। तीन लाख में से 5 हजार कंपनियों को बारीकी से जांच की। आप जानकर चौंक जाओगे। 5 हजार कंपनियों की जांच में 4000 करोड़ रुपए का कारोबार बेईमानी से चलता हुआ पकड़ा गया है। ये पैसा इस देश के गरीब का है कि नहीं है ....। ये पैसा इस देश के नागरिक का है कि नहीं है ...। ये पैसा ईमानदार नागरिकों का है कि नहीं है ...।\nये पैसा ईमानदारी से कमाने वाले नागरिकों का है कि नहीं है ...। क्या मैं इसे लुटने दूं ...। इसे लुटने दूं ...। और इसलिए मैं लड़ाई लड़ रहा हूं भाइयों बहनों।\nहम देश में जीएसटी लाए। ये जीएसटी के सारे निर्णय में देश की सभी सरकारें, राज्य सरकारें भागीदार होती है। सभी राजनीतिक दल भागीदार होते हैं। निर्णय प्रक्रिया पूर्णतया संघीय ढांचे के तहत हो रही है। और मेरे देश के सभी व्यापारी आलम ने जीएसटी का विरोध नहीं किया है। उसको स्वीकार किया है। उसने अगर शिकायत की है तो उसमें जो छोटी-मोटी कमियां है, उसकी की है। और वो भी हमारे ध्यान में लाता है कि साहब ये तो ठीक है लेकिन ये थोड़ा सुधारना पड़ेगा। हम भी व्यापारी आलम से कहते हैं, आप सुझाव दीजिए। ये मेरी सरकार खुले मन से चलती है। हम सारे सुधार करने के लिए तैयार हैं।\nमैंने ये भी कहा है सरकार को। अब जो ईमानदारी का माहौल बना है। कई व्यापारी हैं जो पहले बिना बिल काम करते थे। वो कहते हैं कि हमें अब ऐसा काम नहीं करना है। हमको कानून और नियम से चलना है लेकिन उनको डर रहता है कि अगर वह कानून और नियम का पालन करें और बाबू लोग आकरके अगर ये कहे कि 2016-17 में इतना हुआ है मतलब 2010-11 में हुआ होगा, 2011-12 को में इतना हुआ, 12-13 में इतना हुआ होगा, 13-14 में इतना हुआ होगा, 14-15 में इतना होग। अब तुम्हारा कच्चा चिट्ठा खोलते हैं। मैं व्यापारी आलम को विश्वास देता हूं कि कोई भी बाबू, कोई भी सरकारी अफसर आपके पुराने दफ्तर को नहीं खोलेगा।\nजो देश के लिए आगे बढ़ना चाहते हैं, इनको पूरी सुरक्षा दी जाएगी भाइयों बहनों। भूत काल में हो गया सो हो गया। अब हमें नए सिरे से सही राह पर चलने वालों का स्वागत है। उनको सुरक्षा दी जाएगी। देश में ईमानदारी की ओर जाने का एक माहौल पैदा हुआ है। और सरकार का काम है उन सबको मदद करना। और इसलिए मैं हर छोटे-मोटे हर व्यापारी को विश्वास दिलाता हूं कि आप चिंतामुक्त हो जाइए। फिर भी कोई बाबू आपको परेशान करता है, गड़बड़ करता है तो आप मुझे चिट्ठी लिखिए। आपकी लड़ाई मैं लडूंगा।\nभाइयों बहनों।\nमैं जानता हूं कि कई लोगों को परेशानियां होती है लेकिन उन परेशानियों के बावजूद भी हम आज आगे बढ़ना चाहते हैं। बीदर एक ऐसी धरती है, जिस धरती से सरदार पटेल को बार-बार याद किया जाता है। जब देश आजाद हुआ और आजाद हिन्दुस्तान जश्न मना रहा था तब यहां पर वो सद्भाग्य प्राप्त नहीं हुआ था। निजाम की सल्तनत आजादी की राह में रोड़े डाल रही थी। तब ये सरदार वल्लभ भाई पटेल थे, जिन्होंने साम दाम दंड भेद की ताकत का परिचय कराया। और इस पूरे भूभाग को स्वतंत्र कराने का बीड़ा उठाया। और यहां के लोग, और खासकरके गौराटा। कितने लोगों ने बलिदान दिए, कितने लोगों ने लड़ाई लड़ी।\nमैं खास करके भारतीय जनता पार्टी के कार्यकर्ताओं को, यहां के युवा मोर्चा के कार्यकर्ताओं को धन्यवाद देता हूं कि गौराटा में शहीदों का भव्य स्मारक निर्माण करने में लगे हुए हैं। इतिहास को कभी भूलने नहीं देना चाहिए। इतिहास को हमेशा जीने का प्रयास करना चाहिए। भाइयों बहनों। आज इतनी बड़ी संख्या में आकरके आपने स्वागत सम्मान किए, आशीर्वाद दिये, प्यार दिये। मैं आपका ह्रदय से बहुत-बहुत आभार व्यक्त करता हूं।\nमेरे साथ पूरी ताकत से बोलिए। Long live Mother India. दो मुट्ठी बंद करके पूरी ताकत से बोलिए। Long live Mother India. Long live Mother India. Vande Matram. Vande Matram. Vande Matram. वंदे मारतम।"