"Share\n\nAdi Shankaracharya removed evils from the society, and prevented future generations: PM Modi\nAdi Shankaracharya's penance still exists in the present form of Indian culture - a culture that accepts all, and moves forward together: PM Modi\nIndia's cultural heritage holds, says PM\nIn India, the stress has always been preventing the exploitation of nature: PM Modi\nOver 3 crore LPG connections have been distributed through the Ujjwala scheme: PM Modi\nThe need of the hour is that efforts made to free India from evils such as illiteracy, ignorance, malnutrition, black money and corruption: PM\nAll the famous people, ladies and gentlemen associated with Vedanta Bharati,\nIt is a old belief that whenever a Mentra is chanted together in a single voice at a place, a powerful energy is produced which engulfs the mind, the body and the soul. Nad-Brahma has accepted in that very context. Even modern science does not deny the power of enchantment of the mantras Today I can feel the same energy by these wonderful mantras of Dakshinamurthy and Soundarya in this environment. This divine sensation comprises of not only the nectar but also a mystery and an indomitable desire to unify with God\nEvery Mantra of Soundarya reflects a different power and a different feeling. That spirit and power is filling us with the new consciousness, new energy in this moment. I am fortunate that I am a person who has been associated with Navratri for years and Soundarya Lahari is a part of my Navratri celebrations.\nBowing down to the supreme Sri Sri Shankar Bharati Mahaswami, I would like to express my gratitude to Vedanta Bharti. They invited me to join the program here. I am fortunate to have got this opportunity to experience the lessons of Soundarya Lahari under Shri Shri Shankar Bharti Mahaswami ji. With the blessings of Swamiji Soundarya Lahari has completed 10 years.\nCongratulations to you and best wishes from my side I believe that you are a part of this sacred task. Brothers and sisters, about 8 to 10 days ago I went to Kedarnath. The gates of the temple were about to be closed. I was fortunate that I had the opportunity to pay obeisant to Mahadev. Whenever I go to Kedarnath, a question arises in my mind continuously. How did Adi Shankaracharya reach this inaccessible place thousands of years ago?\nEven in this period of modern technology, it is not so easy to go there How did Adi Shankara gone there thousands of years ago? Which is that eternal energy and power that motivated Shankaracharya to travers between the whole country and the establishment of 4 Maths in the country of the young age of 32? He made a great effort to integrate India like a garland.\nAdi Shankaracharya ji dedicated his life to strengthen our spiritual traditions. Adi Shankaracharya ji analyysed very minutely all the wrongs that had crept in our traditions and at that age he had showed courage to criticize the evils within us. By putting forward forward arguments, he has made the future generations from deviating to a wrong path. He had stressed the importance of the tradition of worshiping Shiva-Shakti-Vishnu-Ganapati and Kumar together. He re-established the Indian tradition once again Adi Shankaracharya ji integrated the whole of India with the knowledge of the Vedas and Upanishads and connected with him. He made the scriptures as the medium. He assimilated all the good things of different faiths and philosophies and inspired people to follow the path of knowledge and devotion. He created Soundarya for the future generations. It turns out to be a institution with which everyone can associate himself In Soundarya Lahari it was ensured that no distinction between the different forms of God was made while propitiating the God\n\"Ekam sadvipra Bahadha vadanti\"\nThe blessings obtained from Soundarya Lahari are also showered on everyone without any discrimination. It is believed that knowledge, wealth, health and everything The penance by Adi Shankaracharya is still present in the same form in the Indian culture - the culture which is everything to assimilates and everyone unites This culture is also the basis for a new India; a culture that believes in the Mantra of 'Sabka Saath Sabka Vikas' (development of all).\nBrothers and sisters, Shri Shankar Bharati told Mahaswamiji that his life will spread the message of Adi Shankaracharya to the people. Considering the whole world as a family, Adi Shankaracharya's message of 'ekatma worship' has been reaching the people through Vedanta Bharti. They are associated with Vedas and Upanishads in different languages ​​and with many publications and books. And they are continuing with this trend\nFriends, the more the people read about the spiritual glory and the ancient messages of India, the more the world will get it out of benefit. The humanity is confused is passing through a crisis, such as the fight over presenting oneself as the greater than the others. Adi Shankaracharya gave the theory of Advaita or Oneness, where there is no existence of Dvaita. There is no chance of conflict where there is no dualism In different parts of the world there is an obstruction in the path of life the countries set their eyes on India In this way, all the problems of the world can be resolved by our traditions. We have inherited the traditions in our life.\nCo-founder Cum nine bhaktuka\nCum-semen The brightest title\nPeace: Peace: Peace.\nLet everyone be nurtured and let everyone be strengthened We never say that let 'me be' nurtured or let 'me be powerful. In the temples we pray that everyone should be nurtured and be strengthened This is our tradition No one should be jealous of the other\nToday on this occasion I want to mention a special event of Vedanta Bharati which is Vivekadipani and 'Vivek utkarshani contest'. Very few people did know that efforts were made to weaken this interaction with Adi Shankaracharya, our spiritual traditions and culture. Attempts were destroyed, but no one could end this legacy for thousands of years. It is said-\nDeen-e-Elahi's fleet fleet,\nThe map, which reached in Aksai Aalam.\nFive hundred and seven seas,\nNo hesitation in peace and no hesitation in this.\nHe is in the dongaahab-e.\nHowever, the long years of slavery had influenced our spiritual knowledge which today is largely confined to books. It's safe only The kind of effort that should have been made after independence was not made. If today's young man is reading everything from his mobile phone then how can he get the traditional knowledge hidden in the books? Who will let this great heritage? So, speaking students of our Indian culture and values ​​through the program Vivekadipani and through quiz competition is a great initiative by Swamiji. This is a great service\nThe ultimate goal for any person in Indian philosophy is to attain liberation. The philosophies of the Vedas and Upanishads believe that 'vyakti' or individual, 'samasti' or society and 'srishthi' or universe or creation and 'parmeshti' or 'God' are all interconnected. We do not know This philosophy recognizes the planet as 'mother earth'. It says that Earth belongs to all and Earth is our mother. This philosophy gave birth to 'vasudhaiva-kutumbakam'.\nSimilarly, Soundarya Lahari also has a Mantra- \"\" Fruit: Apiwancha Paramatmam \"which means the earth provides us more than what we demand. Such a great truth is the simple word, we have enough water, air, river, grains , minerals, plantations, everything from the nature.\nThis is our tradition It emphasizes not to abuse the nature Exploitation of nature is considered as a crime here. Only 'Milking of nature' is the human right. Our tradition has taught us this You have always seen this in our governance and administration\nBrothers and sisters, India is a country that has been persistently striving for justice, dignity, opportunity and prosperity not only for the whole world. You must be aware that International Solar The government is constantly trying to promote solar energy both nationally and internationally. Even today, in the plans of the center, you will get a glimpse of this desire of protecting the nature. The kind of work that is going on in the fields of solar power, wind power and hydropower was never seen before\nThe world's largest renewable capacity expansion program is in the country - the country of Soundarya Lahari.\nThe government is aiming at achieving 40% of its energy needs by non-fossil fuel based renewable energy by the year 2030. By the year 2022 when India will celebrate 75 years of independence, the government aims to achieve 175 Gigawatts .... I am not talking about Megawatt Megawatt is a matter of past Today we are talking about Gigawatts; Gigawatt - for the production of renewable energy Due to the government's efforts more than 22000 MW of renewable energy capacity has been increased and integrated with the power grid in the past 3 years. The previous government could add only 12,000 megawatts to the renewable energy capacity in the last 3 years of its tenure while it had spent Rs.4000 crore on the renewable energy in the last 3 years of its tenure. After coming to power we have spent about 11,000 crore rupees in this sector within 3 years.\nAt present our country has the power generation capacity of about 300 GW. It includes the electricity generation from all types of sources like coal, water, solar and wind energy. You will be surprised to know that if the resources available in the country is fully utilized, then 750 GW of electricity can be generated only by solar power. We should use our potential effectively\nCeaseless efforts are being made in this direction. For this, solar parks are being set up across the country; building bye laws have been changed in order to promote rooftop solar program, loans are available for solar plants in government buildings; These plants for solar plants have been given infrastructure and long term loans. Bengaluru is in a way the land of start-ups. The youngsters here are associated with innovation and inventions. I want to invite the youngsters of Bengaluru who are associated with start-ups. Come let us begin a movement for clean cooking. How do we make a cheap and affordable cooking stove by using solar energy? The old models of solar cookers are not suitable for the modern families. They want a gas-like oven Even this is possible today There's a huge market in this field for today's youngsters and start-ups. Clean cooking would be a boon for old mothers. The forest dwellers will not have to forest in order to get fuel. They can cook their food by using solar energy. This will also save time in cooking We should strive towards those innovations that will benefit the country You will see the level of impact on the day when all the institutions of the country will be able to fulfill their energy needs themselves.\nFriends, I want to demonstrate the fact as to the new approach is the country's money and also protecting the environment. Brothers and sisters, the LED bulb which used to be used for Rs. 350 now costs only Rs. 40-45 under the new UJALA scheme. Till date more than 27 crore LED bulbs have been distributed throughout the country. In Karnataka as well around 1.75 crore bulbs have been distributed. Even if we consider savings of Rs. 250 per bulb then the country's middle class has saved nearly 7,000 crore rupees. Moreover, these bulbs are saving electricity bill in every household Whoever has LED bulbs in his home will surely see a reduction in his electricity bill Therefore, the use of energy has also declined. The middle class families have saved nearly 14,000 crore rupees in one year. Naturally, the use of LEDs This means that 7000 MW less energy is needed in the installed capacity. If a 7000MW plant was installed, then that would have cost of at least 35 to 40 thousand crore rupees. By saving electricity, we could save the country 35- 40 thousand crore rupees This was achieved only by changing the approach of working through a plan. The money that was saved by the middle class by purchasing LED bulbs and by reduction in electricity consumption amounts to approximately 55 to 60 thousand crore rupees. The middle class families have benefited\nBecause of the government's efforts, now the local bodies that are replacing the street lights with LED bulbs are also benefiting financially. I am the MP of Banaras and I helped Banaras save about 15 crore Rupees which is being used for other schemes. It is estimated that a Tier-II city is able to save approximately 10 to 15 crore Rupees.\nThese funds are now being spent in the development of the city. With the efforts of the government there is a possibility of saving the expenditure incurred on the import of petrol and diesel from abroad.\nBrothers and sisters, petrol and diesel have no future. These natural resources will exhaust one day. The future belongs to solar energy, wind energy and hydro energy. We can do it easily in our country because we are the people who believe in preserving nature and worshiping nature. Sacrificing our lives for protecting the trees has been in our tradition. We can also We have been taught to be kind and loving toward the living beings since our childhood Every day after the Aarti we chant the shanti mantra- \"Botanical: Peace you: peace\" (Vanaspatayaha shanti aapaha shanti)\nBut this is true that this tradition has been marred over the years. Today the saints have to increase their efforts in this regard. Only if we are able to bring the texts, that has been our traditions, in practice we will be able to fight. Our entire Rig Veda is dedicated to this.\nBrothers and sisters, I also want to give example of Yajna Yojana. Through this scheme, the government has so far supplied gas connections to more than 3 crore poor women This woman did not depend on either wood or kerosene The government scheme has not only made their lives easy but also provided a safe environment.\nOur country has gone through many changes over the years. Over the years, some evils also creep in the society. But a special feature of our society is that whenever such evils have crept in, someone or the other from within the society has taken it away. Our great saints have spent their lives in enlightening us. There was a time when the leader was under our country's saints\nOne of the unique features of our country is that from time to time we got great Saints like Adi Shankaracharya, Sant Vasaveshwar, who had identified the evils of salvation\nThat time demands that we talk about the country of our religion; we should talk of Bharat Mata In order to liberate India from the stranglehold of evils like illiteracy, ignorance, malnutrition, black money and corruption, the saints and the spiritual society should also increase their efforts.\nWith everyone's participation and concerted efforts Everyone will develop\nI once again congratulate all of you on the chanting of Soundarya Lahari and on completing 10 years of continuous spiritual practice. I also bow down to the spiritual leaders who have been engaged in the past 10 years and I thank them for that penance\nI bow down to Sri Sri Shankar Bharti Mahaswami ji and end my speech here.\nOnce again I feel privileged to be present here on this auspicious occasion. It is a blessed moment for me I wish to continue with some good work for my blessings.\nThanks a lot !!"