"\nPeople have no expectations from the Congress party: PM\nWhy are Congress leaders lending their voice to those who want Azadi in Kashmir? PM is PM: PM\nCongress is disconnected with the aspirations of our country: PM Modi\nLong live Mother India. All of you in such a large number, all of you come here with such a large number and so much excitement and excitement. I am very grateful to you. It looks like the people of Karnataka are not ready to wait for more elections. Like other states of the country, Karnataka also wants to connect with the fast pace of development tour. And after the coming election, Karnataka will also be involved in the mainstream of development, it is my complete confidence.\nNow the country does not expect any hope from the Congress party. I am surprised that those who have ruled in the center for so many years. The country's internal security, national security, these were the people's responsibility. Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel who made important decisions for the unity and integrity of the country. Thousands of soldiers of this country had bought martyrdom for Kashmir. To protect the motherland every moment, the soldiers of the country offered their sacrifices to protect the innocent citizens of Kashmir. No state of India will be like this, where the brave warriors did not sacrifice for Kashmir. And suddenly, those who were sitting in power till yesterday, they will suddenly get a u turn. Make a statement with shamelessness. Mix your tone with the freedom of Kashmir.\n\nI want to ask from the brothers sisters of Bangalore\nAre there people who make their politics on the sacrifices of the heroes of the country, doing trivial politics? Can such people be benefited from such people .... It is possible .... It is possible .... They are not ashamed to say this to them. The Congress party will have to answer every minute of this statement. The heroes who have sacrificed, the mother who sacrificed herself for his reddened country, the mother asks for a reply. The sister who has sacrificed her brother for the country, the sister asks the answer. Those children who have sacrificed their father for the country, they ask for an answer. But the Congress party should use shamelessly to use language that separatists do on Kashmir's soil. Use the language that is spoken in Pakistan.\nbrothers Sisters.\nThis is the land of Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel. And we will not compromise with the unity and integrity of the country and will not even allow it to happen. Surgical Strike happened. The brave soldiers of the country sacked the enemy's teeth. There was a moment of pride for all India. The Congress party could not even get it. Tomorrow, after hearing the statement of the Congress party leader, I can imagine what was the reason for the outrage against the surgical strike. The valor of the brave soldiers of the country, the diplomatic power of India, the restraint of India, the patience of India, the whole world saw in Dokalam. How powerful China is, but India has proved itself on the basis of patience. Today, the power of India, which is seeing the whole world with glorious eyes, is looking at. This was the day when the people of Congress were broadcasting false reports in the name of Dokalam.\nbrothers Sisters.\nThe people who lived so long on the power, so much faith in this thought that these people came out of this way grew.\nbrothers Sisters.\nIt seemed that after a debacle after one, some sensible people in the Congress party would try to get the Congress on the right path. But seeing one incident after another, I am hearing a statement after one, looking at irresponsible behavior. Then it seems that now the Congress has not improved, it has decided. Varna defeats people to learn, understand, correct mistakes. Their haughtiness is on the seventh heaven. They are cut off from the people of the country. The hopes of the country have been sorted out of aspirations. The result of this is that this type of language is spoken today.\nbrothers Sisters.\nI have come here on the occasion of a spiritual program. I got an opportunity to go to the shrine on the morning and in the evening I am going to an important rail project. You received such a large amount of respect and welcome the welcome. I express my gratitude to your heart. Thank you.\n"