"\nIndia is youthful and therefore, we must harness our demographic dividend: PM Modi\nWe also need to give importance to living in harmony with nature and not think about short term gains: PM\nEvery rupee, every resource from the government is devoted for the welfare of Indians: PM Modi\nDear brothers and sisters present here in large numbers,\nI am fortunate that today I also got the opportunity to have a audience with all of them. Last week I was at Kedarnath Ji. What kind of work was done by Adi Shankaracharya Today, I once again got the opportunity to come to the feet of Lord Manjunatheshwar in the south.\nI do not know whether it is suitable or not for anybody Virendra Hegde Ji? His sacrifices, his hard work, his life; He has given his life to the motto of One Life One Mission at the Tender age of 20. And today I heard it quite sometime that is it's natural, is it so? Such a comprehensive life, I think that as a person However, I consider myself very fortunate while doing this honoring him due to the dignity of the office of 1.25 billion people\nIn public life, that too at an spiritual place by having a common theme in both ideas and deeds, with the same kind of sacredness in mind, both in speech and in deeds, and in order to achieve same purpose as was decided before; And not for self but for everyone; not forself but for us; not for me but for others; leading this kind of life; one has to go through a test every single moment Every single word spoken by the person, every single thing is done by every parameter, on every scale. And that is why this is the hard work of fifty years, it is in itself a cause for inspiration for millions and millions of people like me and that is why I respect you bow down to you\nAnd when I got the opportunity to honor him so easily and I have seen this thing and whenever I have met Hegade Ji the smile on his face never disappears. The burden of that fierce task is not visible on his face. Easy going and simple and as it has said in the Gita the embodiment of fulfillment of one of the duties with complete detachment. And when I was honoring him then he naturally told me that Modi is not this honor for completing fifty years; You are asking me a guarantee for the next fifty years. This kind of respect and honor is being given, the blessings of God are with him; The legacy of 800 years old has worked hard with him and despite all these things leading the life on the path of one's duty, I think we can learn only from Hegde Ji. Be it the issue of Yoga or be it of education or health or be it the issue of rural development or the welfare of poor people or the people of the welfare of the issues. Virendra Hegde has taken ahead all these things through his skills, adapting all these things as per the time, place and circumstances. And I have no hesitation in saying this thing that whatever programs for skill development are being launched in the United States, their methods, the way of working and how they are implemented and their models of a bigger part obtained by the experiments conducted here by Dr. Virendra Ji Hegde\nToday, in the 21st century, even the most prosperous nations Skill development is being considered as a prime sector. A country like India which has 800 million people, 65% of the population, below the age of 35 years and where we take pride on the demographic dividend; In such a country skill is not only a mean for livelihood. But it is also promoting the development of skills in order to reach the glorious dreams of our country, for developing the power in your arms that is required to meet the demands of the skilled manpower all over the world in the coming days. Developing that kind of strength and skills in your hands, Dr. Virendra Hegde Ji had anticipated this thing many years ago and he worked in that direction.\nAnd, I, what kind of pilgrim centers should be in our country in order to speed up this important work? And what is the purpose of communities, faith and traditions? Unfortunately, the kind of studies that should have been done in our country has not been done. Today, it is being discussed about what kind of top business schools are there and they have also ranked. Top Magazines However, today when I have come here at such a holy place like Dharmasthala, when I have come here at the feet of Shri Virendra Hegde Ji then I invite the top universities of the world, I invite the top universities of the world and also of India that the way we conduct the surveys on hospitals, we study their way of working, we conduct survey on engineering colleges; time and time demands that our universities should also conduct studies on how our sage tradition created institutions, how it took them forward and how those values ​​are generation to generation? It should be studied that what is their process for making decisions, what kind of financial management they have and how they have adopted the transparency and integration and how they have changed time according to changes? And how they have kept the inspirations of these institutions as per the requirement of time and period? And I believe that there is only one or two but thousands of institutions, thousands of organizations, thousands of organizations that have been providing inspirations to millions and millions of people, that inspire them to come out of self and lead the life for the humanity. . And among them, this Dharmasthala, this legacy of 800 years, is also a example in itself. It would be better if the universities in the country They should see\nThe world will be wondering what kind of institutions we had? How the system functioned? How the tradition of spiritual consciousness was fulfilled in the society? There is a big opportunity before us to take pride on whatever good is being present inside us through the centuries and becoming even better by adapting it as per the time. And I believe that instead of just being confined to the faith there is a need to attract the young generation\nNow today I got the chance to hand over Rupees Debit cards to women self help groups. If you have heard the members of Parliament during the last November, December, January and February and in case you did not hear them then you can read it. Our top people, those people who consider them big shots, they are the kind of thing in Parliament that 'there is poverty, uniteracy in the country, how digital transactions Will take place? How will they become cash? It's impossible People do not have mobile phones. 'They said all sort of bad things, they did not mince their words. However, today Dr. Virendra Hegde has replied to all those voices that raised in the parliament.\nWhether my rural mothers and sisters are not educated or not? And today they have made a pledge, and 12 lakh people, not less than that; 12 lakh people have taken a pledge that they will carry out the whole business of their self help groups in cash less mode, they will not use cash, they will carry out digital transactions, they will do it Rupay cards through, they do it through BHIM App If intentions are noble then sometimes hurdles provide the opportunity to gain speed and Dr. Virendra Hegde has demonstrated that thing today\nI convey my sincere congratulations to you as you have made a good effort to sow the seeds of India for future, for taking the country towards digital India, toward less cash society and have touched the people in these sectors; No one knows how many decades the government and banking system has taken\nBut you people have started this system I also congratulate those sisters of self help group and also to Dr. Virendra Hegde said that he has started a massive campaign which is very useful for the country. Now the time has changed, and this currency which is basically cash, it has kept changing in every era. Coins made of leather, made of gold and silver are used in the use, sometimes gems and diamonds used, sometimes the paper made of currency, the currency of the plastic used to be used. It kept changing and And now the era of digital currency has started and India should not delay this thing.\nAnd I have seen that much of the cash results in social evils. And if there is a growing son or a daughter in a family, and if the parents are well-to-do, then even then they give them a certain limit within the money. It's not that they are in the money but they think if there is lot of money in their children's pocket And they give them money in small installments and they continue to check them about what their children did with that money, whether they spent it properly or not? In those families where parents are concerned about their children they know it is very well that if their children have enough money in pocket then they may be tread on the wrong path. And that is why the society is very responsible. and this self responsiveness in a society, it's a very big thing The self answer\nAnd today the direction in which Dr. Hegde Ji is taking us, I think he is opening a big avenue for future. Today's one more thing has been done This logo has been dedicated to public and it inspires us to fulfill our obligations toward the Earth, toward the mother earth. We take it for granted that it's the responsibility of the trees to keep us oxygen and it's not our duty to protect them; We have come here with the oxygen. As if we have born with this right that this is the duty of mother to keep feeding us. It's not that. If it's the responsibility of the mother earth then we too have some duties as her kids. If we feel that it's the responsibility of the trees to give us oxygen then it is our duty as well to protect, to nurture them. And when this agreement, when these responsibilities create unbalances that the one who wants should keep but the taker, the consumer should not do anything except a kind of imbalance created in society, in the system and also in the nature and it leads to problems like global warming.\nToday, the whole world is saying that the shortage of water is going to become a big challenge for the mankind. And we should not forget that if we drink a glass of water or bath with a bucket of water then it is not the result of our hard work and nor it is our right. Our forensic work And that's why we got it And today I'm eating away from my future generations. And it is the future generations for my future generations. An attempt to revive this kind of feeling, a massive movement for the protection of environment. I think it's a great job\nHow can we connect with nature? India is completing 75 years of its independence in 2022. Such a massive movement has started from Dharmasthala and when the movement has started from Dharmasthala with blessings of Dr. Hegde Ji then I'm confident that victory is certain.\nToday, the way we exploit the mother earth due to our knowledge, our power and due to our lreed; and we continue to exploit her I never bothered about this mother Before we used to take only one crop, then we started taking two and then three crops, started taking variety of crops. We continue to use this or that chemical or this or that fertilizer. We continue to go with this feeling that I will get immediate benefits If this situation continues, then you will stop?\nCan we today make a pledge from Dharmasthala under the leadership of Dr. Hegde Ji? Can our farmers in the whole area make a pledge that when we complete 75 years of independence in 2022 by then we will reduce the use of urea by 50%? Today, whatever we use, we will halve its usage by then. You see it as a great service to the mother earth It will save the farmer's money, his expenses and there will be no decrease in the production. And despite that his farm, his field, the mother earth will bless us and it will be a reason for more profits\nSimilarly, water, we know what kind of situation is being created in Karnataka due to dry. What kind of situation is being created due to shortage of water? And I have seen, our Yeddyurappa Ji, he used to rush to me and take hold of me if the prices of Areca nut used to fall, it was then when I was Chief minister of Gujarat. He used to plead with me saying 'Modi Ji you please buy it, please save our Mangalore region,' he used to Rush to me\nWater! Can our farmers move on micro irrigation, drip irrigation, per drop-more crop by 2022, can they move forward with this pledge? Every drop of water, how can we use it as a precious gem as water, and if we keep these things in mind while moving forward, then I am confident that the very big change\nWhen I was talking about Digital India, the government of India has recently taken a new initiative - GeM. It is such a system and I specially invite our women self help groups, whoever produces anything and they want to sell their products then they can register online on the Government of India portal - GeM. And whatever things are needed by the government, they all go to that platform and place their requirements that we need so many chairs, so many tables, so many glass or refrigerators, have And those who are registered on GeM, and even village people submit their proposals that 'see I have something to sell, I want to sell these five things', and the whole system is very transparent.\n\nI started it on the 9th of August However, very soon around 40,000 producers of the country joined that GeM platform. And 15 states of the country signed MoUs and the government purchases worth thousands of crores of rupees are being made through GeM. There is no tender, nothing happens behind the system Such a situation is being created that the stuff which was already available to the government for 100 rupees, the same thing is today available for just 50 or 60 rupees.\nThere is more scope for selection and earlier there used to be big vendors for the government supply and today even a poor person from a village If produces something then he can supply it to the government These Sakhis, these women's self-help groups, they will sell their products on it, I invite them.\nAnd I also call on the government of Karnataka, there are 15 states in the country who have entered into a MoU with Government of India's GeM. Karnataka government should not delay it and it should come forward Due to this thing is a common man from Karnataka who produces something, he will get a very big market. Government is a big buyer and a poorest of the poor person who produces something he will get an assured market and a guaranteed amount.\nI wish that the government of Karnataka will accept it and the common people of Karnataka will take advantage of those things that are beneficial for them.\nYou must have seen this today that we have connected Rupee card with Aadhaar, with Mobile Phone and today's banking services are available on phone. In our country many schemes for the welfare of poor people are being run but no one knows whether the benefit of the beneficiary or to someone else, whether it is getting leaked somewhere in the middle or not?\nOne of the prime ministers of the country had once said that one rupee that is being sent from Delhi decreases 15 paise by the time it reaches to a village. Whose hand is this that eats away the rupee? Which is the gradual reduces one rupee to 15 paisa? We decided that if one rupee is being sent from Delhi then full 100 paisa will reach the poor person's hand, not 99 paisa, who have a right over them. We started the system of direct transfer of benefits and made registrations, and today I am sitting here at this holy place, sitting next to Dr. Virendra Hegde Ji and I are very well understanding the holyness, I say this thing from the holy place that due to this initiative, all the states have not joined us but some of them have taken this initiative, Government of India has taken several initiatives and so far Rs. 57,000 crore, which was illegally siphoned off in hands, which were stolen; Now it has all been stopped and the right amount of people\nAnd now you tell me that those people who have been siphoning off this Rs. 50-60 thousand crore every year has been stopped, would they like Modi or not? Will they be angry with Modi or not? Whether they will target Modi or not?\nFriends, you are witness to this thing But I say this destruction of destruction We have not learned to live for ourselves, from our childhood.\nAnd that is why brothers and sisters I am fortunate to have an idea in my mind and I muster the courage to place it before Dr. Virendra Ji I do not know much about those scientific things about it And I believe that you will be able to do it. Our coastal areas, there is a coastal area near Mangalore. Our fishermen brothers and sisters who work on the sea shores, they get a job for some months in the year and when there is rainy season then their work stops. There is one more thing that we can do in coastal areas and that is the cultivation of sea weeds. One needs to have a wooden vessel and one just needs to put some sea weed in it and place it near the coast. It keeps floating and within 45 days the crop gets ready for harvesting. It looks very beautiful and full of water\nToday this plant is a very powerful thing in the pharmaceutical world. But I can give suggestion for one more thing that the cultivation of this sea weed should be started on our sea shores. The crop will get mature in 45 days and it will be available throughout the year and those plants, then they can be mixed with the soil when a farmer ploughs his land. It has a lot of nutritional value. We should try this thing in one or two nearby villages of the Dharmasthala and I am confident that these plants of sea weed can be very useful in improving the quality of land here and it can be grown at a very low cost. It will complement the income of our farmer brothers and the water content in it will make the land watery, it will strengthen the land and I would like that this experiment should be conducted from this place of religionasthala. And if you conduct this experiment, then your scientist, your people from the education sector should send the report of their study to me. I have not asked for this thing in government Because I feel this is a place where you can experiment, there are some hurdles of rules and regulations. You can do it with an open mind and you will see that the land will be changed so much that our farmers will not face any problem even during the droughts. So we have many projects for protection of the mother earth and we will move forward with all of them.\nOnce again; I came here to this place, I got the blessings of Dr. Virendra Ji, got the blessings of Lord Manjunathshwar, got a new inspiration and a new enthusiasm. If the average educated mothers and sisters of this place, if 12 lakh sisters, if they come forward for cashless then I would like to appeal to the whole district that we should not fall behind those sisters, from Women Self Help Groups. We should learn how to use Bhim App, should learn cashless transactions You see a new era of honesty has been started in the country, you see the more strength we provide to honesty dishonesty will come down proportionately. There was a time when dishonesty was encouraged and today honesty is strengthened And this is the strength If we light a lamp then it will surely be done. We should move ahead with this pledge My congratulations to all of you, congratulations to Dr. Virendra Hegde Ji, I bow down to him and wish that he may continue to serve the country, for the next fifty years, for 50 long years.\nThank you very much"