"Share\n\nChhath Puja is about worshiping the nature. The sun and water are the center of Mahaparva Chhath: PM Modi during #MannKiBaat\nKhadi and Handloom are empowering the poor by bringing positive and qualitative changes in their lives: PM during #MannKiBaat\nNation salutes the jawans who, with their strong determination, secure our borders and keep the nation safe: PM during #MannKiBaat\nOur jawans play a vital role in the UN peacekeeping missions throughout the world: PM during #MannKiBaat\n#MannKiBaat: PM Modi says, 'Vasudhiva Kutumbakam', which means the whole world is our family\nIndia has always spread the message of peace, unity and goodwill, says PM Narendra Modi during #MannKiBaat\n#MannKiBaat: Every child is a hero in the making of a 'New India', says PM\nOutdoor activities are a must for children. Elders must encourage children to move out and play in open fields: PM during #MannKiBaat\nA person It is easy to learn and can be anywhere: PM Modi during #MannKiBaat\n#MannKiBaat: PM Modi says, Guru Nanak Dev ji is not only the first Guru of the Sikhs but also a 'Jagat Guru'\nSardar Vallabhbhai Patel not only had transformational ideas but had solutions to the most critical problems: PM Modi during #MannKiBaat\nMy dear countrymen, Namaskar The mega festival of Chatth, celebrated 6 days after Diwali, is one of those festivals which are celebrated in strict rituals \u0026 regimen. In everything associated with it like cuisine or attire, traditional norms are adhered to. The unique festival is dedicated to nature and worshiping nature. Surya \u0026 Jal-The Sun \u0026 Water are central to the veneration in Chhath, while utensils made of bamboo \u0026 clay and tubers are an essential part of the Pooja articles. In this mega festival of faith, veneration of the rising sun and worship of the sun is a message that is replete with unparalleled Sanskar. The world honors \u0026 venerates those who rise; The Chatth Pooja bestows on us the respect to the respect and reverence of those whose setting, whose dusk is imminent. The expression of cleanliness in our lives is intrinsic to this festival. Before the advent of Chatth, people come together to clean up their homes, and along with that cleansing of rivers, lakes, pond banks and pooja locations, that is ghats, with utmost enthusiasm \u0026 fervour. Sun worship or Chhath is a festival of protecting the environment, ushering in wellness and discipline.\nUsually, people shy away from borrowing from others. But in Chhath Pooja, it is specially customary to ask for Prasad after the morning Arghya ritual. It is believed that the rationale behind this tradition is that, it destroys his ego that proves to be an impediment in one's path of progress. It is natural for every one of us to feel proud of this great tradition of India.\nMy dear countrymen, 'Mann - Ki - Baat' has got accolades; It has also attracted criticism But whenever I look at the total outcome of 'Man Ki Ki Baat', it reinforces my belief, that it is intrinsically, inseparably woven in the warp \u0026 weft of our common citizens' lives, cent percent. Take the examples of Khadi and handloom On Gandhi Jayanti I have always advocated the use of handloom and Khadi. What has it led to? You will be glad to know that on 17th of this month on the day of Dhanteras, the Khadi Gramodyog Bhavan store in Delhi witnessed a record sale of Rupees one crore, twenty lakhs. You too must be feeling happy with a sense of satisfaction at this mega sale in just one Khadi \u0026 Handloom store. During Diwali, Khadi gift coupon sales recorded an overwhelming 680 per cent rise. Compared to last year, the total sales of Khadi \u0026 Handicrafts have risen almost 90%. One can clearly see that today, the youth, the elderly, women, in fact every age group is taking to Khadi \u0026 handloom.\nI could imagine how many weaver families, poor families, and the families working on handlooms must be benefited from this. Khadi was Khadi foundation before and we talked of Khadi fashion but with my recent experience I can say that after Khadi for nation and Khadi for fashion, it is becoming becoming Khadi for transformation. Khadi and handloom have transformed the lives of the poorest of the poor and are emerging as a powerful means of empowering them. It is a very important role for gramodaya.\nShriman Rajan Bhatt has written on the name of NarendramodiApp Diwali with security forces and he also wants to know how the security forces celebrate Diwali. Shriman Tejas Gaikwad has also written on NarendramodiApp whether there was an arrangement to send our home made sweets to the security forces. We also remember our brave security forces We also feel that our home made sweets Deepawali with traditional fervour To me, Diwali brought a special experience Luckily I got another chance to celebrate Deepawali with our courageous and brave heart security personnel Memories of Diwali celebrations with our security forces in Gurez sector of Jammu and Kashmir will remain long cherished in my heart On behalf of all our countrymen, I salute every soldier of our security forces who guard the country's borders with utmost dedication and a spirit of sacrifice, braiding all odds. Whenever we get a chance or whenever there is a chance we will try to experience our soldiers and listen to their tales of valor. Many of us may not be aware that the jawans of our security forces play an important role but only on our borders but they are in the world over peace in establishing a very important role. As UN Peacekeepers, they are bringing the nation into the comity of nations. United Nations Day was recently observed all over the world on the 24th of October.\nEverybody recalls the efforts of the UN in establishing peace throughout the world. And, we are believers in \"Vasudhaiv Kutumbakam\" which means the whole world is our family. And with this belief, India has been cooperating very actively in various important initiatives taken by the UN. You may be aware that the Indian Constitution and the Preface of the UN Charter; both the beginning with the words 'We the people'. India has always stressed on the importance of women and the UN Declaration of Human Rights.\nIn its initial phrase, it was proposed as 'all men are born free and equal' which was amended and adopted as 'all human beings are born free and equal' with the efforts of the Indian representative Hansa Mehta. It is a dream of a dream India's most important contribution under UN peacekeeping operations. India has always been expanding support to UN Peace Missions\nMany of you can get the first time More than 18 thousand Indian security personnel have lent their services in UN Peacekeeping Operations Presently, about seven thousand Indian soldiers are associated with UN peacekeeping initiatives. In August 2017, Indian soldiers had lent their services in about 50 of the total of 71 peacekeeping operations carried out by the UN the world over. These operations have been carried out in Korea, Cambodia, Laos, Vietnam, Congo, Cyprus, Liberia, Lebanon, Sudan and many other parts of the world. In Congo and Southern Sudan more than twenty thousand patients were treated in the Indian army and countless lives saved\nIndian security forces have not only saved people in different countries but also their hearts with their people friendly operations. Indian women have played a leading role in peace keeping efforts. Very few people know that India was the first country to send a female police unit to Liberia for the United Nations Peace Mission. And see how this initiative from India has become a big source of motivation for other countries too. Later, all countries started sending their women police units. You will surely feel proud to know that India's contribution is not limited to just peacekeeping operations but it is also training the peacekeepers from about eighty five countries. The brave peacekeepers from this land of Mahatma Gandhi and Gautam Budha have sent a message of peace and amity around the world. Peacekeeping Jawans from our security forces have to perform duties in difficult and remote areas They have many different people They need to know and adapt to different situations and different cultures They have to sow according to local needs and environment While remembering our brave UN Peacekeepers today, who can forget the sacrifice of Captain Gurbachan Singh Salaria who laid their lives while fighting in the Congo in Africa?\nEvery Indian feels proud while remembering him He was the only UN peacekeeper, a brave-heart, who was awarded the Param Veer Chakra. Lieutenant General Prem Chand ji is one among those Indian Peacekeepers who carved a special niche for themselves in Cyprus. In 1989, at the age of 72, he was appointed for the Commander for an operation in Namibia and he gave his services to the country of independence. General Thimaiyya, who had been India's army chief, lead the UN Peacekeeping force in Cyprus and sacrificed everything for those peace efforts India has always been a message of peace, unity and harmony to the world. We believe that everybody should live in peace and harmony and move ahead to a better and peaceful tomorrow.\nMy dear countrymen, our holy land has given great souls who selflessly served humanity Sister Nivedita, whom we also know as Bhagini Nivedita, was one such extraordinary person She was born in Ireland as Margret Elizabeth Noble but Swami Vivekanand gave her name NIVEDITA. And Nivedita means the one who is fully dedicated. She once asked herself Yesterday was the 150th birth anniversary of Sister Nivedita.\nShe was so impressed by Swami Vivekanand that she renounced her happy-prosperous life and dedicated herself to the service of the poor. Sister Nivedita felt very hurt by the British rule. The Britishers not only made us slaves but they also tried to enslave us mentally as well. Constant efforts were made for us. Bhagini Nivedita ji revived the dignity and pride of Indian culture. She came to the people with a feeling of national-awakening. She travelled to different countries and raised her voice against the mischievous propaganda against Sanatan Dharma and ideology. Renowned nationalist and Tamil poet Subramanya Bharati is well known for his revolutionary poetry Pudhumai Penn or New woman and is a famous woman for empowerment.\nIt is said that Bhagini Nivedita was the inspiration Bhagini Nivedita ji also helped the great scientist Jagdish Chandra Basu She helped publication of Basu's research and publicity through her articles and conferences.\nThis is India's unique beauty that spiritualism and science complement each other in our culture.\nSister Nivedita and Scientist Jagdish Chandra Basu is a powerful testimony to this. In 1899, plague broke out in Calcutta and in the wake of no time. Sister Nivedita, without caring for her health She was a woman who could live a luxurious life Getting inspiration from her sacrifice, people came forward and joined her\nThrough her work, she spreads the message of the importance of cleanliness and service to humanity. And, it is inscribed on her grave - \"Here reposes Sister Nivedita who gave her all to India\". Undoubtedly, she did so. There can not be any other befitting tribute to this great soul than everybody taking a lesson from her life and emulating her.\nThank you for your phone call First of all, many felicitations to all children on the occasion of Children's Day celebrated on the birthday of our first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru ji. Children are the emerging heroes in the creation of new India. Your concern is correct, the diseases which are surfaced in old age, or have emerged around the last lap of life - have begun to appear in children nowadays. It is really surprising today, when we hear that children are suffering from diabetes.\nIn earlier times, such diseases were known as 'Raj-Rog' which means diseases that used to afflict only the rich or those who lived in a life of luxury. Such diseases were very rare in young people But our lifestyle has changed Today, these diseases are known as 'lifestyle disorders.' One of the main reasons for being suffering is a young age is the lack of physical activity in our lifestyle and our eating habits in the changes.\nSociety and the family If you start paying attention to it, you will see that there is no need to do anything extraordinary. You just need to make regular changes in order to transform your habits. I like the family to be consciously trying to inculcure children in the habit of playing in open grounds. If possible, we can make the elderly members with their children in the playground and play with them.\nThe children could be used to take the lift. After dinner, The whole family can go for a walk with the children. Yoga for Young India Yoga will be helpful especially for our young friends, maintaining a healthy lifestyle and protecting them from lifestyle disorders. The practice of Yoga 30 minutes before school can provide much benefit It can also be practiced at home and the specialty of Yoga is that it is easy, simple and accessible to all. I'm saying this because a person can not easily practice it. It is easy to learn and it is accessible\nNo special tools or fields There are many studies being conducted on how Yoga is effective in curbing diabetes. These studies are being carried out in AIIMS too and the results that have so far emerged are very encouraging. Do not look at Ayurveda and Yoga as an means of medical treatment only; instead of this we should make\nMy dear countrymen, especially my young friends, we have been happy news from the field of sports. In various games, our athletes have made the country proud. In hockey, India has won the Asia Cup hockey title through its dazzling performance. Our players have performed very well and their sterling efforts, India has become the Asia Cup champion after an interval of ten years. India had won the Asia Cup in the years 2003 and 2007. I extend felicitations on behalf of the whole nation and support staff.\nAfter hockey, good news for India also came in badminton Badminton star Kidambi Srikanth has filled in every Indian's heart with pride by clinching the title of his excellent performance. After Indonesia Open and Australia Open, this win has completed the title of the super series premiere title. I congratulate our young friend, Kidambi Srikanth for this feat and enhancing the prestige of India.\nFriends, the FIFA Under-17 World Cup is organized this month. Teams from all over the world came and showed them their skills. I also got a chance to go and watch a match. There was a lot of enthusiasm among the players and the spectators. This world cup was a super event. Such a big spectacle, I was astounded to see the energy, enthusiasm, and zeal of all the young players. The world cup was successfully organized and all the teams performed their best.\nRegardless of the fact that India could not win the title, the young players of India won the hearts of everyone. The whole world including India enjoyed this mega festival of sports and this whole tournament was both full of interest and entertainment for football lovers. The signs that the future of football is very bright I extend my congratulations and good wishes to all the players, their colleagues, and all the sports lovers once again.\nMy dear countrymen, a crowd of people write about 'Swachch Bharat', I feel that if I have to do justice to their feelings then I will have the program 'Man Ki Baat' every day and every day 'Man ki Baat 'will be the sole purpose of cleanliness Some listeners send photo graphs of the efforts done by children while others mention the role of youth in these efforts. Sometimes there is a story of an innovation to bring about cleanliness or winds of change that get ushered due to an official's zeal.\nA few days ago I received a very detailed report from the story of Transformation of Chandrapur Fort in Maharashtra. An NGO called Ecological Protection Organization launched a cleanliness campaign in Chandrapur Fort. In this campaign lasting for two hundred days, people performed the work of cleaning the fort, non-stop, without any fatigue and team-work. Just think Two-hundred-days of continuous labor! They have been photographed with a caption- 'Before and After'! I was overwhelmed on seeing these and whoever will see these photographs, no matter how upset he is on the witnessing of the filth around him, and wondering how the mission of cleanliness is fulfilled - then I have to say these people that you will see yourself the toil, resolve and determination of the members of the Ecological Protection Organization, in these living pictures\nJust on watching these pictures, your hopption will transform into hope This mammoth effort of bringing about cleanliness is a wonderful example of fostering aesthetics, co-operation and continuum. Forts are symbols of our heritage And it is the duty of all countrymen to keep our historical heritage safe and clean. I congratulate Ecological Protection Organization, their entire team and the people of Chandrapur.\nMy dear countrymen, we'll celebrate Guru Nanak Jayanti on the 4th of November. Guru Nanak Dev ji is not only the first guru of Sikhs; he's guru to the whole world He envisioned the welfare of all humanity He is on the women's empowerment and respect for women Guru Nanak Dev ji undertook a 28 thousand kilometre journey on foot and throughout the spread of the message. He entered into a dialogue with people and showed them the truth, sacrifice and dedication. He advocated the message of equality in society He ran a LANGAR which sowed the seeds of the spirit of service among fellow beings. Parting of LANGAR created a feeling of unity \u0026 oneness in people. Guru Nanak Dev ji voiced three messages for a meaningful, fulfilling life- chant the name of the Almighty, work hard and help the needy In order to express his ideals, Guru Nanak Dev ji composed the Gurbani. Come 2019, we are going to celebrate the 550th Prayer VARSH of Guru Nanak Dev Ji. Come, let us try and advance the path of his ideals and teachings.\nMy dear countrymen, we will celebrate the birth anniversary of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, two days from now, on the 31st of October. All of us know that he was the one who laid the foundation stone of modern, unified India. We can learn a lot from the unparalleled saga of Mother India. The 31st of October was also the day on Smt. Indira Gandhi left the world Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel's specialty was that he not only put forth revolutionary ideas; He was extremely capable of devising practical solutions to the way. Translating into a reality Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel took over the reins of weaving a unified India. He ensured that millions of Indians were brought under the rule of the nation His decision making power Wherever the respected coercion was needed, he proceeded gently Wherever the use of force was imperfect, he did not hesitate He set a definite goal and moved forward on his path with grit and determination. It was only he who could achieve this task of uniting India. He is the one One ideal of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel will always be inspiring to all of us He said \"No division of caste or creed should be able to stop us, all are the sons and daughters of India, all of them should love us country and we should carve out our destiny on the foundation of mutual love \u0026 harmony.\nThese lofty ideals of Sardar Sahab are relevant to and inspiring for our vision for a new India, even today. And that is why his birthday is celebrated as National Unity Day His contribution in giving a unified texture to the nation is without parallel. On the occasion of the birth anniversary of Sardar Sahab, Run for Unity will be organized throughout the country, which will see the participation of children, youth, women, in fact people of all age groups I urge you to participate in the United States, the festival of mutual harmony\nMy dear countrymen, you must have returned to your relative routines after the Diwali vacation, with a new solution, with a new determination. May all your dreams come true, my best wishes to you\nMany many Thanks."