"\nWe want to move from consumer protection towards the best consumer practices \u0026 consumer prosperity: PM\nDue to GST, various indirect and hidden taxes have ceased to exist; Largest beneficiaries of GST will be the consumers: PM\nEffective grievance redressal systems are vital for a democracy: PM Narendra Modi\nThe government has devoted effort and resources toward digital empowerment of the rural consumer: PM\nMy Cabinet colleague Shri Ram Vilas Paswan Ji, Shri C.R. Chaudhary Ji, Secretary General, UNCTAD, Dr. Mukhisa Kituyi, and other dignitaries present here.\nFirst of all, I congratulate you on this Regional Conference on an important topic like Consumer Protection. This program is being attended by representatives from South Asia, Southeast Asia and all the East Asian countries. I welcome you to this program.\nThis event is the first of its kind in South Asia. I would also like to express gratitude for UNCTAD for having supported India's initiative and playing an active role in bringing it into this stage.\nFriends, very few regions of the world have such intensive historical interfaces as this region has For thousands of years we have been connected by Trade, Culture and Religion. The Coastal Economy has made significant contributions in the region. Movement of people from one place to another and the exchange of thoughts and ideas, has been a two way process and has benefited from this region. Today, we all symbolize a shared heritage not only economically but also culturally\nFriends, in today's modern era, our traditional relationship has gained a new dimension. The Asian countries are not only catering to the goods and services market in their own country but their reach has expanded to other continents as well. In such a scenario, Consumer Protection is an important component which enhances and strengthens trade in this region.\nToday's event is a reflection of how seriously we understand the needs of our citizens, how difficult we are to overcome their difficulties Every citizen is a consumer too and hence this event symbolizes our collective determination.\nIt is also very heartening to see that the United Nations has come as a partner in the whole process. For the first time in 1985, the UN Guidelines on Consumer Protection were framed. They were revised two years ago. India has also played a active role in the process of revision. These guidelines are very important with regard to Sustainable Consumption, E-Commerce and Financial Services in developing countries.\nFriends, consumer protection has been an integral part of governance for ages in India. Consumers' protection finds mention in our Vedas written thousands of years ago. It is mentioned in Atharvaveda that-\n\"EMA Quantity Dump\"\nIt means that nobody should be involved in quality and measurement.\nThese ancient documents explain the rules of Consumer Protection and the kind of punishment to be given in the trader who indulges in wrong practices. You will be astonished to know that in India around 2500 years ago, during the period of Kautilya, there were guidelines for the government regarding how the trade should be regulated and the interest of the consumers be protected. The Posts in the Organizational Structure in the Kautilya Period is today's context in the Director of Trade and the Superintendent of Standards as considered.\nFriends, we think consumer as gods In many shops you can see the writing - Customer Devo Bhava:. Regardless of the nature of business, Consumer satisfaction should be the prime motive.\nFriends, India is one of the first few countries to legislate Consumer Protection Act in 1986, just one year after adoption of UN Guidelines.\nProtection of consumer interest This is also reflected in our solution of the New India. Moving beyond Consumer Protection, New India will have Best Consumer Practices and Consumer Prosperity.\nFriends, today we are in process of enacting a new Consumer Protection Act keeping in view the business practices and requirements of the country. The proposed Act lays great emphasis on consumer empowerment. Rules are being simplified to ensure that Consumer grievances are redressed in a time-bound manner and at least possible cost. Stringent provisions are offered against misleading advertisements. A Central Consumer Protection Authority with Executive powers will be strengthened.\nWe have enacted the Real Estate Regulatory Act for the protection of home buyers. Earlier, customers waited for years to get the possession of their homes as they fall prey to unscrupulous builders. There used to be the area of ​​the flat Now after RERA, only registered developers can seek all the necessary permissions. Further, booking amount has been fixed only at 10 percent.\nEarlier, the builders used to book the other projects. Now the government has made a strict provision that 70% of the payment received from buyers will be kept in an \"escrow\" account and this amount is only that project on cost.\nSimilarly, the Bureau of Indian Standards Act has also been enacted. Now any commodity or service related to public or consumer interest can be brought under compulsory certification. This Act also has provisions of order recall of substandard products from the market and for compensation in case of loss or damage incurred by the consumer.\nRecently, India has also implemented Goods and Services Tax-GST. After GST, dozens of different types of indirect taxes Many Hidden Taxes have also gone away. Now, the consumer knows how much he has paid to the government and how much the central government The queues of the trucks are now no longer exist.\nWith GST, a new business culture is developing and in the long term consumers will be the biggest beneficiaries. It is a transparent system in which no one can hurt the consumers Increased competition due to the GST will lead to moderation in prices. It will directly benefit poor and middle class consumers\nFriends, besides strengthening the interests of the laws, it is also necessary that the grievances of the people are pronounced addressed. In the last three years, our government has created a new eco-system for grievance redressal.\nThe capacity of the National Consumer Helpline has been increased 4 times Portals and Social Media related with Consumer Protection have also been integrated A large number of private companies About 40 percent of the complaints are transferred through the Internet. Consumers are also being aware of the \"Jago Grahak Jago\" campaign. I'm confidently state that this government. has used social media positively for Consumer Protection in India, as has never been done before\nFriends, in my view and in the vision of my govt The scope of Consumer Protection is very broad Development of any country and consumer protection are complementary. Good governance has an important role in taking the benefits of every citizen.\nEnsuring delivery of rights and services to the government is also a way of protecting interest of the consumers. Ujjwala Yojna for Clean Energy, Swacch Bharat Abhiyan for health and hygiene, Jan-Dhan Yojna for Financial Inclusion reflect this spirit. The govt. is also working towards the goal that every citizen of the country owns a house by 2022.\nRecently, a scheme has also been launched for electricity connection to every household of the country. All these efforts are going to provide Basic Lifeline support to people and to make their lives more comfortable.\nInterests of consumers are not protected In India we are also working to formulate schemes which help consumers save money. The poor and middle class in the country is benefited from these schemes.\nYou may also be aware that UNICEF has recently announced results in a survey in India. According to the survey, considering medical costs averted, value of time savings and mortality averted, financial savings for every household in Open Defecation Free communities are Rs. 50,000 per year.\nFriends, Bharatiya Jan Aushadhi Pariyojna has started to provide affordable medicines to the poor. More than 500 medicines have been included in the list of essential drugs and their prices have been reduced. Capping prices of Coronary Stents have made them cheaper by 85 percent. Recently, prices of knee implants have also been brought under control. This is also saving crores for the poor and middle class people.\nOur thinking is to move beyond Consumer Protection\nOur scheme, Ujala is another example of monetary saving in Consumer Interest. This simple scheme for distribution of LED bulb has shown extraordinary results. When this government assumed charge, cost of a LED bulb was Rs. 350- /. After government's efforts, the same bulb is now available in just Rs. 40 to 45- / under the scheme So, this scheme alone has caused saving of more than Rs. 20 thousand crores for consumers by reducing the cost of LED bulb and through reduction in electricity bills\nFriends, keeping the inflation under control has caused economic benefits to the poor and middle class consumers. Otherwise, the rate at which the inflation was rising during the previous government's tenure it would have resulted in huge rise in the budget of the citizen's kitchen.\nBy strengthening the Public Distribution System through technology, it is also being ensured that the poor, who have the right to food grains, get their due\nUnder the Direct Benefit Scheme, by transferring the money directly into the beneficiaries' bank accounts the government has prevented leakage of more than Rs. 57 thousand crores\nFriends, it is necessary that the consumers also understand their shared responsibilities towards the society and discharge their duty in relation to sustainable development goals.\nHere, on this occasion, I specially want to inform coworkers from other countries about Give-it-up campaign. Subsidy is available on LPG cylinders in our country On my appeal, within a short time of one year, more than one crore people have given up their gas subsidy. 3 billion households so far in the savings accounts.\nIt is an example that how to share the contribution.\nFriends, Government is implementing Prime Minister Rural Digital Literacy Campaign for Digital Empowerment of Consumers Under this scheme, one person has made six crore households digitally literate. This campaign will facilitate villagers for electronic transactions and availing government services digitally.\nDigital awareness in the villages of India is also creating a huge e-commerce market for the future. Unified Payment Interface-UPI has given the e-commerce industry a lot of strength. Bharat Interface For Money - i.e. BHIM App has expanded into digital payments in cities as well.\n\nFriends, India is one of the world's biggest markets on the strength of the population of more than 125 crore and the fast growing middle class. The openness of our economy welcomes every country in the world, global consumers of closer to Indian consumers. Through Make in India we are offering a platform to Global Companies to produce in India and to make better use of our human human resources.\nFriends, this is a first of its kind conference. Every country is represented here in its own way for protecting the interests of their consumers. But we must also keep in mind that now with increasing globalization, the whole world is changing in a single market. So it is very important to learn from each other's experiences, to explore the points of common understanding and to discuss the possibility of building a regional coalition for Consumer Protection through such an event.\nFriends, Asian countries provide large business opportunities, because of the large consumer base of more than 4 billion, increasing purchasing power and young demographic profile. E-commerce and trans-border mobility Under the circumstances, a strong regulatory system in every country and information sharing is a must. A framework for cooperation is also necessary to expeditiously act in cases related to other countries. This will enhance mutual trust and trade.\nCreating a Structured Mechanism for Communication, Mutual Sharing of Best Practices, Creating New Initiatives for Capacity Building and Starting Joint Campaigns, are such areas which can be pursued in mutual interest.\nFriends, strengthening of our emotional bonds will also strengthen our shared cultural and trade heritage. Taking pride in our culture while respecting other cultures is part of our tradition Over the centuries, we have been learning from each other and Trade and Consumer Protection is also an integral part of this process.\nI hope that keeping in view the future is a dream vision. I am hopeful that we will also succeed in institutionalizing regional cooperation through the conference\nI will be able to participate in this conference.\nThanks a lot!\nThis conference is important because it wants to understand and try to fulfill the wishes of consumers: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) October 26, 2017\nIn our vision for a new India, we want to move from consumer protection to the best consumer practices and consumer prosperity. The focus is on consumer empowerment and ensuring consumer faces no difficulties: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) October 26, 2017\nWe have recently implemented GST Due to GST, the various indirect and hidden taxes have ceased to exist. The biggest beneficiaries of GST will be the consumers, middle class: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) October 26, 2017\nEffective grievance redressal systems are vital for a democracy We are integrating technology and proven strong grievance redressal mechanisms: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) October 26, 2017\nThe government's efforts ensured inflation has kept the check and the consumer saves money: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) October 26, 2017\nThe government has devoted efforts and resources toward digital empowerment of the rural consumer: PM @narendramodi"