"\nThe history of human civilization illustrates the vitality of rivers and maritime trade: PM Modi\nRo-Ro ferry service will bring back to our glorious past and connect with South Gujarat: PM Modi\nIn the last three years, a lot of importance has been given to the development of Gujarat: PM\nGujarat has a long coastline, steps have been taken in developing coastal infrastructure: PM Modi\nMy dear brothers and sisters\nBest wishes to you on the occasion of Deepavali and the New Year; and that we have just celebrated the festival of Bhai Dooj and waiting for the festival of Nag Panchami. And today the whole India is getting an invaluable gift from the land of Ghogha in the direction of building a new India, a new Gujarat with a new pledge. Today, the first phase of ro-ro ferry service between Ghogha and Dahej is inaugurated. This is the first of its kind in project It is also the first of its kind in the south-east Asia I congratulate the people of Gujarat and the government of Gujarat for completing this project while using some of the latest technologies and at a cost of Rs. 650 crores. A big dream of 6.5 crore Gujaratiis a realization of the start of this project.\nBrothers and sisters,\nI also got the opportunity to inaugurate the cattle feed plant of Sarvottam from this platform just a while ago.\nMy dear brothers and sisters,\nThis is a matter of contention What is it? Whether it is first to learn But it is true that humans always considered it easy to swim across the river, from their village. Gujarat has a history of sea faring. Boats were made here It was the tradition of this place to make boats and go around the world. Flags of 84 countries used to wave in Lothal Phalphi University; Students of several countries used to study here in Phalphi University around 1700 years ago. But no one knows what happened like the soil like history There was a period like that in our history\nBrothers and sisters, today's program, today's inauguration is an opportunity to bring back those old glorious days of Ghogha, Bhavnagar and the coastal areas of Gujarat. This ferry service between Ghogha and Dahej will not only make the lives of millions and millions of people of South Gujarat easier, but it will bring them closer. The trip that used to take 7-8 hours now that will be done in one to 1.25 hours. There is a saying in our region It is being said that time is the money Today, no one in the world can turn a day in 24 hours into a day of 25 hours. But this government of India and the government of Gujarat can give you a gift of 7 hours by converting the tour of 7-8 hours into a tour of one hour. As per a study, if the transportation of some goods costs 1.5 rupees by road then if we carry the same amount of goods by rail then it costs a rupee and if the waterways by the same amount of commodity is transported then it costs only 20 -25 paise You can imagine how much your time will be saved How much petrol and diesel of the country is going to be saved?\nBrothers and sisters,\nNearly, 12,000 people travel daily between Saurashtra and south Gujarat. More than 5,000 thousands of vehicles But when this connectivity will be the sea instead of the road then this distance of 307 kilometers will be reduced to 31 kilometers. One ferry can carry more than 500 people, or more than 100 cars and similar numbers of trucks on it. Friends, when a large part of the traffic will become dependent on this ferry service or when people will take their vehicles from the side to that then its impact will also be visible on the highways connecting Delhi and Mumbai. The number of vehicles in the industrial area of ​​Gujarat like Dahej, Vadodara and in nearby areas will come down and their speed is increased and that speed is the top gear in this entire economic system.\nFriends, we can not get new results with old approach Neither can we The Ghogha-Dahej ro-Ro ferry service is a very big example of this thing as well.\nWhen I became the chief minister and inquired about it, when I discussed the issue But no one knew that the corner And when I started looking into it, when I started moving forward; and after assuming office You will be surprised to know that the government had made so many structural mistakes that this Ro-Ro ferry service could never be materialized. What have they done during the old time? The problem was that the entity which was expected to operate the ferry, they urged the same entity to build the terminal as well. You please tell me if someone runs a bus on the road then do we ask the bus operator to make the road or to build a bus station? An aircraft lands on the airport; do we ask the airlines to build a airport? Government constructs the road, bus stations and airports. Private people came forward to run their businesses there In case of this Ro-Ro ferry service, they said that you have to build a jetty, its port and if you want to do it then please do it and see the sea shore and there is water, please come forward Friends, who will come forward? Finally we changed the policies We We decided that the government will build the ferry service. After construction of the terminal, the work for operating the terminal and the ferry services will be awarded to a private agency. The soil sediment in the coastal area of ​​this place is also a big problem and due to that it is difficult to bring ferries to the shores Under the changed policy, the government decided that the government will bear the cost of dredging, cost of removing the soil and stones. We also made this arrangement that the government will have a share in the private agency that will run the service. And this new strategy is successful and as a result of this Ro-Ro ferry service is getting started in Ghogha and Dahej.\nI came here in 2012 But if we want to do something in the sea then we will be dependent on the government of India. And at that time that kind of person was occupying the positions in the government of India when I was the Chief minister of Gujarat that the construction work from Vapi to Mandavi in ​​Kutch in the coastal areas of Gujarat was completely blocked. All our industries have been destroyed I know that with what kind of difficulties we were able to take Gujarat forward But when you people gave me the opportunity to serve in Delhi then all the problems were resolved one after another. And today the dedication of the first stage of this Ro-Ro ferry service; and it was a difficult project as the lord The history bears testimony to the fact that whenever there was a problem in building a bridge in the sea then the solution was found by the same sea.\nFriends, today we have got this success, this water bridge due to the blessings of lord Varuna. I wish while bowing down to him will be the blessings of Lord Varuna will always be the people of Gujarat. And today when we started our ro-Ro ferry service then I also bow down to Veer Mokhara Ji Dada. And as my fishermen brothers and sisters step forward after offering a coconut to Veer Mokhara Ji, I will today follow their tradition And may the blessings of Veer Mokhara May Bhavnagar and Saurashtra also develop on the lines of the parts of south Gujarat and may be there so much progress and I am fully confident that the blessings of Veer Mokhara Ji will be us.\nAnd this project was a challenge both for engineers and for the government of Gujarat. That is why they are the subject of appreciation.\nBrothers and sisters, the country's largest sea front is available in Gujarat. Our coastline is more than 1600 kilometers long. For the hundred of years, Gujarat has been attracting the attention of the whole world due to its strength and capability. The information obtained from Lothal port still wonders top marine experts even today. The place where we are present today, the ships from different parts of the world I have been talking about the state of the Chief Minister of the country. After taking into account this thing we have laid special emphasis on the development of the coastal areas of Gujarat. We made a new policy for ship-building, we developed ship building parks and encouraged small ports in the special economic zones and also brought big changes in the ships. The government placed special emphasis on the special terminals like solid cargo, chemical and LNG terminals in Dahej, and Mundra in the coal terminal. A new direction, new energy and new spirit was given to the port sector of Gujarat by construction of such special terminals.\nIn addition to these things, the government has specially encouraged the Vessel Traffic Management System and Ground Breaking Connectivity Project The government has been working in a very detailed manner to set up a maritime university and a marine museum in the Lothal in the coming days. In addition to all these things, we have been continuously running the schemes like Sagar Khedu Vikas Karyakram for the development of my fishermen brothers and local people. We put emphasis on this thing that the local youth will be trained for this shipping industry and only they will be employed in it.\nWe have prepared a complete infrastructure for their education, health, drinking water and electricity along the coastal social security.\nBrothers and sisters,\nRecently, Prime Minister of Japan has given a visit. At that time, we have signed an important agreement with Japan in the shipping sector. And under that agreement, the government of Japan and their financial agency will provide us money, they will give us financial assistance for the up gradation, for the moernisation of Alang ship yard They have been agreed for this thing\nFriends,\nThe government has also been working on an alternate road to Bhavnagar to Alang-Sosiya ship Recycling Yard. Around 15 to 25 thousand workers Work in the largest ship Recycling Yard of Asia Alang-Sosiya Ship Recycling Yard is some 50 kilometers away from Bhavnagar. I think I do not know about the condition of traffic jam on that route. The government has decided to widen and upgrade the alternative route connecting the Alang-Sosiya ship Recycling Yard with Mahuva, Pipavav, Jafrabad and Veraval. Given the fact that the ability of the Alang Yard will be enhanced in the future so it has become necessary to modernize the link road. This route will also benefit from the vehicles coming from the Ghogha-Dahej ferry service.\nFriends, this is the result of continuous efforts made by the government that the coastal areas of Gujarat are developing so fast. Today, Gujarat handles 32% of total load of the cargo handled by the small ports of the country, it means one third is being handled by Gujarat. Not only this, this work has grown in the past 15 years. I am hopeful that the way Gujarat has expanded the handling capacity of its ports by four times, in the coming days the work of handling the cargo will pick up more pace.\nBrothers and sisters,\nGujarat is located on a very strategic location from the point of view of sea routes. It's very easy to reach any of these routes. We should take advantage of Gujarat's strength. And Gujarat's marine development is also a model I'm hopeful that this entire project of Ro-Ro ferry service will be a model for other states as well.\nThe way we have understood and solved the problems of this kind of project by working hard for many years so that at least those states which are the projects that follow this same problem without encountering. This ferry service will kick-start a new era of social and economic development in the whole region. Thousands of new opportunities will be created A new chapter of coastal shipping and coastal tourism In the coming days, when a dedicated freight corridor between Delhi and Mumbai will be constructed and when the work on Delhi-Mumbai Industrial Corridor will be completed then the importance of this ferry service along with the other sea routes linking will be Gujarat.\nThis project is going to provide a new strength to Dholera special investment area (SIR) that has been constructed for the industrial development between the areas of Ahmedabad and Bhavnagar. Dholera SIR is going to be the biggest industrial center of India It will create jobs for millions of people Due to the efforts made by the government in the infrastructure related work, Dholera has been going on a fast pace. In a few years, Dholera will be able to leave its mark in the whole world; and only one land; This Ghogha-Dahej ferry service will also be contributed in that thing\nFriends, in the future, this ferry service is not going to stop only at Ghogha and Dahej. In the future, we are going to move in the direction of linking Hazira, Pipavav, Jafrabad and Daman and Diu through this ferry service. I have been told that the government has been working to take this ferry service to Surat and up to Hazira and then up to Mumbai in the coming years. The issue of starting a similar service in the Bay of Kutch is being discussed at the primary level at this stage. I have been told that a pre-feasibilty report has already been prepared for a similar service between Vaयू in Kutch and Rozi port of Jamnagar. It's not that that When the use of this ferry service will go up then a lot of industries can also be connected through river Narmada.\nFriends, India's coastal boundary is 7,500 kilometers long and it is full of the potential for investment. I believe that our ports are gateways for prosperity In the last few decades, not much attention was given to the government. And the shipping and port sector of the country has been neglected for a long time. Now the government has started the project for this sector and to make it modern.\nUnder the Sagarmala project the work of modernizing the existing ports of the country and the development of new ports is being carried out. Roads, railroads, interstate-waterways and coastal transport are being integrated. This scheme is a very important role in boosting the transportation of goods through the coastal transport.\nFriends, this is the result of efforts made by the government that a massive change has been brought about in the port sector in the last three years. And the maximum capacity has been added in the last two-three years. And the situation of those ports and government companies have been improving. And the government is also focusing on the development of coastal services. As per an estimate, there will be a potential employment for one crore jobs in different parts of the country due to Sagaramala project alone. We have been working with this modern and integrated\nThe imbalances of the transport sector of our country have also been removed. You can understand the level of imbalance from the fact that even after so many years of independence our country only had five national waterways. This field was neglected And now this government has constituted 106 National Waterways and the work is taking place on them rapid pace. The total length of these national waterways is more than 17,000 kilometers. And these waterways have proven extremely helpful in removing the imbalances of the country's transport sector.\nOur sea assets can provide a new dimension to our rural and coastal areas. The government has started the Blue Revolution Scheme so that the fishermen can take full advantage of this asset. They have been trained about the modern techniques of fishing and value addition in the fisheries.\nToday, under the Blue Revolution Scheme, a plan to provide financial assistance to fishermen for procuring longliner trollers. Central Government will provide a subsidy of Rs. 40 lakh per vessel. These longliner trollers will not only make the lives of fishermen easy but they will also provide a new economic power to their business. The kind of trollers that had been used in the shallow water. This is very old in terms of technology and very risky as well. That is why when they go out in the sea on these trollers And they do not even get to know that when they have gone beyond India's maritime boundary and some other country Thereafter they have to face many difficulties We can minimize those difficulties by maximizing the use of technology and that is why the government has made this scheme with the help of these Longliner trollers so that the fishermen brothers can go deep into the sea and also in the right direction to the fish. These modern Longliner trollers are also very energy efficient. It means they will grow both the business and profit of fishermen while ensuring their safety.\nFriends, development of infrastructure is one of our top priorities. The kind of investment that had been made in the last three years in Highways, Railways, Waterways and Airways; This kind of investment was never made in such a small span of time. Besides, regional air service is being updated. Small airports are being modernized. The work on the first train All these works will become the basis for providing the country a transport system of the 21st century, such a transport system that will be as per the hope and requirement of a new India.\nFriends, today, I will go from Ghogha to Dahej through the ferry. And some differently abled kids And the happiness on their faces\nBrothers and sisters, maybe, nobody could imagine how I felt after completing the work. The thing that I heard about during my childhood but who was never materialized and today when I see that thing through my own eyes and I myself got the opportunity to work on that, I think it is a very fulfilling moment of my life I think it my good fortune I will go to Dahej and share my experience there. But today I will request you people to join us in this very important work and please consider that this ferry service is the first thing, it's just the beginning and this is the first stage and private companies will continue on a later stage and lots of ferry services, a lot of new routes will begin and development of tourism will also take place.\nAnd the rich people of Surat will hire this and go out in the sea to celebrate their birthdays. There are immense opportunities for development. And that is why I have once said that the fortune of Ghogha is about to be changed. The fortune of Ghogha is getting turned once again And once again I congratulate all of you for the Ghogha-Dahej Ro-Ro ferry service and the cattle feed plant of Sarvottam Dairy.\nMany\nBharat Mata Ki Jay (Victory to Mother India),\nBharat Mata Ki Jay (Victory to Mother India),\nJay Veer Mokhara Ji Dada,\nJay Veer Mokhara Ji Dada,\nJay Veer Mokhara Ji Dada."