"Our government has moved a step towards fulfilling people's dreams, says the PM\nRo-Ro ferry service will start a new chapter in coastal tourism: PM Modi\nOur focus is on the blue economy and we see the blue economy as integral to our vision of a new India: PM\nOur Mantra is 'P for P - Ports for Prosperity', says PM Modi\nMy dear brothers and sisters,\nFriends,\nThe feelings that a farmer gets after his bumper crop; the feeling that a potter gets when he makes a beautiful water pitcher or a mammoth pots or a earthen lamp, the same joyous feeling that he gets after making them; the experience, the happiness that a weaver gets after weaving a beautiful carpet; I'm experiencing the same thing now I'm feeling like that after having experienced the desires and feelings of 1.25 billion fellow countrymen just a while ago.\nWhile traveling from Ghogha to Dahej through the sea, every single moment I was thinking that the time which is passed on this moment, it is a new history. And we'll be a solid foundation for a new India, we will realize the dream of a new India. Everybody from Sardar Patel to Dr. Baba Saheb Ambedkar had dreamed of being properly used And today we have crossed\nThis ferry service between Ghogha and Dahej will not only make the lives of millions and millions of people of Saurashtra and South Gujarat easier, but it will bring them closer too.\nThis ferry service will kick-start a new era of social and economic development in the whole region. New opportunities of employment will be available to those facilities. A new chapter of coastal shipping and coastal tourism In the future, all of us, the people who are here will take note of it; that in future Hazira, Pipavavo, Jafrabad and Daman and Diu, we can link all the important places through this ferry service in future.\nI've been told that the government has a plan to take this ferry service to Hazira beyond Surat and then up to Mumbai in the coming years. The issue of starting a similar service in the Bay of Kutch is being discussed and a lot of progress has been made in this regard. I convey my best wishes to the state government and for this kind of initiatives being taken by them and I assure them that they will get full cooperation of Government of India.\nThis initiative of the government is a living example of the development of the whole of Southern Gujarat including Dahej. We have specially focused on the centers like Dahej and Hazira for providing momentum to industrial development in the entire South Gujarat and Bharuch. Perhaps, nobody would have been able to think about the kind of work that is being done with regard to the rail network and road linkages in addition to the Petroleum, Chemicals \u0026 Petrochemicals Investment Regions.\nmphasis has also been laid on the development of infrastructure in Hazira. In the coming days, these regions are going to benefit from Delhi-Mumbai Industrial Corridor. The maritime development of Gujarat I am hopeful that this project of Ro-Ro ferry service will work like other projects as well.\nThe way we have understood and solved the problems of this kind of project by working hard for many years so that this kind of difficulties can be minimized if we need to build a new project in future; Gujarat has done tremendous work in that direction\nFriends, not just today but for the centuries India has been ahead of other countries in the field of transportation. Our technology used to be far better than that of other countries However, it is also true that during the period of slavery we gradually stopped learning from our historical advantages; we gradually forgot them Along with the reduction in new innovations, the current capabilities of that time also slow down. Otherwise, after independence why water transportation was completely neglected, was completely ignored in a country, whose navigational capabilities were recognized by the world for hundreds of years.\nFriends, even today the share of roads in transportation sector is 55%, while the share of railways is 35% and waterways is the cheapest mode, accounts for just 5 or 6%. Although, the share of waterways and coastal transport was almost thirty percent in the third world countries. This is our reality and this is the challenge before us and we have the ability to change this situation.\nToday, you will be surprised to know that logistics accounts for 18% of our total economy. It means that in comparison with other countries the cost of moving goods from one part to other part is expensive Transportation cost due to the poor people get expensive We can all be the resources of resources, resources, means and capabilities; we have to\nFriends, in our country, we have 7,500 kilometers long coast line and 14,500 kilometers long internal waterways, or river network for waterways. In a way mother India has already blessed us with 21,000 kilometers long waterways For years, we have been sitting idle on this asset.\nYou will be surprised to know that the first port policy in our country was formulated in 1995. The country got independence in 1947 and the port policy made in 1995, so how much it has been delayed? Prior to that the work for the development of the ports Things were just functional somehow And it is true that the country had suffered the economic loss of billions of rupees.\nI give you an example; If we transport coal through waterways then it costs around 20 paisa per ton per kilometer. But when we transport the same coal through railways then it costs Rs. 1.25 per ton per kilometer; the cost of 20 paisa becomes Rs 1.25 rupees and you can think how the cost will be multiplied if we use roads? You tell me that we will transport the coal by cheap means or not? You will be surprised to know that even today 90% coal is being transported through the railways. We have decided to change this situation that has been used in decades for decades and the government has taken the initiative for this purpose. Friends, when we buy a new house then we take into account that what kind of connectivity that place has with other areas, whether road is available or not, whether rail service is available or not, whether bus services available or not, to go somewhere\nWhen we start a new business even then we take into account what kind of connectivity is in that area; Will there be any problem in the area of ​​that area or not?\nWhen it is our general approach then this question also arises that why should we set off our industry from the sea shores? If the raw material, if the finished goods manufactured in the factories is dependent on the connectivity of ports then will it be prudent to develop the coast of the coast? Not only will it reduce the cost of logistics but it will also help in improving the ease of doing business.\nAnything inside the country, the industry for those things can be set up anywhere inside the country; and it must be done However, if you want to do the coastal areas in these things then it becomes more convenient; it fetches more profits\nFriends, if you are solving today's problem today, then you are already very late. You just imagine, if someone decides to build a flyover in the area that faces traffic jam everyday then the number of vehicles goes up so fast that the flyover gets ready there will be traffic jam on it as well. This was the situation of our country And that is why the government is working in the transport sector by taking into account the current needs and the future as well. Our formula is P for P, Ports for prosperity. Our ports are the gateways of the prosperity A project like Sagarmala is the vision of this vision. We have been working on this project while keeping the requirements of 2025, of 2035 in the mind. And under this scheme, the government has been investing massively in 400 projects by taking into account the requirements of present times to 2035.\nInvestment of more than 8 lakh crore rupees is being given for these different projects. Sagarmala project will definitely be a big base for a new India.\nFriends, we need more modern ports to establish strong relations with other countries through the oceans. Ports are like If ports become dysfunctional and they do not work according to their capacity then we will not able to trade much As body supply oxygen sucked by the lungs to its different parts through the nerves, the same way, in economy this role is being performed by railways, highways, airways and waterways. If the supply of blood, if the supply of oxygen becomes deficient in the body then it becomes weaker, similarly if there is a lack of proper connectivity then the economic development of the country also starts getting slow. And that is why this government has been deploying the two sectors - infrastructure and connectivity\nFriends, this is the result of efforts made by the government that a massive change has been brought about in the port sector in the last three years. The capacity for the last two-three years And situation of those ports and government companies have improved which has been incurring losses And the government is also focusing on the development of coastal services.\nAs per an estimate, in the future due to Sagaramala project alone, there will be one billion jobs in different parts of the country. We have been working with this modern and integrated\nThese days, you are experiencing traffic jams at several places. Our ports also face this kind of jams and due to these jams at the ports the logistic cost goes up, and waiting time goes up. As we are able to do any productive work, we only keep waiting for a traffic jam; Similarly, the vessels can be used for loading and unloading of goods. And it's not just that vessel but stuck. It's extremely necessary to modernize the ports and remove the bottlenecks.\nSagarmala project has one more aspect and it is the blue economy. . We.... Blue economy means the combination of economy and ecology Blue economy also nurtures the eco-system of seas along with economic activities.\nIf the industrial revolution of 18th and 19th centuries took place on the land then the economic revolution of the 21st century would take place through the seas, it will happen through the blue economy.\nFriends, given our present requirements and challenges, it is extremely necessary that we have the maximum favors of our country. Increased use of the capabilities of the New India\nFood security For example, if our fishermen brothers engage in the production of sea beads, if they add value in it then it can supplement their income Similarly, blue economy can become a strong base for new India in the field of energy, in the field of mining and tourism.\nFriends, this is a new work culture in the country. A work culture that is responsible and transparent And today due to this work culture the work on projects has been done on a fast pace. Today, the roads are constructed at two times the speed, the railway tracks are being kept on the two in the speed in the country.\nThe arrangements are being used for drones and satellites for the projects in order to complete the stipulated time. There must be some reason There should be some reason that the gas cylinders There is no reason why you should not wait for months to get the income tax refund. These changes have been brought about in your life and the main reason behind these things is the change that we have brought about in the work culture of the government. It's a work culture that ensures delivery of the rights of poor people, the rights of the people\nWhatever you are teaching me in Gujarat I have been getting the files being dug out and I have not been able to finish those projects. We have developed a system called Pragati Projects worth over Rs. 9 lakh crore have so far been scrutinized through it The projects that have been stuck for four decades are getting completed on a fast pace after being scrutinized through Pragati This government is trying to establish an honest economy and an honest social economy in the country. Demonetization is not only ensured that black money stashed in the safes is being deposited in banks but it also provided that kind of proofs to the country that made it possible.\nSimilarly, the country is getting a new kind of business culture under the GST. We are aware that the first people used to go out with their trucks and they used to get stuck for hours at check posts. All the check posts have been abolished after the implementation of GST. The destination of the truck which used to take five days, now it takes three days. The cost of transporting goods has come down and the corruption worth thousands of rupees at those check posts and all such things too have been eliminated due to GST. Now please tell me, those who have looted the country so far as a contractor, would they be angry with Modi or not? Will they be angry with Modi or not? Will they be upset with Modi or not? But will the welfare the country be ensured or not? Whether the citizens of the country should be benefited or not?\nThere is a business culture under which the whole business is conducted honestly and all the profits also made honestly. And it's my experience that no businessman wants to resort to dishonest means However, some rules and regulations, some officers and politicians apply pressure on him, they compel the poor fellow We have been working to provide an honest environment to him.\nYou see the numbers of traders joining the GST is continuously growing. After implementation of GST, 27 lakh people have been added to the indirect tax net.\nFriends, I'm aware that some traders who have been coming back to the mainstream I would like to fully assure them who have been honestly joining the development of the country, who has been coming to the mainstream that no officer will be allowed to harass them due to their previous record.\nBrothers and sisters, there is a lot of reforms and difficult decisions. If we see the recently released data then the production of coal, electricity and natural gas; the production of all these things has increased Foreign investors have been making record investments in India. India's foreign exchange reserves topped $ 30,000 crore from $ 40,000 crore.\nMany experts are in agreement with this item We have taken important steps in the reform sector and this process will continue. And the financial sustainability We will continue to take steps that is necessary to boost the economic development.\nFriends, this is an era of evolving systems. It's an era of realization of success through solemn pledges. All of us have taken a pledge for building a new India, and we have to realize that. Today, a new facility has been created for a new India through the launch of Ghogha-Dahej ferry service here.\nOnce again, I want to take my best wishes to you and invite you to take it.\nBharat Mata Ki Jay (Victory to Mother India),\nBharat Mata Ki Jay (Victory to Mother India),\nBharat Mata Ki Jay (Victory to Mother India),\nThank you very much"