"\nSays Prime Minister Modi\nThrough the work we are doing Kedarnath, we want to show how an ideal 'Tirth Kshetra' should be: PM\nWe are building quality infrastructure in Kedarnath It will be modern but the cultural ethos will be protected: PM\nJoin me chanting in full force, \"Jay Jay Kedar\".\nMy best wishes to all the brothers and sisters in the divine land of Uttarakhand; I have just one wish, may Baba Kedar continue to bless everyone.\nThe auspicious festival of Deepavali was celebrated in the country and the whole world only yesterday. I convey my best wishes to all the brothers and sisters in the country and around the world for this auspicious festival from Kedarnath\nThere are some states like Gujarat where the new year begins today. Greetings on the new year; many congratulations! I convey my best wishes to all those families Greetings to all of you on the new year. Happy new year! Once again Baba has summoned me Once again I have reached here Once again I got the opportunity to meet the old acquaintances. Today, they were reminded me what they had heard of me\nThis Garuda Chatti, at one point of time, got a chance to spend a lot of time here. But, perhaps, it was not the Lord's will that he spent his feet and that's why he sent me back. Perhaps the Lord thought, why should I serve only one god as 1.25 billion gods in the country to serve. There is a saying that the service to be God is the same as the same as the service to God And that is why the service to 1.25 billion people is equal to the service of the Lord, it is equal to the service of Badri Vishal, it is equal to the service to Mandakini and it is equal to service to mother Ganges. And that is why once again after making a serious commitment with new energy from here and with the blessings of Bhole Baba, with a clean mind and concrete determination every Indian makes a solemn commitment 2022 by the world top of the world, the 75th anniversary of India's independence\nWith this serious commitment, at the beginning I pay my tributes to those people who lost their natural life. They came from all the states At that time I was a minister of a state and I had no right to be encroached on I can never think of doing that thing However, I could not help myself Whether I am right or wrong, this will be decided by the history. But I reached out to those victims and I came here.\nAnd I made a request to the government at that time that the government will be able to rebuilding the Kedarnath and I will try to meet the expectations of my fellow countrymen. We were sitting in a room, the then chief minister of the state on behalf of all the officers also agreed and they said that if Gujarat is responsible for the responsibility of Modi Ji it will be good. And I express my pledge before the meeting The news flashed on TV that Modi was now taking responsibility of Rebuilding Kedarnath I do not know what kind of upheaval it has created in Delhi Within a hour, such a pressure was built on the state government that it had announced that it did not need help. It's fine, if the people sitting in Delhi are feeling problem then Why should I trouble anyone? I stepped back However, probably the lord had decided that he will be done\n\nAnd when the Bharatiya Janata Party's government was formed here and the people of Uttarakhand overwhelmingly supported us then it strengthened my belief that now the Lord has decided that I would have done this task and that is why I have come here before the closure of temple's doors and once again I make a pledga at the Lord's feet. Today the foundation is being laid for a grand reevelopment work within the stipulated time. What kind of pilgrim center should be, what kind of arrangements should be made, the way of the priests, how to make the arrangements for a more comfortable life for those that suffer from the hardships by them, how to make arrangements for it? The roadmap for redevelopment has been made while keeping all these in mind. I took the care of everything; what kind of design will it be? What will be the architecture? How the rebuilding work will be carried out while the architecture of our temples and also following all those rules and regulations? The roadmap for its development has been made\nIn a way, they will be three-in-one The arrangement for serving the travelers should be made on the ground floor. They will stay on the first floor and their guests and personal guests will stay on the floors above that level. Round the clock electricity and water will be provided and all the arrangements for the cleanliness will be ensured and the whole road will be made very wide. And then a different facility will be created We will also create facilities for purchasing worship, for buying pilgrimage related stuff for a very big number of travelers if they need to buy something after coming here; We have got that facility We will make all the arrangements be it a post office or be it a bank or facility of telephones and also the facilities for using computers.\nToday, five projects are starting here. First, as I just said, the widening of this road, it will be made RCC and it will have all the modern facilities. As soon as a traveler starts his journey, he will get the music being played at the banks of Mandakini, he will walk towards this side while listening that music lost in the devotion.\nThe work of building a wall on the Mandakini will be done. In a way it is related to providing the seating facility to the travelers, this kind of arrangements should be the river of the river. As I just said, the approach road, such an approach road will be constructed that will make it very grand And its lighting will be similar to the lighting arrangement made at the retaining wall on the bank of Mandakini. And one more embankment will be constructed because the source of water can be experienced on both sides So on the one side is mother Saraswati; so the retaining wall and embankment for it will also be constructed, it will be done. And a lot of money\nAnd one more thing A boy who was born 2500 years ago in Kerala's Kagadi -he left home at the age of 7 and wanders through Himachal, from Kashmir to Kanyakumari reaches the land of mother Bharti; who on the Tilak on his forehead carries the soil of all the regions on his forehead comes Kedar. He also completes his life here The Adi Shankaracharya, whose philosophy has continued to inspire India for hundreds of years, whose cipulcher; that too in the calamity The design work for that structure is ongoing. I invite devoutness and architecture that would be a great place to be built for Adi Shankar, such a great sepulcher should be built for him; and it should be built in such a way that people should not feel that Kedar But the travelers should feel like a spiritual awakening along with the tradition of that great mortification as soon as they reach the Adi Shankar. The work is going on in that direction Today, the foundation is being too\nI am aware that money will be required but I have full confidence that once Indian pilgrims decide this thing with a sense of devotion then it is my belief that the country will not fall short in the funding of the redevelopment work as desired by the pilgrims And I also invite the state I would also invite people from industry, business people to lend their support for the corporate social responsibility.\nI am grateful to JSW which has decided to take the responsibility. But different types of dreams are going to be coming in my mind, new and newer things, so I will also request the people for this thing and also for the CSR.\nWhen this kind of massive fund will be invested here The place will be rebuilt as per the interest, as per the nature and tendency of this place. It will be modern but its soul will be the same as that of the land of Kedar within it for centuries; this kind of redevelopment work will be done here\nWhen I came here from the doors of the temple I had the intention of sending a message to the country that we should get out of the shadow of that calamity. Sometimes we think that the facilities were now created there or not? Can we reach there or not? And that is why the number of pilgrims came down However, I am happy that this time more than 4.5 lakh pilgrims have come to the feet in the Lord in such a short span of time. And once again this pilgrimage has revived. And you can write it down that number will not be less than 10 lakh because the message has been conveyed as the whole country has seen that on TV and the message has been conveyed once more due to today's program and when the doors will be opened again, once the tour will start again Once again Uttaranchand which is our divine land, which is the land of our brave-hearts; Uttarakhand, there can not be a better place to express the devotion of my brave mothers.\nIn our country, Himalaya has a lot of unique features. There is a very different potential for development and every region of Himalaya If we go to Sringar, then we have a different experience of Himalaya; and we experience another thing if we go to Mata Vaishno Devi or Amarnath. The same is the Himalaya is in Himachal Pradesh, but if we go to Shimla, Kullu, Manali then we experience something different but if we come up to the land of the same Himalaya of the lap then we have a spiritual awakening. The same Himalaya, but we experience a different thing when we go to Darjeeling and we experience different thing when we go to Sikkim. You can imagine the same himalayas, the same mountains, the same snow but we have different regions in different spirit.\nI am a person who has wandered a lot in the lap of Himalayas. I have experienced the spirit of every region differently And that is why I am I do not know what can be weighed in in a science laboratory but the way I have experienced the Himalaya; that Himalaya, if anyone has been interested in flora and fauna of this place then a very wide landscape is available for him If someone has interested in adventure then Himalayas If someone has been interested in herbs and herbal medicine of this place then such natural gems have been present in every single lap of Himalaya that it can make someone feel a new spirit and the kind of use of herbal medicine was that of the rural people. Location is aware of And I have seen that this scorpion is herb, if a scorpion stings by chance then a villager will ask for the herb and it will give relief. And he gets relief And both of them grow together What a wonderful arrangement has been made by lord And that is why we are in these things; and that is why the government of India has started a massive research work in Dehradun on our natural assets, on the properties of Himalaya, this research is going to be great use in the future.\nIn the whole world, I see a huge potential for organic farming in the lap of our Himalaya. Sikkim is a small state It has a population of just 6-7 lakh people but almost 12-15 lakh tourists visit the state and it also has problem of road connectivity and it does not have an airport either. But now I'll build it soon But despite that Sikkim has changed It consistently works for 10-12 years as per the international parameters. The entire Himlayan region should be freed from the use of chemical fertils, all the Himalayan states should stop using chemicals and should be used in the herbal compost. If we continue to work for the next 10-12 years with patience then this is the power of organic farming that will be ready for a dollar for the same agricultural produce of yours that now just fetches one Rupee.\nI invite Uttarakhand, I call upon the government of Uttarakhand and the officers of Uttarakhand to take this task and you should move forward with the dream to turn Uttarakhand in an organic state, you should set a target for 2022 and start working on it. today itself It may take 10 years to get the certification as it has its own rules. But once you decide this thing, you will bring public awareness, you will bring about the change; You can imagine that our agriculture is the world's chemicals away from the world and then what a great service it is to mankind. We also need to strengthen the power of Himalayas\nThere is plenty of scope for tourism but it should not be influenced by the spiritual strength of this land even a bit and tourism can be simultaneously developed along with it. We can develop new and newer areas so that the nature is protected, environment is protected and the god for devotion is also maintained.\nThere is a old saying in the hills that have their unique features. The youth and water of hills We have taken this word The youths of the hills and the water from the hills should be used here. The electricity will be generated from the hill water and the same water should be used for adventure tourism and water sports. And new tourist destinations should be developed on the basis of the same water that has never been used for the hills and that the water will become able to invite the youth from all over the world and it is useful for the hills. And the youth who are used to get downs from the hills and go to the plains in search of livelihood, we should create such opportunities in the hills that the young will not leave the hills The government of India is taking one step after another, so that the hills will be useful for the hills.\nThe government of Uttarakhand has taken several important decisions, many important initiatives in such a short span of time and it is the result of these things that today is the development of scaling new heights; A new confidence is being generated.\nPeople of Uttarakhand have enough power and sense of discipline .. There is no family in the country. There is not a single village where there will not be 250-300 retired armed forces personnel And when ex-servicemen are present in such a large number then the discipline of that area becomes commendable. And this is a big support for the tourists. And we should publicize this thing We should create a system for using the experience of ex-servicemen for instilling confidence in the tourists who can become a big source of support for us and others. There is an immense potential and development of Uttarakhand by exploiting that potential should be done so that it becomes the most favored tourist destination so that for tourists it is: Uttarakhand, for adventure it is: For Uttarakhand, for travelers it should be Uttarakhand, for adventure it should be Uttarakhand, for the nature and for those people who have a desire to stay in the lap of nature it should be उत्तराखंड, for those who conduct research and develop things, for them it should be Uttarakhand.\nI invite all of you to start a new account on these days of Diwali and the beginning of new year. In our tradition, the whole country closes its books of accounts on Diwali and starts new books of accounts, so a new book of account of development begins today. We will move ahead Even today, I have given some suggestions The state government will go into them once in a month or two. I will put those other things on that area. But it is our collective responsibility It is our collective responsibility to protect the nature. I can guarantee this thing that if we protect the environment then it will protect us I would like to assure you that if we protect the nature then it will protect us The history of hundreds of years is a fact that the nature has been created due to any problem. Wherever the environment has been protected And it is that land from where we can provide\nWe took the task of providing gas connections to the poorest of the poor under the Pradhanmantri scheme, to set them free from the wood stoves, to stop logging of the forests. It was a massive campaign for protection of environment The government of India and the Uttarakhand government have taken this forward in a significant way.\nNow we have taken another task Today, there are four million families in the country. Even today, they have been condemned to lead the life of 18th or 19th century. This is the 21st century and whether the poor family should have an electric bulb or not? Whether electricity should be provided to that family? If a poor too wants his wheat or grain to be milled in a wheat grinder then why should he go to 10 kilometers, instead of that if there is electricity operated grain mill in his village then the work of milling of wheat and millet will be done in the village or not? In order to bring about changes in the lives of poor, I have been on this task on my electricity supply to 4 crore poor families under the Pradhanmantri Saubhagya scheme. There are thousands of families in Uttarakhand\nI call upon the government of Uttarakhand please adopt this scheme of the government of India. And there should be a competition among the states. Which one of them will help the others before the scheme? Which state will complete the Ujjwala scheme before others? Which state promotes the maximum possible extent? In the coming season there will be a healthy competition in the cities. I call on all the Himalayan states for a competition. Let's have a healthy competition with each other.\nI would like to congratulate Uttarakhand for this thing - toilets, freedom from open defecation; Some days ago I was told that Uttarakhand has completed its work in rural areas free from open defecation. Now there is no one to go to defecate in villages. In cities, the work is going and Uttarakhand is getting ready for cities.\nI congratulate you for the moment But I'd like to urge you to run this mission under the mission mode. Nobody should be compelled to relive yourself in open areas in the cities as well.\nI had visited Uttar Pradesh some days ago. Yogi Ji's Government has taken the responsibility of Uttar Pradesh Now they have changed the name of the toilets. Now they no longer call a toilet - toilet, they do not call it Sandas, they have named toilet as Izzatghar (the place of honor).\nI think those mothers and sisters who have been compelled to relive themselves in this word - Izzatghar. We should also run a campaign for the Izzatghars. Toilets are themselves a great facility for restoring the mothers and sisters. It provides a great service to your health as well. And recently Unicef ​​has conducted a survey of 10,000 villages in India. The survey covered both types of homes that did not have toilets. It covered those villages which were aware about the toilets and also those villages which were not aware; Unicef ​​studied all those villages It's an organ of United Nations, and they found that different types of diseases that caused the habit of toilet, and due to the disease if the child falls ill then the mother gets busy, the father gets in the tender; the kid can not go out for work; and if the mother falls ill then the whole family falls ill and if the wage earner of that house falls ill then the income of that family stops and the entire family starves. After taking into account all these things, they conducted the survey that if there is no toilet in the house then what are the expenses on diseases and what are the expenses when a toilet is constructed. And Unicef ​​has calculated that construction of toilet saves Rs. 50 thousand people You just imagine if a family is able to save Rs. 50 thousand annually then what kind of power\nA toilet can change lives and that is why I have to run a campaign to build toilets across the same commitment with which I will have to carry out re-building work of Kedarnath Dham of the Lord only then my country will move forward. We should march with the same commitment\nOnce again I welcome the government of Uttarakhand, I thank them. And all the pilgrims from across the country who come here on the pilgrimage of Char Dham Yatra, and those who are aware that we have started construction work for the new roads in the four pilgrimage centers at a cost of Rs. 12,000 crore; We have started the work on modern connectivity.\nSo now this Kedarnath Dham will be built in this manner My Kedarnath will become grand, it will be divine and it will be a good source of inspiration It is becoming a source of devotion for 1.25 billion countrymen. Every son has an opportunity to take a seat at Char Dham.\nToday, this government is carrying out that work of 1.25 billion countrymen; It has been working on realise those dreams Though this work is being executed on the land of Uttarakhand but it is being done for every single Indian. And I'm having an feeling of extreme satisfaction in my life.\nI convey my good wishes to all you Bhole Baba (the lord Shiva) Jay Jay Baba Bhole, Jay Jay Baba Bhole, and I once again call on you to join me.\nJay Jay Baba Bhole, Jay Jay Baba Bhole.\nThank you very much"