"Share\n\nAyurveda is not just a medical practice. It has a wide scope and covers, various aspects of public and environmental health too: PM\nGovernment making efforts to integrate Ayurveda, yoga and other traditional medical systems in Public Healthcare System: PM\nAvailability of affordable health care to the government: PM Modi\nThe simpleest way to achieve Preventive Healthcare is Swachhata: PM Modi\nAll Ayurveda lovers and the famous people present here,\nBest wishes for you all and the whole nation on the occasion of Dhanvantari Jayanti and Ayurveda day.\nIn fact, the celebrations for the festival of Deepavali have also started. I wish all my countrymen as well as the Indian community spread across the world, a very happy and prosperous Deepavali.\nI was told that many Ayurvedic colleges in the country are connected to this program and I welcome them all. I congratulate you all for the establishment of the country's first All India Institute of Ayurveda.\nI thank the AYUSH Ministry of the Ministry for the establishment of the Institute for the Ayurveda Day.\nFriends, even with a lot of efforts a country can not progress unless it knows its history, heritage, culture, glorious traditions and if it does not take pride in them. Those countries that move forward will forget its legacy will certainly lose its identity\nFriends, if we look at the history of our country, we will find that India was once a prosperous and a powerful country. The other countries realised that it was impossible to compete with India's knowledge and intellect So they adopted a different path They thought that whatever we had, will be destroyed They were bent on try and erase our achievements instead of making their own.\nSo, during the era of colonization our traditions, sages, farmers, scientists, knowledge, yoga, Ayurveda were ridiculed. They have tried to weaken the power\nAfter liberation from slavery we hoped that whatever was survived should be protected Everything was left to itself\nIn the time of colonization, an attempt was made to destroy our strength and even after independence. In a way we had turned away from our legacy Because of these causes many of our information and knowledge that once used our grandmothers' prescriptions, were patented by other countries and thus, slipped in the hands of those countries\nToday those are the intellectual property Today I feel proud that the last 3 years The reputation of our superior heritage has once again been in the minds of the people today.\nToday when celebrating the Ayurveda Day or the International Yoga Day on 21st June, the people feel proud of their cultural heritage. When we look at the images of lakhs of people from different countries performing yoga, we feel that millions of people are trying to connect with India's heritage which is yoga. In every age, the inheritance of the human race begins with the contribution of some kind of contribution. Yoga, which has been originally the heritage of India, has now started spreading to the whole human race as its legacy.\nThis transformation is a result of the past 3 years and the AYUSH Ministry has also played a significant role.\nFriends, Ayurveda is not just a medical practice. It has a wide range of scope and includes subjects like social health, Public Health, environmental health etc. Realizing this need, the government is now focusing on the integration of Ayurveda, yoga and other public healthcare systems of Ayurveda. The government has kept Ayush under four of its priority areas Apart from making a separate ministry, we have also framed rules for the integration of Ayush system with other healthcare services while formulating our national health policy.\nFriends, the government believes that the integration of AYUSH with the Healthcare system will not remain confined to the files like before but will be implemented effectively. The AYUSH Ministry has started several initiatives in this direction. Several initiatives like National Health Protection Scheme, National AYUSH Mission, Mission Madhumeha, AYUSH were discussed by Mr Shripad Naik.\nFriends, in order to expand the penetration of Ayurveda in the country it is necessary to have Ayurveda Hospitals with all facilities in every district. The AYUSH Ministry is working on a fast pace in this direction and within 3 years more than 65 AYUSH hospitals have opened.\nThe inauguration of the AIIMS like institution which is the All India Ayurveda Institute, is also a part of this endeavor. At the initial stage, more than 750 patients are coming here every day. In the coming days, the number of patients is estimated to be doubled. Usually in every program it is said that your volume of work should increase; but I do not want to increase So, I hope that an atmosphere of wellness is created so that people do not have to come here. This Institute has built with modern infrastructure. This will be helpful in the Ayurvedic treatment of many serious diseases. I am happy that today with the establishment of the Ayurveda Institute, the knowledge of Ayurveda is once again reinforced and is getting a new energy.\nIt is also very promising to note that the Ayurveda Institute will work together with AIIMS, Indian Council of Medical Research and some other international organizations. I hope that All India Ayurveda Institute will be the main center of interdisciplinary and integrative health practice while treading this path.\nFriends, Ayurveda is a very long list of its properties. The world today not only wants to be healthy but also wants wellness which can be fulfilled only by Ayurveda and yoga Today, the feeling of 'back to the basics' and 'back to the nature' is becoming stronger in all countries of the world. More and more people are tilting towards it The people are getting attracted towards those systems In such a scenario, a favourable environment is being created for Ayurveda. There is a need to increase the utility of Ayurveda as much as possible today.\nHow many of them have studied Ayurveda are hundred percent centered towards this science? When he opens a hospital and an OPD and a patient for a quick remedy, the Ayurveda doctor feels that it is better to give him an allopathic medicine along with an injection. However, the sign board outside says that it's 'Ayurvedic Health Center' This shows that the worship is Ayurveda is not hundred percent cent. In order to re-instil the confidence of the people in the effectiveness of Ayurveda, first of all there should be a feeling of hundred per cent devotion towards Ayurveda We should first develop the confidence in the system. We use our childhood There was a man who was not available When the man enquired about his owner, the servant replied that the owner was gone.\nIn such a scenario who will visit his eatery? So friends, it is essential that the scientists associated with Ayurveda should expand its services. They should also think about the areas where Ayurveda can become more effective One such area is that of sports Recently there has been a sharp increase in the demand for physiotherapists. Every player has a personal physiotherapist Sometimes these famous players unknowingly get entangled with the pain killers. We all know that Ayurveda and yoga can be effective in this field. Ayurveda and yoga based Physiotherapy will not cause any kind of risk.\nYoga and Ayurveda are important for our security forces just like these are effective in sports. Our soldiers Sometimes they are posted in the mountainous areas, in the deserts or in the high seas and sometimes in the dense forests; in different seasons and situations In such situation, Ayurveda and yoga can be saved from many diseases. Mental stress can be easily Yoga and Ayurveda can be very effective in strengthening the immunity system.\nAyurvedic education Rather, its scope should also be increased The entire support chain of Ayurveda like Panchakarma therapist, Ayurvedic dietician, paralysis analyst, Ayurveda pharmacist, should also be developed.\nApart from this, I suggest that there is a need to reroute the different courses in different levels in Ayurvedic education. A Student with the Bachelor of Ayurvedic Medicine and Surgery (BAMS) learns about natural, Ayurvedic diet, Ayurvedic Pharmaceuticals After completing his course of 5 years he gets his degree and then practices on his own or finds a job.\nFriends, is it possible to design the BAMS course in such a way that the student gets a certificate at every passing level of the exams? It has two advantages Those students, who would like to start their studies with higher education, will be comfortable and students who have missed studies for some reason will also have a certificate of some level of course. This will be helpful in his life and those who complete the 5 year course also have better employment opportunities.\nJust now, Shripad Naik ji was mentioning about the collaboration with Spaulding Rehab Hospital and Harvard Medical School. I was really happy to hear this and I congratulate both the sides I hope that this collaboration will help in developing sports medicine, rehabilitation medicine and a possibility of Ayurvedic treatment for prevention of pain.\nBrothers and sisters, I have launched Standard Guidelines and Standard Terminology Portal for treatment with Ayurveda a short while ago. Both these initiatives will generate a large amount of data, according to the modern methods of Ayurveda. I believe that this initiative will prove to be a milestone in the field of Ayush Science. The universal acceptance for Ayurveda will also increase with its help.\nStandard guidelines and standard terminology in Ayurveda are so important The absence of these leads to the suppression of Ayurveda by the allopathic world. In our country, the same disease is different The treatment is more or less So, we are able to reach out in the right way. This portal can be used in this direction. Once, a commission of the Indian government in its report said that Ayurveda is far away from the people's homes; because this method is not favourable in today's time So, on one hand there are the allopathic medicines that can be quickly and easily consumed; On the other hand, there is this Ayurveda system, which is commonly avoided by the common man because of the long and time consuming process of making the medicine. In this age of fast food, the old style of packaging of the Ayurvedic medicines is not going to work. As soon as the packaging of Ayurvedic medicines becomes modern, the standards of the treatment process are fixed and the terminology becomes uniform, you will see the rapid progress in the system.\nIn today's time, people want immediate results With immediate results, people are not affected. But this kind of thinking is wrong So, the need of the hour is that we should focus on the research that will help develop the Ayurvedic medicines that not only give immediate results but also help in preventing side effects. We should think about these lines and build them\nBrothers and sisters, I have been told that under the Ministry of Ayurveda, the pharmacy standard of over 600 Ayurvedic medicines has been published. Greater publicity will lead to greater penetration of Ayurvedic medicines.\nToday is a huge market for Herbal medicines. India has used its full capabilities here Herbal and medicinal plants are becoming important sources of income.\nIn Ayurveda, medicines are made out of a well of water or a fertile land. Some therapeutic plants grow without any specific requirement. Unaware of the significance of some of these and mistaking them for scrubs or weeds, these are uprooted. We need to think about how to avoid this loss\nNew employment opportunities are also used in the cultivation of medicinal plants. I would like to urge the AYUSH Ministry to develop a short term course for the farmers and the students in this direction. Has any research done done on the seaweeds in Ayurveda? India's coast is a great asset. Is it any use in Ayurvedic medicine? I know that I'm not a specialist in this subject but if we do research in these new areas then we can make a difference in those fishermen We can serve those interested in wellness by further enriching the vegetable based medicines. If the farmer uses the land in the edges of his traditional farm land and cultivates the medicinal plants, his income will increase. We want to double the farmers' incomes by the year 2022 which will mark 75 years of independence. This can also become an additional source of income for the farmers if the AYUSH Ministry and the Ministry of Agriculture is working together to develop their medicinal plants.\nFriends, this sector requires a lot of development and expansion. The government has approved hundred percent Foreign Direct Investments (FDI) in Healthcare system Efforts should also be made as so to provide the benefits of FDI to Ayurveda and yoga in the healthcare system.\nI would like to urge all the companies and the private sector of the country to come forward for yoga and Ayurveda as well, just as they have done for allopathic based hospitals. Contributing a part of your social responsibility fund to the Ayurveda and yoga also.\nWe should keep in mind that the knowledge that our ancestors had acquired thousands of years ago was based on a lot of hard work and inspiration for the welfare of mankind. The desire for experiments and innovation gave birth to the miracles like yoga and Ayurveda. But as soon as we started innovating, the conditions started\nThere is a need to change completely It is the need of the hour as well as the whole humanity Today the world is searching for a Holistic Health Care but the breakthrough is still waiting. It is looking up to India and its Ayurvedic and yogic power with a lot of hope and expectation. It is confident that India's experience of yoga and Ayurveda can be used in the welfare of the whole world. India should not lose time now We should move ahead with this resolution\nFriends, India's thinking: 'Ekam Shata Vipra Bahudha Vadanti' i.e. \"That which exists is one, sages call it by various names\" is applicable to all types of pharmaceutical systems or health systems too. We respect every health care system and wish for every one's progress. Just like the Indian democracy, every health system has its democratic right. Every system has the right to progress and be respected. The government aims to extend all types of health systems to the poor, to provide cheap treatment to the poor and make the treatment.\nTherefore, our emphasis on health sector has been consistent on two major things - firstly, preventive healthcare and secondly, to increase the affordability and access to healthcare.\nWith an emphasis on preventive health care, we started Mission indradhanush in order to cover all those children with vaccination by 2020 who was left out in the normal immunization campaign. The government decided that children should be immunized completely from 12 types of diseases. Under Mission Indradhanush more than 2.5 Crore children and about 70 lakh pregnant women have been vaccinated.\nIt is only because of the government's efforts that the pace of vaccination in the country that was growing at a rate of 1% annually, has now reached almost 6% since 3 years ago. Whenever a target is set, we will get results. We are really getting the results. This month itself is the government even more focused on this mission. Intensified Mission Indradhanush has started under which vaccination coverage will focus on those districts which have been left behind till date. Till the next year the immunization campaign will be run in 173 districts of the country. The government aims to achieve full immunization coverage in the country by December 2018.\nFriends, earlier it was believed that healthcare is the responsibility of the Ministry of Health. But our thinking is different Under Intensified Mission Indradhanush, we have now tied up with 12 different ministries of the government, even the Ministry of Defense.\nBrothers and sisters, another cheaper and healthier way of Preventive Healthcare is cleanliness. The government has taken the public health The government has constructed more than 5 crore toilets in 3 years. The way the people's perception about change Some people have started calling toilet as an 'izzatghar' or 'abode of dignity'. You could have read a report of UNICEF a few days ago. The report says that when a person builds a toilet in his village for his family, he saves Rs.50000 annually on medical expenses. Just imagine that a poor person benefits by saving 50000 rupees after building a toilet.\nThe government is trying to promote preventive healthcare with a holistic approach to growing affordability and accessibility to healthcare. PG medical seats have been increased for medical students studying in medical colleges. It will be beneficial to direct our youth as well as the poor New AIIMS is also being established in various states to provide better treatment and health services. There is a heavy cut in the price of stents The price of the stents varies from 50000 rupees to 1 lakh to 2 lakhs and sometimes even 2.5 lakhs. If a person from a middle class family has a heart problem and he needs a stent, then he will not be able to afford it even if he keeps his whole house as collateral. The government talked to them and asked them why they were so expensive. After discussion, the price was reduced by 30- 40%. These days many senior citizens require knee operation and knee implants. We also get the cost of knee implants. We tried to make available cheaper medicines through Jan Aushadhi stores to the poor. Therefore, we also opened up the stores in hospitals. Today the best medicines which used to cost around 12 rupees are now available at one and a half rupees.\n\nFriends, I have been told that our foreign missions in almost 24 countries are celebrating Ayurveda Day this year. The IT revolution has swept the world in the last 30 years. Now there should be a health revolution under the leadership of Ayurveda Let us take a pledge on this auspicious day: 'we will practice Ayurveda; We will keep Ayurveda alive and we will live for Ayurveda '.\nFriends, I conclude my speech with the wishes of all the wishes to you all of the Ayurveda Institute on the Ayurveda day. Once again my best wishes to you all.\nThank you very much !!!"