"The Center and state government should work together for the growth of Bihar: PM Modi\nPM Modi lays the foundation stone for Namami Gange and National Highways project in Mokama\nWe always launch a scheme and make sure that we prepare a roadmap to meet it too, says PM Modi\nProjects whose foundation stones are being will give impetus to Bihar's development: PM\nBharat Mata Ki Jay (Victory for Mother India) - India Mata Ki Jay (Victory for Mother India).\nMy dear brothers and sisters present here in large numbers,\nMy people I would like to know about this holy land of Lord Parashuram. I am blessed on coming here in Mokama.\nThe whole country is gearing up to celebrate Diwali. Preparations for Chhath are also underway. I congratulate you in advance for Dipawali and Chhath Puja. And gifts worth about Rs. 4 thousand crore is given for Bihar\nBrothers and sisters, a short while ago Gadkari was talking about how many roads projects, highway projects have started by the government of India. And the description was so long that I saw that you were too surprised that so many schemes can be implemented in such a short span of time to turn the fortune of Bihar.\nI am grateful to Nitish Ji and his whole team for support all the plans of every possible way. When we had difficulties they came forward to solve our problems and in a way today both the central government and the state government have done their best to fulfill the dream of the dream of Bihar and you see results. Nitish has touched on many issues, since he is the chief minister, but he also has a member of Parliament from this area for several years so it's natural to have an emotional attachment with you. And due to that emotional attachment he has been restlessness that should be done or so on And I respect his feelings and I assure him that the government of India should walk with him shoulder to realize the dreams of millions and people of Bihar and it will take the journey of new heights.\nBrothers and sisters, today I got the good opportunity to come to the Land of Mokama, Nitish Ji showed me the design of the bridge from the above, the foundation stone which was being today here today, when we came here. He showed me the model and I am confident this kind of bridge will become the center of attraction for the whole Bihar. And this bridge will connect Begusarai, the area of ​​work of the first Chief minister of Bihar Dr. Shri Krishna, with the state capital Patna Even today, I bow down to Shri Babu who made Begusarai the capital of Bihar by establishing Refinery, Fertilizer, Thermal Power Plant and Barauni Dairy.\nToday, I have come to that land which is just a few hundred meters away from that temple of education which has given the values ​​to the national poet Dinakar Ji during his childhood. As one remembers Dinkar Ji his feelings inspire us even today. They show us the path of liberty from the blind faith. Be it an oppressed person or one who is persecuted or exploited, poor, deprived, villager, farmer, laborer, we feel emotional This is the land on which Dinakar Ji was raised. Dinakar Ji had said:\n\n'Arti Liye To Kise Dhoondhta Hai Moorkh, Andh-Shraddha Ke Khilaf Chot Panhuchate The'\n\n'Arti Liye To Kise Dhoondhta Hai Moorkh, Mandiro, Raj Prasado Mein, Tahkhano Mein'\n\n'Are Devata Kanhi Sadko Par Gitti Tod Rahe, Devata Milenge Khato Mein, Khalihano Mein'.\n\nToday, the people who will break the stones for the projects, they are our gods. And the Government of India is taking an important step to realize the dreams of Dinakar Ji.\nBrothers and sisters, this land is also the land where Lord Parashuram had meditated. Nobody can forget the grand History of the Holy Simaria Bank located on the banks of the Ganga at the confluence of three great ancient states - Ang, Magadh and Mithila. And when I got the good opportunity to bow down to this platform then I respectfully bow down to it. This is the land of brave-heart Babha Chauharmal, a fair is being organized in his memory every year at some distance from here. A large crowd gathered here and I also bow down to such a holy land.\nMy dear brothers and sisters of Bihar, as far as I can see, I see people everywhere There are two more times than those people who are inside it. All those people are facing harsh sunlight outside I have been down to you as well, I bow down to you as well. I welcome you. But my dear brothers and sisters of Bihar, I would like to assure you that the government of India and the state government will not be allowed to go waste.\nहमारे देश भी इस तरह के लोग हैं. I have read about this kind of politicians who have talked about building a road: 'What is the need for a road, the roads are needed by cars, do we poor people have cars, why We need roads? 'The people with this kind of negative mentality If today you travel to a village where there is no road .... MPs also come to meet me and they tell me that some of the roads under the Pradhanmantri Gram Sadak Yojana have their area in the construction, they can ask me to give priority to their area. Whenever people from rural areas meet with the roads, the Pradhanmantri Gram Sadak Yojna.\nBrothers and sisters, in the last three years, we have increased the budget so much, we have ramped up the speed of the work so much that today we have succeeded in building the two times as much roads than what we used to build earlier and that is Why this work of building is the way to take place in rural life. However, rural roads alone are not enough We want to connect our large economic centers, economic centers are growth centers as well and those place where economy thrives; We also need to connect with these places\nToday, those projects worth thousands of crores of rupees for which the foundation stones have been laid, these projects are not just running the vehicles on them. The construction of road is meant for And it is our effort to bring prosperity here through the streets and these are roads that pull the prosperity and contribute in the prosperous area.\nBrothers and sisters, Ganga, our lives are dependent on her Today, if mother Ganga was not there then how terrible the situation would have been? However, we never made any attempt to save that Ganga, we were indifferent. Saving the Ganga is equal to saving our future generations. If we clean the river Ganga then nobody can stop its stream and that is why the government has been engaged in cleaning the Ganga by spending the billions and billions of rupees. And this is not just the name of a river. And once again we will develop the same feelings of reverence towards rivers, initiatives for saving the rivers will be taken, an awareness about all the rivers of India will generate. If we want to avoid the water crisis in India in future then this is the only way and we have to take it seriously And that is why this cleanliness mission that has been launched, and all the states, from Gangotri to Bengal Sagar, which has been associated with this mission, the first priority is being given to this thing by their responsibility. . A campaign has started to stop the drainage of polluted water, to stop the water polluted with chemicals going in Ganga. And today foundation stones for many projects are being kept together in Bihar so that in the coming days we will be able to see mother Ganga the same way the way we have for her devotion. And when the mother Ganga will be as our dreams then there will be a unique joy in Chhath Puja, and there will be a unique feeling of devotion.\nBrothers and sisters, during the last few days, government of India's Railway Ministry has started an important train for the people of eastern Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, and it is going to be immense during the Diwali and Chhath Puja festival. Antyoday Express from Mumbai to Gorakhpur, this is the first Antyoday Express of the country and just one week ago I have flagged off from Surat the second Antyoday Train from Surat to Patna Jaynagar. We have made this arrangement that the poor on the train without the last moment.\nWe have connected Mahamana Express from Baroda to Banaras People who have been working in Surat, in Baroda and in Ankaleshwar, people who work in Maharashtra can be comfortably for their festivals of Diwali and Chhath Puja. This government has started these four important trains in the last few days at a very fast pace to connect Bihar and Eastern Uttar Pradesh, it is definitely going to benefit you people during Diwali and Chhath Puja.\nBrothers and sisters, a short while ago Nitin Ji, Gadkari has presented a sketch to you, perhaps, this kind of massive work of building infrastructure like such a short span of time was never done in Bihar before. As Nitin Ji just said that in case of the work alone, the work worth Rs. 53,000 crore has either been started or has been approved. You can imagine what kind of comfort these basic facilities, these basic facilities of infrastructure provided.\nWe know it is very well that the future will not allow Road connectivity, rail connectivity, internet connectivity, gas grid, electricity connection and taps of clean water are required. These issues of connectivity are related to poor people and even in these things a project of waterways has started under the leadership of our Gadkari Ji. And if we successfully implement waterways then you will see the importance of rivers Those people who are from the economic field will also be able to resist the need to associate themselves with a feeling of reverence. This kind of change is going to happen in the region of the country due to the waterways to supply the poor to the poor in possible expenses. This thing is going to become possible on the banks of the river.\nIn the British era this waterway was there, at that time Mokama was known as Mini Calcutta. It was the center of the big economic and transport activity. The government of India has taken over the task of restoring this reputation and I would like to assure you that in the future\nYou must have seen that we have started a massive campaign to provide electricity to those villages where it was not available. There were 18,000 villages without electricity We started with 1,000 days in the dream. We still have some months left but we have been electrified nearly 15,000 villages so far and we have been working on a rapid pace to electrify the remaining 2.5 to 30000 villages. Along with that we have recently launched Pradhanmantri Saubhagya Yojana. This Pradhanmantri scheme plan, I'd urge to take full advantage of it. Under the Pradhanmantri scheme, the government of India and the state government will work together to provide electricity to those homes. Even if someone lives in a shanty he too If you want to use electricity, then the government used to tell that there is an electricity poll on that side and if we need to supply electricity then we will have to install 10 polls from there to here and it will cost around Rs. 30,000 And if you pay Rs. 30,000 then only you will get the electricity connection. So the lower class, middle class people, poor people used to reply that they can not afford. 30,000 People did not Brothers and sisters, we have decided that no Indian family will be compelled to live in the 18th century like situation The connections will be given free of cost, if there is a need to install poll, then the government will install them, if there is a need to lay the wires then the government will do that and it will be electricity can be given free of cost so that he can think about a new way and move forward in the direction of change.\nBrothers and sisters, this is a unique feature of this government which even our critics have had after the three years. It was a habit of previous governments to make announcements while keeping the people in mind Today, there is this kind of government in Delhi that we prepare the road map of a scheme if we conceive it. And the government will completely dedicate itself in ordering those resources, in implementing those schemes in a time bound manner You might have seen that the gas connections to more than 3 crore families, to the poor families, to the poorest of the poor families have been provided so far. They have started cooking gas stove We have a dream of providing gas connections to more than two years in the next two years and we will accomplish that within the stipulated time and will bring about change in poor person's life.\nWe have started off the cleanliness campaign. I would like to call on the government employees, I would like to call on the people of cities and who have been compelled to defecate in the open Who do not have toilets, what do they do? They go out of their homes in the dark before the sunrise and come back after relieving themselves before the sun rises And once the sun rises and if they need to relieve themselves during the day time then they wait till the night, until the sunset, till it is dark and till then they torture their bodies, till then they bear the pain and after that they go to defecate What kind of adverse effect it has on the health of my poor mothers and sisters? What is the situation of our mothers and sisters? And that is why I would like to urge to repossess all the country that we should not be able to build in the toilet if it is our responsibility, we should honestly take it forward and we should have respect for the dignity our mothers and sisters, if we have concerns for their health\nToday, we have linked five crore families in the toilets. In a country where the facilities for cleanliness were less than 50% of the requirement, today we have succeeded in taking this figure to almost 80%, but we have to take it further and hence I would like to urge to our people of Bihar one responsibility in their villages Today, about 2.5 lakh villages in the country have declared themselves Open Defecation Free. I invite Bihar, lets come forward to make our villages, our tehsils, our districts open defecation free. Mahatma Gandhi gave the message of cleanliness, the land where Mahatma Gandhi gave the message of self dependence, such a land, and today the country has expectations of you You also take the leadership in this thing as well and take it to new heights and it will not be possible. Tasks are not done on the basis of government money alone, but when people decide then the work is automatically and that is why I invite you people\nMy brothers and sisters, you have blessed me by turning up in such a large number; I was once again expressing my gratitude And I assure you that the government of India is committed to the development of eastern India. And under the development model followed by us, be it eastern Uttar Pradesh, be it Bihar or West Bengal or Assam or Odisha or be it North East, all these regions will scale new heights of development. We have been working in the direction of setting up a fertilizer plant in your area. Our farmers are going to get benefits from that\nAnd with this one expectation that all of you will join this tour of your life.\n\n(Bharat Mata Ki Jay) Victory for Mother India,\n\n(Bharat Mata Ki Jay) Victory for Mother India,\n\n(Bharat Mata Ki Jay) Victory for Mother India,\n"