"Share\n\nBihar is blessed with both 'Gyan' and 'Ganga.' This land has a legacy that is unique: PM\nFrom conventional teaching, our universities need to be innovative learning: PM\nLiving in an era of globalization, we need to understand the changing trends of the world and the increased spirit of competitiveness: PM\nA nation seen as a land of snake charmers has distinguished itself in the IT sector: PM Modi\nIndia is a youthful nation, blessed with youthful aspirations Our youngsters can do a lot for the nation and the world: PM\nAll the youngsters present here in large numbers,\nOur Chief Minister was telling me that I am the first Prime Minister to visit the University. I am privileged that my predecessors have left So, I have got the chance to do this good work.\nFirst of all I would like to salute this sacred soil because this university has played a major role in contributing to the country's development. There is a famous Chinese saying: if your vision is for a year then sow food grains; If your vision is for 10-20 years then sow fruit-bearing trees; but if you are going to produce good human beings Patna University exemplifies this saying. After the seed was sown hundred years ago, within hundred years many generations came and studied in the University; Some of them became politicians and started serving. Today I realize that there may not be any state in the country where the top five civil servants are not from Bihar's Patna University\nI usually meet officials from different states of India Daily I talk to about 80 or 100 people for about 2 hours and I realize that the big chunk of those officers are from Bihar. They are blessed by Goddess Saraswati But the time has changed Bihar has the blessings of Goddess Saraswati But Bihar also needs the blessings of Goddess Lakshmi. The government of India intends to take new heights with the blessings of both the goddesses.\nNitish ji is committed towards the development of Bihar and the Government of India is also committed towards the development of Eastern India. Our resolution should be elevated from Bihar to the position of other developed states of India by 2022 when the country will celebrate 75 years of Independence.\nThe city of Patna is located on the banks of the river Ganga. The knowledge and heritage of Bihar is as old as the river Ganga. No one can forget Nalanda or Vikramshila\nProbably there is hardly any area which remains untouched by this soil's contribution in reforming human life. The legacy of this great heritage is a great source of inspiration. Those who can remember the rich future Therefore its creation is powerful Its conception is also possible on this soil which has the power to enlighten this earth as it is a great historical heritage, cultural heritage and a living example. I believe that there is no power or capability anywhere else\nThere was a time when we used to go to schools and colleges to learn but that era has ended. Today the world is transforming, the ideas are changing, and technological intervention. In view of this facts, the students are also facing great challenges. The challenge is not about what new to learn but how to unlearn or de-learn the out-dated things and then re-learn the new things.\nOnce, Mr Forbes of the Forbes magazine He said that the purpose of knowledge is to empty the brain, to fill our minds with new thoughts and new things. He said that knowledge should be empty Our thinking is the burden; to cram things If we want to bring a change in the true sense, then all of them have a campaign to broaden the mind-set so that new ideas can enter into our minds. Therefore the universities should be teaching and not teaching. How to take our educational institutions in that direction?\nThere is a consistency in one aspect over the years of the evolution of human culture and that is innovation. In every era human beings have added some innovation to their lifestyle. Today's innovation Only that country can progress in the world that prioritizes innovation and institutions But a mere cosmetic change to the institution can not be considered as modification. The need of the hour is to get rid of old and out-dated thoughts and to get new ways to secure the future. Today, every sector needs to be reformed with the help of technology and the society also needs innovative ways for its progress. And so the universities can play a significant role in order to meet the needs of the future generation at a time when the competition has become globalised. Today we are not competing within our country or our neighboring countries only The contest has also been globalized. So we have to accept that competition as a challenge If the country wants to progress, take new heights and secure our place in the global arena, then a great emphasis should be on innovation by our younger generation.\nThe perception of the world started in India. Before that the world used to conceive India as the land of snake charmers. The world used to associate Indians with black magic, ghosts and superstitions. But after the IT revolution the world is astonished to see the technological soundness of young generation. When the 18 to 20 year-olds of India started showing their IT prowess, the world was startled Their perception about India changed\nI would like to remind myself of a long time ago. At that time I was not even the chief minister and had no links with elections. I got the Taiwan government's invitation That was a 10-days trip. Was there an interpreter In those 10 days After 6 or 8 days he asked me if I would mind if he enquired something I asked him to go ahead. But he was quite hesitant and could not ask me Later, while travelling I asked him what that was that he wanted to ask me that day He was again hesitant. I asked him that he was okay and he could ask me frankly He was a computer engineer Then he asked that India was still the same, the land of snake charmers, black magic and superstitions He kept staring at me I asked him why he felt after looking at me He felt embarrassed and started apologizing. I said, \"No brother, today India is not the same valuation!\" He asked - \"how?\" I said that our ancient people used to play with Snakes and our current generation! He understood that the mouse I was talking about was the animal.\nWhat I mean to say is the strength of the country Sometimes we achieve awards by making one or two projects innovation at a mass scale. I want to appeal to the youngsters, students, faculties and universities from the sacred soil of the hundred year old Patna University to come forward with innovative ways. Can we find suitable technologies that are affordable, cheap, simple and user-friendly? If we were to promote such small projects then these can convert into start-ups The youngsters can develop the start-ups for innovating university education by using the funds from banks under Mudra Yojana. Can you imagine that today is India's fourth largest start-up hub in the world? India can also get the top rank. If every youngster in India has a new idea for a start-up, then it is a revolutionary change. So I invite the universities of India, especially the University of Patna to promote innovation. We need to move forward in this world\nIndia does not lack talent India is fortunate to have 800million or 65% of the country's population below 35 years of age. India is young and India's dreams are also young I believe that the power that can be achieved\nAnd so, right now Nitish ji placed a subject in great detail and you all supported it by your clapping. But I feel that central university is a matter of past I want to take it one step ahead and so today I have come here for today's university program. The reforms in the education sector in our country are progressing at a very slow pace. The mutual differences in our Academics are very intense. So, at every stage, more than just the reforms. The innovations and the reforms, that are needed in our education system, especially in a higher education system, to reach the world class level, some of the lack. This government has taken some bold steps. A debate has been going on for quite some time regarding the autonomy of IIMs. The government felt that it used to be a lot of funds but the institutions did not take any directions from the government. You will be happy to know that after a couple of years of this debate, for the first time IIM was completely independent and was professional opened-up. However, most of these newspapers did not include it. It was a big decision Just like the Patna University is well known for making IAS, IPS and IFS, as well as the IIMs across the country are known for creating CEOs. So, we decided to free the prestigious Institute of government rules and restrictions. I believe that now that the IIMs have been provided with this opportunity, it will fulfill the aspirations and hopes of the country. I have requested the IIMs to also ensure the participation of its former students in governing them. I also heard the Patna University for its rich and capable alumni in the path of development of the University. You must have seen that the students of the Top Universities of the World have played a significant role in the universities progress, not only in financial terms but also the intellect, experience, status and position. We usually invite the alumni to some functions; honour them with garlands; get donations from them and the association ends there The alumni are a great strength in themselves. So their association with the university should be more than a mere tokenism\nA short while ago I was talking about going on a step ahead of making it a central university and that I have come to the Patna University to invite it for the same. The Government of India has given a dream before the universities of the country. Indian universities have not found any place among the world's top 500. Is not it ironical that the country where its universities like Nalanda, Vikramshila, Taxila, Vallabhi have attracted the whole world about 1300 or 1500 years back in any place top 500 universities of the world? Do you think that should be done? We only have to change the situation We should take this resolution and strive towards its accomplishment.\nIn order to achieve that, the government of India through its scheme wants to make 10 public universities and 10 private universities, total 20 universities, as world class by freeing them of government rules and regulations. These universities will be provided with 10,000 crore rupees over 5 years. This initiative is very much more than a university as a central university. These universities will not be selected on the whims of any politician or the Prime Minister but any open competition All the students The universities have to prove their capability through the challenge In this way top 10 private and 10 public universities will be selected. The final selection will be done through a third party professional agency The state government and the universities Their performance will be assessed. Their road maps on the international platform will also be assessed and the top 10 universities will be freed of the government hold and will be granted autonomy. They will be free to decide their road maps. These universities will be provided 10,000 crore rupees within 5 years. This concept is a great initiative. This is a big decision Therefore, I have come here to invite Patna University I request the university and its faculties to come forward and participate in this important scheme. I wish that this glorious Patna University may curve a niche in the world. I request you to join in My best wishes to you all\nYou should fulfill all your resolutions in this centenary celebration. With these feelings, I thank you all."