"\nLoknayak JP and Nanaji Deshmukh have devoted their lives towards the betterment of our nation: PM\nLoknayak JP was deeply popular among youngsters Inspired by Gandhiji's clarion call, he played key role during 'Quit India' movement: PM\nLoknayak JP fought corruption in the nation His leadership rattled those in power: Prime Minister\nInitiative has to be completed on time and the fruits of development must reach the intended beneficiaries, says PM Modi\nStrength of a democracy can not be restricted to how many people vote but the real essence of a democracy is Jan Bhagidari: PM Modi\nToday is the occasion of birth anniversary of Loknayak Jaiprakash Ji and today is also the occasion of birth centenary of the closest aid of Loknayak Jaiprakash Shriman Nanaji Deshmukh. Both of these great souls made such a serious pledge in their lifetime and they were completely dedicated themselves, they realized that their fellow countrymen and the motherland of the welfare for the pledge that their lives of every moment spent. Loknayak Jayprakash Narayan had been the inspiration for the youth during the freedom movement. Quit India movement reached its peak in 1942. The British Raj had sent all the great leaders including Mahatma Gandhi and Sardar Patel in jail and at that time Jayprakah Ji and Lohia Ji, like the youth, coming forward by the movement of control, and they become a source of inspiration of the youth\nDuring that era of our freedom struggle, Jayprakash Ji had become a source of inspiration for the youth. However, when after the independence many stalwarts were searching for their place in the corridors of power it was Jayprakash Narayan who maintained a distance from the politics of power and after independence Jayprakash Ji and his wife Shrimati Prabha Devi Ji opted the path of rural development and public welfare\nNanaji Deshmukh, the country was not familiar with him at that time. He has broken his life for the country but when Jayprakash ji was fighting against corruption, even before the emergency, Jayprakash ji joined the student movement due to the pain because of corruption, because of high offices of corruption the country Jayaprakash Narayan once again came in public life after taking inspiration from the student movement of Gujarat and it caused a lot of upheaval in government in Delhi. And many conspiracies were being hatched to figure out how to stop Jayprakash Ji And things went on that big attack on the mounted Jayprakash Ji in Patna when a public ceremony was taken out during a public function. At that time Nanaji Deshukh was standing next to him. And he put his hand to face that deadly blow. He was able to shield Jayprakash Ji from that assault. And it was such an event that Nanaaji Deshmukh Throughout his life With the help of Deendayal Research Institute he developed such couples whom he taught to live in the country, and he invited young couples with this formula. And hundreds of such couples came forward and he deployed those couples in the development work of villages. At a time when Morarji Bhai was the Prime Minister, and it was the rule of Janata Party, Nanaji Deshmukh was invited to be a minister in the Cabinet. Nanaji did not want to join his family, but he did not have the right to live in the country. life by making chitrakoot, by making gonda center of his life\nToday, I am happy that the government of India is taking several steps on the occasion of birth centenary of Nanaji Deshmukh to increase the people's participation in the dreams of those great souls and as per the path shown by Mahatma Gandhi as we can move forward in that direction, how we can make our villages self dependent, how to make our villages free from poverty, free from diseases; Even today the poison of casteism destroys our villages, it shatters the dreams of that villages, how to make our villages prosperous by thinking beyond casteism, how to make it the village that everyone takes along and where all people collectively for a pledge welfare of the village The government of India is taking several steps to boost the rural development based on public participation.\nToday; Those people who think about the rural life, who have made contributions to rural life, who have mastery over different subjects of rural economy and rural agricultural life, more than 300 such people yesterday, all day sitting here, they are different groups and they deliberated on the development of villages in modern context and these experienced people thoroughly debated the issue throughout the past and an effort to present the essence of that deliberation through a video just a while ago. However, I would like to assure these people that the points that have been selected after their deliberations, the government of India will take note of them, it will take them seriously and the issues that are implemented, these reference points are included in the schemes of government of india These deliberations and discussions have taken place on the rural life of India in such a massive forum after a gap of several years. People have come The nature of different areas are different, their problems, their resources and their problems are different. If the development of a village will be connected to the roots of the village as per its liking, its tendency and as its nature then it is a guaranteed growth for a sustainable growth. Sometimes rural life can not muster the courage to adopt those things that have been imposed on rural life as a foreign element as a conflict of form. And that is why it is our effort that we will develop a model for a village by first taking into account that village's own strength, its own prowess, with which the people of the village are familiar and which are appropriate for them. It needs minor modification And for that purpose a support system is required from Economic point of view, from the point of view of technology and if we move forward by strengthening it then the village easily that thing adoption. The village fully takes on the journey of sustainable development. Your deliberation is based on the ground realities and those things which are based on ground realities; and I'm confident about the speed development we should keep one thing in mind And if we do our job in a time bound manner, if we are fully beneficiaries of our programs, who are our beneficiaries of our programs, for those who are our target group, those items in which the scheme had started and we should try to implement it in a time bound manner and it should not be based on the outcome Just this is not that much that we have given that kind of budget and we have achieved that. And if we do make a comprehensive effort and if we do it in a time bound manner then I am confident that 2022 in our independence of 75 years, then by then our development of pace is so fast that it changes in that rural person's life who had been waiting for the realization of his dreams due to the current speed of development in our rural life during the last seventy years. Today, a rural citizen wants to live in the same facilities. The facilities that are available in the cities If the cities are glittering with the electricity then they should be the case with the villages as well, when the people of the villages can watch TV whenever they want then the village people also have the same facility and if a city student experiment By visiting a school laboratory then this opportunity should also be available to rural students. If the city students are receiving a modern computer then the rural students should also get the same opportunity They should get the same opportunity to develop in the technological field.\nThese days, sometimes teachers are not allowed to stay in villages; but the same facilities that are available in the cities, like tap water, like availability of optical fiber network, like the internet connectivity, round the clock availability of electricity and gas connection, if we succeed in these facilities then there will be a qualitative change in the life of rural people and it will also encourage people to stay in the village. If a teacher stays in the village, if a doctor, if a public servant stays in the villages then his presence is a great reason for brining the change in the rural life. And that is why it is our effort to move the crucial direction of bringing about changes in rural life by Mahatma Gandhi of Dreams, Deendayal Upadhyay of the deliberations and also by the ideals followed by those people who are like Nanaji and Jayprakash Ji had lived Keeping in mind this stream of ideals is our efforts in rural life.\nWe were not able to provide anything in the country. Today, I'm not convinced with this kind of argument after forming government at the central level. There is no dearth of resources in the country if we want to give him If there is any deficiency then it is the lack of good governance You can notice changes in those states which have good governance and where the government machinery is completing the job in a time bound manner You see MNREGA, MNREGA has its unique aspect, it was devised to provide the poor people of rural areas. But the experience suggests that those states where poverty is more prevalent, MNREGA in those states. However, those states where poverty is not too prevalent but if the state is proactive, if good governance is there, then they will be able to work more people. And that is why it is a continuous effort of our government to emphasize on rural development.\nToday, the digital dashboard - DISHA - that has been presented in the direction of good governance. Everything can be centrally monitored due to it, things can be reviewed within a stipulated time and if there were shortcomings then the measures were corrected to take them away and if there was a policy problem then the policy is modified and the person is the problem then The person should be corrected But first thing is that due to this Dashboard dashboard this monitoring system will connect with And second thing is if we are able to arrange the vision of the government of India, the government of India and our members of parliament and district units in a common thread, then we will definitely get the desired results if they are to prioritize. And that is why the government of India has done this important work of actively linking the DISHA dashboard. Member of Parliament reviews all these schemes by sitting with the district units. According to the needs Things are not imposed from here And this is a great success in speeding up the work. Success of democracy is not only how many people cast their votes in the ballot box. Unfortunately for many years our democracy has been limited to these things only, going to polling booth once in five years, putting ballot paper in the box or just pressing the button. And then whichever government is elected or whosoever is elected, whichever Panchayat is elected, they will decide our fate for five years I think democracy can not be considered An important task of democracy is to choose a government of your own choice, but the success of democracy comes when the country is governed by its people of participation. Development tour of village must be public participation, development tour of the city must be public participation and hence it is important to have dialogue between government and people. There should be a dialogue about life The right direction should move from top to bottom If this two way channel is perfect then plans, policies and budget allocation, all things can be targeted at right place. And so, today through a mobile app, a villager can send correct information through his mobile phone, and from the top correct guidance can be delivered to the last man standing and because this was a local body, which is a government entity. Even under pressure for the villager says: Sir, you have said that this is the scheme but my mobile phone says the scheme is different, now you tell me why this is not implemented here. We are trying to accomplish this very big task of making people aware and giving directions through the mobile application.\nEven today, many things have been inaugurated throughout In the same way, Phonemics Center of the Agricultural Department was inaugurated today. Animal husbandry and agriculture sector are the focal points of our country's rural economy. But along with that our rural artisans also have a huge contribution in the rural economy. And therefore, whether it is agriculture, animal husbandry, handloom or people associated with handicrafts, we are working toward strengthening the pillars of our economy by adding them. We have resolved to double the income of Indian farmers by 2022 when it will be 75 years of our independence, we are working towards it. On one hand we have to reduce the input cost for a farmer and on the other If we have to move on both these things then we need to move towards modernity and take help of technology. Animal Husbandry, Even if the number of livestock is low The more you will be able to help\nThe demand for honeybee wax is in place of chemical wax. Now days people are going to go towards the chemical wax instead of honeybee wax. If we encourage beekeeping in our villages, if the scientific beekeeping is added to the animal husbandry of our farmers. Today, when people want to get rid of chemical wax, there is very huge market of honeybee wax, India has the ability to capture this very huge market of honeybee wax, we want to move in that direction.\nBe it fisheries, poultry farms, animal husbandry or agriculture, if we add timber farming along with animal husbandry or agriculture and we start timber farming on the edges of the fields, it will be saved from importing timber and farmers of our country will be able to earn so much from the timber that they will never face crisis in their families Five to ten years of hard work is needed and automatic results are coming in, we are doing more towards rural development with such a comprehensive integrated approach.\nSome work we do with the intention of completing them in a set time frame. I am glad, earlier dirt and filth became part of rural life. People continued to tolerate, they assumed that their destiny. And gradually they were aware Open Defecation Free, a campaign has begun for the honor of rural mothers and sisters. A campaign for making toilets in a time bound manner And today, gradually the situation has come, we have used to call toilets, today they are called honor-houses Honor-house on the toilets Really could not get a big gift for the honor of mothers and sisters. Our mothers and sisters have to go in open for defecation, and they are going to sunrise. And if nature call comes during day time, how painful it is to our mothers and sisters? Till the time it is not experienced, this campaign of Open Defecation can not be successful. And so whenever the issue of making toilets come, look at the dignity of those mothers and sisters, look at their problems You will also feel that leaving all other work I should first construct and use toilet under India's toilet scheme.\nOver two and a half lakh villages came forward to open. They did it I congratulate those villages from my heart, they have taken a great step for the dignity of our mothers and sisters. And the village that honors its mothers and sisters is a virtuous village for me I bow down to them, those people who have done this important task.\nToday is the cleanliness of our villages They have also started taking responsibility. Even after 70 years after independence, many of our villages, 18 thousand villages are still living in the 18th century. There is no pillar of electricity, no light bulb, these villages have never seen electricity We took the initiative, announced from the red fort that we will bring electricity to 18,000 villages in 1000 days and I am happy that the government also assisted in it, the government of India too has reached that goal of bringing electricity to those 18000 villages, electricity has reached to nearly 15000 villages Now, when electricity has reached the villages we are not going to be stuck there only Now our dream is that, be it a village house or a city house or any cottage house, every household should have electric bulbs. 24 hours of electricity should be provided Poor families had to pay money for an electricity connection and so we have decided to give free connections and provide electricity and I am sure that once electricity is supplied then there will also be a change in their lifestyle, it will improve their children's education for facilities. . Their routine life in the house will change, we are moving toward this round of electricity. To change the lives of rural people, there is a need to support the products produced in rural areas as cities in a fashion statement. If things were made by some people in some use in large families of a city then it would be a big help for rural economy If you buy Diwali lamps made by potters from our villages then it will automatically turn the lights into the potter's home and this is not a difficult task for us. If we are living in the cities meet our entire life's needs from the point of view of rural economy then we also have a certain newness to feel and the satisfaction of a feeling, hence the cities are villages for a market place. It should not be that cities are market place only for food grains from villages, if everything that is produced in villages is developed for cities as market place, no village in my country is poor, no family in the village remains poor and we can fulfill that dream of Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay Ji who had dreamed of Antyodaya On the birth centenary of Nanaji Deshmukh, a postal stamp has also been released by the Government of India. I believe whenever this postal stamps reach people through posts, they will naturally become eager to know more about Nanaji. Such great men, whose only purpose in the life was to live the nation, bringing about changes in rural lives and conducting experiments for others on his own. After Nana ji started the work in villages, all the Presidents who assumed office after the start of his work. He continued to praise the work of Nana Ji and used to teach the unique skills of Nanaji. Today, on the birth anniversary of Nana Ji, the rural people from across India have come. All concerned departments of the Government of India have come together and we are moving forward in the solution. And I'm confident that when we complete 75 years of independence in 2022; Every village should make a solemn pledge, every villager should make a pledge that I will do this thing for my village by 2022; and my village and I will collectively And if we move forward by this solemn vow then we will be able to realize those dreams of up-liftment of villages with which we have started our journey. I will once again urge you that the exhibition which has been organized here, I have gone to see that just a while ago; There are lots of things to come here; there are examples of successful experiments in the exhibition; I was able to understand them; I used to halt quite often; I tried to understand I was delighted to see what kind of experiments are conducted in every state, what kind of new initiatives have been taken. How the technology has made inroads in the villages? I was happy to see those things I'd like to appeal to you people, but you may have to leave, please do watch every and everything of this exhibition. And who are those things are suitable for your village? When we see something ourselves then we are well versed with the capabilities of that thing And therefore I will request you people to spend some hours in this exhibition and observe your village. I once again salute Nanaji, bow down to Babu Jayprakash Ji and congratulate all my well-informed citizen brothers and sisters from all villages and I thank you very much."