"PM Modi inaugurates Medical College at Vadnagar, Gujarat\nPM Modi launches Mission Intensified Indradhanush, stresses on vitality of vaccination\nPrices of stents have been brought down, we are continuously making efforts so that healthcare becomes affordable for the poor: PM\nWith Intensified Mission Indradhanush, we want to ensure better and healthy future for children: PM Modi\nChief Minister Shri Vijay Bhai Roopani, Chief Minister of Gujarat, Shri Jit Prakash Nadda, Minister of Health, Nitin Bhai Patel, Andinbeen, Assembly Speaker Raman Bhai, Minister of State in the Union Government, Shri Hari Bhai Choudhary, Minister of State, Shri Dilip Kumar Thakur, Shankar Bhai Chaudhary, Shri Bharat Singh Ravi, Bhai Bhuvanesh Modi, MP Jai Shriben, brother Rajniakant Patel, brother Ruchikesh Tail, large numbers arrived mothers and sisters Yvonne friends.\nOnce, General Cariappa, President of the Indian Army, went to his village in Karnataka. And then he did a speech. He said that because he was the leader of the army, wherever he used to go in the world, his grand welcome was respected, millions of soldiers used to salute him. But when he went to his village, General Cariappa had said that I have received great reception and honor in the world. Millions of soldiers have saluted me, but in my village, when the respect is respected among the people, then the experience is something else, its joy is something else. The way the people of this area, especially the people of Vadnagar, have given me immense love. I salute you today by bowing down and bowing down to this earth. In public life, despite so many years of love, so much caress. This is an event that touches the heart in itself.\nWhatever I am today This is due to the rituals of this soil. I have played in this soil, you have grown up in the middle. Today, when I was going to visit Tarakeshwar Mahadev. Throughout the entire city, the whole city was full of blessings. People of all ages, I was seeing. The very familiar faces were passing in front of me, the memories of childhood got refreshed. I saw old friends, now there are no teeth left. Look at some old friends, carrying wood in their hands. I saw the old memories of those old memories today, the heart felt a deep joy. And today, from today 15-16 years ago, the energy that came from this soil. Today I am going to take the same new energy again today. This is the blessing of your blessings, I am going to take this new energy. And I will work harder for the country and for the country than ever before, I will do more than ever. And what you taught me, whatever you have explained to me, continue to elevate your head day by day, but I will not keep any efforts in the end. This is the confidence of my people.\nWhen I became Chief Minister. When I told the department of the department, some digging should be done in my village. Some work started In the village, anyone was upset. What excavation is going on, what is removing Modi? The picket has been done, but for the last few years, the Government of India's Arcoology department, the Government of Gujarat's Department of Archeology. They continue to work continuously. You will be glad that this archeology department has discovered that which has been discovered from within the land of Vandagiri. Today, not only is the center of attraction of Hindustan but of all the world's archaeologists. Just two to four days ago I was watching Frontline Magazine. That Front Line Magazine has documented that archaeological heritage of Vadnagar in detail, things have been written. And the Archeology Department says that Vadnagar is the only city in India that has been a living city for two and a half hundred years, has been a living city for two and a half thousand years, sometimes people are here. These cities were not dead in any period. And I had done the excavation so that the HainSang Chinese Chinese Phosphor came here. When he traveled to India, he stayed in Vadnagar till long hours. And Hansang had written that hundreds of years ago in Vadnagar, there was a system of initiation of the teachings of Lord Buddha's monks. And there was a program of more than ten thousand Buddhist monks.\nWhen China's President came here. He was welcomed in Gujarat. They told me that mine and you have a special relationship. And when I went to China, the president of China is usually in Beijing, usually a leader of a country, the reception is respected. He took me to his village, in the place. And they stayed with me for the full time. And he told me that Hensong was a Chinese philosopher who had stayed in Vadnagar, had studied for a long time and when he returned from India, hensang stopped in my village. Stopped in the village of Modi in Hindustan and stayed in China's President Shee village in China. And I was taken to show him that Hwangsang made a great pilgrimage place of Buddhism. Took him with him to see him And Hansang's handwritten notes were visible. And he himself read out and said, Look, this is your Vadnagar which was known as Anandpur. This is described by Hwansang He read out the full description. The interpreter explained and explained to us. This nity is the land with its historical legacy. It was estimated that Vadnagar's old name was Anandpur but evidence was not available. This is the excavation of the Department of Archeology. Wherever it is mixed, it is known that the Vadnagar is known as Anandpur, two and a half thousand years ago. It is a matter of great pride for any Wadanagarwasi. In the coming days, this will be a major attraction for tourism, for tourism. There are remnants of Jains in Taranga, the remains of Buddha. Devni is in Mori, in Vadnagar. All these things, the imagination of Varna people, was that Buddha was only in East India. But it shows that Pragence of Lord Buddha used to stay in the West also in India, his influence was also here also. We are all proud that for such a city,\nToday I had the opportunity to inaugurate many health related projects here. Many other projects have the privilege of laying the foundation stone, have the opportunity to open. But a special program that our Health Minister Nadda was describing. Immunization in our country is going on since 1985. But he walked as a government. We have tried to make this change in the mass movement. Once again, the rainbow movement has been run. This vaccination movement will last for seven months every month for the next four months. The child who has been deprived of vaccination They will be immunized by searching and searching. Because the child inside a house does not become helpless, do not suffer from serious illness, and the poor parents have to face a huge financial burden. It has run such a big campaign. Today I call on all the people of the country from the land of Vadnagar. Make this rainbow program your program. Sometimes you get satisfaction from donating blood. Sometimes the satisfaction that you get from donating eye sight. Ever earn virtue by donating wealth, sometimes earning money by donating money. Even more than that, you will get immunization by explaining the rainbow to the children for the vaccination, by explaining to the poor mothers, the child will grow bigger. If he is healthy then his blessings will be deposited in your account. And so and so and therefore, NCC cadets, schools, colleges, NSS cadets, NGOs, religious institutions, most are my call that this rainbow has been selected all over the country, the districts in which we have been left behind. Put time on those districts, put them in power. And make an important task of guaranteeing the safety of the children of the poor mother, with your own hand. This is what you expect. I urge the people of Vadnagar. In this vaccination, the districts which are covered in this rainbow There are three districts in Gujarat. But I want to help, wherever we can help, we should help. Our doctor, Vasant Bhai Parikh, used to go to our doctor Dwarka Das Joshi Bihar for eye donation, for eye donation, for eye sacrifice. This is the characteristic of this earth. These people of the earth will move that work forward. I believe this.\n\nYou will be surprised.\nHow is our country gone? When Atal ji was the government. Fifteen, eighteen years ago, there was a health policy in our country, the health policy was made. After that, a government came to ten years that had hatred towards development. There was no sensitivity to the dryness of the people. The result of that was a health policy after fifteen years of our government has been brought out so that we can do it again with renewal. In our country, the middle class family wanted to get the operation of heart disease and wanted to apply the stent. So 1.5 lakhs, two lakh rupees was spent. Where will the middle class family bring so much money? We come to government I said, just calculate the brother Why this stent is so expensive. Turn on exploration. What is the cost, what the taxis seem to be. All pulled out Then called those growers Called importers. We said brother Will they earn so much profit by robbing the poor? If heart disease is only after hearing the disease of heart disease. How can a middle class man survive this disease? The government interacted. Interact constantly. I am happy that the price of stent which was one and a half times, two lakhs of rupees, 30 percent of the 40 percent of the poor and middle families started getting started. The medicines were getting expensive. Government of India opened a public drug center. The campaign to sell generic medicine started in hospitals. And the medicines which got a hundred rupees, they would get medicine for the poor and middle class in today's eighteen rupees twenty rupees. The medicines were like the same quality as before, its full concern, poor health facilities. We are working in this direction.\nI called upon the country's doctors. You earn a lot, do good service too. Social responsibility also plays. But you are the one I want to tell and work with. I am happy that millions of doctors in the country considered that matter and accepted the appeal. I prayed to millions of doctors. If you are a goonologist doctor. You should put a board outside your clinic on 9th of the month, if any poor pregnant mother comes, then on 9th of every month, the job of medical checkup of the poor mother will be free of the medicines. I am happy that in the last one year, doctors gave free medicines to eighty-five million poor mothers, to create a new faith in their life.\nI still call on all the doctors, come forward. Working 12 days free is not difficult in the year. She is also the only poor paternal mother, if she comes to your door, treat her mother for nine months without money, guide her, you need to go to a big hospital. Tell him that if the mother dies, the child should not die. The death of pregnant mother is a matter of concern for us. The result of the campaign that has been carried out over the past three years is that India is experiencing a decrease in the rate of mortality and infant mortality in the world, compared to that of India. This is auspicious sign. There is a lot to do. And we want to move forward.\nbrothers Sisters.\nWhen we worry about health because it is equally important. Health is not guaranteed on the basis of doctors. Health Guarantee is not just on your good diet. The guarantee of health is based on cleanliness. If there is cleanliness, there is no dirt then disease does not dare to come. That's why I have run a hygiene campaign in the country. I congratulate the Gujarat government that the Gujarat government has opened a movement for freedom from open defecation. And today, the whole of Gujarat is free from defecation in the open but it will have to be more cautious. This old habit does not take long to come back. If you try hard, you will be able to save yourself from this disease. Now, UNICEF says that if cleanliness is to be done, then a poor person's annual savings of fifty thousand rupees can be avoided. In a poor house if one gets ill. The complete home business is closed. The hospital has to be circumvented. New expenses are incurred, income ceases. If the first guarantee of providing health facilities to the poor, we emphasize cleanliness, emphasize cleanliness. And so we are running a campaign of cleanliness in India. And its results are well received in the coming days.\nToday I also got the chance to open the Medical College in Vadnagar. The previous governments in our country did not know the rules that only a small number of students could go to Medical College. We have undertaken that in our tenure, between two, three or four Lok Sabha constituencies, a medical college is to be created all over the country. Professor for medical college should. And this year we have increased 6 thousand seats in post-graduation. Many people criticize it. But if there are good doctors in my country, then a good professor will also be required. And announced six thousand new seats for PG students. And I believe that the doctors who are lacking today are feeling low. The task of completing that shortage will be through it. Today I met the youth who read in the medical college. This is how I got a chance to talk with him. Looked happy And the campus is also very good. I congratulate the State Government on a very heartfelt heart to fulfill all this work. भारत सरकार ने जो मदद करने की ठानी है। वो मदद निरंतर मिलती रहेगी, ये विश्वास दिलाता हूं।\nमैं मुख्यमंत्री को गांव के बेटे के नाते एक आभार व्यक्त करना चाहता हूं। और इस गांव के बेटे के नाते कर रहा हूं। उन्होंने जो एपीएमसी को फिर से शुरू करने का निर्णय किया है। उसके लिए मैं उनका स्वागत करता हूं, मैं उनको बधाई देता हूं। आज यहां पर एक आईएम टैक की टैबलेट देने का कार्यक्रम हुआ। यह अपने आप में एक बहुत बड़ा रिवोल्यूशन होने वाला है। जब तक परफेक्ट डाटा नहीं होता है, प्रोपर पॉलिसी नहीं बनती है। जब तक परफेक्ट डाटा नहीं है, प्रोपर पॉलिसी नहीं है तो इम्पलिमेंटेशन की प्रॉपर स्ट्रेजटी नहीं बनती है। कहां धन लगाना चाहिए, कहां नहीं लगाना चाहिए। उसका अता पता नहीं रहता है। जो ये टैबलेट इन हेल्थ वर्करों को दी गई है। उसके कारण डेली, हर गांव में जो जानकारी होगी, तुरंत भर दी जाएगी और सीधी तुरंत हेडक्वार्टर पहुंच जाएगी। लेकिन जो ये योजना है उसका नाम बड़ा कठिन है।\nआई एम टैक करके कुछ रखा है। और मैंने उसे बहुत ही सिंपल कर दिया है। मुझे लगता है इसे मैं नहीं करता तो हमारे राज्य वाले कर ही देते। अब इसको टेक्नोलोजी कोई नहीं बोलेगा। मुझे लगता है कि गांव में लोग यही बोलेंगे कि वो तुम्हारा टेको कै छे।  वो तुम्हारा टेको केसा है। तो ये टेको सभी हेल्थ वर्कर के हाथ में आया है कि तुम्हारे आरोग्य का टेको करने का काम। ये आई एम टेको के द्वारा होने वाला है। ये आई एम टेको आपके आरोग्य का टेको करे ऐसा एक बड़ा काम इसके द्वारा होना है।\nमेरे सामने बहुत से लोग suggeston लेके आये हैं ये करना पड़ेगा, किसी ने कहा की अब हमारा वडनगर रेलवे के दूसरी तरफ बन गया है और इस तरफ ज्यादा विकास हो गया है। दूसरी तरफ जाना हो तो बहुत परेशानी होती है। अब ऐसी परेशानी ना हो ऐसा कुछ कर दूंगा। शर्मिस्था तालाब, ये वडनगर की आत्मा है, और शर्मिस्था तालाब का सौन्दर्यीकरण, उसका रखरखाव ये वडनगर को टूरिज्म का बड़ा केंद्र बना सकता है।  \nऐसे ही एक suggeston आया है कि हैंगिंग ब्रिज बने तो चार चांद लग जाएंगे। बनाना है क्या ...। सच में बनाना है ...। जरा जवाब तो दो यार। ये हैंगिंग ब्रिज बनेगा तो आपको अच्छा लगेगा ...। ये मेडिकल कॉलेज बने तो अच्छा लगेगा ...। ये सुन्दर बस स्टैंड बना तो आपको अच्छा लगा ...। ये नया रेलवे स्टेशन बना तो आपको अच्छा लगा ...। ये सब हुआ ना ...। इसी को विकास कहते हैं। इसको विकास कहोगे ...। आपको विकास अच्छा लगता है ...। आपको विकास देखना है ...। आपको विकास चाहिए तो आपके शर्मिस्था तालाब के लिए कुछ करूंगा ...।\nमैं फिर से एक बार वडनगर ग्राम के सभी जनों का बहुत-बहुत आभार मानता हूं। कारण कि मैंने यात्रा वडनगर से शुरू की। हाटकेश्वर महादेव का आशीर्वाद लेते लेते अब बोलेनाथ नगरी काशी पहुंच गया हूं। ये भी भोले बाबा की नगरी है, वो भी भोले बाबा की नगरी है। यहां भी शिवजी विराजमान हैं, वहां पर भी भोलेबाबा विराजमान हैं। और  ये भोले बाबा का आशीर्वाद, और भोले बाबा के आशीर्वाद की एक ताकत होती है। ये ताकत इस गांव से मिली हुई मेरी संबसे बड़ी शक्ति है। भोले बाबा की ताकत जो जहर पीने में और जहर पचाने की है। 2001 से भोले बाबा के आशीर्वाद से जहर पचाने की ताकत मिली है। इसके करना कितना ही जहर मिला, फिर भी मात्र और मात्र मातृभूमि के कल्याण में लगा रहा हूं।\nहाटकेश्वर बाबा के चरणों में फिर से प्रणाम करता हूं। आप सभी नगरवासियों को प्रणाम करता हूं। और आपने अद्भूत प्यार दिया है, अपार प्रेम दिया है। और सभी वडनगर का उत्तर गुजरात का और समग्र गुजरात का अंतकरण से आभार मानकर आप सभी को लाख लाख वंदन करते हुए मेरी वाणी को विराम देता हूं।\n"