"Share\n\nBapu knew the value of salt He opposed the British to make salt: PM\nGandhiji chose cleanliness over freedom We are looking forward to the path shown by Bapu: PM Modi\nSwadeshi had a weapon in the freedom movement, today handloom is also a huge weapon to fight poverty: PM Modi\nMy dear brothers and sisters,\nFirst of all, the witness of the movement of independence was witnessed and the sacrament of Satyagraha, land Dandi, from this holy land, I offer my reverence to the worshiped Bapu. I also pay my respect to Sardar Patel, who organized this Dandi March, along with Pujya Bapu's step-by-step. Today, on the Nirvana day of Bapu, all of us will be witnesses of an important occasion. Today, we all have the good fortune that National Salt Satyagraha Memorial, its work has been completed. The year we are celebrating 150th birth anniversary of Pujya Bapu, that year is being dedicated to this memorial country.\nFriends, the future generation of Bapu has been given to the country and the world, and our future generation will continue to prosper, in this episode, today the national salt Satyagraha monument of Dandi has also been added. Today, on the release of this memorial, I congratulate all the artists, all the workers, and all those people related to the construction of the nation along with them all.\nSetho, I had the opportunity to see this monument in detail a short time ago. Two palms at the height of 40 feet and a two-and-a-half-ton white glowing rhinestone symbol of salt; A 15-feet high statue of Gandhiji under two hands, reflects the spiritual power of Gandhiji. Together, the statues of more than 80 satyagrahis are to remind you that in the country's independence, millions of people in the corners of the country have done penance and penance.\nMany things have been said, read and written about sister-in-law, Dandi March. Here in the museum, he has been shown in detail through words and pictures. Bapu's insistence towards Swadeshi, Sanagharagraha or Satyagraha; It is my belief that this monument of Dandi will become the important pilgrimage area of ​​the country and the world in the coming time. Not only that, Dandi and Gujarat are also getting more strength from this monument in terms of tourism. The lake which is made here is very attractive. Besides, tourists can also enjoy that historic moment by themselves, repeat it, the facility for making salt is prepared here. Dandi Heritage Path has been constructed at a cost of around 80 crore rupees, which includes new roads and accommodation arrangements.\nBrothers and Sisters, Dandi March have affected the movement of India's independence and how important it is to remember the change in the world since this March. This was Sato Satyagraha which gave new direction to the freedom struggle.\nIn Dandi March, Western media has played a very big role in changing the understanding towards India, the understanding of our freedom movement. Prior to this historic event, most of the world watched us with glasses from Britain. But when the famous American magazine of America chose Bapu to be Person of the Year in the year 1930, the voice against tyranny in the world started getting new glory.\nFriends, the biggest message Gandhiji has tried to give from this Dandi March is creativity. Gandhiji knew very well that only the opposition, the movement of independence would not be successful and therefore he had told his colleagues that without the creative vision, India's reconstruction could not be possible. Gandhiji also showed the path of uniting the common man against civil disobedience civil, civil disobedience, and against the low caste.\nFriends, when Gandhiji chose salt for Satyagraha, at that time, some leaders of that time had doubts on his way. Some people even oppose it openly. But, Gandhi was Gandhi. He continued his campaign because he knew the value of salt and knew the relation of salt to every class of society. To make salt costlier, it was a big matter to snatch a bribe from the poor, but the British government also forgot to understand the power of salt. Then the Census General also termed this salt satyagraha a pinch of salt to the government as a nuisance madness.\nTalking about what kind of atmosphere created by the Salt Satyagraha, the Time magazine, in reference to a British journalist, wrote that there are two governments in Bombay - on one side the British government, who has complete administration, on the other hand, Bombay People are ordinary, one of the innumerable prisoners standing behind Mahatma Gandhi.\nIndigenous and civil disobedience, due to the Salt Satyagraha, strengthened its sense that the British government also suffered huge losses. The traders kept the shops closed for months Import from the UK became very less and the British government was shaken. The target of Swaraj was seen in front of the freedom freedoms of independence.\nImagine, if at that time Mahatma Gandhi had acknowledged the matter of some leaders against salt Satyagraha, Gandhiji would come quietly in his words, change his intentions, do not travel, if Gandhiji would have become a victim of negativity What would happen if the salt satyagraha did not do because of opposition?\nAt the time, those who were opposing the use of salt, at that time, the mindset of that kind was also in our country at that time, even today, sometimes it seems, today, unfortunately, more probably some more vocal It is more self-centered in it. In the past four-and-a-four years, how do these people ask questions, I want to remind you, I want to remind the countrymen. How did you ask, how did you speak - just remember their dialogue - what makes a change even by making toilets? Cleanliness is also a prime minister's job? Does life change somewhere even by giving gas connection? Will the bank be richer by opening the account in the bank? These dialogues will not forget the country, these are the people. Many such questions will be found for people who are engaged in negativity, people who are neglected, and people still living negative. Such people who are full of negativity need to tell that big changes come only when small things and habits There is a meaningful change in\nBe salt, be spicy, khadi, cleanliness; There have been many such things that strengthened the movement of our freedom, united people, made the common man a freedom fighter from the ordinary. Some people then used to think that salt Satyagraha was small, its importance was not seen. Now many functions of this government are looking younger to them.\nI just explain to you by giving an example. As you think, there are more than 9 million toilets in the country, under the Clean India Mission, millions of people are now avoiding many diseases. These toilets have made life easier for women, people with negativity can not understand. Their mind is locked in negativity. It is estimated that due to the formation of toilet, the life of three lakh poor people has been preserved in the country. Those who make fun of the clean India, those who oppose, have no regard for the poor's life.\nFriends, whatever these people ridicule, the new India has made its mind for these changes, and cleanliness; Pujya Bapu had ever said that in freedom and hygiene I have to choose the first, then I will choose cleanliness. Bapu's name was a true tribute to the people who took the name of Bapu, had done this small dream of Bapu, had done the work of cleanliness, even if Bapu had done this work.\nWhen the society progresses with positivity, then it can prove a great resolution. On October 2 this year, when we are going to celebrate the birth anniversary of Bapu, the entire country is to be free from defecation in the open. I am happy that the scope of rural sanitation in 2014, before becoming our government, was about 38 percent in 2014, it became 98 percent today, from thirty eight to ninety eight This meant that the country was very close to the target. Once every family in the country will have toilets, then the hygiene campaign will get more speed.\nFriends, the constant effort of the government is that the country and the world continue to illuminate the life of Bapu and the way he has described them. This time you may have seen that the parade of the Republic Day on 26th January, the number of flashes, the entire program and the first time since Independence, the entire program was dedicated to Mahatma Gandhi. Last year, our government government, our State Department made an innovative initiative to record Gandhiji's favorite hymn 'Vaishnav Jan Tao Tee' from singers from more than 100 countries around the world. Artists of the hundred countries of the world; India does not know any language, do not know the language of Gujarat, Narsi Mehtakon, there is no knowledge, what is the meaning of the Vaishnava mass, I do not know, but they became attached to the heart, joined with the mind, became involved with life. And such as they sang. His language does not match us. He understood our song-music, understood the word of the psyche, understood the feelings, felt the intimacy, and this is one thing that connects Bapu to the whole world. And I have said here today that a digital arrangement will also be done in the pictures that are placed inside this stalker, that the Vaishnavas have sung these worldly artists, whoever wants to listen to the Vaishnava people from the country of Vaishnav Jan To be able to hear, I have said today to make such arrangements, that too will be added to it.\nSaathio, Bapu's insistence was also with Khadi, it was also with Charkha, but after the independence, people had almost forgotten Khadi. At the time of any celebration in politics, wearing cap-vopi, reaching or going to wear a long shirt, even it was limited. Almost the Khadi had disappeared from the rest of the people. This is the result of our government's effort that now the situation has changed completely. Today, Khadi's jackets in the world, as well as many products, today's demand is coming from the world. Today, the fashion of the Khadi country has already become, apart from this it is also creating a powerful medium of telling the story of freedom and empowering women.\nFriends, these changes have not come to you. In the last four and a half years, we have modernized nearly two thousand institutions related to Khadi, have modernized, and we have never seen that they are connected with the party which has two thousand institutions. In our hearts there was Gandhi, we had khadi in our heart, the poor weavers in our hearts were in our hearts and so we have done modernization of these two thousand institutions. This has benefitted about five lakh people directly related to khadi. Now the direct money is being transferred to the workers. In the last four years, the increase in the quantity of khadi which has increased by three and a half times, its benefit is now reaching these artisans.\nBrothers and Sisters, I believe that as an indigenous weapon in freedom movement, today there is a huge weapon in the handloom to fight poverty.Our government, considering the importance of handlooms, on August 7, the National Handloom Day Have been declared as.\nSee, in the entirety, the economy and cottage industry of the village have been an important part of Gandhiji's economic thinking. This kind of thinking has been worked out in a big way in the last four and a half years. The result of the efforts of the government has been that the sale of village enterprises which was 30 thousand crores till four years ago has become double today, more than doubled.This has created many employment opportunities in the villages. The Government has endeavored that the Government of India should strengthen its mission, to strengthen its mission, and to ensure basic amenities in the villages of the country, the Government is also running Gram Swaraj campaign. We are reviewing each and every village and are insisting that every house in the village has electricity, connection to gas, toilets, every person living in the village has a bank account and every child Benefits of Vaccination Campaigns\nFriends, we have also associated Bapu's ideals with modernism. Mission Solar is being chalked out for youth in the village, to create employment opportunities. Under this, 50 solar charkha clusters are being set up pilotically in the country till next year. This will provide employment to about one lakh youth.\nEven today, you must have seen that the solar tree has been built. Needed here will be complete from the sun energy, will be more than that, it is consistent with Gandhiji's ideas. The concept of this solar tree will gradually develop within every garden. People will accept it. Today, he has an initiative from Dandi.\nBrothers, sisters, we are also connecting Charkhao to solar so that with hard work old people can be in the family, they can also earn their income by running charkha.\nApart from khadi, through bee keeping, we have also tried to give strength to the rural economy. Beekeeping in the country is being encouraged by the honey mission launched two years ago. The result is that the quantity of honey is being produced in the country in record quantity and the farmers are also getting additional income.\n\nFriends, many such attempts have been made to bring the country inspiration from its glorious past, its struggle and its heroes, the sources of livelihood for the youth are also being proven. I realize that those who only have to oppose, they will not miss the spread of their negative energy here too. सच्‍चाई ये है कि चाहे वो सरदार पटेल की statue of unity हो, लालकिले में नेताजी सुभाषचंद्र बोस की स्‍मृति में बना क्रांति मंदिर हो, डॉक्‍टर बाबा साहेब अम्‍बेडकर- देश और दुनिया में फैले उनकी स्‍मृति में पंचतीर्थ हों, हमारे आदिवासी नायकों के देशभर में बने हुए, आजादी के जंग में आदिवासियों की भूमिका को लेकर बने, नए बनने जा रहे म्‍यूजियम हों, दिल्‍ली में बना पुलिस मेमोरियल हो; आजादी के बाद पहली बार भारत के वीर जवानों के लिए national war memorial बना रहे हैं जो इसी फरवरी महीने में देश हमारी सेना को अर्पित करेगा। बीते साढ़े चार वर्ष में तैयार किए गए ऐसे अनेक स्‍मारक इतिहास से परिचय कराने के साथ हीरिसर्च और पर्यटन के महत्‍वपूर्ण स्‍थान सिद्ध हो रहे हैं। आने वाले समय में ऐसे अनेक प्रोजेक्‍ट्स भारत में हेरिटेज विकास और हेरिटेज टूरिज्‍म को और मजबूत करने वाले हैं।\n\nसाथियो, सिर्फ और सिर्फ पर्यटन के कारण बीते साढ़े चार वर्षों में लाखों रोजगार के अवसर युवाओं को मिले हैं। भविष्‍य में ये सैक्‍टर और विस्‍तृत होने वाला है। जैसे-जैसे roadway, railway और airway से जुड़े आधुनिक प्रोजेक्‍ट तैयार हो रहे हैं, भारत एक अहम tourist destination के तौर पर उभर रहा है।\nअपने राष्‍ट्र नायकों के योगदान को याद रखना, अपनी संस्‍कृति, अपने इतिहास, अपनी विरासत; उसको समृद्ध करने और युवाओं को नए अवसरों से जोड़ने का हमारा ये अभियान जारी रहेगा। और आज जब मैं दांडी में आया हूं- मेरे लिए दांडी नई जगह नहीं है, मैं पहले भी आया हूं, आप इतनी बड़ी संख्‍या में आशीर्वाद देने के लिए आए हैं।\nLong live Mother India\nLong live Mother India\nLong live Mother India\nखूब-खूब धन्‍यवाद।"