"Share\n\nPM Modi dedicates new campus building to IIT Gandhinagar to the nation, launches Digital Saksharta Scheme\nWork is going to spread digital literacy to every part of India, among all age groups and sections of society: PM\nIn this day and age, we can not afford to have a digital divide: PM Narendra Modi\nA Digital India guarantees transparency, effective service delivery and good governance: PM\nDear young friends,\nYou all are IITians However, I'm such a person whose names are those two I-es was never attached. All of you are IITians, however, I remained TN since childhood That TN of TEA means Tea Vendor I was thinking that the youth of college was very sharp and they do not take this much time. And exactly the same thing happened Today is the 7th of October. A massive earthquake hit on 26 January 2001 and after that such a situation was created which was not the path of my life and all of the sudden I was entrusted with a new responsibility by Swearing in as Chief Minister in this very Gandhinagar on 7 October 2001. Neither I knew the system of governance, nor had I seen the assembly However, I had mentally vowed that I would not turn my back from hard work and today this country has always given me some or some other new responsibility and I am among those new responsibilities.\nToday, some rural young men and women are present here, some old people are also among them, whom I have given the certificates before anybody else I was asking them all about the question and I was surprised as they did everything about what they were doing in the villages, how they will be using their training? They have been able to answer And I think this is a revolution The world has seen that kind of knowledge revolution of technology in the last 50 years which was not seen by the country and the world in the last 300 years before that. Technology has become a part of life; Technology has become a driving force in itself. And if any country wants to progress in such an era then it is necessary for the people at its level in cities or be it villages, be it educated or uneducated, be it young or be it a old person, it's a must have a bright future\nAs Mahatma Gandhi had laid emphasis on literacy during the freedom movement; If literacy had its own strength during the freedom struggle similarly digital literacy is a very important force. And that is why it is a effort of the government of India to take steps in the direction of providing education to every village of the country and to every generation in the villages of the country And today's program, there are approximately six crore rural households in the country and we have taken the task of imparting the digital literacy to six crore families of each of the least one person. We have created a module of 20 hours Online exams are being conducted, he has appeared in the examination while sitting in front of a video camera and then only that person is being certified. And it is our experience that some one's age, education, these things are not relevant for digital literacy, it does not mean much, it is not important\nThere was a time when Carl Marks was the guiding principle in the world. People used to quote the ideas of Karl Marx, like his theory of haves and have nots, those who have nothing He has developed his political ideology on the basis of this divide. Whether it is successful or has failed At present, that ideology is visible nowhere after gradually shrinking. Just have a few signs on them However, in terms of technology we have to make a cautious effort for a bright future of the country so that the digital divide does not emerge. If some people are in the use of digital technology and some others are completely oblivious then this kind of digital divide could cause a big threat to our social structure. And that is why for the development of social harmony and by incorporating the fundamental issues of development. We have launched this digital campaign in digital literacy in rural India. We are aware that if we bring home a modern TV set that is operated through a remote then how do we feel initially? However, when a two three year old kid shuffles the channel as per the requirement, he learns how to turn on and turn off then also the old people of the family also feel like these things are going to learn. And then they also learn how to switch it off or turn it on. Has anyone seen the classroom where it is taught how to forward a message on Whatsapp? Is there any message in a message in the future? But you know how to forward a message in Whatsapp. I mean to say if we follow the path of user friendly technology then we can easily take the digital direction of the direction Digital literacy, digital technology and digital India is a guarantee for good governance and for transparency.\nGovernment of India has conceived a path of development through JAM trinity. JAM J-Jandhan Account, A-Aadhar, M-Mobile Phone, Our Government has been following the path of development by being present in the mobile phone of a common man as per their requirement. A massive campaign has been launched in the country, due to the optical fiber network; An attempt has made the optical fiber network in the millions of villages of the country at a rapid pace. And today it has become possible to provide good education, long distance education through digital future to our future generations, to our poor children located in far flung areas. And as the optical fiber network will gradually reach every village of the country, it will transform the education system of that village, by providing the services of health services and other public facilities. And today we have been the same design and as a part of that thing; These people who have come from different parts of the country; who have done the course of community service center; and there are many others who are going to enroll for this course and in the coming days this training will be given to one person each in the six crore families. And it is going to become a means of livelihood for them as now the services will deliver them and we should make effort in that direction. Sometimes we experience this thing, you might have seen a lot of people who bought the best mobile phones after watching its advertisement in TV or in a news paper or in a magazine or if they did not know about it through the Google, Guru then the first thing But you will find that 80% people are not aware about the so many facilities available in that mobile nor they have developed a habit of using them. Perhaps, you can find some people here in IIT as well who do not have a habit of exploiting the full potential of a mobile phone even if they have the best models And that is why we are digitally literate only then we can make the best use of money by spending and we also add value to it. And that is why we have launched this campaign for digital literacy. And this digital literacy will play a big role in society.\nThe BHIM App that is being developed by Government of India, it is a wonder for other countries of the world. The data bank created through Aadhar based digital biometric system is a wonder for the whole world. We have been moving forward in the direction of linking the development, linking the empowerment through that and I believe that it is going to be a very big way. Today, I'm fortunate that I got the opportunity to publicly dedicate the new campus of the IIT. And if it was election time and if had decided to provide this land at that time, about 400 acres of land that too in Gandhinagar, and that too on the banks of river Sabarmati, can you imagine how expensive this land is and had it The election time when I had taken the decision then some people had started talking about it. They had said that you are spending money on IITs at a time when the structure of primary education in Gujarat is not available. They would have certainly criticized it. However, it's good that when I took the decision to provide the land then it was not the time of election. However, now you will realize that how foresighted this decision was. And that day I had told, Sudhir Ji and people of the department would recall that that day I had said that IIT is a brand, IIT has become a brand in India, however, the brand of a campus among the IITs will be more powerful . In the coming days it will be discussed And that is why I have said that I need a campus in Gujarat that can become the top most campus among the best IITs. And today I am happy to note that this campus has acquired the parity with the top IITs of the country. Campus has its own strength and faculty is the second strength of an institution and I am happy as I was told that today 75% of faculty of IIT Gandhinagar has been trained abroad, who had expertise and had their time dedicated to them and energy for the students of this IIT And I welcome their decision However, the government of India has posed a challenge for the educational institutions of the country. I want the IIT Gandhinagar to come forward to accept this challenge. Will you accept it? What happened to all the IITans? The response is coming from that side. This is the first time that this kind of reform has been done in India's education sector which was expected to be many years.\nToday, even after 70 years of independence, we are nowhere in the top 500 universities of the world. Whether this stigma should be removed or not? Whether we take our universities to that level in the world by 2022 when we have 75 years of our independence so that we also say that we have done something. Can we do this thing or not? This is the first time that the government of India has decided to select 10 public and 10 private universities through the challenge route. And about Rs. 1,000 crore will be provided And if these 10 public and 10 private universities, if these universities win this challenge, if they come up and they establish global standards then they will be given this kind of freedom to demonstrate their strength by liberalizing them from the states of the central and state governments . The government would not interfere in their syllabus, in their faculty or campus or any other way. They should decide The government is willing to provide Rs. 1,000 crore for those 20 universities Gandhinagar IIT has such a large campus of 400 acres and all the facilities are being made at a cost of Rs. 1,700 crore I'm confident that Sudhir Jain and his whole team and all these youth should collectively come forward. In order to develop a country it's necessary that we create institutions from time to time Gujarat can take pride on this thing that in the last 10 years it has given many institutions of global level to the country. Even today there is only one forensic science university Gujarat is the only place which has its own forensic science university. This is the only university in the world. Even today there is no university in India like the institute of teacher education - IITE - that prepares the best quality teachers Students do graduation, graduation in teaching and coming out Gujarat is the first state in the country which has established a university like Indian Institute of Teacher Education. Gujarat is the first country which has established Children University Nowhere in the world Today, the world is moving in the direction of micro family. Mothers are busy themselves, fathers are busy themselves The child is being helped The time demands that we need to cultivate for the development of our small children. And this children university should conduct research on this topic. What kind of toys should be used for children, walls of their rooms should be painted in which color, what kind of songs should be played for children, what kind of food is their food, and what kind of modern techniques are used in teaching So they're easy to grasp things\nBefore they were used to join the United families and the family used to own a university in itself. A kid used to learn a thing from Grandma and another thing from his uncle. A kid used to learn from one thing In today's micro families, this kind of learning has been closed on them, hence this idea was conceived and the Children University was set up to take care of, the future generations of the children. And this thing was conceived on this land of Gujarat.\nThere are three important areas in the field of crime, the first one is legal faculty, the second one is the police and the third is the forensics for crime detection and Gujarat has worked on all three things; national law university was created that will produce the best of lawyers and judges and will take the responsibility of the judicial education part; A police university was created and there are only a handful of universities in the country for policing and those states of Gujarat. Gujarat was the second state in the country to set up a police university. Defense Force University was set up for those who want to join uniformed forces so that they can join the stream after the 10th or 12th and can complete their education only there so that they learn communication deal, crowd management, crowd psychology management, He knows about the sections of the Indian Penal Code of the country and he can opt for recruitment in police after getting educated. So the Gujarat took initiative for a qualitative change in the country's defense sector. And the forensic science university, you must be aware that today all the crimes have been solved and criminals have been arrested If the strength of forensic science university; The more students of the forensic sciences we develop the more forensic science will play the most important role in dealing with crime be it cyber crime or any other crime, or be it crimes from those crimes, or are it the crimes of detection and the criminals . So all these three faculties have been successfully developed on this land of Gujarat and it is going to make a very big contribution to the country. And today, those people, who have done some new experiments in the country or in the world, they have been themselves these universities with associating And when today I am sitting in the IIT-ians then I'm aware that a great part of your time is being used. You people keep doing new or novel thing but most of the time it is an exam oriented innovation or exam oriented projects but I do not want to stay in this allay. The time demands that we innovate on\nGovernment of India has developed the institutes under the name of AIM under the NITI Ayog. Atal Innovation Mission or AIM and through them we have been providing money to those schools which have been selected through the Challenging route for setting up tinkering labs and we inspire students of 5th, 7th, 8th, 10th and 10th standards for innovation. The natural talent that we have, it has to go in for the future The country which has mastered over Information Technology but Google is being created in some other country! The country which has youngsters who have the mastery over IT but Facebook is being developed somewhere else! YouTube is being developed some other and I want this thing, I challenge the youth of the country: please come forward and follow the path of innovation for the country and the world. It's like somebody's personal property. If you are interested in these things then you will end up in discovering novel things and you will end up in giving so much to the country and the world. Sometimes we have the tendency to do new things; but there is another way for innovation and I would like to pay attention to my suggestions. It's a different thing on the basis of the academic knowledge that you have studied like the basic structural engineering that has been studied. Another way is that you look at the problems and difficulties around you and then think I can solve this thing! And that poor fellow, he is leading a difficult life but I'm an IIT-ian and I will do something so that his life improves and that thing will be itself in a innovation. And sometimes it can be done on such a big scale that it can become a big business model. Our country has plenty of problems, for example, cleanliness campaign is underway and why not our young doing innovations Why do they take new and newer projects of innovation?\n\nToday, lot of work Today, we have been making use of solar energy, wind energy, renewable energy and climate change but what kind of things we should innovate as per the country's requirement so that we can provide at least one thing every Indian home. Can we set every Indian family free from the consumption on cooking fuel as abundant solar light is available in our country? Why not we develop cooking equipments that use solar energy? Those appliances should be used for cooking food so that people do not have to buy cooking fuel so they do not have to use a fire stove? They should have their own solar plants, they should have two solar panels on their roof top so that the food as per the requirement of that household can be cooked. So will it save the food on the kitchen of poor families, middle class families or not? We see these small things, minute things Why should we not take solutions for them? And I am confident that IIT Gandhinagar will create a culture, it will develop a culture of innovation and that culture should be need based. And that innovation will be sustainable that is based on some knowledge It becomes scalable and it also gets the chance of becoming commercial and top companies too. So I want to work in this direction\nAnd I'd like to share one more thing with the youths of IIT. Perhaps Gujarat is the first state in the country that has created an institution under the name of I-Create. Very few people did not know its name. And as per my information it has become three or four years old I'm not able to spare time for its dedication This I-Create provides incubation to those people and the country which is interested in innovation. It has a lab, it has accommodation facility and government is willing to give it. You people should innovate in such a manner so that the system to bring the changes into the country can easily develop. This I-Create is one of its kind in India and it is a collaboration agreement with the best innovation institutions in the world. I'm giving you this information which is not the headline in the news papers. But it is very important for the young generation And Friends that is why I expect this thing from you people and we have a time of five years till 2022 when India completes its 75 years of independence.\nIn 1942, Mahatma Gandhi had said: quit India and within the next five years the country rose up to the call in such a manner that the British had the country. My fellow countrymen, if we are also up to the occasion of five years, to rid the country of the casteism, to rid the country of corruption and to the country of nepotism then all these things can be achieved in the country Friends, please come forward We have marched ahead with the pledge to accomplish these things.\nAnd I like to tell you more about the youth. You must have spoken about a lot of things You people live in such a grand building, you have got a great building. Whether your parents are wealthy people and they sound position in the right place so that they were here? Despite all these things, my young friends are here in such a large campus, you have been blessed with the best education because some or some other poor person has contributed for this thing. You have got the poor people's rights This 400 acres of land, if the government has sold this land for money and then constructed buildings for the primary education then how many buildings would have been constructed? Had the government built primary health care centers then how many PSE centers would have been constructed? But this 400 acres of land has been We have got some of the poor section of our society has its rights beforehand. And if I have these feelings then I have an IIT-an my sensitivity for the society will never come down And my intent of doing something will never diminish. And if I live then I will live the common man of my country and if I achieve something, if I am able to accomplish anything then I will do it for the common man of my country So you people too will take a pledge at the time of the new building. With this one expectation alone\nThank you very much"