"Share\n\nAviation can not be about rich people We have made aviation affordable and within reach of less privileged: PM\nPM Modi urges people to use water responsibly, and conserve every drop\nFrom the days when handpumps were seen to be a sign of development, today the waters of Narmada River have been brought for the benefit of citizens: PM\nSursagar Dairy will bring huge benefits to the people, says PM Modi\nMy dear brothers and sisters of Surendranagar district who are present here in large numbers.\nWhether Chotila had never thought that one day will be built here? Whether Surendranagar district has never thought this? Will not you feel better if an airport is built here? Should a hotel be built here or not, yes? Will it be called development if an airport is being built here, aircraft take off from here and all the arrangements are being made here? Do you like this development? Should develop take place? Is development necessary? Whether the development will change the future of Gujarat? Will the development change the future of your children? Well done!\nYou ask the poorest of the poor, you ask him who does not have a house, and he will say: yes. And if a house is to be provided to him, if we need to make arrangements for his accommodation then it is not possible without development. The development used to take place earlier as well but at that time if a politician had been arranged for installation of a hand pump in a locality in some village then he would keep reminding the people for the next three elections. hand pump at your place and please support me in the elections as I've arranged a hand pump for this place '. He used to ask for his victory in the elections. And what was it? It was installed on a hand pump. This was the definition of development.\nToday, this is a government that has been supplying the water of Narmada to every village, every household by building such a massive pipeline. And if any district is going to get the maximum benefit in the whole of Gujarat due to Narmada scheme then; Then the name of the district is ... what is the name of that district? What's the name? The name of that district is Surendranagar. The water of Narmada; Mother Narmada has come to your homes to make this place. And it's not like that the impact of Narmada will touch the rural and agricultural sector. The Narmada water has a sort of power, that due to this water Surendranagar district is going to become a very big hub of the industrial development in the coming days. Maximum opportunities of employment will be generated in Surendranagar district. It will become a big a center for education because when water is available then the government's ability to develop systems will go up. And this airport that is being built, will also contribut in the same way In the coming days it will create a competition for the development in Surendranagar, Rajkot or Morbi districts, whether they will be developed faster than the other. And it's going to be a healthy competition And that is why in the middle of Surendranagar district and Rajkot district, which is having the potential for fast development, the government is taking an important step today for laying the foundation for building a grand airport by spending hundreds of crore rupees. There will be some people who do not know But if you ask them to travel in bus, ask them why they travel in an airplane then they will say they need to reach early If they are to reach early and the rest of the people do not have to reach early!\nIt's not that old era only when used in the air And that is why I've said that I'd like to develop the country's aviation sector in such a way that a person wearing a hawai chappal (the slipper) will travel to the air travel afforded and you will see this to be astonished. These days However, in India no aviation policy was made after the independence. Have you ever thought this thing? Government of India, did not have an aviation policy We made the aviation policy after forming the government and it is not confined only to big places like Ahmedabad, Mumbai and Chennai, we have taken up this task of providing air connectivity to small places. Those places where there is no connectivity for long distances, and if the air travel to that place takes more than one hour, if the travel time is less than one hour then we have strengthened the aviation sector by fixing the ticket cost at Rs. 2,500 And so far 8 routes has become operational Kandala is getting benefit in Gujarat, Mithapur is getting benefit And Today, there are many states in India where two or three airports, airstrips are already present there. However, there will be a situation when 10-15-20 airports will be operational. And that is why the number of air travelers are up 14%; and that is why I congratulate the people of Gujarat and people of this region for this work is in the greenfield project that is being carried out in Rajkot. I'm happy that in this project, for this massive airport only 4% land was acquired from the farmers. Only 4% and the 96% land will be built on the airport. That is why the land has been selected over the land of Surendranagar which is important from the point of view. And we have used that land for the airport As Vijay Bhai was talking about that the Rajkot Airport has so many boundaries. And that is why Rajkot and this whole area are getting developed So by keeping the future in mind, and that day is not far away. If someone is required to visit anywhere in the world then this airport located between Chotila and Rajkot is used. So what is happening today\nToday, we have been conducting two other important programs in Surendranagar and Wadhwan. Soor-Sagar, it is going to become an ocean of happiness Animal husbandry Per capita milk production is also going to be increased. Our Soor-Sagar dairy; five-seven years ago. The earlier governments had made a decision to prohibit the formation of dairies, I am wondering why this thing was done! When I was the Chief Minister then I had decided that the government will help those who will come forward to form dairies and today the dairy industry has developed in full enthusiasm in almost every district of सौराष्ट्र There can be no more help They should get the correct price for milk; and today I got the opportunity to dedicate the modernization work of a plant. And milk production is going to go up after the coming of the Soor-Sagar and mother Narmada and in the true sense of the work this has become the sea of ​​happiness for Surendranagar district and I wish you people.\nDhoridhaja Dam, I still remember when I came here to welcome the Narmada water in Dhoridhaja Dam. Only a thirsty person knows the yearning for water, these people of Kutch-Saurashtra and Gujarat know that what is the availability of water means to them There was a time, and in Wadhwan earlier the water was supplied once in 15-20 days. If the guests were expected then they were asked to please, during the night as soon as they were able to arrange for their bathing the next morning. This region has faced this kind of days. And today, this kind of 300-350 kilometers long, this kind of water pipes are laid here. The newly constructed water tank and because of the facility of potable water; and I believe that no matter how many blessings they will not be enough These sisters who have been liberated from this hardship, whatever blessings they are to that is not going to be enough Today, the latest rebuilding of the road with Morbi, the widening of the road between Ahmedabad and Rajkot; and today's generation can not easily be used to understand the news papers of the time when BJP government is in power. There were road accidents at least four times in a week on Ahmedabad-Rajkot Highway. Many mothers lost their young children Families were spoiled There will be more than 100 big accidents in a year and it was due to the fact that the road was very narrow. And I still remember, at that time I was not into Rajkaran. We used to receive phone calls from Limbadi-Bagodara, and at that time mobile phones were not there, old phones were there, that a big accident has taken place and I used to rush our Ashokbhai from Ahmedabad. We were required to do at least 2-4 times in a week. If you ask the people of Rajkot, if you ask the people of Surendranagar then there will be many families who had lost some family members in the road accident.\nWhen the BJP government was formed in 1995 and Keshubhai became chief minister then the first thing that was decided on the road to save those innocent people who died in road accident And this thing was done by BJP government and as a result of the road accidents have come down. And today Government of India has decided that we should make it a modern six-lane highway as roads and highways are important for development. Speed ​​is necessary for progress and when speed is necessary then be making it the arrangements for the aircraft or be it widening of the streets, we should simultaneously focus on these things Be it the road towards Morbi and widening of road to Morbi means stronging the industrial activity. An industrial belt has been developed up to Kutch and this structure is going to help in that thing.\nAnd that is why today when I got the opportunity for simultaneous dedication and laying of foundation for five projects in Panchal Panthak; And in just a few days, and the government of Gujarat is giving importance to Panchal Panthak for pilgrimage as well, and due to that goddess Chamunda of Chotila, Trinetreshwar Tarnetar, Sundari Bhawani, Surajdeval, Bandiaveli, Jaria Mahadev, Gebinath, Avaliathakar, these all are our religious places in Panchal Panthak region, and the government of Gujarat has begun a great work for their development by connecting them with each other as Yatradham. We were thinking how to bring our tourists to our fair? But when an airport will be constructed in Chotila then it will not take much time for your Tarnetar fair to develop as an international fair. So in the way, the development work should be directly related to the economy, it should cause economic progress. With this clear approach, Government of India has been placing emphasis on the development of many corners of the country. I also welcome the Gujarat government for the continuous momentum that has given it, for the new dimensions that it has provided the developmental journey and today we are moving forward with the pledge of a developed Gujarat, a modern and prosperous Gujarat.\nWe are completing 75 years of our independence in 2022. We have been completing 75 years of our independence in 2022. Every citizen of the country should decide what he wants in the five years. It should not be that government or municipality should do this or that thing I will do it, I will certainly do this thing in the next five years for my country, every citizen of the country should take this pledge I request Surendranagar district that is a time of a bumper crop, when mother Narmada has come to our homes then at this time there should not be a farm in Surendranagar district that does not use drip irrigation. And we should make our farming modern by using this drip-irrigation, by using micro-irrigation and sprinklers. If the farmers of Surendranagar district adopt drip-irrigation for farming then you just can not imagine the kind of revolution we can bring. And when water is available then we should love it more than our life. We will be able to use the water of mother Narmada and that is why the question of water has always been a question of life and death. We should not waste a single drop of it, we should not waste it. This is the responsibility of every citizen of Gujarat.\nWhen we will celebrate 75 years of our independence in 2022, for that occasion we should make a pledge, and this drip-irrigation, this micro-irrigation, scientific methods, use of technology, all these are going to play a very important role in our pledge of doubling the farmer's income by 2022.\nI once again express my heartfelt gratitude for this amazing love, for your presence in such a large number, for your blessings and I see you people in such large numbers, I see everywhere everywhere I see Chotila from the people.\nBharat Mata Ki Jai (Hail mother India)\nPlease say it with your full strength by clenching your fists.\nBharat Mata Ki Jai (Hail mother India)\nBharat Mata Ki Jai (Hail mother India)\nBharat Mata Ki Jai (Hail mother India)"