"\nGovernment of India is taking steps towards the empowerment of fishermen: PM\nPM calls on GST Council, says PM\nWhen there is a trust in a government and when policies are made in the best interest, it is natural for people to support us: PM\nThe common citizen of India wants the fruits of development to reach him or her, says PM\nMy dear brothers and sisters present here in large numbers,\nToday, I see Dwarka in a different mood altogether, everywhere there is enthusiasm and spirit is high, it's like I am experiencing a new spirit in Dwarka. I convey my heartfelt regards to the people of Dwarka I thank them Today, the work that is being started in Dwarka Nagri, that is not just the construction of a bridge alone to reach Bet Dwarka It's like that's just a structure made of bricks, stones and iron. Today, in a way, construction of this bridge, the work of linking the cultural heritage of Bet Dwarka\nWhenever I used to visit Bet and I used to see this bridge, I saw immense potential of tourism there. But, the government of India, you know it is very well How many hardships we used to face? I still remember the condition of the people They used to finish the work before the sunset. Movement used to stop the night time. Only waterways were available It was a life of compulsions and hardships My dear brothers and sisters of bet it is very well if someone suddenly falls ill and he is required to be hospitalized in the night then how difficult it is And that is why this facility will be a great gift for travelers.\nSuch a facility, which is going to meet the routine requirements of the people Such a facility, that will strengthen the potential of tourism along the coast, along the coast line of Bet. And if a traveler comes here but leaves immediately after offering obeisance to Thakur Ji then it does not benefit much to the economy of द्वारका However, if he stays in the night, he stays for two days and spends thousand or two thousand rupees then it provides livelihood to the poorest of the poor in the economy of द्वारका. People come to Dwarka due to the grace of lord Dwarkadheesh. But if they stay in Dwarka, and they will certainly stay in Dwarka And that is why we have given priority to development of those facilities for a tourist that if he comes then he feels like staying, feels like staying for one or two days He feels like spending the evening on sea beach, so that he feels happy by watching the sunset. The government is continuously working on this kind of facilities.\nPlease imagine the Dwarka of 8-10 years ago and Dwarka of today. How much things have changed? And tourism does not develop It needs connectivity The first place should be connected to the second and so on. The whole world descends to watch the lions of Gir. However, after having seen the Gir lions if he gets the facility of wide roads or roads of two lanes, four lanes or six lanes to visit Porbandar and Dwarka then it gets convenient for him He feels like visiting And the one who comes to see Gir lions, we should create a situation that he also feels like coming to pay respect to Dwarkadheesh. The Gir lions will be seen as the facilities should be like that. And that is why the government of India has modified the construction of national highway network in such a way that in addition to the construction of roads, it will also be directly related to economic activity. And this facility should strengthen the economic activity\nToday, this work of widening of national highways up to Ghanutak and whenever I remember Ghanu, I'm reminded of my boys, we have very old workers there, farmers ... They used to think if we do this thing then it will be good, if we do that then it will be good They Are Today, we are going to spend a huge amount of money in widening of that road up to Ghanu. And today, in this program, and one more district, you could also imagine about project costing around Rs. 6,000 crore connecting Jamnagar, Junagadh to Porbandar districts Please think of those days. At that time a photo was published on a newspaper. And I still remember that image, at that time I was in politics, I was working in social sector. At that time the then Chief minister Madhav Singh came either in Jamnagar or somewhere in Jamnagar district to inaugurate a water tank. It was the concept of the governments at that time and please look at the concept of this government that kind of bridges and roads built by it. Getting your image published in full page ad on the front page for inauguration of a water tank\nThe world has changed and we have to scale new heights of development in this changed world so that every Indian can face the world with confidence. This is the dream of every Indian to make this kind of India. This is not a dream of Narendra Modi alone I'm just trying to fill in your dreams I'm working hard for this thing As Nitin Ji said only a while ago that in the context of blue economy there is a region that has capacity to give immense power to the sea capital of Gujarat and also to the economy of the country. Gujarat has a coast line of 1600 kilometers. Our fishermen brothers and sisters live along that coastline. Full potential We want to develop our ports but we also want to develop models based on ports. We want to develop that kind of infrastructure that connects ports with roads, with rails and also with air strips, where ware houses and cold storages are available and Indian farmers by producing the products, the shortest possible time in world market. And the farmers And that is why we are taking one step after another We have launched a new scheme and that is formulated under the blue economy for my fishermen brothers and sisters. And that scheme is; Today our fisherman who has a small boat, he goes out in the sea for fishing but he can not go beyond 10-12 nautical miles and he is able to catch enough fish in this area; he works hard Shall I allow my fishermen to take this kind of difficult life? Should I leave them on their fate? Whether our fishermen brothers and sisters do not have a desire to progress in life? Will my fishermen and brothers do not want to provide good education to their children? Will my fishermen do not like a good life by coming out of their shanties? And if we need to provide all these things then we have to empower him financially. We will have to empower him And that is why we have come out with such a scheme that some of our fishermen brothers and sisters who come forward collectively then the government will grant them a concessional rate, will be given them a loan of Rs. 1.5-2 crore So that he can afford a big boat costing Rs. 1.5-2 crore, and the government will make arrangements for this thing And if he has a big boat costing Rs. 1.5 crore, Rs. 2 crore then he can go beyond 10-12 nautical miles, he can go deep in the sea and if he is able to go deep in the sea then he will be able to catch three- Four times more fish in half a day than what he usually catches in 3-4 days and he can come back to the shores by making the earnings equal to three-four days And there should be all arrangements like cold storage etc. This kind of facilities we want to provide our fishermen We are taking it forward so that every fishermen can take advantage of it. It will change the lives of fishermen\nKandla Port, the way it has developed When I was Chief Minister of Gujarat even then the Kandla port was there and I know very well what was its condition? We used to ask the government of India It was a chance And since the time we got the opportunity to work in the Government of India, we have done equally focused on the development of the ports of Gujarat as well. And as a result of that Kandla Port has developed more than it has developed in the last 25 years. And people get the job Our Alang, Alang was complaining from how many years? The development of Alang was discussed, hygiene of Alang was discussed. In a way, Bhavnagar's alang was a mystery behind our identity in the world. At the same time, hundreds of questions were raised. National, international organizations used to raise questions And it was the responsibility of Government of India to think about it, to help in that thing, do some work for the workers in the Alang, to bring some changes in their lives. And despite my continuous efforts at that time I was not able to wake up the government of India. But today when we got the opportunity to serve People only remember Japan for Bullet Train, this people forgot that we have been moving forward by the development of Alang with Japanese collaboration. And due to that, a big change is going to be brought about in the life of my workers.\nThe direction of change that we have been following, the efforts that we have been making to develop in the new and newer areas for changing the common man's life that results in these results. Mangrol and Veraval have been our traditional fishing hubs. Recently the President of India visited that place. I'm extremely grateful to him for the foundation stone in Mangrol. In the coming days, this fishing hub is going to emerge as a very powerful factor for our fishing industry in this entire Bet region. Our entire coastal region is developing due to this blue economy and due to this tourism based economy and with them human resource is also taking place.\nToday, I want to announce a gift for the people of Gujarat. And this thing is going to be useful for the country, it's not only for Gujarat. It will take place on our coast and it will happen on the river of Dwarka India is working in the direction of making its marine police extremely modern for the protection of our coastal borders. Their train will be different from the city. So in order to provide the training and research to Marine Police of the whole country and the first such institute would be established in Mojap near the divine land of Dwarka. As we have a training institute inside the Jamnagar airport and people from all over the country air force for its advantage. Similarly, this training institute, this marine police training institute in the divine land of Dwarka for marine police, and this will be such an institute where thousands of people remain and the training and visits of all the police personnel is going on thing You can imagine it very well\nBrothers and sisters,\nYou are busy in preparing for Diwali And the festival of Diwali is very special in Gujarat and it is also very special in business community. And today I browsed the news papers of the whole country and they had this headline that Diwali had come 15 days in advance. And there is a Diwali like environment everywhere. And we have said this is the one that we will study the GST during the first three months of its implementation and whatever difficulties will be faced in those three months, whatever the problem will be with the technology, with the rules; Whatever the problem will be regarding the rates and also the practical problems faced by the trading community; Because we do not want the businessmen of the country to get stuck in red-tapism, get stuck in files and appeasing the officers; we would never want to The last three months by convincing the GST Council And I'm happy that this country has been welcomed by everyone. When people have faith in a government, when the people are fully supported I am experiencing this thing and that is why I am grateful to my fellow countrymen and I welcome them for a simple tax GST.\nBrothers and sisters of Dwarka,\nShrikrishna's Dwarka is submerged and it was the wish of the people of the country and the world that to be sanctified themselves. I have asked many experts to explore its possibility so that people can go to that ancient city where Lord Shrikrishna had lived and reigned and after returning its stones. And then you will see that whole India will be standing in a queue in Dwarka Development does not happen It needs a vision, a foresight It requires a solemn pledge and in order to meet that pledge. And today, the people of any corner of the country have faith in our government; have the expectations of development and expectations of development. They do not want their future to get stuck in the vicious circle of poverty and lead the life of penury. It's our effort even if their current generation has been forced to live in the poorer but their children should not be forced into life. This kind of development is continuing today and we have been developing new benchmarks of development. Today, India has attracted its attention People of the world have come forward for making investments and as a result of this thing new employment opportunities will be created. It has generated a possibility of changing the lives of farmers Several initiatives have been taken in Gujarat. Today, Gujarat is playing an important role in development; Today, Gujarat is playing a vital role in the development of the country and for this thing I bow down to millions and millions of people of Gujarat and I thank them And I also convey my heartfelt good wishes to the government.\nJay Dwarkadheesh"