"Share\n\nFew people are trying to weaken the honesty of our social structures; Govt is the work of cleansing the system of such elements: PM\nAs a result of the efforts of the government, the economy is working with less cash: PM Modi\nThe cash to GDP ratio has come down to 9%, from 12% before demonetization: Prime Minister\nThere was a time when India was among the fragile five economies, but now steps taken by Govt will ensure a new league of development: PM\nPM will be placed on honesty, and the interests of the will would be protected: PM Modi\n87 reforms have been carried out in 21 sectors in last three years: PM Modi\nIn the policy and planning of the government, care is being taken to ensure that poor and middle class change for the better: PM\n\nMy colleague in the Council of Ministers, Minister of State for Corporate Affairs, Shri PP Chaudhary Ji,\nPresident of the Institute of Company Secretaries of India, Dr. Shyam Agrawal Ji and other dignitaries present on this occasion\nICSI is celebrating its 50th anniversary today. My heartfelt greetings to all people\nIt has been a privilege for me to become the people who have had a part of the ICSI over the past 49 years and felicity them. I am honored to be the experts who ensure that every company in the country follows the law, maintains complete transparency and do not fudge its\nThe onus is on you to see it\nThe motto of your institute is Satyam Vada, Dharmam Chara. It implies that one should speak and rule. Your advice is right or wrong.\nFriends, on many occasions, it has been seen that people do not tread the path which they ought to have done For example, both Yudhishtir and Duryodhan were taught by the same Guru, however their actions were altogether different.\nIn Mahabharata, Duyordhan has been quoted as saying: Janami Dharmam Na Cha Mei Pravittih, Janami Adharmam Na Cha Mei Nivrittih. It means, 'I know what is righteousness but I have no desire to follow that path, I also know what is badness but I have no desire to refrain from it.'\nYour organization reminisces such people of the values ​​from this lesson of Satyam Vada, Dharmam Chara. Your organization plays an important role in institutionalizing the transparency and honesty in the country.\nBrothers and sisters, Acharya Chanakya said:\nEken Shushka Vrikshena\nDahya Manen Vanhi Na;\nDahyate Ta Vanam Sarvam Kuputren Kulam Yatha\nIt means, 'Even if a dry tree in the forest catches fire, the whole forest is engulfed in the fire. In the same way, even if a member of the family does wrong, the reputation of the whole family is at stake.\nFriends, this axiom applies in the context of the country as well. A handful of people in our country have been engaged in harming its reputation, they have been trying to weaken our honest social fabric. The Government has launched a campaign to clean-up the system and the institutions from such elements.\nUnder the formation of the government, a Special Investigative Team - SIT, has been set up by its first decision. It was suggested by the Supreme Court several years ago.\n-Black Money Act was put in place to tackle black money stashed abroad\n-Tax treaties with many new countries signed and earlier tax agreements were amended. New ways were found in consultation with them.\n- Insolvency and Bankruptcy Codes were enacted.\n- Benami Property Law that had been lying in limbo for 28 years, was implemented.\n- Good And Simple Tax- GST - that was stuck up for many years\n- This is the government that showed the decision of Demonization.\nBrothers and sisters, this government has done the work of strengthening the institutional credibility in the country. As a result of the hard work of this government alone, we are getting a less cash economy. 9th November, 2016 will be remembered as the opening day of corruption free movement in the history of India. The cash to GDP ratio has come down to 9 percent of Demonetization It used to be up 12 percent before 8th November 2016. Was it possible if a new era of honesty did not usurred in the country, the economy of the country? Who knows it is better than you, and today people are at least 50 times before resorting to it.\nFriends, There was another character, Shalya in the Mahabharata. Shalya was charioteer of Karna On the other hand, Krishna was the Sarathi of Arjuna. This character, Shalya always used to discourage those who were in the battle field and spread despair. He used to say, you do not have the courage, your horses and chariot are weak and how you will fight Shalya belonged to the Mahabharata era. But still we have some people being the same Shalya mentality Such people take pleasure in the despair The slowdown in the GDP is also one quarter. They are perpetually in a mode of pessimism, saying how will you do it and what will happen next\nWhen the Doklam issue surfaced. They could have tried, nothing could be done. Some people are enjoying spreading pessimism. They get a good sleep out of it For them slowdown in GDP in one quarter is like a dose. Friends, When the data suits their thinking, the institutions and processes appear correct. However, the moment, the same data is unsuitable for them, they immediately start questioning the institutions and its processes. It is very important to identify those people before arriving at a conclusion only.\nFriends, do you really feel that the GDP growth of the country has reached the level of 5.7% in a quarter? No it's not The GDP growth slipped to 5.7% or even 8 times during the previous government. Nation's economy has seen those quarters when the growth rate slipped down to 0.2 percent, 1.5 percent. That kind of slowdown was also more harmful for the economy since during those years India was also struggling with high inflation, higher Current Account Deficit and higher fiscal deficit.\nIf you look at the two preceding years before 2014 such as 2012-13 and 2013-14, the average growth rate was around 6%. Now some people may ask why I have been picked up those two years only. Because, it does not take much time for people with Shalya mentality to contest it.\nFriends, I've referred to those two years because the method to calculate the GDP growth has been and those two years of the previous government and three years of this government. When Central Statistics Office, CSO released the figure of 7.4% GDP growth during the tenure of this government, some people dismissed it It was their view that the GDP data did not match with its real realities. These people said that they were not able to feel that rate. It means that it does not fit in their Shalya mentality.\nSame Institutions were not able to do their liking, same processes were not their liking at that time. But the moment, GDP growth rate came down to 5.7%, it lifted their spirit. They started telling, the institutions are correct. Same set of people used to Economy growing at a fast pace\nSo, these handful of people were talking about the new method of calculating the GDP. At that time, they were not talking on the basis of their data but they were talking about their gut-feelings and that is why they were not able to see the growth of the economy.\nBrothers and sisters, but, as soon as the GDP growth slowed down to 6.1 and 5.7% in the two quarters of the same data released by Shalya mentality economists.\nBrothers and sisters, I'm not an economist and nor have I ever claimed so. However, today when it's too much talk about the economy, I would like to take it back in time.\nBrothers and sisters, there was a time when India was involved in a group related to international economy called Fragile Five, unlike the groups today like, G-7, G-8 or G-20.\nFragile Five group was considered as a dangerous group as well, but they were also considered as a stumbling block in the recovery of global economy. India was named as a member of the same group. What it meant was that we can not manage our economy, but become a problem for others and India with fragile Five group along with tag.\nA person like me, who has little knowledge of economy is still unable to understand how much time it has happened. You should be aware that the issues of the hogging limelight were -the growth in the GDP growth rather than the inflation rate, while the current account deficit in Growth and fiscal deficit prominently in the news. Growth in the rate of Dollar vis a vis Rupee used to be the headline in the newspapers while the growth of interest rate was animatedly debated. At that time, these parameters which were reversed for the growth of the nation.\nNow when the same parameters have been shown marked improvements, development is in the right direction, a handful of people are still having a look at it with their color vision They can not see the writing on the wall and I want to bring it to your notice. I am also showing you the slides\nRate of inflation which was more than 10% has come down and this year is average around 2.5%. Can you compare 10% with 2.5%. Current Account Deficit which was 4% has come down to almost 1%. You can see it.\nWhile improving on the parameters, the Central Government has brought down the fiscal deficit from 4.5% under the previous regime to 3.5%.\nForeign investors have made record investments in India today. India's foreign exchange reserves up 25% from around $ 30,000 crore to $ 40,000 crore\nThe reforms in economy, the confidence, the success perhaps do not matter to a handful of people .Therefore it is the nation to understand whether some people are striving for the interests of the country or just others of the interest espousing ..\nFriends, it is true that despite attaining average growth rate of 7.5% over the past three years, the GDP growth rate in April-June period this year saw a decline. We do not deny it. However, let me tell you that the government is fully committed to reverse this trend.\nMany experts have agreed that the fundamentals of economy are strong. The financial stability of the country We will take and carry forward\nI would like to assure that the steps taken by the government will help India move into a new league in the years to come. According to the Reserve Bank today, the estimates from the next quarter is expected to show a growth in economy which may reach 7.7% for the end.\nGovernment is alert to reach out to and if required to any sector following the structural reforms sector It can be MSME or export sector or a part of our non-formal economy I would like to reiterate from this forum that in the changing scenario, honesty will command a premium and the government will protect the interest of honest persons.\nI know that there is an element of apprehension among some of the traders who have joined the mainstream that their old records will be seen on their new businesses. Let me assure you that any thing is going to happen It may have happened with the previous regime, since the rules at that time, their attitude and behavior was different. There can not be a greater sin than you from the mainstream. And so, our government is of the view that we welcome those who wish to join the mainstream Please leave away the old thinking Do not worry, we will be there for you all the time.\nI would like to tell about the GST. It has been implemented We have seen that what is working and what is not We have received feedback on minor issues. The GST Council has been told to discuss all the bottlenecks and problems related to technology, fillings of others and a solution be done out of all political parties and state governments. I assure traders that we are not orthodox and conservative We do not know everything But if something needs to be done, we will do it\nWe do not claim that we know everything However, this is a right direction. Wherever there are obstacles, we will try to overcome them\nFriends, while discussing the state of economy with you, I would like to share the following details. I leave it to you.\nFriends, I have a firm belief that whenever you buy a new car, you will not have bought it under compulsion. You must have seen your household budget, the cost of educating your children, the expenses on medical treatment of the elderly in the family. And then when you have the saving, you would have thought of buying a house or a car. This is the basic thinking of our society. In such situation-\n-What will you take if the sale of passenger cars in the country has grown by around 12% after June?\n- What will you say when you find that the sale of commercial vehicles has too registered a growth of more than 23% after June?\n- What would you say when the sale of two wheelers in the country has registered a growth of over 14%?\n-What do you say when the number of domestic air travelers have registered an increase of 14% over the past two months?\n- Will you say when international air freight traffic has registered a growth of around 16%?\n-What would you like to say when the number of telephone subscribers have registered a growth of over 14%?\n-Brothers and sisters, these developments indicate that people are buying vehicles, new phone connections and using air travel. These indicators reflect the growth in demand in urban areas.\n· So, if we look at indicators related to rural demand then the sale of tractors has registered a growth of over 34% in recent months.\n· Even in the FMCG sector, the trend of growth in demand is upside in the month of September.\n-Friends, these things happen when the people grow up When people think of this thing: yes, the economy is strong.\n- The recently released PMI Manufacturing Index reflects the expansive mode. And Future Output Index has crossed the figure of 60\n· If we have a recently released data, the production of coal, electricity, steel and natural gas has registered a strong growth.\n· -Friends, even the disbursal of personal loan is registered rapid growth.\n· The loans given by Housing Finance Companies and Non-Banking Finance Companies have registered significant growth.\n- · Not only this, there is more investment in the mutual fund and insurance sector in the capital market.\n· Companies have mobilized more than 25,000 crore rupees in the first six months of the year. During the whole year 29,000 crore\n· In less than four months, more than 45,000 crore rupees have been invested in Non-Financial Entities through corporate bonds and private placement.\n-This data reflects the broad base of financing in the country. It means that the financing in India is no longer to be confined to bank loans alone.\n-Friends, This government has consistently emphasized the use of both time and resources. One can see a clear difference between the three years of the government and this government.\n· 80 thousand kilometers long rural roads were constructed during the last three years of the previous government During the three years of our government, 1 lakh 20 thousand kilometers long rural roads have been constructed. It means a growth of rural roads.\n-The previous Government during its last three years, had awarded the work to build 15,000 kilometers long national highways. Our government has given the work to build 34,000 kilometers long national highways in its three years.\n· If you talk about the investment in this sector, then the previous government has spent Rs. 93,000 crore during the last three years of its acquisition of land and the construction of the roads. This figure has gone up to Rs. 1.83 lakh crores in this government It means this government has almost doubled the investment\nEven you will be aware that how many administrative and financial steps are needed. This data reflects how the government is performing the role of a policy maker and policy implementer after the country out of policy paralysis.\nSimilarly, if we talk about the rail sector:\n· Nearly 1,100 kilometer long new rail lines were laid. In the three years of this government, this figure has crossed 2100 kilometers mark. It means that we have laid the new railway lines around twice as fast.\n· During the last three years of the previous government, 1300 kilometer long railway tracks were converted into the double line. During the three years of this government, 2600 kilometers of railway track has been converted into the double line. It means that we have carried out the work of doubling\nFriends, capital expenditure worth Rs. 1.49 lakhs was made during the previous government. During the three years of this government, this figure has gone up to Rs. 2.64 lakh crore It means a growth of over 75%.\nNow if I talk about the development of Renewable Energy sector, then:\n· A total of 12,000 megawatt of renewable energy If we talk about the three years of this government, then more than 22,000 megawat renewable energy capacity has been connected to the grid power. It means that the government's performance in this sector is almost two times better.\n· During the last three years of the last government, it spent about Rs. 4,000 on the renewable energy Our government has spent more than Rs. 10,600 crores in this sector in the three years.\n· If we talk about the growth of shipping industry during the previous government, then the growth in cargo handling is negative during its tenure while it has been increased by 11%.\nFriends, the government has been paying full attention for strengthening the social infrastructure of the country with the strengthening of physical infrastructure related to important sectors like rail-road and electricity. We have taken major policy decisions and carried out financial reforms in the field of affordable housing which is unprecedented for the sector.\nFriends, during the last three years of the government, it approved the projects worth Rs. 15,000 crores When this government has cleared projects worth Rs. 1.53 lakh crores during its first three years. This is a reflection of our commitment to the poor people, to the middle class.\nBrothers and sisters, more capital is required for this kind of developmental work The government has given more foreign investment in the country.\n-You might be aware that when the issue of reforms in the insurance sector was first discussed, the newspaper headlines used to say that if such a thing happens, it will be a major economic decision. It was during the previous government That government completed its term without reforms in the insurance sector. We have brought in the reforms in the insurance sector. It happened during this government However, this is the mentality of some Shalya mentality people that even this reform does not seem to be large to them since it was not that time, and it could not be carried out by government by them\n-I would like to tell those people who have made this word - Reform - their theme song that we have carried out 87 small and big reforms in 21 sectors. Big changes have been brought about in investment policies related to many sectors including construction sector, defense sector, financial services, food processing, or other sectors you name it.\nIf you compare the total amount of foreign investment in India that has come after the liberalization and the foreign investment made during the last three years, you will realize the impact of our government by economic reforms.\nBrothers and sisters, you are from this field. However, the statistics which I am putting in The liberalization time frame began after 1992. If I take it as the basis, let us compare what has been the impact from liberalization till 2014 and then from 2014 to 2017.\n· 75% of the total investment\n· Even in civil aviation sector, 69% of the total foreign investment is in the last three years.\n· 56% of total foreign investment in the mining sector\n· 53% of total foreign investment in the computer software and hardware sector has come in the last three years alone\n· 52% of total foreign investment in the electrical equipment\n· 49% of total foreign investment in the renewable energy sector has come during the three years of this government.\n· 45% of the total foreign investment in the textile sector\n· It may be surprising for you that the automobile industry has already attracted plenty of foreign investment before, even in that sector 44% of the total foreign investment has come in the last three years\nGrowing FDI inflow in the country is the proof of the fact that foreign investors have the country's economy.\nOur policies, their implementation and our vision has raised the level of confidence .. All this investment is the country's development and job creation growth rate in a significant role. Increase in road construction, expanding rail lines, does not require creation of jobs? How did it happen? But Shalya mentality goes on.\nFriends, this government realizes the value of every single penny earned by your hard work. That is why, the government's policies and plans are formulated in a way that they help in not only making the lives of poor and middle class people but they should also help in saving the money.\nFriends, this is the result of the government's constant efforts that led to a LED bulb which was priced at Rs. 350 during the previous government, has now been brought down to Rs. 40-45 under the Ujala scheme by this government Now you tell me, whether it is a result of a middle class or a poor person I can not understand why the cost of LED bulb at that time was Rs.350. This is a matter of research\n· So far more than 26 crore LED bulbs have been distributed in the country. If we consider an average reduction of Rs. 250 in the price of a bulb, even after the middle class of the country has saved around Rs. 6,500 crores on this account. These bulbs have the power consumption in every household It has resulted in the estimated savings of Rs. 14,000 crores Now you see the total savings on LED bulb purchase and electricity consumption becomes more than 20,000 crores. This is in the middle\n· Due to the efforts made by the government, those local bodies are also reaping the financial benefits. They have been reducing their street lights with LED bulbs. As per an estimate, the municipality of a tier-two town has made an average savings of Rs. 10-15 crore Now this money is the development of the cities and spurring economic growth. .\n- For the first time, the middle class has given relief on the government. You may recall, never before\nGovernment has always taken steps to ease the burden of the middle class, and the empowerment of poor people, steps are being taken, policies are becoming formulated and implemented in a time bound manner. We have been active in this direction\nI am aware that sometimes I have to face criticism for empowering the people and the country instead of handing out doles. However, I can not compromise Do we need to worry only about the power and the vote? We have chosen the path which is difficult However, we are treading the right path in the welfare of the people.\nI have often faced criticism for this reason Look, if you are out of the doles, people will sing paeans for you I am being criticized The vested interests feel aggrieved since my government believes in transferring the money in the accounts of the beneficiaries through Direct Benefit transfer. It has been verified that ghost accounts are done away with That is why we do not like PM Modi\nThat is why our power is on I would like to say that I will not be able to compromise with my present defense of the country of the future.\nFriends, this government has laid on the private sector and public sector. Otherwise, the talk was confined only to the private and the public sector. Personal Sector, which is connected to the personal aspirations of people That is why this government is expanding every possible help to people who want to do something on their own, who want to fulfill their dreams\n· Loans of more than Rs. 3.75 lakh crore have been given to more than 9 crore account holders without any bank guarantee under the Mudra scheme.\n· Out of these 9 crore people, 2.63 crore are the youth who are the first time borrowers, it means that they are the first time that they borrowed a loan under the Mudra scheme to start their business.\nThe government has been encouraging the self-employment through the schemes like Skill India Mission, Stand-up India and Start-up India Companies have given financial incentives for more\nBrothers and sisters, if we take a look at some of the sectors, then:\n-By the end of March 2014, there were 3.26 crore employees who have been actively contributing to the provident fund money in the Employees Provident Fund Organization every month. In the last three years, this number has gone up to 4.80 crore. Some people forget this thing that this number can not grow in employment.\nFriends, We have taken steps to ensure that the government schemes bring a qualitative change in the lives of poor people, lower middle class and middle class people.\nBank accounts of more than 30 crore poor people have opened under the Jan-Dhan scheme More than three crore women have been given a gas connection free of cost under the Ujjwala scheme. Nearly 15 crore poor people have been brought under the coverage of government insurance schemes. The scheme was launched on a few days ago. These schemes have been empowering the poor people\nHowever, it is corruption and black money which has been a bane for the nation. Your institution and the company's secretaries of the country have an important role in curbing the black money and corruption.\nRegistration of 2.1 lakh companies of total 3 lakh of shell companies, which were suspected of channelizing the black money following the ban, have been canceled.\nI am hopeful that the level of awareness among the directors will be increased and companies will become more transparent following this cleansing operation against the shell companies.\nFriends, this period is immense changes, of transformative changes in the history of the nation.\nThe importance of a transparent and honest administration is now understood in the country. The recommendations made by the ICSI played a positive role in formulating the Corporate Governance Framework\nNow it is the need of the hour for you to play an active role in a new business culture. Nearly 19 lakh new citizens have come under the scope of indirect taxes following implementation of GST Be it a small trader or a big trader, he should adopt the honest tax system inbuilt in the GST It is also your duty to encourage the business community in this regard. Lakhs of students have been registered with your institution. Can your institution take this responsibility to train one lakh youth about small-small things related to GST? They can help small businesses and traders in their area linking them with GSTN, in filing returns after receiving a training of 7 to 10 days .. It will open a new avenue of employment. If it is taken up in organized way, even one lakh will be small number\nFriends, nation celebrates 75 years of independence in 2022. We must have a dream to fulfill the dreams and wishes of our freedom fighters and great leaders who spend their lives in jails, struggled for independence throughout their life and sacrificed their lives for the freedom of the country Every Indian citizen should have the dream like the one in 1942 during Quit India Movement, when people have decided that they will not stop till Britishers leave India. We should also move ahead with a dream for 2022, in75 th year of our independence\nFriends, I want some promises from the ICSI for 2022 when the country will celebrate the 75th year of its independence These promises will have your pledges and you should fulfill it- .\n· Can you take the responsibility of making the country a high tax compliant society by 2022?\n· Can you ensure that there will not be a single shell company in the country by 2022?\n· Can you ensure that by 2022 every company in the country will honestly pay the taxes?\n· Can you establish an honest business culture in the country by 2022 by expanding the scope of your help?\nI hope that in the beginning of its golden jubilee year, the ICSI will embark on a journey to meet these goals with guidelines and will also include them in its work culture.\nOnce again, Congratulations to you all in this Golden Jubilee Year.\nI would like to assure my fellow citizens that we do not take offence to the recent spate of criticisms of the Government on the economic front. The Government is sensitive towards the concerns of the people. We take even the harshest criticism in our stride. We would strive to carry forward the nation of 1.25 billion on the road to growth and development with humility, and keeping in mind the interests of the people with the same rhythm and fast pace.\nI would also like to tell our critiques humbly that we do not subscribe to the view that all the critiques are wrong. However, we should desist from creating an atmosphere of pessimism in the country.\nI showed you the glimpses of a parameter which reflects the strength of our economy. There are many other parameters which prove how strong is our economy and a clear reflection of the decision making powers of the Government. This is the proof of the direction and momentum of the Government. The economic strength is also reflected in the rising confidence about India both inside the country and abroad.\nWe should not ignore it. Let us march ahead for building a New India with a renewed vigour, zeal, confidence and culture.\nCongratulations to you all on the Golden Jubilee. Since you belong to this field, I thought of sharing my views on this issue with you and I am quite hopeful that through this platform, it will reach out to the fellow citizens.\nOnce again many- many greetings\nThank You"