"\nWe can not achieve a Clean India, unless 1.25 billion people come together: PM Modi\nWe keep fighting over building statues for great leaders Let us change that: PM\nCriticize me, but do not politicize issue of cleanliness, says PM\nA positive spirit of competition has been created due to Swachh Bharat Mission, says PM Modi\nAll the Swachchagri brothers and sisters present here,\nToday is 2nd October; It's the birth anniversary of venerated Bapu, and also the birth anniversary of Lal Bahadur Shastri. How do we get the last three years? I still remember that I was in the United States to attend a meeting at United Nations and I came back very late in the 1st of October and in the morning of 2nd October I came to clean with a broom. However, at that time all the news papers, media and all our friends from allied parties, I mean all political parties, all of them have been saying so much of my criticism: 2nd October is a holiday and children of the holiday have been spoiled. Whether the kids will go to school or not? Why were children engaged in this work? Lot of such things happened\nAnd it's my nature that I have tolerated lot of things silently as my responsibility is such that I should tolerate and gradually I am also improving. However, today after three years; We keep working on this thing without wavering, without any reluctance and we are persisted on this thing because I have full faith in the teachings of Bapu, because the path shown by Bapu is never wrong.\nI still have the same belief, however, it does not mean that there are no challenges There are challenges Just because there are challenges, we will take regular praise for us? Shall we run away from this kind of work, will we? And I feel that, today, those people who are saying this thing in one voice. It's not that dirtyness in front of our eyes It's like that we did not like to clean the dirtiness in some way and it's not like that. There can not be a cleanliness\nIf you go to a railway station and there are four benches but two of them are not clean then you do not sit there, you sit on a good place. Why? Because our basic nature prefers cleanliness However, the only gap that remains in our country is the lack of feeling that I should do this thing There are no differences in the country. The problem is always like that And let me tell you one more thing and I have no hesitation in saying this thing, and it's possible that tomorrow we may face even more criticism but why should we hide anything from our countrymen? Even if a thousand Mahatma Gandhis come, even if a lakh of Narendra Modi comes, all the chief ministers come forward, even then the dream of the cleanliness is never realized, it is never realized. However, if 1.25 billion Indians come forward then this dream can be realised in no time.\nUnfortunately, we have made plenty of things the responsibility of the government. As long as this is considered as the responsibility of the common man. You see, Kumbh fair is being organized. Every day the people of the small towns of the Ganga However, they manage to say they are themselves, they do their own things and it is going to be centuries\nIf we move forward by accepting the strength of the society, move forward by accepting the people's participation; Then this movement will continue I'm confident of this thing And today I'm happy that there are some people who still make fun of it, those who criticize it and are they are the ones It's your choice And I'm confident that by the time of completion of five years the country's media will not publish this thing that who was working, who has been participating in the cleaning program. The photos of those people are going to be published, who were running away from this campaign, who were against it. Their photos are about to be published because when the country accepts something then you may or may not like it.\nToday, this cleanliness campaign, it no longer belongs to venerated Bapu, it is no longer belongs to Government of India or municipalities Today, the cleanliness campaign has become And whatever success has been achieved so far, it's not the slightest claim that that success belongs to the government. This success does not belong to India or the state governments, this success belongs to those countrymen who crave for cleanliness.\nWe have got self rule, and the tool The tool for great India is cleanliness If Satyagrahi was the center of self rule then Swachchaghi (who insists on cleanliness) is the center of a great India. And we too know this thing that whenever we visit some country of the world and when we see that place of cleanliness then after coming back after this, it is clear how clean it is, I cleanliness by so much impressed. And when people tell me these things then I ask them: You have felt good after the cleanliness of that country Did you see someone throwing the garbage? They reply that we did not see any such thing Then I tell them exactly what is our problem\nAnd that is why we did not talk about this issue. Politicians and governments did not understand the issue as it was their responsibility. Oh brother; If it gets your responsibility then let it be so. What's the problem? We are accountable people, our accountability is there\nAnd today what is the situation due to cleanliness? This ranking for the cleanliness that is taking place: which city is the cleanest of all, which are the second and third? And when its rankings are declared then it is being discussed in every city A pressure is being created on the politicians, on the government from the bottom that look in the city. What are you doing? Then civil society also comes in the picture saying: Look, this is behind us, it has been beaten us; let us do something A kind of positive And a positive result of that whole system\nIt's true that the toilets were made but they were not used. But when these types of news come in then it's not something bad. They wake us up Yes, if they mention this thing that: look, this is the responsibility of the society, of the family, of the person that they are stressed using the toilets\nI am always there, I joined politics with a social organization I was working in Gujarat, there was an accident involving Machu Dam in Morvi, thousands of people were killed, the entire city was submerged in water so that I was in service for the service, the city cleaning. All the work related to cleaning the city was going on, they went on for almost a month. Later, we were, some members of the civil society and also through the NGO it was decided that we will build homes for those whose homes have been destroyed. So we adopted a village. We collected the money from the people and we wanted to rebuild the village; It was a small village, there was some 350-400 houses. When we were designing the layout then I insisted a lot on this thing that there is no toilet. Then the villagers used to say that: we do not need toilet, we have a big open field here, instead of just the size of the room little bit. But I told them that I would not compromise on this thing We will build a room as well, but the toilets will be constructed in any case. So, in any case they were not able to get it free of cost.\nAnd when I once visited that area almost after 10-12 years then I felt the need to meet old associates as that area for several months, so I went to them. And after visiting that place, I regretted a lot as the goats were kept in all those toilets constructed by us. So this is the tendency of the society It's not the fault of that person who built it, nor is it a fault of government The society has its own nature We are required to understand these limits.\nCan anyone tell me whether all schools in India have been constructed as per the requirement or not? Whether teachers are employed as per the requirement or not? Whether all the facilities, books etc. have you been given the schools as per the requirement? They are there big quantities However, the status of education is low. So the government after making these efforts, after spending the money and building the buildings, after appointing the teachers; and if it gets the cooperation of the society then it will not take much time to achieve 100% literacy. The same infrastructure, the same number of teachers can achieve 100% literacy but it is not possible without cooperation of society\nIf the government thinks that the work will be accomplished, we will pay to teachers Yes, we can take that much and we have done that much But if there is people's participation, if a kid takes admission in a school then it stops attending the class. And now even parents do not ask him to go to school. The issue of toilet So cleanliness as a responsibility, the more we create this kind of atmosphere then everybody will also think about 50 times before doing something wrong.\nAnd you see, our kids, small children, the families that have sons, pawns and granddaughters. In a way they are the biggest ambassador of my cleanliness mission. These kids, if grandfather throws something, then they say they were there. This kind of atmosphere should be created in every household. If kids accept something then why can not we do the same?\nHow many children have been dying just because of cleaning their hands? But as soon as you mention this topic, people will say: how can we buy soap; how can we get water; Modi will deliver speech; how should the people wash their hands? Oh brother, if you can wash your hands then leave it, but those who wash their hands, at least, let them do that\nNarendra Modi Everyday, I give you some or some other reason, you should use that. But we should not make fun of such things or do politics over the need. We should follow a collective responsibility and you will see that things will change\nYou see, these kids have done a great job I used to post these pictures of these kids on social media, I used to be a lot of pride. I, personally, do not know these kids. But when I saw the picture of that kid who showed up enthusiasm for cleanliness, I used to reach them and they used to reach millions and millions of people. It's okay brother! Why is he doing that? This essay competition, whether the cleanliness can be ensured through essay competitions? An immediate response would be that cleanliness Cleanliness can be ensured through drawing competition? No.\nIdeology Development does not take place through the development of the system So this effort to produce films, the efforts to bring creativity, essay writing; all these things are a try to a ideological basis to cleanliness. And when something finds a place in our minds in the form of an idea, it finds a place as an essence. So this is the reason And I would like; You saw a lot of pain; and it's not the fault of those people However, it's a commercial world, everyone has a tendency to push those things where there is a possibility of making some money and everyone will interest in making some money.\nIf you watch the television programs that were produced four-five years ago in which if some children were showing the work of cleaning in a school then it used to be a news story; The teachers were criticized for making the schools in the cleaning job. And it used to provide opportunities to parents; Today, this has brought about such a big change that if kids are doing the cleaning of a school then it will not be able to do so. becomes headline of TV news It's a small thing\nAnd I think what happened when the media did not have the whole movement of its own agenda? It's three years since then and the print and electronic media of this country has fully associated itself with the cleanliness program; And at times they are two steps ahead of us\nAnd I have seen that these kids, the films about the TV shows. This is the issue: how to involve all the people? The more they get involved, and you see that now we got that opportunity for the progress of our country, we must take our country to that destination by 2022. And if you want to do this thing then it's a big thing\nAny person, if our house is not clean and some guest visits us; Even if they come here for some marriage proposal but then he will think that everything else is fine, the boy is also well-educated but the house is such a poor shape; so why should we marry in this family? And he will go back If someone comes from outside and visits India, sees Agra, Taj Mahal, what a wonderful places, but if he looks around the monuments then he gets puzzled. So how can we tolerate such a situation?\nWho is at fault? My point is not this And it is possible if all of us work together; this thing has been demonstrated by my countrymen in the last three years; It's been demonstrated by the civil society and by the media. And if there is so much support and even then if we are able to build momentum in these things then one day all of us will have to be responsible\nI want that all of us are stressed, we should take them forward. With the help of data, we just explained our progress to you people, but even now, despite the momentum, this is something that should be done only on it.\nThere are temples in the villages It's human nature, some do not go to temples There are some people who do not go. Same is true about mosques and gurudwaras People may attend one or two functions So this is the tendency of the society, the life goes on and such people move on in their own world We have to try them And when we make efforts\nAs per the data, it appears that the speed is fine, direction is fine too A campaign to build toilet And when our girls go to school They ask questions, they check the facilities and after that they take admission. Before it was not like this, we will manage Why should we manage? Why should our daughters tolerate these things?\nAnd you can never realise the power of cleanliness You think about that mother in whose house everyone has a right to throw waste material and other things here and there That mother does it all alone, when all other go out for work or go to school, she keeps cleaning the house for two hours, she keeps these back-breaking work for hours, two hours. You should ask that mother: how do you feel when going out before? That mother would definitely say that it was back-breaking work, it's good that you are able to work in 10 minutes You please tell me, be it a mother of middle class, high-middle class or low middle class or be it a poor mother If all members of the family keep their things at the right place, they may or may not help that in the house but if they just keep their things in order then that mother for a great relief? Did you know that?\nAnd that is why I have only one yardstick about cleanliness in my mind. You can imagine this thing I want to ask the men You urinate on any intersection Please forgive me You must have seen the situation of those mothers and sisters who sometimes go out to market to buy something. They will have face of nature's calls But they do not relieve them in the open, they are the ones they get back home. What are these values? And if these values ​​are there in her daughter, then how is it that men have them? Because, as a man we believe that we have all these liberties And unless the changes take place we can not understand the cleanliness in real terms\nYou see that those mothers and sisters live in the villages, even the mothers and sisters living in slums in cities, they wake up early and go out, go in woods to relieve themselves. Since there are risks then they go out in a group of 5-7 people and if they feel the nature of the call after the day break then they wait until the evening; you just imagine What happens to the health of that mother who needs to be defecate at 9-10 in the morning but she is not able to go out due to the daylight, who continues to wait till 7 in the evening thinking she will go out to relieve her in the dark. You tell me, what is the situation of that mother? If you have this kind of sensitivity then you do not have to watch TV channels, do not have to listen to a TV anchor, you will not need a prime minister or a state government to understand cleanliness; This in itself will become a part of your responsibility.\nAnd that is why I want to call upon the countrymen Unicef ​​has released a report recently, it has conducted a survey of nearly 10,000 people who have built toilets, And it is their estimation that on the cost of 50 thousand rupees per annum over treatment of diseases per family due to toilet or lack of cleanliness about the cleanliness. If the head of the family falls ill then all other things just stop And if the illness is serious then two members of the family He needs to borrow money at a high interest from a money lender for the treatment. So in order, a burden of about Rs. 50 thousand falls on a poor family\nBut if we adopt cleanliness as our religion, if we accept the cleanliness as our own responsibility then we can save the burden of Rs. 50,000 on a family and also lessen the burden of those difficulties that fall due to that disease. We may or may not put money in his pocket but these fifty thousand rupees are of great help. So these surveys, this information that is given to us, all of us should follow that as a social responsibility.\nA lot of people meet me after the Prime Minister Political workers, retired officers and also some of them who work in the social sector meet me. They are very polite and very affectionate At the time of leaving, they are politely hand over their bio data and ask me to get back to them. They say: 'I'm always there for anything.' They are so polite that I also ask them for some time for cleanliness. And they do not come back again.\nYou please tell me, they have come to me seeking some work, they have come with nice bio-data but after considering all these things, I just asked them to do this thing then they do not come back again. See, no work is lowly If we lend our support then it will become big\nI'd like to heartily congratulate all those people who have worked hard in these 15 days However, all these things, and I still say that it's just a beginning, a lot still needs to be done. Those kids who have participated in this thing with enthusiasm, those school teachers who were encouraged to them - some had produced films, some had written essays, some of them were self-cleaning in, some schools even went out, hour in the morning\nI'm surprised; some people; statues of great souls; we, all the politicians, all the political parties However, after the installation no one is willing to take the statue. Everyone feels that he or she should be those people and their statues should be installed However, the people from the same community, their own followers are not interested in cleaning the statues; and then it is open for any bird to sit on it and do whatever it feels like\nThese are the evils of our social life. And that is why it is responsibility of all of us It is not my point of view We all have And if all of us will reflect And that is why I convey my best wishes to all the countrymen, to all the Satyagrahis and Swachchagrahis. We should once again dedicate ourselves to the nation on the occasion of the birth anniversaries of venerated Bapu and Lal Bahadur Shastri; we should give priority to cleanliness; and cleanliness is something that can be done by anybody who can not be able to This is a simple thing As Gandhi Ji had said during the freedom movement: 'If you can not do anything else then you just spin the wheel, this is your contribution towards freedom.'\nI feel that every Indian can do such a small thing to make a great India that I will spare 5, 10, 15 minutes, half an hour, I will do something And you will see that there is a natural change in the country and one thing is very clear that in the world we have to look at India. We must do that and in any case we will accomplish that\nThank you very much"