"PM Modi attends Dussehra celebrations in New Delhi\nFestivals\nTradition of Ravan Dahan teaches us values ​​of our life: PM\nLet us resolve that by 2022 We contribute as a citizen our level for the welfare of the country: PM\nPrime Minister Narendra Modi attended Dussehra Celebrations at Madhav Das Park near Red Fort in Delhi, today.\nIn his address, the Prime Minister encouraged everyone to undertake 'Sankalp' of the positive contribution for the nation by 2022, when the nation celebrates its 75th year of Independence\n\"Indian festivals are not only events of festivities but they are also a medium educate the society, festivals keep us aware about the values ​​in the society, they also teach us to live together as a community\", Prime Minister said.\nThe Prime Minister said festivals are a reflection of our collective strength, socio cultural values ​​and rich cultural traditions. They are associated with cultivation, rivers, mountains, nature etc.\nThe Prime Minister also witnessed the burning of effigies of Ravan, Kumbhakarn and Meghnad during the event.\nFollowing is the text of PM's address at Dussehra celebrations at Lal Quila Ground in New Delhi:\nGreetings to you all on the auspicious day of Vijayadashami\nFestivals in a way are the reflection of our social values\nEvery festival carries forward the tradition of showcasing our collective strength, to raise the sensitivity towards our social responsibilities and to keep on working tirelessly toward doing social evils.\nOur festivals are linked with the agriculture and harvesting, rivers and mountains, our history and our rich cultural traditions.\nIt has been thousands of years. But still the epics of Lord Rama, Lord Krishna has been a source of inspiration in our social network. They have a source of awakening for us. After the auspicious period of Navaratri, Today on Vijayadashami, we have the tradition of burning the effigy of Ravana. This is a great part of our great tradition. However, as a responsible citizen, it is our bounden duty to ward off the evil forces and the society should be aware of the importance of this in awareness.\nLet me tell you, the festivals are not only about entertainment We must take a resolve Can a imagine that Lord Rama leaves Ayodhya putting on the clothes stitched there and with his determination and resolve creates a huge collective strength and it is in the form of Sri Lanka in his victory to encompass the society of every cross section of involvement. Men, monkeys, nature all joined him in his drive. It must be his magical power of putting hands together which saw Lord Ramchandra harnessing the collective strength. Even after his victory, he was humble\nOn this Vijayadashami, let us take a pledge that we would have contributed something positive for our nation in the run up to 2022, when we celebrate 75th year of our Independence Our Sankalp should be the Siddhi as a citizen of a proud nation so that we make our own humble and positive contribution towards the nation by 2022. Let us resolve the nation of our freedom fighters of dreams. And so, we should undertake a solution to our society like Lord Rama.\nMany more greetings to you\nOnce again, heartfelt greetings on Vijayadashami\n"