"\nPM Modi launches #Saubhagya, aiming at providing power to all homes\n#Saubhagya Yojana will provide power connections to all estimated 4 crore households\nCoal shortages have become a thing of the past, and capacity addition in power generation has exceeded targets: PM\nPM outlines his vision of an increase in renewable power installed capacity, towards the target of 175 GW by 2022\nUday's scheme has brought down losses of power distribution companies: PM Modi\nNew India requires an energy framework that works on the principle of equity, efficiency and sustainability: PM Modi\nChange in work culture in the central government is strengthening the energy sector: PM Modi\nPetroleum Minister, Mr. Dharmendra Pradhan, Energy Minister, Shri R.K. Singh, Energy Secretary, Shri Ajay K. Bhalla, Petroleum Secretary, Mr. Kapil Dev Tripathi, ONGC, CMD, Mr. D K Sarraf, and other dignitaries present here and all the colleagues of ONGC connected with us the video link,\nToday, there is a convergence of three holy occasions It is the 5th day of Navratri On this day Skandamata, the goddess of the solar system is worshiped. During these auspicious Navratri days, with the blessings of Skandamata a very important scheme.\nThe birth anniversary of the Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay Ji also falls on this day and today the country gets Deendayal Energy Bhawan. I feel excited about this eco-friendly and low-electricity consumption grid building. I have been told that thousands of employees of ONGC are connected to this program through video link. When I saw this building, an idea came to my mind. I felt that I should have been here instead of being Prime Minister but then there are so many other things I congratulate you for building this magnificent building. My best wishes\nToday, spiritualuality, faith and modern technology\nBrothers and Sisters,\nThe Garib Kalyan Varsh The government has decided that for one year it will celebrate the birth centenary year of Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyayji as the Garib Kalyan Varsh. The welfare of the government From Jan Dhan Yojna to Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, from Ujjwala to Mudra, from Start up to Stand up India, from Ujala to Udan will see you, all are well for the welfare of the poor.\nWho had thought that someday there would have been a government that would open bank accounts of 300 million poor people? Who had thought that someday a government came that would provide insurance coverage of one rupee premium per month and another for 90 paisa per day to about 150 million poor people? Who had thought that someday a government will come which will provide more than 3.5 lakh crore rupees loan to 9 crore account holders without bank guarantee?\nWho had never thought that women should get rid of the kitchen? Who had thought that someday a government would come that would be a person on the slippers could fly in airplanes? Who had thought that a government would never have come for the stents for heart surgeries and knee implants and make them affordable to middle class people?\nThe dreams of the poor are the dreams of my government Today, a very big, very important and essential scheme in the series.\nBrothers and sisters, the name of this plan is Pradhan Mantri Sahaj Bijli Har Ghar Yojna i.e. Saubhagya.\nFriends, even after 70 years of independence there are more than 4 crore households in our country which do not have an electricity connection. The total number of families in India is 20 crores, out of which 4 cr is about 20 percent. You can imagine the living condition of the people of these 4 crore families It appears as if they are alive in the 18th century. Imagine how your life will be electricity\nFriends, it has been more than 125 years when great scientist Thomas Alva Edison invented electric bulb. Showcasing his invention Edison said, \"We will make electricity so cheap that only the rich will burn candles.\" It is sad for all of us today, leave alone the bulb, even electricity can not reach four crore households of the country . Candles, lanterns are still being used in those homes Even today, children in crores of those poor families face problems when they study after evening, even if they study they do it in light of those lanterns. When I was young I also used to study like that then our elders used to tell us, please do not study in the light of kerosene oil, your eyes will become ruined and even your breath can stop. So I asked: what should I do? Then they advised me to use the lamp in the lamp. We tried to make our life a little forward. Then it comes to our mind that what happens to those four crore families? Leave alone the things of happiness, and the women are not ready to go. There are no lights in homes, no lights on roads. It is difficult to get out of the house, especially for women. So, they have to stay in the house themselves It is necessary for us and for every kind of electricity connection. When the electricity connection is provided to these homes then only their fortunes will shine.\nUnder the Pradhan Mantri Sahaj Bijli Har Ghar Yojana, Saubhagya, the government is aiming to give electricity connection to every household in the country, be it in a village or city, be it a shanty or a hut in any remote area. We are moving forward with the solution No fee will be charged The government will come to the house To get electricity connection, leave alone poor people even the heads of the villages. This government will go to the homes of poor and provide electricity without charging one rupee.\nIt will cost more than Rs. 16,000 crores to offer electricity to the country We have decided that this burden will not be put on poor people We will definitely provide this facility to the poor people. It is not just a promise, we will implement it as well. Friends, Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay said: The success of economic plans and economic progress will not be measured by the person at the top of the ladder in the society. Which means, the plans of the government should be based on how much the beneficial Today, on the birth anniversary of Pandit Deendayal Ji, I am glad that such a great scheme that will fulfill the dreams of the country Acknowledging the problems of the poor people in the absence of electricity in the house, the government has determined to provide electricity to 18,000 villages where there was no electricity even after so many years of independence. I had the promise from the Red Fort Our of these 18,000 villages, now only less than three thousand villages are left From this graph you can see that our goal will certainly be achieved within the stipulated time.\nBrothers and sisters, I remember that when I took the Prime Minister, I asked him, \"Sir, it would take seven years to complete this work. I heard that and I asked that it could be done sooner? They had it in their minds I announced from the red fort that I will do it in one thousand days. If you take the courage and exhort the officers Today I can see that\nBrothers and sisters, in New India only, not everyone has electricity, but every household in New India will also have a electricity connection. Launching Pradhan Mantri Sahaj Bijli Har Ghar Yojana, Saubhagya is a symbol of the ambition of the government and it amounts to bringing the energy revolution in the country. Without solving the power crisis, improving the mechanisms and without modernizing the old system. Things do not move with old systems, it can not happen with old traditions. One has to make radical changes and move ahead This scheme is also a symbol of the efforts made by the Central Government in the last three years. People of the country can not forget the days when big breaking news were broadcast on TV channel; You are all familiar with the breaking news. At that time such breaking news used to be aired - Power houses have been left with coal stock only for a day or two. The state of the energy crises was such that the whole grids used to fail, one state after another was immersed in the dark. And I am not talking about that many decades ago. Whatever I've been talking about, the last decade itself. All this happened during the previous government\nNow try to recollect, since when you have not heard any such breaking news that power plants did not have coal Friends, now the country is moving towards being power surplus after leaving behind the era of power crisis. And all this has not been achieved by adopting a new approach and new policies. It has been achieved bytaking multidimensional steps. To improve the power situation of the country simultaneously on four different directions - Production, Transmission, Distribution and Connection. If production is not there, transmission-distribution system is not strong then no matter how much the discussion we have given for electricity but it will not be possible to provide electricity to all households So, after the formation of government The work has started to increase for solar energy, hydro energy, thermal and nuclear power.\nFriends, we implemented a new Act for coal mines in 2015, under which, for the first time, a reverse e-auction of coal mines was conducted. During the five year period from 2009 to 2014 coal production increased by only 34 million tons, while in the last 3 years, we have increased by production by 93 million tons to 659 million tons per year. I am happy to inform you that the increase in the production of coal by PSUs during the three years of this government is more than one and a half times the increase in the tenure of the previous government. For those who do not like the coal, the government has also introduced a new coal allocation policy with the name \"Shakti\" for four months ago. Under this scheme, the allocation of coal to electricity generating thermal plants will be done in a transparent manner. In February last year, the government has also issued a transparent auction policy for the re-allocation of coal linkages.\nFriends, coal auctions in which there was a big scam worth millions of rupees, this government has given the nation a transparent and modern system of auction for the same coal. This indicates both the policies and intention of this government. This government is working on 6 basic principles of providing easy, affordable, clean, well planned, safe and secure power in the field of electricity.\nDue to the efforts of this government for the first time in three years the installed power capacity has increased by 60 thousand MW, which is 12% more than the target.\nWhile ensuring the energy security of India, we have also resolved that this work will be done by giving priority to clean energy. That's why the government has set a target of producing 175 gigawatts of clean energy by 2022 which means solar, wind and hydro electricity.\nWorking toward this goal has been renewed in the last three years and there has been an increase of more than 27 thousand Megawatts in the capacity. The capacity of solar energy has been increased in almost five times in the same period.\nBy promoting the competitiveness in the Renewable Energy sector, the government has also ensured that the common citizens of the country Reduction in the cost of renewable energy In 2016-17, because of this thing we got solar energy at a minimum tariff of only 2 rupees 44 paise and wind energy at only 3 rupees 42 paise. I remember when I was in Gujarat and I went to Solar Energy, at that time, Indian government too ready to give 19 rupees. Then I made a policy of 13 rupees there. And Gujarat was the first state in India which created the policy for Solar Energy. At that time our people were a scared lot Government of India is giving 19 rupees per unit and if you are going to give only 13 rupees for a unit then who will come forward to supply to us. I said that I will not give more than this, I will stay at this only and I believe that day is not far away when the thermal and solar power will become equal, this is the speech which I gave at that time. I did not wait and it was a joy to see that people did not go for the 19 rupee plan but they came forward for 13 rupee plan because I had the eco system, and at that time the biggest solar park in India was there. Today the country has purchased the solar energy to two and a half rupees per unit.\nFriends, the government has increased the investment in the field of power transmission, due to which transmission network in the country has expanded very rapidly. Over the last three years, the work worth over 1.50 lakh crore. This is 83 percent more than the previous government. You can see the work done. The transmission lines set during this government is 12 percent more than the target. Due to this, now the country not only has a safe and balanced grid available today, but we are moving forward toward one nation, One Grid, One Price with great pace.\nFor many years, due to the obligation of the country's power sector, power sector has become a major weakness in the power sector. Because of this the electricity that was produced in the country Power distribution companies were also facing economic losses on every additional unit.\nTo break this weak link, in order to strengthen the Power Distribution System, the government started the Discom Assurance Plan i.e. Uday, in 2015. The purpose of the Uday Yojana was established in the better Operational and Financial Management When companies have stability, when they are commercially strong only\nToday, due to the continuous efforts of three years, we can see a improvement in the power distribution companies. The result of this is that by August 2017 the distribution companies have saved an amount of about 23,500 crore, which had previously been paid as interest. You can see what kind of situation has created In comparison with 2016, annual losses of distribution companies have decreased by 42% in 2017 within one year of launch of UDAY. You can also see UDAY scheme as a spectacular example of competitive-cooperative federalism. Friends, this government is also working on two big plans to strengthen the power distribution system in the villages and the cities.\nDeendayal Upadhayaya Gram Jyoti Yojana is underway in the villages and Integrated Power Development Scheme (IPDS) in the cities. Projects worth over Rs. 69 thousand crores related to these two schemes have been approved. Work on these schemes is going on The Central Government has also given the government government's funds for about 22 thousand crore rupees in the last three years. This amount is more than twice the amount Brothers and sisters, the decisions taken by the government, the Power Distribution Sector across the country has had a direct impact on the ease of doing business. In the power sector, in terms of easy of doing business, India was on 99th place in 2015. Whereas now its ranking has improved to 26. Imagine such a big jump 99th rank to 26th rank, it is great pride of matter for people engaged in reforming the sector The work done by India in the power sector has been pointed out by another international agency. Last year US Space Agency NASA took a picture of India from space during night. In this picture, India was shining. You can see it in this picture. One such image was taken in the year 2012, which looks dark Friends, along with strengthening the power sector, this government also emphasizes that the power demand reduction of the modern methods adopted for adoption. In addition, electricity bills of people\nBecause of the government's effort, the LED bulb, and please keep this figure in the mind, the LED bulb, when I assumed office in May 2014, the price of the LED bulb was Rs 310 in February 2014 and today in September 2017, its Price is 40. Under the Ujala scheme, more than 26 crore LED bulbs have been distributed in the country so far. This has resulted in people getting an estimated savings of more than Rs. 13,700 crore annually in the electricity bills Rs. 13,700 crore! You could guess how many megawatts of power was saved and the amount to generate Which means it's an example of how the country's economy can run. The private sector has also distributed more than 41 million LED bulbs. In addition to 13 lakh energy saving fans and more than 33 lakh energy saving tub lights have also been distributed by the government. Under the world's biggest program, more than 33.60 lakh LED street lights have also been installed as of now.\nFriends, transparency and accountability are the top priorities of this government. Common citizens of the country, its poor people, every consumer of the country is paramount for us. The government is very serious about taking suggestions from them. The progress of the schemes is being made available to people through mobile app, web portal, dashboard and suggestions from people.\nGiven the expansion of our economy, it is also natural that our energy demand is going to increase in the coming years. In such situation, we will have to move forward Hydrocarbons also have a very important role. Current energy requirements In the coming days, we have been able to use gas as well as renewable energy. Reducing Carbon-related emissions are part of our cultural heritage, it is a part of our tradition. We have been involved in this movement with publicly making commitments in the COP-21\nWe need a energy framework in New India that runs on the principle of equity, efficiency and sustainability. It depends on how much the domestic supply and how much we can reduce our reliance on imports.If by 2022 we can cut oil by 10 percent by import, then it will not only help industries but it also helps to strengthen the economy. of the country In the past ten years, we have spent almost a trillion dollars on crude imports. This is almost three times more than our general budget. You can predict the amount which can be saved by reducing oil imports and when it will be spent on development schemes for our middle class families in rural areas, then how much more social and economic development it brings.\nFriends, while reforming the oil and gas sector also has many major consumer centric initiatives in the last three years. Like Prime Minister's scheme, connecting LPG subsidy to direct benefit transfer scheme, expanding Piped Natural Gas Supply and City Gas Distribution Network, increasing LPG coverage etc.\nApart from this, many major decisions have been taken. Such as deregulating the price of liquid fuels, making new policies for gas pricing, finding new solutions to increase domestic production, creating HELP i.e. Hydrocarbon Exploration and Licensing Policy, constituting a policy for auctioning of DSF i.e. Discovered Small Field and gas pooling in the fertilizer sector\nBrothers and sisters Keeping this in mind is a comprehensive program like blending of ethanol in petrol, plans related to biodiesel, and development of LNG terminals have started. To safeguard the country's energy needs in the future, relations with major oil producing countries are being strengthened In this regard an India-Russia Energy Bridge has been formed. There are many such agreements from the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas which will keep our future interests in mind.\nWith the change in the work-culture of the government, the whole energy sector is getting stronger and the energy sector is also getting a new work-culture. When people live in the remote areas of the country will get access to electricity and gas in their lives then their way of working and living will also change. I hope that the \"Saubhagya\" scheme, just like \"Ujjwala\" scheme, will help bring a new era of safety and health. This will also end in one of the biggest imbalances of our society. In order to bring about changes in the lives of the poor people, you want to remove the dark from their lives, and for a new India, I extend my greetings to the country once again.\nJust a while ago, in his speech Dharmendra Ji said that ONGC has planned 100 crores for start up Today I want to take a challenging task and I believe that you will do it. You see the electric cars, the world has moved towards them, because it is a matter related to energy I can understand the troubles that electric cars will reduce and their benefits also. But there is a field that can bring a huge revolution And I would like the ONGC to take on this initiative and call upon them for innovation. And ONGC will organize a competition on innovation. And the task would be to make an electric stove on which all kinds of cooking can be done. Whether you have made to make Pakodas, or Chapatis or even sweets, every kind of cooking can be done on that stove. If such user friendly equipment is invented then that day will not be far away when people use solar energy to cook in their homes and there was no need of gas cylinders, LPG or Ujjwala. And after building the electric car, whatever will be the burden or savings, in comparison it will be much cheaper to inculcate\nI believe that the young startups of our country should be organized I think Rs. 100 crore is enough for this work Through this one task alone you can achieve the 10% reduction in consumption in one year Today, the kind of research that is being done on the electric cars, I believe that if this kind of research is done on electric equipments for cooking then maybe it will be more impactful for a country like India and hence, today I am giving a challenge, on September 25, 2017, at 7:30 in the evening, you can write it down, it is eight o'clock now, so i hope you will come in a plan in one month and just show it this thing by doing it And especially these thousands of ONGC soldiers who are listening to me, I would request them to think and innovate on their attention. I urge them to think about how to create a new revolution.\nFriends, thank you very much I am sure all of you are doing good work in this fine building. Many-many congratulations\nToday, in a way, here, spirituality, faith and modern technology are all three-dimensional from the field energy, illuminating: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) September 25, 2017\nA government dedicated to Garib Kalyan. https://t.co/JzO0WOWtJ8 pic.twitter.com/zbABzEifyY\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) September 25, 2017\nIn the work of the government, all you can see is Garib Kalyan. #Saubhagya pic.twitter.com/PMl2Vf7HTM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) September 25, 2017\nThe Aspirations of the Government #Saubhagya pic.twitter.com/9Mdt5rVe22\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) September 25, 2017\nWe care about those families who do not have access to electricity #Saubhagya pic.twitter.com/kKgwBQbucB"