"#MannKiBaat has provided a unique opportunity to connect with the whole country: PM\n#MannKiBaat is about the aspirations of people of this country, says PM Modi\nIn a short span of three years, #MannKiBaat has become a effective means in understanding of citizens: PM\nEvery citizen wants to be the best of the country and the progress of the country: PM during #MannKiBaat\nKhadi has become a means to empower the poor and it must be encouraged further, says Prime Minister Modi #MannKiBaat\nKhadi is not only a 'Vastra' but a 'Vichaar': PM Narendra Modi during #MannKiBaat\n#MannKiBaat: PM Modi says, \"Swathatata has gained widespread support from people\"\nRole of Media in furthering the cause; They have brought about a positive change: PM during #MannKiBaat\nSardar Patel united the country territorially We must undertake efforts in the future: PM #MannKiBaat\n#MannKiBaat: PM Modi says, \"Unity in diversity is India's specialty\"\nMy dear countrymen, Namaskar to all of you! It is a full three years since I started speaking to \"Mann Ki Baat\". This is the 36th episode today. \"Mann Ki Baat\" has given me a unique opportunity to get connected with different feelings and positive energy of the country; Emotions of our people, which include their desires, expectations and even times, even grievances, which come to their minds. And I have never said that Mann Ki Baat reflects our countrymen's minds, their expressions, their expectations. And when I say things in Man Ki Baat, people from across the country send their ideas, experiences and feelings to me I am probably not able to reach you but still get a treasure-full of ideas over, over telephone, over mygov. or over Narendra Modi App I get a crowd of such ideas and suggestions Most of them are inspiring\nA large number of these ideas are related to our government. There are personal grievances and complaints. I just take half an hour but people keep sending suggestions, ideas and other material over Mann Ki Baat during the month of 30 days. And, the result of this whole exercise is that the government has started realizing the sensitivities and powerful ideas of the people. And, this is why the three-year journey of Man Ki Baat is in fact a journey of our countrymen, their feelings and their feelings. I am thankful to our countrymen for having provided me a chance to understand the common man. In Man Ki Baat, I have always remembered one sentence of Acharya Vinoba Bhave. He always used to say 'A-government, Asarkari', meaning non government is effective. I have also tried to focus on the people in Mann Ki Baat, have been kept away from political hues and try to stay connected with you as a constant mind with the moment of heat or anguish by the diverted.\nI will believe and feel that now after three years, social scientists, universities, research scholars, media experts will undertake its analysis and highlight its every aspect, positive as well as negative. And I am sure that this brainstorming could be useful for Man's Ki Baat in future and will infuse it into a new energy in it. And, in one episode of Man Ki Baat, I had said that while having our food, we must also be conscious of consuming only as much as we need and see to it that there was no wastage. But, later, I received letters from Many social organizations and many youths are already observing this in practice. I came to know about a lot many people who were involved in ensuring that the food was best utilized. I derived much satisfaction and joy to learn this.\nOnce, in Mann Ki Baat, I had mentioned about a retired teacher from Maharashtrian Shrian Chandrakant Kulkarni who donated 51 post - dated checks of Rs. 5,000 / - for each cleanliness drive out of total monthly pension of Rs. 16,000 / - And then I saw that many people came forward to donate for this cause.\nOnce, I saw a selfie of a sarpanch with a daughter and referred to the same in Man Ki Baat. In no time, \"Selfie with Daughter\" became a big campaign not only in India but across the whole world This is not a issue of social media It became an event to create a new self-confidence and a feeling of self pride in every daughter. Every parent started feeling that they should take a selfie with their daughter. Every girl started regaining her self confidence \u0026 self esteem.\nI was in a meeting with the tourism department recently. I asked people who were planning to go travelling that-where they have visited 'Incredible India', they should send photographs of those places. Lakhs of photographs from every corner of India were found who actually became a treasure for those working in the tourism sector. I've experienced through 'Man Ki Ki Baat' that too a tiny incident can launch a massive campaign. Today I feel like sharing it, since I thought it has been three years, and events and incidents over those three years ran my mind. The nation is always ready Every citizen of the country wants to do something for the benefit of others, for the country's progress. This is what I gathered, learnt and understanding from our countrymen during three years of the Man Ki Baat campaign. Any country I heartily bow to my countrymen\nIn one episode of Mann Ki Baat I had discussed about Khadi and Khadi is not a fabric but an idea, a principle I have noticed that these days interest in Khadi has increased very much and I had just said that I was not asking people to makeover in Khadi permanently; Instead, since there are a number of fabrics then why not Khadi also be one of the fabrics of your choice? May be a bed-sheet in the house, a handkerchief or a curtain, it has felt that the young generation has got interested in Khadi. Sale of Khadi has increased and as a result of this, the poor man's family has successfully got connected to employment. Discount is offered on Khadi from 2nd October and people get quite a good rebate I once again urge that we should try and take forward the Khadi movement. We should follow the spirit of helping the poor The poor of our country The increasing interest in Khadi has been a new thinking in those working in the Khadi sector as well as those connected, any way, with Khadi. How do we bring in new technology, how do we increase productivity, how do we introduce looms driven by solar power? How do we rejuvenate our traditional heritage which was lying inactive for 20, 25 or 30 years?\nSewapuri Khadi Ashram at Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh was lying closed for 26 years but had got a fresh lease of life now. A number of ideas were implemented. New employment opportunities were created Khadi Gramodyog revives its training center at Pampore in Kashmir and in this sector Kashmir has so much to offer. With the reopening of the training center, the new generation will get a boost in jobs in manufacturing, in weaving, in making new things and it feels like that too big corporate Houses started with Khadi items as Diwali gifts. Even people have started chatting as items We now experience how something grows naturally\nMy dear countrymen, we had taken a decision in last month's Mann Ki Baat and had decided to observe a 15-day Cleanliness Festival before Gandhi Jayanti. We will connect people through cleanliness Our Honourable President inaugurated this program. The old or the young, men or women, city or village has a cleanliness campaign now. And when I say \"Sankalp Se Siddhi\", we can see how a cleanliness camping is progressing towards Sankalp Siddhi, that is Attainment through Reslove. Everyone accepts this, co-operates in realizing this. I am grateful to our Honourable President. But, every section of society has taken this as its own campaign. Whether it is people from the sports world, academicians, schools, colleges, universities, farmers, workers, officers, government employees, police, or army jawans. A kind of a pressure has created in public places and now people resist if someone tries to spoil or make a public place dirty in any way and even those spoiling public places also feel this pressure. It is a good thing and I am happy to know that just in the first four days of \"Swachhata Hi Sewa Abhiyan\" more than 75 lakh people joined these activities with more than 40 thousand initiatives ..\nI have seen that some people are continuously working I noticed something else this time - one is that we clean up a place, and the second is that we become aware and do not spread filth; but if we have to inculcate the cleanliness as a habit, we should start an idea- based movement also. This time a number of competitions were organized on the theme \"Cleanliness is Service\". More than two and a half million children took part in an Essay competition on cleanliness. Thousands of children made paintings They drew pictures based on their own imaginations. Many people wrote poems and these days I post drawings made by our media Whenever there is a reference to cleanliness, I do not forget to express my gratitude. They have taken this campaign into a religious way They have made a big contribution in creating a positive environment.\nWe can see in \"Swachhata Hi Sewa\" movement as to the electronic media and the print media in our country can render a big service to the country. Just a few days ago Someone drew my attention towards Bilal Dar, a young man of 18 years from Srinagar. And you will be glad to know that Srinagar Municipal Corporation has made their brand ambassador and when there is a talk of brand ambassador, there is a general feeling that he / she must be a Cine artist or a sports-personality. But not in this case Bilal Dar got connected to 'Swachhata Abhiyan' or 'Safari Campaign' since the age of 12-13 years and has been working for the last 5 to 6 years. He clears plastic, polythene, used bottles, dry or wet waste - Srinagar, near the destination of Aisa's biggest lake. He also earns from this activity. His father had died of cancer at a very young age but he connected his livelihood with cleanliness. I congratulate Srinagar Municipal Corporation for taking this initiative for sanitation and for their imagination to be an ambassador for this cause of cleanliness; Srinagar is a tourist destination and every Indian wants to go there; and if such attention is given to cleanliness And I am glad that they have not only appointed Bilal as their ambassador but also given him a vehicle, and also a uniform and the people who are about to take care of them. Bilal is very young, but it is a source of inspiration.\nI congratulate Bilal Dar.\nMy dear countrymen, we have to take the fact that history begets history and when there is a reference to history, it is natural to recall our great men The month of October From Mahatma Gandhi to Sardar Patel, there are many great leaders who gave us the direction of the 20th and 21st centuries, guided us and faced so many hardships for the country. 2nd October is the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi and Lal Bahadur Shastri, 11th October is the birth anniversary of Jay Prakash Narain and Nanaji Deshmukh and Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyay's birth anniversary 25th September. This is the centennial year of Nanaji and Deen Dayal ji. And, what was the main focus of all these great men? One thing was common and that was done for the country; they led the people Gandhiji, Jai Prakashji, Deen Dayalji were such great personality who remained far away from the corridors of power but lived for all the moment for the people, \"All Jan Hitay - Sarv Jan Sukhay\", following the principle of all the odds of fighting, they tirelessly endeavouring. Nanaji Deshmukh left politics and joined the Gramodaya Movement and while celebrating his Centenary year, it is but natural to his contribution towards Gramodaya.\nIndia's former President Shriman Abdul Kalam He used to mention Nanaji's contribution with great respect and he also went to a village\nLike Gandhiji, Deen Dayal Upadhyayji also talked about the last person at the farthest fringes. Deen Dayalji talked about the poorest of the poor, the deprived, distressed ones and spoke of how, through education, employment or otherwise his life could be transformed. We are not obliging these great men, but we remember them so that we may be able to foresee our future in the future and the direction we choose.\nIn the next Mann Ki Baat, I will surely mention Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel but on 31st October, Run for Unity - Ek Bharat Shreshth Bharat - will be organized throughout the country. There should be a number of Run for Unity programs in every city, every town and the weather is also such that one will enjoy running - It is necessary for developing a power of steel, like that of Sardar Saheb Sardar Saheb unified the country We also have to run for unity in order to promote the unity.\nThe element of unity in diversity being India's specialty comes naturally to us. We feel proud of diversity but have you ever tried it? I would like to re-iterate to my countrymen, and specially to my young friends that we are alive \u0026 aware beings. We should feel India's diversity, touch it, feel its fragrance. You may see your own, that for your inner development also, these diversities of our country work as a big teaching tool. There are vacations, Diwali is drawing near, all around in our country, there is an attraction to some place or the other; people go as tourists and it is very natural But, it is a matter of concern when we do not see our own country, we do not know about its diversities nor do we understand them Impressed by just superficial glitter we have started touring foreign countries only. You travel around the world, I have no issues but have a look at your own country too. People of North India may not be knowledgeable People of West India may not be knowing! Our country is full of such myriad diversities\nIf you refer to Mahatma Gandhi, Lokmanya Tilak, Swami Vivekanand, our former President Abdul Kalamji then you will notice that when they toured around India, they have got to see and understand India and they have got inspired to do and die for the country All these great men travelled widely in India At the beginning of their endeavor, they tried to know and understand India; tried to live Can we make a effort as a student to learn, understand and try to live as per the traditions, culture, attire, eating habits and beliefs of different states, different societies, different groups of our country?\nThere will be a value addition in tourism only when we travel not only as a visitor but also as a student and make efforts to assimilate, understand \u0026 adapt. This is my personal experience, I had a chance of visiting more than five hundred districts of India. In more than four hundred \u0026 fifty districts, I had a night stay too. And now, when I am shouldering this responsibility in India, that travel is coming in very handy and proving to be very useful. That helps me a lot in understanding things I request you too, to feel the \"Unity in Diversity\" which is not a mere slogan but is a storehouse of enormous energy The dream of \"Ek Bharat - Shreshtha Bharat\" is inherent in this. How many varieties of cuisines are there! If we eat a new dish every day, we will not have to repeat any variety throughout our life. This is the power of our tourism I would request that the vacations do not go out just for a change but leave with the intention to know, understand - \u0026 gain something Internalize India inside you Internalize the diversities of millions of denominations of India within you. These experiences will enrich your life. Your vision will expand. And, who can be a better teacher than experience!\nGenerally, October to March is the right time for tourism. People travel I am sure that even if you go, you will lend more fillip to my campaign. Wherever you go, share your experiences, share photographs You must send photographs on # incredibleindia. If you happen to meet people there, send their photos too Write not only about architecture or natural beauty Write good travelogues Send on Mygov. And on Narendra Modi App A thought has come to my mind, that in order to promote tourism in India, what is the best tourist destinations in your state - every Indian must know about these seven tourist spots of his state If possible, one must visit these seven places Can you provide some information about that? Can you post on Narendra Modi App? Can you post on #incredibleindia? You see, if all people of one state will do this, then I will ask the government to do a scrutiny of it and prepare the publicity material on seven common items received from each state. In other words, how can tourist destination be developed, keeping public aspirations in mind? Similarly, whatever you have seen throughout the whole of India and whichever you like the best and you wish that this person should see these things, or go there, they have information about them, then you have to send such information to seven such tourist spots on Mygov Or on Narendra Modi App The Government of India will work on that. The government will accept suggestions about making movies, videos or preparing publicity material and about promoting that destination. Come, get connected with me You can also act as a major catalyst in promoting the tourism of our country by using the time from the October to March. I invite you.\nMy dear countrymen, being a human being, there are many things that touch me too. They agitate my heart They leave a deep impression on my heart. After all You may have noticed a recent incident, a unique example of grit, determination and patriotism that was witnessed by all countrymen. The Indian Army has got two extraordinary brave women officers; They are Lieutenant Swati and Nidhi. Their husbands laid their lives in the service of mother India. One can imagine a person's agonizing mental state if her world gets broken at such a early age! But Swati Mahadik, the wife of martyr colonel Santosh Mahadik - resolved to face the difficult situations and she joined the Indian Army. She received training for 11 months putting in great efforts and she kept her husband alive. Similarly, Nidhi Dubey's husband Mukesh Dubey was a Naik in the army and attained martyrdom while fighting for his country. His wife Nidhi also took a resolve and joined the army. It is very natural for every countryman to have a deep sense of respect for these two bravehearts, our Matri Shakti. I convey my heartiest congratulations to them They have evoked a new inspiration and a new awakening among millions of our countrymen. Many congratulation to these two sisters\nMy dear countrymen, there is a big opportunity for our young generation between Navratra festivities and Diwali. FIFA under-17 World Cup I'm sure the football team It will be more interested in Football in every generation. There should not be a school-college ground in India where we will not see our youngsters at play. Come on, the whole world is coming to play on Indian soil, let us make a part of our lives.\nMy dear countrymen, Navratras are going on. It is a time for praying to Ma Durga. The whole environment is filled with sacred fragrance. All around there is an atmosphere of spirituality, an air of festivities, an atmosphere of worship, of reverence. This is revered as a festival of Shakti Sadhana. This is also known as Sharadiya Navratri, the beginning of autumn. On this pious occasion of Navratri, I convey my best wishes to our countrymen and pray to Ma Shakti to let our country attain newer heights so that the desires and expectations of all our countrymen will be fulfilled. May our nation be able to face any challenge\nMay the nation move forward and May the year two thousand twenty two- 75 years of India's Independence be an effort to realize the dreams of our freedom fighters, the resolution of 125 crore countrymen, with their tremendous hard work, courage and determination to meet our resolve and prepare a roadmap for five years We have moved on; may ma shakti shower her blessings on us My good wishes Celebrate festivities, enjoy with enthusiasm\nMany Many thanks\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) September 24, 2017\n#MannKiBaat - an effective way to showcase the strengths of India pic.twitter.com/sNXHxsNhHK\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) September 24, 2017\nPeople are the center of #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/kFRjU8fTXY\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) September 24, 2017\nPM @narendramodi talks about 3 years of #MannKiBaat and how it has integrated every section of society pic.twitter.com/KCXSmvVMRk\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) September 24, 2017\nI get so much feedback for #MannKiBaat Naturally, I am not able to refer to all of them but the inputs given help us in the government: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) September 24, 2017\nThis Gandhi Jayanti, let's buy a Khadi product and the light of the prosperity in the lives of the poor. #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/a8JIKezLjO\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) September 24, 2017\nLet us support #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/lN3sV40Im5\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) September 24, 2017\nI am happy to see the support towards #SwachhataHiSeva movement. People are actively contributing to a Swachh Bharat: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) September 24, 2017\nPM talks about widespread support for #SwachhataHiSeva movement and thank you for the support in furthering message of cleanliness. pic.twitter.com/Puw592i2If\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) September 24, 2017\nRemembering the great men and women #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/sCCNAzDntP\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) September 24, 2017\nNanaji Deshmukh devoted his life towards the betterment of our villages: PM @narendramodi during #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) September 24, 2017\nSardar Patel unified the nation Let us always preserve this unity #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/MzTjPUj7Gu\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) September 24, 2017\nPM @narendramodi urges people, specially youngsters to discover the wonders of #IncredibleIndia in the months to come. #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/V3gedpGWt1"