"\nMy dear brothers and sisters who are present here in large numbers,\nSuch a massive crowd so early in the morning! I could not imagine this thing, one can see people everywhere! First of all, I would like to say sorry for you as the arrangements made by us are not enough and many people are standing under the sun I express my gratitude to them and I too seek forgiveness But I'd like to assure those people who are standing under the sun.\nBrothers and sisters, I'd like to convey my best wishes to the government of Uttar Pradesh, as well as the Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh as he has organized a health fair for livestock. This health fair for livestock, when I visited the fair then some 1700 cattle from different places were there and they were taking care of the health of livestock. And I'm confident that as Uttar Pradesh government has made this effort, they will organize these livestock health fairs across the state and our poor farmers who never allow the health of his livestock due to poverty, these livestock health meals will provide a big relief to him\nAnd we know that in the field of agriculture, if something that helps our farmers is then it is animal husbandry, it is production of milk. And that is why milk production, animal husbandry and our cattle health fairs will provide great facility, great service to our villages, to our poor farmers and our cattle raisers in the coming days. And I heartily congratulate\nBrothers and sisters, this is the nature of politics that politicians prefer those votes. They work to strengthen their vote bank But, brothers and sisters, we have been raised in a different value system, our character is different. For us the country is more important than the party and hence our priorities are not governed by the votes.\nToday, this cattle health fair, this is the service to those animals that never go to cast votes. These are not voters of anybody And this kind of movement for livestock is the last seventy years. These health services will provide a new facility in the area of ​​livestock keeping; it will provide a new system\nToday, our country is doing well in the field of milk production. However, our per-capita milk production is very low in comparison with the global average. And due to this thing If we succeed in growing per capita milk production then I'm confident that our farmers will take interest in animal husbandry, and milk production will lead to a new economic revolution.\nBrothers and sisters, I was born in Gujarat, and Gujarat was my area of ​​work and I have seen that the cooperative way of milk production has given a new power to the farmers of Gujarat. I've been informed that a Gujarat based dairy - Banas dairy has started procuring milk from farmers in Lucknow-Kanpur area. And today, the farmers are getting too many times better price for their milk. I've been told that Banas is going to start the purchase of milk from the farmers.\nAnd I'm confident that when this procurement of milk will start through a dairy, when it will start on the milk of the farmers of Kashi region will go up many folds and it also results in the increase in their incomes And that is why I congratulate the government of Uttar Pradesh, congratulate the farmers of Uttar Pradesh for the movement with the help of Gujarat government, with the help of Banas dairy for the farmers, for livestock keepers and for milk producers so that We can work in the field of milk production, in the field of animal husbandry.\nBrothers and sisters, India will complete 75 years of independence in 2022. And when India is completing 75 years of independence in 2022 then we should collectively determine the dreams of India's freedom fighters. We must strive to realize those dreams, we should put our dreams in any case. If 1.25 billon citizens of India vow for at least one thing then the country will continue by 1.25 billion steps in five years. So brothers and sisters: 2022 - The pledge of our freedom struggle\nIt's our pledge to double our farmers' income by 2022. And livestock keeping is one way, modernizing our agriculture is one way in that direction. The soil should be investigated through soil health cards, we have been able to strengthen these things.\nThe way the work of issuing the soil health cards to the farmers has taken up the pace after the formation of new government in Uttar Pradesh it is going to help in the welfare of our farmers in the coming days.\nSimilarly, no one from us likes to dirtiness. There would be no dirtyness. Everyone hates the filth. But this cleanliness, this is our responsibility, this culture has not developed in our country\nWe will pollute it and someone else will clean it, this mentality is our ability to make our cities and villages clean as we want them. No one of you can deny that this cleanliness is the responsibility of every citizen, this cleanliness is the responsibility of every family and that is why this cleanliness, this is enough that just what our village looks clean, our locality looks clean, this is not enough Cleanliness is very important for our health Lack of cleanliness\nUNICEF has just completed the survey of 10,000 families in India. The survey was made on toilet and said I have read this article in a news paper that UNICEF has said: If there is a toilet in the house then it saves the expenditure of around Rs. 50,000 per annum incurred due to diseases Today, I got the good opportunity to work in the small village nearby. And the people of that village have determined that they will open their village open defecation free by the 2nd October. The villagers have taken a serious vow that not a single person will be defecated in open from the 2nd October onward. And I am happy that I got the good time to be a witness for this auspicious period of Navratra; it's a kind of worship for me For me, cleanliness is equal to worship, cleanliness Cleanliness will let the poor people of my country of that burden And that is why this is my mission for the welfare of the poor people and I congratulate those people.\nToday, I am happy as we used to write letters to the previous government in Uttar Pradesh, we used to tell them to be a list of those people who do not have a house, we used to ask them to give Such a list to us as the government of India wanted to work out a scheme but I have said this thing with sadness that the government has no interest in building. When we applied too much pressure on them then they were reluctantly given us a list of just 10,000 people. But when Yogi Ji's government came in to power then it started immediately on the name of millions of people in the list. It's not just that, today, I was fortunate enough to hand over those funds.\nBrothers and sisters, be it cleanliness or be it providing electricity to the villages or be it building toilets in schools or be it making the villages open defecation free or be it suppling electricity to every household country has been unfounded towards all things\nIf the lives of our villages, our poor farmers change, if the lives of our middle class families change then the country will become what we want to make and this thing is the relief that our middle class families, that relief is being provided to poor families And that is why we have transformed all those schemes; we have strengthened all such schemes\nBrothers and sisters, yesterday I got the opportunity to dedicate several cleanliness related projects in Banaras. A sewage treatment plant has been constructed at a cost of Rs. 600 crores, and we have kept the capacity of the plant as such that the next 20 years in Banaras in the expansion and growth of the plant, we have decided for this kind of massive work.\nWe have emphasized on the recycling of waste materials - from waste to wealth. And we have decided to produce electricity from this waste material along with emphasizing on converting this waste material in wealth and we will supply the waste from the products produced to 40,000 thousand houses. We have launched a movement to provide LED bulbs. The kind of electricity bulbs that have been installed in Kashi alone, every family will be saved on account of saving in the electricity bill due to use of LED bulbs and when I calculate this thing then officers told me that the LED bulbs installed in Kashi alone Will collectively reduce the electricity bill by Rs. 125 crore You could imagine that somebody will save Rs. 500, someone will save Rs. 1,000 and someone else will save Rs. 250 and the whole city will save Rs. 125 crore, this is itself a good effort by the burden of poor and middle class.\nIt's not that, the streetlights that have been installed in Kashi, they have also have LED bulbs and due to use of LED bulbs in street lights in Kashi alone, the electricity bill has come down by Rs. 13 crore Municipal council of Kashi has saved Rs. 13 crore And this 13 crore rupees will be used in the development of Kashi It's very easy, just replace the old bulbs with LED bulbs and it saves Rs. 125 crore of citizens and Rs. 13 million of municipal councils, this is itself a proof that we are about transparency.\nBrothers and sisters, be it black money or corruption or be dishonesty; I've waged a big battle against all these things This country's common man, honest people have been robbed of the honest person And brothers and sisters, that is why today this movement is emerging as a festival. The way small traders, petty traders have been joining GST, the way people are getting associated with Aadhaar, and the money that used to be siphoned off, all that money, every single penny of the public money will be spent in public welfare, we have started working on these things We have been moving very fast. And that is why my dear brothers and sisters, development of villages of this place, development of poor people and farmers and development of our cities. Development; we have been moving forward this formula alone I express my heartfelt gratitude to all of you who have turned up here\nThis is the parliamentary constituency of our Mahendra Pandey Ji, and I express my heartfelt gratitude for the energy, enthusiasm and the zeal that you have shown. Once again I congratulate the Yogi government for the successful initiatives and I also congratulate and thank him the way he has successfully taken the steps to change the Uttar Pradesh within six months and moving forward in that direction successfully\nPlease join me in chanting - Bharat Mata Ki Jai (Hail Mother India).\nPlease say with your full strength - Bharat Mata Ki Jai (Hail Mother India).\nBharat Mata Ki Jai (Hail Mother India).\nBharat Mata Ki Jai (Hail Mother India).\nBharat Mata Ki Jai (Hail Mother India).\nThank you very much"