"PM Modi inaugurates Deendayal Hankkal - A business facilitation center for handicrafts in Varanasi\nPM Modi flags off Varanasi-Vadodra Mahamana Express, lays foundation stone for many development projects\nTrade facilitation center will result in increased demand of handicrafts, and also boost the tourism potential of Varanasi: PM\nSolution to all issues is through development: PM\nIndia is progressing rapidly, and firm decisions are the interest of the nation: PM Modi\n\nPresent here on the day, the governor of Uttar Pradesh Mr. Ram Naik Ji, the popular chief minister of Uttar Pradesh Mr. Yogi Adityanath Ji, my colleague in the union council of ministers cabinet Shrimati Smrti Irani Ji, my colleague in Union Council of ministers Shri Ajay Tamta Ji, Deputy Chief Minister of the State Mr Keshav Prasad Maurya Ji, this area from the Member who Work well with me in the Union Council of Minister for many years and now looking after the responsibility of Uttar Pradesh Bhartiya Janta Party Dr. Mr. Mahendra Nath Pandey Ji, Chairman of Railway Board Mr. Ashwani Ji, Managing Director of Utkarsh Bank Mr. Govind Singh Ji who has taken over the noble task of financial inclusion in a very wise way, the poor people of the welfare for a very wise way , making them self-dependent and my dear brothers and sisters of Banaras who are present here in large numbers,\nToday, public dedication and foundation laying projects worth more than thousand crore rupees are going to take place in just one platform. I am extremely grateful to the Government of Uttar Pradesh as it has played a very important role in the development of Banaras region, in realizing our dream of development of Eastern India. And so the government A Rs. 300 crore project of the textile ministry, which has been dedicated to the public today, I do not think that there is a huge project on the land of Banaras has been executed last several decades. And we ourselves inaugurate those projects Otherwise, foundations for projects are being denied due to the political expediencies then those projects get stuck, they have never done completed Here, two bridges have been dedicated to public who have been stuck for so long, but after assuming power, Yogi Ji took it on himself and today it has been realized and it opens the doors of the other side, it increases the convenience\nToday, I think it's a golden opportunity for weavers and artisan brothers and sisters. You already have these skills received from your ancestors but who knows about the wonders performed in a forest If this situation continues then my weaver and artisan brothers from the Kashi area can not get the opportunity to introduce their power to the world. This is such an initiative; if our small time weaver brothers, artisan brothers, their economic activities get stuck if they do not get a global market for their products, their skills, their crafts using them. When I was talking to these weaver brothers then I was told that now their children do not want to join the same trade; their family members want to leave this work; They want to get out of the job And at that time I realised that if such a powerful economic activity will be given by these families then the history will never forgive us. Because you are a great tradition And as the time passes by the world is getting attracted towards these specialties of India. And that is why this building is constructed at a cost of Rs. 300 crore is not just a building\nIt is something that gives the introduction of strength of India, it encompasses such a story of strength of our weavers and artisans of Kashi area, which has the power to open new doors for the future. I would like to appeal to local auto rickshaw drivers, to local taxi drivers that if you are going to tour here You are going to bring them here and familiarize them. And if a tourist is here then he will definitely buy something And if a foreign tourism is here The museum that has been built it will promote the tourism in Kashi. Those people who come to visit Kashi due to their faith, when they will come the knowledge of Kashi then I am confident that it is also in the field of Kashi tourism promotion. And these arts and crafts of Kashi will also be strengthened and it will become a new center for economic activity.\nToday, I convey my request to all my weaver brothers and sisters, to all my artisan brothers and sisters while this thing to them. And I would like to convey my best wishes to them.\nBrothers and sisters, the solution lies in every problem Earlier those governments were in power which had a tendency of disliking the development; During his tenure the government had been destroyed for the projects. It is our effort to realize those things of development that brings the changes in the lives of the poorest of the poor people. It should lead to economic empowerment of our poor people It should lead to strengthening of their capacity It should result in some financial activity If they get a chance to work then I believe that no poor person of India wants to remain poor. You ask any poor person: 'Would you like to be the same kind of life full of misery that you have lived?' Even the poorest of the poor person will say: I have endured what is my destiny, whatever I got from my Fathers and forefathers, I have lived my life but I do not want to lead my life. No poor person has a desire to pass on his poverty as a legacy to his next generation. He also wants to lead such a life that he does not have a life full of poverty for his children. He wants to become self dependent, wants to work hard, do something and learn new things, he wants to grow in such a way. My government has the same dream And that is why our all schemes have been making that direction in that direction that the society of every section is empowering, so that it is self-dependent to become a force. I would like to specially like to congratulate Utkarsh Bank for placing emphasis on this area; The work done by our Govind Ji and his team is commendable as they are the kind of dedication for this thing.\nBrothers and sisters,\nToday, a water ambulance has been dedicated to public in Kashi and also a waterborne hearse. Some people were wondering when I got the idea of ​​a waterborne hearse\nI asked them that we should use the waterways for solving the traffic related problems of a dead person. Our waterways have their own strength And we have made many efforts to link them with our economic development, with the convenience of a common man and to develop them. And under that process today\nMy dear brothers and sisters of Banaras,\nYou are aware that when I came to contest the election from Banaras then I was simultaneously contesting from Baroda as well. And I was elected with a huge margin from Baroda, and I was elected from the vast margin from Banaras as well. But when the question of vacating one seat arose then I thought that I have a lot of colleagues for the progress of Baroda and they will not leave any stone unturned for the development of Baroda. But if I dedicate my life for Kashi then maybe I will get some satisfaction And that is why I opted to serve Kashi but today I'm happy as Baroda and Kashi are getting linked today. Vadodara and Banaras have been linked through Mahamana Express. Today, Mahamana express has launched from here and Vadodara. This Mahamana Express will come to Banaras from Vadodara via Surat. Textile industry from Ahmedabad in Gujarat gradually came to Banaras. And today, once again through the Mahamana Express; Baroda is also a city of culture, it is also a place for education; Banaras too is a city of culture and education and the linking of these two cities via Surat which is also a textile city, this is such a railway system which is directly related to the common man of the Eastern Uttar Pradesh but it is more related to economic activities I would like to congratulate the ministry of railway ... our railways minister piyush ji has just flagged off Mahamana Express from Baroda and our railway minister (MoS railways) Mr. Manoj Sinha Ji, who is this place of soil of a son, he is flagging off the train from Surat Today, it's a unique moment at the time of public dedication of Mahamana Express.\nBrothers and sisters,\nI do not want to take too much of your time but today the country has been making progress in a rapid pace and it's being done by the people of the welfare of poor people. Many courageous steps have been taken With a lot of courage those issues are being solved for 20-25 years. Decisions are taken And today as a result of the whole world is watching this thing that India is making rapid progress, India is changing. We have to bring about changes in Eastern UP, in Eastern India as well. We have been working in that direction as well as the first part of the country. Today, I believe that these projects worth Rs. 1,000 crore will play an important role in bringing about the changes in the economic and social life of this place. And once again I congratulate and I thank Yogi Ji for performing the wonders in a short span of six months, and also for the fast pace of work done under his leadership."