"\nGovernment is working for a healthy India: PM Modi\nInitiatives like Pradhan Mantri Surakshit Matritva Abhiyan and Mission Indradhanush are playing a vital role in the decline in the mortality rate: PM\nAyushman Bharat Scheme will create a completely new ecosystem which helps make healthy India: PM Modi\nMr. Vijaybhai, the popular Chief Minister of Gujarat, Mr. Kishorbhai, the cabinet colleague, our fellow C.R. It is a privilege to have Patil, Zardas sister, all the greats on the stage, the family members of Sevantibhai, and for me it is good luck that in a short span of time, I had the privilege of inaugurating two modern hospitals in Gujarat.\nVS in Ahmedabad With the hospital, a very modern hospital has been built in the name of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, and since our sevantibhai has taken over this business and it is like Sevantibhai that they are running ... nothing can be known. In the years since I have been watching them, the weight of one gram has not changed in them and their values ​​are characteristic of their life. When I was the Chief Minister and I went to Delegation abroad, I was insistent that if Sevantibhai lived together well and used to come many times, but never in agreement with any rule, he has a commitment towards values.\nA few days ago, Sevantibhai, all of his family members came to Delhi and in very detail he talked about the entire project and how his family has drowned in it and what are his future plans. He insisted that I should come to this hospital. Relationship with Sevantibhai is so old, so we can not refuse. So because of a family spirit, because of affinity, and always have respect in mind for them, for their family members.\nIn the business world, without any compromise in any type of business, business can be done well, service can also be done well, and the entire family can be kept together - all these things can be done by Sevantibhai Seeing nearby\nI saw the hospital, I have to say that not only Surat, but the whole of Gujarat has got a new view in the health sector. So far he has painted stones, made diamonds and now his mind is Narayana, Narayana Seva and our mantra is \"Survey Bhavantu Sukhin: Survey, Sainu Niramaya: Survey Bhadrani Pasyantu Ma Kastiddu: Bhagbhate\" With this expression, he has made a new beginning, by my side They have many many good wishes.\nIt is certain that the life of their citizens in the progress of any nation, whether they are educated or healthy or their ability, their skills depends on them. Our country also became healthy, with the help of comprehensive plans for our coming tomorrow healthy, the Government of India is currently working. In the field of health, the Government of India intervenes, in every move from birth to old age. Try somewhere to help him. The system is an attempt to facilitate. Parent Mother .. It is also necessary for the birth of the best child that the mother is healthy and arranged to give six thousand rupees to the poor pregnant mother for the nutritious diet, which will help in reducing the death of childbirth and mother mortality. is.\nNot only this, the healthy maternity scheme, through its Institutional delivery, because the child died here in the way of the midwife and in the village, sometimes the mother would have died, and both mother and child would die was. But now due to institutional delivery, due to hospital delivery, its number is also decreasing, and compared to the number of dead children is also decreasing, healthy children are being born.\nVaccination is the biggest task after childbirth. Immunizations were also occurring earlier and also in our government. It is not that we started vaccination only. He saw Shreyasbhai so I remembered. But the rate of vaccination used to be extremely worrisome was that the budget was spent, people had TA-DA but the decomposition did not happen. We made a rainbow scheme and launched a huge campaign, and more and more mothers got the benefit of rainbow and the work of multiplying vaccination has been widespread compared to earlier, and due to which the children and mothers have no new problems in their future. There is a protective arrangement for him.\nJust as the healthcare arrangements are needed, the same as the Preventive Healthcare is essential and the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan which has been launched in the Preventive Healthcare, Sanitation. I remember the day I talked about cleanliness after being the Prime Minister on the Red Fort, many people had joked about what kind of prime minister it was. Talks of making toilets on Red Fort But today, when we came to government, there was 38% coverage in the country and today it has reached 98% today.\nYou can imagine. What blessings will be given to these mothers, who would have had to wait for the toilets before sunrise or after going to the sun. How difficult it will be to them But all this stuff one after the other .. in the field of healthcare ... Many people enjoyed big fun in yoga, many things were said, many things were said, but today the importance of yoga for wellness has not only been acknowledged by India but the world too. The overall world, i.e. only hospital and drug dosage, can not be done with the same arrangements as in operation, but in the context of the preventive, we are moving forward in that direction. Now India has made a plan for Ayushman Bharat, and on the day the Ayushmann Bharat was planned, if you will take away the Gujarat news of that day, you can also see the other newspaper, you can see the TV too ... Ahaha ... such My hair was scraping, where is the money and how will it happen and what will happen and the winding will have to happen, nothing left.\nIn such a short time today, hundred days have just been completed recently, such people who could not imagine in life that now there may be an operation or hawk in this disease. There was no dream of going to the government's big hospital. Today, around 70-75% private hospitals and 25-30% government hospitals, in less than a million, have taken advantage of it, and that too without spending a single rupee and the coverage of the scheme is for 500 million people. This is the biggest plan of the world.\nEven a single person gets sick in the middle class family, then the whole family gets sick and it is not late for him to slip into poverty from the middle class, and if the disease in the poor man's home comes, the whole family will be devastated, Such a serious situation arises. Her concern was done by Ayushman Bharat Scheme. What is the meaning of the world's biggest plan to fifty million people, what is the largest plan of the US, Canada, Mexico - as many as the total population of these three people got the benefit of the Ayushman Bharat Scheme in India.\nToday every day the family trapped in such serious troubles, who were sitting on the road to death for three or four four years. On an average, 10 thousand people are taking advantage of this scheme. And I see its profit is going to increase in the coming days and a great result of this is to come that there should be large scale Tier 2, Tier 3 cities, whether there are cities like Bardoli or Navsari, like Pardhi - There are possibilities of new hospitals in cities.\nWithin India, there is a great potential for private investment and private business in the health sector, and due to this, arranging medical college, large scale on our own youth for medical education - a whole new eco system is going to stand and It is my belief that the benefit of which will be very important in making India healthy, and I am happy that this hospital also has Ayushman The plan is linked to the scheme. The poorest of the poor could also take advantage of this hospital and whatever the expenditure would be incurred, the government will pay the expenditure to the government.\nIn the coming days, to strengthen the health sector, we went to generic medicine, which is medicines, people who have diabetes, there is an elderly person in every house, every day they have to take any medicines. There should be a joint family, parents should be of old age, some have to take a medicine every day, run a major campaign of generic medicine, five thousand generic centers have been raised and there is a plan to increase further, and the medicines which are available in 300 Yes, it has been arranged in the 30's.\nThere is a decrease in the price of many such medicines which have reduced the burden of back pain on a very large scale. Some 70 percent reduction in one, 50 percent reduction in some, 40 percent reduction in some, but assistance to the common man has happened. It is hard work, all the people in the pharmacy area have to do so by making angry, but they did it, because they had to do it for the common man.\nHave heart surgery, apply stent, knee operation, 1 lakh, 1.5 lakh, 3 lakhs expensive Talking to these companies, the situation was such that some things were priced at 30 percent, 40 percent were made. The poor man had to undergo knee surgery or the cost of stenting was reduced. In order to manage society in a way whether it is the work of infrastructure in the field of health, whether it is the work of the Preventive Healthcare, whether it is the work of human resources development, we have come to work.\nAll these leaders used to speak while I was Chief Minister in Gujarat also, but no one said anything against them. There was not a single school of science stream in the tribal lease till we were here from Umargam to Amaji. Now, if the school of science stream is not in the tribal lease, then how will a student become a medical student in a medical college and how the reservation has happened, who can not even avail the benefits of immortality.\nAfter making me the chief minister, after that the school of Science stream started in tribal expanses and started studying in it from within the child, and today we have been successful in making a new medical college almost every year inside Gujarat. The number of seats for children has also been increased in large quantities, the benefit of the children of Gujarat has also been found.\nI mean to say that when we are working for all-round development, then an important decision, especially in the upper society, is a lot of anger, an expectation and a lot on that reservation issue. By making a lot of courage, we have made changes in the constitution of India. Apart from the constitutional changes, it was not possible to say that this was what we used to say on Dunka's injury, but some political parties did not accept this to meet their political interests. Today we amended the Constitution and confirmed 10 percent reservation for the poor children of the upper castes and I congratulate the Gujarat government that they have made it the first person.\nIn education, the poor family of upper caste society will get the benefit of it and it was also taken care of that even a percentage of those who are already getting will not be reduced. New arrangements have been made and opportunities are not low, so decision has also been taken to increase the 10 percent seats in education so that the direction of a healthy development can be taken. We have worked to create such a model without creating tension in the society.\nIt is an excellent work being done with such a sense of use by the dedication of the governance system for the service of society. I congratulate the heart of Sevantibhai, his family for his courage, for his service, his heart for this dedication and also many many good wishes, and also from the Government of India, I have the assurance I am convinced that in this work of service the government will also be with you on your shoulders.\nThanks a lot."