"Share\n\nIndia is a Bahuratna Vasundhara. Many people have made great contributions across regions and time periods: PM\nLaxmanrao Inamdarji has imbibed this theory and his life is a source of inspiration: PM Modi\nCooperative movements are not only about systems It is about a spirit that brings good people: PM\n\nAll the dignitaries are present here who have come from different parts of the country and have been associated with the cooperative movement.\nAlong with the celebrations on the occasion of the birth centenary of Laxmanrao Ji Inamdar Ji, you are also going to have a comprehensive discussion of this cooperative movement for more momentum, the new energy and the find ways to collectively solve the problem of the common man while maintaining the sensitivity towards the society and also the solutions of the problems of cooperation and cooperatives through\nOur country is prolific in producing great souls There is an infinite series of men in every period, who lived in the region for many years.\nThere is no period in the history, and even today there is no part of the land. There are many people who have been subject to discussions between people due to TV, due to news papers, due to the publicity and also due to the honors and recognition given them; and since they become a subject of discussion However, this is a country which has a very large pool of people who never make it headlines of news papers, those who never appear on the glittering television screen. They never received the applause or recognition or awards. But they dedicate their lives like a silent worker, like one lamp lighting another and then lighting thousands of lamps in the same way, they will lead their lives in this manner by sacrificing, the values ​​for their bodies and lives by dedicating, for the values The value of their services to the country Vakil Saheb was one such person\nToday, some may wonder why we have never heard of his birth centenary I did not say that By keeping oneself in the backdrop; and I believe that this is the first formula for the success of cooperatives to keep ones away from these things as much as possible while putting people ahead by working together, cooperatives for this is the most important formula.\nHe is dedicated to his life he found this country It's my good fortune that I got the opportunity to spend a lot of my life with him. I spent many years And that is why And when I was writing a book on his life; it was around 25-30 years ago.\nAnd I was surprised when I looked at his life as though I had been with him, I had lived with him for many years. But there were many things that became known only after his death, so it was a good example of this thing. He worked as a gem of this great tradition of leading a humble life while making a constant effort to save his colleagues, to strengthen his ability, and to give strength to an idea\nThere will be many programs related to the centenary year. The Cooperative Movement But today when we are moving forward in the context of his contribution to the cooperative movement on his birth centenary then you are going to deliberate this issue throughout the day. You are going to discuss the best practices in the field of cooperatives.\nHow can we move forward in the field of agriculture through cooperatives? How to double the income of our farmers by 2022? What is the good things that we should adopt and what are the bad things that we should shun to mold our agriculture, to modern India of necessity, our rural life, development of that direction in how to prepare it? Now this is not possible A balanced development is needed Equal opportunities for growth are required And collective work is the fundamental for balanced growth and for equal opportunities. Shortcomings emerge in the system Some systems become time barred\nEvery person in the field of cooperatives should reflect on these issues In case, this understanding develops in us that cooperative is a structure, it's a legal system, it is something that has been created under some rules, under a constitutional framework, and if we have that framework in our own right then we will automatically create a cooperative. I think it will be a big mistake\nIt's such a big country Systems are required, rules and structures are required, and do's and don'ts are also required, this is a essential thing. But cooperatives do not work that way, cooperative is a spirit, it's a spirit And values ​​are important for this spirit that is why we use this thing many times that without values ​​there can not be a cooperative.\nToday, sometimes it feels that is that spirit has lost somewhere in the system or not? Can we get a bigger inspiration than Vakil Saheb to revive, to reenergize the spirit of cooperative? And, the more strength we will give the spirit of cooperative, so if there is a flaw in the system then maybe that flaw will be rectified.\nIn our country, the village has been the basis of the entire cooperative movement. But we can not deny that when the world of urban cooperatives started to develop under the same rules and regulations, specifically in the banking sector, that too in urban sector, then the kind of changes that took place, when the systematic breakdown began to occur then the sphere of apprehensions and suspicion continued to expand Even today, some kind of sacredness can be felt in the cooperative movement.\nEven farmers feel that this is the right path for him and the people who have been involved in their time in Cooperative movement for this thing also they also feel that they are doing something for the poor farmer. So you are going to discuss all these things today. I have a small topic in my mind that I would like to share with you.\nThere are many problems of Indian farmers, but if we look at this thing that our farmer purchases at a retail rate and sells at a wholesale rate. Can this thing be reversed, is that a retail rate and sells at a retail price? Then nobody will be able to exploit him No middleman will be able to take advantage of him Those people who have studied the dairy industry, the cooperative dairy, then please mark this thing that it's unique in the sense that under that system the farmer purchases and sells at the wholesale rate. Look, this uniqueness is the fundamental in the success of the dairy industry that farmer sells and purchases at the wholesale rate. Why? Earlier if was in the business of producing milk then he used to sell one liter milk to each of the 10 households, today, he goes to one collection center to sell the same 10 liters of milk, it means he sells in the wholesale market . And if he makes purchases then this too is being done through the dairy, the food for his livestock, the medicines for them and if he needs to take care of his livestock then all these facilities are collectively provided to the whole village.\nAnd as a result of this thing, he continued to get some or some other benefits from the dairy, he was protected and it became a means for extra income. And in every other area Look, if he sells the milk to the private sector at the wholesale rate then he will not have this kind of income. It became the basis of his income Can we launch such a cooperative movement, one is already Previously there were five cooperatives, I will show them, I will show them There is a new form of cooperative. If they are running, let them run But there are 10 such areas where no one has done anything and can we solve the problems through those sectors through cooperative, can I do it? There are plenty of areas that have been untouched by cooperatives. And if they have touched by cooperatives then there is an intense competition, if it is sugar, then it will be a lot. It's a natural thing that there will be some benefit However, there are plenty of sectors where a whole generation will have to dedicate itself\nCan we inspire a new generation in the cooperative movement with a new spirit, specifically, to fundamentally transform the rural life? Cooperative Movement\nIt's not a borrowed idea; It's the perfect solution to our fundamental values. And so it's very natural that it flourishes here You do not have to All the other systems, if we adopt them, they are borrowed systems, and there is some resistance due to foreign element. It's a part of our natural, routine system and we can do it collectively.\nFor example, today, as we have been using Neem coated urea Farmers have benefited immensely from this thing, and the struggle to get urea has diminished because of this. But the collection of Neem legume for Coating of the Urea, extraction of oil after its collection and then supply of that oil to the urea factory; all this has become a new big thing And if our village women form the cooperative societies and the Neem, which is required for this Neem Coating, if they only collect those legumes from the legume, where the Neem trees are found, then it is a new sector of entrepreneurship, a new Cooperative can be started\nI regularly say to all my friends in the dairy industry that you encourage the farmers for raising the livestock but we should also insist, we should also emphasize on bee keeping, we should bring about a revolution in the field of honey, we should bring about A sweet revolution in the country This honey revolution can be brought about through cooperatives Honey, as the farmer keeps the livestock, as he has engaged in milk production, similarly he can pick 50 bees and he can easily increase his income by 1.5 to 2 lakh rupees per year. And the dairy that collects the milk, they can collect the honey And as the milk is processed in the dairy, honey should also be processed, it has a market. If the chemical wax sells for 100 rupees a kilo then bee sells for 400-450 rupees per kilo, there is a huge demand. There is a huge market in India itself but our farmers are not even today And there are hundreds of species of bees and it also benefits the crops immensely. And honey bee works like an ambassador, acts like a cattle engager for those people who have been working in the field of horticulture. I mean to say that there are plenty of new areas, how do we move forward in those areas?\nOur brothers and sisters from the fishing community who live in the coastal areas; their work halts, for example, it is going to stop But the cultivation of sea-weed is not growing in our country If our fishermen brothers start cultivating sea-weeds on our sea shores through the cooperative movement then it's laboratory proven thing that it is a much sought after basic material for the pharmaceutical industry Suppose that the sea-weed, it's life cycle of 45 days, in the sea, sea-weeds will be ready for harvest after 45 days and you can harvest every 45 days after its crop. And if you raise 45 sea-weed farms under the sea. And even if you do not do anything else then you can just extract its juice and spray that juice in the field. So it is a very big market of the use of sea-weed juice. You do not have to do much, it does not require any hard work. Through cooperative movement, can we open the doors for our fisherman brothers living in the coastal areas whose work stops for nearly five months, and women folk of whose work are available for this work day and night? I mean to say that the cooperative movements in the country can bring through these small things.\nI would like to call on our friends from the field of cooperative movement who are present here today that they should also be more active in this movement, that they will have more and more people in the rope with them and the word of the true sense in our cooperative movement, in the equal partnership, should be used for the growth of the common man while protecting his interest as per the sentiments that Vakil Saheb attached to the cooperative movement, as per the values ​​that he cooperative movement with attached, according to kind of sensitivity that he had spoken on the cooperative movement and as those fundamental elements and those fundamental values.\nWith this hope only, and while having the sacred memories of Vakil Saheb, I convey my best wishes to all of you. Thank you."