"\nPM Modi inaugurates newly built market yard of APMC at Amreli\nThe e-NAAM Yojana is benefiting farmers and giving them access to better markets, says the Prime Minister\nBlue revolution and sweet revolution is the potential to transform the lives of people in सौराष्ट्र: PM\n\nMy brothers and sisters present here in large numbers\nKem Chho, Badhaa?\n(How are you? Good!)\nI think the ground is not quite enough; there is no space outside also Do you remember who you met here last? No! No? Did any Prime Minister come here? It's okay. This was in my destiny only\nFirst of all, I would like to thank the cooperative society of Amreli District in which a new generation is now engaged. There was a time when Ratubhai and other great personalities were active in the cooperative world. Both the cooperative and government sectors were controlled by these great men. But for the past few years, the new team is taking some new heights of development. I had a meeting with the APMC market of Amreli before but also the kind of wonders our PP has performed in these days, the kind of model he has developed is really praiseworthy. Many congratulations to PP and his team\nDilipbhai is very hard working; work is their life He can not live without work. He keeps on thinking about something new. I remember that our former governments in Gujarat had made such decisions that it was possible for the dairy industry in Saurashtra to develop. They never came here. It was such a poor condition We made policy level changes First of all, Dilipbhai decided that this situation needs to change and today I am content that he was able to accomplish this thing Today is the complete Amreli has benefited The people of the whole Amreli, be it the cattle breeders, or farmers, or people involved in milk production directly or indirectly. Not only this, they have also received adequate and fair prices in exchange for milk. Today, I am satisfied that even after being a great success the work in this direction has stopped, but APMC has used modern technology and made a Soil Testing Lab. They also made a loan for the grading of goods Government of India has launched the eNAM scheme through which farmers can sell their products in any market where they get the best price. A digital platform has developed by Government of India which requires a gradation lab that has also been accomplished by PP Bhai. I firmly believe that Amreli has shown a new path for the other APMCs of Gujarat. I congratulate him and Amreli was the first in the world in APMC in Gujarat. And today after six decades again Amreli has become the first to show a new path in the world of modern technology, and must be congratulated for this feat.\nToday I want to\nThe first thing that is happening here is the launch of Sweet Revolution and the other is the 1600 km long shoreline of Gujarat which can lead a blue revolution. Our brothers and sisters from the fishing community, our maritime asset, they can move forward. The process of giving a new dimension to both rural Gujarat and its coastal areas is beginning with these schemes. Government of India has planned that the lines of green revolution and white revolution, we must also move into a sweet revolution. A year or a year-and-a-half ago, I have spoken to Dilip Bhai and all of them are like that, and we also collect milk from the farmers. And if someone keeps 50 honeybees then he can sell honey at least 2 lakh rupees in a year. This is an additional income and due to bee keeping, there is an increase in the farm produce as well as honeybees supplement farming, today I got the opportunity to stone the thing as well\nSecondly, if you go to any other corner of India then sweets are offered before any auspicious work, Gujarat is the only state which offers auspicious work and today Amreli is also starting a dairy ice cream plant. Many congratulations for both these new schemes and government of India will offer 400 lakh rupees for these schemes so that the work on these schemes can easily move forward.\nI would request my brothers in the farming community that the farming can be done naturally in the fields without any extra effort and if we make arrangements for that and if we produce well in the market then it is good revenue generated. And not only that, let's assume that there is no sale then the children at our homes have honey, it is very good for health And so for sweet revolution, wherever there is a dairy network in Gujarat we will connect it with honey revolution and move towards a new revolution in India\nIndia's sea coast is vast, but Gujarat's sea coast makes a huge contribution to the Blue Revolution. We are moving towards waterways, towards Ghogha-Dahej ferry service. We are working on port development; We are working on port led development. If you are required to send goods via the coastal route to Vishakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh or we can deliver tiles from our Morbi to Kolkata in the East at the cost of the sea route through the minimum cost. So, in a way, the government is acting toward pushing the blue revolution which will lead to a major change in the livelihood of those living along the coast of Gujarat. Encouraging the youth of coastal to Gujarat, to train them and guide them so that they can join the Navy to serve our mother India, Government of India is promoting such schemes. Our Rupala Ji told me just a while ago that after Jivraj Mehta, no new college has come up here. And after Jivraj Bhai Mehta, this revolution happened in power. Broad gauge railway, National Highway, Amreli people had given up hope You have given me a chance to serve in Delhi, today both your demands are going forward.\nBrothers and sisters, we will soon complete 75 years of our independence During the freedom struggle, Amreli district was the forefront among all the districts. How do we celebrate 75 years of our independence, what kind of India should we gift to those who fought for our freedom, how do we give them the dreams of India? I think that our Amreli district, municipalities of Amreli, Tehsil panchayats of Amreli, district panchayats of amreli, village panchayats, cooperative societies, educational institutions, social organizations should collectively resolve that by 2022, five years within, this is very much to the country in any case, and fulfill that resolution by planning what we want to do during the five years. We must complete our journey from resolution to fulfillment It is our dream that the income of the farmer of our country doubles by 2022\nBrothers and sisters, if we move forward in a systematic way, if we move forward with precision, then the Indian farmer has this kind of strength and the government, the society and the farmers can achieve this by working together. But for that we have moved away from traditional systems and go toward modernity. New things to be accepted Today we have completed the Narmada project; It is a glorious day in Gujarat. It is a very glorious day; but if we develop the habit of using Narmada water through drip irrigation, and also introduce drip irrigation to our farming system then not only will it benefit us but the next 100 years for our generations. And so we have ensured that we will use Narmada water in that particular way. Gujarat has taken a big step. Gujarat accounts for 25% of total drip irrigation practices in the country and farmers of congratulations for that. But things should not stop at that, there is a lot of scope to do too much and we must try in that direction. Two other things with agriculture: Not a single rupee Using a solar panel in his own farm, the farmer can run a pump and get water from that pump. If farmers are able to save on electricity bills then their expenses are reduced by thousands of rupees. Nowadays many farmers Now tell me if you have drip irrigation, solar pumps and electricity generated from solar power, will it reduce the expenses or not? Income will increase or not? And our land has a good use and therefore it is my request to the farmers that they should come forward in this direction too so that friends of cooperative movement will move forward in this direction.\nTogether all the farmers must install solar panels near their farms and produce electricity collectively and as a result, farmers will come out of their main expenditures - electricity and water. Just imagine the change of life There is one more thing which I would request; we waste almost 2 to 3 meters of our land by putting wire fence around it. Can we do timber farming instead? Government of India is contemplating to bring a new law so that farmers who do farming at the periphery of their fields, they will get the rights to sell that timber and forest department of government will not trouble them in any way; thus enabling the farmers with more power Our government is looking forward to such a law. Our land is lying in the wood If the farmers of our country want then they can do timber farming. Will not it increase the income of farmers?\nAnd in addition to that If we compare to the milk production in our country then it is far below the global average. How the livestock should be raised? What arrangements should be made? What kind of fodder they should be fed? As per our old traditions they eat whatever they get and because of our per-milk milk production is far less potential than Today, what does a farmer do if he wants to increase the milk production? He will increase the number of cattle from two to four, from four to eight, which in turn increases his cost Instead of income, the income of the farmer will increase and the burden on the farmer will also be reduced. Since the animal husbandry work is done, many of them get good training. We are working in that direction.\nIn a way, for the first time our farmers are being protected in the country Schemes like Prime Minister's Crop Insurance Scheme - Krishi Bima Yojana has been launched. If there is no crop because of natural calamity If the harvest is still lying in the field and within 15 days rain is still there. This type of insurance scheme has been brought for the first time by the government of India. And for every rupee farmers have to pay only 2 paise, the responsibility of the remaining 98 paise will be jointly borne by the central government and the state governments. Two paise for every rupee, this humongous task is possible because you have got a government in Delhi which loves farmers. And today the farmers are also benefitting from that.\nFarmers are moving towards crop insurance. Those who have a habit of doing things; but I know they will feel that they are getting good and they can live well. Then the wrongdoer will turn to the other side and the people will get a lot of benefits; The Prime Minister Crop Insurance\nWe do farming and horticulture in our country but in spite of that fruits and vegetables worth crores of rupees go waste. We have set-up a Pradhan Mantri Kisan Sampada Yojana. Under this scheme value addition to the goods If you sell raw mango then you will get less money but if you sell ripe mangoes then you will get more money This is called value addition. If you make pickle from the raw mangoes then you will get more money. And if you pack it beautifully and advertise your product then you will get even better prices, this is called value addition. Green chilies will be sold cheap; red chilies will sell for more But if chilies are converted into chili powder then it gets even a higher price. With value addition farmers also get more benefits If you sell milk you will get less money, if you prepare Khoya (condensed milk) and sell it then you will get more money. If you prepare Pedas from Khoya and sell it then you will make yet more money. Government has launched the Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sampada Yojana for farmers. Government has planned to make a big scale In the month of November, we are calling companies from all the world in the field of food processing so that they can guide our farmers by their products. Government of India has made provisions of thousands of crores of rupees through Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sampada Scheme to encourage our farmers to come forward in the area of ​​food processing.\nBrothers and sisters, villages of Gujarat will become prosperous; farmers of Gujarat should prosper; Farmers of our country should get the benefit of this scheme And today when the government of India is moving forward with so many projects to bring an economic revolution in the rural life of the country and when our Amreli district has taken many projects under the White Revolution in Cooperative Sector, Sweet Revolution, Blue Revolution, APMC and Dairy Engineering then Government of India will always be with you Whenever you move forward you will always find This is the policy of India and any district, any cooperative scheme of any district can benefit from it. Amreli should take its full advantage; districts of Gujarat\nMany congratulations to all you"