"\nPM Modi lays foundation stone for 'National Tribal Freedom Fighters' Museum in Dhaboi\nWe remember our freedom fighters from the tribal communities who gave a strong fight to colonialism: PM\nSardar Sarovar Dam will positively impact the lives of people in Gujarat, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh: PM Modi\nIt is because of Sardar Patel we are realizing the dream of Ek Bharat, Shreshtha Bharat: PM Modi\nThe Statue of Unity will be a fitting tribute to Sardar Patel and will attract tourists from all over: PM\nIndia will never forget the excellent leadership of the IAF Arjan Singh in 1965: PM\nLong live Mother India\nLong live Mother India\nI have visited Dabhoi many times; Sometimes I used to come by bus, sometimes on scooter, sometimes I took meetings of the workers, and sometimes I used to address public gatherings. So a lot of my memories are associated with all of you But I have never seen such a spectacular sight before in Dabhoi This humongous sea of ​​people is a living symbol of devotion to mother Narmada.\nToday it is Vishwakarma Jayanti For centuries in India, people who work with their hands, who sweat, who toil, who work in construction sector; Be it a technician, an engineer, a mason, lime and cement workers, who are related to the work of architecture, all of them are seen as Vishwakarma in India; Today it is the festival of birth anniversary of such Vishwakarma. And therefore, there is no greater coincident than this on Vishwakarma Jayanti, the followers of Vishwakarma, those who have created this Sardar Sarovar Dam; to remember the virtue of their hard work, to remember the virtue of their harsh practice, it is a privilege to gift Mother India in this massive Sardar Sarovar Dam in India.\nBrothers and sisters, many people are congratulating me today! The people who have congratulated me, who have conveyed their best wishes, I express my gratitude to them from the bottom of my heart and on my birthday, the feelings that have been manifested today by the people, I will not fall short on my people Trying to improve my dreams I'll live for your sake, I'll sacrifice myself to fulfill your dreams, and to make your dreams come true by mobilizing the power of 1.25 billion Indians we will surely build a new India.\nOne Gandhi, lean and thin Gandhi, while practicing in Sabarmati's asram, could unite the countrymen for freedom, then with the blessings of mother Narmada, with blessings of the Sabarmati, with blessings of the sacrifice and our country of heroes of the, with The blessings of the great men of this country, 1.25 billion people, on the completion of 75 years of independence, they will leave no stone unturned in the making of a new India, I have full faith in this.\nBrothers and sisters, The Sardar Sarovar Dam, Today, India's Ironman Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel's soul, wherever it may be, it will be showering a lot of blessings on us. Who is called a visionary? 71 years ago, before the independence, even before I was born, Sardar Patel dreamed of Sardar Sarovar Dam.\nOur country got independence, today I want to say it with great confidence that if two of our great men have survived for some more years, then this Sardar Sarovar Dam 60-70s, West India had had plenty of water The western states of India would have had a chance to provide phenomenal financial capabilities to India. And this two great men were - one, Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel, who had dreamed of how Narmada River and its significance, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Gujarat, and Rajasthan How he envisioned the outline of this project And the other great personality was, Dr. Baba Saheb Ambedkar Baba Saheb Ambedkar, they can see that India of waterways and maritime capabilities built for water shortage, during the water revolution in India for water revolution in honor of the respected Baba Saheb Ambedkar by the schemes of the number, which they have seen have. The council of ministers, the number of schemes or projects that were imagined by Baba Saheb Ambedkar, hardly any government could even think about it.\nIf these two great men had been alive for a few more years and if we had the opportunity to benefit from their services for some more years, then my dear countrymen, the states which got destroyed today due to the flood, or where the farmers are dying due to drought, our country had come out of these problems long ago and it had scaled new heights of development. But it was our misfortune that we lost most of the time Today this Sardar Sarovar Dam is being dedicated to India, it is 1.25 billion citizens of India, it is being dedicated to the land of Sardar Patel and Gandhi Ji, on the land which brought a new change in the life of Baba Saheb Ambedkar, because of Gaikwads; it is being used from that land This will be a symbol of a new force of the country, with this belief today, remembering all these great personalities, I dedicate this grand and divine project to the people of the country and Mother India\nBrother and sisters,\nIt is very natural that the projects are being planned and completed, but probably the hardships that mother Narmada had to face or this project had to endure in India, there was no such force in the world, which did not create obstacles in it's way. World Bank decided that they will not lend money for Sardar Sarovar Dam. For India, such a huge project of thousands of crores was not possible without financial help. And the same World Bank has also said that the project is against the miscreants of bad publicity has spread so much lies. Brothers, sisters, we had also decided, World Bank or No World Bank, we will definitely complete this Sardar Sarovar Dam from our sweat, and today we have accomplished it.\nAfter the 2001 earthquake in Kutch, it was rebuilt which was both eco-friendly and environment friendly and the World Bank which helped to reduce the name of the World Bank, the same World Bank was forced to give its largest environmental award i.e. Green Award to the same Gujarat for the development work done after the earthquake.\nBrothers and sisters,\nIf the people of India resolve then this country has the power to challenge, and the result of this Sardar Sarovar Dam Project Sometimes, in our country a lot of discussion takes place on the power of states, their competitiveness, comparative studies are being conducted on this subject and if we look at Western states and their history after independence. , it has been water Paucity of water, be it animals or humans, made them leave their homes, their fields and go up to 200 to 400 kms. in search for water. For some months they will stay wherever they could find water and when it rained they would come back. Has anyone ever imagined this painful life? How is the life without water?\nWhen I was working as Chief Minister of Gujarat, Be it the soldiers of army or BSF; I used to celebrate Diwali among them Once when I went to the border of Gujarat and sat with the soldiers of BSF, these soldiers used to drink water on hundreds of camels, only then these soldiers who would protect our country in the desert. I felt that pain very well. And when Sardar Sarovar Dam's work started, a desire came to my mind that I would take water of Narmada River to my soldiers of BSF who are standing on the border of India and Pakistan without water, I'll take the water of Narmada River to them. Pipeline was installed 700 kilometers away. For many decades, when the camels carry water to the border then only the protector The day I reached border with the water, water from Narmada River, I had seen such happiness on the faces of BSF soldiers, it was an engineering miracle that we took from Narmada 700 km away and for that sometimes, It's a height of 60-storeyand then bring down the water at the border.\nBrothers and sisters, this whole Sardar Sarovar Dam is a miracle of engineering, Canal network is a miracle of engineering. And I will urge all the architects, engineers, students of structural design, civil engineers, electrical engineers, to take it as a project in their studies. They will get a new direction in the future.\nBrothers, sisters, it is a project that will change the fortune of millions of farmers of not only of but also of Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Maharashtra. And Gujarat took the lead, brother and sisters, we tried, we were criticized all over the world, false accusations were made against us, many conspiracies were hatched to stall this project on mother Narmada, but we always maintained that it is not a matter of political disputes It is going to decide the fate of the future generations of 21st century, so we will not let it be defined.\nBrothers and sisters,\nI have been following that principle even today. We encountered numerous troubles, who caused those troubles, I have completed list of that, but I will not do that politics, I will not go down on that path\nSardar Sarovar Narmada project came, I have seen that the saints of Gujarat are from front, they are on hunger strikes . Not only this, when the World Bank refused to provide financial support, temples of Gujarat provided money for the construction of Sardar Sarovar Dam then only this dam could complete. And that's why we never believe that it is a work of any one party This is a work of crores and crores of people, this is a work of determination of people who are seeking water, and this water belongs to the dry land of Gujarat, dry land of the country.\nBrothers and sisters,\nThere are moments in life Doing something for Mother Narmada in my life Because when I see that my motherland, this dry and parched motherland, when my motherland is yearning for the drops of water, and when her son gives her the water of Narmada, what can be a big emotional moment for that son? In my state, millions and millions of mothers and their daughters had been going to their mothers for up to 3 kms to get drinking water. Leaving their studies, girls of 6 years, 8 years, 10 years will help their mother in fetching water. Today for a son, when this water from Narmada River sets them free from their troubles, then when a son like me gets the blessings of these millions and millions of mothers, what is a big emotional moment in my life?\nThose innocent animals who could not speak, who serve the human beings with their bodies, those obscure animals had to wander up to 200 km in the search of drinking water, food and fodder. Today, when the water of Narmada will reach there, they'll get green fodder to eat, those animals will get water for drinking. When millions and millions of these mute animals give their blessings, then as a son of mother India is one of the most emotional moment of my life.\nBrothers and sisters,\nI am not one of those who celebrate their own birthdays But if it's Vishwakarma Jayanti on the birthday, and the fortune of a generation for the whole century is being created, then such a moment has never come in my life for so many years, which is why Gujarat has given me now.\nBrothers and sisters,\nThis is a very big example of development Learned people will study how much concrete used? It is said that if an eight meter wide cement road is constructed from Kashmir to Kanyakumari and from Kandla to Kohima, i.e. From the Himalayas to the sea and from the Kandla to Kohima, if an eight meter wide concrete road is constructed then the amount of concrete that will be necessary in its construction, my dear friends that this project in much concrete used. What is it!\nSo, brothers and sisters, the water of Narmada is not just water, it is a philosopher's stone and when a philosopher's stone touches any iron then that turns iron into gold. Similarly, the water of the Narmada River, which is the corner of the land, that land becomes golden and hence the brothers and sisters. I can see that the task of making India's future golden will become culminated in the Narmada River, I see that .\nBrothers and sisters, i\nIt will be beneficial for farmers, drinking water will be available, Gujarat will have an economic revolution. But you see, in our country - West India craves for water and Eastern India needs electricity and gas for development. And you have seen that since we formed the government in Delhi, you have given us a chance to serve the center that there should be a balanced development of India, West should get water, so that my Both sides East and West become strong so that both arms of my mother can become India.\nBrothers and sisters,\nThis Sardar Sarovar Dam does not belong to any one state. I very well remember that when water was given to Rajasthan from Sarovar Dam, Vasundhara ji was the chief minister at that time, Bhairon Singh Shekhawat and Jaswant Singh Ji - Bhairon Singh Ji was Vice-President of India; They came to meet me and told me, Bhairon Singh Ji and Jaswant Singh Ji said, \"Modi Ji you know, what does it mean to give water to Rajasthan?\" He was very emotional and he said, Modi Ji look at the whole history. Centuries before the daggers would be drawn between states for a little water, there were wars, the kingdoms of many states were defeated, the history of victories was written; and you, without any struggle, tension, quarrel or movement, you straight away given water of Narmada from Sardar Sarovar to Rajasthan's dry land! You provided water to Barmer, near Pakistan border?\nBrothers and sisters, I've seen those emotions in the eyes of those two leaders. And I am glad that whenever people get a chance to rule the country, then during that time Narmada project progressed and for whom party is greater than nation, during those times were obstruction in the Narmada project\nToday, the work of dam has been completed, I respectfully want to thank the people of Madhya Pradesh and Chief Minister of Madhya Pradesh Shivraj Singh Chauhan. Today, this project has been completed, for this, I want to express my heartfelt gratitude to the Chief Minister of Maharashtra, Mr. Devendra Fadnavis and the people of Maharashtra. Today, this project has been completed and I want to bow before my tribal brothers and sisters, who came forward to relinquish things if they had, for the good of all and I am sure the future governments will also see them with them. great respect It is my belief that even the future governments will be concerned about their well-being I bow to my tribal brothers and sisters whose sacrifice made it possible that my thirsty mother land is going to be fruited by the Narmada River, and what else can be a greater privilege than this in life?\nBrothers and sisters,\nIt was Sardar Saheb who did the work of uniting our country. If Sardar Saheb had not been there, how can I understand that very well? Other than Kashmir Sardar Saheb was responsible for uniting the whole India, and he accomplished that And today we are going ahead with a dream of better India But after our independence, the way our young generations should have been inspired by some of the reasons for this,\nI think it will be my sacred duty, for the future generations of India, name of Sardar Saheb should remain immortal, his work and inspiration should be immortal and sometimes symbolic things also be a source of inspiration and to fulfill those dreams in this world, now you know me very well that menial tasks do not suit me Neither do I think small nor do I work small, when a country is 1.25 billion people is banking on for realization of its dreams. And so, when it was decided to make a statue of Sardar Saheb, then I just made up my mind that it will be the highest statue in the world, the highest in the world. In all the structure would be about 190 meters and the statue will be of 182 meters. From the Statue of Liberty, which is in America, the statue of Unity, statue of our Sardar Saheb will be two times higher than the Statue of Liberty of America, it will be twice the size of that my brother.\nYou can imagine, people from all over the world visit statue of liberty. If you go to the South Gujarat, then there is Saputara, if you go to Saurashtra then there are lions of Gir, if you go to Kutch then there is a magnificent desert, if you go north, goddess ambe, and If you go a little forward, then there is Abu. But this is one of our areas where there are possibilities of tourism and so brothers and sisters of this statue of Sardar Patel, you will see, and mark my words, millions of people come here every day, lakhs and lakhs of people come, and it will become a center of tourism and that will become the cause of the livelihood of thousands of villages here; I've seen this dream.\nAnd in this place only, some people think that only a handful of people liberated the country? Only a handful of people sacrificed, and the songs were given only for few people. The History of the Country Some people have been shying away from the country. From 1857 to 1947 my tribals have sacrificed The British used to hang up to one hundred people as soon as they were not ready to bend. During the battle of independence, in every state of India, wherever there are tribals, they have never been behind in sacrificial liberation. They have played an important role in the freedom struggle. Future generations of my country should know that my tribal brothers lived in the jungles, stayed in the mountains, they had no clothes to wear, but they were never behind in making sacrifices. They should be respected, they should be honored, and coming generations should get inspiration from them. And so in India in whichever state these tribals have sacrificed during the war of independence from 1857-1947, our government wants a museum in those states for them\nFuture generations of India should be proud of our tribals. They should have an feeling of reverence for the ancestors of our tribal people who died in India and hence all the states of India, wherever there were tribal people of valor of stories, we had the modern digital technology of a virtual museum. Today I got the opportunity to start this by laying the foundation stone in the state of Gujarat. Slowly it will spread to other states of India I think this is a blessing of my life and I respectfully salute my brave tribals, from Birsa Munda to the Nayka society of Jambhughoda, that I got the opportunity to lay its foundation stone and in the near future, it will also be beneficial.\nThis whole Sardar Sarovar Dam project is going to become a big tourism center for water sports, adventure water sports and recreation sports. Till yesterday this place which was a jungle, it is going to become the area of ​​most economic activities in Gujarat. People were required to search for livelihood now that the livelihood will come to their doorsteps, this is what is going to happen. Building roads, building railways, building rapid transport vehicles from Baroda, from Bharuch so that tourist can visit the place and it can become an important tourist center of India. The Taj Mahal of Agra was built centuries ago, even today, we keep on showcasing that Taj Mahal to the world. Brothers, every corner of India has a lot to offer, a lot to show This Sardar Sarovar Dam, this statue of Sardar Patel, a museum singing the legends of tribal Indians, it is going to be a big center of attraction for national and international tourists.\nSuch an important program is being inaugurated today. Today, I did a detailed examination of the statue of Sardar Saheb. The speed at which the work is going on, and the kind of technology that is used, it is worthwhile to learn and understand that.\nToday I feel truly proud and satisfied to give these priceless gifts to my countrymen I want to congratulate the Chief Minister of Madhya Pradesh Since everybody knows that the Narmada River does not flow from the mountains, and hence, in the recent past, the Chief Minister of Madhya Pradesh, Narmada River of the Forests green green for the campaign. There was a walkabout for around 8-9 months, crores of trees were planted through a campaign and with these crores of trees, they have taken the lead so that the level of water in Narmada River does not come down in the coming century My heartiest congratulations to the people of Madhya Pradesh, to the Chief Minister of Madhya Pradesh, for doing this sacred task The work of saving a river may not have happened earlier in this country Today I have seen, many saints of our country, many organizations of our country are campaigning to save rivers, and they are doing it with sacrifice and penance. The efforts that are taking place in the country to protect the environment are also worthy of heartiest congratulations, and therefore I am congratulate everyone for this very important work.\nBrothers and sisters, last night When I started from Delhi I got a sad news. A brave soldier, a brave commander of our military and also when I met the marshal of our country Mr. Arjun Singh Ji, he was such a heroic warrior, war of 1965 was associated with him, he was 98 years old. Only few days back we met in a uniform. He had to come on the wheel chair but when he would see me he would stand up and salute. I used to request him that you should not stand up but he was that kind of soldier, discipline always ran in his veins and he would always stand up.\nYesterday he had a heart attack, I came to know him His feelings were the same His body was not supported but he could see the discipline to get his nerves. We have lost such a brave and heroic soldier I respectfully bow down to him and I paid my tributes to the departed soul. This country will always remember his valor, his discipline, his sacrifice and penance, his devotion to mother India Taking inspiration from him, the future generations of India will resolve to do something for India and they will be successful to make a new India in 2022.\nWith this same spirit, I once again thanked the Government of Gujarat, and the people of Gujarat. I also congratulate these four governments, who have contributed to this project. Mother Narmada is also being useful in providing electricity to homes. She will nourish and flourish the land and she will also lighten up our homes too. While saluting mother Narmada, I urge you all to turn your fists, I will say - Narmade, you join me by saying: 'Sarvade'. Today, if Mother is Narmada\nPlease join me in\nNarmade - Sarvade"