"Share\n\nMumbai-Ahmedabad High Speed ​​Rail Project: Grateful for the support of the Japanese Government, says PM Modi\nThe project of Varanasi Convention Center is a symbol of cultural co-operation between Kyoto city of Japan and Varanasi: PM\nOver the last three years, we have worked hard on the front of the economy: PM Modi\nPowered by the energy of our youth, we are positioning as a global manufacturing hub: PM Modi\nWe are also developing India in a knowledge based, skill supported and technology driven society: PM\nJapan can benefit tremendously with the size and scale of our potentials and the skilled hands that India offers: PM Modi\nIndia has moved into the index of easing of doing business of World Bank: PM Modi\nIndia is 3rd among the top 10 FDI destinations by UNCTAD UN Conference on Trade and Development: PM Modi\nWith GST, we are moving toward a modern tax regime, which is transparent, stable and predictable: PM\n21st Century is Asia's Century, India and Japan will play a major role in Asia's emergence: PM Modi\nHis Excellency Mr. Shinzo Abe, Prime Minister of Japan;\nHonourable Ministers and Senior Delegates from Japan;\nChief Minister of Gujarat Shri Vijay Rupani;\nDeputy Chief Minister of Gujarat Shri Nitin Patel\nBusiness Leaders from both countries;\nLadies and Gentlemen!\nIt is a real pleasure to be the business community of Japan and India. That too in the presence of a great friend: Friend of India; Friend of Gujarat and my personal friend Shinzo Abe please give this big friend and a great leader. My personal engagement with the leadership, Government, Industry and people of Japan is now a decade old When I first visited Japan as Chief Minister of Gujarat, I had said that ... I want to see a mini Japan in Gujarat. Today, that dream has come true I am happy to see so many friends from Japan happily living and doing business in Gujarat. It also gives me great pleasure I am also happy to see that dedicated townships, clusters and institutions have come up to the Japanese life and work experience better. Today too, one Japanese township has been announced. Gujarat's Industry and Government still cherish the fact that the Vibrant Gujarat event in Japan was the first partner country. Not only did this partnership continue, but our engagement has kept growing It has resulted in the high level of involvement of the Japanese economy. I thank Keidanren, JETRO and other organizations for helping us in this process. The mechanism of Japan Plus has also helped in the process of hand holding.\nFriends!\nThe Government and the People of Japan In fact, 1.25 billion people of India have the same love for the Japanese people I am particularly grateful to Prime Minister Abe for his encouragement and support at a personal level. Prime Minister Abe and I do not miss any opportunity to meet This closeness and understanding has helped us bridge a number of gaps in our bilateral relations. Last year has seen the highest ever disbursement of Official Development Assistance from Japan in a financial year. Similarly, the number of Japanese companies working in India has gone up to the last few years. From the activities launched today, you can see the depth between the two countries\n First is the Mumbai-Ahmedabad High Speed ​​Rail Project:\n We are grateful for the support of the Japanese Government for this Project.\n I hope that the construction of the 500-km long bullet train will start soon and it will become operational by 2022-23.\n Along with the High Speed ​​Rail project, a training institute is also taking shape.\n It will prepare the makers of a new India - the highly skilled manpower required to build, operate and maintain the high speed railway.\n Second is the Development of Japanese Industrial Townships: Country-wide, four locations have been finalized. Apart from Gujarat, they are located in Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu.\n Third-person cooperation in auto-mobiles:\nThe Suzuki plant at Maandal is exporting cars world-wide, and foundations are lithium-ion batteries to power the next generation hybrid and electric vehicles.\n Fourth is for Human Resource Development through the Japan-India Institute of Manufacturing In addition to Gujarat, they will be developed in Karnataka, Rajasthan and Tamil Nadu.\n You know that the ancient and holy city of Varanasi is my second home.\nThe project of Varanasi Convention Center is a symbol of cultural co-operation between Kyoto city of Japan and Varanasi. It was conceived by Prime Minister Abe and I when we visited Varanasi together in 2015. I have named it Rudraksh - the symbol of love, and a Prasad of Lord Shiva to Humanity. This Rudraksh will be a gar-land of love for Japan for Varanasi. It will also be a tribute to our shared Buddhist heritage present at Sarnath too. For Japan's financial support to this project, I extend my warmest personal thanks to Prime Minister Abe. · You have also seen some other announcements-Japanese companies · On political and strategic side too, this visit of Prime Minister Abe has been very productive. We have concluded a number of agreements on very important matters All this shows the depth of our understanding and the comfort and confidence which we have with each other\nFriends!\nOver the last three years, we have done very hard on the front. A series of administrative reforms These reforms and initiatives are all aimed at preparing India for the 21st century. They are aimed at transforming the country and making a new India. Powered by the energy of our youth, we are positioning as a global manufacturing hub. For this purpose, we have launched the 'Make in India' campaign. We are also developing India in a knowledge based, skill supported and technology driven society. A grand start has already been made through our drives like Digital India and Skill India. For the same purpose, we have started the Start-up India campaign. India is the 3rd in the Global Start-Up Eco-system, and has seen a momentous rise in the past couple of years. The Start-Up India initiative also aims to build a strong eco-system of innovation. On Infrastructure side also, my Government has launched the initiatives of these projects. This includes 100 Smart Cities Mission, Housing for 50 million homeless, building roads, bridges, ports, railways tracks as well as stations.\nFriends!\nJapan can benefit tremendously with the size and scale of our potentials and the skilled hands that India offers! In fact, all of India's development agenda is relevant for Japanese companies. To request an entry of capital and technology, we have worked hard on opening our economy. Every day we are making it easy to invest and do business in India. We have already resolved a number of regulatory and policy issues. We have got very good results of these efforts I can list some of the recent global recognitions: India has moved up in the index of ease of doing business of world bank; We have moved up 32 places in the last two years in the Global Competitive- -In Index of the World Economic Forum - this is higher than any other country; We have also moved up 21 places on the Global Innovation Index of WIPO, the World Intellectual Property Organization in two years. We moved 19 places on the Logistics Performance Index of 2016 of World Bank; and we are 3rd among the top 10 FDI destinations by UNCTAD The UN Conference on Trade and Development India's biggest tax reform, the GST has recently introduced With this, we are also moving towards a modern tax regime, which is transparent, stable and predictable. Today, India has one of the most liberal FDI regimes in the world. More than 90 percent of the FDI approvals have been put on automatic route. We have abolished the Foreign Investment Promotion Board This liberalization has seen India's FDI reach 60 billion dollars in the last financial year. FDI inflows from Japan are almost tripled in last three years. The new Insolvency \u0026 Bankruptcy Code will make it easy for investors We are setting up commercial courts and commercial divisions to ensure speedy disposal of commercial matters. Arbitration proceedings will now become faster as the Arbitration law has been amended. We have also announced a new Intellectual Property Rights policy. This is just a few examples of We will do more and more; better and better; faster and faster\nFriends!\nIndia and Japan are ancient civilizations and vibrant democracies. We know how to distribute the fruits of progress and prosperity to the common man. India needs cottage solutions and processes which can ease the delivery of government services to its citizens. Japan needs opportunities where it can deploy its hard earned knowledge and technology I've been saying that 21st Century is Asia's Century. I have also been saying that India and Japan will play a major role in Asia's emergence. The growing conver-gence between India and Japan on strategic and economic issues has the ability to stimulate the global economy. I am confident that Strong India and Strong Japan will also be a stabilizing factor in Asia and the world. In this mutual and global pursuit I thank Prime Minister Abe and Japan for being a perfect partner. With the strength of our friendship and mutual trust, I invite more and more Japanese people and companies to come, live and work in India. I wish you success in your efforts I assure you my support\nThank You! Thank you very much\nWhen I first visited Japan as CM of Gujarat, I had said that I want to see a mini Japan in Gujarat. PM Narendra Modi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) September 14, 2017\nGujarat's Industry and Government still cherish the fact that Japan became the first partner country in Vibrant Gujarat event: PM Modi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) September 14, 2017\n4 locations have been finalized for development of Japanese Industrial Townships in Gujarat, Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh \u0026 Tamil Nadu: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) September 14, 2017\nAs another novel initiative, the foundation has been laid for production of Lithium batteries for electric mobility: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) September 14, 2017\nA series of administrative reforms have significantly improved the business sentiment in the country: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) September 14, 2017\nJapan can benefit tremendously with the size and scale of our potential \u0026 skilled hands that India offers: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) September 14, 2017\nJapan can benefit tremendously with the size and scale of our potential \u0026 skilled hands that India offers: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) September 14, 2017\nThe growing convergence between Japan and India on strategic and economic issues has the ability to stimulate the global economy: PM Modi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) September 14, 2017\nWith the strength of our friendship and trust, I invite more and more Japanese people and companies to come, live and work in India: PM Modi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) September 14, 2017\n"