"\nTechnology can be beneficial in reducing poverty to a great extent: PM Modi\nHigh Speed ​​Rail project project will bring in latest technology and its fast-paced progress: PM Modi\nWhether it is railways, highways, waterways or airways, we are focusing on all areas. Integrated transport system is the dream of new India: PM\nOur efforts are to provide benefits to the common man: PM Modi\nEconomic development is a direct relation with productivity. Our aim is: More productivity with high-speed connectivity: PM Modi\nAll the dignitaries from Japan and all the dignitaries present here on this historic occasion,\nI will again welcome my close friend. Abe San in India, specially on the land of Gujarat.\nAnd I want to congratulate you all I express my gratitude to all people of Gujarat for a very warm welcome, for the respect given by them to a world leader, to the Prime Minister of Japan, to the best friend of India, to the best friend of mine, for the yesterday's hospitality and atmosphere\nFriends, no country can ever move ahead with half-hearted resolve, with constrained dreams Expansion of dreams alone has the ability to decide the flight of a person or the flight of a person. This is a new India and the vastness of its dreams, the vastness of its flight is infinite, it has unlimited will power.\nToday, India has taken a very big, very important step towards realizing an old dream. I congratulate, I convey my best wishes to 1.25 billion countrymen on the occasion of the ground breaking ceremony of Mumbai-Ahmadabad High-speed Rail Corridor. The bullet train project is such a project that will bring faster results with high speed, fast progress and fast technology. This is both convenience and safety, which will bring both - employment as well as speed. This is both friendly and eco-friendly. Today is a historical day for the relations of Japan and India and it is equally an emotional occasion as well. A good friend is always above the limits of time and boundaries and Japan has demonstrated this thing that how close a friend of India it is who is beyond the times and boundaries The first high-speed rail project between Mumbai and Ahmedabad is a good example, it is a good symbol of strengthening of bilateral relations. If the ground breaking ceremony of this project is taking place today within such a short span of time then this is the best Abe San By taking personal interest, Mr. Shinzo Abe ensured that there should be no hurdles in this project. Friends, growth of human civilization is very closely linked with the development of the means of transportation, if we take a closer look at Asian civilization then we will find that at that time villages, cities and people used to harness the river banks and these were the areas of the hub of development; after that roads became a medium for development and the cities used to grow from anywhere. And now the next generation of growth will only take place near the high-speed corridors.\nFriends, transport system, are it railways or be it waterways or be it air corridors, plays an extremely important role in the development of a country. This transportation system becomes the foundation for connectivity in the country and connectivity benefits in people, in many ways Those who are familiar with the history of America, today the whole world knows in the history of America that is a new era of economic progress, after the development of the railways of America. Just a while ago, our friend Abe San told us about the situation of Japan after World War II. What a terrible life it was, what kind of poverty was there? But Bullet Train started in Japan in 1964 and then this technology has been gradually spreading to the world and it transformed the economy of Japan. Today, its shadow can be seen from Europe to China. High-Speed ​​Railways has played a very important role in bringing about not only economic changes but also in bringing about these countries in social changes. The time has changed a lot since then, requirements have changed And so it's imperative to bring about changes in our approach Small attempts have been made during the time New things have been added. However, now is not Time does not wait much The Technology that had not changed in the last hundred years, what it has changed in the last 25 years If the changes are taking place so fastly then today our emphasis should go beyond the connectivity to high speed connectivity, this is our priority and our emphasis is on this. High-speed connectivity will increase the speed and reduce the distance and it will open new avenues for the economic progress. Friends, there is a direct relation between the productivity and that country's economic progress, growth will happen when productivity is there Our emphasis is on more productivity with high-speed connectivity.\nFriends, today on this occasion, I would like to specialize in Japan's friendship. When we are Indian, specially in Guajarati's and Ahmadabad's, go out to buy something, when we have weigh everything, then we account for every single penny. We continuously analyses both the profit and loss. When we go out to buy an ordinary bike and if we borrow money from a bank then we will knock the doors of ten banks. We will visit every bank at least ten times and we will calculate that we will give the loan on less interest. Some bank will offer it for 8% and some other may offer the loan on 9% and then again we will calculate, we may try to figure out the interest at this interest rate then what will be the final cost of my bike at the time of settlement of the loan, and for how many years? We see these things very minutely and we visit the bank so many times seeking the reduction that even a bank employee will get tired. I can not borrow on 8% or 9% And we celebrate even if someone reduces the interest rate by just half a percent. And we know this thing very well and maybe Ahmadabad's will know it extremely well. Friends, just imagine, no one can get a friend; no one can get a bank like India has a friend like Abe San, as India has got a friend like Japan. If someone offers an interest free loan and repay it not in ten or twenty years but repay it in fifty years. So will anyone believe this thing? People do not get this kind of bank but India has got such a friend that has decided to lend eighty eight thousand rupees at the interest rate of just 0.1% for this bullet train.\nI'm surprised when I was in Gujarat and when I used to talk about the bullet train then it was asked to me: Modi talks that why should we bring a bullet train, when will he bring it, when will he do it, when will he bring it? And when I have started to bring it then they are asking: why am I bringing it? Brothers and sisters This bullet train is a very big gift of Japan to India and in a way this whole project is built at no cost. And once again I express my gratitude to Japan, which has come forward, which has been involved in this project with providing technology and economic support for it.\nBrothers and sisters, this high-speed railway system will not only reduce the distance between the two places but the people of the cities are located at a distance of 500 kilometers from one another and therefore I would say that this train will travel from Amaroo Ahmedabad to Amchi Mumbai When this project will be completed then the distance between Mumbai to Ahmedabad will be covered within two-three hours.\nIf we compare this thing with the air travel then one can reach Mumbai in less than half of the time by using this high-speed rail, from here to the airport, there was formalities of completion and also required time for going home or your office from the airport\nWhat a big change it will bring about How much is it? It will also reduce the number of vehicles plying on the Mumbai-Ahmadabad road and it will also have a positive impact on the environment and saving fuel.\nWith this project, a new economic system is also going to be developed on the Mumbai-Ahmadabad route. In a way, the entire area between the two cities will be converted into a single economic zone. High-Speed ​​Corridor will not only speed-up traffic, it will also boost trade, the interaction between different areas will also increase and whether it is the transfer of manpower or transportation of goods, it will make them both simple and easy. This will also lead to the development of the country and as I said earlier, the country will achieve a new speed.\nThere is a notion that whatever new technology comes, it's only comes for the rich, while experiencing something else. If technology is used for the empowerment of the poor, then we will win the fight against poverty very fast and therefore our goal is to use it. . I believe that technology is beneficial only when a country's general residents can use it well. Today, when we have been bringing in new and highly advanced technologies in the railways, we are striving that the common man of the country should also get the benefits of new technology Railways will benefit from the technology transfer during this project. It will be the technicians, vendors and manufacturers of this area and on the other hand, the railway network that we have, it has to be modernized and will get benefit from this thing\nFriends, we may be getting technology from Japan but most of the resources for the bullet train will be mobilized in India. And so our industries will have to produce world class equipments and also supply them on time. We will have place emphasis on 'zero defect, zero effect' manufacturing This will also reinforce 'Make in India' program. This project is also bringing in thousands of direct and indirect employment opportunities.\nFriends, an integrated transport system in the country is required for a 'New India'. It is a dream of 'New India' And, therefore, we are focusing on the Feature Proofing of the country so that infrastructure can be built according to the future generations. Whether it is railways, highways, waterways or the airways, we have stressed equally on infrastructure in all areas and we have been moving forward in these areas at an unprecedented speed. We are building roads at a faster pace than before. Benefits of GST can also be seen in the country's transport system; Daily distance traveled by trucks has increased by 30 percent Earlier if a truck carrying goods used to travel 200 kilometers a day, then after the implementation of GST and after removal of check-post troubles, today, the same truck traveled 200 kilometers instead of one day in 250 kilometers, so a 30 percent increase in speed of the economy is possible due to the implementation of GST alone and therefore there is going to be a possibility of people getting cheap goods.\nThe government is committed towards developing waterways as an environmentally friendly mode of transport. Moving forward in this direction, we are working towards developing 106 overflowing rivers in the form of national waterways. Aviation sector is also bringing new prospects in India In the last three years, the number of people traveling on airplanes i.e. Number of domestic flyers has increased by about three crore passengers We have created national aviation policy for the first time Lives of the middle class people will be changed with the help of Udan Yojana (Flying Scheme). Under this scheme, 70 small towns of the country are being inter-linked so that the common citizens of the country can take advantage of affordable air services.\nEqual attention is given to both, on improving the existing railway system and on construction of a new railway network on the basis of modern technology. We have expedited the work of lying of railway tracks, doubling of railway tracks, its electrification and today the work is being done at a faster pace than ever before. The kind of investment that the government is currently making in the railways, it has never done done before Along with the increase in the investment, now the emphasis is on completing those projects which have been stuck for decades. Indian government is continuing to increase the capacity of Indian Railways and facilitate freight movement.\nWestern Dedicated Freight Corridor is being constructed from Jawaharlal Port in Mumbai to Dadri in Uttar Pradesh. Similarly, the Eastern Dedicated Freight Corridor is being constructed from Kolkata to Ludhiana. We are trying to complete these projects in the next three to three-and-a-half years. Congestion will be reduced after completion of these projects and we will save time for passenger trains and the capacity of railways will also increase.\nFriends, High-Speed ​​Rail Project is an integral part of the vision of making a modern railway. I am very happy that today we have performed its ground-breaking ceremony. And my dear brothers and sisters, my dear countrymen, today ground-breaking has been done. This is the 70th year of our independence; We are celebrating the centenary of the Sabarmati Ashram. I have a dream, when I complete 75 years of our independence in 2022-23, we finish this rail project and as Abe San has just said that we both inaugurate it by travelling on that train. If once Japan and India have resolved this thing then we will definitely do it, that I can assure you.\nAlong with this project, a high-speed train is also being established in Baroda for preparing high-speed rail experts. I believe this is a very important project Vadodara has a very important unit of the railways for years. Now, Japan has got there, the kind of manpower that is needed for the high-speed railway, there is a need to teach the new technology, Indian youth will be the opportunity and when there is human Resource Skill Development then country's power increases manifold which is also more than a high-speed train, that work will be done in Baroda, with the help of Japan It is a modern rail engineering work and young people of India will be ready for that. You can imagine that this institution is going to perform the task of creating such a capable human resource for the New India I attach greater importance to the ground breaking ceremony of this institution which is going to provide advance training to the young people of the significance of the significance that I will give the ground breaking ceremony of the high speed railway, as it will lay the foundation of the 21st century India\nI once again congratulate all the delegates and employees of India and Japan. The project has reached due to their efforts And now the real ground work is starting I have full faith that we will try Once again, I express my gratitude to the Prime Minister of Japan and my best friend Mr. Shinzo Abe, Mr. Abe San And India's train network is so big that people are equal to the total population of Japan travel on our railway network in one week. Such a large network, what a huge capacity? We have scope, we have speed; You have the skills and together we will move forward to new momentum to this New India\nOnce again, I express my heartfelt gratitude to the people of Gujarat for the grand welcome and the respect that the people of Gujarat have accorded and they did it according to the respect of Japan of the Prime Minister of Japan. I congratulate both the governments of Gujarat and Maharashtra Both the governments by working together and by working with the Government of India and with the Government of Japan, executed all the work, one after another, at a high speed and took the whole system so I express my heartfelt gratitude to the Chief Minister of Gujarat and also to the Chief Minister of Maharashtra.\nThanks a lot"