"\nPM Modi, Belarus presidential review of bilateral ties, issues of regional and global developments\nThere are lots of business and investment opportunities in pharmaceuticals, oil \u0026 gas, heavy machinery and equipment: PM\nIndia-Belarus cooperation: PM Modi\nYour Excellency President Alexander Lukashenku\nFriends,\nMembers of the media\nI am happy to welcome President Lukashenku to India His visit comes as both countries mark 25 years of our diplomatic relations this year.\nWe have already had the pleasure of receiving President Lukashenku in India in 1997 and in 2007. During this visit, I hope Your Excellency will get a chance to see and experience the transformations taking place in India.\nOur discussions today was wide-ranging and forward-looking. They were marked by the warmth of our ties over two and a half decades. We exchanged views on bilateral issues and regional and global developments. We reviewed the architecture of our partnership We considered ideas and initiatives for further expanding it. We decided to increase our cooperation in all aspects of cooperation.\nI found in President Lukashenku matching enthusiasm and desire to scale up our partnership\nTo this end, we will work to diversify economic links The focus is on the natural complementarity between us\nOur companies have evolve from a buyer-seller framework to deeper engagement There are lots of businesses and investment opportunities in pharmaceuticals, oil \u0026 gas, heavy machinery and equipment. Last year, Indian companies made a positive startup with three joint ventures in pharmaceuticals.\nPossibilities for partnership also exist in manufacturing of tires, agro-industrial machinery, and mining equipment. Similarly, in heavy-duty construction machinery, India has a growing demand and Belarus has industrial strengths.\nWe will also encourage joint development and manufacturing in defense sector under the Make in India program. We have also progressed our discussion on utilizing the US $ 100 million line of credit that India offered in 2015 in specific projects in Belarus.\nIndia is linked with Belarus under multilateral economic initiatives such as the Eurasian Economic Union (EEU) and the International North South Transport Corridor. India is negotiating a free trade agreement with the EEU.\nFriends,\nScience and Technology Belarus is a long-time partner in this field.\nInnovation and commercialization will be given due emphasis in fields like metallurgy \u0026 materials, nano-materials, biological \u0026 medical sciences, and chemical \u0026 engineering sciences. We envisage participation in our youth in this process.\nWe are exploring the setting up of a technology demonstration center in India.\nAnother dimension of India's partnership with Belarus lies in development cooperation. Belarus is a participant in the Indian Technical and Economic Cooperation Program.\nIn international forums, our two countries have close cooperation and common approaches on issues of mutual interest.\nIndia and Belarus continue to provide mutual support for each other in multilateral fora\nFriends,\nPresident Lukashenku and I discussed the rich history of cultural interactions among our people, which has nurtured goodwill I was happy to learn that many Belarusians take active interest in Indian culture, cuisines, movies, music, dance, yoga and Ayurveda.\nI see great potential to enhance our tourism and people-to-people exchanges.\nIn the closing, I want to thank President Lukashenku for being honored guest. India will work closely with Belarus in the coming days and months to implement today's consensus and results. I wish President Lukashenku a memorable stay in India\nI thank you."