"Share\n\nSwami Vivekananda said that only rituals will not connect a person to divinity He said Jan\nVivekananda was in search of truth: PM Modi\nSwami Vivekananda had given the concept of 'One Asia.' He said that the solutions to the world's problems will come from Asia: PM\nThere is no life without Creativity Let our creativity strengthen our nation and fulfill the wishes of our people: PM\nIndia is changing India's standing at the global stage is growing and this is due to Jan Shakti: PM\nI have been told that due to shortage of space here a large number of people are sitting in some other room. I respectfully also them also\nToday it is the 11th September, the world never knew the importance of 9/11 before 2001. It's not the fault of the world, it's our fault that we push it into oblivion Had we not done so, probably the terrible 9/11 of the 21st century did not happen A 9/11 happened 125 years ago also, the day when a young man from this country, he was almost your age, may be old 5-7 years, in a saffron robe, the world was not even familiar with the attire , and the world which was looking at him as a representative of a slave, India, but his self-confidence had that power that even the slightest shadow of slavery was neither his thought nor his behavior nor in his voice. What kind of heritage he was wasting within himself that even after thousands of years of slavery a fire was raging within him, he had that kind of confidence in him that our country, its philosophy, its lifestyle has the ability to give a lot to the world That was something unusual\nWe should reflect on this that when everything around us is negative, when there are voices of dissent all around and still we have articulate our ideas then how sccared we are doing so. We will think twice before speaking. What kind of power that great personality did that? A person who knows very well his inner fire, inner enthusiasm, inner self confidence only he can try the world, solutions to the problems of the world The words \"Ladies and Gentlemen\" And when he addressed them as \"Brothers and Sisters of America\", there was burst of thunderous applause that continued for quite a few minutes. With these words he introduced the power of India to the world That was also a kind of 9/11 One who had treasured Mother India within yourself The one who had imbibed all the languages ​​of India in him, from north to south, from east to west, one who could see the miracle of India within himself, one who could make the whole world his own within a few minutes, one who gave him the idea of ​​the whole world. That was 9/11 and that was And there was this other 9/11 at the beginning of the 21st century when humans were massacred and there was destruction all around. On the same land of America, one 9/11 gave the message of love and aneness and the other which shook the world and humanity and brought them on the verge of destruction, the result of our forgetting the lessons of the first 9/11 . The world then came to know that how a voice that emanated from India gives 9/11 a significance in the history and how this 9/11 has become seeded in the psyche of the world which is the destruction of the path and the deformity of path. And that is why today, on 9/11, I feel that there is a need to understand Vivekanand Ji in a different way.\nIf you look at it, you will see two aspects of Vivekanand Ji. Across the world Where he went, Where he got a chance to discuss, he would never tirelessly glorify the great traditions and philosophy of India, he would never stop or do so in the embarrassment. That was one aspect. And the other aspect was when he would talk in India he would openly criticize our evil practices. He used to hit hard on our weaknesses and the language that he used - if we use the same language today, perhaps, people are surprised, how any such language can be used. He used to raise voice against everyone And just imagine that the society of that period when the importance of rituals, worship, traditions was very high and it was the society's natural tendency. During such a time and under such a condition, a young man of 30 years, stands up and says that you will not be able to reach God by following these rituals and worshiping in temples. He said, \"Service to mankind is service to God\". \"Go and serve the poor and you will be able to reach God\". What a great strength!\nThe person who will praise India out of the country but when he came back to India he would hit hard on the social evils of the country. He belonged to the tradition of saints but he never went out of the search of a Guru. It is a matter of learning and appreciation. He did not come out to find a guru Throughout his life Mahatma Gandhi also engaged in the search of truth. He was also searching for the truth The family was in difficult economic situation Ram Krishna Dev sent him to goddess Kali and said \"go and ask you want from goddess kali\". And when he asked him, \"No, I did not\". That was his nature that he was not ready to seek help from the goddess Kali. What was that inner strength, what was that energy that gave rise to such capacity, and therefore whatever evils are present in the current society, should we fight against those evils? Should we accept them? Vivekanand Ji used the words 'Brother and Sisters of America' on the American soil and we dance and joy here but I would like to like it. Do we really look at the girls with an feeling of respect, and I bow 100 times to those who do not really do, but those people who are not able to see girls as human beings; They are also a creation If we do not look at them with this feeling then we should really think 50 times that is why we have the right to rejoice at the use of words, 'Brothers and Sisters of America' by Vivekanand Ji.\nHave we ever thought that Vivekanand used to say that serving the society is equal to serving the God Now look, a man, at the age of 30, created ripples in the world. During that period of the slavery there were two people who manifested a new consciousness and energy in India. There were two events, one when Rabindranath Tagore received the Nobel Prize and other when the 9/11 speech of Vivekanand became a topic of discussion all over the world. These two events stirred up a new consciousness in India during that period of slavery, and both of them were prodigies of Bengal. How much pride I feel when I tell someone in the world that Rabindranath Tagore from my country created the national anthems of India, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh Do we take pride in this legacy of us? And it is not shallow Today, India is a young country in the world. 800 million people of this country are less than the age at which Vivekanand Ji gave his speech in Chicago. A country whose 65 percent population is less than the age at which Vivekanand Ji made his mark in the world, what is a better inspiration for them than Vivekanand Ji and therefore, the kind of work Vivekanand did, he is not the one who will be limited to He converted ideas into idealism and he combined ideas and idealism to make a institutional framework. Around one-twenty years ago he created Ram Krishna Mission, he did not create Vivekanand mission It is a small thing but an example is that Ram Krishna Mission has emerged, that even after 120 years there is no dilution or diversion in its principles. How did he come like a strong foundation for the institution, how clear his vision was and how strong the action plan was? Every aspect of India would have been experienced in such a deep sense, only then it has been possible for that movement to be the same spirit even after 120 years.\nI had the good luck of spending a few moments in that great tradition. I was fortunate enough to visit Chicago on the centennial year of Vivekanand's speech of 9/11. I was fortunate enough to visit the hall and participated in the centennial celebrations of the speech. I could imagine how the moment was\nHas anyone in the world thought about the 125th anniversary of a speech? A speech that lasted sometime, a speech of few words which is still alive even after 125 years. This in itself is a very big opportunity for us to make it as one of our great heritage.\nI came here and I heard the chanting of Vande Mataram, Vande Mataram in the loudest possible voice. It's a hair raising experience and a feeling of reverence for India naturally takes over. But I am not posing this question to the people present here in this auditorium alone, I am asking this question to the whole India. Do we have a right to chant Vande Matram? I know You can think 50 times, but tell me, do we have the right to say Vande Matram? We are those who are spitting on Mother India after eating pan and then chanting Vande Mataram We are those who are throwing all the garbage on Mother India and then chanting Vande Matram. If you are in India, then it is important for us to think that our mother India is completely water and productive in every way, I do not like it We may have reverence for Ganga, thinking that taking a dip in Ganga cleanses us of our sins, every young person has a desire to take his parents to Ganga at least once for a holy dip, but are we able to stop from polluting that Ganga? If Vivekanand Ji had been present today, would he have scolded us or not? Sometimes we feel that there are plenty of doctors\nNo sir, we are healthy because we have plenty of doctors And if we have more respect for his work than for a doctor then only we can say Vande Matram I remember quite well that once I asked, first build toilets then a temple. Many people are scoffed at me but I am happy that we have been allowed to marry in our country. We are here on this land for thousands of years. What is the reason for that: Among ourselves we have produced such people who led us in our vices and that is our strength. When we remember Swami Vivekanand Ji, then that 9/11 was not a mere treasure of words, it was the voice of tenacity, it was the voice of tenacity, only then the words which came out to power . Otherwise do you remember, India, a land of snakes and snake charmers, a land of the rules about what is to eat and what not to eat on a particular day, this is how India was recognized.\nVivekananda had said before the world that there is no tradition under our tradition. Do not eat food, do not eat it is not the culture of my country, it will be a part of our personalities, our cultural disorder is different. It is our thinking that we are all selfish. Ahm Brahmasmi is not such a thing Gunitam Vishwaay Merayam This Arya Vrishta will make the whole world well-meaning, in this sense there is no caste change for change of religion and hence the great heritage of which we grew up with that tradition is all this is the birth of this earth.\nVivekanand had publicly told the world that our tradition was not inferior than theirs. What's not to eat? It has been a part of our system Our way of thinking is 'I am the supreme being' These ideas have not come out without any purpose. 'We will make the whole world', this Aryan philosophy means that we will make the whole world civilized, it is not changing for anybody's caste or religion, and that is why the great legacy, the great tradition under which we have been raised, all these things only\nThese things are a result of penance of many centuries and every person in the county has contributed something or the other in this. This is a country where a beggar is also full of knowledge. He conveys his good wishes to the givers and even those who do not give anything And therefore this was the fundamental basis of the success of Swami Vivekanand Ji that he had the feeling of self-confidence and self-pride in himself and 'self' did not mean a person, it was the pride in the heritage of the country. he was representing and which he presented Do we say? If we go to a good place which has good natural environment and which is spic and span, then what is the first thing that comes to mind? Do we say something like that or not? If we had been raised with self-respect and self-pride then this feeling would not be there We will take pride that our country also has such things\nI tell you friends that if we really look at Vivekanand Ji in today's context; Whenever I say 'Make In India', there are many people who oppose it. Some people say that instead of 'Make in India' it should be 'Made in India', there are many smart people who can give a new meaning to it. But if someone remembers the discussion between Vivekanand Ji and Jamshed Ji Tata; at that time India was a slave country but even then a 30 year old young man was asking a person like Jamshed Ji Tata that he should make in India, he should setup industries in India. And later Jamshed Ji Tata himself acknowledged that these words of Vivekanand Ji have been a inspiration for him and that is the reason that he established industries in India.\nYou will be surprised to know that the first agricultural revolution took shape from the ideas of Vivekanand Ji and Dr. Sen who is considered to be the pioneer of first agricultural revolution in India, when he set up an institute, he named it Vivekanand Agricultural Research Institute. It means that the approach to agriculture in India should be based on scientific research and it should be modern, Vivekanand Ji had this kind of ideas during that period.\nToday is a lot of emphasis on the fact that our youth goes to university Today 9/11 is also associated with the centenary celebrations of Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyay and it is also the birth anniversary of Acharya Vinoba Bhave, the person who really lives according to the principles of Mahatma Gandhi. Today when I say this thing, then the people who have read, listened or studied, Pandit Deen Dayal, his thoughts on progress, welfare of poor and service to society is the service to god etc. These are nothing but the teachings of Vivekanand Ji in the modern context. A very close associate of Acharya Vinoba Bhave ji had Dada Dharmadhikari. What Gandhiji used to think or teach, Vinoba ji really expressed those thoughts by his life by following them and what Vinoba ji used to think, the task of putting them into words was in Dada dharma ji's thought process. Dada Dharmadhikari wrote about a funny incident in one of his books. A young man came in He wanted Dharmadhikari to recommend him so that he could get a job. Dada Dharmadhikari wrote about that person who asked him that he is a graduate. Again he asked: What do you know, he said again: I'm a graduate That person did not understand what Dharmadhikari Ji wanted to know So Dharmadhikari Ji asked for the third time: what do you know? That person again said: 'I am a graduate' Dharmadhikari Ji then asked that person, do you know typing, he said no. Do you know how to cook? He said no Do you know how to make furniture? He again said no Do you know how to prepare tea or snacks? He said no, I do not know all these things but I am a graduate Now look what Vivekanand Ji had said, everything that Vivekanand Ji had said was the power to revolutionalise our thinking and he used to talk like that only and he said a very interesting thing, he said: 'Education is not the information of the amount put in your brain and runs riot there, undigested all your life. 'If you have five ideas assimilated and made them your life and character, you have more education than any person who has his library in full library, which means that there were people who stored information is equal to a library in their chests and minds but anyone who lives by five ideas is a educated man. It means that he had distinguished knowledge from skill Today, the whole world has given more importance This government has tried to put forward that idea, the idea of ​​skill development.\nSkill is not a new topic in our country but before it was scattered in different departments which did not have any responsibility, it used to move in the direction of the whims and fancies of the people. We bring all the skill development related work in one place and we have created a new ministry and a new department for it to prepare the youth of India in such a focused way that they should never be dependent on anyone. The youth of my country should not be a job seeker, he should be job creator. The youth of my country should be a provider instead of seeker and hence today when I remember thoughts of Swami Vivekanand, he was a supporter of innovation, he was a supporter of research. He would like to boycott all the old and useless things, but he will exhort people to remove them.\nSocial life can progress when we innovate on regular basis The young generation of our country needs to have that courage and that feeling of innovation. Some people are afraid of 'what if I fail' Have you seen anybody in the world who has been successful without facing any failures? Sometimes the path to success is paved by failures only, so being scared of failure is not the life. One who keeps standing on river bank never drowns, one who jumps into the water, he drowns but while drowning he also learns how to swim. Anyone can live their entire life by counting waves from the shore but the ability to cross waves comes to those who have the courage to fight them by jumping in water or in a lake, or in a ocean Swami Vivekanand had hoped for such kind of young generation.\nToday, the government of India is running campaigns like Start-up India, Stand-up India You can get loans without bank guarantee under the Mudra scheme. I would like the youth of my country to come up with new products and innovations for the problems of my country and take them to the people of India. India is a very big market It's waiting for their talent and capabilities And how Vivekanand Ji is separate knowledge from skill, it is the need of the hour that we keep on emphasizing on the importance of skill. It does not happen overnight You'll see that the results will be very different We have started Atal Innovation Mission i.e. AIM through our NIITI Aayog Along with that atal tinkering lab is also there, which is a campaign to promote young talents of the country It is a silent movement And many talented children brought many new things Once I was in Rashtrapati Bhavan, when Pranab Da had the President, he had called such children from all over the country. Around 12-15 children came here So Pranab da requested me that I should meet these children. I was surprised to see those 12-15 children who had come here as their innovations, half of them were students of 8th, 9th or 10th standard. They brought the project of how to make the best use of garbage waste. They had been made from garbage. What I mean to say is that there is no dearth of talent in India and we must think about that\nToday is a lot of discussion This camp, that camp, this group, that group, cold war etc. look at the Has anyone read vivekanand ji, what was his foreign policy? Swami Vivekanand Ji had said that at that time and now after 120 years it is evident to the world. He had given the concept of One Asia and with that concept he had said that when the world will become embroiled in crises then it will be only One Asia, which has the ability to world to a new direction. One Asia is rich in cultural heritage Today the whole world is saying that the 21st century belongs to Asia Some people say it belongs to China while some others say it belongs to India but there was no doubt that the whole world says 21st century is Asia.\nWhat role can one Asia play in the world? What are the basic capabilities of One Asia which can provide solutions to the problems? It has a rich heritage of thousands of years, this philosophy, this concept of One Asia was given 125 years ago by Vivekanand Ji. And so we must look at Vivekanand Ji in the modern context. He talks about promoting entrepreneurship, in his every discussion, he talks about on what basis India can become able and powerful, so the first thing he talks about is an agricultural revolution, then he talks about innovation and the third thing he is about entrepreneurship. He would also talk about fighting the vices of the society. He speaks a lot against untouchability and calls it insanity Today we are celebrating the birth centenary of Deendayal Ji and he also talked about the downtrodden people. Mahatma Gandhi used to say that if you are making any decision then just make sure that it will be beneficial for the person on the last end of the society and your decision will always be correct.\nFew days ago, some young people organized a program and it was about traveling on the golden quadrilateral that was built during Atal Ji 'tenure. They did a relay race of 6,000 km on cycle. Their mantra was very good, they said: Follow the rules and India will rule. 'If 1.25 billion Indians just do this much i.e. Follow the rules then the dream of Vivekanand Ji that one day India will become the Guru of the world, then automatically India will rule the world But we must follow the rule to achieve that. So with these feelings, when we are celebrating 125 years of his speech, when we are 100 years of Deendayal Ji, and it is also Vinoba Bhave Ji of the birth anniversary and on the other hand the other horrific 9/11 which caused mayhem in the world when man turned against man; in times like these, people like us who believe in the whole world being a family, who see God in plants, who consider rivers as their mothers, who have the whole universe to be their family, we will be able to give something to this crises Only then we can take pride in our things and make timely changes. If you are not correct in the present day then we will raise them against our voice and you must stop them, stop them\nMy young friends,\nRamkrishna Mission which was started by Swami Vivekanand has completed 125 years. It will be 75 years of independence of India in 2022. Can we make a pledge? And that pledge will become the aim of our lives, yes I will definitely do this, and you'll see it differently Sometimes there is a debate in our country, whether all the university presidents who have been elected as student leaders or not. It is a topic of contemplation Sometimes I see that when people who have been involved in the students politics contest elections, they make promises that they will do it or that but till now I have seen that no candidate has promised that they will keep the campus clean. If you want to go to any university campus one day after the elections, what all lies was strewn there? Still Vande Matram? Do we want to make the 21st century as India's century? We will celebrate 75 years of independence in 2022, is it not our responsibility to make India as per the dreams of Gandhi Ji, as per the dreams of Bhagat Singh, Rajguru, Sukhdev, as per the dreams of Subhash Chandra Bose, as per the dreams of Swami Vivekanand? Management students are taught that everybody, somebody, nobody, but ultimately it comes to nothing and that is why this thing that I'll do it, this is my responsibility is necessary and you'll see that it will take much time for India to change If 1.25 billion Indians take one step forward then India will move ahead by 1.25 billion steps.\nI have seen that some days are celebrated in colleges, people may feel good or bad about it, some people protest too, but the different days are college in celebration, today it is Rose day, some people have been against it and they were sitting here too, but I am not against it You see, we need creative robots, we need creativity There is no better place than university campus to come out But does it ever come to our mind that a college in Haryana should decide to celebrate Tamil-day, a college in Punjab decides to celebrate Kerala day? We will listen and sing some of their songs We will learn We will see some Tamil or Malayalam movies in our college, we will call some young people from there and ask them about the games where they play in their hometown and then those games will play with them. Please tell me whether it will be productive or not? Ek Bharat, Shreshtha Bharat will happen or not? You people shout a lot of slogans regarding unity in diversity but please tell me do we ever try to take pride in this diversity? Till the time we do not have an sense of pride for every state, I would like some students from India, I remember some students from Tamil Nadu University and they were greeted by 'Vanakkam' to them, they became so happy and they felt touched Do we feel that we should build such an environment and celebrate this kind of special days in our universities? Do not we feel that in our university we should celebrate a day dedicated to Sikh Gurus so that we get to know the sacrifices made by Sikh Gurus of Punjab Or will we stay stuck in Bhangra only? Punjab is much more than Bhangra and Paratha You see, life is nothing without creativity We can not become robots, the person present inside us should express itself continuously but we must do what enhances the power of our country, which increases our capacity and which fulfills our country's requirements. Till the time we will remain limiting ourselves\nVivekanand Ji used to tell the story about the wellness in a well. We can not be like that We have to integrate ourselves as the whole world, we can imagine that like us. Our journey has been from Upnishads to Satellites. We have never shied away from accepting anything from the world. And we have never been scared that somebody will come and we will be trampled. No Sir, whatever will happen we will handle that We will make them our own and we will go ahead whatever they have in them, then only India will be able to give them something in the world. There had been a period when we were living as a protective nature. Today we have to have this kind of strength And nowadays when I go abroad, I have been feeling that the attitude of India has now changed. This has not been achieved due to our political power, it is the power of 1.25 billion Indians But if we keep on brushing under the carpet then there would be nothing but a rotten bad smell. We have to fight against these evils, we have to fight against them. It should be our dream to make a modern India and why India should not be a modern state? Why should not the youth of my country be at par others in the world? Why should they become strong? Once I met him in a great personality, he has grown up on that topic, at that time I was not in politics. He said: Brother, do you know what is the problem with India? I asked: what was that? He said: 5,000 years ago India was like this, 2,000 years ago India was like this, India was like that during the times of Buddha or like that during the times of Rama, we could not come out of this mentality. The world evaluates you on the basis of where you are at present. We are fortunate that we have a great heritage but we are not ready to move ahead beyond praising that. Taking pride on your past should be an inspiration to move ahead, it should not make us step backwards and stop. We have to move beyond singing our praises. Being young is not a state, it is a state of mind. One who is immersed in the yesterday cannot be considered as young. But one who takes best things from the past and thinks of the future and understands it, he is young. You must make a pledge how to move forward with that feeling of youngness. With this, I pay my obeisance to Deendayal Upadhyay Ji, I pay my obeisance to Vivekanand Ji, I pay my obeisance to Vinoba Bhave Ji and I congratulate the young members of my country.\nThank You"