"We are not only reforming India but are transforming India: PM Modi\nAn India free from poverty, terrorism, corruption, communalism, casteism is being created: PM\nGood infrastructure is no longer about roads and rail only It includes several other aspects that bring a qualitative change in society: PM\nWe are not shied away from taking decisions that are tough For us, the nation is bigger than politics: PM\nIn addition to infrastructure, we are focussing on infraculture, which will help our hardworking farmers: PM\nMy greetings to the Indian community and people of Indian origin living in Myanmar!\nMy best wishes to you for Ganesh Chaturthi and Eid May your life get filled with happiness, peace and prosperity\nI am very happy to be here today I have always wanted to visit this historical and spiritual city of Yangon which is famous for its rich heritage and which has old age links with India. And I also wanted to meet you all, who has deep relations with both India and Myanmar, at this historical and spiritual gateway to the East I can see a mini India here You all who have come here from different parts of India are residing in the heart of a great nation in the form of the heartbeat of another nation. I am all the more happy because you are the manifestation of those cultural traditions that have been nurtured by benevolent mothers like Ganga, Godavari, Krishna, Kaveri, Brahmaputra and Iravati.\nYou represent thousands of years of the shared culture and civilization, geography and history, aspirations and achievements of the great sons and daughters of India and Myanmar.\nFor the past thousands of years, India and Myanmar share not only the boundary but also the emotions. In India, Myanmar is also known as Brahmadesh or the place that belongs to Lord Brahma. Friends, this is that place that nurtured Buddha and his teachings. The Buddhist monks and the Buddhist texts, for many years, have propagated not only the religion but also Pali language and teachings at India of every corner The holy land of Myanmar has gifted India and the whole world of the art of meditation through Late Goenka. And I am happy that his son is present here among us today.\nIn Myanmar even today, Ramayana is the name of Yama. And goddess Saraswati is known as Tharuthari, Shiva as Parvijwa and Vishnu as Vithano.\nThe History of India's struggle for independence will be incomplete without reference to Myanmar. This is that sacred soil from where Subhas Chandra Bose had raised his slogan, \"You give me blood, I will give you freedom\". On hearing this slogan, many youngsters - who loved India more than their lives and were willing to sacrifice their lives for the motherland - came in large numbers to support the Azad Hind Fauj I feel privileged to meet and seek the blessings of those young fighters in the Azad Hind Fauj who has now become old. The foundations of the British rule had shaken when Netaji had announced the formation of Azad Hind Government. This is that very sacred soil where Bal Gangadhar Tilak had written his work, Geeta Rahasya inside the Mandalay jail. This is that very sacred land where great personalities like Mahatma Gandhi, Lala Lajpat Rai, Gurudev Rabindranath Tagore had set their feet on.\nWhenever the great sons of India had left the country in order to fight against the British forces. After the first war of independence in 1857 the ruler Bahadur Shah Zafar was given two yards of land in Myanmar.\nWhenever I visit any country I get the opportunity to enjoy Few days back I visited Jaffna on my Sri Lanka tour. That was the first time when an Indian Prime Minister had visited Jaffna. There i met I also got the opportunity to hand over them When I returned to Sri Lanka in the month of May this year I received an invitation to participate in an international conference. At that time I met Tamil brothers and sisters of Central Sri Lanka. I received so much love from the hospital for the inauguration of one hospital. My Tamil brothers had a lot of love on the soil of Sri Lanka. Whenever I meet the Indian community abroad, be it the construction workers of Saudi Arabia or the Farmers and traders of Kenya or the professionals of Silicon Valley, I feel deeply attached them. In a way they are government's ambassadors; you all are our ambassadors I feel proud of you, where you are not only contributing to the place of development and harmony but also the Indian culture, which is a great thing to protect.\n3 years ago United Nations has passed the International Yoga Day under India's initiative in record support. June 21st is being celebrated worldwide as International Day for Yoga for the past 3 years. Whenever we talk about yoga a reference to India\nThis global recognition of yoga is your achievement because it was taken from all the worlds.\nIt's not only an emotional connect with India but you are also associated with India's development. The Indian Diaspora is cooperating with India for its development. They are aiding in the development projects of their or their ancestor's states. The youngsters are all more active, not only through the media but also the deep interests that are developing. Last year, we had organized a quiz titled 'Know India' for the overseas youth. I was very happy and pleasantly surprised to know that youth from about hundred countries had participated in the quiz. This means that the second and third generation Indian students had participated in large numbers.\nWhen I meet you, I also feel that living in foreign countries with government authorities in India is not a 'one-way-traffic' anymore\nBefore coming here I had requested I am really thankful to you\nFrom the very first day after coming to power, the welfare of the Indian diaspora has been our government's priority. We have taken many initiatives such as merging the PCI and PIO schemes, freeing the long term visa holders from police reporting, easy access to passport, efficient utilization of community welfare fund, re-energizing the Pravasi Indian Divas and Organizing Pravasi Indian Divas parts of the world, according to the needs and feedback of the overseas Indian community.\nAnd I believe that there is no other foreign minister like Sushma Swaraj who is so active in solving the issues of Indian diaspora.\nWhenever any Indian or person of Indian origin has faced any problem, she is immediately contacted that person through Twitter and resolves the issue at the earliest. Whenever you have any difficulty while obtaining passport or visa or you need any legal assistance, the doors of the Indian Embassy are open for the Indian community 24/7, 365 days.\nFriends, today the whole world is looking up to India; and the reason being you all You are the true ambassadors of India because India is transforming at a rapid pace and moving forward.\nWe are not only reforming our country, we are transforming India. We are not just changing India; We are building a new India We celebrated 70 years of India's Independence, last month. After five years, in 2022 it will be seventy five years of India's Independence We have pledged to build a new India by the time Independent India turns 75 years\nWe have taken a resolution to make India clean and poverty free, terrorism free, communalism free, casteism free, corruption free. I appeal to you to visit the new India website and be a part of this great mission.\nFriends, I believe that the 19th Century design can not be used for 21st century infrastructure and infrastructure. The 21st century infrastructure includes everything that connects the people with modern techniques; Transform their lives and quality of life. India has taken the solar power into the world\nToday a lot of investments are being made in railways, roads and airports like never before. The work of connecting every gram panchayat to the optical fiber network is progressing at a rapid pace. Coastal cities and ports are being developed at Sagarmala project.\nI believe that with these efforts a new 'Infra culture' will also develop along with new infrastructures in the country and agriculture will be an inherent part of the same. Our government is aiming at doubling the farmer's income. For this we are making efforts to help them from the marketing stage like soil health card, neem coated urea, micro irrigation, crop insurance, food processing park, cold storage chain and so on and so forth. We are all aware of the Green Revolution and The White Revolution. But today we have to focus on two more revolutions - Blue Revolution and Sweet Revolution as well. Blue revolution is for the welfare of not only the fishermen but also for the marine economy. Similarly, sweet revolution that is beekeeping can help increase the income manifold.\nकल्चर ऑफ़ द कल्चर This is the first time For us The government has taken every decision without any hesitation for the welfare of this nation, be it the surgical strike or demonetization.\nWe took the tough decision of demonetizing rupees 1000 and rupees 500 notes in order to eliminate black money and corruption. We did not allow the 125 crore people to bear the burden of sins. Black money does not have any address It is not traceable\nFriends, after demonetization we caught hold of lakhs of people whose bank accounts had crises of rupees but they did not ever filed income tax return. We also got about lakhs of companies that were involved in money laundering cases. My friends, you will be happy to know that within 3 months the registration of more than 2 lakh companies where cancelled and their bank accounts are freezed.\nJust 2 months back GST was implemented. I call GST as Good and Simple Taxes. GST has created a new culture of doing business with honesty. Those businessmen who were out of the tax system for the past 6 years have been linked with it within two months after the implementation of GST. Which was not accomplished in 6 years only A new era started 3 years ago. Following the principle of 'minimum government, maximum governance', all the procedures have been simplified, the laws have been changed; The people have gained the confidence back that India can transform and move forward and that India is now capable of getting rid of the decades-old evils that India back.\nFriends, India believes in sharing the fruits of its development with other countries. We believe in sharing our experiences with other developing countries of Africa, South Asia or Pacific Island. I had been given a South Asian satellite in 2014 and we launched it this year. Not only India but all neighboring countries that are associated with this satellite\nWe have been the first responders at the time of a natural disaster or any crisis, but only for those who are in need of help. When we reach out, we will never ask for the nationality of that person. The cyclone hit Myanmar on the occasion of West Asian violence or rehabilitation work during times of crises, be it the Nepal earthquake or water crisis of Maldives or Typhoon in Fiji or Indians and foreigners of evacuation.\nFriends, 'Vasudev kutumbakam' that is, 'the whole world is a family' has been our cultural tradition and we are proud of it. Today the whole world considers India as the third leader. Today India has a significant position in the world order; be it the International Day of Yoga or the International Solar Alliance or the agenda on Golden Decade of the BRICS; the voice of India A new hope and expectation has developed among the countries.\nBrothers and sisters, India thinks the north eastern states as a gateway to the South East Asia. The Gateway opens toward Myanmar Therefore, India is making this roads towards connecting India to this gateway. Fifteen months back 1600 crore rupees were sanctioned to upgrade the Imphal-Moreh section. An integrated check post is also being made at Moreh. Now the trade and people to people contact will also increase between Manipur and Myanmar on the completion of this project. We have progressed on the Kaladan project after completing the Sittwe port and Paletwa inland water terminal. The work on the road has already begun I have no doubt about the fact that the transport corridor will emerge as the development corridor for the nearby areas. India has started providing truck-loads of high speed diesel to meet the needs of upper Myanmar. We want to increase our cooperation by signing the border crossing agreement and the motor vehicles agreement thereby increasing the power and energy trading. India is proud of the achievements in the development of cooperation and capacity building partnership.\nWe are sharing India's democratic experiences with Myanmar The people to people connect and the social culture of India is our greatest strength and it strengthens and furthermore we have decided to visit India in the interest of the people who are in Myanmar for gratis visa. We have also decided to release forty fishermen of Myanmar. We hope that they will soon be united with their families\nToday I visited the Ananda Temple in Bagan. India is helping in renovation of Ananda Temple as well as other historical structures that was destroyed last year due to the earthquake. India and Myanmar have a strong historical connection. I believe research should be done in this matter.\nDuring our discussions, I have put forward a proposal to the Myanmar government. We can conduct the survey on INA memorial together and a joint history project. This can help in strengthening people\nI am happy to inform you that we have decided to provide OCI based on National Registration Card. The government has also decided to increase the number of scholarships for Indian Council for Cultural Relations in order to strengthen the cultural relations between the two countries.\nFriends, once I read that India and Myanmar's relation is based on 5Bs - Buddhism, Business, Bollywood, Bharatnatyam and Burma teak. But I think they have missed one B here; which is Belief or trust; Trust between the two countries Trust between the two countries has been developing over the years.\nBrothers and sisters, our motto of Sabka Saath Sabka Vikas is not limited to our country's boundaries; because it also means every country's development. India is obligated to cooperate in the development projects of Myanmar.\nI bow to you for showering your blessings I feel privileged to have met you all. Thanks to me and for your attachment with India Once again I thank you all from the bottom of my heart and I salute this land. Thanks a lot!"