"Share\n\nFor ease of doing business, this country needs improvement and extension of Surat Airport is a effort in this direction: PM\nWe want to travel to all UDAN has immensely helped to boost air connectivity in India: PM Modi\nIn four years of our rule, we built 1.30 crore houses while in UPA rule they built 25 lakh houses: PM\nMy dear brothers and sisters,\nToday is the death anniversary of Pujya Bapu and after this in today, I am about to inaugurate the National Salt Satyagraha Memorial on Bapu's Salt Satyagraha in Dandi. I worship Bapu from Surat, this city of Karmiyogi, and I pay them. Surat's Bapu's salt has been very deep with Satyagraha. Hundreds of Satyagrahis of Surat were also associated with Bapu, along with it was one of the first centers of the country where Surat had opposed salt law even before Dandi March.\nSurat always respected Gandhiji's values. Whether Swachavan, Swavalamban or Swadeshi, Gandhiji's philosophy is brought to Surat on the ground. And I'm glad, I see that the whole team of the sky. Dhal I had met in Delhi, all these young people, no engineers, any chartered accountants, there are no teachers, no businessmen. I will work for cleanliness in the mind and they dedicate themselves to cleanliness, I congratulate all these young people. Today, with the diamonds and clothes, many small industries have been empowering the city to make these cities.\nToday, hundreds of projects worth crores of rupees have been inaugurated and laid-downs to give co-workers, Surat's spirits and strengths. In addition to the expansion of Surat Airport, along with dozens of projects have been inaugurated and laid out to make the city smart. I congratulate all of you on behalf of all the people related to development projects.\nCompanions, our government is engaged in developing a new culture of nation of the country of living and z of doing business. For this, development of infrastructure in the country, emphasis on connectivity development, these are our priorities. Surat is one of the cities in the country where the world's fastest growing economy caters to our economy.\nEvery sune knows about an international report recently, but probably the countrymen will not know. And in that report it has been said that in the top ten cities of the world in the next 10-15 years, the top ten of the world, all 10 of these are from Hindustan. And it's a matter of great happiness in the top, who is at the top? Surat is proud? Congratulations to Surat.\nIt is clear that the coming time is of Surat, the cities of India. These are not just India, but centers of economic activities of the whole world. There is going to be investment from all over the world, business and business is going to increase manifold, millions of young colleagues are going to become job opportunities.\nCompanions, when the world is so optimistic about the cities of India, it is our responsibility to prepare these cities for the future along with the present. And it is also true that the purpose of preparing Surat for the future is to understand here the infrastructure, the arrangements here, the education here, the health here; All this is there, the human mind has to take it to that height too. And with this thinking we are going to put together all the types of connectivity across the country after the project.\nThis airport of Surat, now the third largest airport in Gujarat, that is, became a busy airport. From today, the work of the new terminal has started, when it will be completed, there will be a capacity to arrange 1200 domestic and 600 international passenger coordinates. This means that one day 1800 passengers will be able to handle this airport. The capacity of Surat Airport is also four lakh passengers annually. The kind of expansion is going on here, after that, the capacity of the airport will increase in the future by more than four lakh to 26 lakh passengers.\nIn addition to the passenger, the cargo capacity here is also going to increase. That is, in the coming time, you will be able to facilitate all your business and business at home and abroad. Outside the business for which businessmen visit here, their time will also be saved.\nCompanions, I have been told that a direct flight of Air India Express for Sharjah will start from here in a few days. Initially, this facility will be done two days a week, but from March it has to be done four days a week. With this flight you will get a lot of help from the business point of view. I also congratulate you and best wishes for this.\nThe colleagues, the government is engaged in connecting the entire country with air connectivity and it has been working fast in the last three to four years. And the result of this is that 17 airports have been upgraded or expedited and work in many airports is going on fast. The Government aims to develop 50 such airports across the country in the next four years which are either not in service or are being used very less.\nPeers, this is my dream, and this dream is that the person wearing an airplane can also fly. For this, the 'Common Citizen of the Flying Land' was introduced. Today, I am happy to mention that the flight has helped bigwigs in incorporating the country into the world's fastest growing aviation market. With flying plan, 12 lakh seats have been available at low prices in the aviation sector of the country.\nUnder this scheme nearly 40 airports across the country have been added to the aviation map of the country. In Gujarat, four Routesporbandar-Mumbai, Kandla-Ahmedabad, Keshode-Ahmedabad and Porbandar-Ahmedabad have been connected to Connecticut under Flight-1 and Flight-2.\nNow about a dozen small and big airports in Gujarat, including Surat in future, will be connected to different cities of the country through Flight-3. It includes areas of Sabarmati River Front, Shatruenjaydam and Strait of Unity, which have the potential for water-Dromasia water airliners. Those who want to go to Bhavnagar, want to visit pilgrimage, they will be able to reach Si-Plane via Seshruntunjayam easily. That is, the future of this kind of project is being considered, in the future, flew off the Sabarmati River Front and flew into a plane of Sardar Sarovar water.\nAlong with colleagues, air connectivity, it is also being taken care that people do not have to travel around big cities for passports. In the year 2014, the total number of passport centers in the country was around 80. The people of Surat will remember- in our large country, such a large population, between 60-65 years of independence, the office giving passports in our country was 80. How much You speak in Gujarati - how many? Eighty\nYou will be happy that the campaign which we started in the last four years has crossed 400 now. Where 80 and Where 400. Think big, do more, do it well, do it on time; And the people of Gujarat know me Apart from this, applying for Passport through 'M Passport Service Mobile App' has become easy. Due to opening more number of Passport Service Centers and simplifying Passport Rules, both distance and delay have been greatly reduced.\nThe colleagues, the central government, is sincerely committed to making the life of every person of the poor and middle class of the country simple and easy. Our efforts are to keep our city clean, traffic jams are not problematic, water and sewer related facilities get better, realize security through CCTV cameras, law system situation is better; All these arrangements are being realized through 'Smart City Mission' and 'Amrit Yojana'. The mission mode is being worked on with a focused approach.\nCompanions, dozens of projects that have been inaugurated and laid out here today, are going to give more expedition to this campaign. It has many projects related to sewer, water, flyovers, roads, education. Apart from this, thousands of homes have also been inaugurated and laid out here under the Prime Minister's Housing Scheme. All these houses are about to enrich the lives of poor sisters and sisters of Surat.\nBrothers and Sisters, more than 13 lakh houses have been built for poor brothers and sisters living in the city for the last four and a half years, work on 37 lakh houses is going on and the government has approved to create new 70 lakhs in the cities. is. In this way, even in the rural areas of the country, more than 13 million homes have been constructed since the year 2014, they have gone to live in that house, they also celebrated Diwali in their home.\nIt can be estimated by the number of how big this number is in itself, that the government of the first, and this figure also be remembered by the people of Surat, during their tenure they would have built 2.5 million houses. How many? How many? 25 million Just tell no how much? Built 25 lakh houses. For the poor, their homeless siblings got a concrete roof, for this today, the Bharatiya Janata Party government made 10 crore 30 lakh houses, one crore 30 lakhs. Where in my era, 25 lakhs and in our four years, where one crore 30 lakhs\nIf I were to work as much as I could, then it would have taken 25 years. Not only that, this Government has also for the first time also for the middle class, and I will urge Surat and the people of the cities to understand that you can understand how much help you can have, take advantage of this.\nFor the first time in our country, this scheme was not before our government was formed, if the middle class family wants to make their own house, the children have grown up and want to take a new home; There was no system. The middle class was left on his luck.\nBy making a new category of homes for the first time, we have started a campaign of relief in the interest of the middle class. And what is the benefit of this, under an estimate if a middle class person takes a loan of Rs 20 lakh and goes to build a house under the Prime Minister's Housing Scheme from the loan amount of Rs 20 lakh, then his interest will be deducted. And the result will be that when the money of the whole house is returned to the bank, then around Rs 6 lakh is being saved. I.e. a savings of 6 lakh rupees for the middle class family to build a house.\nIn India, so many governments came, no government thought, no government did it. It is our pride that we are worrying about the growing middle class families of India and with this, the biggest benefit has been to the middle class youth who have the desire to buy their own house in the early years of their career.\nSome people ask questions, what benefit did the ban on bondage? They should also ask these questions to the youth who have started benefiting from low prices after the ban on bondage. The poor and the middle class should ask questions, whose home dream has come true now. Otherwise, black money in the real estate sector was dominated before the ban on bondage, and the people in Surat know its good. You know the names of big and great men.\nBrothers and Sisters, Our Government has also made sure that the people of poor and middle class do not get entangled in housing projects by making 'Rera Law'. Under 'Rare Law', 30-35 thousand builders have registered themselves and are constructing millions of houses according to the prescribed rules.\nAlong with colleagues, now in government, and when there is willfulness in the government, an example of this is LED lighting. The first LED bulb that was available for up to Rs 350, is now being made available for 40-50 rupees. Now you do not ask me if the 40-50 bulb was sold in 350 then where did the middle ones go, so they do not ask me. His answer has been given by Rajiv Gandhi. He said, if a rupee goes, then 15 paisa reaches, 85 paw what a paw was, he knew the whole world.\nIn the last four and a half years, the government has given 32 crore LED bulbs, which has saved the people's electricity bill approximately 16 thousand, 16 thousand 500 crores annually. This money is mostly left in the middle class families.\nSimilarly, our government's monetary scheme has given new flights to the dreams of poor and low-middle class youth. If the young man first thought about doing his job then he had a problem of guarantee while taking a loan from the bank.\nOur government has so far provided more than 15 crores loan without bank guarantee under the money scheme. You think, under this, people have been given seven lakh crore rupees without any bank guarantee for starting their own employment. Of these, more than 430 million people are those who have taken loan for the first time. That is, in the last four and a half years, the country has also received 44 million new entrepreneurs.\nBrothers and Sisters, the biggest reason behind these comprehensive plans and big decisions is that the government of the absolute majority formed by the power of one of your votes. You might think, just when I was giving the key to the house, you must think that Modi is giving this house; Someone would have thought that this house is being given by the Indian government.\nNo, this house is not giving Modi, neither is India giving the government; These houses are giving you. This is the power of your vote that the poor have got the house. This is the importance of your vote which gives the poor the right to house the house. And so, the changes you see are due to the power of your vote, due to the power of Modi.\nBrothers and Sisters, you know, for 30 years our country has been unstable. Hung parliamen, nobody got a full majority. Governments were executed by jointly जिसका मर्जी पड़े, उस तरफ खींचता चला गया। देश वहीं का वहीं अटक गया और कुछ बातों में पीछे चला गया। पिछले चार-साढ़े चार साल से हम आगे बढ़ पा रहे हैं, उसका एक प्रमुख कारण है- देश की जनता ने समझदारी से वोट डाला और त्रिशंकु की 30 साल पुरानी बीमारी से देश को मुक्‍त कर दिया, पूर्ण बहुमत की सरकार बना दी। और नई पीढ़ी देख सकती है कि पूर्ण बहुमत की सरकार कड़े फैसले भी ले सकती है, बड़े फैसले भी ले सकती है; हिम्‍मत के साथ देश को आगे बढ़ा सकती है, और ये काम हमने किया है।\nपूर्ण बहुमत की सरकार का ये माहात्म्य है, पूर्ण बहुमत की सरकार जवाबदेह भी होती है। आज कोई भी मुझे पूछ सकता है, बताओ मोदीजी, साढ़े चार साल में क्‍या किया। अगर पूर्ण बहुमत की सरकार न होती तो मोदी आराम से कह देता, अरे क्‍या करें भई, वो मिली-जुली सरकार है, कुछ फैसले करना बड़ा मुश्किल होता है, चल जाती गाड़ी; लेकिन नहीं देश की जनता ने पूर्ण बहुमत का फैसला करके दुनिया में देश का नाम बढ़ाया है। और इसलिए एक-एक मतदाता अपने वोट की ताकत समझता है, देशको आगे बढ़ाने में उसकी भागीदारी देखता है। तो देश कैसे बढ रहा है, वो चार-साढ़े चार साल में हमने देखा है।\nआप याद करिए, सरकारें कैसे चलती थीं। मुझे बताइए, आज सूरत एयरपोर्ट पर 70-72 हवाई जहाज चल रहे हैं। अभी सी.आर. पाटिल जी बता रहे थे कि 70-72 जहाज आते-जाते हैं। लेकिन क्‍या कभी हम ये भूल सकते हैं कि किस प्रकार से यहां एयरपोर्ट के लिए आंदोलन करने पड़ते थे,मेमोरंडमदेने पड़ते थे, दिल्‍ली सरकार तक दरवाजे खटखटाने पड़ते थे। मैं भी उस समय की दिल्‍ली की सरकार को मुख्‍यमंत्री के नाते चिटिठ्यां लिख-लिख करके थक गया था, लेकिन उनके दिमाग में कोई राजनीतिकबद्ध इरादा था कि सूरत को ये सुविधा नहीं दी जाती थी, रोड़े अटकाए जाते थे।\nमैं उनको समझाता था, सूरत में ताकत है, एयरलाइन्‍स को फायदा होगा, देश को फायदा होगा; सुनने को तैयार नहीं थे। आप मुझे बताइए, चार लाख पैसेंजर्ससे 26 लाख पैसेंजर्स की क्षमता करने की नौबत आ गई, ये कितनी ताकत थी, जो हमें दिखता था, उनको नहीं दिखता था। सूरत वालों को दिखता था, उनको नहीं दिखता था; क्‍योंकि हम ‘सबका साथ, सबका विकास’ इसकी मंत्र को लेकर काम करने वाले लोग।\nसाथियों, एक तरफ हम पूरी शक्ति से पुरानी व्‍यवस्‍था की कमियों को बदलने में जुटे हैं, नया भारत बनाने में जुटे हैं; वहीं दूसरी तरफ- कुछ ऐसे भी लोग हैं जो हमारे इन प्रयासों की मजाक उड़ाते रहते हैं। वो लोग जिन्‍होंने बीते छह-सात दशक में देश की सुध नहीं ली, सिर्फ अपनी चिंता की, वो बदलते हुए इस भारत को देख नहीं पा रहे। ऐसे नकारात्‍मक सोच वाले लोगों की परवाह किए बिना हम आगे बढ़ने वाले हैं। नए भारत की नई ऊर्जा को हम विकास में ही लगाने वाले हैं।\nमैं फिर एक बार आप सभी को जीवन और कारोबार को आसान करने वाली इन परियोजनाओं के लिए बहुत-बहुत बधाई देता हूं।\nआप इतनी बड़ी संख्‍या में आशीर्वाद देने के लिए पहुंचे, इसके लिए भी मैं आपका बहुत आभारी हूं। मेरे साथ पूरी ताकत से बोलिए-\nLong live Mother India\nLong live Mother India\nLong live Mother India\nThanks a lot."