"President Michel Temer,\nPresident Vladimir Putin,\nLet me begin by sincerely thanking President Xi for his warm reception and the excellent organization. Our interaction during the restricted session was constructive. It enriched our mutual understanding and perspectives. After more than a decade of existence, BRICS has developed a strong framework for cooperation. We contribute stability and growth in a world drifting toward uncertainty. While trade and economy had been the foundation of our cooperation, our endeavor has been the subject of technology, tradition, culture, agriculture, environment, energy, sports, and ICT. The New Development Bank has started disbursing loans in pursuit of its mandate to mobilize resources for infrastructure and sustainable development in BRICS countries. At the same time, our Central Banks have taken steps to make the Contingent Reserve Arrangement fully operational. These are the milestones of progress. Looking ahead, it is important that our people stay at the center of our journey. I am happy to note that China has taken the people-to-people thrust of our exchanges from last year. Such inter-mingling will consolidate our links and deepen our understanding\nExcellencies,\nIndia's own far-reaching journey of transformation gives pride We are in mission-mode to eradicate poverty; to ensure health, sanitation, skills, food security, gender equality, energy, education and innovation. National Programs of Clean Ganga, Renewable Energy, Digital India, Smart Cities, Housing for All and Skill India are laying the basis for clean, green and inclusive development. They are also tapping the creative energy of our 800 million youth Our women's empowerment programs are productivity multipliers that mainstream women in nation building. We have also stepped up the fight against black money and corruption. Moving forward, using the springboard of our national experiences, BRICS countries can deepen partnership for win-win results. Some thoughts come for upgrading mutual cooperation. First, last year we discussed about a BRICS rating agency. An Expert Group has been studying the viability of such an agency. I would urge that the roadmap for its construction should be finalized at the earliest. Second, our Central Banks should further strengthen their capabilities and promote co-operation between the Contingent Reserve Arrangement and the IMF. Third, affordable, reliable, and sustainable Climate relilient development calls on us all available resource streams Renewable energy is especially important on multiple counts. Recognizing this, India, together with France, launched a major international initiative - the International Solar Alliance (ISA) - in November 2015. It will bring together a coalition of 121 countries for mutual gain through enhanced solar energy utilization. BRICS countries can work closely with ISA Our five countries are The NDB can also support We would like to see more clean energy funding, especially in solar energy, from the NDB. Fourth, we are the nations We need to mainstream our youth in our joint initiatives as far as possible. Scaled up cooperation in skill development and exchange of best practices Fifth, at the Goa Summit last year, we had exchanged views on smart cities, urbanization, and disaster-management in the context of cooperation between our cities. We need to further accelerate this track Sixth, Technology and innovation are the foundations of the next generation of global growth and transformation. India has also found that technology and digital resources are powerful tools in fighting poverty and corruption. A strong BRICS partnership on innovation and digital economy can help promote growth, promote transparency and support the sustainable development goals. I would suggest a collaborative pilot project under the BRICS framework, including private entrepreneurship. Finally, India will be able to focus on more capacity in the field of skills, health, infrastructure, manufacturing and connectivity.\nExcellencies,\nIn the last decade, two generations of leader of our countries were the emergence and establishment of BRICS. We acquired credibility, wielded influence and spurred growth. Now, the next decade is crucial In an environment where we seek stability, sustainable development and prosperity BRICS leadership will be critical in driving this transformation. If we as BRICS can set the agenda in these areas, the world will call it its Golden Decade. In our outreach segment with emerging markets tomorrow. I would like to share I am confident that it will help the BRICS in our new journey of partnership. I thank you.\nPM: BRICS has developed a strong framework for cooperation; contributed stability and growth in a world drifting towards uncertainty\n- Raveesh Kumar (@MEAIndia) September 4, 2017\nPM @narendramodi: Our endeavor is to touch the diverse areas of agriculture, culture, environment, energy, sports, and ICT\n- Raveesh Kumar (@MEAIndia) September 4, 2017\nAppreciating thrust in people-to-people exchanges, PM states that such inter-mingling will consolidate our links \u0026 deepen our understanding\n- Raveesh Kumar (@MEAIndia) September 4, 2017\nPM: We are in mission-mode to eradicate poverty; to ensure health, sanitation, skills, food security, gender equality, energy, education\n- Raveesh Kumar (@MEAIndia) September 4, 2017\nPM @narendramodi: Our women's empowerment programs are productivity multipliers that mainstream women in nation building\n- Raveesh Kumar (@MEAIndia) September 4, 2017\nPM urges early creation of BRICS rating agency to cater to financing needs of sovereign \u0026 corporate entities of developing countries\n- Raveesh Kumar (@MEAIndia) September 4, 2017\nPM: Our Central Banks should further strengthen their capabilities \u0026 promote co-operation between the Contingent Reserve Arrangement \u0026 the IMF\n- Raveesh Kumar (@MEAIndia) September 4, 2017\nPM: Affordable, reliable \u0026 sustainable use Renewable Energy\n- Raveesh Kumar (@MEAIndia) September 4, 2017\nPM @narendramodi on International Solar Alliance: BRICS countries can work closely with ISA\n- Raveesh Kumar (@MEAIndia) September 4, 2017\nPM: We need to mainstream our youth in our joint initiatives; scaled up cooperation in skill development and exchange of best practices"