"India-Switzerland bilateral ties expanding on several fronts: PM Modi\nThank Switzerland for backing India's bid for MTCR: PM Modi\nIndia and Switzerland will continue to exchange information on black money and hawala trade: PM\nSwitzerland backs the Nuclear Suppliers Group\nOur focus on clean energy \u0026 green future with initiatives like International Solar Alliance \u0026 175GW of renewable energy by 2022: PM\nYour Excellency, Madam President and distinguished guests,\nMembers of the media,\nI am happy to welcome Madame President and her delegation in India\nExcellency,\nIndia is not new to you; You have already visited the country However, your India visit as a President is taking place at a time when we are celebrating the festival of 70 years of India's independence. This is also the time of completing seven decades of Indo-Swiss Treaty of Friendship \u0026 Establishment. We hope that during the visit you will feel the same warmth and hospitality that we have experienced during our visit to Switzerland in 2016.\nI am happy to see that both sides are safe.\nFriends,\nToday, we had a comprehensive and meaningful discussion on bilateral, regional and global issues. Our strong bilateral relations have progressed further through this visit.\nThe issues like disarmament and geographical expansion are extremely important for both Switzerland and India. In this context, we are extremely grateful to Switzerland for supporting India's entry into the MTCR.\nWe also discussed Trade and Economic Partnership Agreement between Indian and European Free Trade Association The discussion on the provisions of this agreement has already started. It's a very welcome step. Both the sides have expressed their commitment to complete this agreement. Today, the issue of transparency in financial transactions is a serious concern for the world. Be it black money or dirty money, or be it money laundering or be it the funds linked to arms and drugs. Our cooperation with Switzerland\nLast year, we signed a joint statement for automated exchange of tax related information. Under this agreement, the information will be automatically shared with us. Foreign direct investment is a critical base for our economic relations and India specially welcomes the Swiss investors. In this context, we have agreed to continue a new bilateral investment treaty. There are many opportunities for the Swiss companies to become a partner in India's growth and development.\nToday, during our discussion with the business leaders of both the countries, we have said that they have a strong desire to increase the business collaboration for mutual benefits.\nIndia's traditional medicines, especially Ayurveda, can play an important role in sustainable health and wellness. I am happy that Switzerland has recognized Ayurveda and it is to have more cooperation in this important sector.\nIn order to avail benefits from Switzerland in the fields of vocational education and skill, both countries took a joint initiative in the form of SkillSonics; More than five thousand Indians have taken advantage of this initiative. We are willing to extend this model.\nFriends,\nClimate Change is a big challenge faced by every country We have agreed on the need for implementation of the Paris Agreement on the basis of common but differentiated responsibilities and also to work together. Nuclear Suppliers Group In this context, we are going to support the constant support of Switzerland.\nInitiatives like International Solar Alliance and our efforts to achieve the target of generating 175 Giga Watt of renewable energy by 2022 reflect India's commitment to clean energy and green future.\nExcellency,\nI'm confident that you will be able to take a new height. I thank Madame President for an extremely meaningful discussion and I'm going to jointly work with you in the coming months.\nOnce again I heartily welcome you and wish to have a meaningful visit to India\nThank you very much!"