"Share\n\nTo take India to newer heights, the role of infrastructure, railways and roads is very important: PM\nOur focus is timely completion. Modi will complete projects: Narendra Modi\nGood roads are a tourist With a tourist comes economic opportunity for the locals: PM\nI express my heartfelt gratitude to all of you who have turned up here in such a large number. Some parts of our country faced great difficulties Many lives were lost and farmers suffered huge losses. Rajasthan also faced this problem. The state government has made a submission to the center and a high level committee has already visited Rajasthan. I would like to assure the flood affected brothers, sisters and farmers of Rajasthan that the government of India is completely in the midst of this difficult time and also we will collectively make every effort.\nToday, it's an historical, a wonderful opportunity for Rajasthan that in just one program the projects worth Rs 15,000 crore either to the public or their foundation stones. Making announcements for the schemes; making all kinds of promises during the elections; Getting the stories of these events published as headlines in the news papers; and this attitude: you are good, I'm good; This attitude of praising and garlanding each other; This country is used to be seen all these tantrums and it's going to be on many years and this is the biggest challenge before us. Such an mess is left for us that you can not imagine what it takes to eradicate all these evils.\nAll the systems left in such a broken shape, so many evils have penetrated them that if it is a faint hearted person then he has lost his nerve but we have a different kind of material, we have to pick up a habit of the challenges and we have a habit of challenging the challenges and we are able to accept the challenges of accepting those challenges.\nAs Nitin Ji was talking about that bridge on Chambal. The bridge with a budget of less than Rs. 300 crores, and the time of 11 years between 2006 and 2017; This is what distinguishes a government from the other one? That is the smallest issue A small bridge costing Rs. 300 crore, it can be constructed in a year or a year and a half, if it is to be built in a routine manner then it will take a year or a year and a half. Today, after more than 11 years, the project is still going on and compared with projects worth 5,600 crore rupees. If the friends from Media calculate this thing: a project of Rs. 300 crores and the executions of projects worth Rs. 5,600 crore In 2014, when our government came to power in Delhi, these projects were conceived, the projects started and today within three years the public dedication of these projects worth Rs. 5600 crore is taking place.\nWe have decided to follow that work culture to finish our projects. And even if a project has been delayed even then the benefit from it can be taken in one or two elections, a foundation stone is laid, people can get garlanded, their photos can be printed in news papers then it can help one or two elections But the project cost goes up by thousands of crores of rupees if the project gets stuck, the project cost swells by thousands of crores rupees and then the incomplete project due to work of the purpose of the loss. The whole economy of the country is being consumed by these incomplete schemes. I have put in so much effort to restart these schemes that have been stuck in this great abyss. As you have seen that the work on this bridge was stuck, it was stuck in court cases If the decisions are taken with courage, then they produce results. And today, that result is before you, in the coming days the new projects worth more than Rs. 9,000 crore will be executed in Rajasthan only And these are mainly related to road sector, some of them are widening the roads, some for building culverts, some of them about building new roads and some about modernizing the existing roads. Starting projects worth more than 9,000 crore rupees in one go; had we started the projects worth 500 crore today, then projects worth Rs. 500 core after five days and yet another projects worth Rs. 500 crore after a month Then we used to use these opportunities for political mileage from the next elections in Rajasthan. However, we can not accept that model. We want to do work, we want to do them in a stipulated time and that is why the foundation stone for projects worth more than Rs. 9000 crore is being laid collectively by making a scheme. And when we talk about projects with such a great responsibility then we talk about them with commitment.\nAnd I'd like to assure that we will do in any case and any case Rajasthan will be transformed. Infrastructure plays very important role in the development of the country, these are time consuming and expensive projects. If we look at the prism of politics, people lose patience that is why the earlier times, the governments, the politicians used to run from long term projects, long term big projects\nWe are fully aware that if we want to scale new heights for our country then we will have modernized our systems Be it railways, be it roads or water supply systems or electricity supply or optical fiber network or waterways or coastal connectivity or any other kind of modern infrastructure, now any delay in these things can not be good for the country.\nAnd once the modern facilities are developed. That long black belt, that road, the black color Just imagine that how much farmers will benefit from the roads that will be built with the cost of 9000 crore rupees. They can supply their agricultural produce, their fruits, vegetables and flowers with ease. When Atal Bihari Bajpai made the Golden Quadrilateral, then initially people said, wow, such a good road is built, earlier such roads were not there People used to run fast. People did not talk there\nI still remember that those areas of Gujarat are adjacent to this part of Rajasthan, be it Sabarkantha, be it the farmers of Ahmedabad district if they want to supply their fruits, vegetables, milk or flowers supplied to Delhi market in a day And there is a sea change in the income\nOnce good roads were constructed then our farmer who faces difficulties in the supply of milk, fruits, vegetables and flowers, then 20-30% of the products are wasted, t buy them.\nWhen a network of good road was created then the economy is also picks the pace. Farmers located in far-flung areas get the opportunity to supply its products. If there is a poor pregnant woman in the village is expecting, if the clinic is at a distance, if she needs to go 25-30 kilometers and if there are good roads then the life of both mother and child will be saved. But if there are no roads then that mother loses her life, this is the importance of road. In Rajasthan, the state of roads Rajasthan is a very vast area and tourism is Rajasthan's strength, all over the world are tourists from Rajasthan and Rajasthan. If a tourist wants to visit Pushkar fair, if they want to spend some time in the lake city Udaipur, if the tourists from all over the world want a new life in the Desert of Jaisalmer, someone wants to visit the Srinath, someone wants to visit Eklinga, there are numerous places in Rajasthan, every corner of the state is inherent power to attract tourists. This is such a strong magnetic power that enables people to attract more people from the world. And when a tourist visits, he visits to his money, to give income to people of this place. And tourism is such a sector in which maximum employment can be generated. Everybody earns, flower seller will earn, Prasad seller will earn, people selling the items required in the worship will earn, auto rickshaw driver, taxi driver, guest house owner, handicraft artisans will earn and even a tea seller earn. This strength is in that state but if there is problem of traffic jam, roads are with potholes, if there is no correct signage, there is no arrangement for parking, no arrangement for petrol pumps at the right places, then tourist is a time to come will keep thinking about going back These projects of 15,000 crore rupees are not only just making the roads on the ground but they open the road of fortune for Rajasthan and I can clearly see this and that is why there is a emphasis on infrastructure projects and the government of India is fully committed on spending for this purpose. Because, we want to give India's infrastructure a modern shape. Optical Fiber Network, How to provide quality education to the children of remote villages, how to provide the same quality education for my tribal brothers of far-flung Banswada, Ajmer, among the best schools in Udaipur, is the best schools in the country. This massive project of providing education through digital network, through optical fiber network, through long distance education, through technology to new knowledge to new generation, and for that purpose optical fiber network of lakhs of kilometers is laid. And this optical fiber network requires expenditure of billions of rupees and billions of rupees and it is not visible to anyone if it passes through a place. But, what's in it for me? What is being done for us? These things do not However, once it is installed then it will be the education of the students, it will provide the facility of good treatment to the patients through telemedicine, it will pave the way for his treatment, the rural people get the cities like facilities. Can you imagine what a sea change it will bring in the life of India's villages? We have been taking the work forward\nJust now, the Chief Minister was talking about the Ujjwala scheme that millions of poor mothers and sisters have got stuck in the gas stove. When a poor mother cooks food on a wood based stove then she inhales the smoke equal to smoking 400 cigarettes, who will care about those mothers, those kids who are playing the age? And there was a time when How difficult it was, recommendations of several politicians were required This is a government that has been running the scheme to supply gas connections to the poor and their families.\nToday, roads and railroads are constructed at twice the pace of earlier time, we have also increased the speed, scale and scope of the projects be it water supply project or optical fiber project, and we have also succeeded in making these things modern by improving the skills\nGST has just been launched, initially people thought, it is an unique thing for the world that is 1.25 billion people and it can change its system overnight and the country of 1.25 billion citizen's new system . This reflects the strength of India Friends, everybody will be proud of the fact that the small traders of our country who are in the villages now have a desire to become modern by using technology and I like, I would like to be the officials of Rajasthan to run a campaign For 15 days to connect every small trader of the villages if he has a turnover of less than 20 lakh rupees and even if he has a turnover of less than 10 lakh rupees, please connect those traders with GST so that even the poor trader can get the benefits of the GST, he must get the benefits of the GST If he is not connected then the chain will break, it will stop somewhere and the benefits will not percolate down to the last person, this thing should be taken up like a campaign.\nAnd you see, you will not have imagined that it will result in such a big increase in the revenue of the Rajasthan and as a result of it the government can take several new schemes for the poor people of Rajasthan.\nDue to GST alone in the transportation sector, a department that is also being looked after by our Nitin Ji, if a driver used to set out from his place to supply a coastal port, and if we could calculate the kilometers and speed of the truck, then it can reach there in three days However, before the road check posts everywhere, all types of check posts, and everyone knows what happens, how things are done on road check posts, that poor fellow five days in his destination. If a truck is lying unused for just two days in a week then it causes more than 25% loss to the sector. After the implementation of GST all these roads posts have been abolished, and the truck driver that used to be stuck, all these requirements of red pass and blue pass, this all is gone. Before he used to reach in five days and now he reaches in three days. And it has brought down the cost of transportation and the income of transporters has gone up And I am asking Nitin Ji that the rules of our transport sector should be updated on daily basis. Today, what's the system in our country, if we carry goods in a truck then all the goods are stored in the truck itself. Today's changed times demand separation of truck and trolley as is the case with tractor that the trolley can be separated. The goods should be stored in the trolley, the trolley can be left in Jaipur and truck can go ahead, it can attach another trolley and go to a new destination. A system should be created so that the drivers can reach their homes in the night. We are working on transforming our transport sector. And if the country is to be transformed then it can become a very fast pace through the transport sector and we are moving into new heights of development through a comprehensive scheme.\nI once again express my heartfelt gratitude, for your blessings and the respect given by you people\nThank you very much"