"Share\n\nIndia is the land of Lord Buddha, Mahatma Gandhi and Sardar Patel. It is the land of non-violence: PM Modi during #MannKiBaat\n#MannKiBaat: Violence in the name of faith is unacceptable, no one above law, says PM Modi\nIndia is the land of diversities and our festivals reflect these diversities: PM during #MannKiBaat\nFestivals are not only symbols of faith for us, but they are also associated with Swachhata: PM Modi during #MannKiBaat\nSports should become a part of our lives It ensures physical fitness, mental alertness \u0026 personality enhancement: PM during #MannKiBaat\nThis Teachers' Day, let us resolve that we would teach, educate to empower, Learn to Lead: PM Modi during #MannKiBaat\n#MannKiBaat: Teachers have a key role in transformation of society, says PM Modi\n'Prime Minister Jan-Dhan Yojana' has brought the economic mainstream of India: PM Modi during #MannKiBaat\nMy dear countrymen, Saadar Namaskar When on the one hand, a sense of festivity pervades the land, and on the other, news of violence comes in, from one part of the country, it is only natural of be concerned Ours is the country of Buddha and Gandhi, it is the land of Sardar Patel who has given his country for the unity of the nation. For centuries, our forefathers have imbibed community values, nonviolence, mutual respect - these are inherent to us. We have been hearing and saying Ahimsa Parmo Daharmah from our childhood In my address from the Ramparts of the Red Fort, I had said that the name of the faith will not be tolerated, whether it is communal belief systems, whether it is subscribing to political ideologies, whether it is a person or customs and traditions No one has the right to take the law in the name of one's beliefs. In the Constitution Baba Saheb Ambedkar is there for every provision for justice I want to assure my countrymen that people who take the law in their own hands and are on the path of violence suppression - whether it is a person or a group-noither this country or any government will not tolerate it. Every and every person has to abide by the law; the law will fix the responsibilities and the guilty will unquestionably be punished\nMy dear countrymen, our country is a land of diversities - these diversities are not limited to our cuisine, life style and attire We observe diversity in every walk of life. Even our festivals are replete with diversity Ours is a cultural heritage, spanning thousands of years - when we look at our cultural traditions, social customs, historical events, there was hardly a day left in the year. You had noticed, that all our festivals follow the almanac of nature. There is a direct connect with nature Many of our festivals are straightaway with farmers and fishermen.\nSpeaking about festivals today, I would like to wish you all the michhamidukkadam. The Jain community celebrated the SamvatsariParva yesterday. In the month of Bhadra, ParyushanParva is celebrated by the Jain Community The last day of ParyushanParva is observed as Samvatsari. This is a remarkable tradition The festival of Samvatsari is symbolic of forgiveness, non-violence and brotherhood. It is also known as the KshamavaniParva, and on this day, people traditionally greet each other with, 'michhamidukkadam.' We have been listening in our shastras, our holy texts, \"KshamaVereasya Bhushanam\", that is, forgiveness is the decoration of the brave The one who forgives is valiant And Mahatma Gandhi always said, that forgiveness is the quality of great men\nShakespeare in his play, \"The Merchant of Venice\", while explaining the importance of forgiveness, has written, \"Mercy is to blossom, It blesseth him that gives him and takes,\" meaning, the forgiver and the forg divine blessing\nMy dear countrymen, Ganesh Chaturthi is being celebrated with great fervor all over the country When we speak Ganesh Chaturthi, it is natural but I want to talk about Sarvajanik Ganeshotsav, that is, community celebrations of the Ganesh Festival. This tradition was founded by Bal Gangadhar Tilak 125 years ago, and it was 125 years ago that the Sarvajanik Ganeshotsav became a symbol of India's struggle for freedom. And after Independence, this festival has become a vehicle of raising social and educational awareness. Ganesh Chaturthi is a ten-day festival. This Mahaparva, mega-festival stands for unity, equality, integrity and honesty. My heartiest greetings to the occasion of Ganeshotsav\nThe festival of Ones is celebrated in Kerela. Of the numerous colorful festivals of India, Onam is a prime festival of Kerela. This festival is known for its social and cultural significance. This festival showcases the rich cultural heritage of Kerala. It gives the message of love and harmony - awakens new hopes and aspirations, and gives new confidence to the people. Our festivals are tourism And I would like to mention to my countrymen, that festivals like Navaratri in Gujarat, or Durga Utsav in Bengal are tremendous tourist attractions. Other festivals of our country too, provide a chance to attract foreign visitors. We should think about this direction.\nIn this series of festivals, Eid-ul-Zuha will be celebrated in a few days now. Heartiest felicitations and best wishes to all countrymen on the occasion of Eid-ul-Zuha. Festivals are of course symbols of faith and faith; in the new India, we should change them in symbols of cleanliness as well. In personal homes, festivals and cleanliness are linked together. In fact, preparations for festivals This is nothing new for us, but it is important to convert it into a social character. Public cleanliness must be insisted on not just in our homes but in our villages, towns, cities, states and all our country - cleanliness is inextricably our festivals.\nMy dear countrymen, the definitions of being modern are perpetually changing. These days, a new measure to gauge a new dimension, is a new parameter, has come in to being. It determines what your upbringing has been, how modern you are, how modern your thinking is. And that's your level of environment consciousness Are your activities ecofriendly, environmentally friendly or otherwise? It is considered to be unacceptable in society today, you are not environment friendly. And as a result of this I find that, the ecofriendly Ganpati, in this Ganesh Festival has turned into a huge campaign. If you go on YouTube, you will see that every home in the children is mammoth Ganesh idols and they are coloring. Some are used vegetables, while some are pasting bits and pieces of paper. All sorts of experiments are performed in every family. This is probably the first of its kind. Media houses too, are making a great effort in training people, inspiring them and guiding them towards ecofriendly Ganesh idols. What a massive transformation this has been; a pleasant one at that And as I mentioned, our country is blessed with millions and the brightest of brains. And it is nice to see all the new innovations. Someone told me about a gentleman who is an engineer and who has collected and combined special varieties of clay, to teach in making Ganesh idols. The Ganesh Visarjan or immersion is done in a small bucket of water, where the idol dissolves within no time. And he did not stop there A tulsi, Holy Basil, sapling was sowed in it. The campaign for Cleanliness which was initiated three years ago on its 2nd anniversary on 2nd October. And the positive results are now being seen Toilets have increased from 39% to 67% of the population? More than two lakhs of villages have declared themselves open defecation free.\nGujarat saw devastating floods Many people lost their lives When the water receded, there was so much filth everywhere That is when, in Dhanera in the Banaskantha District of Gujarat, volunteers of Jamiat-Ulema-e-Hind cleaned twenty-two affected temples and two mosques in a phased manner. They came together and toiled collectively The volunteers of Jamiat-Ulema-e-Hindset a fine, inspirational example of unity for cleanliness. If this committed effort towards cleanliness is inherent to us, our country definitely take our nation to greater heights.\nMy dear countrymen, I call upon you to start a campaign, Swachchata Hi Sewa, Cleanliness is Service, at least fifteen-twenty days before Gandhi Jayanti on 2nd October - on the lines of the age-old belief, Jal ServiceYahiPrabhuSeva, Service to Water is Service to God Let's create an environment of cleanliness in the whole country Whenever and wherever possible, let's look for the opportunity But we should all come together We could look at these preparations for Diwali, preparations for Navaratri, preparations for Durga Puja. Do Shramdan, Donate through labor. Come on on Sundaysand Holidays. Go to settlements in your neighborhood, go to nearby villages, but do this in the form of a movement. I urge all NGOs, schools, colleges, social, cultural and political leaders, people in the government, collectors and sarpanches, to begin creating an environment of cleanliness at least fifteen days ahead of Gandhi Jayanti on 2nd of October so that it turns out to be the 2nd of October The Ministry of Drinking Water and Sanitation has created a section on MyGov.in where after building a toilet you can register and you can help the beneficiary family, who helped you. My friends from the social media can run some creative campaigns and thus become a source of inspiration in the virtual world, to see results in the real world. The Ministry of Drinking Water and Sanitation has organized, The Swachch Sankalp from Swachcha Siddhi Pratiyogita, From the solution of Cleanliness to attaining Cleanliness Competition comprising a essay competition, a short film making competition and a painting competition. You can write essays in different languages ​​and there is no age limit. You can make a small film You can film a two-three-minute movie that inspires cleanliness. It can be in any language; it could be silent too. The best three participants - three at the district level, three at the state level will be given prizes. I invite one and all - Come, join the cleanliness campaign in this way as well.\nI would like to reiterate, let's resolve to celebrate, 2nd October Gandhi Jayanti this year as Swachch Do Aktoobar, Clean 2nd October. And to this end beginning 15th September let us take the ministry, the message, Swachchat Hi Seva, Cleanliness is Service to every and every home. Take one or another step toward cleanliness Make your effort to be a part of it. You will see how the Gandhi Jayanti of the 2nd October shines You can imagine the inner bliss of paying homage to our revered Bapu, with fifteen days of this cleanliness campaign, Swachchat Hi Seva, When we celebrate Gandhi Jayanti on the 2nd of October.\nMy dear countrymen, I want to specially express my indebtedness to you. I want to thank you from the core of my heart, not because you have been connected with Man Ki Baat, for such a long time - I want to express my gratitude and indebtedness as millions of people from across the country come together with Man kiBaat . The number of listeners are in crossover out of which lakhs of people write letters to me, send messages, and get their messages recorded on phone, which is a huge treasure for me. This is a great opportunity for me to understand the hearts and minds of one and all. Much as you wait for Mann Ki Baat, I hope your messages with greater eagerness I always look ahead with anticipation, because I know so much to learn from all that you share. It is a test on my endeavors on this touchstone. Even the smallest of your suggestions help me in thinking. I therefore express my heartfelt gratitude for your contributions and also my credibility to you. My attempt is always to see, hear, read and understand your thoughts. All of them Now take this phone call for example You will be able to correlate with it You too will feel that, you did have the same mistake Sometimes certain things can become a part of our habits, that we do not even realize\n\"Pradhan Mantri ji, I am Aparna from Pune. I want to tell you about a friend of mine She always tries to help others, but a habit of hers amazes me I went shopping for her at a mall. She coolly spent two thousand rupees on a sari, and four hundred and fifty rupees on a pizza. Whereas, she is haggled for a long time, over just five rupees, with the auto driver, who takes us to the mall. On the way back, we stopped to buy vegetables, and again she haggled with the vendors to save 4-5 rupees. I feel very bad. We spend extravagantly in high places, without a single thought, but when it comes to our hardworking brothers, we quarrel with them on small amounts. We do not trust them. Please talk about this on Man kiabat. \"\nNow after listening to this phone call, I am certain that you would have been shocked and awakened and would probably have resolved such a mistake. Do not feel that whenever a vendor comes to your door to something, on his rounds, when we come in contact with small shopkeepers, vegetable sellers, auto rickshaw drivers - in fact any person who earns through hard work - we start bargaining with him, haggling with him: \"No not so much, make it two rupees less, five rupees less!\" And it is us, the same people, who go to dine at a fine restaurant, check the bill, we just go ahead and pay the money, without thinking twice Not just this, when we go to a showroom to buy a saree, we do not bargain, but only when we can not afford it. Have you ever wondered what a poor man goes through? It is not a matter of two or five rupees, it hurts him deeply, when he feels that you are questioning his honesty. Two or five rupees make no difference to your life, but you have thought how much heartache this petty habit of yours can cause him I'm grateful to you for this touching message. I am certain that my countrymen, if they are in the habit of behaving in this way with the poor now stop doing\nMy dear young friends, the country celebrates National Sports Day on the 29th of August. This is the birth anniversary of the great hockey player, hockey wizard, Major Dhyan Chand. His contribution to hockey was unparalleled. I'm going to miss you. Sports should become a part of our lives If we are a young nation, our youth should get manifested in the field sports as well. Sports means, physical fitness, mental alertness and personality enhancement. What else does one need? Sports, in a way, is a recipe that brings people together The young generation of our country should come forward in the world - and in today's computer era I want to alert you to the fact that the play field is far more important than the play station. Play FIFA on the computer You must be playing cricket on the computer but the pleasure of actually playing cricket in the open field under the sky is something else There was a time when the children in the family went out to play, the mother would first ask, \"When will you come back home?\" Now the times are such that children, when they come home, they either start watching cartoons in a corner, or are glued to mobile games And the mother has to shout, \"When will you go out?\" How times have changed! There was a time when the mother wanted to know And today, she wants to know\nYoung friends, the Sports Ministry is launching a Sports Talent Search portal to search for sports talent and to groom them. Any talented child who has a achievement in sports, can upload his biodata or video on this portal. The Ministry of Sports will impart training to selected emerging players. The Ministry is launching the portal tomorrow. The good news for our young friends is that the FIFA Under 17 World Cup is organized in India, from 6th to the 28th of October. Twenty-four teams from all over the world will be making their home.\nCome, let's welcome the young tourists from all the world with the festival of sports, let's enjoy the sport, and create a friendly sporting environment in the country. I speak about sports today, and just last week, a heartwarming incident happened, which I would like to share with my countrymen. I used to meet some young girls, some of whom, were born in the Himalayas, who had absolutely no connection with the sea Six of these young girls are in the Navy. Their grit and zeal, is inspiring for all of us These six young women will embark on a tour in the seas, in a small boat, INS Tarini. The expedition has been named, NavikaSagar Parikrama They will circumnavigate the globe and return home, after many months. Sometimes they will spend 40 days on the seas in one go; at times, thirty Our six girls riding the waves of the high seas, with courage, is the first example of its kind in the world. Every and every Indian I salute their valor and I have asked them to share their experiences. I too am making a different arrangement for their experiences on the NarendraModiApp to ensure that you read it. For this is a story of heroism, a tale of personal experiences, and I will be happy to bring you the stories of these daughters. My best wishes and blessings to these daughters\nMy dear countrymen, we celebrate 5th September as Teacher's Day. It is the birthday of our former President, Dr. Radhakrishnan ji. He was the President, but all through his life, he saw himself as a teacher. He He was committed to being a teacher. He was a scholar, a diplomat, the President of India and yet, quintessentially a teacher. I salute him\nThe great scientist Albert Einstein said, \"It is the supreme art of the teacher to awaken joy in creative expression and knowledge.\" The most important quality of a teacher, is to awaken in his students, a sense of creativity and the joy of learning . As we celebrate the teacher's day this year can we come together and take a resolve? Can we run a campaign in mission mode? Teach to Transform, Educate to Empower, Learn to Lead Can we move ahead with this resolve? Get someone committed to a five-year solution Show him the path of attainment, which he can achieve in five years - so that he can experience the joy of success in life. Such an environment can be created by our schools, our colleges, our teachers, our educational institutions When we speak about transformation in our country, we must think of our teachers as our teachers. The teacher plays a vital role in transformation In the life of every teacher, there are incidents of simple efforts that are successful in somebody's life. We will play a big role in the transformation of the nation, if we make a collective effort Come, let's move forward with the mantra, Teach to Transform.\n\"Pranam Pradhan Mantri ji, I am Dr. Ananya Awasthi I am a resident of Mumbai and work for the India Research Center of Harvard University. As a researcher, I have been specially interested in Financial Inclusion. With reference to the social schemes related to Financial Inclusion, my question to you is: In the backdrop of the Jan DhanYojna launched in 2014, can you say that, do the statistics show thattoday, three years later, India is financially more secure and stronger , and whether this empowerment and benefits have been percolated down to our women, farmers and workers, in villages and small towns. Thank you. \"\nMy dear countrymen, The Prime Minister Jan Dhan Yojana, financial inclusion, was a point of discussion among Financial Pundits, not just in India, but all over the world. On the 28th of August 2014, we had launched a dream in our hearts. Tomorrow on the 28th of August, The Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojna will complete three years. Thirty crore new families have been linked to this scheme, bank accounts have opened. This number is the largest of the countries. And today I feel a great sense of fulfillment, that within three years, the last man on the fringes of society has become a part of the mainstream economy of the country. His ways have changed, he has now started going to the bank. He has started saving his money. He feels financially secure When there is cash in the hand, or in the pocket or at home, one is tempted in wasteful expenditure There is an air of prudence. He is now beginning to understand that The money could be used in the days to come. Not just this, when a poor person sees a RuPay Card, in his pocket, he finds himself to be the privileged - that if they have a credit card in their pockets, I too have a RuPay Card in mind. He feels an sense of dignity\nIn the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojna, about 65 thousand crore rupees has deposited in banks by our underprivileged brethren. In a way, this is a saving for the poor, this is his empowerment for the future. And those who opened their accounts under the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojna, have received the benefit of insurance as well. Schemes like, Pradhan Mantri Jyoti Bima Yojna, Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojna, with a small premium of one rupee or thirty rupees, is giving a new sense of confidence to the poor. For many families, in times of adversity, or on the demise of the head of the family, through the one rupeeinsurance, they received two lakh rupees in a matter of days. Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojna, Start Up Yojna, Stand Up Yojna - For Dalits, Adivasis, Women, educated youth, youth who want to stand on their own feet - for millions and millions through Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana, they have been able to get loan from banks without any guarantee. They have been able to stand their own feet and have succeeded in giving employment to one or two other people as well. Banks have conducted surveys about how the common man has benefitted from Jan Dhan Yojna, from Insurance Schemes, RuPay Card and Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojna. I recently met a few bankers, who shared inspiring stories from their survey. There is not enough time today, but I would like to request the bankers to upload these inspirational stories, on MyGov.in, so that people can read them , how it will bring a new energy, a new confidence - hundreds of examples have come before me I will try my best to bring this to you; and the media can also take advantage of these inspirational stories. They too, can be interviewed, and inspire the young generation.\nMy dear countrymen, once again, I wish you \"michchamidukkadm.\" Thank you very much.\nOn one hand we wait our festivals but on the other hand, when we hear about instances of violence, it is natural to be worried: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) August 27, 2017\nIndia is the land of Mahatma Gandhi and Lord Buddha. Violence is not acceptable in the nation, any form: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) August 27, 2017\nThose who take the law in their hands or can not be spared, whoever they are: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) August 27, 2017\nWhile talking about festivals, I want to say- Micchami Dukkadam This is about values ​​of forgiveness and compassion: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) August 27, 2017\nIndia, a land of diversity #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/x0J1EBbaQh\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) August 27, 2017\nOur festivals are linked with nature and welfare of farmers. #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/JGnxQ6HTyu\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) August 27, 2017\nLet us make our festivals as much about cleanliness #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/0kkrWba9Km"