"\nFor the development of the nation, prosperity of farmers is essential: PM\nWe saw the green \u0026 white revolution Time has come for the blue revolution \u0026 sweet revolution: PM Modi\nAlong with 'Jan Andolan', 'Jal Andolan' can help us for the future: PM Modi\nToday, the 24th August, you are celebrating your institution's founding day as a day of pride.\nI congratulate you people for the role BAIF in nation building.\nToday, if I had been able to join you in your happiness in person then it would have been a great personal pleasure. I've heard you have lost your personal experiences\nI still remember that when the Wadi program was initiated then I had noticed your work in Navsari and Valsad. So at a emotional level I feel very closely associated with BAIF And, it's a great asset for any organization with the kind of mission your organization is working in many states.\nToday, many awards have been given in this program Some self help groups are among those who have been awarded and some of the winners have been awarded due to their personal endeavors. Somebody is from Karnataka, somebody is from Gujarat, somebody is from Maharashtra and from Jharkhand. I congratulate them as well and I hope that they will continue to work in the same way\nFriends, this year is also a centennial year for the establishment of the Sabarmati Ashram and also for the Champaran Satyagrah. This is also the 125th year of public celebration of Ganeshotsav. In the history of our country, all the three milestones have been known for giving a new direction to the freedom movement. These are the symbols of realization of a serious pledge through people's participation.\nThe vision of people's welfare through people's participation has been the basis of Bhartia Agro Industries Foundation. It may be completing fifty years today but its foundation was laid the same day when Mani Bhai reached Uruli Kanchan village with Gandhi Ji in 1946. Mani Bhai, Gandhiji from the inspiration of the whole region due to the change in the promise of Gandhiji thing by bringing some cows here from Gir in Gujarat\nOur villages have been available in traditional knowledge with the help of modern science combining by farmer's income.\nFriends, empowerment of our country The dream of a new India can not be realized without an empowered farmer and that is why the government has been working to achieve the target of doubling the farmers' income by 2022. That is why the approach of agricultural schemes are from production centric to income centric Today, the government is the farmers from the seed to the market. Emphasis has been applied on every single drop of water. Organic agriculture and crop diversification have been encouraged. More than 9 crore soil health cards have been issued for the farmers.\nMore than 500 agricultural bazaars of the country are in the process of being linked under the e-NAM scheme. Recently Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samadha Scheme has been launched. The aim of this project is to solve the problem in the country and to encourage the food processing.\nIt is being ensured with the help of Prime Minister Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY) that farmers' lives are not destroyed. The loans to the farmers are being provided at the lowest interest rate in order to set them free from the clutches of usurable money lenders. You will notice that these efforts of the government are directed to reduce the farmers' expenditure, boost their income and bring them out of the concerns related to agriculture. The country will get new heights of development when the country is free from tension.\nBAIF has been working in this direction for many years with an understanding of service but today I would like to sow the seeds of some new ideas in you. It's not like giving advice or knowledge to an expert\nI'm aware that how BAIF has been empowering millions of women self-help groups However, can it be more focused?\nAs per a report, about 70% of women have been collectively taking care of the animal husbandry sector of the country. Be it arranging fodder or water for cattle or be it the work related with milk production or treatment of cattle, these things have been done primarily by women.\nSo in ways the country's animal husbandry sector is totally dependent on women. So today it is extremely necessary to provide special training to women self-help groups about the veterinary education, research and service delivery system. The women themselves are trained in this field the more it will strengthen the animal husbandry sector of the country and it will also benefit the women themselves.\nAn institution like BAIF can inspire the maximum number of women for this purpose.Itcan start programs.\nFriends, every year we incur the loss of nearly Rs. 40 thousand crores in our country In some states, cattle health care fairs have been arranged to deal with this problem. Things like, from the cataract operation of animals to the cleaning However, there is a need to increase the number of such cattle health care fairs. Organizations like BAIF can play an extremely important role in organizing cattle health fairs in cooperation with state governments\nI am specially requesting you as your organization has already been working in the 15 states and you have the ability to expand in the whole country. The north-eastern states of the country have been waiting for the establishment of BAIF's footprint in them. The north-eastern states of the country, I call them Ashta-Lakshmi, there is plenty of scope for organic farming. Your experience can be immensely benefit them.\nSimilarly, it is necessary to increase the awareness of the farming of the medicinal and aromatic plants. Our country has thousands of species of medicinal and aromatic plants, and they are in demand worldwide. However, there is a huge gap between the demand and supply. The government, the progressive farmers and the organizations like BAIF can very well provide the knowledge about the plants.\nFriends, the country is very well aware Time has come to bring about the changes in the lives of our fishermen brothers through blue revolution and to supplement the income of our farmers through honey-bee keeping and honey production.\nWe have been working to bring blue revolution, sweet revolution and water revolution along with green revolution and white revolution.\nGrowing wheat, rice and mustards The more attention given to all the sub sectors of agriculture along with traditional farming, For example, take the case of honey bee keeping According to a research, a farmer engaged in the traditional farming can earn extra Rs. 2 lakh per annum by having a small unit of 50 bee colonies. Honey bees play an important role in pollination along with honey production.\nBe it honey-bee keeping, fisheries or be it production of ethanol through the residue of sugarcanes and crops, the demands of the modern society is being met through these things, and that is why BAIF can very well do the job of making the traditional farmers aware about these sub-sectors and help them\nFriends, be it Vidarbha region of Maharashtra, or be it some areas of Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Telangana-Andhra Pradesh or be it in Bundelkhand region in Uttar Pradesh, these are the areas where farmers continue to face the problem of water shortage .\nThe government is continuously trying to solve Under the Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchai Yojana (PMKSY) 99 such projects are being completed that were stuck from a long time. Out of these, twenty one projects have been completed this year. Emphasis has been placed on the better use of this item. Drip irrigation, micro irrigation and crop diversification Government is spending more than 60% budget of MNREGA on water conservation and water management.\nHowever, brothers and sisters, we can not make this thing a success. I have been told that Shri Popatrao Pawar from Hivare Bazaar is also present in this function. Hivare Bazaar is a good example of how we can properly use water by working collectively while taking care of each other's interest so that the efficiency of our water usage is up and our groundwater resources are sustainable in use. I have hoped from BAIF that they will set examples of 'people's movement' and 'water movement' in those villages where they are active\nIn addition, you can also help in making the farmers' life easier by promoting them.\nBrothers and sisters, National Saint Tukodji Maharaj has written this item in Gram Gita:\n'Gram Sudharnecha Mool Mantra, Sajjnani Whave Ekatra!\nSanghthan Hechi Shaktiche, Gram Rajya Nirman Kari \"!!\nIt means that the basic formula for reform of the villages is that everyone collectively works through an organization only then the village-state will be created. This was the same formula given by Mahatma Gandhi and the same thing followed by Mani Bhai Desai. Today, the collective power of your organization can open a new door of development for the villages. Today, it is necessary that we take pride in our villages, the villagers should celebrate the founding day, they should have a vision. The leadership of those 80 thousand villages This will be a medium in making a new India.\nFriends, the government has been successfully working to bring down the input cost of farming. Today, the farmer's expenditure on farming has come down due to soil health management, due to Neem coating of uria and due to the thrust given to the drip irrigation.\nFarmers have been saving the money Crop production has increased due to the modern technologies The BAIF has long experience in this field that is why your suggestions about what should be done. The more farmers you associate with this movement, the more it will help them save and increase their profits.\nFriends, waste to wealth is such a topic which is relevant to the contemporary needs and the challenges of future.\nBe it the recycling of agricultural waste or the use of compost, these things can supplement farmers' income and benefits the whole village\nToday, nothing is a waste in agricultural farms, everything can be used.\nSimilarly, the whole village can become self-dependent in the solar power.\nThere was enough space on the sides of farms and farmers As there are milk-cooperatives across the country, similarly electricity can be produced and sold by having solar-cooperatives.\nFriends, now days, you had seen a small dish on the villages. This is the digital technology that has made things so easy. Previously there used to be one or two channels, now days, there are hundred or two-hundred channels. Remote is not a difficult instrument for them. Even a two-three year old child\nThis kind of likes for the technology will realize the dream of a digital village. It should be a village where most of the transactions take place digitally, all forms from the loan to scholarship should be filled online, education in schools provided through digital technology and the health services digital technology to be connected to\nIn order to realize this dream of a digital village, the government is connecting every village body to the optical fiber. However, just providing resources and tools will not be enough Only organizations like yours can make the people So can your organization develop at least 500 villages every year in the villages 'less cash'? You will see that if you convert 500 villages in 'less-cash villages' then a thousand or two thousand nearby villages will automatically start this system. It will spread from one village to another\nFriends,\nGandhiji's formula of empowering the country was based on the achievement of villages. The BAIF's desire to serve has brought about the same formula, it has taught them self-employment. Your organization is a living example of how things are done by making a pledge.\nI'd like to urge you to make some new pledges from the ideas. When India will complete 75 years of its independence in 2022 then the realization of your sacred promises will lead to the success of millions and millions of farmers.\nThank you.\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) August 24, 2017\nThe 'Anna Datas' of the nation should be free from worries: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) August 24, 2017\nWomen self help groups should get quality training in research, veterinary education Animal husbandry sector will benefit from this: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) August 24, 2017\nWe saw the green \u0026 white revolution Time has come for the blue revolution, for fishermen \u0026 sweet revolution, for more honey production: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) August 24, 2017\nAlong with 'Jan Andolan', 'Jal Andolan' can help us for the future: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) August 24, 2017\nWe take immense pride in our villages and the culture of our villages: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) August 24, 2017\nThe way ahead lies in improving digital infrastructure in our villages: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) August 24, 2017\n"