"\nIn Government, the welfare of the people and the happiness of citizens is supreme: PM\nEvery citizen must have a feeling that this country is mine and I have to work for the country: PM Modi\nGandhi ji made every person feel he or she is working for the nation: PM\nMahatma Gandhi turned the freedom into a mass movement, we need to make India's development a mass movement: PM\nSince yesterday, you have been thinking of your time Based on your experiences in your field, you can see different aspects of the country from different perspective.\nYou must have seen that the government's decision making team or the policymakers are present in us. And I have tried the things that you said to me. And I believe that these efforts will be successful One can understand the way of thinking the government structure. We get a 360 Degree view of every subject, problem or any suggestion due to this interaction. And when policies were made, a road map was created to execute these policies, where these things are very useful Obviously all the things that can not be implemented If this happens then the governance machinery of the country will go haywire. The Prime Minister also has some ideas You also know very well But whatever will be used will definitely help to change the earlier mechanisms, policies and laws. You have a different way of presenting your views. You are different in your development Your activities emphasize upon 'result oriented results'. The government by and large focuses on human welfare and public interest. You focus on what the goal was and how much progress was made. This is quite natural But for the government it's not the progress of the government It is the government's responsibility to see\nWe all understand what They say - \"the government does not understand what we are seeing every day\"; but they are not It is in the mind of every citizen But if you take the person along with your problems then you have noticed that If the government was your client, your way of dealing was different. But when the government gets into your partner in business then you would have thought of ways to accomplish a more serious way. I only want that every citizen of this country should feel This country has moved There are problems May be God has not given the people in the government So he should feel, 'wherever I am, I should do something about it and contribute to it'.\nDuring our struggle for independence, there was no single year of protest. Constant efforts were made in every era. In those thousand years, there were thousands of people If one was hanged that day, An environment was created through the independence of the country. And everyone thought that he was sacrificing his life. If we understand the things then we can easily understand the way to use the years from 2017 to 2022 in the right earnest. And so what did Gandhi ji do? There were lakhs of people who died There were thousand who had spent their children in the Andaman \u0026 Nicobar prisons. But Gandhi insisted that the freedom in every Indian For example, if the teacher was teaching, he had to teach Similarly, if you are engaged in the sanitation job, you should have this feeling that you are doing it for the country's independence; If you are a farmer, you should\nThroughout India, this sentiment was aroused in everyone's heart by Gandhi ji that whatever he was doing was done for the country. It was difficult for the British to understand this thing It was easy for the British rulers; It was easy to put But it was difficult to stop a person who was working on his home with this feeling of freedom in his heart. Gandhiji converted into a mass movement in this manner And you all know the great results Every government has tried to carry out our country. Every government has tried in its own way But after independence, development could not be transformed into a mass movement. We have to take the country there We will continue to do this. If every doctor works with the spirit to work hard to solve the problem of malnutrition, to improve the child health care, to reduce the Mother's Mortality Rate, Infant Mortality Rates to Global Standards then no one can stop the country from transforming. Who needs the government then? The government works only as a catalytic agent The country can progress on its own Today we are in the year 2017.Seventyfive years have passed since Quit India Movement and 70 years since independence In 2022 we will celebrate 75 years of independence\nThe country can be elevated to new heights. I want to create such an environment You can also become a soldier of a modern and prosperous India. You can become a powerful soldier But we have to do it together\nWe should have the conviction I was watching your presentations on how to double farmers' incomes You have presented very well.\nI think you as my team I need your help in the process. Let us work together Your ideas should be a part of my plan In this way, we can bring a great change.\nNow look at a small issue in the Agriculture Sector. Now, we are the people who are always engaged in the discussion of Export and Import. So tell me, our country where agriculture is the mainstay of the economy; whose soul is the rural India; Why we are still importing timber? Can the law be changed by the government to double the income of the farmers by encouraging them to plant timbers with their farm land? He should have the right to cut and sell it. Will my country's timber imports stop or not? Unfortunately we are not able to do so. But if we replace those with timbers then tell me whether the country's timber imports will reduce or not? The land will be used for its maximum potential We can bring a great change.\nWe want to double farmers' income But we will not able to do that if we do not consider Animal husbandry, Poultry farming, fisheries, ornamental fishing in the process. We need to have value addition and need to think about how our agricultural products can capture the world market The population in the Gulf countries is growing. They have oil but scanty water No matter how much oil is there, water is essential for survival. And so they have no choice but to import agricultural products. Can not we study their needs for agro-products? The people associated with agro-economics can provide guidance for value addition of agricultural products and make that product available in those countries in the way they want. If we can give assurance to the Gulf countries of their agricultural requirements, they will give us assurance for our energy requirements. In a way, a win-win situation will be created. I have a team in front of me who can come out with such new things The Indian government is organizing a global event in November in which food processing will be the focus We have opened up food processing industry to 100% FDI Doubling Farmers' income is not just a slogan; We are trying to develop the infrastructure in farm sector keeping that mind in mind. Annually about one lakh crore rupees worth of agro products like fruit, vegetables or grains, is getting wasted because we do not have proper infrastructure. Now the infrastructure is in itself a great opportunity to open up employment opportunities. Please tell me whether there will be many benefits or not if financial institutions, private players, people in the real estate and everyone? So with this approach We should expand our business and bring about a change in the country's quality of life.\nI believe that the results will definitely follow. You must have been listening to the discussions since yesterday; This government has taken many important decisions and revolutionary changes.\nYou must be aware that our farmers had faced a lot of trouble because of the delay in getting urea and if the farmer does not get urea on time then it is useless for him I remember when I was the Chief Minister I used to write to Prime Minister about the delay in getting the quantity required and so on. When I became the prime minister, I also received many such letters from the Chief Ministers in the initial 3 months. The police used to even Lati Charge for Uria Farmers had to queue up for three days for obtaining urea. You must have seen your televisions long queues outside the banks for 3 days after demonetization but दुर्भाग्यवश हमारे किसानों में खड़े हो रहे हैं. This is where the difference lies in looking at the problems This government has taken some initiative One of the biggest initiatives is the acquisition of gas for production of Urea. Before the prices were diverse Someone used to get the gas at one price and someone else would get it at different terms and conditions. We made similar batches so that everyone could get the advantage through competitiveness.\nSecondly, you will be surprised If the production capacity was 10 million metric tons and five percent more than produced, the government used to provide a certain sum of money. So on We came to power and changed all the rules As a result, today, not only is the government's money saved but the productivity has also increased just because of policy intervention. We have started the concept of Neem-coated urea. There was never any shortage of Urea Most of the Urea used to go to the chemical industry as it was subsidized and the industry used to sell the product. We added Neem coating to Urea. Neem coated Urea will not be used in the chemical industry, except its use for the soil. Thus, the diversion of Urea for other purposes has stopped. So we bring an end to end solution for this problem. I do not know Today if I say something, people will not have the slightest inkling as to\nWhen I say that if you have unaccounted money with you, the government has started a scheme, kindly declare your wealth, but even after the declarations are not made, the event like that of 8th November 2016 will happen (demonetization). And so we do not do anything in bits and pieces It is clear in my mind that after the next step should be Everything is well planned Therefore, I say that the government has taken many initiatives\nNow tell me that you want to move towards Digital India or not? We are working on the Optical Fiber Network under Digital India. You will be surprised to know that when I came to power only about 360 villages were connected to the optical fiber network. Now this has reached close to lakhs of villages within 3 years The change approach has brought results Now we want to take a less-cash society It's not that you make e-payment to your employees and the employees are clueless about going cashless with that money. They need to teach the BHIM app There will be small businessmen Help them to download BHIM app and there will not be anybody Tell me So, I want your partner in this work\nNow, there is a culture of exchanging gifts during companies during Diwali. Can we change this approach? Can we make it a habit of giving that gift, which will help illuminate the house of the poor during Diwali? You provide coupons to people for purchasing products like offering a package of 2000 for buying your products. Why not give clothes for purchasing clothes? I am not saying that the person who receives khadi clothes But if you have fifty types of fabric, then let one of the fabrics also be khadi I am addressing the country in a way I am positively addressing the poor You will be able to see This does not mean that you have to compromise on the quality or your happiness. I will not make any such request to you But let us create an environment Now you will be happy about our new scheme Now, if the government wants to make a purchase then there is a long process - it is taken on paper; The tenders will be floated, the terms and conditions of the tenders will come out, and then it is to be seen that the minister's nephew's tender has come or not The country has experienced many malpractices. Transparency is the need of the hour Now, any person has the ability to supply The government has created a small platform called GeM. I request you go to that portal and see how all government departments have put their requirements on the site - 25 napkins, two dustbins, waste paper baskets, 25 brooms, 100 chairs etc. The full details of the goods along with the standards and the supplier can be anybody.\nThe rule of the government is that for any product the departments should go for the cheapest product without compromising the quality. Now we have done away with tenders and everything is available online. You will be surprised to know that only four to six months has passed since the launch of this experiment. Despite this, the government has already made a purchase of about 1000 crore rupees through the GeM portal. And you will be surprised to know that the number of suppliers are 28,000 who have given things worth one thousand crore rupees. Meaning, even small time suppliers were able to supply their goods. By the old system, probably the payment would have been Rs. 1700 crore and the quality of products we would have got, anybody's guess! What I mean to say is that things are changing\nHow do we use technology in to transparency? Now you may know some people Suppose You can ask him to get registered in the GeM portal where he sells his product. This is how we can promote entrepreneurship How can we change the tourism sector? I have seen that most of your presentations include this topic on tourism. What is the biggest challenge to the tourism sector? The question is a bit shocking to me Did we ever think that our psyche is doing so much harm to us? I am not going to answer anything I am just expressing my thoughts Last year in my program 'Mann Ki Baat', I asked the students going to vacations to their photos. I was surprised to see millions of photographs on my website. Whenever I get time I go through those photographs There are so many places in our country. What is the psyche of the people? Whenever they go to a good place, the first sentence that comes to mind is that - this place does not seem like India! Now tell me how the tourism will grow? If you do not love your children, then how can you expect the neighbors to love them? Similarly, if we do not take pride in the things we have then what do you expect the others to do? Businessmen come to our country; You may be dealing with the Global Community How many of you have asked them to stay for 3 more days to savour the beauty of our country? Tourism can not grow If someone says that he would have a place and you should also visit it, you will definitely go There is usually an inbuilt 'Fear of the Unknown' in the minds of the tourists. When someone tells him about his experience then that person visits that place fearlessly. We Indians do not have this nature Now the pharmaceutical companies here offer special tours to Doctors. Is there a pharmaceutical company? Well, these companies take them to Singapore or Dubai and other places abroad They never feel that tours can be made to say a place called Hampi in our country in Karnataka or to Rajasthan. We do not promote our things Unless we realize that instead of providing artificial enjoyment we should be present before the world our heritage. I remember when I was the Chief Minister of Gujarat; I had my interests in touring Sometimes I used to wander in jungles and sometimes in the desert. About 40-45 years ago, when I saw the White Rann of Kutch, it had a great impact on my mind. When I became Chief Minister, I decided that I would make it a tourist destination. I want to visit the Rannotsav website sometime. This festival starts after Diwali and continues for three months. A tent city is formed You can not even imagine how to make such beauty There is so much rush in this season to visit the White Desert and these days Many people plan the board meetings of the company to coincide with Rannotsav. Could anyone ever think that the White Desert could also become a Tourist Destination? As a result the handicraft of Kutch, and a lot of things. People started preparing themselves professionally, learning packaging, serving food etc. Tourism is like the riddle - whether the chicken came first or the egg If tourists come then tourism develops and if the tourist destination develops, it will draw tourists I used to work in Himachal many years ago. There is a place in Himachal, near Manali. I went to see the place, I am forgetting the name; He was a foreigner -yes it's Roderick He was a foreigner but had participated in the movement for freedom No one visited that place. At that time it was the government of my party in Himachal Pradesh, so I requested them. I asked them to make it mandatory for their tour programs. So school buses started coming. Gradually, the tea seller, the water seller, the snack seller started showing up in that place. Later this spot found a tourist in the map as well. I believe that as the government is taking steps to develop tourism, we all should develop a tourism sector. We should insist on promoting it. And trips to India are new Today we have developed the concept of tourist circuits which has become very popular. It is a long time now We had 'Char-dham', '12 Mahadev Jyotirling ',' 9 Ganesh '- all similar to the Circuit concept. Our ancestors were well aware of the circuit concept The infrastructure was also available. We can move ahead with these things. And so, I believe that tourism has a great potential in job creation But if we add to these things, our contribution will surely bring results. I have received many ideas from you and those ideas will definitely be used. But I urge you to not confine the ideas within this room but try these things in your personal capabilities, within your industrial circle, within your seller-buyer circle. You can also organize an event there Together we will Even if I am running this campaign, your cooperation is indispensible. The chamber you sit in is excellent, but we do not feel like walking down the industrial area due to unhygienic conditions. Yet we are reluctant to take collective responsibility. That is why it is not cleaned Wealth from Waste has a great potential for developing it in a full-fledged industry. How do we encourage new entrepreneurs in developing this sector? This will also be a solution to our environmental problem. You must have seen how the farmers in Haryana and पंजाब that burn the crop waste after the cultivation of crops. This impacts the quality of air in Delhi. Thus, the farmers of Punjab and Haryana are blamed for Delhi's pollution problem. Now a young man from Nagpur bought the same waste, cow dung and made small blocks out of it and sold those blocks for using the funeral. 20% less is needed The Waste The time required So, how to encourage such things?\nThe second problem in our country for which we need a solution is that we are only focused on the needs of the domestic needs. Then we say that a particular product is available for Rs 5000; but mine costs only Rs4000; so you should buy my product We really need to change this approach Rather can not we think of providing a product that meets the needs of our country? The day we come up with that product you will see the huge market here and later we can also entertain the same in the global market.\nHas our country has imported? Can I save my country's revenue by stopping imports of at least five things by 2022? I will not allow the import This is my devotion to country that will make these things in my country so that money does not go out. Why not? You can definitely do this. You tell me about you We have to make health care in India cheaper Can not we make use of health care for kidney patients, the dialysis machine indigenously? Can not our entrepreneurs come up with these things? If we try to develop things in the present day, the market will automatically develop. And we should think in this direction And I believe that the suggestions given for the government Gradually, we want to institutionalize these thoughts and ideas. You can also add more We can think more about outcome oriented suggestions. But this is just the beginning By sitting with this group I would like to add people to any particular field to the concerned department of government so that the permanent interaction continues. Let's get together for the country I am happy that in your presentations there was no such suggestion that contained the interest of the industry or the trader. All suggestions were in the interest of the country This satisfies my dream of 2022. So, we want to emphasize on these things.\nThere are many new attempts to bring change and will be successful. I want to congratulate Mr. Arvind Panagaria, Vice Chairman of the Nation Aayog Now see, how things work in mission mode He lived in the United States for 45 years and had never thought of coming to India. The family was also settled there. He is a great friend of mine so I requested him to come here and at once he agreed to head the NITI Aayog. He has developed the NITI Aayog over the three years and today has changed the earlier Planning Commission. His contribution was huge And although he is going to leave the country next week but still he is doing this work diligently He is present in us. This is a small thing Otherwise When one has left, one needs to start So though he has left for America, he is still engaged in this work with his heart and mind in it. I think there is no shortage of such people in our country And trusting such people, we are moving forward with the dream of 2022. Now, Arvind ji is going to have his best wishes to him. He has done a excellent work. This country will always remember him and his service Arvind ji was the core of this program. He has been with you for two days He has an introvert nature so he does not like his early introduction This is also a quality He does not keep himself in the front But I think that a good effort is a good result and you will always be associated with it. You must have a direct connection to the government Your suggestions should come You could have seen the presentation yesterday. I can connect with anyone I always use technology Once again for your contribution\nThanks a lot"