"Every citizen has something or another to contribute to the nation: PM Modi\nInnovation is life When there is no innovation, there is stagnation: PM Modi\nOnly Governments \u0026 Government initiatives will not make a New India Change will be powered by every and every citizen of India: PM\nFriends, today my job was to Listening to you, understanding to you is necessary for this reason also, and I used to say it publicly and it is also my conviction, because it is such a great country and if the government is in the illusion to say the fate of the country There was a poet - Shail Chaturvedi in the previous generation. He had written a very good satire, he wrote: once a politician was searching in a car, he asked his driver that he would drive the car that day. The driver replied that he would get off the car. The politician asked him why? The driver responded that sir: this is a car not the government That is why this is not a new concept in our country If we go back a little, not much, just 50 years then we will realize that the government's role, it's presence was minimal. The social structure was such that it could be used for the facilities. Can anyone tell me that these libraries were built on many places? Many leaders of the society, as per their interests Even education, education in our country was completely changed when money, business and commercial interests were associated with it. However, there was a time when the entire education system was developed by the people engaged in social charity activities and it was mostly done with a sense of dedication. Even water was supplied to the areas facing water shortage under a social structure. If we travel towards Rajasthan or Gujarat then the water ponds that we see were built by the governments Common public used to run these projects and those who were the leaders of the society And that is why the government may be the system but the development was always done through various organs of the society, it was done due to their strength, their power and their dedication. Time has changed and we have to adjust our systems in the changed times. This is a effort in that direction that will be someone in the society with money power, someone with knowledge power These powers are scattered, if they are arranged in one thread then it can create such a garland that can bring more glory to mother India So this is that to try to figure out such powers of the society?\nIf you keep an eye on the functioning of the government then there are many things that are not reported in media because there are many things that may not be newsworthy, but there are many others that are newsworthy. You must have seen how these padma awards - Padma Shri, Padma Vibhush - were decided by the government If you had made an attempt, then you will know the way If a politician recommends a name, if a government functionary, that too is a politician, recommends a name, they are considered worthy of Padma awards.\nWe carried out a small reform, we said Anyone can send details If someone has read something in newspaper, then he can send its clipping saying saying: I came to know about such a person. And the kind of information that was received by us This young team was not aware of those faces but they started looking into the available material, they shortlisted them. Then the committee that was formed who did this work and you must have seen that people are getting Padma Shri. You must have seen that Padma Shri was given a Muslim Boy from Bengal this time. What the matter was? His own mother had died Medical treatment was not available. His mother's death shook his conscience and he started carrying patients to his motor cycle on doctors. He worked hard, he used the expenditure of petrol himself. And he became famous in the whole area as Ambulance Uncle He was doing this selfless service in those areas of Assam and Bengal. It was given to the notice of the government and the people of Padma Shri. I mean to say that in every corner of the country everyone has some useful and the government's effort is to connect that. We want to connect with the government Our effort is to have the two-way approach\nIt's possible that every one of them may feel that he has been invited. There are many suggestions It was completely a government effort and therefore it has many shortcomings. There was a lot of problems in our country. How to institutionalize this? How to convert into a yearly event? And that can be taken as an extension of government, as you have created 6 groups, and each group focused on 5 different topics, focused on different topics. Now this idea is coming to my mind whether this group will be permanently attached to the concerned ministry Those who work on digital, if they offer their time then I can create a group of those people with the concerned ministry, with the concerned officers looking after the work of Digital India in the government. They should get together every month to discuss new things, as this is the feeling that I do not know this, I do not know what is digital, this is not only the common man, thinking is there in the government as well In government digital means: procurement of hardware. In government, digital means replacing the flowerpot with a modern laptop so that we look modern if a visitor comes. So this is the thinking in the government, people in the age group of 50-55 come to the central government, your brain is like a person below the age of thirty, I wanted to link two. This is its beginning. And it's a matter of satisfaction for me that the team that has been with me today, a team of secretaries, ministers, suppose if it is a team of 200 people that constantly interacts with me but not as a Prime Minister but I spend my team with them as a companion And after the last three years I can say this as a farmer who does not know about his field, he does not know about what kind of crop or about its output, if crop is harvested then whether he will get the correct price in the market or not; but he keeps ploughing his field, similarly I have completely ploughed the minds of my 200 people. And I can say this thing with experience that today they are eager, they are enthusiastic to accept any seed idea and they are completely willing to do that with themselves. And I think this is a big change My senior team in the government is trying to become an obstacle in looking and accepting every new thing. And it has encouraged me to associate you people with me. If that obstacle was there then I would not do it Because you people will be the biggest reason for negativity Then I'd say myself: just leave it, they all just just talk But I am able to muster this courage as I am aware that my main team is very enthusiastic about accepting new things. All the things that you have said, you had discussed with them yesterday, even today These people are here, some of them were present here. So we have to take this efforts\nAnd I will urge you people that there is a large number of people among you first time. You might have heard of one another, must have read, and should have known through social media Now you have got familiar with each other, and a team is being created. It's possible that the team does not have all 212 members, but those groups of 30-35 people must have become familiar with another person, what is the way of thinking of the other person, what's his / her contribution, all these things\nYou will know all these things if somebody isted other's time and also if someone is doing his business for networking. You would have come here for all these things and that is why you know all the pros and cons. And I am confident that you will focus on your own way; do not change the topic; if something new happens anywhere in the world Will you continue to add new things? You will modify that, sharpen that and make it more focussed, and these are the ideas But can you prepare a road map with the ideas? What resources are required for the achievement? What will be the institutional arrangement? The government functions under some rules, if the rules are required to change then how the rules will be amended, what are the rules Government works on the basis of paper work. Nothing can be successful in the government that is not based on papers, what you can do in this regard? How do you connect these things? Would anyone of you take the lead to be somewhere after a month? See, you can make a very big contribution; you can create a digital platform in your own way Someone from your team should only get this thing and invite new people through that platform in your own way. May be you conduct a discussion, arrange a conference through Google Hangout once in a month, you can try to meet once or twice in a year. And if you do all these things and continue to deliberate then you will have the power to give time to government. And when things are done on time\nSometimes, the government has set its own difficulties and it has its own merits as well. You can provide support against those difficulties And in our country, it's some extra-ordinary things Small things can lead to very big changes And you will have tried this, if you look at the working of the government then you will see that so many small things have been done. In case of such a simple thing, you can tell me the citizen of this country should trust his government or not? The straight answer is yes: you should trust your government\nBut the government trusts elected corporator, it trusts a gazetted officer It is a law that if you have a certificate and you want to apply somewhere then you will have to visit him to get it certified and he will just stamp it without even looking at it. A boy sits out and he keeps stamping on everyone's documents by taking money. And after getting certified it send it to the government After coming to power I asked Let them self-certify it, let them self-attest it, we removed that requirement It's a small thing but it is a very big message that I believe in people of my country and no intermediary is needed. But when your final interview is conducted or you are going to show you the original documents that day And you'll find thousands of such things in the government See, the issue of corruption was discussed here and Kuleen was saying that if we correct the judiciary then everything will be corrected. Kuleen can do this thing\nSee, we keep jewellery or cash in the family, we put a lock to protect it. Is that lock is meant to protect from the thief, protect from the robber? They have the power to take away the entire locker; he has the power to break open your lock It is not to deter him That lock is to prevent your children from going on the wrong path. You create such systems so that your children do not develop the wrong habit of taking something out of the locker. We develop these systems for self-discipline Unfortunately, corruption has been institutionalised. You are not able to stop it till the time you develop a counter institutional arrangement.\nSee, there are so many middlemen in our country, they also need livelihood That is also an occupation and those who have been left without that occupation are: we have no work, do not have any work Many such people visit the house of poor people and ask them: just pay 50 thousand rupees, we will arrange the job of a peon for your son; pay just 20 thousand rupees and we will arrange a temporary job, this kind of middlemen keep roaming around.\nAfter coming to power we decided that in class III and class IV, can anyone tell me that what is the logic of interview? And what kind of psychology has been developed in the world to assess people, someone just enters the room from this side and there is a panel of 3 people and he passes from there in 30 seconds, they just see someone, if they have time then ask question saying: okay, good and the interview is finished\nI have not heard of this kind of scandal anywhere so far It means that some irregularity was there After coming to power, this government has decided this thing; More than 65% of government jobs were in these categories. I have abolished all the interviews, the computer will decide on the basis of your merit list and those who will get the job. It's possible that between 2 to 5% undeserving people can get the job but in the previous interview based system the number of such persons was 80%.\nI mean to say this is a government that is working on institutional arrangement so that if a person is of slightly dubious character then the system will take it of it. Sometimes it is possible that people are doing something wrong In a way today's world is like a gap. Apps have become universal and in a way interface is getting eliminated and for those who are cheating others. They will do all kinds of things in one app and next month they will develop another App for their survival. But despite these arrests, this technology revolution is going on a life. Today, there is no resistance technology And those who say that they are not able to figure out this technology See, the most modern technological equipment It reaches into the kitchen as a favourable item of the women. All the women, including illiterate women, even the domestic help, they know how to operate the oven, how to operate other things, they will become familiar with all technology\nUser friendly technology has transformed the lives Can the use of technology in the governance change the way? You are from the different fields but one thing is certain: innovation is life. If there is no innovation, then it's stagnation and there is filth where there is the stagnation. Changes can be brought about via innovation alone You are in the field, are you promoting the innovation, if somebody is doing the marketing of handicraft products, but has he taught that handicraft artisan can change his work as per the global requirement with new technology? But if he keeps them training, then we can say, those common people, the poor people, those who work in the field of handicraft, in a way, it's their vocational training, their skill training or technological training, the market, if they train them a bit then they give better results Even if we inspire a Bamboo furniture maker to manufacture furniture as per the market requirement, as per the requirements of the changed time and the user of the comfort, then he will automatically get that opportunity.\nWe should not equate our rural economy, the whole rural economy only with the farming, there is lot more in rural economy farming than the other. How we can strengthen this decentralized system? There was a time in our country when the ironsmith of the village was able to meet the needs of the whole village; There was no need to look for things outside the village. A cobbler of the village was able to meet the requirements of the whole village and there was no need to look outside the village. But the economy gradually changed in such a way that the Tatas became the biggest ironsmith and Bata became the biggest cobbler and the village was in the loss. So the change that has come about, the change is not a bad thing but how we integrate the decentralized system with it? If we are able to integrate this then we will create a power, we will develop a system that will be used in sustaining the country's economy. Have you .... the start-up, this start-up is a fashionable thing You must have seen that there is a different kind of start-up world for digital software but the other start-ups that have emerged, they have found the solutions for daily problems and they have targeted the rural base.\nAround a year ago, I used to visit Sikkim. Sikkim is the first organic state in India Very few people will be aware about this The whole state is organic They have developed the whole state as organic one by continuously working for 13-14 years. And all our Himalaya states have the ability to develop organic state capitals. When I visited Sikkim, I visited Sikkim for his organic festival. It was an event dedicated to Sikkim.\nI got there young people - one guy and one girl They had gone straight out after IIM Ahmedabad When we were introduced then I thought that they had come as tourists When I enquired them they responded in negative, they said last six months. When I asked them what they were doing, they said: We have been working in the direction of global marketing of local organic products and our business is growing rapidly in short span of time.\nSee, this is the new world I mean our start-ups have tapped these things How we can empower them, how to add new things in them? Waste to wealth. You can not imagine that how much this waste There is technology in it, innovation is in it, it has been recycled, it has been And if we strengthen it, recycling is not new to India; we were But due to changes the intermediate link snapped Now we will have all these things in an organized way and if we do all these things then we will bring about the change\nEducation, this is true that in the field of education campus placements take place from IIMs. One crore, two crores or three crores, employers hire students by giving this much money. Can not we dream that the teachers should also get the placement and they also bring one crore, two crore, three crore or five crore. It's possible, it's very much possible You meet any India, the richest or the poorest, the most educated or the unbiated and just ask them one question: what is the goal of their life? You will get a common answer: good education to their children You ask someone, ask your driver what does he think, he would say: sir, somehow I want to give good education to my children, I have spent my life\nSahib, I ask to many people, he may be a driver or a liftman, I mean I ask them, are they under debt or not? They say: Sir, we have taken loan I asked them why they took the loan He borrowed money from his children It means that if there is a great demand for the best teachers We should develop the best teachers and common man should feel that becoming a teacher is very respectable thing and he can do this through big contribution. Some new models are emerging, plenty of new models, practical and very good models are emerging for this and technology can play a very big role in this thing.\nWe launch so many satellites and take pride in it. But there were many such transponders that hang out unutilized in the air. After coming to power we broke the silos, we brought together, space, education and technology sector. Recently, I have dedicated 32 transponders to the education sector alone. And they will deliver education to you, free of charge for kids. It means technology can help us in providing quality education without dilution, without diversion to common man, to the poorest of the poor.\nHow do we use technology in the quality of education? If change comes to the quality of education from the bottom then such pressure will become applicable on teachers that they are going to change soon And that is why this is government's effort to engage people like you, who have a different world view, who have a sixth sense, who have been excited, enthusiasm, innovations, thinking and ideas. This is my effort.\nSimilarly, you people and countrymen like you, many people, you see it neither my thinking nor the government's thinking that we can create a new India through government schemes. Unless more than 1.25 billion citizens resolve about New India, unless they have decided their role in New India and they do not meet that on the basis of self-initiative till that time.\nAnd that is why it should be our endeavor and it is my expectation from you people, wherever you are, will you say these things to your people? You have 20 employees, 50, 100 or thousand employees will never ask about them, look by 2022, we want to take our country to that place, what responsibility will you take? What do you do? We can create this environment\nSometimes I remember that when I was not in politics there was a big industrialist, he used to lead Gandhian life, used to be the selfless service mode, one of his family member was also associated with Ram Krishna Mission and I also relations with that family of my association with Ram Krishna Mission So he once purchased a old decrepit closed mill Why was that closed? It was closed due to strikes and the issues created by unions. So once I asked him: Why did you take this risk? And what is the result, what happened? He gave me a simple answer, he said: \"We just bought it and I started visiting that place one and I had decided that for six months I will go there regularly. And I used to have lunch there I used to This small decision of my students They did not look at me as the owner and I did not see them as workers I used to eat the same thing on their table which they used to eat and this brought about a psychological change that they have become my family members and they worked so hard that six months after failed factory turned profitable. \"\nI mean to say that whether you ever, please also ask your colleagues whether they have ever collected the 12, 15 or 18-year-old children of your workers, the children of small time workers? Have you told inspirational things to kids? You see, as soon as you connect with their children, you will see that the rest of their lives, whether they get the bonus or not. I want to bring about these changes I want to bring about these changes You tell me that the insurance schemes launched by the government of India on a premium of one rupee per day, is there an insurance scheme that is one rupee per day, Government of India has given such a good package for your employees, Good product, if you deposit 500 rupees in their bank account, in their fix deposit then it will pay their annual insurance premium. And if some mis-happening happens in his life then both these are insurance products, two and two, four lakh rupees will be automatically the poor person's family.\nThese government schemes that are directly related to your workers, can you encourage these plans? You must have seen that our Gaurav, he would have given you the digital platform of the government. Many of you would not like the digital field Can You Push It? Can you become a partner in driving the government? I think we can move in the direction of change, I think we can move with that direction as much more we connect. And whatever we are, we are the citizens of India In whatever office we are, in whatever system we are, whichever shop we are sitting in, whichever we are running, but collectively all of us are one of India. It is my effort to fill one 1.25 billion Indians with these feelings\nIt's true that whatever things I think of I'm doing is the Prime Minister, it's not true. I will have to navigate through the system So, it is possible that 40 ideas out of total 59 ideas can not be clicked but even if 10 of your ideas are taken. And our efforts should continue to be there\nFriends, one may think that a lot of discussion takes place, we think a lot but what I said, what you said, none of it was acted upon, but a lot of things that have been done by you, said by Many others and due to these things It's possible that if you do not have the ability to do it, you will not be able to do it. feeling\nAnd I want to develop this thing in institutional mechanism, yearly thing Later, you can give your suggestions and ideas through email You can also give suggestion about the people, you can also give suggestions on this program but I'm confident because I came here yesterday evening as well, I got the opportunity to know the thoughts of all of them\nWhatever is there in the government I conducted an experiment of organizing Hackathon It was done with college students and we invited students from all the IITs. More than 40 thousand students participated in the first round. I asked the government departments to prepare a list of those difficulties, those problems faced by them. Initially there was resistance The resistance was like this that I'm a secretary, I'm a joint secretary, I am a director, how can I tell these problems are for the solution, it will be embarrassing for us. So initially it was difficult to tell about these things However, my office and I relentlessly pursued the issue, finally the shortlisted 400 such issues the solution for which was still to be found. Previously they had the feeling Then I gave those issues to the students and asked them to organize a Hackathon and find solutions for them. And they worked non-stop for 40 hours in their university campus, 40 thousand Indian students, purely in the age group of sixteen to eighteen and they applied their mind. You will be happy to know Railway people were granted by the railway in the next day and implemented some of the things in the railways. All the departments have tried to incorporate that solution in their functioning.\nIf you ask the father of the 16-18-year-old youth of our country about what his ward do, the father will give 10 minus mark, but the same youth can be so useful for the country And this is my effort in the 40 thousand students. You also have that capability And I do not think that there is any difference between me and you in terms of patriotism. We all have equal amount of patriotism, in every one of us, in our thoughts, we all have the feeling that the country should progress. And there are plenty of opportunities for work.\nAnd it is my belief that if we work collectively then the results will be outstanding. And once again people, because people say the time is priceless, but this is definitely not for the people And despite that you have been spared your time, that is why I express my heartfelt gratitude on behalf of the government and I hope that you will stay connected with us. We will take forward our stories We can meet again in different ways But we can take things forward My best wishes Thank you."