"\nWe remember the great women and men who worked hard for India's freedom: PM\nWe have to take the country ahead with the determination of creating a new India: PM Modi\nIn our nation, there is no one big or small ... everybody is equal. Together we can bring a positive change in the nation: PM\nWe have been left to this 'Chalta Hai' attitude and think of 'Badal Sakta Hai': PM Modi\nPM Modi says safety of the country is our priority\nGST has shown the spirit of cooperative federalism The nation has come together to support GST: PM Modi\nThere is no question of being soft of terrorism or terrorists: PM Modi\nIndia is about Shanti, Ekta and Sadbhavana. Casteism and communalism will not help us: PM\nViolence in the name of 'Astha' can not be accepted in India: PM Modi\nMy dear fellow citizens,\nGreetings from the Ramparts of the Red Fort on the auspicious occasion of Independence Day.\nNation is celebrating the Independence Day with the Festival of Janamashtmi today. I can see a number of Bal Kanahiyas here. We are fortunate to have in our cultural and historical heritage from A Sudarshan Chakradhari Mohan to Charkhadhari Mohan.\nFrom the ramparts of Red Fort, on behalf of our 125 crore countrymen, I bow and pay respect to those men and women who have sacrificed their lives, who have immense sufferings and made sacrifices for the sacrifices, glory and pride of the country .\nSometimes, natural calamities A good monsoon contributes to the prosperity of the country However, due to climate change, sometimes it turns into a natural calamity. Many parts of the country Apart our innocent children lost their lives in a hospital 125 crore countrymen stand shoulder to shoulder in the hour of crisis and grief I assure the countrymen that in the hour of crisis we will leave no stone unturned to ensure the wellbeing of all.\nMy dear countrymen, this year is a special year for independent India. We commemorated 75 years of Quit India Movement last week. This year we are also commemorating the centenary of Champaran Satyagrah and the Sabarmati Ashram. The centenary of Lokmanya Tilak's call \"Swaraj is my birth right\" falls this year as well. The year marks the 125th Anniversary of the Ganesh Festival which led to the rise of community awakening through the celebrations. It inspires us A collective solution of the citizens was visible during 1942 to 1947 in the whole of the country which forced the British to Quit India within a span of five years. We will have to exhibit the same resolve from now on in the 70th year of independence to 2022, the 75th year of independence\nWe now have five years before the 75th year of our independence Our united solution, strength and determination to work hard remembering the memory of our great patriots will help us to build an India of their dreams by 2022. Therefore, we have to take the country forward with a pledge to build a new India.\nWe are aware of the power of the collective resolve, hard work, sacrifice and devotion of our 125 crore citizens. Lord Krishna was immensely powerful, but it was only when the milkmen came out with sticks in his support that they could lift the Govardhan Parvat. When Lord Rama had gone to Lanka, the monkeys came to his help, Ramsetu built and Lord Rama could reach Lanka. Then there was Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi, who empowered his countrymen to sell the fabric of cotton and spinning wheel.\nThe collective solution and strength of the people No one is small or big We have in our memory the story of the squirrel which became an agent of change. That's why we should remember that no one among the 1.25 billion people is either small or big - everyone is equal.\nIf every one of us, irrespective of where he belongs to, strives with a new solution, a new energy, a new strength, 2022. Our independence of the 75th year in 2022. We can change the face of the country with our combined strength. will be the new India - a secure, prosperous and strong nation A new India where there is equal opportunity for all; where modern science and technology plays an important role in bringing the nation into the global arena.\nOur freedom is linked to our sentiments. We know it well that at that time the freedom movement, the teacher who was engaged in teaching, the farmer who was tilling his land, the laborer who was working - all of them knowing their hearts that they were doing, was contributing of the independence of the country This is a great source of strength In the family, food is ready but it becomes 'prasad' only when it is offered to the deity.\nWe are working, but if we do so in the spirit of India, for the divinity of mother India, if we do it to rid our countrymen of poverty, if we do it properly our social fabric, If we discharge our responsibilities with the country, if we do it with a sense of devotion to country, if we do our work by dedicating it to the country, then the achievements will be much more That is why we should move\nJanuary 1, 2018 will not be a normal day - those born in this century will start turning 18. For these people, this is a decisive year of their lives. They are going to be the creator of the destiny (Bhagya Vidhata) of our nation in the 21st century. I heartily welcome all these youth, honour them and offer my respects to them. You have the opportunity A proud nation invites you to become a part of its developmental journey.\nMy dear countrymen,\nWhen Arjuna was posing a lot of queries to Lord Krishna in the battlefield of Kurukshetra, then Krishna said Arjuna that you achieve goals as per your thinking and beliefs. We have a strong determination, we are committed to a bright India. We, who have grown up with a state of hopelessness, have the confidence of despair\nWe have to leave this 'Chalta Hai' attitude We have been thinking of 'Badal Sakta Hai' - this attitude will help us as a nation We should have this confidence that with sacrifice and hard work and a solution to do something, we will get necessary resources and the ability to do it and then a big transformation will happen, and our resolve will be converted into accomplishment.\nBrothers and sisters,\nIt is natural for our country Our country, our military, our brave-hearts, our uniformed forces, be it any force, not just the army, air force or navy, all the uniformed forces, whenever they are called upon to call upon, they will show their valour, their strength; our brave-heart Be it Left-Wing-Extremism, be it terrorism, be it infiltrators, be it the elements fomenting trouble inside our country - the country of the uniformed forces have made great sacrifices. And when the surgical strike was carried out, then the world had to acknowledge India's capability and strength.\nMy dear countrymen,\nIndia's security is our priority Be it our coast line or our borders, the space or the cyberspace, India is capable of ensuring its own security and strong enough to ward off the country against any threats.\nMy beloved countrymen,\nThose who have looted the nation and looted the poor Due to this, the An honest man now feels that his honesty matters. Today, we are celebrating a festival of honesty and there is no place for dishonesty. This gives us new hope.\nThe law against Beni property was lying in limbo for years. Now, we have come up with a deal against Benami Property. In such a short time, the government has confiscated Benami properties worth over Rs.800 cr. When these things happen, the common man develops faith\nThe 'One Rank - One Pension' policy for our defense force was stuck up for 30-40 years. Our government implemented it. When we meet the aspirations of our soldiers, then their morale goes high and their resolve to protect the nation.\nThe country has many states and a Central Government GST has shown the spirit of cooperative federalism and has given a competitive edge. The success of GST can be attributed to the hard work that has been put into it a success. Technology has made it look like a miracle The global community is wondering how we were able to roll out GST in such a short time. It is a reflection of our capability and help in building\nNew systems are emerging Today's roads are being built at twice the speed. The railway tracks are being laid at double the speed. More than 14 thousand villages that were hitherto shrouded in darkness even after Independence, have been provided with electricity. Bank accounts of 29 crore people have been opened, more than 9 crore farmers have got Soil Health Card More than 2 crore poor mothers and sisters are now using LPG gas stove NOW. The poor tribals have gained faith in the system. The person on the last mile of development now joins the mainstream\nMore than 8 crore loans have been sanctioned without guaranteed the youth for self-employment. The interest on bank loans has been lowered. Inflation is under control If a person belongs to the middle-class who wants to build his house, then he gets a loan at a lower rate of interest. In this way, the country is moving forward and people are joining the movement.\nThe times have changed The government is determined to do the same.\nIn the labor sector alone, even a small businessman had to fill up to 50-60 forms, but we have now made it more convenient by reducing it to just 5-6 forms. I can provide many such instances of good governance, simplifying the process of governance. By reiterating this we've enforced faster decision making And that is why 125 crore countrymen have been able to repose faith in our governance.\nDear Countrymen,\nIndia has gained in stature across the globe You will be happy to know that we are not alone in our fight against terrorism Many countries are proactively supporting us\nBe it Hawala, or any inputs related to terrorism, the global community We have joined hands with other countries in the United States I extend my heartfelt greetings to all those countries who are standing in solidarity with us and acknowledging our prowess.\nFor the development and progress of Jammu and Kashmir, its prosperity, and fulfillment of the aspirations of the citizens, not only the J \u0026 K government, but we as responsible citizens also have a responsibility. We have been able to restore the state to its former glory.\nOn Kashmir there is rhetoric and politics But I am clear in my belief on how to win the fight against separatism, which is a handful of people The problem will be solved by either abuse or bullets - it will be solved by embracing all Kashmiris. Such is the legacy of 125 crore Indians Therefore, neither by abuse nor by bullets, change will come by embracing all. And we are moving forward with this resolve.\nWe will take steps against terrorism There is no question of being terrorized or terrorists We have been asking the extremists to join the mainstream. Democracy provides an opportunity to all The process of engagement can take place only by their mainstream.\nI deeply appreciated the efforts of the security forces in curbing the Left Wing extremism which mobilized a lot of youth from these areas to surrender and mainstream joining.\nSecurity forces are keeping a tight vigil on our borders. I am delighted to announce that today the Indian Government is launching a website which will give an account of the valiant of the Gallantry Award winners. A portal is also being launched which aims to provide the full details of these brave hearts. The story of sacrifices\nWith the help of technology, we are trying to promote honesty and transparency in the country. Our fight against black money will continue; our fight against corruption will continue With the intervention of technology We have been successful in infusing transparency in the system. People from around the world have appreciated this model and have studied it.\nA common man living thousands of kilometres away now can supply his products to the Government He does not need any middle man We have launched a portal called \"GEM\". The Government is making procurement through this portal. We have been successful in bringing transparency at various levels.\nBrothers and Sisters,\nImplementation of Government schemes is gaining momentum. When a work is delayed, it is not worth it. It is not a matter of expenditure of money. When a work is stalled, the poor families are the ones\nWe can reach the planet Mars within 9 months; We are capable of achieving that\nI review Government Projects every month A specific project came to my notice It was a 42-year old project 70-72 kilometer of railway lines were made, but the project was lying in the last 42 years.\nMy brothers and sisters,\nWhen a country is capable of reaching Mars within 9 months, how is it possible that it is able to lay 70-72 kilometres rail lines for 42 years It sets in the minds We have taken care of all these things We have been striving to bring Whether it is Geo-Technology or Space-Technology, we have tried to link all these technologies to bring in transformation.\nYou must have seen that there was a time when tension prevailed between the States and the States for Urea and Kerosene. The Center was a big brother while the State was treated as a younger brother. I have been a Chief Minister for a long time and I know the importance of states in the development of the country. I know the importance of the Chief Ministers and the State Governments. So, we put emphasis on Co-operative Federationism. Now we are moving toward a Competitive Co-operative Federationism. You must have seen that together\nYou can recall that one of our Prime Ministers in his address from the ramparts of Red Fort had talked about the poor state of affairs. He expressed his concerns over the issue. Today with the \"Uday\" Yojana, we have worked together in the power companies It is a concrete example of federalism in its real sense\nWhether it is GST or Smart City Project, whether it is Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, or the construction of toilets, or ease of doing business, all these are being done by working together.\nMy dear fellow countrymen,\nIn the New India, the biggest strength is democracy But we have reduced our democracy from mere ballot boxes. However, democracy can not be justified So our resolve is to see that it has a democracy in New India, where people are not driven by the system, rather the system is driven by the people Such a democracy should be the identity of new India and we want to move towards that direction.\nLokmanya Tilak Ji said \"Swaraj is my birthright\". In Independent India our Mantra should be \"Good Governance is my birthright\" 'Suraja' or good governance should be our collective responsibility. The citizens should fulfill their obligations and the government too should discharge its responsibilities.\nWhen we move from \"Swaraj\" to \"Suraja\", the citizens do not lie behind For example, when I called upon the countrymen to give up gas subsidy, the nation responded as a whole. I have spoken about cleanliness Now people are joining hands from the cleanliness drive forward.\nWhen the demonetization was announced, the world was wondered People thought that it was the end of Modi But the way our 125 crore countrymen had shown patience and faith, we were able to take a step in our drive against corruption.\nWith this new course of people's participation, our effort to take the country forward with people's involvement.\nMy dear fellow countrymen,\nLal Bahadur Shastri had given the slogan \"Jai Jawan Jai Kisan.\" Our farmers have not looked back since then. They are now producing record-breaking harvests and scaling new heights. There is a record production of pulses this year.\nMy dear brothers and sisters,\nIndia never had the tradition to import pulses and if it had imported rare occasions, it was only a few thousand tons. This year when they produced 16 lakh tons of pulses to provide nutrition to the poor, the government took the historic step of encouraging them by their produce.\nPradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojna has provided a protection cover for our farmers. Three years back, this scheme which was running under a different name earlier, covered only 3.25 crore farmers. Now over a short span of three years has been brought under its ambit. The number is soon going to touch the 5.75 crore mark.\nPradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchai Yojana aims to meet the demand for water from the farmers. If my farmers get water, they can produce rich farms from their fields. That is why I had some announcements from the ramparts of Red Fort on the last Independence Day. Out of those, we have completed 21 projects and the remaining 50 will be completed soon. I have resolved to complete 99 big projects By completing those 99 big projects before 2019, we will fulfill our commitment We can not change the lot of our farmers. For this we need infrastructure and supply chain. Every year vegetables, fruits and grains are worth millions of crores of rupees are wasted. In order to change the situation, the government has encouraged Foreign Direct Investment in food processing sector. Government of India has launched 'Pradhan Mantri Kisan Sampada Yojna' to encourage infrastructure building. Due to this, the system will be put in place that will ensure hand-holding of the farmers from supplying to the market. Such arrangements will result in a new change in our farmers.\nWith the changes in demand and technology, the nature of jobs in our country has changed. The government has launched many new initiatives in the employment related schemes and also in the manner in which the training is imparted for the development of human resources according to the needs of the 21st century. We have launched a massive program for providers. Our youth should become independent, he should get the job, he will become the provider of employment Over the past three years, 'Pradhanmantri Mudra Yojana' has led and millions of youth becoming self-dependent. It's not just that, one is providing employment to one, two or three more people.\nIn the education sector, we have taken an important step to grant students from the world class universities. We have asked 20 universities to decide their own destiny. The government will not interfere in their functioning. Besides, the government is willing to provide funds up to Rs. 1,000 cr. We have appealed to them and I am confident that the education institutions of our country will certainly come forward and make it a success.\nOver the last three years, we have set up 6 IITs, 7 new IIMs and 8 new IIITs and we have also done the groundwork for linking the education with job opportunities.\nMy mothers and sisters, the women in the families And so we have taken a very important step to reform the labor laws to provide them.\nOur mothers and sisters are an integral unit of our families. Their contribution in making our future is extremely important. And that is why we have decided to increase the paid maternity leave to 26 weeks from the earlier 12 weeks.\nIn the context of women empowerment, I would like to have those sisters who have been forced to lead a very difficult life due to 'Triple Talaq'. There is no hope for them, and such victims of 'Triple Talaq' has launched a massive movement in the country. They shook the conscience of the intellectual class of the country, the media of the country also helped them and the country in 'Triple Talaq' against a movement started. I heartily commend those sisters, who have been fighting against the 'Triple Talaq' and I'm confident that the country The country will help the mothers and sisters in this right. India will fully support them and they will ultimately achieve success in this very important step in women empowerment; I am completely confident about this.\nMy dear countrymen,\nSometimes in the name of faith, The country is governed by peace, harmony and unity. The poison of casteism and communalism can never benefit the country This is the land of Gandhi and Buddha, we have to move forward with everyone together. This is a part of our country's culture and tradition. We have successfully carried it forward, and that is why\nIf something happens to a hospital and the hospital is burnt down; Some people are burnt down; People are burnt down; Is it a free India? It is the property of 125 crore Indians Whose cultural legacy is this? This is our cultural legacy, the legacy of 125 crore people. Whose faith is this? This is our faith, the faith of 125 crore people; and that is why the path of violence in the name of faith can never succeed in this country The country will never accept this And that is why I want to appeal to all countrymen that at that time our motto was 'Bharat Chodo' and today's slogan is 'Bharat Jodo'. We have to take everyone and every section of the society.\nIn order to build a prosperous India, we need a strong economy, balanced development and next generation infrastructure. Only then, we can say\nBrothers and sisters,\nWe have taken countless decisions over the past three years. Some have not noticed But one thing is important - when you move towards big changes, you will face hurdles But the work style of this government; When a train crosses a railway station and changes the track, the speed needs to be reduced from 60 to 30. The speed of the train decreases while changing the track. We are trying to run on a new track without the speed. We have maintained the speed\nWe may have brought a number of new laws and systems such as the GST, but we have successfully accomplished the work and the work goes on.\nWe have placed emphasis on infrastructure. We have invested lot of funds for the infrastructure - from modernization of the railway station in a small town, to build an airport, to expand water-ways or roadways, to form a gas-grid or a water-grid or to lay down an optical fiber network We are focusing on all types of modern infrastructure.\nMy dear countrymen,\nThe prosperity of Eastern India is required for India's forward movement in the 21st century. It has tremendous potential, rich human resources, immense natural wealth, work force and it has the power to change lives. We are devoting significant attention to eastern India-Bihar, Assam, West Bengal, Odisha, and the Northeast. These parts have to grow more These are abundant in natural resources and are striving hard to take on the new heights.\nBrothers and sisters,\nMaking India is corruption-free is an important task and we are trying to provide it. After forming the government, our first task was to constitute an SIT. Today, after three years, I want to tell the countrymen proudly that we have confiscated black money worth Rs. 1.25 lakh crores, the culprits will be brought to book and forced to surrender.\nDemonetization followed this move. We have achieved many milestones through demonetization. The hidden black money has been brought into the country. You must have seen that we used to extend the days from 7 days to 10 days to 15 days; sometimes we allowed the old notes at the petrol pump, at the chemist shops, and sometimes at the railway stations, because our intention was to bring all the money in the formal banking system and we achieved the task of completing success. According to the research conducted by outside experts, about Rs.3 lakh crore that had never came into the banking system before, had been the system after the demonetization.\nMore from Rs. 1.75 lakh crores deposited in the bank Black money worth Rs. 2 lakh crore had to be deposited in the banks and this system has forced them to be accountable. It has also stopped The number of new taxpayers filing income tax returns from April 01 to August 05 is 56 lakhs while in the same period last year only 22 lakh filed the returns .. In a way it is doubled more than that. This is the result of our fight against black money.\nOver 18 lakh people have been identified, whose income is much higher than their declared income and hence they have to clarify this. Around 4.5 lakh people have now come forward and are trying to accept their mistakes. One lakh people, who had neither heard of Income Tax nor paid Income Tax, have now been forced to do so.\nBrothers and sisters,\nIn our country, we tend to indulge in endless debates and discussions following the shutdown of companies. People start speculating about economic meltdown and what not.\nYou will be surprised to know that black marketers used to own shell companies. Post demonetization, the reports from data mining astonishingly revealed that there are 3 lakh shell companies dealing in Hawala transactions. Can anyone imagine? Out of these 3 lakh shell companies, registration of 1.75 lakh companies canceled\nEven if there is a strong public outcry And here, we have closed one lakh Seventy five thousand companies The looters of nation We have accomplished this task\nYou will be surprised to know that there are some shell companies operating from a single address. As many as 400 companies have been found from one address. There was no one to ask them There was a total collusion.\nTherefore, Brothers and sisters, I have waged a big war against corruption and black money. We are fighting corruption - for the bright future of India and the wellbeing of our people\nBrothers and sisters,\nWe have taken several steps and I am sure that post GST, it will increase further and bring in transparency. Today a truck driver on an average is able to save 30% of his travel time from one point to another after GST was introduced. Hundreds of crores of rupees have been saved due to removal of check posts. This amounts to 30% increase in his efficiency. Can you imagine what it means to accomplish 30% more efficiency in the Indian transportation sector? GST has brought this revolutionary change.\nMy dear countrymen,\nToday due to demonetization, banks have sufficient liquidity. Banks are reducing their interest rates. Even a common man is able to access the funds through Mudra He is getting opportunities to stand on his feet The middle class and the underprivileged who aspire to have their own homes someday, are getting loans from the banks at low interest rates Such moves are giving a boost to the economic growth of the country.\nMy dear countrymen,\nTime has changed We are in the 21st Century. Our country boasts of the world's largest youth population.\nIndia is known in the world for its prowess in IT and Digital World. Should we still remain in the old mind-set? There was a time when leather coins were in vogue, but gradually they ceased to exist. Today we have paper-currency Slowly this paper-currency will be replaced by the digital currency. We should lead from the front to make a move towards Digital transactions. We should adopt BHIM App for transactions and make it a part of our economic activities. We should also work through prepaid systems I am happy that there is a increase in Digital transactions. It has increased by 34% compared to last year while the prepaid transactions have gone up by 44%. We should move towards a less-cash economy.\nMy Dear Countrymen, some schemes of the government If you use LED bulbs, you can save Rs.2000 to Rs. 5000 per year. If we succeed in Swachh Bharat, we will be able to save Rs. 7000 on medicines that they would have spent Curbing is the money in a way\nCheap medicines through Jan Aushadhhi Kendras are a boon to the poor. There used to be a lot of expenditure on operations and stents. We are striving to make it possible We are striving to minimize this expenditure for the poor and middle class.\nPreviously there used to be Dialysis only at the state capitals. Now we have decided to open Dialysis Centers at district level. We have already opened this facility in 350 to 400 districts where free dialysis services are available.\nWe can take pride in the fact that we have developed different systems to showcase to the world. We have been able to develop the 'NAVIC Navigation System' through GPS We have helped the neighboring countries by successfully launching the SAARC Satellite.\nWe asserted our supremacy in the world by introducing Tejas aircraft. BHIM Aadhaar App for digital transaction has come as a surprise to the world. Crores of RuPay Cards are now available in the country. When the card is turned on, it will be the largest number of cards in the world.\nMy dear countrymen, I shall urge you to take up the New India Pledge and move ahead.  Our scriptures say, “अनियत काल:, अनियत कालः प्रभुत्यो विपलवन्ते, प्रभुत्यो विपलवन्ते”.  It implies that, if we don’t accomplish a work within the stipulated time then we shall not be able to get the desired results. So for the ‘Team India’, for the 125 crore countrymen, we have to take the pledge to achieve the goal by 2022.\nWe will do it with dedication to see a great, majestic India by 2022.\nSo we will together build such an India where the poor will have Pucca House with electricity and water.\nTogether we will build such an India where the farmers can sleep without worry. They will earn double by 2022 of what they are earning today.\nTogether we will build such an India where the youth, the women will have enough opportunities to fulfil their dreams.\nTogether we will build such an India which will be free from terrorism, communalism and casteism.\nTogether we will build such an India where nobody will compromise with corruption and nepotism.\nTogether we will build such an India which will be clean and healthy, and where the dream of Su-Raj will be fulfilled.\nAnd that is why my dear fellow countrymen, we will together strive to move ahead in this march towards development.\nLet all of us march together with the dream of a building an India of grandeur and majesty as we wait for the 75th year of independence after completing 70 years of Independence in the next five years.\nWith this thought in mind I once again bow my head before the heroes of our freedom movement. I bow my head before the new confidence and passion of my 125 crore countrymen and I call upon Team India to march on with this new pledge.\nWith this thought I convey my hearty congratulations to all of you.\nBharat Mata Ki Jai, Vande Matram, Jai Hind\nJai Hind, Jai Hind, Jai Hind, Jai Hind\nBharat Mata Ki Jai, Bharat Mata Ki Jai, Bharat Mata Ki Jai,\nVande Matram, Vande Matram, Vande Matram, Vande Matram,\nThanking you all."