"Share\n\nShri Venkaiah Naidu has long experience, and is well-versed in the intricacies of Parliamentary procedures: PM\nMr. Naidu is always sensitive to the needs of rural areas, the poor and farmers: PM\nThe Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today joined the members of the Rajya Sabha, welcoming Vice President Shri M. Venkiah Naidu, as Chairman of the House.\nThe Prime Minister started his welcome remarks by recalling that today, 11th August, the day when a young revolutionary of the freedom struggle, Mr. Khudiram Bose, was hanged by the British. He said that the event reminds us of the sacrifice of those who fought for freedom, and the responsibility. The Prime Minister said that Shri Venkaiah Naidu is the first Vice President born in Independent India. He added that Mr. Naidu has long experience, and is well-versed in the intricacies of Parliamentary procedures.\nRecalling his long association with Shri Venkaiah Naidu, Prime Minister said Mr. Naidu is always sensitive to the needs of the rural areas, the poor and the farmers, and these issues on their inputs are immensely valuable.\nThe Prime Minister said that the fact that people from humble, rural background, today occupy the highest positions in India, shows the maturity of Indian democracy, and the strength of India's Constitution.\nFollowing are PM's comments:\nHon'ble Chairman, heartiest congratulations and good wishes!\nToday, the 11th August, reminds us of a significant event in history. On this day, a youngster aged 18 years, Khudiram Bose, was sent to the gallows. It tells us about the struggle for independence and the sacrifices and reminds us of our responsibility towards the nation.\nRespected Shri Venkaiah Naidu has become the first Vice President of the country, who was born in independent India. I think maybe he is the only Vice President who has been associated with this environment for so many years and knows the nuances of the House. The Country has got a Vice President who is familiar with everybody and everything - from the members to the Committees, to the proceedings of the House.\nHis public life started with the JP movement. During his student days, Jayaprakash Narayan led a nationwide agitation for good governance; and he is a successful student in Andhra Pradesh. Since then he started developing his personality, be it in the Vidhan Sabha or the State Sabha, and also had his field of work. And today he has all been elected and this position for him.\nVenkaiah is the son of a farmer. I had the privilege of working with him for many years. Be it for a village, for the poor, or for the farmers, he has been providing his subjects very closely. He was the Urban Development Minister in the Cabinet too But I always felt that during the discussions in the cabinet he used to talk about the farmers and the problems of rural areas. This topic was very close to his heart because of his family background and childhood.\nAs Venkaiah has taken over the office of the Vice President, it is our responsibility to know it. There are also responsibilities which should be seen in the separation from the politics. India's democracy is very mature Indian Constitution is very powerful The significance of the constitution that our great men have been bequeathed to us is such that the people who have the constitutional posts in India today are those who were born in rural areas or the poverty-stricken family background; They have not come from any rich family The presence of people from humble background in the highest posts of the country itself is the first time itself demonstrates the dignity of the constitution of India and the maturity of India's democracy and this is the pride of the 1.25 Crore people of India. Thus, I can clearly see the inheritance that our forefathers have given us. Once again I would like to\nVenkaiah is a great personality with austerity and great oratory skills. He possesses these rich endowments in his personality and we are familiar with his debating skills. And sometimes when he makes speeches in Telugu, it looks like he is running super-fast But for that there should be clearness in the audience It is not about playing with words; who are associated with the world of oratory are well aware But when one expresses his ideas with conviction, then the person touches the heart of the people. And Venkaiah ji has always been successful in this regard\nIt is also true that there is no such MP today, who does not appeal to the rural areas day in and day out - be it the government of Dr. Manmohan Singh ji or mine One such demand is for the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana in their respective areas. It is a matter of pride for all the MPs that the idea of ​​the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana was envisaged by our very Vice-President, The Venerable Venkaiah Ji. This can only happen when one can empathise with the poor, the farmer, and the oppressed\nToday, while Vankiah ji is among us as Vice President, we may face a little problem in adjusting in this House for some time because just like the lawyer in the court feels strange when a lawyer comes from a judge; a similar feeling may develop that he used to argue and debate with us in the House until recently, but now he is there as Vice President! So some of us, specially for the members of this house, who have been working as well as many years, may feel odd but it is the uniqueity of our democratic system that is in the process of developing our style. system\nI believe that a person like him who has come from the system and has been in the state Sabha for so many years will show us the path and guide us in the House as the Chairman of the House. I have full faith and I believe that a positive change is to come. And today as Venkaiah ji is accepting this dignified post, I would quote a few lines:\n'Implement this in peace,\nImplement this in peace,\nWhere are your eyes passed,\nFrom there you salute. \"\nAnd I would like to add -\n'' Implement this in the House,\nWhere are your eyes passed,\nFrom there you salute. \"\nHeartiest congratulations and thanks a lot!"