"\nVP Hamid Ansari's contribution has been important, says PM Modi\nThe Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, joined today's other Members of the State Sabha, in the biding farewell to Vice President Mr. Hamid Ansari. The Prime Minister noted that Mr. Ansari's family has a famous history of over 100 years in public life. The Prime Minister said that the Vice President had been a career diplomat, and he had benefited from the Vice President's insights on diplomatic issues on several occasions.\nThe Prime Minister conveyed his best wishes to Mr. Hamid Ansari.\nFollowing are PM's comments:\nRespected Chairman,\nAfter a long term service, I am confident that you will go to the new field of work today, because physically you have kept yourself quite fit. A family whose history of nearly hundred years has been of public life, his grandfather, his grandfather was ever president of a national party; he was always in the Constituent Assembly, in a way you come from the background of the family whose ancestors' public life In particular, there was also some activity with the life of the Congress and sometimes with the Khilafat Movement.\nYour own life is also coming a Career Diplomat. Now what is Career Diplomat, I understood only after becoming Prime Minister, because what does it mean to laugh at them, what is the meaning of how to mix their hands, does not immediately understand! Because their training is the same. But that skill would have been used here for 10 years here. In handling all this, how has this skill delivered the house to this house?\nA lot of your tenure is connected to West Asia As A Diplomat. In the same area, you have been living for many years of life, in the same environment, in the same thinking, in the same debate, among such people. Even after retiring from there, most of your work is there, whether you are a Minority Commission or Aligarh University, then a circle remains yours. But this 10 years a separate act came in your part and completely run it for a moment, within the purview of the constitution, constitution, constitution and you tried very hard to do it well.\nThere may have been some flurry in you, but nowadays the crisis will not be yours and you will also enjoy the liberation, and according to your basic thinking, you will also have the opportunity to act, to think, to speak .\nMy introduction to you was not much, but whenever we got to meet, there was a lot to learn from you. Before coming into my foreign travel, after coming, when you got an opportunity to talk to me, I definitely felt the insight of you and what can be done except what I see in things, This gave me an opportunity to understand and therefore I am very grateful to you from the heart, from my side there are many good luck to you from the heart.\nAs Vice President of the Nation, for the services of both the members of the House on behalf of the countrymen, is also the expression of gratitude towards you and your achievement, this experience and the post-retirement status, in itself a long period Until, society holds that weight in that life. It is my best luck to guide you in the direction of the nation, following the boundaries of the constitution of the nation.\nThanks a lot!"