"Share\n\nOur Independence It was a defining moment in ending colonialism in other parts of the world too: PM\nThe messace of corruption has adversely impacted our country's development journey: PM Modi\nPoverty, lack of education and malnutrition are big challenges that our nation faces today, says PM\nIn 1942, the clarion call was 'Karenge Ya Marenge' - today it is 'Karenge Aur Kar Ke Rahenge.'\nFrom 2017-2022, these five years are about 'Sankalp se Siddhi', says PM Modi\nThe Hon'ble Speaker mam, my gratitude to you and all the respected members of the house on this occasion. We all feel proud of being a part of the auspicious gathering in Parliament to celebrate the auspicious occasion. Many of us know the events unfolding of august 9 i.e. the august kranti However even after years, such major events are the major events of the year. Remembering such important events is a new boost In the same way it is our duty to ensure that our new generations Every generation is responsible for the legacy and the glorious history of their times, the atmospherics at that time, the sacrifices of our great men, the duty, the power, to the future generations.\nWhen the August Kranti was commemorated in its 25th year and 50th year, it was celebrated by the people of the country. As we celebrate the 75th year of this event today, it is really a matter of pride for us There for I am grateful to the speaker\nIn the history of our freedom movement, the 9th August movement has been such an important, extensive and intense movement which also the Britishers could not imagine.\nMahatma Gandhi and all senior leaders This was the time when many new leaders came to the forefront - Lal Bahadur Shastri, Ram Manohar Lohia, Jaiprakash Narayan while many youngsters joined the movement to give it the desired momentum. Such movement in the history of our nation should be seen as a new inspiration, new energy, new resolution and the spirit of innovation among the people.\nIndia became a free country in the 1947. The period between 1857 to 1957 was a witness to different stages in our freedom movement as many people laid their lives for the nation and there were several ups and downs. However, the movement in 1942 was in a way the final mass struggle that the fellow citizens were waiting for. The 1942 Movement We may recall the freedom struggle movement in 1857 when every corner of the country was reversed. Mahatma Gandhi return from abroad, Lok Manya Tilak call for Poet Swarajya and \"Swarajya is my birth right\" represent the feelings at that time. It was followed by Mahatma Gandhi Dandi march in 1930. Netaji Subhash Bose making INA inspired the people While many youngsters like Veer Bhagat Singh, Sukhdev, Rajguru, Chandrashekhar Azad, Chapekar Bandhu, motherland for their lives laid down. All these events provided the momentum for freedom and it was a situation of 'now or never'. If it's not for today, it will never happen again; Such was the mood of the people Thus, every person It seemed that Rajaji's movement was being carried out through the elite class. However in 1942, the movement was spreading to every region and every social class in the country. The guiding force of the words of Gandhi ji This was the movement where the slogan of 'Quit India' was on everyone's lips. One of the most striking features of this movement was that the sentiments which appeared in the minds of the people were completely different from Gandhiji's thoughts, contemplation and ethics. The key words of this great man were, 'We shall do or die'. These words from Gandhi ji were unique for the nation. Gandhi said, \"From today onwards, everybody should consider themselves as an independent woman or a man and accordingly accordingly. I am complete independence rather than anything else with content, I do or die\". These were Bapu's words and Bapu also clarified that he had not left the path of non-violence. However the situation and the pressure was such that even Bapu, had to adapt to the people's emotions while assuming the leadership.\nAll sections of the society; The villages, the farmers, the labourers, the students joined the slogan 'Do or die'. Bapu too used to say that - 'whosoever becomes martyr because of the violence perpetrated by the British, one should write this slogan on his body that he was a martyr of this freedom movement'. Bapu tried to take this movement to such a height and the result of that was India was liberated from the slavery of the British. The country was desperate for that freedom, it was a leader or an ordinary Indian, there was no difference in the feeling of this feeling. I believe that when the country stands united and when there is a power of unity, when the goal is set, the target is set then the people walk that direction towards the direction. Within five-years i.e. between 1942 and 1947 Mother India became free. At that time Rambriksh Benipuri had written a book titled \"Zanjire Aur Diewar\" and inthat book, \"There is a wonderful atmosphere throughout the country. Every person has become a leader and every crossroads 'Do or die' movement of office The country of the bravery of India and the people of bravery of news. brutality of British government was reaching every corner. The public had well placed the Gandhian Mantra of 'Do or Die'.\nThis book provides the description of that time and shows the kind of atmosphere at that time. It is true that British colonialism began in India and also in the end. It was not only the freedom of India; after 1942 the way the flame erupted against the colonial rule over the world, India's freedom became a source of inspiration for Africa and Asia. The way this inspiration has spread to different parts of the world has become a tribute to the masses of India. Any Indian can be proud of this and after that we saw that once India got its independence, gradually all these countries became free. This tells us that this is a good proof of the determination of India The lesson for us is that when we are determined to do something Then it gets ready for the new goals. The history is the evidence of this fact At that time, the poetry of the national poet, Sohan Lal Dwivedi, vividly described the power of Bapu and the time and movement. In his poem he had said-\nWhere are two dugs, mugs\nOn the same side\nWherever one sight fell\nFell on the same side\nThis means that the path walked by Mahatma Gandhi followed by millions of people and where Gandhiji's eyes were fixed, the eyes of millions were set on the same thing. But today when we are in 2017, we can not deny the fact that we do not have a Gandhi today. Today, the level of leadership that we had at that time does not exist but we have the strength of 1.25 Crore Indians If we all try together it will not be a difficult task to fulfill the dreams of Gandhi and dreams of those freedom fighters. Today we have the opportunity in 2017 an enabling situation like that of 1942. The world is undergoing a crisis today. Just like in the year 1942 We have become the source of inspiration for the world, similarly we can set an example for the world today. Today we are standing at this juncture, where we can avail the opportunity and how we will take over this responsibility? I believe that we should take inspiration from these episodes of history We Politics should be separated from this If there are 1.25 crore people in the country, then we can easily progress by bringing these solutions successfully. How do anyone deny the fact that corruption can destroy the country like a termite - be it a political corruption, social corruption, or personal corruption. Let us not get into the debate. But today is a holy occasion and we should celebrate it with honesty. This is the common man of the country. Poverty, malnutrition, illiteracy are the challenges in front of us These challenges are not considered as the government but that of the country There are grave questions in front of the poor and hence we all have the responsibility of fulfilling this commitment for the country and to die for the country. For some of the issues we also had different sections of people in 1942. The ideals of Subhas Babu were different, but in 1942 everyone had said in a voice: Quit India! This is our path under Gandhi's leadership.\nOur upbringing and ideologies may be different But today's time demands that we take the opportunity to free the country from some issues, whether it is poverty, hunger or illiteracy. Why is that Mahatma Gandhi's dream of the village Swaraj has left behind? What is the reason that the people have left the villages? What was the issue about Gandhi ji regarding the village? Can we revive that dream? Can we do anything for the poor farmers, dalits, and the deprived class? These questions are not a single individual or a group but all of us and the 1.25 crore people of the country. This is the time when the inspiration gives us the power to do something for the people and this inspiration should be used. We know that sometimes the duties are neglected, authority is misused. This happens in both political and social life Unfortunately, some of these vices have entered into some of our lives and has turned into a 'way of life'. We do not feel guilty; This feeling of 'I am breaking the law' is never realised. If I spit somewhere, I do not feel that Breaking rules Even the smallest incidents are being attacked Whether it's the mistake of the doctor or not, the hospital or not, the relatives go and set the hospital on fire. They beat the doctor If an accident takes place, we burn the car and kill the driver. As a law abiding citizen, we must be dutiful Some vices have entered into our way of life, and we do not think that we are breaking the law and that is why it is the responsibility of the leadership and the society to get rid of these faults that society in crept. Wake up to the duty of the society!\nToilets and cleanliness are not a matter of mockery. Those mothers and sisters have to wait Thus, the mind-set It is necessary to educate the public We have to be alive to this matter and these values ​​can be insulated. We have to understand our duty We should think of the mothers and sisters of our country.\nThe country should bear the burden of at least one class of people who include women and sisters of this country Their strengths can give strength In the freedom movement of Mahatma Gandhi many of these mothers and sisters used to lead and had made equal contributions during the freedom struggle. Even today, they have as much contribution to the nation In order to take forward, we should move forward with this duty.\nIt is true that from 1857 to 1942, we saw that the freedom movement has passed through different stages; there were ups and downs; different turning points, new leadership; sometimes it was violent, then non-violence Sometimes there was an atmosphere of confrontation between the two streams, sometimes both the streams complemented each other. But we have witnessed this whole period from 1857 to 1942 which was incremental in a way. Gradually growing, people were slow Connecting But from Nineteen Forty Two to Nineteen Forty Seven, it was not an incremental change. There was an environment of disruption which forced the British to finish all the equations and give us freedom; to force From 1857 to 1942, everything was progressing slowly, but between 1942 and 1947 this was so so.\nIf we look at the history of the society of the 100, 200 years, the journey of development is incremental. Slowly the world was moving; gradually the world was changing itself But in the last 30-40 years There was a sudden change in life And technology played a big role No one could imagine what has changed in the world in these 30-40 years; 30-40 years ago We did not even notice this. We can get a positive change with this disruption.\nJust as we saw a quantum jump, I think 2017 and 2022, 75 years of Quit India and 75 years of independence respectively; within the five years, the same mood that existed between 1942 and 1947 will prevail. In 2022, we will celebrate 75 years of independence, by that time we should be the dreamers of the freedom struggle. We will carry forward our resolve and move forward. I believe that not only will our country progress, but due to the success of Forty two to Forty seven, many countries of the world have benefited, the strength was re-acquired. If in the span of 5 years from two thousand Seventeen to Two thousand Twenty Two we take this responsibility to carry India to that height in front of the world then this is only for the quest for leadership It will be a great service to the nation. I am confident that we can do a lot of work\nWe just saw the GST, and I repeatedly say that it is not my political statement, but my conviction. The success of GST is not successful; the success of any party The success of GST is the result of the will of the House Whether sitting here or anywhere, it goes to all the states; goes to the general merchant of the country And because of that, it was possible The country's political leadership has done its commitment It is something unique to the world GST is a great surprise for the world, if it is possible And as a representative of the 1.25 Crore people, with the resolution of 2022, I believe that we will continue to bring those results.\nMahatma Gandhi had given the slogan of 'do or die'; that was the formula of that time Today, in 2017, if we take this resolution that will happen in 2022, then we will get rid of corruption from the country We will all get together the poor Together we will give young people more opportunities of self-employment Together we will end the problem of malnutrition from the country. We will all end and eliminate the hindrances that stop women from moving forward. Together we will remove the illiteracy from the country and will continue to do it. And there should be many issues, but we should keep the mind 'do or die' in our minds. These resolutions are not of any party or of any government but of 1.25 crore people of the country. In these five years, from 2017 to 2022, on 75 th year of independence, we should fulfill the dreams of the freedom fighters. Today, on August Revolution Day, remembering those great men, remembering their sacrifices, penance, and seeking their blessings, let us all get together lead the country by agreeing on some things - making the dreams of fulfillment of dreams , power, strength and goal. With this expectation, I was once again expressing my gratitude to the freedom fighters."