"Share\n\nToilets can be made with bricks, and with the help of people but the responsibility of keeping them clean lies with all: PM\n'Swachhata' must become our 'Swabhaav' and an integral part of our lives, says PM\nWe will celebrate 75th Independence day in 2022. Let's take a pledge to build a new India by 2022: PM\nNarendra Modi as the Prime Minister of India: Dada Vaswani\nInitiatives launched by PM Modi, such as Jan Dhan Yojana, Make in India, Swachh Bharat etc. are having a visible effect: Dada Vaswani\nThe Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today addressed via video conference, the 99th birthday celebrations of Dada Vaswani in Pune. He recalled that he had first met Dada Vaswani 27 years ago at the World Religions Conference in the United Nations. He also recalled his meeting in Pune in 2013.\nThe Prime Minister praised Dada Vaswani for his selfless service to humanity. Appreciating Dada Vaswani's thoughts on \"Making the Right Choice,\" the Prime Minister said that if people resolve to make the right choice, corruptions such as corruption, casteism, drug abuse, crime etc., overcome He spoke of India's 75th anniversary of independence in 2022, and said India must resolve today, to fulfill the dreams of freedom fighters by then. He urged the sadhu Vaswani Mission to join this effort, in whatever ways it can\nDada Vaswani thanked the Prime Minister, and described him as one of the greatest leaders of the world today. He said that initiatives launched by Prime Minister, such as Jan Dhan Yojana, Make in India, Swachh Bharat etc. are having a visible effect He said India has changed a lot in three years. He also said that not politics, but right at the right time, is the key to nation-building. He said he should we strive to build a nation\nFollowing is the text of the Prime Minister's address:\n\"Revered 'grandfather' J. My very best wishes to P. Vaswani on his 99th birthday.\nBirthdays are of grandfather Vaswani but I have had the privilege of taking blessings from him.\nIn the celebration of the 100th year of the life of Dada Vaswani, I warmly greet you all.\nFor his millions of devotees of Dada Vaswani, his innocent and unmoved smile is well-known.\nThe first time I experienced 27 years ago was their easy-to-experience experience.\nThe World Religions Conference was being held in the UN at that time and I also had the opportunity to go there. Then I had discussed Dada Vaswani for hours on nation building, social duties.\nIn 2013, both of us together were brought together to inaugurate Sadhu Vaswani College of Nursing in Pune.\nWhen Dada Vaswani came to Delhi last year, then I had the good fortune to meet him. Even then, we talked for a long time on important issues like education, health. It would have been nice to have a chance to meet you today, but due to the responsibilities I could not come.\nColleagues,\nDada Vaswani's personality further enhances the spiritual journey of the saint's tradition of modern India.\nWhenever I meet him, his person has a living experience of the real power of contentment, humility and love.\nThe tendency to devote everything to others has been the basis of Dada Vaswani's life.\nI miss one thing about Dada J. P. Vaswani-\nYou can do as much as you can!\nDo as many people as you can!\nHow well you can do it\nAnd\nThe more times you can do it, please !!!\nThese divine words of Dada Vaswani open the path of empowerment of the whole humanity.\nIn our society, how many are poor, poor, oppressed, oppressed and deprived. They are struggling to change their position, are working hard.\nThe Sadhu Vaswani Mission has been working for years to make them easier, to make their lives easier. I congratulate him on their heart.\nColleagues,\nI am very happy that this festival is being started by all of us today. I want to talk today, especially on the topic which you discussed two days ago. Make The Right Choice topic is very relevant in today's context.\nDada Vasavani has given many beautiful ideas about right and wrong choice in life. I want to repeat them here\nDada Vaswani said:\n\"To choose the right option, we should calm down our consciousness,\nWe must calm our emotions,\nConsidering God's presence on every side, we can choose the right option when we consider it from an open heart.\nEvery experience of life gives us an education. It's up to us how we take that education \".\nToday's young people should take inspiration from these things of Dada Vaswani. On the path of life, the person always has to be separated from two such situations.\nThe main reason for all evils in society today is that even knowing right and wrong, some people choose the wrong option.\nCorruption, racism, crime, drug addiction, all of these can be dealt with if people improve their tendency to opt for life.\nChoosing the right option of every person of society and moving forward on it is also the basis of a strong society.\nColleagues,\nIt is a beautiful coincidence that this year only one hundred years of Champaran Satyagraha have been completed. Through the Satyagraha of Champaran, Mahatma Gandhi not only introduced the country to the power of satyagraha but also to establish a strong mantra of public participation in fighting social evils. The government is celebrating the centenary of Champaran Satyagraha in the form of cleanliness.\nThe blessings of Dada Vaswani will give more power to the cleanliness. This will be helpful in fulfilling Mahatma Gandhi's incomplete dream.\nSwachh Bharat Abhiyan is a mass movement in the country. On October 2, 2014, when this campaign was started, rural sanitation coverage in the country was just 39 percent. Today it increases\nHas reached 66 percent. A very healthy tradition has also started. In villages, districts and states, competition is going on to declare themselves open in open. So far, 2 lakh, 17 thousand of the country\nThe villages have declared themselves as open defecation in the open.\nFive states of the state - Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Uttarakhand, Sikkim and Kerala are also included in this list.\nAll of you are doing so much in the field of education, in the field of women's welfare, in the field of health. Your contribution to cleanliness will also educate people and their health will also improve.\nI want to make an appeal to every social service organization in the country through this program today.\nColleagues,\nToilets can be built by adding brick stones, roads can be cleaned by mobilizing staff, railway stations and bus stations can be cleaned, but to keep them clean, we all have to make a concert effort.\nCleanliness is not an arrangement, cleanliness is an instinct. These are all of us, it is necessary.\nConsidering cleanliness as a trend, with a great passion, do regular practice, then this tendency will automatically become the nature of society.\nSimilarly, people need to be constantly alert about environmental protection.\nToday climate change has become a big challenge in front of the whole world.\nPrograms involving more trees, programs related to Waste to Energy, programs for increasing the trend of solar energy, programs to inspire people for water conservation, strengthen our nature and the environment.\nColleagues,\nDada Vaswani and his organization have so much affection for me that I also want to make an appeal to your organization with a right.\nOur country will celebrate the 75th year of independence in 2022. Dada Vasavani is himself a witness to the independence movement.\nThe dreams of our heroes who have laid their lives for the country's independence are still incomplete.\nTo fulfill these incomplete dreams by 2022, the country is taking a resolution in 2017.\nThis resolution is New India.\nThe blessings of Dada Vaswani, the will of the Sadhu Vaswani Mission will be helpful in the fulfillment of this resolution. That is why I urge that your organization also set its goals for 2022. Goals are also those which can be measured in numbers.\nAs with the insistence of cleanliness, you will contact 10 thousand people every year or 20 thousand, to increase solar energy up to 5 thousand people every year or 10 thousand people, this resolution is to take your institution only.\nWhen every person, every family, every institution in the country will set a goal for themselves and work hard to achieve it, the goal will also be achieved and the dream of New India will also come true.\nSeeing the life of Dada Vaswani, all of us who love them, and whom they love, how we will make this century, we have to decide.\nI suggest that this centenary year should be centered on one issue in which every person should do something for the society, live for the society, and I believe that Dada Vaswani's penance will be an embodiment.\nWith the teachings of Dada Vaswani, we will be constantly encouraged to achieve this goal.\nHis blessings remain on us all, with this desire, I end my talk. Good luck to all of you once again\nThanks !!! \""