"Share\n\n#MannKiBaat: PM Modi expresses concern over floods, urges for faster relief operations\n#MannKiBaat: Technology can help in accurate weather forecast and preparedness, says PM Modi\n#MannKiBaat: #GST is Good and Simple Tax, can study for economists worldwide, says PM\n#MannKiBaat: PM Modi appreciates Center for smooth rollout of #GST\n#GST demonstrates the collective strength of our country, says Modi during #MannKiBaat\nModi is the #MannKiBaat: Modi is the month of revolution for India, can not forget those who fought for freedom\nMahatma Gandhi's clarion call for 'do or die' instilled confidence among people: PM during #ManKiBaat\nBy 2022, let us resolve to free the country from evils like dirt, poverty, terrorism, casteism \u0026 communalism: PM during #MannKiBaat\nLet us pledge that in 2022, when we mark 75 years of independence, we will take the country to greater heights: PM during #MannKiBaat\nFestivals spread the spirit, love \u0026 brotherhood in society: PM during the #MannKiBaat\nWomen of our country are shining; They are excelling in every field: PM Modi #MannKiBaat\nMy dear countrymen, Namaskar We are human beings who have an enchanted vision of the rainy season. Animals, birds, flora - nature in its entirety, is filled with the joys of the season. But sometimes, when the rain unleashes full force of its fury, we come to realize the destructive way of water. Mother Nature gives us life and nurtures us, but at times natural catastrophes such as floods and earthquakes have a massive scale. Climate change, altered weather cycles, and transformations in the environment, are also having a big negative impact.\nRecently, in some parts of India, specially, Assam, North-East, Gujarat, Rajasthan and some areas of Bengal, had had the brunt of natural disasters, caused by excessive rain Flood affected areas are being closely monitored. Relief efforts have been undertaken on a broad cale. Wherever possible, my colleagues in the Council of Ministers are also personally visiting affected areas. The state governments are also making maximum possible efforts on their part. Social organization, cultural organizations and common citizens are charged with the spirit of service. The Government of India, Army personnel, Air Force personnel, NDRF personnel, Paramilitary forces - everybody does his or her best in providing help to the disaster stricken people\nLife goes to topsy-turvy as a result of the floods. Crops, livestock, infrastructure, roads, electricity, communication links - everything gets affected In particular, our Farmer brothers have to bear a lot of losses because of their crops and fields. Therefore, we have made a plan for the insurance companies, especially crop insurance companies, to make them more proactive, to ensure faster settlements of claims for farmers.\nA 24 × 7 control room helpline number 1078 is operating continuously People are also voicing their difficulties Before the monsoons, the whole government machinery was brought into the state of preparedness through mock drills. NDRF teams were deployed Aapada Mitra, or Friends during Disaster were identified at various places and these were then trained in the Do's and Don'ts; volunteers were enlisted, and a people's organization was set up in the situation. Weather forecasts are available in these days and the technology has become so advanced in these days, and space science also plays a very big role, that this weather forecast is now more accurate. We should also gradually make it our nature to set our work patterns according to the weather predictions, which could protectguard us against losses.\nWhenever I prepare myself for 'Man Ki Ki Baat', I find that the citizens of our country prepare themselves even more. This time around, there have been numerous letters and phone calls regarding GST. People are still expressing their happiness about GST, and are also interested in it I would like to hear one such phone call: -\n\"Namaskar, Pradhan Mantri ji, this is Neetu Garg from Gurgaon. I heard your speech on the chartered accounts In the same way, Goods and Services Tax, GST, was launched on this very last day. Could you please elaborate whether its results after a month are the expectations of the government? I would like to hear this Thank you. \"\nIt has been one month since GST was implemented and its benefits can be seen already. I feel very happy and satisfied when one of the GST prices of various items has come down, and commodities are cheaper. When a person from the north-east, someone living in the remote areas, in the hills or forests, writes a letter to communicate that in the beginning, he used to be apprehensive about GST wondering what it was all about, but now that he has begun to understand it, he feels that things are much easier than before Doing business has become so much easier And most important of all, the trust of customers\nI have been observing how GST has affected the transport and logistics sector; how the movement of trucks has increased The time required to cover distances has come down drastically Highways have become clutter-free. Pollution levels have come down with the trucks. Goods too This is really a convenience, but at the same time it is also bolstering the economic progress. Previously, because of the many tax structures, the maximum resources of the transport and logistics sector were expended in maintaining paperwork and that also led to the need for construction of new warehouses in each state.\nI call GST, Good and Simple Tax Indeed, it has produced a big positive impact on our economy in a very short time span. The speed at the smooth transition has taken place, along with rapid migration and new registrations, has developed a new sense of confidence in the whole country. And some day, the Pundits of Economics, Pundits of Management and Pundits of Technology, will certainly research and write about India's GST experiment as a model for the world. It will become a case study for universities The implementation and furtherance of such phenomenal change on such monumental scale, with the involvement of so many tens of millions of people in such a vast country, is itself a pinnacle of success. The world will definitely make a study of it. And this implementation had been divided into two categories. All the decisions were taken unanimously by the States and the Center together. And as a result, one overriding priority for every government has to ensure that there is no burden on the plate of the poor on account of GST.\nAnd using the GST app as it is a new item in the price of an item before and how much it is now. The lofty dream of One Nation - One Tax is finally fulfilled. In the matter of GST I have seen how everyone, right from the government functionaries at the Tehsil level to the officers in the top echelons of Government of India have toiled tirelessly with great dedication. The manner in which friendly environment created between the government and traders, between the government and consumers, played a very significant role in enhancing mutual trust.\nI extend my heartiest felicitations to every and every ministry, every department and all employees of the Central and State governments with this process. GST is a fine example of the people of India. This is an historical achievement And this is not just a tax reform; It is a new economic order that will strengthen a new culture of honesty. In a way, it is also a campaign for social reformation. I would like to once again express my deep gratitude to the millions of my countrymen who have contributed to the successful feat with such felicity.\nMy dear countrymen, the month of Revolution We have been hearing this as a natural fact, the Non-Cooperation Movement was launched on 1 st August 1920; The Quit India Movement, which is also known as 'Agast Kranti' began on the 9th of August, 1942; and on 15th August 1947 India becomes independent. In a way, there are many events in the month of August that are closely associated with our freedom movement. This year, we are going to observe the 75th Anniversary of the Quit India Movement. But very few people know that the slogan, 'Quit India' was coined by Dr. Yusuf Meher Ali. Our young generation must know what happened on the 9th of August, 1942.\nFrom 1857 to 1942, the people of India, with their ardent desire for freedom, came together, fought together, and suffered hardships; These pages are about a glorious India. The heroes of our freedom struggle with their single-minded devotion did a 'Tapasya', endured hardships, made great sacrifices and even laid down their lives; what greater inspiration was there be! The 'Quit India Movement' was a significant milestone in the Indian Independence Movement. It was this movement that made the whole nation determined to attain freedom from the British Rule. This was the time when the people of India, in every part of the country - be it a village or city, the educated or illiterate, the rich or poor, everyone should come together 'People's anger was at its peak. Millions of Indians responded to Mahatma Gandhi's clarion call and the 'Do or Die' of the Mentra; they are Millions of the youth of the country They set out for the bugle for freedom. Mahatma Gandhi gave a call for the 'Quit India Movement' on 9th August, but every and every prominent leader had been imprisoned by the British Government, and it was during this time that the second generation of leadership was like great men like Dr. Lohia, Jaiprakash Narain played a leading and pivotal role.\nIn the 'Non-Cooperation Movement' of 1920 and the 'Quit India Movement' of 1942, two different personas of Mahatma Gandhi can be seen. The whole scenario of the 'Quit India Movement' was different and in 1942, things rose to such a point, there was such a heightened sense of intensity, that a Mahapurush like Mahatma Gandhi gave the \"Do or Die\" of the ministry. The whole success was the people's support, and people's struggle. The whole country had come together And I sometimes think that if we link the pages of history, it is seen that the first war of independence took place in 1857. The independence struggle which began in 1857, continuing to appear in one or the other corner of the country until 1942 This long time period ignited the intense longing for freedom in the hearts of the people. Everybody The determination did not diminish New people kept coming forward every time in the place of those who are going to be defeated by the British Rule. This perseverance, this struggle from 1857 to 1942 created a situation which reached its climax in 1942; The clarion call of 'Quit India' was such that within five years, in 1947 the British were compelled to leave India. 1857 to 1942 - The yearning for freedom, reached reached And 1942 to 1947 - These decisive five years have become integral for the masses to successfully reach through resolutions, freedom for the country. These five years were indeed decisive\nI would now like to connect with your mathematical manifestation. We became free in 1947. This is 2017. It has been almost 70 years. Government has come and gone Systems have been made, changed, nurtured, and expanded. Everyone has tried it There has been efforts of growing employment, poverty alleviation, and development. These efforts were also performed in their different ways. There are been successes Expectations have also risen The way, the years from 1942 to 1947 were the decisive years for attainment through resolve. I can see that 2017 to 2022 presents itself as a new time segment of five years for attainment through resolve. We should celebrate 15th August 2017 as the Sankalp Parva or the Day of Resolve, and in 2022 marking 75 years of Freedom, we will certainly transform that resolve into 'Siddhi' or attainment.\nIf 1.25 billion Indians, commemorate Agast Kranti Day of 9th August, and every person resolves on 15th August, that he or she will do the country, this much as a person, as a citizen, this much as a family, this much as a society, this much as a village, this much as a city, this much as a government department, and this much as the government; Let there be millions and millions of resolves; Let there be strivings for the realization of these millions and millions of resolves.\nJust as the five years from 1942 to 1947 were decisive for the country's independence, these five years from 2017 to 2022 can and should play a decisive role for the future of India. Five years from now, we will celebrate 75 years of India's Independence Therefore, we will take a firm resolve today. We should make 2017 our Year of Resolve. In this month of August, we have come together and resolve: Filth - Quit India; Poverty - Quit India; Corruption - Quit India; Terrorism - Quit India; Casteism - Quit India; Communalism - Quit India!\nThe need for today is not 'Do or Die', instead it is to resolve, to come together, persevere, and work relentlessly with our utmost strength. Let us live by and strive for this resolve. Come let's launch a campaign, from Sankalp to Siddhi - Attainment through Resolve, from 9th of the August. Every Indian, social organization, Local Self-Government Institutions, Schools, colleges, various organizations - all should take one or another for a new India A solution that we will positively fulfill in the next five years Youth Organisations, Student Organisations, NGOs, etc. Can organize group discussions, to bring forth new ideas Where do we want to reach as a nation? What is my contribution for this as an individual? Let us come together and Resolve\nI would like to call on the online world, we are almost always online; so I would like to invite the online community and special young people to come forward and contribute innovatively for building of the new India. They can use technology - videos, posts, blogs, scripts, novel ideas - to put forward all these. Transform the campaign into a peoples' movement. A Quit India Quiz is also being launched for NarendraModiApp. This quiz is an effort to familiarize the youth with India's glorious history and the heroes of the freedom movement. It is my belief that you will certainly publish and spread awareness about this quiz.\nMy dear countrymen, on August 15, as the nation's 'Prime Sewak', I get an opportunity to communicate with the Ramparts of the Red Fort. I am just an instrument. It is not a single person who makes that address, but it is the collective voice of 1.25 billion of my countrymen that resounds from the Red Fort. I try to give words to their dreams, and I'm glad that for the past 3 years, I get suggestions from the country for 15 August, as to what I should speak on 15th August and which issues should I include in my address on the occasion This time too, I invite you to share your thoughts either on MyGov or on NarendraModiApp. I read them in 15th August. For the previous three 15th August speech, one continuous complaint has been done. I have planned to keep my speech short this time - not more than 40-45-50 minutes I have tried to do these rules for myself, but I do not know whether I will be able to stick them. But I do not want to Let's see whether I succeed or not\nMy countrymen, I would like to say India's economy has got itself into an element of social economics. And we should never underestimate its value Our festivals, our celebrations are not just occasions of joy and merriment. Our festivals are also social reform too And the most important of all is the financial condition of the poor. Rakshabandhan, Janmashtami, Ganesh Utsav, Chautha Chandra, Anant Chaturdashi, Durga Pooja, Diwali - These will be observed one after the other. And this is also the time when the poor get a chance to earn an income and of course this adds a spontaneous joy to the festivities.\nFestivals lend a sweetness to our relationships, bring a warmth of togetherness in the family and foster brotherhood in society. They connect the person with society It is a natural journey from the self to the collective. And the 'I' gets a chance to transform into a 'We'. Many people before the festival of Rakhi A variety of Rakhis are made in a whole range of materials, from 'khadi' to silken threads. People prefer home Rakhi makers and their sellers, sweets shops, vendors - the professions of hundreds, The families of our poor brothers and their families are dependent on these activities. When we light a 'diya', an earthen lamp on Deepawali, it is not only a festival of lights, a festival that illuminates the whole house; It has been directly linked with those poor families who make small 'diyas' or 'earthen lamps'. Today as I speak about festivals and how they are linked to the economy of the poor\nI have observed and sometimes think that the citizens of our country are more aware and active than me For the last one month, environmentally conscious citizens Ganesh Chaturthi, Ganesh Chaturthi, Ganesh Chaturthi, Ganesh Chaturthi, Ganesh Chaturthi, Ganesh Chaturthi, Ganesh Chaturthi, Ganesh Chaturthi, Ganesh Chaturthi, Ganesh Chaturthi, Ganesh Chaturthi Firstly, I am most grateful to such conscientious citizens Ganesh Chaturthi This time around, there is a special significance to the observance of the community.\nLokmanya Tilak has started this great tradition, and this year marks the 125th anniversary of community Ganesh festival. 125 years and 1.25 billion countrymen! Lokmanya Tilak ji started the universal Ganeshotsav with the basic aim to inculcate the spirit of unity, awareness in society, and promote the culture of togetherness. So this year we should again, during the Ganesh festival, organize essay competitions, have open discussions and remember the contributions of Lokmanya Tilak. And we must think about new ways to steer Community Ganesh Festivals in Consonance with the Sentiments of Tilak How we should lend power to the environment and protect the environment. And this time I have spoken about it I am sure that all of you will join me This will surely benefit our poor artisans, and the artists, and the people who are employed to the idols. The poor will be able to earn a living and feed themselves Come, let us link our festivities with the economic welfare of the poor, let the joys of our festivals connect with the families of the underprivileged, bring the financial happiness to the have-nots. This should be the endeavor of all of us I extend my best wishes to my countrymen for various upcoming festivals and celebrations.\nMy dear countrymen, we are constantly seeing that our daughters are bringing laurels to the country in all fields - be it education, economic activities, social spheres or in sports - they are scaling new heights. We as a nation take great pride in our daughters Recently our daughters performed brilliantly in the Women's Cricket World Cup This week, I had the opportunity to meet our daughters, the members of our women's cricket team. I felt happy talking to them, but I had a feeling that they felt burdened by the fact that they could not win the World Cup. This stress, this tension was obvious on their faces too. So while speaking to these girls, I put forward a different viewpoint before them. I said, \"Look, this is the age of the media. So expectations get hyped up to such an extent that if corresponding success is achieved, this turn in despair and even resentment. We have seen many such events where if the Indian players fail, the anger of the country is vented Some people cross all limits of decency and say things that inflict pain and hurt. But this happened for the first time that when our girls did not succeed in winning the World Cup, the hundred and twenty-five million people took this defeat on their own shoulders, never letting the burden weigh down these daughters of ours Not only this, they are well known for their brilliant performance. I see this as a healthy and pleasant change and I have told these girls that they are blessed with such good fortune, and therefore they should not be successful. You may not have won the final match but 1.25 billion Indians Truly our young generation, especially the daughters of the country I once again extend my heartiest congratulations and best wishes to our country, especially our daughters\nMy dear countrymen, I remember you once again of 'Agast Kranti', of 9th August, I will remind you again 15th August. And I am reminding you once again of 2022, 75 years of India's Independence. Every countryman should make a resolve, every countryman should prepare a 5-year roadmap to realise that resolve. All of us are newer heights. We must strive to do so Come, let's march together as our bit. The destiny, the country will be bright, let us move forward with this belief Lots and lots of good wishes Thank you!\nYes, monsoon is pleasant but this season too leads to floods. We are doing the work in relief and rehabilitation. #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/CUEoyWNGf5\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 30, 2017\nA 24x7 control room helpline number 1078 is working continuously to deal with the situation: PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 30, 2017\nLike always, I seek ideas and suggestions from people This time, I have got lot of calls and letters on GST: PM #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 30, 2017\nIt has been one month since GST was implemented and its benefits can be seen already: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 30, 2017\nI feel very happy When a poor person writes to say why of GST prices of various items\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 30, 2017\nGST has transformed the economy #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/In4Lh8gccf\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 30, 2017\nSuccessful rollout of GST is a case study. It is also an example of cooperative federalism. All the decisions taken by both Center \u0026 States pic.twitter.com/6yfyr92iTq\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 30, 2017\nGST is just a tax reform! It is a new culture. #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/544XhyL6Lz\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 30, 2017\nThe month of August has seen historic movements in India. #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/doIEfUFxu7\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 30, 2017\nStarting from 1857, we saw so many movements for India's freedom. #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/MvSio4zQ5B\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 30, 2017\nWe remember Mahatma Gandhi for his leadership during 'Quit India' \u0026 we remember leaders like Lok Nayak JP \u0026 Dr. Lohia who took part in it pic.twitter.com/JBnIIwKNPR\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 30, 2017\nIn 1920 and 1942 we saw two different Gandhian movements. Mahatma Gandhi pic.twitter.com/U0zdiTBw8a\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 30, 2017\nOur clarion call in 2017. #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/BIld4Od5Be\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 30, 2017\nToday, we do not have to We have been asked to visit our country and take it to new heights of progress. #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/L3WUvWbFyz\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 30, 2017\nA pledge for a New India #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/TFtMU6GNnb\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 30, 2017\nWhen I am speaking on 15th August from the Ramparts of the Red Fort, I am just the medium. It is the people whose voice is resonating pic.twitter.com/jiN0qlMWHl\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 30, 2017\nOur festivals also bring economic opportunities for the poor #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/AOkbconC4G\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 30, 2017\nFestivals in the homes of the poor #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/Qf0EqrVVC4\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 30, 2017\nIn this day and age, expectations are raised so much And then, if our team can not win some people do not even respect basic judgments: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 30, 2017\nBut, the way India supported the women's cricket team shows a shift. I am happy how India took pride in the team's accomplishment: PM"