"Rameswaram has been a beacon of spirituality for the whole nation: PM\nDr. Kalam reflected the simplicity, depth and calmness of Rameswaram: PM\nTransformation in the ports and logistics sectors can contribute immensely to India's growth: PM\nDr. Kalam inspired the youth of India: PM Modi\nToday's youth wants to scale to progress, and become job creators: PM\nRameshwaram is the land And in this century Rameshwaram will also be known for one more reason - for providing this country a diligent scientist, a motivational teacher, an intelligent thinker and a great President in the form of Abdul Kalam ji.\nIt is a great honor for me to touch this holy soil of Rameswaram. As home to one of 12 Jyotirlings of our country Rameswaram is not only a religious center Rameswaram is also a center of deep spiritual knowledge. A place that also visited by Swami Vivekanand on his return from the United States in 1897. And it is sacred land that gave him one of his most famous sons Dr. APJ Abdul Kalam. In his actions and thoughts Dr. Kalam always reflected the simplicity, depth and calmness of Rameswaram.\nIt is a very emotional moment for me to have come here on Rameshwaram on the death anniversary of Dr. APJ Abdul Kalam Last year, we had a solution Kalam, a memorial will be built in Rameshwaram I am happy that this resolution was fulfilled today\nThe Defense Research and Development Organization (DRDO) has prepared this memorial in a very short span of time. This memorial will be inspired by the present and the future generations of the country.\nLast year, I got a committee under the chairmanship of Mr. Venkaiah Naidu to whom I had assigned the task to DRDO and the Tamil Nadu government for building on this land Today I saw the monument and I feel proud that even a span of such a short time, a grand memorial with the innovative ideas and imagination, perfectly in line with Dr. Abdul kalam's thoughts, work, life, ideal, resolution has created I congratulate Venkaiah ji and his whole team, the Tamil Nadu Government, all the Departments of the Government of India and DRDO for building such a monument.\nYou will be surprised if any work in our country is on our imagination. Then the citizens are wondering what the government does like a thing?\nBut this is possible because today we have a government in Delhi. This government has transformed the whole work culture and has successfully promoted a time-bound work culture.\nHowever, we should not forget that the government, money, planning or power I would like to share another success behind the success of this monument which will make 125 million people feel proud. And that secret ingredient, apart from the government, money, planning and focussed work is manifest in the form of those artisans, labourers, artists and architects who came from the country of every corner. People from every corner of India The labourers who were engaged in this work had been working as per government norms from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Then they used to rest for one hour from 5 to 6 p.m., had their evening tea, and then used to do work for extra time from 6 pm. till 8 o'clock And they said that they would not charge for overtime works during 6 to 8pm. This is really a tribute to Abdul Kalam Ji in the form of a hard work and sweat. They said, \"We will pay our tribute to him this way\".\nI bow to all my poor labourers who have fulfilled this sacred work with this devotion. These workers, these craftsmen have done a great job and I urge you to present them in a standing ovation.\nThis memorial for Abdul Kalam ji in Rameshwaram is an example of the fact that whenever a labourer's heart fills with the spirit of patriotism, great achievements are achieved. I am missing Amma here, and can feel the void If Amma was here today, in our midst, she would have been very happy to see the work done by the labourers and her good wishes extended. She is a leader I believe his soul will continue to shower blessings for Tamil Nadu's bright future.\nToday, I want to request the people of the holy land of Rameshwaram. People from all corners of India come to visit Rameshwaram I request the tour operators, the visitors of Rameshwaram, and the young generation of the country that whenever you visit Rameshwaram, please visit this memorial for Abdul Kalam ji and inspire the new generation. You must definitely come for this inspirational pilgrimage\nToday's program is in a way Panchangrat or laden with 5-nectars I have had the opportunity of attending these five programs on the death anniversary of Abdul Kalam - Monument of Abdul Kalam ji, Rail, Road, Earth, and the sea Today, our fishermen take small boats to the sea They are often unaware of the fact that they are on the Indian side of the border The Central Government under the Prime Minister's Blue Revolution Scheme will help the fishermen Under our scheme, our fellow villagers will get loan from the government, grant, and subsidy. And they have received great trawlers. It has begun today and some fishermen have received checks.\nRameshwar's land is also associated with Lord Ramchandra And today I am happy that I got a chance to inaugurate the railroad Rameshwaram to Ayodhya, Shradhha Setu, a railway linking Ayodhya, Lord Rama of birthplace. In the same way, the way to Dhanushkodi, those who want to go to see the Ram Sethu, who want to move through the sea route, they have completed the work of an important road, and got a chance to todaymen to devote .\nAnd today this is the land of Rameswaram, where in 1897, Swami Vivekanand ji landed after winning accolades abroad by enlightening them about India. The famous Vivekananda memorial is nearby and I have learned that some NGOs in collaboration with the district collectorate have taken the lead in making Rameswaram green. My congratulations to all the organizations working for Rameswaram's future, specially the Vivekananda Center.\nThe Indian Ocean and seven thousand five hundred kilometers long coastal line of India is full of investment potential. Government of India has initiated the project to keep it in mind. The purpose of this project is to transform India's logistics sector. We are trying to reduce the logistics cost of trade and imports and exports under the Sagarmala project. We are trying to bring about a massive change in the lives of people.\nYou will be happy to note that DRDO has constructed this monument as a tribute to Abdul Kalam Ji. In the same way DRDO is a very important for us in the field of our military prowess. The organization also undertakes welfare works for the people like this train which starts today from today. It is remarkable that in this train Shraddha Setu, from Rameshwaram to Ayodhya, all the toilets of this train are Bio Toilets. This train, Shraddha Setu, will give a boost to our mission of clean India.\nFriends, if Dr. Kalam has inspired many people Today's youth want to build up Government of India has started programs such as Startup India, Standup India so that the youth can realize their dreams Training centers and skill development centers have been opened in every district. Center has started Mudra Scheme so that the youth do not have to face the problem. Under the Mudra Scheme, loans worth more than 4 lakh crore have been disbursed to 8 crore accounts holders so that they can not choose their path in life and progress. And, I am happy that among the beneficiaries more than one crore people are from Tamil Nadu alone This figure shows the enthusiasm and inclination of the youth of Tamil Nadu toward the self employment.\nCenter is focused on the development of infrastructure. New India is not possible without a New Tamil Nadu. That's why the government has given its support I am grateful to the Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu as he has publicly welcomed and thanked the people of Tamil Nadu for the benefit of the people.\nChennai, Koimbatoor, Madurai, Tanjavur, all these big cities are among the ten cities in the state which have been selected for the Smart City Mission. Central Government has released over Rs. 900 crore rupees for these cities; about one thousand crore rupees 33 cities of Tamil Nadu have been included in the Amrit Mission. In addition the center has approved Rs.4700 crores for Tamil Nadu. This money will be used in strengthening the facilities like electricity, water, sewage, cleaning and gardens in those 33 cities.\nThis scheme will immensely benefits Rameshwaram and as well as the 33 other cities including Madurai, Tutikorin, Tirunveli and Nagar Coil. Central government has also approved the expansion of the first phase of Chennai Metro at a cost of around 4,000 crore rupees. Besides, the rural development program has been expanded to 18,000 crore rupees in the last three years for the rural roads in Tamil Nadu, for the expansion of self-help groups.\nI'd like to make an appeal to the people and the Tamilnadu government. There is a competition among all cities under the Clean India Mission, there is a competition to declare itself free from open defecation before others And I'm hopeful that Tamil Nadu will not lose this race and it will try to achieve this goal ..\nSimilarly, the state government feels that more than 8 lakh poor families need homes this demand can be met through Prime Minister Urban Housing Scheme. I'd like to appeal to the government to send the proposal\nDr. Abdul Kalam continued to work throughout his life He always continued to inspire more than 1.25 billion. This inspiration is going to help us realize the dream of New India by 2022 when India will complete 75 years of its independence\nOur country will celebrate 75 years of its independence in 2022. Every effort by us to fulfill the dreams of our freedom fighters, who will be sacrificed their country for freedom, will be a tribute to Dr. Kalam\nAnd today, when I am in Rameshwaram, I am reminded of the efforts made by the people here. Ramayana tells us a story of a little squirrel, a little squirrel of Rameshwaram that helped in building Ram-Setu. And in the same way, the squirrel belonged to Rameshwaram and hence the squirrel can be his parasol. Ramayana Dil Anilpola Eight Hundred and Twenty Five crore Indians will take one step each, India will move hundred twenty five crore steps ahead.\nFrom one end of the country to the other, Rameshwaram, the ocean starts here; and such a massive crowd reflects that. Abdul Kalam and how you want to dedicate yourself I can see this thing very clearly Once again I bow down to this massive crowd. I respectfully offer tributes to Abdul Kalam Ji and also to late Amma.\nThank you very much"