"President Pranab Mukherjee is extremely knowledgeable and extremely simple: PM\nUnder President Pranab Mukherjee, Rashtrapati Bhavan became a 'Lok Bhavan': PM Modi\nRespected President, Mr. Pranab Mukherjee Ji; The newly elected President, Mr. Ramnath Kovind ji, the Honorable Vice President, present all the respected dignitaries present.\nThis moment is full of mixed feelings. This is Rashtrapati Bhavan's last day of Pranab da's tenure. In a way, when I stand in this ceremony, it is very natural to be exposed to a lot of empires. His personality, his work; We are well aware of this. But there is a natural nature of the mind, and it is also comfortable that it can not escape the temptation to assess the present with its past. It is natural to compare every event, every decision, every initiative, with the time of your life. It was astonishing for me in my three-year experience that for so many years, the government would remain in the judicial posts, but the decision of the present government, with its past, was never done with scales, Evaluated in, they evaluated everything in the context of the present; I think this is a very big identity.\nThe government used to take many initiatives, and I was fortunate that I had the opportunity to meet him every moment, he got an opportunity to talk openly, and he listened to everything very carefully. If there was a need for improvement then would suggest; Most were promoted. What is the role of the President in the form of a fatherly figure in the form of a guardian, what kind of guidance is given to him as a law-law, far above the scope, by virtue, by love and as the head of the family of this whole nation. Had lived A new person like me, who had no such experience; I came to work in a state. This was his reason to help him understand things, he helped me in making decisions. And because of that we have been able to do many important work in the last three years.\nThe stores, instincts, simplicity of knowledge, these things attract any person. But both of us were raised in different ideologies, in different culture. In our experience; There is a huge gap between me and them. But I never let them feel it. And they say one thing that brother, when I became president, then I became president, today is the President, but democracy says that the people of the country have trusted in you, it is your responsibility, and my job is that you do this work well Do it from Presidential President, Rashtrapati Bhavan and Pranab Mukherjee himself, whatever they can do for him. It was a great deal in itself, it was a great deal and therefore I am very grateful to the President's heart.\nAnd I believe that he has rolled me in such a big responsibility in my molding, that is going to work a lot in the coming life. My every thing will remain in my life as a guide, I feel myself, I feel myself. And perhaps those who have worked with them, they will all get this good fortune. There is a huge amount of money for me, which is my personal wealth, and I am very grateful for that too.\nMany reports have been submitted here today. Making Rashtrapati Bhavan a public building, it was possible that Pranab was associated with the earth, emerging from the public, due to his political journey, staying in between; What is public power, what are people's feelings - they did not need to read them in the books. He used to experience it and also tried to implement it, the reason for this was that the Rashtrapati Bhavan of India became a public building. In one way it opened for publicity in a manner.\nHave been a student of history history. And I have seen that every event in history is on their fingers, and if they take the subject then they tell date wise. But how that knowledge should be brought forward in the history of the history, and in the way, in the Rashtrapati Bhavan, Omita ji was presenting the full report, the priceless treasure has been prepared for a great history. And I can say that there are trees, cultures, stones. There is some history for everyone, everyone has their own specialty and it is now available in all the books.\nThis great work has happened here. And I congratulate him and his whole team with heart for this very much. Once again I bestow pranab da for the long life, and as long as he has a long experience, in his new inning, people like me personally, and the country will naturally always be so helpful. I believe.\nThen thank you all with a lot of good luck at once."