"Share\n\nThough diplomatic relations between India and Israel are only 25 years old, yet our ties go back many centuries: PM\nOur ties with Israel are about mutual trust and friendship: PM\nJewish community has enriched India with their contribution in various fields: PM Modi\nThe arrival of an Indian Prime Minister here for the first time in 70 years has been a mixed feeling of joy and inquisitiveness. This is the human nature that when you meet a very close person after a long period, then the first sentence is a kind of confession that it has been a long time since we have met and then we . I want to start my speech with this confession that we have met after such a long time. Infact it took not 10, 20 or 50 years but as many as 70 long years.\n70 years after India's independence, an Indian Prime Minister My friend Benjamin Netanyahu, Prime Minister of Israel After coming to Israel, the hospitality, honor and respect that I have received from him, is an honor for 125 crore people of India No one in this world can ever forget such love and respect. There is a special commonality in both of us Both of us were born after independence of our relative countries; i.e. Benjamin was born in independent Israel One interest of Prime Minister Netanyahu will touch the heart of every Indian I would always remember the night before dinner.\nWe have had full diplomatic relations between the two countries only for the past 25 years, but it is also true that India and Israel have been closely associated with several hundred years. I have been told that the great Indian Sufi-saint Baba Farid lived in Jerusalem in the thirteenth century and meditated in a cave Later this place was converted into a pilgrimage site. Even today, this place is a symbol of Jerusalem and India's eight-hundred-year old relation. In 2011, the Pravasi Indian Award was awarded on Israel's care taker Sheikh Ansari and fortunately I got the opportunity to meet him today. India and Israel share a bond of culture, traditions, mutual trust and friendship. There is also an amazing parallel between our festivals. Holi is celebrated in India and Israel celebrates Purim. While India celebrates Diwali, Hanukkah is celebrated in Israel I am very happy to learn that the Maccabiah will be the people of this game. I am glad that India has also sent its team for this game and the players of Indian team were also present here. I wish them good luck.\nIsrael's Land is soaked by its sacrifice There will be many such families present in this event, who have their own saga of sacrifice in this struggle. I salute the bravery of Israel Their bravery is the basis for Israel's development. Development of any country does not depend on its citizens Israel has proved that size does not matter On this occasion I also paid tribute to the second lieutenant Elise Aston, who was awarded the certificate for gallantry by the Israeli government for his contributions. Elise Aston is also known as 'The Indian'. During British period, he worked in Maratha light infantry. Indian soldiers have played an important role in liberation the Israeli city Haifa during the First World War. And it is my privilege that I am going to pay tribute to those brave martyrs\nPrime Minister Netanyahu's place The environment was extremely free. We were gossiping According to the Indian Standard Time was gossiping till 2:30 am and while leaving, he presented me a painting. The painting was that of a very heart touching Indian soldiers liberating Jerusalem during the World War I. Friends, in this episode of comradeship, bravery, I would like to mention about the Indian army's lieutenant J.F.R. Jacob His ancestors had come from India to Baghdad. When Bangladesh was struggling for its independence from Pakistan in 1971, Lieutenant J.F.R. Jacob played an important role in framing India's strategy and to compel 90 thousand Pakistani soldiers surrender. Friends, the population of Jews have been very small in India, but they have made their presence felt very proudly in whatever field they are in. The Jewish people have progressed by their hard work and have curved a niche not only in the army but also in the field of literature, culture and films. I can see that the Mayors of different cities of Israel have also joined today's grand program. Their love for India and the Indian community have brought them to this program. I remember that about 80 years ago even Mumbai, India's financial capital, once had a Jewish Mayor. When Mumbai was called Bombay in 1938, Elijah Moses became the mayor of Bombay.\nIn India, very few people did know that the signature tune of All India Radio was also composed by a Jewish master, Walter Kaufmann. He used to be the Director of All India Radio in Bombay in the year 1935. As the Jews continued to live in India, they have been associated with the feelings of Israel even as they embraced the Indian culture. Likewise, whenever they came to Israel from India, they also carried them the impression of Indian culture and are still connected with India.\nI am very happy to know that a Marathi newspaper titled 'My Boli' is from Israel. Similarly, the people of the Jewish community who have come from Cochin also celebrate Onam with great pomp and show. It was the efforts of the Baghdadi Jewish community - who came from Baghdad and settled in India - the first International Symposium on Baghdadi Jews were organized last year. The Jewish community that came from India to Israel has also played Israel in a key role and its greatest example is Moshav Nevatim. Israel's first Prime Minister David Ben Gurion's dream of greening the desert, a success. The people of the Jewish community from Cochin helped make the vision of 'make the desert bloom' a grand success. Today, every Indian is proud of you all because of this tireless efforts made on the land of India and Israel. I am proud of you Friends, Apart from Moshav Nevatim, Indian community has contributed in the agricultural development of Israel Before coming to the program here, I met Israel's famous personality Bezalel Eliahu. In the year 2005, he was honored in Pravasi Bhartiya Group. He was the first Israeli to receive this honour Apart from agriculture, the Indian community in Israel has left its mark in the health sector too. Israel's doctor, Dr. Lael Anson Best is from Gujarat, my home state and those who are familiar with Ahmedabad have had the name of West Height School in Maninagar. This year he was honored with the Pravasi Indian Samman. Dr. Lael Anson Best is a cardio surgeon here and her whole career is linked to many anecdotes of human service. I have come to know about the Menashe community Dina does not have the power to see, but has the same willpower that Israel also possesses. Dina Samata had inaugurated this year's Israeli Independence Day celebrations. She was one of the torch lighters of the ceremony. I wish all the best to daughter Dina Samata I wish that she continues to move ahead My blessings are with her Today, on this occasion, I want to pay tribute to the former President of Israel and a great leader. Shimon Peres I had the privilege to meet Mr. Shimon Peres He was not only a pioneer of innovation but also the statesman who worked for the welfare of humanity. The training in innovation in the Israel defense force is very early. Israel's defense forces became the source of many creative solutions to every little problem. Israel's sincerity towards innovation is proven by the fact that the date 12 Israelis has won Nobel Prizes in different fields. Israel shows the importance of innovative thinking in the development of any nation. In the last decade, Israel has stupefied the whole world with innovation in almost every field and they have succeeded in leaving their impression. Israel has left behind major areas of innovation, whether it is thermal power, solar panel, solar window, agro-biotechnology, the field of security or the technology used in camera and computer processor. And Israel is a start-up nation due to the achievements. India is one of the fastest growing economies in the world today. My government's mantra is Reform, Perform, Transform. Goods \u0026 Services Tax has been rolled out in India from the first of this month. The decade old dream of one nation is tax and one market has come true today and I call GST a Good \u0026 Simple tax. Now the same type of tax is all over India in the same type of items on the imposed. Earlier, if all taxes were added, more than 500 tax streams were there in our country The system of tax was confusing and everyone was facing the hassle from the small business man to the big business tycoons. GST led to the India's economic integration just like Sardar Patel had integrated India by uniting the princely states. The mission of economic integration succeeded in 2017\nI want to touch on auctioning of natural resources like Coal and Spectrum However, I do not want to go in what has been heard about coal and the spectrum, but this government has made the system auctioned by the government and the government has made a lot of money. question mark yet We have also tried systematic reform in the economy Everyone in India believed that the reforms in the Defense sector are not possible, but within three years the reforms sector has been made in the defense sector and the sector has opened up to 100 percent foreign direct investment. Now Israel's Defense industry can invest in India and now we have decided to make private companies as strategic partners in Defense manufacturing. In the last three years, many important decisions have been made. The middle-class built homes and later complained. We have brought the reforms into the works We have also approved 100 percent foreign direct investment in the construction sector. We have also made a Real Estate Regulator separately. The real estate sector has given the status of an industry by the government so that the companies of this sector have low interest rates on loans and that is 2022 ... 2022 of my dream is not forgotten. The year 2022 will mark 75 years of India's independence By 2022, we should be able to carry our nation forward to new horizons with new resolutions, carrying forward the dreams of freedom fighters who laid their lives in the struggle for India's independence We have decided that by 2022 every poor person of India who does not have a home and every family in India must have their own homes with facilities like electricity and water To meet this dream, we have given the status of the real estate as well as the construction work. Before the insurance sector was primarily being dominated by public enterprises; Now we have taken away An environment of competition has been created so that the common man benefits from a affordable insurance system. Under Insurance sector reforms our government has decided to increase foreign direct investment from 26% to 49%. The Banking sector of the country has taken steps to merge banks The government has given special emphasis on strengthening the banking system. For appointment in the Banking Sector, we have created a Separate Recruitment Board An independent institution is recruiting them. We have ended the political or internal influence.\nWe have enacted two important laws in our country - Bankruptcy and Insolvency Code which will create a new faith in the industrialists and investors around the world. Bankruptcy law for many decades. We have made every effort to simplify the rules in the government too. Changes are being kept in the motto of Minimum Government Maximum Governance so that the common man does not have face hassles and the investors do not have to wait for small things.\nBefore it used to take at least 600 days Today, we have ensured that all the work of environment clearance should be completed within six months. In 2014, it used to take 15 days or a month or two-three months to incorporate a company, however, the government has been able to bring down this time to two-three weeks and the latest position is that it could be done in 24 hours. If a young person wishes to start his work through a start-up, then he can register in company\nThe countries who lost everything in the second world war, could become self-dependent only. Now this is the golden opportunity in the world Today's India is a young nation 65% of the population is down 35. If a country has such a large population of youths, then its dreams will also be like that And for the first time, we created a separate ministry, Earlier, this work of developing skills was scattered in 21 different ministries, it was scattered in 50-55 departments. This government has brought different programs for skill development under one platform by making a separate ministry to provide an opportunity for skill development as a holistic approach. More than 600 skill development centers, at least one in every district, are being established in the country. Indian Institute of Skill The idea is to train Indian youth as per the global standards. The government is making a network of 50 India International Skill Centers. These institutes can be used as per international bench marks. It is important to teach training in our youth. That's why the government has started the National Apprenticeship Promotional Scheme Under the scheme, the government has set up a target of providing apprenticeship training to 5 million youths. The government will spend Rs. 10,000 crores under the scheme Along with providing apprenticeship to youth, one more purpose of this scheme is to encourage those companies and villagers who hire these youths. So the government is providing financial assistance to employers For the first time, employment opportunities have been linked to tax incentives, an employer will get tax incentives if he creates jobs. We have started Atal Innovation Mission (AIM) to encourage innovation by young. There is a growing ecosystem for innovation and entrepreneurship in schools and colleges throughout the country. It must be acknowledged that the innovation played an important role in Israel's development. The progress in life halt if we stop innovating. Incubation centers have been set up to encourage innovation entrepreneurship in Manufacturing, Transport, Energy, Agriculture, Bolter, Sanitation sectors. These centers will provide funds and right direction to start ups. The government has launched Mudra scheme so that The mammoth work of providing bank loans to 3 lakh crore rupees to 8 crore account holders without any bank guarantee has been completed in the last three years.\nFriends, sometimes, Labor Reforms have been equated with Reforms Labor. Sometimes lofty ideas become commonplace However, this government has carried out labor reforms with the welfare and development of laboratories. That is why we have been working on a holistic approach for Employer, Employee and Experience so that there are no hurdles in the growth of business. Previous traders were required to maintain 56 registers under the labor laws, some months back, we brought it down to 5 registers only by reforming the labor laws. Now only 5 registers are required for the labor laws.\nSimilarly, the government has developed a Shram Suvidha Portal. This Shram Utility Portal facilitates instant compliance with 16 report laws. We have issued advisories to states and shops and establishments throughout the year. States have been advised to amend the Factories Act of 1948 so that they can allow women workers to work in the night. The active participation of Indian women will only strengthen India's developmental journey hence this decision has taken place in the interest of women.\nEven in the rich countries of the world, women workers do not get paid maternity leave of more than 12 weeks. My beloved countrymen, I assure you that India is providing 26 months of paid maternity leave. In a way, they will get leave for six months.\nSometimes, workers give up their money deposited in PF for the proves very boring; this money belongs to the poor workers of India So the government assigned universal account number, you will be surprised to know that these laborers used to work in factories and when they changed their jobs, they also used to pay their money in EPF Government has unaccounted twenty-seven thousand rupees parked with it. However, we have created a new system under which if labourrer moves to another job then his account number will also be done and he will get his money.\nToday, India has been getting record foreign investment, the highest foreign direct investment, overseas Indians are sending huge amount of money to India. This is the global rating agencies and institutions. Make in India has the world as a brand India is emerging as a world leader in the digital field. India is becoming the global hub for World Digital Revolution. Friends, reform doesnt just mean enacting news laws Repealing those laws that have become obsolete and creating hindrances in the country of development We have repealed 1200 obsolete laws in the last three years and moving forward in the direction to cancel 40 more obsolete laws.\nFriends, Indian farmers are capable of doing wonders It's their hard work that India has bumper crop production this year and we are going to have the record crop production since independence. It has become possible due to good monsoon and the policies of central government This government is working in the direction of the farmer's income by 2022. It has been formulating policies, taking care of all the problems of farmers from the product to market. We have launched the Prime Minister's irrigation scheme to provide water to every field. 99-100 big irrigation schemes in a time bound manner that has been stuck for a long time. There is a separate monitoring system for them. We have been using Satellite Technology, Space Technology for this purpose. We have been using drones The irrigation scheme under the micro irrigation scheme has been doubled due to the Prime Minister's Agriculture Irrigation Scheme. We have been working in the field of well-being. Soil Health Cards Its good effect can be seen on the crop production. Similarly, 100 per cent of the quantity has increased in the efficiency of Urea. The cost of farming has come down A new scheme - Electronic National Agricultural Market or E-NAM has implemented a rapid pace so that the farmers do not face any difficulties in their products. A new national online market has been set up and 450 agricultural products have been linked with it. The government is working to reduce the risks involved in farming activity. Prime Minister Crop Insurance has been implemented due to unpredictable weather. Under this scheme, the government has reduced the premium amount and increased the compensation amount. The government is taking care of every sector of agriculture so that the farmer's income can be supplemented.\nLast month, the government has launched the Kisan Sampada Scheme to strengthen the Food Processing Sector. Even today, we lose farm produce worth Rs. 1 lakh crore due to poor quality of infrastructure and supply chain. Fruits and vegetables perish before reaching market If the food processing sector is strengthened due to the Kisan Sampada Scheme, then it will reduce the farmers' losses and help in boosting their income.\nIndia and Israel can work in Israel's cooperation in the agricultural sector can help Similarly, both the countries can greatly benefit by increasing cooperation in Defense and Space Technology. Therefore, it is imperative for both countries to move forward in the view. There are 600 Indian students in Israel completing their education. Some of them are here in this event\nMy young friends, you are a bridge of technology and innovation between India and Israel My friend Mr. Benjamin Netanyahu and I both agree with Kwet San that Science Innovation and Research are going to be the foundation of relations between both countries. So whatever you are learning here Few hours ago, I met Moshe Hozaberg Mumbai terror attack However, I also saw in this meeting that how the enthusiasm towards life conquers the terrorism Stability, peace and friendship are equally important for Israel as they are for India. Friends, Indians living in Israel are symbols of service, valour and friendship Thousands of Indians are serving as old people here I congratulate to all those who have come from Bangalore, Darjeeling, Andhra Pradesh and also from different parts of the country and work hard for the dedication to service, for visiting the hearts of every Israeli.\nFriends, I want to convey good news to the Indians living in Israel I was about to the difficulties faced by Indians in Israel in getting OCI and PIO cards However, the cordial relationships are not dependent on any card or document. India can not refuse to issue OCI cards to you, it's not possible So, I love you If any Indian is not able to get the OCI card, then it will serve the purpose of issuing the OCI card. Brothers and sisters, I'd like to assure you that even those people of Indian origin who have done compulsory army service too they will be entitled for OCI card. You were able to convert your PIO cards into OCI cards due to some regulations related to compulsory army service. We have decided to simplify those rules\nOne more thing, the need to set up an Indian Cultural Center in Israel to promote the cultural relations of the countries I would like to announce here that Government of India is going to set up and Indian Cultural Center in Israel very soon.\nIndia lives in your hearts and Indian Cultural Center will always keep you connected to your Indian culture. Today, on this occasion, along with Indian community, I'd like to invite Israeli youths to come to India in large numbers India and Israel are not only connected historically, but they are also connected culturally Both are partners in human values ​​and human legacy. Both the countries know how to respect their traditions and how to get out of difficult situations And India has many examples of this and Israeli youth should keep coming to India to witness this historic journey.\nI am confident that my country will treat you as well as memories. In the end, one again I express my heartfelt gratitude to the community, to my friend Benjamin Netanyahu and also to all of Israel\nAnd brothers and sisters, Delhi-Mumbai-Tel Aviv air service will start as I'm asking Israeli youth to visit India, I'm inviting them to come to India Once again I express my heartfelt gratitude to the people of Israel, to the government of Israel and also to my friend Benjamin Netanyahu.\nMany thanks to you all\nThank You"