"\nThe link between our people goes back to thousands of years: PM\nMy visit to Israel celebrates this ancient bond between communities across both nations: PM\nWe want to put in a strong security partnership to respond to our peace, stability \u0026 prosperity: PM in Israel\nPrime Minister Netanyahu (my good friend)\nFriends from the Media, I thank Prime Minister Netanyahu and Mrs. Sara Netanyahu for opening today I am most grateful for their warm and generous hospitality.\nFriends,\nJust a short while back, I laid a wreath at the Yad Vashem Memorial Museum to remember and honour over six million Jewish lives that were holocaust. Yad Vashem is a reminder of the unspeakable evil inflicted generations ago. It is also a tribute to your unbreakable spirit, to overcome the deeps of tragedy, overcome hatred and forge ahead to build a vibrant democratic nation. Yad Vashem tells us that those who believe in humanity and civilized values ​​should come together and defend it at all costs As such, we must resolutely oppose the evils of terrorism, radicalism and violence that plague our time.\nFriends,\nThe link between our people and the country of southwestern coastline. Since then, the Jews have flourished, and their traditions and practices thrived in India We are proud of the boys and girls of India like Lt. General J.F.R. Jacob, Vice Admiral Benjamin Samson, Master architect Joshua Benjamin, and film actors Nadira, Sulochana, and Pramila whose varied contributions have greatly enriched the Indian society. Indian Jews are a living and vibrant connect to this shared history My visit to Israel celebrates this ancient bond between communities across both nations. And, I am happy that I will have the opportunity to visit the rich Indian diaspora in Israel later tomorrow.\nFriends,\nIn modern times, our ties have seen rapid growth since the establishment of our full diplomatic relations a quarter century ago. Common objectives of economic prosperity, strong technology and innovation ties and the need to secure our societies Over coming decades, we want to frame a relationship that transforms the landscape of our economic engagement. India is the world's fastest growing large economy Our focus on using technology and innovation to meet our development priorities has provided our academic, scientific \u0026 research, and business links to productive scope. We also want to put a strong security partnership to respond to our peace, stability and prosperity. I will work with Prime Minister Netenyahu to Craft and build a clear action agenda for realizing these objectives. Once again, let me express my sincere gratitude to Prime Minister Netanyahu and Mrs. Netanyahu for their warm welcome\nThank you. Thank you very much\nIndia-Israel ties have seen rapid growth over the last several years: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 4, 2017\nIndia is a fast growing economy and we are using technology and innovation for the progress of our nation: PM @narendramodi"