"Share\n\nWe can become more history\nIt is my privilege that I got to work with Shri Pranab Mukherjee: PM Modi\nWhen I came to Delhi as Prime Minister, I asked him\nFrom 1875 onwards, a strong journey and statemanship lasted with. Many havets came in many havens, many crises came, but the Statesman took a lot of effort to fulfill his responsibilities. Yesterday I had a lot of Mr. R.N.R. Gopape-gossip had got the opportunity to kill. Once, I had an opportunity to talk to Mr. Irani in very detail. He used to be our big critic critics but it was a lot of fun to talk to him, there were so many who lived with him. Satire Vinod was also his innate nature, so he also had an opportunity to meet me.\nThere is a shortage in our country, perhaps what will happen and maybe not all agree with me. We have never emerged as the History Conscious Society and therefore ... like the British look at every small thing. Now I was Portugal. So when Goa and Portugal ruled there, the correspondence that was being tried for many years was that many more from them, we could get at least xerox from them. The history of so long is revealed through one of the letters in it and this time I went, the government accepted it and gave a copy of all the letters to the Goa government, that is, the capsule of letters is in its own right. All Vikas Yatra was found in the form of a testimony of the developments. We do not hand over him to anyone in ours. Even today, if we have to study many things in India, then our scholars have to go to Britain, open libraries there, and have to remove them and because we are not essentially the nature of the people. doing. I think that this person is not a matter of devotion, these systems have a great importance in the life of the nation and by taking it as an event of history, if we go, then we serve a lot for the future generations. .\nNow this is a picture journey, we are going to see the general human being as the President, i.e. all big and big people, side by side, big protocol, national anthem, standing in a very special situation, this world sees But there is a happy person in between those arrangements, they are discovered when a photo journalist's camera is clicked and tomorrow when we will see it as a book, well Killed laugh like President lad. It touches in itself How big a foreigner came abroad, how high the size is, the picture shows, how proud the confidence of the President of my country is, is unbounded pride. All of these things are contained inside this book. That is, in addition to the post system, my president would be, there is also a human life journey in them, when they see it as a camera, which appears in the form of a picture.\nNow when Mahatma Gandhi was, at that time there were not so many cameras, there was no arrangement, but when two people saw Gandhiji, taking a sweep in one hand and cleaning it and looking into another photo in a microscope with a fine eye. , Then it shows that where will the person's personality expand? Two photos have the power to show Gandhi here in two forms. That is, in a way, when the photo maker is taken, he takes the picture and then holds that moment in the form, which has the power to give the history of immortality to the moment.\nThe reason for immortality in history is in this document and Varuna Joshi has tried to bring these things to him, the statesman's team has presented it well. Otherwise, at the time the technology started in the world of SMS, you would have seen a large number of articles were published that the SMS is coming to an end that the world of writing writing will end. Letter writing is an important legacy of human culture in itself. If that ends, then nothing will happen in the hands of future generation. Those who knew that all these articles were printed 25 years ago. Then they did not even know that technology would change so that every person would become so creative in themselves, become a writer in his own right, and the new new technology would give rise to the creativity within us and that would probably be safer too.\nThere was a time when the importance of autograph gradually increased towards the photograph and now the combination of autograph and photograph came Selfie. See how the change is happening. Selfie is a combination of both photograph and autograph. That is, where there is a change from the original thought-from where it reaches, we experience it. See this whole book in which I think that through the newspapers, the world has recognized the politicians, please forgive me! There were plenty of newspaper here. There is also a person living in political life outside of that newspaper's window. It does not hold a newspaper in everyday life, but after some time when things come up after research, it seems that one person is sitting on the person who has seen it in everyday life and therefore within him To understand the truth of this, I think this book is about to know the respected Pranab da, to go near him and sometimes it seems that he is giving an opportunity to go inside. And for this important work, I congratulate Mr. Gupta and his entire team and especially the brother Varun Joshi with heart.\nIt has been my privilege to have the opportunity to work with the Honorable President. I see in my life that I had an opportunity. In the emergency, I was not in politics, was associated with social life but in the emergency there was an opportunity to work with people of different thoughts. Extreme There was an opportunity to work among the ideologies that stood against each other. My age was very small but I had learned many things in that life, used to be the Vice-Chancellor of Gujarat Vidyapeeth. We used to be Dhiru Bhai Desai, coming to his house was an Emergency, then the intense Gandhian was Ravindra Verma, socialist ideology and Congress Life in such a way that I got the chance to live close to those people, with George Fernandez, had the opportunity to live close by. That was a great opportunity for me in my molding. I become proud to be Chief Minister, so I remember today proudly, I had the privilege of working with the legendary Congress leader Naval Kishore Sharma. There was a lot to learn and I believe that there was a great privilege of my life that I had a great privilege in setting myself up in the life of Delhi by holding Pranab da's finger. Too big, there was a great deal for me.\nI am a person who always worries that the work is not completed soon, if empty, will I do in the evening? Once I have leaked news from a newspaper in our newspaper, you guys! Your greatest skill remains. I was taking meetings of the officers one day, it would have been around 8-9, so the meeting ended almost 9 o'clock. So I got out of my mouth that he got so fast! So at 9 o'clock, he said, \"I am fine, I will see how time will spend, I will!\" One such meeting in my life has not been so much with the President in the last three years, in which he is speaking like a father and I am talking very intrinsically, no father should take care of his offspring, look like Modi! Half day will have to rest, I call da as Pranab da says that brother is running so much, reduce some programs, you have health care On the election day, in Uttar Pradesh, I used to say that the victory of the brothers and the defeat continues but some body will not see or see? It was not a part of the President's obligation but the person within him is concerned about one of his partners and I believe that this personality, these honors, this form is a very big job for the people of India like us, and they Work has been done by Pranab da. Honorable President has honored me and I congratulate him on this occasion, congratulating brother Varun Joshi and congratulating him for preparing this priceless legacy for the coming generation. Congratulations to the Statesman Group.\nThanks a lot"