"Share\n\nCAs have a great role in making laws like bankruptcy and code of insolvency, successful: PM Modi\nLike the lawyers did during the freedom struggle, I urge the CAs to take the lead in the journey towards India's economic growth: PM\nOn one hand, there is Swachh Bharat campaign and on the other side there is a movement to clean the menace of corruption: PM\nGovernment may take tougher action against those black money: PM\nNamaste!\nGreetings!\nShriman Nilesh Vikamse, President, Institute of Chartered Accountants of India, Finance Minister Shri Arun Jaitley Ji, my colleagues from the Council of Ministers, dignitaries from the chartered accounts field who have joined me on live streaming from about 200 locations countrywide, the Chief Ministers joining us from respective states, and the enthusiastic fraternity here braving the Delhi rain A very warm welcome to you all!\nThe achievers being felicitated tonight on this auspicious occasion, all of you who have assembled here today from different locations, business and industry stalwarts, fellow citizens, youngsters connected through TV, radio, ladies and gentlemen.\nToday, we are celebrating the Foundation Day of the Institute of Charted Accountant of India (ICAI) .My heartfelt wishes to one and all on this momentous occasion. Serendipity indeed! Your Foundation day and the beginning of the new economic paradigm of India- the \"Goods and Services Tax\" coincide on this very day.\nIt is really a matter of happiness and privilege that I am amidst you on such an historical day. Let me tell you, you have been successfully contributed as Chartered Accountants over the past decades and you have all been given a serious right by the government. Its only your fraternity which is authorized to certify and audit in entries in Accounts books and confirm whether they are correct or manipulated. The onus of maintaining a sound economic and financial health of the rest of the people on the same way as the doctors are concerned about the health of the society and people, at the same time, I am confident that there would be a doctor who would encourage unhealthy practices to make more people fall sick and increase his earnings The doctor is very aware that if someone is sick, he can make more money, but he still endorses healthy practices and habits in the people.\nDear friends, you should have the responsibility of ensuring that the economic and financial system remains healthy and is not plagued by any malpractices. You are the pillars of a sound Economic and financial ecosystem of this country, and it is a great honor to be a part of this company. In a way it is really a great opportunity for you to learn and share today. Chartered Accountants of India has earned laurels across the globe for their dexterity in Financial Skills.\nToday, I got the opportunity to start the new Chartered Accountancy Course Curriculum. This is the identity of your Dynamic Course and the Credibility of Examinations. I am hopeful that this new course will further consolidate the financial skills of new aspirants joining this profession. In the wake of globalization, we have now focused on developing dynamic systems so that our institutions are able to produce dynamic human resources. In order to stay relevant to the industry, we should design our courses according to the global requirements and benchmarks. Our Courses must integrate in the field of accountancy. We should encourage Charted Nutral Firms Technology There is a huge opportunity in the market for new software which is required in the field of accountancy.\nFriends, our scriptures have laid down four Purusharthas-the objects of human pursuits. These include- Dharma (righteousness, moral values) Artha (economic values), Kaama (psychological values), Moksha (spiritual values). Has it ever happened to you that whenever we discuss Religion and Moksha, it is the saints and monks who cross our minds! In the same way when one thinks about Accounts and Finance, it is no one else It beseems to call the sages of economic world. You are the very important role of guiding the economic systems the way the saints and monks lead us to attain the ultimate truth.\nIt is the ethical responsibility of all of you engaged in chartered accountancy to guide one toward righteousness conduct and practice.\nMy dear friends,\nI deeply appreciate the love and encouragement. I am indebted to you for having my thoughts with you We share the same patriotic values ​​and envision great achievements for the nation and its citizens. But, let us face some harsh realities! This often set you thinking You may have heard from the experienced in the society that in case a house is engulfed in fire and there is complete loss of property, it is said that the family can get back on its own with its will power and perseverance. They fight with the trauma but begin again with the same fervour. Within no time they bounce back The elderly will say that it is possible to reinstate the house damaged in fire, but even if one person in the family is in the habit of stealing and theft, such families can never get back to their value systems Even if a family member treads the wrong path\nDear friends, if you are honest, the country can be saved from the biggest of crises. During the worst of the natural calamities like floods and the earthquakes, the citizens have shown their capabilities to take care of the cause of the country while administering support. However, if some of the citizens of the country are the habit of stealing and pilferage, it leads to an irreparable damage to the family and the nation. Dreams are broken and it causes road blocks in the development of the nation. Government has cracked down heavily to nab such pilferers over the past three years. While new laws have been formulated, older laws have been made more stringent now. We have MOUs and agreements with many nations The latest statistics from Swiss bank accounts stand on a tight credit basis. As reported by the Swiss Bank Authorities, the black money deposits of Indian Nationals have a record all time low. Three decades back in 1987, these officers from Swiss banks had started declaring how much deposits were made by nationals of a country. According to the reports released last year, there was a reduction of 45% in the deposits made by Indians in the Swiss banks ..\nEver since 2014, the day you are entrusted with the reins of the nation, we have put brakes on the trends. You will be shocked and appalled to know that in 2013 Swiss banks reported 42% increase in black money deposits. Ladies and gentlemen, two years later, when the real time data from Switzerland, imagine the plight of the black money holders. I am sure you do not have such money in your possession. However, I am sure the love for nation will make you sound those who have amassed black money.\nFriends, while I am endorsing Swachh Bharat Abhiyan I have also started the process of cleansing of the economic and financial systems of the country. I am sure 8th of November is deep in your minds. Demonetization was a firm and landmark step. Let me share you with you, I have heard that since 8th November you have been immersed in more work like never before in your career. I have even heard that the Chartered Accountant fraternity had been on Diwali vacations, hotels had booked, but some canceled their trips and were promptly back to their workstations which were functional 24x7. Now I am not aware if you are doing rightly or participated in malpractices! Well, was it the interest of the nation or your clients? But those days in those days!\nFriends, for the first time I would like to share my thoughts on this drive of eradicating the black money. The government has placed a massive system for data mining, for the money stocked with banks, whereby the details of the transactions of money before and after 8th November have been widely studied. Did we not only analyze My dear friends, I have already said that your country is not much less than mine For the first time I would like to express that the whole country Whatever data mining has been done till now has revealed that the transactions of more than 3 lakh companies - registered companies are under the radar of suspicion.\nA lot of data mining is still left; so i really do not know Some serious things I am telling you these things with the hope that you can connect with the rulers. On the one hand, the government, the media, the whole business world was observing close the night of 30thJune and 1st July to know what transpires next, on the other hand, 48 hours ago, one lakh companies were struck off the list by the stroke of a pen The names of those companies have been removed from the Registrar of Companies. This is not a simple decision, friends. People who take calculative steps only through the prism of politics, can not take such decisions Only those who live in the country The power to eliminate one lakh companies with the stroke of a pen can come from the inspiration of patriotism. Those who have looted the poor\nApart from this, the government has already identified more than 37 thousand Shell companies who are engaged in hiding black money and hawala transactions. Stern actions will be taken against them More stringent actions are in the companies which will break the law in future. And I am fully aware of the fact that eliminating fake companies and taking action against black money can be politically incorrect and any political party to risk a pose. But someone has to take\nMy Chartered Accountant friends, I have come here on the foundation day of your institute. I want to ask The power to keep After demonetization, someone could have helped those companies These thieves and robbers have gone I know very well that those companies did not have any reason for this purpose. But they are sure to be identified Do you feel the need to identify those people, who are supported among these companies? Friends, I have been told that there are more than two lakh 72 thousand chartered accounts in our country. You also have 'articled assistants' and their number is also close to two lakhs. And if we add all those chartered accountants and 'articled assistants' and all your staff then roughly these numbers will be more than eight lakhs. Your family is more than 8 lakhs in this field, I mean, in your business I would place some more facts for you from the figures.\nIt is estimated that there are more than crore engineers and management graduates in our country. There are more than 8 lakh doctors These professions are known as the cream professions or are highly respectable jobs. There are hundreds of people in our businesses Moreover, there are crores of palatial houses built in the cities of our country Also, about two crore people have traveled abroad last year. These figures may astonish you; yet only 32 lakh people in our country say their income is more than ten lakhs while filing tax returns Can any one of you believe it? I am asking you, the corrector of the account books. Are there only 32 lakh people in this country who earn more than 10 lakhs?\nThis is the best of my friends These numbers show that only 32 lakh people in the country revealed their income to be more than ten lakh rupees. I believe that most of the people in the country are salaried class, where people have fixed income and most of the salary is drawn from the government. Besides this, what is the real situation in the country? And so brothers I do not want to project data further. But by you we understand that And yet the responsibilities toward the country are not getting fulfilled; it is a matter of grave concern\nI want to keep my thoughts before you CA brothers, a person or a client pays the tax only when the environment is around him is the right person. If he sees that the advisor is himself asking him to hide the truth Thus, it is important to understand And for that you also have to take tough steps CA is an arrangement in which Human Resource Development (HR) is done only by you. Curriculum is made only by you; you conduct the exam; Rules and Regulations are also made by you, and your institute only punishes the culprits. Now the question arises that the temple of democracy i.e. the Parliament of India, which is the voice of 125 crore countrymen, has given you so much authority, then why it is in the last 11 years, only 25 Charted Accountants have been prosecuted. Did only 25 people make a mess? And I have heard that more than 1400 cases are still pending A single case takes years to settle. Tell me my friends, is it a matter of concern or not, for such highly qualified professionals? Brothers and sisters, during the freedom struggle, many young people Many great men in the country of independence and at that time there were many professionals in the country who came forward and joined the freedom movement. Most of those professionals were lawyers These Barristers, in large numbers, took the cudgel of liberty struggle They knew the law They were aware of the consequences of fighting against the law. Despite this, all the lawyers of that era who had well flourishing law profession left their advocacy for this country. Not only Mahatma Gandhi, Sardar Patel, Dr. Ambedkar, Jawaharlal Nehru but also Dr. Rajendra Prasad, Pandit Madan Mohan Malaviya, Bal Gangadhar Tilak, Motilal Nehru, C. Rajagopalachari, Deshbandhu Chittaranjan Das, Saifuddin Kichloo, Bhulabhai Desai, Lalalajpat Rai, Tej Bahadur Sapru, Asaf Ali, Govind Vallabh Pant, Kailash Nathkatju in uncountable names law occupation who had laid down his life for the country Inspired by patriotism, they are dedicated to their country. Many of them played in a constitutional form. And brothers and sisters, we can not forget that our people's history is indispensable\nFriends, today our country is another important juncture of history. After the country's political integration in 1947, today the country is getting economically integrated. Our country is starting a new journey this year, 2017, when the dream of 'One nation, One tax, One market' has become a reality On this historic event, the most important role is Try to fathom my feelings, friends During the freedom movement, the lawyers had placed their lives on the freedom of India. Today, I am not asking You do not have to go back the bars This country is yours; also the future of this country So the reins of leadership of this new era have to be in your hands, just as the movement for freedom was led by those Lawyers. Today the economic development will be led by my chartered accountants. And you can see that no one can make the road I request you to reenter the corruption To eliminate corruption\nFriends, Chartered Accountants are the Ambassadors of any country's economic system. Your work is like that of an interface between the government and the tax-paying companies and individuals. Your signature is more powerful than that of a Prime Minister\nYour signature is a testimony to the truth Companies may be small or big, however, if you certify their books of account then the government believes in that, people of the country believe in that.\nAnd you have never thought that the balance sheet of that company; Files are not held up after that Friends, a new chapter starts after that.\nToday, I've come here to showcase that new life to you people If you certify the accounts books of a company then the government officers trust in your assessment. The company grows, it flourishes and you also grow, flourish with that. Friends, however, the matter does not end there\nWhen you people certify the balance sheet of a company and when the details are placed before general public; When a old person invests his savings in a mutual fund; a poor widow invests her savings of the whole month into the market, if, the correct situation of a company is not revealed, facts are concealed; and when the real position is exposed then not only that company sinks, my dear friends, the life of that poor widow sinks too, that old person's life too devastated. They invest in their lifetime savings only\nSo I appeal to you, I appeal to you all because one-hundred and twenty-five crore people of India have faith in your signature. Never ever break their trust, do not let anyone even feel that\nIf you feel deep down in your hearts that trust has been broken, then please come forward, please take that trust The first of July, the date of your foundation, gives you a chance to restore that faith. I invite you, I have come here to invite you Please look at the importance of your work and then select your path. You yourself will realise the pride\nFriends, there are different definitions for the term 'tax return'. However, I feel that whatever tax is collected by a government whether those tax is utilized in the development of the country or not? This is the 'tax return'.\nInflation in curbing inflation It provides a gas connection to a lady who has used woods for cooking food all her life. This fund was used in getting the old age pension for those whose children shirked their responsibility of looking after them.\nThis money is used in providing self-employment to the youth who works hard throughout the day so that he can attend classes in his education.\nThis money is being used in providing affordable medicines to those poor people, who can not afford to take a break from their break despite being sick\nThe money collected through taxes is being used for those brave soldiers who risk their lives.\nThis money is being used in providing electricity to those households that do not have electricity supply even after seventy years of independence Not a single bulb was ever illuminated in their homes; They have been living without electricity\nWhat could be a great service than helping the country You could have never imagined that you can help the poor people of this country.\nYou have huge responsibility in the dreams of a common man of this country; You can play an important role in it. And once you decide then I'm confident that the 1st of July 2017 will certainly become a turning point in the history of ICAI.\nAnd, friends, once you take a vow then I can say with confidence People only break laws when they know\nFriends, GST is going to become a medium for you contribution in nation building; I urge you to reach out to the people When I was on the way to this place, Neelesh told me that you are going to help the traders to understand GST. I congratulate him, I offer my gratitude.\nYou please reach out to the people, enlighten them Encourage them to join the mainstream of integrity In a way, the government has provided a new opportunity to chartered accountancy. Please prepare yourself for this; I specifically urge the young professionals in this field.\nPlease come forward, Chartered Accountants is a very important role in the success and proper implementation of the laws recently passed by the government, specially the insolvency and bankruptcy code.\nUnder this code, when a company has been declared bankruptcy, its control will be passed on to a insolvency practitioner. Chartered accountants can start a new career in this field by becoming insolvency practitioners. This is a new avenue opened by the government. However, whichever path you people select today, in that path, the term CA means Charter and Accuracy, Compliance and Authenticity.\nFriends, our country is going to complete 75 years of its independence in 2022. The country has set some targets for the year 2022. New India has been expecting hard work and industry from all of us.\nWhat kind of India we want to see when it completes 75 years of its independence as an institute, as a chartered accountant, as an individual and also as a citizen and play our role, the country is like that in making. The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India will complete 75 years of its existence, two years after India completes its 75 years of independence in 2022.\nYou should be ready for the program of 75 years of your own existence from today itself. You should prepare a roadmap for that historic occasion from today itself to scale new heights for the institution and its character. And decide what you will do for the country, millions of aspiring youths and millions of people.\nCan you help in a transparent and corruption free system? What will you say Will you look at the numbers of the people? Or will you look at the numbers of people who have been encouraged by paying taxes? You will decide on this\nYou set a target for yourself that how many people you will bring in the mainstream by honestly paying the taxes. Who can be a better judge than this task?\nPlease also tell you how to What could be the role of forensic science in the field of chartered accountancy, how to use that, how to cater that, if possible, you also need these things for the target too\nFriends, I have a more expectation from you since you can do it. I want to understand why you lag behind Friends, there are four highly respected audit firms in the world and top companies and organizations entrust these four companies with their audit work. These are called big four We are nowhere in these big four You are capable of it and there is no dearth of talent either 2022, in India, when its independence of seventy five years is celebrated, then this big four are big in the big eight.\nAnd out of those big eight, four big firms will be the first to come. Friends this is our dream. And it's not hard given the reputation and professionalism of our companies.\nMy friends you must be respected world in the field of chartered accountancy In the end, I would like to remind you of an advisor - Chanakya. He said: \"Kalati Kramat Kal Avam Falam Pivati\", it means the time itself undermines the value of the success of something if it was not done in the right time. So do not let your time go in vain\nArun Ji was talking to you just a while ago; He was saying that It is a rare opportunity Do not let this chance go past you\nI've been invited to share the mainstream of India's development. Please do not lose sight of the fact that this profession has the ability to protect, to sustain the whole economy. I once again convey my best wishes to the whole faculty of the institute, to all the chartered accountants present here on the occasion of ICAI.\nI also thank the people who are watching this program from the video link and also to chartered accountants of our country who are watching this program in other countries.\nI express my gratitude to you; I thank you all with your wish that we should move forward in a new direction, with a new zeal and a new pace to engage in this country in a celebration of honesty. Many thanks my friends, many thanks"