"\nSardar Patel integrated India region, GST is integrating India economically: PM Modi\nGST is a shining example of cooperative federalism which will facilitate inclusive growth of the nation: PM Modi\nGST is a landmark achievement which is bound to take the nation towards exponential growth, says PM Modi\nGST is the path breaking legislation for New India It is a revolutionary taxation system for the digital India: Prime Minister\nGST is 'Good and Simple Tax': PM Narendra Modi\n\nHonourable President, Resident Vice President, Madam Speaker of Lok Sabha, our former Prime Minister Mr. Devegowdaji, Members of the Council of Ministers, all the other members of the House, and the esteemed conglomerate were assembled here in various sectors.\nIn the process of nation building, we often arrive at a moment, which leads us to a path breaking juncture and opens up a great deal of opportunities. At the stroke of the midnight hour today, together we will\nWithin a few moments from now, our nation will embark on a new economic regime. The entire 1.25 billion citizen of the country is a witness to this historical event. I do not believe that this process of GST is restricted to the scope of economy only. This momentous day stands as a testimony to the concept of Co-operative Federationism in Indian Democracy. This hallmark day was possible due to the relentless efforts put in over decades by many stalwarts under whose guidance various teams developed the GST framework.\nIt is a very important time for you to visit. I extend my heartfelt welcome and express my sincere presence today\nThis path that we have tread on, the direction that we have been selected, the system that we have not seen is the only one team, or one government This is a shared heritage The combined efforts of all And here we are, unified, heralding the red letter day at 12 AM in the Central Hall.\nThis is the same place which has been blessed by the footprints of many great national leaders. We are honored to be in the same sanctum. Let us reminisce the 9th of December, 1946 when this same Central Hall witnessed the country's Constitution. Today we share the same place of pride. The front seats of this hall were ordained by the iconic national heroes like Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru, Maulana Abul Kalam Azad, Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel, Baba Saheb Bhimrao Ambedkar, Acharya Kripalani, Dr. Rajendra Prasad, Sarojini Naidu\nThe same House which once on 14 August, 1947, at the stroke of the midnight hour, witnessed the nation of attaining freedom! On 26th November, 1949, this House stands as a testimony to the historical event.\nSeveral years later, this House will once again go down in the history of history as it was not there as one of the biggest strength of federal structure, the GST Reform of the launch of this for a more anointed venue.\nBetween many great debates, agreements and disagreements, chalking a new path, adopting the middle path when they would go away, was born the Indian Constitution! It was an outcome of deliberations which lasted two years, eleven months and seventeen days when people participated in the brainstorming. In a similar way, GST has been the result of a long drawn premeditated mentions of many years. There have been continuous discussions with former ministers and the best minds of the country.\nWhen the Constitution was framed, it introduced a framework of equal opportunities and rights for all. Very importantly, GST also intends to bring in economic reforms. It is a great example of co-operative federalism which will facilitate inclusive growth of the nation.\nWith the launch of GST, Team India has proven its potential and diligence. This GST Council has developed such systems as the underprivileged gets all the promised amenities. The people connected with GST has gone beyond politics and unanimously contributed to the welfare of the poor class. Arun ji has acknowledged the contribution of all of them My hearty congratulations to this milestone!\nAll states are slated to gain immensely as they\nGST is in a way like our railways with state and center playing equal role in its operations. While it receives regional support at the state level, yet it is the representative of the \"Indian Railway\". The Central Service officers are deputed all over the states and they are the state of the vision of the Center.\nGST is the first of its kind system in the country when both center and state will be placed in a consolidated effort in the same direction. We will be proud of this wonderful system for generations to come as GST is a landmark achievement which is to take the nation towards exponential growth.\nToday, GST Council has its 18th meeting and GST will be implemented in a short time from now. Incidentally, The Holy book also has 18 chapters and today we are moving forward successfully. It has been a long process There was also some apprehensions. The states had questions in mind. But with diligence and hard work\nChanakya had said that\n\"If there is a lot of distractions, if it is bad, systematic,\nThen all the tapasas are moderately henchmanate. \"\nChanakya's words summarize the whole GST process. Even if something is very difficult to achieve, one can get it Can we imagine, when we were independent, there were more than 500 princely states. If it was not for Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel to integrate these Princely states, what was the political map of India today? Just as Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel unified India by helping many princely states in a common entity, the GST will bring economic unification. If we take into consideration the 29 states, the 7 Union Territories, the 7 taxes of the centers and the 8 taxes of the states, and different commodities for different taxes, taxes of the number 500 of a figure to the sum! Today all those taxes will be shred off to ONE NATION, ONE tax right from Ganganagar to Itanagar and from Leh to Lakshadweep.\nOnce Albert Einstein, an eminent scientist has said that the most complex thing to understand is in the world I wondered if he was present here then how he would have reacted looking at the plethora of taxes. And we have seen that usually there is not much of a difference in quantity of production. Different states of different tax regimes due to But when the product goes out, we can see the inequality The same product will have different prices in Delhi, Gurugram and Noida which are 25-30 kilometres apart. This is Haryana, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh have different tax regimes As a result of these variations, a citizen wonders that - if I go to Gurugram I get the product at one price, if I go to Delhi I get the same product for a different price and if I go to Noida I get it for yet another price.\nThere was confusion in everybody's mind. The foreign investors used to be confused Today we are going to get rid of that situation Arun Ji has vividly explained that once GST is in place, all kinds of taxes like sales tax, VAT etc. will cease to exist Long wait by vehicles at toll plaza Fuels worth crores of rupees are wasted. And that causes damage to the environment as well Now we will be free from those same troubles Sometimes certain items, especially the perishable ones that were supposed to reach their destination in time, were delayed because of the time taken process; and it results in losses at both ends. Today we are getting rid of all that The country is moving towards a modern taxation system. This is a system that is simple, more transparent It will help us curbing black money and corruption and reward honesty It will generate interest and enthusiasm to do honestly. It will bring in a new culture of governance. We have all lived in terrorism and inspector raj. Today, due to the transparency of GST, due to technologically proven trial, gray areas are ending. GST has an inherent ability of eliminating the potential business of being harassed by the officials. Traders with a turnover up to Rs. 20 lakhs are totally exempt from this. Traders with a turnover up to Rs. 75 lakhs are too many exemptions.\nThis is true that some systems have been done for this new system but those arrangements are at the basic level and the common man will not be burdened by the new system.\nFriends, GST is not limited to the technicalities of the term. In fact, the system is for the welfare of the poor Even after 70 years of independence, we have not been able to deliver It's not that efforts were made. Every government has made tremendous efforts in this direction. But somewhere the limited resources become a hurdle in the fulfillment of the needs of our country's poor.\nAs we extend horizontally, we need to ensure vertical growth as well. The work in that direction will become easier And I believe that small traders will definitely cooperate and allow the transfer of the benefits to the poor so that the poor are benefitted.\nSometimes we are not able to start anything new, whether it is working out or not. For example when the first time class 10th and 12th results have gone online, the system hung. The next day Even today we hear about such issues\nIt is true that everyone is not tech-savvy However, if any household has a class 10th-12th student, he will definitely know about technology GST is so simple that a class 12 student can help merchants file returns.\nI request those who fear to dismiss them You get your eye check-up done by your regular doctor He gives you power for your eyes You get the specs made When you get those specs, it takes 2-3 days to get adjusted The crux of the story is that even the eyes need to adjust to new spectacles. Similarly, if we try to adjust to the new system we will definitely be able to integrate ourselves with it. It is time to stop the rumor market. It is a time to concentrate on the country. Let the GST be carried forward to the point\nGST is a system that ends in the country's trade. It also boosts the exports of the country. This system is not only available but it also provides the benefits to the states. Our states are enriched with natural resources - look at Bihar, Eastern UP, West Bengal, the north east, Odisha. They are all brimming with natural resources When they will get a single tax regime I can see clearly that whatever deficiency is there will be removed and this art of country will move forward. All the states of India will get equal opportunity for development GST is like our Railway Railway is run by the Center and the states together Still we look at it as Indian Railway The officers of central services are posted both at the Center and in the states yet they work in unison for India. Under GST, for the first time, the central and state government will work together the same direction. This is an example - 'Ek Bharat Sreshtha Bharat' Its impact will be appreciated by the upcoming generations.\nIn 2022, India will celebrate the Diamond Jubilee Year of achieving Freedom. We have embarked on a new journey to India. The New India which is the dream of our 1.25 billionions Indians!\nSo Ladies and Gentlemen, GST will play a key role in helping us build our dreams. The last verse of Lokmanya Tilak's \"Gita Rahsaya\" ideally encapsulates the essence of the way the GST team has achieved it.\nThe verse from the Rigveda continues to inspire us till today. It says\nSakwani: Shape: Samana Rudyanivah:\nThe same object\nIt means that we all have the same resolution, our hearts should be on the same plane, so that everyone has the same accomplishments towards support and collaborates.\nGST is the path breaking legislation for New India A revolutionary taxation system for the digital India\nGST is the taxation system of New India; of the Digital India It is not just doing business This is the way of doing business. GST is not just a tax reform, but it is a landmark step toward economic reforms. Beyond the taxation revamp, it is also paving the way towards social reforms. It is a vouchment for corruption free taxation system In legal parlance GST may be known as Goods and Services Tax But the benefits of GST will positively ensure that the \"Good and Simple Tax\" for the citizens of India Good because it liberates us from layers of taxation There will be \"one nation, one tax\" and tax system will be executed in a standard manner. I am sure that we will be able to take it forward in a unified way\nOn this momentous occasion, I wish to acknowledge the role of the Honorable President who anchored the project concomitantly. He has astutely engaged himself in every stage of the designing of this taxation reform and steered the team with his valuable contribution towards this historical day. His inspiration kept everyone happy I am deeply indebted to him for his guidance and his august presence during the launch event of GST. With new vigour and fervor we will take the nation towards exemplary economic development.\nWith these feelings, I once again expanded my gratefulness to all those people who were a part of this initiative and request the Honorable President to guide us further from here."