"Share\n\nThe determination of our sportspersons is admirable. They have pursued their passion with great diligence: PM\nKhel Mahakumbh has brought a strong shift and further encouraged a sporting culture in Gujarat: PM\nNeed to adopt a culture where sports is appreciated and supported, starting from the family: PM Modi\nAll the respected dignitaries, andbefore them my friends from the field of sports\nPeople who are familiar with this region, they know about the situation of Kankaria ten years ago. This godforsaken building of the dairy, it was so forgotten and isolated that dogs used to roam in it. This is the right example of how things can be turned around if people are able to dreaming big. I will urge the people from sports that after the event they have to meet this stadium of all the facilities and other that India is also developing all the facilities in the field of sports that our sportspersons see in the other countries.\nWhenever I got a chance to meet sportspersons of our country I was able to connect with them, I heard their issues I have never found them in power I have never found them in terms of determinations We have a capable young generation, this New India is before me, the whole New India, but our perception towards sportspersons is a problem. I have not asked them but they have experienced this thing whenever they introduce themselves to others while traveling in a plane that they are national or international level players then do you have any idea what will be the next question? The next question would be that it's fine that you play national games or play in international games but what is your occupation? It means that it's difficult for our countrymen to think of sports as a career. They all have experienced this that whenever they tell others that they are participating in national games then people would say that it's okay that you are a national level player but sports besides what do you do? What could be more painful than asking a soldier who protects the border that does he do or what is his occupation? Same thing happens with our sportspersons in our society When the sportspersons had started in the field of sports, their family members used to ask them whether they are studying on the focus or not, or just the sporting activity in time spent? People used to say that you just go out to play since morning; Some people would also be saying these things to sportspersons like Phullela Gopichand that please do not spoil the life of our children.\nThis is the environment In our country, sports has emerged as a vocation to scale new heights in an individual's life but 1.25 billion Indians can also take pride in the world due to them. In other countries of the world if I mention the name of any sportsperson of that country in my speech then people continue to clap for five minutes Two days ago, I was there in Portugal and the whole environment of the event was completely changed the moment I mentioned one of their football players, the sound of clapping for him filled the entire venue. This kind of respect for our sportsperson should become a tradition of our country, of our families and it should emerge as a social legacy of our country We should also develop facilities Today I got the opportunity to publicly dedicate the launching app for that program, for that mega event of sports. However, it's not always that one can emerge as a national or international level sportsperson. Sporting activities have their own importance in life, they teach us how to lead our lives. We can easily learn a thing from a sportsperson. Sometimes people tell us, they tell us more about that But I have seen that a failure to cope with them, they have in this strength and this strength will be their victory for the way. You can gain this strength from the sporting arena. Every second there is a battle between the success and failure and these sportspersons are very fortunate that they can lead their lives, can cope with the successes and failures of their lives in the spirit of sports. We also need to develop facilities\nAround thirty lakh people participated in the Khel Mahakumbh (the mega sporting event) in Gujarat the last time. It's not possible that everyone will be a champion. However, one can encourage a player by clapping for him, it gives them strength, Sports should emerge as a natural culture and that is why we started the Khel Mahakumba in Gujarat, in such a short span of time, its positive results were noticed, people other than sports related to Gujarat, their mind\nGujarati is someone who goes to school or college with two pens in his pocket and sells one by the time he falls back in the evening. They are natural businessmen He will get something new, he will show it to his friends and he will be able to sell it. What is a cause for greater happiness compared to this same Gujarat has so much talent in the sporting field and they are able to prove themselves in national, international sports? Gujarat won 10 gold medals in 25 years, 10 in 25 years. And due to Khel Mahakumbha, Gujarat won 10 gold medals in just one year.\nNow, every city, every district will prepare the field for the sporting activity, will arrange for coaching, will select gradually, and then develop a sporting culture. We are going to launch a nationwide program 'Khele India' on the lines of Khel Mahakumbhain Gujarat. Millions and millions of people should be participating in the sports, as it is when I saw this stadium today, though I knew about it since the beginning, however, after seeing this stadium I felt like Telling students to conduct half an hour, schools and colleges Gujarat government should also conduct tour When they see this then they will understand What kind of resources are deployed for sports and the important role played by modern science in sports; what kind of restrictions are imposed on food for sportspersons, what are the limits I still remember, our Parthiv, I know him personally as childhood as he is a son of my friend. In order to make him a good cricketer, his uncle was regularly used to take him to Stadium in 4 O'clock in the morning. He did it on regular basis, throughout his life he used to wake up 4 in the morning to make his brother's son a cricketer, used to scooter despite his cold weather, used to produce one Parthiv Patel . Efforts of this whole family are dedicated, devoted to this.\nI'd urge you to try Deepa As a sportsperson, The whole country knows Deepa, however, very few people will be aware about this, I have not seen a better motivator than her Please try to get a chance to listen to her, half of her body does not work, however, while she talks, she talks about new dreams, new enthusiasm, she talks about realizing the new goals. These are the real people, they are the real people. We should encourage youngsters with their example We must build essential infrastructure in the country and for the first time the Gujarat has given a new model for public private partnership in the field. This is an example of what kind of facility can be created jointly by the government and business, government and the industry.\nAnd I'm confident that the name of India will be resonated in the Olympic field in the near future, it will be resonated in much louder and more broad way. Even the smallest countries of the world leave their world by success in the Olympics; India, a country of 1.25 billion people, is capable of fulfilling these dreams Our youths need opportunities, need facility and they need unflinching support. These youths are capable of changing the fate of this country\nWhenever I will meet sportsperson in our country, I will urge them to visit this facility to see what can be done in this and gradually develop this kind of facilities in the country and find ways to attract people towards the sports other video is are spoiling our children Friends I want kids in the sports arena, in the field When I was in Gujarat, when I used to visit schools for two-three days and I used to ask for a question, how many times they shed sweat in a day? How much they run, whether they can climb a tree or not or they can climb the stairs? And I used to feel sad when many of them used to say that they do not sweat. They used to say that they come to school and direct go home and then do not go out after returning home.\nThis kind of childhood is not good for us It is our duty to connect children Games can be played even without facilities We have done well in cricket, it's a matter of pride and we must continue with that, however, I'm not able to figure out what's wrong with football. Football and hockey My friend Bhutia is sitting here, he made India in the field of football. This time, India is going to host under-nineteen FIFA World Cup. I'm bringing the players from all the world so that our youths are encouraged. It's our duty to bring players from all the world to India; There are several other sports in which India can again take a place for itself. In the field of shooting, in the field of archery And you must be aware that our daughters beat our sons in the field of sports. They are bringing laurels for the country, our daughters have achieved feat after feat for the country. If our daughters are capable of doing this then we do not need any big inspiration, any other inspiration is not needed\nFriends, please come forward to make a part of our lives, we should launch a project, develop facilities, industry should come forward, families, governments, society should come forward so that India can leave its field of sports as well .\nWith this desire, I offer my best wishes to all of you\nThis is such a program that 'New India' is sitting before me It's difficult to leave such an environment However, a new direction for India's fortune is going to be opened in the Parliament at midnight. I'm going to Parliament from here but I got the opportunity to spend it with you I am grateful to these players that they have the power of your hard work. You are working hard Please come forward, friends, please come forward, friends And friends, you have heard a new name, the name of Srikanth. Srikanth, please raise your hand. Srikanth has recently brought laurels for the country\nBrothers and sisters! He is the asset for our country We should welcome him with a big applause, please give him a standing ovation\nThank you very much"