"\nPrime Minister Narendra Modi launches first textile industry exhibition - # TextilesIndia2017\nTextile sector offers significant employment opportunities and it is the second largest employer after agriculture: PM\nOur government is emphasizing the growth of textile sector: PM Modi\nWe have been one of the most liberal policies in textiles and apparels sector: PM Modi\nWelcome to Textile India 2017. This is the biggest program in the country of textile sector in which more than 100 countries are participating. I offer my best wishes and congratulate the Ministry of textiles, the organizers and all the entrepreneurs and artisans who are participating in this program.\nI am happy to note that the textile industry has come together to promote the Indian textile industry's potential through the mega international event.\n\nTextile is a sector that works like a bridge between the agriculture sector and industry. Be it cotton cultivation or silk production, the end product for both broadly depends on the textile sector. Textile sector provides the market for raw materials. In a way, the textile sector of both agriculture and industry\nIf there is an industry in the history of India that has always been important for the textile industry. Thousands of years old Indian scriptures are full of the importance of clothing. For hundreds of years, this industry has been the basis for trade with the other countries. Even the major trade routes have been named after those yarns and fabrics that were transported along those routes. Using these routes, numerous foreign scholars also visited India to understand the culture and went back after the greatness of Indian culture. They prominently mentioned the power of India's textile industry and their attires in their literature.\nImpact of the textile industry has also been visible in our literature through different periods. A weaver from Banaras had gifted me a stole around one and a half years back when the first national handloom day was celebrated in Chennai. A famous couplet of Kabirdas was woven on it. It reads like this:\nJhini Jhini Bini Chadariya\nKahe tana kahe ke bhararni, kaun taar se bini chadariya ..\nKabir who used to spin himself, used to weave and color the cloth himself. He not only searched the truth of life in his work but also expressed that truth.\nFriends, the clothes have also been associated with the cultural diversity of our country. We can also say that our culture diversity There are several countries and regions Be it silk of Kanchipuram, Banaras or Assam, or be it Pashmina or Jamwar work of Kashmir, be it Muslin of Bengal or Chickan work Ikkat from Odisha or Telangana or be it Patola of Gujarat, these clothes have have been given this place for centuries Can not find any other country\nLadies and Gentlemen,\nIndia is today as a bright spot in the global economy. It has emerged as one of the most attractive global investment destinations. This is possible due to a series of sustained policy initiatives.\nMore than seven thousand reforms have been implemented. Processes have been simplified and made transparent Government has canceled over twelve hundred outdated laws These are just a few examples.\nConsequently, India has moved up to thirty two places in the last two years in the Global Competitiveness Index of the World Economic Forum. This is the highest for any country India moved up the nineteen places on the World Bank Logistics Performance Index of 2016. We have also moved up to 16 years on the Global Innovation Index of the World Intellectual Property Organization in 2016. We are among the top ten FDI destinations in the world by United Nations Conference on Trade and Development\nBased on the \"Make-in-India\" initiative, the organized textile industry is being infused with the 'skills, scale, speed' and 'zero-defect, zero-effect' for scaling up employment, production and exports.\nWe have one of the most liberal investment policies for the textile and apparel sector. We allow 100 percent FDI through automatic route in textile and apparel sector.\nLadies and Gentlemen\nThe textile industry has a unique position in the Indian economy. It is strong and competitive across the value chain. India has a abundant supply of raw materials, like cotton, wool, silk, jute, and man-made fibers. In fact, it is the world's largest producer of cotton and jute, and second largest producer of silk and man-made fibers. This provides us the distinct advantage of backward integration, which has many other countries In addition, India has strong spinning, weaving, knitting and apparel manufacturing capacities. Young, skilled labor is available at a reasonable cost.\nOur high economic growth has resulted in higher disposable income. The resulting high demand for products offers a huge domestic market. Ours is a nation's aspirational youth, who wants to spend on textiles, apparel, and handcrafted lifestyle products. The domestic market for clothing and lifestyle products, currently estimated at US Dollars 85 billion, is expected to reach US Dollars 160 billion by 2025. This growth will be driven by the middle middle class.\nThere is also a high global demand for textiles and garments manufactured in our country. India is the world's second largest exporter of textiles, commanding a global share of around five percent. Indian textiles, including traditional handloom and handicraft products, are exported to more than a hundred countries. Sometimes, Indian tourists buy garments abroad, only to realize later\nThe textile sector offers significant employment opportunities. It is today, our second largest employer after agriculture Over forty-five million people are employed directly in the sector, and over sixty million people are employed in affiliated activities.\nKeeping this in mind, the government has given special attention to the textile sector. A year ago Under the package of clothing and made-up sectors were strengthened.\nThe government has decided to provide financial support to those companies in the apparel and made-up sector that will provide employment. However, the help will be in the form of bearing the burden of 12% Employee Provident Fund that is borne by company. One of the benefits of this kind is that the help of this is the highest number of workers in the organsied sector.\nIn addition to this, the government has granted the provision for the fixed term employment in the textile sector. It means that these workers will be employed for a specific time period, however, during this period they will get the same facilities as given to a regular employee. The condition of the workers\nThe companies of the textile sector have also been given relief under the provisions of the Income Tax Act. The manufacturing units that employ at least 100 workers, the units that have a new worker up to 150 days.\nLadies and Gentlemen\nAn integrated skill development scheme is also being implemented to address the critical gap of skilled manpower, through industry-oriented training programs.\nOur strengths in manufacturing and export are backed up by our ability to develop world-class training and research institutes. The National Institute of Fashion Technology has a network of sixteen professionally managed campuses. It has been playing a critical role in benchmarking performance and processes in the fields of fashion education, research and development, training and consultancy.\nIn the last few years, we have witnessed a very healthy competition among states to attract foreign investors and their related states. As a result, there are some major reforms that have taken place in states. Each state in its own way has tried to facilitate the establishment of new industries including textiles. I think the time has now come for us to export a big way.\nIndia is a country with diverse culture, fashion and traditions. This diversity is clearly reflected in the clothing present in different regions. We should catalog and map our clothing diversity and clear earmark strengths and specialties of each state or region. Every State should appoint nodal officers to perform some well-known products, who will facilitate producers and traders across the value chain. The intervention should start from export to garments. It should meet the specific requirements of domestic as well as export markets.\nWe should also formulate an action plan to study and map the requirements of people in major global markets and the new trends in fashion and textiles are in these areas on a real time basis. Government Councils and Industry Bodies This will enable us to channelize our energies in meeting those requirements and give a boost to our exports.\nFriends\nInnovation and research are new mantras for growth and wealth generation. The textile industry will have to constantly innovate and research for growth and to new markets. For example, physics may be This may require clothing For this, you need to increase the width of the loom. Elsewhere, requirements may be different Such attention to detail is necessary to gain leadership in export markets.\nToday, there is a demand for products with zero carbon footprint. Holistic life has become a buzzword. The market for Organic Dyes, fabrics and organic products are growing. Our effort should be innovate in organic products\nApart from cotton and jute, we have already made fabrics of banana and bamboo fibers. There is a niche market for such products. Thus, there is a need for further research by our institutions like National Institute of Fashion Technology and Scientific and Industrial Research institutes to develop fabrics from other sources.\nLadies and Gentlemen\nOur integrated textile clusters are compliant to global standards of environmental and health safety. Textile production states also have pro-industry policies in place, to facilitate the required infrastructure for textiles in textiles.\nI understand that over the next two days, you will have a chance to interact with some Government. Some of my Cabinet colleagues will also interact with you. I am sure you will find these sessions interesting and informative.\nI hope this event will help familiarize global and Indian leaders with India's enabling policy environment. This will help establish India as a valuable partner for countries seeking sourcing and investment opportunities in India I hope, it will go a long way in realizing India's inherent potential to become one of the most significant textile and apparel sourcing and investment destinations.\nLadies and Gentlemen\nLet me conclude by wishing you a very successful and productive three days in Gandhinagar.\nI call upon you to come, Invest and Make Textiles in India\nThank You!"