"Government of India is dedicated to the poor, says PM\nGovernment has initiated steps for the country\nStartups should come up with innovative ideas that could enhance the lives of divyangs, says PM Modi\nBy 2022, when we mark 75 years of freedom, no Indian should be homeless: PM\nMy dear family, all those DivyaJangan, brothers and sisters.\nNow Vijay Bhai, our Chief Minister was telling that after a 40-year rule, a Prime Minister has come to Rajkot for the sake of a government program as the Prime Minister. I was told that in the end as Prime Minister, Mr. Morarji Bhai Desai had come to Rajkot. It is my good fortune that I have had the opportunity to see the Janadarna of Rajkot today. Rajkot has special significance in my life. If Rajkot had not chosen me and sent it to Gandhinagar, then the country would not have brought me here in Delhi.\nMy political journey started with the blessings of Rajkot, with the love of Rajkot, and I can never forget this love of Rajkot. Once again, bowing down to the public's public prayer, I salute, I salute, and I wish you blessings again and again.\nWhen all NDA MPs chose me as leader, the responsibility of the Prime Minister was fixed, and on that day I had said in the speech that my government is dedicated to the poor of this country. This is my Divyajanjan, the number of millions in the country is DivyaJangan. And unfortunately, in the family in which the offspring is born, most of the family's responsibilities are raised. I have seen many such families, I have seen many such mothers. 25 years, 27 years, 30 years old, all the dreams of life are still remaining, after marriage, the first child was born, and that too was Divyaang. And I have seen that husband and wife, those parents make all the children of their dreams go to that child. The only dream in life is that the Divyajanjan, born in the family, has given us the responsibility and this obligation is to be followed by godly devotion. Such lakhs of families are in our country.\nBut my dear countrymen, God may have liked a family, there would have been somebody coming to Divyanjan in his house. Parmatma probably would have believed that this family is his sensitivity, his rites, he would probably follow this divine child. Therefore perhaps God may have liked that family. But even though he is born in any one family, but Divyang is the responsibility of this entire society, the whole country is responsible and we must keep this obligation. We must have sensitivity within us.\nEven when I was in Gujarat, I was stressing on these works. Within our Rajkot, our doctor P V Doshi, he was associated with a school like this. Because of that, I had a chance to meet those children continuously, I got an opportunity to go with them. And how did Dr. Doshi Saheb live by loving devotion to those Divine children in that school with devotion? One of his daughters was also devoted to this work. These things that I had seen, then I was not even in politics. Was very young age Dr. Doshi ji used to come home ever. And sometimes used to go with them, there used to be a ritual on the mind, a sensation, consciousness continued to grow. And when the government came in, got the responsibility. You must remember we made a big decision. Generally normal normal child needs 35 marks to pass an examination, out of 100 We had decided that even if Divya's child has minimum minimum marks of 25 marks, he should be considered as close to him, because getting a healthy child from his place, taking a book, taking as much time as possible from the closet, Divyang is three times Time goes, three times power, such a child should get special arrangements. And in Gujarat our government was, when I used to work here, at that time I had the opportunity to make many such decisions.\nWhen we went to Delhi, we saw one thing, one thing closely, what is the matter of brother in these subjects? Only after searching the Divya word for the people of Divya, we did not complete our work. You are looking here, a sister who can not hear, can not speak, she is listening to my speech with a sign. Explaining to them what I am saying. You will be surprised to know, even after 70 years of independence, the marks that are used are signed, to explain different languages, they were different in every state of India. I used to understand that the languages ​​were different, but there was also a change in the action for the people of Divyan. If this is due to Tamil Nadu's Divyanjan and there is a teacher in Gujarat then the dialogue between the two was not possible. He also knew how to talk with Divyang, he also knew which memories. But the studies that were studied in Tamil language were different, the monuments taught in Gujarati were different, and therefore, in the whole of the country, my Divyajan went anywhere, and used to say something, interpreter did not get to understand. After coming into government, the work is big or small, it is the subject of the latter, but the government is sensitive, how he thinks. We made the law and taught the same kind of mark to all the children of the country, to prepare the same type of teachers. So in any corner of India, not only that we have accepted the signing system that now the Hindustan child will go to any country in the world, even if it is to be learned from the mark, that language has become available to him. Though the work seems to be small but how a sensitive government works, its a living example.\nFrom Ninety Two (1992), remember, from Nineteen Ninety Two, the Department of Social Empowerment had given ideas about giving means to the devotees, the budget started, after so many years of independence. You must be surprised to know from Ninety Two (1992) until 2013, until our government was formed; Till then, there were only 55 such programs in the country, in which there were some means of calling the people of Divya jung, 55! Brothers, sisters! Coming in 2014, today is 2017. Within three years we conducted 5500 programs, five thousand five hundred 55 programs in 25-30 years, 5500 programs in three years, it is indicative of how much the government's condolences. What is our path to cultivate this mantra with everyone, everyone's development?\nAnd brothers, sisters! We are establishing a new world record more than one, we are focusing on the help of the people of Divyanjangan. Even today Rajkot has established a world record of eighteen thousand (18,500) Divya people together, instrument-assisted under one umbrella. I congratulate the Government of Gujarat, the Rajkot officials and the brothers who are helping all, with heart so much that I have come forward so much to worry about my divinity.\nRight now I was giving some means to the token form of Divya. I used to try to talk to them. The confidence which was seen on his face, which seemed happy, what can be the satisfaction of a bigger life than that of friends! And whenever our Gehlot creates a program and invites me, then I like to go to the program of Divya jangan after going ahead and behind me. I prefer it Because it is very necessary to awaken this consciousness within a society.\nWe have to go to the railway compartment here, everything is not difficult for the common man, it is not possible for the common man to climb on the bus. We have come and started a big campaign of an accessible plan. Throughout the country, the government has been able to find thousands of such places where the common citizens have to go, and there is also a need to know about them. For them, the railway platform is different for them, a separate system should be developed for them to board the train, if there is a government office, then bring a tricycle, then go straight into the straight cycle. Toilet, you can imagine, if Divyanjan does not get a friendly restroom, then what will happen to him? How much will it be? And as long as we do not see these things, do not think, do not think, then we do not know that let's go and they will adjust. No, brother, we will be aware of people, they will build their own houses, build society, make them flat, even after thinking that anybody will be able to go to the lift even if a Divya has become a guest, going smoothly, going to toilet Then there will be separate arrangements for it. Society should develop a character. And we have made a continuous effort and the result is that thousands of such places have been started in these accessible arrangements, its work has started, the models are confirmed. Now for the new buildings that are made, the arrangements for the people of Divya janganan have been made compulsory in the Government of India.\nI am grateful to the Gujarat Government too, they have adopted this thing. He has given approval in the direction of furthering him. I mean to say that one of the big programs is the responsibility of the government to fix that Go Bhai finds out in the locality, who is eligible for help and can not reach the government's door, the government should go to their door, search for them and They should be helped by camping them, we have caught this direction. And because of that today, more than 18 thousand DivyaJangas are present here today. And due to this the socialist organizations that work, the institutions also get encouragement due to this, they get strength. There are innovation institutes of the Government of India who are doing a lot of work.\nNow, I saw the demo of those children, in the parliament I had called in my office everybody. There was no hands, they were given artificial hands, but I was watching that he could write in beautiful letters from me, the plastic had his hand, but there was technology in it, he was writing with beautiful letters to me. He could have filled the water himself, could drink water, drink tea and drink tea. Now a gentleman came to me, he said, Sir, I can run, give my feet a new force, you can run, I can run. I used to tell you, say you, if you say I should run here. I did not say, there is no need to run here.\nTo say, how big a new faith is being born. And innovation is also being done for this. The government's own institutions are working. Many young people are coming forward. And I urge the young people working in the country's startup world that you study a little bit. What kind of new inventions have been made for the Hindus in the world, what new things have developed, what new innovations have happened, DivyaJangan can easily spend his life with that extra tool, which is it ? If you study, my youngster will also wish you to do innovation, you are an engineer, you will also think, you will have the skill, you will also think, and you can start these new things through innovation, through innovation. , Which has a huge market in India today. There are hundreds of millions of our people, they need different modes of modifications. There are new opportunities for employment.\nI invite the youth of the startup world to bring you experiments to create such things for the people of the city, so that the government can help as much as you can to help, in order to transform the lives of the people of Divya These new inventions can work.\nBrothers, sisters! We have brought that insurance scheme, one rupee in one month. Today, one cup of tea is not available in one rupee. Only one rupee in one month, poor people from poor, my brother-in-law can also remove insurance. And there was no objection in the family, if there was any objection in the life of a person, then one rupee of one month, 12 rupees in 12 months, insurance and two lakh rupees get that family immediately. On his day of crisis, he goes out for a moment. Similarly, one rupee of one day is also taken out of such insurance scheme. 30 rupees 30 days, 360 rupees a year, and even under it, it can get a huge amount of money, if there is any crisis. So far 13 million families; Total family in India is 25 crores. Total family is 25 crores, 13 crores families have joined this scheme. I urge all the families of the Divisions, the benefit of this scheme is only for the general citizen, but to my best wishes, my best wishes to families. The family in which a person is Divyaag, you can take advantage of this scheme. This government is committed for the future of your child, come forward. There are 12 rupees for a year, there is no cost of stationery, but for a process.\nBrothers, sisters! Many such schemes, the Indian government is our dream for the poor. 2022, India's independence will be 75 years. 70 years have passed. There are millions of people who do not have their own home to live. Brothers, sisters, every house of Hindus should be their home till 2022, we are moving forward to fulfill this dream. Every family has its own roof, be home to live, and the house in which there is toilets, electricity, water tubes, near schools for children, arrangement of medicines near the elderly. By 2022, the work is very big, I know that the work that has been done in 70 years, I have a complete sense of how hard it will be to do in five years. But brothers, sisters, if there are 55 camps in 30 years, and 5500 camps can take place in three years; So that which was not done in 75 years, it can happen in five years too; करने का मादा चाहिए, इरादा चाहिए, देश के लिए जीने की तमन्‍ना चाहिए। परिणाम अपने-आप मिलता है दोसतो। और उसी भाव से इस काम को करने का हमारा प्रयास है।\nगरीब परिवार को किस प्रकार से लाभ मिले। मध्‍यम वर्ग परिवार बहुत कुछ अपने बलबूते पर करता है। लेकिन उसको जितना अवसर मिलना चाहिए, गरीबी के कारण वहां की तरफ divert करनी पड़ती है। अगर मेरे देश का गरीब बाहर आया तो मेरा देश का मध्‍यम वर्ग हिन्‍दुस्‍तान को कहां से कहां पहुंचाने की ताकत लेके खड़ा हो जाएगा, जिसका शायद ही किसी को अंदाज होगा भाइयों। दुनिया चकित है, जिस प्रकार से विश्‍व में आज भारत एक ताकत बन करके उभरा है। विकास की नई ऊंचाइयों को पार करने लगा है। और इसलिए मेरे प्‍यारे राजकोट के भाइयो, बहनों, आपने मुझे बहुत कुछ सिखाया है, बहुत कुछ दिया है, मेरी जिंदगी का रास्‍ता तय करने का काम इस राजकोट के लोगों ने किया है। ये भाव जीवनभर मन में रखते हुए आज इस धरती को नमन करने के लिए आने का मौका मिला, आप सबके आशीर्वाद लेने का मौका मिला, मेरे दिव्‍यांगजनों के आशीर्वाद लेने का मौका मिला, इससे मेरा बड़ा कोई सौभाग्‍य नहीं हो सकता है।\nमैं फिर एक बार श्रीमान गहलोत जी, उनका department, वो सचमुच में हिन्‍दुस्‍तान में कभी किसी department की इतनी सक्रियता भूतकाल में इस department की किसी ने देखी नहीं। वो सक्रियता देने का काम श्रीमान गहलोत जी ने करके दिखाया है और वो आज आपके सामने हैं कि 18 हजार से ज्‍यादा मेरे दिव्‍यांगजनों को जो भी उनकी आवश्‍यकता है, उसकी पूर्ति करने का एक प्रयास आज हो रहा है।\nमैं फिर एक बार इस धरती को नमन करता हूं। यहां के लोगों को नमन करता हूं। आप सबका बहुत-बहुत धन्‍यवाद।"