"Share\n\nThe thoughts of Mahatma Gandhi have the power to affect the challenges today, says PM\nSwacchata 'must become a' Swabhav 'of every Indian: PM\nWe are a land of non violence. We are the land of Mahatma Gandhi, says PM Modi\nLet us work together and create India's Mahatma Gandhi's dreams: PM\nMy dear brothers and sisters from all over the world,\nHow much is the cost to forget history, does it have to lose something? What does a few sings? If this is to be understood, I understand that from the personality of Shrimad Rajchandra ji, we can understand very well how much we have lost by forgetting them, have lost something and today it is a very good utility that Shrimad Rajchandra ji, Bapu also used to address him as a poet. His 150 years and the sacramental work of awakening India's inner consciousness after the enslavement of centuries from the Tapo Bhoomi, is the centenary celebration of the Sabarmati Ashram.\nThe year 2017 is important in many ways, this was the year when the first batch of Satyagraha of the country was triggered. Champaran is on the earth and it is also the year of this century. Pujya Bapu had returned to India in 1915 when he was a centenary year and in the year 2015, when the Indian government visited Pujya Bapu in the same year, in Gujarat, Mahatma Mandir in Gandhinagar, Calling for that opportunity, you have tried to celebrate.\nFrom today's program, many people of the country who are associated with Gandhi, who are practicing Gandhi, Shrimad Raj Chandra's name is familiar to him. But there is a whole generation for whom the name of Shrimad Rajchandra ji is new. The fault is that we should keep remembering these great men from generation to generation, but we went on some wrong way that we forgot them. This government has tried to ensure that the great saints of this great nation continue to be remembered by great traditions, the history of great history, joining the roots of history and preparing for the battle to create a new history; Have to walk\nCentury of Sabarmati Ashram Sometimes I feel that the way in which the world needs to get acquainted with Gandhi, the humanity passing through the sea of ​​fire can get Gandhi's support, the path can be found. But we could not do it. There is still time, but I do not mind, I do not know where all the desires are fulfilled. But doing wishes is also a little bad. Sometimes it feels like the United Nations which has been built for peace. This idea has benefited from the first and second world war koch, which took the form of an institution. If we had succeeded in stabilizing Gandhi as a messiah for the world's peace, then the general secretary of the United Nations, who became the first person, after becoming the first Sabarmati Ashram would have spent some moment in the heart's trunk and the world What inspiration the peace of the United Nations is doing from that land, its inspiration from the coast of Saabarati is from Bapu's asceticism. But my soul says that if not today or tomorrow, sometimes it will happen. We should see our country in that form. Experience that potential and should continue to make the world effortless to connect with this magnitude.\nSrimad Rajchandra ji, as Gurudev Rakesh ji was saying that Mahatma Gandhi had come to meet the world's greatest celebrities. They used to talk to the big and the big people of the world for their freedom. Smooth white brown skin with long, wide, six-and-a-half-six-foot highs, but none of the world's personality could affect Gandhi. And a Shrimad Rajchandra ji, lean and thin, that too was a merchant, normal life and general personality buying and selling by sitting at the shop, and there was not much difference in the age of Gandhi and Shrimad Rajchandra ji, the only difference of two and a half years Even then, what would be the magnificence of Shrimad Rajchandra's personality, what depth would it be, what power would that be able to reconcile the entire whole of Gandhi Had taken.\nIt was my good fortune, I went to Bavania where Srimad Rajchandra was born, is in the place of his ancestors and I am grateful to his family that the place is handled. After leaving from there, I had told the teachers that whenever you go for a trip in Saurashtra, you must definitely go for a few moments. We go to the temple, a different type of Vibrations come, a different kind of cognition comes. What I had experienced, I believe you will have the same experience. For Shrimad Rajchandra ji, the place that is built in Bavania is not a temple, it is a place but when you go inside you will feel the vibrations of a spiritual consciousness.\nIn our country, Phd was used on many subjects, many of the legends of poets have Ph.D. on prose-verse compositions. But I would like to say that Shrimad Rajchandra is celebrating 150 years, especially the University of Gujarat and the University of the country is a statement of Shrimad Rajchandra ji, why not do PhD on it? What are the letters of Shri Rajchandra ji every moment of his activities on the life of Gandhiji? And see Gandhiji's specialty age was not different; Srimad Rajchandra ji was born in the Jain tradition, in spite of this, see the simplicity of Gandhiji, sometimes Varna was one of those human beings. In Africa came successful movement. Big leaders used to visit them in India. In spite of no difference in age, even after the age of their own person, the person who lived the normal life used to ask all of his inner-mind questions and asked him and Shrimad Rajchandra ji without hesitation. Spiritual life would give the complete knowledge of the entire knowledge, including consciousness and hymn, through the letter to the revered Bapu. If we look at those letters of Pujya Bapu and Shrimad Rajchandra, then that period is revealed. Gandhi's state of mind was revealed and the person who led the movement of such a great freedom was also concerned about his inner intentions, what he should do to handle him, he asked Rajchandra ji.\nOur new generation does not know anything, and so this year when the Sabarmati Ashram is celebrating the centenary year, then students from all over the country come to Gujarat as tuarist. I will also tell those teachers that you see everything but for a moment, motivate those children to spend in the Sabarmati Ashram. Go to Bawaniya and show how great men were born in our country, these days. This is not the case of the age of any sages and monks. I congratulate Gurudev Rakesh ji as much as I can, who are also knowledge-oriented and also workmanship. The body of his ideas is filled with the inspiration of Lord Rama Chandra and his life is spent in the service of those living in remote forests inside Karma Yoga for fulfilling those ideals. And I have seen that there is a huge group around the world who listen to their lectures on TV, there is a very large section to listen constantly.\nRight now I came from Neerlandland, in the days in the Netherlands. Two things were very new to me for my information. After all the way in India, in the name of Mahatma Gandhi, the name of the highest path in the world is Gandhi, then it belongs to the Netherlands. This new experience for me, new information. Secondly, the people of Suriname have come and settled there, in large quantities they are Dutch Citizen. India has also been a very young generation associated with the IT profession. But at least a dozen people would hold me together and say that you are going to get Rakesh ji in the day before. And used to do one thing, they used to say that sending Rakesh ji with your photos. This statement is not easy, it is a great power in itself. When we remember Pujya Bapu, we remember Sabarmati Ashram. 12 years here, there is austerity and see the resolve power of Pujya Bapu. See that I will die but will not return to freedom. How big will be the power when they leave the Sabarmati Ashram. The power of penance which has been done in the Ashram of 12 years, how was the power of penance that Mahatma Gandhi came out with resolution, how self-confident was that in spite of this body, I would be taking away the British from here, I would be free to Hindustan.\nIn 2019 we will celebrate 150 years of Pujya Bapu Will you celebrate like this? No, for 150 years of Pujya Bapu celebrating such a thing, no Hindustani has the right. Celebrating 150 years of worship of Pujya Bapu means taking a resolution like Gandhi and fulfilling it till the 150th birth anniversary and every Hindu ... He was rich in the unlimited power of power. We have the power of determination in our midst too, with the determination of power which we have come out of today and when we celebrate Gandhi's 150, we will be able to fulfill it in the heart of every Hindustani. While preparing for the freedom of the Sabarmati Ashram freedom movement, when the body is ready, we can also take some responsibility to make Hindustan Pujya Bapu's dream of India.\nSomewhere in the events of Sabarmati Ashram, they have been discussing the cleanliness of the whole year, every day, every day. He did not compromise in hygiene. This hygiene campaign should be the nature of every Hindustani by 2019. Cleanliness should be the ultimate place of cleanliness in our rituals, in our minds, in our thoughts, our conduct and no tribute to this great worshiper Bapu can be done. Swamy Bapu used to say that my first choice of both cleanliness and freedom will be cleanliness. More than freedom, Hindustan was the dream of disgrace, it was Bapu's dream. 70 years of independence, 150th birth anniversary is celebrating in 2019 why we should not do it for them.\nPujya Bapu was very dear to Vaishnava Jano Tane Ray, still we heard the people. In every corner of this country, Vaishnava Jano Tane Ray says every student knows, every citizen knows, everyone knows that Gandhiji is dear to him. And see its strength, see its ease, you ask 100 people, 90 out of 100 people will say Vaishnava janote to Ray. 90 out of 100 people will say, go to any corner of India and take a look. Then ask them another question in what language. I claim that 10 people will not be able to tell which language it is? Because this height has rattled within us that the distinction of language has ended. Vaishnav Jan started feeling like us It is the accomplishment that no distinction line does not appear, and becomes indistinguishable.\nI have been in politics for a long time. These days, in the Dharam Pur area where Rakesh Bhai works, I had the good fortune to work. I got a chance to live among the tribals for a long time, I do social services. It had never been thought that I would go on this path even after coming late in politics and came. I was devoted to the organization, used to work for the organization and then used to tell one thing while training the Bharatiya Janata Party workers. I used to say Vaishnava janato tane ray, 400 years ago Narasimha Mehta has written. Today, as many political leaders, as many people are working as a representative, one should do Vaishnava janote Tere Ray, who is going to get rid of the pain, here, people should remove the word Vaishnav jan and tell the people who should be punished. You see, what should be the people's representative in India, people should be the masses, how should you live in every line of Vaishnav jan, see yourself standing for a moment, you see, you will not be required to guide you from anyone. Where to go, his way will be found, there will be no confusion. Seeing one with a word, seeing, in the absence of time, I am not expanding it, but this power is in it.\nBrothers, sisters, take the name of Pujya Bapu when needed. We have seen this for so many years and when forgetting Bapu, it is also cleverness that we have seen well. Today, when I came to the Sabarmati Ashram, the auspices of Shrimad Rajchandra ji, his meditation, one thing that came out of his likeness, when we are commemorating it, then we are celebrating the centenary of the Sabarmati Ashram, then I have a subject But seriously want to do something today To say that one can not have a holy place greater than this, 150 years of Shrimad Rajchandra ji be the centenary of the Sabarmati Ashram, in 2019 Gandhi's 150 commemorate celebration, better opportunity than me, no one can talk about my mind It is possible. I want to express my anguish and outrage towards the present environment of the country. The country which believes in feeding ant also, the country which runs in Mohalla, also thinks for feeding some strayed dogs, which keeps the tradition for feeding the fish by going up the banks of the river pond in the morning. The country in which this ritual is a character, in a country where a great man like Mahatma Gandhi taught a lesson of non-violence, what has happened to us that we can not save any patient in the hospital? Operation fails, medicines do not work, and the patient dies and suddenly family members set fire to hospitals, kill doctors. Is this my country? Is this the home of Bapuji? What we are doing and the same things are getting encouraged. Suddenly accidentally happens. Two vehicles collided somewhere, unfortunately one died, someone got injured, no one knew, people gathered. The carts burn. Is this my country?\nProtection of cow, devotion of cow can not be any more than Mahatma Gandhi and Vinoba Bhave. If cow is to be worshiped, to protect the cow, then Gandhi ji and Vinoba Bhave ji show us the best path उसी रास्ते पर देश को चलना ही पड़ेगा। उसी में देश का कल्याण है। विनोबा जी जीवन भर गऊ रक्षा के लिए अपने आप को आहुत करते रहे। मेरा सौभाग्य था मैं एक बार वर्धा गया, विनोबा जी के दर्शन के लिए। मैं उनसे मिला, प्रणाम किया, बैठा। विनोबा जी शब्दों की बड़ी ताकत रखते थे। मैं बैठा, परिचय हुआ, मैं बैठा सामने देख रहा था। वे मुझे कह रहे कि मर जाओ, मर जाओ। मैं हैरान था कि विनोबा जी कह रहे हैं मर जाओ-मर जाओ। मैं चुपचाप बैठा रहा। फिर धीरे से कहे गाय के लिए, गाय माता के लिए। आप कल्पना कर सकतें हैं कि विनोबा जी उस समय की सरकार के खिलाफ जीवन के अंत तक वो लड़ते रहे, अनेक बार अनशन किये गौरक्षा के लिए किए, गौभक्ति के लिए किए। भारत का संविधान भी हमें उसका महात्मय समझाता है लेकिन, क्या किसी इंसान को मारने का हम मिल जाता है? क्या ये गौभक्ति है, क्या ये गौरक्षा है? पूज्य बापु का रास्ता ये नहीं हो सकता। विनोबा भावे का जीवन हमें ये सन्देश नहीं देता है। और इसलिए साबरमती आश्रम की शताब्दी पर्व पर और पूज्य श्रीमद राजचन्द्र जी का 150वां जन्मवर्ष मनाने तब, हर हिंदुस्तानी के दिलो-दिमाग में, ये हमारे मूलभूत संस्कार हैं, हमारे मूलभूत पंरपरा है - अहिंसा। ये हम लोगों का जीवन धर्म रहा है। हम कैसे आपा खो रहे हैं। डॉक्टरों को मार रहे हैं। अकस्मात हो जाए ड्राइवरों को मार रहे हैं। गाय के नाम पर इंसानों को मार रहे हैं।\nमुझे बचपन की एक घटना याद है। सत्य घटना है मेरे जीवन की ।और पहली बार मैं शायद आज उस बात को कह रहा हूँ। एक समय था जब मुझे लिखने की आदत हुआ करती थी, मैं लिखता था, तब मेरे मन में था कि मैं उस विषय पर लिखूंगा, लेकिन मैं नहीं लिख पाया। लेकिन आज मेरा मन करता है, एक ऐसी पवित्र जगह है, जिस पवित्र जगह से मन के भीतर की सच्चाई का प्रकट होना बहुत स्वभाविक है।\nमैं बालक था। मेरे गांव में मेरा घर एक ऐसी छोटी सी सांकड़ी सी गलियारी में है। तो वहां पर बिलकुल पुराने जमाने के जैसे गांव रहते हैं, सटे हुए घर हैं। हमारे घर के ही नजदीक में सामने की तरफ एक परिवार था, जो ईमारत में कड़ियां का काम करता था। Messon का काम करता था। एक प्रकार से मजदूरी जैसा काम था। उस परिवार में संतान नहीं था। उनकी शादी के कई वर्ष हो गए लेकिन उनको संतान नहीं था। परिवार में भी एक तनाव रहता था कि उनके घर में संतान नहीं है। वो बडी धार्मिक प्रवृत्ति के व्यक्ति थे। बहुत बड़ी उम्र में उनके यहां एक संतान का जन्म हुआ। वो संतान बड़ा हो रहा था। अब छोटी सांकड़ी गली थी। सुबह-सुबह गाय को भी एक discipline की आदत होती है। गाय घरों के पास से गुजरती है तो घर वाले रोटी खिलाते हैं। तो एक गाय थी जिसका हमारे मुहल्ले से आना और हर परिवार के लोग बाहर निकलकर उसको एक रोटी खिलाते थे। जिनके घर में संतान जन्म हुआ था, वो भी रोटी खिलाते थे। एक बार अचानक हड़कंप हो गई, शायद कुछ बच्चों ने पटाखे फोड़ दिए थे, क्या हुआ वो घटना अब मुझे पूरी याद नहीं रही। लेकिन वो गाय हड़बड़ा गई और दौड़ते-दौड़ते स्थिति यह बनी, वो जो बच्चा उनका मुश्किल से 3, 4 या 5 साल का होगा, वो भी दौड़ने लग गया। उसको समझ नहीं आया कि इधर दौडू या उधर दौड़ू और जाने अंजाने में वो गया के पैर के नीचे आ गया। इतने सालों में परिवार में एक बच्चा पैदा हुआ था और गाय के पैर के नीचे आने से उसकी मृत्यु हो गई। आप कल्पना कर सकते हैं कि उस परिवार का माहौल क्या होगा? बड़े दुख के दिन थे लेकिन दूसरे दिन सुबह से..ये दृश्य मैं भूल नहीं सकता हूँ, दूसरे दिन सुबह से ही वो गाय उनके घर के सामने आकर खड़ी हो गई। किसी भी घर के सामने जाकर रोटी नहीं खाई। वो परिवार भी उसे रोटी खिलाता था, नहीं खाई। गाय के आंसु कभी नहीं रूके। 1 दिन, 2 दिन, 5 दिन गाय न खाना खा रही है , गाय न पानी पी रही है। एक तरफ परिवार को एकलौते संतान की मृत्यु का शोक था। पूरे मौहल्ले में दुख का वातावरण था। गांव में एक परिवार का मातम होता है। लेकिन गाय पश्चाताप में डूबी हुई थी। कई दिनों तक उसने कुछ नहीं खाया, कुछ नहीं पिया। उसकी आंख के आंसु सूख गए। सारे मुहल्ले के लोग, उस परिवार के लोग भी लाख कोशिश करते रहे लेकिन गाय ने अपना संकल्प नहीं छोड़ा और उस संतान, बालक की मृत्यु उसके पैर के नीचे हुई है, इस पीड़ा से मात्र, उस गाय ने अपना शरीर छोड़ दिया। एक बालक की मृत्यु के पश्चाताप में गाय को बलिदान देते हुए मैने बचपन में देखा है। वो दृश्य आज भी मेरे सामने जिंदा है। आज जब मैं सुनता हूं कि गाय के नाम पर किसी की हत्या की जाए, वो निर्दोष है कि गुनहगार है वो कानून कानून का काम करेगा, इसांन को कानून हाथ में लेने का हक नहीं है।\nसाबरमती आश्रम की शताब्दी मनाते हो, गांधी जी और विनोबा जी जैसे गाय के लिए समर्पित जीवन हमारे सामने दृष्टांत हो, मैं देशवासियों से आग्रह करूंगा कि हिंसा समस्याओं का समाधान नहीं है। उस डॉक्टर का कोई दोष नहीं है, जो आपके परिवार जन की सेवा कर रहा था, लेकिन आपके परिवारजन को बचा नहीं पाया। और फिर भी आपको शिकायत हो तो कानूनी व्यवस्था है। अकस्मात हो जाता है, किसी निर्दोष की ज़िंदगी जाती है वो अकस्मात है। और इसलिए गांधी की इस धरती में हर किसी का दायित्व है एक संतुलित जीवन जीने का। हर किसी की जिम्मेवारियों को अपनी जिम्मेवारियों के साथ जोड़ लीजिए और तब जाकर के हम पुज्य बापू के सपनों का देश बना सकते हैं। 2022 में भारत की आजादी के 75 साल हो रहे हैं। जिन महापुरूषों ने आजादी के लिए बलिदान दिया, जवानी जेलों में काट दी, कुछ कालापानी में जिंदगी गुजारते रहे, कुछ फांसी के तख्त पर चढ़ गए, कुछ जीवन भर लड़ते रहे उन सबका सपना था कि देश को आजाद, देश को समृद्ध, देश के गरीब से गरीब के कल्याण की ओर देखने का। 2022 में आजादी के 75 साल हो रहे हैं, 5 साल हमारे पास हैं, सवा सौ करोड़ देशवासी अगर संकल्प कर ले कि 2022 में हमें हिंदुस्तान को यहां ले जाना है जो हमारे आजादी के दिवानों के सपने थे, उसे पूरा करने के लिए ले जाना है। जिस साबरमती के आश्रम की धरती से आजद हिंदुस्तान के सपनो को संजोया गया था, राष्ट्र को पिरोया गया था, सपनों को पूरा करने के लिए आहुति को स्वीकार किया गया था, न्याय लड़ने के लिए हर प्रकार के अहिंसक शस्त्रों का इस्तेमाल किया गया था, सत्याग्रह का मार्ग अपनाया गया था। 2022 आजादी के 75 साल हो रहे हैं। संकल्प का, कर्म का, नया करने का, जीवन को लगा देने का, 5 साल जिंदगी का बहुमुल्य समय 2022 हम हर हिंदुस्तानी 125 करोड़ देशवासी एक कदम अगर आगे चलते हैं तो हिंदुस्तान 125 करोड़ कदम आगे चलता है। इन सपनों को लेकर के चलें।\nश्रीमद राजचन्द्र जी जिन्होनें इतनी बड़ी आध्यात्मिक चेतना, कर्म मार्ग, ज्ञान मार्ग, अंतः चेतना को जगाने का रास्ता दिखाया। पूज्य बापू जिन्होंने श्रीमद राजचन्द्र जी की बात को जीकर के प्रयोग सफल करके दिखाया है, ऐसे दोनों महापुरूषों को एक साथ स्मरण करने के इस अवसर पर, मैं फिर एक बार...मुझे आप सबके बीच आने का अवसर मिला, इतनी बड़ी तादात में देश और दुनिया से आए लोगां का उनके दर्शन का सौभाग्य मिला। राकेश जी से मिलने का अवसर मिला। मैं अपना अहो भाग्य मानता हूं, बहुत-बहुत धन्यवाद।"