"Share\n\nGujarat has come a long way from the days of the past, when it comes with tremendous water shortage: PM\nThe more people have access to water, the more doors of progress will open: PM\nPM Modi calls for embracing the latest technology in the sphere of water conservation\nHow are you? All well?\nPresent here on the day, Chief Minister Mr. Vijaybhai, Deputy Chief Minister Mr. Nitin Bhai, Former Chief Minister Anandiben, Members of the Council of Ministers of the State, my colleagues in the Union Council of ministers, Members of Parliament, Mayor and my brothers and sisters present here in large numbers\nNyari Ki Baat Nyari, Aji Kare Razi (Nyari is unique and Aji can make you agree). When I took over as Chief Minister of Gujarat in 2001, shortly after I got a call from Rajkot that Aji Dam has become full and you must visit here. I still remember, those were the first days after the Chief Minister and I was out to survey the situation of earthquake hit Kutch. I got the news in about 10-15 days that the Aji Dam had become full to the brim and the people of Rajkot were so happy that I was told that I must visit there. I was lucky to offer Jal Puja on that special day. And that day I experienced how Aji compels a person and as Vijay Bhai just said this is the 11th time in the past 40 years when the water level in the Aji Dam has become full to the brim. There is hardly any need to explain the importance of water to the people of Saurashtra and Kutch in Gujarat.\nEarlier, when I used to go to Rajkot I used to find a small tank just outside my house. People used to get down and fetch water from that tank. Wherever we used to visit in Rajkot in those days In those days, I used to travel in connection with the Sangh's work and while making the tour plan we had to take in consideration. The railway tankers carrying water to Rajkot used to be headlines in newspapers across the country. We have seen those difficult days The people used to it No problem, we will manage Some areas used to demand installation of hand pumps and it was considered as a big thing.\nBrothers and sisters, See! From there to now! At that time we were dependent on water tanker and hand pumps and now we have placed such a massive pipe line that a car can pass through it, and it can supply plenty of water and fill the dam as well. Brothers and sisters, if there is a government with foresight; If this is the well-being of the public; if it is the intention of changing the lives of the common man The today's youth of Gujarat who are in the age group of 15-17 and the generations to come after them did not know what was the situation in Gujarat earlier? People are desperate for electricity When the electricity will be available? Whether electricity will be available during the dinner time or not? If a farmer wanted to run water pump in the field then they would not be able to sleep. There is no reason to forget those days How far we have come, how hard we have done, with what kind of good intention, with what kind of sacrifices we have achieved this, we can only understand all these when we understand the difficulties faced by our parents in the earlier time. What else could not be the reason that the people were to leave Kutch, Kathiawad and settle in slums across the country? If somebody had 50 Bigha land and if he wanted to arrange the marriage of his daughter, and if he was required to raise a loan by pledging his land then no one was allowed to keep his land in mortgage, the lender would offer a loan of only Rs 5,000 to 25,000 saying that the land was of no use to him So, take it The owner of 50 Bigha land could not get a loan of Rs 50,000 by mortgage his daughter for marriage. Reason! The land had no value due to water shortage. And it was not long time ago, this was the reality of Gujarat twenty years ago. I do not want to forget about this However, since the people of Gujarat gave us the opportunity to serve them, be it the leadership of Keshubhai Patel or of Anandiben Patel or of Vijay Bhai Rupani or when I had the opportunity to serve him as your servant; During this whole period, we moved from heaven to earth to give water to the people of Gujarat, to give them electricity. And that is why we can look in your eyes. We do not have this feeling that we have done anything in our life. We have a feeling of fulfilling our duty and this inspires us to work even harder.\nVijay Bhai just told you that I came here straight away after a hectic foreign tour. I do not have any reasons to feel tired as the people of the country, people of Rajkot are going to shower me with so much love. I still remember as explained by Nitin Bhai that when I started Sauni Scheme in Haimu, Gadhvi Hol and Rajkot then I had explained it to everyone\nI still remember It is notable and Modi is talking about this as People in the government do not miss any opportunity but news papers also raised the questions that it is notable. How such a massive fund will be arranged, how many pipelines will be laid? And nothing will take place till 2040. An atmosphere of doubt was created and at that time I was assured of the people of Gujarat with full confidence that this project would be executed, it was fixed time within the execution and it would be very hard to work. we have taken that vow\nThere is a need to use the budget funds for many things but I knew that once the land was able to give water to every nook and corner of Gujarat, to every nook and corner of the state, Kutch of every nook and corner, then this land he would fetch money from across the world and the era of development in Gujarat. And this is the result that before time, within seven months ... elsewise the Aji Dam has run out of water in October-November. It's not raining with the full force yet, the land has become wet only and water is rushing to Aji with full force. And look at the science, technology and capacity that water has been supplied from a distance of 470 kilometers. And we have taken the water to Narmada dam, at a height equivalent to a 65 story building. This science has its own uniqueness Water could only be supplied to your homes when we took the water at a height of a 65 story building.\nBrothers and sisters, it requires money It is public money and must be used for public welfare This whole scheme is a great example And the work of Sardar Sarovar Dam was finished just 10 days ago. Chief minister and his colleagues closed the doors The work of doors was completed during the tenure of Anandiben, even then hurdles remained there. Who was the trouble makers it will be known when the history of Narmada is written. There were so many people who were indifferent, who were indifferent to snatch away the right of Gujarat, those who were unoral things and kept our people under misery.\nBrothers and sisters, water is available now And I like to request the people of Rajkot and Saurashtra that we should not come out of those difficulties. And now it is not just water, it's going to bring prosperity It's god's gift जैसा कि हम चाहते हैं कि आप को पानी के पानी में पानी डालना चाहिए. We should save water And when water is available then I have a right to talk about water conservation and therefore I beg to the people of Kachch, Saurashtra and Gujarat to save water.\nSome people have gone to your country. People who visit Mahudi, members of Jain community visit Mahudi in large numbers, people who have visited Mahudi, they will be aware about the teachings of Buddhi Sagar Ji Maharaj Buddhi Sagar Maharaj was there 90 years ago, he has written this thing 90 years ago. He has written this, and a hand written copy of it is available that one day water will be sold in shops, he wrote 90 years ago. Ninety years ago this great soul had predicted that water will be sold in shops. Today, we purchased Besleri water bottle from shop and if we were required to use water for drinking, irrigation in that manner And now we have enough water for drinking when Rakjot is moving in the direction of smart city. Rajkot The water that drains in gutter, we must recycle that water for other use within it, it will be used in factories, in the gardens and also in the construction industry. And that is why it will not be worth drinking If Rajkot is developed then Aji and Nyari will not let us thirst for water, this is the work that we have done. Therefore, brothers and sisters, and specially to farmers, the farmers of Saurashtra, Kachcha and Gujarat, I would like to express my sincere gratitude to the farmers of Kachcha as they followed me completely when I asked them to use as Chief minister of Gujarat drip irrigation They used drip irrigation in the whole kachcha, they increased the use of drip irrigation in the entire banaskantha, they adopted micro irrigation and that was there.\nBrothers and sisters, now it's not a big deal for science to provide drip irrigation facility to every field, to provide sprinklers for irrigation to produce. The engineering industry of Rajkot is so capable that I would urge them to compete with each other. The engineering industry in Rajkot is capable of producing these tools for farmers, they should demonstrate this skill and they should emerge as a trend setter not only for Gujarat and India but also for the developed countries of the world.\nBrothers and sisters, I'm happy as today these young students got the opportunity to meet me For some people, Hackathon is a new word. Generally, the government officers, the bureaucrats who have been working with government for years The God has gifted us all the wisdom They have a feeling that they know solutions for every problem This is common in the past However, I have changed this perception. I told them that the 1.25 billion Indians are wiser than us; I told them that the young generation is smarter and if we tell them about the problems Sometime back I asked the departments of India to prepare a list of tasks that are difficult to execute, which require more efforts, more time and more money. However, I relentlessly pursued this matter with them. Initially, they used to inform me that everything was fine with their department but I asked them that there are some difficulties please see them and inform me They identified 500 issues where they felt the need to rethink. I organized a hakathon I asked the engineering colleges of the country that are 500 issues, you should form a team, you sit on your computers day and day out, 42,00 students participated in this exercise and they worked fifty hours, day through and night, and came out with new solutions for these 500 problems and I would like to say this thing with a sense of pride that the departments have broadly adopted their proposals and began to implement them.\nWhat should the municipal corporation of Rajkot do it make a smart city? How to increase people's participation? How to solve the traffic problems, how to develop a tax system? What should be done in poor people's lives? It's an era of Wi-Fi, How to digitize via Rajkot via Wi-Fi, through Digital India? They have identified 100 such issues and they have asked all the colleges in Gujarat, all the colleges in the whole of the सौराष्ट्र, त्यांनी 100 शंका প্রশ্নগুলির সমাধান খুঁজতে তাদের প্রতিযোগিতায় অংশ নেওয়ার জন্য আমন্ত্রণ জানায়. Thousands of young people are participating in this hackothon beginning on 29 July. How to change the face of Rajkot, how to modernize the system of Rajkot, this is going to be done by our college going young generation. I salute their energy and enthusiasm I compliment you. And I am confident that this hackathon is a good way to increase people's participation and our new generation, our college generation generation, the generation that mobile phones through world connected to the generation, The generation that performs all kinds of tasks on computers will participate in this hackathon to change the fortune of Rajkot. I have full confidence in this thing\nBrothers and sisters, who will not be happy today after seeing the water in Aji Dam? With the feeling of that joy, how much we feel if we see a green Saurasthra, keeping that thing in mind I once again express my gratitude to the state government that the Sauni scheme that was born under the clouds of suspicion today turned out to be very successful The man who is incurred the expenditure to get the water is going to drink it, and this water of Narmada, this holy water, it has come as a blessing from God, may this water change our fortune as well. With these good wishes I express my gratitude\nThank you."