"Share\n\nPrime Minister Narendra Modi has said that he is not a part of the country.\nIndia takes pride in being the land of diversity: PM\nIndia is about cooperative federalism The center and states working for the development of India, this is our effort: PM\nThe India of the 21st century can not stay behind when it comes to technology and infrastructure: PM Modi\n\"Ka Hal ba?\" (How have you been)?\nMy dear brothers and sisters here in Netherlands, I express my heartfelt gratitude to the Madam mayor and the deputy mayor. They are welcomed me here and they are present here on this occasion. I express my gratitude\nThe reverberations that you hear all around, the enthusiasm and joy that you feel, whoever is watching this program on television in India, they must be surprised that such a small Hague, Indian community is so strong. I'd like to specially honor the people from Suriname; I was fortunate enough to visit Suriname several years ago.\nThe fifth of June is celebrated with much fervor in Suriname Wherever Indians are settled in the world, for those Indians, our brothers and sisters of Suriname, during that time wherever Indians are laborers as taken, Mauritius, Suriname or Guinea; It is more than one-hundred and fifty years and at least four generations have passed it but they have still maintained the same way as Indian language, Indian culture and traditions, I have heartily been thankful for them and I would like to respect my deep respect. . And we must honor those ancestors who were able to preserve Indian culture in their families even after four-five-six generations. Otherwise, things change fundamentally in just one generation, the language changes, and sometimes parents take pride in such things that their son does not know Indian language However, these things give you strength to your roots. Just two young boys are able to move from their place if they are properly applied, however, moving a tree with deep roots is a different thing altogether, it is easy to move, and it also provides shelter. is why we can learn from our brothers and sisters from Suriname\nSimilarly, many people have never had to India Many among you, whose great grandparents, when they left India, you may not know which village they came from, who were their relatives etc. but their hearts still beat for India In a way, you are self-made and self-dependent, whatever you have achieved in your heart, but still you have a feeling that your people are indebted to India and somehow you have to pay it back; and I believe that there can not be any sentiment or devotion greater than this.\nThere are two types of people here, one who left India around one-hundred and fifty years ago and reached here via Suriname and others who recently landed at the airport. Those who have had been cut-off from India for 150 years even then did you have the same Indianness of the same feeling, the Indian being of the same pride which the people have of Suriname have still retained\nTherefore, I would like to tell people staying here, whatever is the color of your passport, blood relations do not change with the passport and it is my request to every Indian that please do not make relation based on the color of the passport Color of the passport may be different but your ancestors and my ancestors are the same.\nI also worship the same It was the misfortune of his life that he had to leave India, I am lucky It is a bigger obligation for me to have a happy heart and we should live together like one. There should not be any gap between us People who have come here recently may find it difficult to talk Hindi but people of Suriname do not have any problem in Hindi Please recognize this strength\nNetherlands is the only country in the whole Europe which has got the second largest Indian Diaspora, therefore, only in Europe but we can also count in Caribbean countries and make Hague such an energetic place, through which this area is all Indians with this area .\nNow days, technology has made it so easy to connect with And I've seen your strength, and I did not get much time for preparations. You people have got the information only two or three days back but such a great number\nThere are embassies which have people to represent government of India and as you know, they are called Ambassadors or Raajdoot in Hindi language, but here all of you are Rashtradoot i.e. our country's representatives\nEvery Indian settles across the world is a representative of the country as he is the one who helps the world to understand the greatness of our country. When the world realizes that India is a country with all sects of the world, there is not a single sect of world which does not have a proud place in India. People are surprised to know that even the smallest of the religions or the religions are present in India and all of them live there with pride.\nWhen the world gets to know that India has 100 languages ​​and more than 1700 dialects, they are really surprised; saying that we face language problems how do you live with 100 languages ​​in your country The thing which unites us is our love for our motherland, our love towards the sacrifice and penance, the history towards, the culture towards, and so any Indian proudly stand up and say that my country is diversities from full. Whatever one can experience in the world, you can naturally experience that in my country.\nWhenever I meet world leaders and tell them that I am Prime Minister of the government 1.25 billion people, they look at me with astonishment. They feel they are running in their small countries. How do you do it? I tell them that you run your country but in India 1.25 billion Indians collectively run our country This is the power of democracy\nWithin India, especially since I got the opportunity to serve in the government, our country has been the biggest effort of the people. We have come out of the thinking that government will solve all the problems, god gifted wisdom only to governments, and it is our effort that people's participation with our nation has a much faster pace at progress.\nIf the government decides that it will build toilets so that people can stop defecating in open schools. Such programs were run We asked people to take up these programs and you will be glad to know that within a year the work of making separate toilets for girls and boys in schools are done by people. What I mean to say is that this new government has given priority to people's participation in every sphere of its work, otherwise, what used to happen before, democracy simply meant to press buttons of EVM machines once every five years and elected candidates according to their liking and giving them the contract to run the government for five years, telling them 10 things that you should do in the next five years This is not a theory of democracy, it represents a very limited aspect of democracy, in which people cast their votes, but the government of the people\nWhenever there is a natural calamity, all of them have experienced that the power of government machinery falls short, but people, social institutions, religious institutions are coming out so many food packets with them Everyone's help during natural calamities reaches immediately; why, this is the people's power This government has encouraged people to participate in its work. India has a federal structure, how central and state government work closely collaborating with i.e. How to promote federal structure in spirit\nI believe that when the development is accompanied by good governance only then the aspirations of public are fulfilled. When a combination of both development and good governance takes place Just making a good bus stand is development, but if the bus ply on time, there is a cleanliness in the buses, behavior of driver and conductor is good, then this is the good governance. Then the common man gets satisfaction that, yes, it is my country, it is my property. This government is continuously striving to encourage public participation.\nYou must have seen two years ago when our government was formed, there was only one news on TV that the price of pulses was very high, Wherever one used to go, only one thing was discussed; Modiji, please tell us why the prices are not coming down? Wherever one talked about\nNow the prices of the pulses have come down very much but now no one asks how it did happen, but I had requested the farmers of our country to increase the planting of pulses and no additional thing is required for their cultivation. It can be sown along with other crops, which helps to generate additional income and the rate of food prices. If middle income families consume more pulses then they get more protein, which increases the strength of the body as many nutritional requirements are met. What I mean to say is that more than the government's efforts, the people's power plays an extremely important role.\nThere is a perception that, in India, women are only home wives, they do not do anything except for living in the kitchen only. This is a myth; the truth is different Even today, India's animal husbandry, dairy, milk, in a way Men's Very Small Role in it Women's involvement in agriculture is huge, they are contributed physically, but our social structure is such that it is not measured in terms of money. This does not mean that women do not have a role in the development of India. Women have a role, they also have potential and hence our government has decided to make this half the population of the country in a part of India's development journey. Not only empowerment of women, but it's also women led development When we started the campaign for opening of bank accounts under Prime Minister Jan Dhan Yojana, 40 percent of people of our country had never even set their foot on bank's premise, they were out of the formal economy When we started the campaign for opening of bank accounts, and it is a great pleasure that all the bank accounts opened during the campaign. Women started to feel that they were also a part of the financial system.\nRecently, we have started a scheme called Mudra Yojna to promote entrepreneurship so that youth of India will be job creator instead of job seeker. Even when running a small business, people can hire one or two people and give them jobs. And so, in order to help small businesses, we have started this very big scheme, The Mudra Yojna.\nThis Mudra Yojna is such that if a citizen comes to the bank and provides all its information then without any guarantee of any kind he can get a loan from Rs 50,000 to Rs 10 lacs. The scheme under about 7 crore people have taken advantage of it, 7 crore people, and more than 3 lakh crore rupees distributed. Someone got Rs.50,000; someone got 55,000 rupees, some other one got 80,000 rupees, and some others got 10 lakh rupees. You will be happy to know that people who have taken advantage of this scheme, more than 70 percent of them are women This is the proof of female empowerment and women leadership development.\nToday, everywhere, even in the so called developed countries, average maternity leave is 12 weeks. Maternity leave is 12 Weeks for working women in developed countries, India is a country which passed a law in Parliament, and now working women are given 26 weeks of maternity leave and this is because we have seen the future of India. Today, it may have to some extent that she will not pay. Someone may think like that, but she will be raising a child for 6 months who is the future of my country. Keeping a working woman discharged from job and paying her salary for six months, but if you look at the future, then you get to know that her child will get good care for the initial six months, his founding 6 months will be so strong that our future will be bright, our future will be stronger, we are working in that direction.\nWhen former US President Mr. Obama's visit to India for Republic Day celebrations of 26th January, and when he was given a guard of honor of the three military wings i.e. Army, Navy and Air Force, all the three wings had female battalions and it was being done by women The US President came down from the dais and told me that I am surprised to see that India can do this thing.\nI replied that this was just the start, the wait for tomorrow and when the parade was held on January 26, the main news for the whole world was that women are leading the parade. The women in our country are safe in the field.\nIf you go to Delhi and there are many other such states in the country also that if you go there, you will see that 33% posts in the police have reserved for women, and these empowered women are our security for the responsibility, we are working in that direction You must have seen that they are flying fighter planes, our women are flying fighter aircraft, and this is the world in today's discussion of a subject.\nToday, India has earned a big name in the world. Just last week, 30 Nano satellites was launched successfully Earlier, our scientists made a world record by launching 104 satellites in one go. Last month the heaviest satellite was launched and how much did it weigh? Newspapers mentioned that satellite was equivalent to the weight of several elephants. You will be happy to know that three major women scientists are working on that project. Who would not be proud of the power of mothers and sisters of my country?\nWhether it is the field of science, whether it is the field of education, or the area of ​​health; Now days if you hold a teachers' conference in any state of India, you will have a notice board that is reserved for the male teachers. Today, the work of the entire education sector is being handled by the mothers and sisters of my country. You can go to any sector be it sports, nursing, paramedics, medicine, you'll see that women are working in that field. I mean to say that women power is there, and in sports, in the Olympics, who brought the medal, our daughters have brought all medals and brought laurels for the country Not only this, in the games for physically challenged i.e. Paralympics, it is our women who did the work of raising the Indian flag.\nThere is such a government in Delhi, which has its heart and mind set on how to empower, how women can develop, how women can develop financial development of the country and has regularly been taking initiatives to achieve this and as a result of this, women of my country are playing an important role in raising the Indian flag.\nThe country should move forward, it should be better than what it used to be. Moving forward with the same speed at which we have not reached here. So, it has become imperative Earlier governments used to complete one or two projects that were associated with them.\nToday, aspirations have increased so much And it is not enough to take the country forward too We have got too modern too India's 21st century should not be lagging on global benchmarks, it should not be left behind in the field of science and technology, our infrastructure should be according to the global standards, and India should have the ability to par on the world, We are moving forward with this vision\nToday is an environment of health-consciousness and concerns Everyone feels that if we breathe, we should breathe well, and if we eat, the food should be good quality, an intrinsic consciousness has developed. India has taken the field of energy, in the area of ​​renewable energy of 175 gigawatts. For many of you gigawatts may be a new term because for centuries we never thought beyond megawatts. Megawatts was the ultimate measure for us. We have set a target of generating 175 gigawatts of electricity through renewable energy.\nWhat should be solar energy, wind energy, nuclear energy, biomass energy play in meeting our energy needs? This is a very big change which makes the positive impact, we are working on that direction. And today the competition has become so intense, the situation is such that solar energy will be cheaper than the electricity from coal. You can imagine the future that if the whole system is run by solar energy, then what a big change for economy it will be.\nOur country which import oil from the Gulf countries today, how much a reduction will be in these imports, how much the country will become self-sufficient and that is why this power is generating solar power. This sun, I was able to do it And so this is our first\nWhen I became prime minister, I initially wanted to learn and understand things, so I used to take meetings and briefings of officers to know what was going on. One day, while taking a briefing of electricity department, I asked if there is still any place where electricity has reached yet. Since this has been 70 years of our independence, this question should not be asked, however I asked if there is any far flung place where electricity is yet to reach. I was astonished when they said, sir, there were still 18,000 villages where electricity has not reached yet. You please tell me what is the difference between 18th century and 21st century? People in the 18th century used to live without electricity and moonlight Even after 70 years of independence, 18,000 villages in the country\nI have to fulfill the dream of a modern India. They told me that, sir, it would take 7 more years. This attitude surprised me, very comfortably they said that it would take another 7 years. I asked them why do you do this, should not we hurry? Finally, one day I spoke from the Red Fort on August 15 that we will give electricity to these 18,000 villages in thousand days. It has been less than thousand days, yet around 13-14 thousand villages have been electrified. Brothers and sisters, because I want to make a modern India and for the rest of the villages, electrification work is being done at a very fast pace.\nThere are two and a half lakh panchayats are in India, 6 lakh villages are there in those panchayats. Now you all tell me if you can live without mobile for an hour, can you? It gets troublesome, is not it? If this is your right then every poor person, every village in India also has right or not? Brothers and sisters we have taken the mission of Digital India Work of optical fiber network is underway at a very high speed in those two and a half lakh panchayats, and in the coming days, we will create optical fiber network for digital systems for these villages, as well as the transmission of most modern facilities Of which long distance education will be possible, tele-medicine will become possible Thus all the facilities which are available in urban areas will also be available in villages, we are working in that direction, which means India moves forward and also the modern at the same time, we are doing things on the focus by working and our efforts in that direction only\nBrothers and sisters You must be interested in India but I request you, you are living in such large numbers in the Netherlands, have come from Suriname, you are Dutch citizens, what is the problem in getting an OCI card? Do you feel that these links? I was surprised when I heard that there is such a big Indian Diaspora but only ten percent of them have OCI cards. Please tell me that before 26th January you will complete this work in mission mode. You should do it and I will also instruct the embassy here.\nSee, this OCI card is a link of your centuries old relationships with India, it is the nimble cord, this is what you forget and this thing is also monetary terms alone you should consider.\nPlease get this OCI card by paying whatever is needed\nTwo days ago I was in Portugal, there was the Prime Minister of Portugal was showing his OCI card. He said I am proud that I have an OCI card, I am a native Indian and today I am the Prime Minister here. It should be there in the minds of every Indian that I have it, and when I meet somebody then I'll ask them, if they have it or not and will criticize them if they do not have it\nThis feeling should be there and I would like, and I will also ask for help, because a new ambassador has come, now I will inquire how many OCI cards have been made per day and I would like to help should be done\nNow look, since 2015, the facility of e-visa has been arranged in India for the holders of Dutch passport You will be taking advantage of it and I tell you that the Government of India is also thinking about giving a 5-year business visa for the Dutch nationals in the coming days.\nA Business and Tourist Visa for 5 years\nI request you all to make continuous efforts to stay connected with India. You are connected with your nation and its traditions through your hearts and minds, you are happy to hear about India, your life is so much Indian-hased, please keep it very close to your efforts with India.\nDo you want to connect with me? Sure! Do you want to have the Prime Minister of India in your pocket? Why are you silent? If the Prime Minister of India is in your pocket then what's the harm in it? Do you want to proudly announce, just leave it dear, Prime Minister of India is in my pocket, do not you want to? I'll tell you the way, please download the Narendra Modi App on your mobile, I will be available in your pocket 24x7 and I will be able to listen to you Our relations should be a close one, you have full rights over me It will not be decided on the basis of the color of your passport, my life is dedicated to all of them.\nYou turned up here in such a large number despite such feelings; with these feelings; I heartily thank you all very much\nThank you very much"