"Share\n\nTo overcome environmental pollution, the government is promoting the environment friendly transportation fuel: PM\nTo cut down on import of crude oil, government has taken steps on reducing imports by 10% and saving the precious foreign exchange: PM\nIndian refinery industry has done well in establishing itself as a major player globally: PM\nI am happy to be here at Kochi the Queen of the Arabian Sea. The blue sea, the back-waters, the Great Periyar River the greenery all around and its dynamic people make Kochi.\nIt was here, that the great Indian Sage Adi Shankar embarked on his epic journeys across India to protect the Indian civilization and unify the country.\nToday is a historical day It's a proud moment not just for God's Own country but also for the whole nation.\nBharat Petroleum's Kochi refinery has played a critical role in popularizing the clean fuel, LPG among masses in Kerala and 50 years of the neighboring states.\nI recall, my childhood and youth, when I saw many mothers struggling with the firewood. Since then, I have always thought of improving their situation and providing healthy kitchens to India.\nThe Ujjwala scheme of the Government of India is a way to realize this dream. I am happy that since May 2016, nearly six crore LPG connections have been given to the poor in the country under Ujjwal scheme.\nFriends,\nMore than twenty three crore LPG consumers have joined the Pahal Scheme\nPahal has helped in identifying ghost accounts, multiple accounts and inactive accounts. Pahal has entered the Guinness book of World records, as the largest direct benefit transfer scheme in the world. 'Give it up' initiative for LPG subsidy under\nBy doubling the LPG production with the help of the recent expansion, Kochi Refinery is making a great contribution towards Ujjwala.To over-come environment pollution, the Government of India is promoting the environment friendly transportation fuel, that is CNG by expanding the The coverage of City Gas Distribution Network\nAfter the successful completion of tenth CGD Bidding Round more than four hundred districts\nThe National Gas Grid or Pradhhan Minister Urja Ganga has also been created for a gas based economy and the share of gas in the energy basket.\nThe Government has thought of developing additional fifteen thousand Kilo-Miters of gas pipeline network. To cut down on import of crude oil, government has taken decisive steps towards reducing imports by ten percent and saving precious foreign exchange.To this end, the 2nd generation Ethanol through lignocellulose Route has been adopted by Oil PSUs for establishing twelve 2G ethanol plants in 11 states.\nSix MoUs have already been signed in this direction. The Indian refinery industry has done well in establishing itself as a major player globally. India, which is the second largest oil refiner in Asia, is emerging as a refinery hub with refining more than its demand. The country's refinery capacity is currently two to seven seven MMTPAs. I take this opportunity to convince you for the timely completion of IREP. Last but not the least I recognize the work of all those labors I am told that at the peak of the project, over twenty thousand labors were working at the site.\nIn many ways, they are the 'real heroes' of the project The Integrated Refinery Expansion Project was also a strategic move of Bharat Petroleum to diversify into non-fuel sector.\n\nMy friends,\nPetro-chemicals are a grade of chemicals which we do not speak much about, but they exist invisibly and touch many aspects of our daily life. This includes building materials, plastics and paints, foot-wear, clothing and other fabrics orauto-motive parts, cosmetics and medicines. However, most of these chemicals are imported from other countries.It is our endeavor to see that these petro-chemicals are manufactured in India itself. I am happy that using the capability of Kochi refinery to produce propylene after the execution of IREP, BPCL has gone ahead with three world scale plants to manufacture acrylic acid acrylates and Oxo alcohol under Make in India.\nThese nutrients can be used in paints, inks, coating, detergent, and in many other articles. Now, BPCL is starting the construction of a Petro-chemical Complex where it will produce polyols that find end use in foams, fibers, foot-wear, cosmetics, and medicines. I am sure by all these, many ancillary industries will come to Kochi. I hope the Petro-chemical Park planned by State Government will become operational soon and leverage the business opportunities provided by Petro-chemical venture of BPCL I am happy to note that BPCL along with other PSUs has set up a Skill Development Institute for Skilling and developing, I am delighted to lay the foundation stone of the second campus of the institute at Ettumanoor near the holy Mahadeva Temple.\nI am also happy to note that Indian Oil Corporation has put out the Mounded Storage Facility at its Cochin Bottling Plant, around 12 kilo-meters from here at a cost of Rupees fifty crores. This will increase the LPG storage capacity and also reduce the road movement. LPG tankers.It is heartening to note that last August, when Kerala was passing through the worst floods in a hundred years, BPCL Kochi refinery kept running against all odds. I understand that many employees stayed in the refinery to ensure continuous production of petrol, diesel and LPG.\nThis help the rescue vehicles and heli-copters to continue relief and rescue operation smoothly. I urge BPCL Kochi refinery to keep up the work of the future, social commitment and innovation as it is its next phase of development. We are proud of Kochi's refinery's contributions towards Nation Building.But now we have greater expectations. I wish that Kochi refinery leads a Petro-chemical revolution in Southern India and support the growing needs of a new India!\nJai hind"