"\nThe diaspora rejoices whenever there is good news from India: PM Modi in Washington DC\nIndia is progressing on a record pace today. Every Indian wants to contribute towards India's development: PM\nThe reasons Government has been defeated in India are things like corruption and cheating, say the PM\nIncreased use of technology brings transparency in systems: PM Modi\nThrough technology driven governance we are creating a modern India: PM Modi\nAll members of our family settled here in the USA!\nWhenever I meet you I feel the same joy and delight My meetings with people will give me unique enthusiasm and I always return with renewed energy. Today I am fortunate to have that opportunity once again\nIn the last twenty years, I had the opportunity to visit the USA on several occasions. I did visit about thirty US states when I was the chief minister, nor the Prime Minister of the country, but every time I got the chance to meet the Indian community settled here.\nAfter assuming the office of Prime Minister of India, you have been organizing such big events here in America that their echo can still be heard world over. Whenever, the American leaders or even the leaders of other countries meet me, they associate me with those mega events organized in the USA.\nThis is all because of wonderful people like you I know how hard it is to organize these things while living in the USA, how many issues need be sorted out but despite all, you people make it successful\nDuring this visit, may be, I'm going to disappoint many people A lot of suggestions were made to organize mega events, I said I would definitely participate in such big events but this time I want to meet those who have done extremely hard for my last programs They had spared their time, spent their money, made adjustments to their schedules and work hard for my previous programs. So, this time I feel that I want to meet them and I am fortunate that I am able to meet them today. I can see that a mini-India as well as a mini-USA is present here today.\nPeople from almost all Indian states are present here and same is true for the USA. Wherever you may be, whatever condition you may be, you could have been engaged in any work, and no one knows what the condition is left the country but if good good place in India then your joy knows no boundaries. And if something bad happens then you are very concerned about your sleep, this happens because your heart is waiting for you to wait for India to move forward and develop.\nI can assure you that people will see your dreams being fulfilled and that is very simple. You are the same people who are in India; But once your Indian capabilities and potential got a conducive environment, not only all of you prospered but in the process you also helped become more prosperous.\nThe Indian talent when it gets conducive environment here in USA they flourished like USA and also prospered. Just like you, 1.25 billion capable and intelligent Indians are there in India The 1.25 billion Indian is the face of India, which is the way to change.\nThe greatest change that I experience in India is that every Indian wants to contribute in the progress of India and is the only solution And when one can feel that 1.25 billion Indians, from Kashmir to Kanyakumari and Atak to Cuttack, then my dear friends, I can assure you our nation is moving forward on a pace which was not there before.\nThe real reasons why the government was not able to The major reason was not the dissatisfaction Indians inherently believe in the virtues of being content Even if a young boy dies like a sickness This is the basic nature of our thinking\nGovernments in India have been changed because of only one thing and that is corruption, dishonesty. Common man of India hates this, what is this? Today, I would like to mention that during the last three years, this government has not been given a single allegation of corruption. We are also trying to develop an inbuilt system of governance where honesty becomes a natural process and it should not be the case that we have vigilant all the time Technology is playing a very big role in that as it brings transparency and integrity comes from the principles of leadership and governance and since the common man is basically honest so they are in that direction in moving.\nWhatever benefits a common person gets from government, we have converted them into Direct Benefit Transfer scheme. To improve financial conditions of common people in India, we give them subsidy on LPG cylinders so as to reduce their financial burden which will enable them to spend more money on health, education etc. But this subsidy on LPG cylinder is given to all and sundry, from the poorest of the poor to the richest of rich A person earning in billions also get subsidized cylinder\nSo I requested people that if you are well off then why do you avail subsidy on LPG cylinder What's there to benefit from availing a subsidy of 1000-1500 rupees, this is even less than your daily pocket money. So what is the example when I say that the citizen of India has a very indomitable spirit? It is an example that out of 250 million households in India, 12.5 million families have surrendered their LPG subsidy saying Modiji since you have requested, we will not avail subsidy on LPG cylinders from now on.\nThis serves as a proof that India is ready to work in India. After so many people surrendered their subsidy, what did we do, we did not put that subsidy in the coffers of our government What we did was that we should transfer this subsidy to the needy, to the poor who still use woods to cook. They get up very early in the morning at 3 or 4 am to collect wood and then they come back, cook food and later go to work.\nScientists say that the smoke generated from cooking on a wood stove is equivalent to the smoke of 400 cigarettes. So a mother who cooks on such kind of wood stove inhales smoke to 400 cigarettes a day. This smoke is also inhaled by small children playing in the house. You can imagine physical condition of that mother or those children who inhale smoke of 400 cigarettes daily.\nIf I dream of a healthy India then it is imperative that Indian child and mother should both be healthy. So I took up the task that those 12.5 million subsidies surrendered by our citizens are poor families to transfer. This is not all, those who had surrendered their LPG subsidy got a letter informing that you have surrendered your subsidy in Gujarat; your subsidy has been transferred to such and such person in such a district of Assam. It takes a lot of hard work but this transparency creates a new kind of hope.\nWhen you were in India, you have witnessed how difficult it was to procure an LPG cylinder, people had to go round and round local politicians to get a gas connection. We have taken up a task that in the coming three years, we will provide gas connections to 50 million poor families and I am happy that it has just been 11-12 months but we have given around 10 million families to LPG connections.\nWe have made the way Before the seller used to get subsidy, we have stopped that person and the person who receives the cylinder gets the subsidy directly in his bank account. Six months back, when I started the campaign for opening accounts for ordinary citizens and poor of India, 40 percent Indians did not have access to banking, they were not any bank account, we were accused the bank accounts are now opened yet there is no money When we started Direct Benefit Transfer scheme You will be surprised to know that after this transfer of subsidy to bank started, we found that there were thirty million clients who were untraceable. No one knows that every year the subsidies worth thousand of crores of rupees were siphoned off by whom. Thirty million ghost clients were removed because of Direct Transfer of Benefits results in saving of subsidy which is now used in build schools.\nTechnology is a very big role in bringing transparency and the young generation knows the power of technology Today India is developing its systems with great emphasis on technology.\nThose who follow things in India have noticed that when the crop season was used to become very difficult to get fertilizers When I was Chief Minister I also used to continuously write to Central Government, we have been criticized, farmers are worried about how they get fertilizers etc. When I became Prime Minister I also started getting Chief Ministers All the letters that I received You will be happy to note that from the last two years not a single Chief Minister has written to any letter to uurea. Right now there is no shortage of urea; There are people who are queuing up for URE or other people who used to sleep in the sky to stay in the queue.\nDid we start urea factories overnight? No. Did we increase the production of urea overnight? No. We just did a very simple thing, we coated urea with Neem, from the oil which is derived from the seedpod of Neem tree and which is anyway goes waste, we just did that Earlier, what used to happen, made in factories used to come out of these factories at very cheap prices and after coming out of factories it used to go inside chemical factories. Urea was very cheap as farmers get a lot of subsidy on urea, the subsidy worth around eighty thousand crores of rupees every year. Urea was a raw product in those chemical factories and after processing urea they used to make new products and sell in the market.\nBecause of Neem coating not even a single gram of uranium can be used in any other way so it stopped going to chemical factories and instead of Neem coating, the urea also became more powerful, of soil thus resulting in enhanced production by 5-7%. Pilferage of urea too stopped so the subsidy expenses came down, hundred percent of urine started to flow from fields and because of Neem coating of urea its productivity also increased, just with the help of technology\nI can give many such examples where India is making new achievements because of technology India has earned its name in the world of space, just two days back India has launched 31 Nano satellites together. Last month we created a world record by launching 104 satellites at once. Whole world started to ponder, what powers do they have, that they are launching 104 satellites together Recently a satellite was launched by India which was not weighed in kilograms; Its weight was compared with weight of elephants that a satellite was launched by India whose weight was equal to so many elephants. What I mean to say is that to meet the dreams of a modern day India is focusing on technology driven governance, technology driven society and technology driven development and a pleasant result which can be fast today.\nIt is not that there is no development in our country, work is taking place, in the end, the government has formed some work and no government wants to waste its tenure and lose the election, no one wants this; However, some work taking place is a different thing than fast paced, the result oriented work taking place in the right direction as per the requirement, as per the expectation of the country; it's a different thing altogether Therefore, it is imperative that the decisions are taken in a fast paced environment, in a time bound and result oriented manner, you can evaluate the country's progress on these parameters.\nWhat was the speed of construction of roads before and what is it today, what is the speed of laying the rail tracks before and what is the growth rate today, the railways of the average daily electrification earlier, and the average today, you take any parameter, today, the work is taking place on an unprecedented speed. Our thinking is in the context of modern India, in the context of the 21st century and global benchmarks.\nThings will not work as usual, there was a time when the famine people used to write letters to the government that is the situation in our village. roads and it was a big achievements of the government, that was the time\nThen this changed to demand for roads, pucca roads and then demanded for double lane roads and today they demand express roads, they do not settle for roads. The development of India's development When there is a growing aspiration among the common man then under the able leadership, under the proper governance and appropriate policy response, then this aspiration itself becomes achievement.\nWe decide our policy response, our speed and priorities to convert people's aspirations into achievements and fully dedicate yourself then it gives positive results.\nToday the world is suffering due to terrorism; this terrorism is the enemy of humanity When India used to raise the issue of terrorism twenty-five years ago then some big countries of the world used to take it lightly. Those countries were used to think that it was our law and order problem. Today, there is no need to explain anybody what is terrorism; terrorists themselves have made them realize it; However, when India carries out the surgical strike then the world recognizes India's strength that India restrains itself but it also has its prowess demonstrating.\nWe abide by global conventions as it is our inherent character We think the whole world as one family, for us is not hallow words, this is our inherent character, our inherent (intrinsic) approach We are not a country that will destroy the global order by wielding power; We are a country that is capable of taking tough decisions to protect our sovereignty, to protect us, to protect our country, while following the global norms and international law, and we have difficult decisions when the necessary and no one in the world can stop us\nSurgical strike was such an action that if the world was not convinced then it had raised questions, they would have been cornered us, we would have been criticized by the world; However, for the first time you had never seen that tough decision taken by India It's a different thing for those who have experienced India's power, therefore, we are able to convince the world that the real nature of terrorism that was destroyed in the normal life in India, we have been able to understand about the world.\nIndia is Successfully moving forward in the economic field to emerge as the country of the 21st century. Financial progress is not the only criteria for a country's development; The biggest strength of a country is its human resources, its natural resources. A country where 80 million people are below the age of 35, a young country dreams like a young person, and we stay ahead of them in terms of policies, in terms of foreign direct investment. Today, India has been receiving more FDI than what it got since independence.\n\nGlobal credit rating agencies will be considered as India's a bright spot whether it is the World Bank or IMF, everybody has acknowledged India's prowess. The world reckons India as a top destination for investment, that is the situation is there, but innovation, technology and talent play extremely critical role in it. Indian Diaspora has that power, it has exposure and its achievements as well If this knowledge power of India, this know-how of our country is present all over the world, I invite them that if you feel that your strength, your country of use to some use, then there was Any better opportunity than this is your responsibility.\nPeople from all countries have settled here in the USA, however, it is rare for any global leader to get so much love and respect that I have received that Indians have received. However, sometimes I feel that what happens after you, whether the next generation will have the same feelings as you have, therefore, it is important to maintain that relations with India\nIt's necessary for you to continuously strive to maintain the relationship of your next generation with India. Almost all the states have some or some other departments to overseas Indians. The government of India has built a fabulous Pravasi Bhawan in Delhi, and I urge you people that you must visit you whenever you come to India, it also provides accommodation facilities, these facilities are only for people.\nDespite my being in public life, for the general citizen, the image of external affairs ministry was that of bootable people with great shots, travelling all over the world, that is the foreign ministry of the image. However, you would have noticed in the last three years that India's foreign ministry has acquired new heights in terms of humanity. Government of India has proactively rescued more than 80,000 Indians from wherever they were stranded in the world; They have been safely taken to their homes 80 thousand, it's not a small number\nAround twenty years ago, you were used to live safely around the world, however, due to the changing conditions in the last twenty years, every Indian living out of the country is feared lest something happens to him; but from the last three years they have become confident You will know that an Indian girl has gone to Malaysia, thereafter she went to Pakistan She went to Pakistan with lot of hopes, however, her life was devastated there. She was a Muslim, she had hoped for a happy life in Pakistan. However, when she was trapped then she realized that she would be rescued if succeeds in reaching Indian Embassy in Pakistan. She was able to come back to India after that somehow succeeded in getting Indian Embassy, ​​and Sushmaji herself was greeted here.\nWhen I used to come here, I used to hear a lot of complaints here. They made complaints about taxi drivers, about custom officers, about the filth, I used to hear all that that people want to come back to India due to all this. And today, I'm happy to note that whatever letters we receive from abroad, they are full of praise of the changes in Indian embassy in that country, they are the changing environment of that embassy, ​​that Indians were respected, our embassies have become pro-people We have brought great changes in our policies. You will be aware of the difficulties faced by you. And today, we are opening passport centers in every post office and the passport that was difficult to get in more than six months, that is just 15 days in passport is issued.\nSocial media is extremely powerful these days, I'm also very active in social media. You will be aware about Narendra Modi App, if not then I urge you to download it. However, how Social Media can be used in strengthening a department it has been demonstrated by the best possible manner, it has been demonstrated by our Foreign Ministry.\nToday, any Indian can notice that the foreign ministry has been associated with the coat-pant-tie, the same foreign ministry has been able to reach the last man, and this thing has happened for the first time. Our Foreign Ministry, even if a victim tweets at 2 O 'clock in the morning then Sushmaji responds within 15 minutes, government takes action 24 hours and results delivered. This is the good governance, this is pro-people governance and this is the sentiment.\nFriends, we've been doing our best to measure the responsibility given by you people. These three years have been successful and we will dedicate I've been fortunate enough to get your support. You have turned up in such a large number; I once again express my gratitude I've been told that there was a photo session, I'd definitely join you in that, please be comfortable. Once again, I express my gratitude.\nThank you."