"An entire year has gone by\n\nThe world confined behind bars,\nBut the soul like a restless bird\nThe freedom song resonates\nFrom the earth to the sky,\nAn entire year has gone by\n\nThe eyes are in anticipation\nCounting days and moments\nThe beloved who went away,\nShall return one day,\nAn entire year has gone by\nThe believers of democracy fought a prolonged war, and the great nation that India is, where the spirit of democracy pervades the very being of its people, the election of opportunities came when the spirit of strength was demonstrated. We have more fortify that legacy\nMy dear countrymen, every Indian today, is proud and holds his head high 21st June 2017 - Yoga has permeated the whole world. From the seashores to the mountains, people welcomed the first rays of the sun, with Yoga. Which Indian would not be proud of this! It is not as if Yoga did not exist before, but now the threads of Yoga have bound everyone together, and have become the means to unite the world. Almost all the countries in the world made Yoga Day their own. In China, Yoga was practiced on the Great Wall of China, and on the World Heritage Site of Machu Picchu in Peru, at 2400 meters above sea level. In France, yoga was performed in the vicinity of the Eiffel Tower. In Abu Dhabi in UAE, more than 4000 people participated in mass yoga. In Herat, in Afghanistan, on the India Afghan Friendship Dam, Salma Dam, Yoga added a new aspect to India's friendship. In a small country like Singapore, programs were organized in 70 places, with a week long campaign. On the occasion of International Day of Yoga, the UN released ten stamps. A 'Yoga Session with Yoga Masters' was organized at the UN headquarters. The staff of the UN and diplomats from across the world participated\nYoga has created a world record again this time too. In Ahmedabad in Gujarat, around 55 thousand people performed Yoga together and created a new world record. I too had the opportunity to participate in the Yoga event held in Lucknow. But I also had the good fortune to practice Yoga in the first time. Our soldiers practiced yoga in Siachen where temperatures reach minus 20, 25, 40 degrees. Whether it is our armed forces, or the BSF, ITBP, CRPF and CISF, every one of them, apart from their duties have made Yoga a part of their lives. On this Yoga Day, since this was the third International Day of Yoga, I had asked you to share photos of three generations of the family doing yoga together. Some TV channels also took the idea forward. I received a lot of photographs out of which, selected photographs are compiled and uploaded on the NarendraModiApp. One important outcome of the way the yoga is being talked about is all around the world is the portrait that today's health conscious society is taking steps from fitness to wellness, and they have realized that fitness is, of course, important, but for true wellness , yoga is the best way\nSound bite\n\"Respected Prime Minister Sir, I am Dr. Anil Sonara speaking from Ahmedabad, Gujarat Sir, I have a question Recently in Kerala, we have spoken about replacing bouquets that we as gifts, with good books as mementos. You had started this course while in Gujarat, Sir, but in the recent days we have not seen much of this. So, can we do something about it? Is there nothing we can do in this country, Sir? \"\nRecently, I had the opportunity to go to one of my favorite events. A very good program is available in Kerala for the past few years, by the P.N. Panicker Foundation, which encourages people to cultivate the habit of reading books and to increase their awareness towards this, by organizing celebrations such as 'Reading Day', and 'Reading Month'. I had the opportunity to go to the inaugural function, where I was told that instead of bouquets, they gift books. I liked it. I was also reminded of Because when I was in Gujarat, I had set this tradition of welcoming, by not giving bouquets, but books or handkerchiefs instead And that too, a 'Khadi' handkerchief, so that it promotes 'Khadi'. Till the time I was in Gujarat, this was the habit of being in control, but after coming here, I had lost that habit. When I went to Kerala, it was rekindled. I have already begun Here too we can gradually nurture this habit And the life span of a bouquet is very short. You get it in your hand for a moment and then abandon it. But when you present a book, it is a part of the family One can also use a 'Khadi' handkerchief to welcome people, and be a support to the innumerable underprivileged. The expenses are well as well, and the gift is well utilized too. I say this, thinking of the historical value of such gifts During my past UK visit, in London, The Queen of Britain, Queen Elizabeth invited me to dine with her. The atmosphere was imbued with maternal warmth, and I was shown with great affection. Afterwards when she showed me a small thread-spun handkerchief, her eyes lit up. With great respect and an emotion filled voice, she said, that Mahatma Gandhi had sent this handkerchief to her as a wedding gift So many years have passed and yet, Queen Elizabeth has treasured the handkerchief gifted by Mahatma Gandhi. And she was happy to show it to me, when I went there As I gazed at it, the Queen encouraged me to touch it. A small gift by Mahatma Gandhi, has become a part of her life and a part of history. I know that these habits do not change overnight, and when we talk about it, we invite criticism. Despite that, one should keep talking about it Now, I can not say that if i go somewhere and somebody brings a bouquet i will refuse it. No, I will not do that, but then there is criticism, and then gradually, the change will happen.\nMy dear countrymen, as Prime Minister, there are numerous tasks to be handled. I have been deeply absorbed in files, but for my own self, I have developed a habit of reading daily, at least a few of the letters I get and because of that I get a chance to connect with the common man. I get a variety of letters, written by all sorts of people. Recently, I had the opportunity to read a letter, which I feel, I should share with you. From the far south, in Madurai, Tamil Nadu, Arulmozhi Sarvanan, a housewife, sent me a letter. And what was in that letter? She wrote, that she thought about engaging in some economic activity in her responsibilities such as children's education, to her family She got some money from the bank, under the 'Mudra' scheme and commenced working towards purchasing some items from the market. Then she came to know of the 'Government E-Marketplace' system initiated by the government She tried to find out the details, and asked people about it. And then she registered herself for the scheme Here I want to tell my countrymen, that if you get the opportunity, you should also visit, the E-G-E-M, E-GEM website on the internet. This is a great new system Whoever wants to supply any item to the government, small things like electric bulbs, dustbins, brooms, chairs and tables, they can register themselves. They can also mention the quality of the goods, the rate at which they sell, and it is compulsory for the government departments to visit the site and see if the supplier quality on compromising without reasonable prices at the goods supplied. And then the orders can be placed. That is how the system can be removed The whole process becomes transparent There is no interface Everything is done through technology So, when people register in E-GEM, all the government departments will become aware of them. As there are no middlemen, the goods are very reasonable rates. Now whatever goods Arulmozhi Madam could supply, she got those registered on this government website. And the best part is, what has happened in this letter is very interesting She has written that she got money from the 'Mudra' scheme and started her business, then she registered the inventory of all her products on the E-GEM website, and then she got the Prime Minister's Office from the order. It was news to me too, I wondered what the PMO would have ordered. She has written that the PMO had ordered two thermoses, and she had paid Rupees 1600 / -. This is empowerment This is a opportunity for encouraging entrepreneurship. Had Arulmozhi did not have to be realised that because of E-GEM, a housewife living far away and running a small business can have the items on her inventory purchased directly by the Prime Minister's Office. This is the nation's strength This is the transparency, this has been empowerment, too has entrepreneurship too. Government E-Marketplace - GEM I would definitely like that whoever wishes to sell their products or business items to the government I believe that this is a great example of Minimum Government and Maximum Governance, and it's objective is Minimum Price and Maximum Ease, Efficiency and Transparency.\nMy dear countrymen, on the one hand, we take pride in Yoga, on the other we can also take pride in our achievements in space science. And this is the unique attribute of India, that while we have our feet firmly on the ground with Yoga, we have our dreams to fly so far in the skies. Recently, India has had many achievements in sports, as well as science. Today, India's flag is flying high but only in space Just two days ago, ISRO launched 30 Nano satellites with the 'Cartosat-2 Series Satellite.' And besides India, these satellites are of France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Britain and America, about 14 such countries And with India's Nano Satellite Mission, we will get a lot of help in the field of agriculture, farming, and dealing with natural disasters. We are all aware that some days ago, ISRO has successfully launched the GSAT-19 And of all the satellites launched by India, this was the heaviest satellite. The newspapers of our country have compared with elephantine weights. You can better imagine the magnitude of our scientists in space. On the 19th of June, our Mars Mission completed one thousand days. You may be aware that when we successfully succeeded in the Mars Mission in orbit, this entire mission was planned for a period of 6 months. It had a life expectancy of 6 months But I'm happy that our students have been like six months; Even after a thousand days, our Mangalyaan Mission is working, sending images, providing information, collating scientific data, way beyond its expected duration and life expectancy. The completion of one thousand days, is a significant milestone in our scientific journey, our space odyssey.\nThese days we see that our youth is getting increasingly inclined to the field of sports. It is becoming evident that along with studies, our new generations can see a future in sports as well. And our sportspersons, through their prowess, skills and accomplishments win laurels for the country as well. Recently India's Badminton player, Kidambi Srikant has brought glory to the nation by winning Indonesia Open. I extend my heartiest congratulations to him and his coach for this victory. I had the opportunity, some days ago to be associated with the inaugural function of the Synthetic Track of the famous athlete, P.T. Usha's Usha School of Athletics The more of the spirit of sportsmanship Sports play an important role in personality development. There is a great significance of sports in overall personality development. There is no endowment in our country If the children in our family are interested in sports, they should be given opportunities They should not be forced off the playing fields They should study well, if they can do well in studies, they should definitely do so, but if they have the potential and the inclination to do well in sports, that should be encouraged and supported by school, college, family and all the people around them Every one should dream\nMy dear countrymen, let me mention once again, that this season of rains, with its abundance of festivals and festivities, I extend my heartiest greetings to you all, until the next episode of 'Man Ki Baat', when I will share my thoughts once again with you Namaskar.\n\nWeather is changing The monsoon seems to be on time, bringing a relief from the heat: PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat https://t.co/v6iZChCkDH\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) June 25, 2017\nGreetings to everyone on Rath Yatra The poor of India are attached to Lord Jagannath: PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) June 25, 2017\nThe poor relate with Lord Jagannath Greetings on Rath Yatra #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/ki9nqVJ07L\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) June 25, 2017\nJuly 1818 :: Painting of Procession (Jagannath Yatra) At Temple of Jagannath Puri, Orissa"