"India and Portugal are connected by culture: PM Modi\nIndia is now among the fastest growing countries in the world: PM\nAppreciate people of Portugal for partaking in Yoga Day celebrations with great enthusiasm: PM\nIn the field of space, our scientists have done great work. Recently 30 nano satellites were launched: PM\nI feel extremely honored that I got the opportunity to come here and I am really grateful to The Honorable Prime Minister and the Government of Portugal for this grand welcome This welcome is not just a single person but the 125 crore Indians.\nThis Radhakrishna temple is a symbol of social consciousness here. I got the privilege to meet people from all communities and their representatives. There is no line of discrimination and this itself is India's specialty; This diversity is the identity of India and this is also the strength of India.\nFew days back, in an unfortunate incident, several innocent lives were lost. I offer my heartfelt condolences to them and may god\nPortugal shares a cultural heritage with India in general and with Gujarat in particular. We have all been hearing that when Vasco da Gama came in India, they say, - a Gujarati named Kanji Malam had guided Vasco da Gama and with his help, Vasco Da Gama reached India. Kanji had left Gujarat to settle in Africa. He met Vasco da Gama at a harbor there; And from there he decided to make his journey to India So, with the help of Kanji Malam, India's trade relations with Portugal and the whole Europe were established. So we share an age old relationship\nIt is true that for the first time in 70 years, a Prime Minister from India has come here for a bilateral visit and I got this privilege for the same. Our former Prime Minister, Atal Bihari Vajpayee had come here, though not for a bilateral visit but for a conference of the European Union. I got this privilege today Many issues and topics have been discussed with the honourabble PM of Portugal and a number of important decisions have taken. I believe that the decisions that have been taken in the experiences and strengths of both countries will help\nThe great leader of Portugal, Mr. Mario Soares, was present as the Chief Guest of the Republic day in the year 1992. During his period, relations between India and Portugal received a new impetus, a new dimension. He died during his stay in India, and then the people of India had paid tribute to him on the Pravasi Indian Divas. So this bond of love and respect exists between India and Portugal.\nSometime back, I had the privilege of meeting with the Prime Minister and the incumbent General Secretary of the United Nations, Mr. Antonio Guterres in Russia and I was very elated to have long discussions with him. He provided beautiful insights on Yoga He said that all his family members were associated with Yoga. Even today I saw that the people here performed Yoga very well. They Beautifully chanted the Omkar Mantra - \"Om Namah Shivay\". Today Prime Minister was discussing about the Holistic Health Care, Preventive Health Care and Low-Cost Health Care. And with great confidence he asserted that in Portugal he could very well start a 'movement of wellness' through yoga. They are going to train I congratulate the Prime Minister, as Portugal is leading the Europe in promoting the movement of yoga. On the International Yoga Day on June 21 When the whole world was celebrating Yoga, at that time, Portugal also participated with great enthusiasm and zeal. I congratulate all the yoga lovers of Portugal for this. When the Prime himself has blessed this Zero-Cost Health for human welfare, the movement of yoga, I am confident that it is going to be one of his greatest contributions and the people of Portugal will remember him for centuries.\nPortugal is world famous for start-ups The 'start-up movement' got a boost because of the youth of Portugal, its talent and pro-active policies of the government. Portugal can be a creative hub of start-ups Today India and Portugal have launched a portal through the start-ups and innovation of the young people working in the field of their experiences and achievements, thus making a global platform. In the past, more than seven hundred youngsters engaged with the work of start-ups and innovation from all over India had participated in a start-up event that had been organized here. It was really a motivational program.\nPortugal is also associated with India in the field of sports. And when it comes to sports, the first name that comes to mind is Cristiano Ronaldo Such talented personalities are the source of inspiration for football worldwide. The Indian footballers are revitalized with a renewable energy and zeal just by Ronaldo's name. So we are working together We have the democratic values We are the countries of the world that believe in working with other countries in a cooperative manner. Together, we can only be contributed to the welfare of India and Portugal; And I feel that today we have got that opportunity. I can feel its strength\nBrothers and sisters, India is moving at a rapid pace. India is reaching new heights of development. India is lucky that she is a young country today 65% of the population is under 35 years of age. The country which has such a huge population of youth India is striving to cross new horizons. India is now touching new horizons of development in every field.\nFor the past three years, I have had the opportunity to serve as a principal and you must have realized that; news And nowadays, due to There must be a lot of people who have downloaded the Narendra Modi-App in their mobile phones. If you have not, then please do that I will stay in your pockets every moment I'm available in your mobile phones You must be receiving information from time to time on the introduction of every project in India; Their progress and the details of those projects\nIn the field of space science, the youth of India, the scientists of India have wonders Thirty nano-satellites were launched by India's Space Scientists yesterday. A few days ago our space scientists created a World Record. The world was stupefied by the launch of 104 satellites together. India has had such a power thus India has scaled new heights of development with a new zeal.\nThe financial sector is also getting transformed. Rules and regulations are getting modified Many new avenues have been opened up for Foreign Direct Investment New Infrastructure has been created in the demands of the 21st century in India. India is continuously trying to develop its roads and railways according to the 21st century's global benchmarks and is moving forward at a faster pace.\nIndia's Tourism sector has also attracted the attention of the world today. India has become a center of attraction as the world is showing more interest in knowing, understanding India For the last one year, the number of foreign tourists has increased in India. In every field, India is scaling new heights of development.\nAnd I am happy to say that the Indian diaspora all over the world have kept their traditions and cultural heritage alive. Many Indians across the three-four generations may be present here who are equally proud of India's great traditions. But they work for equal dedication for that country too. You are working the same passion for Portugal as well. One unique feature of the Indian society is that its people easily mingle with the local population and contributing to the development of that society, keeping their cultural traditions alive We have a accommodative nature because we have been raised in a society which is diverse- where hundred languages ​​and more than 1700 dialects are spoken. Food habit also changes after every 20 miles. They have the ability to assimilate the world and due to these values You and your ancestors have done this work In a way, you, my fellow Indians, are working as true ambassadors of India I congratulate you all with a heartfelt gratitude\nI had this opportunity to be present here Thanks a lot Thank you very much all you Viva Portugal!"