"Share\n\nIndia and Portugal have deep historical connections and strong economic and people to people ties: PM\nIndia is home to robust and dynamic Start-Ups industry, says PM Modi\nIndian Diaspora in Portugal has played a vital role in deepening our bilateral ties: PM Modi\nUNESCO, as well as multilateral export control regimes of India's permanent membership: PM\nYour Excellency Prime Minister Antonio Costa,\nDistinguished delegates,\nMembers of the Media,\nAt the beginning, I wish to express our feelings for the victims of the devastating forest fires in Portugal last week. Our thoughts and prayers\nFriends,\nWe are two countries with deep links and strong economic and people to people ties. It is, therefore, surprising for me to know that the Prime Minister to Portugal However, I take satisfaction in the fact that it is the second summit between India and Portugal within a period of six months. I am grateful to Prime Minister Costa for receiving me with such warmth and affection, and at such short notice. We were honored to welcome Prime Minister Costa in India, not only for a bilateral visit, but also as our Chief Guest at the Pravasi Indian Diwas, the Indian Diaspora Day celebrations. Prime Minister Costa represents the best of Indian Diaspora across the world.\nFriends,\nPrime Minister Costa and I have held wide-ranging discussions today and reviewed the progress achieved since his landmark visit to India. Our economic ties are going to follow an upward trajectory. Bilateral trade has grown 17% last year. And, the foreign direct investment from Portugal to India, though small, has doubled during 2016-17. But, there is much more that we can do increase the goods, services, capital and human resources among our two economies. In the regard, Portuguese economic rebound and strong Indian growth offer excellent opportunities for us to grow together Friends, Portugal has emerged as one of the most vibrant European ecosystems for entrepreneurship. India also has strong and dynamic Start-Ups industry. The Start-up sphere is a exciting space that blends youth, ideas, technology, innovation and creativity to generate value and wealth. During his visit to India, Prime Minister Costa and I discussed the India-Portugal International Start-up Hub. I am happy to see it in such a short time. I look forward to its joint launch with Prime Minister Costa The new agreements in the fields of taxation, administrative reforms, science, space, youth affairs and sports outline the expanding scope of our partnership. Our cooperation in Science and Technology is also gaining momentum. To support our collaboration in cutting edge technology, we have agreed to set up a joint S \u0026 T fund of 4 million Euros. We are also able to learn from Portuguese expertise in nanotechnology, marine sciences and oceanography. Space is a new area of ​​our bilateral cooperation. This idea was born when PM Costa visited India earlier this year. We look forward to engaging with Portugal in the Atlantic International Research Center, both in the Space and Ocean Science fields.\nFriends,\nOur two countries share vibrant and growing people The Indian Diaspora in Portugal has played an important role in deepening our bilateral relations. Portuguese passion for football runs deep Prime Minister Costa is a big football fan. This could form another link to further connect our societies. Our cultural association is expanding. We have set up a chair for Indian Studies in University of Lisbon. Indian movies are in Portuguese And, a Hindi-Portuguese dictionary is being developed for our mutual benefit. I also thank Portugal for sharing with a digital version of 12,000 documents including the exchange of letters between Goa and Portugal in the 17th century. This important archive will greatly benefit our researchers\nFriends,\nIndia and Portugal are strong partners in the international arena. We thank Portugal for your continuous support for India's permanent membership of the UN Security Council, as well as the multilateral export control regimes. We are also committed to terrorism and violent extremism. Excellency,\nI would like to thank you for your warm welcome and graceful hospitality, and for taking time out of your busy schedule for us.\nMuito obrigado\nThank you very much\nPM @antoniocostapm \u0026 I held wide ranging talks We reviewed our visit to India. Our bilateral trade and FDI is grown: PM pic.twitter.com/iFrQkPG3b2\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) June 24, 2017\nStart-up sphere is a interesting place for cooperation It is a great means to generate value and wealth for society: PM @narendramodi pic.twitter.com/FqH6QhsFAt\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) June 24, 2017\nNew agreements in taxation, science, youth affairs and sports outline the expanding scope of our partnership: PM @narendramodi pic.twitter.com/nnYAZprtjV\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) June 24, 2017\n"