"\nYoga is a path to attain wellness, says PM Modi #InternationalYogaDay\nYoga's popularity out of India is high and has connected the world with India: PM Modi\nYoga is becoming a part of people's daily life, not just in India but across the world: PM Modi\nI urge everyone to make Yoga a part of their lives: PM Modi\nAll the respected dignitaries present on the stage, and all the Yoga loving brothers and sisters present here in large numbers.\nI bow down to all the Yoga enthusiasts present in all such programs.\nYoga is helpful in controlling your mind; It teaches you how to live a healthy mind in all the upheavals of life. However, today, I see thousands of people in this massive Lucknow ground; There was a rain in the Yoga Mats, which used to show how the Yoga Mats used. You are present here despite the continuous rain, your efforts are strengthened by Yoga is commendable.\nYoga itself has started its journey from person to all the mankind. There was a time when Yoga was practiced only by ascetics, hermits and monks in the Himalayan caves. But with the passage millennia, with the passage of the centuries, Yoga has become part of every household, has millions of people Many countries of the world that are not familiar with our languages, nor are familiar with our traditions, they are not familiar with our culture, but due to Yoga the whole world is India with connecting Yoga - that connects body, mind and soul, that Yoga is playing very important role in connecting the world with India.\nWhen the International Day of Yoga was approved by the United Nations with the record votes in the least possible time, since then there was hardly any country in the world that does not conduct any program on Yoga, .\nSeveral new Yoga institutes have developed Demand for Yoga trainers have gone up to the last three years Youth is preparing yourself to adopt Yoga as a profession in these training institutes. There is a demand for Yoga trainers world over. Yoga has created a new job market in the world and Indians were the first preference world over in this sector.\nThere was a time when Yoga was practiced by people in their own way. However, standardization is taking place gradually, what are the steps, how to develop in Yoga, first stage, second stage and so on. Efforts have been made in and out from India to standardise Yoga in the world in a gradual and scientific manner\nLast year UNESCO has recognized Indian Yoga as an eternal heritage of mankind. There is a greater awareness about Yoga, about how to train students in schools, in colleges in Yoga and how it can gradually become a part of their life. Today, there are many states in India which have included Yoga as a part of their education system so that the future generations will become familiar with the centuries old this Indian science, the practice of Yoga and Yoga will be their life.\nThere are many concepts about health, however, wellness is more important than just being healthy That is why Yoga is one of the best ways to easily achieve wellness. Today, there is no doubt, no question about Yoga anywhere in the world. Yoga adapted itself with changing times, many societies of the world contributed, added in Yoga's development. Yoga was constantly developed as per the age of practitioner, as per the place, time and circumstances and Yoga continued to expand. And that is why I appeal to the people of the country, to the people of the important occasion to adopt Yoga as part of their lives. We may not be masters or achievers in Yoga but we can certainly become practitioners of Yoga. And when we practice Yoga for the first time then we realize that many of our important organs, that we never cared about, how weak they are gradually become. And when we start practicing Yoga then we ourselves will feel the reincarnation of our dormant organs. And it does not require a divine spirit People who practice Yoga for the first time they realize that their organs that have become dormant have started reviving, have started become active.\nSometimes people ask me that you talk about a lot of importance. I would like to understand that if you want to eat the salt, then it is easily available, however, if you remove the salt from the daily diet then it is not just that the food is flawless; absence of salt in your food too Salt is required in very small quantity but none can deny its importance in body functioning. Nobody can deny its necessity Salt alone can not sustain life but life can not be sustained without salt We can make Yoga part of our life. There is no need to practice Yoga too much or round the clock. Fifty minutes, sixty minutes, and I've said it has already been also said that Yoga has the power to provide health assurance at zero cost.\nHealthy body, healthy mind and healthy soul; if one-hundred and twenty-five crore people reach this health then we can protect the humanity from the dangers created due to negative thinking.\nAnd so on the occasion of the third International Day of Yoga I offer my sincere congratulations to all the Yoga enthusiasts world over. I also express my gratitude to all the countries in the world for the joy and enthusiasm they showed for the event. And I too express my gratitude to the people of Lucknow.\nThank You"