"Share\n\nIndia is a youthful nation 800 million people are down the age of 35: PM\nIt is important for the youth of India to be connected with latest technology, says PM\nGST demonstrates the strength of democracy The credit for implementation of GST goes to 125 crore people of India: PM\nYoung companions,\nToday, I have had the opportunity to participate in this program for several projects together. With the enthusiasm and excitement by the Government in Uttar Pradesh, the development journey is going on with a clear perspective; In every corner of the country there is the attention of the people towards Uttar Pradesh's momentous events, it is very fervent. And after the success of Yogi ji, the steps which are being taken after one, by striving for hard work, which are the diseases of many years, are the long-term obstacles; By removing him, his efforts to speed up Uttar Pradesh, I congratulate Yogi Ji on his team; I congratulate him very much.\nToday I had the opportunity to spend some time in the Drug Research Institute. For our scientific humanity, such drugs are also cheap, they are effective and without quick side effects, they are spending their whole life in laboratory in the amendment. Scientist are modern sages in a way, and like modern sages, by devoting to their goal, how to rid mankind of troubles, be free from physical suffering, through traditional means of modern science, through modern means, modern How to make more precise through the arrangements; They are working on that.\nToday there are many challenges in front of humans, especially in the field of health. Years are spent in making a medicine, hundreds of scientists are consumed, but before that a new type of disease is born. In a way the competition runs. But with the help of science, with the help of innovation, we have to defeat these defects, defeat the diseases and how to provide cheap cheap and effective medicines to poor people, we have to accept these challenges and win.\nToday I have also had the opportunity to inaugurate this Technical University building. Its name is associated with Dr. APJ Abdul Kalam. I do not believe that there can be some inspiration for Dr. Jagmohan who is bigger than Dr. APJ Abdul Kalam. Science is Universal but Technology Must Be Local. And here is our criterion. The principles of science have been projected. Knowledge of science is available, but it is expected from our young generation that through the available resources, when technology is affecting human life, then what modifications we make in technology, what inventions we have, Make changes in the quality of life of the common man. We are proud in the world that India, which has an army of eight hundred million youths, is the country of young people under the age of 35, they have brains too. If there is skill in hand, science should be established, and technology is invented, then the youngest country in my country has the power to play its role in the world. But we can not make that much progress by using technology. Which may have had a big role in the past centuries, but may not be helpful in the coming century. And so technology has to walk ahead of time, it has to be seen far away. And in India's youth it has the potential, by taking that power, how do we overcome new heights in the field of technology.\nEven today, our country brings us every little thing from foreign to protection, for security, for our army. Can not we make India self-sufficient very soon in the Defense Sector? Whether the resources needed for the security of the country, the technology that is required, the equipment needed, why do not we do it with new inventions in India itself. How do India become self-reliant in the field of security, we are moving forward by taking these dreams. And so we have made many policy changes. We open 100 Percent Foreign Direct Investment in the Defense Sector. We have open up business partners of India for partnership. We have prepared a list of special incentives if we take the things that the Indian government takes from outside, if it is made in India. And all these opportunities are for the young generation associated with technology.\nSimilar is another area. Today Medical Science is Technologically Driven in a way. Now the doctor does not decide which disease you have, the machine decides which disease you are suffering from. Where is the pain in your body, where is the shortage, what is the problem; He decides the machine. And later on the doctor will be the roadmap of health for you based on the report of that machine, what are the medicines, whether or not to do the operation; Makes her decisions. But this Medical Equipment, its Manufacturing, India is such a big country, it is such a huge requirement. Do not think that students of our Technology Field will start that Start Up, we will search on that topic, with new discoveries to meet the requirement of the equipment that is required in the field of health within India, new construction Will go towards\n'Make in India' This Complete Concept To give a new opportunity to our young people connected with the technology of India, Start Up India, Stand Up India, Skill India, Money Scheme, whether to arrange finance, whether the system of technological support Whether it is to give priority to the skill in Human Resource Development, whether it is to overcome new heights in Technical Knowledge, in a way, the country with the Comprehensive Approach, the country has technical knowledge, which is the technical expertise, which is our University Will be near us The young generation will have; By balancing them all, compiling it, the country has to take on a new heights. And this country has shown, whenever the young people of India have the opportunity, they have overcome the challenges and have also installed new demarcation.\nLargest countries of the world have tried to go to Mars. In the first trial, no country in the world could go to Mars and Orbit. Hindustan was the first country in the world which first reached Mars and Orbit in Trial. And the world was surprised that the young scientists of India made this journey to Mars so cheap. If you have to go to taxi in Lucknow, you have to go to auto rickshaw, then it will be worth 10 rupees for one kilometer. We reached Mars, spent only one rupee for one kilometer. And the total budget we had to go to Mars was the amount of money spent on the Hollywood movie, our country's scientist reached Mars.\nThis is the strength in our younger generation, this is the strength of our country's talented youngsters, in technicians, scientists, in the last days when India left 104 satellites together, the world was surprised that with the strength to leave 104 satellites of this country Scientists are in. With this potential to move forward, and in that sense, how can this technical university and all the affiliated colleges affiliated with it go ahead today? I know how difficult it is to work in the field of education in Uttar Pradesh. Our governor, Mr. Ram Naik ji, came as a chancellor in the university, how the discipline came in the university, how he was working in the deadline, he was working late on this night. Of the 28 universities in Uttar Pradesh, 24 universities now have the time to get an exam, timely convocation, have succeeded in doing this. These discipline are very important. But Ram Naik ji is very addicted to doing the work that he takes in handling the things that are in his hand and therefore, in universities of Uttar Pradesh, rules and regulations, rule traditions, discipline is not a waste of the students, Keeping an eye on him, he is trying to push him forward. Now the Yogi ji's government has come and he has got more facilities. The work is expanding more easily.\nIt is a pleasure for me today that some families have been given a certificate regarding their permission for the Prime Minister's Housing Scheme. In 2022 India will celebrate 75 years of independence. Freedom fighters had dreamed, then they climbed to the gallows of hanging. Youth was spent in prisons. A happy prosperous India wanted to see Azad wanted to see Hindustan. They did everything in my life. 2022 will be 75 years of independence. Is not the responsibility of the hundred and fifty million people that we take Hindustan to new heights to fulfill the dream of the country's dreamers. Can the hundred and fifty million people of this country do not take forward this country? I am confident that the potential of hundreds of millions of people is that they can take Hindustan to new heights. We have dreamed that in 2022 when 75 years of independence, the poor from the poor of India should have their own home, they have their own roof and the house is also in which there are toilets, electricity, water, children in close proximity To get the education system and to fulfill that dream, run a campaign throughout the country, in rural housing, urban dwellings and under the same, some mothers get accommodation today and they will find a home for them. Given the Mmti letter government was telling a mother. Now it will be good to say that I will become a house, will marry the children and will call you in marriage. He had so much excitement. When the dreams begin to come true, why do not people be in any condition, but the fun of passing through something is that they have seen me from the things of that mother. The words were theirs, but those expressions gave great inspiration.\nToday, electricity is very important for the development of technology. Technology has its own strength in life's life. Efforts are being made to bring about a new revolution in the country through renewable energy. LED bulb is a huge campaign to save electricity by transferring home. More than 22 million LED bulbs have been found in homes within the last one year and due to which electricity gets more than that but due to the cost of LED bulb, the electricity which is being used by the families in which the LED bulb is being used The bill is being saved, it is about 12 to 13 thousand crores of savings. They are saving the money of ordinary human. Today, I am launching a transmission line of 400 KV here. This is the middle part of Kanpur, including the complete Unnao, there is a quality power, which will help the industrial life here, which will help in the power of the house here. And I had heard that there was also VIP quota in your electricity distribution. Some districts used to be VIPs, there was a kind of electricity and some districts were like this ... I congratulate Yogi ji, congratulate him that he decided to help all 75 districts in a uniform power business Done This is the rule of governance. Nothing special to some and nothing to nothing. I know how difficult it is to finish it, but I believe that the yogi will continue to do this, they have decided that they will bring results.\nBrothers sisters, the country is trying to cross the new heights of development. To overcome new heights of development in every area of ​​life. The hundred and fifty million countries, the strength of these hundred and fifty million people Today, the whole world believes that the country has the fastest movement to move ahead with the fastest pace then that country is named Hindustan. The whole world is looking at India today for glory. Now let's settle all the hundred and fifty million people, we decide the citizens of Uttar Pradesh, you see how the change comes.\nGST is starting from July 1. It's a matter of great pride for this country. All political parties in this country, all political leaders of this country, should not be opposed. All the state governments of this country, the central government, are going to do a historic work together, which is going to be a major change in the country's economy since July 1. This is a great achievement in itself. The accomplishment of the federal structure of India The success of the political parties of India is the accomplishment of maturity. All the political parties of the country above the party, these Hindustan have shown. I am grateful to all the political parties, I am grateful to all the State Governments, I am grateful to all the Legislative Assemblies, I am grateful to the Lok Sabha, Rajya Sabha. Everyone worked successfully to implement this GST. Now I believe that with the cooperation of citizens after the 1st of July, especially with the help of small traders, we will successfully move on to GST, then there will be a lot of greatness for the world so that such a big country can transform. The power of India's democracy will be recognized as the world's largest party of all the parties, all the different ideology of the country, by taking the shoulder in the interest of the country, it is going to look like a mirror in front of the world. It is the power of India's democracy, the power of India's democracy is the strength of maturity. The power of maturity of political parties in India's democracy is the strength that is possible. And hence its credit goes to Modi or does not go to a government. It goes to hundred and fifty million people. India goes to mature democracy. Goes to all the political parties in the country, goes to all the assemblies of the country, goes to the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha.\nNow that great work has happened. We understand him, have difficulties, then the government has made all arrangements. All efforts will be made to overcome these difficulties, but for successful completion of a successful journey, from July 1 onwards, all the people of the country, especially the merchants, carry it on their shoulders, move forward two steps and easily cross it. My faith is that the leadership of the country will do this and will do our merchandise.\nWith this one expectation, I wish all of you who are studying in this campus, all the young people associated with this campus, very much wish to success, I take many requests for success.\nThank you"