"#KochiMetro will contribute to the city's economic growth: PM Modi\n#KochiMetro reflects the \"Make in India\" vision: PM Narendra Modi\n#KochiMetro presents good example of an e-governance digital platform: Prime Minister Modi\nGovernment has given special focus on the development of the nation: PM Modi\nGovernment wants to transform cities, from being transit dependent to being transit oriented: PM Modi\nPrime Minister Narendra Modi unveiled the commemorative flag to inaugurate Kochi Metro.\nThe Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today inaugurated the Kochi Metro, and travelled briefly on the new metro line. He later addressed a large gathering at the ceremony to dedicate Kochi Metro to the nation.\nFollowing is the text of the Prime Minister's address:\nI am happy to be part of the inauguration ceremony of Kochi Metro. I congratulate the people of Kochi on this proud moment.\nFriends!\nKochi, the queen of the Arabian Sea, is an important spice trading center. Today it is known as the commercial capital of Kerala. Kochi ranks first in the total number of international and domestic tourist arrivals in Kerala. So it is fitting that Kochi should have a Metro rail facility.\nThe city's population is growing steadily, and is expected to reach twenty three lakhs by 2021. Therefore, a mass rapid transport system is essential. This will also be contributed to Kochi's economic growth.\nKochi Metro Rail Limited is a fifty - fifty joint venture of Government of India and Government of Kerala. The Union Government has so far released over two thousand crore rupees for Kochi Metro. The phase being inaugurated today will operate from Aluva to Palarivattom. It will cover 13.26 kilometer and eleven stations.\nThis metro project has many significant features.\nIt is the first metro project to be commissioned with a modern signaling system called the \"Communication Based Train Control Signaling System\".\nThe coaches reflect the \"Make in India\" vision. They have been built by Alstom of France, near Chennai on their factory, and have an Indian component of around seventy percent.\nThe Kochi metro integrates the city's entire public transport network into a single system. This system will have a common time-table, common ticketing and centralized `command and control '. It also focuses on improving last mile connectivity and non-motorized transport systems in the inner city.\nThe Kochi Metro has also pioneered an innovative PPP model for ticketing Indian banks and financial institutions are being invited through a bid process to an automated fare collection system. The selected bank will co-brand the Kochi Metro Fare Card and App with the bank's name.\nI am informed that the Kochi-1 Card is a multi-purpose pre-paid contact-less RuPay card which can be used to travel in the metro and also like a normal debit card. Kochi will be one of the few cities in the world and the first in India to have a modern open-loop Smart Card, which can be used with other modes of transport like buses, taxies and autos as well.\nI am also informed that the Kochi-1 Mobile app has been developed with a long term vision. The mobile app has an electronic-wallet integrated to it, which is linked to the Kochi-1 Card. Initially, it will enable citizens of Kochi to get metro services. In future, it will fulfill their travel related requirements, regular payment requirements and provide city and tourist information. Thus, it is a good example of an e-governance digital platform. Another noteworthy aspect of this project is that nearly one thousand women and twenty-three transgenders are selected in the Kochi Metro Rail System.\nThe project is also an example of environment friendly development. It plans to meet almost twenty five percent of the total energy requirements from renewable sources, specifically solar energy. The long-term plan is a zero-carbon emitting urban transit system. Every sixth pillar of the metro system will have a covered vertical garden, which will be used substantially using urban solid waste.\nIt is heartening to note that all stations as well as the Operation Control Center of Kochi have received the platinum rating which is the highest certification level given by the Indian Green Building Council.\nFriends!\nOver the last three years, my government has given special focus on development of the nation. Railways, roads, power has been our priority areas In PRAGATI meetings, I have personally reviewed about 175 projects worth more than eight lakh crore rupees. We have resolved bottlenecks and significantly improved the rate of implementation in these sectors. Now, we are also focusing on next generation infrastructure, which include logistics, digital and gas.\nA number of initiatives have been taken by public transport specially in the cities. Foreign investment has been invited Fifty cities in India are ready to implement metro rail projects\nThe economic and social benefits of metro rail systems are well-known We have speeded up policy formulation in this sector. Recently, the Government of India has standardized the specification for rolling stock and signaling systems of metro rail. This will encourage manufacturers to set-up manufacturing facilities in India with a long-term perspective. In line with the \"Make in India\" vision, efforts are being made to promote domestic production of metro rolling stock.\nFriends!\nThere is a need to bring about a change in urban planning, adopting a people-centric approach, and integrating land-use and transport.\nTowards this end, the Government of India issued a National Transit Oriented Development Policy in April 2017. This policy seeks to transform cities, from being transit dependent to being transit oriented. It aims to make compact walkable communities and bring public transport near to transit.\nI compliment the Union Ministry of Urban Development, led by Venkaiah, for having been formulated, a Value Capture Finance Framework. This provides a value for money.\nLet me conclude by congratulating the citizens of Kochi, the Kochi Metro Rail Corporation and the Chief Minister of Kerala for achieving this important milestone. Kochi was selected as a Smart City in Round One of the challenge process in January 2016. I hope it will do even better in the days to come.\nThank You\nKochi, the queen of Arabian Sea was once an important spice trading center. Today it is known as the commercial capital of Kerala: PM Modi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) June 17, 2017\nKochi Metro Rail Limited is a 50-50 joint venture of GoI \u0026 Govt of Kerala. Union government has so far released Rs 2000 crore: PM Modi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) June 17, 2017\nThe coaches reflect \"Make in India\" vision They have been built by Alstom near Chennai, and have an Indian component of around 70%: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) June 17, 2017\nOver the last three years, my government has given special focus on the development of the nation: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) June 17, 2017\nIn PRAGATI meetings, I have personally reviewed about 175 projects worth more than eight lakh crore rupees \u0026 resolved bottlenecks: PM Modi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) June 17, 2017\nWe are also focusing on next generation infrastructure, which include logistics, digital and gas: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) June 17, 2017\nThere is a need to bring about a change in urban planning by adopting a people-centric approach \u0026 integrating land-use \u0026 transport: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) June 17, 2017\nKochi was selected as a Smart City in Round 1 of the challenge in January 2016. I hope it will do even better in the days to come: PM Modi"