"Sports creates a spirit of sportsmanship, which matters both on and off the field\nThat is why I often say - Jo Khile, Vo Khile- who who play, shine.\nIn this inter-connected and inter-dependent world, a nation's soft power\nis vital. In addition to a nation's economic and military strength, a nation's\nsoft power is seen as central to its identity Sports has become an important part of soft power.\nGiven the global reach and fan following of different sports and sports-persons, a country can carve its own niche in the world through sports\nAchievers in any sport are global sources of motivation. Youngsters draw inspiration from their success and struggles. During every major international competition, be it an Olympics or a world cup or any other such forum, the whole world takes pleasure in the achievements of other nations, though big or small they are\nThis is the uniting power of sports. Sports and culture have a powerful ability in enabling strong and deep people. Even at home in India, a single player catches the imagination of the whole country. His or her performance acts as uniting force - every one prays for him or her when he or she is on the field.\nThe popularity of these athletes live on beyond their times too. For years, sports, just like the pursuit of knowledge, is a part of Indian culture and tradition.\nSports activities like Archery, Swordsmanship, Wrestling, Malkhamb, Boat-Racing are known to have existed for ages.\nIn Kerala, sports like Kuttiyumkolum, Kalari, has been popular.\nI am also aware of how popular mud football is. I am sure many of you know about Sagol Kangjei, which is originally from Manipur. It is said to be older than polo and also played by a wider cross section of society.\nWe have to ensure our traditional games do not lose their popularity. Indigenous games too must be promoted as they have evolved\nPeople take the games naturally and playing them will have huge positive effects on the personality and self-esteem of growing minds.\nTheir roots will become strong Today is the newest interest in Yoga. Yoga is being seen as a means to fitness and wellness, a means to lower stress. Our athletes should also consider making a regular part of their routine and training. The outstanding results\nBeing the home of Yoga, it is our added responsibility to make yoga. And, like Yoga has become popular, we should think of ways to make our traditional sports popular globally.\nIn recent years, you have seen how games like Kabaddi first became a part of international competitions, and now even in the country, large scale kabaddi tournaments are organized. Corporates are sponsoring these tournaments and I am told these tournaments are widely used.\nJust like kabaddi, we have to bring other local indigenous sports from the country to the national level. In this, along with the government, other sports related bodies and the society also have a major role.\nOurs is a country with rich and diverse culture, which has almost 100 languages ​​and more than 1600 dialects, different eating habits, dresses and festivals. Sports plays an important role in uniting us.\nContinuous interaction, travel for competitions, matches, training etc gives us the opportunity to understand the culture and other areas of the country.\nThis strengthens the feeling of Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat and contributed immensely to national integration.\nWe have no shortage of talent But we need to provide right kind of opportunity and create an eco-system to nurture the talent. We launched a program \"Khelo India\". Under this program, Competitions will be held in various disciplines from the school and college level to the national level. Focus will be identifying talent and then nurture it by giving support.\nKhelo India also supports sports facilities Women in our country have made their achievements in all fields- more so in sports\nWe want to specially encourage our daughters What is most gladdening is that in the last Paralympics\nPerhaps going beyond the sporting achievement, The Paralympics and the performance by our athletes have transformed our attitude toward our Divyang sisters and brothers I will never be able to forget what Deepa Malik, a household name in India, said when the medal was awarded to her.\nShe said - \"Through this medal I have actually defeated the disability itself.\"\nThere is great power in this remark We have been successful in creating a mass base for sports.\nDuring\npursued as a career Now this is thinking Soon the results will be shown on the playground. A strong sporting culture\nSports as a full-fledged ecosystem can contribute immensely to our economy apart from making lots of employment opportunities. The sports industry sector provides opportunities in different segments such as professional leagues, sport equipment and surfaces, sports science, medicine, support personnel, apparels, nutrition, skill development, sports management among others.\nSports is a multi-billion dollar global industry driven by enormous consumer demand. The global sports industry is estimated at around 600 billion dollars. In India, the entire sports sector is estimated at US $ 2 billion only.\nHowever, India has huge potential in sports. India is a sports loving country The passion with which young youngsters watch the ongoing Cricket Champions Trophy is the same with whom they will see the EPL football or the NBA basketball fixtures and the F1 Races.\nAnd, as I said earlier, they are also getting drawn on sports like Kabaddi. Our playgrounds and stadiums should be used Holidays should be about going out and playing. Grounds of schools and colleges or the stadiums with modern facilities can be used.\nBefore I conclude my speech, I must appreciate the contribution made in the field of sports and games. I congratulate you for playing I salute the determination of sports-persons who toil for excellence\nI also wish a bright future to USHA School and hope that the new synthetic track will facilitate them. And hopefully contribute to our preparation for major international sports events, including the Tokyo Olympics in 2020.\nI also urge the sports community to decide on a set of goals in sports when our nation marks 75 years of independence in 2022 and pledge to realise them\nI am confident that Usha School will produce more champions in Track and Field events at Olympics and World events. Government of India will fully support you and will provide all possible help in achieving excellence in Athletics.\nThank you.\nThank you very much\nI heartily congratulate all sports enthusiasts on the inauguration of the synthetic track in 'Usha School of Athletics': PM @narendramodi"