"Share\n\nWe have done extensive cooperation with SCO nations We want to deepen the focus on connectivity: PM\nTerrorism is a major threat to humanity: PM Narendra Modi at SCO Summit\nSCO can make focus on climate change: PM\nYour Excellency President Noorsultan Nazarbayev, Distinguished Leaders, Members and Observers of the SCO, Secretary General of the SCO, UN General Secretary, Heads of International organizations, Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen!\nAt the beginning, I am pleased to announce my heartiest congratulations to the successful Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO). Kindly also accepted my appreciation for the excellent organization and hospitality Shanghai Cooperation Corporation is the main pillar of peace and security at the regional and global levels.\nExcellencies,\nIt is a privilege that India will today gain accession to the SCO after 12 years of Observer ship. I am truly grateful to all the nations which supported our accession to the SCO. With this expansion of members, SCO is slated to represent approximately 42% of the population, 20% of GDP and 22% of geographies of the whole world. It is evident that the success of SCO reflects the prosperity and development of a vast part of the world.\nExcellencies,\nIndia may be getting accession to SCO on this day; However, we have been behind us, a truly long standing Trust and goodwill are the main pillars of our political and economic cooperation which is built on trust and bona fides. There are many dimensions of our co-participation with SCO countries. The major drivers of cooperation are the sectors of energy, education, agriculture, security, minerals capacity building, development partnership, trade and investment. I am sure hopeful that our accession to SCO will lead our nations to newer heights of development.\nExcellencies,\nIndia has kept connectivity with SCO nations and we fully support it. We envision that our future generations will only strengthen the march towards success and prosperity of our nations. For this to be successful, we have to make regional cooperation. The success of our connectivity initiatives and other projects will depend on acceptance, solidarity, regional cooperation as well as inclusivity and sustainability. We consider ourselves fortunate to be a part of the International North-South Transport Corridor and Chahabahar Agreement. Our decision to join Ashkhabad agreement will certainly help India establish a strong foothold in this domain.\nExcellencies,\nTerrorism is corroding the human rights and human values ​​in citizens Therefore, SCO's role in curbing terrorism and Extremism is commendable. Becoming the Randomicalization, the recruitments and training of terrorists, or the financing of these outfits, if we have been able to do so, we will never get into our nations in security and peace. I protest in full cooperation in the collaboration between SCO and India in fortifying our fight in ousting terrorist outfits.\nIn regional perspective, Afghanistan can also benefit greatly from SCO's efforts in reinstating peace and stability in the country. The need of the hour is that SCO needs to take initiative in the problem of climate change in the global context at war footing. In this context, I must congratulate Kazakhstan and the vision of the president in selecting a very relevant theme of \"Future Energy\" in Astana Expo 2017.\nExcellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen,\nToday, it is really a landmark day for SCO India is ready to play an active role in aligning itself with the vision of SCO, and will collaborate unequivocally in the development process Once again, I express my earnest thanks to President Nazarbayev for the successful organization of the conference. I also extend my best wishes to President Xi Jinping for the upcoming SCO conference\nThank you!\nWe have done extensive cooperation with SCO nations We want to deepen the focus on connectivity: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) June 9, 2017\nTerrorism is a major threat to humanity: PM @narendramodi at the SCO Summit\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) June 9, 2017\nSCO can make focus on climate change: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) June 9, 2017\nPM @narendramodi starts address at SCO Summit; congratulate Prez Nazarbayev for succesful leadership \u0026 excellent organization of SCO Summit\n- Gopal Baglay (@MEAIndia) June 9, 2017\nPM: SCO is a main pillar of peace \u0026 security in regional and global perspective; India will subscribe to SCO today after 12 years of obsrvr'p\n- Gopal Baglay (@MEAIndia) June 9, 2017\nPM @narendramodi: To support our membership, I express heartfelt gratitude to all countries of SCO."