"#MannKiBaat: PM Modi extends greetings on Ramzan, says it reveals spiritualuality \u0026 charity\n#MannKiBaat: India's cultural diversity is her strength, says the Prime Minister\n#ManKiBaat during PM: Due to many great men who spent years in jails and even sacrificed their lives in our country\nVeer Savarkar's role in India's freedom movement can not be forgotten: PM Modi during #MannKiBaat\nConnecting with nature If we do so, we are a better planet: PM during #MannKiBaat\nPM: During the campaign #MannKiBaat\n#MannKiBaat: Yoga is unifying the whole world, guarantees wellness as well as fitness, says Shri Modi\nSwachhata has become a mass movement today. It has generated a spirit of competitiveness among the cities: PM during #MannKiBaat\nThinking of waste or garbage in terms of wealth may incubate new ideas for: PM during #MannKiBaat\nConstructive criticism strengthens the democratic fabric: PM Modi during #MannKiBaat\nLet us all commit ourselves that by 2022, we will build a new India: PM during #MannKiBaat\nMy dear countrymen, Namaskar It will probably be difficult for us to forget the year's summer .. But, we are now awaiting the rain As I am talking to you today, the holy month of Ramzan has already started. I convey my hearty greetings to all fellow Indians and everyone across the world, especially the Muslim brothers at the advent of this auspicious month of Ramazan. Prayer, spiritualuality and charity are accorded the highest priority during Ramzan. We, Indians, are very fortunate that our ancestors have created such a tradition that today India and its 1.25 billion people take pride in the fact that all the communities and faith from the people were available here .. This is a country where both theists and atheists ; idolaters and those loathing idol-worship co-exist We have adapted ourselves to myriad types of ideas, different ways of worshiping and imbibed the art of co-existential living. In the ultimate, any religion, faith, ideology or tradition- give us the message of peace, unity and goodwill. This holy month of Ramzan will definitely be helpful in further strengthening these values ​​of peace, unity and goodwill. I, once again convey my best wishes to all.\nLast time around while sharing my thoughts in Mann Ki Baat I mentioned) a new word and had specially exhorted our young people to do something new, to comfort zone from outside, to experience new things; As this is the age when one can experiment and take risks and accept new challenges of life. I am happy All of them showed enthusiasm by saying their minds to me I was not able to listen to all the messages, but I was able to see a cursory look that while some made music for the effort, some of the new musical instrument on hand tried, Some of them are a new language. Some are learning cooking and drama; Some have written that they have now started writing They are making efforts to know about nature and are learning the art of living. I am extremely happy and want to share\n\"I am Diksha Katiyal speaking I was about to leave the habit of reading. So I decided to pick up the habit during vacations. When I started reading about the freedom struggle, it was then realized that how many sacrifices were given and how so many freedom fighters spent years in prison. I am specially inspired by Bhagat Singh, who achieved so much at such a young age. So I request you to tell the young generation today on this topic. \"\nI am happy that young generation is taking interest in knowing about our history, about our freedom fighters and about those who made sacrifices for the country Countless great men Many youngsters went to the gallows. They suffer despicable miseries and that is how we can now breathe in a free India. We see all those great men who spent their time in jails did a great job of writing and reading. Their writings provided a great strength and inspiration to our freedom movement\nMany years ago, I visited Andaman \u0026 Nicobar Islands. I went to the Cellular Jail there. Today is the birth anniversary of Veer Savarkarji. Veer Savarkarji had written a book \"Majhi Jannmathep\" while in prison. He used to write poetry He These seekers have given freedom through immense torture. I was inspired to visit the Cellular Jail only after reading Savarkarji's book \"Maazi Janmthep\"\nA light and sound show too There was hardly any state in India who were not exiled from the dark waters of Andamans and were forced to spend their youth in the Cellular Jail during the freedom movement. The people involved in this struggle\nToday is the birth anniversary of Veer Savarkarjee. I would definitely want to tell our young generation that even the people of the people who have been tortured and tortured. Once we go there, we have come to know as to why this was called Kaalaa Paani or the dark waters. If you get a chance, please pay a visit to this place which is really a pilgrimage of our freedom struggle.\nMy dear countrymen, 5th of June is the first Monday of the month. Everything is other normal Yet, 5th of June is a special day as it was observed as \"World Environment Day\". This year the United Nations has chosen the theme 'Connecting People to Nature'. In other words, we could say \"back to basics\" And what's the meaning of connecting with nature ?? In my view, it means getting one's own self Connecting with nature means nurturing a better planet. And, who can explain this in a better way than Mahatma Gandhi? Mahatma Gandhi often used to say, \"One must care about a world one will not see\". This means that it is our duty to be concerned about the world. Nature possesses a special power. You might have also observed that whenever we feel tired and exhausted, splashing a glass of water on our face is a wonderful rejuvenating effect. If you return after a tiring day's work, just open the windows and doors of the air - this will fill you with fresh energy. Our body is made of five basic elements and we get fresh energy. All of us have experienced this but we do not register this, we do not connect this in one thread of sequence.\nNow on, kindly make it a point to notice that whenever you come into a natural condition, a new spirit emerges from within you. So, the global campaign of connecting with nature on 5th June should become our personal campaign as well. And we are reaping the benefits of the environment. And if we will protect the environment, our future generations will reap the benefits Vedas, and the environment And, Atharva Veda, written thousands of years ago, is the most authentic guiding scripture about nature and environment. In India, it has been said - \"Earth is the mother and I am her son\". According to Vedas, the purity inside us is The Earth is our mother and we are all her children If we recall Lord Buddha, a fact comes to light that his birth, his enlightenment and his Mahaparinirvana, all three happened under a tree. We have many festivals and religious rituals which are based on worship and nature. This is true in case of all sections of society, whether or not, rural or urban and even tribal communities. But we need to present this modern language and integrate with modern arguments.\nThese days, I keep the news from our states Almost in every state, a big plantation campaign gets under the start of monsoon. Millions of trees are planted School children, social organizations and NGOs also get connected with the campaign. Even State Governments take an initiative Let us also make our contribution in enhancing this campaign.\nMy dear countrymen, 21st June has a well known day world over The whole world observes as World Yoga Day. In a very short time, 21st June has got global recognition as World Yoga day and is connecting people. At a time when separatist forces are raising their ugly heads this is India's great contribution to the world .. We have successfully connected the whole world through Yoga. Like Yoga connects body, mind, heart and soul Because of life style, because of the crazy race to achieve success and because of increasing responsibilities, leading a stress-free life has become very difficult. It is seen, this situation is coming up even at a comparatively younger age. At a time when people are gobbling up medicines indiscriminately and passing their days, Yoga plays a very important role. Yoga is a guarantee of wellness and fitness both. Yoga is not only a exercise How to mount on the journey of life with the inter-play of body, mind, thoughts and behavior can be better realized and understand through Yoga. Just two days back, I have written letters to all governments and all leaders of the Yoga Day.\nLast year, I made announcements of some Yoga competitions and some awards as well. We will gradually advance in that direction. I have received one suggestion and I compliment the gentleman who has made this creative suggestion. It is a very interesting suggestion He has said since this is the Third International Yoga Day I should make an appeal that on this third international Yoga Day, three generations of the family should do yoga together. Grand parents, parents and children should join the show Yoga and also upload their photos. It will be such a pleasant blend of yesterday, today and tomorrow that will be a new dimension to Yoga. I express my gratitude for this suggestion and I feel that as 'our selfie with daughter' campaign has proved to be a very inspiring experience. So will this campaign of posting pictures of three generations together will be done. You should definitely send the pictures of three generations doing yoga together to me on Narendra ModiApp or on Mygov. \"Yesterday, today and tomorrow\" and will be a guaranteed a bright tomorrow. I invite all of you We are still left with about three weeks for the International Yoga Day. Start practice from today itself.\nFrom 1st June, I will post something or the other about Yoga on Twitter and continue to do so till 21st June. I will share with you You too kindly spread the message of Yoga and connect people with it. This, in a way, is a movement on preventive health care. I invite you all to get connected to it. Ever since you have been entrusted with the responsibility of being the Prime Sewak- the Chief Servant of the people and when for the first time I got a chance to address from the Red Fort on 15th August, I had talked of cleanliness. From then onwards, I get a chance to stay in different parts of the country. And, I have seen that people are closely related to what Modi does, where do Modi go, what all has done, I received a very interesting phone call and I also did not visualize from this angle. But, I am thankful to you for the campaign in this way. This phone call will also attract your attention.\n\"Pranam Modi ji, I'm Naina from Mumbai Modi ji I watch on TV or Social Media, wherever you go, one can see people in that city pay Cleanliness to special attention Mumbai or Surat, your call is based on a mission. Cleanliness of the elders Many times a year The cleanliness drive that you started from the Ghats or Banks of the Ganges in Kashi has now taken shape of a movement inspired by you. \"\nYou are right, that is where I go, the government machinery is the cleaning but nowadays cleanliness also turns into a social event. Five, seven or ten days before Media also prominently highlighted such programs, A few days ago, I went to Kutch in Gujarat. A big cleanliness drive was conducted there. I also did not But, after receiving this phone call, I also started thinking that. You can very well imagine how much pleasure i derive by knowing this fact and also by noticing that the country is also closely monitoring the program. There can not be any bigger pleasure for me than the cleanliness campaign. Apart from Prime Minister, cleanliness will also be on the agenda. This is very appealing and inspiring I congratulate everyone with this cleanliness programme providing strength to it.\nSomeone gave me a suggestion This is a way to humorous suggestion. I do not know whether I will be able to do it or not Modi ji, when someone asks for your visit, your stay, you should ask as to the standard of cleanliness, if they want to invite you How many tons of waste do you present to me? The idea But, one thing is right that this movement should be encouraged and it would definitely be better if cleaning tons of waste are cleaned and given as gifts in other gifts. How many people will be able to save from health This will be a big service to humanity One thing I would like to say is that we should always think about these waste as resources and wealth. Do not see it as just garbage Once we start looking at garbage and waste as a wealth, we will also find newer, techniques of waste management. Young people connected with Start-ups will also come forward with newer schemes.\nThe Central Government has along with State Governments and the City of the Municipalities of the cities of the city have decided to launch a massive and important campaign of waste management. On the occasion of World Environment Day, 5th June, there are cities for litter bins made available to collect solid waste and liquid waste in 4000 cities of the country.\nTwo types of waste bins will be available, one will be green color and the other blue. There are two types of waste generated, the liquid waste and the other is dry waste. If we follow discipline, then the waste bins that are going to be kept in these 4 thousand towns will have dry garbage in blue waste bins and liquid waste in green waste bins. The waste from our kitchens, be it vegetable peels, leftover food, egg shells or leaves are all part of liquid waste and are kept in green litter bins. This waste can be used in fields, and if you will remember that fields are green then you'll remember what the green litter bins The second type of waste is like old newspapers, cardboard, iron, glass, cloth, plastic, leather, polythene, broken boxes, rubber, metals and other kind of waste are all dry waste or litter which can be recycled by machines but can not be Directly used in the blue waste bin I have a firm belief that we will develop a culture and the new steps that we take towards achieving cleanliness will continue, only then will we achieve the dream of Gandhiji, achieving the kind of cleanliness that he dreamt of, today. I must admit with pride that if a single person decides it in his heart then a huge public campaign can be launched. Cleanliness is also one such drive.\nA few days ago, you must have heard that the Versova beach in Mumbai, which was known for its filth is now transformed into a clean and beautiful beach. People toiled for about 80-90 weeks, unceasingly and turned into Versova beach around by extracting thousands of tons of waste materials and today Versova beach is clean and beautiful. This campaign was owned by Versova Residence volunteer or VRV. A gentleman named Afroz Shah started this mission from October, 2015 full heartedly with all his might, slowly people started joining his bandwagon and turned into a people's movement. For outstanding work, United Nations Environment Program or UNEP award 'Champion of the Earth' Award to Sh. Afroz Shah, and thus he has become the first Indian to achieve this distinction. I congratulate Sh. Afroz Shah, and felicitate this people's movement. The way in which Sh Afroz Shah gathered the people of the area in a people's collective and gave it a shape of a inspirational example.\nBrothers and Sisters, It is great pleasure that I am willing to tell you, that is the 'Swachch Bharat Campaign', the Riyasi Block in Jammu and Kashmir is completely free of open defecation. I wish to congratulate the people of Riyasi Block and also the public servants of Riyasi Block. J \u0026 K has presented a excellent example. I congratulate one and all in the state I have been told that this movement found maximum leadership amidst women The women of that area took out torch rallies to spread awareness, went from house to house, street to street and inspired the people towards this goal. I felicitate the mothers and sisters of Riyasi I also congratulate the administrators for a great start by turning one block in the state of Jammu and Kashmir open defecation free.\nMy dear countrymen, an audit and assessment of the present government in the last three years is happening on newspapers, social media or TV for the last 15 days .. Three years ago you vested the responsibility of 'Prime Sewak' - The Chief Servant of the People There are many surveys and many opinion polls. I see this whole process as a very healthy sign The work done during this year It was analyzed by every segment of society And this is a great process in democracy I firmly believe that the government must accountable in democracy and the public must be done I wish to congratulate those who took out time for an in depth analysis of our work, I understand the importance of all these things. I thank those people, who provided critical and important feedback. The mistakes and the shortcomings once highlighted can be rectified. Whether something is good, little less effective or bad, whatever it is, one has to learn from it and move ahead in life.\nConstructive criticism strengthens democracy; for a aware nation, a awakened nation, this churning is very important\nMy dear countrymen, I too am an ordinary citizen like you and like any ordinary citizen I too am influenced by good or bad things Some people take 'Man Ki Baat' as a monologue and some criticize it from a political angle but after a long experience, I now feel, that when I first started 'Man Ki Baat,' I had not given the fact that 'Mann Ki Baat' would make me a member of every family in India. Now I feel as if I'm conversant with my family. And there are many families. And as I said, as an ordinary citizen, I too get affected emotionally Two days ago there was a launch of analytical book on 'Man Ki Ki Baat' at Rashtrapati Bhawan, it was attended by the Hon'ble President, Hon'ble Vice President, Madam Speaker of the Lok sabha and as an ordinary citizen and as a person was very inspirational event for me I am grateful to the Hon'ble President, Hon'ble Vice President and Madam Speaker, that inspite of their such high stature they took out time and they were accorded importance to 'Man Ki Baat'. In fact it has given itself a new dimension to 'Man Ki Ki Baat'. Some of our friends, while working on this book have also discussed it with me too. And some time ago, I was pleasantly surprised when Akbar Sahab an artist living in Abu Dhabi, proposed that he wishes to sketch the topics on which various episodes of 'Man Ki Baat' were based, and without taking a single rupee Akbar sahab transformed 'Mann Ki Baat' in art as a gesture of his love I am grateful to Akbar Sahab\nMy dear countrymen, when we will meet next time by then the monsoon rains will be lashing every corner of the country, the weather will change, the exam results will come, the journey of education will start fresh and the rain is a hope, pleasant fragrance, a new aroma! Come let us move ahead while loving nature in such a pleasant atmosphere.\nMy great felicitations and best wishes to you Thank you.\nOn the start of Ramzan, I convey my greetings to people across the world: PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 28, 2017\nIndia's diversity is our strength #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/9S8CqkILic\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 28, 2017\nWe are proud that people from all faiths live in India in a harmonious manner. #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/pDFZ293wDs\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 28, 2017\nI said that during the holidays I am happy to share my experiences with PM: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 28, 2017\nI am happy to see youngsters are taking interest in our freedom fighters, who spend their lives in jail #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/BeOK8diQ1a\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 28, 2017\nToday we remember Veer Savarkar on his Jayanti He spent time at 'Kaala Pani' and there he wrote a lot: PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 28, 2017\nPeople from all over India were imprisoned in the cellular jail. #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/ITtXMD1Zp7"