"By 2022, we want to pay our farmers' income: PM\nThrough 'Sampada Yojana' we want to ensure value addition of agri-products: PM\nIn our decisions, people have supported us Narendra Modi\nPeople made Swachhata a mass movement. Media too played a key role in furthering the message of cleanliness: PM\nLet us all be the first five years Let us build a new India: PM\nMr. Ranjit Das, State President, Bharatiya Janata Party, sitting on the platform, Mr. Sarbananda Sonawal, popular and successful Chief Minister of Assam, Mr. Prema Khandu, Chief Minister of Arunachal Pradesh, Mr. N. Biren Singh, Chief Minister of Manipur, Minister of State in the Government Mr. Hemanta Vishwasharma Yes, my fellow doctors of the Council of Ministers of the Central Government, Dr. Jitendra Singh, Faggan Mr. Anupriya, Minister of State Government Mr. Keshav Bahtanta, BTC Chief Mr. Hagarama Moyli Ji, Mr. Ajay Jamwal, Pramila Rani Brahma Ji, My Partner Raman Deka Ji, Minister of State Government Mr. Rehan Dimari Ji, Chandramohan Patwari Ji , Bhavanswarup Bhattacharya ji and my brothers and sisters of Assam, who were camped in large numbers.\nThree years ago, on May 26, at the Rashtrapati Bhavan campus in Delhi, the President had given me the oath of office of Prime Minister. Today, at the same time, the same thing is happening for 3 years. And this 3 years, Assam's request was good if I can come here today. At first, the tradition was such that on such occasions Delhi has more importance. But the culture of our government is such that every corner of India for us is Delhi. And today, this year's 3 years of humiliation and one year of Assam Government, the people of this country have come and blessed you so much. I am very grateful to your heart. And the Megh king himself also came and blessed. And as soon as the program started, Megha King also compromised for us. Therefore, I express my gratitude to the King of the Cloud.\nbrothers Sisters.\nThis morning, I got the privilege of launching the longest bridge of Hindustan. And today the foundation stone of two important institutions. Let us understand that such a large institution for research in the field of agriculture should come in Assam and the foundation stone of AIIMS in Guwahati, today alone has got the opportunity to make a foundation or auction of a project of about three and a half thousand crores in a single day. In the same day, about three and a half thousand rupees, coming into a state, in itself, tells what the government thinks? You can see that which is our dream of development of every state of India.\nbrothers Sisters.\nThis morning I had announced that this long bridge of India is made up of Brahmaputra which is the bridge. Bhupendra Hazarika used to worship Brahmaputra throughout his life, singing songs of Brahmaputra, he was becoming Brahmaputraya. And so today these bridges have also dedicated their name to them. And this bridge will be known as Bhupendra Hazarika. Today I had the opportunity of the foundation stone of the Agricultural Research Institution. There I made another announcement - of the farmer's wealth plan. In 2022, the intention to double the income of the farmer of the Indian farmer is moving forward by taking a resolution, then, under a farmer's wealth scheme, food processing should be done in agro-product, value addition, increase in value. I announced today a plan to invest Rs one lakh crores in the expansion of agricultural production by enabling FDI in the world with Seed Money of Rs 6000 crores for that work. This farmer's wealth plan will be the property of the farmers in true sense. The country will give a new dimension to the economy.\nAnd today when I came between you in Guwahati, you know. The Lok Sabha was last going on. We made a very important decision. For many years, the people of the previous class of our country were demanding an OBC commission. But the previous governments kept listening, giving assurance. But the OBC Commission has never decided. We made these decisions. The law has passed and for the first time, India's crore crores, OBC people, people of backward classes, we have done a work to give them a constitutional order.\nbrothers Sisters.\nIn the coming days, in the schools, admissions will run in the colleges. Keeping all this in mind, OBC Crimelier, which has so far been considered as 6 lakh rupees. The Government has decided to increase the limit of Crimailare to 8 lakh by increasing it by 25%. And because of this, children of the backward class will be benefitted with the increase of 2 lakhs, who are likely to get rid of the children who are going to get admission this time. And this vast feature of the society will be a huge benefit in this life to make progress in education in this life.\nbrothers Sisters.\nToday I want to express my heartfelt gratitude to the citizens of the country. You gave us an opportunity to build a government with full majority by putting a trust in us. As a Principal servant, I have been given the opportunity to work, but more than that I have seen in these 3 years that by just voting, you have not slept by getting us into power. Now Modi has come and will do everything, you did not do that. With great satisfaction in 3 years, with great pride, bowing in front of hundreds of millions of Indians, I admire this with pride that the country, hundred and fifty million people, walk with us at every step. Go with us in every situation. We have strictly stringent decisions. Over 100 million countrymen, they strengthened the faith Gave new power to trust Perhaps public support in making public in public life, this is a democratic process. But the public, in the running of the government, walked two steps ahead of the government, for the first time since Independence, India has seen this in three years. Every Hindustani will be proud of this. When I was fortunate to have my say in front of the country for the first time on Red Fort. And I did the subject of hygiene. Astonished for all the people. What is this prime minister? Talking of toilets on Red Fort Talking about cleanliness. So far, we have heard very big things. Big figures, big plans have been heard from this red fort. What kind of chief minister has come in that he is talking about toilets? It's been a matter of cleanliness. The big wonder was felt for the people ....\nBut brothers and sisters\nCan be uniquely for once. They might be surprised for them. But I came from the background. The life I have come out of. And so what matters in the life of these things. I can feel good about these things. What kind of things do the small people of the country have to go through? It is from my experience that I have come, understood. And so once I said that. My background is such. My upbringing is such that in which a small person is experiencing the feeling of a person coming from the very last row. And so I said so. I am small and I will be doing great work for small people. This is my intention. I am indigenous to the citizens that the public has made the Sanitation campaign a program. Media also helped 100 percent. Initially, people of political opposition scoffed at him. But later also he stopped criticizing him. In a way everyone got support How can rule rule with public support after independence? How can the governance run by the public participation? How can the government lead the Janadarna? You have seen many examples of this.\nbrothers Sisters.\nIn our country, giving gas cylinder 9 or giving 12, big leaders of India were entangled. In the Saasand, used to fix 12 cylinders for 9 cylinders for hours. That was also a time. This is also a time. You have set up a government, the government told people that why do not you leave the subsidy of gas. Hey, leave something for the poor and today I bow my head and salute more than 10 million people who bow down to the families and leave them subsidy for their gas. And to burn gas stove in the poor house, they participated.\nbrothers Sisters.\nUnderstanding the power of the people's mind, understanding the power of the people, we have made decisions to increase the participation of the people in the schemes. brothers Sisters. Noteben was a very strong decision. Still some people say that. We can not even imagine such a drastic decision. And in those days, in the speeches of politicians on TV, there was nothing happened to create resentment across the country. If the intention of the government was not good, would not have taken a good decision. The way in which such a big attempt was made to set fire to such a tough decision. How big a powerful government would be consumed, but they were hundred and fifty million people. His blessings were that in spite of such a large number of artificial tornadoes, despite the crores of attempts to mislead, the people of the country were not staggering, even standing with the shoulder and with the main servant like me. You tell me How much pleasure would it be to give life to such people? I love the joy of this. People sometimes ask me Do not be tired of Modi So keep running. I said, hundred and a hundred million people go every step a step ahead of me. Let me cooperate on everything. For them, this is the joy of buying zidongi. She does not tire me, she inspires me to work. Dedicated, devoted and devoted to this life, I want to give you and what to give. It is inspired to work with this feeling.\nbrothers Sisters.\nDecisions and changes in our country, there was a time in the public What was the atmosphere In general life, disappointment was rife. And disappointment had reached home to this extent. That brother is no longer going to happen. Now live, live life. Now nothing is going to happen. brothers Sisters. The time has changed. Today nothing will happen now, it is going to run like this. Will have to live like this. Take care of life, this feeling is over. Hope is awakened in everyone's heart. No, of course it will not. Something good will be something. We will definitely move forward. The country will be strong in the world. This belief is born today in the crores of Hindus.\nbrothers Sisters.\nThere was a time. Stagnation was the only stagnation. It was not known whether the government is or not. So something is happening or is not happening. What is happening is happening then. How is it going For whom is happening. Everything seemed like a pause. Today, a continuous uninterrupted flow of repetition from the stoppage of stay, new programs every day, new plans every day, new efforts every day, new efforts every day, the country is experiencing, when the working culture changes. The style of work changes. Leadership thinking changes. Decided to walk with honesty. Then the government is the same, Muljim itself, the same file, the office itself, the same time, everybody, despite all, is engaged in the work. The change begins. Today the country is experiencing. Seeing the changes. When people started coming to the government office in time So the media became headlines This means that the office will be the case before. We can look at it very well.\nbrothers Sisters.\nHow does the government run After becoming a law in Parliament, such a big important parliament, members of the coming Parliament, by passing votes of millions of people, to pass any law, argue for hours, argue arguments, gather information, study nightly Discuss in Parliament, legislation passed in Parliament, but governments were running such that the law passed in Parliament also went inside the office and closed in the box of the file. D. Neither did the notification happen nor would the rules ever be made. What could be the contempt of this big parliament? You must have seen Anonymous property .... Every citizen of this country is angry against corruption, dishonesty, resentment and resentment. In 1988, Anonymous made a law in relation to property. They have not been notified for 28 years, rules are not made. What government\nbrothers Sisters.\nToday there is another environment in the country. There was a time when a good honest person should live honestly or not, should not live. There was a question mark standing on this. Her mind began to get distracted. After living a life of honesty sincerely, he started thinking that what was found by being honest? Look, where he reached the dishonest, see what he is dishonestly Look at his dishonesty, this government does a job, where does the money to travel abroad in the vacancy? He used to cycle till yesterday, where did this big banglow come from today? Even the honest person even started seeing this. His integrity also started to falter, he became distracted. Those days were today\nbrothers Sisters.\nThe hundred and fifty million people experience this fact that for the first time in India the opportunity of honesty has come. The opportunity to live for honesty has come. The honesty that won won the trust of his. It seems that now it is difficult for the dishonest people to live happily, now my honesty will bring color, even though happiness in my life has not come, but there is an opportunity to live in peace, this environment is created today. A few days ago I met the children of a good family. Just like I asked the youth what is going on in the brother-in-law. He said, Saab is a discussion in our house, we talk with our parents that whatever was in your era, you would have been dishonest, must have broken government rules, would have broken, you bought people It would have been bought but now the time has changed. Our generation wants to do something honestly and we believe we can live a good life honestly.\nbrothers Sisters.\nईमानदारी को अवसर मिले, मैं जानता हूं इसके लिए मुझे कितना कष्ट झेलना पड़ता है। कितनी बातों पर मुझे कठोरता बरतनी पड़ती है लेकिन मैं देश की जनता को वादा करके आया हूं और उस वादे को मैं पूरी तरह निभाऊंगा।\nbrothers Sisters.\nएक वक्त था जब देश में काले धन का ही कोहराम मचा हुआ था। काला धन, काला धन, काला धन यही कान पर आता था। ये कैसी सरकार है जहां काला धन नहीं जन धन, जन धन, जन धन यही शब्द सुनाई देते हैं। ये फर्क है दोस्तों, ये फर्क है। ...और आज। आज जन धन की चर्चा होती है। आने वाले दिवसों में डिजिधन की चर्चा भी सहज रूप से होगी। कहां काला धन, वहां से निकलकर के जन धन और अब आगे डिजिधन। एक के बाद एक हमारी यात्रा का रास्ता खुलता जा रहा है।\nbrothers Sisters.\nहमने सरकार बनाई। 26 को शपथ लिया, 2 दिन के बाद हमारी पहली केबिनेट मीटिंग हुई। पहली मीटिंग में पहला निर्णय था, काले धन के खिलाफ कदम उठाने का। और भाइयों बहनों। चोरी के पैसों से जो बड़े-बड़े बंग्ले बनाकर बैठे हैं, बेनामी संपत्ति जिन्होंने बनाई है। 18-20 साल के उनके बेटे दुनिया की महंगी से महंगी मोटरबाइक लेकर के दुनिया में घूम रहे हैं। अगर वो पैसा बेईमानी का है तो हम निकालकर के रहेंगे, गरीबों को लौटा कर रहेंगे भाइयों बहनों। मैं जानता हूं इसकी कीमत चुकानी पड़ेगी, हर कीमत चुकाने के लिए तैयार हूं लेकिन जनता को जो वादा किया है, उस वादे से मैं कभी मुकरने वाला नहीं हूं। मैं ये लड़ाई, लड़ाई लड़ने वाला हूं क्योंकि मैं देख रहा हूं सवा सौ करोड़ देशवासी ईमानदारी का उत्सव मनाने के लिए फैसला कर चुके हैं और मैं देश की जनता के साथ चलने के लिए तैयार हूं भाइयों बहनों।\nbrothers Sisters.\nजब सवा सौ करोड़ देशवासी संकल्प कर लेते हैं, आगे बढ़ने का निर्णय कर लेते हैं और शासन प्रो-पीपल होता है, प्रो-पूअर होता है, प्रो-एक्टिव होता है तो जनता जनार्दन का भरोसा भी अनेक गुना बढ़ जाता है। फिर काम सरल हो जाते हैं। आज मैं अनुभव कर रहा हूं। अब नोटबंदी के बाद किसी ने सोचा होगा कि करीब-करीब 90 लाख से भी ज्यादा लोग ईमानदारी के उत्सव में जुड़ गए। टैक्स देने के लिए सामने से आगे आए और इनकम टैक्स डिपार्टमेंट के साथ अपने आपको जोड़ दिया। अभी तो सरकार ने किसी को कुछ कहा नहीं है, अभी तो सिर्फ मैं चीजें तैयार कर रहा हूं। उसके बावजूद भी 90 लाख लोगों का अपने आप देश को कर्ज चुकाने के लिए आगे आना, ये अपने आपमें ईमानदारी के अवसर को एक ताकत देने वाली घटना के रूप में मैं देखता हूं।\nbrothers Sisters.\nहमारा ये विश्वास रहा है कि हम जनता-जनार्दन पर भरोसा करें। अंग्रेजों ने कभी भी हिंदुस्तान की जनता पर भरोसा नहीं किया। वे इस देश को गुलाम बनाए रखने के लिए हर हिंदुस्तानी पर शक करते हुए अपनी शासन व्यवस्था को विकसित किया था। दुर्भाग्य से आजादी के बाद भी सरकारों की आदत वही रही और जनता पर शक करना।\nbrothers Sisters.\nपिछले साल में आपने देखा होगा। हमने हर काम में जनता पर भरोसा करने को प्राथमिकता दी है। शुरुआत यहीं से करते हैं, जनता-जनार्दन नागरिक सही बोलता है। हमें पहले मानकर चलना चाहिए कि सही बोलता है। अगर गलत हमारे पास जानकारी आए तब उसकी गलती की बात करनी चाहिए, आते ही उसको गलत मानकर नहीं चलना चाहिए।  अब आपको मालूम है, पहले कभी स्कूल में एडमिशन लेना है, कॉलेज में एडमिशन लेना है, नौकरी की अर्जी करनी है तो जिरॉक्स कॉपी सर्टिफिकेट की, उसको भी किसी पॉलिटीशियन के घर जाकर के ठप्पा मरवाना पड़ता था। क्यों भाई... ? जब जिरॉक्स मशीन है जब फाइनल इंटरव्यू होगा, नौकरी का उस समय जो ऑरिजनल कॉपी है वो देख लीजिए, अभी उसको क्यों दौड़ाते हो...? हमारी सरकार ने निर्णय कर लिया देश की जनता पर भरोसा करो। वो खुद अपने आप अपना साइन कर दे, खुद ही कह दे कि हां ये मेरे ट्रू कॉपी है, मान लो उसको। घटना छोटी होगी लेकिन सोचने का तरीका क्या है। उसकी शुरुआत यहीं से होती है। हमने इनकम टैक्स में लोगों को कहा कि 50 लाख का अगर आपका कारोबार है। प्रोफेशनल का आप अपने हिसाब से सरकार को बता दीजिए और इतनी मात्रा में टैक्स दे दीजिए आपको कोई हिसाब रखने की जरूरत नहीं, दिखाने की जरूरत नहीं। जनता पर भरोसा करना चाहिए। जनता पर विश्वास करना चाहिए। दिल्ली में एक ऐसी सरकार है जिसका अपने पर ईमानदारी का इतना विश्वास है कि वो जनता को ईमानदार मानती है और ईमानदार जनता पर भरोसा करके आगे बढ़ने का फैसला लेकर के चलती है। एक अलग कार्य संस्कृति क्या होती है? एक अलग कार्य करने का तरीका क्या होता है? ये आज देश अनुभव कर रहा है।\nbrothers Sisters.\nआज देश में दुनिया के अंदर जो आईटी रिवोल्यूशन आया है। हिंदुस्तान पीछे नहीं रह सकता है। अफवाह फैलाने वाले फैलाते रहेंगे लेकिन हमने इस टेक्नोलॉजी का भरपूर फायदा उठाना है। एक के बाद एक हमारे कदम गरीब से गरीब व्यक्ति को इम्पॉवर करने वाले हैं। बैंकों की ब्रांच कम थी, हमने पोस्ट ऑफिस को पेमेंट बैंक में बदलने का निर्णय कर लिया। एक दम रातों-रात लाखों नईं बैंकें बन गईं। हमने डिजिटल पेमेंट की व्यस्था की। हर इंसान का मोबाइल फोन अपने आप बैंकिंग व्यवस्था का हिस्सा बन गया। मॉस स्कैल पर बदलाव कैसे लाया जा सकता है। ये आप अनुभव कर सकते हैं।\nbrothers Sisters.\nकुछ काम ऐसे हैं जो हमारा इंतजार नहीं कर सकते। हम हमारी पुरानी आदत से चलेंगे तो ये तो लगेगा कि काम हो रहा है। सरकार कुछ कर रही है लेकिन जनता-जनार्दन या देश को कोई लाभ नहीं होगा। हिंदुस्तान को आज से 10 साल पहले ऑप्टिकल फाइबर नेटवर्क से जोड़ने की जरूरत थी। पुरानी सरकारों में निर्णय भी हुआ लेकिन भाइयों बहनों। 100 गांव तक भी ऑप्टिकल फाइबर का काम पहुंचा नहीं। 3 साल ऐसे ही गए, हमने आने के बाद बीड़ा उठाया। \nbrothers Sisters.\nआज करीब-करीब 1 लाख गांवों तक हमने इस काम को पहुंचा दिया है। तेज गति से पहुंचा दिया है। काम को गति चाहिए, सरकार है, चलती है, कुछ हो रहा है, नहीं... । समय सीमा में तय किया 4 करोड़ टॉयलेट बनाना, देश की जनता ने हमारा साथ दिया टॉयलेट बन गए दोस्तों। पहली बार देश में लाखों गांव अपने आपको ओपन डेफिकेशन फ्री घोषित करने में पूरी तैयारी करके आगे आए हैं। जन सामान्य बदलाव के लिए किस प्रकार से जुड़ता है, ये हम सामने से देख रहे हैं।\nbrothers Sisters.\nमहंगी दवाइयां, मंहगे स्टैंट हार्ट के लिए हमने कंपनियों से कहा, भरोसा किया, जेनरिक दवाइयों के विषय में आगे आए जो स्टैंट लाख-सवा लाख के थे वो 20, 25, 27 हजार पर पहुंच गए। जो 40, 45 हजार के थे वो 5 हजार, 7 हजार पर आकरके रूक गए। जो दवाइयां 1200, 1500, 2000, 3000 में बिकती थीं वो 80 रुपया, 100 रुपये, 125 रुपये में दवाई बिकने लग गई। गरीब को दवाई मिले, लोगों के सहयोग से निर्णय किया जा सकता है, बदलाव लाया जा सकता है।\nbrothers Sisters.\nसैटेलाइट पहले भी जाते थे लेकिन जब 104 सैटेलाइट एक साथ जाते हैं तो दुनिया चौंक जाती है, गति ये होती है, काम का स्कैल ये होता है इसके ये नमूने हैं। brothers Sisters. एक बहुत बड़े फर्क पर काम को आगे बढ़ाने की दिशा में हमारा प्रयास है। प्रधानमंत्री कृषि सिंचाई योजना, कौन कहता है पहले की सरकारों में तालाब नहीं बनते थे...? बनते थे। कौन कहता है कि पहले की सरकारों में डैम नहीं बनते थे...? बनते थे। कौन कहता है कि पहले की सरकारों में पानी की व्यवस्था की चिंता नहीं थी? was. हमने कभी मना नहीं किया लेकिन देश के किसान की जो आवश्यकता है वो और सरकार के काम की गति ये दोनों इतनी मिसमैच थी कि कभी देश के किसान को देश की इकॉनामी को एग्रीकल्चर का कोई लाभ नहीं मिल सका। हमने प्रधानमंत्री कृषि सिंचाई योजना एक फोकस एक्टिविटी शुरू की। 90 प्रोजेक्ट हाथ में लिए। हजारों, करोड़ों रुपये लगाने का फैसला किया और उन 90 योजनाओं को पूरा करके लाखों हेक्टेयर धरती को पानी से सिंचित करने की दिशा में हमने बीड़ा उठाया और आज मैं विश्वास से कहता हूं कि प्रधानमंत्री कृषि सिंचाई योजना के द्वारा हर खेत को पानी ये सपना पूरा करने की संभावना पैदा हुई है और अगर हमारे देश का किसान मदद करे Per Drop More Crop, बूंद-बूंद पानी से फसल का उत्तम उत्पादन करने का फैसला करे, माइक्रो एरिगेश न, ट्रिप एरिगेशन टेक्नोलॉजी का उपयोग इसको हम महत्व दें।\nbrothers Sisters.\nमुझे विश्वास है कि मेरे देश के किसान की जिंदगी में पानी कभी संकट पैदा न करें, ये स्थिति पैदा की जा सकती है। इनपुट कॉस्ट कम हो। हमने सोलर पंप का अभियान चलाया है। बिजली के खर्चे से किसान को मुक्ति मिल जाए। सफलतापूर्वक काम आगे बढ़ रहा है। एक जमाना था यूरिया के लिए 24, 24 घंटे किसान को कतार में खड़ा रहना पड़ता था, लाठी चार्ज हुआ करता था। हर मुख्यमंत्री भारत सरकार के दरवाजे पर दस्तक देता था कि हमें यूरिया चाहिए। हमने यूरिया का नीम-कोटिंग किया, नीम-कोटिंग करने से जो यूरिया किसान के नाम पर निकलता था लेकिन केमिकल की फैक्ट्री में चला जाता था। अब नीम-कोटिंग यूरिया का खेती के अलावा कहीं उपयोग ही नहीं हो सकता है। और ये अनुभव आया कि दो साल हो गए इस देश में यूरिया के लिए कहीं पर कमी महसूस नहीं हुई। कोई चर्चा ही नहीं है कि यूरिया है कि नहीं है और नीम-कोटिंग करने के कारण पहले से किसान उसका उपयोग भी कम करने लगा है। फसल ज्यादा पैदा करने लगा है। हर प्रकार की फसल में नीम-कोटिंग यूरिया के कारण वृद्धि हुई है। किसान को सीधा-सीधा लाभ हुआ है।\nहमने LED बल्ब का अभियान चलाया। आज मध्यम वर्ग के परिवार जिसके घर के अंदर 4 या 5 लट्टू होंगे। LED बल्ब लगाया तो आज उसके घर में 200, 500, 1000 रुपए की बचत हुई। बिजली की बचत हुई। लाखों-करोड़ों रुपए की बचत हुई। हमने Direct Benefit Scheme चालू की। लाभार्थी के खाते में सीधा पैसा जमा करने की योजना चालू की। और उसका परिणाम ये आया कि हजारों-करोड़ रुपये, मोटा-मोटा अंदाज है। 60 हजार करोड़ रुपया जो कभी गलत हाथों में चला जाता था, योजनाओं के नाम पर चला जाता था, गरीब लाभार्थी के नाम पर चला जाता था, सच्ची व्यवस्था से बैंक अकाउंट में पैसे जाने लगे। सारी चोरी पकड़ी गई, 60 हजार करोड़ रुपया, सालाना 60 हजार करोड़ रुपया इस देश का चोरी होता बच गया भाइयों बहनों। आधार की मदद से हुआ। मेरे कहने का तात्पर्य ये है कि विकास कैसे, स्कैल कितना बड़ा हो, एक्टिविटी का फोकस कितना साफ हो, ये इस सरकार ने करके दिखाया।\nbrothers Sisters.\nलेकिन हम जन समर्थन बढ़ रहा है, लोगों का विश्वास बढ़ रहा है इसलिए चैन से बैठने वाले लोगों में से नहीं हैं। जितना विश्वास बढ़ता जा रहा है, उतना काम का उत्साह बढ़ता जा रहा है। न्यू इंडिया का सपना लेकर चले हैं। 2022, आजादी के 75 साल होंगे, देश के वीर नायकों ने मातृभूमि की आजादी के लिए जीवन खपा दिया है। हम 5 साल देश के लिए कुछ करने का संकल्प करें, न्यू इंडिया बनाने का संकल्प करें, जहां हर काम में हमारे अपने सपने नजर आते हों, ऐसे कामों को आगे बढ़ाना है, जन भागीदारी से आगे बढ़ाना है। एक ऐसा हिंदुस्तान, जो आधुनिक हिंदुस्तान हो, एक ऐसा हिंदुस्तान जिसको देश का नौजवान ड्राइव करता हो, एक ऐसा हिंदुस्तान जहां पर श्रम की पूजा होती है, श्रम का गौरव होता हो, श्रमिक के प्रति आदर का भाव होता हो। एक ऐसा हिंदुस्तान जहां हमारी माताएं-बहनें कंधे से कंधा मिलाकर हमारे साथ चलती हों, कोई भेद न हो, न कोई ऊंचा हो, न कोई नीचा हो। ऐसा हिंदुस्तान, ऐसा न्यू इंडिया जो आर्थिक ऊंचाइयों को पाने के सपनों को लेकर के चलने वाला हिंदुस्तान हो।\nभाइयो-बहनों\nतीन साल, एक दिन ऐसा नहीं है जब कोई नया इनिशिएटिव न लिया हो। कोई ऐसा क्षेत्र नहीं है जहां नई पहल न की हो। कथा इतनी लंबी है कि मैं महीनों तक इस सरकार के नए-नए कदमों की बातें आपको बता सकता हूं लेकिन मैंने आज इन सारी प्रक्रियाओं के पीछे हमारी सोच क्या है, हम किस दिशा में सोचते हैं और कहां जाना चाहते हैं। इसकी एक छोटी से झलक आपके सामने प्रस्तुत करने का प्रयास किया है लेकिन आज असम के लोगों ने पूरे दिन मुझे आपके बीच रहने का मौका दिया।, आपने जो प्यार दिया, मैं इसके लिए आभारी हूं और गुवाहटी की धरती से मां कामाख्या की धरती से मैं देशवासियों को भी विश्वास दिलाता हूं आपने, आपने जो विश्वास रखा है, इस विश्वास की हर कसौटी पर हमें कसके देखिए हम खरा उतरने का भरपूर प्रयास करेंगे। आपका भरोसा, आपका समर्थन, आपका विश्वास हमें काम करने की ताकत देता है और नए काम करने की ताकत देता है और नई योजनाएं बनाने की ताकत दे रहा है। ये आपका ही सहयोग है, ये जो भी सफलता है, वो सवा सौ करोड़ देशवासियों की है। ये जो कुछ भी प्रगति है, वो सवा सौ करोड़ देशवासियों की है। सवा सौ करोड़ देशवासी, यही मेरी टीम इंडिया है, टीम इंडिया की सफलता है और यही सफलता दुनिया में भारत को गौरव से सर ऊंचा करने के लिए तैयार करेगी। इस विश्वास के साथ, आप सब का बहुत-बहुत धन्यवाद।"