"Share\n\nAgriculture sector needs to be developed in line with the requirements of the 21st century: PM Modi\nUnion government has taken a number of steps for farmers' welfare in the last three years: PM Modi\n'Panch Tatva' of railways, highways, airways, waterways, and i-ways will give wings to people's aspirations in Northeast: PM\nMy dear brothers and sisters\nDuring the Lok Sabha election in 2014, I got the privilege of coming in between you and then came to campaign for Sarbananda ji. And in such a short time you made Sarbananda ji the chief minister. And therefore I congratulate the heart of the people of Assam. The government of Bharatiya Janata Party in Assam completed one year. In the very difficult circumstances under the leadership of sonowal ji, what was the situation of Assam that you know more than me. One challenge was that Assam was submerged in such a large pit. How to remove it, you trust us all. Given an opportunity to form government in Assam. And when I have been in government for a year now, then Sarbananda ji, all his ministers' council, all the political parties, all the members of the Assam Government, and the people of Assam, on successful completion of this one year. I congratulate Serhanand ji and whole Assam for the successful efforts to get Assam out of the pit, I congratulate the whole heart.\nBrothers sisters, today I got an opportunity to come among you for a very important work for her foundation stone. The foundation stone of this foundation is not like that. This is no such arrangement that some system is arising. The work that is going to be started here today In the coming days, not just Assam's not just north-east but it is the fate of the destiny of rural India's livelihood.\nIndia is an agricultural country. We are such lucky people that we get the benefit of all types of seasons. In the world, maybe three seasons will be familiar, but we are more familiar with many seasons. The country whose life has been considered as agriculture Mahatma Gandhi envisioned the country in which Ram State was conceived from the state of Ram. In the country, we need to change the world of agriculture in order to adapt to the 21st century favorable era. By the old method we have reached here. Little effort has been made in the middle and new things have been added. But now the time is not to grow slowly. Time does not wait much. Science and Technology which will not be changed in the last 100 years. She has changed in the last 25 years. When changes are coming at such a fast speed, our farmers should get the benefit of it. Our agriculture should meet the world. Our rural life should be met. Our country is full of variations. Language and wear are only found in it is not like that. The land here, the method of farming, there is a separate specialty of each of the pakas, fruits and flowers, and hence, now let us consider the special features of that area, keeping in mind the scientific research, how the scientists How to change, how modern technology is being conducted, what steps should be taken to make mechanisms in our agriculture. With a Holistic Approach, we want to bring modernity in our agricultural life. Want to cross the new height.\nWe have had a very big dream. And this dream is the dream of changing the fate of every farmer in India. Our dream is, 2022 when India's independence will be 75 years. When 75 years of independence, the income of the farmer of our country should be doubled and we are working for it. We have five years of time. In five years we want that change, they want to make progress, due to which we can fulfill that dream of our farmers who dream of doubling the income of our farmers.\nBrothers sisters\nOur government has taken several important steps in the past three years. Three years time is very short time in such a big country. But in less time the country has seen the work done in the last three years. The 112-year-old institution is sitting in Delhi. If they are involved in doing research from different areas of India, then what a big advantage it can be. Because the nature of the South is different in the country, the nature of the North is different, the nature of the North East is different, the nature of the Western part is different. And in the same thought, we have tried to start two new research institutes. One of them is going to lay a foundation for you today. And because of that, research will be more on the characteristics of which area. The experience of the people here will be added. Here are the scientists who are here who will have the opportunity to research them. And the Research which will be here will also be familiar to the people here, then it will be very easy to work on the land from Lab to Land, laboratory. And therefore our government's thinking is such that the system should be decentralized, prepare its structure according to the place, time and circumstances. So that they are able to give quick results. We had to seamlessly add this whole process to the farmers from seeds to the market till the market till the market was sold to the farmers till the whole chain was interrupted. We focused on this when I am telling the seeds from the market and within three years we insisted on the Soil Health Card. Our farmer did not know how his land's health was. Today, when we get sick, the doctor says, go to the laboratory and get the blood test done and it decides what is lacking in what is the disease. What is the problem is the problem. As is the human body, so is our Mother Mother. As the body is sick, what is lacking in the body, what is good in the body, it is found in the laboratory by testing the urine by doing a blood test, what is the capacity of our Mother Earth, what is lacking, which crop is suitable for the crop Which medicines are needed, which fertilizer needs fertlisers. All these things can be decided in the laboratory. And so we decided to get Soil Health Card for every farmer in India. Have run a big campaign.\nbrothers Sisters,\nSoil Health Card These science has told us that this is a little bit. The old government knew too. It is a little bit like a scientist born after our arrival. The scientists were also before. But Tokenism did not change the country. The first was just 15 Labs of Soil Health Card. If so many of the 15 Soil Health Card Labs in Laboratories, laboratories, even 15 farmers working in a day, then how much will be done in the month. How will the need of such a large country be fulfilled? In our brothers' sisters, we started a big movement. Today, more than 9000 Soil Health Card labs have been prepared in the country. And we are inviting young people in the direction of furthering it. We asked youngsters in India for startup to make such small small machines so that they could get the answer on the floor of the farmer's house even after putting the land. What is your land? Which crop is useful for And startup youngsters have also created new machines which in the next few days can be done in every village, within two or four houses, the work of lab will start automatically from such machines. How widespread work can be done. This is the sample.\nbrothers Sisters,\nI will urge the farmers. As we are Beaman and do blood tests in the lobotarya, every year we have also reduced the number of diseases of our land. Test your laboratory in Soil Health Card and produce the crop according to the suggestion of that Soil Health Card. . You see, the waste crop will open your door of good crop in low cost. We are doing this work.\nbrothers Sisters,\nIf the farmer of our country gets water then produce gold from the soil. And so we have stressed on the Prime Minister's Agricultural Irrigation Scheme. This region is such that where water is abundant. And therefore the price of water is never understood. But in areas where rain does not occur, there is less rainfall, rivers are not there. They know what the value of water is. Our effort is to increase per drop more crop, micro irrigation, sprinkler, drip irrigation. In this country, we have started the campaign of Prime Minister Agriculture Irrigation. About 90 such schemes have been handled. The cost of thousands of crores is going to come. From here the water reaches the farm and the farmer uses the micro irrigation water, the land where the land is not cultivated in the absence of water, the land gets water and its work is being done in that direction.\nBrothers sisters\nWe have given prime minister crop insurance scheme. The farmer of our country has won life on the grace of God. Even if the rain is too much, even if the rain falls in disarray, even if the disturbing hail falls down, even if a stormy storm hurts, then such a troubled farmer should get protection. For the first time, such a prime crop insurance scheme has come in the country and the farmers have so much love. These banks who do not take loans are also the farmers who have started taking crop insurance. It has also increased 7 times. Farmers' interest plans have come up. And because of this, any kind of loss will be due to the insurance that the farmer will get the money which is needed for a year. In order to face every problem, a crop insurance scheme has come to work. Today we are working towards implementing it in the whole country.\nBrothers sisters\nThere is a great possibility of organic farming in our country, especially in the North East. And going organic organic farming in the world is a huge attraction of things produced by it. It is a huge market. Normal crop is sold in one rupee. But if he is organic then he sells in a dollar. I want my Assam and My Sikkim region in the north of my North and Sikkim in front of us. Sikkim has made its entire state as an organic state. If North East moves towards the organics, the largest of the largest world of India can become a focal point of organic farming. And the world needs to take organic cheese and then look at North East. I was seeing this possibility of eating food with the fragrance of this soil seen on Assam, and therefore, the brothers have also started a huge campaign for the compost. In order to provide compost for Organic Farming in a large number of thousands of thousands of people, work is going on to make compost in the direction of making waste from garbage waste best. All the farmers who want to come forward in this. The government is helping them. And its benefits will be improved in the improvement of our land in the improvement of our land and the income of our farmer in doubling the income of our farmers in the direction of our agriculture.\nBrothers sisters\nAlong with agriculture, when I talk about New India So far we have been singing songs of First Green Revolution. We have been discussing Second Green Revolution. But I'm clearly watching that in New India, we do not have to get stuck with Second Green Revolution. We have to move forward towards Ever Green Revolution. Only Sacred Green Revolution No Ever Green Revolution Perpetual Period Green Period Ever Period Green Period This mood has led us to pursue agricultural science in the country. And this is the institution of research which we will get the benefit of. What is the matter related to agriculture in that direction? How to reduce the expenditure to the farmer. Now a huge campaign is run like Solar Pump's Solar Energy pump, which is slowly running, its price is also gradually decreasing. Only a solar panel can be turned on in the field. Electricity costs will be reduced. The huge burden of the farmer will be reduced. Work is going on in that direction. The power of the farmer on the corner of his field, by putting a solar panel on the edge, the amount of power required for the farming work. He can create himself. We are encouraging him. Farmers cultivate timber on the edge of their farm. In our country, even today, our timber has to be brought from abroad for furniture. If we take our farmer in that direction then our country will not have to bring a timber from outside. We can produce without damaging the required timber farming in our fields. We want to emphasize that. We want to emphasize animal husbandry in the field of agriculture. The discussion of White Revolution has so much to hear. But even today, there is a country giving less milk to every animal in the world, then we count it. Increasing the capacity of animal milk instead of raising the number of animals, animal farming can be done scientifically. There is a scientist in animal diet. There is a scientific system for animal health. We also want to work on these research by emphasizing it. Mats industry, pottery, honey bee, honey bee, these are such areas. The farmer who can increase his income along with his work. We are also trying to emphasize that too.\nBrothers sisters\nToday, three years have passed since my government. So I want to announce to you a nation in front of the nation, especially in the direction of the agricultural revolution in front of you today. I want to dedicate. The name of that plan is Samanta. For value addition of agro product, there are many possibilities in our country for value addition. Initially, at the cost of Rs.6000 crores and later on public private partnerships opened FDI to foreign direct investment. This is the full term of the estate plan. Scheme for Agro Merri Processing and Development of Agro Processing Cluster Estates. This work is our agricultural production. How is its value rise We sell less common to get less money. But by selling mango, more money is sold. We sell tomato less money. But by making a tomato cake, you will get more money. We produce fruits but by making fruit juices we get more money. And so the agro product of our country will increase its value. Agro processing can be strengthened. और इसलिये आज जब मेरी सरकार को 3 साल हुए हैं तब मेरे विशाल देश के किसानों का भाग्य बदलने के लिये ये सम्पदा योजना के द्वारा फूड प्रोसेसिंग को महत्व देते हुए विश्व भर से फोरेन डायरेक्ट इन्वेस्टमेंट यहां लाकर के किस प्रकार के उद्योगो को लगा कर के जो ग्रामीण जीवन में बदलाव लाए नौजवान को रोजगार दें। उस दिशा में काम करने की दिशा में भी हमारी सरकार ने आगे बढ़ने का फैसला किया।\nBrothers sisters\nआने वाले दिनों में कृषि विकास के द्वारा हम जब आगे बढ़ने के लिये सोच रहे हैं तब हमारा North East ये अस्ट लक्ष्मी का प्रदेश उसको आगे बढ़ाने की दिशा में हमनें पंच पथ निर्धारित किये। इन पंच पथ के द्वारा हम इस पूरे North East को हिन्दुस्तान के साथ आने वाले भविष्य के साथ नौजवानों के आशा आकांक्षाओं के साथ जोड़ने की दिशा में आगे बढ़ना चाहते हैं। और ये जो हमारे पंच पथ हैं। वो मूलतः 21वीं सदी के अनुकूल इन्फ्रास्ट्रक्चर से जुड़े हुए हैं। हाईवे पहला पथ, रेलवे दूसरा पथ, वॉटर वे तीसरा पथ, एयर वे चौथा पथ, और पांचवा पथ हाईवे इन्फरमेशन वे। Optical Fiber Network इन पांच पथ के द्वारा आधुनिक इन्फ्रास्ट्रक्चर की जड़ें जमा कर के ये अस्ट लक्ष्मी प्रदेश जो कल तक North East कहा जाता था। वो North East का मतलब न्यू इंडिया में बदल जाएगा और North East का एन ई का मतलब हो जाएगा न्यू इकॉनॉमी। एनई का मतलब हो जाएगा न्यू एनर्जी। एनई का मतलब हो जाएगा न्यू एम्पॉवरमेंट। ये एक प्रकार से न्यू इंजिन हिन्दुस्तान के ग्रोथ का न्यू इंजिन पूर्वी भारत पूर्वोत्तर भारत, North East, न्यू इंजिन इस न्यू इंडिया को लेकर के आगे बढ़ेगा। इसी एक विश्वास के साथ मैं इतने कोने कोने से आए हुए लाखों की तादाद में आए हुए मेरे किसान भाइयों को बहुत बहुत शुभकामनाएं देता हूं। और ये Research Institute आपके सपनों को साकार करेगी। ऐसा पूरा विश्वास देता हूं। मैं फिर एक बार सर्बानन्द जी को उनकी पूरी टीम को असम की जनता को एक वर्ष की सफल यात्रा के लिये बहुत बहुत शुभकामनाएं देता हूं। और बाकी रहे चार साल में असम अपने सपनों को पूरा करने के लिये तेज गति से आगे बढ़े ये शुभकामनाएं देता हूं। और मैं असम की जनता को विश्वास दिलाता हूं। दिल्ली सरकार असम का भाग्य बदलने के लिये कंधे से कंधा मिलाकर आपके साथ चलेगी। बहुत ताकत पड़ी है यहां। ये ताकत सिर्फ असम के भाग्य बदलेगी ऐसा नहीं है। ये ताकत हिन्दुस्तान के भाग्य को बदलने में काम आएगी। इस भाव के साथ आगे बढना है। मेरी बहुत बहुत शुभकामनाएं। Thanks!"