"\nPM Modi is the most important for development: PM\nDhola-Saadiya Bridge enhances connectivity between Assam and Arunachal Pradesh, and opens the door for economic development: PM\nEastern and North-Eastern parts of the country have the greatest potential for economic development: PM\nEnhanced Connectivity between the North-East and other parts of the country is a priority for the Union Government: PM\nToday, for many years you were waiting for what Dalong was waiting for, you got started. I urge you to take the most of your mobile phone at the time of this happiness, light your mobile phone and give this signal to everyone how big the celebration is that you people, everyone should start the flash of their mobile phone. well done. Everyone. All around, everyone's It should be assumed that there are some big celebrations that you should burn everybody's light. Yes, there is also going back. Wow. See what a celebration is going on. All these cameras are taking you too. Thank you very much. Brothers and sisters, it is my good fortune that I have had the privilege of visiting the place today, which was once known as Kundilnagar, and Nath Shree Krishna of Dwarka was present here. I was born in Gujarat where Dwarka is alive and the relationship of Shri Krishna Bhagwan stayed with Kundil Nagar and today it is my good fortune that for the last five decades, the bridge that you were waiting for was received by you for the last five decades. Used to be. If the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government had come again in 2004 then you would have got this bridge ten years ago from today. On 29th May, 2003, our MLA Jagdish Bhoyan wrote a chiti and requested this bridge. And the government of Atal ji was given the job for its feasibility report. Taken seriously If this work had been done immediately after that, then you would have got the bridge ten years ago from today. But the government has changed in the middle, the obstacles have come, it is, it goes, and the result is that your dream staggered but constant efforts have been made to fulfill the dream which Atal ji did in the last three years and today, The government of Bharatiya Janata Party is completing one year. Under the leadership of Sarbananda ji, Assam is being free from many problems. This bridge, on this occasion, is a matter of pride for the people of Assam, but it is a matter of pride for the whole of India that this longest bridge of India is being built on the other end of Assam today.\nIt is certain if development is to be made permanent, permanently to accelerate development, infrastructure is the first requirement. Physically infrastructure, social infrastructure It is possible to develop balanced growth on two tracks. If we do not consider infrastructure inferior, the outcome of the expeditious efforts is very short-lived, it is temporary and therefore our constant effort of our government is to give a developmental shape, the systems should be developed and because of which the country Wants to move forward We can fulfill all those dreams. Arunachal Pradesh and Assam are connecting this bridge, nearing it. The difference of 165 km is going to be less than 6-7 hours worth of valuation of a person's life and once such a system is created then new doors of economic development are opened.\nNow our Sadiya, there's Ginger, the farmers of the area who produce ginger. Ginger of the best class is born on the whole land, now after the bridge is formed, a new route will be opened to these farmers for a huge market. Their earnings will increase. And I believe that in the north-east region like Sadia, where ginger is considered to be a high quality ginger. If the farmers here go towards organic then the ginger's global market may be standing here. A big market can be standing in the world. And so this bridge will save only money, save time, not so, but this bridge comes by taking the position of a new aristocracy. The foundation of a new economical revolution is going to be created, and therefore the opening of this bridge of today is a focus on the people of entire India that there is such a great construction in India that it is a proud work for any Hindustani. This bridge is becoming a major link between the development of two brothers and sisters. The development of Arunachal, the development of Assam, and in a way our dream is that if there is any place to get India the greatest strength in the development of new heights of development then it is East India. Northeast is India. Eastern India is also North East. And so, the plans we have implemented for our development, giving pre-constitution of the East India, giving north-east arrangements, within the north-east is the strength, if they can get some arrangements, then a great miracle can do. And that's why we have always stressed that efforts should be made to take development on new highs.\nDue to the saving of diesel every day, the citizens of this area are going to save Rs.1 million rupees daily, due to this bridge. Time is valued, but saving of Rs 10 lakh every day, even with the saving of diesel, is going to save money in the common pocket. It was in itself a normal human life ... first we used to go from the ferry service, if the weather was not good then the ferry service was closed. The ferry service was stopped due to the Brahmaputra. Now this bridge has become a system for us 24/7, 365 days and therefore our speed will not be interrupted due to natural outbreaks. This work has happened through it. And because of this, Jaasantin ji was telling us that we have the importance of roads in the country, the significance of the pool, the significance of the bridge, the importance of the railroad, the importance of the air travel, and the strength of the water way. In the direction we are trying. The big ambitious program is that wherever there is a river, there is water, why not our transportation should be shifted to that side. Enviornment will be freindly, economically less expensive, and which is a waste of time, it will also be able to protect that work from the same side of the Brahmaputra at a very fast pace with the cost of thousands of crores That work is being done here and in the coming days, a new area of ​​water transport is also going to move forward from this. Then you can imagine. You can make sense of this whole region that will cross such a new height of development.\nBrothers and sisters,\nWhen we are doing this, then for the development of the whole north-east, whether it is the matter of infrastructure of electricity, whether it is the infrastructure of optical fiber network, whether it is the infrastructure of the road, whether it is the infrastructure of the railways To connect the whole north-east to every caste of India, connecting people of every caste of India with our northeast Bhadra, in that direction we are moving forward at a faster pace. The work that is not done in 15-15, 20-20 years. The money which is not spent in 15-15, 20-20 years, our government has come and we have emphasized in such a large amount of money to spend for the north-east infrastructure and development works.\nIf we prepare this area as a sample of a world-class infrastructure under Act East Policy, then this land of India can play a very important role in the whole of South-East Asia's economy. And so, with that vision, we became centrally-connected with our region in the economic-trading arrangements in India, in the whole of South-East Asia, how to become a economical activity hub and for which the systems should be developed. We are giving stress. And the results of which will be visible in the coming days.\nBrothers and sisters,\nIn the north-east, we have given priority to the railway as much as the Railway should have given importance to railways after 50 years of significant freedom, so that we can construct a safe transport system. North-east Tourism can also become a major center. It is a beautiful state that is here to see the nature of Kamakhya or to Kohima, because today many people of India are unaware. If lakhs of people start coming from this country every year on this land, then how much power can be given to the economy here, which we have a complete estimate, and therefore, through the development of these arrangements, Hindustan's kaun koana and gradually spread all over the world. In order to attract people to tourism, this area is a very big part of our natural wealth and we are moving forward towards strengthening it.\nBrothers and sisters,\nToday, when I am inaugurating this important bridge, you know it in the name of Dhaula, Sadiya, Dalang, you people. Today, there is an opportunity that our government has decided that this Dalang has been the descendant of our land from now on whose voice has inspired Hindustan today and the son of this land, Mr. Bhupen Hazarika, this bridge was named by the Indian government Bhupen Hazarika Has decided to do in the name of. This is our great tribute to the children of this earth. This name, which inspired the future generations, they were the sons of Brahmaputra, they were worshipers of Brahmaputra. In their every point, Brahmaputra used to be multiplying. While doing this, he used to do wondrous work to introduce Brahmaputra in the country and the world, and this great man had done the great work of the name of this bridge, the name of this bridge, the name of this bridge, the name of this bridge is Bhupenaharajarka We have decided to add to the name. Once again I congratulate Mr Mann Sarbananda ji for his entire team with a heart of the Government of Assam for a year. I express my satisfaction that in one year he touched such difficult things, touched his hand and tried to find the way.\nFor the first time the government is formed, the responsibility of the Chief Minister has come for the first time and the situation in which Assam was for 15 years. In such a situation, the government is working hard to get Assam out. Here the Chief Minister and his team are working, I congratulate him and the speed at which the work has been done in one year, within 5 years Assam will go out of all these difficulties. I express my faith. And the Government of India should work together on shoulder to meet the A for Assam, to fulfill what we dreamed. With this one faith, I thank you once. Long live Mother India."