"\nPM Narendra Modi\nThose who want to learn how to save every drop of water, they should come to Kutch and see how people did it here: PM\nComing of Narmada waters through the Tappar Dam will increase lives of people in the region: PM\nBrothers and sisters,\n\nKandla can be perceived as a mini-India and today the way you are welcomed from all the way from the airport to Kandla port, I feel extremely honoured and gratifying to you all for this gesture.\n\nMy attachment with Kutch as a former chief minister needs not be articulated in words; time and again There is some sort of a power in the soil of Kutch. Even if a person leaves kutch to live in some other corner of the world, and even if he is the fourth or fifth generation of a family; When he falls ill he will still think of returning to the kutch in the hope that he will recover there.We, the people of the water resources but we have learned to live without it. The people of kutch Kutch possesses everything - the vast sea, desert, mountains, a glorious history of 5000 year old culture. Kutch has the power to open up its vast resources not only to India but also to the whole world, thus having a ability to attract the world like a magnet.\n\nJust now, Nitinji was telling us that today the way the global market and economy is growing, we would take the advantage of that competitive environment if India is moving forward. If India wants to make its place in the world trade, then it is imperative for us to have the best quality ports. Can anybody imagine how short of such short span in Kandla Port with the things that are being manufactured here is its place among the major ports of Asia?\n\nIn the last two years, be it Liquid Cargo or Dry Cargo, everyone working in the Port Sector has realized that the growth of this sector is for the wonders of the people who know the economics of the Port Sector. This is a great achievement And gradually people who work in the port sector, have started realizing that workers' union will keep moving. But if we strive together to develop and strengthen this port - one is that of infrastructure, and of transparency - then the country can achieve incredible results.\nRight now, Nitin ji was telling us that we have taken a decision to develop Iran's Chabahar Port. Chabahar port will be connected with the Kandla port. The linking will mean Kandla will put its best foot forward in the world trade which promises to bring in a sea change. Kandla Port Plans are being used for expansion and development of 14 and 16 classes for capacity Building And in the changing era, plans are underway for Port City's concept and every and every economic activity for development. This way our transport infrastructure will get get boost and the traffic system will be smooth so that our goods rapidly in every corner of the country The 'Turnaround Time' in the sea is calculated on a global scale. That means, the efficiency of the port is calculated on the basis of the time spent by a vessel - empty or loaded, at the port and how many days it takes to come and go. The less time it takes Today, many Initiatives have been taken in the leadership of our Nitin ji to reduce that 'Turnaround Time' in India. There is another classification in reducing the turnaround time - how fast all your trucks If there is a bottleneck on the road and the trucks are delayed; Then howsoever technologies we can apply for reducing the turnaround time in the port, the hurdle will continue. So Kandla may be a small town within Gujarat and even small in India, but today about Rs 1000 crore is currently being made. 1000 crore is not a miniscule amount Just think\n\nHe is just telling me that the road-project for 2 years. I was telling Nitin ji that India has never seen before such a rapid progress in the road sector which has been brought out by Nitin ji. I asked him that the Gujaratiis should get the benefit of your talent. He asked me, \"what is to be done?\" I said, \"complete this work in 18 months instead of 24 months\". And I believe that Nitin ji will definitely get that work done.\n\nA Convention Center is also being established here covering a vast area, which will be named after Babasaheb Ambedkar. It is being established as people But on seeing the plan I felt that the project would get funded? How the job will get accomplished? So I asked Nitin ji to think about some innovative ideas. He asked for some time. Kutch is one of the fastly growing districts of India. Could anyone imagine that Kutch is the very district that was destroyed by the 1998 cyclone; the 2001 earthquake shattered it. But the power of this Today Kutch has started the path of progress. And Kandla can not only be the focal point of the economy but can also play a significant role in driving. We also want to move in that very direction. India's maritime trade legacy is thousands of years old. 5000 years ago, Lothal was a great center of maritime trade. Was there Vallabhi University near it Students from more than 80 countries used to study at Vallabhi University People could see the flags of more than 84 countries in the Port of Lothal. Thousands of years ago in Kutch, the art of ship-building in the country has been the legacy of our ancestors. We used to provide ships from the world. It was our strength The power can be restored again.\n\nToday, the timber comes in a very large quantity at Kandla Port. And our brothers from Kutch are engaged in the timber trade in every corner of India. Kutch can provide value addition to this timber We can add value to the wood that is being sent to other countries by adding artwork on the wood. This wood can be exported throughout the world where it can be used for building buildings, temples etc. This can be a huge gift to the world The more we trade in salt routes, the lesser the cost India has a coastline of 7500 kilometer and water transport system; Then why should we need our goods via roads and railways? Why not send the goods from here to Kolkata via sea route instead of cutting across the land of whole of India? We are moving towards this change and bringing about this transformation in the whole system which will soon bear fruits in the near future.\n\nOur Nitin ji talks of a vision to demonstrate the great power of India possessed by Lothal to the outside world. How to create such a museum? American University's work is important in terms of world trade; The work in Human Resource Development The Chief Minister was saying that the Maritime University bill has passed in the assembly recently. My good wishes are I strongly believe that the work of human resources will not only benefit Gujarat and the coastal areas but will also emerge as a strong force for proliferating trade in India\nBrothers and sisters, in the year 2022 we will celebrate 75 years of India's independence Today, as I have come to Kandla, I want to appeal to the people of Kandla, to the people of Kutch, to the people of Gujarat and to the people of this country, as we enter 75th year of independence in 2022, let we do not forget those brave sons of the country Many great men died in prison, facing the gallows. Many great men have sacrificed their generation How should we celebrate 75 years of independence in 2022? As a citizen, we should take this resolution that even though we did not have the opportunity to take part in freedom, but we have got this great fortune to make India a world leader. Thus, we should do As citizens we should do something by the year 2022 so that our contribution can take a new pinnacle. Every institution should make this resolve - the municipality, the Panchayat, the state governments. We should move ahead with this resolution that we have 2022\n\nWe want to transform the lives of the poor of this country - whether by providing them with gas connection, or by electricity to their huts Our dream is to see that the poorest of the poor from India has 2022 with facilities like electricity, water supply and toilet in that house. Providing such a home to the poor is a great dream\n\nThis year is Pandit Deendayal Upadhyaya ji's centennial year. How do we lift the poorest of the poor in India? He gave a new vision to the focal point. The country is celebrating Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay's birth centenary Kandla Port as Pandit Deendayal Port Trust, Kandla because this work will be dedicated to the poor and the Pandit Deendayal identifies with the poor people. of our country This will create an understanding of 'fellow-feeling' within us and we can work with this feeling to bring the lives of the oppressed, exploited, and the deprived section of the society.\n\nOnce again, I got this opportunity to visit You have assembled here in such large numbers and have showered your blessings I am grateful to you all Thank you Nitin ji for giving me the opportunity to participate in this program.\n"