"\nSuccess in agricultural needs\nA combination of modern scientific methods and traditional agricultural knowledge would bring about the best results: PM\nEvery district in India should have its own \"Agri-Identity\": PM Modi\nRespected Mr. Dr. M.S. Swaminathan Ji, my Cabinet colleague Shriman Radha Mohan Singh Ji and all the dignitaries present here today.\nWhen I was taking over the capacity of the Chief Minister of Gujarat, I had the honor of getting introduced to Dr. Swaminathan Ji With his support, We had then launched the Soil Health Card Scheme Incidentally, this idea was met strong bureaucratic resistance then However, it was one of Dr. Swaminathan's public addresses at Chennai that eventually established the importance of the scheme and changed the mindset of all my colleagues. During this public meet, he had reiterated the importance of Soil Health Card Scheme introduced by the previous Government of Gujarat, hailing it as a landmark step which would be the future of the great benefits of reaping. While I was struggling to convince my colleagues since long, this statement of Dr. Swaminathan released in press hammered it down well, and very soon the same colleagues were on this decision. They could now believe in the importance of the initiative. This just proves the diligence, dedication and commitment of Dr. Swaminathan, who has personally experienced I am honored to have seened the genesis of this visionary scheme which is slated to be implemented nation wide.\nAlthough he is described as \"Krishi Vaigyanik\" - an Agricultural Scientist, but I believe that he is a true \"Kisan Vaigyanik\" - a Farmers' Scientist; there is a real farmer in him His scientific inquiries have not only explored the agricultural productions and quality in the confines of a laboratory, but they are deeply rooted in the Indian agri context. His scientific papers present studies focussing on the farmers, and so is very contextual, practical and relevant. The findings are useful and therefore can be implemented by the farmers. This is the specialty and relevance of Dr. Swaminathan's research\nHow do Dr. Swaminathan be a role model for today's youth? Ironically, today's youth is more familiar with political leaders but not While every by lane makes the face of a family name, huge contributions of the likes of Dr. Swaminathan is rarely brought to light Unfortunately, this is a systemic issue or idiosyncrasy of few. Paradoxically, today's youth finds a role model, famed artists, political leader or a business tycoon; But, they rarely seek inspiration from renowned scientists Imagine that time when the world was the view that India will die of hunger and perish as a nation; Here was a young scientist who took to the global belief head on, and pledged to change the scenario. Little do the youth of today know that the curator of Green Revolution was none other than Dr. Swaminathan\nWhile the country has been highly encouraged to start the culture, the youth has many domains to work on, and malnutrition is one of the challenges. Our pulses and oilseeds also have lower productivity; They also need to Our youth should take the challenge of eradicating malnutrition and bring about innovations in agricultural revolutions that help to combat malnutrition. Mahatma Gandhi used to say that It is time to bring in such scientific interventions that will take this mission forward.\nCertain things from his personal life I am aware that you have done work in almost all PMs till date, yet one has never seen any highhandedness reflected in Dr. Swaminathan's personality; he comes out as simplicity personified I am not saying so on the basis of the book When I was in Gujarat he would often walk with deep humility During our interactions One will never know that he is the great scientist. It is a great virtue to remain untouched and unfazed by the success in public life. A virtue worth emulating by all of us! As a person, his face is always jubilant Unlikely that one had never seen his glum face Unfortunately, most scientists sitting here (with due apologies), even in the 21st Century choose to live as if they are still in the 18th Century. They look morose and over burdened They look so lost that too, their families are worried about their introvert nature. On the opposite, Dr. Swaminathan exudes immense positivity and joie de vivre It is indeed commendable This is possible not only because of cognitive intelligence but when one internalises some life lessons too. I truly believe that he has been blessed with divine grace and rich family values.\nIn the field of agriculture, our country is constantly facing the same challenges since many decades. We talk of advancing from Green Revolution to the Second Green Revolution For a nation like India, the target is Evergreen Revolution. It is about time that we know about our potentials and map them. Compared to Western India, we notice economic imbalance in North East India. No country can progress in the long term Such a country's economy is bound to collapse. To strengthen the whole nation it is important to replicate the Ist Agro Revolution; The same way that wheat from Western India had led this, the rice of Eastern India has full potential to spearhead the Evergreen Revolution\nI am of the firm opinion that we have sufficient resources like water, irrigable land, toiling farmers, therefore the need for scientific methods and technological interventions. The Union Government is leaving no stone unturned to achieve this goal, and Dr. Swaminathan has our constant source of guidance. A while back when I met him This morning he is very courteously spending a lot of time with his team. In the wake of population ticking is really fast, and land crunch alarmingly becoming critical, immediate measures of Soil Management takes precedence.\nIt becomes necessary to work out a holistic approach which addresses critical issues on productivity and quality of agri products. There are approximately 85% marginal farmers who have toilets on small pieces of land for maximum products. Such strategies should be introduced to ensure that these farmers are able to harvest high quality products and get increased market value apart from just fulfilling their personal needs.\nAnother global challenge which poses a threat to agri-development in the country The natural resources are depleting at an alarming rate which poses a threat to agricultural development. Although many measures like water recycling and conservation have been undertaken, however, it can not be ignored that the crisis must be attended to a fire-fighter's spirit. We must display farsightedness in these issues and take immediate steps. It is not easy to understand Have not noticed that in the case of air pollution, even the highly educated can not pre-empt the impending crisis. Similarly, it would be a humungous challenge to make the common man realize that water could also be soon scarcely. Along with water conservation techniques, we need to invent scientific methods of water consumption too.\nPresently, we are promoting the \"Per drop more crop\" philosophy to tackle the global problem of water scarcity in agricultural practices. The campaign to join rivers is a step toward cost effective farming which will ensure that enough water is available for irrigation. We should also take effective measures towards soil management by curbing the use of pesticides and chemicals in fertilizers. They ruin the purity of soil and destroy cultivable land. There is a perpetual complaint by farmers, who have fields alongside river banks that pollute from the industries. However, they do not realize that the use of chemicals in the fields precipitate with the rain and inundate in the river making them highly acidic and harmful for irrigation. The launch of \"Prime Minister Krishi Sinchayee Yojana\" aims to protect the rivers and make optimal use of river water. This catapulted the importance of research and innovation in the domain of protection.\nIt helps in the local stories in the villages as well. I would like to share one of my experiences of a place in Gujarat called Bhal. It was located in Khambat area of ​​the gulf area. Since our childhood we had a lot about \"bhaliya\" variety of wheat, and it was mainly consumed by the upper class as it was an expensive variety. I was always interested in this story about how the upper class will hoard the special wheat variety. When I became the Chief Minister of Gujarat I started learning about the \"bhaliya\" wheat. The findings revealed that while most of the wheat varieties were carbon rich, the \"bhaliya\" was wheat Protein Rich and a rare variety.\nDuring one of my visit to Switzerland, I met some people from Nestle and requested them to guide me on how to solve the issue of nutrition. I had involved a local university to conduct genetic study of the Bhalya variety. Like the rice variety Basmati is synonymous with high nutrition and quality, we could also find the other rich varieties of cereals and grains. I can recall today that when I am very curious, I am the most sought after variety of the Amreli district of Gujarat. Incidentally, the MLA from the district had gifted me a bag full when I was sworn in as Chief Minister. Then I was not aware of the richness of this district. . Few few few few few few few few few few few few few few few few few few few few few few few few few few few few few few few few few few few few few few few few few few few few few few few few few It would be relevant to identify such varieties and its genetic value.\nIt will be really great if we amalgamate such traditional knowledge with the scientific inquiry if the region of any region is known for productivity, extra yielding variety with extraordinary nutritional values. If they are found to be of great value to humankind in terms of both quality and nutrients, then definitely some research should be taken up immediately.\nKeeping this in mind, I instructed people to be more vigilant about the crop varieties of the districts they enter. Each district has its agricultural identity; Whether it is a recognized variety of rice or produces or isabgol or cumin. One should create awareness about the farmers and residents of that village.\nDuring a visit to Himachal Pradesh, when Mr. Dhumal ji was Chief Minister, I was thrilled to visit the Solan district where the mushroom farming is being done on a large scale. I used to reside in Himachal then. I was wondering about that There was an amazing potential of branding through this agricultural identity. Today the entry board for Solan reads \"Welcome to the Mushroom City\". One can now also see boards highlighting Kiwi fruit and apple productions. The district and the farmers of that area are known for their crop varieties. About business such identity really helps On the lines of Industrial Cluster, Agricultural Clusters will also emerge when, for example, there are 16 districts are known for a rice variety and there are 20 others famous for their oil seeds. Such ideas This opens up the potential for business of processing. With unique packaging required for a particular variety of fruit or storage redesigned for a new rice variety, the discipline of Supply Chain Management gains benefit. The more specialised a product, the more customized will be its package and transportation. The sooner we bring it into the DNA of our country, the closer we are to our target of \"double income\" for the farmers by the 75th year of our Independence in 2022\nA while back when I met Dr. Swaminathan, I requested him to connect me to leading agro economists to discuss the agenda of \"double income\" by 2022. He has written a letter to the Prime Minister. I am making efforts to work on those lines. We need to target oriented and work on three crucial things i.e., cost effectiveness, enhanced productivity and value addition. We all know that Neem Coated was out of the blue It was never given importance However, it has been seen in the curbing theft and corruption. In fact, it was light that despite heavy reduction in the consumption of urea, the production of rice and wheat has increased effectively These are some of the subtle ways of popularizing the best practices in the regions and gaining long term benefits.\nThe Indian Government is sure to provide the support of Dr. Swaminathan and his scientific research fraternity We are moving towards Evergreen Revolution and making all efforts to reinstate a sustainable agricultural system in the country.\nRight efforts are being made in that direction by encouraging experiments and technological advancements which has one of our major challenges. \"Lab to land\" should be our target Scientists dedicate their life in developing countries It is a cause for concern as farmers are unlike the businessmen. In order to encourage them to accept new inventions in their farming practices, we have introduced the Prime Minister's Crop Insurance Scheme. This is a lot of trust among the farmer community. Now farmers covered under this scheme There would be many iffs and buts when a new scheme is launched. However, seven times the hike in the acceptance of the scheme is the launch year is indeed laudable. It clearly indicates that our farmers are feeling more secure. The feeling of security is definitely going to increase their risk taking capacity. They are open minded to the scientific experiments and excited to implement latest interventions in farming. The Prime Minister Crop Insurance Scheme is a strong catalyst in strengthening the \"lab to land\" process.\nI once again congratulate Dr. Swaminathan from the core of my heart for serving the nation and the farmers, as well as for the dedicating ourselves.\nHearty Congratulations!"