"Share\n\nPM Modi pays homage to Dr. Shri Sree Sivakumara Swamigalu during #MannKiBaat, remembers his teachings\nI commend the Election Commission for continuous efforts to strengthen our democracy: PM during #MannKiBaat\nUpcoming Lok Sabha Elections for a first time voters of 21st century to take the responsibility of the nation on their shoulders: PM during #ManKiBaat\nSubhas Babu will always be remembered as a heroic soldier and skilled engineer: PM during #MannKiBaat\nFor many years it was demanded that the files related to Netaji should be made public and I am happy that we have met this demand: PM during #ManKiBaat\nNetaji had a very deep connection with the radio and he made it a medium to communicate with the countrymen: PM to Azad Hind Radio during #MannKiBaat\nWe all know Gurudev Rabindranath Tagore as a wonderful writer and a musician. But Gurudev was also a great painter too: PM during #MannKiBaat\n#MannKiBaat: PM Modi remembers Sant Ravidas' invaluable teachings, says he always teaches the importance of \"Shram\" and \"Shramik\"\nThe contribution of Dr. Vikram Sarabhai to India's space program is invaluable: Prime Minister during #MannKiBaat\nThe number of space missions that took place since the country's independence till 2014, the same number of space missions have taken place in the past four years: PM #ManKiBaat\nIndia will soon be registered it's presence on moon through the moon-2 campaign: PM Modi during #MannKiBaat\nPM Modi during the #MannKiBaat: We are using Space Technology to improve delivery and accountability of government services\n#MannKiBaat: Our satellites are a symbol of the country's growing power today, says PM Modi\nThose who play, shine; When a player performs best at the local level then there is no good on his or her best performance at global level: PM #MannKiBaat\nWith the support of the people of India, today the country is rapidly moving towards becoming an open defecation free nation: PM during #MannKiBaat\nMore than five lakh villages and more than 600 districts have declared themselves open defecation free. Sanitation coverage has crossed 98% in rural India: PM during #MannKiBaat\nMy Dear Countrymen,\nNamaskar on the 21st of this month Dr. Shri Shri Shri ShivaKumar Swamiji of District Tumukur, Karnataka no more. ShivaKumar Swamiji dedicated his entire life to Social Service Lord Basaveshwar has taught us, \"Kayakave Kailas\" \"meaning discahrging one's duties with due dilligence and persevereance is to be in the house of Lord Shiva ie Kailasha Dham. ShivaKumar Swamiji was a true follower of this tenet ... during his life spanning a hundred and eleven years, he stroked tirelessly towards the social, educational and economic upliftment of thousands of people He was renowned as a masterly scholar of languages ​​such as English, Sanskrit and Kannada. He was a social reformer He dedicated his life to ensure that food, shelter, education and spiritual knowledge reached out to people. The Welfare of his Life The Siddhganga Mutt regularly used to organize cattle and agricultural fairs. I had the good fortune to be blessed by Swamiji, many a time. In the year 2007 on the occasion of the centenary celebration Sri Sri Shivakumar Swamiji our former President Dr. APJ Abdul Kalam had paid a visit to Tumukur. On this occasion Kalam Saheb had recited a poem dedicated to revered Swamiji.\nI quote him:\n\"O my Fellow Citizens - In giving, you get happiness,\nIn Body and Soul- You have everything to give,\nIf you have knowledge - share it,\nIf you have resources - share them with the needy,\nYou, your mind and heart\nTo remove the pain and suffering, and cheer the sad hearts\nIn giving, you will receive happiness, all your actions \"\nDr. Kalam Saheb's poem is the life of Shri Shri Shivakumar Swamiji and the mission of the Siddhganga Mutt beautifully. Once again, I pay tribute to this great man.\nMy Dear Countrymen,\nOn the 26th of January, 1950, our Constitution came in to; our country was proclaimed a Republic Yesterday, we celebrated Republic Day with pride and fervour. But today I want to talk about a completely different aspect. Our Country possesses a very important institution; Apart from being an integral part of our democracy, it is also older than our Republic - I am referring to our Election Commission. The 25th of January was the formation day of the Election Commission, which is celebrated as National Voters' Day. The scale at which elections are held in India is a matter of great awe for the World. It is natural for every Citizen to feel proud of the Election Commission of its meticulous organizing abilities. Our country leaves, no stone unturned to ensure that every citizen of India who is a registered voter, rightfully avails of the opportunity to cast his vote.\nWhereas we heard of a polling station at 15,000 feet above sea level in Himachal Pradesh. We also learned about the same being organized in remote islands of the Andaman Nicobar archipelago. And you must have heard about Gujarat ... in a remote place in Gir forest, there is a polling booth for a sole voter. Just imagine ... for that one and only voter! These facts are bound to instil a sense of pride, of the commitment of the Election Commission. Caring for that lone voter, for sure that he or she enjoys full opportunity to vote, the Election Commission of the country. This is the beauty of our democracy\nI appreciate the Election Commission for relentlessly striving to ensure the strengthening of our democracy. I hold in high esteem, the Election Commissions of all states, security personnel and other staff members who have free and fair polling for strict adherence to the contribution.\nThis year, our country will go through Lok Sabha elections The first time ever, young people born in the 21st Century will exercise their right to vote in the Lok Sabha Elections. They face the opportunity to shoulder responsibilities They have embarked on the journey in Nation building. The time has come for a confluence of individual dreams and the Nation's dream. I urge the young generation to register themselves as voters, if they are eligible. All of us must understand that being a voter, earning a right to vote in one's life; it's one of its achievements Simultaneously, the sentiment that voting is our sacred duty, should grow within us natural For any reason, if one is able to vote, it should pain one One should be saddened to witness any wrong\n\"I had not cast my vote ... that day I did not go and vote ... and as a result, my country has born the brunt\". We have to convey the importance of our responsibilities of ours. This must be our leaning; This should be our disposition This inclination should be done in our country as a sankar. I urge the people to come forward and jointly contribute in campaigning for spreading awareness on voter registration and casting one's vote on the day of polling. I sincerely hope that large numbers of eligible young people will get themselves registered as voters, thus forging a partnership in the quest to further strengthen our democracy.\nMy Dear Countrymen,\nThis great land, India, has given birth to innumerable great men, men whose deeds for the sake of humanity have been exceptionally, truly unforgettable Our country is 'Bahuratna Vasundhara' ... the land of myriad gems. One among them was Netaji Subash Chandra Bose. On the 23rd of January, the country celebrated the birth anniversary of Netaji in an uncommon, special way On this occasion I was fortunate to get a chance to inaugurate a museum dedicated to heroes who fought in India's independence struggle. You may be aware of the fact that inside the Red Fort, many chambers and structures lay locked \u0026 unused for several decades after Independence. Those very chambers have been turned into exquisite museums. A museum dedicated to Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose and the Indian National Army; Yaad-e-Jalian, reminiscences of Jalianwala Bagh and 1857 - India's first war of independence constitute the premises of 'Kranti Mandir', that has been dedicated to the nation. Every inch, every brick of these museums is redolent with the fragrance of our glorious history. Tales of valor of the heroes of our independence struggle emanating from every nook \u0026 corner of these museums inspire us to delve deep in our history This was the very site where three heroic sons of Mother India - Col. Prem Sehgal, Col. Gurbaksh Singh Dhillon and Major General Shahnawaz Khan had to face a trial under British Rule.\nOn my visit to Kranti Mandir, Red Fort, as I was reflecting on the memories of Netaji, his family members gifted me a special cap. There was a time when Netaji used to wear it. I dedicated that cap to the museum itself, for visitors to see and be inspired with the spirit of patriotism. The fact is, stories of the valor and patriotism of our heroes should be told and re-told to one of our newer generations in ways. Just a month ago, on the 30th of December, I went to Andaman \u0026 Nicobar Islands. At an event, our tricolor was unfurled at the very site where Netaji Subhash Bose has unfurled it exactly 75 years ago. In a similar manner, when the tricolor was hoisted at the Red Fort in October 2018, it is surprising everyone, since conventionally, this is done on the 15th of August. The event was completed in 75 years of the formation of the Azad Hind Government. Subhash Babu will always be remembered as a brave soldier and adept organiser; a valiant fighter who played a significant role in our Freedom Struggle. Through his clarion calls 'Dilli Chalo', 'Tum me do Khoon do, main you do not doonga', Netaji secured a special place in every Indian's heart. That files associated with Netaji's declaration is a long standing demand for years. And I'm happy that we could manage to do the same. I remember the day when Netaji's family paid a visit to the Prime Minister's residence. We dwelt on length on myriad facets of Netaji Subhash Bose, offering him tributes.\nIt is a great place to live in India. Be it 26, Alipur Road, associated with Babasaheb Ambedkar, or the Sardar Patel Museum or the Kranti Temple! Whenever you come to Delhi, you must pay a visit to these places.\nMy dear countrymen, today as we refer to Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose, that too in 'Man Ki Baat', I would like to share with you an incident from Netaji's life. I have always considered Radio as an effective means of connecting with people Similarly, Netaji shared a deep bond with the medium of Radio and he did not like the countrymen.\nIn 1942, Subhash Babu founded Azad Hind Radio and through it he used to communicate with the Indian National Army and other countrymen. Subhash Babu had a different style of opening a broadcast. In the opening he would begin with, \"This is Subhash Chandra Bose speaking to you over the Azad Hind Radio ...\". These words are instantly stirred up listeners with a new energy, a new fervour.\nI am told this radio station also used to broadcast weekly news bulletins in English, Hindi, Tamil, Bangla, Marathi, Punjabi, Pashto and Urdu languages. In managing the affairs of this radio station, a resident of Gujarat M.R. Vyas ji played a vital role. Programs broadcast over Azad Hind Radio was very popular among the populace. Their programs were a great source of inspiration\nIn this very Kranti Mandir, a visual arts museum has been established. India's art \u0026 culture has been portrayed here in a very attractive way. The museum has 4 historical exhibitions which display more than 450 paintings and artworks which are three centuries vintage. Exquisite works of great artists such as Amrita Shergill, Raja Ravi Verma, Avanindranath Tagore, Gaganendranath Tagore, Nandalal Bose, Jamini Roy, Sailoz Mukherjee have been exhibited. And I also specially request you to visit the place and see the works of Gurudev Rabindranath Tagore ji.\nNow you should be thinking that we are talking about art and here I'm talking about watching Gurudev Tagore's excellent works of art You have probably known Gurudev Rabindranath Tagore as a writer and a musician. But I would like to tell you that Gurudev was also a painter. He has painted on many themes He did paintings of many animals and birds, he also painted many landscapes, and not only that he also tried to describe many human characters by etching them on canvas. And the most unique aspect was that Gurudev Tagore did not like any of his works. He believed that the person seeing his painting should understand the painting in totality, from his own perspective, understanding the message given by him in the particularpainting. His paintings have been display in European countries, in Russia and in America. I hope you will go and see his paintings in the 'Kranti Mandir.'\nMy dear countrymen, India is a land of saints. Our saints have conveyed the message of goodwill, equality and social empowerment through their thoughts and deeds. One such Saint was - Sant Ravidas On 19th February we will show Ravidas Jayanti The couplets or 'dohas' of Sant Ravidas ji are very well-known Sant Ravidas used to convey a profound message through the few lines of his poi or doha.\n\"Caste is a caste in race,\nWhich, as Ketan,\nRandas could not join the man\nUnless the caste is going \"\nIf you were to peel the stem of the banana tree, there appeared leaves underneath which form the psuedostem, one can go peeling the leaves forming the stem till there was no tree left at all! Similarly, man has been divided in castes and the human in him has disappeared. Sant Ravidas proposed that if God was present in every human being, then it was not fair to categorize him on the basis of caste, creed and other socialistic demarcations.\nGuru Ravidas ji was born in the holy city of Varanasi. Sant Ravidas ji tried to explain the importance of his message. It would not be wrong to say that he has illustrated the real meaning of dignity of labor. He would say -\n\"To the pure, everything is pure\"\nThat is, if your heart is pure, then the absolute master resides within your heart. Sant Ravidas has influenced people cutting across every segment and the social welfare of the people, whether it was the Maharana of Chittor or his Queen or Meerabai, everyone was their follower. I will again worship in Sant Ravidas ji.\nMy dear countrymen, Kiran Sidar has written on MyGov that I should highlight the aspects of India's space program and its future. He also wants me to request students to take interest in the space programs and to think out of the box and inspire them to go beyond the frontiers of the sky - Kiran ji, I appreciate your children .\nA few days ago, I was in Ahmedabad, where I got the privilege of unveiling the statue of Dr. Vikram Sarabhai Dr. Vikram Sarabhai had an important role in India's space program. Our space program has been possible due to unlimited young scientists of the country. We take pride in the fact that the satellites developed by our students and sounding rockets have reached space. On 24th January 'KALAM SAT' was launched by our students The Sounding Rockets made by Odisha university students have also created many records. The number of successful space missions attempted since the country's independence till 2014 has been equal to those successfully completed in the past four years We have also created a world record for launching 104 satellites simultaneously from the same spacecraft. We will soon register India's presence on the moon-the-moon campaign\nOur country is also using Space Technology Whether it is cyclone, or rail and road safety, all of these safety measures are being augmented by Space Technology Among our fishermen, NAVIC devices are being distributed, which contribute in their economic development as well as ensure their safety. We are using Space Technology to improve delivery and accountability of government services. \"Housing for all\" or the \"House for everyone\" scheme involves geo-tagging of about 40 lakh homes spread over 23 states. Along with this scheme, about thirty and a half million properties under MNREGA have also been tagged. Today our satellites are a symbol of the country It is a great deal in fostering South Asia satellites have been a unique initiative, which has also gifted hues Through its highly competitive launch services, India today not only propels satellites of developing countries but also those of developed nations The sky and stars have always enthralled children Our Space Program provides an impact to the children, and was considered impossible until today. It is a vision to inspire the children to discover new stars, while gazing at them!\nMy dear countrymen, I always say, those who play, also bloom and this time, many young players making their debut have bloomed in 'Khelo-India'. In January about 6,000 players participated in 18 disciplines in the Games India Youth Games held in Pune. Only when the local ecosystem of our sports will be strong i.e. only when our base will become strong, then only our youth will be able to perform their best in the country and the whole world. When the player performs his best at the local level, only then, he also shines globally. This time in 'Khelo India', participants from every state has done well on their individual level. The life of many medal winners are also immensely inspiring.\nI was reading that young Akash Gorkha who won a silver medal in boxing, his father, Ramesh Ji working as a watchman in a complex in Pune. They live in a parking shed with their family The captain of Maharashtra Under-21 Women's Kabaddi team, Sonali Helvi is from Satara. She lost her father at a very young age, and her brother and mother encouraged the talent and skills of Sonali.\nIt is often seen that girls are not encouraged in sports like such as Kabaddi. In spite of the hurdles, Sonali not only chose Kabaddi but excelled in this discipline. 10-year-old Abhinav Shaw hailing from Asansol is the youngest gold medalist in the Games A farmer's daughter, Akshaya Basavani Kamat, from Karnataka won a gold medal in weightlifting. She credited her to her father, a farmer in Belgaum. When we talk about the creation of a new India, then determination exhibited by our youth is the veritable example of what is New India! These inspirational stories from the annals of 'Khelo India,' are ample proof, that the building of New India does not only include the contribution of the denizens of big cities but also the youth, children, young sports talents, hailing from small towns, towns and villages\nMy dear countrymen, you must have heard about many a prestigious beauty contest But have you heard about the 'Shining Toilet' contest? Over the past month, more than 50 lakh toilets have participated in this unique contest The name of this unique contest is \"Clean beautiful Toilet\". People are making their toilets clean and colored, by having painted them and other renovations, you will find lots of photos of such toilets participating in the \"Clean beautiful toilet\" contest from Kanya Kumari to Kutchh from Kamrup on Social Media. I appeal to all the Sarpanchs and village heads to take a lead in this campaign in their respective Panchayats. And do share your \"clean beautiful toilet\" photos with me on #MylzzatGhar on social media.\nFriends together, on October 2, 2014, we had a memorable journey together with clean defecation. Due to the unequivocal support from the people of India, today India is moving towards liberation from defecation in the open much before 2 October, 2019, so that we will pay our homage to Bapu on his 150th birth anniversary.\nIn this memorable journey of clean India, listeners have also contributed a lot to the 'Mann Ki Baat' forum and that is why I'm happy to share the fact that more than five lakh fifty thousand villages and 600 districts have declared themselves free Open defecation and sanitation coverage has crossed 98% limit in rural India, while latrines have been provided nearly 9 crore households.\nMy younger friends Anshul Sharma, Resident of Himachal Pradesh has written on MyGov that I would talk about examinations and Exam Warriors Anshul ji, I thank you for raising this issue Yes, for many families, the first part of the year is Exam Season. Students, their parents and teachers, all are engaged in tasks related to examinations.\nI wish all the students, their parents and teachers all the best. I would have liked to discuss this topic at length in 'Man Ki Baat' of today, but you will be happy to know that just after a gap of two days, on January 29, at 11 am, in 'Pariksha Pe Charcha' The program, I am going to interact with students from all over the country, and this time, along with the students, their parents and teachers are also going to be part of this program. And this time, students from other countries will also participate. In this 'Pariksha Pe Charcha' program, I will touch upon a lot of things related to all facets of the young people, especially on the subject of stress free exams. I had requested people to send me inputs and ideas with respect to this program; and I am very happy that a large number of people are sharing their thoughts on MyGov. Some of these ideas and suggestions I will definitely put in front of you during the Town Hall program. You must also try to become a part of this program ...... and through social media and Namo App, you can also see its live telecast.\nMy dear countrymen 30th January is the birth anniversary of revered Bapu. At 11am the whole country pays homage to the martyrs. Wherever we are, we must pay tribute to our martyrs. Remember our revered Bapu and take a vow to fulfill the dreams of Pujya Bapu, to build a new India, and to fulfill our duties as a citizen - let's move forward with this resolution. Let us confirm this journey of 2019 remains successful Many more felicitations\nShivkumar Swamiji dedicates his entire life to social service: PM pic.twitter.com/U0byU9M5TS\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) January 27, 2019\nThere is a very important organization in our country, which is an integral part of our democracy and is more than our Republic: PM pic.twitter.com/SlcdL30vJR\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) January 27, 2019\nThis year our Lok Sabha elections will be held in our country, this will be the first time 21st Century-born Youth will use its vote in Lok Sabha elections: PM #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/H7At3eVcf7\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) January 27, 2019\nThis great land of India has given birth to many great men and these great men have done some amazing, unforgettable works for humanity: PM #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/wNP8vynuGi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) January 27, 2019\nThe members of Netaji's family presented me a very special cap, cap.\nNetaji used to wear the same hat: PM #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/cohsMuafMZ\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) January 27, 2019\nWhen the tricolor was hoisted on Red Fort in October 2018, everyone was surprised: PM #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/lkumZ4xbDG\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) January 27, 2019\nI have always considered radio as an important means of connecting with people, in the same way, Netaji too had a deep connection with the radio and he had also chosen radio to communicate with the countrymen: PM #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/ 9GcIHqksZW\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) January 27, 2019\nYou have yet to go to Gurudev Rabindranath Tagore as a writer and a musician. But I would like to tell that Gurudev was also a painter: PM #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/dK4D9O6JsJ\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) January 27, 2019\nOur saints have conveyed the message of goodwill, equality and social empowerment through their thoughts and actions. There was such a Saint - Sant Ravidas: PM #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/lkBgxavdQm\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) January 27, 2019\nA few days ago, I was in Ahmedabad, where I got the privilege of unveiling the statue of Dr. Vikram Sarabhai: PM #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/g2SIF7Oa0Q\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) January 27, 2019\nSince the country's independence, the number of Space Mission that took place till 2014, almost the same number of Space Mission has been started in the past four years: PM #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/Jr0FrYFGQc\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) January 27, 2019\nSkies and stars are always attractive for children.\nOur Space Program gives children an opportunity to think bigger and move beyond those boundaries, which were considered impossible by now: PM #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/wbBW863tbs\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) January 27, 2019\nWhen our sport's local ecosystem will be strong i.e. only when our base is strong, our youth will be able to perform their best in the country and around the world: PM #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/jeYRGWXWa6\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) January 27, 2019\nYou must have heard about many prestigious beauty contest. But have you heard about the contest of toilet shoe?: PM #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/KJWo1a2erx"