"#NarmadaSevaYatra is a unique move in history: PM Modi\nMaa Narmada is a life giver, says PM Modi #NarmadaSevaYatra\nSuccess of Swachh Bharat Mission is not due to governments: PM Modi\nPresent here in large numbers, my dear brothers and sisters,\n\nOur scriptures say that if we offer our obeisance to a pilgrim, when we can not go on a pilgrimage we get the holy reward of the pilgrimage. I am now seeking a part of that reward by offering pilgrims. But, I am not asking it for myself The holy reward earns your pilgrimage should benefit our motherland, should be 1.25 billion Indians, it should alleviate the sufferings of the poor of this country\n\nAnd it's my belief that Narmada Yatra is the same pilgrimage that has long been associated with the Narmada circuit. And, I am very well aware that the scripture Once I tried to live up to that expectation and so, I know how to do a pilgrimage to your arrogance. And mother Narmada cleanses the arrogance of the person doing a Narmada circuit. Mother Narmada sets the person free from all types of bondages and attachments. Even a highly decorated, highly respected person also gets free from those attachments and titles. Completing a Narmada circuit unite followers of mother Narmada with herself, one can feel unison with mother Narmada Today you have taken the vow to serve the mother Narmada\n\nWhen time turns a page then it turns one's life upside down These problems arise when arrogance dominates and your commitment to duties weakens; We are compelled to come out and serve the mother Narmada. This is the same mother Narmada that has sustained us for ages, gave us life and protected our ancestors, but we have all these favors as right as our right and our duty from the face, and the mother Narmada the whole of our exploitation. In order to serve our self-interests we never cared for the mother Narmada, we only cared for our narrow interests. Deep down in our hearts, we had the right of possession that we had rights over mother Narmada and we could exploit her way we want to And this arrogance led us to shed our sweat to save the mother Narmada that had always sustained us Had we not turned away from our duty, had Mother Narmada to do our duty, then it is the mother Narmada to save human beings on it. However, the Chief Minister of Madhya Pradesh, people of Madhya Pradesh got into action just in time.\n\nIndia has many rivers Many rivers have lost in history India has one river, maybe that is the only river named after the country, it's called Bharat Puja However, it's a cause of concern that the river will survive or not It's not that water If we do not fulfill the obligations of our duties that a river sustains, then it will cause humanitarianism to the unspeakable damage.\n\nWe're very well aware that Mother Narmada does not emanate from snowy hills, it does not emanate from the melting snow. Mother Narmada takes her shape from the blessings of every single plant and it blesses our lives. Therefore, the most important work that the Madhya Pradesh government has undertaken for the shining future of Mother Narmada; For ensuring the sustainability of the plant At this stage, we can not fully comprehend the great service done by our future generations when we plant saplings. Today we've been reaping the benefits of mother Narmada only due to hard work, industriousness and the rigorous services done by our ancestors. Future generations would have remembered the hard work done by us today that there was a time when people took the help of plants and trees for saving the mother Narmada; for the revival of mother Narmada This journey that takes about 150 days is a very difficult task, however, it's very unfortunate for our country, if efforts are undermined, such a great work, if the government, politicians themselves have such events with associate. Otherwise it's a work for which I congratulate people of Madhya Pradesh, every single person of millions of people connected with this Narmada Yatra and also to every single person inhabiting on the banks of mother Narmada. This is such an important event that in any other country, one fifty days of rigorous service to save a river would have become a global talking point, it would have been world-wide, and global TV networks such an event covered with rush. However, this is unfortunate that in our country we fail to recognize and comprehend global importance of our efforts and such opportunities on the miss out.\nThe event of a solar park being set up is over; that in that area of ​​the country This mammoth work of saving a river has been accomplished, this gigantic work of protecting the environment is being done. More than twenty five lakh people took a serious vow, millions more associated themselves with these twenty five lakh people, hardships and body pains suffered, and hard work by hard days, mother earth, to save long distances for walking by save the river I congratulate Shivraj Ji, his whole team and also the people of Madhya Pradesh for spearheading this mammoth task.\n\nI was born in Gujarat Gujaratis know very well the value of every single drop of Narmada's water And today when you have embarked on a gigantic mission for the future of Narmada, then I thank and appreciate the people of Madhya Pradesh, Government of Madhya Pradesh and Chief Minister of Madhya Pradesh on behalf of farmers, villages and people of Gujarat, and also on behalf of farmers, villages and people of Rajasthan, and also on behalf of farmers, villages and people of Maharashtra\n\nClean India Mission has now received a systematic process. The Clean India Mission is constantly being evaluated by a third party about what is happening in which state, which city is clean. People's participation And if we ignore the people's strength, people will be able to achieve anything Nothing is successful without people's participation, no matter how good the idea may be, howsoever good the system can be. And Madhya Pradesh has set an example as people's participation.\n\nLast time when a survey was conducted in the country, its reputation lost, however, the state made this stigma, its people in public awareness, people's participation, people were associated with the mission and today I congratulate the state of Madhya Pradesh. Out of 100 cities in the country that were rated for cleanliness twenty two are from Madhya Pradesh. It's a big achievement. In the area of ​​cleanliness, Madhya Pradesh has set an example for other states by involving its people in the clean India mission. Indore and Bhopal respectively in the first and second place in the terms of cleanliness.\nOut of total 100 cities in the country if 22 cities from one particular state are the leading spots it means the state administration and people of the state are considered as their own work. And it also led to the success of Narmada Yatra project. And this was accomplished due to the people's power, it was not accomplished due to the government power. Every people has participated in big achievements, Shivraj Ji has set a target to plant 6 crore saplings on July 02. Every essential arrangement has been made in the nursery for this purpose, only then it will succeed. We need to tend these plants to our children, only then these plants will grow in massive banyan trees.\n\nIt is said in our scriptures that the one who thinks for the next one year plants crops, but the one who thinks of future plants And this work of planting fruit bearing trees will provide economic security to many families in future. I have studied the booklet of the scheme by being prepared by MP government and I believe that the program undertaken by Madhya Pradesh government and the scheme is ready by it has a very detailed account of what needs to be done, how it is done, who is will do what everybody is, it is a perfect document for the future I will urge on other states and I'd also urge on Shivraj Ji to send a copy of the booklet to each state of India. .\n\nWater is source of life, when we say: Mother river, then it means that our entire economy is based on the river. Our economy will be ruined without that If the agriculture sector of Madhya Pradesh has grown at the rate of twenty percent then the biggest credit for this growth goes to mother Narmada. This is the power, the power to change the life of a farmer is mother Narmada.\n\nIndia has embarked on a mission to double the farmer's income by 2022, Madhya Pradesh has made this purpose for a comprehensive scheme. And I believe that every single village will be able to take the benefit of that scheme.\n\nMy dear brothers and sisters, we will complete seventy five years of our freedom in 2022. Can not the 125 crore Indians always keep in mind the 75th year of our independence? Those great men that sacrificed their lives for the country, spent their entire youth in jail, some embraced martyrdom, others sacrificed their family for freedom of mother India; Can not we take a specific vow that as a person, as a family, as a society we will complete this or that for our country by 2022. We do our village of this do, a city as it is, As an institution we will do, as a society, as a state and as a country.\n\nWe should carry forward the dream of making 'New India' by 2022. We need to engage every Indian We need to engage every single Indian to scale new heights, to make a new India 'as we have done during the freedom movement. So I'd urge my countrymen, I'd urge every organization of Madhya Pradesh that by 2022 what will you do as an institution, as a family, as a society, as an organization or as a group; you decide this. We have been galvanized the country We can scale new heights in these five years. I believe that if the 1.25 billion people of this country take a step forward then in the next five years the country will continue by 1.25 billion steps.\nI am specially indebted to revered Avadeshanand Ji for the blessings that he blessed me, his love for me; I pray to God that he give us those capacities, those virtues, those feelings of dedication; so that we can do the right way I convey my deep words and blessings.\nI too warmly congratulate all of you, and as Shivraj Ji said that the journey takes a pause here, however, it is the time to implement, whatever we thought, we saw, we did during the journey. The journey is over but the Yajna begins. We need to make offerings in the Yajna, take out time for it; We need to sacrifice all our wishes and desires for the society I believe that this Yajna for the bright future of the river Narmada will achieve great heights through your hard work. With this feeling, I urge you to join me in chanting with clenched fist and raised hands. I will say 'Narmade' and you will add 'Sarvade'.\n\nNarmade - Sarvade\n\nYour collective voice should reach the other end of mother Narmada, to the gulf of Khambat.\n"