"Namaskaar.Ayubuvan\nVesak is most sacred of days.\nA day for humanity to revere the birth, the enlightenment and the Parinibbana of Lord Buddha, the \"Tathagatha\". A day to joy in Buddha. A day to reflect on the supreme truthand timeless relevance of Dhamma, and the four noble truths.\nA day to contemplate the ten perfections of generosity; Proper conduct; Renunciation; Pinna (wisdom); Energy; Tolerance; Truthfulness; Determination; Maita (loving kindness) and the equanimity.\nIt is a very important significance for you here in Sri Lanka, for us in India, and for Buddhists around the world. And, I am most grateful to the Excellency President Maithripala Sirisena, Excellency Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe and the people of Sri Lanka for extending to the honor of the Chief guest at the International Day of the Festival of Colombo. On this auspicious occasion, I also bring with me the greetings of 1.25 billion people from the Land of the Samyaksambuddha, the absolute self awakened one.\nExcellencies, and Friends,\nOur region is blessed to have given the world the invaluable gift of Buddha and his teachings. Bodh Gaya in India, where Prince Siddhartha becomes the Buddha, is the sacred nucleus of the Buddhist universe. Lord Buddha's first message in Varanasi, which I have given to the honor of the Parliament, set in motion the wheel of Dhamma. Our key national symbols have taken inspiration from Buddhism Buddhism and its various strandsare deep seated in our governance, cultureand philosophy. The divine fragrance of Buddhism spread from India to all corners of the globe. Mahindra and Sanghamitra, the worthy children of King Ashokamade from their journey from India to Sri Lankaas, Dhamma Dostana to spread the biggest gift of Dhamma.\nAnd, as Buddha had himself said: Sabadmanamhamadan janati, meaning, the gift of Dhamma is the biggest gift of all. Today, Sri Lanka takes pride in being the most important nerve center of Buddhist teachings and learning. Centuries later, Anagarika Dharmapala undertook a similar journey, but this time, from Sri Lanka to India to revive the spirit of Buddhism. In some way, you take your back The world too owes a debt of gratitude to Sri Lanka for the protection of some of the most important elements of the Buddhist heritage. Vesak is an occasion for us to celebrate this unbroken shared heritage of Buddhism. A heritage that connects our societies in generations and through centuries\nFriends,\nThe friendship between India and Sri Lanka was etched in time by the \"Great Master\". Buddhism As close neighbours, our relationship spreads across many layers. It draws its power as much through our interconnected values ​​of Buddhism as it does from the limitless possibilities of our shared future. Ours is a friendship that lives in our people and the fabric of our societies.\nTo Honor and deepen our links of Buddhist heritage, I have been delighted to announce that from August this year, Air India will operate direct flights between Colombo and Varanasi. This will ease travel to the land of Buddha for my brothers and sisters from Sri Lanka, and help you directly visit Sravasti, Kusinagar, Sankasa, Kaushambi and Sarnath. My Tamil brothers and sisters will also be able to visit Varanasi, the land of Kashi Vishwanath\nVenerable Monks, Excellencies and Friends,\nI believe we are a moment of great opportunities in Sri Lanka. An opportunity to achieve a quantum jump in our partnership. And, for us, the most relevant benchmark for our success We are committed to the prosperity of Sri Lanka brothers and sisters. We will continue to invest in driving positive change and economic development. Our strength lies in our knowledge, capacity and prosperity. In trade and investment, we are already significant partners. We believe that free flow of trade, investments, technology, and ideas across our borders will be our mutual benefit India's fast growthcan bring dividends, especially in Sri Lanka In infrastructure and connectivity, transport and energy, we are poised to scale up our cooperation. Our development partnership stretches across human activity such as agriculture, education, health, resettlement, transport, power, culture, water, shelter, sports, and human resources.\nToday, India's development cooperation with Sri Lankaamounts toUS Dollars 2.6 billion. And, its only aim is to support Sri Lanka in realizing a peaceful, prosperous and secure future. Because, the economic and social well being of the people of Sri Lankais linked with that of 1.25 billion Indians Because, whether it is on land or in the waters of the Indian Ocean, the security of our societies is indivisible. My conversations with President Sirisena and Prime Minister Wickremesinghe have only reinforced our will to join hands in achieving our common goals. As you make important choices for the harmony and progress of your society, you will find in India a friend and partner who will support your nation-building endeavours.\nVenerable Monks, Excellencies and Friends,\nLord Buddha's message is as relevant in the first century as it was two and a half millennia ago. The Middle Prometheus, The Middle Path showed by Buddha, speaks to all of us Its universality and evergreen nature is striking. It has been a unifying force in nations The countries of South, Central, South East and East Asia are proud of their Buddhist links.\nThe themes of Social Justice and Sustainable World Peace, Selected for the Vesak day, resonate deeply with Buddha's teachings. The themes may appear independent But, they are both deeply interdependentand interconnected. The issue of Social justice is linked to conflictwithin and among communities. This arises primarily because of tan or (trashna in Sanskrit), the thirst, which in turn stems from greed. Greed has driven and lost our natural habitat Our desire to achieve all our wants has created income inequalities in communities and disturbed social harmony.\nSimilarly, the biggest challenge to sustainable world peace may not be necessary It is the mindsets, thought streams, entities and instruments rooted in the idea of ​​hate and violence. The danger of terrorism in our region is a concrete manifestation of this destructive emotion. Sadly, these ideologies of hate and their proponents in our region are not open to dialogue and therefore only open to dialogue I firmly believe that Buddhism is the message of peace.\nAnd, not just a negative notion of conflict But, a positive peace, where we all work to promote dialogue, harmony and justice, based on compassion and wisdom As Buddha said, \"Natti Santirparan Sukhon\", \"There is no higher bliss than peace\". Our government and policies and conduct in the kindness, peace, accommodation, inclusiveness, and compassion are the values ​​of peace and prosperity of India. This is the true path to free individuals, families, societies, nations and the world at large from the three poisons of greed, hate and ignorance.\nVenerable Monks, Excellencies and friends,\nOn the blessed day of Vesak, let us light the lamps of knowledge; let us look more within; and let us uphold And, dedicate our efforts to the path of Buddha whose light shines all over the world.\nAs the verse 387 of Dhammapada says:\nDiwatapathyAdicho, RattingObhatichandhima\nSandhokhtiyotapati, Jyantipati Brahmins\nAthabasabham Ahringing, Buddhaoptithejsa\nMeaning:\nThe sun shines by the day,\nThe moon lights up the night,\nThe warrior shines in his armour,\nThe Brahmin shines in his meditation,\nBut, the awakened one shines all day and night by his radiance.\nThank you once again\nI look forward to paying homage at the Sri Dalada Maligawa, the Temple of the Sacred Tooth Relic, in Kandy today afternoon. May the Triple Gem of Buddha, Dhhama and Sangha bless us all.\nThank you, Thank you very much\nGrateful to President @MaithripalaS, PM @RW_UNP \u0026 People of Sri Lanka for extending to me the honor of being Chief Guest at Vesak Day: PM pic.twitter.com/aoAu1wmYpn\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 12, 2017\nI also bring with me the greetings of 1.25 billion people from the Land of the Samyaksambuddha, the perfect self awakened one: PM pic.twitter.com/6o99XAOXs8\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 12, 2017\nOur region is blessed to have given the world the invaluable gift of Buddha and his teachings: PM @narendramodi pic.twitter.com/px7yj2INLC\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 12, 2017\nBuddhism and its various strands are deeply seated in our governance, culture and philosophy: PM @narendramodi pic.twitter.com/enc6OtVz5b\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 12, 2017\nSri Lanka takes pride in being among the most important nerve centers of Buddhist teachings and learning: PM @narendramodi pic.twitter.com/48jG8kiW1p\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 12, 2017\nVesak is an opportunity for us to celebrate the unbroken shared heritage of Buddhism: PM @narendramodi pic.twitter.com/fRXDQtPyr0\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 12, 2017\nI am happy to announce that from August this year, Air India will operate direct flights between Colombo and Varanasi: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 12, 2017\nMy Tamil brothers and sisters will also be able to visit Varanasi, the land of Kashi Vishwanath: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 12, 2017\nI believe we are a moment of great opportunities in Sri Lanka: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 12, 2017\nLord Buddha's message is as relevant in the first century as it is two and a half millennia ago: PM @narendramodi pic.twitter.com/g2E1ANbVLj\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 12, 2017\nThe themes of Social Justice and Sustainable World Peace, Selected for the Vesak day, resonate deeply with Buddha's teachings: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 12, 2017\nThe biggest challenge to sustainable World Peace is today not necessarily conflict between the nation states: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 12, 2017\n. @narendramodi It is the mindsets, thought streams, entities and instruments rooted in the idea of ​​hate and violence: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 12, 2017\nOn Vesak let us light the lights of knowledge; Let us look more inside and let us uphold nothing else but the truth: PM"