"E-governance is easy, effective and economical It is also environment friendly: PM Modi\nTechnology has the power to transform our economic potential as well, says PM\nIT + IT = IT This means 'Information Technology + Indian Talent = India Tomorrow': PM Modi\nThe effect of artificial intelligence is going to increase. Space technology is becoming important: PM\nAll respected senior Supreme Court judges, outside friends, brothers and sisters present in the auditorium,\nToday Buddha is full moon. I have very good luck to you and the countrymen at the holy festival of this Buddha Purnima. The country is changing, it is a holiday, we are working. Today there is another importance of May 10 today, the freedom struggle of 1857 started a very large struggle of the country's independence on May 10, today.\nToday, another step towards modernism is being done by the judiciary too. I congratulate Chief Justice and his whole team with a lot of compliment, congratulate. If we had met in a program in Allahabad, then the Chief sahib had presented a complete picture of the figures in a very large detail, there are pendency in front of everyone and the cases pending in the country and he appealed to the judiciary of the country. That you give some time for the vacation The one who was listening to it was very happy for me, sitting there was a big motivator and I am happy that I have news from many places that in the High Court, the judges in the Supreme Court can reduce their vacation to this country I am going to give my time for the poor, I am very grateful for this. What comes as a result of Quantum is a different matter but such a sense changes the entire environment. Emphasizes an sense of responsibility and a new belief is born in the mind of the common man, and the new faith for 'New India' is equally important and I expressly thank you very much for this.\nToday, we have had the government's experience with regard to technology, I have worked in the state, have worked here too, all the arrangements related to governments or government, unfortunately, our very limited meaning of technology has been the hardware, buying hardware, Sizing the hardware, we considered it the technology. If you go to many offices then in the past, there was a flower-pot on the table, when the big officer came, there was a lot of fresh flowers. The little officer came in a little bit, but the flower-pot stayed. When the era changed, modernity came, there is a good computer in place of the flower-pot, nor has he ever opened it, nor has it handled, but it feels great. That's why problem technology is low, budget is too low mind-set is a problem Now today Buddha is full moon, then one thing of Lord Buddha is a big motivator, he always used to say that change of mind, change the mind, change the intention only then the beginning of change begins. It is a very inspiring message from Lord Buddha. And in that sense we have seen today that everybody thinks that the model of the mobile phone has become obsolete now, just bring a new model, how much the new model will bring, even in his pocket the diary of the contact list remains. is. While there is a complete list of contacts in the mobile phone, its diary remains, because we sit among friends, mobile should be good in hand and nothing more than green or red button. We have so much, our situation is such that how do we change? If we do SMS to anyone then we call, get my SMS. The challenge is not in the software, the challenge is not even in the hardware, and for this, a collective mind has to be made. If a chain breaks down, then the process is stuck. Someone thought that I ... now see that none of us including myself are not enjoying till the newspaper reads the newspaper by hand. It has been a newspaper so much that today's children do not touch the newspaper, while Yun -Uu comes with news from around the world. So this is the change that involves adding itself to this change and making it an environment; The person will be interested and he will continue to be isolate in the entire system.\nAnd so now the Chiefs are saying to me that we are now working in a continuous discussion of training in a way so that we are trying to get it down to the bottom. The power of technology is amazing, which is what it will feel Come on how to use it. Initially, he is very scared that man is not the disease of my bus. You must have seen that you have brought a very good VCR in the house, have brought good TV, but when your grandfather does not understand anything then you call the grandson. Hey, see how he stuck, then he fixes it, that means so much. gap is all the case of generation.\nAnd so coping up is a little hard for a generation, but if that generation does not cop-up it then it is impossible to percolate down. And so this is the biggest challenge, it is associated with it.\nAccording to me, E-Governance, Easy-Governance, Effective Governance, Economical Governance, Environment Friendly Governance How do we bring this e-Governance to every area of ​​life? Now that we use a paper A-4 size paper, Research says that a paper of A-4 size consumes 10 liters of water during the whole process. 10 liters of water ... This means that if I go to this paper-less world, then I am going to serve the next generation of generations. How many forests will I save, how much power will I save, when I save electricity, I will address issues of how big environment, that is, in one sense this system has its own strength. But till we do not know that whole form, leave it, it is not my job. If we would provoke this even in its broad form, it was the worst of all, and it was old, and it does the same thing, it does not need to see it in this form, it is very simple, It is very useful and in today's time when there is a problem of time then in less time the work is done by this.\nOur experience in government is that we people believe that, our department believes that what we do is very good. We do not have any mistakes, we do not have any weaknesses. It is natural that he works only where he works. Just two months ago I just took a risk. I told all the department that you tell me that you have some difficulties here, something is going wrong or it needs to be corrected or simplify some process, just show it? No, no, no, no, sir, we all are doing well, there is no special problem. I looked back at about 400 issues on different dates of different departments that needed improvement or some intervention was needed. Now later I gave this work to the Universities, especially to the children of 18 to 20-22 years of age, given to the children of the college and made their program of a Kokthan 36 hours nonstop working under a single roof and working for it Finding the solution, 400 issues given to them. 42,000 children took part in it then hundred universities \u0026 colleges participated in it and 36 hours nonstop they sit under a single roof and they exercise. I wondered the solutions of the most issues they have given. Process solutions are given. Most of them then interacted with the government, they told the government that the way to see it is this, it is this. Many departments have adopted this as well. And this has happened in the last two months. It means that we have such a big chance, if we try. And what I want you to do is ask the students of the field of technology in the country to find such a solution. Find out what the path can get, what can be the way, what software can be, what technique can come I say with confidence that they give such good things and give solution. We can easily accept it and accept it. And I think IT + IT = IT is no longer the work of those arithmetic people too. When I say I say with great confidence IT + IT = IT means Information Technology + Indian talent = India Tomorrow This is the strength in it. How can we increase this strength by using it?\nNow there was a time when the currency of the terracotta, the coins of the clay were used to move the world. Time has changed in copper coins, sometimes came of silver, never came to sleep, sometimes came to the leather, gradually came to the paper. Now these changes are accepted by the people. According to the era, the time has come that now the paper currency is going to be now digital currency. We will have to make our nature.\nI had a chance to take a little bit of interest in these areas, especially after 8th November, in which I had no experience, for the day, Demonetization was on 8th November. And I felt that printing a note, keeping it safe, transporting it, transporting billions of rupees is the cost of rupees, which is one to handle an ATM. Six to handle an ATM; While technology is available there is no currency in the pocket, you can still afford it, so technology is available today. If we have created a BHIM App by taking government initiative like this. There is no cost of one rupee, download it on your mobile, be near the front, start your business, there is no problem. If the billions of rupees of the country are saved, then to build a poor house of the poor, it is going to work for the education of poor children.\nTechnology can change the entire economical environment, it is the strength of its How we used it and how we should use it in every area of ​​life, we should try. My own experience is that it is understood very rapidly by the great people. If you do not come to yourself, then you keep a young man, look, brother, you help me in this work, I do not have a habit, but you do it. Today, the technology that we are living in the era, which has played the role of technology in thousands of years, in the last thirty years, thousand times more technology has rolled into it. The work that has not happened in thousand years has happened in thirty years. And what is happening today is that the technology can be out dated after leaving here, technology is changing so fast, it will be far away, while artificial intelligence will dominate. The whole field of artificial intelligence is going to drive the whole human race. Whether the job will be left or not will be a debate, a driver-less car will come, the car running from Artificial Intelligence is about to arrive. What will happen to the driver? What is the possibility of job-creation even after the arrival of Artificial Intelligence? And those who are experts in it, say that after the artificial intelligence, the huge potential for job-creation is going to increase. The whole world is going towards a new thought. For him, the new generation is going to be ready. That is, how fast the world is changing, technology is taking the path of humans, if we do not keep a little cop-up with ourselves, then the gap will increase so that we will become so irrelevant. That no one will ask us till this stage is not far.\nAnd so, Space Technology, we have earned great respect in the field of space technology and science in India, our reputation has become in the world. The world that we went to Mars did not succeed in the first trial there, India succeeded in the first trial. And the expense is so much today if we rent a taxi, the value of one kilometer is 10 rupees 11 rupees. We went to Mars on one kilometer 7 rupees. And in the world of Hollywood, the cost of the film is less than that, India has done Mars success. Today, it is the amazing talent of our scientists, it is the strength of the scientists of our country. But unfortunately, such a huge space Technology, India's biggest achievements, but in the applicable science, we have gone a long way in implementing science. After coming here, I did a workshop, all the Joint Secretaries have been done for many days by Department-wise Space Technology is used in the governance. Today we make roads, then we make such a way. Using Space Technology, you can create straight-way road with minimum curves, you can design and do all the things. I had to give rights to the tribal land. I used Space Technology. And I did not need any proof, I could straighten out with Space Technology that it was Forest land, which used to come for farming, with a 15-year-old photograph, I can decide if his right is formed, We can provide it.\nIn the field of Criminal Justice, in particular the Justice System has increased the probability of justice, because technology is very supportive. The mobile phone is leaving the evidence that you get absolutely scientific facilities for the evidence. Forensics Science is rolling big! With the footage of the accident case CCTV Camera, you reach the result of giving a Judge. To say that technology making the whole Judiciary system more efficient, and simplifying Technology Forensics Science can play a very big role. The faster we adopt these things, the faster we will make the most accurate decision.\nNow someone could imagine that the kicker first decided the umpire was the one that won it. Now the third umpire decides that your child was right, caught not caught, he tells, then lightens from above. Now someone will say that the job of the umpire has gone, the job of the umpire has not gone, the efficiency has come. And so I understand that with simplicity as we accept it with regard to technology, I feel as if it is going to get a lot of benefit.\nNow Ravishankar was talking about pro-bono I would definitely like to mention it in front of everyone. This is what our country thinks, the citizens of this country are like this, people are like this, people have their own, this reality is not. Let us recognize the mood of the country, the mood of the country is different. This platform is not like this, I am going to give examples, it is fair but still it is more suitable, so I am giving it, I am sorry, the election of 2014 has happened. My party had presented me as a prime minister in the form of a prime minister, in front of the Congress party people were contesting and before that election you would know that a huge meeting was held in Delhi. And the country's full attention was that what they brought to the country, for elections in the country and when there was a press conference, they said that we have decided that 12 cylinders instead of 9 gas cylinders, i.e., 2014 चुनाव एक तरफ 9 cylinder और 12 cylinder इस तरफ था और दूसरी तरफ अलग ही वो एक। मैं उस समय की दृश्‍य की इसलिए याद दिलाता हूं, अब आप देखिए कि technology के बारह जिस देश में 9 और 12 cylinder की debate लोकसभा तक भविष्‍य तय करने के लिए हो रही थी, सरकार बनने के बाद मैंने देशवासियों से एक छोटी सी अपील की थी, लालकिले पर से और मैंने कहा था कि भाई अगर आप कोई afford कर सकते हैं तो आप सब्सिडी छोड़ दीजिए ना! इतना सा कहा और मैं आज बड़े गर्व के साथ कहता हूं कि मेरे देश के एक करोड़ 20 लाख परिवारों ने गैस की सब्सिडी surrender कर दी। हमने अपनी सोच के कारण 9 और 12 में हम उलझे थे, उनकी ताकत क्‍या है कभी उसको हमने address ही नहीं किया था जी।\nएक बार मैंने डाक्‍टरों से अपील की थी कि आप के पास बहुत काम होगा बहुत patient होंगें जब एक काम मेरी मदद कर सकते हैं क्‍या? मैंने कहा हर महीना 9 तारीख को कोई भी गरीब pregnant women आपके दरवाजे पर आएगी आप बिना फीस लिए उस गरीब pregnant मां की चिंता करिए। आपको जानकर के आनंद होगा कि इस देश के हजारों gynecologists doctors ने अपने अस्‍तपताल के बाहर बोर्ड लगाया है और नौ तारीख को वो बिना charge लिए गरीब pregnant women को सेवा करते हैं, उनको मदद करते हैं उनको guide करते हैं, दवाई करते हैं।\nजब मैं गुजरात में था बड़ा भंयकर भूकंप आया था, मैंने इंजीनियरिंग के students को कहा था छ: महीने के लिए समय दिजिए। बहुत बड़ी मात्रा में इंजीनियरिंग के students आए थे और मिशन तक मेरे साथ काम करने को खड़े हो गए थे। आज मैं देश की Legal fraternity को, खासकर के मेरे वकील मित्रों से आग्रह कर रहा हूं ये जो pro-bono की क्रमश: हमने एक App तैयार किया है आप अपने आप को register करवाइए किसी गरीब को मदद चाहिए तो मैं गरीब के लिए मुफ्त में तैयार हूं। एक पूरा देश में movement खड़ा हो गरीबों को legal help करने के‍ लिए हम आगे आएं। और ये एक technology का कमाल है कि ये pro-bono के द्वारा व्‍यवस्‍था खड़ी की गई हैं। Technology से आप उसमें register कर सकते है, technology के माध्‍यम से जो requirement वाला है वो आ सकता है, या हमारे छोटे-मोटे organization हैं उनके द्वारा link up कर सकते हैं, लेकिन एक नया initiative अगर मेरे देश के गरीब, विधवा रिटायर टीचर वो जाकर के कतार में खड़ी रहकर के गैस सेलेंडर की सब्सिडी surrender कर सकती हैं, मेरे देश का Gynecologist doctor नौ तारीख को गरीब मां की सेवा करने को तत्‍पर रहता है, मेरे देश का नौजवान आपदा के समय अपने इंजीनियरिंग skill को लगा देने के लिए तैयार होता है, मेरे देश के IT का professional मैं उसको कहूं कि 36 घंटे खाये-पिये बिना एक छत के नीचे आ जाओ और देश की समस्‍याओं के समाधान के लिए कोई रास्‍ते निकालनें आ जाओ और 42 thousand नौजवान 36 घंटें के लिए 400 समस्‍याओं के समाधान के लिए रास्‍ता खोजते हैं, मुझे विश्‍वास है मेरे देश के वकील भी मेरे के गरीबों की मदद करने के लिए इस technology के माध्‍यम से आगे आएगे, और देश का भविष्‍य बदलने के लिए काम आएगें।\nइसी अपेक्षा के साथ ये जो नया काम आपने शुरू किया है, खान्विलकर जी को मैं बहुत-बहुत शुभकामनाएं देता हूं, बधाई देता हूं चीफ साहब का मैं बहुत अभिनंदन करता हूं। मैं मानता हूं Digital India की दिशा में, न्‍याययिक व्‍यवस्‍था में technology का आना अपने आप में बहुत सेवा करेगा। Thanks a lot."