"Swami Pranavananda connected his disciples to service and spirituality: PM\nDuring many natural disasters, BSS teams have served people with great dedication: PM\nSocial development through 'Bhakti', 'Shakti' and 'Jan Shakti' was achieved by Swami Pranavananda: PM\nSwami Pranavananda never liked social divisions and inequalities: PM\nIn the last three years, the development of the Northeast Focus is on connectivity and infrastructure: PM\nThe Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today addressed the Centenary Celebrations of Bharat Sevashram Sangha through video conference. The event is being organized at Shillong\nWelcoming the Prime Minister on the occasion, The General Secretary of Bharat Sevashram Sangha, Sreemat Swami Biswatmananda ji Maharaj, spoke of the glorious spiritual and service traditions of India.\nAddressing the gathering, the Prime Minister recalled the time that he had worked in India. He conveyed his best wishes on the occasion to the Bharat Sevashram Sangha, which he said, combined the virtues of service and labor (shram).\nHe said the work of the organization in the north-east, and during the time of disasters, has been specially praiseworthy.\nThe Prime Minister explained the importance of serving the poor and the needy, as described in the scriptures.\nHe said Swami Pranavananda, the founder of Bharat Sevashram Sangha, had spoken of social justice a century ago, and established the Sangh for this purpose.\nThe Prime Minister said a myth has been created in recent times that \"service\" and \"spiritualuality\" are two different things He said the Bharat Sevashram Sangha has been able to dispel this myth, through its work.\nThe Prime Minister said that social development through 'Bhakti', 'Shakti' and 'Jan Shakti' was achieved by Swami Pranavananda.\nThe Prime Minister urged the \"Swachhagrah\" - or cleanliness, especially in North-Eastern India. He spoke of the government's resolve to develop the North-East, and added that the focus on connectivity and infrastructure could help develop the North-East to become a gateway to South-East Asia.\nSreemant Swami Ambareeshananda ji Maharaj, who had worked with the Prime Minister in Gujarat, and who was mentioned by the Prime Minister during his address, proposed the vote of thanks on the occasion.\nFollowing are the excerpts of the Prime Minister's address:\nLadies and Gentlemen,\nThere is a distance of about 2000 kilometers between Delhi and Shillong. But the technique has erased this distance. I came to Shilong only in the month of May last year, today, when you have the opportunity to talk to all through the video conference, if you have the opportunity to get your blessings then it is very natural to be refreshed many past Samastries. In Gujarat, I got an opportunity to work very closely with Vatsyaanandji Maharaj, a member of the Bharat Sevashram Sangh, the late Swami Akshayaanand ji Maharaj. Swami Ambrishanand, who was present on the stage, all his hair was black; I know from then For many years, one of his friends worked with him. Swami Ganeshanand ji, has not been met for many years, but he also has a close relationship with me, too. Acharya Shrimat Swami Pranabanand ji Maharaj, who founded the Bharat Seva Sangh. 100 years of service travel this year is being completed. All the members of the Sangh Sangh along with the service and labor to build India together are very good luck to me.\nIt is a matter of great pride for any organization that its service is expanding 100 years. And especially in the northeast states, the Bharat Sevashram Sangh has greatly appreciated the public welfare work. Flood or drought, or earthquake; The members of the Bharat Sevashram Sangha feel they are providing relief to the generations with full devotion, service and service. At the time of crisis, when the person needs help most, then Swami Pranabanand's disciples forget everything and gather only in human service. The service of the suffering man is considered as a pilgrimage in our scriptures. Having said :-\nEkta Kratav: Survey Sahastra Varadakshina Otherwise Patha-Bhitanam Praninam Pran Satham\nThat is, on one hand, by giving a good dakshina to everyone on the one hand, doing yajna work and on the other hand serving unhappy and diseased person, both of them are virtuous. That is to sacrifice and serve the miseries; the purity of both is equal to one; These our scriptures have taught us.\nCompanions,\nEven Swami Pranabanand ji reached the peak of his spiritual journey, and he had said - This time is Maha-Milan, Maha Jagaran, Maha Mukti and Maha-jaye justice. Today, what we are talking about social justice, Swami Pranabanand ji had raised a voice for social justice during his tenure at that time. After this he laid the foundations of the Bharat Sevashram Sangh.\nAfter the establishment in 1917, with the service of this institution, the work started, and it was also very impressed by Maharaja Sayajirao Gaikwad, the Maharaja of that time of Baroda. Maharaja Sayajirao Gaekwad himself used to work for the upliftment of people with relentless hard work, which is world-evident. He was like a moving organization of the work of public welfare, so he sent the services of the Swaminarayan Pranabanand ji across the country and saw him doing work at the grassroots level, and the Maharaja could not live without praising him.\nJana Sangh founder, all of us inspiration-men, revered Shyamaprasad Mukherjee, considered Swami Pranabanand as his teacher. We can also see the glimpse of Swami Pranabananda's thoughts in Dr. Mukherjee's views. With the vision of nation building, Swami Pranabanand ji associated his disciples with spirituality and service, it is incomparable. When in 1923 Bengal was drought and then the age of the Bharat Sevashram Sangh was only six years. 1 When there were riots in Noakhali in 1946, when Jalpaiguri flooded in 1950, when the first earthquake came in Anjar in 1956 under Kutch, when In 1977, there was a severe cyclone in Andhra Pradesh, when there was a gas tragedy in Bhopal in 1984; So the people of Bharat Sevashram Sangh (the people of Bharat Sevashram Sangh) served their lives while staying among the victims; They still remember people.\nWe have to keep in mind that this was the time when there were so many agencies created by taking disaster management in the country, there was no such discussion, nor was there much awareness. When the crisis came, the locals used to do some work according to their intelligence and strength. The natural disaster, or the crisis arising from the conflict of humanity, in every difficult hour, the Bharat Sevashram Sangh played an important role in dealing with it.\nI think that electricity seems to have gone where people are sitting where you are sitting. I see the darkness from here. But can not I see you or you? Is listening to me? Let me hear your voice.\nTalking about the past few years, when there was earthquake in Gujarat in 2001, a tsunami came in 2004, there was a tragedy in Uttarakhand in 2013, in Tamil Nadu flood in 2015, you see any such accident; Those who have their strength from Bharat Sevashram Sangh, they are never behind in serving devotionally.\nBrothers and sisters, Swami Pranabanand ji used to say without the life of ideal is like death. Only by setting high standards in your life can anybody make true service to humanity. All members of the Bharat Sevashram Sangh have brought these things to their lives.\nToday Swam Pranabanand will be very happy to see your efforts for humanity wherever it is, wherever you are. Not only the country, but also on the arrival of natural calamities abroad, members of Bharat Sevashram reach out to bring relief to the people. The lesser you are congratulated for this is less.\nIt has been said in our scriptures-\nSwarthimar Jeev Loke Asmin to not live human\nUltimate philanthropy, orthogonal life, life of life.\nThat is, the man who has not won for himself in the world, but whose life is for philanthropy, his life is life in true sense. Therefore, many Bharat Sevashram Sangh, decorated with many philanthropic efforts, are eligible for many congratulations on completion of 100 years.\nColleagues,\nIn the last few decades, a myth was created in the country that the ways of spirituality and service are different. Some people tried to tell that the one who is on the path of spirituality is different from the way of service. You just proved this myth to be wrong, but carried forward the service based on spirituality and Indian values. Today there are more than 100 branches of Bharat Sevashram Sangh and more than 500 units in the country, engaged in the field of training of youth in the field of health care, education, and doing a lot of service.\nBharat Sevashram Sangh has developed a model of public service as a joint venture of sadhana and social service. These models have been successfully running in many countries of the world. The United Nations has praised the welfare activities of the Bharat Sevashram Sangh. Swami Pranabanand ji Maharaj was one of the few great avatars, who, in the last century, had protected the country's spiritual consciousness, connecting it with the freedom movement. Swami Vivekanand ji, Maharishi Arvind, like those countless people, the name of Pranabanand ji Maharaj is also taken in those great saints of the last century. And Swamiji used to say that man should have power in his one hand and power in one hand. He believed that no man of power can not protect himself, and without fear, there is a danger of becoming a monk of his own.\nThe task of uniting power and power for the development of society and the task of awakening the people-consciousness, they started from their infancy. Long before the state of Nirvana, when he did not become pranabanand Swami; Only known as Binod were known. Used to go to his village to collect rice and vegetables and then divide them among the poor. When he saw that there is no road to reach the village, by motivating everyone, by awaking manpower, he had also worked on the road construction to reach the village. Jatatta, how the untouchable poison has divided the society, it was realized very long ago. Therefore, while teaching equally everyone's mantras, he used to worship God with every person in the village. The efforts of Swami Pranabanand ji increased the national consciousness during the late 19th and early 20th century which was the center of political activity of Bengal. He gave open support to the revolutionaries of the Anushilan Committee established in Bengal. While fighting against the British, he once went to jail. With his actions, he proved that it is not necessary for Sadhana to remain in the caves, but also by awakening the public awareness and consciousness can be practiced, God can be attained.\nBrothers and sisters,\nFrom the mood that the country was passing 100 years ago today, the slaves of slavery wanted to get rid of their weaknesses. In that country the efforts to organize manpower on different terrain continued steadily. That year was the year 1917, when Mahatma Gandhi planted the Satyagraha movement in Champaran. It is a pleasant coincidence for all of us that this year the country is celebrating 100 years of Champaran Satyagraha. Along with the Satyagraha movement, Mahatma Gandhi also made people aware of cleanliness. It would be of your knowledge that the same month as the Satyagraha of Champaran, the campaign of SanraGhaav has been launched in the country. Satyagraha for independence, then insistence of cleanliness, i.e. cleanliness, for India's bright future.\nToday, on this occasion, I also want to urge the cleanliness of your spiritual practice to be an integral part of the service. There is also a reason; You must have seen that only three-four days earlier this year's clean survey has declared the ranking of the cities. 12 cities of north-eastern states were also surveyed, but the situation is not very good, only Gangtok is a city which has come at number 50. The ranking of four cities is between 100 and 200, and the rest of the 7 cities have come under 200 and 300 degrees. Shillong, where you are sitting, is also two hundred and seventy six. These conditions are for us, for states, for institutions like Bharat Sevashram Sangha; I think that is a big challenge for all of us. Local agencies are doing their work, but it is very important for each person to realize that they are themselves a soldier of cleanliness mission. Every person, through his own efforts, can achieve that goal for clean India, clean northeast.\nBrothers and sisters,\nSwami Pranabanand Ji Maharaj said that there is a need for millions of selfless workers to change the situation of the country. This will change the mindset of every citizen of this selfless nation, and in that changed mind, a new nation will be formed. Swami Pranabanand ji, with the inspiration of such great souls, there are millions of selfless workers in the country like you. Just by all we have to get involved in making this movement of our energy, cleanliness, a success. I have been told that when the Swachh Bharat campaign started, you had selected five railway stations in the North-East that would take responsibility for cleaning in those stations; There he campaigned every fortnight for cleanliness. Now your efforts need to be increased further.\nYou would have been surprised, Modiji is telling us the work, now I am telling you that you do people, and even if you have a desire to tell it, then you have the habit of doing it. So I am also fascinated that I should also tell you something. This year, when you are celebrating 100 years of your organization's constitution, can you focus on this clean year entirely on cleanliness? Can your organization work in the areas where it is working, to protect the environment, to make the entire area plastic-free, and to do more such things of cleanliness? Can the people be aware of the benefits of water conservation and water management? Are you able to add some of your goals to the organization, twenty Twenty 20, 2022, with your goals? 2022, India is entering its 75th year of independence. There is now a time of five years, and by using this time, every person, leaving every institution, eliminating the evils surrounding him; आगे बढ़ने का प्रयास करना चाहिए, संकल्‍प लेना चाहिए, चल पड़़ना चाहिए।\nCompanions,\nआपको ज्ञात होगा कि 1924 में स्‍वामी प्रणबानंद जी ने देशभर में स्थित अनेक तीर्थस्‍थलों का पुनरुद्धार करवाया था। तीर्थशंकर नाम से आपने एक कार्यक्रम शुरू करके उस समय हमारे तीर्थस्‍थलों से जुड़ी जो कमजोरियां थीं, उसको दूर करने का उन्‍होंने भरसक प्रयास किया था। आज हमारे तीर्थस्‍थलों की एक बड़ी कमजोरी अस्‍वच्‍छता है। क्‍या भारत सेवाश्रम संघ, प्रणबानंद जी ने जिस काम को शुरू किया था, वो तीर्थशंकर कार्यक्रम को पुन: एक बार शुरू करके, स्‍वच्‍छता से जोड़ते हुए, नए सिरे से उसको और अधिक प्राणवान बना करके आगे बढ़ा सकता है क्‍या? आपदा प्रबंधन के अपने अनुभवों को भारत सेवाश्रम संघ कैसे ज्‍यादा से ज्‍यादा लोगों तक पहुंचा सकता है, उस बारे में भी सोचा जाना चाहिए। हर वर्ष देश में हजारों जिंदगियां प्राकृतिक आपदा की वजह से संकट में आती हैं। प्राकृतिक आपदाओं के समय कैसे कम से कम नुकसान हो, इसी को ध्‍यान में रखते हुए पिछले वर्ष देश में पहली बार National disaster management plan बनाया गया है। सरकार बड़े पैमाने पर लोगों को जागरूक कर रही है, लोगों को Mock exercise के जरिए भी disaster management के तरीकों के बारे में बताया जा रहा है।\nसा‍थियो,\nआपके उत्‍तर-पूर्व के राज्‍यों में सक्रियता और संगठन शक्ति का disaster management में बहुत उपयोग हो सकता है। आपकी संस्‍था आपदा के बाद और आपदा से पहले, दोनों ही स्थितियों से निपटने के लिए लोगों को तैयार कर सकती है।\nइसी तरह जैसे स्‍वामी प्रणबानंद जी देशभर में प्रवचन दल भेज करके अध्‍यात्‍म और सेवा का संदेश देश-विदेश तक पहुंचाया, वैसे ही आपकी संस्‍था उत्‍तर-पूर्व के कोने-कोने में जा करके, आदिवासी इलाकों में जाकर, खेल से जुड़ी प्रतिभाओं की तलाश में प्रभावी भूमिका निभा सकती है। इन इलाकों में पहले से आपके दर्जनों स्‍कूल चल रहे हैं। आपके बनाए Hostel में सैंक़ड़ों आदिवासी बच्‍चे पढ़ रहे हैं। इसलिए ये काम आपके लिए मुश्किल नहीं है। आप जमीन पर काम करने वाले लोग हैं। लोगों के बीच में काम करने वाले लोग हैं। आपकी पारखी दृष्टि खेल प्रतिभाओं को सामने लाने में मदद कर सकती है।\nस्‍वामी प्रणबानंद जी कहते थे कि देश की युवा शक्ति जागरूक नहीं हुई तो सारे प्रयास विफल हो जाएंगे। अब एक बार फिर अवसर आया है। सुदूर उत्‍तर-पूर्व में छिपी इस युवा शक्ति को, खेल की प्रतिभाओं को, मुख्‍यधारा में लाने का, इसमें आपकी संस्‍था की बड़ी भूमिका हो सकती है। बस मेरा आग्रह है कि आप अपनी इस सेवा-साधना के लिए जो भी लक्ष्‍य तय करें वो measurable हो। यानी जिसे आंकड़ों में तय किया जा सके, नापा जा सके। स्‍वच्‍छता के‍ लिए आप उत्‍तर-पूर्व के दस शहरों तक पहुंचे या एक हजार गांवों तक पहुंचे, ये निर्णय आप करें। Disaster management के लिए 100 कैम्‍प लगाए या 1000 कैम्‍प लगाएं, इसका निर्णय आप करें। लेकिन मेरा फिर आग्रह है जो भी तय करें, उसको नापा जा सकना चाहिए, हिसाब-किताब निकलना चाहिए, measurable होना चाहिए।\n2022 तक, भारत सेवाश्रम संघ ये कहने की स्थिति में हो कि हमने सिर्फ अभियान ही नहीं बल्कि 50 हजार या एक लाख लोगों को इससे जोड़ा है। जैसे स्‍वामी प्रणबानंद जी कहा करते थे, हमेशा एक डायरी maintain करनी चाहिए, वैसे ही आप भी संस्‍था की एक डायरी बना सकते हैं, जिनमें लक्ष्‍य भी लिखें जाएं और तय अंतराल पर ये भी लिखा जाए कि उस लक्ष्‍य को कितना प्राप्‍त किया। आपका ये प्रयास, आपका ये श्रम देश के निर्माण के लिए New India, इस सपने को पूरा करने के लिए बहुत ही महत्‍वपूर्ण है।\nश्रम को तो हमारे यहां सबसे बड़ा दान माना गया है। और हमारे यहां हर स्थिति में दान देने की प्रेरणा दी जाती है।\nश्रद्धया देयम्, अ-श्रद्धया देयम्, श्रिया देयम्, ह्रया देयम्, भिया देयम्, सम्विदा देयम्\nहमारे यहां तो कहते हैं व्यक्ति को चाहिए कि वो श्रद्धा से दान दे, और यदि श्रद्धा न हो तो भी बिना श्रद्धा को दान देना चाहिए। धन में व़ृद्धि हो तो दान देना चाहिए और यदि धन न बढ़ रहा हो तो फिर लोकलाज से दान देना चाहिए; भय से देना चाहिए अथवा प्रेम से देना चाहिए। कहने का तात्‍पर्य ये है कि हर परिस्थिति में मनुष्‍य को दान देना चाहिए।\nColleagues,\nउत्‍तर-पूर्व को लेकर मेरा जोर इसलिए है, क्‍योंकि स्‍वतंत्रता के बाद इतने वर्षों में देश के इस क्षेत्र को संतुलित विकास नहीं हुआ है। अब केंद्र सरकार पिछले तीन वर्षों से अपने सम्‍पूर्ण संसाधनों से उत्‍तर-पूर्व के संतुलित विकास का प्रयास कर रही है। पूरे इलाके में connectivity बढ़ाने पर भी जोर दिया जा रहा है। 40 हजार करोड़ के निवेश से उत्‍तर-पूर्व में Road Infrastructure तैयार किया जा रहा है। रेलवे से जुड़े 19 बड़े Project शुरू किस गए हैं। बिजली की व्‍यवस्‍था सुधारी जा रही है।\nपूरे इलाके को पर्यटन के लिहाज से, Tourism की दृष्टि से मजबूत किया जा रहा है। उत्‍तर-पूर्व के छोटे हवाई अड्डों का भी आधुनिकीकरण किया जा रहा है। आपके इस शिलॉंग Airport  में भी Runway की लम्‍बाई बढ़ाने की मंजूरी दे दी गई है। बहुत जल्‍द ही उत्‍तर-पूर्व को उड़ान योजना से भी जोडा जाएगा। ये सारे प्रयास North-East को South-East Asia का gateway बनाने में मदद करने वाले हैं।  South-East Asia का ये खूबसूरत gateway अगर अस्‍वच्‍छ होगा, अस्‍वस्‍थ होगा, अशिक्षित होगा, असंतुलित होगा तो देश विकास के gateway को पार करने में पिछड़ जाएगा। साधनों और संसाधनों से भरपूर हमारे देश में कोई ऐसी वजह नहीं जो हम पिछड़े रहें, गरीब रहें। ''सबका साथ, सबका विकास'' मंत्र के साथ हमें सभी को सशक्‍त करते हुए आगे बढ़ना है। हमारा समाज समन्‍वय, सहयोग और सौहार्द से सशक्‍त होगा। हमारा युवा चरित्र, चिन्‍तन और चेतना से सशक्‍त होगा। हमारा देश जनशक्ति, जनसमर्थन और जनभावना से सशक्‍त होगा। इस परिवर्तन के लिए, हालात बदलने के लिए, New India बनाने के लिए हम सभी को, करोड़ों-करोड़ों न‍िस्‍वार्थ कर्मयोग‍ियों का भारत सेवाश्रम संघ जैसी अनेकानेक संस्‍थाओं को मिल करके काम करना होगा।\n इसी आह्वान के साथ मैं अपनी बात समाप्‍त करता हूं, और एक बार फिर भारत सेवाश्रम संघ के सभी सदस्‍यों को बहुत-बहुत शुभकामनाएं देता हूं। देवस्‍त विराजमान परमानंद जी महाराज के चरणों में भी वंदन करता हूं, और आप सभी को अनेक-अनेक शुभ कामनाओं के साथ बहुत-बहुत धन्‍यवाद देता हूं।\nI am in Delhi \u0026 the programme in Shillong...but we are connected due to technology. I recall my Meghalaya visit last year: PM @narendramodi\n— PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 7, 2017\nCentenary celebrations are unique moments...on moments like this we remember the good work of the Bharat Sevashram Sangha: PM @narendramodi\n— PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 7, 2017\nSwami Pranavananda connected his disciples to service and spirituality: PM @narendramodi\n— PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 7, 2017\nDuring several natural disasters, BSS teams have served people with great dedication. Their good work is widely remembered: PM\n— PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 7, 2017\nSadly, some people tried to create a false perception that 'Adhyatma' is different from 'Seva.' BSS has proven them wrong: PM @narendramodi\n— PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 7, 2017\nSocietal development through 'Bhakti', 'Shakti' and 'Jan Shakti' was achieved by Swami Pranavananda: PM @narendramodi\n— PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 7, 2017\nSwami Pranavananda never liked social divisions and inequalities: PM @narendramodi\n— PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 7, 2017\nThis year we also mark 100 years of the Champaran Satyagraha. Along with Satyagraha, Mahatma Gandhi emphasised on Swachhata: PM\n— PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 7, 2017\nLet us work towards a Clean India and a Clean Northeast: PM @narendramodi\n— PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 7, 2017\nSwami Pranavananda believed firmly in the power of the youth: PM @narendramodi\n— PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 7, 2017\nIn the last three years, the development of the Northeast has become a priority. Focus is on connectivity and infrastructure: PM\n— PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 7, 2017\nWe are also improving the electricity situation in the Northeast and trying to bring even more tourists to the Northeast: PM @narendramodi"