"We should never forget the innovative spirit that our ancestors were blessed with: PM Modi\nCuriosity relating to Yoga was growing among people: PM\nLet us try to integrate as many people as possible when we are marking the International Day of Yoga: PM\nNew Health Policy of the Government covers various aspects of health and wellness: PM\nSwachhata one of the most important aspects of preventive healthcare: PM\nA large number of beloved brothers and sisters,\nToday, it was my good fortune that I went to Kedarnath and got a good fortune to visit Baba, and from there you got the privilege of coming in between everyone and getting blessings of everyone. I did not know, Baba gave surprise. With great emotion, I decorated with special honor, embellished. I express my gratitude to Patanjali's entire family, heartily, by Swamiji.\nBut, among those among whom I have been raised, those who have imparted me, have given me education, I understand this very well that when you get respect, it means that It happens that from you, these are these types of expectations, just do not go back and forth; Fulfill it. So Guruji has kept a big document of one of the do's and don'ts of what should I do, how should I live in front of myself.\nBut with respect, I have full faith in the blessings of all, the power of the blessings of 100 million people. I do not have so much faith in myself, I do not trust so much, as much as I trust the power of the blessings of you and the countrymen. And that is why the blessing is the source of energy, the rituals are kept in its limits, and there is always new inspiration for living a dedicated life for the nation.\nWhen I am in your midst today, you will also feel well that a member of your own family has come in your midst. And I have not come here for the first time, I have had the privilege of coming back among the people, I have had the privilege of coming as a family member. And this is also my good fortune that I have come to Swami Ramdev, how he has emerged in front of the world; Very fortunate to see me very closely. His determination and dedication to resolution, this is the biggest herb of success. And this herb is not a herb discovered by Balkrishna Acharya; This Swami ji has himself discovered herbs. Balakrishna ji's herb comes in handy for keeping the body healthy, but the herbs with Swami Ramdev are passing through every crisis and giving them the strength to go ahead.\nToday I got the privilege of inaugurating the Research Center. Our country, if you look at the past; So one thing comes to mind, we were so shy, so many were reached, so many heights were achieved, that when the world saw it, then it was probably not possible for them to reach there, It was adopted, which is our superior, to destroy it, to destroy it. And the entire period of slavery, our full power, our sage, Muni, saint, Acharya, farmer, scientist, everyone; In order to preserve the superior, he ended his power in 1000, 1200 years of slavery.\nThe survivors who survived after independence, grew up, tried, adjusted, arranged with new colors, and presented us in front of the world in the midst of the breath of free India; But that did not happen. An attempt was made to eradicate the period of slavery, a long period of independence went into such an attempt to forget these great things. Enemies tried to destroy them, we fought them, got out, got saved, but when our efforts tried to forget, our three-three generations kept living in the period of dilemma.\nToday I say with great pride, I say with great satisfaction that there is no time to forget now, it is time to glorify what is best, and this is the time to introduce India's oneness in the world. is. But we do not forget that how India was at this height in the world. It was because thousands of years ago our ancestors had their life in constant innovation. Finding new, inventing new things, and preserving it for the welfare of human beings. Since the innovation of research, the indifference of the research has made us into the house, we are unable to create an impact in front of the world.\nAfter many years when IT revaluation came, when the children of 18, 20, 22 years of our country started playing with the mouse, they were surprised at the world, then again the world's attention went towards us. IT influenced the world. The youth of our country, aged 18, 20, have affected the world. Research, Innovation, what is its strength, we have seen in front of our eyes. Today the entire World Holistic Health Care, is very sensitive about it, is conscious. But the way is not found. The great tradition of the Sages of India, yoga, the world's attractiveness has borne on them, they are in search of peace. They are fed up with the outside world, knowing the inner world, trying to test.\nAt such a time, we become the duty of the people that in the modern form, with the Research \u0026 Analysis yoga is such a science; For the body and mind's health, for the consciousness of the soul, how easily can this science be available. I congratulate Baba Ramdev, he made Yoga a movement. Generated faith in the ordinary human being that there is no need to go to the Himalayan caves for yoga, you can also do yoga by sitting next to your kitchen, you can do it on the sidewalk, also in the field, You can also do it in the garden, also in the temple premises.\nThis is a big change. And today its result is that on June 21, when the world celebrates International Yoga Day, yoga is celebrated in every country of the world, maximum people join it, efforts are made for it. I have to meet the people of the world, my experience is that they will talk about the country, talk about development, discuss investment, discuss political scenario, but one thing is to do, with regard to yoga -The two questions definitely ask. This curiosity has arisen.\nThe power of our Ayurveda, we have only damaged it. The science of modern science is that they think that all your things are not Scriptural; Ayurvedic people felt that your medicines do not have breath, now you cure people but they are not cured. You are big enough that we spent all the time in this battle, bigger. It would have been good that all of our knowledge, from modern to modern knowledge, even if it would have moved forward with our traditions, perhaps it would have been a great service to humanity.\nI am happy that through the Patanjali Yoga University, Baba Ramdev has campaigned for the campaign, and in it there is no limitation of the glory of Ayurveda. The world in which the language understands, the basis on which research is understood, is understood under the established system of medical science; Baba Ramdev has taken the lead, he will bring Ayurveda of India in the same language and will inspire the world. In a way, they are serving Hindustan. For thousands of years our Rishis and Munis have done penance, what they have achieved, they have come out to share the world, have come out on scientific basis, and believe me and today I see the Research Center, see any modern research center. ; It's exactly standing in the same way, this work on the banks of the mother Ganges.\nAnd so I congratulate Baba with heart very much. The Government of India, when Atal ji's government was in the country, then there was a health policy in our country. After so many years when our government was formed, then again we have brought a health policy for the country. Have taken the view of Holistic Health Care And now the world just wants to be healthy, it is not that disease does not want to stagnate there; Now people want wellness, and therefore the solutions will also have to give holistic. Preventive Health Care has to be emphasized, and the best way to prevent Preventive Health Care is, and the cheapest way is cheap, that is cleanliness. And who does it in cleanliness, after which we leave? Let us decide, hundred and fifty million people decide that I will not do dirt. There is no need to take any bigger resolution, there is no need to go to jail, there is no need to hang on the gallows, and there is no need to go to the border for the country to die like the soldiers; Small work - I will not mess.\nYou have imagined that as much as a doctor saves, life can save children's life by not messing you up. By giving charity to a poor, you earn as much wealth as you do when you are poor and not poor, you give your donation in money, it becomes even more valuable than that. And I am happy that the new generation of the country, the next generation; Little boy, he quarrels in every house. If the elderly of the family, the elderly threw a small item, going into a car, throwing a bottle of water out, the son stops the car, the little grandson - the car stops, the car stops, wait, Modi Grandfather has refused to bring this bottle back; This atmosphere is emerging. Even small children have become soldiers of this cleanliness movement. And therefore Preventive Health Care, the stronger we will give it, the more we serve the poor of our country.\nNo one dirt, we do dirt. And guarantees again give speech on dirt. If we decide once for the countrymen not to mess, we will not get any obstacles to get any success in bringing the disease out of this country.\nOur indifference is so much that we are familiar with the incident of the huge Himalayas, Himalaya herbs, Lord Ramchandra ji and Lakshman ji, what did Hanumanji do for the herbs, all those things are familiar, and we are so intuitive It was that the countries of the world, who were the herb, it was not known; But when they know that it has a larger commercial value, more countries in the world have got a patent. The turmeric's patent also makes some other country, the tamarind's patent also gives another country. Our apathy, the habits of forgetting our power, it has caused us a lot of harm.\nToday, Herbal Medicine, a huge market in the world, has stood. But the amount of strength that India should show in the amount of this herbal medicine in the world, there is still much to do.\nThese medicines will come in handy for those who are doing this research and innovation by Patanjali Institute, which is the structure for holistic and wellness to the people of this world. In our country, a government commissioned an elephant commission for how Ayodhya was promoted by the Indian government long ago, he had set up a commission by doing Jaysh Khalal elephants. The report that was given by the commission, was a big interesting report. At the beginning of the report it has been written that our Ayurveda does not reach people because the method of which it is not compatible with today's era. He will give such a bag of herbs and then say, boil it, boil in so many water, then it will remain so juice, take it in a spoon, then adding fruitfulness in it, adding a lid; And then take it again. So the common man who feels that Bhai, who will do the trash, instead, let's take the brother medication, take the medicine pill, go to his car. And so he said that the first requirement is that many years ago the report is this. The first requirement is the packaging of Ayurvedic medicines. If its packaging will be like modern medicines, then people will turn towards these Holistic Health Care. And today we are seeing that we do not have to know where to take these boiled herbs, everything is ready-made.\nI understand that Acharya ji has himself spent in it. And today, the book I got the chance to confuse, I believe that the world will pay attention to this book. The people associated with Medical Science will pay attention. How powerful is the nature-based system, if we understand that life can be so bright, if it gives a person a window and gives it a great opportunity to move forward.\nI believe that this sadhana of Balakrishna ji, this work dedicated to Baba Ramdev's mission mode and the great bright tradition of India, with the modern form of it, with the scientific establishment, the effort is to bring the world to India Can be the basis for making a place in it. There is a huge section of the world which is connected with yoga, also wants to join Ayurveda, we will try that direction.\nI once again got the privilege of coming among you, especially to honor me, I salute Baba by bowing down, congratulating you all, and giving my best wishes to me. Thank you."