"Share\n\nThe central message of Saint Ramanujacharya's life was inclusive society, religion and philosophy: PM Modi\nSant Ramanujacharya saw the manifestation of God in human beings, and Human beings in God. He saw all the devotees of God as equal: PM\nSant Shri Ramanujacharya broke the settled prejudice of his times: PM Modi\nSant Ramanujacharya linked fulfilling the needs of the poor with social responsibility: PM Modi\nI am very happy to release a stamp on the occasion of a thousandth birth anniversary of the great social reformer and Saint Shri Ramanujacharya. I am privileged to have this opportunity\nThe central message of Saint Ramanujacharya's life was inclusive society, religion and philosophy. Saint Ramanujacharya believed that whatever is, and whatever is not, is He saw the manifestation of God in human beings, and human beings in God He saw all the devotees of God as equal.\nWhen the caste distinction and hierarchy had been recognized as integral to society and religion and every one had accepted her place as high and low in the hierarchy, Saint Shri Ramanujacharya rebelled against it - In his personal life and religious teachings\nSaint Shri Ramanujacharya did not just preach, he did not show any new way, but in his life he also showed his words alive. Writing in our scriptures - following the formula of Mansa God, this formula, he made his life his own teaching. The one who was in his mind was in the same verse and he also showed up in action. Sant Shri Ramanujacharya had a specialty that whenever there was a dispute, he used to try to stop the situation from getting worse and solve the problem. To understand God, apart from monism and dualism, there was a link between the \"special darwaita\" of the middle.\nEvery tradition that divides the society, divides it, Saint Shri Ramanujacharya was against him. They used to try to break that system, with their full power to change it.\nYou will know how the mantra of liberation and salvation was forbidden to make them public, they had called a gathering and pronounced it in every class, people of all levels. He had said that the mantra which gives salvation from troubles, why should he remain with any one, it should be addressed to every poor person. The heart of Saint Shri Ramanujacharya was so vast, so altruistic.\nThis is correct why Swami Vivekananda spoke of the heart of Saint Ramanujacharya - The heart of the heart that cried for the downtrodden at a time when being downtrodden was recognized and accepted as part of one's karma. Saint Ramanujacharya broke the settled prejudice of his times. His thinking was very forward of his era.\nIn more than one sense, Saint Ramanujacharya was a millennial sage - who foresaw a thousand years ago, the hidden and un-spelled-out aspirations of the downtrodden. He realized the need to include the socially excluded, outcaste and the divyangs to make not only religion, but society itself, wholesome and complete.\nFor the poor, for the oppressed, the disadvantaged, for the dalits, they came to be the true God. At one time, the entire administration of the Srirangam temple in Tiruchirapalli was close to a particular caste. So he changed the entire administrative system of the temple. They included people of different castes in the administration of the temple. Women were also given many responsibilities. He made the temple a center of civil welfare and public service. He turned the temple into an institution where the poor were given a place for food, medicines, clothes and living. His reformist ideals still appear as \"Ramanuj-Kut\" in many temples.\nHow many such examples will you find in their life. Challenging the caste-system, he also made his mentor a person who did not consider it to be a social guru due to caste. They reached tribals and made them aware, worked to improve their social life.\nTherefore, people of every religion, people of every class got inspiration from the presence and messages of Saint Shri Ramanujacharya. The idol of Muslim princess Bibi Nachiyar, who is worshiping God in Melkot's temple, is a witness to it. Very few people in the country will know that thousands of years ago, the statue of Bibi Nachiyar, the daughter of Sultan of Delhi, was established by Saint Sri Ramanujacharya only in the temple.\nYou can imagine how big messages of social harmony and goodwill were given by Sant Shri Ramanujacharya through this work. Even today, reverence is offered to the statue of Bibi Nachiyar. Like the statue of Bibi Nachiyar, the message of Saint Shri Ramanujacharya is equally relevant today.\nThe liberal, pluralistic and tolerant nature of Indian society has been strengthened by the life and education of Saint Shri Ramanujacharya. Babasaheb Bheem Rao Ambedkar also wrote an editorial on his June 3, 1927 in his magazine Exhibition India. After reading this editorial written 90 years ago, many things of the inspirational life of Saint Shri Ramanujacharya touch the mind-temple.\nBaba Saheb wrote:\n\"In the direction of Samata in Hinduism, if anybody did important work, and tried to implement them, then it was done by Saint Shri Ramanujacharya. He made a non-Brahmin named Kanchipaa as his Guru. When his wife purified the house after feeding the master, Sant Shri Ramanujacharya opposed it. \"\nSeeing the purification of his own house after coming into the house of a Dalit Guru, Saint Ramanujacharya also became very sad and he was also very angry. He was working tirelessly to eradicate the evil, he could not even get away from his house. After this he took his sannyas and then put his whole life into the society's interest. I will say again They did not just preach, but also showed their teachings by living those teachings.\nBaba Saheb told about how the Saint Shri Ramanujacharya used to empower women in the way that society was thinking about that period.\nHe has written -\nAfter a curriculum with a Dalit woman in Thiruvalli, he told the lady that you are far more knowledgeable than me. After this, Saint Shri Ramanujacharya initiated that lady and made her idol even in the temple. He made an untouchable named as Dhanradas as his disciple. With the help of the same disciple he came back after bathing in the river. \"\nThis was an amazing affair of humility and rebellious tendencies. The person whose house has been purified after the entry of Dalit Guru, the person used to resort to a dalit after bathing the river and went to the temple. In the time when the Dalit women did not have the freedom to speak openly, in that time, they lost their work in a temple of a Dalit woman and even made her idol in the temple.\nBaba Saheb was so impressed with the Saint Shri Ramanujacharya. Those who have been studying Baba Saheb, they will find that the effect of Saint Ramanujacharya on his thoughts and life was so great.\nI think that there will be few such people whose life span has expanded in such different periods for one thousand years. Influenced by the thoughts of Saint Shri Ramanujacharya, many social movements have taken birth in this long period of one thousand years. Their simple messages only define the nature of the Bhakti movement.\nIn the Warakari sect, Maharashtra and Rajasthan, the Vallabh sect, Chaitanya sect in central India and Bengal and Shankar Dev in Assam conveyed his ideas to the masses.\nImpressed by the words of Saint Shri Ramanujacharya, Gujarati Adikavi and Saint Narsi Mehta had said - Vaishnav jan should say it, that is to be released! This feeling of understanding of the pain of the poor is the gift of Saint Ramanujacharya.\nIn these thousand years, the message of Saint Shri Ramanujacharya has made millions of people of the country realize the social harmony, social harmony and social responsibilities. He has explained to us that it is the path of cowardice, ignorant people, blind-intellectuals, logicians, to believe that religion and ritualism are immersed in religion. Therefore, every person who stands against casteism, asymmetry and violence, becomes a Guru Nanak, Kabir becomes.\nIt is our culture that can not be fulfilled by the time-tested criterion, how old it is, to improve it. Therefore, from time to time, there were such great souls in our country who worked on their personal reputation by sticking to their poison, taking all kinds of risks, and improving society. Who tried to eliminate the evils of the system that has existed for hundreds of years. Who worked for the change in society, to save India's consciousness, to awaken it.\nThere is the penance of sages like Saint Shri Ramanujacharya, the beginning of the initiation and the continuous progress of social awakening is the magnificence of that -\nOur devotion always remained firm on our glorious history, our conduct, customs and traditions became timely our thinking always remained beyond time\nFor this reason our society has been continuously upwardly from the age of ages. This is the immortality that our culture has remained perpetuated even after being chronicled. Because of the noble churn of these virtuous souls, we proudly say-\n\"It is a matter of fact that the celebrity is not ours, our centuries have been enemy attacks - ours\", the world's map changed, the large countries were over, but our India, our Hindustan, everyone along with Bharat Mantra of all development Moving forward.\nToday, I am happy that in the millennium of the birth of Saint Shri Ramanujacharya many organizations are reaching their education and messages to their homes. I hope these teachings and messages will be connected to the present day of the country.\nYou are aware that Saint Shri Ramanujacharya also has been fulfilling the needs of the poor with social responsibility. For example, he got an artificial lake made, spread over 200 acres in Thandanur near Melkot. This lake continues to exist as a living example of Saint Ramanujacharya's work for the welfare of the people. Even today it serves over 70 villages, fulfilling their drinking water and irrigation needs.\nToday, when there is so much concern about water on every side, then this lake, prepared a thousand years ago, is the answer to why water conservation is necessary. Not knowing in a thousand years how many generations have received blessings from that lake, got life. There is also evidence of this lake that whatever preparation we make today for water conservation, people benefit from it for hundreds of years. Therefore, cleaning of rivers today, cleansing of lakes, washing millions of ponds, with the present, is also part of the preparation for the future.\nWhile discussing this lake, I will appeal to all of you, activating people about the activities of Saint Shri Ramanujacharya, what can be done today about water conservation, when reaching people.\nI would also like to make an appeal to the leaders As India enters its 75th year of Independence in 2022, we are working on the weaknesses and constraints that hold us back. You too, must set yourself specific targets which are tangible and measurable\nYou can decide to go to ten thousand villages, or go to 50 thousand villages.\nMy appeal is to make people active about human welfare, women's welfare, poor welfare, keeping in view the current challenges, along with the words that awaken the consciousness of Saint Shri Ramanujacharya's nationalism.\nWith these words, I finish my talk. I once again express my gratitude to all of you that you gave me the opportunity to issue a commemorative postage stamp on Saint Shri Ramanujacharya.\nThank you very much all !!!\nThe central message of Sant Shri Ramanujacharya's life was inclusive society, religion and philosophy: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 1, 2017\n. @narendramodi He saw the manifestation of God in human beings, and Human beings in God He saw all the devotees of God as equal: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 1, 2017\nSant Shri Ramanujacharya broke the settled prejudice of his times: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 1, 2017\nThe life and education of Saint Shri Ramanujacharya strengthened the liberal, pluralistic and tolerant nature of Indian society: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 1, 2017\nInfluenced by the thoughts of Saint Shri Ramanujacharya, many social movements have taken birth in this long period of one thousand years: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 1, 2017\nThe world map changed, the big countries were over, but our India, our Hindustan, is moving forward with the mantra of everyone, together with development: PM"