"The President of South Africa,\nHis Excellency Mr. Cyril Ramaphosa,\nLeaders of the corporate world from India and South Africa;\nLadies \u0026 Gentlemen\nNamaskar!\nI am happy to be here with you in the India-South Africa Business Forum. We are deeply honored to have our guests, Your Excellency Mr. President\nIt is a great privilege that you will be the guest of Honor at our 70th Republic Day Parade tomorrow. Our partnership spans the un-breakable bonds of history that has linked the national movements of India and South Africa.\nNow, our partnership is a shared and prosperous future, which realizes the dreams of Madiba and Mahatma for our people. We want to continuously engage and collaborate for a better future.\nWe have sealed a strategic partnership 22 years ago through the Red Fort Declaration. I believe that continuous dialogue between the two old friends and partners has brought us closer into every way. We continue to fast in our commitment for closer cooperation, bilaterally as well as multilaterally In recent times, there are new beginnings and interesting growth stories among two old friends.\nTrade between India and South Africa is on the up-swing, and has crossed the 10 billion dollar mark in 2017-18. Two major business initiatives in 2018 have helped this along One was the India-South Africa Business Summit held in Johannesburg in April 2018. The other was Invest in India Business Forum, also in Johannesburg in November 2018.\nHowever, there is great potential still. I call upon all Indian and South African government agencies, as well as business leaders of both countries to work pro-actively to realize the true potential. I was pleased to see that there was significant participation and presence from African countries in our States.\nIn my earlier role as the Chief Minister of Gujarat, I was happy to welcome prominent participants from South Africa. It is gratifying that the Vibrant Gujarat has once again welcomed our friends and partners from South Africa in large numbers. One day was specially marked as 'Africa Day'.\nThis shows that our bonds are much deeper than we usually realize It is also amazing for our bilateral economic partnership. Ladies and Gentlemen, India's economy currently at 2.6 trillion dollars is the fastest growing major economy of the world.\nAnd, we are on our way to become the fifth largest economy globally India has jumped to the 77th position in the latest edition of World Bank's Easy to Doing Report - improving 65 places in last four years.\nWe are one of the top FDI destinations by UNCTAD. But, we are not satisfied On a daily basis, we are making necessary changes and reforms.\nOur special programs such as Make in India, Digital India and Start-Up India have caught the imagination of the world.\nOur industry has progressed towards Industry Four Point Zero and other innovative technologies including Artificial Intelligence, 3-D Printing, Robotics. Our Government is making all the efforts to increase the living standards of our 1.3 billion people, who form a sixth.\nWe are committed to building a 'New India' with next generation infrastructure and with emphasis on speed, skill and scale.\nMay I also take this opportunity to congratulate you,\nExcellency,\nOn the various dynamic initiatives launched by you in 2018 We wish you well in your efforts to attract Foreign Direct Investment in South Africa, as well as the creation of over one million jobs for the youth in three years.\nI am happy that India is contributing to these objectives. Our Investment in South Africa This has approached 10 billion dollars, creating over 20,000 jobs locally\nAs a brotherly nation, India will be happy to share its experience in policy reforms and setting up ground level agencies. We encourage even more investment by Indian companies in South Africa and are confident that more South African companies will also enter the Indian market.\nI assure you that New India will welcome you to look at all available opportunities, specially in Food \u0026 Agro processing, Deep mining, Defense, Fin-Tech, Insurance and Infrastructure sectors.\nSimilarly, India could also partner with South Africa in Start-ups, Health Care \u0026 Pharma, Bio-Tech, IT and IT enabled sectors.\nWe are delighted to be a part of the South African skills story through the recent Mandela Skills Institute. This initiative seeks to empower the youth\nAnother important collaboration between the two countries Both countries could direct the purchase of diamond.\nIt will ensure economies of scale, and also the cost for both buyers and sellers South Africa could also join hands with India in our campaign for New and Renewable Energy, specifically through the \"International Solar Alliance\".\nSimplification of the existing visa regime for business-men and tourists, and direct connectivity will further ease business and people-to-people exchanges.\nLadies and Gentlemen,\nThere is a huge untapped potential in the India-South Africa partnership. We should work together for a new era of shared growth and prosperity.\nThe Visit of Your Excellency provides us with a unique opportunity to take this relationship forward.\nI am committed, excellency, to work shoulder-to-shoulder with you in this shared endeavor.\nThank you."