"Share\n\nIndia and Turkey enjoy good economic ties The growth in our bilateral trade over the years has been impressive: PM\nIndia and Turkey have seen remarkable stability even in the volatile global economic conditions, says PM\nIndian political system is known for its vibrant, open and participative democracy: PM Modi\nToday, Indian economy is the fastest growing major economy in the world: PM Modi\nWe are in the process of building a new India. Therefore, our focus is making it easy to work; specially to do business: PM\nYour Excellency President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, President of the Republic of Turkey,\nDistinguished Ministers,\nMembers of the Turkish delegation,\nFriends from the Indian business community,\nLadies and Gentlemen!\nI am happy to have the opportunity to interact with the leading businessmen in today's forum. I extend a warm welcome to President Erdogan and all our Turkish friends present here. It is a pleasure to see a large number of business delegates accompanying President Erdogan I am very happy\nFriends, India and Turkey enjoy great historic and cultural connect. We also share a common outlook on the world.\nNow, economic cooperation is becoming a important pillar of every bilateral relationship. India and Turkey enjoy good economic ties The growth in our bilateral trade over the years has been impressive. I understand that the bilateral trade has increased significantly since President Ergodan last visited India. It has gone up US Dollar 2.8 billion in 2008 to 6.4 billion in 2016. While this is encouraging, the level of current economic and commercial relations is not possible against the real potential.\nFriends!\nIndia and Turkey are among the largest economies in the world. More importantly, both economies have seen remarkable stability even in the volatile global economic conditions. Our economies are based on strong fundamentals and for this reason, we are hopeful about our economic prospects.\nThere is a great way for the two countries. As we strive to build strong political ties, the time has come to make even more aggressive efforts. We have a long history of doing business with each other. We have built on this rich heritage\nThere is a huge potential and opportunity to increase the bilateral engagement. This is possible through trade and FDI inflows, technology tie-up, and cooperation on various projects. In this context, we have seen some increase in Turkish companies in India. Indian companies and FDI route in the last few years. However, such cooperation could go upto small and medium enterprises. Today's knowledge-based global development We must factor in our economic and commercial interactions\nYou can see that the governments of both sides are committed to provide a business-friendly environment. However, it is the business leaders like as you who have turned the national goal into reality for the two countries\nFriends!\nThe Indian political system is known for its vibrant, open and participative democracy. Stability in political and administrative processes, and rule of law are the hallmarks of our system. And these are important considerations for any serious long-term economic engagement.\nMy government came in power Since then, we have launched many initiatives to improve the economy and administrative processes. We have also launched many flagship programs like Make in India, Start up India and Digital India. The result of Indian economy Today, Indian economy is the fastest growing major economy in the world. In addition to maintaining this pace, our focus is also to remove the inefficiencies from the system. We are in the process of building a new India. Therefore, our focus is making it easy to work; specially to do business This includes reforming the policies, processes and procedures. It also includes creating and maintaining domestic and foreign investment.\nWe have achieved lot and success on this front. Our Global Rankings However, this is a ongoing effort. Therefore, it has been continue It is basically a shift in attitude and approach The objective is to make people feel their potential. This is required to provide employment and self-employment opportunities for our youth. The recent GST Legislation is another such initiative of my Government. This was a great demand to create a uniform and efficient business environment in the country.\nI know that Turkish construction companies have successfully completed projects in other countries. Our infrastructure needs are enormous, including core as well as social and industrial infrastructure. We are going to build it fast and build it fast. Turkish companies can easily participate in this task. Just to give some examples:\nWe have planned to build 50 million homes by 2022. For this purpose, we have repeatedly refined our FDI policy in construction sector;\nWe are planning Metro projects in fifty cities and high speed trains in various national corridors;\nWe have targeted 175 Giga Watt of renewable energy in the next few years;\nIn addition to generation of electricity, the issues of transmission, storage and distribution are equally important for us;\nWe are modernizing our railways and upgrading our Highways. In the last three years, we have made maximum allocation for these two sectors;\nWe are putting up new ports and modernizing the old ones via a Sagarmala;\nThe focus is on upgrading the existing Airports and the local airports to increase connectivity.\nThe Turkish tourism sector is globally renowned The number of Indian tourists going to Turkey has increased in the last few years. Turkey has also become a popular destination for shooting of Indian films and for television industry. While we should definitely encourage two-way tourism, the industry should be wider possibilities in this area. One example is to reach out to our Regional Film Industry which is equally vibrant.\nWe are aware that India and Turkey are both energy deficient and our energy needs are ever increasing. Hydrocarbon sector is a common area of ​​interest for both countries. The same will be relevant for solar and wind energy.\nTherefore, the energy sector becomes an important pillar of our bilateral relations. Mining and food processing are other areas with great promise. We can also put together our strengths in the textile and auto sectors. Turkey has a strong manufacturing sector and India is a low cost manufacturing hub. Apart from the cost aspect, we have a large pool of skilled and semi-skilled work force and strong R \u0026 D capabilities.\nI am happy to note that the mechanism of India-Turkey joint committee on Economic and Technical Cooperation is working well. In its next meeting, the committee may undertake a review of the two-way trade and investment.\nSimilarly, I would also urge the Chambers of Commerce \u0026 Industry of both sides to engage with each other pro-actively. Our processes should work together both at the government and B-2-B level.\nI would like to thank President Erdogan, members of the delegation and members of Indo-Turkish business chambers for attending today's forum. This is really a great opportunity for the Indian and Turkish business community.\n\nFriends!\nLet us work together for enhancing the level of our economic activities. From the Indian side, I welcome you with arms.\nI can say with confidence that India was never a promising destination than it is today.\nTo make it even better, I assure you my personal care and co-operation.\nThank You!\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 1, 2017\nWhile this is encouraging, the level of current economic and commercial relations is not possible against the real potential: PM @narendramodi pic.twitter.com/4hTeLfjTtZ\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 1, 2017\nAs we strive to build strong political ties, the time has come to make even more aggressive efforts to deepen the economic relations: PM pic.twitter.com/DvmvSUkEE3\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 1, 2017\nEconomic cooperation has become the pillar of every bilateral relationship - PM @narendramodi addresses India-Turkey Business Forum pic.twitter.com/2AGDZ0poP0\n- Gopal Baglay (@MEAIndia) May 1, 2017\nToday's knowledge-based global development PM: PM should be in our economic and commercial interactions\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 1, 2017\nIndian economy is fastest growing major economy Apart from maintaining this pace, our focus is to remove inefficiencies from the system: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 1, 2017\nPM: Impact of several government initiates 4 eco n admn rfrms n flgsh'p progs like Make in India in last 3 yrs seen in perfrmnce of Indian ecnmy pic.twitter.com/3cf6xZJmoH\n- Gopal Baglay (@MEAIndia) May 1, 2017\nWe have planned to build 50 million homes by 2022. For this purpose, we have repeatedly refined our FDI policy in construction sector: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 1, 2017\nPM @narendramodi: We are in the process of building New India; reforming policies, processes and procedures are govt. priorities\n- Gopal Baglay (@MEAIndia) May 1, 2017\nWe are planning Metro projects in fifty cities and high speed trains in various national corridors: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 1, 2017\nWe are putting up new ports and modernizing the old ones through an ambitious plan called Sagarmala: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 1, 2017\nHydroCarbon sector is a common area of ​​interest for both countries. The same will also be relevant for solar and wind energy: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 1, 2017\nI would also urge the Chambers of Commerce \u0026 Industry of both sides to engage with each other pro-actively: PM @narendramodi"