"#MannKiBaat: PM Modi extends greetings to people of Maharashtra \u0026 Gujarat on their respective Statehood days\nPM Modi urges children to keep water for animals \u0026 birds during summer #MannKiBaat\nDuring the summers, many people come to our homes - postmen, milkmen, vegetable sellers. Always offer them water: PM during #MannKiBaat\nSummer vacations are about new experiences, new skills and new places: PM during the #MannKiBaat\n#MannKiBaat: PM Narendra Modi urges everyone to use the BHIM App\nVIP culture flourished due to red beacons We are sure to get VIP culture from being removed: PM #MannKiBaat\nSant Ramanujacharya's contributions to society and his noble thoughts on social equality inspiration us even today: PM during #MannKiBaat\nDr. Babasaheb Ambedkar Surendran Shramiks lead a life of dignity: PM Modi during #MannKiBaat\nNew India is not about VIP It is about EPI- every person is important: PM Modi during #MannKiBaat\nMy dear countrymen namaskar Before every episode of 'Man Ki Ki Baat', 'suggestions in aakashvani, on NarendraModiApp, come through MyGov, by the phone and come by the means of record messages from country of every corner and every age group of people, and sometimes when I take the time to see them,\nOne comes across such a wide spectrum of information, one finds that every corner of the country is filled with talented people Like a selfless seeker, these are the people who are consumed by the society, on the other hand there are mounds of problems, perhaps even the government does not notice! Maybe the system has also been able to deal with these problems, and so do people get accustomed to them I have come across the inquisitiveness of children, the ambitions of the youth, and the gist of the experience of elders! Myriad kind of facts emerges Every time the inputs that come in response to every episode are 'Man Ki Baat', are analyzed in detail by the government.\nWhat types of suggestions, what are the types of complaints and what are the experiences of the people? It is an inherent human nature to advise others. While travelling in the train or the bus if someone coughs, the next person immediately advises a cure To offer advice or suggest a solution In the beginning, when suggestions came in response to a particular episode of 'Man Ki Ki Baat', one could understand words of advice, and you could also read them, so our team always felt that many people have proffering this particular habit. advice But when we analyzed the tips, I really became quite emotional.\nMost of them who give suggestions or try to reach me are their lives. They are making efforts and are engrossed as per their intellect, capacity, ability and circumstances And when these things came to my notice I felt that these suggestions are extraordinary. These are suggestions that have emerged out of a certain squeeze of life's experiences Some people also give suggestions thinking that if an idea has the potential to work then more people will listen to it if it is on a wide platform and hence many people can benefit And hence it is their natural desire that it gets a mention in 'Man Ki Baat'\nAccording to me First of all, I express my gratitude to those workers and those people who have given some or the other service to the society and the maximum suggestions are recommended. And not only this, when I mention something positive, such memories come back to it, it is very much a pleasant experience In the previous 'Man Ki Ki Baat', some people had suggested that food was wasted; not only did I express my concern but mentioned it too And upon my mention, there were many innovative ideas to save food from wasted that are being practiced in many corners of the country on NarendraModiApp and also on MyGov.\nI had never even imagined that in our country the young generation has been doing this long time. Some social organizations have been given many years in common knowledge, but the young people are engaged in this task. Many have sent me their videos There are many places where 'Roti Banks' are operating. In the Roti Banks, the leftover rotis are deposited by people, they also deposit the leftover vegetables and the needy can receive food from these banks The person who donates rotis feels an understanding of satisfaction also, the recipient also does not feel humiliated. These are examples of how the work can be achieved.\nToday is the last day of month of April. 1st May is the foundation of the states of Gujarat and Maharashtra. On this occasion, many felicitations to the citizens of these two states on my behalf. Both states have made constant progress toward the newer heights of development. And both the states have had a steady stream of great men whose lives and sterling contributions are a source of inspiration for us .. In the remembrance of these great men, on the foundation day of these two states, pledge of taking our state, our country, our society, our city, and our family to glorious heights in 2022, when we celebrate 75 years of independence.\nPlans should be drawn to achieve that pledge and taken forward I wish\nThere used to be a time when the climate change was a subject restricted to the domain of the academic world, but today, we experience it in our daily life and it also astounds us. Nature has also changed The heat that we used to experience in the months of May-June in our country is being felt in March-April this year. So, when I was taking suggestions for 'Mann Ki Baat', most of the suggestions were offered. Most of the suggestions or practices to beat are not long but they are very useful.\nShri Prashant Kumar Mishra, Shri T. S. Kartik and many such friends have expressed their concern about birds during the summer. They've mentioned that the water should be kept in trays and utensils on the balcony and on the terrace. I have seen that small children of the family are very enthusiastic. Once they understand why they should fill the pots with water they will go and inspect 10 times in a day to ensure there is water in the tray. And even if the birds came or not We think that as it is a game going on, but in real life, this is a novel way of instilling empathy in the child's mind. You can also experience yourself for a little attachment to an animal or a bird.\nSome time back, Mr. Mr. Jagat Bhai from Gujarat, had sent his book, 'Save the Sparrows' in which he has not only expressed concern about the continuous declining number of sparrows, but also he has taken a mission mode for the conservation of the sparrows which is very nicely described in that book In our country, we are traditionally imbued with an sense of symbiotic co-existence with animals, birds and nature yet it is necessary that this regard should be emphasized in collective efforts.\nWhen I was Chief Minister of Gujarat, Siddhina Sahib was the leader of Dawoodi Bohra Community. He lived till 103 years. As part of the celebration of his 100th year the Bohra Community Society launched a huge campaign to save the sparrow under the aegis of Burhani Foundation. I had the opportunity to inaugurate it Nearly 52 thousand bird feeders were distributed in every nook and corner of the world. This effort was also found in the Guinness book of World Records.\nSometimes we are so busy, that we also forget to offer water to the newspaper boy, the milkman, the vegetable seller, the postman or anybody else who is our home in the peak summer days.\nYoung friends, I want to chat with you too. I am sometimes worried about our younger generation Parents also raise their children in a very protective manner True there are other extremes too Now the examinations have ended and you must be the vacation.\nSummer Vacation But as a friend, I would like to suggest some tips about how to use your vacation. I believe some people will keep them about that too Would you like to use this time of vacation better, I would offer three suggestions, it will be good if you follow all of three but then try to do atleast one of the three. See that you gain a new experience Try to take the opportunity of acquiring a new skill. Try to experience something that has not heard before, nor seen, nor thought of and yet there is a curiosity in your mind. You must try new places, new experiences and new skills.\nThere is a huge difference between some time to some time to see something on TV or reading about it in the book or listening about it from the acquaintances and the same thing yourself. I will urge you to try and experience your vacation. Try a new experiment The experiment should be done We all are the middle class and happy comfortable families. Friends have you ever thought of travelling in a second class railroad, without a reservation, and going for at least a 24 hour ride?\nWhat great experience it will be? How are the lives of your co-travelers, what do they do at the station when they alight from the train? You can not learn in a year, you will learn in crowded train travelling without any reservation for 24 hours! You can not get more Try it, just experience it once, I am not asking you to try it again and again In the evening, take your football or your volleyball or any other sports item and go to a colony of poor and less privileged people Play with those poor kids, you will experience a new kind of joy, the kind you never experienced in your life!\nHave you ever thought what changes will come in those kids who live in abject poverty And I believe that if you go there once, your heart will tell you again and again. This experience will teach you a lot. Many volunteer organizations are engaged in this kind of work. You are connected to Google Guru, try search on it and get associated with any such organization for 15 days or 20 days. Go, explore, go to the jungles. Sometimes there are summer camps, for example You can participate in these camps.\nBut at the same time, do not you feel that after you have attended such summer camps, you have participated in the course of learning and you reach those people who have no such opportunity and they have taught you what you have learned. without taking any money It is possible that you can teach them. I am also worried that technology has evolved to reduce the distance. But the end result of this is six people in the same house are sitting in the same room but they are separated by unimaginable distances! Why? Everyone has become too busy with technology Collectivity is also a way of life Secondly I had about the skill acquisition, do not you feel that something new!\nToday is the era of competition You get so submerged in the preparation for the examinations, get so consumed to get the best grades, there are coaching classes going on even in vacations and you're worrying about the next exam! Sometimes you feel scared that our youth has become robot like, living life like a machine.\nFriends, dreams of making it big in life, it is a good thing, and you must achieve your goals. But also self-evaluate whether the human element within yourself is getting frustrated, are we moving towards our human qualities\nCan not a little emphasis on this aspect in skill development? Get away from technology, and try Learn a musical instrument or learn a few sentences of a new language, Tamil, Telugu, Assamese, Bengali, Malayalam, Gujarati, Marathi or Punjabi. This is a country full of diversity and if you look, then there is a country full of diversity and if you look If you do not know how to swim, then learn swimming, try doing some drawing, even if you do not end up making the best drawing, try to practice!\nThe empathy inside you will begin to appear Sometimes if our heart desires to learn the trade of so called 'small people' then let us learn it, why not? You want to learn to drive a car but then do you want to learn how to drive an auto-rickshaw? You're able to ride a bicycle but have you ever tried to run the three-wheeler cycle or rickshaw which transports people? You see, all these new experiments, these skills are such that they will bring you from the limitations of life to which you are tied down!\nDo something out of the box This is the only time to make something And if you think that after appearing in all exams, at a new threshold of your career, you will not get a chance. At that time you will be tangled in other things and therefore I tell you if you are going to learn magic then learn the card tricks! Keeping the tricks to your friends Try to know about things about which you have no prior knowledge, it will definitely benefit you. Your inner human potential will grow and this will provide a great opportunity for development. I can tell you from my experience of going around the world, that we can not even imagine New places, new cities, new towns, new villages But before leaving for a particular place, preparing for the journey and traveling about your destination gathering information about it as a seeker of knowledge, understanding about the place and having discussions with the local people, if you make a effort in this manner then the pleasure of visiting you\nDo try to do it; of course not too much in one go Go to a destination and spend three to four days Then go to the next and spend a like duration there. You will get to learn a lot that way I wish you could share your travel photographs with me, it will be nice. What new did you see! Where did you travel to! Make good use of the tag\nFriends, this time around, the government of India has given you a great opportunity. The new generation is more or less free from the shackles of cash. It does not require cash. It has begun adopting digital currency. I know you do it, but have you ever wondered that you can use it very scheme? It is a scheme of the Government of India. You must be downloading the BHIM App and using it. But do refer it to others; make others join you in that\nIf the new member does three transactions, performs financial business three times, you stand to earn ten rupees for that Ten rupees will be credited to your account If you include twenty persons in a day, by evening, you would've earned two hundred rupees. The traders can earn, so can students And this scheme is valid until the 14th of October. It will be your contribution towards making a digital India You'll be a sentinel of New India The joy of a vacation coupled with income! Refer and earn\nGenerally speaking, in our country there is a culture of disunity in the VIP culture. But that it runs so very deep, I just experienced, when the government recently decided that no person in India, whatever his status is, will not move with his vehicle over a red beacon. In a way it has become a symbol of the VIP culture. Experience tells us that while the red beacon used to be fixed at the vehicle, atop the car, slowly and steadily it permeated in the psyche and got firmly entrenched in the mindset. The red beacon has now gone for good but nobody can say with certainty that the same in mindset has also disappeared. I have received a very interesting phone call Though the caller had the same apprehension One can never forget this phone call They feel distanced.\n\"Namaskar Pradhan Mantri ji, I am Shivaa Choubey calling from Jabalpur, Madhya Pradesh. I want to say something on the government's ban on red beacons I read a line in a newspaper, 'Every Indian is a VIP on the road'. It made me feel very proud. I am happy that today, even my time is equally important. I do not have to be caught in a traffic jam and I do not have to stop I want to thank you for this decision. And the Swachch Bharat Campaign that you have launched will not only clean our country, it will get rid of the VIP hegemony from our roads. Many thanks for that. \"\nThe exit of the red beacon But we have to make efforts to clean our minds. If we collectively strive to do it with eternal vigilance, it can certainly flushed out. Our concept of New India is that we are in the place of VIP, more priority should be accorded to EPI And when I'm saying EPI in place of VIP, the essence of my sentiment is clear - every person is important. Every person has his or her own importance, every person possesses a sagacious aura, Mahatma, in a unique way. Let us warmly accept the importance of a hundred and twenty five crore countrymen, let us respectfully embrace the Mahaatmya, the divine greatness of a hundred and twenty five crore Indians and we'll garner strength of immense magnitude. We have to do this together\nMy dear countrymen, I maintain time \u0026 again that we should keep re - visiting the history of our history, traditions and culture. That lends us energy and inspiration This year, we the hundred and twenty five crore countrymen are celebrating the thousandth birth anniversary of Saint Ramanujacharya. For one reason or the other, we are confined ourselves to celebrating and observing centenaries of events. For other countries of the world But India is such an ancient nation that we are the proud inheritors of thousands and thousands of years of heritage, knowledge and civilized existence and have an opportunity to observe and celebrate a memorial heritage of over thousand years. Just try and imagine it Even today breaking up the shackles How will society be a thousand years ago? What kind of a mindset will be prevalent then? Many people did not know that Ramanujacharya struggled against struggling social evils such as the class divide, the chasm between the touchable and untouchables and the caste system. Through his own conduct, he embraced those who were ostracized by society. A thousand years ago, he launched a movement allowing his entry into temples and succeeded in facilitating the same. We are indeed fortunate that in every era, for eradicating social evils, noble souls, great men were born in this society itself. Now that we are celebrating the 1000th birth anniversary of Ramanujacharya, we should gain inspiration from our endeavor to promote social unity, to bolster the adage 'unity is strength'.\nIn memory of Saint Ramanujacharya, the government of India is releasing a stamp tomorrow, the 1st of May. I respectfully salute Saint Ramanujacharya and pay tributes to him.\nMy dear countrymen, tomorrow, that is the 1st of May, carries one more significance. In many parts of the world, it is observed as 'Labor Day'. And when 'Labor Day' is referred, Labor is discussed, labourers are discussed, it is but natural for me to remember Babasaheb Ambedkar You will be aware that for the facilities and respect that workers have earned, we are grateful to Babasaheb. One can never forget the contribution of Babasaheb in the welfare of the working class. Today when I refer to Babasaheb, When I talk about Ramanujacharya, I am also reminded of the great 12th century Saint \u0026 social reformer from Karnataka Jagat Guru Basaveshwar. I got the opportunity to become a function It was the occasion of dedication to the nation of his collection of Vachan Amrit, the elixir of his spoken words. In the 12th century, he had laid down his grave thoughts on labor and workers. He had mentioned in Kannada \"Kaay Kave Kailas\" ... it means, it is just through your perseverance that you can get Kailash, the home of Shiva. This means, it is only endeavor or karma that leads to you Swarga, or heaven. In other words, labor, hard work is Shiva. I repeatedly mention 'Shrameva Jayate', and Dignity of Labor. I have been a part of the work of the founder of Indian Mazdoor Sang, the thinker, who deliberated a lot on the working class. He used to comment, on the one hand, inspired by Maoism, 'Workers of the world unite', on the other he would say, workers, come, unite the world. Today when I refer to workers, it is but natural to remember Dattopant Thengdi\nMy dear countrymen, a few days from now, we will celebrate Budha Purnima Followers of Lord Buddha The world today is undergoing a problem of problems such as violence, war, annihilation, the arms race et al. Amidst this atmosphere, the philosophy of Buddha came as extremely relevant. And in India, Ashok's life perfectly epitomizes the transformation from war to enlightenment. I feel fortunate that the festival of the great festival of Budha is celebrated as Vesak day by the United Nations. This year it will take place in Sri Lanka. On this holy event, I will get an opportunity to pay tributes to Lord Budha in Sri Lanka. It will be a worthy time to re-visit his ideals.\nMy dear countrymen, India has always advanced the path of progress in the spirit of Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas ... inclusive development for all. And when we say Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, it is not limited to the confines of India It applies to the global context too. And very specially to our neighbouring countries May our neighboring countries be with us in our journey, may they develop equally There are many projects under way On the 5th of May, India will launch the South Asia Satellite. The capacities of this satellite and the facilities it will provide a long way in addressing South Asia's economic and developmental priorities. Natural resources mapping, tele medicine, the field of education, deep IT connectivity or fostering people to people contact - this satellite will prove to be a boon in the whole region It is an important step bye to India to co-operation with the whole South Asia ... This is a suitable example of our commitment toward South Asia. I welcome all the South Asian countries who have joined us on the South Asia Satellite in this momentous endeavor .... My best wishes to them\nMy dear countrymen, the weather is very hot and inhospitable\nWish you all the best\nThank you\nBefore #MannKiBaat I get so many messages, thoughts \u0026 ideas on MyGov, Narendra Modi App, by post: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 30, 2017\nPM @narendramodi greets the people of Gujarat and Maharashtra on their respective statehood days. #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/8C0jlkSbon\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 30, 2017\nBoth Gujarat and Maharashtra have contributed to India's development. Greetings on their respective statehood days: PM #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 30, 2017\nTemperatures are rising No wonder this time when I asked for suggestions for #MannKiBaat, people wrote about the summers: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 30, 2017\nI have noticed children have taken a bowl of water for birds during the summers: PM @narendramodi pic.twitter.com/ccCCkGM7Wo\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 30, 2017\nA few days back, Mr. Jagat Kinkhabwala wrote about his efforts to save the sparrow. Such efforts should be encouraged: PM #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 30, 2017\nDuring the summers, many people come to our homes ... postmen, milkmen, vegetable sellers ... always offer them water (specially in summers): PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 30, 2017\nMy young friends, make these holidays about new experiences, new skills and new places: PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 30, 2017\nThese holidays, make it new experiences, go out of your comfort zone: PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/ck8Qpn3zQ4\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 30, 2017\nPursue sports in the holidays Also go play with children of nearby areas #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/MvoaVJQHKL\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 30, 2017\nI am sure there is so much to learn ... and people have so much to teach. These must meet \u0026 new skills should be taught and learned: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 30, 2017\nDo some thing out of the box. India is full of diversities Try learning a language Go learn swimming or drawing: PM @narendramodi pic.twitter.com/lx9AaCDOgz\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 30, 2017\nI urge my young friends to get more and more people of the BHIM App during these holidays: PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/TQ34M7UdHg\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 30, 2017\nRemoving red beacons We are sure the VIP culture is removed from the minds of the select few 'VIPs': PM pic.twitter.com/MGvo0H2pfN\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 30, 2017\nWe are happy to mark 1000th Jayanti of Shri Ramanujacharya. He contributed immensely to society \u0026 social equality: PM #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 30, 2017\nWhen people mark Labor Day on 1st May, we remember Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar and his role for the welfare of workers: PM @narendramodi pic.twitter.com/hXeMZfC3OQ\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 30, 2017\nRemembering these fine words of Lord Basaveshwara #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/Yn8tYzn3Eb\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 30, 2017\nNew India is not about VIP It is about EPI #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/fIgfHJssS2\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 30, 2017\nI am glad to be joining the Vesak Day celebrations in Sri Lanka, where I will interact with leading Buddhist scholars: PM #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 30, 2017\nLet us devote ourselves towards transformed India #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/raLNTxUbe7"