"India's history is not only about defeat, poverty or colonialism: PM\nIndia has given the message of good governance, non-violence and Satyagraha: PM\nMuslim community should not look at \"triple talog\" issue through a political lens: PM\nFruits of development such as housing, electricity and roads should reach one and all, without distinction: PM\nMany auspicious wishes to all of you on the birth anniversary of Lord Baseshwar. The Basava Committee has also played an important role in spreading the promise of Lord Baseshwar by completing his 50 years with a fine work. I congratulate him with heart.\nI would like to remember our former Vice President Mr. Jaiti Sahib at this time. He initiated this sacred work and proceeded forward. I am specially its chief editor today and today we are not among us. I also bow down to such a grave. Who had expended himself for this task. Today they will be most satisfied where they are. The work they did. He has reached perfection today. We all are people who are submerged from politics. Our world runs around the chair. And often we have seen that when a politician takes part in a person when he is in heaven, then with a very serious face, his family members say before Janardan that I will fulfill my father's incomplete task. Now you also know that I also know when the politician's son says that I will fulfill his incomplete work. The people of the political party also know that what it means when it says that I will complete the incomplete work. But I congratulate Arvind ji for doing so in a true sense. Gauravshit, who was the Vice President of this country who spent his life, remembers the country. It means to fulfill his son's father's incomplete work. Conveying the talk of Lord Basavaraj to the masses To reach the corner of India. Bringing to the next generation. Jati Sahab himself has kept the very ideal things in front of us. But Bhai Arvind, also by his noble cause, especially for the political families. Has presented a great ideal. I congratulate him for this.\nOn completion of 50 years of the committee, two to two generations have been consumed in this work. Many people have given their time. Power will be installed The people who have contributed 50 years of age. I want to congratulate them all today. I want to congratulate them.\nMy dear brothers sisters, India's history is not just a history of defeat, there is no history of Prajay. Not just the history of slavery. There is no history of those who have oppressed oppression only. There is no history of poverty, starvation and untidiness and the battle of snake and nevale. Over time, there are some challenges in the country in different periods. Something went right here and there. But these problems, these drawbacks, these evils are not our identity. Our identity is our approach to dealing with these problems Our Approach India is a country which has given the message of Parivar to the whole world, democracy, good governance, nonviolence, satyagraha. At different times, such great souls in our country have lived, who have shown complete humanity, their thoughts from their lives with their thoughts. Even when bigger states of the world began to see the great knowledge of the West as a new perspective on democracy, the right to equalize all, and centuries ago, any Indian could say this proudly. Even centuries before this, India did not only embrace these values ​​but also included it in its governance system. In the 11th century Lord Baseshwar also created a democratic system. He developed an arrangement named Experience Pavilion in which every kind of people can be poor, dalit, suffer, exploited and deprived, and can come and consider their views in front of everyone. It was such a great power of democracy. In a way it was the first parliament of the country. Everyone here was equal. There is no high level of discrimination, nothing is yours. The word of God Basaveshwar He used to say, when thoughts are not exchanged, when there is no debate with logic, then experience is not relevant, and where this happens, God does not even dwell there. That is, he told this churning of thoughts as powerful as God and necessary as God. Anyone can imagine the bigger knowledge than this. That is, the power of thought, hundreds of years ago, the power of wisdom is equal to God. This idea is probably unique to the world today. With their thoughts in the experience pavilion, women had the freedom to speak openly. Today, when this world teaches us lessons for women empowerment. Such imagination is propagated in the world to show humiliation to India. But this hundred-year-old history is present in front of us that Lord Vasaveshwar did not just tell the woman's empowerment equal partnership but to implement the best system. Women from every section of society used to express their views. There were also many women who were considered as thrilled under the evils of the common society. Whom did not expect The so-called civil society of that time came in between. There were some evils here in ours. Such women also had complete authority to come and visit their experience pavilion. How big was the effort of women empowerment in that period, we can imagine how big a movement was. And our country has been a specialty. Thousands of years old is our tradition, so bad has come. Should not come. I came, but the mind to fight against those evils is also born within us. At the time when Rajaram Mohan Roy talked about Vidha marriage How much time has the society criticized him. How difficult will it be to come But they remained stubborn. This is a serious injustice to mothers sisters. This is the crime of society. Showed tax.\nAnd so I think sometimes. Today there is such a big debate about three divorces. I look at the great tradition of India There is a hope of communication within me. There is a hope in my mind that in this country powerful people emerge from inside the society. Who break unmarked traditions Destroy it. Develop modern systems Such enlightened people will also be born in the Muslim society. Come forward and the Muslim daughters who are passing along with them are passing. Against him, he himself will fight and will never find Kabi way. And the enlightened Muslims of India will emerge who have the power to show the way to the world's Muslims. This is the power of this earth. And only then, in that era, the lowly, untouchable will be seen. Even then Lord Vasaveshwar did not say that in the experience pavilion, that woman also has the right to speak their own story. Centuries ago, India's soil strength is that people will come from the same society to save our mother sisters who are going through a crisis of three divorces. And I will also urge the people of the Muslim community to not let this issue go into the realm of politics. Come forward you solve this problem. And the joy of that solution will be something else, it will take power from generation to generation.\nThe seven principles made by associates Lord Vasavaeshwar's words from their teachings, like the seven colors of the rainbow, still place this place from one end to the other. Everyone should be respected by everyone, and everyone should be respected. They used to strongly support the caste system, the untouchables, the untouchables, to get equal rights to all. He saw God in every human. He said that. Body of flesh, that is, this body is a temple. In which the soul is God itself. The distinction between the high caste in society is over. Everyone is respected. Develop ideas of society on logic and scientific basis. And this is the empowerment of every person. These principles are like a strong foundation for any democracy like a strong foundation for any society. They say, do not ask what is the person's opinion of what is the opinion of Ib or Rubb, say that Yun Nam Na This man is ours. We are one among all of us. A strong nation is being built on this foundation. This principle works as a policy direction for a nation. It is a matter of great pride for us that 800 years ago on this earth, Lord Baseshwar created the basis for public sentiment and democracy. His words of taking everyone along with the same resonance is the mantra of development with everyone in this government. Without discrimination, no discrimination, no discrimination, every person in this country should have his own house. There should be no discrimination. Without discrimination everyone should get 24 hours electricity. There should be roads without any discrimination in every village to the village. Without discrimination, every farmer should get water for irrigation. Manure should be obtained, crop insurance should be provided. This is what everyone's development with everyone. Everyone takes seven and is very important in this country. With the effort of all of them, with the help of all, everyone can be developed by everyone's endeavor.\nAll of you have heard about the Government of India's currency scheme. This scheme has been started to provide loans to the youth of the country without any discrimination, to guarantee their employment to the bank guarantee standing on their feet. Without guaranty, till now, till now, three and a half million people of the country have been given more than three lakh crore loans under this scheme. You will be amazed to know that after 800 years, Lord Buseshwar will be happy to take loans under this scheme and 76% of those who take the loan are women. To tell the truth, when this scheme was started, then we all did not even expect that women will come forward in such a large number and will join it. And work towards becoming an entrepreneur himself. Today, this scheme is playing a very important role in empowering women. In the village, in the small towns in the streets, the money scheme is looking like a large number of women entrepreneurs. Brothers' sisters, the word of the Lord settler is not the only truth of life. It is equally useful for good governance, governance and even the rulers. They used to say that ignorance is the destruction of knowledge through the power of knowledge. Darkness is the destruction of light by the power of light. False is the destruction of truth through the power of truth. Iron is destroyed by the power of Persia. The system is to remove the untrue, good governance happens, it is good governance. When a poor person gets a price subsidy in the right hands, when the poor person's ration reaches him, when the recommendations in the appointments are closed. When efforts are made to free the poor from corruption and black money, the path of truth only increases in the system, and Lord Vasaveshwar has said the same. Removing transparency, which is false, Transparency. Transparency is the only good governance.\nLord Vasaveshwar used to say, Man is published only by selfless karma yoga. Selfless karmayog Education Minister They believed that as selfless karmayog would increase in the society, that would also reduce the behavior of corrupt people from the society. Corrupt conduct is a termite, which is hollowing our social system from within our social system. It takes away the right to equality with man. A person who earns earnestly earnestly, when he sees that by doing corruption he has simplified life for himself by doing less hard work. So why not be a moment for a moment, but he thinks that it is definitely wrong that the path is not right. It is sometimes forced to leave the path of truth. It is the duty of all of us to eradicate this feeling of non-equality. And so, now the government's policies can see the decisions well, that selfless Karmayog is our priority and will find selflessness. Experience every moment. Today, these words of Basavacharyaji are visible beyond the boundaries of Karnataka by the river Thames of London.\nI am fortunate that I had the opportunity to unveil statue of Basavacharya in London, which was said about the country that it never has sunset. The statue of Basavacharyaji, who had imagined democracy in front of Parliament there, is no less than a shrine. I still remember How rains were happening at that time and when the statue of Basavacharya was being installed, Meghraj was also raising nectar himself. And there was cold too. But even after this, people were listening to Lord Buseshwar with such fondness, he was appreciative of how many years ago in our country there was talk of democracy, women empowerment, equality about this topic. I think there was a great wonder for them. Companions now consider these as weaknesses in our education system or, as the weakness of forgetting their own history. But even today, millions of youth in our country will not know about how much time Jan Jagati was running for the restoration of social values ​​in our country thousands of years ago 800 - 900 years ago. How did the movement run in every corner of India? I am talking about 800 thousand years ago in the period of time to end the evils in the society. Those were the days of slavery. Our sages laid the foundation of the mass movement by saint souls. They linked the mass movement to devotion. Bhakti movement towards God and devotion to the society started from the south and the Bhakti movement expanded to Maharashtra and Gujarat till north India. During this time people of different classes tried to create consciousness in different languages ​​in different languages. He worked as a mirror for the society. जो अच्छाइयां थी जो बुराइयां थी वो न सिर्फ शीशे की तरह लोगों के सामने रखीं बल्कि बुराइयों से भक्ति का रास्ता भी दिखाया। मुक्ति के मार्ग में भक्ति का मार्ग अपनाया। कितने ही नाम हम सुनते हैं। रामानुजा कार्य, मधवाचार्य, निम्बकाचार्य, संत तुका राम, मीरा बाई, नरसिंह मेहता, कबीरा, कबीर दास, संत रैय दास, गुरुनानक देव, चैतन्य महाप्रभु अनेक अनेक महान व्यक्तियों के समागम से। भक्ति आंदोलन मजबूत हुआ। इन्हीं के प्रभाव से देश एक लंबे कालखंड में अपनी चेतना को स्थिर रखता है। अपनी आत्मा को बचा पाया। सारी विपत्तियां गुलामी के कालखंड के बीच में हम अपने आप को बचा पाए थे, बढ़ पाए थे। एक बात और आप ध्यान देंगे, तो आप पाएंगे कि सभी ने बहुत ही सरल सहज भाषा में समाज तक अपनी बात पहुंचाने का प्रयास किया। भक्ति आंदोलन के दौरान धर्म, दर्शन, साहित्य की ऐसी त्रिवेणी स्थापित हुई जौ आज भी हम सभी को प्रेरणा देती है। उनके दोहे उनके वचन उनकी चौपई उनकी कविताएं, उनके गीत, आज भी हमारे समाज के लिये उतने ही मूल्यवान है। उनका दर्शन उनकी फ्लोशॉफी, किसी भी समय की कसौटी पर पूरी तरह फिट बैठती है। 800 साल पहले बसवेश्वर जी ने जो कहा, आज भी सही लगता है कि नहीं लगता है।\nसाथियों आज भक्ति आंदोलन के उस भाव को उस दर्शन को पूरे विश्व में प्रचारित किये जाने की आवश्यकता है। मुझे खुशी है कि 23 भाषाओं में भगवान बसवेश्वर के वचनों का कार्य आज पूरा किया गया है। अनुवाद के कार्य में जुटे सभी लोगों का मैं अभिनन्दन करता हूं। आपके प्रयास से भगवान बसवेश्वर के वचन अब घर-घर पहुंचेंगे। आज इस अवसर पर मैं बसवा समिति से भी कुछ आग्रह करूंगा। करुं न, लोकतंत्र में जनता को पूछ कर के करना अच्छा रहता है। एक काम हम कर सकते हैं क्या इन वचनों के आधार पर एक quiz bank बनाई जाए। questions और सारे वचन डिजीटली ऑनलाइन हो और हर वर्ष अलग अलग आयु के लोग इस quiz कॉम्पीटीशन में ऑनलाइन हिस्सा लें। तहसील पर डिस्टिक लेवल पे स्टेट इन्टरस्टेट, इन्टरनेशनल लेवल पर एक कॉम्पीटीशन साल भर चलता रहे। कोशिश करें पचास लाख एक करोड़ लोग आएं। quiz competition में भाग लें। उसके लिये उसको वचनामृत का एक स्टूडेंट की तरह अध्ययन करना पड़ेगा। quiz competition में हिस्सा लेना पड़ेगा। और मैं मानता हूं अरविंद जी, इस काम को आप अवश्य कर सकते हैं। वरना क्या होगा इन चीजों को हम भूल जाएंगे। मैं जिस दिन पार्लियामेंट में मेरी मुलाकात हुई। जैसा उन्होंने कहा कि उन दिनों नोट बंदी को लेकर चर्चा थी। लोग जेब में हाथ लगाकर घूम रहे थे। जो पहले दूसरों के जेब में हाथ डालते थे, उस दिन अपने जेब में हाथ डालकर। और उस समय अरविंदजी ने मुझे बसवाचार्य जी का एक कोटेशन मुझे सुनाया था। इतना परफेक्ट था। अगर वो मुझे 7 तारीख को मिल गया होता तो मेरे आठ तारीख को जो बोला जरूर उसका उल्लेख करता। और फिर कर्नाटक में क्या क्या कुछ बाहर आता आप अंदाजा लगा सकते हैं। और इसलिये मैं चाहूंगा कि इस काम को आगे बढ़ाया जाए। इसे यहां रोका ना जाए। और आज जो नई जनरेशन है जो इनका तो गूगल गुरू है। तो उनके लिये रास्ता सही है उनको, बहुत बड़ी मात्रा में इसको, दूसरा ये भी कर सकते हैं कि इस वचन अमृत और आज के विचार दोनों के सार्थकता के quiz competition हो सकता है। तो लोगों को लगेगा कि विश्व के किसी भी बड़े महापुरुषों के वाक्य के बराबरी से भी ज्यादा शार्पनेश 800-900 पहले हमारी धरती के संतान में थी। हम इस पर सोच सकते हैं। और एक काम मैं यहां सदन में जो लोग हैं वो जो देश दुनिया में जो भी इस कार्यक्रम को देख रहे हैं वो भी। 2022 हमारे देश की आजादी के 75 साल हो रहे हैं। 75 साल जैसे बीत गए क्या वैसे ही उस वर्ष को भी बिता देना है। एक और साल एक और समारोह ऐसा ही करना है क्या। जी नहीं, आज से ही हम तय करेंगे। 2022 तक कहां पहुंचना है। व्यक्ति हो संस्था हो, परिवार हो, अपना गांव हो, नगर हो, शहर हो, हर किसी का संकल्प होना चाहिए। देश की आजादी के लिये जिन्होंने अपनी जान की बाजी लगा दी, जेलों में अपनी जिन्दगी बिता दी देश के लिये अर्पित कर दी। उनके सपने अधूरे हैं उन्हें पूरा करना हम सबका दायित्व बनता है अगर सवा सौ करोड़ देश वासी 2022 को देश को यहां ले जाना है मेरे अपने प्रयत्न से ले जाना है। वरना सलाह देने वाले तो बहुत मिलेंगे। हां सरकार को ये करना चाहिए सरकार को ये नहीं करना चाहिए। जी नहीं सवा सौ करोड़ देशवासी क्या करेगा। और तय करे और तय करके चल पड़े कौन कहता है दुनिया में बसवाचार्य जी का सपने वाला जो देश है , दुनिया है वो बनाने में हम कम रह सकते हैं, वो ताकत लेकर के हम साथ चलें। और इसलिये मैं आपसे आग्रह कर रहा हूं कि आप इस समिति के द्वारा जिन्होंने इन विचारों को लेकर काम बहुत उत्तम किया है आज मुझे उन सभी सरस्वती के पुत्रों से भी मिलने का दर्शन करने का सौभाग्य मिला। जिन्होंने इसको पूर्ण करने में उन्होंने रात दिन खपाई हैं। कनड भाषा सीखी होगी उसमें से किसी ने गुजराती किया होगा, किसी ने सनिया किया होगा, उर्दू किया होगा, उन सबको मुझे आज मिलने का अवसर मिला मैं उन सबका भी हृदय से बहुत बहुत अभिनन्दन करता हूं। इस काम को उन्होंने परिपूर्ण करने के लिये अपना समय दिया, शक्ति दिया, अपना ज्ञान का अर्चन उस काम के लिये किया। मैं फिर एक बार इस पवित्र समारोह में आपके बीच आने का मुझे सौभाग्य मिला। उन महान वचनों को सुनने का अवसर मिला और इस बहाने मुझे इसकी ओर जाने का मौका मिला। मैं भी धन्य हो गया, मुझे मिलने का सौभाग्य मिला मैं फिर आप सबका एक बार धन्यवाद करता हूं बहुत बहुत शुभकामनाएं देता हूं।"