"Himachal Pradesh offers immense opportunities for tourism, Center to develop appropriate infrastructure: PM\nTier-2 and Tier-3 cities are becoming growth engines, says PM\nAfter Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Delhi, now Himachal Pradesh awaits Imandari Ka Yug, says PM\nWe keep the aspirations of poor and youth in mind while formulating every policy: PM Modi\nLong live Mother India. Long live Mother India. Former Chief Minister of Himachal Pradesh and leader of the Opposition Professor Prem Kumar Dhumalji, our senior leader Mr. Shanta Kumarji, my partner of the Council of Ministers at the center Mr. Jagat Prakash Nadaji, President of the State Bharatiya Janata Party Mr. Satyapal Singh, Partner Mr. Virendra Kashyap, the MLA here Mr. Suresh Bhardwaj, in the Parliament Ray partner Anurag Takurji, Ram Swaroop Sharmaji and visiting Himachal My dear brothers and sisters in huge numbers.\nAbout 20 years ago and today after 20 years, at that time Bhartiya Janta Party worker, there was a meeting here of Atal Bihari Vajpayee Ji, the country's great leader. I had the privilege of addressing him as a worker in that meeting. Today, after 20 years, you got the privilege of seeing everyone at the same platform. You have blessed me with such a large number of distances from far away. I bow to bowing down to all these siblings of Godboys, I congratulate. This is also the Goddess Bhumi, it is also the Veerabhumi. These are the land of the mother mothers too. Such brave mothers who have given birth to heroes who are engaged in the defense of hundreds of millions of people by putting a stake in life. I salute these heroic mothers in particular.\nbrothers Sisters.\nI come to Himachal, then it seems like I have come among my own people. Old memories are fresh. When I used to work here, I had to walk on the freight road. And visiting Himachal, he came back to Shimla sometime in the evening. Getting out of goods road and going to India coffee house .... And the journalists who were here used to know this sequence as a whole. So before reaching me, he deposited his house in India House. Generally the good fortune I got, probably nobody would get it. When I used to drink coffee in the coffee house in India House. I never had to pay money from pocket And the countrymen would listen, they would be surprised that it always paid our journalists friends. Whether it is our Khajuriyaji, whether our Loni Brothers, whether our Randiv Ji, Ashwini, Shrikant Sharma, all these were the tribe. And the big friendly was my stay. In order to understand the politics of Himachal, I used to work with these journalists at the Coffee House for the Gappa Conference. I used to get used to drinking coffee too. Today, I was passing through Mall Road. And when I looked at my coffee house, I remembered this old fellow. I got great love from Himachal but later my responsibility changed. Come also got reduced but you called and we went. Today, I got an opportunity to visit Shimla for two special projects of the Government of India. I am grateful to the Himachal Pradesh Bhartiya Janta Party that with this program, I got an opportunity to see everyone's philosophy.\nbrothers Sisters.\nThere is a lot of possibility of tourism in Himachal. The development of tourism for the employment of Himachal's youth is the possibility of 'Sky the Limit'. If found perfect connectivity People get the right to travel And therefore, the Indian government has made special focus in Himachal to promote tourism. You will be surprised by the railway projects lying for years. Project of a rail connected to Una. Had been hanged for 30 years. I did not know where the files were. I took out the officers. I said, I have to do this work. Whether it is the work of the road, the work of the railroad. Road width should be done, because the connectivity that is convenient in tourism is convenient. Travelers like to come there. Today there is a great deal of air connectivity. This work is a new one in India called New India. The work that laying its foundations is here today. There are two such powers in the country, which have very powerful units in carrying forward India - a middle class citizen and other middle class towns. Tire-to-tier three, those cities are small, they are going to be the country's largest growth engine in the coming decade. The power of huge development is coming from there. And in keeping with that, Aviation Policy, Air connectivity, which is very helpful for future economic development, has been designed in that direction. And today it is started from Shimla, which will boost tourism. And you might have heard there, when I was speaking there, those who had arrived there, they would have heard.\nIf we take the taxi fares, then one rupee of rupees 8 rupees, 10 rupees. And to go to the mountain then it becomes a bit more expensive. When I used to work at that time, Maruti van ran very fast. Today, we do not know which car drives. I did not know, at that time he was very much moving. Because the place was very low, it was convenient for the people here. In the taxi, 8 rupees per kilometer, 10 rupees. We have brought a policy that the common man of the middle class can also fly air. If the cost of taxi fares is Rs. 8 rupee per km. Go to Delhi in 8-9 hours. The plane will cost 6-7 rupees in kilometers and will arrive in an hour. And when I got my meeting with the officers. So I said, Look, I have a dream, who should sit in the airplane. This is what happened, not the big babu, the big people, the rich people, it is for them. The facilities that the rich have in this country should also get the poor of my country. The normal person who wore the sandalwood should see me in the airplane. it's my dream. And, in the coming days, in 70 years of independence, 70-75 airports of this country are coming down for air connectivity, commercial connectivity. In this one year 30 working intentions to add new ones 70 in 70 years, 30 in a year, how it works, how can change be brought. You know well When there was snow in Himachal, when we used to live in Gujarat. So immediately wore woolen clothes. Now if there is snowfall in Himachal, then if the wind gets cold then the cold will come here in 5-6 days. But now the time has changed, the brothers have changed. Now Uttar Pradesh's air is coming in Himachal. Uttarakhand's air is coming to Himachal. And the fresh air of Delhi is also coming.\nbrothers Sisters.\nThere is an era of development in the country but those who want to live sincerely, want to do something honestly, for them, the golden age has come. I am trying to increase the honesty work, get opportunity for honest people. The country grew on honesty. We are working on this resolution. brothers Sisters. What I see in the scene today, far and away Where is my eyes, people are people. They are sitting to take the resolution of the age of sincerity. Himachal is also waiting for the era of honesty. brothers Sisters. Hardly any Chief Minister of India has to spend so much time among the lawyers as much as .... Got it ... There are big sensible people That is why there is so much respect for the people of Himachal.\nbrothers Sisters.\nToday the young generation of the country, the young generation of the country, is not willing to compromise foul. They are ready to fight for honesty. They are walking side by side with me to pursue honesty. And on the strength of this youth power we are moving forward, brothers and sisters After Diwali in November, tourists from across the country were visiting Himachal and suddenly the news came in the night. Thousands and 500 notes, past things brothers Sisters. This was my rude fight against foul play. I am moving forward, I will continue to grow.\nbrothers Sisters.\nI have seen poverty, lived in poverty, I am in poverty, what is the problem of poor. I do not have to travel somewhere to see this. I feel And so when our government was formed and I was elected as leader In my first speech I had said, my government is dedicated to my poor. And my countrymen. My Himachalese I promise that those who have robbed the poor will have to return, till then I am not going to sit in peace. Until now, there was no one to ask them, they were not going to ask for their accounts, who were doing whatever they wanted.\nAnd so brothers and sisters\nPeople are getting an opportunity to walk with honesty in elections, all those people are walking with us. The country wants to move forward towards honesty. The common man of the country wants to cooperate this era of honesty. Wants to help her\nbrothers Sisters.\nToday, in the whole world, India has made its mark in the form of an economy moving forward at a faster pace. If India has freedom from poverty, India has freedom from unemployment, if India is to give good citizenship and normal life to the general citizen from normal to normal, then the country will go on the path of development, without giving economic development Without solving these problems, it is not possible.\nAnd so brothers and sisters\nThe government which is in Delhi today is the government. Whatever responsibility you have given us, we are trying our best to overcome these new heights of development. My country should move forward so that there is arrangement for education of children, arrangement for the youth, arrangement for irrigation for farmers, arrangement of medicines for the elderly. And you know, you have settled me in Delhi. And what I'm working on. Not everyone is going to be happy in this. Some people are going to be upset. Some people are going to get angry. Now, whose black money was hurt, Jai Shriram will speak to Modiji .... Will you say He will see the opportunity when Modiji's medicine should be done. Those who are having trouble, they will not leave any chance to disturb me. I know this very well but for the country if I have to endure these difficulties for my countrymen, I have made my mind fully. Now tell me. Today the disease of heart disease is increasing in our country. If you go to the doctor then say that there is a serious matter. You will not escape, there is only one way to escape. You put the stent. Put the stent inside the heart. The poor man asks how much money the sahab will be. Say if this stent is enough, then it will be 40 thousand. The poor man thinks, what will happen after that. There will be no problem for 5-6 years. Later, if you get this person, then there will be no problem in life. He said, how much would it cost? So it's half a million. So the poor man thinks he has to die in 6 years after giving 40 thousand rupees. So do anything, take a loan. Do anything, take one and a half million rupees and try to escape. I called the stents. I said, tell me how much it costs to make it. Throughout the year, she has been walking with her forehead. He was getting left-right. I started searching them closely.\nAnd brothers and sisters\nThe stent which seems to be 25 thousand, 35 thousand, 40 thousand, I forced it to be applied in 5-6 thousand today. Which seemed to be 1.5 million I forced them to apply for 22-25 thousand. Now tell me. Those who have gone, they will forgive me .... Will you ... Then I will be of your help to the brothers. Then I would like your help. The medicines that medicines normally take to the common man, 7 hundred and eight hundred medicines, which usually require the poor middle class to rotate the person. If there is a sick person in the family, then it is necessary. Any medicines worth 600 rupees, 500 rupees, 300 rupees. I called the medicines what have you kept? Why are brothers robbing? Do something well. Discussion continued for 2 years And today more than 700 medicines. Those who had met in 300, now got started in 30 rupees for the brothers. Poor man's goodness\nAnd so brothers and sisters\nUnder the Prime Minister's Public Medicinal Project, shops are being opened for generic medicines of the pharmaceuticals. Where the poor person can get the same medicine with less money. Large brands, which come in huge packages. We can get it open cheaply, we have made a lawful arrangement. The farmer of our country, has been a victim of natural calamity. If the rainfall decreases, even in losses, even if there is rains, in losses, even if there is loss, even in the deficit. God lived through his life. We have taken the prime minister's agricultural irrigation scheme The campaign to bring water to the farmers has been started. Now for the first time with him, he took the Prime Minister Crop Insurance Scheme in the country. And I will urge the farmers of Himachal to take the most out of this crop insurance scheme. This is such a scheme that farmers never got such protection in this country. If you take the prime minister's crop insurance plan, if you have a cost of Rs 100 then the farmer will have to pay only two rupees. The government will pay 98 rupees. Suppose, the farmer has prepared his own farm, preparing for it and thinking that if the rain comes, it will sow. But in June there has been no rain. Not to come in July, did not come in August. Not sown, no crop, no crop or no waste. We have brought such insurance. Even if you can not sow, you will get insurance and your year will not be wasted. We have brought such insurance. The crop is ready to go into the Pak mandi. He is sitting in a heap in the field. And within 15 days, before going to the Mandi, suddenly suddenly fell, the rains came. If the crop is wasted then you will get the money in crop insurance too. I have made such arrangements.\nbrothers Sisters.\nमैंने बहुत बड़ा महत्वपूर्ण निर्णय किया और जिस तरह आने वाले दिनों में  इसका लाभ हिमाचल के फल उत्पादक किसानों को सबसे ज्यादा मिलनेवाला है। ये जितने बोतल वाले पानी बेचते हैं कलर वाला, कितने महंगे होते हैं। कोका कोला, फेंटा, पेपसी, न जाने क्या-क्या। हमने उनको कहा है भाई। ये जो आप एरोटेड देते हैं, कम से कम 5 प्रतिशत नेचुरल जूस मिक्स कीजिए। सच्चे फलों का रस उसमें होना चाहिए। अगर 5 पर्सेंट भी डालते हैं तो फलों के व्यपारी को अपना माल बेचने के लिए तरसना नहीं होगा। नागपुर में पेपसी के साथ शुरू हो गया है। और वहां जो संतरे जो पैदा होते थे। 5 पर्सेंट संतरे का रस डाला जा रहा है। आने वाले दिनों में हिमाचल के किसानों को भी इसका लाभ मिले। मैं भी इन कंपनियों के साथ बात कर रहा हूं। कभी-ना-कभी लाभ दे के रहूंगा भाइयों। हमारी हर योजना में देश का किसान हो, नौजवान हो, गरीब हो, उनको अवसर कैसे मिले। प्रधानमंत्री मुद्रा योजना, जो नौजवान अपने पैरों पर खड़ा होना चाहता है।\nकुछ कारोबार करना चाहता है। ऐसे नौजवानों को 10 लाख तक हमने देने का निर्णय किया है। कम ब्याज पर पैसे देते हैं और देश में करीब-करीब साढ़े तीन करोड़ लोगों से ज्यादा लोगों को इसका लाभ मिल चुका है। विकास कैसे किया जा सकता है।\nहमारी मातायें-बहनें।\nमुझे बराबर याद है। 2012 के चुनाव में हमारे धूमलजी एक योजना लेकर आए थे। मुझे दिखाया था उन्होंने उस समय, वो इंलेक्ट्रिक चूल्हा दे रहे थे। शायद और वो कह रहे थे कि लकड़ी भी नहीं, गैस है नहीं तो ...। मैंने भी लोगों को दिखाया था कि धूमलजी ये लाने वाले थे।\nभाइयों-बहनों।\nहमारे देश में एक जमाना था। लेकिन याद रखिए। लेकिन कभी-कभी क्या होता है कि बुरे दिन याद नहीं रहता है तो पता नहीं चलता है स्थिति कैसे बदल रही है। पार्लियामेंट के मेम्बर को गैस के सिलेंडर को 25 कूपन मिलते थे। और वे अपने इलाकों में 25 परिवारों को गैस का कूपन देने के लिए ऑब्लाइज करते थे। और लोग भी हर दिन सांसद के घर चक्कर काटते थे। साहब इस बार एक कूपन मिल जाए देखो ना। बच्चे बड़े हो गए है। घर में गैस के चूल्हा लाना है। और अखबारों में आता था। सांसद कुछ, सब तो नहीं। उस कूपन को कालेबाजारी में बेचते थे। ऐसी चर्चा हुआ करती थी उस जमाने में, गैस का कनेकेशन लेने के लिए। गैस का कनेक्शन लेने के लिए एमपी के घर के चक्कर काटने पड़ते थे, ये दिन देश भूला नहीं है भाइयों। आज भी स्थिति ऐसी थी। मैंने फैसला किया। इस देश के 5 करोड़ गरीब परिवार और मेरे दिल में दर्द था कि जब मेरी गरीब मां लकड़ी के चूल्हे से खाना पकाती है तो एक दिन में 400 सिगारे की धुआं, सिगरेट जितना धुआं उसके शरीर में जाता है। उस मां की तबीयत का हाल क्या होगा। क्या स्थिति बनेगी उस मां की ...। बच्चे जो छोटे-छोटे खेलते हैं। मां खाना पकाती है और बच्चे रोते हैं। उन बच्चों का हाल क्या होगा। You can imagine. तब मैने ठान ली थी। कभी मैंने भी तो देखा था, गरीब मां का बेटा हूं। कैसे चूल्हा जला के खाना पकाती थी और आंख से आंसू बहते चले जाते थे। वो दृश्य याद है। हमने तय किया कि हम गरीब परिवारों को गैस का कनेक्शन देंगे। 3 साल में भाइयों-बहनों। 5 करोड़ लोगों तक पहुंचने का इरादा है। और मुझे खुशी है इस योजना के अभी तो 11 महीने हुए हैं। करीब-करीब डेढ़ करोड़ परिवारों में गैस का चूल्हा पहुंच गया भाइयों। गैस का सिलेंडर पहुंच गया। कहने का तात्पर्य यह है कि देश के सामान्य मानवी को इम्पावर करना है।\nनोटबंदी हुई है। उसके बाद देश की युवा पीढी आपने देखा होगा। जेब में पैसे रखते ही नहीं हैं। अपने मोबाइल से ही पैसे का लेन-देन करते हैं। धीरे-धीरे औरों को भी आदत लगने लगी है। और मैं हिमाचल के लोगों को कहना चाहता हूं, जितना जल्दी आप डिजिटल करेंसी की ओर चले जाएंगे। टूरिज्म के लिए सबसे बड़ी सुविधा को वो कारोबार होगा। आपको आदत डालनी चाहिए। भीम एप बनाई है। मोबाइन फोन से, अपने मोबाइन फोन को अपना बैंक बना सकते हैं। अपना पूरा कारोबार करते हैं, लेन-देन मोबाइल से कर सकते हैं। पूरे हिमाचल में ये टूरिस्ट का क्षेत्र है। अगर व्यापारी भीम एप से पैसे लेन-देन करे। टूरिस्ट भीम एप से लेना देना शुरू कर दें, मैं समझता हूं। टूरिस्टों के लिए इससे बड़ी सुविधा नहीं हो सकती है। हर व्यापारी ये दुकान पर बोर्ड लगा दे, हम भीम एप से लेन-देन करते हैं। आप देखिए टूरिस्ट आकर्षित हो जायेगा।  यहां के लोग भी आकर्षित हो जाएंगे। ऐसी योजना आपके लिए बनाई है। नगद की जरूरत ना पड़े। फिर भी कारोबार चलता रहे। ऑटो वाला भी उसको कर रहा है, टैक्सी वाला भी उसको कर रहा है, सब्जी  वाला है, बेचने वाला भी, आज भीम एप से पैसे ले रहा है। हिमाचल में आंदोलन खड़ा कर देना चाहिए। भीम एप के लिए आंदोलन करना चाहिए और हिमाचल में कोई ऐसी दुकान न हो, कोई ऐसी होटल ना हो, कोई ऐसी रेस्टोरेंट ना हो, जहां भीम एप से कारोबार ना होता हो ताकि टूरिस्टों के लिए सबसे बड़ी सुविधा का कारण बने।\nभाइयों-बहनों।  \nनौजवानों को रोजगार मिले, टूरिज्म सबसे ज्यादा रोजगार देता है। कम से कम पूंजी निवेश से ज्यादा से ज्यादा कमाई होती है, ये क्षेत्र है टूरिज्म। जब टूरिज्म बढ़ता है तो बड़े-बड़े होटल वाले ही कमाते है, ऐसा नहीं है। ऑटो रिक्शा वाला भी कमाता है, पकौड़े बेचने वाला भी कमाता है, चाय बेचने वाला भी कमाता है। और इसलिए हिमाचल के जीवन में टूरिज्म का बाहुल्य है। इसको हम स्वीकार करके हम कैसे आगे बढ़े। भारत सरकार हर पल हिमाचल के प्रगति के लिए आपके साथ खड़ी है। हम विकास के नई उचाइयों पर ले जाना चाहते हैं। यहां एम्स का निर्माण करना है। यहां हाइवे इंजीनियरिंग का शिलान्यास किया। यहां के नौजवानों को उत्तम से उत्तम शिक्षा का अवसर मिले, यहां पर हिन्दुस्तान के उत्तम से उत्तम व्यवस्था है। वो व्यवस्थाएं हिमाचल को प्राप्त हो। ये दिल्ली में बैठाये गए भारत सरकार आपके साथ खड़ी है। आपकी प्रगति के नई उचाइयों पर ले जाने के लिए आज मैं आपके साथ खड़ा हूं। और हिमाचल वालों का तो मुझ पर थोड़ा स्पेशल अधिकार भी है। मैंने तो आपका नमक खाया है जी। फायदा उठाना आपके हाथ में है जी। मैं हिमाचल के लोगों की सेवा करता आया हूं। हिमाचल के साथ कई साल मुझे गुजारने का अवसर मिला है। मै यहां की ताकत से भली भांति परिचित हूं। यहां के समस्या से भली भांति परिचित हूं। जब मैंने वन रैंक वन पेंशन किया। मैंने मेरी चुनावी सभा में मंडी में घोषणा की थी। 2014 में हमारी सरकार जब बनेगी, वन रैंक वन पेंशन लायेंगे। लेकिन वन रैंक वन पेंशन 40 साल से लटका हुआ सवाल। इतनी सरकारें गयीं। किसी ने अध्ययन तक नहीं किया था कि वन रैंक, वन पेंशन क्या होता है। कैसे लागू होता है। कितना खर्चा, कोई हिसाब नहीं, मजाकिया विषय बना के रखा था। एक सरकार तो ऐसी गयी उसने ऐसे ही 500 करोड़ बोल दिया था। जब मैंने काम शुरू किया तो मैं हैरान था। ये मामला 15 हजार करोड़ पहुंचा, 15 हजार करोड़। भारत के खजाने से एकदम 15 हजार करोड़ निकालना मुश्किल था। मैंने फौज के जवानों को बुलाया। मैंने कहा देखो भाई मेरा वादा है वन रैंक, वन पेंशन करना है। लेकिन सरकार एक साथ 15 हजार करोड़ नहीं निकाल सकती। I need your help. फौज के लोगों ने मुझे कहा मोदी जी, आपको हमलोगो का मदद चाहिए तो बताइये क्या चाहिए। मैंने कहा एक किस्त नहीं, ये मुझे चार किस्त में देना चाहता हूं। मैं अपने फौजियों को सलाम करता हूं। एक मिनट उन्होंने नहीं लगाया। उन्होंने स्वीकार किया। अब तक दो या तीन किस्त पहुंच गयी है। आखिरी किस्त भी पहुंचने वाली है। उनके खातों में पैसे जमा हो गए भाई। एक ऐसी सरकार जो निर्णय करती है। तो आखरी इंसान तक उसको लागू करती है। बारीक से बारीक चीजों को देखती है।\nभाइयों-बहनों।\nआज जब हिमाचल की धरती पर आप सब इतनी विशाल संख्या में आपके दर्शन करने का सौभाग्य मिला है। मैं हिमाचल को निमंत्रण देता हूं। आइये इस ईमानदारी के युग में मेरे साथ चलिए। आइये बेईमान, बेईमानी की व्यवस्था, बेईमान सोच, उसको विदाई करने का संकल्प ले के यहां से चले। इसी अपेक्षा के साथ दोनों हाथ ऊपर करके मेरे साथ बोलिए। Long live Mother India. ऐसी ताकत दिखाइए कि बेईमानी को भी कांपने का काम शुरू हो जाना चाहिए। Long live Mother India. Long live Mother India. Long live Mother India. बहुत-बहुत धन्यवाद जी।"