"Share\n\nThe lives of the middle class are being transformed and their aspirations are growing. Given the right chance they can do wonders: PM\nThe aviation sector in India is filled with opportunities: PM Modi\nEarlier airfare was considered as the domain of a select few. That has changed now: PM\nOur Civil Aviation Policy caters to aspirations of the people of India: PM Modi\nTier-2 \u0026 Tier-3 cities are becoming growth engines If aviation connectivity is enhanced in these places, it will be beneficial: PM\nMy beloved countrymen are very fast in the middle life of India, a new expression of new dreams, new resolutions and the courage to do something is feeling the country. There is a class which, if available, can give the country tremendous results in bringing out new heights of development.\nEspecially this young one is the first generation risk taking capability, which is the largest of which is a very large category. If these young people get the opportunity, then they will change the fate of the country, change the picture of the country too. The whole world believes that there is nowhere in the world for aviation to travel in India, the highest chance there is in India. Long ago, our thinking was made, air travel, these kings are a matter of the Maharajas and hence the logo associated with our airlines was also associated with the Maharaja and when the Atalji Government was in our Rajiv Pratap Rudy Aviation Ministry Then one day I used to work as a party and stayed in Himachal so I met him once, I said, brother, can not this logo change? Ask what? I said that it seems that airplane and air travel are for people of this same category, then they said what to do. I said do not do anything. Take the permission of the cartoonist Laxman who is the common man, take his permission and I am glad that the common man was also included during Atal ji's government.\nAt that time when I was not in any political position, I used to work in the organization, but at that time I came to understand that this is the thinking which is associated with the King Maharajas, and to change it from our department, I requested that one So one of the biggest deficiencies in the country is that we do not have any Aviation Policy. There is such a big country, there is such a possibility, the world's attention is to create an Aviation Policy, how to test it. Trust all the state holders in it and make a design of its expansion on the basis of policy. I am happy that for the first time since independence, our government got the good fortune of making Aviation Policy. Now at that time I had said in the first meeting that in the way I see Aviation, the poor person has an identity in our country that he wears the slippers and I said in that meeting that I want the airplane in the airplane People who have appeared. And today it is possible ... Today, Shimla and Delhi to Delhi to Nanded and Hyderabad, our Nadda is here. They are from Himachal, enjoying the association of Shimla is special to them. And if I come from Delhi then I have more pleasure.\nToday we go to the taxi by one-kilometer for one kilometer from eight to ten rupees. Delhi-Shimla's air travel in more than an hour if I travel by road, at least nine nights, if I came by road, then calculate the kilometer and calculate ten rupees, and from ten on the mountain So it gets more. This is such a journey that will save time and if it costs ten rupees in the taxi, then under the new policy the cost of the air travel will be only six or seven rupees. Today is going to Hyderabad from Nanded, but from Nanded, Mumbai is the first system to start after this and I want to teach Aviation companies one and I will not do any Royalty charge from them for this I am advising them. . I am advising them for free if Aviation companies think in a broader context, think that Nanded Sahib, Amritsar Sahib and Patna Sahib will make air circular routes, Sikh travelers from all over the world will get the most from this air travel.\nVery few people will know that when World War II happened, many air strips were made in most eastern parts, too many air strips were made in border areas, but they were not used anymore. There will be some airplanes where people have taken away the goods. After the liberation of the country, we have completed seventy years of independence but only seventy-five years ago there are airports that are coming for commercial purpose. Seventy-fiveth time in the seventy years, this new policy will be added to this new policy within a year for more new airport commercial activity. India's tire to cites growth engine. The power to fill energy inside the development is coming in tire-to-tire three cites if there is air connectivity, then capital investor, Management Experts, quality for education, quality, man power, if all these facilities are connectivity, then that too The possibilities of development increase. Tourism is fast emerging at the fastest pace in the world but after reaching destination in Tourism, the traveler is ready to withstand suffering; he likes to work hard, likes to climb mountain, likes to climb sweat But until he arrives, he likes the best comfort, if he gets air connectivity, if he gets an Internet connectivity, if he gets a WiFi facility then he likes that destination first .\nAfter going there, he is prepared to withstand the pain, is ready to take the risk, but he likes the convenience of going and coming. In Shimla, the system is now restarting again, it has been stuck for many years. I believe that the tourism of Himachal will get a lot of strength from it. 2500 rupees is the highest, the arrangement for such tickets is to be reduced to 2500 and 2500.\nNorth-East is such a land of India that is made only by seeing once it happens, it is our North-East. Nature gets such a place that may be found somewhere else. But due to lack of connectivity, the general citizen of India does not get involved there too, it is going to be a very big festival for integration of the country. It does not just facilitate travel, two terrains, two cultures, two traditions are added with great ease. I am glad that the common citizen with the name of air travel in the country and the name of the flight (UDAN), the common citizen of the flying country made a flying word from him. And like I said that air travel should be seen in the airplane, and all fly ... all involved.\nA great campaign is being done to connect one corner of the country to another. It is a pleasure for me that a second program is being launched here and its foundation is getting started. Human Resource development is as area-specific as the focus is, the efficiency of our country increases. India has the potential to have Hydro Power. It is estimated that nearly half a million MW of power can be made from Hydro, human resources should be manpower for them and for them, dedicated institutions should. Himachal Pradesh and the entire Himalayan Plate, from Jammu and Kashmir, there is a great possibility of hydro power project over there, if the youth here gets the education of hydro-related engineering specialize the subject. They are ready and I think this will be a great service and Therefore Mechanical Engineering will also be the rest of the subject. But special focus will be related to hydro power. One of his greatest work of education is going to be in Bilaspur, I got the opportunity of today's foundation stone. I am proud to give this helpless to Himachalis and to the younger generation of the country, and in a way, today the country is experiencing air power from Himachal's land and is experiencing hydro power too.\nAir power and hydro power are very powerful in the development of today, and we are dreaming of New India in which there is the power of public money, the power of forest wealth, equally potency of water and wealth. We have to move ahead with the power. Once again, I congratulate the department of the Indian Government on behalf of all the officials of the aviation department with all their respective ministers and their leadership on behalf of the heart that the very ambitious scheme is being initiated which, in a very short period, The new growth center is going to meet the strength to fly the air. Many of my best wishes,\nThank you"