"Share\n\nThis nation is related to every Indian There is no question of discrimination against anyone: PM Modi\nIn less than a year, Ujjwala Yojana beneficiaries crossed 2 crore, says PM Modi\nUrge people to undertake digital transactions and make mobile phones: PM Modi\nMr Praful Bhai Patel, Administrator of Daman Diu and Dadra Nagar Haveli on the platform, Mr. Natu Bhai, MP, Mr. Lalu Bhai Dadra Nagar MP and President of District Panchayat, Mr. Raman Kakua, President of Daman in the neighborhood, Chairman of Silvassa Nagar Bhai Rakesh Chauhan Jee and my dear brothers and sisters of Dadra Nagar Haveli, in a huge number, speak Marathi You will do a good job, take out your mobile and burn your lights by taking out the mobile and you should welcome this grand program of today, everyone should light their lights. Each one should burn the lights of the mobile Everyone should burn the light of the mobile. See all the cameras are recording you. Everyone should have a hand upstairs. Hands up and woke up. Everyone should be hands up. All mobile phones have their own share. Look, the stars are being seen in the sky. See the strength of Dadra Nagar Haveli. Speak loudly to Bharat Mata Ki Jai, Bharat Mata Ki Jai, Bharat Mata Ki Jai. Have you shown us today?\nIf the people of the country and the people of the area will see these programs, they would have a great desire to have a small Silvassa, a small area which is the largest parliamentary seat in the country, whose name is in it and this Jana Sagar is seen by anyone, The rally is not too big. Brothers sisters, Union Territory Union Territory Whether Dadra Nagar Haveli or Diu Daman, people did not know what their government is like. The collectors who used to come here believed that government. After being the Administrator for the first time, every citizen of Dadra Nagar Haveli has started feeling that now any of our keepers in Delhi are seated. The worry of our happiness is now getting from Delhi. This is for the first time that people of Dadra Nagar Haveli and Diu Daman have started feeling, otherwise they had assumed that Bhai should do, there is no government here, Delhi is too far, let's live like that, but we have shown That even a small minority of India is also a poor citizen, he has the right to this country as it is for those living in Delhi and that is why the hundred and fifty Indian nationals of Hindusth Not every every fifteen hundred million countrymen citizen owner. And changing the fate of every citizen is a collective responsibility of this country. I was told that here before about 80 years ago, some Prime Minister had come here, who today is 35 years old, will not even know whether this is a small place in the Prime Minister's list. What, does not happen. For the last time about 35-40 years ago, former Prime Minister of India, Mr. Murarji Bhai Desai came here. After that as prime minister, I have had the privilege of coming among you today. But I have not come for the first time. There is hardly any panchayat here that I have not been there. Used to tour scooters. Hundreds of families will be found here, who will tell you that Modi ji used to come here earlier to eat us here. Many people used to drink tea here, but many people would be sitting here. In this whole area, I had the good fortune to confuse. And because of this I am aware of your happiness. Here, I am familiar with the development possibilities. And in a way, now Silvassa, suppression has become a small India. Mini India has become India's no corner will not be such that people will not live in this area. Citizens of every corner of India live in our area. I asked the Government of India officials once, we said that the central government now reminds me that when the work of leasing of land was being done to the tribals, the best work done in the entire country was that, in Gaurat and in Madhya Pradesh Tribal In spite of this, then I was the chief minister here. Here in Gujarat, the leaders of the Indian government and Congress came and used to seduce the tribals, spread lies and explain to them that this Modi government is a Gujarat government, it is not giving land lease to tribals. When I sat in the Government of India, I was amazed, where there is no state government in between, in which direct direct responsibility is of the Central Government officials. Land was leased to the tribals in the whole of India. But for so many years who ruled in Delhi and used to make the states stand in the courtroom, they used to make false accusations, I have been sadly told that in Dadra Nagar Haveli, where there is a population of tribal brothers, they have a land lease Not given Did not decorate them. When we came to the government, the whole brother came here to work. We said what is the plan of the government of India which has not been implemented here. Previously the government Babu Union preferred to go to the territory of the Territory. They think that he lived like King Rajwada, if he took over his MP, the work would have been done. This is the truth, not the truth, but now it is not the Congress government, Modi is the government. Here people will have to work for the public, they will have to run for the public, their lives will be pounded for the happiness of the people. For this purpose I am working. And the result of that is that here today thousands of families are being given land lease today. Thousands of tribal families for the first time, the land they were holding for many generations, but they did not have a piece of paper that they had any right. I congratulate the Administrator of Dadra Nagar Haveli and his whole team with heart. I have done such a great job to give my beloved Adivasi brothers sisters the right to give them their rights and these thousands of families from my hands, these thousands of families have had the opportunity to give me the letter today.\nIt is the biggest event of the area after Independence, to meet the rights of the land for two thousand three hundred and fifty tribal families, in the Dadra Nagar Haveli by the brothers, sisters, about two thousand three hundred and fifty, from small to small. The biggest event is that. You can imagine, how much fun my mind would have. How much happiness will it get? These lights which I did not burn from my mobile phone, these lights were lit for my tribal brothers for my tribal brothers.\nBrothers sisters today is our dream, 2022 will be 75 years of India's freedom, how many people put their lives in the fight for the country's independence. How were dreams? 2022, every Indian can not see any dream. There should not be a thought in everybody sitting here that 2022 will be 75 years of independence. In the next five years, I will also do something for the country. Should or should not do it. will do. Close both fists and tell me. Do something for the country Not for yourself Will do for the country. Even a small task if you do for the country. 2022 will create an atmosphere all over the country. Hundreds of hundred Hindus will go out to do something for the country. There is no power in the world. Brother could keep our country behind We have dreamed. 2022 when independence will be 75 years. There should not be one poor person in our country who does not have his own home to live in. The poor should also get home to live poor to stay or should not meet, should not meet that should not be found. Brothers sisters have been surveyed in Dadra Nagar Haveli in this union territory. In the villages, there are no homes in their homes, and there are 800 families in urban areas like Silvassa who do not have their own house. By 2022, the work of giving these seven thousand households their own home is being started today. And so I congratulate with all of my poor families today. The light that you have today from your mobile. He is the light of the celebration of getting those poor people home and the house is also not normal, the house is also not normal. The house will be such that there will be electricity, the water will be arranged, the toilets will be there, the school will be near to the children to read, the medicines for the old men will be arranged. Our intention is to give such a house\nBrothers sisters, another important thing happened today, that is, give the connection of gas. And the stove along with it is also found in the meeting, the cooker is also present in the meeting, the fireworks gas lighter is also getting the gift. Brothers sisters, our country, our leaders, how they thought of them, think of the 2014 elections when the Lok Sabha election was going on in India. On one hand the Bharatiya Janata Party made me the Prime Ministerial candidate. The Congress was in the field of elections in front of me. Political parties promise in elections. Congress party meeting in Delhi for the big meeting of the Lok Sabha elections. And then press conference of the press conference. Remember what you had announced at that press conference. He said that we will win in the 2014 Lok Sabha. And this will be our government. So now in a year that gives nine gas cylinders, we will increase it to 12. The election was fought in the country in the name of this promise. 9 cylinders of 12 gas cylinders are being demanded on the basis of this. You must be surprised that some years ago, the member of the Parliament got 25 gas coupons every year and he used coupons to give his connections to the gas connection to his acquaintances. 25 in a year. And some of the MPs used to come in the newspaper; in those days they used to sell coupons in black money. Eventually in the newspapers, the coupon was stopped for the MP. That is, to get the connection of gas, the people of the Parliament's Members used to stand in line with good family members. You must have also seen. How difficult it will be Then you got the gas cylinder. Brothers sisters became our government. I used to think that what is the crime of my poor mothers who burn a wooden stove and cook it. You will be surprised to know Friends, when a mother cooks the food by burning a wooden stove, then the smoke of 400 cigarettes goes into her body. In a day, smoke of four hundred cigarettes is done by cooking wood stove. What would be the condition of that mother's health. And small children play at home. Mother cooks food These smoke also goes into the body of the children. What happens to the body of those children? Brothers sisters are suffering from this pain and I am born in poverty. I have seen my mother burning a wooden stove How was the whole house filled with smoke? He has seen with his eyes he has experienced. Then there was a hard one in my mind that how do I liberate these my poor mothers and the brothers sisters, we will carry the gas stove in every poor family, give free connections. So far, the scheme has been implemented for 11 months till 20 million households have reached the stove of gas. And today I am happy that around eight thousand families will be given this gas connection to them in Dadra Nagar Haveli too. But with the help of the people here, they are getting kumar lighter also. This is special here. I very much congratulate For this campaign\nBrothers sisters, here is the work of giving some resources for my brother-in-law brothers here. The work of giving electric vehicles is done. Those who can not see such a lamp, have given a modern stick in the hand. So the sensor comes to know that someone comes in front. Brothers sisters had plans in all the governments, but after coming to our government, till now about five thousand camps have been built and lakhs of people have been helped. In the first thirty years, there were hardly fifty camps. The brothers and sisters who kept the money were kept The government is for the poor, the government is for the welfare of the poor and therefore the government goes to different places in the district, searches for the people of the divisions, catches them, and collects the resources from the treasury of the Indian government, so that they have confidence Go ahead to live your life. The work is going on in that direction.\nThere are also people's remedies of public medicines centers in the brothers' sisters here today. We know how expensive it is to be sick. Happy families are a middle-class family, both husband and wife earn money in the family. But if there is a disease in the house, then the entire financial business of the house is quadrupled. If the daughter is not able to get married then she can not afford to buy a house, the medicine is so expensive. Doctors are so expensive Brothers sisters, we made 800 list of medicines. Called the medicines. Why did we ask so many rupees why brother would do so by making profits? All the lines were taken and the medicine which was sold for Rs. 1200, started selling for Rs. 70-80. The medicine which was sold for Rs. 300, was sold for Rs. 7 for ten rupees. Why should the poor also get medicine? Get it on time. He also has the right to live. The government should have a breath, then they are brought to change by the brother, brother. Such public medicines are being started today in Dadra Nagar Haveli. So that the poor and the doctor can write anything and give it to the poor. Take this medication medication medication without worrying you. There is no difference. It is cheap because it is so bad that if some illusion spreads then do not accept it. The poor will not be allowed to loot. The middle class will not be allowed to die. And so brothers and sisters have taken many schemes today, when I saw the matter of Wi-Fi all the young men jumped. As the Wi-Fi was inaugurated on TV, everyone showed a wave of happiness. This is the sample of New India, changed. He seems to have become part of life. लेकिन भाइयों बहनों एक और काम मैं आपसे चाहता हूं करोगे। ऐसे ढीला ढीला बोला तो क्या करोगे। करोगे। इधर से आवाज नहीं आ रही है। करोगे। करोगे। अपने मोबाइल फोन पर भीम एप डाउनलोड कीजिए। और भीम एप डाउनलोड करिए सिर्फ इतना ही नहीं, अपने इलाके के सभी व्यापारियों को भी भीम एप डाउनलोड करवाइये। और अब गैस पर पैसे किसी को दीजिये मत। उसको बताइए भीम एप से मैं पैसे देना चाहता हूं। तुम भी मुझे भीम एप से जो देना चाहते हो दे दो। आदत डाल लीजिए भाइयों बहनों। ये वाई फाई का आपको जो आनन्द आ रहा है न अगर आप अपने ही मोबाइल फोन को अपनी बैंक बना दीजिए। अपने ही मोबाइल फोन को अपना बटुआ बना दीजिए। कम कैश से कारोबार कैसे चले । भाइयों बहनों भ्रष्टाचार के खिलाफ एक बहुत बड़ा जंग मैंने छेड़ा है। आप मुझे बताइए भ्रष्टाचार जाना चाहिए कि नहीं जाना चाहिए। बेईमानी खत्म होनी चाहिए कि नहीं चाहिए। ईमानदारी से देश चलना चाहिए कि नहीं चलना चाहिए। आपकी मदद के बिना कैसे होगा। करोगे मदद। करोगे मदद। और उसका एक उपाए है कम कैश आप भीम एप से भुगतान करने की शुरुआत कीजिए। कालेबाजारी भ्रष्टाचार के रास्ते बंद होना शुरू हो जाएंगे। और इसलिए मुझे आपकी मदद चाहिए। ये वाई फाई का उपयोग, और अभी तो एक योजना बनाई है भारत सरकार ने आप उससे कमाई कर सकते हैं। जो नौजवान वैकेशन में कमाई करना चाहते हैं। उनके लिए मैंने पूरे देश में एक योजना बनाई है। आप अगर अपने भीम एप से अपना आर्थिक कारोबार करते हैं। और एक और व्यापारी को या कोई और व्यक्ति को भीम एप डाउनलोड करके तीन बार खरीद बिक्री करने का सिखा देते हैं। और अगर वो करता है तो सरकरार की तरफ से आपके मोबाइल फोन में दस रुपया आ जाएगा। अगर दिन में आप बीस लोगों को करोगे, तो आपके मोबाइल फोन में 200 रुपया आ जाएगा। अगर इस वैकेशन के तीन महीने ये काम कर लिया तो आप 18 से 20 हजार रुपया कमा सकते हैं। हिन्दुस्तान के हर नौजवान ने इस वैकेशन में कम से कम बीस हजार रुपया कमाना है। भीम एप से कमाना है। अब मुझे अपने मां बाप से खर्च के लिये पैसा नहीं मांगना है। मोदी जी की योजना का फायदा उठाऊंगा, भीम एप का प्रचार करूंगा। और हर दिन बीस लोगों को समझा कर के 200 रुपया कमा कर आऊंगा। ये काम हम कर सकते हैं भाइयों। करोगे। करोगे कि वो ठेली वाला ही करोगे। हां वो नहीं करना है।\nभाइयों बहनों अनेक योजनाओं का यहां आज आरंभ हुआ है। लोकापर्ण हुआ है। सारी योजनाओं का मैं उल्लेख नहीं कर रहा हूं। एक साथ इतनी सारी योजनाएं। गरीबों को आवास आदिवासी को घर। नौजवान को वाई फाई, युवकों को रोजगार, माताओं बहनों को गैस का कनेक्शन, कोई ऐसा नहीं है जिसको कोई लाभ न पहुंचा हो। शायद दादरा नगर हवेली की इतिहास में आजादी के बाद पहली बार इतना बड़ा समागम हुआ होगा। इतनी बड़ी सरकारी योजनाएं आई होगी और इतना बड़ा फायदा पहुंचाया होगा। मेरे साथ दोनों मुट्ठी बंद कर के बोलिये। भारत माता की जय, ऐसे नहीं। दमन वालों को भी परेशानी होनी चाहिए काम कैसे होता है। ऐसा जयकारा बोलिये जरा। भारत माता की जय, भारत माता की जय, भारत माता की जय। Thanks a lot.\n"