"\nThe poor must have access to quality and affordable healthcare: PM Narendra Modi\nUnion Government is committed to provide affordable healthcare for the poor and middle class: PM\nProjects whose foundation stones are laid have been completed on time\nSwachh Bharat Abhiyan is linked to our efforts towards healthier India: PM Modi\nAll of my colleagues sitting on the platform and all my family members in large numbers. I was in a dilemma that I speak in Gujarati that I should speak in Hindi, but later I thought that all of you have done such a big thing, the country should also know. There is raining of greetings of all donors here. Five hundred crores, five hundred crores big wow-wow is going on, but I will not wow. They have not done anything. It does not hurt you, if you give five hundred crores, five thousand crores, nothing is there, I am telling you. So these are the people who grew up eating mud in the field in the village of Gujarat. These are people who used to play ammo-petali games with their colleagues. It was Jim's own to climb the tree. It was childhood to enjoy riding a bike tire. Twelve months parents used to do the same thing. If the rain gets good at home this time, it would be nice. It was not discussed whether the son would study or not. This discussion was done in the house that God will bless the rain this time. The second prayer used to be that we have one or two animals, they are never hungry. Such is the family of a child, it is a child who has seen all this with his eyes, who has lived this life in his childhood.\nEven if the rain has decreased, the family also has less crop than it needs, even if a pile of crops is ready in the field, eat thieves, eat peacock, come and eat a meal, eat when you survive. The families who belong to this sacrament The crop produced by the sweat of the thief also raises the anger, not the anger, the animal-bird and eating it, even then the satisfaction. If there is a guest come, fill it up and then there is some left-wing, then take home for the children and spend one year, this is the sacrament of my Kadu family of Gujarat. This is their children, whose parents did not allow any abdominal stomach to bury anyone, and never let them feel any less. There are no five hundred crore for them. It has come with the rites of giving. Until it does not give up, it will not get hundred at night And I grew up among these families. If I go to another place, I sometimes feel that people have broken away from me. In everyone's eyes, I have become a minister of finance, but if one is an exception then my appearance is. Whenever I received the same love, the same identity. There is no tag anywhere with the Prime Minister. The family spirit that I experience.\nYou might be surprised, outsiders will probably be surprised. These are all rich families. There are people playing in trillions of trillions. Since I was determined to come, then the families whose relationships have been close to me have now become an arbha-trobar husbands. Ever had the bread of millet eaten by his mother's hand. Ever sloppy. I got the phone call that you are going to stay in the circuit house tonight, then send the bread of millet? Can you send me? Even a morning snack that came to me, a family has sent me old faktas in my Saurashtra, I did remember them in the morning and morning. They know what the prime minister has to eat or what he does not eat is not a difficult task. But this is a family sense, whose mothers of every family, who have never worried about me, are engaged in my concern with that love. I think there is no good fortune of life. Humans are not bigger than the post, this is the love that confines the nobility with your chest, I am grateful to you that people have done to me.\nToday a hospital is being opened, modern hospital. When I was here, I used to say that I will inaugurate the foundation of which I will do, then people would think that this is very arrogant. It was not inhuman. It is in my mind that there is a commitment that this fashion should be finished by placing stones on the stone, and the thing which should be started, the thing should be perfect. If not perfect, then it should not start. I am more than happy to all of you here, because it was that day of Vijaya Dashami. The Bharatiya Janata Party had declared me as the Prime Minister, as a candidate. At that time I was running all over the country, but despite this, my Vijaya Dashmee and Navratri were fasting. I decided that no, no matter how difficult, and I came, no matter how difficult I will go, I will come. And on that day it was the Lalaji Emperor who wanted to take photographs next to me, then to shovel for the worship of the land, I told the ruler to give 50 million rupees, then I will not allow it, otherwise I will not let it. With this right I have worked among the people and they have accepted it. With so much authority I have worked among the people. And then this hospital, when I see its grand form in front of me, there can not be any satisfaction with me for this. And I congratulate the whole team with heart to fulfill this work so well.\nI was seeing that Datashree's money has not made this hospital. This hospital is made of diligence by family spirit. Money is more laborious than money, sweat and everybody here. Those who are sitting there, they have not just shed money, have shed their sweat, have anointed them to sweat on money. And so whichever comes in this hospital, I would normally inaugurate the factory of Diamond, I would say that your factory flourished, your business grew, you would love to do textile industries, but today I curse, I do not wish luck. I would not want anyone to come to the hospital. If I had to come once, I would not need to come again, I would like to be a strong person and go from here.\nThe lack of doctors in our country, lack of hospitals, expensive medicines. If a person becomes sick in a middle class family today, then the entire economy of that family ends. Have a house, do not take it. Daughter needs to get married, she can not get it. If a person becomes ill then And at that time the responsibility of the government is that everyone has access to health care, everyone should get the benefit of health service from a limited expense. Government of India has declared a Health Policy right now. After the government of Atal ji, after 15 years this government has brought a health policy. There was a lot of work left in the middle, which I have to do. Now the medicines, I was in Gujarat, you know that many people were angry with me now I have gone to Delhi and I continue to resent a lot of people in the country too. Every day I do one work that someone or someone gets annoyed with me. Now the medicines which used to take 1200 rupees of injections, used to take three hundred and fifty hundred rupees for the bullets. We called everyone that what Bhai is doing, how much it costs, what is the cost and by making rules, the medicine which was found in Rs. 1200, how to get it in 70-80 rupees, which was available in 300 rupees. How to find About seven hundred medicines have been fixed so that it is done to get cheaper medicines from the poorest of the poorest of the poor in severe serious illness. You can imagine how annoying the medicines would be to me.\nToday, heart patient .. Every family is worried about heart. Eating at every meal is discussed in every home. Do not lose weight, eat less, it is discussed, no one does. But dining table discussion is needed. Everyone is worried about heart attack and to put stent in the heart, now we are not knowledgeable, the doctor says that if you apply it, then it will be 30-40 thousand rupees, the patient asks what will happen to life, he says that If you apply this then there will be no problem for four to five years. Then the second tells that it will be imported, if it is imported, then it is worth 1.5 lakh rupees, if you put it, then there is no need to see it throughout the lifetime. The poor man also thinks that if the person spent 40,000 to spend four years and spent a half and a half lakhs, he could not spend his life well, he takes one and a half lakh rupees. I called the stent people, I said that Bhai is so costly, you ask for so much money, he has been discussing with them all the time. After two months, we decided which stent in 40,000 rupees to sell them for 6-7 thousand rupees I'll have to, given. Those who give 1.5 lakhs will have to pay 20-22 thousand rupees so that poor people from poor are affordable.\nOccasionally, such a normal person has trouble, knowledge does not exist, and some people ... Now that there is a section of society, there is a bigger section, it is very natural to increase anger against me. But for the poor, health services are available smoothly, in that direction the government is taking one step after the other. Just what Vijay Bhai was telling. We are launching the Prime Minister Bharatiya Jana Drugs Project for affordable medicines in the hospital so that it is very cheap .. I still have seen that the doctors write the form, the form is written so that the poor person does not understand the poor The drug goes to buy goods in the shop, where it gets expensive. We are going to make the law system, the doctor will write the slip, then write that generic medicine is enough for him to buy and there is no need to buy medicine. Only then can a man, poor person buy cheap medicine. The same concern as preventive health care is essential before the way health care is concerned about the illness.\nMy hygiene campaign is linked with direct health. All surveys in the world say that if children eat without eating soap with soap, millions of children in the world become the refuge of death due to this one reason. Can not we get used to it Cleanliness in terms of health People of Surat need not teach the lessons of cleanliness. After the epidemic came in Surat, Surat took up the cleanliness. The nature of Surat has become cleanliness There is inspiration for the country. I was doing this road show yesterday, the officers who came from Delhi with me were not watching the road show, they were watching the cleanliness. Speech is so clearer, cleanliness in their mind. I said where you go, tell everyone. This Surat has made the nature. Cleanliness If India becomes a nature, our billions of rupees will stop spending after illness. Our poor once gets sick, an auto rickshaw, if the driver gets sick, then only that person is not sick, his family is hungry for three days, there is no earner in the house. And so, cleanliness .. I have been taking yoga and running the movement all over the world. On June 21, Surat also performed a great yoga program. Yoga for wellness, body health is becoming a part of life today. We are looking for those mothers, those who have not been immunized in the country, under the Rainbow scheme. Runs immunization campaigns. More than 200 million such mothers and sisters have been found, who were in the vaccination village, but they did not. The government has started searching for people to search and search. But mass movement is necessary, public co-operation is essential.\nSometimes we think that after the country's liberation, an atmosphere has become such that everything the government will do, but our country, its character is different. Our country is not made by the governments. Our country has not been ruled by kings or kings have made them. Our country has not gone with leaders or leaders have made it. Our country has run trust of manpower, public service trust It is their nature, whose service is the religion of the people. You tell me village-village you see the shrines. After every pilgrimage, thousands of people can live, there are so many Dharamshalas. There are more rooms than many big hotels in the world. Houses of two or two thousand rooms are in our country. Who made Governments have not created, as Janardan has created. The villages and villages were not water, wells were used, there were babies. Who made it? The governments did not make it, the public made Janardana. What did the government make? The public made Janardana. The library made the government, the public made the Janardan. It has been the basic character of our country, doing all the work of social life has been the source of the collective power of society. But after independence gradually it started decreasing. Once again, that environment has been created again. Everyone thinks that I will do something for society, I will do something collectively, I will do something good for the society, that work is being done today. I am sitting in Surat, especially the people of Saurashtra. The smallest rattan artist, I have always seen one thing in his heart, he keeps giving something to do something good in his village. It's not a small thing to live Is a small rattan artist. There is no high income. It's hard to remove the month. But there is something in the village of my own, so I remain Surat. The villagers say that Bhai, you do so much in the school, do so much in the village, that Rattan artist also suffers from pain. Every major person sitting here has done the best of his work in his village. Some have done something like this, have done it in the name of their parents, have done anything in the name of their families, have done something or have done something. गांव के विकास के अंदर योगदान दिया है। और आज भी गांव के साथ वैसे का वैसा नाता रखा है। दीवाली के दिन में अगर सौराष्‍ट्र जाना है, तो बस में टिकट नहीं मिलती है। यह जो लगाव है, यह समाज का उत्‍तम लक्षण है। और मैं चाहूंगा हमारे आने वाली पीढि़यों में भी यह बना रहा। पुरानी पीढ़ी के लोग रहे, तब तक चले ऐसा नहीं, आने वाली पीढि़यों में भी बना रहे। यह इस पूरे गुजरात की अमानत बनेगी। मैं फिर एक बार आज इस अस्‍पताल के उद्घाटन समारोह के समय आप सबके बीच आने का अवसर मिला, मैं आपका आभारी हूं और जैसा मथुर दास कह रहे थे, यहां से बयाना जा रहा हूं, वहां भी पानी का कार्यक्रम करने जा रहा हूं। --- जा रहा हूं वहां भी पानी का कार्यक्रम कर रहा हूं गुजरात ने पानी को ही अपनी एक बहुत बड़ी ताकत बना दिया और उसी ताकत से गुजरात आगे बढ़ रहा है और बढ करके रहेगा। इसी एक विश्‍वास के साथ मैं सबको बहुत-बहुत शुभकामनाएं देता हूं। उत्‍तम स्‍वास्‍थ्‍य के लिए शुभकामनाएं देता हूं।\nजुलाई महीने में मैं इस्राइल जा रहा हूं। आप लोगों में से हर किसी का इस्राइल से नाता है। मैं देश्‍ का पहला प्रधानमंत्री हूं जो इस्राइल जा रहा है और डायमंड का कारोबार और इस्राइल से आज सीधा-सीधा नाता है और इसलिए वहां मैं आपका प्रतिनिधि बन करके भी जा रहा हूं। यह बात मैं आपको विश्‍वास दिलाता हूं। Thanks a lot."