"#BHIMAdhar will revolutionize Indian economy, says PM Modi\n#BHIMAdhar will boost digital payments in the country: PM Modi\nDigihaan movement is a 'Safai Abhiyan' aimed at sweeping out the mess of corruption: PM Modi\nDr. Ambedkar did not even have a trace of bitterness or revenge in him. He added that Babasaheb Ambedkar's specialty: PM\nReligion: Work of reflection of cycle, Y: Doctor Baba Saheb Ambeddar performed the initiation on the ground: My devotion to the land. Kashi is ancient knowledge Nagaria, can you become Nagpur?\nToday there is such a long big list together and I do not speak the name of everyone. A lot of people have spoken, you may have forgotten.\nTogether, so many projects today are being dedicated to the country from the land of Nagpur. And today .. Today 14th April is an inspiring opportunity for Dr. Baba Saheb Ambedkar's Birth Anniversary. It was my privilege to go to Prakash Dikshabhoomi today and get an opportunity to bow down to that holy land. By taking a new energy, new inspiration, I have come among you.\nWhat will happen to the dalit, victimized, deprived villages of this country, the poor, the farmers, in their lives, in their lives in India? What will happen to their hopes, aspirations? Will anyone in India ask these people whether they will not? All these questions were answered by Bhim Rao Ambedkar through the Constitution, to the countrymen, in the form of guarantee. And the result of that is that due to constitutional arrangements, the people of every section of the country are able to do something to do something, and the same opportunity motivates them to join their lives with excitement and enthusiasm for realizing their dreams. .\nPersonally I am in life .. I always feel that despite being born in the midst of the impoverishment without being affected by any kind of effect, the journey of life can be successfully carried forward successfully and She meets the inspiration Baba Ambedkar Rao. The cry of lack of crying and not being distracted by the effects, this balanced life becomes a force for everyone who is crushed and has given the task of giving strength to Baba Saheb Ambedkar from his life. Occasionally in a person's life, when wormwood becomes a part of everyday life, it is to be humiliated, to be humiliated, to be despised, to be despised, to be despised If the person is of small mind then these things are filled in the form of bitterness in the house, in the mind-temple, in the mind-brain. And if you get the chance, I think I'll show it to you. It happened to me, it was with me in my childhood, it was when I went to school, it was when I went to work. There was nothing in mind, but it was Bhimrao Ambedkar, faced with so many evils. He suffered so much torture, but in his own life, when the opportunity came, this bitterness did not let out. The price of the exchange was never seen even in the Constitution, nor was it manifested in his voice, nor was he ever present in the jurisdiction. At such a time, the height of the person is determined by the criterion, what would be the greatest personality. When we listen to Shivaji's discussion of his greatness, then it is said to have poisoned. Baba Saheb Ambedkar used to drink and drink poison every moment of life, but we also had amrit rain for people. And so, on this birth anniversary of the great man, and also on the land on which he was born, we are trying to give a new arrangement at the feet of the country, saluting the initiation land.\nToday many schemes are being started, new buildings are being started. About two thousand MW electricity factories were released. Energy has become an integral part of life. No dream of development is possible in the absence of energy. And in the 21st century, energy has become the right of every citizen. Written or not, written or not, has become. The country has to take the height of the progress of the 21st century if India is to see it as a modern India, energy is the first requirement. And on the one hand, the world is challenging Thermal Power due to environmental concerns, on the other hand, it is the only support for developed countries. When there is a way to get rid of such a huge conflict globally, India has also taken the lead that we are the people who believe in the whole world as a family, people who believe in the whole universe, we will not allow anything to happen to us. To create a crisis for future generations, and therefore India has dreamed of renewable energy of 175 gigawatts. Solar Energy Ho, Wind Energy Ho, Projects of Hydro and when Nitin ji was speaking with great pride that the villagers of Nagpur who are dirty water, they are brought to work in the production of electricity, they are recycled. One way environmentally friendly initiative, I congratulate Nagpur for this. And in other parts of the country, the concept of zero waste is gradually flourishing.\nToday, a huge program of housing construction was taken in hand, it has also started. 2022 has been 75 years of independence. For a moment, we try to live a life of 75 years ago. If we arrived in that imagination, the era of 1930, 40, 50, when people used to bet on life for the country. Hindustan went to the hanging frames to hoist the tricolor. To free mother Bharati from the chains of slavery, the youth used to spend in jail. Used to embrace death. The queue of people who died for the country of laughing was never closed. The heroes of this country had shown the strength that the trapped loopholes were less frequent but the number of those who gave martyrdom for the dead country was never less. The sacrifice of innumerable sacrifices was that India's mother has become our freedom. But the freedom festivals also had some dreams, they also had an intention, how would India be? They did not get that good luck. We did not get good luck to spend our lives in the freedom movement, but we got an opportunity, we did not get a chance to die for the country, we got an opportunity to live for the country.\nWhether 2022 is happening for 75 years of independence. Today we are standing in 2017. We have five years of time. If the hundred and fifty million people of the country decide that the great men who have laid their lives for freedom, they will contribute so much to me for making India their dreams. I will continue to do anything, I will be determined and will continue in the right direction, I do not believe that the country will not stand with the strength to stand in front of the world in 2022, I have no fear. And there is a dream in it 2022, when 75 years of independence, the poorest of my country's poor have their own house. There should not be a poor man of this country who does not have his own home to live, not having his roof. And why should not the Hindustan see such a house, where there is electricity, water, stove, gas stove, near school for children, near hospital for the elderly? Can the hundred hundred people of the country not wipe out the tears of our country? Bhima Rao Ambedkar has taken an opportunity to show those constitution by taking the constitution into a constitution. We make a resolution for 2022, with the intention to do some taxation. I believe this dream will be fulfilled.\nI congratulate the Government of Maharashtra that with the planning of the Government of India, Maharashtra is also stepping on step by step. And work is going on in building a large number of households and it is going to get lot of employment for the people also. The poor will get home, but the builders of the house will also get employment. Those who make the cement will get the work, those who make iron will get the job, every person will get the job. There is also a great possibility of creating employment in a way. And there is a huge campaign to build houses in every corner of India. Today I got the opportunity to start it too.\n21st Century is the century of knowledge. And human history is a witness to this, when mankind has been in the Knowledge era, then Hindustan has led. The 21st Century is the era of knowledge. There is a great opportunity to give leadership to India. Together with the IIIT, IIM, AIIMS here, one more than the other, these other institutions will run on the construction of new buildings. In order to make the destiny of Maharashtra and the nation of the country to be their own destiny, these institutions will have the opportunity to increase their qualifications to make modern tents. My young generation has many good wishes. It is today when I am offering this to the younger generation of my country, I have very good luck to all of them.\nToday ... In the past few days we are working towards Digital India and are working very broadly. It's a pane - Digi-wealth, and I do not think that day will not be far. The poorest of the poor will say, Digi-wealth, personal wealth This digit money, personal wealth is going to be the voice of the poor. I saw large scholars protesting against the opposition that Modiji is now saying that the Cashless Society, funding and dumping. I did not have to do anything else for the big witty humor after hearing such speech. I used to remember him so I was big .. I was surprised what the scholars are saying.\nEven in a low cash house you will have seen a wealthy family from the rich, the son will be staying in the hostel, even then there is a discussion between parents. Do not send more money together, somewhere the habit of the son will get spoiled. Rich family also from the rich, the poor and the poor family will also say the mother, give me five rupees today, the father explains, no, no son, take two rupees by doing this. Less cache also holds significance in life, we have come to experience it in the family. Happy family also does not give bundle bundles to sons, because they know what happens to it. Good is low, bad is more. The person who lives in the same life is in the life of the society, the same happens in the life of the nation, the same economy is also in the life. We must bring this straightforward, simple understanding into practice. Less cash, less cash can be run in the business and there was a time when there was only currency for sleeping. Gold used to be counted, there was also a change of leather, changing the color of paper, and not knowing how many changes came. And every era has accepted every change. Maybe there may be some people at that time, whatever may be said, probably there will not be newspapers at that time, therefore, it will not be printed, but there will be some say at that time also. There will be disputes, but there will also be changes. Now the time has changed. You have alternate arrangements available, safe arrangements are available and out of them BHIM App And I believe in the manner in which Bhimrao Ambedkar has done the work of giving rights to the common man in the constitution of India, BHIM App is going to work as an economist of the economy. Keep this writing down my words. No one will stop, it is going to be there.\nYou will be surprised that in a country like India, printing of currency, printing and securing it is the cost of arabha trillion rupees. If money is saved from these arrangements, then how many poor will become home? How big is the service to the country? And it is all possible to do so, if not, then do not have to. They also used to live, they used to be the first, it was necessary, used to do. If we determine the direction of the lower cache, you see the change is possible. I am amazed that five to five police are engaged to protect one ATM. A person has difficulty in providing police for protection, has to stand for the ATM. If less cash is traded, your mobile phone will become your ATM. And the time is not far when the premises-less and paper-less banking is going to be part of life. When the premises-less and paper-less banking is going to be part of life it means that your mobile phone is not just your wallet, your mobile phone will become your own bank. The revolution of technology is becoming part of economic life. And so on December 25 when the scheme was launched. The day the Christmas was launched was the beginning of Christmas. Started with Happy Christmas. Hundred days were run for 100 days. And today, today's birth anniversary is one of the 14th birth anniversary of Baba Ambedkar Saheb, the direct connection of BHIM App and on the other side Good Friday Day. Started on Christmas day, began with laughter-delight. Traveling so far\nAt that time people thought that who does not have a mobile phone, what will they do? I read a lot of speech in parliament, interesting speech is all about The country does not have smart phones, it does not have to dump, it is not worth it. We explained to him that the car runs with the phone of Bhai 800-1000 rupees, but how do you understand the one who does not understand! But now you do not need a mobile phone, now you will not ask what Bhai will do. Do you have a thumb, do not you? There was a sign of illiteracy. How the era has changed, that thumb is becoming the center of your power. All the young men here are engaged in the thumb for two to two hours a day. Take a mobile phone and write a message. Technology has made the thumb stronger. And therefore BHIM-AADHAR India can be proud. Advance to the world's technology, the country also does not have this system, which is with Hindustan.\nNow, people who have accepted the controversy even after dispute on BHIM App, they are engaged in dispute on the basis. They will continue to work for them. Whether you have a mobile phone or not, if you have a base number. You have visited a shopkeeper yourself and you have a small instrument. The big PoS machine will also not be needed, the small one will be two inches by two inches, it will put your thumb there and if you already have your base number associated with the bank. If you have bought ten rupees, ten rupees will be your automatic cut. No need to take one rupee together कहीं आपका कारोबार रूकेगा नहीं, कितनी उत्‍तम व्‍यवस्‍था की दिशा में हम जा रहे हैं। और इसलिए जो आज भीम आधार एक ऐसा version.. और आप देखना जी वो दिन दूर नहीं होगा दुनिया की बड़ी-बड़ी युनिवर्सिटी इस BHIM-AADHAR का case study करने के लिए भारत -- आएगी। सारे नौजवान study करेंगे। दुनिया में आर्थिक बदलाव क्‍या हो सकता है इसका यह आधार बनने वाला है। यह reference बनने वाला है।\nऔर मैं कल ही हमारे रविशंकर जी को कहता था कि भारत सरकार ने इसका patent करवाया कि नहीं करवाया, क्योंकि यह होने वाला है, दुनिया इस विषय को अपना विषय बनाने के लिए.. मुझे अभी अफ्रीकन देशों के जितने मुखिया लोग मिले, उन्‍होंने मेरे से इसकी जिज्ञासा भी की और यह भी चाहा था कि हमारे देश के लिए आप कर सकते हैं क्‍या? धीरे-धीरे इसका वैश्विक विस्‍तार का कारण भी बन सकता है और भारत एक बहुत बड़े Catalytic Agent के रूप में काम कर सकता है।\nइस डिजिधन योजना के तहत हिन्‍दुस्‍तान के सौ अलग-अलग शहरों में कार्यक्रम किए गए। लाखों लोगों ने बढ़-चढ़ करके हिस्‍सा लिया। टेक्‍नोलॉजी को समझने का प्रयास किया, स्‍वीकार करने का प्रयास किया। और बहुत बड़ी मात्रा में लोगों को ईनाम मिले और आज जिन लोगों को ईनाम मिला उनमें से एक सज्जन चेन्‍नई के उन्‍होंने तो घोषणा कर दी कि मुझे जो ईनाम मिला है, वो मैं गंगा सफाई के लिए समर्पित कर देता हूं। मैं उनका अभिनंदन करता हूं। और वैसे भी यह डिजिधन सफाई अभियान ही है। भ्रष्‍टाचार, कालेधन के खिलाफ लड़ाई का एक बहुत बड़ा माजा रखता है।\nऔर मैं देशवासियों को कहना चाहता हूं कम cash विचार आपको पसंद आए या न आए। cash-less society का सपना आपको अच्‍छा लगे या न लगे। नोटो के बिना जिंदगी कैसे गुजरेगी आपके मन में सवाल या निशान हो या न हो, लेकिन इस देश में कोई ऐसा इंसान नहीं होगा, जिसके दिल, दिमाग में भ्रष्‍टाचार के प्रति गुस्‍सा न हो। देने वाला भी गुस्‍सा करता होगा, और कभी लेने वाला भी रात को जा करके सोचता होगा कि यार अभी मोदी आया है कहीं फंस जाऊंगा तो क्‍या होगा? बहुत बुरा हआ है, लेकिन आगे बुराई से बचने के लिए एक उत्‍तम साधन है। जो भी BHIM-AADHAR के सहारे मदद करेंगे मेरी, वो एक प्रकार से भ्रष्‍टाचार और कालेधन की लड़ाई लड़ने के सिपाही हैं मेरे लिए। यह बहुत बड़ी ताकत है मेरे लिए। और इसलिए मैं इसे निमं‍त्रण देता हूं मेरे नौजवानों! और इसमें दो नई चीजें जोड़ी है इस बार। और तो योजना यह है कि वो 14 अक्‍तूबर तक हम चलाएंगे। आज 14 अप्रैल है। 14 अक्‍तूबर इसलिए 14 अक्‍तूबर को बाबा साहेब अम्‍बेडकर ने दीक्षा ली थी। बाबा साहेब अम्‍बेडकर का दीक्षा का वो पवित्र अवसर था, 14 अक्‍तूबर। और इसलिए आज 14 अप्रैल से 14 अक्‍तूबर तक एक विशेष योजना है। आज देखा होगा आपने अच्‍छे परिवार के नौजवान भी उनके दिमाग में भी है कि हम vacation में कुछ न कुछ काम करे और खुद कमाई करे। धनी परिवार के बच्‍चे भी अपनी पहचान छुपा करके ऐसी जगह पर जाते हैं और ऐसे काम करते हैं खुद को trained करना चाहते हैं। जिस सर्कल में वो पैदा हुए हैं वहां वो मौका नहीं बनता है। वो होटल में जाते हैं, बर्तन साफ करते हैं, चाय परोसते हैं इस प्रकार से काम करतेहैं। कई पेट्रोल पम्‍प पर जा करके काम करते हैं। एक गर्व से जीने का.. आज नई पीढ़ी के दिमाग में यह चीजें आ रही है।\nपहले हम सुनते थे विदेश में नौजवान सब रात को जा करके दो-दो तीन-तीन घंटे ऐसी मेहनत काम करते हैं टैक्‍सी चलाते हैं, ढिंकाना करते हैं, फलाना करते हैं। कुछ कमाई करते हैं और फिर पढ़ते रहते हैं। आज हिंदुस्‍तान में यह चीज आई नहीं है, ऐसा नहीं है। हमारा ध्‍यान नहीं है। इस BHIM-AADHAR के तहत मैं इस vacation में मैं मेरे देश के नौजवानों को निमंत्रित करता हूं। इसमें एक योजना है referral यानी अगर आप किसी को भीम एप के संबंध में समझाएंगे। किसी merchant को समझाएंगे, किसी नागरिक को समझाएंगे, उसके मोबाइल फोन पर भीम एप download करवाएंगे। और आपकी प्रेरणा से वो तीन transaction करेगा, कभी पचास रुपयेकी चीज़ खरीदेगा, कभी 30 रुपये की, कभी 100 रुपये की खरीदेगा। यह आपके द्वारा अगर हुआ है तो एक अगर आपने व्‍यक्ति को इसमें जोड़ा तो सरकार की तरफ से आपके खाते में 10 रुपया जमा हो जाएगा। अगर एक दिन में आप 20 लोगों को भी यह कर लें, तो शाम को आपकी जेब में 200 रुपया खाते में आएंगे। अगर vacation के तीन महीने तय कर लें कि 200 रुपया कमाना है, बताइये मेरे नौजवान साथियों यह कोई मुश्किल काम है क्‍या आपके लिए? सामने से कुछ लेना-देना नहीं उसको सिर्फ सिखाना है, समझाना है और जो व्‍यापारी अपने दुकान पर BHIM-App को लागू करेगा कारोबार उससे शुरू करेगा, तो उसको जो उसकी minimum जो रैंक है उसको करेगा, तो उसको 25 रुपया मिलेगा। उसके खाते में 25 रुपये जमा हो जाएंगे। यानी जिसको आपको समझाना है उसको समझा सकते हैं। लेकिन मुझे तो 10 मिल रहा है, लेकिन तेरे को 25 मिलने वाला है। और यह योजना 14 अक्‍तूबर तक चलेगी बाबा साहेब अम्‍बेडकर का दीक्षा प्राप्‍त करने वाला दिवस था। छह महीने हमारे पास है। हर नौजवान इस vacation में 10 हजार, 15 हजार आराम से कमा सकता है। और आप भ्रष्‍टाचार के खिलाफ की लड़ाई जीतने के लिए मेरे सबसे बड़े मददगार बन जाएंगे, इसलिए मैं आपको निमंत्रण देता हूं कि इस योजना में उसकी बारीकी जो लिखित होगी वो ही फाइनल मैं समझाने के लिए थोड़ा plus-minus बोल रहा हूं। लेकिन जब आप लिखिल पढ़ेंगे तो पक्‍की योजना आपको समझ आ जाएगी। और मैं चाहता हूं, मैं देश के नौजवानों को चाहता हूं कि अब exam हो गई है, मोबाइल फोन उठाइये, इस व्‍यवस्‍था को समझिए और per day 20 लोग, 25 लोग, 30 लोग लग जाइये। आप शाम को 200-300 रुपये कमा करके घर चले जाएंगे और पूरे vacation में आप करेंगे अगली साल की आपका खर्चा पढ़ाई का pocket खर्चा अपने निकल जाएगा। कभी गरीब मां-बाप के पास से एक रुपया मांगने की जरूरत नहीं पड़ेगी। यह revolution लाने का प्रयास है। \nआज यहां 75 township कम कैश वाली उसका लोकार्पण हुआ। इसका मतलब यह हुआ कि जहां पर township में लोग रहते हैं, अलग-अलग fertilizer कंपनियों की township है, कहीं रेलवे वालों की township है, कहीं फौज वालों की township है ऐसी 75 ने पूरी तरह अपने आप को कम कैश वाला किया है। तो जब मैंने इसकी पहली एक township कम कैश वाली बनी तो मैं उसका presentation ले रहा था। मैंने कहा सब्‍जी वाले का क्‍या interest है, वो क्‍यों यह कारोबार में आया। उसने बड़ा interesting जवाब दिया सब्‍जी वाले ने, उसने कहा पहले यह जो township में यह जो बैचने के लिए मैं फुटपाथ पर बैठता हूं, सब्‍जी बैचता हूं, तो जो महिलाएं सब्‍जी खरीदने आती हैं अगर बिल बन गया 25 रुपया 80 पैसा तो कहती है कि चलो 25 रुपये ले लो, काम चल जाएगा, वो 80 पैसे नहीं देती। कितनी भी अमीर परिवार की महिला हो, बड़े से बड़े बाबू की पत्‍नी हो। वो 80 पैसा नहीं देती थी। ले लो 25 रुपया, चलो ठीक है, छुट्टा छोड़ दो। बोले इसके कारण क्‍या हुआ है मुझे पूरा 25 रुपया 80 पैसा मिलता है। और बोला शाम को जो मेरा 15-20 रुपया कम पड़ जाता था अब मेरा 15-20 रुपया मेरी extra income ऐसे ही हो गई। अब देखिए कितना फायदा एक गरीब आदमी ने अपने में से ढूंढ लिया। लेकिन यह 75 township एक अच्‍छी शुरूआत है। यह हम लोगों की कोशिश रहनी चाहिए कि हम कम कैश की ओर देश को ले चले, हम इसमें योगदान दे और यह जो revolution हो रहा है। उसके हम स्‍वयं एक सिपाही बने। उस बात को हम आगे बढ़ाएं।\nमुझे विश्‍वास है कि आज जिन लोगों को ईनाम मिला है और इतने कार्यकाल में करीब ढाई सौ करोड़ रुपये से ज्‍यादा ईनाम मिले हैं। वे ईनाम प्राप्‍त कर करके संतोष न माने। हजारों की तादाद में नागरिकों को ईनाम मिला है वे भी इसके एम्‍बेसेडर बने, वे भी इस काम को आगे बढ़ाए। यह देश में परिवर्तन लाने का नागरिकों की मदद से होने वाला एक बहुत बड़ा सफल अभियान है। मैं रविशंकर जी और उनके विभाग की पूरी टीम को नीति आयोग को बड़ी बधाई देता हूं कि full-proof technology के लिए उन्‍होंने भरसक कोशिश की। दुनिया में जितने प्रकार की technology में innovation हुए हैं इन सारी चीजों को स्‍टडी किया है और उसमें से उत्‍तम से उत्‍तम क्‍या हो सकता है। भारत के सामान्‍य मानव को गरीब से गरीब व्‍यक्ति भी इसको अपने कारोबार से चला सके। इतना user friendly विश्‍वस्‍त यह व्‍यवस्‍था विकसित हुई है। मैं फिर एक बार विभाग के सभी साथियों को बधाई देता हूं। मैं महाराष्‍ट्र सरकार का अभिनंदन करता हूं कि इस कार्यक्रम की रचना के लिए नागपुर को उन्‍होंने जजमान के रूप में उत्‍तम सेवा की। बहुत बड़ी मात्रा में आप सब से मुझे मिलने का अवसर मिला। आपका बहुत-बहुत धन्‍यवाद।"