"Distinguished guests who came here from South Africa,\nFriends,\nIt is a great pleasure for us that President Ramaphosa, an integral friend of India, is present among us today. India is not new to him, but it is his first visit to India as the President. And his visit to India is a special moment in our relations. This is the 150th birth anniversary year of Mahatma Gandhiji. Last year was the birth centenary year of Nelson Mandela. And last year was the silver jubilee year. I am very happy that President Ramaphosa has come to India on this special occasion. And his visit to India is of special significance to us, because he will participate in our Republic Day. India is grateful for all these respect and pride Whole India is grateful to him for this distinction\nFriends,\nI first met President Ramaphosa when I went to South Africa in 2016. At that time, he was the Vice-President. And in our first meeting itself I had experienced his enthusiasm and affection towards India I experienced his great hospitality during the BRICS summit in South Africa last year. Though it is winter season in Delhi, but I believe that in the journey President Ramphosa will also welcome I warmly welcome the President, and his delegation, in India\nFriends,\nDuring our interactions today with the President, we reviewed all the dimensions of our relations. Our trade and investment relations are becoming more and more intense Our bilateral trade is more than $ 10 billion South Africa participated as the Partner Country in the \"Vibrant Gujarat\" summit held this year. And Indian companies are taking part in the efforts of President Ramaphosa to increase investment in South Africa. We are also partners in South Africa The Gandhi-Mandela Skills Institute is set to be established soon in Pretoria And we both are committed to a new level. And so, we will meet major business leaders of both countries in a short while from now.\nFriends,\nIf we look at the map of the world, it is clear that both Indian and South Africa are located in the very important places in the Indian Ocean. We both are democratic countries We are the successors to the legacy of Mahatma Gandhi and Nelson Mandela. And therefore, the broad global outlook of both countries is quite similar to each other. Our mutual cooperation and coordination on many forums like BRICS, G-20, Indian Ocean Rim Association, IBSA, is very strong. We are also working on the reforms of the UN Security Council. A special part of the program of this visit to the President of India will be the first \"Gandhi-Mandela Freedom Lecture\" which is being organized today. Not only me, the whole of India and the whole South Africa is the Honorable President.\nFriends,\nPresence of President Ramaphosa on the Republic Day and participation as the Chief Guest, is a symbol of our shared commitment to strengthen our relations. I, once again, warmly welcome the President\nThank you."