"Share\n\nOur government has initiated number of measures to empower women\nOver 70% of people who have got loans under Mudra Yojana are women: PM\nFrom Panchayats to Parliament, women are leading from the front: PM Modi\nI congratulate the Ladies Wing of Indian Merchant Chamber for the completion of 50 years. For any institution, the stay of 50 years is very important and it is such a period that if a person is a person or an institution, he comes out of the form of gold, starts shining; And maybe that's why 50 years of completion is also called Golden Jubilee. The institution you are part of has a very glorious history. It has been settled in the background of the indigenous movement. You have also contributed some or the other, while working for women in the last 50 years; And for this your organization is eligible for praise. And those who have led it in the last 50 years, have carried this forward, they are all congratulatory officers.\nWhen it comes to the economic strength of today, it comes to participation in decision-making, whenever the economic strength in women is increased; Their participation in the decision has also increased. You see any sector; Wherever women get the right opportunity, they have left the men two steps ahead.\nToday the women of the country are flying fighter aircraft, going into space, medal to the country in the Olympics. From the Panchayat to the Parliament, from the village well to the silicon valley, the women of India are threatened. And so it is not that the women of India are only domestic, this is a myth. If we look at the agricultural sector of India, look at the dairy sector, nobody can deny that if the biggest contribution is in the field of agriculture and animal husbandry in India; So the woman is of power.\nIf you go into the tribal area, you will see the activity of the men, you will guess, and what happens after the evening, and go to the tribal area, the way the women run, they do economic activity, whatever art they have. It is a skill, a cottage industry; In the tribal women, this is the skill, which is the power, we do not meditate on that side; And I believe that every person also has an entrepreneur, business is understood. Just need to give him the right opportunity and guidance.\nWomen who are connected to Dairy business on many places in the country are transferred directly to their bank account. Wherever I want to meet the people of the dairy industry, I urge that when women come to fill dairy-related milk, instead of giving money to them, it would be better to have that same kind of cattle and women who have separate bank accounts Yes, there are money deposited in the women's account. You see, the poor woman of the village who also plays a cow, a buffalo, when she has money deposited in the bank, she feels a power empowerment; His voice is noticed throughout the house, his talk is heard. As long as it does not fall into a garland, all its efforts are shattered. And so these small changes also give a new force.\nToday women are running thousands of milk societies in the country. Many brands have been successful because they had the power of women, women had labor, their business was acumen. These brands have also become a case study for large management schools worldwide. Now you see the story of lizard dad papad, in some places some tribal women started lazja papad, started in the form of a cottage industry, and today where Lizjt Papad has made his place; You see Amul, the identity of Amul has been made in every house. Thousands of women's milk bodies contribute much to the inside of it; And the result of that is that they made their identity, created a place. There is also patience, there is strength in our country's women, and there is also the courage to fight for success. Institutions like you can help them show the right path.\nAnother glory is also associated with the Indian Merchant Chamber. And that is Gaurav, Swathey Mahatma M Gandhi was also a member of Indian Merchant Chamber. Those who have taken great care about Gandhiji have a name in their mind; The bigger the discussion should be of that name, it has not happened. And today I will also urge you to try the name I am mentioning; Just go to Google Guru and ask which name I am discussing, and that name is Ganga Ba. Very few people probably know about this Ganga Ba.\nMahatma Gandhiji returned to India from Africa, his public life started in Sabarmati Ashram. So from their village, it is a matter of 100 years ago that this is happening! That there is no Ganga Baa which has become a widow at a very young age, and after fighting for the laws of the society, she started her education again, started reading. A widow had grown up at a very young age, at that time then the age of 8, 10 years would probably be And Mahatma Gandhi used to say to Ganga Ba that he was a great courageous woman. When Gandhiji heard about him, Gandhiji went to meet him from Sabarmati Ashram. And when Gandhiji met Ganga Ba, Ganga Ba gave a gift to Gandhiji, given a gift.\nAnd today the Charkha Ganga Ba gifted to Gandhiji with the freedom movement that he saw every moment with Gandhiji. And women talk of empowerment, through the words of Charkha, Ganga Ba inspired Gandhiji. Now women empowerment is also given awards in the name of Ganga Ba, a book has also emerged on her life. My point of saying is that 100 years ago, a woman had the strength that she could talk to Gandhiji even after opening her eyes with the eye and talking about women empowerment openly. This is the strength of the women of our country.\nThere is no one, millions, millions of people living in our society, just need to empower them. In modern India only the country can move forward by empowering mothers and sisters. And with this thought the government is taking progressive decisions. Where law is required to change, the law is being changed; Where new rules are needed, new rules are being made. More recently, maternity leave has been increased from twelve weeks to 26 weeks by changing the maternity act; Directly 26 weeks from 12 weeks. There are no such rules in the big, prosperous countries of the world today.\nStates have also been advised by making changes in the Factory Act that facilitate women to work in the night. There is also a provision to provide same support to those women who have been affected by acid attack by making changes in the Disability Act, the same reservation, which is available to the lamps. Apart from this, the work of networking with a full police station, through panic button, has been workedout successfully by taking mobile protection through mobile fan. Universal Helpline, 181 has become familiar to women now.\nThe Government has made a very important decision that the families whose families benefit from the schemes of the government will be the first woman to be the head of the family; Like in the Prime Minister's Housing Scheme, it is being preferred that the house registry is named after women. We know that if you ask a woman; Even today, the situation of our society - in whose name the house is, in the name of the husband or in the name of the son; The car is named after, in the name of the husband or in the name of the son; If you brought a scoop, then on whose name, then in the name of the husband or in the name of the son There is a sense of self-esteem that the woman can have a property in the name of her, some have to be encouraged, some rules have to be changed, some addicts have to be women-centric, it is also getting results. There has also been a major significant change in passport rules; Now it will not be necessary for women to give their marriage or divorce certificate. It will be on his wish that he should write his father's name in Passport or else Mother's name. The government is making every effort on every ladder on every stretch that women should come forward by themselves for self-employment, self-employment.\nYou all know that a Prime Minister's money scheme has been running for the last three years. In the last two years, nearly three lakh crores of rupees have been loaned from banks, and have been given without any guarantee. You will be happy to know, it will also be wonderful, 70% of the 70 million account holders who take the loan under the Prime Minister's Money Scheme are 70% women. Any Hindu state can be proud of the fact that a loan of Rs 3 lakh crore was given to the bank; 70 percent of those who take them are women. Even under the standup India program, the government has started giving loans without any guarantee to women enterprises for up to Rs 10 lakh to 1 crore rupees for their employment.\nPoor women can work out of the house, get rid of the kitchen smoke; Now Deepak ji was describing him a bigger and hence, under the ULY LA scheme, so far, two crore women have been given free gas connections.\nI want to tell you a little bit about this When I asked the people of the country on the Red Fort that if you do not need then why do you take gas cylinder subsidy? And even in the wealthy home, it was not thought that the subsidy gas used to be used. ..... But when I told the countrymen, the families of Zainas who surrendered their gas subsidy from 1 to 20 million. And then I said that this gas subsidy which is surrender, I will transfer it to the poor.\nAt one time in our country, a member of the parliament was given 25 coupon for gas connection so that he could oblige people in his locality. And the people of MP used to cut a lot of money, that their family could get a gas connection. The connection to the gas connection was blackened. In the 2014 elections, a party was contesting on this issue of Lok Sabha; The issue of those who were fighting against me, is that now nine cylinders or 12 cylinders? Who is the Prime Minister of India? What is the government of the country? Is there a political party's agenda that 9 cylinders will be found or 12 cylinders? You can imagine that in 2014, when we were stuck between 9 and 12, this government has provided 12 million families of gas in the last 11 months.\nAnd this, you mothers, sisters are sitting here, you can guess it; When the mother burns a wooden stick 1, cooks the food, then in one day her body cigarettes 400 cigarettes. What happens when children play in the house? What will happen to their body? By understanding that pain, understanding the pain, I started a campaign to get rid of these mothers and sisters from the smoke of wood stove. And in the next two years, 11 months have passed; In the second two years, five million families, our poor; There are total 25 crore families in Hindustanhan. Five million families have taken a great leap to get rid of this smoke.\nUnder this scheme, under the Prime Minister Ujjwala scheme, and just as Deepak ji was saying, the plan is one thing, the law is one thing, the change in the life of the common man comes when it is implemented, sitting at the last end To the person, he reaches the system and the identity of this government is that the plans are sketched here, the road map is prepared, and it is constantly monitored to complete it and it will be Car is done.\nPandit Deendayal is the birth anniversary of the Vice-Chancellor, under the Deen Dayal Diary Yojana, in the last two-and-a-half years, more than 10 lakh women self-help groups have been formed in which about 330 million women have been added. In this year's Budget, the establishment of women power centers has also been announced with an investment of 500 crores. Sukanyaal Samrudhi Yojana is being run, so that daughters can get auspicious interest on savings. So far, accounts of more than one crore more daughters have been opened under this scheme.\nIn our country, death of mother and daughter, both of mother and daughter in both pregnancies, infant death, mother of mother; This is a big painful situation in our country. All the more institutional delivery will increase, so we will save the lives of mothers, save the life of children. And so for promoting institutional delivery, the amount of Rs. 6000 is being transferred directly to three installments in the account of poor pregnant women.\nThese decisions, if you look alien, will not predict what is happening to bring about a change in their quality of life, for empowerment of India's female power. But when you see such a variety of schemes together, you will find that the government is moving forward one thing under one of the so-called plans for women's participation in the development of women, and how much of the curiosity Work is going on at the level.\nFriends, today 65 percent of the country's population is under 35 years of age. He has his dreams. They want to go through something. They can fulfill their dreams, use their energy properly, for this, the government is engaged in every way, in every way, but institutions like you, agencies like you; Their contribution is immense.\nAnd I urge you that when in 2022, and I would specifically urge all the greats of the IMC to sit here, that when the country was celebrating 75 years of independence in 2022, 75 years of independence is happening in 2022 ; We still have five years left. From now on we can decide every goal, every family, every organization, every social organization, every village and city, everybody, target 7 for themselves? That we should do as a personal person for the society by 2022, by the institution I shall do for the society for the country. Today we are living the life of freedom. We are making our own decisions. The hundred and fifty million people are the destinators of their destiny. The freedom freedoms, sacrificed themselves to give freedom to the country, cut them into adulthood, tortured, some young men climbed to the Takht of the gallows; some people cut their youth in the Andaman Nicobar; क्या, उनके सपने पूरे करना हमारा दायित्वि नहीं है? और जब मैं हमारा दायित्वद कहता हूं तब मैं सिर्फ सरकार की बात नहीं करता हूं, मैं सवा सौ करोड़ देशवासियों की बात करता हूं।\nमैं आपसे आग्रह कर रहा हूं, हम जहां भी जाएं जिसके भी साथ बैठैं, 2022- आजादी के 75 साल; जैसे आजादी के पहले गांधीजी के नेतृत्वि में हर गतिविधि आजादी लेकर रहेंगे करते थे, आजादी के लिए अपने-आपको जोड़ कर रखते थे। कोई सफाई अभियान करता था तो भी आजादी के लिए करता था, कोई खादी बुनता था तो भी आजादी के लिए करता था। कोई लोगों को पढ़ाई का काम करता था तो भी आजादी के लिए करता था। कोई स्वददेशी का आग्रह करता था तो भी आजादी के लिए करता था। हर कोई जेल नहीं जाता था, हर लोग फांसी के तख्तेे पर नहीं चढ़ते थे लेकिन जहां थे वहां आजादी के लिए कुछ करते थे। क्यार हम 2022, आजादी के 75 साल, हमारे अपने योगदान के साथ मना सकते हैं क्या्? मैं आज आप सबको इसके लिए आग्रह करता हूं कि हम 2022 के लिए कोई संकल्पम करें, सपने संजोंए और देश और समाज के लिए कुछ कर गुजरने के लिए कुछ कदम हम भी चल पड़ें; ये मेरी आपसे अपेक्षा है। देश के अलग-अलग हिस्सोंम में मध्यं महिला-उद्ममी बहुत छोटे स्त।र पर जो product तैयार कर रही है वो कैसे एक बड़े platform पर market प्राप्त् करें, National, International; जहां भी हम पहुंचा सकें। वो अपनी पैठ कैसे बना सकती हैं, क्यों् उन्हेंत इस बारे में जागरूक करने के लिए कोई अभियान शुरू किया जा सकता है? 2022 twenty-twenty two तक कोई target fix किया जा सकता है कि इस लक्ष्य को ध्यांन में रखते हुए 500 या 100 कैम्पt लगाए जाएंगे। एक छोटा सा experiment, आपको मैं सुझाव देना चाहूंगा, आप जैसी एक catalytic agent हो जो संस्थाा काम कर रही हो, corporate house हो जो कुछ न कुछ product करते होंगे, और women self-help group. Corporate house इन women self-help group को skill development का काम करें, उनके raw material दें, और जिस प्रकार के product की जरूरत उस Corporate house को है; women self-help group से करवा दें। और Corporate house अपनी बड़ी product के साथ इसको जोड़ करके marketing करे। आप देखिए कम खर्चे में एक बहुत बड़ा एक eco system तैयार होगा, जहां सरकार के कहीं बीच में आए बिना भी गरीब से गरीब लोगों को काम का अवसर मिल जाएगा। और इस दिशा में हम काम कर सकते हैं।\nआज भारत में वो ताकत है, वो दुनियाभर में अपने मेहनती और कुशल कामगारों को भेज सकता है। क्याा आपकी संस्था इस तरह का कोई Online platform develop कर सकती हैं? जिससे नौजवानों को ये पता चले कि दुनिया के किस देश में इस समय किस तरह के skill की demand है।\nसरकार national entrepreneurship promotion scheme चला रही है। इसके तहत सरकार 50 लाख युवाओं को sponsor कराना चाहती है। क्याn आपकी संस्था। कम्पतनियों में scheme को ले करके जागरूकता का अभियान चलाया जा सकता है? ताकि ज्याeदा से ज्या‍दा युवाओं को, महिलाओं को रोजगार के लिए अवसर मिले। कौशल विकास की training लेने वाले युवाओं को नौकरी के लिए सरकार private sector की कम्पmनियों से भी समझौता कर रही है। ज्याकदा से ज्याीदा कम्पलनियां इस अभियान से जुड़ें, इसके लिए आपकी संस्थाै किस प्रकार से मदद कर सकती हैं, इस बारे में भी आपको सोचना चाहिए।\nक्या State level bankers committee को मजबूत करने के लिए आपकी संस्थाै कोई सहयोग दे सकती हैं? इसी तरह क्याb बैंकों के training institution में आपकी संस्था के प्रतिनिधि जाकर क्या अपना योगदान दे सकते हैं? IMC के ladies wing की हर सदस्यक business की बारिकियों के बारे में गहरी समझ है। वो उठते-बैठते पैसे, business, व्याआपार; ये सब चर्चा करना उनके स्वेभाव में है। अपना business शुरू करने में किस-किस प्रकार की दिक्कातें आती हैं, उनको भलीभांति पता है। उन दिक्कउतों से सामना करते हुए कैसे आगे निकला जाए, उसका अपना अनुभव है। और वे जो नए लोग हैं उनका हाथ पकड़ करके उनको इस दिशा में काम करने के लिए प्रेरित कर सकते हैं।\nऔर इसलिए मैं आशा करूंगा कि आपके संगठन के माध्य म से समाज के सामान्य् स्त र के लोग, जिनका आप लोगों के बीच बैठना-उठना संभव नहीं है; उनके पास जा करके उनको हम नई ताकत दे सकते हैं।\nअभी हमारे दीपक जी GST के विषय में कह रहे थे। समय रहते हुए GST के संबंध में हम लोगों को उद्यमियों को, खास करके महिला उद्यमियों को उनके कोई छोटे, छोटे, छोटे study camp लगा सकते हैं क्याS? Technology का कैसे उपयोग करना है? GST को stream-less कैसे बनाना है? Tax-system नई क्याम है? उससे सामान्यन जो व्यGक्ति हैं उसकी सुविधा कितनी बढ़ने वाली है? ये सारी बातें अगर हम बता सकते हैं तो मुझे विश्वा स है कि GST जो कि कितने वर्षों से मांग थी। हर कोई चाहता था, अब हुआ है तो सफल बनाने के लिए हम सबका भी योगदान बहुत आवश्यरक है।\nऔर लोकतंत्र जिस रूप में हमने जाना-समझा है उसको थोड़ा बदलने की आवश्य कता है। ज्याोदातर ये माना गया पांच साल में एक बार गए, बटन दबा दिया, उंगली पर काला टिकवा लगा दिया तो देश का लोकतंत्र हो गया। जी नहीं, लोकतंत्र हर पल भागीदारी का, भागीदारी की यात्रा है। हर स्तार पर, हर व्य क्ति की भागीदारी के बिना लोकतंत्र सफल नहीं होता है। सरकार कोई contractor नहीं है जिसको हमारा भाग्य बदलने का हमने contract दे दिया, पांच साल में वो भाग्यc बदल देंगे। सरकार और जनता एक मजबूत साझेदारी होती है जो मिल करके देश का भाग्यग बदलते हैं, देश की अर्थव्यतवस्थाो को बदलते हैं, देश की नई पीढ़ी के सपनों को पूरा करने के लिए प्रयास करते हैं। आइए, 21वीं सदी के विश्वक में जिस प्रकार की चुनौतियां हैं, विश्व में जिस प्रकार का माहौल बदला है; हम भी मिल करके New India का सपना ले करके चलें। New India का हमारा अपना कोई संकल्पय होना चाहिए। New India का हमारा अपना कुछ न कुछ योगदान करने का road map होना चाहिए। मैंने कुछ सुझाव आज आपके सामने रखे हैं, हो सकता है इससे भी बेहतर option आपके पास होंगे। मेरी आपसे अपील है कि आप जो भी लक्ष्या तय करें उसमें पूरी ताकत के साथ जुट जाएं। New India देश के सवा सौ करोड़ लोंगों का सपना है। इस सपने को पूरा करने के लिए सवा सौ करोड़ भारतीयों को मिलकर रास्तेो निकालने होंगे, मिलकर काम करना होगा। और इन्हीं। शब्दोंर के साथ मैं अपनी बात खत्मि करता हूं।\nIMC की ladies wing को 50 वर्ष पूरे होने पर मैं फिर से एक बार बहुत-बहुत बधाई देता हूं। मैं स्व यं वहां पर नहीं आ पाया, समय की सीमा थी। लेकिन फिर भी आप लोगों ने मुझे, मेरी बात कहने का अवसर दिया, सबके दर्शन करने का मौका मिला। I am very grateful to you.\nThank you.\nThe 50th year is special for any organisation \u0026 I congratulate your institution on this occasion: PM @narendramodi"