"Share\n\nAlong with Shraddhanjali, we have to dedicate Karyanjali to Mahatma Gandhi and Swachhagraha is the biggest means to do that: PM\nThe dream of Mahatma Gandhi's clean, healthy and prosperous India should be the dream of every Indian: PM\nMahatma Gandhi attached more importance to cleanliness than freedom He made Swachhta an integral part of his life: PM Modi\nThe aim of Satyagraha was independence and the aim of Swachhagraha is to make a clean India, says PM Modi\nToday we have gathered to commemorate the celebration of a great event of the 20th century. It was 100 days ago that day when Gandhiji reached Patna and started his journey to Champaran. The land of Champaran was blessed with the blessings of Lord Buddha's discourse, which was the part of the Mother of Mother Sita's mother, the state of Janaka; The farmers there were facing the rigors of the situation. Gandhiji showed a path not only to the farmers, the exploited people, to the victims, but to the whole country, what was the power of peaceful satyagraha?\nFriends, the history of our country is not limited to just a few individuals, not just to some families. Our country's history is broad, comprehensive; A history that returns repeatedly in new forms and references and forces us to open our eyes and recognize the glorious cultural tradition of our nation. Some pages of history are such that whenever they open you or you touch them, they make you something new. It is called Paras Touch, the touch of history is touching. Satyagraha of Champaran is such a paras. Therefore it is very necessary that we know such historical opportunities, join them, if possible, then try to live them.\nAn exhibition was inaugurated here today, the introduction of the online interactive quiz, the dance drama has also been presented. Such programs to be completed in 100 years of the Satyagraha of Champaran are not just formalities. This is a sacred occasion for us. Inspired by the ideals of Bapu, dedicating himself to the cause of the country and devoting himself to it.\nFriends, we now have to pay tribute to Mahatma Gandhi as well as to work for the work. Their tasks have to be paid to them. And its biggest medium is the cleanliness. Insistence of cleanliness like urgency to truth\nFriends, in 1917, in the nineteen seventeen, when Gandhiji went to Champaran, his intention was not to stay there for a very long time. They were not even aware of the status of Champaran. But when Gandhiji arrived there, he stayed for several months, but not for a few weeks. Champaran had made him Mahatma Gandhi from Mohandas Kamchand Gandhi. Before reaching Champaran, he was aware of the power of Satyagrah himself, he knew him. But they knew that just by becoming their Satyagrahi, the desired results would not be achieved. He wanted to realize the power of satyagraha to the people of the country.\nWhen the magistrate ordered him to go to Champaran, he had said that he is not refusing to order this order for the contempt of court, but he is doing it for the honor of his own soul and his own existence. The entire British rule went back to the decision of Gandhi. When Gandhiji said that I am ready to go to jail, the British did not have thought. The public was watching that a barrister who returned from South Africa was ready to go to jail after coming to Champaran here. So much heat is eating dust of the entire area. In the sunny heat, in bullock cart, sometimes in ace and sometimes on foot, Gandhi was going from place to place.\nPlease note that Gandhiji was awakening people's thinking process at this time. Their statements were being made to farmers who cultivate the Nile, were being examined. But in this process, Gandhiji was connecting himself with the people, by exposing himself, by presenting himself as an example, and connecting his people-his power.\nGandhiji used to say, \"My life is my philosophy.\" And this is what we have seen in Champaran. Gandhiji wrote in his autobiography how people realized their power and also came the time that changes can take place, changes can take place. He wrote that the rule of the British who made neil cultivation was canceled after the cancellation of the three tough laws that went on for 100 years. The community of the masses kept abreast of it, it became more aware of its power. And it was the hypocrisy of the people that the blue blot could not be washed.\nThat is, when people start believing that nothing can happen, some changes can not come, Gandhiji has called the illusion of people. They broke this illusion, and made people realize their power.\nBrothers and sisters, Gandhiji was originally a clean person. He used to say \"cleanliness is more important than freedom\". They were distressed seeing that people in the villages live in dirt and unhygienic conditions due to ignorance and negligence. During a program in 1917, Pujya Bapu had said that he had said, \"As long as we do not change the conditions of our villages and cities, do not free ourselves from bad habits and make better toilets, Is not important. \"\nIn a way, the original place of cleanliness movement in the country can also be considered Champaran. He made cleanliness and cleanliness an integral part of Gandhian life-style. His dream was to clean up all cleanliness.\nFriends, whatever churning happened in Champaran, the efforts were made, we got Panchamrit from it. By joining the masses, churning, working and struggling, by this Panchamrut the freedom movement of the country got a new edge.\nIf we look closely, we will show that what Gandhiji did in Champaran, he appeared to five different Amrit Desh. This Panchamrath is still equally important for the country-\nThe first Amrit - people became familiar with the power of satyagraha,\nSecond Elixir - People became familiar with the power of manpower,\nThird Amrit - A new awakening came in the Indian public about cleanliness and education,\nFourth Amrit - An attempt was made to improve the status of women,\nAnd the fifth Amrit - the thought of wearing the clothes worn with your hands was born. These are the essence of Panchamritta Champaran movement.\nCompanions, when I talk about Chapran, I miss Balmohan, that is, Child Krishna. How the journey has passed from Mohan to Mohan; One Sudarshan Chakraa Mohan and the other Charkha Bhadhi Mohan We all know that when Mother Yashoda was very upset that his child had eaten the dirt. In this concern, when he asked Bal Mohan to open his mouth, he had met Maha Yashoda to see the whole universe. By doing so Bal Mohan gave his mother freedom from anxiety.\nWhen I talk about Champaran, I also miss Kishore Mohan. When Chakradari Mohan was a teenager, whom we know as Krishna; The flute that used to do rasli, used to play the flute. When Kishor Mohan raised the Govardhana to protect the villagers from heavy rain, he told the other villagers that you should also stand by taking your stick, then going to go Govardhan will rise. When the mountain of Govardhan was lifted, each one felt that he had been lifted from my strength; I got picked up from my black sticks. By doing so, Kishore Mohan introduced the people's own strength and collective power.\nIn the same way, our Mohan, Mahatma Gandhi freed people from the worry of slavery, showed them the path to which freedom could be attained. Our Mohan awakened the people's manpower and introduced them with the power of formulas by Satyagraha.\nIn this campaign of Janshakti Jagaran, Bapu also made women an equal partner. Seeing the situation of women in Champaran, they were forced to think that why not people wear yarn through their own hands and make themselves garments. He considered it a way of empowerment too. Mahatma Gandhiji's Champaran migration has also been a major reason behind the development of Khadi.\nCompanions, Satyagrah gave us freedom under the leadership of Gandhiji, but after independence Gandhiji's dream of clean India remained incomplete. Even after seven decades we have not been able to get rid of this evil. So, in 2014, when I talked about the toilet in every house from Red Fort, people wondered why I am talking like this.\nFriends, Clean India Mission is the mission to fulfill Bapu's incomplete dreams. This dream is incomplete for almost 100 years and we have to complete it together. I am happy that today people of the country have come out to fulfill Bapu's dream through Clean India Mission. Swachh Bharat Abhiyan In true sense a mass movement is going on. Every section of the society is connecting with this cleanliness. When clean India Kishan started, only 42 percent of the rural population used toilets. Today it has increased to 63 percent.\nIn the last two and half years, more than one lakh 80 thousand villages and 130 districts have declared themselves as open defecation in the open. Now there has been a competition in the states, a competition has begun, who first declares himself open-to-open or open Defecation Free state.\nToday is the situation that Sikkim, Himachal Pradesh and Kerala have fully declared the ODF. Gujarat, Haryana, Uttarakhand and some other states are also moving very rapidly towards declaring themselves as open defecation in the open. Very soon we will get news of him too.\nVillages along the Gangetic coast are being made on priority basis, Open Defecation Free. I am happy to inform you that 75 per cent of villages in Ganga coast have declared themselves as open defecation in Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal, where the Ganga passes through the five states. Plans are being implemented for the management of wastes in villages residing in Ganga so that the waste of the village can not be flown in the river. I hope that soon the Ganges coast will be completely free of open defecation.\nBrothers and sisters, today there are separate toilets for boys and girls in all government schools. Now the children's syllabus are being included in the chapter related to cleanliness so that they know about its advantages and disadvantages from the beginning, and make cleanliness a part of their life, their habit.\nFriends, Swachh Bharat Mission has given us another new mantra of our work. These spells are Waste to Wealth. The dirt that comes out from the houses, the garbage that comes out during the building can also be a source of income. This can be used to make electricity, manure can be made, it can be re-used by recycle and related work related to construction. And hence the emphasis is on the Wealth from Waste and we should try it for that.\nDifferent departments of the government are also taking innovative initiatives keeping in mind the convenience of the people to increase sanitation. Technology is also being used in this. You must have seen how fast response is done to the railway as soon as there is a tweet related to dirt. Otherwise, you remember, beforehand how the dirt on the platform was considered part of the arrangement of train coaches.\nMore recently, the Ministry of Petroleum has launched a mobile app called swachhta @ petrol pump. If there is dirt in the toilets made on petrol pumps, if they are not clean then its complaint can be made immediately through this app. This facility will be available on about 55 thousand petrol pumps in the country.\nA National Hygiene Center is also being set up in Delhi in this connection. These centers will help all the information related to cleanliness drive, modern techniques will be able to reach people.\nFriends, at different levels, from campaign to village to cleanliness campaign, this time it has been in the country, it is unprecedented. Now people are coming to the thought-process that the mess is not spread, the children are pushing the elders, complaining. And so cleanliness, cleanliness, with the complaint to move forward this campaign, it is also coming in a sense that we do not have to mess, we have to keep the house, the office, the road-city clean around us. This expression of cleanliness is only for cleanliness, the work done for cleanliness is to work for Bapu.\nFriends, Gandhiji wanted not only change of system but also price changes. He has written in his autobiography - \"I want India to recognize that it is not a body but an immortal soul, which can rise above every single physical weakness and challenge the combined physical force of the whole world\" .\nWe have to recognize the soul of the country. There may be changes, it will have to move forward with this thinking. The stronger this thought, the more the foundation of NEW INDIA will be strong. We have to set our targets related to cleanliness and have to make constant efforts to achieve them. There is no reason why India's identity remains as a clean country. There is no reason why our country is not clean. No reason we can not finish this campaign of cleanliness. The dream of Mahatma Gandhi's clean, healthy and happy India should be the dream of every Indian. The success of this mission will be a true tribute to Bapu, it will be a true work.\nI really urge the countrymen, 2019 when Gandhi will be 150 years, when Gandhi returned to India in 1915, within two years - within 1917, Mohandas Kamchand Gandhi became Mahatma Gandhi in Champaran. In the Satyagraha of Baradoli, Vallabh Bhai Patel became Sardar Patel. The country had followed them. For us Champaran Satyagrah was the starting point of empowering a new stream of freedom movement. आज उसकी जब शताब्‍दी मना रहे हैं तब स्‍वच्‍छाग्रह का हमारा संकल्‍प भी सत्‍याग्रह से स्‍वच्‍छाग्रह की यात्रा; और ये दोनों चीजें गांधी की देन हैं। उस समय सत्‍याग्रह आजादी के लिए आवश्‍यक था, इस समय स्‍वच्‍छाग्रह देश को गंदगी से मुक्ति के लिए आवश्‍यक है। और गंदगी से मुक्ति मतलब गरीबों का कल्‍याण। अगर सचमुच में गरीबों की सेवा करनी है, उनको बीमारियों से बचाना है, उनको जिंदगी में कोई बदलाव लाना है तो गंदगी से मुक्ति के इस मंत्र को ले करके देशवासियों हम को चलना है।\nमैं फिर से एक बार चंपारण की सत्‍याग्रह की शताब्‍दी के प्रारब्‍ध में ही, सालभर चंपारण सत्‍याग्रह की शताब्‍दी हो, साबरमती आश्रम को सौ वर्ष होने जा रहे हैं, जहां महात्‍मा गांधी ने तपस्‍या की मेरे हिसाब से। और 150 गांधी के 2019 में हमारे सामने हैं। ये ऐसा कालखंड है, जो हम 20वीं सदी के गांधी को 21वीं सदी में जीने का, आधुनिक रूप-रंग के साथ जीने का, नई सोच के साथ जीने का, नये संकल्‍प के साथ जीने का, नई उम्‍मीदों को जगाने के लिए जीने का एक नया अवसर के रूप में ले करके चलने का अगर हम करके चलेंगे, मुझे विश्‍वास है कि वही सच्‍चे अर्थ में कार्यांजलि होगी। श्रद्धांजलि हमने बहुत दी है, श्रद्धांजलि देंगे भी, लेकिन अब आवश्‍यकता है कार्यांजलि की। हमारा संकल्‍प, हमारा परिश्रम उन सपनों को साकार करने के लिए है। हमारी नित्‍य-निरंतर कोशिश है उस कार्यांजलि के द्वारा बापू के सपनों के भारत को हम आंखों के सामने देख सकते हैं। इसी एक भावना के साथ, इस महान अवसर को देशवासी जी करके दिखाएं; इसी एक अपेक्षा मैं सबका बहुत-बहुत धन्‍यवाद करता हूं।\nVande Matram. Long live Mother India.\nWe have gathered here to remember a landmark event of the 20th century, the Champaran Satyagraha: PM @narendramodi https://t.co/Iy8hu3Nre5 pic.twitter.com/wBfk62mVnU\n— PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 10, 2017\nThrough the Champaran Satyagraha, Mahatma Gandhi showed us what a 'Shantipoorna Satyagraha' can achieve: PM @narendramodi pic.twitter.com/pBDRrHFBJv\n— PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 10, 2017\nEssential for us to know more about movements like the Champaran Satyagraha: PM @narendramodi\n— PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 10, 2017\nAlong with Shradhanjali, we also have to dedicate Karyanjali to Mahatma Gandhi \u0026 the means to do that is Swachhagraha: PM @narendramodi pic.twitter.com/FSDeXKvxIt\n— PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 10, 2017\nMahatma Gandhi attached more importance to cleanliness than freedom: PM @narendramodi pic.twitter.com/B62VsSJgbE\n— PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 10, 2017\nChamparan Satyagraha added new vigour to the freedom struggle of India: PM @narendramodi\n— PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 10, 2017\nगांधी जी मूल रूप से स्वच्छाग्रही थे| वे आज़ादी से ज़्यादा स्वच्छता को महत्वपूर्ण मानते थे| - PM Sh. @narendramodi #100YearsOfChamparan\n— Swachh Bharat (@swachhbharat) April 10, 2017\nSwachh Bharat Mission is an effort to fulfil the dream of Mahatma Gandhi - of a clean India: PM @narendramodi pic.twitter.com/8BabyhHHY4\n— PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 10, 2017\nPeople are working towards creating a Swachh Bharat: PM @narendramodi\n— PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 10, 2017\nThe aim of Satyagraha was independence and the aim of Swachhagraha is to create a clean India. A clean India helps the poor the most: PM pic.twitter.com/9hP3kmZmY3"