"Share\n\nThe values ​​and principles of democracy and rule of law are common both our countries: PM\nBoth India and Australia recognize the central value of education and innovation in the prosperity of our societies: PM\nWould like to thank PM for Australia's decision to join the International Solar Alliance\nIndia and Australia have made major strides in our bilateral relations in recent years: PM\nHis Excellency Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull,\nMembers of Media,\nExcellency,\nI am happy to welcome you on your first ever visit to India. Just last month, we witnessed a thrilling conclusion to the Border-Gavaskar Trophy. In my speech at the Australian Parliament in 2014 I had spoken of legendary Bradman and Tendulkar. Today, Virat Kohli in India and Steven Smith in Australia are shaping the young brigades of cricket. I hope your visit to India is as productive as it has been for Steven Smith's batting, the other Australian Captain.\nExcellency,\nI vividly recall our meetings on the G-20 They have always reflected a strong sense of convergence and purpose. I particularly appreciate your interest in advancing the subject of our engagement. The tourism is firmly on course. Under your leadership, our relationship has touched new milestones. And, your visit gives us new opportunities in our strategic partnership.\nExcellency,\nThe waters of the Indian Ocean remind us of our linked histories. They are also known as our connected destinies. The values ​​and principles of democracy and rule of law are common to both countries. Today, the vast scope of opportunities in our ties is defined by a strong desire for economic prosperity by 1.25 billion people of India, and Australia's capacities and strengths.\nFriends,\nIn our discussions today, Prime Minister and I reviewed the whole gamut of bilateral relations. We took a number of forward-looking decisions to further strengthen our partnership, including the decision on our Round of Business In a lighter vein I am, of course, glad that our decisions are not subject to the D.R.S. review system\nFriends,\nBoth India and Australia recognize the central value of education and innovation in the prosperity of our societies. It is no surprise, therefore, that cooperation in the field of education and research is one of the most important aspects of our engagement. Prime Minister and I have just inaugurated the TERI-DEAKIN Research Center on Nano and Bio Technology, which is a classic example of cutting-edge science and technology cooperation that is happening between our two countries. The Australian-India Research Fund of nearly 100 million dollars has focused on collaborative research projects in the areas such as nano-technology, smart cities, infrastructure, agriculture and disease control. Our joint development of bananas fortified with vitamins Our scientists are also collaborating on developing more nutritious and hardy varieties of pulses. These are just two examples of our outstanding scientific cooperation firmly rooted in tangible outcomes that will improve the lives of millions including our farmers. I also extend a warm welcome to the Vice-Chancellors and Heads of Vocational Training Institutions that is accompanying Prime Minister. A number of institution-to-institution tie-ups have been concluded during this visit. Student exchanges are an important element of bilateral education cooperation. Australia is home to more than 60,000 Indian students Increasing number of Australian students are coming to study in India Responding to the aspirations of India's youth, building world class institutions in India Prime Minister Turnbull and I discussed ways by which Australian universities can connect and contribute to this goal.\nFriends,\nPrime Minister and I share a conviction that our economic growth and prosperity should be on the environment. We are happy that our dialogue and cooperation in other forms of energy including renewable energy is up-swing. I would like to thank Prime Minister for the International Solar Alliance And, with the passing of legislation in the Australian Parliament with bi-partisan support, Australia is ready to export Uranium to India.\nFriends,\nPrime Minister and I recognize that our future is deeply tied to peace and stability in the Indo-Pacific. We, therefore, agree on the need for a secure and rule based Indo-Pacific We are aware that in the globalized world, challenges like terrorism and cyber security, extend beyond the boundaries of our region And, therefore, require global strategy and solutions Indeed, Prime Minister's understanding and insight in regional and global issues brings a new dimension to our cooperation on matters that concern us both. Our cooperation in the area of ​​new heights Our marine exercises and exchanges have been productive. Our bilateral mechanisms on counter-terrorism and trans-national crimes are doing well. I am very happy that I have been able to conclude an MOU on Security Cooperation during the visit. We also agree that strong regional organizations are necessary for peace, prosperity and an understanding of our region. We would, therefore, actively work to cooperate more closely with members of the East Asia Summit and the Indian Ocean Rim countries to pursue our common interests.\nFriends,\nA major pillar of our partnership is the connectivity between our societies Australia is also home to nearly half-a-million people of Indian origin. Their prosperity and vibrant culture enrich our partnership A very successful festival of India called \"Confluence\" was held in many cities of Australia last year.\nExcellency,\nIndia and Australia have made big strides in recent years. In the months and years ahead, we will see Our strong and vibrant strategic partnership is important for the security and well-being of our societies. But, it is also a major factor for peace, stability and security in our region. With these words, Excellency, let me welcome you once again to India, and wish you a fruitful and productive stay.\nThank you.\nThank you very much\nPM starts press stmnt by welcoming PM @TurnbullMalcolm on his 1st ever visit to India; admires his active interest in advancing bil engag't pic.twitter.com/HC11lbgzG7\n- Gopal Baglay (@MEAIndia) April 10, 2017\nPM @narendramodi: The values ​​and principles of democracy and rule of law are common our subjects\n- Gopal Baglay (@MEAIndia) April 10, 2017\nPM says we have reviewed the whole gamut of bilateral relations; number of forward-looking decisions\n- Gopal Baglay (@MEAIndia) April 10, 2017\nPM says edu'n \u0026 research is focus areas in our engag't; welcomes a large accompanying delg'n of VCs and Heads of Vocational Training Inst\n- Gopal Baglay (@MEAIndia) April 10, 2017\nPM says jently inaugurated TERI-DEAKIN Research Center on Nano and Bio Technology, is a classic example of cutting-edge biltrl S \u0026 T coop'n pic.twitter.com/FvK70u3hD6\n- Gopal Baglay (@MEAIndia) April 10, 2017\nPM: Our collaboration on bananas and pulses are two successful examples that will benefit millions including our farmers.\n- Gopal Baglay (@MEAIndia) April 10, 2017\nPM says student exchanges are imp element of edu'n bil coop'n; building world class institutions in India is one of the priorities of my government\n- Gopal Baglay (@MEAIndia) April 10, 2017\nPM expresses his conviction on energy projects in renewable energy; Thanks PM Turnbull on his decision to join Interl Solar Alliance\n- Gopal Baglay (@MEAIndia) April 10, 2017\nPM emphasizes on peace \u0026 stability in the Indo-Pacific; says challenges like terrorism \u0026 cyber security requires global strategy \u0026 solutions\n- Gopal Baglay (@MEAIndia) April 10, 2017\nPM expsed the ongoing coop'n in defense \u0026 security incl bil. maritime exercises \u0026 exchgs on counter-terrorism \u0026 transnational crimes\n- Gopal Baglay (@MEAIndia) April 10, 2017\nPM @narendramodi: Australia is also home to almost half-a-million ppl of Indian orgn. Their prosperity \u0026 vibrant culture enrich our partn'p\n- Gopal Baglay (@MEAIndia) April 10, 2017\nPM thanked PM Turnbull for his support accorded to the Festival of India called \"Confluence\" - held in many cities of Australia last year.\n- Gopal Baglay (@MEAIndia) April 10, 2017\nPM concludes: Ind \u0026 Aus hv made mjr strides in our bil relt'ns in rcnt yrs In mnths \u0026 yrs ahead, we only see prmise \u0026 opp'ties 4 our 2 nations pic.twitter.com/q1kXnLT4To"