"'Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas' not only confined to India but encompasses the neighboring countries: PM\nDevelopment of India alone is not possible\nLiberation war of Bangladesh was not only the massacre but also for human protection: PM\nEvery Excellency, Prime Minister of Bangladesh, Sheikh Hasina, family of martyrs of India\nHonorable Foreign Minister of Bangladesh\nAnd Honorable Liberation War Minister\nMembers of my Cabinet - External Affairs Minister Smt. Sushma Swaraj,\nAnd Defense Minister Shri Arun Jaitley\nHigh-dignitaries present in the meeting\nSpecial guest and my friends\ntoday is a special day. Today is the day to remember the sacrifice of martyrs of India and Bangladesh. It is a day to remember the warriors who give life for Bangladesh's independence. It is a day to remember the warriors of the Indian army fighting for protecting Bangladesh's self-respect. But this opportunity is to remember the brutal attack on Bangladesh which has taken away the lives of millions of people. But simultaneously, the tragedy of history has passed on to Bangladesh, it is also to deny the awkward mentality behind it. This opportunity of today is to recognize the strength of unwavering belief among more than 140 million citizens of India and Bangladesh. It is also an appropriate opportunity to reflect on how we give our societies a strong and prosperous future.\nExcellency,\nAnd companions are historic for many reasons today. This is a never-ending moment for the families of all Indian soldiers who were killed in Bangladesh's freedom struggle. Today Bangladesh is honoring 1661 Indian soldiers who sacrificed their lives for Bangladesh's independence in 1971. I am the Prime Minister of Bangladesh Sheikh Hasina ji on behalf of 100 million people of India; Government of Bangladesh and people of Bangladesh; I express my gratitude for this emotional initiative. The brave soldiers of India and our proud army did not fight against injustice and genocide with Bangladesh only. These heroes were also fought for the human values ​​contained in Indian culture. It is my great fortune that at this time the families of 7 Indian martyrs are present here. The whole of India is involved in your pain, your pain and your pain. Your sacrifice and penance is incomparable. I and whole country bow down to all the martyrs for the sacrifices of Indian soldiers.\nColleagues,\nBangladesh was born where a new hope was born. The history of 1971 reminds us of many extremely painful moments. This was the month of April 1971 when the massacre in Bangladesh was at its peak. In Bangladesh, the whole generation was being destroyed to eliminate one generation. Every person who was associated with the pride of Bangladesh, every person who could make the future generation aware of Bangladesh's past, was removed from the way. The objective of this massacre was not to kill innocent people, but to root out the whole idea of ​​Bangladesh. But ultimately torture did not win. Wins are of human values, millions of Bangladeshis have the will power.\nColleagues,\nThe birth saga of Bangladesh is the saga of immense sacrifices. And in the story of all these sacrifices, one formula, one thought is common. And that is the love of love for the nation and human values. The sacrifice of the warriors was motivated by the love of the nation. The liberation warrior was not only a human body and soul, but an indomitable and indestructible thought. I am happy that there have been some attempts from the Indian side for the freedom fighters. Under the freedom warrior scholarship scheme, Scholarship is given to read more than 10,000 students from the family of freedom fighters. Today for the welfare of them, I am making three further announcements on this occasion. In the next five years, the benefit of the Mukti Warrior Scholarship Scheme will be extended to ten thousand and children. Mukti Warriors will be given a multi-entry entry visa facility for 5 years and provided 100 freedom fighters every year under a special medical scheme for free treatment in India. Anyone can not forget the struggle and sacrifices of the Indian army made with the war warriors. His only inspiration was to do so, his love for the people of Bangladesh, and his respect for the dreams of the people of Bangladesh. And also remember that even in the vandalism of the war, the Indian army did not turn its duty and kept a precedent in front of the whole world of adhering to the rules of war. This character of the Indian Army was that 90 thousand soldiers of the prisoners; (POWs) to go safe. India's visible humankind in 1971 is one of the biggest events of the last century. Friends, India and Bangladesh are not only the countries that defeat cruelty, but are the countries that reject the basic thinking of cruelty.\nColleagues,\nDiscussing Bangladesh is incomplete without Bangabandhu. The existence of both of them is linked to each other. Both are complementary to each other's thinking. Bangabandhu was the main organizer of Bangladesh's independence. He kept thinking ahead of his time. His every call was the public's challenge. His vision of a Modern, Liberal and Progressive Bangladesh is still paving the way for Bangladesh's progress. After 1971, it was the leadership of Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman that expelled Bangladesh from the turmoil and instability. By erasing the hatred and resentment in the society, the great Bangabandhu showed Bangladesh a path of peace and development. Somnar showed a dream of Bengali to make the truth come true. The young generation of India was particularly impressed with it. And it was my good fortune that I could benefit from the knowledge of their thoughts themselves. Today Bangabandhu has established peace and co-existence in South Asia, not only in South Asia. Is remembered as a leader. His daughter, Excelsi Sheikh Hasina is here as the Prime Minister of Bangladesh today. On this occasion, I want to admire their courage too. The difficult situation that they themselves took, pulled out their country, that courage is not in everyone. But they are still standing like rock, and are working to take their country towards the development path.\nFriends,\nToday, our region has defined this ancient terrain of the world mainly three ideologies. This idea streams are a mirror of the priorities of our society and governmental arrangements. There is a thinking in it that focuses on economic development; Focused on making the country prosperous and powerful; all sections of society are based on walking and walking. A direct example of this thought is the progress and advancement of Bangladesh. In 1971, the average age of citizens of Bangladesh (Life Expectancy) was less than that of India. Today the average age of citizens of Bangladesh is more than that of India. In the last 45 years, GDP of Bangladesh has increased 31 times. Every person income has increased by 13 times. Infant mortality decreased from 222 to 38 now. Number of doctors increased every three times. Since independence, Bangladesh's export has increased 125 times so far. These few parameters of change are saying a lot in itself. Following the vision of Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina, Bangladesh is passing the new limit of economic progress.\nColleagues,\nThere is also a second thought: with all; Development of all I am clear that with my country every neighbor of India is on the path of progress; development of Akal India is incomplete; and alone, our prosperity can not be completely in itself. We are also aware of that with everyone; Development of everyone is possible only on the foundation stone of peace. Therefore, we have always extended the hand of friendship to every country.Every country has been invited to make a participant of its prosperity. Not being a selfless person, we have sought the good of the entire area. This is a direct example of the success of this thinking of India-Bangladesh Strong graph of relations and financial benefits for both societies generated from this. In all areas: whether financial, political, infrastructure building, economic connect The issue of settlement of land boundary and maritime boundry pending for many decades, whether it is Viti, Energy Security, or Security, or the issue of settlement of maritime boundaries for many decades. Tangible proof of our cooperation in all areas, mutual peace, shared development, mutual trust and thinking of regional development is\nColleagues,\nBut sadly, unlike these two thoughts, there is a mindset in South Asia. Such thinking that is the inspiration and terrorism of terrorism. Thinking of which value system is not based on humanity but based on violence, terrorism and terrorism. The basic purpose of which is to spread terrorism by the terrestists.\nA thinking whose policy makers:\n· Humanism seems to have bigger terrorism.\n· Development seems to be a big destruction.\n· Generation seems to be a big kill.\n· There is a big betrayal of trust.\nThis thinking is the biggest challenge for the peace and balance of our society, and its mental and economic development. This ideology is inhibit in the whole region and the peace and development of the world. Where India and Bangladesh are involved in Thought Streams of Economic Development of the society, we are also the victims of this third, negative ideology.\nAssociates\nOur heartfelt desire is that the citizens of this region of all the countries move towards success and prosperity. And the doors of our cooperation are always open for this. But sacrifice for terrorism and terrorism is essential for this.\nColleagues,\nIndo-Bangla relations are neither the governments nor the power of India and Bangladesh are together, because 140 million people of both countries are together. We are the companions of sorrow and happiness. I have always said that the dream that I see for India, the same good luck for my country also.And also for every neighboring country of India. I wish Bangladesh's bright future. As a friend, India can help as much as she can. In fact, I once again bow down to the freedom fighters, the heroic soldiers of India. And especially for the event and presence of this program, Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina ji is particularly commendable.Bharat is always ready and will be ready for every help with Bangladesh like a close and trusted friend.\nJai Hind - Joy Bangla !!!\ntoday is a special day. Today is the day to remember the martyrdom of martyrs of India and Bangladesh: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 8, 2017\nToday's day is historic. This is a forgettable moment for the families of all the Indian soldiers who were martyred in the Bangladesh Liberation War: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 8, 2017\nIt is my great fortune that at present 7 families of Indian martyrs are present here: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 8, 2017\nI and whole country bow down to all the martyrs for the sacrifices of Indian soldiers: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 8, 2017\nBangladesh was born where a new hope was born. The history of 1971 reminds us of many extremely painful moments: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 8, 2017\nBangladesh saga is the saga of immense sacrifices: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 8, 2017\nNobody can forget the struggle and sacrifices of the Indian army made with the exiles as well as for the Bangladesh: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 8, 2017\nHis only motivation was to do so, his love for the people of Bangladesh, and his respect for the dreams of the people of Bangladesh: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 8, 2017\nPM spoke on Ashok Tara during his speech On 17 December 1971, Major Ashok Tara of 14 guards rescued family of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman. pic.twitter.com/SRMH4MCoZX\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 8, 2017\nMajor Ashok Tara rescued family of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman from a house in Dhanmandi, where they had been imprisoned.\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 8, 2017\nThis humane manifestation of India in 1971 is one of the biggest events of the last century: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 8, 2017\nI am clear that every neighbor of India, along with my country, is on the path of progress: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 8, 2017\nNot being selfish, we want the whole of the region: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 8, 2017\nBut sadly, unlike these two thoughts, there is a mindset in South Asia: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 8, 2017\nThinking of a system whose value system is not based on humanity but based on violence, terrorism and terrorism: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 8, 2017\nIndo-Bangla relations are neither the governments nor the people of power: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 8, 2017\nIndia and Bangladesh are together, because 140 million people of both countries are together. We are partners with sadness: PM @narendramodi"