"Share\n\nDevelopment projects in Jharkhand will add to the state's strength, empower poor and tribal communities: PM\nWe are stressing on waterways and ensuring environment friendly infrastructure: PM Modi\nIndia's fight against corruption and black money will continue: PM\nIf every person takes a step ahead, then India will move 125 crore steps forward towards development: PM\nImandari Ka Yug has started in India; youth wants to move ahead with honesty: PM\nBrothers sisters, I have had the privilege of coming to the land of Santhal today. This land of mighty Braves like Lord Birsa Munda, Chand Bhairav, Nilambar-Pitambar. I salute this earth and I heartily greet the heroic citizens of this earth. Today in Jharkhand, on the earth of Sahabganj, plans of Sampradhara development together are being launched. I plan to make such a big development plan together in the region, perhaps after Independence, that the steps taken for the development of this area would be for the first time. If all this is to be done in the whole of the Santal area then it is to solve the problems here. The poorest of the poor here is my tribal brother, my sister siblings, if there is a change in their life, then there is only one solution. And that is the solution, the development As fast as we can develop here, we will succeed in transforming the lives of people here.\nToday, a very important program which is adding Jharkhand and Bihar. The largest bridge connecting two states on the Ganges costs more than Rs.2200 crores and it connects only two states. Not so it opens the new door for development. You can connect yourself directly with the big panels of eastern India from here. You are getting an opportunity to become a bridge of this bridge.\nI congratulate the villagers. I congratulate the people of Jharkhand that the foundation stone of an important bridge is going on today and our Nitin Gadkari is a minister who is very skilled in getting the work done in the time limit. And so I am convinced that the date on which the date of its publication is ready will be completed in the boundary line. These hanging will not work. You can imagine how many young people of this area will get employment. And in their own district, if they have to return home in the evenings in the evening then they can easily go. Along with this, they will also be employed as well as this work is such that they will also have Skill Development. A new mastery is a new masterpiece, when it takes a two-and-a-half year continuous work on a project, the strength to do more than any engineer comes into it. Due to this project, the youth of thousands of families will get such strength in this area. If there are any such projects coming in Jharkhand, Bihar, India and any other area in the coming days, then there will be the first choice of youth of this area and people will take more money and take them for work here. These forces are going to be born from this. And the biggest power in this project is to develop this human power in a coordinated way by developing skill.\nI wish all the best young people here. It has auspicious opportunity in your courtyard. You also have to work hard in your mind and also have to increase your ability. Once the capacity has increased, the world will ask you that we need the experienced young man who is here. These changes are about to come. Today I have had the opportunity to open a second program here too. And that is the road which has been constructed from Sahabganj to Govindpur. It has to be inaugurated. If you had to go to Govindpur earlier than ever, it would take 10 hours, 12 hours, 14 hours. Now this new road is made in five, seven hours you can reach Govindpur. How big a speed has come in your life, how big a change has occurred in this life, and this is not just the road. It is not the only road that is coming from the middle of the whole of the central area. This is the development of the whole of the poor Opening the new way. Opening new direction of development. Keeping a new goal of development closer by bringing it. And hence roads are very much used for traffic, but this road is not one of those roads. It is not the only way to go. This is a path of development that is going to change and that will change the entire face of the entire central area. . This is my sure faith.\nWe call the brothers sisters river as mother. And the mother gives us everything but sometimes there is such a saying that mother is not served without demands. Ganga has been fostering this whole region for centuries. It is flowing in the form of life stream. But in the changing age, this mother can give a new strength to our life in the Ganges. In the 21st century world, we want to move forward in the direction of connecting this mother Ganga Jharkhand with the world directly. Have you ever imagined that the cities on the coastline are the states, they are automatically connected to the world but land lock area like Jharkhand, where there is no salam near here. Can he also be associated with the world? The project which our Nitin Gadkari is working on. And with great interest. And that's going to be the biggest job. When this project is completed, this Jharkhand will become the power to connect directly with the whole world. And that's the project of the Multi Model Terminal in Ganga. Ship will run from here to the Bay of Bengal, ships will move in the Ganges, and the goods will be transported directly from here and it will get directly from the Bay of Bengal and reach the world directly through the sea route. When such facilities are available for business for world trade, then Jharkhand can make its place within world trade. Whether it is the stone chips, whether it is coal or other yields here. The power to reach the market in the world can come in. Not only this, after the formation of this system, if the coal is to be taken to western India then it is not necessary that it should be taken by road, road and rail. It will be cheaper to take the route of the sea from the Bay of Bengal to the sea. And those who work in this area will be useful in increasing their economic strength.\nBrothers sisters were concerned about the highway discussing our country, Atal Bihari Vajpayee's government was there, two important historical contributions to the infrastructure of our country, Atalji's two in the field of Saracar's infrastructure, I am saying and there are hundreds. One, he used a successful experiment to modernize Infrastructure by connecting the whole of India with the Golden Quadrangle. Completed The second Prime Minister, Gramin Sadak Yojana, in which the village village of Hindustan has different heads and arteries within the body, the Prime Minister initiated the entire network of roads through the rural road. Very big work was done during his tenure. Later, the governments that came in the program are also running the program. This was Vajpayee's second contribution.\nBrothers sisters, we talk about Infrastructure, then discuss the concerns of roads and roads. Build highways, we set up arrangements for making airports for airports. We worked for the expansion of the railway. But an area was challenging us. The present government has taken a historic new decision under the leadership of Nitin Gadkari that the entire campaign of carrying goods in the low cost of transporting the water which is filled with water in our country was carried out and under it, carrying cargo from Banaras to Haldia For the entire system is developing. Jharkhand is being connected to the Bay of Bengal. Ship will run from here. We saw very little boat in the river. Thousands of cargo carrying ships will run. You can imagine what new area of ​​development is emerging in front of us. Highway is, Airways is, Railways is now in front of you Water way. This water way is going to be started today on the foundation stone of Shilanyas. The cost of thousands of crores is going to come. This whole drive is being renewed in India. And so it's going to be an appreciative. In the coming days economists will write on this. We are going to discuss how the Environment Friendly Infrastructure in India's infrastructure is moving forward. Nitin ji's department is working today to increase the work in the same direction, to protect the environment, be it development, also traffic, speed, one such work. Mother Ganga was giving everything. Now a new offering is being presented to us by a new way of development by our mother Ganga. Therefore, the lesser we accept the debt of Mother Ganga will be.\nBrothers sisters, I want to congratulate Mr. Raghuvar Das, Chief Minister of Jharkhand, for this matter, that he has taken a very important step for the cattle farmers for these local areas. And that's the dairy industry. If livestock sells at the price of milk, then animal husbandry will do good animal husbandry. Today he subscribes to animal feed or meets the needs of the family's milk, either in the village, he gives some in the neighboring neighborhood. But its commercial model does not come in his mind. When dairy becomes, then the poor farmer poor cattle man also becomes a multi-chain by selling one animal husbandry through him by valuing milk production and milk production. I have come from Gujarat's land. Amul is also known there. There will be no corner of India, where Amul has not reached. This is Amul. After all, Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel became a small circle under his guidance. Some farmers came and joined the milk and started working on them. Seeing on the increase, it got increasing and now Amul's name is in the world today. Today, Raghuvar Das ji is laying the foundation of that dairy for the poor farmers of this Santhal. In the coming days, millions of families of milk are processed by milk, its processing, marketing, branding and animal husbandry can get the right price for its milk. Get daily price. Deciding to work in that direction. I have very good luck to them. Gujarat's dairy industry has a lot of experience in the field of dairy. If Jharkhand needs help from any Gujarat then I will definitely tell those people that they too will help you and for this, there will be a huge task for the farmers here. A new one in their life because the ground is sometimes less. But if animal husbandry is good then he gets a strength. And I would also like to say to the Chief Minister that as he has taken for the work of Dairy, he can work with honey as well as honey. The animal which produces milk by beekeeping can also produce honey. And honey can also be added to the dairy path. And honey can also become globa market. Our farmer can also earn from milk, earn from honey and also earn from farm yields. Twelve months of his earning becomes a guarantee in it. I am sure that Raghuvar Das Ji, with a long vision, will be able to do that today. When Sardar Vallabh Bhai did the work of inspiration, it seemed very small. But that work has become famous in the world today Raghuvar Das ji started the small work. I am able to see how much his future strength is in front of my eyes. It is my complete confidence that this will be the work to change the fate of every animal husbandry farmer in changing the fate of the entire Santal area.\nBrothers sisters 2015, October 2, I got the privilege of appearing on an invitation by Justice DN Patel Ji. And the Court of Khutti Khutti Court became the first Solar Court of the country. The entire business of that court is running from the power of the sun power. Today, I am glad that once again the campus of a government system and the second court in Sahabganj are becoming fully functioning of the Sun power units. I congratulate Justice DN Patel and his whole team for this and also congratulate the Jharkhand government. They have promoted the sun power. roof top Solar Energy work that they have picked up. He has successfully completed the installation of about 4500 kW of sun energy. If we have to save our forest, to give something to our future generation, then we have to protect our environment. And there is an excellent source of energy that is easily available to us. Solar Energy And in the direction of sun power, India is moving forward at a fast pace. India has dreamed. 175 Giga Watt Renewable Energy of which 100 Giga Watt Solar Energy has energy from sun power in every corner of India. It is being emphasized. Today, we have to buy energy from abroad. There will be huge savings in it. Those money will come to the poor. The damage to the environment today is. We will get relief from it. And there was a time in the direction of Sun Shakti that the power of one unit of solar power was about 19 rupees. But the way India initiated the campaign, it has come to the fore that the power of sun power has also started getting cheaper from coal. The tender just came out just three rupees for Rs 2 rupee 96 paise. That is, once the investment cost was realized in a way, we could get electricity without any charges.\nAnd brothers and sisters in the 21st century can not be forced to live in darkness. There are many families who are still not taking electricity connection in homes. They think what is needed. After getting extinguished, let's take it. Even though the government gives connections for free, sometimes people indulge themselves indifferently. In order to increase the children to such families, the Government of India wants to read the small bulb from the small battery powered solar powered solar panels on the table to increase the child so that it can be read from millions of such poor families. दिशा में एक बहुत बड़ा बीड़ा उठाया। हमारा किसान जहां जमीन से पानी निकाल कर के खेती करता है। उसको बिजली महंगी पड़ती है। अब सोलार पम्प हम लगा रहे हैं। किसान सोलार पम्प से जमीन से पानी निकालेगा। सूर्य से बैटरी भी चार्ज होती रहेगी पानी भी निकलता रहेगा। खेत भी हरा भरा रहेगा। दो फसल लेता है तीन फसल लेने लग जाएगा। उसकी आय जो दोगुना करनी है उसमें ये सोलार पम्प भी काम आएगा। एक बहुत बड़ा रिवोल्युशन का काम सूर्य ऊर्जा के क्षेत्र में भारत सरकार के द्वारा चल रहा है। झारखंड सरकार ने भी कंधे से कंधा मिलाकर के भारत सरकार के साथ चलने का बीड़ा उठाया है। Solar Energy को बल दे रहे हैं। roof Top Solar Energy के Project को आगे बढ़ा रहे हैं। मैं इसके लिये भी झारखंड को बधाई देता हूं। और मैं देशवासियों से भी कहूंगा कि हम ऊर्जा के क्षेत्र में संवेदनशील बनें। हम ऊर्जा के महत्वमय को समझें। और भावि जीवन के रक्षा को भी समझें। अभी पूरे देश में एलईडी बल्ब का एक अभियान चल रहा है। अगर कोई सरकार अपने बजट में यह कह दे कि हम दस हजार करोड़ रुपये लगाते हैं और ये दस हजार करोड़ रुपया लोगों को बांट देंगे, तो वाह वाई हो जाएगी तालियां बजेगी अखबार में हैडलाइन छपेगी। वाह मोदी कितना अच्छा प्रधानमंत्री है। दस हजार करोड़ रुपया लोगों को बांटने वाला है। भाइयों बहनों आप सबके सहयोग से हमने एक ऐसा काम किया है जो दस हजार करोड़ से भी ज्यादा आपकी जेब में पहुंचा रहा है। हिन्दुस्तान के नागरिकों की जेब में पहुंचा रहा है। क्या किया एलईडी बल्ब लगाईए बिजली बचाइए। बिजली का बिल कम कीजिये। और आपका किसी का साल का ढाई सौ बचेगा किसी का साल का हजार बचेका किसी का साल का 2 हजार बचेगा वो गरीब बच्चों को दूध पिलाने के काम आ जाएगा। गरीब बच्चों को कुछ शिक्षा दीक्षा देने के काम आ जाएगा। हम जब सरकार में आए तब एलईडी बल्ब साढ़े तीन सौ चार सौ रुपये में बिकता था। आज वो एलईडी बल्ब पचास साठ रुपये में बिकने लग गया। और देश में सरकार के द्वारा 22 करोड़ बल्ब वितरित कर चुके हैं। और लोगों ने अपने आप किया है दोनों मिलाकर के करीब करीब 50 करोड़ नए एलईडी बल्ब लोगों के घरों में लग चुके हैं। और इससे जो बिजली की बचत हुई है। वो करीब करीब 11 हजार करोड़ रुपये से ज्यादा है। ये 11 हजार करोड़ रुपया जो बिजली का अवप्रास करने वाले लोग हैं। उनकी जेब में बचने वाला है। कितना बड़ा रिवोल्यूशन आता है जब हम छोटे से बदलाव से काम कर सकते हैं, तो बिजली बचाना दूसरी तरफ सूर्य ऊर्जा का उपयोग करना एक प्रकार से सस्ती से सस्ती बिजली कि दिशा में जाना तो एक 360 डिग्री जिसको कहे, वैसे पूरा ऊर्जा का एक पूरा नेटवर्क बनाकर के काम आज सरकार कर रही है। और उसका भी आपको लाभ मिलेगा।\nमैं आज मेरे सामने यहां नौजवान देख रहा हूं। उनके सर पर टोपी है टोपी पर पीले फूल लगे हुए हैं। बड़े शानदार दिख रहे हैं। ये हमारे आदिम जाति के बच्चे हैं। ये पहाड़िया समाज के बच्चे हैं। उनके परिवार में अभी तक सरकार के अंदर काम करने का सौभाग्य नहीं मिला है। सब लोग ताली बजाकर के इनका अभिनन्दन कीजिये। मैरथोडारजी के नये इनिसिएटिव के लिये और इनके मौलिक चिंतन के लिये बधाई देता हूं कि उन्होंने इन पहाड़िया बच्चों को सिलेक्ट किया। सरकारी नियमों में बदलाव किया। उनकी ऊंचाई कम थी तो उनको भी कॉम्परमाइज किया। उनकी पढ़ाई कम थी उस पर भी कॉम्परोमाइज किया। और उनको ट्रेनिंग देकर के आपके सुरक्षा के काम पर लगाया। वो एक प्रकार से सरकार बन गए हैं। भाइयों बहनों हिन्दुस्तान के आखिरी छोर पर बैठे हुए जो लोगों की गिनती होती है इसमें ये मेरे पहाड़िया बेटे हैं। ये पहाड़िया बेटियां हैं आज वो मुख्य धारा में आर रही हैं। विकास की मुख्य धारा में जुड़ रही हैं। और मैं देख रहा थो वो बेटियां जब अपना सर्टिफिकेट लेने के लिये आईं थीं। उनका आने का तरीका उनका सल्यूट करने का तरीका उनका अपना प्रेस वालों को जवाब देने का तरीका उनका कॉन्फिडेन्स देखकर के मुझे लग रहा है कि ये हमारी शान-ओ-शौकत बन जाएंगी। ये पहाड़िया बिरादरी के मेरे साथी सारे मेरे नौजवान ये झारखंड के भाग्य को सुरक्षा देने वाले एक नई ताकत बन जाएंगे फिर एक बार इनके लिये तालियां बजाकर के इनके लिये गौरव कीजिए। रघुवर दास जी का भी अभिनन्दन कीजिये उन्होंने इतना बड़ा महत्वपूर्ण काम किया है। समाज के आखिरी छोर पर जो आदिवासियों से भी गरीब है। आदिवासियों से भी पछाद है। चार चार पीढ़ी तक जिसको स्कूल में जाने का अवसर नहीं मिला है। ऐसे सारे बच्चे आज हमारे सामने है। इससे कितना आनन्द होता है। आज जीवन धन्य हो गया। इन बालकों को देखते हुए और यही मेरे भारत का नीव बनने वाली है मेरे भाइयों बहनों। यही मेरा न्यू इंडिया है। देश का गरीब से गरीब भारत की विकास यात्रा में जुड़ जाएगा इसका ये उदाहरण है।\nभाइयों बहनों कुछ महिलाएं आज मंच पर आई थीं। आपको दूर से दिखता था कि नहीं दिखता था मुझे मालूम नहीं झारखंड सरकार कि तरफ से मैं उनको मोबाइल फोन दे रहा था। और मैं देख रहा था कि वे मुझे मेरे सब सवालों के सही जवाब दे रही थीं। उनको मालूम था कि एप क्या होती है बीम एप क्या है। एप कैसे डाउनलोड होती है। इसके आर्थिक कारोबार इस मोबाइल फोन से कैसे उनको सब मालूम था। मुझे इतनी खुशी हुई। जो संसद में हमारे साती हैं वो कभी कभी कहते हैं कि भारत के गरीब को मोबाइल फोन कहां आएगा कहां सीखेगा, कहां चलाएगा। मैं जरूर संसद में मेरे साथियों को जब मिलूंगा तब कहूंगा कि मैं हिन्दुस्तान में अति पिछड़ा इलाका सांथाल में गया था और वहां कि मेरी आदिवासी बहनें मोबाइल फोन का क्या उपयोग हो सकता है वो मुझे सिखा रही थीं। ये रिवोल्यूशन है। ये डीजिटल इंडिया का रिवोल्यूशन है। ये लेस कैस सोसाएटी का रिवोल्यूशन है। और नोटबंदी के बाद हर किसी को लग रहा है कि अब हम अपने मोबाइल फोन से अपने मोबाइल फोन को ही अपना बैंक बना सकते हैं। छोटे छोटे सखी मंडल उनका कारोबार उनके बीच में एक मुखिया बहन उसके हाथ में मोबाइल फोन हो उसका मोबाइल फोन बैंक से जुड़ा हुआ, मोबाइल फोन उसके ग्राहकों से जुड़ा हुआ एक पूरा नया रिवोल्यूशन इस पहल से आ रहा है। मैं इस सांथाल इलाके की सखी मंडल कि बहनों को बधाई देता हूं। मेरा बहुत पुराना एक अनुभव है। वो अनुभव आज भी मुझे प्रेरणा देता है। मैं जब गुजरात में मुख्यमंत्री था। तो दक्षिणी गुजरात में आदिवासी बस्ती के बीच में एक कपरारा करके सुदूर इलाका है। तब मैं मुख्यमंत्री था लेकिन वहां जाना होता नहीं था। क्योंकि उस इलाके में ऐसा कोई अवसर नहीं आता था सभा के लिये दो मैदान भी नहीं था पूरा जंगल ही जंगल था। और एक घर यहां तो दूसरा घर दो मील दूर तो तीसरा घर तीन मील दूर। मैंने तय किया नहीं मुझे जाना है। वहां हमने डेरी का छोटा सा काम शुरू किया। एक चिली सेन्टर बनाया। जो दूध ठंडा दूध ठंडा करने की व्यवस्था होती है। डेरी में लेजाने से पहले थोड़ी देर जहां दो चार घंटे दूध रखना हो तो वहां दूध रख देते हैं। छोटा सा प्रोजेक्ट होता है। 25 -50 लाख में तैयार हो जाता है। मैंने कहा मैं उस प्रोजैक्ट के लिये आऊंगा। तो हमारे सब लोग नाराज हो गये। साहब इतनी दूर पचास लाख के कार्यक्रम में, मैंने कहा मैं जाऊंगा। I have to go. मैं गया अब वो जगह ऐसी थी जन सभा तो हो नहीं सकती थी। जनसभा तीन चार किलोमीटर दूर है स्कूल के मैदान में थी। लेकिन दूध भरने के लिये जो महिलाएं आती हैं। वो अपने बर्तन में दूध लेकर के आई हुई थीं। वो चिली सेंटर में आई हुई थीं दूध भरने का कार्यक्रम हो गया। और बाद में मैंने देखा उन महिलाओं ने अपना जो बर्तन था बाजू में रख दिया था और मोबाइल फोन पर मेरी फोटो ले रही थी। करीब करीब तीस महिलाएं थीं। हरेक के हाथ में मोबाइल था। और वो भी फोटो निकालने वाला मोबाइल था । वो फोटो निकाल रही थीं। मैं उनके पास चला गया मेरे लिये बड़ा अजूबा था। इतने बैकवर्ड इलाके में आदिवासी महिलाएं दूध भरने के लिये आई हैं गांव में किसान हैं। मैंने जाकर के पूछा आप क्या कर रही हैं। वो बोली आपका फोटो निकाल रहे हैं मैं बोला फोटो निकाल कर के क्या करोगी। तो बोलीं इसको हम डाउनलोड करवाएंगे। मैं हैरान था उनके मुंह से डाउनलोड शब्द सुनकर कभी कभी बड़े बड़े लोगों को भी पता नहीं होता है कि भारत के सामान्य मानवी में विज्ञान टैक्नॉलॉजी आधुनिकता पकड़ने की ताकत कितनी बड़ी होती है। और मैंने आज दोबारा एक बार इन मेरी आदिवासी बहनों के पास देखा उन्होंने कहा हम डीजिटल रिवोल्यूशन की धारा बन जाएंगे। हम इस काम को करके रहेंगे। मैं इन सभी सखी मंडलों को और मोबाइल फोन से कनेक्टिविटी के द्वारा एक डीजिटल क्रांति के सैनिक बनाने का जो अभियान चला है इसके लिये मैं झारखंड सरकार को भी बहुत बहुत बधाई देता हूं। युग बदल चुका है बदले युग में हमें कैसे आगे बढ़ना चाहिए उस दिशा में हमें जाना होगा।\nभाइयों बहनों हिन्दुस्तान का गरीब सम्मान के साथ जीना चाहता है। हिन्दुस्तान का आदिवासी दलित पीड़ित शोषित सम्मान के साथ जिन्दगी जीना चाहता है। वो किसी की कृपा पर चीजें ढूंढता नहीं है। उसका नौजवान कह रहा है कि मुझे अवसर दीजिये मैं अपनी भाग्य रेखाएं खुद लिख दूंगा ये ताकत मेरे गरीब आदिवासी के बच्चों में होती है दलित पीड़ित शोषित के बच्चों में होती है। और मेरी पूरी शक्ति इन बच्चों के पीछे मैं लगा रहा हूं। इन नौजवानों के पीछे लगा रहा हूं। ताकि वही भारत का भाग्य बदलने के लिये एक नई ताकत के रूप में जुड़ जाएंगे। एक नई ताकत के रूप में देश का भाग्य बदलने में जुड़ जाएंगे। और हिन्दुस्तान के भाग्य बदलने में वो ताकत के रूप में काम आएंगे।\nभाइयों बहनों भ्रष्टाचार ने काले धन ने देश को तबाह कर दिया दीमक की तरह एक जगह पर बंद करो तो दूसरी जगह पर निकल आता है दूसरी जगह सफाई करो तो तीसरी जगह पर निकल आता है लेकिन आप सबके आशीर्वाद से भ्रष्टाचार और काले धन के खिलाफ लड़ाई जारी रहेगी। जिन्होंने गरीबों को लूटा है उन्हें गरीबों को लौटाना ही पड़ेगा। तब तक मैं चैन से बैठने वाला नहीं हूं। एक के बाद एक कदम उठाता रहूंगा। और इसलिये भाइयों बहनों आप जो मुझे आशीर्वाद दे रहे हैं। वे ईमानदारी की लड़ाई के लिये आशीर्वाद है। नोटबंदी के बाद मुझे कुछ नौजवानों से बातचीत का अवसर मिला पढ़े लिखे थे धनी परिवार के थे। मैं सोच रहा था कि नोटबंदी के कारण बड़े परेशान होंगे गुस्से में होंगे नाराजगी व्यक्त करेंगे लेकिन उन्होंने मुझे एक बात बताई वो बड़ी इन्ट्रस्टिंग है। उन्होंने कहा कि साहब हमारे परिवार में रोज झगड़ा होता हैं मैंने कहा क्या झगड़ा होता है। बोले हमारे पिता जी से कहते हैं कि पिताजी आपके जमाने जो सरकार थी नियम थे टैक्स इतने ज्यादा था आपको चोरी करनी पड़ी होगी की होगी। लेकिन अब देश में ईमानदारी का युग आया है। और हम जो पीढ़ी के लोग हैं बेइमानी का कारोबार करना नहीं चाहते हम ईमानदारी से जीना चाहते हैं और ईमानदारी से आगे बढ़ना चाहते हैं। मेरे देश की युवा पीढ़ी में ईमानदारी का युग शुरू हुआ है। ईमानदारी से जीने की इच्छा पैदा हुई है। यही मेरे लिये शुभ संकेत है मेरे भाइयों देश के लिये शुभ संकेत है। अगर देश का युवा एक ओर मन बना ले कि मेरे पूर्वजों मेरे मात पिता को मेरे पिछले वालों को जो कुछ करना पड़ा अब हमें नहीं करना है।\nभाइयों बहनों बिना चोरी किये बिना लूट किये भी सुख चैन की जिन्दगी जी सकते हैं। संतोष की नींद ले सकते हैं। और इसलिये हम एक ईमानदारी कि युग की ओर रेशो ले जाना है। 2022 भारत की आजादी के 75 साल होने वाले हैं। भाइयों बहनों ये आजादी के 75 साल ये सिर्फ दीवार पर टंगे हुए कैलेंडर का विषय नहीं हो सकता। ये आजादी के 75 साल कैलेंडर के एक बाद एक डेट बदल जाए 2022 आजाए वो यात्रा नहीं है। आजादी के 75 साल का मतलब होता है देश की आजादी के लिये जान की बाजी लगाने वाले इसी धरती के बिसरा मुंडा से लेकर के अनगिनत लोग थे भाई। क्यों अपने आपको खपा दिया था। आजाद भारत के सपने देखे थे उन्होंने और इसलिये उन्होंने अपने आपको खपा दिया था। क्या उनके सपनों को पूरा करने के लिए वे तो हमारे लिये फांसी तक पर चढ़ गए। वे तो हमारे लिए जिन्दगी जेलों में काट गए। वे तो हमारे लिये परिवारों को तबाह करके मिट गए। क्या हम उनके सपनों के लिये पांच साल मैं ज्यादा नहीं कह रहा हूं दोस्तों पांच साल 2022 तक जो भी करेंगे देश के लिये करेंगे। कुछ न कुछ करेंगे तो देश के लिये करेंगे। और देश की भलाई के लिये करेंगे। ये सपना सवा सौ करोड़ देशवासियों का हो। सवा सौ करोड़ देशवासियों का एक एक संकल्प हो कि आजादी के 75 साल होने में पांच साल बाकी है। पांच साल में मैं समाज को देश को ये देकर करे रहूंगा। अगर एक हिन्दुस्तानी एक संकल्प लेकर के एक कदम आगे बढ़ता है 2022 आते आते हिन्दुस्तान सवा सौ करोड़ कदम आगे बढ़ जाएगा दोस्तों ये ताकत है हमारी। और इसलिये समय की मांग है कि हम अभी से सरकार में हैं तो सरकार में विभाग में बैठे तो विभाग में नगर पालिका में बैठे हैं तो नगरपालिका, नगर पंचायत तो नगर पंचायत, स्कूल है तो स्कूल में गांव है तो गांव में मोहल्ला है तो महोल्ले में जाति है तो जाति में परिवार में हो तो परिवार में कोई न कोई संकल्प करे कि 2022 तक यहां पहुंच कर ही रहना है। कर के रहेंगे। अगर एक बार हर हिन्दुस्तानी का ये सपना बन जाए तो 2022 में आजादी के लिये जान मिटाने वाले महापुरुषों को हम ऐसा हिन्दुस्तान दे सकते हैं कि उनको एक बार तो संतोष होगा कि अब मेरा देश सही दिशा में चल पड़ा, जिस देश के लिये मैंने जिन्दगी खपा दी। वो मेरा देश आगे बढ़ चला वो सपने को लेकर के आगे चलना है। इसी एक कामना के साथ मैं फिर एक बार झारखंड की धरती को नमन करता हूं। भगवान बिरसा मुंडा की धरती को नमन करता हूं। मैं इन पहाड़िया नौजवानों को बहुत बहुत बधाई देता हूं। मैं झारखंड की जनता को शुभकामनाएं देता हूं। मां गंगा को प्रणाम करते हुए ये जो नया हमनें अभियान छेड़ा है। मां गंगा के आशीर्वाद बने रहेंगे। हम एक नई इस पूरे भू भाग में नई आर्थिक क्रांति मां गंगा के भरोसे लाएंगे इसी एक अपेक्षा के साथ आप सबका बहुत बहुत धन्यवाद बहुत बहुत शुभकामनाएं।"