"Share\n\nYouth of Kashmir has a choice of one of two paths - One of the tourism the other of terrorism: PM\nYouth of Jammu \u0026 Kashmir worked hard in the making of Chenani - Nashri Tunnel: PM\nWith our minister of Kashmiriyat, Jamhuriyat \u0026 Insaniyat, we would take Kashmir to newer heights of progress: PM\nChenani-Nashri tunnel is built on thousands of crores rupees. But it defines the hard work of the J \u0026 K: PM\nThis is the inauguration of the longest tunnel in India, I have done the rituals, but I want all the citizens present here today, they all meet and inaugurate this tunnel and tell me the way to inaugurate. All you have to do is take out your mobile phone, simultaneously flash your mobile phone and with the sound of Bharat Mata's jai, see all the cameras are taking your photo now! Get rid of all those who have mobile. Everyone will flash your mobile What a wonderful sight! I am looking at the wonderful sight in front of me and in this true sense, this tunnel has been inaugurated by the flash of your mobile. The whole of India is watching it.\nLong live Mother India\nLong live Mother India\nBrothers and sisters, Navratri is having a special festival and I have had this opportunity to come at the feet of mother, this is a good fortune for me. Right now, Nitin Gadkari was telling us that this tunnel has been created according to the standard of the world. He said, in some respects, we are one step ahead of the world's standards. I congratulate Mr. Nitin Gadkari, the whole team of his department with heartfelt congratulations, congratulate. He has succeeded in fulfilling this task in a time bound manner using modern technology. But brothers, sisters, this is not just a long tunnel. This is not the only long tunnel to reduce the distance between Jammu and Srinagar. This long tunnel is a long leap of development for Jammu and Kashmir, as I see clearly.\nBrothers, sisters, in India, this tunnel will be discussed, but I believe that the world's environmentalists are concerned about climate change, global warming, discuss; The construction of this tunnel for them is a big news, a great new hope. If there were any tunnels in any other corner of India, the possibility of going to the attention of environmentalists was less. But by hiring this tunnel in the Himalayas' kokh, we have also done the task of protecting the Himalayas, we have worked to protect the environment; India has sent a message to the troubled world with the global warming that by making these tunnels in the Himalaya chest An important effort to safeguard the Himalayas has been successfully completed by the Government of India today.\nBrothers, sisters, these tunnels are made at the cost of thousands of crores. But today I say proudly, even if it would have taken the money of the Indian government in the construction of this tunnel, but I am happy that in the construction of this tunnel the sweat of the youth of Jammu and Kashmir with the Indian government's money It's smelling. More than two and a half thousand youth, 90 percent of Jammu and Kashmir's jawans belong to Jammu and Kashmir; Who constructed this tunnel by working. We can guess how many possibilities of employment were present.\nAnd the young men, sisters, J \u0026 K youth who cut these stones and made the tunnel, working hard for more than a thousand days, they kept cutting stones and continued to build the tunnel. I want to tell the young people of Kashmir Valley, what is the power of stone; On one side, some strayed young men are engaged in stoning stones; On the other hand, the young men of Kashmir are engaged in cutting the stone and making the fortune of Kashmir.\nBrothers, sisters, these tunnels are about to play their historical role in creating a new history of tourism in the Kashmir valley. Travelers get disturbed by the news of tourist inconveniences. Have snowed on Patnitop, have stopped for 5 days, if tourist is stuck, do not dare to visit again. But brothers, sisters, now the people who want to come from every corner of the country as a passenger in the Kashmir valley due to this tunnel; They will not face these crises, they will be able to reach Srinagar directly.\nI want to say to the people of Kashmir Valley, this tunnel may be good between Udhampur-Ramban, but this is the fate line of Kashmir Valley; Never forget this. This fortune line of the Kashmir Valley is that my farmer of Kashmir Valley sweats day and night between natural calamities, works in fields, works in the garden. According to the requirement, there has been rains, the weather has been as per requirement, the crop is very good, the fruits should be ready for sale in the Delhi market, but if it is closed for five days in the same place, more than half the fruit is wasted Are done. After reaching Delhi, the earnings of the entire hard work gets in the water. For the farmers of the Kashmir valley, this sunshine has become a boon. When he will reach his crop, his fruit, his flowers, his vegetable market in Delhi, in a set time; The loss that would have been incurred by him would not be the loss anymore; These benefits are going to get the Kashmir Valley.\nBrothers, sisters, every citizen of India, has a dream in his mind; Sometimes it's time to see Kashmir. He wants to come into these pleas by becoming a tourist. And the infrastructure that we have undertaken from the corner of India, is going to increase tourists to the tourists from the corner of India, Guaranteed Tourism is going to happen, and the more tourism will grow, the economic condition of Jammu and Kashmir will be left behind all over India. Will leave; This is my faith.\nBrothers, sisters, I want to say to the young people of the valley, there are two ways in which you will lead your destiny? One side is Tourism, on the other hand is Terrorism. For 40 years, many innocent people lost their lives, no one benefited; If I am a Muslim, then I have my own beloved Kashmir valley. If someone has lost red, then my mother's red red has lost, no one has lost the red of India.\nBrothers, sisters, this blood game has not been able to do any good after 40 years. But in this 40 years, if the emphasis was on tourism, then today the whole world will be sitting in the valley of Kashmir, this strength lies in the Valley of Kashmir. And hence we recognize the power of tourism, to create the mechanisms to strengthen tourism; The central government in Delhi is with Kashmir; Is with Jammu and Kashmir; Standing with you to promote visits.\nI congratulate Mehbooba ji in particular, I congratulate her, I compliment her. Last year, the Government of India declared a package of Rs 80,000 crore for Jammu and Kashmir, I am happy that in less than half the time the expenditure of the budget, the expenditure of the package has been employed on the ground; This is not a small issue. Otherwise, the packages remain on the paper, the years descending on the ground pass away. But Mehbooba ji and her government have given attention to every detail, which has worked hard to bring things to the ground and whose fruits are being seen; I congratulate him with the heart of the Government of Jammu and Kashmir, Chief Minister, his Council of Ministers, all of them.\nBrothers, sisters, per capita income in India today, if there is a state best suited to increase income, then the name of that state is Jammu and Kashmir. I understand its strength very well I have had the opportunity to come and go for the organization's work in these litigations for many years. I know the great people here. I know the culture of Sufi tradition here.\nBrothers, sisters, this precious heritage, if we forget him then we will lose our present, and we will push our future into darkness. These lands could guide the whole of India for thousands of years, the land of such great heritage. Add yourself to him, glorify him, and with diligence, let us move forward by joining the government with shoulder to make our future; Seeing the situation of J \u0026 K will change.\nEverybody, sisters, whenever it comes to Jammu and Kashmir, every Kashmiri always remembers the name of Atal Bihari Vajpayee in the hearts of every Jammuman, in the heart of every Ladakh. Kashmiri, humanity, mobilization - by taking this mantra, which the Atal Bihari Vajpayee Ji has given; By taking the same Mantra, we will take Kashmir on the new heights of development, the environment of goodwill, the atmosphere of brotherhood, for the bright future of the youth, with a strong intention, to move forward one by one. Are determined; No obstacles will prevent us. And those who sit on the border can not handle themselves.\nBrothers, sisters, we want to show the progress of the Kashmiri people in the part of our Kashmir crossing across the border, see how Kashmir develops. And those who have been sitting in the possession of you, they have ruined you. They are going to show you. Development is our mantra, I want to go and take the mantra of development. Public participation is our way, we want to walk on that path. We want to take the younger generation together and make a future forward.\nBrothers, sisters, now a tunnel becomes a fate of Kashmir, can change the lives of farmers in the valley, can promote tourism in the valley. There are plans to make such nine tunnels in future, nine Such a connection will happen with the whole of India and it will not be the only network of paths, it is going to be a network of hearts, it is my belief.\nWe carry forward the journey of brothers, sisters, development. Take advantage of the employment plans of the Government of India to change the fate of the youth of Jammu and Kashmir; Take advantage of the new areas of education that are available here; Cross the new heights of development. And the brother of my Jammu, this Jammu region is also developing at a fast pace.\nTalk about the direction of the Smart City, be it the heart of the plan, the elixir plan, the areas of education, the infrastructure should be prepared, the rest of the pond here, in every area; Whether it is Ladakh, Valley or Jammu, there is a balanced development and the benefits of this development should be met by the future generations of Jammu and Kashmir, make preparations for it, continue to carry Jammu and Kashmir; Taking these dreams has to go ahead today.\nOnce again, I congratulate Nitin Ji on behalf of his team, Dr. Jitendra Singh Ji, the Government of Jammu and Kashmir very much. Thanks a lot."