"Share\n\nThose associated with the legal profession played a vital role in the struggle for freedom\nWhatever work Gandhi ji initiated, be it cleanliness or Khadi, he integrated it with freedom Such was his contribution: PM\nOver 1200 obsolete laws have been scrapped by May 2014: PM Modi\nTechnology is playing a big role in this century and I see technology having a big scope in the judiciary as well: PM\nLet us think about the India we want to create when we mark 75 years of independence in 2022: PM\nAll the great dignitaries present on the stage\nOne type of celebration of 150 years is being concluded today but with the conclusion of this year, this festival can become a huge force in fulfilling new energy, new inspiration, new resolution and dream of new India. Allahabad is one of the world's jurists, one hundred and one hundred years old, and I believe that this pilgrimage area of ​​India's jurisdiction is in this pilgrimage area and on this important teaching you got an opportunity to understand and listen to you, I got a chance to tell me the thing, I respect it as my pride.\nThe Chief Justice was talking about his heart and I was listening to him. I feel a pain in every word I feel I intend to do something. To the judges of India, this leadership I believe that their resolutions will be fulfilled, everyone will have their responsibility with them. As far as the government is concerned, I assure you that the resolution you are motivating people. We will make every effort to fulfill the responsibility of our responsibility, when Allahabad court had a 100 years of court, then it was the centenary of the then India's President Dr. Radhakrishnan came here, and a paragraph of the statement he had given I think I would like to read that a hundred years ago, it was necessary to recollect what had been said 50 years ago when it was completed 100 years ago.\nDr. Radhakrishna ji said that \"law is something which constantly changes, laws should be in line with the nature of people, adapt to the traditional values, and also the law should take into account the modern trends and challenges. All these things should be taken into account while reviewing the law. What kind of life do we want to pass? What is the law, what is the ultimate goal of law, the welfare of all people is not only the welfare of rich people Rather it is the welfare of every citizen of the country. This is the goal of the law and should be tried to fulfill it. \"\nI think that Dr. Radhakrishnan ji had given a poignant message to the rulers of this country 50 years ago from the same land, to the rulers of the country, and it is still praiseworthy even today. If once Gandhiji used to say that if we make any decision, it is right that it is wrong, what is the criterion for it. So Gandhi had specifically said to the governments that whenever you make any decision, there is a dilemma, then remember the person sitting at the last end of India for a moment, and imagine what your decision will have on the life of his life. If the effect is positive then feel free to move forward, your decision will be right.\nHow will we make this feeling a part of our lives? How such a great leader can say the purpose of our life and that is what becomes the leader of change.\nIf this is the Allahabad's freedom of India and the entire judicial independence of India before Independence, if anybody emphasized that the common man of India gave protection protection to the British rule, which gave the protection chakra. Most of the lawyers linked to the world of justice have given it to the judiciary.\nThe British fought against the Sultanate and the chance to fight them would come for one, two, four or five people, but millions of people felt that we should live with Abhaya, someone would get it, the British would protect us in front of oppression and this It was a generation that actively participated in the movement of the country's independence. We remember the names of the most respected leaders of the country. The background of the maximum is the courts, from where the Sangharsh While doing so, he caught the path of politics for the welfare of public. After independence movement, freedom from independence was the dream of everybody's dream of independence movement in the country, its participation in the country's governance system, and independence was not possible if every person had no dream. And that was the specialty of Gandhiji that he woke up the sense of freedom in the heart of every Hindustani who used to broom, he thought that I was working for freedom, even if it was a work of adult education, he would have felt that I was the country I was working for freedom, he used to wear khadi too, so he thought that I am working for freedom. In the hearts of the people of the country, he has shielded him according to the capacity of the person, the place where I am standing today, Allahabad gave a great power to this movement.\n70 years of Independence will be completed in 2022, will there be 75 years of independence? Will Allah give inspiration to the country? Whether the 2022 which is the lalak, the obsession, the renunciation, the peak of hard work, the peak of labor, was seen in the movement of freedom, should this be generated in 125 million people for five years, that when we will be 75 years of independence, Will take you to the place where there are people with whom you are living, no dream of 2022, no resolution, no roadmap can decide, every citizen can do it, I do not believe Individual countries will create a citizens' fears that the results will get.\nThere are hundreds of millions of people who have their strength, our institutions, our governments, people of our social life, and today when we are sitting in the closing ceremony of 150 years, a new resolution can be taken that by 2022 we are in the area What Dr. Radhakrishnan ji said in the field, Mahatma Gandhi had said that he can do something for the country on those basis of the value. Do I believe that the Chief's dream is the dream You fire in the hearts of those fires could become an energy which can serve to change the energy country. I also invite you to invite the countrymen through this forum that let's make a resolution of 2022 when 75 years of independence, the dreams of freedom to fulfill the dreams of the country For us too, we will try something on our behalf. I believe that dreams of hundreds of millions of people, one step of the hundred crore countrymen can take the country forward 100 million steps. This strength is the strength that we will try in that direction, the era has changed.\nWhen I was campaigning in 2014, I was unfamiliar to many people, I was not identified in a small ceremony, I had asked many questions and I had said how much I will make new laws, then I do not know. I will definitely end a law every day if I become the Prime Minister, then the janzal governments of these laws have created the burden of these laws which have been imposed on ordinary human beings such as Chief Justice Sir things that are left out how he said, the government also says that this burden should be reduced to. And today I am glad that five years are not completed till now. Nearly 1200 laws have ended we have done more than one daily. The simplification that we will be able to reduce the burden will be the strength of the justice system, and to do this work, technology is a big role in the changed era. The Chief was just saying that no document is needed, the file will run automatically. The friction will move in and seconds. How Indian Government can also make India's judicial system through digital India to be strengthened by modern technology from Information Communication Technology, how simple it was and there was a time before that those who are sitting in the form of judges today will be advocated by one The books had to be reversed for hours of specifics of a case.\nToday's lawyer does not have to work harder to ask Google guru, Google guru immediately tells that this was the case in 1989, it was Mater. It was such a judge that it was so simplified that the entire lawyer community from Technology had such a big power It is argued that the quality of debate with state-of-the-art information is that this argument is true with the help of technology itself and when it changes within the quality of the court it will come sharpness to take the date of sharpness It will not be necessary, but sharpness will be needed to resolve the issues and I believe that the judges will have a debate with sharpness in front of them, then they will not be late to find milk from the milk, water and find the truth from it. Come on, we will use technology on every argument. Today we will give a date, we will take two minutes to talk about a good date, so date, all these mobile phones The call will begin the tradition of giving online date.\nToday an officer has a job somewhere. A case has happened in his age, he has been transferred but if his case comes out, leave his job and leave his premises and go to court, why do not we make them available for such people from video conferencing. Ask for a lesson to ask in less time so that the time of those officers can be done in the work of the government. All these things bring prisoners to prison, all the money spent in the security, and what does not happen in that way, they all know.\nNow the Yogi has come, so maybe now it is closed, if we connect the jail and the court in the video conference, then how much the cost can save, how much time can be saved, how much simplicity we can create. The Government of India has endeavored that our justice system has the full benefits of modern ITC technology. He got priority priority. I will also say to the start-up youths of the country that new innovations will be made in the start up process for the future country's judicial process. They can also give strength to judiciary through technology. If there is new innovation of that kind in the hands of judiciary. I believe that people of judiciary can be very helpful in bringing about the speed of using it. If we try in a four direction, then we will be complementary to each other. Keeping the results you want.\nOnce again once again Dilip ji honors his entire team, very respected judges, outside friends, at the conclusion of this 150-year visit, and I am confident that 2022 India's independence Going from here with a dream of 75 years, convert it to a resolution as soon as possible and mobilize all your abilities to redo that resolve. Take the country to new heights. We will make every effort to fulfill the dream of new India for New Generation. With this one expectation I am very grateful to all of you. Thank you"