"\nTechnology lays foundation for the future: PM Modi\nTechnology gives us such solutions, which could not be considered. This is an era of 'Internet of Things': PM\nThe youth of India wants to solve the nation's problems. They want results that are quick and credible: PM\nEverybody has power to dream But dreams should be turned in resolutions Never allow any idea\nMy dear friends are you sitting in the morning, tired? If you want to remove 36 hours now and you will get tired? But you people have thought that at 10 pm the Prime Minister comes a little, and you should have remembered again today is the first April, so maybe Modi will be doing the April Fool. Friends, I am really happy to join you all.\nSmart India Hackathon is the biggest experiment of its kind in India. The youth power of the country whose population is 65 percent, below the age of 35, which is the young country of the world; Right now our society is engaged in solving some of the problems of our country. To show your innovation, all of you to show your creativity; All the young people, who are participating in the program with enthusiasm, are worthy of praise. Even after 15 hours of continuous work, there is no wrinkle on your faces right now. I see a smile on your faces. When such energy is done with such a sense of work, then the results are met.\nFriends, our country has its own identity in the field of knowledge; Not from today, for thousands of years. It is said that zero was invented in India. Today, India is leading the world in the field of IT knowledge. The journey of Mars from Mars to Mangalya makes us proud. Our journey to the satellite from Upanishad has expanded. But it is also true that today India needs more use of Information Technology to solve its problems. In a way, today's society is Technology Driven. Innovation, Technology, These societies are giving momentum to life, giving energy. And therefore MyGov for this Hackathon With the help of such nearly 500 problems have been selected, the solution to which to be searched, to search through young minds, to be discovered by modern technology. These problems are put in front of you for the solution. There is also the challenge for you, there is also opportunity. And by this work I believe that you will get more pleasure from your work, than enjoy any work you do for your exam. Because when the work is completed, and you will feel that your hard work is going to come from a poor person. The solution you are looking for is probably going to be a part of the government policy of the Government of India. Then your life will feel blessed in itself.\nThe success of democracy is only with the participation of the partner. Democracy does not mean that it cast votes and gave someone a 5 year contract, take away brother, remove my problem. And if you can not do it in 5 years, then let's say we will now catch the next contractor; Democracy is not that, democracy is of public participation. 125 million nationals have to move ahead with the country. Everything is known to the government, the government will solve all the problems, she has all the solutions; This is the illusion. Even in the government, people have come and sitting like you. We all can solve all problems together. Those who are not in the government also have many good suggestions, intellectual talent, there is a mood to work. And so I have always tried to see how things should be carried forward with public participation. And today's opportunity, ten thousand young people of the country, will be Engineering Profession, IT Profession, they are looking for solutions to our everyday 500 problems. Without eating, sitting, sitting; This will introduce a new force in itself. And so first of all, the participants, I congratulate all of you, congratulate everyone.\nToday, when you channelize your energy into the process of governance, surely there will be very positive results. I have always believed that through technology, through Information Technology, we can make a big difference in today's society. Technology gives us such solutions, which could not be thought about until a few years ago. Who had thought that sometimes the driver-less cars would start walking on the roads? In the coming time, the spread of artificial intelligence is also going to increase. With the help of 3D technology, the printing of 3 Dimension Object, and the future creation of it, 3D Technology is going to be a huge base pillar.\nIn the Manufacturing Sector, it is going to be of great use even in the design of houses. Now the round is of \"Internet of things\". An arrangement is going on where a lot of things will be decided by \"internet of things\". This technology is being used extensively in the city which is being transformed into Smart City today, whether it is Smart Parking, Smart Lighting, Monitoring of Air Quality; These are being applied to \"Internet of things\".\nFriends Technology is making very big changes in today's life. Some new things, new traditions, are being created; Some old things, old ways are ending. See yourself, Floppy, Tape Recorder, Walkman, all these things came in front of you; Ended. Long, not long; New Technology took the place. There was a time when radio, which is today's Microwave Oven, used to be of size. And today the radio can fit in the match box. Technology has helped to expand and enhance the facilities as well as reduce the world. You may have seen how in the last few months the spread of Cashless Transaction has increased in our country. And in this field constantly new Innovative Solutions are coming out.\nFriends Innovation is the basis of a better future. History is written by those who challenge the traditions that come, and make changes in them. One more thing is important for this, that is perseverance, persistence, persistent continuity. From childhood to people, many stories you have heard; It is said that the ant was taking his food, taking a grain of Sugar, carrying it, how many times he was away from it, was not able to take it, he had to climb up the wall but after taking it he stopped. An ant also causes the motivation to try continuously and so we also have to remember that many times you can get failure in the way of innovations. But you do not give up, and therefore whoever follows the determination of victory also knows the grappling, and whoever knows how to survive, keeps the woman till he gets the victory. You will succeed, the people of this world will say that your way was right, your method was right. But in the meantime, one thing to note is that the end product of your innovation is Quality.\nQuality should not be compromised by any kind, can not be done. Quality is something that people remember. With your innovation, the change that comes from your product to the life of people, quality of life is important. Friends are all as innovative as you are, as energetic; Whatever Approach you have to solve the problems of the country, it is going to strengthen New India. As technology is changing rapidly than before, likewise today's generation thinks faster than ever before, is working. Some people say that today's youth asks a lot of questions, this is not a bad thing, it is a good thing. Today's youth walks through a baggage and wants to understand everything from the beginning, wants to see it from its perspective. Some people also say that there is no patience in today's youth. I say that this is the reason for inspiration for the innovation of the generation of young people of today's generation. Life should have patience, impatient life can not go, but there should be no patience that does not inspire new thinking; Brought stagnation And that is why they are working more quickly, and I have noticed that such young people also bring out the results. Some people also say that today's youth do not want monotonous work, he does not like it; She wants change I believe that this is his thinking which is bringing new ideas to Automation. If he wanted cumin in the old patch, then where can he get new? The old who wants to break away from the old one gives new ones. Some people also say that today's youth wants to do many things together at the same time. Some people think that this one is wasting their own time. But sometimes the youth who have such a mode, do one, seven, five, ten things together; I do not mind it Now you must prepare yourself for Multitasking. Everyone should try, and encourage those who do. Some people also get problem with the ambition of the youth. He says that today's young man wants to move forward very fast. Friends are in favor of moving forward but some people run forward to collect money in less time, they are hardly successful in life. Some who run ahead, run fast, do it early, they even give something to themselves, give something to the world too. And when I talk about New India, I am doing the same spirit.\nMy India wants to find the solution of youth problems soon, it wants fastness soon and I consider it a good one. Today's youth wants to be more like a job than anyone else who can provide employment to others. Of course, there is a need of capital in it, but more important is the purpose of life, Sense of Mission, which has no shortage of our youth. They want to bring their ideas to the ground, their innovative solutions in such a way that things are more efficient and economically viable. Keeping in mind this amazing ability of millions of young people like you, the government is running \"Start-up India\" campaign. Under the money scheme, crores of rupees are being loaned to millions of youth like you from the worry of Bank Guarantee.\nFriends, the ability to dream is in everyone. You are sitting here so many people, every day will be a new dreamer. The ability to dream is in everyone. Have the ability to transform dreams into resolutions. And to prove the resolution, all the abilities should be stunned. There are also some people whose dreams, resolutions and accomplishments are also the reason for the inspiration of many people. You must have seen in the IT world that many of the great innovations started at a small room, at a very small level in a garage. People initially rejected them, but such people continued to prove their dreams, their determination, with full force, succeeded. The ideas that were considered too small are now running the company of Billion Dollar. So you all have my advice, you have a long time, you have to do a lot. Do not let an Idea finish in your journey. Maybe you change such an Idea tomorrow into a company of Billion Dollar and become the reason for change in Billion people's life.\nFriends, you have to understand the difference between knowledge and skill in today's rapidly changing world. There is a big difference between the two. Knowledge is a concept, understanding basic things; As to know how the Electric Circuit works, but the skill is how to apply this concept. There will be a lot of people who have studied Electronics or Electrical Engineering, but if Fuse flies in the house then they call someone from outside to fix it. Applying it to Sharpen knowledge is the only skill. So the faster the information is growing today, the faster the skills are also required to grow, and therefore I say Skill Engagement Optimization (SEO), the world of Internet revolves around the search engine's rotation and therefore there is a great deal of search engine optimization There is a role.\nYour world revolves around the pivot of Public Welfare and Public Participation, therefore Skill Engagement Optimization has a big role in it. And the world wants such people who know how to apply knowledge, which can be engage with the people through their skills, the client. When you start paying attention to Skill Engagement Optimization, the country will change the Demographic Dividend to Development Dividend. Will further strengthen the way for New India.\nFriends, the task you have been given, in the next few hours, you are going to decorate some of his solutions, but we do not have to stop at all. 29 Ministries of Central Government are participating in this program. And it is the responsibility of all those solutions that will come out of this Hackathon, to the last stage, to Logical End. If there is scope for some improvement then it should be improved and brought to the system. In today's endeavor you are successful, give some new solutions, all of it are very good luck to everyone."