"Share\n\nDadi Janki is a true Karma Yogi, who continues to serve society even at the age of 100 years: PM\nPM Modi appreciates the work done by the Brahma Kumaris Institute in many fields, including in solar energy\nBrahma Kumar and Kumaris have spread the message of India's rich culture throughout the world: PM\nBy 2030, India aims to generate 40% energy from non-fossil fuels By 2022, our aim is to ensure 175 GW of clean energy: PM\nLet us further the use of digital transactions and make the system more transparent: PM Modi\nWe have amended the Maternity Bill This will benefit working women as it has been 12 to 26 weeks: PM\nI welcome all the members of Brahmakumari Organization, and the participants in this International cultural festival. I also salute all of you by chanting \"Aum shanti\". The soul of the founder of Prajapita Brahmakumari Ishwariy University Dada Lekhraj must have been happy today to see that shaped this institution in a power through women power is now 80 years completed. In our nation turning 80 years has special significance. Although the world usually celebrates 25 years, 50 years, 75 years and 100 years, but in 80 years of age is considered a specific incident. And when a person or organization becomes 80 year old, it is like a moon.\nToday is the moment of witnessing full moon 1000th time for Brahmakumari Vishwavidyalaya, a movement started by Dada Lekh Raj. His efforts of bringing peace to human race on this globe will gain new momentum and move ahead.\nDadi Janaki ji completed her centenary last year; she is 100 plus. She is still blessing us like a Karmyogi and has also spared her time today for us. From here I wish dadi ji. Two days later, \"Cheti Chand\", a festival of New Year, will be celebrated across the country. I too extend you all my hearty greetings on the occasion of Nav-Samvatsar and Cheti Chand.\nI got a number of opportunities to be in and I am grateful to you for the love showered on me. For an institute 80 years In today's scenario any institution gets disintegrated after 10,15 or 20 years. Groupism and factionsim starts Ten organizations are present out of one It was because of the wisdom of Dada Lekhraj ji that the values ​​and vision with which he established Brahmakumari Vishwishavydialaya and Brahmakumari Movement is still the same kind of dedication, vitality and commitment with the rest of the world enlightening and lakhs of workers of the chain created. The Brahmakumars and Brahmakumaris are actively spreading the message of Indian spirituality in the whole world. You all deserve accolade and honour I salute you all.\nI am lucky to be among you many a time and have witnessed your calibre. I have tried to understand your philosophy\nCurrently I am more pre-occupied and hardly get any spare time. Although I am not physically present in front of you all, I have the opportunity to connect through video conferencing. Brahmakumari work-plan is always unique I noticed today that all the light of torches, and on TV I can see that the premises through torches is in reality. by Dada Lekhraj ji and Dadi ji\nWe represent a nation that never believes in forcing its ideology on others. We are the view that knowledge has no boundary and no timeframe No passport or visa is required. Knowledge is a human asset for ages; it transents time limit, and ever new We are able to attain the facts of life only treading that knowledge path.\nThis continuous effort by Brahmakumari is the uniqueness of India. This is a nation that has said that God is One. He is known by varied names. Separate God for Hindus, different ones for Muslims, Christian and Persians- it's not our concept So even in the days of Vedas our great men and sages taught us: Uniform, Vampra:\nTruth is one, sages call it in different ways\n\nDifferent people have different ways but our approach to 'truth' is driven by the same feelings\nI have heard that you are opening a Solar Project in Shanti Van today. Once you visited your Shanti Van hospital There I came across to the poor Your impressive efforts in the field of Solar Energy today reminded me of your decision to take years ago to run your Abu Road premises and that too at a time when Global Warming was not a hot topic as is now. Its a vibrant example of your vision So its my belief that under your guidance one energy revolution has just started in the country as well as in the day life of humanity. I can visualize that the importance of solar power is not less than the value of a human being. And when valor, capability and resolve come together, I am sure that your initiative is taken today for 3 MW solar power plant.\nGujarat took a very grand initiative for solar energy years ago. That was a catalyst in encouraging others The Gujarat experiment was a success Today Shanti Van is also getting associated with it. It is a work to save nature It will be possible to prepare food for 38 thousand people in this solar plant. How are you doing? In a campaign mode you have started home delivery of Solar Lantern, Home lighting systems, Solar Cooking Boxes etc. This is a great change in the society. Instead of turning into the life of the poor\nNow how India can work for the rest of the global warming? India's solution is by 2030 that is within 13 years from now we have aimed that 40 percent of our total energy requirement will be generated from non-fossil fuel based renewable energy.\nIndia will celebrate 75 years of its independence in the year 2022. What initiatives in the area of ​​Solar Energy can we take by then? India has resolved to generate 175 Giga Watt renewable energy It's a gigantic target of the government, and the society and institutions will achieve that. The 3 Mega Watt units The more we use this the more we are going to serve humanity, nature and the Almighty. I would like to thank you for this field. You are working for many ways It will be a great extent.\nSimilarly, Green Revolution, White Revolution and Energy Revolution are in the way of a new direction. I congratulate you for your involvement in these areas too. Government of India has taken over the field of Energy Conservation and that is the distribution of LED bulbs. Today more than 22 million LED bulbs are being used by municipalities, corporations and common men in the savings of nearly 11 thousand crore rupees.\nNow you have 8500 Brahmakumari Centers with lakhs of volunteers. As you have seen, the same can be done for LED bulbs. Your volunteers are able to create awareness of the LED bulbs. This will save energy Municipalities and corporations will also save money that could be used for other purposes. Before a LED bulb used to cost Rs. 400-500 Now that is available for Rs. 50-60 So this can be added to the work of Brahamkumaris in addition to their current assignments.\nToday we are dependent on Imported Diesel and Petrol. If we promote and put stress on the wind energy, hydro power, solar energy then the millions and trillions of rupees is currently being used on the purchase of petroleum and will be used for the poor. Your contribution is a right step in that direction.\nOur scripture is forbidden to us. We are allowed only in milking of the nature and using it\nThe Mantra of Brahmakumari's Institution- One God, One Global Family is basically rooted in the ethos of our country Such a great and eternal thought of \"Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam\" could probably take shape only in this land. It has different expressions and wordings from time to time, but only India is in constant quest for attaining justice, pride, opportunity and prosperity of all the world. These are the initiatives of India that has reflected in the International Solar Alliance aimed to save nature and the rest of the countries in the world have joined us in this movement. Today in this function on the occasion of your 80th anniversary, I urge you all to think about the 75th year of Indian Independence in 2022. Are we not able to fulfill the dreams of our freedom fighters who laid their lives in that struggle? Is it not our collective responsibility to work for those dreams? We should work together in the right direction. And any change brought about in the lives of such a huge population will also become a platform for global welfare. You have assembled in such a large number Now take a pledge whatever you like. 2,3,5 or 7 units and accomplish this task by 2022 through your branches across the country and abroad. And see the magnitude of your involvement What is now happening in India on the solar energy sector, ... ..I am sure you will complement it with your efforts\nRecently you have been witnessed that after the demonstration we have given judgment for a decisive fight against black money and corruption. In order to save the nation from going back to black money once again, the digital technology can be much use. We can develop a transparent system in which there will be minimum cash usage and maximum digital payments. Can all the Brahmakumars and Brahmakumaris wherever they are working effectively download the BHIM App in their respective mobiles and try to get away with cash payments through digital payments to small vendors? Today I am talking to you via digital technology; But I have got such a relation with you that I think, can you ask me on this task so that your enormous cultured manpower will become a harbinger of change in the country.\nIn addition to Brahmakumars, Brahmakumaris are more energetic and active. A large number of children in our country are still deprived of immunization. Due to this are prone to diseases Mother and infant mortality rates as well as malnutrition Government is desirous of implementing the immunization work in a big way to every household with commitment and accountability under the Indradhanush Yojana. The Brahmakumars and Brahmakumaris must associate with it as volunteers in the future immunisation drives and be a life saviour for infants and this will be a great service indeed. You are already serving the humanity; so opting this addition will be a marked achievement.\nFor one more thing I will urge you. Is Brahmakumari Vishwavidyalaya in a position to start Online Certificate Course for Nutrition? Then the people of this country could be educated and motivated to appear in online examination on the subject of nutrition. Still there is a lot of misconception in this area. What diet should be taken in a particular age Most of the people Even financially well off persons, who can afford quality food twice a day are not aware of the basic facts; what to eat and when and how to eat? Is it possible to start an online certificate course followed by online exam on such issues related to malnutrition by Brahmakumar Vishvavidyalaya? And whether all the universities in India could be brought under its ambit? Majority of the members So women too have a active role to play. To solve nutrition problem and pulling out our children from malnutrition, you can contribute in a big way. I request you to think about it I will ask Government of India and State Governments as well as a help hand.\nIf our girls are studying in class IXth, Xth, Xith and XIIth are educated in Nutrition, then they will certainly be in the kitchen after getting involved in household chores. Even if they become professionals You can imagine the tremendous change This can be done through your involvement and so I am inviting you to take a pledge for making it happen by 2022.\nGovernment of India has taken a number of steps towards women empowerment. You have seen that we have increased the maternity leave accepting to working women class from the present 12 weeks to 26 weeks. This will enable her to give full time to her child at that time when she is most needed as a child is very critical as far as her overall development is concerned. A mother's presence during this time can play an important role. Probably there are only 2 or 3 countries that are giving more than 26 weeks holiday. Even the developed and progressive countries are not giving 26 weeks maternity leave. Government of India has taken such a big step because of the empowerment of our mothers and sisters, a new energy and accelerate in the strongening of our country and can lead us to high end successes.\nNow be it Kanya Samruddhi Yojana, The Scheme for providing 6000 Rupees in three instalments in bank accounts of expecting mothers or Prime Minister Surakshit Matrutva Abhiyan. We have taken a number of initiatives. We have recently launched a big drive under the Ujjwala Yojana. Our mother and sisters from poor community used to cook meals with firewood and as per medical fraternity, preparing food with firewood results in inhaling smoke equivalent to 400 cigarettes a day. Children playing around them also inhale the same. In such a situation, what will happen to the health of those mothers and sisters? Government of India has taken a big initiative with the intention of offering firewood stoves. For that, a massive campaign of issuing LPG connections was launched. This campaign is in progress and about two crore gas cylinders have reached to the poor families They got rid of firewood stoves and gas stoves are used in their homes. We have decided to make it available in 5 crore families within three years.\nNow our emphasis is on empowering our mothers and women. Brahmakumaris can give a big way in it. I request you to work more seriously But your proactive approach in these drives will result in big results indeed.\nI got a chance to join your assembly Nature conservation, protection of mother power and efforts of the children are important issues. People from different parts of the world have gathered here for a noble cause and they will carry great thoughts of Indian ethos emanated from here The enlightenment of knowledge will come from far away lands and will be used for the welfare of mankind. Your efforts will give a new energy to the initiatives of Dada Lekh Raj ji and the pain taken by our 100 year old Dadi Ji continues to motivate and inspire the new generations and people have their tasks accomplished for a new strength.\nDadi ji had had our brand ambassador in my Swacch Bharat Abhiyan (Clean India Drive). Dadi ji has strengthened Swacch Bharat Abhiyan through Brahmakumaris. I am sure that our Brahmakumars and Brahmakumaris in white attaire are capable of strengthening the drive in a massive way.\nSo with such commitments we have to continue till 2022. And in 2019, the year of 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi has done the destination of making the cleanliness a habit of every one and every house hold.\nToday I am amidst you and I am urging you for some commitments. I am sure you will fulfill it You are brimming with capability, institutional strength and resolve along with piously motivated workers You can deliver results. Once again I complete heartedly welcome all the world's students and the kind of cooperation in spreading this message of knowledge.\nI am grateful to you all for giving me a chance to be amidst you. Om Shanti, Om Shanti, Om Shanti"