"\n#MannKiBaat: PM extends greetings to people on their independence day\nIndia will always stand shoulder to the people of Bangladesh: PM Modi during #MannKiBaat\nJallianwala Bagh massacre in 1919 left a deep impact on Shaheed Bhagat Singh: PM Modi during #MannKiBaat\n#MannKiBaat: Bhagat Singh, Sukhdev and Rajguru were not scared of death. Prime Minister Narendra Modi\nWe are marking 100 years of Champaran Satyagraha. This was one of the earliest Gandhian mass movements in India: PM #MannKiBaat\nThe Champaran Satyagraha showed us how the special Mahatma Gandhi was and how unique his personality was: PM Modi during #ManKiBaat\nNew India manifests the strength and skills of 125 crore Indians, who will create a Bhavya and Divya Bharat, says the PM #ManKiBaat\nIndia has extended support People of India have denied corruption \u0026 black money: PM\nPeople of India are getting angry as far as the dirt is concerned, it will lead to more efforts towards cleanliness: PM Modi during #MannKiBaat\nWastage of food is unfortunate. It is an injustice to the poor: PM Modi during #MannKiBaat\nDepression can be overcome We all can play a role in helping those suffering from depression overcome it: PM Modi during #MannKiBaat\nLets us make the 3rd International Day of Yoga memorable by involving more and more people: PM during the #MannKiBaat\nPM Modi highlights the benefits of maternity bill during #MannKiBaat\nMy dear countrymen, Namaskar Parents in most parts of the country should be busy with their children's examinations. There will be an understanding of relief, but where the examinations are still on, there will definitely be some amount of pressure. However, at a time like this I would only say that the students will be able to listen again in the 'Mann Ki Baat' last time. I am sure there will be lots of helpful help while they sit for their examinations.\nToday is the 26th of March. 26th March is Independence Day of Bangladesh It was an historic war against injustice, which was led under the leadership of \"Banga-Bandhu\" and led to the unprecedented victory of the people of Bangladesh. I extend my heartfelt greetings to the brothers and sisters of Bangladesh, on this significant day. And I hope that Bangladesh marches ahead on the path of progress. I also assure the citizens of Bangladesh that India is a strong partner, and a good friend, and we will continue to work together.\nIt is a great honor for all of us that Rabindranath Tagore and his memories are a shared heritage. The National Anthem of Bangladesh too, has been composed by Gurudev Rabindranath Tagore There is a very interesting fact about Gurudev that in 1913 he was the first Asian to receive the Nobel prize, but Knighthood was also given on him by the British. After the Jallianwallah massacre by the British in 1919, Rabindranath Tagore was one of the legendary figures, who raised their voices in protest. And it was at the same time, that is a very deep impact on a twelve-year-old boy. The inhuman massacre at Jallianwalla Bagh, provided a new inspiration and mission in life to that young teenager, who had spent his life in the fields. And Bhagat, that 12-year old boy in 1919, evolved to be the martyr Bhagat Singh, our dear hero and inspiration. On the 23rd of March, Bhagat Singh Ji and his comrades, Sukhdev and Rajguru, were hanged to death by the British, and we are all aware of that. There was a sense of fulfillment on the faces of Bhagat Singh, Sukhdev and Rajguru for having served Mother India - - there was no fear of Death They had sublimated all their dreams These three heroes Bhagat Singh, Sukhdev and Rajguru. And the whole British Empire They were in jail, some to hang out That is why, though the scheduled date was the 24th, they were hanged on the 23rd of March. This was done clandestinely, which is not the usual practice. And later, their lives were brought to present day, and were secretly cremated. Many years ago, when I first got the chance to go there, I could feel a certain vibration in that place. And I would certainly urge the youth of our country to go to Punjab, whenever they get the chance, and visit the 'samadhi' of Bhagat Singh, Sukhdev, Rajguru, Bhagat Singh's mother and Batukeshwar Dutt.\nThat was the period when the desire for freedom, its intensity, and spread On the one hand, brave hearts like Bhagat Singh, Sukhdev and Rajguru, were inspiring And on the other hand, exactly one hundred years ago on the 10th of April, 1917, Mahatma Gandhi launched the Champaran Satyagraha. This year marks the centenary of the Champaran Satyagraha. In India's struggle for freedom, Gandhian thought and Gandhian practice became manifest for the first time in Champaran. This was a turning point in the whole of India's freedom struggle. This was the period when, in the Champaran Satyagraha, Kheda Satyagraha, and the mill workers' strike in Ahmedabad, the deep impact of Mahatma Gandhi's thoughts and practices was amply and clearly visible. Gandhi returned to India in 1915, and in 1917, he went to a small village in Bihar and gave him a new inspiration. We can not evaluate the champion on the image of the image of Mahatma Gandhi that we cherish in our hearts today. Just imagine that one man, who came to India in 1915, and had been in the country for barely two years. The country did not know him, he bore no influence then; it was just the beginning We can only imagine the hardships that he has suffered, And it was the Champaran Satyagraha that brought to the fore, Mahatma Gandhi's organizational skills, and his strong ability to gauge the pulse of Indian society. Mahatma Gandhi, through his demeanor and works, could inspire the poor, the most illiterate, to unite and come together in the British rule; This was a manifestation of an incredible inner strength, which we have experienced in the vastness of Mahatma Gandhi's great personality. But if we reflect on the Gandhi of a hundred years ago, the Gandhi of the Champaran Satyagraha, that will be a subject of deep study We can all learn from Gandhiji what it means to a life of public service, how hard is there to work, as Gandhi did And that was the period when all the stalwarts, that we heard about today: Rajendra Babu, Acharya Kripalani Ji, and others were all sent to the villages by Gandhi Ji. Ways and means to connect with the people and lending hues of freedom And the British were simply unable to understand Gandhi Ji's unique style of working, which encompassed both the struggle and the creation together. In a way, Gandhi made two sides of the same coin; one being the struggle and the other, creativity To get themselves arrested, the voluntarily to fill jails, on the one hand, and on the other to immerse themselves in creative work. Gandhi's style of working What the word 'Satyagraha' means, what disagferences can mean, what such a vast empire of Non-Cooperation in the face can be -Gandhi Ji's resistance of a completely new vision, not just words, but a successful experiment through.\nToday, as the nation observes the centenary of the Champaran Satyagraha, the immense power of the common man, so visible in the struggle for freedom, manifests again in the journey from Swaraj to Suraaj, the resolutions, the 125 million countrymen of perseverance, following the tenet of 'Sarvijaya Hitaay, Sarvajan Sukhaay' ie. for the benefit of all, for the happiness of all, and the endless enterprise to achieve something for the country, the society, will bring about the realization of the dreams of the great souls who laid their lives.\nToday, as we live in the 21st century, which Indian would not want to see India change, which Indian would not want to become a partner in the transformation of the country! This desire of 125 crore countrymen for change, the effort to change, is what will be a strong foundation of a new India. 'New India' is not a government program, nor is it manifesto of a political party, nor is it a project 'New India' is the clarion call of 125 crore countrymen. It is the essence of the emotions of 125 crore Indians who want to come together and create a magnificent India. 125 crore Indians nurture a hope, a zeal, a resolve, an desire\nMy dear countrymen, if we, for a moment, pause to look with empathy at the happenings in society around us, and if we try to understand these, we will be amazed to see that lakhs of people, who have their own personal Responsibilities are working selflessly, for the society - the exploited, victimized, deprived; for the poor and the oppressed That too silently, and with devotion, as if they are performing 'tapasya' or 'sadhana' There are many who go to hospitals There are many who rush to donate blood, when required There are many who try to provide food to the hungry Our country is a great splendoured land The belief that the service to humanity is to god, is innate to us. If we look at it in its collectiveness, in an organized way, it comes as a major force. When there is a talk of 'New India', its criticism, its analysis, it is counter, but natural, and that is a fundamental of democracy. But it is true that if 125 crore countrymen resolve, and decide to walk on step by step on a path to realise that resolve, the dream of 'New India' will be completed in our lifetime. And all these things are not necessarily achieved through the budget, government projects, or government money. If every citizen resolves that the traffic rules, if every citizen resolves that he will discharge his duty honestly, if every citizen resolves that he will not use one day a week in petrol or diesel - - these are very big things. But this will contribute to the realization of the dream of this country, this 'New India', that is being nurtured by 125 crore countrymen, and this realization is their eyes before the acquisition. In essence, every citizen must discharge his civil duties and responsibilities. This in itself will be a good start to the New India.\nAs India gets ready to celebrate 75 years of independence in 2022, come let me remember Bhagat Singh, Sukhdev, Rajguru. Let us remember the Champaran Satyagraha Why do not we too, be a part of this journey from 'Swaraj to Suraaj' by making our lives disciplined, and filled with resolve Come, I invite you.\nMy dear countrymen, today I want to express gratitude to all of you. Digital payment, 'Digidhan' movement, in which people in large numbers have participated in a certain environment. There is also an increase in curiosity about cashless transactions. The poorest of the poor are making a try to learn, and people are slowly moving towards doing businesses without cash. There has been a surge in various payments of digital payment after demonetisation. The BHIM-App was just about two to two and a half months ago, but about half a billion people have downloaded it.\nMy dear countrymen, we should take our money and corruption to the next level. Can 125 crore countrymen resolve to take 2500 crore digital transactions during this year? We have made an announcement in the Budget. Our 125 crore countrymen, if they want to do so, they need not wait for a year; They can do in six months 2500 crore digital transactions - - - If we pay school fees, we will do so by cash but digital, if we travel by train, travel by air, we will pay digitally, if buy medicines, we will pay digitally, we will run if Fair price shops, we will use the digital mode. We can do this in our day to day life. You can not imagine how the country is in this way and you will be a brave soldier in the fight against black money and corruption. Recently, many Digidhan-mela programs were organized to educate the people and to public awareness. The solution was to organize 100 such programs all over the country About 80-85 programmes have already been conducted. There was also an reward scheme. Close to 12 and half people have won prizes Seventy thousand traders also won the prizes instituted for them. Every and every one of them also resolved The birth anniversary of Dr. Baba Saheb Ambedkar is on the 14th of April. And as was decided too earlier, The Digimela will bring a culmination on the 14th of April, the birth anniversary of Baba Saheb Ambedkar. On the completion of a hundred days, a grand closing ceremony will be held. There is a provision of a bumper draw also in that. I believe that in whatever time that has left before Baba Saheb Ambedkar's birth anniversary, we should popularize and promote the BHIM-App. We should encourage contribution of cash, of currency notes\nMy dear countrymen, I am glad that every time, I request people to keep in mind, many suggestions in But I have seen that the topic of cleanliness\nGayatri, a young girl from Dehradun, who is a student of class 11, has phoned in with a message: -\n\"Esteemed Principal, Prime Minister Sir, my respectful greetings to you. To begin with, heartiest congratulations on your victory in the elections, with a huge margin. I wish to share the issue I want to say that people will have to be aware about the importance of cleanliness Every day I pass by a river, in which people dump a lot of garbage and pollute rivers. The river flows under the Rispana Bridge For the sake of this river we went to settlements on its banks, spoke to people and took out rallies too, but to no avail. I would like to request a team there, or through the newspapers. Thank you. \"\nBrothers and sisters, look at the young daughter, the 11th class student. How is he enraged I think this is a good omen. This is exactly what I want - - that 125 crore countrymen be angered by filth. Once there is anger, dissatisfaction, rage, we will be compelled to act against this scourge. The good thing is that Gayatri is expressing his own anger, and giving suggestions to me, but she also goes on to say, There has been a consciousness since the launch of the Cleanliness Movement. Every person has become involved in a positive way. This is the movement There is an increase in the disgust of squalor. When there is awareness and active participation in the movement, it has its own significance. But cleanliness is more about a habit than a movement This movement is geared toward bringing about a change in the habit, a movement to inculcate the HABIT of cleanliness. This movement can be accomplished collectively It is a difficult task, but we have to do it I am sure that this solution has arisen in the younger generation, in children, in students, in the youth, augurs well for achieving good results. I would urge my fellow countrymen, who has heard Gayatri's message in my 'Mann Ki Baat' today, that will be a message to all of us.\nMy dear Countrymen, right from the beginning, I have started the program 'Mann Ki Baat', I have received a lot of suggestions on one issue, and in most of them, people have expressed concern about food wastage. We know that at home and at feasts and social gatherings, we tend to serve ourselves more food than we need We put everything on offer, on our plates, but we are unable to finish We can not even finish half of what is on our plates and then leave it uneaten. Have you ever thought about how much food we waste? Have you ever thought how much our food should be? This is not something that needs to be taught As it is, in our families, mothers always tell their children to eat only There is always some effort in this direction, but still the apathy is a crime against society. It is an injustice to the poor On the other hand, if we are able to avoid wastage, the family too benefits economically So while it is good to care about society I am not requesting too much on this issue, but I would like this awareness to spread. I do know some young people, who are active in such campaigns. They have created Mobile Apps And when they are going to eat it anywhere They work hard, and they are our own young people. You will find such people in our country The lives of these people We should only eat as much as we like\nSee, these are the pathways leading toward change. And those who are able to always say that in both places Now that we are talking about health, 7th April is World Health Day. United Nations has resolved to provide universal health coverage for all by 2030. This year on the occasion of World Health Day on the 7th of April, United Nations has focused on Depression, which is the theme this year. We are aware of this word, depression. According to one estimate, more than 35 million people in the world suffer from depression. The problem is that we are unable to fully comprehend it even in those around us, and perhaps we too are able to talk about it openly, with our family and friends The person suffering from depression too does not feel ashamed about it\nI want to tell my countrymen, that depression is not incurable There is a need to create an environmentally friendly environment. The First Mantra is the expression of depression instead of its suppression. Share openly what you are going through, with your colleagues, friends, parents, brothers, and teachers. Sometimes one is overcome by an emotion of loneliness - - - Students living in hostels are particularly vulnerable to it. We are fortunate that we have been raised in joint families, large families, where there is communication, which eliminates the chances of getting in depression. But I would still like to tell parents that if you notice your son or daughter or any other member of your family - - - But if someone in the family says, \"No, I will eat later.\" When the whole family is going on an outing, he just says, \"No, I do not want to come today.\" Have you ever wondered why he does so? You can be sure that this is the first step toward depression. If he prefers to stay away from a group, and tends to be all by yourself, do make an effort to ensure that this does not happen. He should be given one opportunity to be among people in whom he speaks openly Try to encourage him to express yourself, to express and bring out his insecurities and complexes. This is a very good way of dealing with it Depression can be the cause of many mental and physical illnesses. Just as diabetes can be root cause of all kinds of diseases, depression too, destroys all our abilities to sustain, to fight, to display courage and to take a decision. Your friends, your family, your surroundings, and environment, and if you are unfortunately gone in it, they can also pull you out of it. There is another way If you are unable to express your family and friends, then do one thing, go out in society with an sense of service Devote yourself with your heart in helping others and sharing their joys and sorrows. You will find that your company If you try to sympathize with the sufferings of others with a sense of service, a new self-confidence will be born within you. By joining others, serving them and serving them selflessly, you will easily be able to shed the weight\nYoga is also a good means for mental wellbeing. Yoga helps in relieving tension and stress, and leads to a happy state of mind. 21st June is International Day of Yoga This will be the third year of its observation. You all should start preparing for it right away Collective Yoga festivals should be celebrated If you have any ideas for Third International Yoga Day, please do send me your suggestions and guidance through my mobile application. You could compose as many songs and poems on Yoga, as possible, as they can be easily understood by the masses.\nToday I would like to say something especially to mothers and sisters, since health and wellbeing today Recently, the Government of India has taken a very important decision. The working-class women in our country - their numbers are increasing day by day, their participation is growing and this is a welcome trend. But women also shoulder certain special responsibilities They look after the family They also have to share the financial responsibilities of running the household, and because of that sometimes, the newborn has borne the injustice of the neglect. The Government of India has taken a very important decision. These working women will now be given maternity leave of 26 weeks, instead of the earlier 12 weeks, for their pregnancy and delivery. There are only two or three countries in the world. India has taken a great deal for women The basic aim is to ensure proper care of the newborn, the future citizen of India, from the time of birth. The newborn should get the full love and attention of the mother. That is how these children will grow Mothers too will remain healthy And that is why, this is a landmark decision, and this will benefit 18 lakh women working in the formal sector.\nMy dear countrymen, we will celebrate the auspicious day of Ram Navami on the 5th of April, Mahavir Jayanti is on the 9th of April, and on the 14th of April is the birth anniversary of Baba Saheb Ambedkar. May the lives of all these great luminaries inspire us, and give us the strength My heartiest new year greetings for Chaitra Shukla Pratipada, Varsh Pratipada, and Nav Samvatsar, which are two days from now. After Vasant Ritu or the season of Spring, it is now the time for the ripening of the crops, and the time for the farmers to reap the benefits of their hard work. The new year is celebrated in different parts of our country. New year is Gudi Padva in Maharashtra, Ugadi in Andhra and Karnataka, for the Sindhi is Cheti Chand, Navreh in Kashmir, Samvatsar Pooja in the Awadh region, Jud-Sheetal in the Mithila region of Bihar and the festival of Satuvani in the Magadh region India is a country blessed with rich diversity My heartiest greetings and best wishes to you Many thanks.\nPM @narendramodi extends his greetings to the people of Bangladesh #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/1ku2W7s7p1\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 26, 2017\nPM @narendramodi pays tributes to the respected Sheikh Mujibur Rahman. #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/VKbGsmAaVD\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 26, 2017\nIndia will always stand shoulder to Bangladesh #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/kzM1vFV2GU\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 26, 2017\nThe massacre in Amritsar in 1919 left on a deep impact on Shaheed Bhagat Singh. #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/0rpniYbwny\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 26, 2017\nBhagat Singh, Sukhdev and Rajguru were not scared of death. They lived and died for our nation #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/o7MESSgexb\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 26, 2017\nBhagat Singh, Sukhdev and Rajguru will continue to inspire the nation. #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/5scXAAaEpr\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 26, 2017\nHe returned to India and in two years he went to Bihar and what he did was the whole nation: PM on Gandhi Ji #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/1qHWEVTpnv\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 26, 2017\nThe Champaran Satyagraha showed us how the special Mahatma Gandhi was and how unique his personality was. #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/5l65xWjsK8\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 26, 2017\nNew India manifests the strength and skills of 125 crore Indians, who will create a Bhavya and Divya Bharat. #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/3JhJRSoiWh\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 26, 2017\nFulfilling the dreams and aspirations of the people of India #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/vBzpu4xGYC\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 26, 2017\nIndia has extended support People of India have denied corruption \u0026 black money #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/mRKoeWH45L\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 26, 2017\nWhenever I ask for suggestions and suggestions for #MannKiBaat, one theme which is going to be suggested is Swachhata. #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/uhsZC6ETfx\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 26, 2017\nPeople of India are getting angry as far as the dirt is concerned and this is a welcome sign. #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/ooL1l5fIEB\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 26, 2017\nMaking cleanliness is an integral part of our lives and a clean India #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/hJUDNRuVjv\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 26, 2017\nWastage of food is unfortunate. I know of many youngsters who are using technology and help prevent the waste of food: PM #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/9d3DmEP0Hx\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 26, 2017\nThe Prime Minister speaks about mental health and depression. #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/qy1HbLNVVt\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 26, 2017\nDepression can be overcome We all can play a role in helping those suffering from depression overcome it. #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/AsKR6HeDu0\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 26, 2017\nAlways good to share your feelings with others, if feeling depressed #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/N94tAUwSap\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 26, 2017\nYoga and how to make the 3rd International Day of Yoga memorable #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/GFgiRKghUX\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 26, 2017\nPM @narendramodi speaks about the benefits of the Maternity Bill #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/sPlNwxjWSf"