"Share\n\nMy intention is to make India, which is already the cutting and polishing hub, in an International Diamond Trading Hub: PM\nOur goal is to transform India into one generation: PM Modi\n#MakeInIndia One of the most transformative initiatives, our aim is to make India a preferred destination for manufacturing: PM\nGems \u0026 Jewelery Industry must start start-ups, make a growing market for made-to-order Indian jewelery: PM\nDistinguished guests from India and abroad\nDelegates\nLadies and Gentlemen\nI am very happy to address you at this charity dinner at the International Diamond Conference. This conference is part of the Golden Jubilee celebrations of the Gems and Jewelery Export Promotion Council of India. The conference on the theme \"Mines to Market 2017\", brings together miners, diamond companies, experts, retailers, bankers and analysts from across the globe.\nSince the council was made fifty years ago, India has made rapid progress in this industry. As you all know, India is now the world's largest producer of cut and polished diamonds. The gems and jewelery sector is one of the leading sectors in India in terms of value as well as employment generation. In the last four decades, India has emerged as the leader in diamond manufacturing and export. Exports of gems and jewellery from India This is one of India's success stories. From just eight eight million dollars in 1966-67, export reached one billion dollars in 1982-83 and two billion dollars in 1987-88. It crossed ten billion dollars in 2003-04, twenty billion dollars in 2007-08 and is now nearly forty billion dollars\nFriends, till recently, the Indian importers had had to go abroad for viewing and purchase rough diamonds. This reduced the efficiency of the supply chain. Many of us wanted to enable us to see and trade in India. In December 2014, the World Diamond Conference held in Delhi, I had announced in the presence of the Russian President that we would set up a Special Notified Zone to achieve this. This promise has been kept Amendments were made to our laws to enable rough diamonds to enter and exit. The Special Notified Zone at the Indian Diamond Bourse was operational in November, 2015. This has already shown good results. Previously only eighty to ninety big merchants used to get the diamonds by travelling to Belgium, Africa and Israel. Now, about three thousand small and medium merchants have this special privilege through the new Special Notified Zone. Many of the most reputed international names in the diamond industry have conducted over two hundred and forty four days of viewings. My intention is to make India, which is already the cutting and polishing hub, in an International Diamond Trading Hub.\nLadies and Gentlemen, Our goal is to transform India into one generation. Since taking office, this government has placed emphasis on many transformative initiatives. 'Make in India' is one of them Our aim is to make India a preferred destination for manufacturing. In the last fifty years, the gems and jewelery sector has accounted for four hundred and seventy five billion dollars of exports. This is the fact that India has little diamond or gold production. Another important initiative is Skill India Skill India aims to ensure that new entrants to the work force have the necessary skills to the economy of the 21st century. The gems and jewelery sector employs 4.6 million people Out of this, one million people are the only industry. Thus the gems and jewelery sector is a prime example of the potential of 'Make In India' and Skill India.\nToday, we have been voted as ministers of several African countries. India cherishes its excellent relations with Africa. Our shared post-colonial heritage and the similarity of the challenges we face, make us natural partners. I take this opportunity to assure my friends from Africa that India will be happy to support them in developing their gems and jewelery sector, and in training their technicians\nI started by saying that this sector is a long way from where it was. Although it should be still Our strongest area is diamond cutting and polishing. In terms of the global value in the jewels and jewelery market, our share is less than it should be. Our future is too much bigger than cutting and polishing alone We have a lot of unexplored potential Let me ask you a question:\nWhat's your strategy for growing?\nI am told that to a significant extent, Indian exports are importer-led: the specifications and designs are based on preferences by given importers. This means that India is a follower of global fashion rather than a leader of global taste. This does not do justice to our rich experience and abundant design talent. Let me give an example India has many famous icons, sculptures and statues dating back over two thousand years. Many of them are shown wearing jewellery These works of art are out of the world Have we documented these? Have we thought of promoting jewellery based on these works of art?\nFriends We live in an era where cloth retailers change people's preferences. Even hair dressers change hair style fashions of their clients We live in an era where diamonds were used in spectacles, watches and pens. Can not our jewellers, with their skills, strengths and heritage, create and change global tastes and fashions?\nIn order to be able to influence and change global fashion, our industry needs to be fully knowledge of its market. The industry collectively needs to study and understand the end-users and what they want: for example, some areas and some groups may prefer gold, others silver and yet others platinum. The basic point is that we can not be the leader E-commerce makes it easy This is a golden opportunity for the Indian industry The industry could think of encouraging start-ups by young entrepreneurs who made a growing market for made-to-order Indian jewelery.\nThere was a time in the past where some products from India had a global reputation. Today, India has acquired a global brand for high quality and excellence in software. We are yet to do in that jewelery. If we do that, the potential is huge. This is a task which the council should take in right earnest But the states also have a role to play. Since taking office, we have encouraged state governments to take a serious role in export promotion. I hope the industry is in constant touch Apart from exports, India is the fastest growing economy in the world.\nIt is important for the industry to plan its growth. But that is not enough It is also necessary to The Council should consider taking a census of the lowest-paid and least prosperous people in your industry, for example the workers living in places like Jaipur, Thrissur, Varanasi, Rajkot, Jaipur and Coimbatore. Can the industry ensure that every one of them has enrolled in government's low cost social security schemes like\n- The Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana for accident insurance\n- The Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Bima Yojana for life insurance and\n- The annual pension scheme for an assurance minimum pension?\nThe accident insurance cost is about a rupee a month and the life insurance costs about a rupee a day. A bank deposit of approximately five thousand rupees would be sufficiently paid.\nFriends India will celebrate the seventy fifth anniversary of its Independence in 2022. What are the goals and jewellery industry setting itself for that date? What do you do for the country? Where do you think the industry should be then then? How do you get there? How many new jobs can you create? I call upon you to give this a serious thought. If changes are needed in regulations, I ask you to come up with, specific and practical suggestions. If you are interested in our country\nI conclude I wish the conference all success\nUntil recently, the Indian importers had been able to go and buy rough diamonds. PM Narendra Modi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 19, 2017\nIn December 14, I had announced in the Russian President that we will set up a special notified zone to achieve this: PM Modi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 19, 2017\nThe Special Notified Zone at the Indian Diamond Bourse is operational in November 2015. This has already shown good results: PM Modi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 19, 2017\nEarlier 80-90 merchants got access to global rough diamonds. Now 3000 merchants have this privilege through Special Notified Zone: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 19, 2017\nThe gems and jewelery sector is a prime example of the potential of Make In India and Skill India: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 19, 2017\nI assure my friends from Africa that India will be happy to support them in their gems and jewelery sector: PM Modi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 19, 2017\nLet me ask you a question:\nWhat is your strategy for growing India's share of the jewelery market?\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 19, 2017\nWe live in an era where diamonds were used in spectacles, watches \u0026 pens. Can not our jewellers create and change global tastes \u0026 fashions ?: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 19, 2017\nThe industry could think of encouraging start-ups by entrepreneurs who can create a growing market for Indian jewelery: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 19, 2017\nThe Council should consider taking a census of the lowest-paid and least prosperous people in your industry: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 19, 2017\nCan the industry ensure that every one of them is enrolled in government's low cost social security schemes: PM Modi"