"Share\n\nLike the freedom movement, we need a movement for development, where collective aspirations propel growth of the nation: PM\nOur government has focused on time bound implementation and integrated thinking: PM\nJan Shakti is bigger than the strength of Government: PM Modi\nIndia's economy is being transformed and manufacturing sector is getting a strong impetus: PM\nWe believe in cooperative federalism, GST process shows what deliberative democracy is about: PM Modi\nOur focus is next generation infrastructure Significant resources have been devoted to the rail and road sector: PM\nMerging rail budget with general budget would be the fast growth of the transport sector as a whole: PM Modi\nEvery citizen must resolve to create a new India that provides opportunities for all to flourish: PM Modi\nFirst of all, many-many congratulations and greetings.\nEarlier also I had opportunities to associate myself with India Today Conclave. I have been told that Editor of Chief of India Today Group has given me a new post, \"Disrupter-in-Chief\" and \"The Great Disruption\" on the last two days.\nFriends for many decades The idea that the government will do everything was prevailing This came to our notice after several decades. Attempts were made to correct the mistakes but our thought was constrained from the lone attempt that was made two decades ago and that was taken as reform.\nFor a long time the country is either a government or a coalition government. Because of this, one set of views\nEarlier, it was either used to run out of election due to political system or something based on rigid frame work of bureaucracy. These were two systems and evaluation of government's performance also made in this parameter.\nWe have to accept that the technology has undergone a rapid change in last 20 years.\nAlso, the aspirations of today's youth are 30 years ago. And all the equations of Bipolar World as well as Inter-dependent world have also got changed\nIf you look at the Freedom Movement, you will see that during those days national aspiration was given more weightage than personal aspirations. The movement was so intense that out of the centuries old bondage. The movement for development on the lines A movement that extends personal aspirations to collective aspirations and collective aspiration lead to the overall development of the country.\nThis Government is going forward with the vision of Ek Bharat-Shreshtha Bharat. Approach to handling problems For many years All Indian Languages ​​are our assets Attention was drawn on all the languages ​​in the chord of unity. We made pairing of two states with the result that now states are getting familiar with the cultural diversities of their counterparts.\nObviously So this word of yours This is a system crashing view It is rejuvenation for keeping the spirit of nation up to date. And this is the psyche of 21st century people So if anyone is \"Disrupter-in-Chief\" for now, it's the 125 crore Indians. Anyone who is involved in the masses of India, will be the disrupter.\nRigid ideology and orthodox thinking make some persons presume that its only corridor of power that changes the world But it's not correct\nWe have clubbed time bound implementation and integrated thinking with the work culture of Government And our work is to ensure transparency in system, citizen friendly-cum-development friendly processing and re-engineering of process Friends, today India is one of the rapidly developing economies. World Investment Report has been assessed In 2015-16, a record investment of more than 55 billion dollars. In last two years, India has up scaled by 32 ranks in the Global Competency Index of World Economic Forum.\nMake in India is today our biggest initiative Today India is World's 6th largest manufacturing nation\nFriends, this Government lays emphasis on Cooperative Federalism. The progress of GST is a result of deliberative democracy. Consensus on GST is a significant outcome\nThis is a unanimous decision. All the states have ownership in this You may call it a disruptive but in fact GST is a proof of federal structure.\nSabka Saath Sabka Vikas is simply not a slogan, it is a reality\nFriends, for years a thought has prevailed in our country. Contrary to those those calls for reforms in Labor laws were considered as anti-labor. Means extreme at both ends\nIt was never thought of going ahead with a holistic approach for employers, employees and aspirants as well.\nBefore an employer had logged in to 56 different registers for the compliance of diverse labour laws. Same information was getting in different registers. Government has notified last month that now employer will have to maintain only 5 registers instead of earlier 56 under different labour laws. This will help employers\nThe government is paying full attention on expending job market. Besides, Public and Private Sector Government is also pressing on Personal sector also. Youth is granted loan without guarantee under the Mudra Yojana. During the last two and half years loan amounting more than three lakh crores has been given under the Mudra Yojana to more than six crore people.\nStates have also been advised to do the opening of normal shops and establishments 365 days in a year.\nBy establishing Ministry of Skill Development for the first time Formal Employment is promoted by way of Prime Minister's Employment Promotion Scheme and rebate in Income Tax\nSimilarly, the number of apprentices has been enhanced by amending the Apprenticeship Act and the stipend is admissible during this period also has increased.\nFriends, people are more important than power of Government On earlier occasions I have repeatedly said that without people connect it is not possible to run the country Without taking the people You are the person who has seen the unprecedented people power during the post-Diwali action against black money and corruption, the one that is visible only in war time or any critical situation\nThis people power is now getting united just because people are willing to eliminate the maladies in the rampant within the country, desirous of going forward by way of defeating weakness and want to make a new India\nIf today more than 4 crore toilets have been built in country under Clean India campaign and more than 100 districts have been declared free from defecation, is the glaring proof of the unity of his people power.\nSurrendering of gas subsidy by more than one crore people\nSo it is applicable to public forgesions and judgments should be taken in public aspersions and they should be implemented in definite time frame.\nWhen Jan Dhan Yojana was launched, it was said that the poor and deprived people will be connected with the Banking System. So far 27 crore bank accounts of poor people have been opened under this scheme.\nSimilarly, the government had fixed a target of providing free gas connections to five crore people in three years. In only 10 months about two million people have already given gas connections.\nThe government had promised to provide electricity within thousand days in those 18 thousand villages where even after 70 years. In 650 days over 12 thousand villages have been provided\nWherever required laws, regulations and regulations were amended and repealed So far over 1100 obsolete laws have been repealed.\nFriends, for years The General Budget of country was tabled in Parliament at 5 pm. This was a British arrangement as 5pm in India meant 11.30 am in Britain. Atal ji brought this change\nYou have seen this year By looking at this is a very big change. Else, the budget was tabled in February end and funds reached different departments months later. Then Monsoon Months Now to implement the programmes smoothly the departments will get their funds well in time\nSimilarly, there was an artificial partition of plan and non-plan in the budget. For making headlines newer things were given high emphasis Due to this there was too much imbalance on the ground By doing away this artificial imbalance we strive for\nThe Budget The system of separate Railway Now the transport means have become multidimensional Now there is Rail, Road, Aviation, water route and Sea route and an integrated approach for all these is a must. Government will be a step towards a technological revolution in the Transport Sector.\nDuring the last three years you have gone through the government policies-decisions and intentions. I am of the view that in 21st century this very approach for new India will lead the nation to new heights and will strengthen the base of New India.\nSo far, the lighting of lamps, cutting ribbons This too was taken as work and no one else had taken it Yow will wonder that though in our country more than 1500 new projects was announced but most of them could not come out of files.\nSuch many mega projects are stalled for years Now one system has been developed for the proper monitoring of projects. PRAGATI means Pro-Active Governance and Timely Implementation\nNow in a meeting I chair in Prime Minister's Office and through video conferencing all the Secretaries of various Ministries / Departments of Government as well as Chief Secretaries of all the States come all with for deliberations. Before it, the list of pending / stalled projects gets readied.\nTill now more than 8 lakh crore rupees worth projects have been reviewed PRAGATI meetings More than 150 Highly Important projects are stalled for years\nGovernment is focusing on those Next Generation Infrastructures which are highly needed for the nation. Highest ever allocation has been made for rail and road sector during last three years. Their work This has resulted in the remarkable growth of the working speed of these two sectors.\nEarlier, the railway electrification work was being done at a very slow speed. Government has accelerated the pace of this program. This reduced the running running expenditure and the available electricity was meticulously used.\nSimilarly, Railway was given Open Access under the Electricity Act Now Railway is able to save its funds Previous Electricity companies were stiffly opposing this open access initiatives leading to forced procurement by railways on higher prices. Now Railway is able to purchase\nEarlier the linkage of power plants and coal was in such a way that for a plant located in north then coal will be brought from central India and north or east from coal western India. This resulted in higher expenditure for power plants on coal transportation leading to higher electricity prices. We rationalized the coal linkages which resulted in the loss of cost as well as saved time and electricity.\nThis clearly shows that this Government is not vying for Tunnel Vision, rather it has Total Vision in his thought during the discharge of duty.\nSee. Previously the railway was not allowed to build Rail Over Bridge for months in the case of road track. For a couple of months Now this Government has prepared a Uniform Design for Rail Over Bridge and the proposals are given on hand.\nAvailability of Electricity is the country We are working on holistically on power sector and succeeding from the moment. A generation capacity of 46 thousand There is an increase of 25 percent in generation capacity. Transparent auctioning of coal and making it\nToday there is no such thermal plant which is critical Crital means coal available for less than 7 days Occasionally large headlines were used in power and the scarcity of coal stocks at plants. You can not recall when the last time is broken. May be this news stacked in your archives\nFriends, in the first two years of this government, 50 thousand kilometre long circuit transmission lines have been laid while the 2013-14 only 16 thousand kilometre circuit lines were laid.\nOur scheme has given us a new lease of life to government owned power distribution companies. All these actions have resulted in more availability of power and the electricity rates have also come down Today via one App-One can check the availability of power as well.\nGovernment is also emphasizing on Clean Energy. A target of producing 175 giga watt renewable energy has been fixed. Out of which so far 50 Giga Watt means 50 thousand Mega Watts has been available.\nIn the area of ​​Global Wind Power Installed Capacity India is now 4th place in the world.\nGovernments on the increase in power generation and reduction in its consumption Till now around 22 thousand LED bulbs have been distributed in the country.\nThis has reduced power consumption and pollution has also receded and people are now able to save 11 thousand crore rupees annually.\nFriends, the task of connecting 2.5 lakh Panchayats across the country through Optical Fiber began in 2011.\nBut between 2011 and 2014 cable could be placed in only 59 village panchayats.\nAt this pace you can imagine the time taken in connecting 2.5 lakh panchayats. Our government took necessary corrective actions and prepared a mechanism for remedial measures.\nDuring last two and half years more than 78 thousand village panchayats have been inked and connected through optical fibers.\nSide by side we are arranging for providing Wi-Fi Hot Spot in every panchayat so that the people of village can also easily use this facility.\nAttention is also given to this facility in school, hospitals and Police stations too.\nMeans and resources are same but the style of action is changing with a quick speed.\nBefore 2014 it took 15 days in incorporating one company, now it takes 24 hours.\nIt takes months to get Income Tax Refunds before and now it's a matter of weeks. Before making the passport for months long process and now within a week. Friends this support system for technology and good governance is now available for us too.\nGovernment is working with the people of doubling\nFor this purpose, the government is standing with farmers from the market.\nFarmers are getting good quality seeds and Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchaaee Yojana has been launched for irrigating every field.\nUnder Prime Minister's scheme, such schemes have been covered. Soil Health Cards Shortage of Urea is now history\nFor the purpose of remunerative price of crops to farmers more than 580 agricultural markets (mandis) are being connected online under the e-NAM scheme. Story and supply chain is being strengthened\nFriends, action is also being taken in all levels in health sector schemes have been started after the inward reminder of the immunization of children, health care of pregnant women, preventive health care and sanitation.\nRecently Government has approved National Health Policy A road has been drawn up under which health care system will be made accessible to every citizen.\nGovernment could also try that in 2.5 percent of GDP at least Today the country is importing more than 70 percent Medical Devices and equipment Now the effort is on promoting local manufacturing under Make in India so that the treatment costs gets lowered further.\nFriends government is also laying emphasis on social infrastructure. Our government is working in the\nBy organizing around 5000 camps more than 6 Lakhs physically disabled people Even these camps have been registered in the Guinness Book.\nA Sugamya Bharat campaign is being launched in the problems of physically handicapped while boarding or alighting at Hospitals, Railway Stations, Bus Stands and In Government Offices.\nIn government jobs for them reservation has been increased from present 3 to 4 percent.\nLaws are also being amended for insuring\nA common sign language is being developed\nFriends our country of 125 crore citizens is full of resources and there is no darth of potential\nFriends in 2022 our independence will be 75 years old, will it be possible for all of the dreams of Mahatma Gandhi, Sardar Patel, Baba Saheb Ambedkar and many fighters who have come to freedom for their life of sacrifice coming true?\nAll of us - be it Family, Organisation, Unit must resolve for the next five years for actuating the dream of making a New India.\nYour dream, your resolve, your time, your dedication and results will be yours\nNew India, an India marching ahead form aspersions to realty.\nA new India where the opportunity will prevail instead of benevolence\nThe Doctrine for the Foundation of New India\nNew India and India's new potential and new opportunities\nNew India an India of green fields and smiling farmers\nNew India, an India of yours and ours pride."