"Elections were about 'Lok Shikshan' and deepening the bond between people and democracy: PM\nA new India of the dreams of its Yuva Shakti is taking shape: PM Modi\nA new India that fulfills its aspirations of Nari Shakti is taking shape: PM\nPower is not about posts. Power is an opportunity to serve, says PM Modi\nAn integral to our work We are the power of India's poor: PM Modi\nGovernment is formed with 'Bahutmat' but runs through 'Sarvamat'. Ours is a government of everyone: PM\nBharatiya Janata Party national president Mr. Amit Shah ji, all seniors of the Bharatiya Janata Party sitting on stage, workers, brothers and sisters Many more greetings to you and the countrymen for the holy festival of holi.\nEvery festival in India brings the message of this, reminds us repeatedly, whether in the life of a person, in the life of the society, defeating the evils in the life of the nation, by emphasizing the good ones Learning to grow leads us to every celebration. Even if this is the holiest festival of Holi, if there are any weaknesses in ours, if there are any weaknesses in society, if there are any weaknesses in the nation's life, then there should be a resolve to go ahead and defeat them. This resolution should be repeated in every festival and the holy festival of Holi should give all those power to all, give power to the 500 million people so that we can proceed with the good deeds and work for the welfare of mankind.\nAssociates\nThere is work to create elections in democracy, but elections in democracy are a matter of great publicity. The commitment to democracy goes deeper, the belief of ordinary human beings against democracy is not limited to voting. His involvement in nation building continued to grow Very important for a country like India. The way the voting percentage is increasing in our country. In spite of enthusiasm, people celebrate this festival of democracy, except for political parties. I consider it a good sign in terms of democracy. And when there are many reasons for winning occasionally but after unimaginable heavy voting, there is unimaginable huge victory that is compelling to think for the political scholars. I was listening to some political scholars yesterday too. Even today I was reading something. In the country, on emotic issues, they have appeared on the elections. His influence has also been shown above the election, but developmental except for emotional issues is a hard-to-hard issue. There is a very difficult issue, all the political parties have been shouting about these issues since the last 50 years and have used them as a passing symbol. It is important to be evaluated by this view that even after not having an emotional issue, such a huge turnout would be done.\nOn the issue of development on the issue of poor people of the country coming forward for voting, a new Hindustan is going to see me. And I choose the election of these five states and especially in Uttar Pradesh, which gives India the ability to give direction, power, motivation, such a big state. When the results of the elections have come there, then I see the elections of these five states as a new foundation of new Hindustan.\nNew India\n65% New India dreams of young people under the age of 35 New India dreams of unprecedented women groups. Such a new India, which seeks to find something for the desire to do something rather than the desire to get something in the country, it is a huge change in itself. Even the poor of the country, you give something, you will feel good to me, have left this mentality. The poor say that I want to go further on my own, you make opportunities available to me, I will work hard. This is the foundation of New India. And so who won this election, who lost? Whom did we defeat, who, what did he do? I am not one of those who think in this area. Election is a sacred order of Janataanan for the Bharatiya Janata Party. And I emphasize the order. And God has given us the capacity to fulfill that order. Keeping the full use of it should be constantly trying so that we can succeed in showing the hope of Janata Janadana - to fulfill the Akakhs.\nvictory.\nThe tree also teaches us, plants also teach us. Any tree is too high, but as soon as the fruit starts, it starts bending. Nature gives us the inspiration and when the BJP has come out victorious on this tree, then we have the responsibility of bending the Bharatiya Janata Party to the highest. The responsibility of becoming more humble becomes. This post of power is not a part of Shobha. There is an opportunity to serve power. We have to walk on this matter. We have won many times Four generations have been consumed for this purpose. Atal ji, Advani ji, Kushabhau, Jana Krishnamurthy ji, countless people who have shed their sweat to plant their life, to their youth, to plant this idea in the corners of India in the form of seeds, then go to this tree Is made. Millions of workers have done unbridly devoted manners. The result of that is that today the public has become the symbol of the aspirations of Janardan. And therefore, for the last 50-60 years, we have to serve the common man while doing maximum work in accordance with the dreams of all those who perform penance for this party. The result of this election is also an emotional issue for us. It is therefore that this year is the year of Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay's birth anniversary and Pandit Deendayal Upadhyaya, Uttar Pradesh, was also his workplace. Such a great blessing at the time of birth of such a great man is meditation which is the order of Antodya of Deendayal ji. In the power of poor, poor and poor I can see. I recognize the power of the poor in the country and the more the poor will get opportunity to build the future of the nation, the more the country will move forward at a faster pace. If the poor are educated then they will give more results to the society. If the poor have the opportunity of work, they will show more for the country. And this country's greatest strength is the poor of our country.\nSometimes people of the middle class today have to undergo a lot of burden. Taxes also have to give more to the middle class. Even the middle class has to adhere to the rule, even the middle class has to adhere to all the norms of society. If all the economic burden is seen as a quantum, then the middle class person carries the most. This burden should be low on it. This burden is on the middle class and because of that, it also has the potential. He does not need anyone's help to move at a faster pace. Only he wants that the obstacles are far away, he has the ability to do some of the races. Once the poorest of the poor will have the strength to carry their own burden. The burden of the middle class of this country will be completely removed. This form of economics, I am experiencing this form of economics in New India. And once the power of the poor of the country, the dream of the middle class of the country can not stop them from taking this country to new heights.\n\nAnd so brothers and sisters\nThe support of the Bharatiya Janata Party has been growing steadily in our respective elections. Vijay travel is continuously going forward. In every region of India, the Bharatiya Janata Party has shown good in the past and so the national president of our party Mr. Amit Shah ji and the central team, the team of the states, the militant workers who are in charge of the organization with them are the successors of this Vijay Yatra, I congratulate him very much. Amit Bhai reached the Bharatiya Janata Party as the party's president, as the largest democratic party in the world by campaigning for membership. It is one thing to win elections but to reach the Bharatiya Janata Party on every terrain of India in every section of the society, from democratic caste, it is also a great service to democracy. And wherever we go to the world with pride, wherever we go to the world, anyone who gets the chance to meet in the world should say that we are a member of the party which is the largest organization in the world. Say the Jan Sangh, the Bharatiya Janata Party, today's opportunity to serve the maximum population in its entire victory journey has become available to the Bharatiya Janata Party. Even by the Center, also by the states and by the local self-governing bodies, it is a golden time in the history of Vijay Bharat Vijay's Vijay Yatra, this is the golden time. And this golden time has not been received suddenly, due to the circumstances suddenly not found. With hard work, following the covenants of public life from sacrifice and penance, we have reached here today by millions of people, unbroken a new man for four generations. We have never got anything in sauga and we do not even have to teach it because we want to do for society, want to do something for the country. There are people out there with this resolution\nbrothers Sisters.\nIn front of the country we have witnessed a lot of election oriented dreams. We want to take forward the success of New India with the participation of 500 million nationals. A first place is in front of us 2022. I am not a person who runs the account of election. I say beforehand. In my mind, there are hundreds of thousands of Hindus in India, there are 125 million nationals. 2022 India's Independence will be 75 years. Whatever journey has taken place in 75 years, the form has gone. Everyone who has the opportunity to serve, everyone has done it in his own way and we never even deny this. The government which got the opportunity, has worked. The Prime Minister who had the opportunity, worked, the Chief Minister got the opportunity, he worked. We respect every work, we respect, but 2022 India's 75 years of independence. We have 5 years of time. If the hundred and fifty million people, five years in their personal life, a resolution every year, a new resolution every year in the organization's life, in which unit works. In that unit a new resolution will be completed by 2022. If these moods are created in the country then the country will not be left behind. I assure the friends And it has got a boost from election results. To fulfill the dream of 2022 India's dream is to create a movement of one hundred crore people in the country. One of the things to do for these dreams is to make preparations, to create an environment, to connect every human being, to strengthen them, the election results of these five states have done.\nAnd so brothers and sisters\nFirst of all, I heartily congratulate the voters of these five states and I assure the voters of these five states that you have put your trust in the Bharatiya Janata Party. The belief that Bharatiya Janata Party workers have kept. I assure you that he has come by choosing such faces, which probably will never be seen on any TV. You have sent me by choosing such faces, who have never found a place in the lines of the newspaper that I have not found, I do not know but despite that, you put your trust. Maybe our people will have less experience. Our identity may not be comprehensive, but I believe in these five states that our partners will not keep any ambition on fulfilling your aspirations. If you have to learn new things, you will learn, with good intentions. Do your best to do well.\nbrothers Sisters.\nToday, the dreams we are going through today, I want to remember once again today. This same senior team was sitting on the 11 Ashoka road in 2014 and the resolution of the Bharatiya Janata Party, which is called the manifesto in the political field. The Bharatiya Janata Party considers it a resolution letter. When I had the opportunity to present it to the people of the country, on that day I had said one thing. Well, there are some things that are not understood at this time. People live in their limits or do not want to understand. So what I had said on that day was taken in very wrong sense and made it so wrong that no one should dare to speak again, but today, when the government has been more than two and a half years old. In a way, we are standing on the halt between the 5-year tenure. Then I dare to repeat that to myself, in front of the hundred and fifty million people. three things. I was somewhere and there was no reason to do wrong. But the people did it. One I said was that we are new. Our experience was also less because sometimes there were not even members of parliament, but while keeping the letter of commitment, I had said that we can make a mistake if we are human, then I said, 'we may be wrong, but with no intention of any work will not do'. The second thing I said was, 'We will do the utmost to labor, we will do the utmost to work harder'. This I promised another country. And the third I said 'whatever we will do with certification'. I am glad the comrades that this is a prime minister on which they are asked why do so much work? Why do you work so hard? What could be the good fortune of life?\nI once again thank the voters of the five states, many people from the heart of the nation, to believe in us and I would like to say that in a democracy, the government is formed by majority, but it is run by Sarvamat. And so the government of Bharatiya Janata Party, who has voted, also has them. Those who did not vote, they also have. Those who have gone along with them also have theirs, who are in front of them. सरकार को कोई भेदभाव करने का हक नहीं है और न ही भारतीय जनता पार्टी ऐसे किसी हक को स्वीकार करती है। और इसलिए वोट दिया न दिया, वो चुनाव नतीजों तक ठीक है। उसके बाद उत्तर प्रदेश है तो सबके सब उत्तर प्रदेश की वो सरकार है, वो सरकार सब उत्तर प्रदेश वासियों के लिए है। मणिपुर की सरकार है, गोवा की सरकार है, पंजाब की सरकार है, उत्तराखंड की सरकार, सरकार सबकी होती है, सबके लिए होती है और सबको साथ लेकर के चलने के लिए होती है। इस पवित्र विचार को लेकर के ही, हम काम करते आए हैं, काम करते रहेंगे और हम जितने नये अवसर मिलेंगे। हर नये अवसर में न्यू इंडिया बनाने के लिए, नये हिंदुस्तान को बनाने के लिए, न्यू हिंदुस्तान के लिए कोई कसर नहीं छोड़ेंगे। ये मैं देशवासियों को विश्वास देता हूं। फिर एक बार आप इतनी बड़ी संख्या में आए, विजयश्री के बाद देशवासियों को मेरे भाव व्यक्त का आपने अवसर दिया मैं आपका बहुत-बहुत आभारी हूं। फिर एक बार अमित शाह और उनकी टीम को ह्रदय से बहुत-बहुत अभिनंदन। मेरे साथ बोलें। Long live Mother India. Long live Mother India. Long live Mother India. Vande Matram. Vande Matram. Vande Matram."