"\nWomen sarpanchs should take the initiative to prevent female foeticide: PM\nWomen sarpanchs must ensure that every girl child in their relative goes to school: PM\nGuided by the mantra of Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao, Our Government is trying to bring about a positive change: PM\nBoys and girls, both should get equal access to education A discriminative mindset can not be accepted: PM\nSwachh Bharat Mission is virtually turned into a mass movement: PM Modi\nSwachhata has become our habit: PM Narendra Modi\nMothers and sisters are coming from across the length and breadth of the country who are a source of motivation by virtue of their works, I feel fortunate to have your blessings and a dialogue with you on International Women's Day.\nI have been told that you are the last two days Some of you have visited different districts and villages and seen the life is like there. You have also seen two exhibitions here on the development of villages and the emphasis laid on the importance of cleanliness. This is a state of the art exhibition based on latest techniques. It is I request you to take this exhibition casually instead of seeing it as a student. I am sure you will get new inputs from this and a new direction to work as a Sarpanch and it will strengthen your resolve.\nSecondly, this is an event to highlight the power of cleanliness. Gujarat Gandhi's birth place In this city named after Gandhi and we are in that Mahatma Mandir. So you can easily understand the importance of this place. There is also a digital exhibition and virtual museum here. You also visit the Gandhi Kutir An understanding of Bapu's life specially his emphasis on cleanliness must strengthen our resolve to turn Mahatma's dreams in a reality\n2019, the year of Mahatma Gandhi's 150th birth anniversary. Pujya Bapu used to say that India resides in villages. Further he said, \"Given a choice to pick between freedom and cleanliness, I will ask for cleanliness.\" This commitment shows Gandhiji passion for cleanliness. Indeed every government has contributed to the realization of Ganjiji's dream right from the days of Gandhiji. Still we have to work more and while in 2019 in commemorating the 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi we have to ensure that cleanliness will become part of our routine and be treated as our national identity. We will feel cleanliness in our veins. We want to reach this point\nHere are those Sarpanch sisters who had made it possible in their villages. They have opposed the defecation in open and strived to develop a new system. This makes me believe that the momentum gained in a great extent provided it is taken in action in a refined and time bound manner by 2019\nA couple of moments ago you watched a film that showed our cleanliness ranking 42% before independence. In such a short span of time we reached 62 in ranking. If in such a short span we can go up by 20 percent then in next one and a half year too much can be done and it is clearly your achievement.\nToday I had a chance to watch the small films of those women who had broken many myths. Some people are the only people who can not understand the same things but these sisters have broken that myth. Some people think that only city dwellers are fluent in English. However, these sisters who are able to communicate only in their specific language have done this. Attachment of a person with his life will help him to cross all kind of hurdles. Many people are ignorant about their life You inquire about their next day's mandate, they will say I decide in the evening. Such people can not get any information about their life span. They just go it pass, count days and often celebrate petty good happenings of their life.\nBut the one who gets the purpose of his life, never tires and ever remembers taking his goal, and his challenges are complete.\nYour becoming Sarpanch is not a small achievement Some of you may not have faced hurdles but the majority in the situation of the democratic tradition\nFifteen years ago when the meeting of the Sarpanchs was held, there was talks of 33% reservation. But in meetings I had seen while working out of Gujarat and elsewhere in different states that while inquiring for women members it was the person who spelled themselves as SP introducing the scene. Strange thing for me is that a government official has turned into a party meeting. Asking them for their justification for the elaborated SP as Sarpanch Pati (Husband of Lady Sarpanch). It was then and there but now now A women elected as Sarpanch is now aware of her period of 5 years. She has some concrete for action She gets new role adjusting with her family chores and responsibilities. She makes an environment of her primaryities in acceptability. And it has been experienced that a women Sarpanch works more efficiently in its male counterpart She has a distinct focus A Male Sarpanch engages himself in many more activities. His getting sarpanch is a new high chair in district board One who is in Jila Parishad is the Chief of the State Assembly but a woman Sarpanch gets her role. And now we have seen the result positive\nAn interesting survey on Professional Women has revealed that women are more adaptive in learning new things. They work full heartedly and continuously with full capacity They are not For this they are capable of mobilising proper resources with an instinct.\nActive involvement of 50 percent women power in the development tour of nation can propel the country to amazing heights. So work with Beti Bachao Beti Padhao doctrine is direly necessary in our country At least there should be no female foeticide in a village having Mahila Sarpanch. A Sarpanch has been able to create awareness in this regard. She can stand against the atrocities committed in any daughter-in-law there and can save her too After that Today our society is witnessing severe deteriorating things. There is a sharp imbalance in boy-girl ratio. Against 1000 boys there are somewhere 800, 850, 900 or 925 girls. With this grave imbalance a society can not move further. It's a sin and the society should stand against it\nWomen Sarpanch can be more successful here We have patriarchal society with a mind set of bias against girls as they will go to new family, rather take care of son. In your tender age, you have noticed your mother is having a women used to pour 02 spoons of ghee an a plate of her son and only one in the plate of daughter. Simply because the daughter will be married in other family. Having a thing of pride This is half truth. I have never seen a single child daughter who has just decided not to get married so that her parents does not face hardships. On the other hand I have also seen that aged parents are stocked to old age homes despite having 4-4 ​​male children\nTherefore, there is a change in society. Surely the change is being witnessed Just tell who had brought laurels to India's pride in Olympics. They are the daughters of my country In the examinations of class 10th and 12th are only girls getting ranked first 10 places. We are there\nGiven a chance our mothers and sisters have given glory to their assignments so this Beti Bachao Beti padao is our social, national as well as humanitarian commitment. Inhuman treatment should be unacceptable in our society Even our scriptures value the following in the way:\n\nYavat Ganga Kurukshetra, Yavat Tirthti Medni\nYavat Sita Kahnostok, Tawat Jivetu Girlika ..\nAs long as there remains the Ganga, Kurukshetra and the earth, as long as the story of Sita lives the girl child will remember. These are the verses in our scriptures So take a look at Beti Padhao without discrimination.\nI urge our women Sarpanchs to kindly uphold this theme If a boy goes to school A Sarpanch should not think that The school is made by the government too The village nothing to incur expenditure on it additionally, this just requires your monitoring only that girls are going to school or not and who are not going to school.\nYou are all Sarpanchs, do one thing when you have time Ask children in school Only of that village and not the other one You have been holding the job for last two-three years but the kids in your school can not be named. He may be aware of the Chief Ministers or Prime Ministers But ask that one to write your name and you will come to know that in the school made in your village with a construction cost of thousands and lakhs of rupees, having a teacher getting salary and the child was studying . While seeing you he will say yes to our village Sarpanch Will it not feel hurt? But just try this.\nI do not know whether you cater your villagers whole heartedly or not? But do not forget about these teachers for half an hour. Tell them that Sarpanch you want to see that no school going child in your village will be seen as lagging behind in studies. He should get a place in \\ tehsil, district or state merit list. Ask teachers whether they have any grudge or complaint? Now if you call them once a month means barring 3-4 months of holiday it will be a meeting 7-8 times a year or less because of Holi / Diwali festivity. But this summoning will give teacher a message of your being pro-active and having a concern for quality education. Though rest of Sarpanchs will be busy in other 50 works except this basic one. Was there such an situation ever before? Before these Sarpanchs have become a wealthy city dwellers While in villages there used to live or two people in their homes. But now after 14th Finance Commission Rs. 2 lakh crore is coming directly to villages and this is not a piecemeal sum\nIf you want to set a target in 25 years, you can do them easily and with success. Call anganwadi workers some day or visit the anganwadi for a while and check there the sanitation and cleanliness, the status of teachers and the quality of food served, feeding of children present, also whether necessary plays and games are taking care of ? You should exert leadership and pay attention\nYou are aware that government incurs money for vaccination and I am telling you the task that does not have any specific budget for asking. Yor village need not spend a single rupee on this. Have you ever thought that why were there only 40 vaccinations against a target of 50? How the remaining 10 children will be vaccinated? Do you never forget Does the vaccinated child become prone to any possible future serious ailment? If in your tenure all the targeted children get vaccination and if they remain healthy in future then after 20-25 years you will have an feeling of proud of your village vaccinated to a tune of 100 percent. You can just imagine the satisfaction and joy in your old age.\nYou ask them for refreshment and then remind you for full vaccination. Ask teachers to ensure that there is no school drop out by any girl child. Being Sarpanch also ensures that this is done and the school teacher and vaccination staff is coming regularly.\nIf our Sarpanch exerts their leadership in getting these schemes implemented without any extra expense then benefits will be impressing. Often we have thought about the causes of villages.\nNow a days our focus is on toilets. But have thought about the benefits of sanitation? According to a World Bank report, the average expenditure of a poor family on treatment of diseases is getting out of the unhygienic environment of seven thousand rupees per year. Keeping our villages clean and does not allow any disease to happen in villages will definitely save those 7 thousand rupees. This money will be spent on the milk procurement. Then there will be surely healthy children in your villages So you have to ensure that these initiatives should be taken in your tenure and there should be no compromise.\nMany people have written about the importance of villages. In 1924, Rabindra Nath Tagore wrote some poems in Bangla on the City and Villages. That I am telling you in Hindi and you will say it is exactly fit today even after 90 year. Now also in the year\nRabindra Nath Tagore wrote: A village is just like a women and her image. And in the existence of women prevails the welfare of humanity Compared to towns, villages are more close to nature and are tuned. In them lies the natural power of healing the wounds. Villages provide all happiness as well as food to all More so, its women that enriches colorful traditions arising from villages. But the sheen of either village or women fades out if they are exploited or be put under pressure continuously.\nSometimes we Should be saved or not? Why is there a village with ample greenery and pure air where the city dwellers get tempted to pass their quality time in a small cottage of their own and be there for a weekend in such a ideal village? Today's trend is that while we live in village there must also be a home in a city where we can go with our family for outing. This can be reversed. Such a village can be a reality\nGovernment is also working on Rurban Mission. A place with rural spirit and city facilities Work is going to connect every Panchayat in the country through Optical Fiber Cable .. Of the 2.5 lakh panchayats, almost 70 thousand have been connected so far. Every school and panchayat house has this cable connectivity which will be expandable as per requirement. Government is also working for modernity of villages. Here while watching this exhibition my Secretary informed me that the sarpanch sisters are also taking this exhibition very attentively More often we find people speaking in Parliament I do not know why this statement was given Technology had made such grand revolution During my tenure as Chief Minister in Gujrat I went to a place called Kaprada in a very backward tehsil in a remote area. The program was inaugurated in a milk chilling center in tribal belt. Being a forest area with no grounds was fixed in a school ground. There I saw 25-30 women filling milk in that plant. At the time of lighting the lamp and ribbon cutting I saw all the tribal women taking photos from their mobile phones and that too ten years ago. Amazed, I went near them and asked you are my photo? Do you know of culling out photo's. The answer of those uneducated tribal sisters We will get it downloaded I was taken aback, these sisters are illiterate\nNow the technology is In our system, The Government of India has opened up Common Service Centers. Have you ever inquired about the employment provided in the Common Service Centers? What kind of services are being rendered by these computers and how these services are used for the village and how to avail the benefits of this facility. I mean to say that we should try to bring our villages too. And this will definitely bring a change in your villages too.\nMay be we are not knowing every thing but we know who has knowledge of it Man is egoistic so he does not take it but you can ask this class from 12th student in your family itself and he / she will definitely come to your help. And see you power myifold\nWe are village dwellers Have we ever considered the number of people from our Servants? Not at all. No one had ever thought of this Anyone getting salary from Government treasury is a part of Government itself? Can you convene a meeting in which all government servants from your village, are they running running bus, compounder, a peon, a clerk or a teacher, getting pay from Government Every village has 15-20 such people associated with Government in one way or other. Does all these people know about some higher officers? Can you ask such people in your meeting? If you are capable of doing\nAs of now you find only Patwari But there are Aanganwadi workers, Asha Workers or Teachers, thay all represent Government You have so far not taken these along with you so i request you all to do so\nDo one more thing too Many people from your country had migrated to cities Now they will be a visitor for a while to attend marriages and other family festivities. Now you work for the birth anniversary of your villages and if many one of you are aware of that then decide in a meeting and then invite all to the celebration with fan and rent, this is a 3-4 day program where People above 75 years of age should be felicitated. Everybody should be requested for planting a sapling and the young ones be attached with the cleanliness drives. Who went out of villages You will see that the whole village has become vibrant And now the time has come to reverse the trend of leaving the village after attaining the age of 18 for a better life. If you are able to do this, please\nAs I said every village has live stock in abundance. I have been told that there are some villages near Gandhinagar housing live stock hostels. Some of you have never seen the garbage of villages And what we call is really a wealth\nYou are trying to become self-help-group in your village. Engage in some people Make compost manure from the village waste garbage. Sale of this compost will have been earning for village panchayat. Land will be rejuvenated You take initiatives for the petty works You can make your village empowered in the same way You have cultivated the habit of cleanliness and it is a matter for that we have to take care our own Suppose we are going to have some kind of thing on our body then do we wait for any body to come and clean it as if we are a VIP? No, immediately we take out our pocket and starts wiping that. Why, because we do not like dirt or filth even for a while and cleans it as early as possible So is this our mother- Bharat Mata If any garbage or filth falls on it we will have clear and clean it collectively. So we have a habit of cleanliness Because once the filth and dirt is gone, that problem of malnutrition, problem of illness and its related expenses would be drastically reduced.\nThe poor will be benefited from this exercise Dirty conditions most adversely affects the poor, Slum dwellers and the people consuming contaminated water. Cleansing is a humanitarian task and if we take on a purpose with public service then it will worship And to get an emotion of change we have to work and I am sure that the purpose of clean India will be achieved by 2019. I am not saying to dedicate this to government. We will have a movement for creating a movement This will have happened on its own and toilet is one of its part. This is not out of thinking This is a topic of discussion. I publically accept it in the beginning.\nBut the cleanliness is an exception as the media has welcomed and adored it and they are doing a step ahead of government in this area. Everyone has accepted this entire country. And a work acceptable to all is bound to succeed so naturally Mere chanting of cleanliness hymns will be of no use. This we have to do physically And the clean village will be taken as transformed.\nI congratulate them Their work, life, entrepreneurship and resolve will motivate us On the occasion of International Women's Day Because it is the women power of our country Every type of hygiene, cleanliness of every and every aspect of social life, values, virtues and kind deeds.\nHoping that this cleanliness drive will be blessings of Mother-power and it will witness the success in leaps and bounds. Many-many thanks to you"