"The development of the nation is getting new strength: PM\nThe bus port in Bharuch will be the Pooerst of the poor: PM Modi\nThe Bharatmala and Sagarmala projects will give a strong boost to port-led development: PM\nBy 2022, when we mark 75 years of independence, every Indian must have a home: PM\nFrom dams to drip irrigation, we are working to provide irrigation facilities. We need to embrace new trends \u0026 technology: PM\nYesterday I was near mother Ganges, today I am with mother Narmada; yesterday I was in Bnaras, today I am in Bharuch. Bnaras is the prehistoric city of India and Bharuch is an ancient city of Gujarat.\nBrothers and sisters, first of all I offer my heartfelt respect to Shri Nitin Gadkari Ji and his whole team and also to the government of Gujarat. The world may not understand the importance of construction of this bridge but Bharuch knows the pain of not having a bridge. They When you have suffered so many problems that too ambulance used to stuck for hours and when you get this facility then the people of Gujarat can very well feel its importance. Brothers and sisters, construction of this bridge was not the problem of Bharuch and Ankaleshwar alone, this was a situation that troubled everyone in the West India\nI fought for this whole time But when I got the opportunity to serve then this bridge was built in the stipulated time using the latest technology, this is the first time such a long bridge built by this technology, and it is built on the banks of mother Narmada.\nNitin Ji took over this thing on his determined mind; he regular followed it up; the whole team of his department And he's all that today we are able to inaugurate the bridge.\nRecently, I was in Uttar Pradesh. When people used to show me some Structures placques What were those Structures? Someone would point at that pillar located at an distance and would tell me, that pillar was part of a bridge, the foundation stone which was laid 15 years ago. Only two pillars had been erected by then and the work was not progress thereafter. A thirteen year old is available in Kashi I told them that it would have been better if the work was handed over to Government of India, I would have done that. Generally, it used to take anywhere between 10 to 15 years to complete this kind of work in the country. Today we have been working in the direction of implementing the work culture of Gujarat in the work of the stipulated time in the whole country.\nBrothers and sisters, today, I was fortunate to visit Dahej. Dahej is not only a jewel for Bharuch; Now it is a jewel for the whole country When it will be fully developed, and the pace at which it is being developed, it will be able to provide employment to nearly 8 lakh people You just imagine about this area You can also think about this area. And you are completely aware that I used to visit Dahej on a regular basis. I'm familiar with you I saw myself the growth of Dahej.\nBrothers and sisters, when PCPR, DHEJ, OPAL are on their way to being completed then it is going to provide a new power to the economy of the country. And this is happening on the land of Bharuch. My congratulations to you\nI want to congratulate the Chief minister, because when I was the Chief minister here then the bus port was just a concept and I used to think if a person traveled by a plane, then he got all the facilities . He gets air-conditioned environment, he gets cold drinking water, he gets to eat whatever he likes Is it the right of a poor person of my country to get all these facilities? Should these facilities be provided only to air travelers? This thing always agitated my mind\nAs a result of that, the first bus port was developed at Baror in Baroda using the PPP Model Such a Bus Port built that people from all over the world used to watch YouTube on its video and wondered whether such a bus stand actually Built! And the poor The poorest of the poor He smokes Today, one can go and see a visit that is completely clean and clean bus stand in Baroda and on the same lines Another bus stand is built in Ahmedabad. I believe that four such bus stands have been developed so far and I'm happy that the government is going to build such a magnificent bus stand in Bharuch by taking that scheme forward.\nJust imagine that the whole road from Bharuch to Sardar Sarovar Dam, this stretch of about 125 to 150 kilometers will be completely filled; what a pleasant sight it will be! If the water is filled in the whole area then the area of ​​about 150 kilometers, either sides up to twenty kilometers will be full of water.\nWhen I was Chief minister One Mr. Ramesh used to be our MLA here Even then the problem of drinking water was discussed here.\nI can clearly imagine the scene when the world's tallest statue, the statue of Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel, the statue of unity will be constructed. The travelers will be all over the world A very good road up to Kewadia Koran is being constructed by the department headed by our Nitin Ji. I've asked Nitin Ji to explore about one more possibility, so that it can be rehearsed from now, if we can construct a pier at Bhadbooj, and if there is enough water in Narmada then we will see that we are tourists to Sardar Sarovar Dam in small steamers?\nIn Goa, if people want to celebrate their birthday, they go out in the ocean using small steamers to celebrate. In this area, if the people from Surat want to celebrate their birthday then they can come here; I believe people from Bharuch will certainly come here.\nBrothers and sisters, what a big change can be If the vision is clear, if the intention is right and the policies are perfect, then no obstacle can stop the progress Brothers and sisters, success will be achieved under any circumstances\nToday when I have come to Gujarat and Nitin Ji is also present here then he wants me to make an announcement of his department. The credit goes to Nitin Ji This is the result of his imagination and his ability to take bold decisions. It's natural that I'm very happy about the decisions taken by his department. They have decided to convert the eight highways of Gujarat into national highways.\nThis will require an investment of about 12 thousand crore rupees, 12,000 crore rupees, Nitin Ji's department alone will invest 12 thousand crore rupees on these 8 highways. It will completely transform the infrastructure of Gujarat. Brothers and sisters, it will give a fillip add feathers to Gujarat's infrastructure. And the total length of these 8 highways is almost 12 hundred kilometers The state highway covering Una, Dhari, Bagsara, Amreli, Babara, Jasdan to Chotila, the whole stretch of state highway will be converted into national highway.\nSecond, the state highway of Nagesari to Khamba to Chalala to Amreli will be converted into national highway. Porbandar-Bhanwad-Jam-Jodhpur-Talawad State Highway will be converted into national highway. And Anand-Kathwal-Kaparwanch-Payad-Dhansura-Modhasa state will be converted into national highway. The whole tribal belt is going to get the maximum benefit from this decision. We need to develop Lakhpan and Katch, we need to develop Dholavira We need to develop tourism\nLakhpat, Gadhooli, Hajipur, Khavada, Dhaulvira, Mauvana, Sankalpur; Kach, Dholavira, which is an ancient and recognized city of human culture, it's 5,000 year old and it's located in an isolated region, but when it will become the center point then it will attract tourists from all over the world; that will benefit Gujarat\nKhambhalia, Adwana, Porbandar; Chittaudha, Rapar, Dhaulvira; Khambhalia, Vanvadh, Ranava; you think of the employment opportunities that will be generated due to infrastructure creation, due to spending so much money, it is bound to happen However, the biggest benefit of it will be that it will reduce the number of accidents. Our youths drive bike, they drive fast, accidents take place, millions of people die accident death due to accidents; it will control that In a way, the work also has humanitarian angle\nYou may recall, in Ahmedabad, Rajkot and Bagodara; There was no accident near Bagodara. People used to die at night. It is happening daily When Keshubhai Patel became chief minister, he used to be the chief minister. He used to travel from Rajkot Many senior leader of our party also died in road accidents on Ahmedabad-Rajkot Highway. Then I was in Ahmedabad, though I was not in politics but on an average I used to receive calls that day. Ahmedabad-Rajkot was converted to four lanes and it significantly\nThis national network, in a way, from the point of view of security and also from the point of view of humanity is a big facility that is being developed. All the facilities are available near the roads.\nPeople travel on a daily basis and they need all these facilities, including washrooms. In order to construct national highways that have all these facilities, highways that are moden, Nitin Ji is busy in doing this novel ideas.\nLook at Sagarmala Project See, there is a government in Delhi that does not think in isolation. We think in solving the problems We have prepared Sagarmala Project and the whole map of India, as it is drawn The roads should not be disconnected anywhere If one starts from one corner then he should be able to come back by the same road after visiting the whole India. We are making a project and a Bharatmala Project. Road network will be developed under the Bharatmala project and infrastructure in coastal areas will be developed under the Sagarmala Project. Bharatmala and Sagarmala will give a new power to port and land development. And for this, we are going forward in direction to invest more than 8 lakh crore rupees in the port sector alone under the Sagarmala Project. And it will be specially beneficial for the country, it will be the port of Gujarat. All the roads, rails can connect\nWe have implemented Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchayi Yojana. You will be surprised to know that we had this kind of government in our country that built the dams. Dams were constructed 20 years ago. They are full of water, but there are no canals. I have searched all such cases and prepared irrigation scheme called pradhanmantri krishi sinchai Yojona with a budget of Rs. 90 thousand crore to supply water from the dams to drip, it means drip irrigation, 90 thousand crore rupees have been provided for the entire chain from dams to drips, to restart the unfinished projects, to provide water to farmers\nThe country should become modern We can not lead We wont't be able to compete with the twenty-first century world by remaining in the twentieth century. If we want to compete with the twenty-first century world then we will have to take the twenty-first century Brothers and sisters, see that now India has been the race for compete with the world. Now, in our home, we are not those who waste time in pointing fingers at each other we are busy in securing space for India in the world. And for this we too need to develop India to meet the requirements of the 21st century, for that we also need I-ways as much as we need highways. I-ways means Information Ways A network of optical fiber in the whole country See when the bridges are constructed, there are some people who look for opportunities to take credit. Let them say nothing to take the credit, to take advantage without doing anything\nBrothers and sisters, the optical fiber network project was created by the previous government. The scheme was a target of the optical fiber network in 1.25 lakh villages at about the same time when I became prime minister. It's recorded in their files The previous government had made the scheme in optical fiber in 1.25 lakh villages by March 2014. When I became the Prime Minister I asked them, out of the targeted 1.25 lakh villages, how many have been done? Any idea how many villages had been covered of the target of 1.25 lakh villages? How many? Someone would say 1 lakh, some other will think 50 thousand and when I conducted the assessment, then by that time only 59 villages, fifty and nine; not event sixty Optical fiber was laid in only 59 villages.\nThat was the style of working then, now we have taken the task The optical fiber network was done in 2.5 lakh villages of the country and the fiber has already been in 68 thousand villages. On the one hand 59 villages and on the other 68 thousand. Brothers and sisters, this is the difference If the intention is right, if the intention is the welfare of people then there will never be any obstacles in your work. People also cooperate, work takes place and the country moves forward.\nGas pipelines, optical fiber network, water supply system We have a dream for the year 2022, when India will complete 75 years of its independence The poorest of the poor should have his own house by then and we are working in that direction. Smaller countries of the world are wondering It will be like a new small country within the country; But the brothers and sisters, we will feel the dream as well.\nYou can imagine what kind of country is this! Every country should have its own accounting system, its own information The country should know what is there and what it does not have, is it not? When I became Prime Minister, I chaired a meeting during the early days and I asked about how many islands India has. I used to ask how many islands we had like we have Alia Bet and Beyt Dwarka.\nDifferent departments were used to give different figures, some other said 800, some other said 600 and someone even said 1,000. I wondered to myself Somebody says that many islands It means, there is something wrong Then I got to know that no one knows exactly No one how many islands India has? What country did the country forward for? I was surprised I constituted a team, used satellite technology and we made an entire map of them. India has more than 1,300 islands and some of them are also Singapore. We can develop our islands: they can provide a range of thing, we can do a lot for the development of tourism in our islands Government of India has created a separate system for this and we have identified 200 islands from those islands that are located near Indian coast. In the initial stage, a model for the development of those 200 islands is being prepared. Brothers and sisters, if this kind of things are developed in our country then do we need to go Singapore? Everything can be done in my country Our country is able, our country is strong, we can also scale new heights of development. And that is why, as Nitin Ji said just a while ago that earlier, if we calculate the roads built anywhere in the entire country, then on average two kilometers of roads used to be used in one day. Before our government it was two kilometers a day.\nNitin Ji pushed forward it in such a manner, as he just told you, that today we constructed 22 kilometers long roads in a day, 11 times more work is done. Brothers and sisters, the first gauge conversion of 1,500 kilometers long was tracked in a year.\nIt's such a big country, and there is a demand for trains but the country was not able to go beyond that. When we came to power, we vowed to change that and today I'm happy that we are able to double as much in terms of railway lines, it's just double, 3,000 kilometers. If we have an intention to do something, as you have seen the work of Bus Port, after taking a cue from this work. I asked them that our railway stations are in a very bad shape. These are of 19th century, can we bring some changes in them or not?\nWe have taken the task of development of railways. We need to develop 500 stations in India We have selected two stations from Gujarat in the initial stage - Surat and Gandhi Nagar. Why not make all our railway stations? There can be a railway station or a mall in there. There are restaurants in the railway stations; there are food courts as well Trains will continue to move on Brothers and sisters, we have the vision for development. There must be dreams; There must be determination and we also need capability; then success automatically follows. We have been moving forward with those tasks\nMy dear brothers and sisters of Bharuch, today we have executed a huge work. Please join me in this saying:\nI will say: Narmade, and you will say, Sarvade with a clenched fist and by raising your hands\nNarmade - Sarvade"