"The path shown by Yogi Ji is not about 'Mukti' but about 'Antaryatra': PM\nIndia's strength: PM\nIt is unfortunate that some people link 'Adhyatma' with religion: PM Modi\nOnce a person develops an interest in Yoga and starts diligently practicing it, it will always remain a part of his or her life: PM\nAll members of the esteemed Yogi Family Today is the 7th March; exactly 65 years ago on this day we have left the mortal remains of Yogananda while his soul is trapped inside the body\nToday on this very occasion I also bowed to Mr. Shri Mataji as I have told him that he is now present in a similar program in Los Angeles.\nAs Swamiji said, 95 percent people in the world can read Yogiji's autobiography in their mother tongue. But, one thing that strikes me is that why a person who knows nothing of this country, its languages ​​and its costumes Yogiji read to tempt. What could be the reason for that This is a feeling of spiritual awareness that every person thinks that he should distribute some of the blessings like we do when we go to a temple We carry the Prasad home to further distribute that are in small quantities The Prasad is not mine, but it is something holy\nWe are experiencing a feeling of spiritual pleasure by disseminating the words of Yogiji after receiving the same as Prasad. While discussions on the path of salvation are going on here, there are people who think that the future But the journey of Yogiji is not just a show of the path within salvation How do you get and get fused within? To err is human Spirituality is an eternal blessing journey and our sages, saints, scholars, teachers as well as preachers have contributed to that journey on timely and successful passage. With variations this tradition is still going on\nYogiji had a short life span, Yogiji was an ardent exponent of the positive aspects of Hatha Yoga despite the fact that people are sticking to a point. He has motivated everyone on Kriya Yoga Now I accept that among all forms of yoga, Kriya Yoga has a special place. It powers our journey within self. Some Yoga needs bodily strength but Kriya Yoga requires self life. Very few people have such goals Yogiji used to say that he did not want to breathe last on a hospital bed. Rather, I'd like to remember motherland any moment, meanwhile he is going to visit India. But he never got detached even for a fraction of a second from mother India.\nI was in Kashi yesterday, came from Benaras at night and went through the autobiography of Yogi He took birth in Gorakhpur, spent his childhood in Benaras where he got acquainted with the traditions of that holy city and tender touch of mother Ganga. This assimilation enriched and shaped his early years, engulfed his heart as the holy current of Ganga. This current is now running in our hearts too. He has been It was the felicitation event for the Ambassador of India where he was delivering a lecture. He is the son of the people of the country. His amazing explanation of the last destination of spiritual journey Yogiji used to talk about this place as one where Ganga, forests, Himalayas, caves and man dream of God Just imagine the vastness of vision there itself\nI feel blessed to be born in that land. Had been the words The soul then left for infinity Adi Shankaracharya preached the doctrine of Advaita (Non-dualism) that postulates the identity of the (Atman) and the whole (Brahman []). According to Adi Shankara, the one unchanging entity (Brahman) is alone, while changing entities do not have absolute existence. Where there is no \"I\" or \"You\" is Advaita, the thought that God and I are different is not there He is the view of God (Brahm) is within me and I am within God (Brahm) is Advaita (Non-Dualism). Yogiji also had written this meticulously in one of his poems. Though I can not explain it the way it has been mentioned exactly, but while reading this verses and later during its interpretations I found it very close to the doctrine of Advaita.\nAnd when Yogiji says: The Brahm entered inside me, I entered the Brahm, it is a simple version of Advaita doctrine. \"Knowledge, the exponent and the seeker, all becoming one Likewise we say that the moment \"the performer\" and the \"act\" becomes one, there results easy achieving. The \"doer\" need no \"Action\" thereafter and the Karma (Act) does not wait for the \"doer\". Performer and Karma get united with attainment as unique resultant\nYogiji further comments- calm, unsegmented, ever exciting, calm, unsegmented, ever exciting, calm, unsegmented, ever exciting active forever, ever vernal calm, ever innovative calm. Means calm of bygone days can not be worth today Swamiji pronounced \"Om Shanti Shanti\" in the end. It's not a protocol but a state attained after persistent penance. \"Om Shanti Shanti\". It is the attainment of supreme happiness that is beyond the imagination and aspirations of anyone Yogiji has described this reposition marvellously in his works. And how easily Yogi ji has molded life just like air We can not survive in the absence of air. Air is every where every time While moving our hands Never say stop and do not ask for its passage In the same way Yogiji has established his presence around him as a feeling of his unhindered existence like air. He thinks, okay, this guy was unable to reach his target This kind of coolness and patience exists in very few orders and traditions. Yogiji gave bountiful flexibility to his order, established an institution and then departed. Now almost after one century this order emerged as a movement of eternal spiritual awakening and possibly it will be the fourth generation there was persistently engaged\nHowever, no delusion or diversion was noticed there. Had had been institutional prejudice or system centric order, had seen the impressions of personality, thinking and timings on it But these are the movements spread beyond time frames where spiritual activities go on simultaneously amid the passage of generations without confrontation and segmentation.\nSetting up of unhindered order is one of the prominent contributions of Yogi Ji. It is just a family having unwritten set of rules for its routine working. So is the theme laid down by Yogi ji that his institution is still dynamic and thrashing even after his center stage. And being carried away by his spiritual bliss we are also running this institution. In my opinion this is her biggest contribution. The world of today is charmed by economics and technology so every one weighs the world as per his perceptions. I will have my image as per my perception. This depends upon the understanding, perception, nature and time. The world had compared and weighed India on the same terms for its population, GDP and employmentability on its specific global parameters. However, the world is still to know about a specific parameter of India which is in real terms is the strength and power is its spiritualism. This is the bad luck of this country that there are some people who are the view of that view. Caste, creed and religion are distinctly different from spiritualuality Our former President APJ Abdul Kalam repeatedly said that spiritualism is the strength of India and this must continue. Our sages and saints have been constantly furthered this spirituality globally. For me, Yoga is a very simple entry point. Teaching the world \"Atmvat Sarvabhuteshu\" will be ridiculous. More so, the saying- \"Ten Tyakten Bhunjitah\" will have no buyer amid the talks of \"Eat Drink and be Marry.\nBut asking someone to sit in a particular posture is holding his nostrils for getting relief and he will follow you. So this is Yoga, the entry point for our spiritual journey. It should not be taken as the final frontier However money is its power of growing further. So there comes commercialization too. Even -enlightenment in so much Dollars and for some ones Yoga is the final achievement.\nYoga is not the final point Moving uphill sometimes witnesses breakdowns However continuous pushing makes the vehicle accelerates ahead with momentum Similarly, in Yoga one has got the entry point correct and if achieved, there will be no hindrance later on. Then it is the process that makes you move forward and that is Yoga.\nIn our country it is but natural of the remembrance of Kashi. How saints like Kabir Das ji has given narrations of examples in a very simple way. One of his words is completely applicable on Yogi He says: \"Avadhoota yugan yugan hum yogi ... aawe na jaay, mitay na kabahoon, sabad anahahat Bhogi\". Kabir Das ji says- A yogi remains for ages ... neither comes or departs ... nor gets destroyed I think today while having a feeling of travelling together with the spiritual form of yogi gives us the correctness of the words of Kabir Das Ji that: Yogis never go or come, instead they are always for us\nSo bowing to that yogi has blessed me a chance to spend in the air of spiritual fragrance. So once again my reverence to the great legacy of Yogi ji I bow down to the saints and after expanding well wishes for the people.\nThanks."