"Share\n\nNRIs are not only the Brand Ambassadors of India but also its strength, capabilities and characteristics: PM\nWith its rapid progress, India is being seen on a high pedestal across the world and global community to lead a position in it: PM Modi\nIndia is on course to become a global economic powerhouse, says PM Modi\nPrime Minister of Mauritius Your Excellency Pravand Jagannath ji,\nGovernor of UP Shri Ram Naik ji,\nIn the Union Cabinet, my colleague Sushma Swaraj,\nChief Yogi Adityanath ji,\nChief Minister of Haryana, Shri Manohar Lal Ji,\nChief Minister of Uttarakhand, Shri Trivendra Singh Rawat,\nIn the Cabinet, my colleague General VK Singh ji,\nOther noblemen present on the stage and my dear sisters and brothers from Kashyap from around the world.\nFirst of all thank you very much, very much welcome. All of you, have come here from your ancestors' earthen pots. I wish all the best wishes on behalf of the person who is going to receive the Pravasi Bharatiya Award tomorrow.\nToday is special for me today. As Sushma ji was saying, I have also appeared here as a host of people along with the Prime Minister as well as the Kashi MP. The blessing of Baba Vishwanath and mother Ganga remained on you all, this is my wish.\nColleagues,\nToday, before starting your talk with you, I want to express my condolences on the demise of Shri Sri Sri Shivakumar Swami Ji. At Sukaganga Math, Tumkur, I had the opportunity to receive blessings from him many times. Whenever they met, they used to show their affection like a son. It is very sad for all of us, such a great saint, going to the Mahaishi. The country will always remember their contribution to human welfare.\nbrothers and sisters,\nThis campaign of dialogue with all the Indians settled around the world was started by all of us, the beloved revered Atal Bihari Vajpayee Ji. This is the first Pravasi Bharatiya Sammelan after Atal ji's departure. On this occasion, I dedicate my faith to Atal ji, I bow to his great thinking.\nColleagues,\nYou are all in Kashi, and therefore I also see a similarity between Kashi and you all. Banaras city has been introducing the country with the tradition of India's cultural, spiritual, philosophical and knowledge from its perennials. You too have embraced India and Indianness in your hearts, acquiring the world with the energy of this earth.\nColleagues,\nAs I consider you the brand ambassador of India, I also consider India's strengths and India's abilities, a symbol of the characteristics of the country. That is why you have also adopted the society of the country in which you are residing, enriching its culture and economy. You have expanded our family values ​​of Indian philosophy of Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam. In all the countries where you live, you see in the role of leadership in almost every area of ​​society. Mr. Pravand Jagannath, Mauritius is moving forward with complete dedication. Apart from this, many countries like Portugal, Trinidad-Tobago and Ireland also have the leadership of such capable people whose roots are in India.\nColleagues,\nIn the last 4 and 4 years with the cooperation of all of you, India has taken a major step towards achieving its natural position in the world. The first people used to say that India can not change. We have changed this thinking. We have made changes.\nColleagues,\nThe world is listening and listening to our point of view, with our utmost seriousness. The world is accepting India's contribution to the security of the environment and the progress of the world. The result of the meeting of the Seoul Peace Prize along with the United Nations' largest environmental award, Champions of the Earth.\nColleagues,\nToday India is in a position to lead the world in many cases. The International Solar Alliance i.e. is such a platform. Through this, we want to take the world towards One World, One Sun, One Grid. It is also part of our goal that we are preparing such solutions to India's problems, which can solve the problems of other countries. We are working with the application of Local Solution, Global Application.\nReform, Perform, Transform and everyone, along with all the developmental sources, what the country has found in the last 4 and 4 years, I want to put a picture of you in front of you. Today India is the fastest growing economic force in the world, and even in sports, we have moved towards becoming a big power. Today, the infrastructure of the infrastructure is becoming big and modern, then it is also making records in the field of space. Today, we are heading towards becoming the world's largest start up Eco-system, then the world's largest healthcare scheme, Ayushman, is also running India. Today our youth is making a mobile phone, car, bus, truck, train at the record level under Make in India, and there is also a record production of food in the field.\nI give you another example. Companions Many of you must have heard of a former Prime Minister of our country, one thing about corruption. He said that only 15 percent of the money that the central government sends from Delhi can reach people. They accepted the truth that the country which ruled over this country for so many years, the system that gave it to the country. But regret was that in the subsequent 10-15 years of its rule, this loot was not attempted to stop this leakage. The country's middle class continued to pay taxes honestly, and 85 percent of these loots continued to go on.\nColleagues,\nNow let me tell you today's truth. We have used technology to eliminate this 85 percent loot by 100 percent. In the last four and a half years, 5 lakh 78 thousand crores (i.e. around $ 80 billion), our government has given directly to the people under different schemes, transferred to their bank account. Someone has been given this amount for the home, for someone to study, for someone for scholarship, for someone for gas cylinders, for grains. Now, let's guess, if the country was going on from the old ways, then even today 4 lakh 91 thousand crores of rupees from this 5 lakh 78 thousand crore rupees were being leaked. If we did not make changes in the system, the amount would be looted in the same way as before it was looted.\nColleagues,\nThis work could have been done before, but there was no intention, there was no will power. Our government is now going on the path that every help given by the government will be transferred directly to the beneficiary's bank account under the Direct Benefit Scheme. I give you one more figure. In the last four and a half years, our government has identified about 7 crore such fake people and removed them from the system. These 7 million people were those who were never born, which were not really in fact. But these 7 million people were taking advantage of government facilities You think, the number of people in the whole of Britain as well as all the people in France, all the people in Italy, more than the population of many countries, we had those people who were living in papers and government only in the paper Were taking advantage of the facilities Our government has done the task of removing these seven crore fake people. This is a glimpse of the change that has started coming in the country in the last four and a half years.\nColleagues,\nThis is a tableau of New India's new confidence, due to the massive change in the country. This is the result of the resolutions of 130 million Indians to restore India's glorious past. And I want to say today very proud that you are also involved in this resolution.\nColleagues,\nThe Government's full endeavor is to be happy wherever you live and stay safe. Over the last 4 to 4 years, more than two lakh Indians stranded in the crisis have been helped by the government's efforts. Along with your social security, Passport, Visa, PIO and OCI Card are also trying to simplify all procedures. A new step has already been taken for the expatriate Indians a few months ago. Our Embassies and Consulates are being connected to the Passport Seva Project worldwide. This will prepare a centralized system connected to the passport service for all of you. Rather, one step ahead, work is going on in favor of issuing a chip based e-passport.\nColleagues,\nAlong with passport, the rules related to visa are also being simplified. With the convenience of e-VISA, you are also saving time and problems are also reduced. Still, if any problems are there then steps are also being taken to improve it. Many of you will also be familiar with the fact that our government has made the process of converting PIO cards into OCI cards.\nColleagues,\nYou are far away from your soil, but efforts are being made to further increase your active participation in the creation of New India. Your contribution is very important in the changes that are coming in India, which are becoming new opportunities. In this India changing you can play a big role in Research and Development and Innovation. The government is also trying to bring India's Start-ups and NRI Mentors together, on a platform. Defense manufacturing can also be an important sector for you.\nbrothers and sisters,\nFor the protection of Mother Bharti, your association with your spiritual and cultural heritage along with the economy will be strengthened, and for this, the migratory pilgrimage scheme is also being started. I have said earlier on this forum, I want to repeat today that in whatever country you live in, motivate at least 5 families around you to come to India. Your efforts will play an important role in enhancing tourism in the country. In the same way, this year you will consider Gandhiji's 150th birth anniversary, while staying in his country, how he will talk about the things of India, to other people. There may be some event, if you want to do some special programs, you will be given all possible assistance by the Indian Embassy or Embassy. This year we are also making 550th birth anniversation of all Guru Nanak Dev. It can also be thought about how to bring Guru Vani to the people of other countries, how to get acquainted with India's rich cultural heritage.\nColleagues,\nI am keeping these things in front of you just as suggestions. I know that many of you are already doing this. But it is such a love that I can not stop myself. In the end, once again all of you are thankful to the heart to get into Kashi. Your entire stay in India was pleasant,\nWith this wist,\nThanks a lot !"