"Share\n\nMy dream is that every poor country should have a roof over his head by 2002: PM Modi\nWe have brought the Soil Health Card We are training our farmers with scientific methods of farming: PM\nOur government will take every step that uplifts poor \u0026 underpriviledged: PM\nIt is time to free Uttar Pradesh from misrule of SP, BSP \u0026 Congress: PM Modi\nLong live Mother India. My colleague's sister, Anupriya Patel, of the Council of Ministers at the Center, Dr. Mahendra Pandey, my colleague of the Council of Ministers, my colleagues in the Parliament, Mr. Ramcharitr Jha, Mr. Bharat Patel, Mr. Hansraj Vishwakarma, Shri Ramesh Rajvar ji, Mr. Sarvesh Kushwaha , Shri Narendra Patel, Shri Kaushender Singh ji, Ramlakhan Singh ji, Omkar Kesari ji, Kanshi Tiwari ji, Suresh Singh ji and Indian people in this election Defense Party, Apna Dal and Bharatiya Samaj Party candidates and a large number arrived at my dear brothers and sisters. BJP candidate from Bindar, Avdesh Singh ji, from Shivpuri, Mr. Anil Rajwar ji, Mr. Surendra Singh ji from Gohia, Mrs. Sadhna Singh ji from Mughal Sarai, Mr. Sushil Singh Ji from Syed Raja, Mr. Suryamani Tiwari ji from Syedya, Seva Puri Apna Dal Candidate Mr. Nandhardhan Patel G Nilu, BJP candidate from Ajagara Mr. Kailash Sonkar and my dear beloved wife brothers and sisters.\nElections in the six phases have ended. On the eighth day, when the whole world will celebrate International Women's Day, that day, in the seventh phase by voting you will win all the candidates of the Bharatiya Janata Party, your party and the Indian Samaj Party, to get rid of the SP, the BSP, Congress from Uttar Pradesh. Bhagirath will work, it is my belief.\nbrothers and sisters.\nI am enjoying a special pleasure in this field today. When I was Chief Minister in Gujarat then Dr. Sonalalji used to come to Gujarat. He was especially impressed by his reverence for Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel. And always in his mind, because I had the good fortune to talk to him quite a lot. Like Amul Dairy, the poor, the farmer, the livestock, in their villages, always used to think about how to change the arrangements like Amul Dairy in their lives. Today, I am glad that the doctor who sowed the golden gourds, has flourished in the tree form and is alive to meet the dreams of his beloved daughter Dr. Sonalal ji. In such an area, I am very proud of myself. I got a chance to go to the place of Lal Bahadur Shastri's residence this morning and offer him auspicious respect. Jai Jawan Jay Kisan, this mantra gupuj in the house-house Even after decades, those mantras are still echoing. I have come among you by bowing down to such a great man.\nbrothers and sisters.\nI was born on the land that Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel was born on earth, Mahatma Gandhi was born. brothers and sisters. And it is my good fortune that you have given me the opportunity to serve the people of Purvanchal's birthplace as a representative of our brothers and sisters. If we want to welfare of our country, then we will have to make changes in the life of the farmers in the villages of our country, in the life of the village. The country's economy, as the purchase power of the village will grow, will depend on it. And that is why we have dreamed that in 2022 when India's Independence would have 75 years, great men like Mahatma Gandhi and Sardar Patel had sacrificed their lives for the freedom. Those Sardar Patel's, Mahatma Gandhi's, Bhagat Singh, Sukhdev, Rajguru, countless revolutionaries, countless freedom fighters, who were taking their dreams for their country's independence, to fulfill those dreams, every Hindustani Must try endlessly. And so in 2022 when Hindustan's independence will be 75 years, mainly by taking two dreams, the Bharatiya Janata Party and the NDA government are working in Delhi. In 2022, when there is 75 years of independence, no family of Hindus should be like this, if they are poor, they do not have their own house to live. The Bharatiya Janata Party government is working to give the brothers and sisters, roof to live from poor to poor families. The second is my dream, 2022 when the independence is 75 years, 2017 is going on, five years left. Within these five years the income of the farmer of India is to be doubled, to double. If one earns a million rupees today, then two lakhs have to be delivered. Today if he earns fifty thousand rupees then one lakh is to be reached. And brothers and sisters, this is possible. The way we have made the entire roadmap, to bring about change in the life of the farmer of India. After one, we have taken concrete steps. And the result of that concrete move is that the incoming income of the farmer of the country's agricultural country will double double its income. In earth mother we sow a seed and make many. Never did we worry about the health of this Earth mother. Did not you ever think that my mother is ill, and there is a disease in her? never thought. We exploited mother mother so much that mother demands us accounting.\nAnd that's why the brothers and sisters\nWe have tested the soil mother through the Health Health card, it is to test, as if any person becomes ill nowadays, the doctor says that go to the laboratory and give a blood sample, come and give a sampling urine, check After that, the report comes and then the doctor gives medicine. Just as is the human body, so is this earth mother too. And so every farm should take the soil and test it in the laboratory. What is the pressure of soil? What is the blame? For which crop is that soil suitable? Which fertilizer will run? Which will not work? Which medicine will run? Which will not work? It is important to check it scientificly.\nAnd so the brothers and sisters\nIn order to fully connect every farmer of India, the government has imposed billions of trillions of rupees on the Indian government, when samples of land from the fields will be investigated. What does the farmer do If the adjacent farmer put red bins, then he also puts a red box on his own. Put a yellow box, then he also put a yellow box. He does not think that this medicine is needed in my farm. My crop is in use in that it is not, but the armpit did it, he even does it. And because of that, whatever the yield should be, does not happen, and there is financial loss.\nbrothers and sisters.\nWe are fully trained to make the farmer earn money by sourcing our crop through the Soil Health Card, making arrangements. If our farmer gets certified seeds, then if there is a good seed then the farmer will never be able to cry again. People who black-out today, dishonest people give such false seeds to farmers, and when the year is wasted, the farmers know that someone has cheated me. brothers and sisters. Today, the Government of India has managed to protect this farmer.\nbrothers and sisters.\nIf the farmer gets water, then he produces gold from the soil. This strength belongs to the farmer of our country. And that's why we have implemented the Prime Minister's agricultural irrigation scheme in the country at the cost of thousands of crores. Dam has remained in the country but canals are not left to carry water. Water has gone down somewhere, the wells need to be recharged. By spending thousands of crores of rupees, billions of trillions, we have started a very big partnership towards bringing water to the farmers in the country. We are bringing such a scheme that today the farmers who have pumps, sometimes they eat so much electricity, they have become so old, the farmers do not have the money to change the pump. We have decided that whichever farmer wants to change this pump, the Indian government will change this pump for free, it will give a new pump.\nbrothers and sisters.\nWe did the second thing, urea You know when the farmer needs urea then he has got the use of it. If urea is found after ten days, then it is useless. She needs time on time. There are fixed days of crop. Then should. But in our country, the farmer was standing in line for two or two days for urea. Sometimes the police used to lathi charge and the black marketers used to rob the farmer by occupying this business. Today, brothers and sisters, urea, urea should not be stolen, do not be dishonest, we have neem coating of urea, and this is not a very big science. We had a simple job and we stopped the theft of thousands of crores. Neem coating, which are neem trees, are the fruit of neem tree. Where there are fertilizer factories, factories are factories, mothers of the villages beside her, told sisters that collect all the neem seeds, we will buy them. The poor got the job Neem pod collects. Heat his oil, mix it in urea. Now the theft of urea is not possible. Now urea can only work in it and no one can work, and my farmer's work is done.\nbrothers and sisters.\nCrops and good crops, but sometimes there is no rain, there is a flood, sometimes more rain, the farmer has to die just to die. We bring the Prime Minister's Crop Insurance Scheme. Due to the Prime Minister's Crop Insurance Scheme, if the farmer does not get the rain due to natural calamities and he has not sown, then he will get insurance money. The crop is harvested, put in the farm, now it has to go to the market and suddenly it rains, suddenly fall down wet and made all the waste, the Prime Minister Crop Insurance Scheme will get money. Even if the water is filled up, the Prime Minister's Crop Insurance Scheme will get the money. The life of the farmer will be saved.\nbrothers and sisters.\nI have to say sadly, there is a government in Uttar Pradesh which is not concerned about the farmer, nor is the concern of development. Hold it to your vote bank. Just keep giving it a grain of water, no one else has it. This government, full of discrimination, did not do the welfare of the farmers. The Prime Minister's Crop Insurance Scheme was welcomed across India, in every state 50 per cent, 60 per cent farmers took insurance. This is the only Uttar Pradesh, where so many villages are filled with farmers, the industry is cultivated but the work of insurance of more than 14 percent of the people, this Akhilesh's government has not done. brothers and sisters. No injustice has been done with the farmer. Our farmers cultivate paddy, the government gives support price, but more than 3 percent of the government here does not buy paddy from farmers. Where the BJP government is, 50 percent and 60 percent of the farmers' paddy is purchased. Sometimes it is not possible for the farmer to supply his goods for free. brothers and sisters. I mean to say that we want to work for the farmer of this country.\nbrothers and sisters.\nOur poor mother burns a wooden stove and cooks it. Because of the smoke that occurs, 400 cigarette smoke goes into the body of the poor mother. What would happen to the mother's body in which the smoke of 400 cigarettes would be used? Children who play at home, smoke in their body. What would happen to those children? brothers and sisters. I have seen poverty I am born in poverty. How difficult is the life of poor, I have seen it live. And that's why I have to do something for the poor, I am working for this purpose. Therefore, we decided that within three years, the cylinders of gas to five crore poor families will be given, the connection of the gas will give gas stove so that the poor mother who is going to die from wooden stove smoke will not have to die.\nAnd brothers and sisters\nIn Uttar Pradesh, we have reached the cylinders of 55 lakh poor families, but here also we have done this work without any discrimination, no corruption is done, no black stain has been done in this work. If the government wins for the poor then how it works, you can see. Should the young man get work in his district or should not get ...? Should a parent have an opportunity to live with a father or not? But brothers and sisters do not care about these things. Today someone gave me the clipping of the newspaper. Which is published in the newspaper, I tell you. This UP Public Service Commission, he passed the examinations in 2015. A girl was promising, she gave the exam, but if the result came, she did not pass it. But the daughter was very courageous, she kept her intention, she asked the question in the RTI, she went behind that I was such a smart girl, my paper was so good. How did i fail RTI gave her to see her paper and it was found that she was frustrated with the evil eye. And later he had to pass, he passed the exam. See, dishonesty starts after this, they do not get stuck with it. Failure in the first written examination, caught, secretly interviewed him, and then failed him in the interview.\nbrothers and sisters.\nWill anybody trust such a government ...? Will anybody trust ...? These interviews are plundered by young men. Our government in Delhi decided that we will remove the disease, which is the name of the interview. Class 3 and 4, who will be recruited, be policeman, teacher, nurse, hospital, clerk, most recruitment in government is class 3 and 4. We have decided that those exams which have come by giving them examination will be their written examination. The computer will decide which one has the most marks and the computer will decide which one to hire. No person will come in between. पहले क्या होता था, गरीब मां का बेटा रात दिन मेहनत करके परीक्षा देता था, परीक्षा में पास हो जाता था अपनी मेहनत से, फिर इंटरव्यू आता था। घर में खुशी का माहौल बन जाता था कि बेटे का इंटरव्यू आया है। और फिर तीन चार दिन में कोई घर पर आ जाता था और कहता था कि सुना है आपके बेटे का इंटरव्यू आया है। बहुत अच्छा हुआ आपको बधाई है, लेकिन देखिये इंटरव्यू के लिए तैयारी अच्छी तरह करिये। कोई जान पहचान है क्या ...? तो मां कहती है हम तो गरीब लोग हैं, हमारी क्या जान पहचान, बेटा जायेगा, इंटरव्यू देकर आ जायेगा। तो वो कहता है, नहीं-नहीं मां ऐसे नौकरी नहीं मिलती है। कुछ जान पहचान वाला लाना पड़ेगा। अच्छा ठीक है, मैं कोशिश करता हूं। दो दिन के बाद फिर आता है और कहता है, मां काम हो जायेगा। तो मां पूछती है कैसे ...? बोले दो लाख रुपया लगेगा बस। मां को लगता है कि भई जमीन गिरवी रखनी पड़े तो रक्खो, घर गिरवी रखना है तो रक्खो, बेटे की नौकरी लग जाएगी तो फिर देखा जायेगा। और गरीब मां के ठग दो लाख रुपये मार लेता है, काफी लोग मारते हैं। यहां नौकरी के रेट बोलते हैं कि  नहीं बोलते ...? इस नौकरी के लिए दो लाख, इस नौकरी के लिए तीन लाख, इसके लिए पांच, होता है कि नहीं होता है ...? यह सब बंद होना चाहिए कि नहीं होना चाहिए ...? अब इंटरव्यू क्या होता है ...? यहां कई लोग हैं, जिन्होंने इंटरव्यू दिया होगा। तीन बाबू बैठे होते हैं कमरे में। एक दरवाज़े को यूं ही धक्का देता हुआ अंदर आता है। सामने खड़ा रहता है, किसी को फुर्सत हो तो यूं ही पूछ लेता है कि नाम क्या है, और दूसरे दरवाज़े से बाहर निकाल देता है। मुझे बताइये कि दुनिया में कोई ऐसा विज्ञान है कि 30 सेकेंड में पता चल जाए कि ये होनहार है कि नहीं है ...। ये बेईमानी है कि नहीं है ...? नौजवान को मूर्ख बनाया जा रहा है कि नहीं ...? हमने तय किया कि हम कोई इंटरव्यू नहीं करेंगे, उसके अपने मार्क के आधार पर उसके नौकरी दे देंगे, गरीब को भ्रष्टाचार से मुक्ति दिला देंगे। हमने अखलेश जी को कहा कि भई आप भी लागू करो। उन्होंने लागू नहीं किया। Why? क्योंकि उनको तो भेदभाव करना ही करना था। आप मुझे बताइये। आज उत्तर प्रदेश में कोई बहन बेटी सूरज ढलने के बाद अकेले घर से बाहर जा सकती है क्या ...? सलामत रहेगी क्या बेटी ...? वो डरेगी कि नहीं डरेगी ...? और कभी देर से आना हो गया तो मां बाप परेशान हो जाते हैं कि नहीं हो जाते हैं ...?\n\nभाइयों और बहनों।\nये कानून व्यवस्था हमने बनाई है ? बलात्कार, हत्या, लूट , हर प्रकार के माफिया, खनिज के माफिया, शिक्षा के माफिया, पानी के माफिया, न जाने माफियाओं का ही उपद्रव यहां चलता रहता है, और अखिलेश जी की सरकार सोई पड़ी है।  यहां के पुलिस थाने, पुलिस थाने हैं क्या ...? आज पुलिस थाने जाने का मन करता है क्या ...? कितनी तकलीफ होगी, तो तकलीफ झेलना पसंद करते हो कि पुलिस थाने जाना पसंद करते हो ...? लोगों को लगता है भई ये तकलीफ झेलेंगे तो अच्छा रहेगा। पुलिस थाने जायेंगे तो दो तकलीफ और बढ़ जाएगी।  इसका कारण क्या है?\nभाइयों और बहनों।\nकारण ये पुलिस वाले नहीं हैं। कारण ये हवलदार नहीं हैं। इन्होंने पुलिस थाने को  समाजवादी पार्टी का कार्यालय बना दिया है। और अगर पुलिस वाला ईमानदारी से चला तो ये समाजवादी उनको सस्पैंड कर देते हैं या उसका तबादला कर देते हैं। घर में बूढ़े मां-बाप बैठे हैं, बेचारे को छोटी सी नौकरी है, यहां से कहीं फेंक देंगे। वो डरता रहता है भाइयों और बहनों। यही कारोबार चल रहा है। हम पुलिस थाने को सच्चे अर्थ में पुलिस थाना बनाना चाहते हैं। हम पुलिस वाले को सच्चे अर्थ में एक इंसान के नाते, एक सरकारी मुलाज़िम के नाते, सम्मान से जिंदगी जिए, ऐसा काम करना चाहते हैं।\nऔर इसलिए भाइयों और बहनों।\nउत्तर प्रदेश को, सपा हो बसपा हो कांग्रेस हो, उससे मुक्ति दिलाने का अवसर आया है। आप मुझे बताइये कि बहनजी आपका कुछ भला करेंगी क्या ...? कोई भरोसा है क्या ...? बुआ में भरोसा है ...? भतीजे में भरोसा है ...? भतीजे के यार में भरोसा है ...? ये कुछ नहीं करेंगे। अब तक आपने इन्हें देख लिया है मेरे भाइयो और बहनों। अब बार बार मौका दे करके उत्तर प्रदेश को तबाह मत कीजिये भाइयो और बहनों। और इसलिए मौका आया है , सपा, बसपा, कांग्रेस से मुक्ति दिला करके, उत्तर प्रदेश के नौजवानों का भविष्य सुनिश्चित करने का मौका है। पिछले पंद्रह साल में एक पूरी पीढ़ी को इन लोगों ने तबाह कर दिया है भाइयों और बहनों। अब हमारी पीढ़ियों को और तबाह नहीं होने देना है। और इसलिए मैं आपसे आग्रह करने आया हूं कि आप भारी मात्रा में मतदान करें। अपना दल, भारतीय समाज पार्टी, भारतीय जनता पार्टी, इन तीनों के उम्मीदवारों को भारी बहुमत से विजयी बनाएं और आप उत्तर प्रदेश का भाग्य बदलने का मौका न जाने दें। अब तक जितना चुनाव हुआ है, भारतीय जनता पार्टी को  भारी समर्थन मिला है, भारतीय जनता पार्टी के साथियों को भारी समर्थन मिला है। ये आखिरी चरण में भी अभूतपूर्व विजय दिलाइये। इसी अपेक्षा के साथ मेरे साथ दोनों मुट्ठी बंद करके बोलिये। Long live Mother India. Long live Mother India. Long live Mother India. आठ तारीख को आप पहले मतदान फिर जलपान, पक्का वादा करोगे ...। मेरे साथ बोलिये ‘पहले मतदान फिर जलपान’। पहले मतदान ...। पहले मतदान ...। सुबह-सुबह ज्यादा से ज्यादा मतदान हो जाए क्योंकि अब गर्मी बढ़ती चली जा रही है। और आपके मतदान के पुराने जितने रिकॉर्ड हैं, अगर आपके बूथ में पहले 600 वोट पड़े हैं तो अब 900 वोट कैसे पड़े, इस पर आप ज़ोर लगाइये। लोकतंत्र की मजबूती के लिए ज्यादा से ज्यादा मतदान होना चाहिए, ज्यादा से ज्यादा मतदान करें। इसी एक अपेक्षा के साथ इस उत्तर प्रदेश चुनाव अभियान की मेरी आखिरी सभा में मैं फिर एक बार उत्तर प्रदेश के मतदाताओं का अभिनन्दन करता हूं। आठ तारीख को उत्तर प्रदेश के लोग, इस पूर्वांचल के लोग भारी मतदान करके पूर्वांचल का भाग्य बदलेंगे। मैं उनसे आग्रह करने आया हूं कि 11 मार्च को जब चुनाव के नतीजे आएंगे, दो दिन पहले ही होली मन जाएगी भाइयों। 13 तारीख को भारतीय जनता पार्टी और साथी दलों की  विजय की होली सारा देश मनाएगा, उसके बाद नई सरकार बनेगी और पहली मीटिंग में ही  मेरे किसान भाइयों, किसानों का कर्ज माफ करने का निर्णय कर लिया जायेगा। ये मैं आपको विश्वास दिलाता हूं। मेरे साथ फिर से बोलिये। Long live Mother India. Long live Mother India. Long live Mother India."