"\nModi should be rid of corruption, says PM\nIt is sad that driven by politics, some people wanted proof of surgical strikes and were asking did any Indian soldier die: PM\nEvery Indian should have his own home by 2022. We have undertaken measures so that everyone has their homes: PM\nLong live Mother India. Everywhere Shiva. Mr. Rajesh Prasad Maurya, our younger partner, Mr. Rakesh Vashishth, the Guardian of the Lok Sabha, Mr. Pradeep Aggarwi, the Metropolitan President of BJP; Mrs. Jyotsna Shrivastav MLA, MLA from Varanasi Cantt., Varanasi Cantt Assembly Convenor, Sriman Vidya Sagar Rai, Varanasi Cantt Vidhan Sabha in-charge Mr. JP Singh, Varanasi Cantt assembly election Nwy Mr. Prakash Yadav, BJP state secretary Mr. Mahendra Chandra Srivastava law and BJP candidate from the north in this election Ravindra Jaiswal G, Varanasi candidate Kent Mr. Saurabh Srivastava law. Everywhere Shiva.\nFirst of all I would like to greet the people of Varanas, as much as I can pay homage, bow down and bow down. Kashiists also broke their tomorrow's record. brothers Sisters. These are your love, your blessings, give me great power to serve you. The less you do, the less you do. You are giving me this power of yours, your blessings, Kashi's Purvanchal, the wonderful power of serving the people of Uttar Pradesh. And for this I express my gratitude to your heart.\nSuch people are like brothers and sisters.\nI have also found great fortune for taking out trips and joining in the journey. From Kanyakumari to Kashmir, a visit was carried out, under the leadership of Dr. Murli Manohar Joshi. brothers Sisters. After that there was also a chance to lead in many trips, but today was the scene of the visit of the Kashi people. Never seen such a scene in life, never experienced. brothers Sisters. You've done amazing.\nbrothers Sisters.\nOur Benaras could be the center of attraction of the whole world. This wish could arisen to every person in the world that once in life one has to go to Benaras. brothers Sisters. Banaras has been told that foreign writers have also said that Mark Twin had said that our Benaras is older than history. Traditions are also old. Older than the proverbs and the words. A lively city, within itself has been absorbed in so many centuries. brothers Sisters. This is the world's unique city, it is a strange city. This is not just the city. This is the legacy of the awakening cultural culture. And Benaras is not just the Banaras. Every Hindustani believes in Benaras as its own, so that Benaras house-house, in every heart he has made a place, what should be the Benaras? What should be its development? How are the people's needs fulfilled? And so the brothers sisters Benaras is a city of boundless will. A city full of power The city is a city filled with rituals. If only attention is given to the attention, then only the obstacles are removed, then the people of my Banaras think of the world as Benaras. This is power.\n... but brothers sisters.\nSo many governments came and more and more they kept an eye on minor tasks, keeping in view the election. Benaras will not be allowed to do scattered loose work. It needs to be done fully. The dream of staying in Banaras and making the facilities modern, is my dream to make such a Banaras. But brothers sisters. When I am roaming in Uttar Pradesh, after becoming a specially MP, our MPs also come to visit, they also say. They have a great way to talk about fun Bole sahab, where do you know about Uttar Pradesh. Tell me Say, our Uttar Pradesh is such that even here God inspires, there also God, there is also God, wherever God inspires, where there is no God, tomorrow will be there. Now these are the places that have been made. When this is the stars which are hanging in Benaras, which are hanging wire Because of this there is so much loss of electricity, people suffer so much, the city is so damaged, the line loss is so much. When I saw it, in the first meeting I said that I will do it right. So far, I have put up cable for 100 kilometers. Total 300km is to be added. One-third of the work has been done, two-thirds work to be done. But this government is such that he should have been happy that let the brother of the Prime Minister take so much interest as his MP, he is giving so much money to the cables, so good work is being done. But after putting the cables, they did not do the road which should be fixed there. If Modi gets credit, anywhere. I once said that 42 percent of your electricity which is lousy is lost, you are making profits, just repair the potholes of the road.\nbrothers Sisters.\nAll the accounts will get a vote from this book, or if you will not get it. brothers Sisters. We are the people's mantra with everyone's development. With everyone .... But be it SP, BSP or Congress, they have created the culture of politics, they have created tradition, so this idea runs in their veins with some, development of something. Taking a few people together to win the election, as much as possible, do not care about others and care for the rest of the people. brothers Sisters. In democracy, everyone's development is essential for both. Even if it is not there, it does not even go away, but there is discrimination in development even if it does not. You see the map of whole of India, in front of your eyes, map of India. And you will see that there are two direct differences in India. The condition of the west which is the condition of the Hindustan and the condition of the eastern Hindustan. Why this situation? In the west, you see Haryana, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Goa, Karnataka, Kerala, all the states see some economic activity, economic progress looks. But here, look at our eastern India, see Purvanchal, see West Bengal, see Assam, see Nagaland, see Orissa. The whole part should not have been there as it should have been. You tell me brothers If this balance remains, what will be the good of the country ...? Will it be ...? Look at the human body too. The weight is okay, the height is fine, the eye-eye nose is all very good but if one hand is paralyzed, then what body does a healthy body say ...? What does it say ...? Do not say no!\nbrothers Sisters.\nIf our organisms are not developed then our Mother India will not be considered as developed. And so the brothers sisters My dream is to bring our eastern Hindustan to our eastern Uttar Pradesh as soon as possible at the height of development so that it will stand in line with the west, then the whole country begins to move forward, this is my dream is. Uttar Pradesh too if the development of the Purvanchal will be done correctly, Uttar Pradesh will never be late in the development tourism. Therefore, the plans we are making are making all the plans. These Eastern Hindustan, our eastern region, our Eastern Uttar Pradesh, such powerful people, who are the strengths of Eastern Hindustan, are such a valiant people, who are the culprit of hard work. There is abundant natural wealth in this area. There is fertile land. There are possibilities for industrial development, there are possibilities for tourists, possibilities for agriculture, everything is there. There is only one shortage, not the right government. If there was a right government then how much of my purvanchal filled with so much natural wealth could be done.\nNow tell me.\nOne of those Japanese fever, how many children of Purvanchal have lost their lives. Government of India gives money to the government of Uttar Pradesh to serve sick people. But should say sadly with brothers sisters That the government is giving the money, it does not even have the capacity to use it. Yes, there is a problem that I ask for accounting. Take so much, bring so much account and take another. The problem is that they do not account or give accounting. If you keep it, you will keep it. If there is anything to be done about it then how will it be?\nbrothers Sisters.\nThese corruption should be foul that all should be closed or not .... Should not be ... This corruption has ruined the country or not ... This country has not ... ruined that. The country has been liberated for 70 years, a handful of people went abducting the post and looting the poor from the poor. If a Hav has taken 100 rupees from someone sitting in a police station then what do they say to the takers, I have to give up. This is up to who is brother Which business is this? Have to give up. This is to give up, to give up, no, now the above person has started seeking accounting. You tell me These are our socialist Bahujan Samaj and Congress SP, BSP and Congress, they always speak against each other or do not speak .... Do not blurt each other or blow them away. 27 years ago UP Behal used to say that ... The sister can tell the nephew as much as she can or does not tell .... The nephew tells the aunt that she does not hear .... Everyday I-I walk or do not move ... But the three gathered on one thing, the three gathered. When on 8th November at 8 o'clock, Modi came on TV, my dear countrymen There was such strength in it that there was such strength that they all got together.\nbrothers Sisters.\nEveryone's niaya came on sinking, so they got together. Everyone was drowning. Inside, they were asking how much you went. Dude tell some way. All the people in the country were searching for the way brothers sisters Five hundred and thousand notes closed. Those who have been robbed for 70 years, they will have to return to my dear countrymen. This is poor, the poor will have to return. What these three people were saying were gathered together. She said, Mulayam Singh said, Modi would give seven-eight days in between. Why, what is needed On one issue all gathered. brothers Sisters. The people of the country, on one side and under whose feet water came, on the other side. This country has seen. Who wants to walk on the path of honesty and who wants to save the dishonesty, this country has seen. These milk milk, water water, have seen this on November 8.\nbrothers Sisters.\nSome people spread illusions Small businessmen will have trouble. Income tax will trouble now. I want to tell all honest people. Now in this government honesty will not dare trouble you, I have come to tell you. Honesty will now be respected in the country. Honest will be welcome in this country. Honest people will be cheered in this country. The time has come, brothers sisters And I have no quarrel with traders too. Suppose a businessman would have done so much more than what would happen. The goods worth a hundred rupees would be sold in 110, if the opportunity was lost, then it would sell in 120. In the government, he has to pay tax 10 rupees, he may not give it. 10 rupees would be given at the place of 10 rupees. That would not be enough If once the government behaves honestly, Babu people will be honest then my businessman will not steal a rupee, I believe it.\nbrothers Sisters.\nWho is looting the country, these people have not looted. Those who are sitting in the post, who have the right to sign on paper, files, sign it Those same people have looted the country. Leaders have robbed, Babu has looted. I have to remove her brother's sisters And so the little ones will not let trouble but I will not leave the robbers, it is sure. And you guys sent me to run just like I did ... What is sent to run like this ... I have been sent to do fine ... Hey mother has sent Ganga, then she did not send a few breaths. And so the brothers sisters I will continue to do what this earth has given me strength, in which honesty is full. I want to say this. In 2014, when I came to Benaras here to contest elections. Some of you may know the name, sometimes you will have seen a face on TV, but the love you gave to people, once I did not campaign. Just came to fill the nomination. Despite all the love of the people of Benaras, I can never forget the brothers. And when I came for election in Benaras Remember the newspaper of that time. See the 2012, 2013, 2014 newspaper. What came in the newspaper. Every day there was a headline. Today the Commonwealth scandal, so many Today's Toughe scandal, so many rupees Today the coal scam, so many rupees. Today the submarine scandal, so many rupees .... Today the helicopter scandal, so many rupees .... How many went, it was. Someone used to say, one lakh crores, someone said two lakh crores, someone said three lakh crores. Daily news came, gone, gone. What people ask Modi today ... Modiji, tell me how many come. Every Benazir will be proud of it. Brothers sisters do not have any stains on your MP And people used to ask accounting, they were demanding. Modi did that time, when he used to go. Now you have come, tell me how much come back. brothers Sisters. The first government in the country has come to which people trust that yes it will be brought.\nbrothers Sisters.\nWhat is Hindustan? Which direction does Hindustan want to go? The world is well understood by the power of hundred and fifty million people. Some people do not come. Some people do not have to understand, not just to see. You must have seen. The creature's human being After some time the cataract is in the eye. When the glaucoma gets stuck in the eye, Then see again. So there is no need to oppose the Motia Bind. Some politicians are like this, they do not even vote, do not vote. The vote gets frozen. Until they do not vote and vote from the brain, they do not see anything. ...और इसलिए भाइयों बहनों। अब देखिए जब सर्जिकल स्ट्राइक हुई। मेरे काशीवासियों ने, जब हमारे देश के फौजियों ने सर्जिकल स्ट्राइक की, सीमा पार जाकरके, दिन के तारे दिखा दिये। दुश्मन के कैंप में जाकरके हमारे फौज उनको मार करके लौट आए। और सूरज उगने से पहले आकरके खबर दी कि ऑपरेशन सफल हुआ है।\nbrothers Sisters.\nदेश की सेना के जवान, मौत को मुट्ठी में लेकरके दुश्मनों के छक्के छुड़ाने के लिए गए थे। उनके दिल दिमाग में यही विश्वास था कि मां भारती को तबाह करने वाले लोगों को हम तबाह करके रहेंगे, हम रहें या ना रहें, इस मिजाज से गए थे। लेकिन फौज का प्लानिंग इतना परफेक्ट था, हमला इतना तेज था कि दुश्मन जग ही नहीं पाया, खात्मा हो गया। लेकिन लेकिन देश का दुर्भाग्य देखिए। हमारे देश में ऐसी राजनीतिक पार्टियां, ऐसे राजनीतिक दल, वो कह रहे थे कि मोदी जी, सबूत तो दो। फौज ने सर्जिकल स्ट्राइक किया है और मेरे देश में सत्ता गंवाए हुए लोग, सिर्फ राजनीति में डूबे हुए लोग, चौबीसो घंटे विरोधवाद चलाने वाले लोग, सर्जिकल स्ट्राइक का सबूत मांगने लगे। मेरे देश के फौज से मांगने लगे। उनको ये तकलीफ हुई, मोदीजी इतना बड़ा ऑपरेशन हुआ, इतने लोग मारे गए, हमारा एक भी नहीं मरा क्या ...। मैं हैरान हूं जी। ऐसा सवाल शोभा देता है क्या ...। शोभा देता है क्या ...।\nbrothers Sisters.\nइनके दिन दिमाग में देश के फौज के प्रति, देश के लिए मरने मिटने वाले सैनानियों के लिए जो भाव होना चाहिए ना, उसका अभाव है। इसी कारण वन रैंक, वन पैंशन 40 साल से मेरे देश के फौजप मांग रहे थे, 40 साल। वो कहते हैं, हमारा हक है। हमें मिलना चाहिए। हर चुनाव में, हर दल, गोल-मोल गोल मोल बोलते रहते थे। अब आपने मुझे प्रधानमंत्री बना दिया। हमने कहा कि मैं ये फौजियों की सेवा करूंगा। काम हाथ में लिया। मेरा इरादा था कि सरकार बनने के छह महीने के भीतर-भीतर ये काम कर लूं। लेकिन जब अंदर उतरा तो पता चला कि सरकार के पास कोई रिकॉर्ड नहीं है। कितने लोग रिटार्यड हैं, कहां है, कोई रजिस्टर नहीं, सब बिखरा पड़ा था। कोई इधर पड़ा था, कोई उधर पड़ा था, सब ऐसे ही था। मैंने कहा पहले इकट्ठा करो सारा। और कांग्रेस वालों ने कहा था कि वन रैंक, वन पैंशन में हम 500 करोड़ देंगे तो मुझे भी लगता था कि चलो भाई 500 करोड़ है तो 700, 800, 1000 करोड़ होगा और कितना होगा। जब मैं हिसाब किताब करने बैठा तो मामला 12 हजार करोड़ तक जा पहुंचा। इसका मतलब ये हुआ कि कांग्रेस सरकार को कभी भी ये विषय गंभीर है, कम से कम कागज पर तो खोज करके रखो, कितनी जिम्मेदारी है, क्या प्रोब्लम है, कुछ नहीं किया था। मेरा एक साल लग गया चीजें समेटते-समेटते। और बाद में मैंने घोषित कर दिया, वन रैंक वन पैंशन मिलेगा, 12 हजार करोड़ रुपए फौजियों को मिलेगा, चार किश्त में मिलेगा, दो किश्त दे चुका हूं। 6 हजार करोड़ रुपए ज्यादा रुपए दे चुका हूं। बाकी का इस बजट में मिल जाएगा भाइयों। मेरे कहने का मतलब ये है कि अगर देश को आगे बढ़ाना है तो सरकार निर्णायक होनी चाहिए, फैसले करने वाली होनी चाहिए। और फैसले कठोर से कठोर हो तो भी करने पड़ते हैं।\n...लेकिन भाइयों बहनों।\nजो मिट्टी से निकलकर के आया होता है ना, जिसने जीवन में कष्ट झेले होते हैं, मेहनत करके निकला होता है, उसमें निर्णय करने की हिम्मत भी होती है लेकिन जो गलुआ होते हैं, हैं बनारस में गलुआ शब्द चलता है, चलता है ना। जिनको सब विरासत में मिला हुआ होता है। इसके लिए यहां पर शब्द है गलुआ। यहां जो मुख्यमंत्री हैं, उनको भी पिताश्री की तरफ से मिल गया। उनके जो नये यार हैं उनको को दादी, नाना, पिता सबसे मिला हुआ है। और इसलिए ये ऐसे नाजुक होते हैं, नाजुक लोग होते हैं। कष्ट नहीं उठा सकते हैं, डरते हैं, कहीं चला जाएगा तो। मुझे क्या है, हमको तो विरासत से मिला नहीं है जी। हमें तो जो मिला है काशीवासियों के प्यार में से निकला हुआ है। और इसलिए फैसले लेने में हमारी हिम्मत होती है और हम निर्णय करते हैं क्योंकि हमें देश को कठिनाइयों से मुक्त कराना है, देश को मुसीबतों से बाहर लाना है और इसलिए भाइयों बहनों। हम फैसले करने की हिम्मत रखते हैं भाइयों।\nbrothers Sisters.\nये हमारा पूर्वांचल। उसके विकास के लिए आर्थिक विकास के लिए, सबसे पहली बात मान लीजिए टूरिज्म। काशी के पास टूरिज्म की इतनी बड़ी ताकत है बहनों भाइयों। दुनिया में जैसे किसी को मक्का जाने का मन करता है, किसी को रोम जाने का मन करता है, वैसे हिन्दुस्तान के सवा सौ करोड़ देशवासियों को बनारस आने का मन करता है। और ये स्थिति मुझे लानी है बहनों भाइयों। और इसलिए, यहां के रास्ते अच्छे हो, यहां एकदम साफ सफाई हो, यहां पर हर घर में टॉयलेट हो, यहां पर गरीब से गरीब को भी अपना घर हो, रहने के लिए छत हो। झुग्गी-झोपड़ी में गुजारा न करना पड़े। हर घर में बिजली हो और 24 घंटे बिजली हो। 24 घंटे आती है क्या ...। आती है क्या ...। पक्का ना ...। हां, कुछ लोग कहते है कि नहीं आती है ...। मैं आपका मानूं कि उनका मानूं ...। आप सच बोलते हैं ना ...। सच बोलते हैं ना ...। सच बोलते हैं ना ...। देश की जनता जनार्धन जब बोलती है तो भगवान की आवाज होती है। इसलिए आपकी सच्चाई में दम होता है।\nbrothers Sisters.\nटूरिज्म के विकास के लिए हवाई अड्डे से उतरकर के कोई भी टूरिस्ट आएगा। क्या हाल बनाकरके रखा था रस्ते का। brothers Sisters. हवाई अड्डे से काशी तक आने का रास्ता काफी मात्रा में सुधरा है नहीं सुधरा है ...। और सुधर रहा है कि नहीं सुधर रहा है ...। आपको दिखता है क्या ...। आपको दिखता है क्या ...। सपा वालों को नहीं दिखता है और आपको दिखता है। जिनको रोड नहीं दिखता है, उनको देश के जीवन में आ रहे बदलाव कहां से दिखेगा भाइयों।\nbrothers Sisters.\nहमने रिंग रोड बनाने का काम किया। रिंग रोड बनाना हम चाहते थे। लेकिन राज्य सरकार की रूकावटें, काम धीमा, हम वाराणसी गोरखपुर रोड बनवा रहे थे लेकिन काम धीमा, सरकार का सहयोग नहीं। हम वाराणसी-सुल्तानपुर रोड बनवाना चाहते हैं काम शुरू हो रहा है, काम आगे नहीं बढ़ रहा है। धीरे चल रहा है। …और भाइयों बहनों। इन सब कामों के लिए भारत सरकार ने 11 हजार करोड़ रुपए दिया, 11 हजार करोड़। लेकिन ये ऐसी सरकार है कि अभी तक किसानों को जमीन का पैसा देना चाहिए, वहां पर थोड़ा रोड चौड़ा करना है तो उनको पैसा देना चाहिए। उनको देने के काम में भी रूकावटें डाली। 4500 करोड़ रुपए वैसी वैसी ही थप्पी पड़ी हुई है। लोगों को पैसे नहीं दिए जा रहे हैं।\nbrothers Sisters.\nगंगा घाट का काम हो, सफाई का काम हो, बिजली के तार को अंडरग्राउंड करने का काम हो, ये सारी चीजें टूरिज्म को बढ़ावा देने वाली है। और टूरिज्म से रोजगार मिलने वाला है। कोई बड़ा उद्योग लगाने में जितना पैसा लगाते हैं, उससे जितने लोगों को रोजगार मिलता है, उससे अनेक गुणा ज्यादा रोजगार टूरिज्म में मिलता है और गरीब से गरीब, टूरिज्म से कमाता है। यात्री जब आते हैं तो फूल बेचने वाला कमाएगा, नाव वाला भी कमाएगा, रिक्शा वाला भी कमाएगा, बिस्कुट बेचने वाला कमाएगा, प्रसाद बेचने वाला कमाएगा, पूजा पाठ का सामान बेचने वाला कमाएंगे, छोटे-छोटे गेस्ट हाउस के लोग कमाएंगे, चाय बेचने वाला भी कमाएगा।\nbrothers Sisters.\nहम टूरिज्म को बढ़ावा देना चाहते हैं। दूसरी बात है, यहां क्वालिटी ऑफ लाइफ में चेंज आना चाहिए। हर घर में शौचालय बनना चाहिए। brothers Sisters. हमने योजना बनाई है 2022 तक हिन्दुस्तान में कोई परिवार ऐसा न हो, जिसके पास रहने के लिए अपना घर न हो। गरीब से गरीब को भी रहने के लिए घर मिलना चाहिए कि नहीं मिलना चाहिए ...। इतना काम तो सरकार को करना चाहिए कि नहीं करना चाहिए ...। और घर ऐसा हो जिसमें पानी आता हो कि न हो ...। घर ऐसा हो जिसमें बिजली भी हो या न हो ...। घर जहां हो वहां बच्चों के लिए स्कूल हो कि न हो ...। हम ऐसा काम करना चाहते हैं। हमने उत्तर प्रदेश की सरकार को कहा कि आपके यहां शहरों में 30 लाख परिवारों को घर की जरूरत है, घर नहीं है। भारत सरकार पैसा देने को तैयार है। आप हमें लिस्ट बनाकर दे दीजिए, अर्जियां दे दीजिए हमारे शहरी विकास मंत्री को बार-बार चिट्ठी लिखनी पड़ी। सचिव को चिट्ठी लिखनी पड़ी लेकिन ये ऐसी सोई पड़ी सरकार थी, ऐसी सोई पड़ी सरकार थी। कौन गरीब है जिसको घर नहीं है, भारत सरकार जो घर देने वाली है, उसको मिलना चाहिए। ये लोग सूची बना पाए, सूची बना पाए। जो सूची बना नहीं पाते, वो घर कैसे बना पाएंगे। आप कल्पना कर सकते हो। आखिरकार हमने रास्ता खोजा। हमने पब्लिक को कह दिया कि हमारी सरकार जो कॉमन सर्विस सेंटर है, कम्प्यूटर वाले जो लड़के हमने बिठाए हैं। आप उनको अर्जी दे दीजिए। हम उनसे अर्जी मंगवा लेंगे। डेढ़ दो लाख अर्जियां आ गई तब उत्तर प्रदेश सरकार की नींद टूटी। अरे यार ये मोदी तो कर गया, उसने तो रास्ता खोज लिया। तब उत्तर प्रदेश की सरकार जगी।\nbrothers Sisters.\nकोई सरकार ऐसे नहीं हो सकती है। हम ये तो समझ सकते हैं चलो भाई, इतने घर बनाने थे, थोड़े कम बन गए। हम इतना तो समझ सकते हैं कि चलो तीन महीना लेट हो गए लेकिन कागज पर नाम तक न लिख पाओ। क्या चला रहे हो आप लोग। brothers Sisters. हम चाहते हैं हर घर में 24 घंटे बिजली मिलनी चाहिए। आज का जमाना, गरीब आदमी भी बिजली के बिना गुजारा कर सकता है क्या ...। कर सकता है क्या ...। बिजली चाहिए कि नहीं चाहिए ...। हमने एक योजना बनाई। हिन्दुस्तान के सभी राज्य, सब के सब उस योजना में शरीक हो गए। भारत सरकार के साथ एमओयू कर लिया। पैसे भारत सरकार दे रही है। कैसे करना, क्या करना है, भारत सरकार बता रही है। एक अकेला उत्तर प्रदेश, सपा सरकार पर मेरा गंभीर आरोप है। उन्होंने इस योजना का लाभ लेने से मना कर दिया। कोई ऐसा सोच नहीं सकता है भाइयों। कितना फायदा होने वाला था उत्तर प्रदेश को। बिजली सरकार दिल्ली से दे रही है। पैसे दिल्ली सरकार दे रही है। वे इस योजना से जुड़ना नहीं चाहते। क्या कारण है कि वे उत्तर प्रदेश के लोगों को अंधेरे में जीने के लिए मजबूर करना चाहते हैं।\nbrothers Sisters.\nये हमारा पूर्वांचल, यहां औद्योगिक विकास की संभावनाएं है। हमने तय किया, गुजरात से हम पाइप लाइन डाल रहे हैं, यहां तक पाइप लाइन आएगी, जिसमें एलपीजी गैस आएगा, पाइप लाइन में। और यहां घर में भी नल से गैस मिलेगा, गैस सिलेंडर की जरूरत नहीं पड़ेगी। इतना ही नहीं गैस के आधार पर कारखाने भी चलेंगे। गैस के आधार पर आपकी गाड़ियां चलेगी। प्रदूषण नहीं होगा। खर्चा कम होगा, बनारस की शक्ल सूरत बदलेगी नहीं बदलेगी ...। तीन हजार किमी लंबी पाइप लाइन लगा रहे हैं गुजरात से यहां तक, हजारों करोड़ रुपया खर्च कर रहे हैं। मेरे बनारस वालों के लिए कर रहे हैं भाइयों बहनों। विकास करना है इसलिए कर रहे हैं।\nऔर इसलिए भाइयों बहनों।\nहमने पूर्वांचल में गोरखपुर में फर्टिलाइजर कारखाना, एम्स की रचना, ट्रामा सेंटर की रचना, कैंसर सेंटर की रचना, एक के बाद एक ...। पूर्वांचल में अब कोई बीमार हो तो उसे लखनऊ और दिल्ली दौड़ना न पड़े, उसको नजदीक में ही बीमार को व्यवस्था मिल जाए। एक के बाद एक कदम उठा रहे हैं। और इसका परिणाम आपको नजर आने वाला है।\nbrothers Sisters.\nमेरे मन में एक चित्र साफ है। इस पूरे पूर्वांचल में कैसे करना, इसका चित्र मेरे मन में साफ है। रेल का कनेक्टीविटी बढ़ा रहे हैं, रेल की लाइन बढ़ा रहे हैं, रेल का नेटवर्क ऐसा बनाना चाहते हैं कि उद्योग धंधे वालों को भी यहां आना है तो उनको लगेगा कि उनका यहां जो माल बनेगा, उसको तुरंत पहुंचाया जाएगा, सस्ते में पहुंचाया जाएगा। वो यहां आने के लिए तैयार हो जाएगा। काशी, बनारसी साड़ी, यहां के मेरे बुनकर भाई, दुनियां में हमारे हस्तकरघा चीजों का मार्केट खड़ा हो सकता है। बुनकरों को क्या सुविधा मिले, हजारों करोड़ रुपया हम मुद्रा योजना से हम दे रहे हैं ताकि गरीब से गरीब व्यक्ति भी रोजी रोटी कमा सके। हम घर-घर गैस का सिलेंडर दे रहे है, गैस का कनेक्शन दे रहे हैं। 2014 में जब चुनाव हुआ तो चर्चा ये थी। कांग्रेस पार्टी ने घोषणा की थी कि अगर हम दोबारा सरकार बनाएंगे तो 9 सिलेंडर की जगह 12 सिलेंडर देंगे। brothers Sisters. ये उनकी सोच की सीमा देखिए और हमने कहा कि हम तीन साल में 5 करोड़ परिवारों के अंदर गैस का सिलेंडर देंगे। और 5 करोड़ परिवारों को, जो गरीब मां लकड़ी का चूल्हा जलाकरके धुआं में जिंदगी में काटती है, 400 सिगरेट का धुआं जिसके शरीर में जाता है, उस मां को बीमारी से बचाने के लिए उसके घर में गैस का सिलेंडर देंगे। अकेले उत्तर प्रदेश में अब तक 55 लाख गैस कनेक्शन गरीब परिवारों में दे चुके हैं। काशी में भी हजारों परिवारों को कनेक्शन दे चुके हैं भाइयों। मेरा कहने का मतलब ये है कि विकास ही हमारी समस्या का समाधान है। विकास ही हमारे नौजवानों की गारंटी है। विकास ही गरीब से गरीब मां-बाप को अपने बच्चों को पढ़ाई के लिए अवसर देता है।\nbrothers Sisters.\nमेरा विजन साफ है। हम चाहते हैं कि किसान को सिंचाई, बच्चों को पढ़ाई, युवा को कमाई और बुजुर्गों को दवाई, इसमें कोई कमी नहीं रहनी चाहिए। इस बात को लेकरके चल रही है। brothers Sisters. आज काशीवासियों ने कमाल कर दिया है। आप देखिए ये सपा हो या बसपा हो, कोई फर्क नहीं है। एक ए सपा है, दूसरी बी सपा है। ए सपा अखिलेश समाजवादी पार्टी है, बी सपा बहुजन समाजवादी पार्टी है।\nbrothers Sisters.\nएक ही थाली के चट्टे बट्टे हैं। ये कांग्रेस पार्टी तो पता नहीं साहब भविष्य में शायद पुरातत्व विभाग खोलना पड़ेगा कि इस देश में कोई कांग्रेस पार्टी थी क्या। अभी महाराष्ट्र में चुनाव हुआ साफ हो गए, उड़ीसा में चुनाव हुआ साफ हो गए। कुछ बचा नहीं है। brothers Sisters.\nभारतीय जनता पार्टी को वोट दीजिए। कमल निशान पर वोट दीजिए। और मेरी बनारस वासियों से आग्रह है कि आप पुराने सारे अपने रिकॉर्ड टूट जाए, इतना मतदान कराओगे। ज्यादा मतदान कराओगे ...। कराओगे ...। देखिए मतदान ज्यादा से ज्यादा मतदान होना चाहिए। मतदान लोकतंत्र का पर्व है। हर इंसान को लोकतंत्र के पर्व में शरीक होना चाहिए। जितना ज्यादा मतदान कराओगे, उतना लोकतंत्र मजबूत होगा। लोकतंत्र को मजबूत बनाना, ये भी हमलोगों की जिम्मेदारी है। मजबूत सरकार बनाना हम सबका सपना है। भाजपा की सरकार बने, मजबूत बने। बनारस का, पूर्वांचल का, उत्तर प्रदेश का भाग्य बदले, ऐसा काम करने के लिए आप हमें काम दें। इसी एक अपेक्षा के साथ मेरे साथ बोलिए। Long live Mother India. Long live Mother India. Long live Mother India. Thanks a lot."