"Share\n\nHave made Kashi my 'Karya Kshetra' so that we can regain the pride of the region: PM\nKashi is not just a city but a symbol of humanity: PM\nOpposition spread lies about 24/7 power supply, but during his temple visit, there was a power outage: PM\nWe want our weaver brothers and sisters to prosper We have taken steps that will benefit them immensely: PM\nThe Center allotts fund for the welfare of people in the states. But why Uttar Pradesh government is not able to use them: PM\nLong live Mother India. Long live Mother India. Mr. Shyamdev Rai Choudhary, senior Mayor of the party, who is on the stage, Mr. Ramgopal Mohale ji, the President of the city Mr. Pradeep Agrawari, the convenor of the election, Mr. Ashok Dhawan, the convenor of the election, Mr. PS Joshi Ji, former City President, Mr. Dahan Shankar Dayalu, co-coordinator Jee and Varanasi from south to Bharatiya Janata Party's young candidate Shri Nilkanth Tiwari and a large number of Kashi Area my brothers and sisters.\nToday Kashi has done amazing ... When the election was declared, I had the opportunity to go to many places and today, on this holy land of Kashi, you have the privilege of coming among all of you in my field of work, once you all have spoken aloud to every Har Mahadev. Everywhere Shiva. Everywhere Shiva.\nLong live Mother India. Long live Mother India. Aja is presently present in every logon. We are Anne, then we have got good luck again to visit Baba Viswanath. Apart from Aakur, Kashi's Kotwal Baba Bhairav's philosophy is also the first time Bhaiil. We will get you good luck with the blessings of Logan. In such a way, all the gurudevan ki humar pravam baan\nbrothers Sisters.\nI am grateful to the Uttar Pradesh Bharatiya Janata Party and the heart of Kashi BJP that they gave me the opportunity of seeing everyone of you. The party wanted me to address a rally in Banaras Lok Sabha constituency. I requested the party, Kashi is the area of ​​my Lok Sabha, if I come or should not come, you will be winning the election. But as MP here, I should be given a courtesy to visit the people's publicity as a public representative. Another person in my mind was lying for a long time. When I contested the Lok Sabha election, came to fill the nomination, I was new to here, it was very necessary for me that I should travel at least once in the entire area. But the responsibility of the whole country was so big that it was not possible that on the day I will be going to fill the nomination, I will do a rally on the same day, and after a couple of days before the voting, I will go, but I will have to say sadly that perhaps I was the first person in Hindustan who was fighting the election, it was contesting from here but the Election Commission of that time, the commission of Election Commission Officers he had not let me House. The rally which was to be performed after the nomination was given first permit, the preparations had been made, but I do not know what pressures came upon them, they canceled my rally. Now I have been a man to follow the rules. Even when the polling was done a couple of days ago, the Election Commission refused permission to contact me in Kashi and refused to attend. Since then, there was one thing in my mind that Kashi has done such a big favor to me. Despite the fact that I could not communicate my message, even then, the people of Kashi gave me so much love, gave me so many blessings and made me victorious by the overwhelming majority. And since then I wanted to take the time to take the opportunity of seeing the people of Kashi and this festival of democracy is not a big opportunity. So I urged the party that I want to spend a lot of time in Kashi, I want to see everyone and today when Bhole was going to Baba, when the time was going to the feet of Bhairav, then it was in the open jeep. And the way you got the fortune of your philosophy. I express gratitude from the heart of the Kashi people. Today I will go back, but I will come again tomorrow evening and stay at least one night. ... then tomorrow I am also going to stop. Even if Narendra Modi is the Prime Minister, he may be a MP but he is also a small worker of the Bharatiya Janata Party. When thousands of workers, workers of every age, male activists, women workers, working day and night, should also work with them for a few hours by joining me on the shoulder. As a worker, my habit should also be maintained, and my habit should not worsen too. And so I always look for opportunities to keep my inner worker alive in Kashi and that opportunity you gave me. I'm very much obliged to you.\nbrothers Sisters.\nKashi is not just a political area for me, I also chose Kashi's people, the people of Vadodara also chose. I could leave Kashi and become the MP of Vadodara, but I have made Kashi his place of work so that the world, the oldest city in human history, how his glory was restored. His ancestor-pride once again began to shine in clever direction, and in that work Kashi is doing a lot, if I can do something like a squirrel then my life will be blessed, I have come to this house . Your love, your affection, your blessings bring me here again and again. And such a city, I ... once went to the city of Boston in the US, then when I went out to do a program in a university there, those who were my hosts there showed me a street, in Boston and they said that it was Kashni of Boston it is said. A street in the city of Boston, America, people know it as Kashi and say the master is the common name here, the teacher is the common name for the professor, and he connects us with Kashi. When you hear it, how proud is it to be the brothers and sisters? How proud is it? These cities are just people, there are cities, there are paths, not so much. Kashi is a message for mankind in itself, it is a symbol of humanity and that Kashi has to try everything together to make a perfect Kashi. Since you have given me work as an MP, you should have seen every time I keep some new projects. I am working in many ways because you have given me a chance to serve and I feel blessed to serve.\nbrothers Sisters.\nThese cities are mother Ganga, Bhole Baba, there are many pilgrimage areas, historical legends are associated with saga, cultural legends are associated with the story, from Buddha to so many lives, this earth is connected, but also for us This soul of Kashi is to maintain that soul, but also to rejuvenate the Kashi. brothers Sisters. Banaras city, a city that has heritage, Wi-Fi, there should also be cultural consciousness, there should also be cleanliness, whether it is my Banaras, spiritual identity or modern perception also. Like the Ganga mother keeps on flowing, even though my Banaras is not there, it will never stop. It is my age that has been associated with the ages, and this work has to be developed by becoming a new mishra for the coming ages.\nAnd so my brothers and sisters\nWhen I came for the development of Kashi, for many years, the discussion of ring road was going on since Atalji's government. Was hanged or not ... Was not stuck that had not happened .... The work of the ring road was started or not. You tell me the day when the ring road will be completed then how many facilities will be there in Kashi's life, how many problems will be solved in the traffic. Will not be that ... brothers Sisters. Visitors from all over the world come to the airport and what was the way to Kashi. Today four lane work is going on fast or not ... Shoestring is changing or not changing ... You look ... Looks ... Akhilesh does not see him .... This is the dark bridge of our city, for how many years was the words of the dark bridge .... What was the work being done .... We did not show or showed ...\nbrothers Sisters.\nOlder Kashi is as old but obstacles are formed when you see in the sky, the wire hangs around, hangs or does not hang .... And when I came to choose, I had a program among enlightened citizens and on that day I had said that I will release Kashi from the flock of this star. Undergraduate cable work is going on, about six hundred crore rupees have been installed, one hundred and four kilometers of cable work has been done, eight thousand houses have been released from the hanging stars, now three hundred kilometers complete me It's three hundred kilometers. One lakh families are going to get their direct benefit. This is the whole system of electricity here. Forty-two-forty-two percent of TNT loss is the transmission, the loss of transmission is theirs, forty-two years ago. It means that the honest people who are being punished for them, tax on them is more likely because of this loss. What is the sin of the honest brother? Your chaos punishes the honest citizens, the middle class citizens' payouts. If all of this work will be done then this line loss will also come down immediately and electricity will be given for 24 hours. I promise you. Now tell me that electricity is available in Kashi 24 hours or not .... Do I need to eat Ganga's joke? Look, no one can believe or believe God, but God has power. That does not happen ... Those who used to lie every day, used to lie everyday. Today, when he was going to the temple, electricity went on at the same time. God gave evidence or did not give it .... Now I need to give it .... You need to give .... Hey Bhole Baba himself has shown the form ....\nbrothers Sisters.\nThe streets of Benaras, this is the beauty of Benaras. It has its own importance, with the cost of repairing these alleys by putting around Rs. 34 crore, the work of repairing these streets is moving forward at a fast pace. In development, Infrastructure provides a permanent solution to these problems. Our railway station, the efforts to increase the line from Allahabad to Kashi, the development of the three railway stations related to Kashi, the expansion of putting more lines on the platform, whether you are watching or not seeing all this work ....\nbrothers Sisters.\nThe speed at which the work is being done in the railway and our Manoj Sinha ji gives considerable attention to it. His work is done in full detail and due to him .... brothers Sisters. As I said the paths .... Azamgarh from Benaras, Gorakhpur to Gorakhpur, Banaras to Sultanpur, Banaras to Aurangabad, about ten thousand crore rupees project is under progress. When the work is completed then you can guess how wonderful that work will be. It is also necessary for electricity in Banaras that it is necessary to have all the stations for transmission. We have given considerable attention to the sub station and its benefits will be there. I want to congratulate the Kashiists for one thing, the last time I came in, I said that we should put the LED bulb. Every family will save two hundred, five hundred, thousand, two thousand rupees. The bulb's age will be high and its light will be used to feed the mind. In such a short time the citizens of Banaras imposed more than nine lakh LED bulbs. Has done a great deal. And what is the difference between the government, the government, now this LED bulb becomes Modi Prime Minister, after what has come ... This Modi has discovered what .... The LED bulb was discovered several years ago. The old government also knew about the LED bulb. It was not that there was ignorance, but then the price of the LED bulb used to be three hundred and fifty hundred rupees. When our government was formed we called the bulbs. We said, tell me what's the matter. Tell the truth how much it costs. If you get more order, then a little less. I said tell the truth, how much profit you have earned, do not say no, no more will not earn the market. Now the expenditure and water are released. I said, 'Oh no, tell the truth. Today, the LED bulb was three and a half hundred and fifty hundred rupees, in the middle of fifty to eighty rupees, the LED bulb is found in the brothers and sisters. And about twenty-five million LED bulbs have been planted in the country and only the survival of the LED bulb is saving eleven thousand rupees of the consumers who use electricity, they are saving money in their pockets. Now the electricity bill of two hundred and two hundred rupees will be reduced in the poor house. So he will feed his children or will not drink ... Whether it will benefit children's health or not .... If the child of my country is healthy, then my future tomorrow will be healthy or not. brothers Sisters. How it works, working in pieces does not work, development is needed to take it to new heights, then it seems a broad approach.\nbrothers Sisters.\nYou must have seen how many people come to Ganga Aarti, now since the light of the LED has been there. How much good work is being done, how wonderful is the scene, how wonderful is the creation of people, with the view of the fact of beauty. Kashi is also a tourist place, it is the dharma of the journey, everything here should have an aesthetic sense. The person coming should feel freshness. From their everyday life, they have a new feeling of outside and to show it to us. E-rickshaw tried to reduce the pollution, E-boat tried to stop polyness in Ganga ji, after one such work has been done, due to which the beauty of Kashi which you are engaged in, I also I have joined.\nbrothers Sisters.\nWho does not know the Banarasi sari, but my weaving brother develops a modern system for him, monorizing, working fast on him. Seven Common Facilitation Centers were built, their work would be found instead of exaggeration. उत्तम प्रकार का, वैश्विक स्तर का यहां म्यूजियम बन चुका, आधा हिस्से का उद्घाटन मैं कर चुका हूं, आधे पर काम चल रहा है, लेकिन वो यहां के जीवन को, यहां के छोटे-छोटे कारीगरों को, किस प्रकार से जीवन में बदलाव करेगा, उस दिशा में आप भली-भांति देख सकते हो भाइयों-बहनों। मेरा कहने का मतलब यही है कि चाहे रेल हो, रोड हो, सड़क हो, बिजली हो, पानी हो, भविष्य की दृष्टि से ऑप्टिकल फाइबर नेटवर्क, गैस पाइपलाइन का नेटवर्क, सीवेज की व्यवस्थाएं, सॉलिड वेस्ट मैनेजमेंट, पांच सौ करोड़ रुपया, सॉलिड वेस्ट मैनेजमेंट के लिए लगाया है। काशी को साफ करके रहना है दोस्तों। सफाई करके रहना है, आठ तारीख को तो आप करने ही वाले हो। पूरा उत्तर प्रदेश करने वाला है जी।\n...और इसलिए भाइयों-बहनों।\nमुझे काशीवासियों से, बनारस के लोगों से कई सुझाव आते रहते हैं, अपनेपन से आते रहते हैं, विकास के नए से नए विचार आ रहे हैं, यहां के नौजवानों को रोजगार के अवसर उपलब्ध हों, टूरिज्म का एक बहुत बड़ा क्षेत्र विकसित हो, उस पर हम बल देकर आगे बढ़ना चाहते हैं। जिसको आधुनिक से आधुनिक व्यवस्थाएं कहें, वो व्यवस्थाओं से बनारस को हमें सजा देना है। ...और बनारस इस पूरे पूर्वी भारत का हेल्थ केयर का एक बहुत बड़ा हब बनने की दिशा में आगे बढ़ रहा है। गोरखपुर, बनारस और इलाहाबाद तीनों पर आरोग्य की दृष्टि से एक पूरी व्यवस्था विकसित कर रहा हूं मैं। ट्रॉमा सेंटर, कैंसर अस्पताल, छह सौ बेड का प्राइवेट अस्पताल, गोरखपुर में एम्स, इलाहाबाद में अस्पताल का आधुनिकीकरण, एक प्रकार से हेल्थ सेक्टर को मूलभूत रूप से, जिसका देश में एक पूरे बदलाव लाने का ...। अभी आपने देखा होगा अखबार में पहली बार देश में चार हजार सीट पीजी स्टूडेंट के लिए हमने नई घोषित कर दी है। एक चार हजार पोस्ट ग्रैजुएट डॉक्टरों की तैयारी के लिए मौका मिलेगा। जितनी बड़ी मात्रा में प्रोफेसर तैयार होंगे मेडिकल क्षेत्र के उतनी बड़ी मात्रा में भारत की आवश्यकता के अनुसार पांच साल में डॉक्टरों की एक चैन चल पड़ेगी उस पर हम काम कर रहे हैं।\nहम स्वच्छता के अभियान को भी हेल्थ की दृष्टि से महत्व दे रहे हैं, उसपर काम कर रहे हैं। अस्पताल बनाना, ज्यादा से ज्यादा डॉक्टर मिले, उसके लिए मेडिकल कॉलेजों को बल देना और मरीज को सस्ती दवाई मिले, अमृत योजना के तहत करीब सत्तर प्रतिशत दवाइयों में रियायत सरकार की तरफ से मिलती है। प्रधानमंत्री जन औषधी परियोजना के तहत, मैंने एक दिन अभी सोशल मीडिया में देखा एक व्यक्ति ने पुराने अपने सारे बिल रखे थे और ये नई सरकार आने के बाद प्रधानमंत्री जन औषधी बनाया उसके बिल रखे थे, सारा सोशल मीडिया में रखा है और उसने लिखा है कि पहले मेरे दवाई का खर्चा मेरे मां-बाप के लिए करीब छह हजार सात सौ रुपया होता था और आपकी ये जो प्रधानमंत्री जन औषधी योजना बनी है, वही दवाइयां मेरे मां-बाप को मिल रही है और मुझे खर्चा सिर्फ सात सौ रुपया आता है। अभी आपने देखा होगा, कैंसर, हार्ट अटैक, डायबिटिज ये प्रमुख बीमारियां, आठ सौ दवाइयों के दाम सरकार ने कम करवा दिए। जो दवाई तीस हजार रुपये में बिकती थी, तीन हजार में देने के लिए मजबूर कर दिया। जो दवाई अस्सी रुपये में बिकती थी वो बारह रुपये में बेचना शुरू कर दिया। हार्ट अटैक आता है, स्टेंट लगवाना पड़ता है, डॉक्टर कहता है नली में खून जाने का रास्ता बंद हो गया है, उसको खोलना पड़ेगा, अंदर कुछ डालना पड़ेगा, इधर की तरफ उसको लोग छल्ला बोलते हैं, छल्ला। हृदय में बोले छल्ला लगाना पड़ेगा। हमारे देश में पैतालिस हजार रुपया लेते थे और बाहर का लाओ तो सवा लाख, डेढ़ लाख। मैंने बनाने वालों को बुलाया, मैंने कहा इधर आओ ...। इतने रुपये काहे ...।\nभाइयों-बहनों।\nमैंने उनसे चर्चा की। अभी पंद्रह दिन पहले आपने देखा होगा, हृदय रोग की बीमारी के लिए जो पैतालिस हजार रुपये लगता था, वो छल्ला अब सात हजार रुपये में बेचने के लिए मजबूर कर दिया उनको। जो सवा लाख-डेढ़ लाख में बिकता था वो पच्चीस-सत्ताइस हजार में मिल जाएगा, मध्यम वर्ग का आदमी, उसकी जो रिक्वायरमेंट है वो पूरी हो जाएगी भाइयों। अगर हम सामान्य मानवी के जीवन में अगर बदलाव लाना चाहते हैं, क्वालिटी ऑफ लाइफ में चेंज लाना चाहते हैं, हमने एक-एक चीज को करना होगा। मैं हैरान हूं उत्तर प्रदेश में किस प्रकार से सरकार चला रहे हैं, भारत सरकार पैसे देती है लेकिन इनमें वो उतनी क्षमता भी नहीं है कि उन पैसों का सच्चे अर्थ में उपयोग करके सरकार को हिसाब दें, हिसाब भी नहीं दे पाते। अब भारत सरकार में हमारा आग्रह है कि भई जितना ले गए हो हिसाब दो, नया ले जाओ। वो हिसाब देते नहीं हैं। हिसाब देना चाहिए कि नहीं देना चाहिए ...। पाई-पाई का हिसाब देना चाहिए कि नहीं देना चाहिए ...। नहीं देते हैं ...। आप हैरान होंगे ओपन डिफेक्शन फ्री, शौचालय बनाने का बड़ा अभियान, खुले में लोग शौच न जाएं। इस देश के पांच सौ शहरों ने अपने आपको ओपन डिफेक्शन फ्री घोषित कर दिया है। उत्तर प्रदेश ऐसा है श्रीमान अखिलेश जी, एक भी शहर पांच सौ में उत्तर प्रदेश का नहीं है। शर्म आती है हमें, क्यों, सरकार पैसे दे रही है, भारत सरकार पैसे दे रही है लेकिन वे सरकारी मशीनरी में जो जान भरनी चाहिए, काम लेना चाहिए, योजना बनानी चाहिए। नहीं, मेरे-तेरे, मेरे-तेरे करते रहो, बस चलते रहे। चुनाव जीत जाएं और क्या है ...। सारी बर्बादी का कारण ये चुनाव की शोशेबाजी है। अरे जनता-जनार्दन की सेवा करो, अपने-आप चुनाव के नतीजे आते रहते हैं, इसकी काहे को इतनी चिंता करके चलते हो। लेकिन नहीं दिन रात वही हिसाब लगाते रहना और उसका परिणाम ये है कि जनता की भलाई का काम होता नहीं है। गंगा की सफाई, हमारी एक मीटिंग हुई। उसमें तय हुआ कि आप प्रदूषण फैलाने वाले पर्यावरण को नुकसान करने वाले जितनी इंडस्ट्री है, जो अपना कूड़ा-कचरा गंगा जी में डालते हैं। उनको जरा नोटिस तो दो, पूछो तो सही, प्लान बनाने को कहो। भारत सरकार पैसे देगी, ये चुनाव के हिसाब-किताब में किसी को नोटिस देकर ठीक करने को तैयार ही नहीं हैं।\nभाइयों-बहनों।\nजिन-जिन राज्यों में सरकारें हैं, गंगा के तट पर जो सरकारें हैं, उन सरकारों ने जिम्मेदारी लेनी होगी। भारत सरकार धन मुहैया कराएगी, भारत सरकार योजना बनाएगी लेकिन लागू करने के लिए आप लोगों को हाथ बंटाना पड़ेगा। लेकिन मैं हैरान हूं ये उनकी प्राथमिकता में नहीं है, उनके लिए इसका महत्व नहीं है, अगर ये मानसिकता रही तो उत्तर प्रदेश को लगातार हम पीछे छोड़ते चले जाएंगे। यहां के नौजवानों के रोजगार के लिए कितना बड़ा संकट पैदा होगा।\nभाइयों-बहनों।\nहिंदुस्तान का इतना बड़ा राज्य उसको हम तबाह नहीं होने दे सकते और यहां के सांसद के नाते और मैं भारतीय जनता पार्टी को अभिनंदन करता हूं। उत्तर प्रदेश इकाई को अभिनंदन करता हूं। उन्होंने जिस प्रकार से मेनिफेस्टो बनाया है, संकल्प पत्र घोषित किया है। समाज के हर तबके के लिए विकास का निश्चित लक्ष्य है, योजना है, रोडमैप है और हर किसी के जीवन में बदलाव लाने की व्यवस्था है, और मुझे विश्वास है कि आने वाले पांच साल में भारतीय जनता पार्टी की सरकार उत्तर प्रदेश के जीवन में एक नया बदलाव लाएगी। और उत्तर प्रदेश में, उत्तर प्रदेश में भारतीय जनता पार्टी की सरकार बनेगी तो काशी के लिए मेरे जितने सपने हैं, कोई रूकावट नहीं आएगी, मेरा पूरा विश्वास है।\nभाइयों-बहनों।\nहमें काशी की जो विशेषताएं हैं, उसे बनाते हुए आगे चलना है, बनाए रखते हुए आगे चलना है। मैं आज फिर एक बार काशीवासियों को बड़ा आभार व्यक्त करता हूं। कल दोबारा आने वाला हूं। कल भी लोगों के दर्शन करूंगा। कल भी एक जनसभा को संबोधित करूंगा। कल रात को रुकूंगा भी, अपनों के बीच, कार्यकर्ताओं के बीच, जो दिन रात इतनी मेहनत करते हैं। मैं भी कुछ समय आपके बीच कुछ समय रहकर के काम करूं। मेरी इस भावना को बनारस बीजेपी ने स्वीकार किया। मुझे मौका दिया। मैं आभारी हूं, आप लोगों से मेरा आग्रह है, विजय निश्चित है, विजय निश्चित है, सरकार बनने वाली है लेकिन चुनाव लोकतंत्र का सबसे बड़ा पर्व होता है। उत्सव होता है, हम सबका दायित्व है, अधिकतम लोग मतदान करें, ज्यादा से ज्यादा मतदान हो, ये लोकतंत्र में हर किसी की जिम्मेवारी है। इस बात को हम आगे बढ़ाएं, लोकतंत्र को ताकतवर बनाएं, लोकतंत्र ताकतवर होगा तो बनने वाली सरकारें भी ताकत के साथ काम करने में जुट जाएगी। इसी एक अपेक्षा के साथ मेरे साथ पूरी ताकत से बोलिए। Long live Mother India. Long live Mother India. Long live Mother India. Thanks a lot."