"Share\n\nCongress has been completely sidelined by the people From nowhere\nMurderers and goons have flourished in UP due to political patronage: PM Modi\nWelfare of sugarcane farmers is extremely important for the BJP Government: PM Modi\nOur fight is against corruption and black money Protection of the rights of small and medium traders is our responsibility: PM\nLong live Mother India. Long live Mother India. My partner Ms. Savitri Bai, Bahraich District President, Shyamkhan G.Tikriwal, National Minister Mr. Mahendra Singh, my partner in the Parliament Mr Brij Bhushan Singh, Mr. Dayanan Mishra, National President of Kisan Morcha Vijay Pal Singh, Shriman Maharaj Kunwar Tiwari , Govind Pandey, Yamuna Prasad Chaturvedi ji, Mr. Brij Bahadur ji, Mr. Padmasen Chaudhary ji, Mr. Raja In this election, Bharatiya Janata Party candidate Mr. Mukul Bihari Verma, Mrs. Anupam Jaiswal from Bahraich, Mr. Subhash Tripathi from Prayagpur, Mr. Sureshwar Singh from Mahi, Mr. Alkshandar Kanti Singh from Bhinga, Mr. Arunvir Singh from Matera, Shravasti From Mr. Rama Raman Pandeyji, from Mrs. Madhuri Verma, from Nanpara, Mr. Aksharlal Gaudji from Balha and huge number Or My dear brothers and sisters in Bahraich were arrived at. Speak with me with all the strength. Long live Mother India. Long live Mother India. Thanks a lot.\nFirst of all you want to apologize, because I wanted to come among you in December 2016, but I came in February. Because at that time it was so fog that something was not visible. The revolver was over, but now everything has become clear, the BJP's storm is seen all around, and at that time you people have worked so hard, in such a large number of blessings to come. I could not reach. What you tried to talk on the telephone but there were many obstacles in it, but today I am fortunate that I am feeling blessed with my blessings and blessings. I look far and wide, maybe behind me, there is a way too many people in this ....\nbrothers Sisters.\nIn Uttar Pradesh, where I have had the opportunity to go in this election campaign, I have seen such a mass scene, the determination of change, away from all kinds of temptations, have stood in front of every kind of threats. To help Uttar Pradesh, to safeguard the lives of future generation of Uttar Pradesh, today the entire Uttar Pradesh is in the process of feeding lotus by becoming one, I am grateful for their heart.\nbrothers Sisters.\nThe elections of the three phases have been completed. Today, the fourth phase of the phase will be completed after a few hours. A large number of voters voted in favor of the Bharatiya Janata Party, so I express my gratitude to the people who have been voted.\nbrothers Sisters.\nWe all make a government in democracy. When there is a government, there are some dreams of public and public. There are some promises of political parties, some intentions, but after five years everybody has to give an account of their work. What has happened in the five years of going in between people, where did it happen, how much money was taken, where it seemed, its pie-pie has to be accounted for.\nbrothers Sisters.\nHalf of the election has come to completion, but I am surprised. No minister of Uttar Pradesh government, the Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh, the people of Uttar Pradesh are not giving any account of their work, they are not responding. Tell Brothers - Sisters Answering ...? Answering what ...? What promises they made, fulfilled the promises ... and even today without any hesitation, without shame, are coming to the TV saying that the work speaks. In the olden times, in a city like this, they used to live in a municipality, they had such a Kunba, there was a large family, in that era they had a car. Now when the car was moving, the villagers used to say that a car is like everything else except the horn. What should be played, did not ring What should not be played is that it rings. Even the government does not speak about such things, Karam says. Hey, when driving in the village of Uttar Pradesh So does not work. The road does not speak. Tires of truck running on it speak.\nbrothers Sisters.\nThey are not concerned about the future of Uttar Pradesh. Just a few days back, he said that we have made a big deal with the heart. Why .... So all the big people in our family had come to the ground to defeat us, then we got the agreement then they would be saved. It is said by the Chief Minister and says that the heart has done big. Akhilesh ji did not grow big, he had to tighten his heart. Have been forced. You have accepted only. This will save you ... Today, there is news that the Congress has to avoid anywhere ... Just two days before the results of Orissa came, the Congress got cleared. Today the results of Maharashtra are coming, the Congress can not be seen. Akhilesh ji, he is immersed, you too can take Sanam Now you can not escape The people of Uttar Pradesh never accept such opportunistic alliances. Those who took out the trip and used to go to village village two months ago, 27 years of UP Behal ... and suddenly you embraced them. For 27 years, the UP Behal and the power makers of UP are helpless. Those who say this and those who have said this are found. Now what will happen to Uttar Pradesh? You can guess it.\nbrothers Sisters.\nThere are allegations and reactions in the election. Your opponents are criticized. The sharpness is sharp criticism and it is natural too. And we take such criticism as much as we love, but I am surprised. Akhilesh ji, attack Modi, I can understand, attack BJP, but above the poor ass, you are afraid of the ass .... He is hundreds of kilometers away, you are so frightened, and I'm surprised. These are the mentality of your racist mindset, the low-minded sense of mind, and also in the animal, it seems to be a low-level feeling. The ass started feeling so bad to you. It is very natural that your government is so eccentient that it is so efficient that if anyone's buffalo is lost, then it is to find the whole government, that is your government identity, but Akhilesh, you do not know the donkey also inspires us The donkey also inspires us, if heart-brains are clean, then take inspiration, the donkey is loyal to its owner, the donkey takes as much work as its owner and at least costs Happens, is less than expenses.\nbrothers Sisters.\nThe donkey is so ill, how empty the stomach is, how tired it is, but if the owner takes it from him, then he will continue to fulfill his work of his master. Akhilesh ji, these hundred and fifty million people are my bosses, they work as much as I do. I work as much as I do without leave, if I get tired, I am hungry, because I am inspired by donkeys. I take it and take it with great pride so that I can work for these hundred and a half million people by paying more than the donkey for them, I work with this pride. And the donkey, sugar on its back or lime on its back, the donkey never distinguishes it. If you have sugar, you have to walk more, do not walk then this donkey does not have the nature, it belongs to those people who are immersed in corruption, whose color is coming to the table. Work according to that color, the donkey does not do it. And Akhilesh ji, the guards of Gujarat who hate you on those donkeys, but the same Gujarat that gave birth to Dayanand Saraswati is the same Gujarat that gave birth to Mahatma Gandhi, the same Gujarat that Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel was born It was the same Gujarat that Lord Krishna had chosen to live here and live there, and therefore Akhilesh ji, this country is ours, every corner is ours. Allows In.\nbrothers Sisters\nAkhilesh ji, what should I say about ignorance, but it would have been nice to look at those whom you have embraced, trying to understand them, you should know. Those who you embraced, when they were the government, were the UPA government, the people of whose necks are demanding votes from the people of the UPA government, in 2013 the postal stamp was removed. The Government of the UPA had removed these postal stamps from Gujarat's post, stamped the postage stamp. Akhilesh ji, how proud the donkey would be, how important the ass would be, now you have come to understand.\nbrothers Sisters.\nI am surprised, Uttar Pradesh which sweetens the whole of India, my farmer who produces sugarcane is a farmer of sugarcane, in the meeting of this Bahraich I had told that before the Lok Sabha, that the sugarcane farmers are owing to our government. We will complete the old dues later. What is the reason that after sugarcane farmers do not pay the farmers' money, what is your relation with the sugar litter, that the hearing of those sugarcane farmers? Does not happen. I would like to ask\nbrothers Sisters.\nI congratulate the Bhartiya Janta Party Uttar Pradesh unit on the heart that they have said that the results of the elections will be held on March 11, on March 13, the color of the entire India will be colored in color. This will be the Holi of Vijay and after that the government of Bharatiya Janata Party will be formed and the Manifesto of the Bharatiya Janata Party has promised that the old dues which will be returned after the formation of government will be returned as soon as possible and the payment of sugarcane farmers will be forwarded to 14 Permanent arrangements for the day will be arranged. We did this work.\nbrothers Sisters.\nI also congratulate the Bharatiya Janata Party (UP) Uttar Pradesh that they have pledged to forgive the debt of the small farmers, their crops, the debt they have on them. My deaf brothers' sisters and sisters You know, how deep is my relationship with Bahraich I used to work in the organization of the Bharatiya Janata Party and working in the organization-here, my tour was going on in Uttar Pradesh. For the organization's work and I had a program to go to every district here. I reached Bahraich, was taking a meeting of the organization, suddenly the message of Atal ji came when he was the prime minister that Bhai now you just come back. I was sitting in the entire program here and I had to go back from here and in my last meeting as the General Secretary of Bharatiya Janata Party in Bahraich. And soon after going here I was responsible for working as the Chief Minister. In the work of the organization, Bahraich was my last event, and after that Delhi went to some work, after two days met Atal ji. I got new responsibility. Bahraich will always remember me, when I came in that Bahraich.\nbrothers Sisters.\nI am a MP of UP and this is UP which gave such a huge support, gave me so much support that with the absolute majority I had the privilege of serving as Prime Minister. brothers Sisters. As a MP of UP, I promise to brothers and sisters of Bahraich that when the first meeting of the Bharatiya Janata Party government was formed immediately after its formation. As a MP of UP, I will see that in the first meeting, the decision to forgive the farmers' debts is decided.\nbrothers Sisters.\nIt is related to our Bahraich Brahma, but today its identity has become the mining mafia, mine mafia, sand mafia, sand mafia, education mafia, water and wild property mafia. How did you keep brother? This land of Brahma just made the land of loot-snoop. brothers Sisters. It should be closed or not closed .... It should be closed or not. All things should be done by law or should not we ...? And all this can be stopped, it is not that can not be stopped .... Today, the power of technology and scientific is so much that mining mafia can be caught within a minute, they can be straightened. But brothers and sisters, who make the decisions, do the same mafia caves and cows, then who can save them? What will happen if the water is set on fire, the brothers and sisters have heard that a few days ago here the news of women's health was tremendously dishonestly. It is said that the money was taken by showing 65-year-old woman, three times, or perhaps five times a child. Tell them these people have crossed the limits in stealing too. How do they work, look at both of them, these two who are walking together, are demanding votes. This was the Saryu Canal project in Bahraich, Mrs Indira Gandhi, then in 1978 the foundation stone of the Sariu Canal project was taken, now it has been around 40 years, 40 years.\nbrothers Sisters.\nThese people used to run the government, they used to do the same in Delhi, they used to do the same in Uttar Pradesh but your project was not completed. Brothers and sisters, we have decided immediately after coming to power. We will complete the entire work of this project, and for this we have also altered the fund's amount, if the work is to be done then it is a sample. brothers Sisters. In 2015, we had decided and he has planned a 78 crore plan which has become a plan for 10 thousand crore today and it has the power to irrigate 12 lakh hectares so that the fate of farmers is changed, we want to do this work. brothers Sisters. In UP, the law system has been quadrupled, today in Uttar Pradesh, even in sunlight, even if the sun rises, even a single sister-daughter can go out of the house .....? Can you go? Can not imagine the darkness in the night.\nbrothers Sisters.\nWho are the people who are trying hard to live on this land of Goddess Rama and Krishna? Who are these people .... Every police station has made the office of the Samajwadi Party, and the poor penniless, what will he do? If he wants to walk on the path of truth then the order from Lucknow will come, he will get a job, he is doing the job .... brothers Sisters. ये ऊपर से नीचे, इनका चरित्र में ही समस्या है, समाज के प्रति एक दायित्व होता है। ऐसा कैसा चरित्र कि सरकार, सरकार चलती चले, जैसी चले वैसी चले, लोगों का जो होता है होता रहे क्या ये चरित्र होता है क्या ...।\nभाइयों-बहनों।\nहमारे यहां लोग शुभ काम करते है तो गायत्री मंत्र का जाप करते हैं, लेकिन ये दो लोग ऐसे हैं कि चुनाव अभियान कर रहे हैं तो गायत्री प्रजापति का मंत्र जपते हैं। अब जो गायत्री प्रजापति के मंत्र जपते हों, जिन पर गंभीर से गंभीर आरोप लगते हों, एफआईआर लॉज होने के बाद उनको एरेस्ट करने के बजाय उनके लिए वोट मांगने के लिए आप जाते हो। भाइयों-बहनों, जिनको कोई डर नहीं है लोगों का, जनता-जनार्दन का डर नहीं बचा है ऐसे लोग सत्ता में रह कर के जनता को कुचल देते हैं, जनता के अरमानों को कुचल देते हैं ऐसे लोगों को सत्ता पर आने का कोई हक नहीं बनता है।\nभाइयों-बहनों।\nआप मुझे बताइए। भाइयों-बहनों। नौजवानों को पलायन क्यों करना पड़ रहा है ...। क्या हमारे देश का नौजवान अपने बूढ़े मां-बाप के साथ अपनी जिंदगी गुजारना चाहता है कि नहीं ...। अपने खेत-खलिहान, यार-दोस्त उनके बीच रहना चाहता है कि नहीं रहना चाहता है ...। लेकिन बूढ़े मां-बाप को पेट भरने के लिए उसे गांव छोड़ कर के शहरों की गंदी बस्ती में जिंदगी गुजारना पड़ता है, क्योंकि जनपद के अंदर जो विकास होना चाहिए। रोजगार के जो अवसर मिलने चाहिए उस पर उपेक्षा की जाती है, अगर कानून-व्यवस्था ठीक नहीं होगी तो कोई उद्योग, धंधा, करखाना लगाने के लिए नहीं आएगा, वो डरेगा, माफिया को कैसे पालेगा ...। और इसलिए भाइयों-बहनों। अगर यहां कानून व्यवस्था ठीक होती है तो उद्योग, रोजगार की भी संभावना बढ़ती है, उधोग, रोजगार की संभावना बढ़ती है। तो उत्तर प्रदेश के मेरे नौजवान के रोजगार की भी संभावना बढ़ जाती है, उसको अपना जनपद छोड़कर के, गांव छोड़ कर के, अपना बूढ़े मां-बाप को छोड़ कर के शहर की गंदी बस्ती में जीने के लिए मजबूर नहीं होना पड़ता है।\nइसलिए भाइयों-बहनों।\nहमारा मकसद है विकास और हम जब विकास कि बात करते हैं तो हमारे दिमाग में साफ है भाइयों-बहनों। हम बड़ी-बड़ी बातें नहीं करते हैं असमान में से तारे तोड़ के लाने की बात नहीं करते हैं सीधी-सीधी बात करते हैं। हम जब विकास की बात करते हैं तो हम कहते हैं, किसान को सिंचाई मिले, बालकों को पढ़ाई मिले, युवकों को कमाई मिले, बुजुर्गों को दवाई मिले।\nभाइयों-बहनों।\nसमाज के हर तबके के लोगों को, आप हैरान होंगे। ये गरीब-गरीब के नारे लगाने वाली सरकारें हैं। हमारे यहां दवाइयां कितनी महंगी थी और दवाई का दाम कम करने की इनमें हिम्मत नहीं थी, सरकार बनने के बाद हमने इसके पीछे काम लगाया, हमने कहा गरीब आदमी बीमार होता है तो उसका उसका पूरा परिवार परेशान हो जाता है, आर्थिक रूप से टूट जाता है,  बीमारी में उसको कर्ज करना पड़ता है उस कर्ज से मुक्ति दिलाने के लिए ...। दवाई महंगी नहीं होनी चाहिए, हमने आठ सौ दवाइयों की सूची बनाई जो सामान्य मानकों के विशिष्ट बीमारी में काफी महंगी पड़ती है। हमने दवाई बनाने वालों को बुलाया। हमने कहा भाई, ये गरीब आदमी इतनी महंगी दवाई नहीं ले सकता है मर जाएगा। वो दवाई से ही मर जाएगा, कम करो, मानते नहीं थे, एक मीटिंग-दो मीटिंग, पांच मीटिंग पूरी, हर चीज का बारीकी से हिसाब लिया, क्या जाता है कितना खर्चा होता है, कितनी मेहनत होती है, कितना लाइट का खर्चा, ट्रांस्पोर्टेशन का खर्चा, पैकैजिंग का खर्चा, सब निकाला।\nऔर भाइयों-बहनों।\nमहत्व की जो आठ सौ दवाइयां है उसके दाम हमने कम कर दिए, जो दवाई, कैंसर की जो दवाई तीस हजार रुपये में मिलती थी वो आज तीन हजार में देने के लिए मजबूर कर दिया। जो दवाई 80 में मिलती थी वो 7 रुपया में देने का हमने नियम बना दिया। गरीब की सेवा ऐसे होती है भाइयों। अगर सरकार गरीब के लिए काम करना चाहती है तो बहुत रास्ते होते हैं। हमारे देश में हृदय रोग की बीमारी बढ़ती जा रही है और जब हृदय रोग की बीमारी होती है तो पता तो चलता नहीं है, अंदर क्या हो हुआ है। डॉक्टर भी कहता है कि बचना मुश्किल है, नली के अंदर छल्ला डालना पड़ेगा, छल्ला। स्टेंट डालना पड़ेगा। अब वो बेचारा जीवन और मृत्यु के बीच में खड़ा है। डॉक्टर कहता है ये देसी छल्ला डालोगे तो 45 हजार रुपया लगेगा और देसी छल्ला डालोगे तो 5-7 साल तो निकल जाएंगे। बाद की बात बाद में, और ये विदेशी छल्ला है, ये लगाओगे तो सवा लाख-डेढ लाख रुपया होगा, लेकिन जिंदगी में कभी मुसीबत नहीं आएगी, अब गरीब आदमी भी सोचता है कि अच्छा होगा डेढ़ लाख वाला लगा दो। मकान गिरवी रख देगें, जमीन गिरवी रख देगें, गहने गिरवी रख देंगे। लेकिन जिंदगी तो बच जायेगी। डेढ़ लाख का छल्ला लगवा देता है। मैंने जरा जांच-पड़ताल शुरू की। मैंने कहा कि ये छल्ले के पीछे खर्चा कितना होता है जरा निकालो भाई, कंपनी वालों को बुलाया, बनाने वालों को बुलाया, माल पहुंचाने वालों को बुलाया, सारा हिसाब-किताब लगाया और पिछले हफ्ते हमने ऑडर कर दिया कि 45 हजार का जो छल्ला है वो 7 हजार में ही बिकेगा उससे ज्यादा नहीं ले सकते। और डेढ़ लाख का छल्ला है वो 25-27 हजार रुपये से ज्यादा नहीं ले सकते। गरीबों को लूटने का को आपको हक नहीं है।\nभाइयों-बहनों।\nसरकार, सरकार गरीब के लिए होती है अब आप मुझे बताओ अगर मैं छल्ले बनाने वालों का मुनाफे पर ताले लगा दूं। दवाई बनाने वालों के मुनाफे पर ताले लगा दूं, चोरी रोक लूं, तो सब नाराज होंगे कि नहीं होंगे ...। नाराज होंगे कि नहीं होंगे ...। गुस्सा करेंगे कि नहीं करेंगे ...। षड़यंत्र करेंगे कि नहीं करेंगे ...। भाइयों-बहनों। गरीब के लिए, काम के करने के लिए मुझे रूकना चाहिए ...?, जरा भी रूकना चाहिए क्या ...? ऐसे लोगों से डरना चाहिए क्या ...? रास्ते पर आगे बढ़ना चाहिए की नहीं बढ़ना चाहिए ...। अरे हमारे देश का गरीब, हमारे देश का मध्यम वर्ग उसी की मेहनत से तो देश आगे बढ़ रहा है और ये सरकार भी उन्हीं के काम करने लिए प्रतीबद्ध है। धन्ना सेठों के काम करना ये उनको मुबारक है। हमें तो गरीबों के लिए काम करना है और हम कर के रहते हैं।\nभाइयों-बहनों।\nभ्रष्टाचार, कालाधन ये ऐसी जुगलबन्दी है, भ्रष्टाचार और कालेधन ने एक-दूसरे को ऐसे गले लगाया है। ऐसे गले लगाया है जब तक भ्रष्टाचार खत्म नहीं होगा, जबतक कालाधन खत्म नहीं होगा, भ्रष्टाचार का चक्र बन्द नहीं होगा। और इसलिए हमारी सरकार ने भ्रष्टाचार के खिलाफ एक बहुत बड़ी लड़ाई छेड़ी है, 8 तारीख को रात को 8 बजे नवम्बर महीने में दीवाली के बाद टीवी पर आकर के मैंने कहा, मेरे प्यारे देशवासियों और 500-1000 की नोट, 70 साल से इक्कठी कर के रखी थी सब लोगों को लगा कि अब ये बैंक में जमा किये बिना कोई चारा नहीं, एक-एक पाई बैंक में जमा करने के लिए मजबूर कर दिया। लूट का माल था, वो खजाने में डालना पड़ा अब सरकार बराबर जांच कर रही है किसका है, कहां से आया है, कैसे आया।\nभाइयों-बहनों।\nदेश को लूटने का किसी को हक नहीं है और मैं छोटे व्यापारी को कहना चाहता हूं। मेरा छोटे व्यापारियों से कोई झगड़ा ही नहीं है जी, मान लीजिए, छोटे व्यापारी ने गलती की होगी तो क्या की होगी, 80 रुपये का माल 90 रुपये में बेचा होगा, 50 रुपये का माल 55 में बेचा होगा कुछ ज्यादा मुनाफा खाया होगा, सरकार को उसने अपना हिसाब देना है तो 100 का हिसाब देने के बजाय उसने 80 का दिया होगा। 20 रुपया का नहीं दिया होगा लेकिन भाइयों-बहनों। देश की मुसीबत तो उन लोगों ने पैदा किए हैं, जो पद पर बैठे हैं और पद पर बैठकर के लोगों को लूटा है। कागज पे साइन करने के लिए लूटा है। बड़े-बड़े नेताओं ने लूटा है, बड़े-बड़े बाबुओं ने लूटा है। मेरी लड़ाई उनके खिलाफ है। फाइल, फाइल एक जगह से दूसरे जगह ले जाने के अगर पैसे लिए हैं तो उससे बड़ा जनता के साथ कोई द्रोह नहीं है वो सब निकाल के रहने वाला हूं, भाइयों बहनों। और मुझे इस काम के लिए आपका आशीर्वाद चाहिए भाइयों। भ्रष्टाचार को खत्म कर के देश के गरीबों के गरीबों के कल्याण के लिए काम करना है और मैंने देशवासियों को वादा किया है। 70 साल जिन्होंने देश का लूटा है वो मैं गरीबों को लौटा के रहूंगा, ये काम करने के लिए निकला हूं भाइयों- बहनों।\nभाइयों- बहनों।\nइस चुनाव में अब मतदान पास में है। भारी मात्रा में मतदान कीजिए, भारतीय जनता पार्टी को विजय बनाइए। उत्तर प्रदेश में भारी बहुमत से मजबूत स्थिर सरकार बनाइए, कानून व्यवस्था को पुन: स्थापित कीजिए, माफिया से मुकाबला करने की ताकत दीजिए। आप देखिए आप उत्तर प्रदेश को जैसा चाहते हैं वैसा बनाने की दिशा में हम चल पड़ते हैं कि नहीं चल पड़ते हैं। इसी विश्वास के साथ, मेरे साथ पूरी ताकत के साथ बोलिए। Long live Mother India. Long live Mother India. Long live Mother India. बहुत-बहुत धन्यवाद भाइयों।"