"Share\n\nSP, BSP, Congress should be defeated from Bundelkhand They have been taking this region for granted: PM\nIf the BJP forms the government, there will be a different Bundelkhand Development Board directly monitored by the CMO: PM\nSP and BSP are sworn enemies When one says something, the other party says the opposite: PM\nIn Uttar Pradesh law and order situation is a disaster. This should change: PM Modi\nI urge people of the states to elect a BJP government that would work for the welfare of all: PM\nLong live Mother India. Long live Mother India. Mr. Keshav Prasad Maurya, President of the Bharatiya Janata Party, who is sitting on the stage, my partner in the Parliament Mr. Vinod Sonkar ji, Mr. Shyama Charan Gupta, Mr. Virendra Singh Mast Ji, Mayor of Allahabad Mrs. Abilasha Gupta, Mr. Amarnath Yadav, Mr. Shivdutt Patel Ji, Mr. Avdesh Gupta ji, Mr. Amarnath Tiwari ji and Bharatiya Janata Party candidate from Phulpur to Mr. Mr. Siddharthnathji from Allahabad West, Mr. Nandkumar Gupta from the south of Allahabad, Mrs Neelam Karbariya from Meja, Mr. Rajendra Pratap Singh from Patti, Mr. Vikramjeet Maurya from Phaphamau, Mr. Sanjay Gupta from Chayal, Dr. Ajay from Bar Bharati ji, Jamuna Prasad Saroj ji from Sorong, Shri Rajamani Kaul ji from Korong, Allah Harshavardhan Vajpayee from Allahabad Mrs. Pramila Tripathi from Raniganj, Mr. Abhay Kumar from Raniganj, Mr. Sangam Lal Gupta from Pratapgad, Mr. Karan Singh Ji from Pratappur, Mr. Shrimant Lal Bahadur from Manappur, Mr. Piyush Ranjan Nishad Ji from Karchana, and a large number of students were present. My brothers and sisters of Allahabad\nSpeak with me with all the strength. Long live Mother India. Long live Mother India. All candidates come in their own places. In the last few days, I got the privilege of going to different areas of Uttar Pradesh. Brothers and sisters have seen very much elections, election meetings have also witnessed a lot, but in this election, I see, there is a strong storm of change in every corner of Uttar Pradesh, a strong thunderstorm. This election will be remembered that in the eyes of the poor voter of the poor, Hindustan's poor can not be dashed in the eyes of the publicity of falsehood. This was clearly visible in the elections.\nbrothers Sisters.\nThe land of Allahabad has been the land of prime ministers in a way. The Prime Minister has seen a lot of people, but who grew up in poverty, living in poverty, when a person became the Prime Minister of the country, by giving a mantra of Jay-Jawan, Jai Kisan, Lal Bahadur Shastri filled a new consciousness in the country. was. Lal Bahadur Shastri used to look like every Hindustani.\nbrothers Sisters.\nThis is the land of such great men. And this is the land from where Uttar Pradesh's fortune is going to be determined. The third round of the elections was also completed, and in the initial elections, the SP, the BSP, the Congress, which was the language of which was moody, the third election came and everything got reduced. The Bharatiya Janata Party, which was voted in the three phases, was in favor of the Bharatiya Janata Party. He expresses his heartfelt gratitude to the voters.\nbrothers Sisters.\nIn the first and second phase, SP-BSP was also in the campaigning with the intention of forming a government. But with the confidence of forming a government after the completion of the three stages, if any one is going ahead in the elections, only the Bharatiya Janata Party and its party are moving forward.\nbrothers Sisters.\nDuring the first three stages, those who talked about coming back to power, used to do such things, will take power, they are engaged in this strategy after three stages that the respect should be saved, how to get so many seats. On one hand, they are contesting the election of saving their respect, on the other hand we are in the field of election to save the fate of Uttar Pradesh.\nbrothers Sisters.\nI have never seen such a government, which is not responsible for the public, should not be clear in the verdict and whatever government says, the government's work speaks. Mr. Akhilesh ji, if you talk about your work, then why does Allahabad High Court have to speak? On the day the Allahabad court speaks, it shows that it is your work that speaks the exploits. Probably, there will not be any state government in Hindustan who is scolded by the court every week, decisions are taken down, the decisions are canceled. Why, because of the sin you are doing, it is now exposed in front of the people of entire Uttar Pradesh. Now you are not going to be saved.\nbrothers Sisters.\nIn this election, the alliance of SP and Congress has been formed in this election. This coalition is also big It was 27 years ago that UP Bihal was called. It is a coalition in which one used to call it, the U.P. is beehal and the other ones are helpless. The alliance of such people, who can find both those who call themselves desperate and helpless, the brothers and sisters How much fear they would face in this election, how much the defeat would have been troubling, its victory - the evidence is that the brothers\nbrothers Sisters.\nAfter all, look at Uttar Pradesh, law and order, see per capita income, see education status, hey, look for work of toilets, work to get electricity in homes, Uttar Pradesh sees the last row in all the states of Uttar Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh is. There is no criterion of development where Uttar Pradesh stands at number one. Such a large state of India, if it would stand in the last line in all the states of India, then the brothers and sisters You can guess how difficult it will be to change the fate of India. Uttar Pradesh, if there is a number anywhere, then there is criminality, there is a number, it is atrocity, there is a number, then there is a number of Bhai-nepotism, there is a number, it is between me and thee.\nbrothers Sisters.\nTo change the situation in Uttar Pradesh, I have come here today to pray to people of this Allahabad region. Give us a huge majority and give you five years of service. And you see, you see that in every parameter we are successful in changing conditions, you see.\nbrothers Sisters.\n2014 was the election of the Lok Sabha, the Congress party was primarily in front of us, the Bharatiya Janata Party gave me the job of leadership, millions of workers of the Bharatiya Janata Party, being able to fulfill the dreams of the crores of crores of citizens of the country. Were thronged. What was the point of election of the Congress party at that time? Prior to the election, a huge convention of Congress was held in Delhi, the attention of the entire country media was. The live telecast was going on from morning till night and the country was thinking that the Congress party will come to the polls to take a very big plan. And in the evening a press conference, what the Congress announced in the press briefing. He said that if we come to victory in the elections, the 9 cylinders of gas that we get, we will make 12. Now, whose thinking is 9 to 12, how can they change your life? In 2014 you people gave us the responsibility. On August 15, I told the countrymen from the Red Fort, I thought that there should be one thing in front of the country and I told the people that if you get the subsidy of the gas cylinders, if your financial condition is not worth the subsidy, you earn a little. If so, leave it.\nbrothers Sisters.\nI bow to the honesty of my country. Twenty-three million people came forward, the twenty-three million families, who left their gas subsidy, the brothers and sisters. There used to be a Lal Bahadur Shastri, who had told the country in 65 that for the sake of the country, you should stop eating in a time week and the people of Hindustan had left the food for one day a week. After Lal Bahadur Shastri, I got the courage. With the blessings of Lal Bahadur Shastri, I told the countrymen that you give up gas subsidy. Twenty-two million left brothers and sisters And then I had announced that our poor mothers, who cook the wood by burning a wooden stove and when the mother cooks a wooden stick, then the smoke of 400 cigarette smoke in her body, 400 cigarettes. What will be the condition of the mother whose body will smoke in 400 cigarette smoke. Brothers and sisters, and when small children play at home, cooked, then the smoke just goes to the mother's stomach. Not so, the child playing there also goes to the stomach, goes to the body, those children What will happen to health You tell me\nbrothers Sisters.\n70 years of independence, these poor mothers are not citizens of my country. Is it not the responsibility of the government to worry about these poor mothers, think seriously about the health of these poor mothers, it is not a matter of thinking of the rulers of this country. Not seen till 70 years, brothers and sisters have not even been asked. We decided that 5 million poor families who burn wood stoves and cook the firewood by burning firewood. To those 50 million poor families, those mothers will be freed from smoke, cylinders of gas, give connections for free.\nbrothers Sisters.\nRight now the plan has not completed one year. So far, we have given gas connections to more than 1.8 million families, brothers and sisters. Mothers of crores of families who are free from wood smoke. Their blessings are those who give me strength to work, give inspiration, I bow to those mothers.\nbrothers Sisters.\nIn Uttar Pradesh alone, the cylinder, gas stove has reached in 55 lakh families, we have carried forward this work in Uttar Pradesh alone. You tell me If the government determines for the poor and takes one step after another, then it does not happen that happens .... It does not work that happens .... Get results that do not get .... What can not be done for him without giving advertisements in TVs and newspapers Brothers and sisters, we have shown them.\nYou tell me After 70 years of independence our mothers and sisters have to go to the toilet in the open. Does our forehead bend with shame or do not bend .... Our mother goes to midnight to go to the toilet and thinks she should go before the sun rises and she goes away after defecation, goes into the dark. Life is spent by fear, and if it is needed sometime in the day, then it is awaiting when the sun sets in the evening, will be dark, then go to the toilet. What would happen to the health of those mothers? Can the poor mother of my country not get a toilet?\nbrothers Sisters.\nIt's been 70 years, they did not have a leisure time. I picked up the raft. In 2019, there will be 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi. I will try to work in the poor house of Hindustan even in the house to build toilets. Brothers and sisters Such governments went on, they did not work for the poor, they never worked. Brothers and sisters And I am glad that more than 4 million toilets have been created in such a short time and people have created a movement to build the toilet. I have seen such a mother, the old mother of 90 years sells her goat and makes the toilet, I have seen such daughters that if there is no toilet, then it is returned to the procession. The atmosphere of this revolution is born to bring change in the life of common man after independence.\nbrothers Sisters.\nThe benefit of this can be given to the poor of the village of Uttar Pradesh, the poor of Uttar Pradesh can also get it, but those who are sitting for the benefit of a family can never do good to the people of Uttar Pradesh, brothers and sisters can never do good And so, brothers and sisters, we have come with these mantras, neither caste, nor discrimination, nor heightened, with everyone, everyone's development. With everyone, everyone's development, no discrimination line.\nbrothers Sisters.\nIt has been 70 years of independence, what kind of governments did it run when I started working as a prime minister, taking meeting, took electricity meetings, I said, Brother, tell me. How many villages are there, where electricity does not reach He said 18 thousand villages I said, when will you reach, said Bole Sahab in 3 years. Someone will say it in 7 years. brothers Sisters. I said it will take 3 years to deliver electricity to 18 thousand villages. I spoke to Red Fort, I said in 1000 days I will be able to deliver electricity to 18 thousand villages. Brothers and sisters, most of those 18 thousand villages were from 15 villages in Uttar Pradesh. The power did not reach the pillar, the government ran for so many years. Brothers and sisters have taken me, and yet there is still a thousand days to be completed. We are working in one of the 15 hundred villages of Uttar Pradesh, in one 50-60 villages, in all the other villages, have carried the pillar of electricity, carried the wire and gave electricity.\nbrothers Sisters.\nThose people who lived in the 18th century gave them the experience of 21st century, this work is like this. Brothers and sisters, one gets sick, our government is a mantra, irrigation for the farmer, education of children, earning youths, pressing the elderly. Brothers and sisters, if someone becomes sick in the house today, then the entire family budget is wasted. Those who have dreamed, all become useless. If a family gets a heart attack, the daughter's marriage stops.\nbrothers Sisters.\nWho will serve the poor, if the government does not do then who will do it? Brothers and sisters, medicines were so expensive, cancer, heart attack, diabetes, such serious diseases and their medicines, a medicine was worth 30 thousand rupees, someone had 7 hundred, someone had 12 hundred.\nbrothers Sisters.\nI started talking to these medicines, put a calculation and then made a list of 7 hundred medicines that any sick needs. And we decided that the medicine which is sold in 30 thousand, it will have to sell in 3 thousand. The bullet that is sold in 80 rupees will be sold for 7 rupees and the brothers and sisters, I did this, showed that the price of 7 hundred medicines came in 5% and 10%. Then I started the second. Someone gets heart disease disease, goes to the doctors, now it is not known what is inside, what the doctor will say he has to believe. तो डॉक्टर कहता है मामला गंभीर है, अगर तत्काल कुछ नहीं करोगे तो जिंदा रहना मुश्किल है, परिवार वाले डर जाते हैं, गरीब से गरीब परिवार भी डर जाता है, तो कहता डॉक्टर साहब क्या करना चाहिए बताओ, तो डॉक्टर कहता है स्टेंट लगाना पड़ेगा स्टेंट। उत्तर प्रदेश में छल्ला बोलते हैं छल्ला। हृदय की नाली में, उस नली के अंदर आपको स्टेंट लगाना पड़ेगा। फिर कहते हैं कि देखो ये भारत का बना हुआ छल्ला है, ये लगाओगे तो 8-10 साल जीओगे, इसकी कीमत 45 हजार रुपये होगी। ये छल्ला विदेश का है, ये लगाओगे तो सवा लाख-डेढ़ लाख रुपया होगा, लेकिन फिर जिंदगी को कोई खतरा नहीं है। तो गरीब आदमी भी सोचता है यार इतना खर्चा करो, जिंदगी तो बच जाएगी। वो बेचारा जमीन गिरवी रख देता है, मकान गिरवी रख देता है, कर्ज कर देता है और लाख-सवा लाख का छल्ला लगवा देता है।\nभाइयों-बहनों।\nगरीब इतने पैसे कहां से लाएगा, मैं दो साल से लगातार स्टेंट बनाने वाली कंपनियों से बात कर रहा था, उनसे पूछ रहा था, बताओ भाई कितनी लागत आती है, कितना खर्चा होता है, कितना कंपनी को खर्चा लगता है बताओ जरा। हिसाब लगाते-लगाते, उनको मैं बराबर घेरता गया। दो साल मेहनत करनी पड़ी, लेकिन पिछले हफ्ते हमने फरमान निकाल दिया कि 45 हजार का जो छल्ला है वो 7 हजार में देना पड़ेगा। सवा लाख-डेढ़ लाख का छल्ला है, वो 25-27 हजार में देना पड़ेगा।\nभाइयों-बहनों। बताइए गरीब को मदद होगी कि नहीं होगी ...। मध्यम वर्ग के लोगों को मदद होगी कि नहीं होगी ...। क्या सरकार को ये काम करना चाहिए कि नहीं करना चाहिए ...। 70 साल तक आपको किसने रोका था, आपने क्यों नहीं सोचा। हम गरीबों के लिए हैं, हम मध्यम वर्ग के लिए हैं, हम सामान्य मानवी के लिए हैं, हम ईमानदार लोगों के लिए हैं और इसलिए ईमानदारी के काम पर बल देते हैं भाइयों-बहनों।\nभाइयों-बहनों।\nमेरा किसान, किसान खेती करता है, अगर यूरिया समय पर न मिला, एक हफ्ता भी अगर देर हो गई तो उसकी फसल को भारी नुकसान हो जाता है। उसको यूरिया चाहिए, समय पर चाहिए, जितनी जरूरत हो उतना चाहिए, आप मुझे सच्चाई बताइए भैया, 2 साल पहले की बात बताइए, क्या यूरिया समय पर मिलता था ...। पूरी ताकत से बताइए मिलता था ...। जितना चाहिए उतना मिलता था ...। यूरिया के लिए कतार में खड़ा रहना पड़ता था ...। कतार में पुलिस आकर के डंडे चलाती थी ...। यूरिया कालेबाजारी में लेना पड़ता था ...। किसान मर रहा था कि नहीं मर रहा था ...।\nभाइयों-बहनों।\nप्रधानमंत्री के रूप में जब मुझे जिम्मेवारी मिली, हर मुख्यमंत्री मुझे चिट्ठी लिखता था, 2014 में मेरी ढेर सारी चिट्ठियां पड़ी हैं, कि हमारे राज्य को यूरिया दीजिए, यूरिया दीजिए, पिछले दो साल में एक भी मुख्यमंत्री को चिट्ठी नहीं लिखनी पड़ी, यूरिया जितना चाहिए उतना मिला, जब चाहे वहां मिला, जितना चाहए उतना मिला और ब्लैक बंद हो गया। कारण क्या है भाइयों-बहनों। क्या कारण है। ये कैसे हुआ। पहले क्या होता था, चोरी, बेईमानी, भ्रष्टाचार और उसी का नतीजा था कि यूरिया की कमी पड़ती थी, यूरिया कम नहीं था। फैक्ट्री में जितना यूरिया बनता था, आज भी उतना यूरिया बनता है, लेकिन यूरिया फैक्ट्री से निकलता था, किसान के पास नहीं पहुंचता था, खेत में नहीं पहुंचता था। जो केमिकल के फैक्ट्री वाले हैं, वो रास्ते में ऐसे उठाकर के अपनी फैक्ट्री में ले जाते थे और फिर उसको वो रॉ मटेरियल के नाते उपयोग करके दूसरे काम में उपयोग कर देते थे। किसान को यूरिया नहीं मिलता था, चोरी का माल बिकता था।\nभाइयों-बहनों।\nइसको रोकना था, क्या करें। हमने यूरिया का नीम कोटिंग कर दिया। कुछ लोगों को लगता है कि नीम कोटिंग यानी हमने कोई बहुत बड़ा काम किया होगा। कोई बहुत बड़ा विज्ञान नहीं है भैया, सिंपल सी बात है, हमने गांव में गरीबों को कहा कि आपके यहां नीम के जो पेड़ हैं वो पेड़ की जो फली है, वो जरा इकट्ठी करिए हम खरीद लेंगे। जहां पर फर्टिलाइजर के कारखाने थे, उसके अगल-बगल के गांवों में नीम के पेड़ की फली खरीद ली, उस फली का तेल निकाला और यूरिया के अंदर मिक्स कर दिया। उसके बाद यूरिया का एक ही उपयोग हो सकता है और वो सिर्फ खेत में उपयोग हो सकता है, कारखाने में नहीं हो सकता है। चोरी गई कि नहीं गई ...। चोरी गई कि नहीं ...। बेईमानी गई कि नहीं गई ...। भ्रष्टाचार गया कि नहीं गया ...। किसान को यूरिया मिला कि नहीं मिला ...। भाइयों-बहनों। ऊपर से नीम की फली इकट्ठी करने वाली मां-बहनों को रोजगार मिल गया। नीम कोटिंग यूरिया डालने से फसल की पैदावार 5 पर्सेंट से 15 पर्सेंट तक बढ़ गई, किसान को फायदा हुआ।\nभाइयों-बहनों।\nअब आप मुझे बताइए। एक ऐसा प्रधानमंत्री, दवाई बनाने वालों को कहे दवाई का दाम कम करो, छल्ला बनाने वाले को कहे छल्ले का दाम कम करो, यूरिया बनाने वाले को कहे कि चोरी मत होने दो, कारखाने वाले को यूरिया मत दो। हर प्रकार से बेईमानों को रोकने का प्रयास हो रहा है, तो इन लोगों को गुस्सा होगा कि नहीं होगा ...। मोदी उनको दुश्मन लगेगा कि नहीं लगेगा ...। इनके सारे खेल बंद हो गए तो परेशान होंगे कि नहीं होंगे ...। और जो परेशान हो रहे हैं वो मुझे परेशान करेंगे कि नहीं करेंगे ...। झूठी बातें फैलाएंगे कि नहीं फैलाएंगे ...। बदनाम करने की कोशिश करेंगे कि नहीं करेंगे ...। लेकिन भाइयों-बहनों, इस देश के गरीब के लिए लड़ रहा हूं, इस देश के किसान के लिए लड़ रहा हूं, इस देश के गांव के लिए लड़ रहा हूं, जिसको जो करना है कर ले ...। भ्रष्टाचार, कालेधन के खिलाफ ये लड़ाई रूकने वाली नहीं है और मोदी थकने वाला नहीं है।\nभाइयों-बहनों।\n8 तारीख, नवंबर, 8 नवंबर रात को 8 बजे, टीवी पर आकर मोदी ने कहा मेरे प्यारे देशवासियों, ऐसा तूफान खड़ा हुआ, ऐसा तूफान खड़ा हुआ, कुछ लोगों को तो अभी भी नींद नहीं आ रही है। 70 साल जमा जमाए हजार-हजार की नोटें, लूट-लूट कर इकट्ठी की हुई 5-5 सौ की नोटें, सब निकला बाहर, सब निकला। नीची मुंडी करके बैंकों में जमा करना पड़ा। अब हिसाब देना पड़ रहा है, रात को नींद नहीं आ रही है। आप मेरे प्यारे भाइयों-बहनों, मां गंगा की तट पर खड़े हैं। आप मुझे बताइए।\nआप मुझे बताइए मेरे प्यारे भाइयों-बहनों।\nये प्रयागराज की पवित्र धरती से पूरी ताकत से बताइए, जिन्होंने 70 साल तक गरीबों का लूटा है वो गरीबों को लौटना चाहिए कि नहीं चाहिए ...। लौटना चाहिए कि नहीं चाहिए ...। भ्रष्टाचार खत्म होना चाहिए कि नहीं होना चाहिए ...। कालाधन जाना चाहिए कि नहीं जाना चाहिए ...। बेईमानों को ठिकाना लगाना चाहिए कि नहीं लगाना चाहिए ...। देश में ईमानदारों की मदद होनी चाहिए कि नहीं होनी चाहिए ...। गरीबों का भला होना चाहिए कि नहीं होना चाहिए ...।\nभाइयों-बहनों।\nउत्तर प्रदेश में भी इन्हीं सपनों को साकार करने के लिए हम आपसे आशीर्वाद चाहते हैं। भारी-बहुमत से सरकार बनाना चाहते हैं, और मैं उत्तर प्रदेश भारतीय जनता पार्टी के अध्यक्ष जी को बधाई देता हूं। मैं उत्तर प्रदेश भारतीय जनता पार्टी की टीम को बधाई देता हूं। उन्होंने एक बहुत बड़ा संकल्प किया है, बहुत बड़ा संकल्प किया है। उन्होंने कहा है कि जो छोटे किसान हैं उनकी फसल का कर्ज माफ कर दिया जाएगा भाइयों-बहनों।\nभाइयों-बहनों।\nमैं यूपी का सांसद हूं। आपने मुझे पार्लियामेंट का मेंबर बनाया और आपने इतना भारी बहुमत दिया कि देश को स्थिर सरकार मिल गई और उत्तर प्रदेश के आशीर्वाद से मुझे देश के प्रधानमंत्री के रूप में सेवा करने का अवसर मिल गया। लेकिन, भाइयों-बहनों। मैं उत्तर प्रदेश का सांसद भी हूं और उत्तर प्रदेश के सांसद के नाते बड़ी जिम्मेवारी के साथ आपको मैं वादा करता हूं। मेरे भाइयों-बहनों, मैं आपसे वादा करता हूं। एक सांसद के नाते वादा करता हूं, 11 मार्च को चुनाव के नतीजे आएंगे दो-चार दिन में सरकार गठित हो जाएगी, सरकार गठित होने के बाद उसकी पहली कैबिनेट की मीटिंग होगी, मैं आपको वादा करता हूं कि पहली मीटिंग में ही किसानों की कर्ज माफी का निर्णय कर लिया जाएगा।\nभाइयों-बहनों।\nहम विकास के लिए काम करने वाले लोग हैं और विकास के लिए काम करने के लिए, अब मुझे बताइए, ये इलाहाबाद, ये रास्ते, ये ट्रैफिक, परेशानिया झेल रहे हो कि नहीं झेल रहे हो ...। भाइयों-बहनों, इसके रास्ते नहीं निकाले जा सकते हैं ...। भारत सरकार ने योजनाएं बनाई हैं, भारत सरकार पैसे देने के लिए तैयार है, लेकिन उत्तर प्रदेश में एक ऐसी सरकार बैठी है कि जिसको सुशासन क्या चीज होती है। इसका अता-पता ही नहीं है भाइयों-बहनों। और उसके कारण पैसे देने के बाद भी उसको लागू भी नहीं कर पाते हैं। हमने बिजली के लिए 18 हजार करोड़ रुपया, लोगों को घरों में बिजली देने के लिए दिया वो मुश्किल से अबतक एक-तिहाई पैसे भी खर्च नहीं कर पाए हैं भाइयों-बहनों। ऐसी निकम्मी सरकार वो आपका भला कैसे कर सकती है। इसलिए भाइयों-बहनों, इस इलाके के नौजवानों को रोजगार मिलना चाहिए भाइयों-बहनों, और अपने जनपद में रोजगार मिलना चाहिए, हम स्टार्ट अप इंडिया, स्टैंड अप इंडिया, स्किल इंडिया, इन चीजों को लेकर के आगे बढ़ रहे हैं। 2014 के पहले सुन रहे थे स्कैम इंडिया, 2014 के बाद सुन रहे हैं स्किल इंडिया, 2014 के पहले अखबार निकाल लीजिए, खबरें क्या होती थीं, 2014 के पहले अखबार भरे रहते थे, आज कोयले में कितना गया, आज टूजी में कितना गया, आज कॉमनवेल्थ गेम्स में कितना गया, भ्रष्टाचार की चारों तरफ चर्चा थी, लाखों-करोड़ों के घपलों की चर्चा थी, खबरें यही आती थीं कि कोयले में इतना लाख करोड़ गया, टूजी में इतना लाख करोड़ गया, कॉमनवेल्थ गेम्स में इतना लाख करोड़ गया। 14 के पहले देश में एक ही वातावरण था, कितना गया, कितना गया, कितना गया अब जब से मोदी प्रधानमंत्री बना है, पार्लियामेंट हो या बाहर, मुझे लोग यही पूछते हैं, मोदी जी कितना वापस आया ...। कितना वापस आया। वो एक सरकार थी, जब गिनती गए की होती थी, ये सरकार है जहां गिनती आए की होती है।\nभाइयों-बहनों।\nये ईमानदारी के कारण, ईमानदार इरादों के कारण है और इसलिए भाइयों-बहनों, उत्तरप्रदेश के नौजवान को रोजगार मिले, कारखाने लगे, इंफ्रास्ट्रक्चर के काम हो, हमने 2022, हिंदुस्तान के गरीब से गरीब को, उसका अपना घर मिले इसका बेड़ा उठाया है, करोड़ों-करोड़ों घर बनाने हैं, घर बनाने के लिए कितने लोगों को रोजगार मिलेगा। कितना सीमेंट लगेगा, कितना लोहा लगेगा, कितने कारखाने दौड़ेंगे, कितने नौजवानों को रोजगार मिलेगा, इस काम को हम बल देने का प्रयास कर रहे हैं।\nभाइयों-बहनों।\nउत्तर प्रदेश में एक बड़ी जबर्दस्त बीमारी है, और सरकार के आशीर्वाद से वो बीमारी चल रही है, सपा के नेताओं की कृपा से चल रही है और वो है भू-माफिया। हर इलाके में भू-माफिया का त्रास है कि नहीं भाई। भू-माफिया किसी की भी जमीन कब्जा कर लेते हैं कि नहीं कर लेते ...। सरकारी जमीन हड़प कर लेते हैं कि नहीं कर लेते ...। भले-भोले इंसानों के मकान कब्जा कर लेते कि नहीं कर लेते ...। ये उनको वापस मिलना चाहिए कि नहीं मिलना चाहिए ...। मिलना चाहिए कि नहीं मिलना चाहिए ...। ये वापस दिलाने की जिम्मेवारी सरकार की है कि नहीं है ...। सरकार की है कि नहीं है ...। ये सरकार सुनती है क्या आपका ...। सुनती है क्या ...। मैं आपको वादा करता हूं यहां, भारतीय जनता पार्टी की सरकार बनने के बाद, इन भू-माफियाओं, अवैध कब्जा करने वालों के खिलाफ एक स्पेशल टास्क फोर्स बनाया जाएगा और अच्छे-अच्छे लोगों को दिन में तारे गिना दिए जाएंगे भाइयों-बहनों।\nभाइयों-बहनों।\nये कितनी शर्मिंदगी की बात है उत्तर प्रदेश, भाइयों-बहनों। मैं एक जगह भाषण में बोला कि सूरज ढलने के बाद उत्तर प्रदेश में मां-बहनों को अकेले घर के बाहर जाना हो तो परिवार को चिंता होती है, निकल नहीं पाते हैं, तो मैं जैसे ही सभा करके नीचे उतरा तो एक सज्जन ने मुझे पकड़ा बोले साहब आपने सही नहीं बताया, मैंने कहा क्यों, बोले सूरज ढलने का इंतजार मत कीजिए, कितना ही सूरज तेज तपता हो तो भी उत्तर प्रदेश में बहन-बेटी अकेले बाहर जाने से डरती है। ये शर्मिंदगी नहीं है तो क्या है।\nभाइयों-बहनों।\nउत्तर प्रदेश में थानों को सपा के कार्यालयों में परिवर्तित कर दिया गया है और अगर कोई थानेदार कानूनन काम करे तो सपा वाले उसकी बदली करवाते हैं, उसको डराते हैं। वो गरीब थानेदार बेचारा करेगा क्या, उसको दबा दिया जाता है, उसको धमकाया जाता है, उसको नौकरी से निकाला जाता है। भाइयों-बहनों, हम इन पुलिसवालों को सुरक्षा भी देंगे और थाना थाने का काम करे, नेताओं का काम करने के लिए थाने नहीं होते हैं।\nभाइयों-बहनों।\nबहुत कुछ करने को है और इसलिए मैं आपसे वादा करने आया हूं कि भाइयों-बहनों आप हमें इस चुनाव में पूरी ताकत से मदद कीजिए और मैं आपको विश्वास दिलाता हूं कि हम उत्तर प्रदेश में, पिछले कई वर्षों में जो नहीं हुआ है ऐसा उत्तम काम करके देंगे भाइयों। और हर काम का उत्तर देंगे, हम उत्तम काम करेंगे, हर काम का उत्तर देंगे। ये भी मैं आपको विश्वास दिलाता हूं।\nभाइयों-बहनों।\nआप इतनी बड़ी तादाद में आए, भारतीय जनता पार्टी की सरकार उत्तर प्रदेश में बनना निश्चित हो चुका है, भारी बहुमत से बनना निश्चित हो चुका है, जनता के मिजाज को अब कोई रोक नहीं सकता है भाइयों और इसलिए सपा, बसपा, कांग्रेस ये तीनों के चक्कर से मुक्त होकर के घर-घर जाइए, एक-एक मतदाता को मिलिए, हर मतदाता को भाजपा और अपना दल को वोट देने के लिए प्रेरित कीजिए, भाजपा के लोग भी जीतें, अपना दल के लोग भी जीतें और मिलजुल करके उत्तर प्रदेश को आगे बढ़ाएं।\nभाइयों-बहनों।\nमैं सरदार पटेल की धरती से आता हूं। सरदार वल्लभ भाई पटेल, जैसे ये देश लाल बहादुर शास्त्री को याद करता है वैसे ही हमारा देश सरदार वल्लभ भाई पटेल को याद करता है। आज भी हिंदुस्तान यही कहता है, काश, काश सरदार वल्लभ भाई पटेल अगर देश के पहले प्रधानमंत्री होते तो मेरे देश के गांव का, मेरे देश के किसान का ये बर्बादी न होती भाइयों-बहनों, रास्ता ही गलत पकड़ लिए पहले दिन से, सरदार साहब होते तो ये हाल न होता। भाइयों-बहनों, हम संकल्प करें, सरदार साहब के जो सपने थे, उन सपनों को पूरा करने के लिए मिलजुल करके, पूरी ताकत से एक ऐसी सरकार बनाएं जो उत्तरप्रदेश के भाग्य को लिखे, भाग्य को बदले, नौजवानों के भविष्य को बनाए, ऐसी सरकार बनाने के लिए, मैं आपको वोट देने के लिए निमंत्रित करता हूं, भारतीय जनता पार्टी, अपना दल को समर्थन देने के लिए निमंत्रित करता हूं। मेरे साथ पूरी ताकत से बोलिए। Long live Mother India. Long live Mother India. Long live Mother India. Thanks a lot."