"Share\n\nDev Bhoomi can attract tourists from all over the country It has much potential for tourism sector to flourish: PM\nOur Government has been given Rs.12,000 crore for Char Dham: PM Modi\nCongress made mockery of One Rank, One Pension scheme It was only after we assumed office, the scheme was implemented: PM\nWe initiated strong steps against corruption and some people are feeling its heat, says PM Modi\nLong live Mother India. Long live Mother India. Long live Mother India. Both hands raise the whole force with the power of Bharat Mata Ki Jai. Long live Mother India. Long live Mother India. All the brothers sisters ... I bow to you in the holy land of Mother Purnagiri, Goolju, Hattalika, Bagnath, Maa Kotgadi. This is Kashmir of Uttarakhand.\nMr. Ajay Tanka, the President of Pithoragarh District, Mr. Virender Ballyadiya, my colleague in the Parliament, the former Chief Minister, the service is his life, such as Mr. Bhagat Singh Kaushari Mr. Kedor Joshi ji, Mr. Rajendra Bhandari ji, Mr. Dhan Singh Dhami ji, BJP candidate from Pithoragarh Mr. Prakash Pant, TDR-BJP Candidate Mr. Bishan Singh Jukhal G, Gangoli hot BJP candidate sister Mina Gangola law, candidates Dharjula Mr. Virender Singh Pal law. Speak with me Long live Mother India. Long live Mother India.\nMy dear brothers sisters of Pithoragarh\nThe meetings I have seen so much There is also a good fortune to address in many congregations. But for the first time I see this 6th floor meeting. Maybe they will also see those with media. Six-floor people are standing. Brother, you are standing far away, you will find me. But does he even hear what ...? Today Pithoragarh has done amazing. And I was coming here from the helipad, the whole path was full of people. In such a large number, you have come to bless me. Our candidates have come to bless. Our party has come to bless. I am very grateful to you for this.\nbrothers Sisters.\nThis is my last meeting of Uttarakhand's election campaign. Today is February 12. Today, the entire Uttarakhand is making a resolution on February 12. God is making a resolve to overthrow the people who sculpt the land. And on March 12, after one month this government will become a former, former And on March 11, the results will come by noon till 3:30 PM, and the government of Bharatiya Janata Party will be formed in Uttarakhand. brothers Sisters. This is the land of the soil of Uttarakhand. The land of the goddess Mira, is the land of renunciation and sacrifice. This Pithoragarh, hardly any home, will be like this, where no son has been deployed to the army to protect Mother Bharti and it is hardly a family, so there is hardly any family. These are the land of heroes.\nbrothers and sisters.\nWhat is the reason that Uttarakhand was not developed? Atal Bihari Vajpayee ji formed three states, Chhattisgarh, which came out of Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand emanating from Bihar and Uttarakhand out of Uttar Pradesh. But brothers and sisters, what is the reason that Chhattisgarh has reached the heights of development today, today Jharkhand has reached the heights of development, but my Uttarakhand is going down and it is going down. Who is responsible for this? You answer me all. Who did this Uttarakhand Behal Behal ...? Who made Uttarakhand unhealthy ...? Who ruined Uttarakhand ...? The sound should come from around. Who looted Godland ...?\nbrothers and sisters.\nYou have the chance on the 15th. The power in your finger is that you can hardly punish the robbers of Uttarakhand. By voting on 15th, pressing the lotus button, punish those who destroy Uttarakhand, give such punishment, so that no government in Uttarakhand should also sin in the future with the mistake of ruining Uttarakhand, give such punishment .\nbrothers Sisters.\nMigration from Uttarakhand is very much. The young man goes Uttarakhand's Jawani and Uttarakhand's water, Uttarakhand's work is not coming. Here's the youth, the water here, the work of Uttarakhand, we want to work by taking this dream. brothers and sisters. I do not understand how such an outrage has happened to the citizens of Pithoragarh, how such an angry anger that the Chief Minister migrated from here. Here the young men have seen migrating for Rosie Roti, but the chief minister had to flee, what is the reason? You have recognized them equally? You have recognized the Chief Minister well? And that too has recognized your anger. So nine of them have gone here to eleven. brothers Sisters. He was able to become the Chief Minister with the blessings of people, but in such a short time you betrayed with you that you do not have the courage to come again, you have migrated.\nbrothers and sisters.\nThe misfortune of our country is that some political parties, some politicians also suspect our army sacrificing for the country. Raise question marks. In our 70 years of freedom many soldiers of our army put a stake in life, bought martyrdom, but no citizen of this country has ever raised question marks on the army. But this Congress party when my country's army had a surgical strike. After crossing the border, the enemies of the enemies sacked. Shattered all their intentions. And all the brave, mighty men of my army, returned alive without harming one. The history of military is a big event. The world's security agencies are studying this how the mighty forces of India crossed the border and done wonderful work. But in my country are you asking questions? Tell Mr. Modi? That was not a surgical strike that happened. In which area did they go? How many people went How far went away How many tablets were taken. How many people were killed? Why did not we die even if we had gone there? It favors the people of the Congress What do you like to tell me Whether it is an insult to the country's military ... It is an insult to the bravery of the heroes of the country ... The country's army is insulted or not .... There is no disrespect to the power of the hundred crore people of the country. Hey politics is at his place, do politics, do whatever he wants to do on Modi, remove as much as he is, but never doubt my army. Do not doubt their feats\nbrothers and sisters.\nWhen I visited Uttarakhand in the 2014 Lok Sabha election. At that time there was no chance to come to Pithoragarh. Went to second place. In that public meeting I had said that if the Bharatiya Janata Party becomes a government in Delhi then we will implement forest ranks, one pension. brothers and sisters. The 40-year-old question, 40 years, and the central government sitting in Delhi only makes fun of the surgical strike, it is not so. He also ridiculed the life of my soldiers. Whether there is any work or not, that is the subject of the latter but when someone is demanding then the government should at least study it or not. Just tell me It should be closely examined or not ... What are the young people raising the issue, should they try to understand or not? If this is the problem then the problem should be found whether or not it should .... And to solve the problem, what to do, it should think or not ... You will be surprised to know and a lot of military families are sitting here. You must be surprised to know when I came and I checked. For 40 years, a single Congress government has one rank, one pension? Who are its beneficiaries? How much is their number, how much will the economic growth? One did not examine the subject. There is no item available in the file. For 40 years, those who are not ready to understand the problem of the military, are not ready to investigate on paper. What could be an insult to the people of my army larger than this. We came. I announced that if the Bharatiya Janata Party government is formed then we will implement forest ranks, one pension. As soon as I announced the Congress had sweat. They felt dead and when the budget came, they put 500 crores in the budget. 500 crores for forest rank, one pension and their leaders go to the place to go to the conference of the troops. See Congress implemented forest rank, one pension - one rank, one pension applied. I came in the government, sitting, I started investigating. I said, look, brother what I have come to promise. The families of my army will be surprised at you. These jokes were fired by these people. This was ridiculed by my underworldly Sainis. 500 crores, when I saw how much it would cost. Then forest rank, one pension will be applicable. To implement the OROP, there was nothing to do with 500 crores. When calculations are calculated then approximately Rs 12,000 crore How much ...? 12,500 crores rupees How much .... How much .... Speak out loud. OROP applies when twelve billion rupees will be spent. You tell me Was it a joke of the army by writing 500 crores or not? The army had not humiliated that did not happen. We decided we will implement But it is difficult to lump such a huge amount in the government's treasury so I called the people of the army, called the retired soldiers. I told them that I said brother I have to give OROP, but I need your help. Did not take a minute. My soldiers did not take a minute. He said, \"Saheb, we are people playing with life and the Prime Minister of India ask for help from us. Say what you say, ready to help. I told them that brother can not give such a huge amount together. I have to give you three or four installments. I want you to agree.\nbrothers and sisters.\nToday I say proudly. The question was hanging for 40 years. But when I told my soldiers, it took just a minute. In a minute he said, Sir you have said, we believe in you, we trust you. You go ahead See the mood of the people of my army and we applied them. So far we have given around 6,500 million rupees. And the rest will be available to you during this coming budget. This work is such that brother Not only this, when the report of the Seventh Pay Commission came. Pay Commission was not written in Our government decided that the seventh pay commission would not implement our troops with the old rules. According to the one rank, one pension, after which he is paid, will also apply his seventh pay commission. My retired soldiers got double benefit. The advantage of the increase of one OROP and the second increase of the seventh pay commission. brothers and sisters. When there is a sense of respect for the people of the country who love the army, then the government makes such decisions and we did.\nbrothers and sisters.\nPeople in our country who listen to my speech Here people will know because the army of the army is here, but those who listen to the TV will be surprised. What I'm going to tell about. The military fights in the military army, gets injured, any part of the body becomes useless, comes home for retirement. The doctor then decides, his insertion is 20%, 30%, 40%, 50% is 60%, 70% is 80%, 90% is 100% and accordingly he gave financial help. The cases are going on in the courts and the court of most soldiers. He says my loss is 50%, then the doctor writes 10 percent. I do not get the help I should get. His fight with the government continues, even after retirement, chithi-chadathi continues to run. We came and made a big decision. We said that these 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70 should stop the dizziness. Now if he is injured then he will be assumed to be 50% immediately. Second 50 to 75 and third 75 to 100.\nbrothers and sisters.\nDue to this, all the problems of the soldiers have been hanged for years, they are resolved. This is how brothers and sisters work. Our soldiers are injured. The health facilities of their family have to go far away and still they do not get the convenience. We came and took 500 new hospital panels in different corners of the country so that our army can go to those hospitals and if it is sick, then it can take a summary. The family of the retired army can take abstracts, the casail can take the essence. This work was done only when we showed the tax.\nbrothers and sisters.\nThe soldiers who are ours till the Havildar, even here to the landlord, even after the retirement, if his daughter is married, then she is given 16 thousand so that the country has come for Jikir, she has retired, she has remained havildar is. The IP is very low. How to marry Bitia? Government of India gave 16 thousand rupees. We came and decided. The time has changed. Now nothing will work from 16 thousand. If we come to Betia's wedding, if the daughter of the military, then we have multiplied it by 16 thousand, tripled it. Three times the brothers and sisters In order to lighten the burden on the army, my army, my retired army, to worry about him, the government also acted actively.\nbrothers and sisters.\nPlans are run for the welfare of our soldiers and under the schemes our troops get different help. Brothers and sisters The help that is given before the Defense Minister's discretionary fund remains. We saw the number of retired army soldiers, so that the retired soldiers could not be benefited by this amount. We came to the defense minister's discretionary amount. He even multiplied it four times, four times. So that my troops help the family. Have done a great job, which will remember people connected to the army in the coming ages. When the military is retired Retired at a younger age, then finds work, finds work but does not get it early. We have searched for a way that here every young man will be happy to hear it, we have made a plan, when the army is to retire, its one year left. Then, skill development will be done according to his interest. Special training will be done and the skills required for the job outside the army. He will be taught skills. उसको ऑफिसियल सर्टिफिकेट दिया जायेगा और ताकि वो निवृत्त हो कर के जैसे ही निकलेगा वो सर्टिफिकेट, वो अनुभव उसको जिंदगी को आगे जीने के लिए, काम आ जायेगा। कहीं भी उसको काम मिल जायेगा, भारत सरकार के स्किल डेवलपमेंट के साथ मेरे फौजियों के लिए काम किया।\nभाइयों और बहनों।\nअकेले छोटा सा मेरा उत्तराखंड, अकेले उत्तराखंड में एक लाख निवृत फौजियों को ये सारे लाभ मिल रहे हैं। एक लाख परिवारों को फायदा जा रहा है। You can imagine. इतने कम समय में कोई सरकार इतने बड़े फैसले एक फौज के लोगों के लिए कर ले, उस सरकार के दिल में फौज के लिए कितना आदर होगा। उस भारतीय जनता पार्टी के दिल में फौज के लिए कितना आदर होगा। वो प्रधानमंत्री के मन में फौज लिए कितनी श्रद्धा होगी तब जा के ऐसे निर्णय होते हैं।\nभाइयों और बहनों।\nहमारे जवान तो फौज में होते हैं लेकिन जिन वीर माताओं ने मेरे फौजियों को जन्म दिया। वीरों को जन्म दिया। उन माताओं की भी सेवा मैं करना चाहता हूं। Gave. उन माताओं की सेवा करना मेरे जीवन की सदभाग्य मानता हूं। ऐसी मां की सेवा, जिसने अपने संतानों को मातृभूमि के लिए दे दिया है, उन माताओं की मै जितनी सेवा करूं, उतनी कम है।\nभाइयों और बहनों।\nहमारे देश में पहाड़ों में खाना पकाना होना हो। चाय भी बनानी हो। इतनी लकड़ी जलानी पड़ती है और जंगलों से लकड़ी आती है वो भी सूखी लकड़ी मिलती नहीं है। खाना पकाने में देर, चाय बनाने में देर और लकड़ी जला के चुल्हा जलाते हैं तो इतना धुआं होता है, उतना धुआं होता है कि एक मां जब लकड़ी के चुल्हे से खाना पकाती है। एक दिन में उसके शरीर में 400 सिगरेट का धुआं जाता है,  400 सिगरेट का धुआं। आप मुझे बताइये। अगर मेरी माताओं के शरीर में हर दिन खाना पकाने के कारण 400 सिगरेट का धुआं अगर जाता है तो उस मां की तबीयत का हाल क्या होता होगा। उस परिवार में बच्चों का तबीयत का हाल क्या होता होगा। जंगल कटते होंगे, पर्यावरण का कितना नुकसान होता होगा। हमने निर्णय किया इन माताओं को गैस का कनेक्शन दिया जाएगा। गैस का सिलेंडर दिया जाएगा। मुफ्त में दिया जाएगा। और उनको ये 400 सिगरेट उससे बचाया जाएगा। आज मुझे खुशी है, पूरे देश में एक करोड़ 80 लाख परिवारों को हम दे चुके हैं और उत्तराखंड जैसा छोटे राज्य में एक लाख परिवारों में पिछले 4 महीने के अंदर-अंदर राज्य एक लाख परिवारों में गैस का चुल्हा, गैस का कनेक्शन पहुंचा दिया है। एक रुपया के भ्रष्टाचार किये बिना पहुंचा दिया है।\nभाइयों और बहनों।\nये सरकार नौजवानों की सेवा करना चाहती है। आप मुझे बताइये। आज नौकरी बिना रिश्वत दिए बिना मिलती है क्या? जरा जोर से बताइये। रिश्वत के बिना नौकरी मिलती है क्या ...? कितना ही होनहार लड़का क्यों न हो, कितनी ही होनहार बेटी क्यों न हो, परीक्षा में उत्तम से उत्तम मार्क आये हों, रिटन एक्जाम में बहुत अच्छा किया हो, फिर इंटरव्यू आता है। इंटरव्यू आता है तो मां कहती है बेटा इंटरव्यू तो आ गया लेकिन पहचान होनी चाहिए। सिफारिश होनी चाहिए, देखो कोई है, जो मदद करे, तो पूरा परिवार लग जाता है। बेटे का इंटरव्यू आया है, बेटी की इंटरव्यू आया है। कहीं कोई पहचान वाला मिल जाये। कोई बिचौलिया मिल जाता है, कहता है नौकरी दिलवा दूंगा। 2 लाख दे दो।  नौकरी दिलवा दूंगा, 5 लाख दे दो। ये होता है कि नहीं होता है ...। और गरीब मां, गरीब मां अपने गहने बेच कर के, अपना मंगलसूत्र गिरवी रख कर के, गरीब बाप अपने जमीन गिरवी रख कर के 2 लाख, 5 लाख रुपया रिश्वत में देता है। और तब जा कर के वो इंटरव्यू से निकल कर के नौकरी पाता है। आप मुझे बताइये। क्या दुनिया में कोई विज्ञान है क्या? तीन लोग बैठे हैं, एक उम्मीदवार अंदर आता है, 30 सेकेंड खड़ा रहता है कमरे में, 30 सेकेंड कोई एकाध चीज पूछ लेता है, कहां से आये, क्या नाम है। वो दूसरे दरवाजे से निकल जाता है। ये हो गया इंटरव्यू, क्या दुनिया में ऐसा कोई विज्ञान है क्या?  30 सेकेंड में आपको पूरी तरह जान ले। जान सकते हैं क्या ...? 30 सेकेंड में कोई जान सकता है क्या? ये इंटरव्यू फरेब है कि नहीं है ...? फरेब है कि नहीं है ...? देखने का मात्र काम करते हैं लेकिन जो पैसे मिले हैं उनको आर्डर कर दिया जाता है।\nभाइयों और बहनों।\nदिल्ली में आपने मुझे प्रधानमंत्री बनाया। मैने एक ऐसा काम कर दिया। ऐसा काम कर दिया। मैंने कहा वर्ग 3, वर्ग 4 जो सरकार में सबसे ज्यादा नौकरी उसी में होती है, वर्ग 3 और वर्ग 4 अब उसके इंटरव्यू नहीं होगा। लिखित परीक्षा में जो पास होगा कंप्यूटर में जायेगा, कंप्यूटर जो सबसे ज्यादा मार्क वाले लड़के-लड़कियां हैं, उनको नौकरी का आर्डर दे देगी। कोई इंटरव्यू नहीं, कोई भ्रष्टाचार नहीं, कोई बिचौलिया नहीं, कोई मां-बाप को घर बेचने की बारी नहीं। ये काम हो सकता है कि नहीं ...। ये काम कर के दिखाया।\nमेरे नौजवान भाइयों और बहनों।\nये लुट करने वालों के खिलाफ मेरा लड़ाई का हिस्सा है। हमने उत्तराखंड सरकार को कहा आप ये इंटरव्यू बंद करो। ये बिचौलिया बंद करो, ये रुपया खाने वालों की दुकान बंद करो। उत्तराखंड की सरकार ने हमारी बात नहीं मानी। इसीलिए भाइयों और बहनों। देश को भ्रष्टाचार ने तबाह कर के रखा है कालेधन ने बर्बाद कर के रखा है। बड़े-बड़े लोगों के घर में नोटों के बंडल के बंडल भरे पड़े थे। लुट के पैसे, चोरी के पैसे, बेईमानी के पैसे।\nभाइयों और बहनों।\nआठ नवंबर को रात के आठ बजे टीवी पर मैंने आ कर के,  मैंने कह दिया लुटने वालों का खेल खत्म। भाइयों और बहनों। 70 साल तक जिन्होंने लुटा है, उनका सारा खेल खत्म हो चुका है। पाई-पाई का हिसाब जमा करना पड़ रहा है। और मेरे प्यारे देशवासियों आपको वादा करता हूं, जिन्होंने देश को लुटा है। उनको सब कुछ लौटाना पड़ेगा। और जब तक मैं काम पूरा नहीं कर लेता हूं ना मैं चैन से बैठूंगा, ना मै लुटेरों को चैन से बैठने दूंगा।\nभाइयों और बहनों।\nये गरीब का पैसा है, ये गरीब के हक को लुटा गया है, ये मध्यम वर्ग का शोषण कर के पैसे मारा गया है और इसलिए मैंने इतना बड़ा अहम कदम उठाया है और मैं रुकने वाला नहीं हूं। मेरे प्यारे भाइयों और बहनों। सवा सौ करोड़ देशवासी हिम्मत के साथ खड़े रहे, तकलीफ झेल कर भी खड़े रहे। और इसलिए लड़ाई लड़ने की मेरी ताकत बहुत बढ़ गई है। अब एक-एक का हिसाब होने वाला है, कोई बचने वाला नहीं है। और इसलिए भाइयों और बहनों। मुझे आपका आशीर्वाद चाहिए।\nमैं हैरान हूं। उत्तराखंड में हरदा टैक्स चलता है, हरदा टैक्स, ना भारत सरकार में हरदा टैक्स था, ना उत्तर प्रदेश में था। एक ऐसे महाशय आ गये, हरदा टैक्स चालू हो गया। मैं हैरान हूं। एक मुख्यमंत्री इस प्रकार की भाषा बोले, वो जिस प्रकार से भारत सरकार के खिलाफ बयानबाजी करते हैं। मै आपको बताना चाहता हूं। तपोवन, विष्णुगढ़, हाइड्रो पावर प्रोजेक्ट चार हजार करोड़ रुपया के लागत वाला प्रोजेक्ट, मै जब से केन्द्र मे बैठा हूं। चार हजार करोड़ रुपया के इस प्रोजेक्ट को लागू कराने के लिए, जी-जान से जुटा हूं। चार हजार करोड़ रुपया रेडी पड़ा है। लेकिन मुझे दुख के साथ कहना है कि उत्तराखंड सरकार ने इको सेंसिटिव जोन का डिलीमिटेशन इतनी ढीली कर दी है। वो प्रोजेक्ट आज भी लटका पड़ा है और चार हजार करोड़ रुपया जो  उत्तराखंड के लिए लगने वाले थे। वो सड़ रहे हैं भाइयों, बताइये। ऐसी निकम्मी सरकार आपका भाग्य बदल सकती है।\nभाइयों और बहनों।\nटेरी पम्प स्टोरेज का प्रोजेक्ट, पावर प्लांट का 3 हजार करोड़ का प्रोजेक्ट कंस्ट्रक्शन डेबरी उसको कहा डालना, इसका फैसला नहीं कर पा रहे हैं।  उसके कारण ये 3 हजार करोड़ रुपया का प्रोजेक्ट भी लटका पड़ा है। गंगा सफाई अभियान, नमामी गंगे योजना, मैने मुख्यमंत्रियों की मिटिंग बुलाई थी। उनको कहा था योजना बनाई, आप हैरान होंगे। वो प्रोजेक्ट रिपोर्ट भी नहीं बना पाते हैं। अभी बड़ी मुश्किल से दिसंबर में टेंडर निकला।\nभाइयों और बहनों।\nदिल्ली सरकार पैसे देने के लिए तैयार बैठी है। ये ऐसी निकम्मी सरकार है कि दिल्ली में ऐसी सरकार पैसे देने को तैयार है, इनके पास कागजी करवाई करने की हिम्मत नहीं है। योजना नहीं, समझ नहीं, इरादा नहीं और उसके कारण विकास अटका पड़ा है। भाइयों और बहनों। हमने नेपाल के साथ मिलकर के पंचेश्वर का काम, कांग्रेस के जमाने से 23 साल से अटका हुआ था, 23 साल से, ये पंचेश्वर पावर प्रोजेक्ट हो जायेगा। इस पिथौड़ागढ़ को कितना फायदा होगा। इसको आप अंदाज लगा सकते हैं। 6 हजार करोड़, 6 हजार मेगावाट का प्रोजेक्ट, करीब-करीब 35 हजार करोड़ रुपया का प्रोजेक्ट, आप कल्पना कर सकते हैं। 35 हजार करोड़ रुपया ये पंचेश्वर में जब लगेगा। इस इलाके के कितने लोगों को रोजगार मिलेगा। You can imagine.\nभाइयों और बहनों।\nहमें विकास के नये उच्चाईयों पर पहुंचाना है। ये मेरा उत्तराखंड, ये देवभूमि है, ये उत्तराखंड जहां पहाड़ है। ये उत्तराखंड जहां परमेश्वर का वास है। ये उत्तराखंड जहां भरपूर पानी है। ये उत्तराखंड जहां पर जड़ी-बूटी के काम आने वाले उत्तम से उत्तम पौधें हैं। ये उत्तराखंड जहां पर भरपूर उत्तम पर्यावरण है। जिसके पास पहाड़ हो, परमेश्वर हो, पानी हो, पौधा हो, पर्यावरण हो, उस राज्य को पैसे की कभी कमी नहीं हो सकती है। वो आवश्कयता है, अच्छी सरकार की, आवश्कयता है उत्तराखंड को समझ के आगे बढ़ाने वाली अच्छी सरकार की और इसलिए आपकी ये जो पांच शक्तियां है परमेश्वर का वास है, पहाड़ है, पानी है, पर्यावरण है, पौधे हैं। उसको लेकर के हम उत्तराखंड को आगे बढ़ाना चाहते हैं। जहां पैसे खींच कर के चले। मेरे उत्तराखंड का भाग्य बदल जायेगा। मेरे साथ पूरी ताकत के साथ बोलना है भाइयों और बहनों। चुनाव कब है, मतदान कब है, ऐसे नहीं पूरी ताकत से बताओ। मतदान कब है ...। कब है मतदान,15 तारीख। कब है ...। पक्का ...। मतदान करोगे ...। औरों से भी मतदान करवाओगे ...। कमल के निशान पर बटन दबाओगे ...। उत्तराखंड में उत्तराखंड का भाग्य बदलने वाली भाजपा की सरकार बनाओगे ...। भाइयों और बहनों। इतना आपका प्यार, इतना आपका आशीर्वाद। मैं आपका बहुत-बहुत अभारी हूं। मेरे साथ पूरी ताकत से बोलिए। Long live Mother India. पूरी ताकत से बोलिए। Long live Mother India. Long live Mother India. Long live Mother India. Thanks a lot."