"Share\n\nAtal Bihari Vajpayee ji created Uttarakhand. It was his efforts \u0026 policies that are scaling new heights: PM\nBJP is ready to open up new possibilities for youth of Uttarakhand: PM\nPeople of Uttarakhand need to get rid of tainted and corrupt Congress government: PM Modi\nUttarakhand has the potential to attract tourists from the whole world. We have been given Rs. 12000 crore for connecting Char Dham: PM\nLong live Mother India. Long live Mother India. Former Chief Minister Shri Bhagat Singh Ji Kosariari Ji, Former Chief Minister Mr. Vijay Bahuguna Ji, Former Minister Mr. Shriman Yashpal G Arya, BJP candidate from Rudrapur Mr. Rajkumar Thukral ji, BJP candidate from Lalkua Mr. Naveen Dumka G, Mr. Prem Singh Rana, candidate from Nancomata, Mr. Pushkar Singh Dham, candidate from Khadima BJP candidate from Jaspur, Mr. Shailendra Mohan Singhal, BJP candidate from Kishwa, Mr. Rajesh Shukla ji, BJP candidate from Gurdarpur, Mr. Arvind Pandey, BJP candidate from Gadarpur, Mr. Bansheedhar Bhagatji, candidate from Kaladungi, Mr. Saurav Bahuguna, candidate from Sitarganj, Haldwani District Vice President, Mr. Pradeep Bicht, Kashipur District President, Mr. Ram Malhotra, who is sitting on the stage, Mrs. Oni coli live. Mr. Gajraj Bishtji, Shyam Jaju ji, all of my senior brothers and sisters who have been studying all the senior honors and huge number.\nTalk to me, Bharat Mata Ki Jai Speak with full force on both hands and raise the voice of Bharat Mata Ki Jai Long live Mother India. Long live Mother India. Thanks a lot.\nbrothers Sisters.\nRudrapur I have come before Today again, once again you have the good fortune to come among you. I do not know who the Prime Minister came here earlier. Not just Uttarakhand in front of me, there is a small India in front of me. There will be no state of India whose people do not live in Rudrapur. In a way these mini Hindusthan is Rudrapur. And hence what happens in Rudrapur, it is the barometer of the air of entire India. What is happening in Rudrapur, the news is reached in every corner of India in the second quarter. In a way, Rudrapur is connected to his heart every moment from every corner of India. Such a Rudrapur residents got the good fortune of meeting me today. And you came to bless us all in such a large number. Thank you very much. I salute everybody from the heart. Today my dear sisters of Uttarakhand are eleven February, today the death anniversary of Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay ji. And after just one month from today, the entire Uttarakhand Vijay celebrations will be celebrated on March 11 at the same time. I see this. It's a glimpse.\nbrothers Sisters.\nI am coming from Uttar Pradesh today. When I was in Uttar Pradesh, I got news today that the election of MLC was going on in Uttar Pradesh, the result of three seats came in. Today, the election of MLC was in spite of all three seats of Gorakhpur, Kanpur and Bareilly, the Bharatiya Janata Party won today, with twenty-five-five thousand votes. This sampling was done by the brothers sisters, where the wind stance is. I do not know I'm on tour, news is coming on TV that I do not know. But today Vijashri has started. The Congress Party and the Samajwadi Party have organized a grand alliance. In spite of this, the grand victory over the three seats in the MLC election. In Uttar Pradesh, what is the result of the 11th of March, he has given his message. Today I have come to this godland. I want to congratulate the scientists of the country.\nbrothers Sisters.\nThese are the land of devils of heroes. This is the land of brave warriors who have fought for the protection of Mother Bharati. There are such heroic mothers, in this land, who have created such heroic offspring who are protecting mother Bharti of betting on her life today. To ensure peace to the country, they are stationed on the border. But brothers' sisters today should be seized of my army, my country's scientist should be seized; 100 million countrymen of my country should be seated, proudly, the head is lifted. Our country has achieved such a great achievement today. You will see the news, you know, the country has made a missile. The missile will go five thousand kilometers away and the country will make a missile and it will hit eight thousand kilometers. Last month the news came that Pakistan created such a missile that could destroy our Andaman Nicobar. He can destroy Israel there. Such news had come\nbrothers Sisters.\nIndia also has no shortage of missiles, but today India has done a great deal. Today, Indian scientists have used a successful experiment that any enemy country missile can get out of it and even before reaching us, one hundred and a half kilometers can kill him in the air. Such missiles have been created. Brothers sisters, a hundred and a half miles to hit the missile coming in the sky, how much speed do they go, our country's scientists have created such a missile that there will be an end to that. So far only four or five countries have been able to do this work in the world. Hindustan scientists have registered their names today. I compliment the country's scientists. Greetings from heart to achieve such a big success for the security of hundred and fifty million people.\nbrothers Sisters.\nDo not know the people of our Congress, people of our Opposition, do not know which statement? He will say, \"Get the proof, when were you up one and a half miles?\" When did the war on the missile? Just tell because the evidence of surgical strikes was also demanding. The people of the country returned to the countryside by crossing the border into enemy territory and sacking his teeth. So far, the enemies are not conscious, how did this happen? Whole Dania is discussing that this force is in the army of India, but brothers' sisters have fallen our politics so much that some political parties in the country, some politicians began to ask that there is evidence of just a surgical strike two evidence. Tell me that this is an insult to the soldiers of the country ... or not ...? Is the country's army insulted or not ...? Is not the insult of the country's strength that is ...? Is not the insult of the country's faith that is ...? Is not the insult of the country's determination or not ...?\nbrothers Sisters.\nWill this still be given a chance in Godland ...? Will be given ...? It is time to take account of their sins. And I have come to urge you to give this result in Uttarakhand this time. Give results that determine the future of Uttarakhand.\n\nbrothers Sisters.\nWhen Atal Bihari Vajpayee was the Prime Minister of the country, Atal Bihari Vajpayee ji gave India three states in Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Uttarakhand. And today Rudrapur is made. This is what today's entire industrial area has been created, if its credit goes to any one person, then the policies of the Atal Bihari government goes to. The policies that he created in Taxeson are the result of which the industrial city started to be started here. And people from all over the country started coming to earn roti.\nbrothers Sisters.\nHere is a network of small industries. Many people have the power to give jobs. This time, we have made the biggest decisions in the budget, then we have made decisions to help these small industries. These medium and small industries had to pay thirty percent tax. It was our government sitting in Delhi, so far no one listened to them. Thirty percent to 25 percent. Those who are sitting in the industry, they know what a big advantage it is. We brought the money scheme Without any guarantee, anyone can take a loan from the bank. More than two crore people of this country were given a loan of millions of crores rupees. ... and because of this the speed of the business industry has come Young people, they got employment. ... Therefore, the skill development campaign, the kind of industries that are engaged in the field of skill development, so that they do not have to leave their village. If he wants to get work in the factory tomorrow itself and wants to start his own small business then he can do it. I have come to say to Rudrapur villagers today, for me, this whole area is not just a field of elections. The area for me is this important energy land of economic development of this whole extension. And therefore the Government of India wants to emphasize this whole area. It wants to emphasize by different policies. It wants to emphasize through the arrangements so that its industrial life flourishes so that it becomes the reason for the employment of people in all the surrounding areas and reach new heights.\nbrothers Sisters.\nBahubali in politics in our country, this word was criticized so much. If someone gave tickets and came to the newspaper that the Falay Party had given ticket to Bahubali, then people used to hate him. People were afraid that Bahubali will become our representative ...? Bahubali is considered the word of hate in our political life in our country, but politics is such a fall, such a fall that Uttarakhand, there are such politicians born in Godland, who are not ashamed to call themselves Bahubali. What could be worse than this ...? What could be the biggest misfortune ...?\nbrothers Sisters.\nHere is the area of ​​small traders and industries. You tell me It has to pay tax to the entire Godland. Harda tax has to be paid or not ...? Even if everyone comes in, he will die. Even if admission in school is going to be defeated. Even if you want a license in the shop, give it. To do illegal mining business, then give it ... keep on giving. Is this business run or not ...? This is to free our Godland from corruption or not ...? Is that not to free from corruption ...? Do you want to free hardship from tax ...? Should the rule of law should not ...? Should not seek the rule of honesty ...?\nSo my dear brothers sisters\nI have come to urge you to give this opportunity to move forward, then you give us an opportunity to serve us by making the Bharatiya Janata Party government. Even when the brothers were the government of Atal ji, there was such a business here that even though Atalji wanted to do good to Uttarakhand, there was a problem. I have been sitting for two and a half years. I had plans for doing many things. Plans to pursue Uttarakhand. But there are people sitting here who have no interest in development. Interested in saving the chair. That's why development was not done. Today our Godbirth is at the height of the Himalayas, but politics has put such pit in such a pit that it will have to install two-two engines to get it out. One of the BJP's government of Uttarakhand and the Modi government's engine at the other center. Two engines will take place, then going to Uttarakhand will come out of this pit. And so the brothers' sisters development is the only way. The solution to all the problems is just and only in development. And when I talk about development, then brothers should be in need of electricity, development should be done - law should be arranged, roads need development, roads need development. If Uttarakhand is connected with these arrangements then people of Uttarakhand will have a breath, they will leave the land here after Paradise. These strengths are here in the people. No citizen of India will be like this, no family will not be able to do so that they do not want to go for the four Dham Yatra once. To get dip in the Ganga ji is to go. In the heart of the hundred and fifty million people, this aspiration will be the center of Godland attraction for the people of the world. Here, for the development of pilgrimage here, there are many possibilities for the development of tourism. Half of the passengers traveling in the entire country will be welcomed in Uttarakhand. If we give proper arrangements.\nbrothers Sisters.\nIf an industry seems to have a capital investment of 10 lakhs, then it employs 15-17 people. If a farmer does, then employs a few more people, but if the money is invested in tourism with low capital then most people are employed. And so brothers and sisters need the industrial development here. Similarly in whole of Uttarakhand, it has the power to attract the people of the world in all the possibilities of tourism in Godland. The dunka we played today about yoga in the whole world. Today the world is getting woken up to come to this earth to know our yoga. How many people will get jobs? Four Dhams, for centuries we are listening to the four Dhams. Passengers are going through a trip to Char Dham. After 70 years, can you find the right path for these four Dham's journeys or can not be found ...?\nbrothers Sisters.\nBy investing 12 thousand crores, we have started construction of modern, modern technology and all weather-related roads to connect the four Dhams by putting 12 thousand crore rupees .... No promises, the work has started. And on 11th March if our friendly government came and it will come, it seems to me clearly that the brothers This view is saying that will come. I say to you, we will finish it as soon as we have decided. If this happens once, then you can imagine how big the cameraman will start to come. How many young people will start getting jobs.\nAnd so the brothers sisters\nWe implement the decisions we make. One Rank One Pension, the soldiers of our country were demanding for forty years. No Congress Congress has even studied. Did not even study whether one rank is forest pension? How does this apply? How much is the burden? How much does it cost? nothing. Speaking in every election that we will implement One Rank One Pension. Forty-four years have passed, not implemented. I promised that if my government will be formed in Delhi then I will implement One Rank One Pension.\nbrothers Sisters.\nWe applied and our army jawans' home reached the bank directly in the bank. So far, 6 thousand crores have reached. आखिरी हफ्ता बाकी है वो भी आने वाले दिनों में पहुंच जाएगा। ये काम हम करते हैं भाइयों।\n\nBrothers sisters\nमेरी सरकार इस देश के नौजवानों को रोजगार देना चाहती है। मेरी सरकार इस देश के किसानों के खेतों में पानी देना चाहती है। मेरी सरकार इस देश के बच्चों को अच्छी शिक्षा देना चाहती है। मेरी सरकार इस देश के बुजुर्गों को सस्ते में अच्छी दवाई देना चाहती है। मेरी सरकार इस देश के नौजवानों को रोजगार कमाई देना चाहती है। मेरी सरकार इस देश के गरीब-से गरीब को रहने के लिए अपना खुद का घर देना चाहती है।\nऔर इसलिए भाइयों बहनों।\nऐसा नहीं है कि देश के पास पैसों की कमी है। पैसों की कमी नहीं है। लेकिन भ्रष्टाचार कालाधान इस बीमारी ने देश को ऐसा जकड़ लिया है कि मध्यमवर्गीय नागरिकों का शोषण होता है, गरीब के हक को छीन लिया जाता है और मुट्ठी भर लोग मौज कर रहे हैं भाइयों। और मैंने उनके खिलाफ लड़ाई शुरू की है। जब मैंने नोटबंदी की 8 नवंबर रात आठ बजे भाइयों बहनों। और मैं देश वासियों को वादा करता हूं। ये मेरी लड़ाई गरीबों के लिए है। ये मेरी लड़ाई मध्यम वर्ग के लोगों के लिए है। ये मेरी लड़ाई ईमानदार लोगों के लिए है जिन्होंने देश को लूटा है। उन्हें देश को लौटाना पड़ेगा। ये लड़ाई लड़ने के लिए मैं निकला हूं। कितनी बड़ी-बड़ी ताकतें मेरा मजाक उड़ाएं। मेरे खिलाफ खड़ी हो जाएं लेकिन देशवासी ईमानदारी की मदद करने वाले लोग हैं। मुझे विश्वास है, सवा सौ करोड़ की ईमानदारी की इस लड़ाई में मेरे साथ खड़े हैं। मुझे बताइये कि काला धन खत्म होना चाहिए कि नहीं चाहिए ...? भ्रष्टाचार जाना चाहिए कि नहीं चाहिए …? जिन्होंने लूटा है वो रुपया लौटना चाहिए कि नहीं लौटना चाहिए ...? इस देश के ईमानदार के काम वो पैसा आना चाहिए कि नहीं चाहिए ...? मेहनत किसान के  लिए वो पैसा काम आना चाहिए कि नहीं आना चाहिए …? गरीब की भलाई के लिए वो पैसा काम आना चाहिए कि नहीं चाहिए …?\nbrothers Sisters.\nआपके आशीर्वाद से मैं ये लड़ाई लड़ रहा हूं। अच्छे अच्छों को कबट में बंडल के बंडल रखे थे। नीची मुंडी करके बैंक में जमाने करे पड़े। अब उनका हिसाब मांगा जा रहा है कि कहां से लाए थे। brothers Sisters. कभी-कभी कुछ लोगों के दिमाग में भ्रम होता है कि कालाधन व्यापारी लोग करते हैं।\nbrothers Sisters.\nव्यापारी तो कभी मौका मिल जाए हो सकता है बीस रुपये का माल पच्चीस में बेचेगा। कभी उसको सौ रुपया सरकार को देना होगा तो अस्सी रुपया देगा। कुछ रख लेगा। भाइयों बहनों देश का उतना नुकसान उन्होंने ज्यादा नहीं किया है। अगर उनको अफसर लोग परेशान न करे, उसको रिश्वत के पैसे देने की जरूरत न पड़े तो इस देश का व्यापारी, इस देश का मध्यम वर्ग का व्यक्ति, एक रुपए की चोरी करना नहीं चाहता है। वो ईमानदारी की जिंदगी जीना चाहता है। बेइमानी की है बाबुओं ने। बेइमानी की है राजनेताओं ने। सत्ता पर जिनके पास कुर्सी थी उन्होंने ही लूटा है भाइयों बहनों। ...और मैं उनसे ही निकालना चाहता हूं। जिन्होंने लोगों पर अपनी सत्ता का रौब जमाकरके लूटा है, गैरकानूनी काम करके लूटा है, मेरी लड़ाई उनके खिलाफ है। और, इस लड़ाई का काम मैंने नोटबंदी से शुरू किया है। हमने बेनामी संपत्ति का कानून बनाया है। क्या किसी किसान की बेनामी संपत्ति होती है ...? किसी शिक्षक की बेनामी संपत्ति होती है ...? किसी फौजी की बेनामी संपत्ति होती है ...? ये बेनाम संपत्ति होती है बाबुओं की। राजनेताओं की। और मैंने ऐसा कानून बनाया है कि कम से कम तो पहले तो सात साल जेल जाना पड़ेगा। दूसरा ये सारी संपत्ति है, कितना ही बड़ा बंगलो होगा, कितनी ही ज्यादा जमीन होगी, एक रात में सरकार की मालिकी की हो जाएगी, वो गरीबों के काम आएगी। मैं जानता हूं स्कूल में टीचर भी अगर थोड़ा ज्यादा कड़क रहते हैं न, तो दो चार बच्चे और उसके रिश्तेदार आ जाते हैं कि टीचर जरा ज्यादाती करता है। उसके खिलाफ आवाज उठाते हैं।\nbrothers Sisters.\nमैंने तो पूरे देश में, 70 साल से जमा जमा कर के बैठे हैं। उनके खिलाफ लड़ाई छेड़ी हैं। तो आप कल्पना कर सकते हो कि मुझ पर क्या बीतती होगी। क्या -क्या बीतती होगी। क्या क्या बीतती होगी। ये लोग मुझे गुस्सा ऐसे नहीं करते हैं। दुखता है पेट और कूदते हैं माथा। उनकी परेशानी है कि मोदी छोड़ेगा नहीं। मुझे किसी ईमानदार को परेशान नहीं करना है। लेकिन गरीबों का लूटा है, आपने सत्ता का दुरुपयोग करके लूटा है।\nऔर इसलिए भाइयों बहनों।\nहिंदुस्तान के नौजवान का भविष्य बनाने के लिए ये लड़ाई मैंने छेड़ी है और मुझे आपका आशीर्वाद चाहिए। और बेशर्मी देखो बेइमानों की बेशर्मी देखो कैमरा के सामने रुपयों की लेती-देती की चर्चा करते हैं तो भी शर्म का नामों निशान नहीं है। और इसलिए भइयों बहनों मैं जानता हूं ये लड़ाई मुश्किल होगी। हर डगर पर मुझे खतरे होंगे लेकिन सवा सौ करोड़ देशवासियों का मुझे आशीर्वाद है और खतरों से खेलना मेरा स्वभाव है। न हम सत्ता के लिए पैदा हुए हैं, और न हम कुर्सी के पीछे मुंह में पानी निकालने वाले लोग हैं। हम तो देश के लिए मरने मिटने वाले जमात के लोग हैं। इसलिए भाइयों बहनों देश एक बदलाव से गुजर रहा है। सत्तर साल की बेइमानी के कालखंड से ईमानदारी के रास्ते पर चलने के लिए आज देश तैयार है।\nbrothers Sisters.\nकभी आपने सोचा है। हमारे देश के सत्तर साल का इतिहास देख लीजिए हमेशा सरकार कोई निर्णय करे तो जनता सरकार के सामने होती है, सरकार और जनता के बीच लड़ाई होती है संघर्ष होता है। ये ऐसा निर्णय था नोटबंदी का कि जिसमें जनता और सरकार एक थी। जनता और सरकार एक थी। ऐसा कभी नहीं होता है। और कुछ लोग अलग – अलग थे वो कौन थे,, जिन्होंने वो थप्पे जमा किए न वो जरा परेशान थे। और, इसलिए भाइयों बहनों भ्रष्टाचार कालेधन के खिलाफ सफलता पाकर के रहना है... देश को जगाते रहना है... कठोर कदम उठाते रहना है,  बेइमानों को सजा देकर ही चुप रहना है। इस संकल्प के लिए देवभूमि में एक इमानदार सरकार बनाने के लिए मुझे आपका साथ चाहिए। और, में देवभूमि वासियों को कहना चाहता हूं कि ये उत्तराखंड अटल जी के सपनों का उत्तराखंड है। अटल जी के सपनों को पूरा करने के लिए मैं अपने आप जितनी ताकत लगा सकता हूं लगाता रहूंगा। आपके साथ कंधे से कंधा मिलाकरके चलूंगा ये आपको वादा करने आया हूं। कभी आपको कमी महसूस नहीं होने दूंगा। आपको देवभूमि अपनी लगेगी, दिल्ली भी आपको अपना लगेगा। ये स्थिति मैं बनाकर रहूंगा भाइयो। और, इसलिए मैं कल्पना नहीं कर सकता हूं। रुद्रपुर में इतनी जबरदस्त भीड़, मैं देख रहा हूं ये पर्दे भी निकाल देने पड़ रहे हैं आपको। कोई कल्पना कर सकता है कि इतनी भीड़ हो सकती है एक सभा में। भाइयों बहनों ये इमानदारी का मेला ये, इमानदारी का मेला है। भ्रष्टाचारियों के खिलाफ लड़ाई लड़ने का ये विजय नाद है भाइयों बहनों। विजय नाद है। और, आज इसलिए मैं देवभूमि को नमन करता हूं मैं उधर भी देख रहा हूं कोई कमी नहीं साहब। चारों तरफ। मैं आपका बहुत आभारी हूं, आप मुझे आशीर्वाद देने आए। 15 तारीख को भारी मतदान कीजिए। पहले मतदान और बाद में जलपान। पहले मतदान फिर जलपान। और इस विजय के लिए मत दीजिए। आपका बटन विजय का बटन होगा। कमल के निशान पर बटन दबाइये। भ्रष्टाचार के खिलाफ लड़ाई लड़ने के लिए बटन दबाइये। ईमानदारों को मदद करने के लिए बटन दबाइये। देश में भ्रष्टाचार के खिलाफ लड़ाई जीतने के लिए बटन दबाइये। इसी एक अपेक्षा के साथ मेरे साथ बोलिए भारत माता की जय। पूरी ताकत से बोलिये। दोनों मुट्ठी बंद करके बोलिए। सभी उम्मीदवार आ जाइये। Long live Mother India. Long live Mother India. Long live Mother India. Long live Mother India. Thanks a lot."