"\nDev Bhoomi: Do not deserve a tainted and corrupt government: PM\nAtal ji created Uttarakhand with great hope and promise. We will fulfill his dreams of a prosperous Uttarakhand: PM\nBJP to set up new avenues for youth and ensure welfare of farmers: PM\nCenter wants prosperity to prosperity and has given Rs. 12,000 crores for connecting Char Dham with better roads: PM\nCongress does not respect the armed forces They were in power but not the issue of OROP: PM\nLong live Mother India. Long live Mother India.\nMr. J. P. Nadda, my partner of the Council of Ministers at the center of the forum, Mr. Dharmendra Pradhan ji, popularly known MP and former Chief Minister Dr. Ramesh Pokhriyal ji Nishank, Mr. Suresh Rathor, BJP candidate from Jwalapur, Mr. Madan Kaushik, candidate from Haridwar, Candidate from Haridwar rural Swami Yatishwaranand ji, candidate from Ranipur Shri Order Chauhan ji, from Luxor Shri Sanjay C. Pratip Batra ji from Roorkee, Kunwar Pranav Singh Champion from Khanpur, Premchandra Agrawal from Rishikesh, Subodh Rakesh ji from Bhagwanpur, Deshraj Karanwal from Jabarda, Ruchipal Balian ji from Mangalore, Jai Bhagwan Saini ji from Piran, platform But all the seniors who sit in and the beloved brothers and sisters in large numbers Speak loud with me. Long live Mother India. Long live Mother India.\nAll of you come to bless us in such a large number. I thank you while saluting, I congratulate you. I do not know that those who are standing on the roof far away will be able to hear or not? In spite of that, I see people, people are being seen.\nbrothers Sisters.\nIn today's era this mass rally, these blessings, I believe this unique event. We have fought too much I used to come to Uttarakhand for election campaign, but such excitement, enthusiasm, this Kesaria Sagar and such a large number of mothers and sisters\nbrothers Sisters.\nEvery time in our country whenever Haridwar is discussed, the name of this godland is taken. Kanyakumari from Kashmir, Kanyakumari in Kashmir, any Hindustani in Hindustan will be called Dev land, it is called Haridwar, Gangaji, Math Temple, these snowy peaks, this green world, Yoga, Sage-Muni, this is the first time I remember. When we remember the Godland, the feeling of purity comes in the mind.\n... but brothers sisters.\nToday that time has changed. Now that day is not there. Today, the tainted government is seen as a godland speaking, tainted government. The shadow of this tainted government has stained our land, made of thousands of years of penance, and stained it.\nbrothers Sisters.\nYou tell me that there should be a repetition of Godland or not ... Explain with full strength. Devibhoomi should have a repetition or should not be there. Should the removal of tainted government from Godland should not be removed ... This is not the right of every Hindustani of the sanctity of Godland .... People of Godland also want to share this sacredness to the world or not .... But a tainted government, a tainted government, has tarnished the penance of this godland. The shadow of the stain is on it.\n... and so are the brothers and sisters\nThe question is not of politics, question is not of the question, question is not of the candidate. The issue is that the whole of India should be proud of God's land, it is our responsibility to make such a God-God. Today, there is no need for proof of corruption in the whole of India ...? Is there any proof needed ...? Do you need a court court? All Hindustan have seen or not seen on TV ...? Is there such corruption that has flourished ... and the sad thing is that the head of this government has little concern about it. From their colloquium, through their conduct, their conduct seems to be such that they have digested such things.\nbrothers Sisters.\nEven if somebody is mistaken, his soul hurts him. ... and caught, he feels embarrassed. I have not seen any politician who is sitting on the Godland, which does not care for it, no shame, no worries. It keeps going. Is it supposed to let go ...? Is it supposed to let go ...? Is it supposed to let go ...? Should they be moving or not ...? Should we know that we should not ...? Will you remove ...? Will you decide ...?\nbrothers Sisters.\nThose people of the family, they must have seen. The child is born in the house, he wakes up, sits, heals somewhere, makes some dirty, every parent believes that Bhai runs, let's be the brother. The child is 12-13 years old, till then it is seen from a different perspective. But as soon as the son or daughter turns 16 in the house, the parents become aware. The age of 16 to 21 years is important in every person's life. How would a child be 16 to 21 years old? In which direction will you go? How are her friends Where does he go? Whom do you get What does it do? What does he read? Where does it sit? Every parent keeps a watch on Bariki or does not ...? Does not keep that ...? Daughter should be 16 years old, son turns 16, parents, the whole family consider that five years important, do not believe ...? In which direction will her life go? Does that happen at the age of 16 that does not happen ...?\nbrothers Sisters.\nAs for the life of a child, for the same Uttarakhand, it is also five years, 16 to 21 years old. What has happened so far has happened, but this is the age of 16 to 21 years of Uttarakhand, if it is properly managed, properly sanitized, then after 21 years, it will take Uttarakhand to handle the whole of India. I assure you that.\nBig time is big brothers sisters.\n16 to 21 years of age for the child at home, the more awareness we think, the age of 16 to 21 years is very important for Uttarakhand. So what will be the result from Uttarakhand 16 to 21? Which power will stand? How will he stand on his stature? It's time to decide. ... and so happened that which happened before. Now, Uttarakhand should not lose money for these five years.\nbrothers Sisters.\nAtal Bihari Vajpayee, he created three states. Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Uttarakhand also have the blessings of Atal ji\nbrothers Sisters.\nWith the dream, Atalji worked to change the fate of Uttarakhand. Later, there were such governments in Delhi which lifted all the trains from the tracks. I have taken the initiative to fulfill the dream of Atal ji I want to fulfill the promise that Atal ji has made. Therefore, I want blessings from Uttarakhand.\nbrothers Sisters.\nYou tell me that every Hindustani wants to come here or does not want ...? Do not want to ...? But after coming once, he decides that this birth has happened. Now you will see in the next life. Why? No place, no place to live, no place of electricity, no place of water, no sickness, no medicines, nothing to do. It is just like that.\nbrothers Sisters.\nIt is the responsibility of the central government that where Hindustan wants to travel to the four Dham, he can return home after returning from happiness and return to the time and therefore, by investing 12 thousand crore rupees, the work of linking the four Dams with modern roads. Has pioneered.\nbrothers Sisters.\nHere water, its youth, its farm-barn, its high hills, its pilgrimage area, its rishi tradition, the center of attraction of the whole world, should be our Godland. But no one thought of it We have come with that dream, you have\n... and so the brothers sisters\nYou should make such a government in Uttarakhand. Look today In the last five years, in Uttarakhand, no minor person can get rid of Uttarakhand in this worst case. The state has put such a pit into such a pit. A double engine is needed to get him out, double engine. Small engine BJP government of Uttarakhand and large engine Delhi BJP government in Delhi These two engines will take place, the welfare of Uttarakhand will be done. I have come to tell you this.\nThere is no village in Uttarakhand where the mothers have not produced such sons, who are not ready to die for Mother Bharti every moment. I salute the mothers of Uttarakhand, the mothers who gave birth to such heroic girls, who have been protecting Mother Bharti till date, have done for centuries. Go to any remote place in the border even today, some youth will get Uttarakhand, you will He's stuck, he's standing.\nSo brothers sisters\nIt is the land of heroes, the land of heroes mothers. This sacrifice is the land of sacrifice and the whole Hindus bow down to such land. But I'm surprised. Such a big leader was earlier a minister in the central government, while being a minister there was no time to do good to Uttarakhand. But there was a lot of time to snatch the chair of Government of Uttarakhand. He lived in Delhi but used to do the same 24 hours. You had so much strength, if you had done one thing, one job The state which has given the country the maximum number of soldiers, the state which has given the maximum number of Ranbankunoes, the people of the state who have martyrdom for the protection of the country, at least one rank one pension, get so much work done. You were sitting in the Delhi government. Never in front of the government for one rank one pension, he did not even have his proposal. We had said in the 2014 elections, here I had said in the public meeting. Government will be formed in our center. We will implement One Rank One Pension. The case was hung for 30-40 years. The Congress government of Delhi, who spoke patriotism, was tired of writing the soldiers of the Indian army, the retired army personnel, the serving army personnel, the officers of the army, the Indian government. But the central government of Delhi, sitting in Delhi, assumed it was sitting, it is the Dippylin Force, people filled with patriotism, if elections come, then two will speak, work will be done. The brothers have done this for 30-40 years. Cheated with you I had promised, with the humility of bowing down to you, tell the soldiers of my country that we have completed that work. These people were such that they did not even know what the forest rank one pension is? What happens if applicable? What are the rules? How much money do you think? There was no accounting. There was no accounting. Because, he never understood the importance of this issue. ... and proof of myths. There is a clear indication that when I had announced in the 2014 election, in September, in Rewari, in the conference of ex-servicemen in Haryana. In September 2013, when I announce when our government comes, one rank will apply one pension. ... then slept in the Congress party. They felt that if all these forces went with Modi, then nothing will remain of the Congress. ... to throw dust in the eyes of the soldiers, without studying, without considering what is the issue, without understanding, how much money should be needed to solve this problem, they throw a piece. He said in the budget that he would give Rs 500 crores for the OROP. After this his leaders began to convene the soldiers. Called 5-15 people, used to take photos and used to say 500 million for OOP. Placed 500 crores. When I came I had a committee. I said that I have to fulfill this promise, brother, bring detail I was surprised. There was no homework. ... and when calculating, 500 crore was not going to be the talk. When we calculated, the case reached Rs 12,000 crore, 12 thousand rupees. In the homes of the soldiers, there was to give 12 thousand crores rupees. Where the false promises of 500 crores and the liability of 12 thousand crores. I called the people of the army. Tell them, Brother, there is a special place for you in my heart. I have to do something for you. But you have to help me. The military people were. They do not care much about it, they care more about the country. Care for others. Before my sentence was completed, the people of the army told me, Modi ji Do not embarrass us by saying this. You say you are ready to bet on life. I said, have not called for the betting of life. There is no need for anyone to order this. The same day that you have drank the mother's milk, on that day you have started with the resolve of living for the country. Modi is nothing in this work, no need of Modi. You are so brave I said, help something else. I said, the people of Congress have betrayed you. Made you fool Used to talk 500 million, someone would say 1000 million would be 12 hundred crore, but if you calculate then 12 thousand crores is happening. Now in the government, I have come new-new. Right now, I have been involved in filling old pits. If I suddenly withdraw 12 thousand crores then I can not do what I have to do for the poor of my country. There will be a slight delay in doing this. Then he said, tell me what should Modi do? I said, give me a helping hand. Instead of giving this twelve thousand crore lump sum, I will give it in three parts. One part will still be given, one six-eight months later, and the third part will be given after one year.\nbrothers Sisters.\nI bow my head against the soldiers. Did not take a minute, did not take a minute. Believe me ... and today, in the 12 thousand crore, six thousand crore reached his house and six thousand crore would be delivered in the coming days. This is the work. If you promise, then do so.\nbrothers Sisters.\nYou tell me If the jungle is cut, then will it remain my God's land ...? You tell me Will this godland remain ...? Will you survive ...? Is not every tree here is a sage or is it ...? But you know what is the collusion between the people who are sitting in the governments of the jungle people here?\nbrothers Sisters.\nThe result of the elections will be on March 11. BJP will form government in Uttarakhand. These looters, those who sell these forests, I assure you, BJP's Uttarakhand's new government will complete the account of each one. Law will continue to work in law. No matter how big a person will be, he will have to accept the scope of the law. This will continue to be done by our government.\nbrothers Sisters.\nइनको न देश की सुरक्षा की परवाह है, न इनको देश की सेना के त्याग-तपस्या की चिंता है। हमारे देश की सेना पराक्रमी है, पुरुषार्थी है, जब सर्जिकल स्ट्राइक हुआ। सीमा पार करके, उनके घर में जाकर के, अंधेरी रात में, मेरे देश के फौजियों ने उनको दिन में तारे दिखा दिए। पूरे विश्व में जो मिलिट्री ऑपरेशन की स्टडी कर रहे हैं, विश्व के सभी देशों के लिए एक अजूबा था और हिंदुस्तान के फौजियों के किए हुए सर्जिकल स्ट्राइक दुनिया भर के लिए एक महान पराक्रमी घटना के रूप में अंकित हो गई। लेकिन इनको पीड़ा इस बात की रही। ये हुआ कैसे? पता क्यों नहीं चला? हम तो चिल्ला रहे थे कि मोदी कुछ करता नहीं है।\nbrothers Sisters.\nमुझे बताइए। सर्जिकल स्ट्राइक करने से पहले मुझे मीटिंग बुलानी चाहिए क्या ...? ऑल पार्टी कॉन्फ्रेंस करनी चाहिए थी क्या ...? इनको मुझे पूछना चाहिए कि बांयी ओर जाऊं या दायीं ओर जाऊं।\nbrothers Sisters.\nऐसे निर्णय, ऐसे नहीं होते हैं। फौज पर भरोसा रखना होता है। उनको इतना ही कहना होता है - आप हैं, हिंदुस्तान है, दुश्मनों का मैदान है, जज्बा है, खेल आपके हाथ में है। ...और वो करके दिखाते हैं। कहना नहीं पड़ता है जी। सिर्फ रोक हटानी पड़ती है। मुझे खुशी है कि 100 में से 100 मार्क्स के साथ, हमारी फौज ने कमाल कर के दिखाया। दुश्मनों के दांत खट्टे कर दिये। आतंकवादियों के कैंप नष्ट-पस्त कर दिए। दूसरे दिन इंडियन एक्स्प्रेस नाम के अखबार ने छापा था कि सुबह-सुबह पाकिस्तान की ट्रकें आई और ट्रकों में भर-भर करके डेथ बॉडी ले गए। मैं हैरान हूं। मेरे देश की सेना ने इतना बड़ा पराक्रम किया, लेकिन 24 घंटे राजनीति करने वाले लोग, राष्ट्रनीति को समझ नहीं पाते हैं। सुबह जैसे ही, उनको पता चला, फौज के बड़े अफसर ने घोषणा की कि हमने ऐसा-ऐसा किया तो इनके पेट में चूहे दौड़ने लगे। परेशान हो गए सर्जिकल स्ट्राइक। उनका पहला सवाल क्या था? हिंदुस्तान के कितने जवान मरे। आपको शर्म आनी चाहिए। ये हमारे जिंदादिल जवान हैं। मारकर के आना कोई गुनाह नहीं होता, गर्व होता है। फिर कहने लगे पाकिस्तान, अब पाकिस्तान ये कहेगा कि कोई आया था, मुझे मारकर गया। कोई मुझे बता दे। ऐसा कहेगा क्या? वो तो यही कहेगा न। यहां के लोग कहने लगे कि पाकिस्तान तो मना कर रहा है। आप कैसे कह रहे हैं? बताओ भाई। क्या पाकिस्तान के स्पोक्समैन यहां बैठे हैं क्या? देश के जवानों ने सर्जिकल स्ट्राइक किया और आपने उस पर सवालिया निशान लगाया। आपने देश के फौजियों का अपमान किया है। देश के सेना का अपमान किया है। आपने उन वीर माताओं का अपमान किया है, जिन्होंने ऐसे वीर जवानों को जन्म दिया है। उन वीर माताओं का अपमान किया है।\nbrothers Sisters.\nइन लोगों को ..., आप मुझे बताइए। जब उत्तराखंड में बाढ़ आई। गुजरात से जो कर सकता था, मैंने किया। मैं गुजरात का सीएम था, दौड़कर आया था। ...और मुझे खुशी है कि उत्तराखंड के दूर से आए परिवार वाले भी कहते थे कि हमें ये सामान नहीं चाहिए। गुजरात से आया है ना, वो चाहिए। ये लोग कहते थे। जब ईमानदारी हो, सेवा का भाव हो तो कैसा परिणाम आता है, क्योंकि मुझे सेवा करने का सौभाग्य मिला था। अभी चार दिन पहले भूकंप आया।\nBrothers sisters\nरात एक बजे तक पीएमओ के मेरे अफसर हर किसी से बात कर रहे हैं, हर इलाके में बात करते रहे। रातों रात इस प्रकार के राहत के काम करने वाली टुकड़ियों को हमने रवाना कर दिया।\nbrothers Sisters.\nकभी भी हमारे देश में संकट होता है तो इतनी तेजी से कोई दौड़ता नहीं है। और उत्तराखंड में जब केदारनाथ की घटना हुई थी तो तब कांग्रेस के नेता विदेशों में मौज कर रहे थे। ये प्रदेश भूल नहीं सकता है और सवाल हमें पूछ रहे हो। अभी भी, मैं कांग्रेस के लोगों को कहता हूं। जबान संभाल के रखो वर्ना मेरे पास आपकी पूरी जन्मपत्री पड़ी हुई है। मैं विवेक और मर्यादाओं को छोड़ना नहीं चाहता हूं। लेकिन अगर आप विवेक मर्यादाएं छोड़कर के अनाप-शनाप बातें करोगे तो आपको। आपको अपना इतिहास कभी छोड़ेगा नहीं। आपके कुकर्म आपको छोड़ेंगे नहीं। आपके पाप आपको छोड़ेंगे नहीं।\nbrothers Sisters.\nउत्तराखंड का विकास, यहां की पानी, यहां की बिजली, हिंदुस्तान की प्यास भी बुझा सकती है, हिंदुस्तान का अंधेरा भी मिटा सकती है। ये ताकत मेरे उत्तराखंड में है। जो राज्य हिंदुस्तान का अंधेरा मिटा सकता है, उस राज्य को अंधेरे में आपने डूबो कर रखा हुआ है। इससे बड़ा दुर्भाग्य क्या हो सकता है?\n...इसलिए मेरे भाइयों बहनों।\nहम विकास के लिए वोट चाहते हैं। विनाश का रास्ता बंद होना चाहिए। विकास के मार्ग पर चलना होगा जी। आप स्थिर और मजबूत सरकार दीजिये। भारतीय जनता पार्टी की सरकार दीजिये। मैं केंद्र में बैठा हूं। ये 16 से 21 साल की आपकी उम्र, ये देवभूमि की 16 से 21 साल, ये सरकार का ऐसा तबका है, नया बना हुआ उत्तराखंड है। 16 से 21 साल की उमर है, उत्तराखंड के लिए नजाकत भरा समय है। उसके सही परवरिश का समय है। उस परवरिश का दायित्व लेने के लिए आया हूं। ऐसी टीम बिठाउंगा जो उत्तराखंड को उसके सपनों के अनुरूप बनाकर रहेगा और मेरी पूरी निगरानी रहेगी। ये मैं आपको वादा करने आया हूं।\nbrothers Sisters.\nआज दुनिया में टूरिज्म, सबसे तेज गति से आगे बढ़ने वाला उद्योग है। दुनिया भर से टूरिस्ट हमें मिलें। कुछ लोगों ने ऐसा झूठ चलाया, ऐसा झूठ चलाया, आठ नवंबर को रात आठ बजे, जब मोदी कह रहा था मेरे प्यारे देशवासियो। अभी भी कुछ लोग हैं, जो सो नहीं पाए हैं। बहुत परेशान हैं। क्योंकि उनका सारा काला कारोबार, अब कागज की लकीरों में फिट हो चुका है। बैंकों में अंकित हो चुका है। कहां से आया? कौन लाया? कैसे आया? ये सब कैमरे के सामने आ चुका है। इसलिये ऐसे लोगों को नींद नहीं आती है।\nbrothers Sisters.\nइस देश को 70 साल तक लूटा गया है। क्या इस बात से कोई इनकार कर सकता है क्या? लूटा गया है कि नहीं लूटा गया है ...? जिसको जहां पद मिला, उसने पाने की कोशिश की है कि नहीं की है ...। जुल्म करने की कोशिश की है कि नहीं की है ...। किसी दारोगा ने भी मौका मिला है तो छोड़ा है क्या ...?\nस्कूल वाले ने भी एडमिशन लेने में किसी को छोड़ा है क्या ...?\nbrothers Sisters.\nकाले कारोबार की आदत लग गई थी। जरूरतमंद लोगों को लूटने की आदत हो गई थी। मेरी भ्रष्टाचार के खिलाफ लड़ाई है। मेरी कालेधन के खिलाफ लड़ाई है।\n...और भाइयों बहनों।\nजिन्होंने गरीबों का लूटा है वो मुझे गरीबों को लौटाना है। कुछ लोग ऐसा मानते हैं कि छोटे-छोटे व्यापारी चोरी करते हैं।\nbrothers Sisters.\nहो सकता है कोई छोटा व्यापारी पांच पैसे मुनाफा के बजाय सात पैसे मुनाफा ले लिया होगा। हो सकता है किसी व्यापारी ने सरकार में तीन रुपया देना चाहिए ढाई रुपया दिया होगा। लेकिन उसने अपने पद का उपयोग करते हुए जरूरतमंद का गला घोंटने का काम नहीं किया। लेकिन जो सत्ता में बैठे हैं, कुर्सी पर बैठे हैं, सेवा के लिए आए हैं। उन्होंने गरीब से गरीब को लूटने से बाकी नहीं रखा है। बाबुओं ने, अफसरों ने, सरकारी कुर्सी मिल गई। बस मौका मिला है मारो, ले लो। मेरी लड़ाई उनके खिलाफ है। जिन्होंने पद पर बैठकर के लूटा है, उनके खिलाफ मेरी लड़ाई है। छोटे-छोटे व्यापारियों से मेरी लड़ाई नहीं है। छोटे व्यापारी कानून का पालन करना जानते हैं और कानून का पालन करते भी हैं। ...और गलती हो जाती है तो ठीक करने को भी तैयार होते हैं। लेकिन ये जो पैसे दबोच कर बैठे हैं, उनके पैसे भ्रष्टाचार के पैसे जो काले धन में परिणत हुए हैं। ये भ्रष्टाचार कालेधन की जुगलबंदी को मुझे खत्म करना है। अभी भी परेशान हैं। मोदी ने नोटबंदी की, ...नोटबंदी की। अरे नोटबंदी की है इसलिए कि सत्तर साल से जिन्होंने लूटा है, वो नोट मुझे निकालनी है। और वो मैं निकालकर रहूंगा। मुझे गरीबों के लिए घर बनाने हैं। मुझे किसान के खेत तक पानी पहुंचानी है। मुझे नौजवानों के लिए रोजगार के अवसर पैदा करने हैं। मुझे माताओं बहनों की शिक्षा की चिंता करनी है।\n...और इसलिए भाइयों बहनों।\nकड़वे से कड़वे निर्णय मैं करता हूं। अपने लिये नहीं करता हूं, सवा सौ करोड़ देशवासियों के लिये करता हूं। ...और इसलिए मैं उत्तराखंड की जनता से आज आशीर्वाद मांगने आया हूं। देवभूमि से मैं आशीर्वाद मांगने आया हूं कि भ्रष्टाचार और कालेधन की लड़ाई, उसको खत्म करने का मेरा जो सपना है, सवा सौ करोड़ मेरे देशवासी, जो हर पल मेरे साथ रहे हैं। आगे भी मेरे साथ रहेंगे, ये विश्वास लेकर चला हूं।\nbrothers Sisters.\nआप हमें बताइये। हमारे यहां धर्मेंद्र जी प्रधान बैठे हैं। वे हमारे पेट्रोलियम क्षेत्र के मंत्री हैं। आपको याद है। आपको पहले घर में गैस का चूल्हा, गैस का कनेक्शन चाहिए। आपको लगता था कि मिलेगा ...? किसी की पहचान लगती थी कि नहीं लगती थी ...। कालाबाजारी करनी पड़ती थी कि नहीं पड़ती थी ...। बड़े-बड़े लोगों का कुर्ता पकड़कर दौड़ना पड़ता था कि नहीं दौड़ना पड़ता था ...।\nbrothers Sisters.\nऐसा क्या हुआ भाई। 2014 में हमारी सरकार बनी, उससे पहले गैस पाने के लिए तड़पते थे। और हमारी सरकार बनने के बाद, घर-घर जाकरके गरीबों को ढूंढ-ढूंढ करके गैस देना कैसे शुरू हुआ। इतने कम समय में पौने दो करोड़ से ज्यादा लोगों के, गरीबों के घर में गैस का कनेक्शन, गैस का चूल्हा पहुंच गया। अब लकड़ी काटने के लिए जाना नहीं पड़ रहा है। अब जंगल कटते नहीं है। चार सौ सिगरेट का धुआं जो मां के शरीर में जाता था, खाना पकाते समय जाता नहीं  है। मां भी तंदुरुस्त हो रही है। बच्चे भी तंदुरूस्त हो रहे हैं। तेजी से खाना पक रहा है। गरीब का पेट भर रहा है। ऐसे काम होता है। प्रधानमंत्री जनधन अकाउंट, हमने गरीब से गरीब का खाता खोल दिया। अब इनको समझ में आ रहा है कि मोदी दो साल पहले खाते क्यों खुलवा रहा था। अरे मोदी दो साल पहले खाते इसलिए खुलवा रहा था कि बड़े-बड़ों के खातों का हिसाब लेना था और गरीबों के खातों को भरना था।\nइसलिए भाइयों बहनों।\nअब ढाई साल हो गए तो समझ रहे हैं। कि ये मोदी तो गरीबों के लिए जीता है। ये मोदी गरीबों के लिए जूझता है। ये मोदी गरीबों को ताकतवर बनाने के लिए मैदान में आया है।\nbrothers Sisters.\nये कोई मैं उपकार नहीं कर रहा हूं। मैंने गरीबी देखी है। मैं गरीबी में पैदा हुआ हूं। मैंने गरीबी को जीया है। मैं जानता हूं कि गरीबी क्या होती है। गरीबी के कारण जिंदगी कितनी मुश्किल होती है, वो मैं जीकरके आया हूं। इसलिए ये जिंदगी भी, ये सरकार भी, गरीबों के लिए आहूत करने निकला हूं । मुझे गरीबों का कल्याण करना है।\nbrothers Sisters.\nउत्तराखंड में एक मजबूत सरकार बनाइये। उत्तराखंड का भाग्य बदलना है। और उसके लिए मुझे एक साफ सरकार चाहिए। विकास की नई उंचाइयां गढ़नी है। नौजवानों को रोजगार के लिए उत्तराखंड छोड़ना न पड़े, ऐसा उत्तराखंड उद्योगों से भरा-भरा उत्तराखंड मुझे बनाना है। ये काम मुझे करना है। ...और मुझे विश्वास है कि जब देवभूमि से आशीर्वाद मिल गए हैं और इतनी बड़ी तादाद में आप आशीर्वाद देने आए हैं तो मेरा विश्वास है कि उत्तराखंड का भाग्य 11 मार्च के बाद उत्तराखंड की जनता लिख देगी, ये मेरा विश्वास है। और हम आपके साथ होंगे। आपके सपनों को पूरा करूंगा। I am very grateful to you. दोनों मुट्ठी बंद करके पूरी ताकत से बोलिये। Long live Mother India. Long live Mother India. Long live Mother India. Thanks a lot."