"\nOur government is working with the 'Sabka Saath Sabka Vikas': PM Modi\nIn 100 days since its beginning over 7 lakh poor patients have benefited through Ayushman Bharat Scheme: PM Modi\n130 crore Indians are my family and I am committed to working for their welfare: PM\nMy dear brothers and sisters\nToday, as a Prime Minister, I am between you once again. But even before that, this suppression should be, Diwi, Silvassa, the village here, it is not new to me. There is a chance to come many times. On the streets of Dadra Nagar Haveli and Daman Diu, there was a chance to roam the scooter. Here's a meal, a traditional way, Nagli, when everything comes here, I miss the old things. Your love has overwhelmed me.\nWhen in April of 2017, when I came among you I had laid a foundation for many schemes. I am glad that most of the work has been completed in such a short time and many of them are being released today. Today, once again between you, the project and the foundation stone of more than 1400 crores has been made here. New industrial policy and new IT policy have also been launched here to promote industries related to these projects, connectivity, infrastructure, health and education, tourism, culture and heritage. Congratulations to all of you for these gifts on New Year.\nThe Government of the Center, with the brothers and sisters, everyone, all the development mantras, is fully devoted to Panchadhara of development. Education for children, earning youth, medicine for the elderly, irrigation of farmers and hearing of the people is a highway for development for us. I am also happy to see that the development of Daman, Diu and Dadra Nagar Haveli has reached new heights in the last five years. A new identity has been made in both of these areas. In many disciplines, these two centers have emerged from the incomplete in the union territories of the state and have progressed towards perfection. Today Daman, Diu and Dadra Nagar Haveli have declared themselves as open defecation in the open. Today, every household in both the areas has an LPG connection and both have been declared kerosene free. Today, all the houses in both Union Territory have electricity connections. Water connections are today those poor people living in these two areas who were eligible to get the house under the Prime Minister's Housing Scheme, have been sanctioned houses. Today, those people of both the areas who have got the benefits of the Ayushman Bharat Scheme, Gold Card has been issued.\nCompanions, if I talk about the past three years, about two and a half million rupees have been invested in these two union territories. Nine thousand crores you can imagine now where our territory is reaching. Many projects have been started with this amount. Many have been fulfilled. In this episode, here today, many projects related to health related and collection of foundation stones have been done. Your very old demand has been fulfilled too. Dadra Nagar Haveli Daman and Diu got their first medical colleges after so many decades of independence. To date, both the Union Territories got only 15 seats per year at different places. Now with the effort, 150 seats are being started at the same place in this new medical college. This does not mean that it will stop and walk on one and a half hundred. The number of students will increase as the number of students increases.\nBrothers and Sisters, it is also happening that it can be done without an option, starting an alternative building from this year only on medical college. I have been told that in order to promote medical education, about 50% of para-medical in Silvassa and 50 seats of nursing have been arranged in suppression. These efforts will benefit the young colleagues and help in improving the health services here.\nApart from this college, which is being built at a cost of Rs 200 crore, the network of Health and Wellness Center is being made here, the best treatment for common diseases will also be possible near home. Under the Ayushmann Bharat Scheme, 15 dozen health and wellness centers have also been released.\nBrothers and Sisters, here a few days ago, Ayushman Bharat and Prime Minister Jan Arogya Yojana have been given cards to some of their beneficiaries. The world's largest health care plan is being discussed today. People are saying it Modicare. The reason is that under this scheme, free treatment of more than 10 thousand poor people in the country is being ensured every day. Now it's been just a little over 100 days. In such a short time, nearly seven lakh poor patients have been treated in the hospital.\nAlong with associates, medicines, the facility of studies is also being expanded. A long time ago, new institutions of education have been dedicated to you. Diu's Education Hub will help its youth to provide good education near the home.\nAlong with brothers and sisters, medicine and studies, the government is also ensuring that no poor homeless remain. If there is no life of no roof, it is a permanent house to live. Under the Prime Minister's Housing Scheme, a comprehensive campaign to give a permanent home to the poor of the villages and cities is going on throughout the country. Due to this step towards this step, several houses have been released today in Dadra Nagar Haveli and Diu Daman. Apart from this, the foundation stone for construction of new homes has also been done a while ago. Including the Housing Project, created for the workers' families who work in the Industrial Area of ​​Daman. Today, the people whose home is full of dreams and whose homes are starting to build, I congratulate them very much from my side. His dream of a new house has been completed in the new year.\nCompanions, in the last four and a half years, work has been done for more than one thousand urban poverty alleviation in small areas like Dadra Nagar Haveli. In the last four and a half years, the construction of the house of poor on the feed and scale with which the committee is working is unprecedented. While the previous government, where only 2.5 lakh houses were built in its 5 years, our government has now completed construction of more than 1.25 million homes in 5 years. Where in 25 years 25 lakh and in 5 years more than 1 crore 25 lakh.\nBrothers and sisters, this is not only the four walls, but also offers free connections for electricity under good luck. Toilet also happens. In the kitchen, free LPG gas connections are also provided under the Ujjwala scheme. Talking about Dadra Nagar Haveli, free gas connections have been given to 13 thousand sisters here. This type of facilities are being helpful in enhancing the confidence of the poor. Smart arrangements of the country are being created for the companions, normal life of the common man. There are several schemes going on to make Silvassa and Diu city a smart city. There are roads, streets, sewers and water arrangements, cleanliness facility is being done at every level. A long time ago many projects related to smart city have been opened and laid out.\nCompanions, Silvassa is the energy center of economic activity of this entire region, many industries are here and there are many possibilities for industries here in the future. The building of Silvassa Municipal Corporation, be a sewage treatment plant, a project that facilitates connectivity, it is all about making life easier.\nDaman and Diu, along with companions, Silvassa, have also given rise to development. With the facilities like new pool, new sewage line and treatment plant built on Daman Ganga, life of oppressed people is going to be easy. The sea wall built in thick suppression is now going to protect you from waves of the ocean. With this, the problem of soil erosion is going to be very low. Companions The last time I came here, land leases were distributed to many tribal families. I have had the opportunity to hand over some land rights letters to some of my colleagues today.\nGreat efforts are being made for the welfare of the tribals on every level, brothers and sisters, land, plantation of forest, studying, talent related to sports. In the forest produce produced under the Fuel Plan, centers across the country are being set up for value addition and proper publicity efforts. The right value for the tribals who produce the tribal sister-brother from the forest can be found. For this, the scope of the support price has been increased.\nSerious efforts are also being made to protect the culture, along with the earnings of comrades, tribals. Even today, many projects related to history and cultural heritage have been started. Be a cultural center, conservation of old forts, be it a memorial site associated with INS Khukri in Diu, it is definitely going to be proven in the preservation and promotion of local culture.\nCompanions, culture and pride, this monument in history is our guardian of feelings and also employs many opportunities for the youth. It gives strength to tourism. There are many possibilities for tourism in Dadra and Nagar Haveli. The government is making every effort to bring this area on the tourist map. This is the feeling behind the Daman Ganga river front built in Silvassa. Now another center of attraction for tourists coming here is ready here. Apart from this, there is also a reserve forest area of ​​200 square km. This is a boon for the forest area Tourism Industrial. The activity of water sports can be increased in the catchment area of ​​Madhuban Dam. Efforts are also being made to provide free Wi-Fi facilities at Dadar and Nagar Haveli, to provide better connectivity to major tourist centers and important places.\nTraditional employment resources and resources are also being strengthened with companions, tourism. Under the blue revolution scheme, the government is working to increase the income of fishermen. Fishermen are easy to catch fish for brothers and sisters, it is easy to reach the market. There is a work to convert fishermen's family names into modern motor boats. Fishermen have been created a special fund for easy and cheap loans to improve the system of fish production to better business. Arrangement of around Rs.7000 crore has been made through this fund.\nBrothers and Sisters today, for tribals, for the poor, for the middle class, everything is going on in the core of the schemes, everyone's development is our inspiration, whereas the party that runs the government for decades, in all its work Or saw the possibilities of his family. This is the reason that there has been an emphasis on more names than work.\nCompanions, we have changed habits of this old government system. We have given attention to work rather than name. What is the name of government schemes today? There are many schemes like Ayushman Bharat Scheme, Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana, Prime Minister Ujjwala Yojana, Prime Minister Mudra Yojana, Prime Minister Janhana Yojna, Prime Minister Krishi Irrigation Scheme, but there is no Modi name anywhere. It shows that our intention is to develop the public, our culture of family development is neither our intention nor our intention. And for me this hundred and fifty million people is my family, and the welfare of these hundred and a hundred million people is the path of kalyan for me.\nCompanions, this clearly laid out policy and clear policy are trying to mislead them. Why are Modi changing the old rituals of the government? It is difficult to see why Modi is doing such a tough fight against corruption. Should not or should not fight against corruption or should not fight? Should the country get rid of corruption or not? It is a problem that why Modi is excluded from intermediaries roaming in the corridors of power. He is getting angry that Modi is snatching the rights of the poor, why his ration is getting his pension, the rights he gets, and why his grabbing middleman is being excluded from the brokers. And because of this anger, these people are now trying to create a big coalition. The condition is that those who first used to drink water for drinking Congress, have also come to a stage.\nCompanions, this great coalition is not just against Modi but it is also against the people of the country. Right now, it's not even completely. But how the bargain is going on, the accounting is going on, the transaction is going on. This is also the youth of our country, the country's farmer, the country's first woman to vote for the first time, the youth of our country is closely watching these things. And there will not be any dust in these people's eyes.\nCompanions, the world of these people starts with hatred of Modi and ends up abusing Modi. My world, in the morning, with the determination of the welfare of the hundred and fifty million people, and on the night when I sweat through sweating throughout the day, how much good work I have done today. My idioms are the same, my end also is the same. Their world is focused on advancing their family to their nephews and is being declared with great pride. Brothers and sisters, my world, my hundred and twentieth million people moved forward, it is for the same. There is no vision for India's development in the world. India's future is not a matter of fact, at the same time my attempt is to make India the best country in the 21st century.\nBrothers and sisters, their family, how many combinations it can make to save their siddhanta, they can not run away from their deeds, their misdeeds are following them on the dargah, they can not escape. सिर्फ मोदी का विरोध इनकी स्‍वार्थ की राजनीति को अखबारों में जगह दे देगा, मीडिया में चमकते रहेंगे, लेकिन देश की जनता के दिलों में, देश को तबाह करने वाले कभी भी जगह नहीं बना पाएंगे। भाईयों-बहनों आपको शायद पता नहीं है, जो लोग जनता से उखड़ जाते हैं, जनता जब उनका मिजाज बदल देती है, जब उनके पैरों की जमनी खींसकने लगती है तो आकुल-व्‍याकुल हो जाते हैं। अभी कलकत्‍ते में आप देखिए... पश्चिम बंगाल में भारतीय जनता पार्टी का सिर्फ एक MLA है, सिर्फ एक, कितने? एक, लेकिन वहां बीजेपी से बचने के लिए पूरे हिन्‍दुस्‍तान के सारे लोग इक्‍ट्ठे हो गए हैं। एक MLA वाली पार्टी, उसकी नींद हराम करके रख दी है, क्‍योंकि यह सत्‍य के मार्ग पर चलने वाले हम लोग हैं। एक MLA होने के बावजूद भी हिन्‍दुस्‍तान की सारी जमात वहां के इक्‍ट्ठे हो करके बचाओ, बचाओ, बचाओ के नारे लगा रही है। मैं पश्चिम बंगाल की जनता को बधाई देता हूं, मैं पश्चिम बंगाल की भारतीय जनता पार्टी को बधाई देता हूं एक अकेले MLA ने, इतनी छोटी सी पार्टी ने गलत काम करने वालों की नींद हराम कर दी है, उनी जमीन खिसक गई है, डर के मारे इक्‍ट्ठे हो रहे हैं।\nभाईयों-बहनों ये लोग तानाशाह ही नहीं, पश्चिम बंगाल हो, केरल हो, डगर-डगर पर जुल्‍मशाही है। जिस पश्चिम बंगाल में political party को उसको कार्यक्रम करने के लिए रोक लगा दी जाती है। हर प्रकार की लोकतांत्रिक प्रक्रियाएं की जाती है। लोकतंत्र का गला घोट दिया जाता हो, फिर वहां इक्‍ट्ठे हो करके लोकतंत्र को बचाने के भाषण देते हैं, तब मुझे इतना ही कहना है जब पूरे पश्चिम बंगाल का चित्र देखता हूं तो मैं तो इतना ही कहूंगा कि लोकतंत्र का गला घोटने वाले पंचायत के चुनाव में नामांकन करने वालों को मौत के घाट उतारने वाले जब लोकतंत्र बचाने की बात करते हैं, तब देश के मुंह से निकलता है वाह, क्‍या सीन है। साथियों यह लड़ाई सकारात्‍मक सोच और नकारात्‍मक रवैये के बीच की है। यह लड़ाई विकास और भ्रष्‍टाचार के बीच की है, यह लड़ाई जनता और महागठबंधन के बीच की है। भाईयों और बहनों सकारात्‍मक सोच के साथ सही प्रयास ही नये भारत के निर्माण का रास्‍ता है। इसी रास्‍ते पर हम सभी को देश के जन-जन को तेज गति से चलना है। यह positivity नये वर्ष में हमारे मन-मस्तिष्‍क में देश के कौने-कौन में बढ़ रही है। इसी कामना के साथ, देश को नई ऊंचाईयों पर ले जाने के निर्णय के साथ हम आगे बढ़ रहे हैं और भाईयों-बहनों आप देख रहे हैं मैं सुबह से चल पढ़ा हूं। भारत की सेना को 'मेक इन इंडिया' का लाभ मिले, भारत की सेना के पास मजबूत टैंक देश से बनी हुई हो, कभी सुबह जा करके उनकी चिंता करता हूं देश की सेना, ताकत बढ़ाने के लिए तो आज अभी यहां दीव दमन में आ करके यहां की जन सुरक्षा के लिए, यहां की युवा पीढ़ी को मेडिकल कॉलेज मिले इसके लिए काम कर रहा हूं। भाईयों-बहनों कलकत्‍ते में लोग मिल करके दल बचाने का जुगाड़ कर रहे हैं और मैं आपके बीच आ करके देश को आगे बढ़ाने के लिए जी-जान से लगा हुआ हूं, यह फर्क साफ है दोस्‍तों। यह फर्क साफ है। वो खुद को बचाने के लिए सहारा ढूंढ रहे हैं, मैं देश को आगे बढ़ाने के लिए सबका साथ, सबका विकास ले करके चल पड़ा हूं और आज इतने छोटे से दीव दमन में लाखों की तादाद में आ करके आपने जो आशीर्वाद दिया, जो प्‍यार दिया यही हिन्‍दुस्‍तान का मिजाज़ है। यह दीव दमन यह लघु भारत है। हिन्‍दुस्‍तान का कोई कोना ऐसा नहीं है जिसके लोग यहां नहीं रहते हो। मैं अभी आ रहा था, मैं गाड़ी से आ रहा था, लेकिन दोनों तरफ एक लघु भारत मैंने देखा, हिन्‍दुस्‍तान के हर राज्‍य के लोग अपने-अपने पहनावे के साथ खड़े हुए थे, मैं पैदल चल के उनको प्रणाम करते हुए आपके बीच पहुंच गया भाईयों, क्‍योंकि हमें देश को आगे बढ़ाना है।\nभाईयों-बहनों दल के लिए मरने-मिटने वाले बहुत लोग होंगे, देश के लिए मरने-मिटने वाले हम आपके सपनों को पूरा करने के लिए आपको समर्पित हैं। आपके आशीर्वाद के लिए बहुत-बहुत धन्‍यवाद करते हुए मेरे साथ पूरी ताकत से बोलिये .\nLong live Mother India.\nLong live Mother India.\nLong live Mother India.\nThanks a lot."