"Share\n\nI congratulate the Finance Minister Arun Jaitley for presenting a excellent Budget. It will empower the poor and live up to the expectations of all. It will provide an infrastructure for infrastructure, power to the financial system and a big boost to the development. The budget has provisions for the expectations of everyone- from construction of highways to expansion of I-ways, from the cost of pulses to the data speed, from the modernization of railways to simple economic constructions, from education to health, from entrepreneurs to industry, from textile manufacturers to tax deduction The Finance Minister and his entire team deserve praise for this historic budget\nThis budget is a reflection of the development measures undertaken by the government and the vision for the future. The merger of the railway budget is the major step. It will help Railways can now contribute in a much better way in meeting the transport needs of the country\nThe focus of the budget is agriculture, rural development and infrastructure, which is also a reflection of government's commitment to raise investment and create employment opportunities. The allocation for the schemes in these categories has been substantially The budgetary outlay for railways and road transport sector has also been substantially increased. Government's aim is to double the farmers' income by 2022 and the policies and schemes have been kept in mind. The maximum emphasis in this budget has been on the farmers, villages, poor, dalit and the underprivileged sections of the society. Agriculture, animal husbandry, dairy, fisheries, watershed development, Swachcha Bharat Mission are the areas which hold many of the potential to uplift the economic situation in rural India and also bring a sea change in the quality of life.\nThe Budget is based on the employment opportunities. Special allocation has made the sectors like Electronic manufacturing, Textiles which create new job opportunities. Provisions have been made to bring people into the unorganized sector from the organized sector. The budget allocation for Skill development has been enhanced significantly in the youth of our country and the need to gain the benefit from the demographic dividend. Record allocation - The highest ever national garantee scheme Women's welfare is a priority for our government Budgetary outlay for the schemes related to women's and children's welfare has been enhanced. There has been a considerable hike in the allocation of health and higher education.\nHousing and Construction Sector plays a major role in the growth of economy and creating new employment opportunities. This budget will provide an opportunity to the housing sector in rural as well as urban areas.\nIn the Railway budget, special emphasis is on railway safety. Railway Safety Fund has been set up. Capital expenditure on rail and road infrastructure has been hiked substantially in the budget. The comprehensive package on digital economy will curb the tax evasion and check the circulation of black money. We have taken the course to launch Digital Mission in a mission mode which will go a long way in achieving the target of 2500 crore digital transactions in 2017-18.\nThe Finance Minister has brought in tax reforms and amendments which will provide relief to the Middle Class, result in setting up of industries, create job opportunities, will provide an end to discrimination and will provide incentives for private investments. The move to reduce the personal income tax is significant. Bringing down the rate from 10 to 5 percent is a bold move. Most taxpayers in India will be benefitted by this decision You would've seen, my fight against black money and corruption is on Political funding has always been a matter of discussion Political parties The new scheme by the finance minister related to poll funding is along the lines of the hopes and aspirations of the people in our money fight.\nThe small and medium industries across the country have created employment. These industries have been demanding that they are facing difficulties in the global level and if the taxes are lowered, then around 90 percent of our small scale industries are benefitted. Therefore, the Government has amended the definition of Small scale industries, widened their scope and reduced tax rate from 30 to 25 percent. This implies that over 90 percent of our Small scale industries will be benefitted. I am hopeful that our SSIs globally competitive.\nThis budget is a great step towards overall development of the nation. It will create new employment opportunities, help in overall economic growth and will In order to ensure quality of life for the citizens, the best possible facilities of education, health and housing can be organized. It is a effort to raise the middle class without increasing the fiscal deficit.\nIn a way, it is a reflection of our ongoing efforts to see the speed with which our country is changing, gather momentum. This budget is associated with our aspirations, our dreams and our way. This is the future of our farmers When I say future, it has a meaning In FUTURE, the letter F stands for the farmer, U stands for Underprivileged which includes dalit, oppressed, women etc., T stands for Transparency, Technology Upgradation- the dream of a modern India, U stands for urban rejuvenation- the urban development, R stands for Rural Development and E stands for Employment for youth, Entrepreneurship, Enhancement to give a push to new employment and boost to young entrepreneurs. I congratulate the Finance Minister once again to present this FUTURE in the budget. It is my belief that the budget will carry forward the development agenda of the government, generate a new climate of confidence and help the nation to scale new heights. Once again, my heartfelt congratulations to the finance minister and his team for the budget\nThe FM has presented an 'Uttam' Budget, devoted to strengthening the hands of the poor: PM @narendramodi #BudgetForBetterIndia\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 1, 2017\nThe merger of the railway budget with the general budget will give an impetus to the transport sector's growth: PM #BudgetForBetterIndia\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 1, 2017\nThe aim of the government is to double the income of farmers: PM @narendramodi #BudgetForBetterIndia\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 1, 2017\nThis budget is yet again devoted to the well-being of the villages, farmers and the poor: PM @narendramodi #BudgetForBetterIndia\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 1, 2017\nSpecial emphasis on women empowerment in the Budget: PM @narendramodi #BudgetForBetterIndia\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 1, 2017\nThe Housing sector stands to gain immensely from Budget: PM @narendramodi #BudgetForBetterIndia\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 1, 2017\nThe commitment to eliminate corruption and black money is reflected in the Budget: PM @narendramodi #BudgetForBetterIndia\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 1, 2017\nThis budget will help small businesses to become competitive in the global market: PM @narendramodi #BudgetForBetterIndia\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 1, 2017\nThis is a Budget for the future- for farmers, underprivileged, transparency, urban rejuvenation, rural development, enterprise: PM"