"Share\n\nPunjab needs a government that was committed to its people and had the vision of development: PM\nMr. Parkash Singh Badal is a tall leader\nPM: Congress leaders are labeled as young as Punjab as terrorists How can that be accepted?\nThere can be political differences in thinking but protectioning democratic values\nCenter wants comprehensive development for farmers' welfare: PM\nSardar Prakash Singh G. Badal, the Chief Minister of Punjab, who is standing on the stage, Mr. Vijay Vijay, the State President of Bharatiya Janata Party, Deputy Chief Minister Sardar Sukhbir Singh ji, my partner of the Council of Council Harsimrat Ji, Jathedar Tota Singh Ji, Mr. Avinash Rai Khanna ji, Mr. Mantar Singh Brar ji, Mr. Swaroop Singh singla ji, Mr. H.R. Kaler ji, Mr. Teerath ji Mahal ji, Parambhav Rai Bunty Ruabana Ji, former MP BB Gurcharan Kaur, President of Faridkot BJP Mrs. Sunita Jee, candidate from Moga, Sardar Barzinder Singh ji, Sardar Kanwarjit Singh ji, Sardar Charanjit Singh ji, Sardar Suba Singh ji and a large number of voters in Punjab My dear brothers and sisters\nOn four dates, you are going to decide the fate of Punjab, but when you choose a government in Punjab, my Punjab brothers and sisters do not choose for the fate of the people of Punjab, when the government is elected in Punjab, Together, the fate of Hindustan is also connected. This is the border state. Pakistan uses the land of Punjab to destroy Hindustan, seeks the opportunity, and if there is a loose shield coming here, the government should come out of the outskirts, the government will come to the rest of the people, then only Punjab There will be no loss of people, the entire India will have to undergo a crisis.\nSo my dear brothers sisters\nFor India's security, there is no injury to India's security. Therefore, there is a government in Punjab which also guarantees the security of the country.\nbrothers Sisters.\nRight now I was listening to Harsimrat ji. He was expressing his pain, for an elderly person like Badal Saheb, no matter how the language is spoken.\nbrothers Sisters.\nI have seen many political leaders in public life for many years. I have got the opportunity to listen to many party politicians. I have two leaders in the period of my life, whom I want to mention. One Atal Bihari Vajpayee and other Sardar Prakash Singh Badal. These two leaders, whose mouth never gets a word of light. Somebody has to criticize, not how small a person should be, but these two leaders have never expressed bitterness with their mouths.\nbrothers Sisters.\nHow can you speak in public life, how can the language, if it is to learn, then learn from Atal Bihari Vajpayee, you get to learn from Prakash Singh Ji cloud.\nBut brothers sisters.\nWhen such words were used for the cloud saheb. being done. Suffering is very natural, but I want to say with Harsimrat ji, I want to tell with Sukhbir ji. Why do you expect such people? Those who have been able to speak anything, even for anyone. Those who did this with Anna Hazare, they will do justice to Badal Saheb. Hope you, such people I'm surprised We have also fought against Congress. We used to say that we will investigate the matter. The guilty will be brought under the purview of law and the law will not bring the culprits away, so that the truth will be brought to the truth. We never say this, we will fill the fruit in jail. Fine in jail. Hey country has not given us this power. The country has given us power, to obey the law, but nowadays the language is being spoken. We come by this ... He was also going to send Sheela Dikshit to jail. Sheila Dikshit is now declared the Chief Ministerial candidate of Uttar Pradesh.\nNow tell me.\nWe say, the insult that Guru Griha Saheb has happened. The matter has been handed to the CBI by the government. CBI will investigate deeply and I say. I do not say that I will put him in jail. I say that the CBI will conduct a thorough investigation. Search for those who insult the gurudrintha sahib, will refer to the law and judicial system will be judged and those who insult the guru janhidera will be punished. Everything goes by law, but it is the language of dictator. He will knock the fruit in jail, will do it to the wig. Does democracy go this way?\nbrothers Sisters.\nThere can be differences. There can be political opposition, but if democracy's limitations are broken, then the country is going to suffer a lot and it is the responsibility of all of us to handle it.\nbrothers Sisters.\nI went to Goa now. In the Goa newspaper, I read one thing. When some people find out that the defeat is appearing in front of them, they just start creating an environment, find ways. What speeches in Goa, gave interviews to the newspapers? He said that this Election Commission which is Modi's dance is dancing as well, now tell that brother does not make false allegations on any election commission in India, but the Election commission is also useless, and what crime commission and commission commission? His crime is that, what is the exact date of elections for Punjab and Goa? The second complaint is to get the elections of Punjab and Goa first. Thirdly, his complaint is that at the same time elections in Punjab and Goa were made because our party lost elections. The reason for losing a brother is not a reason for the loss, because of the reasons for your defeat, Delhi has your exploits, due to the exploits you are certain to lose.\nbrothers Sisters.\nThis is the way. This method can never help in the country's democracy, and therefore, in the brothers and sisters, you have come to urge everyone that once again the future of Punjab in the elections to save the Punjab from those who dragged in that dark street to the Punjab.\nI also want to remind all the people of Punjab that in this village of Gurur, the brothers and sisters in Punjab get power. When on the day of terrorism, some people tried to paint the blood of this Punjab, which was a green land, by using terrorist acts. At that time, the Congress Party, its leaders, went all over the world and called every young man of Punjab a terrorist. If there was a Sardar in any corner of India, he could not see that Sardar, a descendant of Bhagat Singh who died for the country. He would have thought, would he not be a terrorist? If there is a Sardar in the train compartment, the rest of the passenger will cheer with each other that they do not know who will be. These Congressmen used to attempt to crack our milk in the country by congress party, to punish every Punjabi, every Sardar, every Punjabi youth, to paint terrorists. Milk can never be cracked, but these people did that sin. Today, the second has come, he called every young man of Punjab a junkie. It is not imaginary that every person in India will get a young man of Punjab when he has come for a job, came for business, he will feel that it will not be a junkie. This language of how much damage has been done by Punjab. Hey politics is at your place. Do not waste the future of youth of Punjab, do not do that sin, but these people have done this sin. In society, fighting against drug addiction, everyone must be united against social evil, but we can not save the youth of every country by calling every youth as addicts.\nbrothers Sisters.\nWhenever we remember Mahatma Gandhi after our independence in our country. Mahatma Gandhi always used to say, Hindustan is a country of villages. Hindustan is an agricultural country. Agriculture is our soul. Farming is our life. Farming is our economic progress. But the brothers and sisters became leaders after independence.\nI can say, this country has seen three leaders, the leaders of the leaders, the leaders of which are full of crops. One Chaudhary Charan Singh, the other Chaudhari Devi Lal, and the third Prakash Singh Badal. These three leaders came out of the farm in true sense, out of the barn, living the life of a farmer, if the country sees three leaders, then there are third leaders and present in the same country today, they are Sardar Prakash Singh Badal. Parkash Singh Badal is not only the leader of Punjab's farmers but he is the leader of the farmers of India. How good is the farmer of India, there are people of this thinking. I have seen. I was also the Chief Minister. Badal Saheb was also the Chief Minister. When we consistently used to call the meeting of the Indian government, we used to sit, when I came to Gujarat, I thought that there is a Congress government in Delhi. Sardar is the prime minister, then it will be the bat-bat to Prakash Singh Badal saheb. They would have got what they needed but when the meeting was done and Badal Saheb gave details of Punjab, it was so painful that the sitting government in Delhi gave Mr. Badal a chance in ten years here, eight years, eight years to Delhi The Congress Government, sitting in the center, stopped Mr. Badal in every work, stopped obstacles and did not let any work. In spite of this, Badal Saheb never broke the limits in the meeting, did not break the conscience, used to tell his talk about the farmers, but the Congress government did not listen to Badal Saheb for eight years. Today the government is sitting in Delhi, the partner government of Badal Saheb. In two years we have done those works, they have helped, we have settled all the old issues of Punjab and those who wanted Badal sahib Punjab's progress, we opened those paths. If this was the beginning of our government, then where did Punjab come from, but for eight years, the Congress Government obstructed and the result was that Badal Saheb was not allowed to work. There was an opportunity to work a lot in two years. You see, Badal Saheb has left no stone unturned to take on new heights of development and still every moment of my Punjab, my farmer, young man of my Punjab, how it is good, keep thinking of new things, new thinking Keeping things, this is the result of the cloud saheb's personality.\n... and so my brothers and sisters\nIn this election, Punjab should be done to ruin anything, our world should be standing, those people who are going through these dreams, send them the way they came from Delhi and send them to Delhi and tell them before Complete the responsibility, fulfill the promises made by the people, fulfill them.\nbrothers Sisters.\nToday, you have set up a government in Delhi that you have given me, my dream is, 2022 when India's independence will be 75 years, we want to double the income of the farmer of Hindustan by 2022, double it Want to The work that was not done in 70 years, has taken the task of completion in 7 years.\n... and brothers and sisters\nThe way we are moving forward, we will continue to achieve success, we want to convince you that we have taken such new initiatives, we have made such decisions that such new schemes have been created which will ensure the fate of the farmer and the farmers will The income will be doubled.\nbrothers Sisters.\nyou tell me. If the farmer gets water then my Punjab farmer produces gold from the soil. He saves his sweat more than water. He mixed his dreams in the soil of the farm and decorates the dream of Hindustan. This is my farmer of Punjab. Hindustan fills the stomach, he is a farmer of my Punjab.\nbrothers Sisters.\nWe have created the Prime Minister's agricultural irrigation scheme. By spending thousands of crores of rupees, every farm has got water, has taken the lead in that direction. Nine such schemes have taken him in hand. Millions of hectares of land immediately reached water. For this, work is being done all over the country. The water canals in Punjab have become very old, if those canals are repaired, the Badal Saheb is fully equipped to take the water which does not reach the end. The Delhi government is helping the whole. Water is in progress.\nWe have campaigned across the country, 'Per Drop More Crop', has developed its crop over more than one drop. ... and therefore, due to its being a big campaign and perpendicular to Per Drop More Crop, Micro Irrigation, drip irrigation, drop-water water, and I am happy, in less than 15 lakh hectares of earth today, the cover of Micro Irrigation is covered. Even in Punjab, we were able to implement this micro-irrigation, the more farmers we take, we will also save water, save the wages, the more the crop will be, the good crop will be, we are working in that direction.\nbrothers Sisters.\nToday, the Government of India purchases the crop from the farmers of Punjab, giving more than the price of farmers in the market, so that the farmer should never come on the day of trouble.\nbrothers Sisters.\nWe have made another decision that our farmer produces paddy, after which the West lives, which burns. We are going to introduce Ethanol's factory to the factory of Punjab, which you burn today, you will remove ethanol from it and the farmer will also get income from it. There can be income of 2 thousand, 5 thousand and 15 thousand on each hectare. We are working towards increasing this new income farmer and we are also fulfilling the country's energy needs. We want to emphasize the value to the farmer for value addition, food processing. If the value of the field that a producer produces, then his income increases. If it produces tomatoes, but tomato chips sell, then there is a lot of earning. She produces milk but if milk is made by making sweets, it is sold by making butter or cheese, then more money is available. We are increasingly focusing on Food Processing, Value Addition, so that our farmer gets more income, earning more money is earning in the world market.\nThe Indian government is giving emphasis on organic farming. Today the goods sold in the world in one rupee, if it is organic then sells for one dollar in the world. कितना गुना इनकम हो सकती है किसान को। हमारे देश में एक राज्य सिक्किम पूरा ऑर्गेनिक स्टेट बना दिया है।\nभाइयों-बहनों।\nपंजाब भी इस स्पर्धा में आ सकता है। हम पूरे देश में ऑर्गेनिक सर्टिफाई करने के लिए लैब खड़ी करना चाहते हैं और जो भी किसान ऑर्गेनिक फार्मिंग की ओर जाना चाहता है। उसको मदद करना चाहते हैं और उस ऑर्गेनिक खेती से पैदावार जो हो उससे उसको एक रुपए के सामने एक डॉलर की कमाई हो, इस दिशा में हम ले जाना चाहते हैं। हमने किसान को प्राकृतिक आपदाओं से जूझते देखा है। ओले गिर जाए, वर्षा आ जाए, बीमारी आ जाए, किसान की मेहनत पानी में जाती है। हमने किसान को ऐसा फसल बीमा योजना दिया है कि इन सारे संकटों से उसकी रक्षा करता है और पहले कोई संकट आ जाए तो 50 प्रतिशत से ज्यादा नुकसान हो तो सरकार देखती थी हमने नियम बदल दिया। अगर नुकसान 30 प्रतिशत भी हो जाये तो सरकार उसको नुकसान मानेगी और किसान को भुगतान करेगी, फैसला इतना बड़ा हमने किया है।\nफसल बीमा योजना के द्वारा किसान को खेत में खड़ी फसल हो, काटकर के रखी हुई फसल हो, बाजार जाने की  तैयारी हो, अगर कोई पानी गिर जाये और फसल ख़राब हो गई तो उसके भी पैसे देने का काम फसल बीमा योजना में किया है। कभी मानो पानी नहीं आया, बरसात नहीं गिरी, जून महीने में बोना है, नहीं बो पाया जुलाई महीने में बोना है, नहीं हो पाया अगस्त में बोना है नहीं हो पाया, किसान एक दाना भी नहीं बो पाया तो भी फसल बीमा योजना से उसका पिछले साल का हिसाब देख कर के पैसे देने का प्रबंध फसल बीमा योजना में किया है। कोई सोच सकता है इस देश में किसानों के लिए ऐसी फसल बीमा योजना हो सकती है। ये दिल्ली में भारतीय जनता पार्टी अकाली दल की सरकार रहती है कि जिसने किसानों को केंद्र में रखते हुए योजनाओं को बनाने का प्रयास किया है।\nभाइयों-बहनों।\nये योजना किसानों की भलाई के लिए हैं। हम चाहते हैं कि दूध उत्पादन में भी हमारे पंजाब का किसान पशु पालन के काम में भी आगे आये। आज हमारी गाय और भैंस जो दूध देती है, उसकी सही परवरिश हो, वैज्ञानिक परवरिश हो, आरोग्य की चिंता की जाये, व्यवस्था की जाए तो वो डबल-ट्रिपल दूध दे सकती है। हमारे पशु कम भी हो, तो भी ज्यादा दूध की पैदावार संभव है, उस दिशा में वैज्ञानिक तरीके से काम करने की दिशा में सरकार काम कर रही है।\nफिशरीस हो, पोल्ट्री फॉर्म हो ये भी एक प्रकार से कृषि के क्षेत्र को मदद करने वाला कारोबार है। उसको भी हम, हनी, पंजाब में कुछ किसान है जो शहद के काम में लग गए हैं। हम हर खेत में हनी के काम को पहुंचाना चाहते हैं, मधु, शहद पूरी दुनिया में बहुत बड़ा मार्केट है। अगर सच्चा और पक्का हनी दुनिया को हम दे सकते हैं तो दुनिया हिदुस्तान का हनी खरीदने के लिए लालाहित है, हमारे किसान की जेब भर जाएगी उस दिशा में हम काम कर रहे हैं।\nभाइयों-बहनों।\nकिसान के जिंदगी को बदलना एक वैज्ञानिक तरीका हमने आज पूरे देश में एक कॉमन मार्केट का बीड़ा उठाया, e-NAM  नाम की योजना लगाई है। कोई भी किसान मोबाइल फोन पे तय कर सकता है किस बाजार में ज्यादा दाम है वो मोबाइल फ़ोन पे माल बेच सकता है और वो कमाई कर सकता है। जहां सबसे ज्यादा दाम मिलेगा वहां किसान माल बेचने के लिए उसको माहौल मिलेगा,। ये टेक्नोलॉजी का उपयोग करते हुए किसान को e-NAM नाम की मार्केटिंग की सुविधा देने का काम हमारी सरकार ने किया है। मेरे कहने का तात्पर्य यह है कि हम कृषि को आधुनिक बनाना चाहते हैं, हम कृषि को वैज्ञानिक बनाना चाहते हैं, हम कृषि में टेक्नोलॉजी लाना चाहते हैं, हम कृषि से रोजगार के नए अवसर पैदा करना चाहते हैं, हम कृषि से किसान की आय दोगुना करना चाहते हैं। हम गांव के जीवन को बदलना चाहते हैं और इसलिए भाइयों-बहनों।\nप्रकाश सिंह बादल आज जितने नेता पंजाब में दिखाई देते हैं कोई कह सकता है कि कांग्रेस को कोई नेता है जिसको किसान नेता कहेंगे और छोटे मोटे लोग जो खड़े हो गए उनमें भी कोई किसान है, एक अकेला अकाली दल है, एक अकेला अकाली दल है जो किसानों का दल है जो किसानों के लिए काम करने वाला दल है और इसलिए मेरे भाइयों-बहनों हिंदुस्तान का पेट भरने वाला किसान पंजाब का किसान सुरक्षित रहे तो वो ही रख सकते हैं जो खुद किसानी से जुड़े हुए हैं और वो सिर्फ और सिर्फ बादल साहब हैं।  \nऔर इसलिए भाइयों-बहनों में आपसे आग्रह करने आया हूं कि चार तारीख को चुनाव है। बहुत बड़ी मात्रा में मतदान करके फिर एक बार इसी क्षेत्र से मुख्यमंत्री बनाइये। बादल साहब को फिर से मुख्यमंत्री बनाइये किसानों का भाग्य बदलने का दिल्ली सरकार का जो सपना है उसको पूरा करने के लिए बादल साहब को ताकत मिलनी चाहिए और इसलिए में आप सब से आग्रह करता हूं (आने वाली चार फरवरी नु तकरी के कमल दा बटन नब के अकाली भाजपा नु एक बार फिर सेवा दा मौका दे) बहुत-बहुत धन्यवाद।"