"#MannKiBaat: India celebrated Republic day with immense enthusiasm, says PM\n#MannKiBaat: Prime Minister Modi recalls Mahatma Gandhi, urge countrymen to keep 2 minutes silence\n#MannKiBaat: PM Modi motivates youngsters appearing for exams\nAppear for exams with pleasure and not under pressure, says PM Modi #MannKiBaat\nPM's Mentra for students appearing for exams - Smile more to score more #MannKiBaat\n#MannKiBaat: Marks or mark sheet has limited influence on our lives. Knowledge gained matters most, says PM\nCompete with yourself, not others Do not let go down by failures: PM to youngsters #MannKiBaat\nCoordination is must in our sense of mission and sense of ambition, says the Prime Minister #MannKiBaat\nAccept capabilities of your children, mentor them in best ways, spend time with them: PM Modi to parents #MannKiBaat\nExpecting too much of our children makes them stressed Accept \u0026 back them in doing what they are well able of: PM #MannKiBaat\nThree things vital for exam preparation - proper rest, good sleep, sports or any other such activity: PM Modi during #MannKiBaat\nPrime Minister Modi conveys greetings to Indian Coast Guard, salutes their role in safeguarding the nation #MannKiBaat\nMy fellow citizens, my namaskar to all of you! 26th January, our Republic Day was celebrated with joy and enthusiasm in every nook and corner of the nation by all of us. The Constitution of India, the duties of the citizens, the rights of citizens and our commitment to democracy - also in the Republic Day also a festival of 'sanskars', which makes our future generations aware of the democracy and their democratic responsibilities, and also imparts to them the culture, ethical values ​​and norms in our democracy But still in our country, the duties and rights of citizens are not being debated and discussed as intensively and extensively as it should be done. I hope that the amount of emphasis that was given to the citizens on an emphatic way The rights and duties of the citizens constitute the railway track, on which the train of democracy in India can move forward on a fast pace.\nTomorrow is 30th January, the death anniversary of our revered Bapu. All of us pay tributes to the martyrs who sacrificed their lives for the motherland, by observing silence for 2 minutes at 11 am on 30th January. As a society, as a nation, the 2 minute tribute of silence on 30th January at 11 am, will become our instinctive nature. This 2 minutes silence is an expression of our collective resolve and reverence for the martyrs.\nIn our country there is an innate respect for the military and the security forces. I congratulate and felicitate the young heroes and their families who were honored with various gallantry awards on the Republic Day. There are different categories of these gallantry awards like Kirti Chakra, Shaurya Chakra, Vishisht Seva Medal and Param Vishisht Seva Medal. I want to urge you too Surf the Net to do some research on the braiant bravehearts, who have been bestowed with these honors, compose a few good lines about them and share these with your friends and companions. When we get the depth details of their courage, bravery, valor in detail, we are filled with astonishment and pride and we also get inspired!\n26th January, at the same time, some of our army Jawans posted in Kashmir for the Defense of the Country, the avalanche due to martyrdom. I respectfully pay my homage to all these brave soldiers, I bow to them.\nMy young friends, you know very well that I regularly do my 'Man Ki Ki Baat'. January, February, March, April - all these are for families, months of the most severe test! Normally it is one or two children in a home due to appear at their exams, but the whole family feels the burden of it. This led me to believe that this is the right time for me to talk to my students, their guardians and their teachers, because for many years now, wherever I have gone, whomsoever I met, exams appear to be a great source of anxiety Troubled families, harassed students, tense teachers - one sees a very strange psychological atmosphere prevailing in every home! And today I want to come out of this situation and, therefore, today I want to talk about my young friends. When I'd announced that I would talk on this topic, many teachers, guardians and students sent me their messages, questions, suggestions and also expressed their anguish and narrated their problems. And after going through all these outpourings, some ideas came to my mind, which I want to share today. I received a telephonic message from Srishti Srishti has has to say: -\n\"Sir, I want to tell you that during exam time, very often in our homes, in the neighborhood and in our society, a very terrifying and scary atmosphere pervades. This leads to feeling inspired by tremendously down So I just want to ask you this, can not I be transformed into a pleasant atmosphere? \"\nWell, the question has been posed by Srishti, but it is a question that is there in minds of all of you Exams in you, should be a joyous occasion After a year of hard work, one has the opportunity to display one's capabilities, so this is a festival of joy and enthusiasm. But there are very few people for whom for most people Now, it is up to you Those who have been granted a pleasure, will have accomplished, And so my opinion is a festival and, therefore, must be celebrated. And when there is a festival mood of celebration, the best within us comes out The real realization of the power of a festival The best of everything Usually, we think of ourselves as a highly undisciplined lot, but if we just look at the arrangements made during the Kumbh Melas, which are celebrated for about 40-45 days, these are essentially make-shift arrangements despite, the great discipline practiced by people This is the inherent strength of a festival. Therefore, during the examinations too, an atmosphere of festivity should be created in the whole family, among friends and around the neighborhood. And you will see yourself, The festive atmosphere will lead to a burden-free environment. And I especially urge the parents to make a festive atmosphere during these 3-4 months. All the family members have to work as a team and play with zeal their relative roles to make this festival of examination a success. You will be the upcoming change Actually from Kashmir to Kanyakumari and from Kutch to Kamrup and from Amreli to Arunachal Pradesh, these 3-4 months have examinations galore. It is the responsibility of every one of us in our own ways, observing our related traditions and in our own family surroundings with tune, this 3-4 months each year a festival in the form of transformation. And so I will say you 'Smile More Score More'! The more time you are going to be happy, the more you will earn! Just try and see for yourself! And you have noticed that when you are happy, you are able to automatically relax, and when you relax instinctively, you're able to recollect very old things too quite effortlessly! A year ago, what the teacher had taught in the classroom, the whole scenario reappears in front of you And you must know that the power of memory is great If you are tense, then all the doors seem to be closed, nothing can enter from out and nothing can come out from within The thought process comes to a standstill and that in itself is a burden. You must have seen the rest of your life - the book, the chapter, the page number, whether you want to get the page or the bottom of it, you can do you want to But as soon as you finish the examination hall and the exit from the examination hall, suddenly you recollect that very word. And you say to yourself - yes, man, that was the word I wanted! Why did you And how you could remember it outside? It was the same you! What happened was that whatever was inside, came out immediately And hence the most effective medicine And if you are relaxed, then you can imagine the kind of things you remember even if you are under pressure. , and these become extremely useful It is not that knowledge, it is not that information, and it is not that hard! But when there is a tension, your knowledge, your wisdom, your information - all the buckle under and the tension rides over you. And so it is necessary to remember that 'a happy mind is the secret for a good mark sheet'! Sometimes it also appears that we are not able to experience in a proper perspective It seems to be a question of life and death. See, the exam is going to appear on the exam of what you have studied during this whole year. But it is not a test of your life It is not a test of what kind of life have you lived, how is the life you are living now and what is the life you aspire to live. There must have been many occasions in your life, when, besides the examinations that were displayed in the classrooms with notebooks, you had to endure and endure many tests and trials. And thus success and failure in life is not determined at all. this is a burden from which you should free yourself We all have before us very highly inspiring example of our former President Dr. A.P.J. Abdul Kalam He appeared on the test for recruitment in the Air Force, and failed in that. Now suppose that this failure had caused him to become dejected, to concede defeat in his life, then will India have found such a great scientist and such a glorious President? No, never! One Richa Anand Ji has sent me this question: -\n\"Today, what I see as the biggest challenge facing the education is that it has come to focus solely on examinations. Marks have become all important As a result, the competition is multiplied leading to a very high increase in students also. So I would like to know your current subject of education and its future course. \"\nAlthough she has given herself, I want to Marks and Marks Life is not only Life really means what is the knowledge! Life is really going on in terms of what you have learned; Life moves ahead on the condition that whatever the sense of mission you have achieved and whatever is the sense of ambition that you nurture, whether there is any ongoing co-ordination between your sense of mission and your sense of ambition! If you have faith in these things, then marks will automatically follow you and you will never have to chase marks! It is the knowledge that is going to be used in life, so are skill, self-confidence and determination. You need to tell me, you need be a family doctor There would not be a single person in your family who had asked that family doctor as to his examination. None All of you had thought that as a doctor he was good, you were finding relief in his treatment and thus you began taking his services regularly When you have fought a big law suit and you go to a lawyer to engage in his services, do you know the mark-sheet of that lawyer? You just look at his experience, his knowledge, and the graph of his success. And so this burden of hankering for marks hinders us sometimes right direction. But that doesnt mean that I am not going to study at all. Studies are definitely useful for testing our own weight; to know where I stood yesterday But this also happens sometimes and if you analyze your journey of life, you will realize that if you start running after marks, you will look for the shortest ways, and will be the only ones selected. But if something comes from those few things; a question comes which is out of the bunch of selected questions You will find yourself slipping to the rock bottom. If you have pursued the knowledge of your focal point, then you will be able to acquire and attain a lot more. However if you concentrate and focus just on getting marks, then you gradually go on limiting yourself and more marks in earning for certain areas yourself. Thus, you may find that despite being successful in passing the exams\nRicha Ji had also mentioned about 'PRATISPARDHA', meaning 'competition with others' It is a huge psychological battle. In reality, it is not the competition with others that takes us forward in life but it is competing with itself or 'ANUSPARDHA', which takes our life forward. How to make tomorrow better! How can a future be used? To make myself immediately clear, I would like to see It is a feature in the list of most successful players that they compete with themselves. Let us take the example of Mr. Sachin Tendulkar He kept on breaking his own records consecutively and continuously for twenty years, everytime surpassing and outdoing himself and thus continuously forging ahead. What a wonderful journey of life he had had, only because he followed the route of competing with him instead of competing with others!\nFriends, in every field of life and when taking exams, if you were able to study peacefully for two hours ago, then are you now able to do so for three hours? If you could not wake up at the time, you could get up early on time? You could not sleep before due to the exam tension, are you able to sleep now? निराशा, निराशा और ईर्ष्या, but 'Anuspardha' or 'Competition with self' leads to Self-analysis and introspection and our determination is strong and makes us strong more resolute And when we prevail over ourselves, then the motivation to do better. That energy is generated from within its own. If I have to put it in a simple language, then I will say that when you compete with someone else, there are three broad possibilities that arise - first, that you are much better than him; second, that you are much worse than him; And the third is that you are equal to him If you are better than your competitor, then you will become complacent, as you will be filled with over-confidence. If you perform poorly against him, you will become distressed and disappointed, that will be devour and consume you And if you are equal to your competitor, then you will never feel the need to improve, life will just go on in its own pace. So I urge you to engage in 'Anuspardha', or 'competition with self'. You must focus on how to improve on your past performance and how to perform even better. And you'll be the witness for yourself.\nShriman S. Sunder Ji has expressed his feelings on the role of parents. He says that during the exams, parents have a vital role to play. He further writes, \"My mother was not educated. Yet, she would sit by me and ask me to solve problems in Mathematics. She would then reply to me She will help me rectify errors My mother did not clear the Class 10 exam, yet without her aid, it would have been impossible for me to pass the CBSE exam. \"\nSunder Ji, what you say is absolutely correct. And you must have observed today also that women are a big people who ask me questions or send in suggestions. Mothers who are consciously aware of and actively alert their children's future, play a big role in assuaging the atmosphere at home. I will urge parents to stay on just three points - acceptance, mentoring and sharing time. Accept things as they are Whatever capabilities you posses, use these to mentor your children, and, howsoever occupied you may be, for spare time, be with them. Once you learn to accept, maximum number of problems will be solved there and then. Every parent should be experiencing this. Expectation on the part of parents Acceptance brings new solutions to problems. Expectations make the path difficult Accepting a certain state gives us the opportunity of opening up newer vistas. Just accept things as they are You will feel much lighter We keep deliberating on the heavy weight of our small tots' school bags, but there are times when I feel that expectations and aspirations on the part of parents are far too heavier compared to those school bags.\nOnce, many years ago, one of our acquaintances was admitted to hospital, following a heart attack. Former M.P. Purushottam Mavlankar, son of India's first Lok Sabha speaker Ganesh Dada Mavalankar, had come to the hospital to look him I was present there and I saw that he did not ask a question on his health; he just sat down with no reference to the ailment or to the situation He started cracking jokes and lightened the atmosphere in a matter of just a few minutes. In a way, we are a patient with constant references to his illness. I would like to convey to parents that we do exactly the same with our children. Have you ever thought of creating an environment of joy and laughter for children during exams? See it for you, the whole environment will be transformed\nI have received an incredible phone call The gentleman does not want to reveal his name When you listen to the call, you will come to know why he does not want to identify yourself!\n\"Namaskar, Pradhan Mantriji, I can not disclose my name because of something that I did in my childhood. Once, when I was young, I had an attempt to cheat in my exams. And I started preparing most thoroughly for that. I tried to try and find out different methods of copying and wasted I was very well secured the same marks by devoting that time to study, which I wasted while pondering how to copy. Moreover, when I tried to use unfair means to pass the exam, I got caught and had a lot of my friends around me too.\nWhat you say is right These shortcuts There are times when there is a lot of confidence in someone who has a right to have a peep in a fellow student's answer sheet. Sometimes it is true But we somehow believe that the other's really wrong answer is the right one, which leads to our own undoing as well. Thus unfair means lead us nowhere 'To cheat is to be cheap, so please do not cheat'. Cheating makes you bad, so stay away from it Time and again you must have heard advisories on staying away from unfair means I am reiterating the same, once again Look at the scourge of cheating, copying and such unfair means from any angle and in any form; it is going to get you into the abyss of failure in life Over and above that, if the invigilator catches you cheating during the exam, you will be utterly ruined. And suppose, you are not caught, even then your own conscience will be burdened for life. When the time will come to your own children, you will not be able to look them in the eye, burdened as you feel And once you are habitated to you, you will never feel the desire. Where will you reach then?\nIt is as if you are digging holes in your pathways And, I have seen that much of their talent in the end, investing in their entire creativity in the ingenious ways and means in designing unfair methods. If one devotes the same time and the same creativity in addressing issues pertaining to exams, one will never need any meaning in the first place. Results that you achieve through your own hard work and diligence will invest in a phenomenal and extra-ordinary self-confidence.\nNow listen to this phone call, which I have received: -\n\"Namaskar, Pradhan Mantri Ji, my name is Monica and since I am a class 12th student, I want to ask you about some questions. My first question is, what we can do to reduce the stress that builds up our exams and my second question is, why are the exams all about work and no play? Thank you. \"\nDuring the examination days, if I talk about sports and games, your teachers will be angry with me \"What kind of a Prime Minister is this, who is asking children to come out and play during exams,\" they could say! People generally do not understand that if students indulge in sporting activities, they will become careless about their studies This ision is basically unfounded It is the root cause of this problem If one has achieved holistic development, the fact that there is a huge world, a life beyond books; and this is exactly the way to learn If someone says, \"Let me finish with all exams first, I will play and do other things later\"; well, that is impossible This is the time for molding one's life. This is what upbringing is all about As a matter of fact, in my opinion, three things are crucial - proper rest, the other is the requisite amount of sleep, the third is the body, which is a major component, way beyond mental activity. Other parts of the physical activity With so much to do, have you ever thought of spending a couple of moments gazing at the sky, looking for wonder at the flora around you, lightening your spirits a bit! You will notice that you will return to your study room and be in your books with a renewed freshness. Whatever you are doing, take a break, have a stroll out, enter the kitchen, look for something, that's what you like, munch on your favorite biscuit if possible, tell or listen to jokes and laugh for a while. If only for five minutes, give yourself a break You will feel a certain ease in your work. I do not know if everyone likes this or not, but I'm saying it out of personal experience. Deep breathing during these times is very beneficial. It relaxes you. And for deep breathing you do not need to confine yourself to your room. Just be under the open sky, go to the roof top, do deep breathing for five minutes and return to your studies. You will experience relaxation in your body A relaxed body equally relaxes your mental organs. Some of you feel like studying more and more No. Enough It will help you avoid wastage of study time; It will improve your ability to study well Your concentration will increase You will feel a certain freshness Your overall efficiency will be leaps and bounds. When I address elections rallies, sometimes I suffer from a sore throat or a loud voice. Once a folk singer came to meet me He asked me, \"How many hours do you sleep?\" I asked him if he was a doctor He said, \"No, but it is connected with your voice problem. Only when you get adequate sleep, your vocal chords will be able to rest fully. \"Well, I did not have a possible connection between my sleep, my speeches and my voice. It was as if he had given a herbal panacea. Actually, we should understand the importance of these things. But this does not mean that you keep sleeping all the time. Some may say that since the Prime Minister has said so, just keep sleeping, there is no need to wake up and study. Please, do not do that, else your family members will be disappointed with me And when your mark sheet arrives, if they are not happy with that, they will not see you but only me So, avoid doing that. And so I will say, \"P for preparing and P for play\", one who plays blossoms, the person who plays, shines. This is a wonderful remedy for the mind, brain and body.\nAnyways, young friends, you are in preparing for your exams and here Of course, it is very possible that my words this morning will act as a relaxant for you. In the same breath, I will add that do not let these remarks of mine be a burden on you. Do it only if you can If you can not do it, please do not do it, else it will weigh heavily on you Just as I advise your parents to be burdensome, the same applies to me too. Keeping your solution in mind, with confidence in yourself, set out for your exams. My best wishes to your In order to clear a test, You will never feel a test, a test again. Make headway with this Mantra\nMy dear countrymen, on 1st February 2017, Indian Coast Guard is completing 40 years. On this occasion I extend my heartfelt gratitude to all officers and jawans of Coast Guard for their service. It is a matter of pride and honour that with its indigenously built 126 ships and 62 aircrafts, it has been coveted for the coveted place for themselves, the world's 4 largest coast guards. The motto of Coast Guard is 'We Rakshamaha'. True in letter and spirit is the motto, securing the country's maritime boundaries and marine environment, the jawans of the Coast Guard are relentlessly working on night and day, braving the most adverse conditions. Last year, personnel of Coast Guard's coastal areas also, over and above their routine duties. Thousands participated in this campaign Along with coastal security, they displayed concern toward coastal cleanliness and deserve accolades for their act. Not many people will be aware that our Coast Guard, not just men, but women too are discharging their duty and responsibilities shoulder to shoulder, and most successfully Our Coast Guard women officers are pilots, work as observers, and not just that, they command Hovercrafts as well. In the backdrop of the fact that India's coast line in securing Coast Guard by displaying the maritime security today has become an issue of global concern and the excellence, I am 40th birthday on their heartiest welfare.\n1st February is the festival of Vasant Panchami Vasant, that is Spring, is acknowledged as the best of seasons. Vasant is RITURAJ, the king of seasons. In our country, Saraswati Pooja is done on Vasant Panchami; Vasant Panchmi is a major festival It is considered a way to worship And not just that, inspiration for brave hearts 'Mera Rang de Basanti Chola' is a perfect example of that. I extend my best wishes to my countrymen on the pious occasion of Vasant Panchami.\nMy dear countrymen, in 'Man Ki Baat', All India Radio too infuses myriad novel hues of creativity and imagination. Last month afterwards, they have started broadcasting versions in regional languages, immediately after the broadcast of my 'Man Ki Baat'. This has gained wide acceptance. People are writing from far and wide I felicitate All India Radio for this self-inspired initiative. 'Mann Ki Baat' gives me a great opportunity to be connected. Best wishes to you Thank you.\nRepublic Day #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/PbMUOpx1xN\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) January 29, 2017\nYesterday is January 30, our Pujya Bapu's punya date is: PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) January 29, 2017\nIn our country, an innate respect towards the army, towards the security forces continues: PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) January 29, 2017\nIt's time that I can talk to the students, talk to their parents, talk to their teachers: PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) January 29, 2017\nWhy should be a time of stress or sadness I want to talk about exams \u0026 what are so many people have written me: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) January 29, 2017\nDo not think about exams as pressure Exams should be celebrated as festivals #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/6XMOGRj8h1\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) January 29, 2017\nIt is upto you, how you want to appear in the exams #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/FhngwOH25I\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) January 29, 2017\nExams should be celebrated as festivals and that will bring the best in you. #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/I4ZjUtGapV\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) January 29, 2017\nAn appeal to parents and students #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/lZ9T432nOT\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) January 29, 2017\nSmile more and score more. Remain happy and stress free to score more marks in the exams. #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/8u7nskGzqR\n— PMO India (@PMOIndia) January 29, 2017\nWhen you are relaxed, the recall value will be more. #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/1x5m0yOsCR\n— PMO India (@PMOIndia) January 29, 2017\nA happy mind is the secret for a good mark sheet. When you are tensed, knowledge takes a back seat. Do not let that happen. #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/6adIVeE9tC"