"Last five years\nElection a BJP government with a comfortable majority in Goa, urges PM Modi\nGoa deserves everything We will develop the best\nWe have differences of opinions but that does not mean we need to deviate from the core issue of India's development: PM\nToday, India has a government that has the courage to take bold decisions: PM Modi\nDefense Minister of Manner Parrikar, my fellow country minister, who is sitting on the platform, is the Chief Minister Shri Laxmikantji, my partner Shri Nitin Gadkari at the center, Shripad Nayak Ji, President of the State Bharatiya Janata Party Mr. Vijay Vijay, the Deputy Minister of Goa Chief Minister Francis D'Souza Ji, MP Shri Narendra Singh, Minister of State in the Government Mr. Dayanand ji, Mrs. Kuda Ji, Mr. Raje Mr. Rajendra Phadke, Mr. Kanwar, Mr. Narendra Goble ji, Mr. Sadanand Tanbadeji, Prakash Belipeeji and a large number of dear brothers and sisters who were found in large numbers.\nFirst of all I want to congratulate the government which is in Goa today, I want to congratulate the people, because they have been for five years Goa's development year. A strong foundation has been laid by the present government, which is our dream of building a grand building of development in the days to come. A few months ago, a magazine surveyed the entire country and found that in the small states of India, there is a star starring in small states, it is a state of Goa. Whether it is a matter of education, social infrastructure initiatives, infrastructure work, the Goa government has inspired not only small but bigger states of India to learn lessons. This work has been done by Goa. Sometimes we are sitting in the stadium to watch cricket, so little is known, as far as sitting in the house sees someone watching TV. He understands how the ball is going, where it is being caught, what the fielder is doing, because the camera is seen from the distance, it looks equal. I am sitting in Delhi I see Goa full and when I see progress. There is so much satisfaction, there is so much happiness, no area is left untouched. Who is the all-round development, the present government of Goa has presented the best example.\nbrothers Sisters.\nGoa has been suffering from a disease for many years. This election is the choice to free Goa from that illness. What is the disease, the biggest disease is instability. The volatility of political upheaval by political procurement sales kept all the things of Goa behind. You can imagine.\nJust remember, old people.\nThe period from 1990 to 2000. In ten years Goa has seen more than 12 chief ministers. More than a dozen Chief Ministers in ten years. There can be more than two in ten years. Whenever the government was busy, it was the same thing that when the next oath ceremony would take place and it left Goa a lot behind and the Congress would have been volatile for a large suit. ... because on the name of instability he used to say to people, here in the name of instability, buying was going on sale and explain to the public. Brother! What to do? There is an unstable government, so do not believe in the companions, so there is no work, they would have survived. Hardly 5 years ago you made a credible effort to give a stable government. The citizens of Goa understood this thing, but still, there was some shortage and therefore you saw that for the sake of their selfishness, they finally ran away.\nbrothers and sisters.\nDo not make this mistake in Goa now. Give full majority Give comfortable majority I promise you, if you give us comfortable majority, we will make Goa the most comfortable state of India. Today, the government in the center of the whole country is giving emphasis on tourism. ... and people thought that tourism would end. Due to the ban on closure, it will be completely closed. His speech stopped. Even after Diwali, there was an increase in tourism.\nYou tell me Tourism grows in India, tourists from abroad come to India. Who gets the most benefit .... Just say no, who gets the benefit .... Where do tourists from around the world like to come ... This is possible because our government of Goa has built infrastructure for keeping tourism in the center and the Indian government of Delhi has made such a change in the visa rules that the tourists have become easily accessible. Many countries started issuing visa. Many countries needed online e-visa. The tourist likes this feature. If someone has raised its direct benefit, then the people of Goa have raised the Government of Goa and in the coming days. What was first for tourism? When advertisements came only on TV, they felt that tourism would increase. Now in Hindustan, you will continue to show advertisments. If you show the artists, then the foreigner will come to the tourist? This old government did not understand this. They used to spend on television here. If you want to increase tourism then you have to put force in foreign countries. The number of people coming from abroad has to be increased. People who come from abroad have to motivate. We changed our entire focus to this government's policy and how much did the tourists come up. Inspired by how the camper came from abroad. ... and inspired the states that who came, how long would they stay? You work for this. This is going on in a way that tourism is growing fast in the country today and the benefits of that method are getting the maximum benefit of Goa. Tourism is one such area, which can be extended beyond the least investment of capital. The possibility of higher employment in low investment is in tourism. Everyone earns. Rickshaw will earn, guest house will earn, boat earner will earn, tourists will earn money, sellers of tea will earn, biscuit seller will earn, gram pork sellers earn, poor earn from poor.\n... And so for the economic advancement of Goa, we are trying to give employment to most people, in the direction of promoting tourism, we should be together with the State Government. It is a natural thing to become a bridge for the system, but what is the reason that for ten years in Delhi a government was sitting that was not interested in making a single bridge in Goa. The ballads were engaged in the racket. If Goa does not have suitable infrastructure, then a small state will be shrunk. The development possibilities will gradually decrease. People will be forced to leave Karnataka and, somewhere, to go to Maharasthra. If this reverse trend is triggered, what will happen to Goa's fate? Keeping these things in mind, we also gave priority to the bridge. ... and we also decided that the bridges which are made in the city and those bridges in the states, and those who became the bridge in Goa, should have the difference between sky and land. Every thing here should be made iconic for the tourists. Simple things can not go here because we have to promote tourism. ... and hence the Juvar Pool is about to cost nearly one thousand crores and at the cost of one thousand crores, there is a work to build a wonderful bridge, which will add a new iconic look to all Goa. The tourist will become the center of attraction. Will become the basis of convenience for the people of Goa.\nbrothers Sisters.\nI can say proudly today. All the governments of the last 50 years have helped the central governments in 50 years. In more than 25 months, our government has helped Goa. You can imagine, 50 years of total and 25 months total on the other side. This is our speed, it is our direction.\n... and so the brothers sisters\nI have come here with special requests to the Goans today. On the 4th of the date you will vote Goa is a misfortune. There is more number of politicians who are happy to do bad things than others who are good at doing good. They are not happy about the fact that let's go Goa. Not even that I will do some good. Theirs is that I die if I die, but I will not leave you. These are the people who are cut off by my Goa residents, those who vote, they cut the pockets of democracy. These people are the wizards of democracy. ... and those who are pocket of democracy, they do not want good for anyone. They just cut off the pockets of democracy by cutting off votes and trying to weaken democracy, weaken democracy. Sometimes this happens too. Some people like, the budget is coming to a date, of the Indian government. Some parties are sitting right now. Calling some economics, calling some people who are writing to write and making drafts right now that the budget of the Indian government will come on a date. The budget has not come yet. They do not know what's going to come in the budget. They are planning to make plans now as soon as the budget is completed, how can we attack them so that messages can be sent in Goa also, messages should be sent in Punjab, Uttar Pradesh should also go to the message, go to Uttarakhand message, Manipur message Let's go to the message and drafting paper on it for now. If we give feedback after the budget comes, then we understand. The Opposition also thinks to criticize but hard work from now on, the hard work that the finance minister is doing for the budget. People who have the opportunity to say bad things to this government, more than that, are working so hard now that what is to say against the budget? ... this is not a good idea for democracy. Some people lose sight of defeat, then defeat does not return to their heads, they create an atmosphere in advance, when they come to know. You might have noticed, if some children are not doing well in the exam then they say that the teacher did not teach. Parents also say that these schools are useless. Our child will say again, no, that was the Examiner, he did not look properly, so the marks came less. Never see if their child had studied or did not, but find the reason. Here I am also looking. In this election, I read the statement of a party, saying that we are surprised that the elections of Punjab and Goa came together? Why both on the same date? Why both date 4? How did both come in the beginning? This is why the PMO has pressured the Election Commission, so that is what happened, preparations for defeat are going on. Looking for excuses. What will you say if you lose? Election commission lost due to giving such a date. In the election, in the elections in democracy, on issues such that the Election commission gave the date. If you do not believe in the umpire then why should you come to the playground? Democracy is. We have to accept the arrangements. Faith is to be made against the system. If faith breaks down on the system, then the faith of the general class will disappear.\nBut brothers sisters.\nAn attempt is made to take politics down so low that due to which the value of public life, to demolish it, some people are feeling proud.\nbrothers Sisters.\nYou tell me Is not that the people of Hindustan is sensible? ... tell me is not that smart ... It's not that smart .... In all the elections, why are the brothers leaving the Congress in every corner of the country? Why are you banging ... Is not that smart ..... The understanding of the understanding of the citizen of India is more from the citizen of Goa. The citizen of Goa has seen the mischief of the Congress, has suffered the corruption of corruption, has seen the purchase sales game. Nowadays, we will not allow Goa to be trapped in such troubles. In this election, you have to make people decide.\nbrothers Sisters. There can be political ideas, political differences can occur. Decisions can be criticized. He is also natural in democracy.\nBut brothers sisters.\nPain occurs when political leaders run away from political parties discussing the issue of development. The issues of election development in the country should be fought against. The criterion of governments in the country should weigh on the scales of development. The change in the life of the common man of India is only going to change.\nbrothers Sisters.\nToday the world is watching that after years of Hindustan there is a government which has courage, takes bold decisions too. You tell me All over the world, I want a reply from you. Today, the whole world is shouting that there is no happening of Hindus. Hindustan's Jai Jai is getting the car or not ... Is not happening in America that is happening ... Whether it is happening in Japan or not .... Whether it's happening in China or not .... Whether it is happening in Sri Lanka or not .... Whether it is happening in Nepal or not ....\nbrothers Sisters.\nWhy is this jai cheering happening? ... What is the reason? What is the reason that Jai is cheering? ... tell with full force. What is the reason that Jai is cheering? ... is not happening due to Modi. This is a jai cheer. Thirty hundred Hindus have chosen a government with full majority after 30 years. If there was a unstable government in Delhi then today the world is watching for Hindustan, do not see it. Whether Goa should also create a stable government or not with an comfortable majority .... Should be made or not ... Goa should be played or not, should be played in whole of India. In every corner of India, Goa should have a cheer that should not be ....\nAnd so brothers sisters\nI have come here today to insist on you. Along with the absolute majority, I say comfortable majority. In the next 5 years, the work that can not be done in 50 years, I want to show it to me because in Goa I want to bring the tourists from all over the world. The atmosphere that is created around the world, I want to apply for the filling of Goa. ... और इसलिए मैं आपसे आग्रह करता हूं।\nbrothers Sisters.\nसमय की मेरी सीमा है। सूर्यास्त होने से पहले हेलीकाप्टर को उड़ाना पड़ता है। और ये फिर फौज का हेलीकाप्टर है तो उनके नियमों का मुझे पालन करना पड़ता है। रक्षा मंत्री यहां बैठे हैं। मैं नियम तोड़ नहीं सकता हूं।\n... लेकिन भाइयों बहनों।  \nमैं गोवा का इस बात के लिए आभारी हूं कि देश को उन्होंने ऐसा मजबूत रक्षा मंत्री दिया है कि आज पूरा विश्व आज पूरा विश्व सर्जिकल स्ट्राइक की चर्चा कर रहा है। अभी भी लोग स्टडी कर रहे हैं कि कैसे हुआ। बोले आपके जवान वहां कैसे पहुंच गए। मैंने कहा कि मैं जब लाहौर गया था, दिन में गया था, गाजे बाजे के साथ गया था, तो भी दुनिया चौंक गई थी। कैसे पहुंच गया। मैंने कहा भाई अगर हिंदुस्तान एक बार ठान लेता है तो उसके जवान पराक्रम करके दिखाते हैं। देश की शान बढ़ा देते हैं। इस देश में गरीबी हटाने के भाषण करने की फैशन हो गई है। भ्रष्टाचार हटाने के भाषण करने की फैशन हो गयी है लेकिन अगर भ्रष्टाचार हटाने के लिए कोई कदम उठाया जाए तो उनको पता चलता है कि ये पहला हमला हमारे ऊपर ही हो गया है। आपके पड़ोस में कर्नाटक में कांग्रेस के मंत्री के घर से 150 करोड़ से ज्यादा नई नोटें, कालाधन, सोना, क्यों भाई? … और आपने देखा होगा कर्नाटक सरकार को कोई परेशानी नहीं है। वो तो होता रहता है, उस मंत्री का अभी तक इस्तीफा भी नहीं लिया गया है। उस मंत्री के खिलाफ नोटिस भी नहीं दी गई है। क्या आप ऐसे भ्रष्टाचार को गोवा में लाना चाहते हो ...। ऐसे पनपना चाहते हो ...।\nbrothers Sisters.\nउदाहरण बहुत काफी होते हैं। सारे देश में भ्रष्टाचार के खिलाफ मैंने एक मुहीम छेड़ी है। ... और छोटा आदमी भ्रष्टाचार में लिप्त नहीं होता है। बड़े-बड़े कदावर लोग होते हैं और ये मेरे पे जो जुल्म हो रहा है। ये जुल्म इसी बात का हो रहा है कि मेरे से उन्हें परेशानी हो रही है। सत्तर साल से जो जमा किया है, वो मोदी निकाल रहा है इसलिए परेशानी हो रही है।\nbrothers Sisters.\nये सरकार गरीबों ले लिए है। गरीबी से मुक्त हिदुस्तान बनाने के लिए, एक के बाद एक ठोस कदम उठाये जा रहे हैं ताकि गरीब की जिंदगी में बदलाव आये।\n... और इसलिए भाइयों बहनों।\nहमारे कदम कठोर होंगे लेकिन देश की भलाई के लिए होंगे। राजनीति के स्वार्थ के लिए नहीं होंगे। देश को भ्रष्टाचार से मुक्त करने के एक ईमानदार प्रयास का हिस्सा होंगे। ... और इसलिए मैं आज गोवावासियों से अनुरोध करने आया हूं। चार तारीख को मतदान है, सर्वाधिक मतदान हो। फिर एक बार गोवा को स्थिर सरकार मिले comfortable majority के साथ भारतीय जनता पार्टी की सरकार बने। फिर एक बार कमल पूरी ताकत के साथ खिले और जैसे कमल खिले, वैसे मेरा गोवा भी खिले।\nbrothers Sisters.\nइसी एक अपेक्षा के साथ फिर एक बार यहां के सभी नेताओं को बधाई देता हूं। उनके पुरुषार्थ को बधाई देता हूं। गोवा को आगे बढ़ाने के लिए उन्होंने जो कोशिश की है, उसको बधाई देते हुए मेरी बात को पूर्ण विराम देता हूं। मेरे साथ पूरी ताकत से दोनों हाथ ऊपर उठाते हुए बोलिए भारत माता की जय। Long live Mother India. Long live Mother India. Thank you."