"Share\n\nIndia is now ready for business In the last four years, we have jumped 65 places of global ranking of ease of doing business: PM\nThe implementation of GST and other measures of simplification of taxes have reduced transaction costs and made processes efficient: PM\nAt 7.3%, the average GDP growth over the whole term of our government, has been the highest for any Indian government since 1991: PM Modi\nHonourable Ministers and Excellencies from different countries, representatives and delegates from partner countries, corporate leaders, invitees, participants and delegates, dignitaries on the day, young friends, Ladies \u0026 Gentlemen!\nI am delighted to welcome you to the 9th chapter of the Vibrant Gujarat Summit.\nAs you can see, this has become a truly global event. One that has space for everyone.It has dignityof the presence of senior political leadership.It's the energyof CEOs and Corporate Leaders It has the gravitas of institutes and opinion makers, and is the vitality of young enterprise and start-ups.\nVibrant Gujarat has contributed to the growth of our enterprises. It has also helped in capacity building and adoption of global best practices, by government agencies\nI wish you all, a productive, fruitful, and enjoyable Summit. In Gujarat, this is the season of the kite festivalor Uttarayan. Amid the busy schedule of the Summit, I hope you will be able to take some sights and sounds of the festivities, and the State.\nI specially welcome and thank the 15 Partner Countries of this edition of Vibrant Gujarat.\nI also thank the 11 Partner Organizations, and all those countries, Organizations and Institutions who are holding their seminars at this forum. It is also a matter of satisfaction, that the eight Indian States forward this forum to use high-light their related investment opportunities\nI hope you will find time to visit the Global Trade Show, which is remarkable in its scale, and range of world-class products, processes and technologies. In fact, Gujarat is the best of business spirit, which exists in India. This eventhas further sharpened the edge which had had since several decades.The Vibrant Gujarat Summit had a transformational journey of eight successful editions.\nA number of conventions and seminars have been organized on various topics. These issues are of the Indian Society and Economy as well as the whole Global Community. By way of example, I mention the celebration of Africa Day tomorrow and the Global Conference on International Chambers on 20th January.\nFriends,\nAssembled here today, is a truly augustgathering. We are honored by many of the Heads of State and Government and many other distinguished delegates. This shows that international bilateral cooperation is no longer limited to national capitals, but now extends to our state capitals as well.\nIn India, as in most emerging economies, our challenge is to grow horizontally as well as vertically\nHorizontally, we have the ability to improve the areas and communities that have lagged behind.\nVertically, we have got enhanced expectations in terms of quality of life, quality of services and quality of infrastructure. We are well aware that our achievements, here in India, will be directly impacted by one sixth of humanity.\nFriends,\nThose who visit India regularlywould have a change in the air. The change is both in terms of direction and intensity. Last four years, my government of focus is to reduce government and governance in enhancing. The Ministry of my Government has been reformed, Perform, Transform andfurther Perform.\nWe have taken a number of drasticsteps. We have also undertaken deeper structural reforms.\nAs we have done so, we continue to remain one of the fastest growing economies in the world. Major International Financial Institutions like the World Bank and the IMFas well as agencies like Moody's have expressed confidence in India's economic journey.\nWe have focused on removing the barriers. We will continue the pace and process of reforms and de-regulation.\nFriends\nIndia is now ready for business as never before. We have made Doing Business Easier\nIn the last four years, we have jumped 65places in the Global Ranking of World Bank's Doing Business Report.\nFrom 142 in 2014 to 77 now, but we are still not satisfied I have asked my team to work harder so that India is the top 50 next year. I want our rules and procedures to compare with the world.We have also made Doing Business cheap.\nThe historical effectiveness of Goods and Services Tax and other measures of simplification and consolidation of taxes hasreduced transaction costs andmade processes are efficient.\nWe have also made Doing Business Faster through digital processes, online transactions and single point inter-faces.\nIn FDI Foreign Direct Investment, we are one of the most open countries now. Most of the sectors of our economy are now only open for FDI More than 90 percent approvals have been put on automatic route. Such measures have propelled our economy into a high growth path. In the last four years, we have received FDI worth 263 billion Dollars. This is 45 percent of the FDI received in last 18 years.\nAnd Friends, We have also made Doing Business Smarter. We are insisting on IT based transactions in procurement and purchases of Government Digital payments including direct transfer of government benefits We are among the largest eco-systems in the world for start-ups and a number of them. I can say so safely\nThis is also why we are among the top 10 FDI destinations by UNCTAD. Ours is a globally cost competitive manufacturing environment. We have a vast pool of skilled professionals with knowledge and energy. We have a world class engineering education base and strong research and development facilities. Rise in GDP, a growing middle class and their purchasing power In the last two years, we have been a low tax regimeon the corporate side. We have lowered the tax from 30% to 25% for new investments as well as small and medium ventures. On IPR issues, we have developed benchmarking policies. Now, we are one of the fastest trademark regimes. The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code\nThus, from the start of business to its operation and closure, we have paid attention in building new institutions, processes and procedures. All this is important, not just for doing business We also understand that being a young nation, we need to build jobs Both are linked with investments Therefore, in recent years, there has been unprecedented focus on manufacturing and infrastructure.\nWe have been working hard to promote Investments through our \"Make in India\" initiative, have been well supported by programs like 'Digital India' and 'Skill India'. Our focus also includes bringing our industrial infrastructure, policies and practices to the best global standards and to India in a global manufacturing hub.\nCleaner energy and greener development Zero defect and Zero effect manufacturing. These are also our commitments. We have committed to reduce the impact of climate change. On the energy front, we are now the fifth largest producer of renewable energy in the world. We are the world's largest producer of solar energy.\nWe are able to scale up investments in next generation infrastructure -including roads, ports, railways, airports, telecom, digital networks and energy. We are also investing heavily in our social, industrial and agricultural infrastructure. To give some examples, in four years there is maximum capacity addition \u0026 generation of electricity. For the first time, India has become a net exporter of electricity. We have distributed LED bulbs on a massive scale. This has resulted in huge energy savings. We have installed transmission lines at an unprecedented pace. Our speed in road construction is almost doubled We have done unprecedented capacity addition major ports. Rural road connectivity is now 90%. The speed of setting up new rail lines, gauge conversion, doubling and electrification of railways has also doubled. We have debottlenecking execution of major projectson a regular basis through an online process.Our Public Private Partnership regime for infrastructure has been made more investor friendly.At 7.3%, the average GDP growth, over the whole term of our government has been the highest any Indian Government since 1991.At the same time, the rate of inflation at4.6% is the lowest for any Indian government since 1991, when India started its process of liberalization.\nWe believe that fruits of development must reach people with ease and efficiency.\nTo give you a few examples, now we have a bank account for every family. We are giving loans to small enterprises without collateral. We now have electricity in every village We also have electricity We have not been able to afford so much. We have ensured that there is proper sanitation in all areas - both urban and rural We are working on full coverage of households and their proper use.\nLadies and Gentlemen,\nWe were among the highest growing tourist destinations in the world in 2017. India had a growth of 14 percent over 2016, while the world grew at an average of 7 percent in the same year.We also have the fastest growing aviation market in the world , with double-digit growth in passenger ticketing terms, for over four years.\nThus New India is emergingwhich will be modern and competitive and yet caring and compassionate. An example of this compassionis our Medical Assurance Scheme called Ayushman Bharat.This will benefit about 500 million people - which is more than the population of United States, Canada and Mexico combined Ayushman Bharat will provide immense investment opportunities in the areas of health infrastructure, medical equipment manufacturing, and healthcare services.\nLet me list some more examples. 50 cities in India are ready to build Metro Rail Systems We have to build 50 million homes. The requirement of road, rail and waterways is enormous. We want world-classtechnologies to achieve our goal in a faster and clean way.\nFriends, India is thus, a land of immense opportunities. It is the only place, which offers you Democracy, Demography and Demand. To those who are already present in India, I would like to assure you that our democratic system, human values ​​andstrongjudicial system will ensure your investments of safety and security. We are continuously working to improve\nFor those who are not present in India, I This is the best time to be here. We have set up dedicated ways to help investors on a basis. Above allI assure you that I will always be available for your hands in your journey.\nThank you very much Thanks a lot"