"Rulers and governments do not make a nation: PM\nA nation is made by its citizens, youth, farmers, scholars, scientists, workforce and saints: PM\nThe life of an NCC cadet is beyond the uniform, the parade and the camps: PM Modi\nThe NCC experience provides an emotion of mission: PM Modi\nNCC cadets can act as catalysts to change in society: PM\nYoung friends, on the pious occasion of Republic day the nation and the world have experienced and demonstrated our democracy for devotion and dedication, India's unity for commitment and through the diversity of strength of feeling, i.e. The NCC cadets who have come from different countries My heartfelt congratulations to you all and hope that as a good citizen you will be committed even in personal, public and routine life for those highest parameters of humanity in the future which will become a mark of uniqueness for India.\nThe life of NCC cadet is beyond uniform, the parade and the camps. Through NCC gains in a sense of mission The NCC days help in life, its value more specifically the group culture. In addition to routine education, the experience gained in NCC offers a glimpse of great India, its strength, inherent energy and its diversity as well. The rest of world wonders that what kind of country India having more than 1500 dialects, plus 100 languages ​​and change of dialect after every 20 kos, different dresses and food habits? Still tied in one rope And if Himalaya gets wounded, tears erupt in Kanyakumari This is the feeling of national integration. A happy moment in any part of India gives a feeling of pride to citizens in the other part. Likewise we are pained if something is bad in any part of country or on The country has unitedly shared the pain and feelings of any disaster Any challenge ahead of the nation has been met by our 125 crore people as it is their problem and hard work and valour with task is accomplished.\nThis is our own strength The emperors, rulers, government do not make a nation, but a nation is built by its citizens, the common man, teachers, farmers, labourers, scientists, learned persons, scholars and saints. This is a unhindered penance that gets transformed into a nation. We are fortunate for being part of this thousand of years old live heritage and having a chance of chipping in some extent for the building up process. And it is the NCC that proves us the values ​​necessary and holding that responsibility.\nI was also fortunate in getting this sense of mission as an NCC cadet in my school days. I was not as talented as you are, as a bright cadet as you are today Though, looking at you makes me proud So I am sure that you and this young force are more capable than me in leaps and bounds. It gets a sense of security for future\nNCC and its cadets have owned and furthered the cleanliness campaign in the country and have successfully completed it wherever they have a chance. An organization having more than 13 lakh cadets is capable of running and inspiring the cleanliness operations. But as a citizen a cadet himself can act as a catalyst in and around his family and society for cleanliness. However, a lot of things are necessary to make it a habit and point of motivation for the society for generating hatred towards dirtiness, love for cleanliness and a collective responsibility, especially during 2019 while observing 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi. Being in large numbers and residing across the country, the NCC cadets are trained and instilled with energy, courage and zeal.\nThe young mind, especially the Indian mind readily adopts technology It will be a dividend for any country to have Aadhar Card Number with Biometric Identification for every citizen above 18 years. And India do have this This specific identification can be the base of all our schemes.\nA campaign to motivate people for adopting digital currency in our country is in progress now a days. NCC cadets have furthered it. Billions of Rupees are spent on the printing and availability of currency notes. For every and every ATM at least 5 police persons are deputed. Going digital will save a huge amount of money and that can be used in providing home, education, medicine to the deprived poor masses and good values ​​to the children of poor. A habit of digital payment by country will arrange that money without any constraint on our coffers and pockets.\nSo download the BHIM App on your mobile while remembering Baba Saheb Ambedkar and cultivate a habit of transactions with others, within our family and with the shopkeeper where we have our daily need items. You can not imagine the great service done this way\nIn a technology driven society, when the time and systems are undergoing changes, India can not lie behind anyway in the world. Our 65 percent population is under 35 years of age as a demographic dividend is the ability to deal with the rest of the world with bold face and if our 80 million young population is done in a big change in economy be it more than the Prime Minister Now NCC has taken this onus and I hope it will become accomplished\nNCC cadets are infused with patriotism and unique Discipline. Collective Action is their habit Moving together, joining shoulders, thinking together, taking thoughtful action and achieving the goal are their specialty. Today when the world is confronting with terrorism, our young generation has to strive for compassion for society and nation A phrase is there- \"Rashtram Jagriam vayam\", Nirantar Jagruk. For this one has had alert and to ensure that no young one in our area is not treading the wrong track and not getting trapped in unlawful acts that are bound to ruin him and his family making him a burden for society. He should be diverted from all such situations If we are awaken and alert, then we guide our neighbourhood and fellow citizen and extend our vision and mission to all, be it NCC or not, and our theory as well as thoughts follow.\nToday in the Republic Day, you have got many things and have found new friends. After getting a unique opportunity of understanding of vast canvas of India, you will be back home with very sweet memories. Your friends at home, schools and colleges will be waiting for you. You have had the option of forwarding and sharing your photos on your mobile. And your friends also You were being watched across the country This not a small laurel. It's a moment of immense pleasure Your return journey is full of such valuable memories and never allow it to be faded and scattered away. Tender and cultivate it for ever Grooming of good habits leads to colorful life Its fragrance will be lifelong and will also bloom your surroundings too.\nMy best heartfelt wishes I congratulates to all those cadets who had been awarded. My Best wishes to NCC Many-Many thanks"