"\nThis time, Election is about giving a renewed strength to Punjab: PM\nCongress party can do anything for survival, even those allies against whom they fought for years: PM\nOur Govt noted the troubles of ex-servicemen \u0026 implemented the #OROP: PM Modi\nOur government is fighting against corruption and has taken strong measures to tackle it: PM\nChief Minister of Punjab, Sardar Prakash Singh Badal, my partner of the Council of Ministers at the center and Mr. Vijay Vijay, President of Punjab Bhartiya Janta Party, Shri Narendra Singh, my colleague of the Cabinet, Mr. Avinash Rai Khanna, Shri Prabhat Jha, in the Parliament My partner Mr. Naresh Gujral, BJP candidate from Jalandhar Central, our senior partner Mr. Manoranjan Kalia ji, Ludhiana BJP candidate Shri Praveen Bansal, Akali Dal candidate from Jalandhar Cantonment, Mr. Sharanjit Singh Makdar from Akal Dal, Mr. Pawan Kumar Tinuji, candidate of Akali Dal from Adampur, BJP candidate from Jalandhar West, Mr. Moiner Bhagatji, BJP candidate from Tianya, Mrs. Sukhbir Kaur Candidate from Shahi, Jalandhar North, Shri K.D. Bhandari ji, candidate of Phagwara, Mr. Somprakash ji, Ludhiana is from North Idwar Mr. Wonderful Shetty G, Akali Dal candidate Mr. Ajit Singh Kohar, Hoshiarpur BJP candidate Mr. Stamp Shansud, Ludhiana, BJP candidate from Central sir Gurdev Sharma from Tarkot. All the senior noblemen who sit on the platform Shri Arunesh Shakeel ji, Mr. Sukhdev Singh ji Speak with me with all the strength. Long live Mother India. Long live Mother India. Long live Mother India.\nOn one side, preparations for coloring Basant Panchami are going on and on the other hand, giving Punjab a new energy to the fate, giving a new force and standing in the Punjab elections field for it.\nbrothers and sisters.\nThis land of Punjab is the land of heroes, the land of the sun god, it is the land of the gurus, the land of the saints. This is the earth of sacrifice and sacrifice. The farmer fills the country with sweat and the young man here protects his mother Bharati. There is a lot of state in India but there is more than the Punjab states. Anne, Bahan and Shan of Punjab elevate the head of India. No child in India will be like this, no citizen of India will be like this, who will not be able to fill his belly with wheat from the land of Punjab, in such a country there will be no man. This is the land of those who give the land of Punjab. This is the land of Punjab, when the country was needed, when there was no one standing, our Punjab was standing. When the opportunity came to show some tax for the country, then Punjab has shown it.\nAnd so the brothers and sisters\nIt is a matter of great sadness that some people are trying to scuttle the 'Aan baan' of Punjab in this election for some reason due to lack of ability to discuss important issues of politics due to personal selfishness. The entire Punjab is bent on saying good and bad. The pain occurs when the army of the country who is proud of due to dadication due to desalination due to sacrifice and sacrifice due to the heroes of Punjab. The youth of that Punjab should be called good and bad for their political selfishness, be called defamatory. Do not know how to use the word. Will politics go to such a low level ...? I want to tell the young men of Punjab, politics is in their place but the image of the youth of Punjab in the country and the world who have spoiled. Punjab's youth have sinned by going to the world. For such people, for the sake of Punjab, for the glory of Punjab, for the sake of the honor of Punjab, give such punishment that no one should take a finger on Punjab and look at it.\n\nbrothers and sisters.\nHindustan has also seen the period of terrorism. Punjab also saw the unity of Hindu-Sikh in the day of crisis. The innocent have seen dying, but in spite of this, any son from India did not doubt Punjab. Nobody attempted to stain the stain of Punjab's On Ban Shan. Even after so many bad things came, the whole of India always kept faith in Punjab always. Today, the same Punjab should be erected in the courtroom. For the pride of Punjab, for the pride of the Punjabis, for the pride of the youth of Punjab, this election is to be punished for defaming Punjab. ... and so the brothers and sisters Today I call upon the entire Punjab from Jalandhar's land.\nbrothers and sisters.\nHave seen the parties in the country, and you have also seen the leaders. This Congress party ... does not even know what its color is, what is the form, what is the path, nothing is known. ... water is your color like this .... You see, they are screaming without power, like the waterless water of the water is staggering. Distressed ... bother ... feel ... They were sitting and sitting in the house. Tailors were calling for They were sewing clothes that they had to take oath. And in whole Punjab had created such an environment that just now Badal sab went away. But this is the people of Punjab, do not underestimate their understanding. Five years ago you surprised everyone after forming the government of Badal Saheb. Such is the austerity of Badal sahib. The dedication of Badal sahib is such that once again the Punjab Badal sahab wants to see the Chief Minister. And I believe that the people of Punjab will be under the guidance of such senior leader Badal Saheb and will dedicate new heights .... This is my complete confidence.\nbrothers and sisters.\nThis Congress party is a big party. He went to contest elections in Bengal. By doing so you have to save yourself. Avoid the party, avoid the respect. Went to Bengal, compromised with the Communist Party. With the communist party, the Congress continued to have political battles for 50 years but power hunger was such that they sat and went there with them. The piece that they threw, okay, so that's right, save us, save us. You may have seen now in Uttar Pradesh. His party continued for months with the chariot of village-village, travels out, traveled. And as much as the Samajwadi Party could have croaked, Kosa could speak as much as possible against the Samajwadi Party's government. The language used to stimulate the crowd. But they saw that the public is not accepting. These families have split apart, if they can enter in the middle, then they should get in and they have got a turn in it. No reciprocity, no rules, no rules\nbrothers Sisters.\nJust for the sake of power, the Congress party itself to save itself inside the election today, how to do something and give it. This is going on lately. The boat which has sank, the boat in which there is no escape. Will the people of Punjab think of stepping in such a boat ...? Can such dusty boat cross the Punjab ...?\n\nAnd so the brothers and sisters\nThis Congress is a history, Congress is a past thing. Congress is the last party to live on the breath. There is nothing going to happen to him. There are principles in political life. When Mr. Badal became the Chief Minister for the first time. So in India it was a discussion that the youngest youngest Chief Minister. It was said repeatedly about them, the youngest chief minister. And since then till now till the austerities, the most senior chief minister will also be called to him in India. You can imagine. When there was a crack in Hindu-Sikh unity. And politics was going on to widen it. Then with courage, Hindu-Sikh unity is my priority. Through this issue, Mr. Badal has tried to live in public life. Hindu-Sikh unity is their primary principle. And today Punjab is left ..., and today Punjab is moving forward so the result of the efforts of Badal Sahib of Hindu-Sikh unity. ... this Punjab can never forget.\nbrothers and sisters.\nA lot of people will meet. Changing the party, it is as if they are every election festival. Where you see some light, go away You see people from such parties and parties Run the Congress party, complete the entire Bengal, go to the Communist Party in UP, run near the SP in Uttar Pradesh. And see these clouds. Do not change the team or change your heart. Dedicate yourself to Punjab.\nAnd so the brothers and sisters\nIn public life, such a power is rarely received which Badal Saheb has seen. And even when I was the Chief Minister, when he used to catch Badal Saheb's finger in charge of the party in Punjab. Today I have become the Prime Minister, even then no meeting of mine and Mr. Badal has not happened like this, there is no such opportunity in which farmers' issues are not discussed with me. That is, in his mind, farmer farmer in his mind, his village poor development These things live in their hearts day and night. And intends to do something for him.\nbrothers Sisters.\nPunjab, if the farmer gets water, then there is my farmer who produces gold from soil so that here he is here. And the government which is sitting in Delhi about the development of farmers. You must have seen just now. After this ban, we made the decision. Interest on farmers' debt, the NDA government will lift the burden of hundreds of crores of rupees and the interest of the farmers will be waived. We brought insurance policy Today the farmer of India is the first beneficiary of agricultural insurance. Any crisis comes, oh fall, rain comes, rain does not come, worms fall. If the farmer's crop is damaged then the Indian government created such insurance that the farmer should get his compensation. My farmer has no problem.\nbrothers Sisters.\nUrea in our country We all know, when Urea was needed, the farmer had to take it from black money. Urea had to be queued for. And the state government and the Indian government used to accuse each other. People sitting in Delhi said that we were sent, the state people said that we did not get it. The same fights were going on.\n\nBrothers sisters\nToday, I say with great satisfaction that for the last two years, there was no need for farmers to stand in queue for urea in India. There was no blackboard charge for urea. Black money did not have to buy. How did this happen... . Do not take overnight factory. ... the production of urea overnight has not increased. We have stopped the theft. Corruption has stopped. The dishonesty has stopped. And due to which the urea went into factories. In the chemical factories, RAW went as a material. We have neem coating of urea. Due to neem coating and now one gram urea can not be used for anybody except farming. And hence the theft of urea stopped and the farmers got the benefit of it. When neem coating urea, I did the committee and said, just study what brother has gained. Profit in the market, urea is available. Corruption is over. Farmers also reduced the need for urea per acre. Its production increased per acre. The farmer had come to Laddus in both hands. We have shown this work within two years after sitting in Delhi.\nbrothers Sisters.\nThe solution to our problems is in development. If you have to do politics then do development. The politics of destruction has seen the country for 70 years. Today the young generation of the country is suffering the consequences of that waste. And so you tell me. ... SYL canal. ... the farmer of Punjab should not have water. ... should the Punjab farmer not get water? The farmer who does not fill the soil of the farmer who is feeding Hindustan should not be filled with water.\nbrothers and sisters.\nThe farmer should get water. And so we have taken a decision with great courage. The water of the Indus river on which our rights are. The water that goes to Pakistan, we will bring the water of the right of Hindustan and give that water to the soil of Punjab.\nbrothers and sisters.\nWe are people who work in that way. Whose heart has developed development in the mind. Decision to change fate of future generation of Hindustan ....\nbrothers and sisters.\nNow Badal is telling the master. When there was a surgical strike. After some days I got an opportunity to come to Ludhiana. And I was seeing, every family of Punjab was feeling proud of themselves, was proud. Because Punjab is the land of heroes. And when Hindustan's army did the most, it was seen in every family of Punjab. The retired army officers were seen in No village in Punjab where there will be no retired army. But I want to tell the brothers of the army. Did not you want the enemies of the country to respond in their own language? How long will the young men of our army die? How long will the soldiers of our army be martyred? Then the Indian army is also mighty. India's army does not want to take anything from anyone but for themselves, all roads are approved for it. And successfully the brave soldiers of our army of Surgical Strike.\nbrothers Sisters.\nThe retired people of the army, the forest rank for 40 years, were fighting for it, fighting for it. Were not doing that were demanding. By coming to every election, these Congress leaders went on false statements making false promises or did not go. After meeting the retired soldiers, they went on telling big things or did not go.\nbrothers and sisters.\nWhat kind of party did not have the courage to speak the truth to the people who died for the country? I could not talk about eye contact in the eye. Used to make false promises. And keeping forest rank forest pension for 40 years. Our government came in Delhi. We are proud for the country's army. Pride is for the soldiers. And hence the issue of forest rank one pension settlement. And when forest ranks were talking about one pension Initially people used to tell me Sahab would be in 500 crores, someone would say Sahab would be in 1000 crores, someone would say that will happen in 1200 crores, when we sat for calculating equals, then the matter got more than 10 thousand crores. अब एकमुश्त 10 हजार करोड़ रुपए निकालना किसी भी सरकार के लिए मुश्किल होगा। मैंने सेना के जवानों को बुलाया। फौजियों से बात की। मैंने कहा, भाई। मैंने वादा किया है। मुझे वादा पूरा करना है। आपकी मदद चाहिए। आखिर फौजी लोग है। देश के लिए अगर कुछ कहो, कभी झिझकते नहीं हैं। उन्होंने कहा, मोदी जी बताइए, हम क्या करें। हमने कहा कि भाई। ये वन रैंक वन पैंशन का जो पैसा है, वो देना है। लेकिन एक साथ नहीं दे पाउंगा। चार किश्त में दूंगा, चार टुकड़ों में दूंगा। इतनी आप मेरे लिए सहुलियत कर दीजिए। और मैं मेरे फौजियों को नमन करता हूं। उन्होंने एक मिनट में मेरी बात मान ली। 10 हजार करोड़ में से अब तक 6000 करोड़ रुपए दे चुके हैं और इस बजट के बाद आगे का भी दे दिया जाएगा।\nभाइयों और बहनों।\nसरकार में विश्वसनीयता होती है। सरकार वादों की पक्की होती है। और सरकार उस काम को करती है।\nभाइयों और बहनों।\nपंजाब को विकास की नई ऊंचाई पर आज भी हम ले जा सकते हैं।जो लोग रूकावट डालना चाहते हैं, रोड़े अटकना चाहते हैं। उनसे बचने की जरूरत है।\nऔर इसलिए भाइयों और बहनों।\nमैं आज पंजाब की धरती पर आया हूं। आप सबके बीच आया हूं। बजट का सत्र है। बजट की तैयारियां चल रही हैं। उसके कारण जितना समय दे पा रहा हूं। लेकिन समय निकालकर आपके पास आया हूं। परसों भी आने का प्रयास करने वाला हूं। लेकिन मुझे विश्वास है। मुझे विश्वास है कि पंजाब इस बार एक नया इतिहास करेगा। पहले कहा जाता था कि पंजाब की आदत ऐसी है कि हर चुनाव में सरकार बदलते रहना लेकिन पंजाब ने पिछली बार वो सारी मान्यताओं को तोड़कर रख दिया। अब पंजाब तीसरी बार सरकार बनाकर के, बादल साहब को तीसरी बार मुख्यमंत्री बनाकर के एक नया इतिहास अंकित करेगा, ये मेरा विश्वास है।\n\nbrothers Sisters.\nकुछ लोग बहुत परेशान हैं। क्योंकि कुछ लोगों की 70 सत्तर साल की कमाई डूब रही है। लूट-लूटकर जो जमा किया, वह खतरे में पड़ गया। अभी तक वो पचा नहीं पा रहे हैं। मौके मिलते ही मुझ पर हमला बोलते हैं। लेकिन ये राजनेता समझ लें। राजनीतिक जीवन में भी भ्रष्टाचार को खत्म करने का बीड़ा मैंने उठाया है। ये भ्रष्टाचार देश के युवाओं के भविष्य के साथ खिलवाड़ करता है। ये भ्रष्टाचार गरीबों के हक को छीन लेता है। ये भ्रष्टाचार मध्यम वर्गीय व्यक्ति को अपने जीवन जीने के लिए जितनी सामान्य आवश्यकता है, उसे भी रोक देता है।\nbrothers Sisters.\nये काला धन, भ्रष्टाचार इसकी लड़ाई रूकने वाली नहीं है। मैं ये बताकर रखता हूं जी। मेरे लिए राजनीतिक मुद्दा नहीं है। मेरे लिए हिन्दुस्तान के भविष्य को निर्माण करने का एक प्रण लेकर निकला हूं, और इसलिए इस काम को कर रहा हूं। हर दिन खबर आती है, इतने पकड़े गए। एक जमाना था, जरा 2014 के अखबार निकाल दीजिए। यूपीए की सरकार थी। 2012, 2013, 2014 मई तक के अखबार को निकाल लीजिए। अखबार की हेडलाइन क्या रहती थी कि इतना गया। कोयले में कितना गया, टूजी में कितना गया, लाखों गए कि करोड़ों गए कि अरबों गए। नोटबंदी के बाद खबर आती है, कितना आया। पहले खबर आती थी कितना गया। हर दिन खबर आती थी। अभी तो कर्नाटक में कांग्रेस सरकार के मंत्री, मंत्री के घर में से 150 करोड़ से ज्यादा नई नोटें पकड़ी गई।\nलेकिन भाइयों बहनों।\nना कांग्रेस उनको मंत्री पद से हटाने की सोच रही है और न टीवी मीडिया में कोई चर्चा हो रही है। 150 करोड़ से ज्यादा रकम, कांग्रेस के कर्नाटक के मंत्री के घर से मिल जाए। और सबकुछ जैसे कुछ हुआ ही नहीं है। आप मुझे बताइए। लूटने वालों की ताकत कितनी ज्यादा है, इसका अंदाज आ सकता है। उनके रूट कितने गहरे हैं। इसका अंदाज आता है।\nऔर इसलिए भाइयों बहनों।\nआप मुझे बताइए। ये लड़ाई कितनी कठिन है। आप मुझे बताइए, ऐसी कठिन लड़ाई आपकी मदद के बिना लड़ सकता हूं...। आपके मदद के बिना लड़ सकता हूं...। आपके मदद के बिना बेईमानों को ठीक नहीं कर सकूंगा।  \nइसलिए मेरे भाइयों बहनों।\nमुझे आपका साथ चाहिए। मुझे आपका सहयोग चाहिए। इस देश से भ्रष्टाचार को मिटाने करने के लिए आपका सहयोग चाहिए। एक ऐसी सरकार आई है दिल्ली में, जो दम रखती है ऐसी बड़ी-बड़ी ताकतों से लड़ने का दम रखती है। पिछले तीन महीने में क्या-क्या जुल्म हुए हैं मुझ पर। इसलिए मैं भ्रष्टाचार के खिलाफ लड़ रहा हूं। ये जुल्म करने वाले समझ लें। ये मोदी है जुल्म के सामने झुकता नहीं है। मैं लड़ाई लड़ रहा हूं। देश की ईमानदारी की लड़ाई लड़ रहा हूं। ये गरीबों के हक की लड़ाई लड़ रहा हूं। बेईमानी के खिलाफ लड़ाई लड़ रहा हूं। आप मुझे बताइए। किसी भी बच्चे को नौकरी चाहिए सरकार की तो इंटरव्यू होता था। अब मुझे बताइए ...। एक मिनट के इंटरव्यू में क्या पता चल जाता है ये कौन है, कैसा है और उनको रख लो।\nbrothers Sisters.\nये इंटरव्यू सिर्फ परिचित लोगों को नौकरी दिलाने का, भ्रष्टाचार कराने का खेल था। जान पहचान है, पैसे हैं तो इंटरव्यू पास कर जाओगे, नहीं तो चक्कर काटते रह जाओगे।\nभाइयों और बहनों।\nदिल्ली में एक ऐसी सरकार आई। हमने आकर के तय कर दिया कि वर्ग 3 और 4 जिसमें सबसे ज्यादा नौकरियां होती है। कोई इंटरव्यू नहीं करेंगे। तुमने पढ़ाई की है, अच्छे मार्क्स होंगे तो नौकरी मिल जाएंगे। गरीब विधवा मां का बेटा घर बैठे नौकरी प्राप्त करने लग गया है।\nbrothers Sisters.\nआपको मालूम है हमारे देश में गैस का कनेक्शन, गैस का सिलेंडर लेना हो, सब्सिडी लेना हो तो भी किसी एमपी की जरूरत होती थी। एक जमाना था एमपी को 25 कूपन मिलती थी। अपने कार्यक्षेत्र में 25 परिवारों को गैस का सिलेंडर के कनेक्शन देने के लिए सिफारिश करने की, 25 कूपन। और एमपी साहब के घर में बड़े-बड़े लोग कतार में खड़े जाते थे ..बेटा बड़ा हो गया है, अलग रहने लग गया है। उसको अगर एक गैस कनेक्शन मिल जाए तो अच्छा रहेगा और एमपी साहब कहते थे कि अभी नहीं अगले महीने आना। ये हाल था। और अखबारों में कभी-कभी आता था कि गैस सिलेंडरों के कूपने ब्लैक में बेची जाती है।\nbrothers Sisters.\n2014 का चुनाव याद करिए। 2014 के लोकसभा का चुनाव याद कीजिए। हिन्दुस्तान की कांग्रेस पार्टी किस मुद्दे पर चुनाव लड़ रही थी। हिन्दुस्तान की कांग्रेस पार्टी ने बड़ा अधिवेशन किया और घोषणा की कि 9 सिलेंडर नहीं हम सालभर में 12 सिलेंडर देंगे। सिलेंडर 9 मिले कि 12 मिले। इसके आधार पर दिल्ली में सरकार बनाने का कांग्रेस ने वादा किया। ये हाल है कांग्रेस का। हम आए। हमने सारा देखा, हमने कहा, ये क्या हो रहा है भाई। काहे का भ्रष्टाचार हो रहा है। मैंने जनता जनार्दन से आग्रह किया कि अगर आपके पास आर्थिक रूप से तकलीफ नहीं है तो आप अपनी सब्सिडी छोड़ दीजिए।\nbrothers Sisters.\nमैं मेरे देशवासियों के सामने सर झुकाता हूं। सवा करोड़ लोगों ने, सवा करोड़ लोगों ने सामने से गैस की सब्सिडी छोड़ दी। और मैंने वो सब्सिडी उन गरीब माताओं को दी जो घर में लकड़ी का चूल्हा जलाते थे। उन्हें गैस का कनेक्शन दे दिया। वो लोग 9 सिलेंडर कि 12 सिलेंडर इसी का खेल खेल रहे थे। जबकि ये सरकार तीन साल में पांच करोड़ गरीब परिवारों को गैस कनेक्शन देने का काम कर रही है।\nअब तक डेढ़ करोड़ से ज्यादा गैस कनेक्शन दे चुके हैं। और  आने वाले तीन साल के भीतर-भीतर पांच करोड़ परिवारों में गैस कनेक्शन देने का काम पूरा कर देंगे।\nइसलिए भाइयो बहनों।\nमेरी माताओं-बहनों से मैं कहना चाहता हूं। गरीब मां जब लकड़ी के चूल्हे पर खाना बनाती है। एक दिन में उस गरीब मां के शरीर में 400 सिगरेट का धुआं जाता है 400 सिगरेट का धुआं। आप मुझे बताइए। क्या गुनाह है उस गरीब मां का। बच्चों का पेट भरने के लिए लकड़ी का चूल्हा जलाना पड़ रहा है। और खुद को हर दिन 400 सिगरेट जितना धुआं अपने शरीर में लेना पड़ता है। क्या ये मां तंदुरुस्त रह सकती है। क्या वो मां तंदुरुस्त बच्चों को जन्म दे सकती है।\nbrothers Sisters.\nइन गरीब माताओं की मदद कौन करेगा। इसलिए हमारी सरकार ने निर्णय किया। हम इन गरीब परिवारों को ढूंढ करके 5 करोड़ परिवारों को गैस का सिलेंडर देकर के लकड़ी के चूल्हे से मुक्ति दिलाएंगे। हर दिन के 400 सिगरेट के धुएं से उसे मुक्ति दिलाने के लिए ये गरीबों की सरकार है। आजादी के 70 साल हो गए।\nbrothers Sisters.\nक्या मेरे गरीब को रहने के लिए घर होना चाहिए कि नहीं होना चाहिए... । क्या मेरे गरीब को अपना घर होना चाहिए कि नहीं होना चाहिए... ।\nbrothers Sisters.\nमैंने एक सपना संजोया है। 2022 जब हिन्दुस्तान की आजादी के 75 साल होंगे। हिन्दुस्तान के हर गरीब को अपना मकान हो, उस काम को पूरा करने के लिए मैं आपकी मदद चाहता हूं। मैं आपकी मदद चाहता हूं इन कामों के लिए। मैं आपकी मदद चाहता हूं विकास करने के लिए। मैं आपकी मदद चाहता हूं नौजवानों का भाग्य बदलने के लिए। मैं आपकी मदद चाहता हूं माताओं और बहनों के सम्मान के लिए। मैं आपकी मदद चाहता हूं हमारे पंजाब के किसान को और खुशहाल करने के लिए। और मुझे विश्वास है कि आप भारतीय जनता पार्टी और अकाली दल का गठबंधन कमल निशान और तिगड़ी निशान। इसका भरपूर समर्थन करके, भारी मतदान करके, गुमराह करने वालों से पंजाब को बचा करके, बादल साहब के नेतृत्व में एक बार फिर पंजाब में सरकार बनाएंगे। इसी एक अपेक्षा के साथ मेरे साथ बोलिए। Long live Mother India. पूरी ताकत से बोलिए। Long live Mother India. Long live Mother India. Thank you."