"Share\n\nIn May 2014, people of India started a new Normal. People spoke in one voice to my government\nEvery day at work, my 'to do list' is guided by the constant drive to reform \u0026 transform India: PM\nThe multi-polarity of the world, and an increasingly multi-polar Asia, is a dominant fact today: PM\nThe prosperity of Indians, both at home and abroad, and security of our citizens are paramount importance: PM\nFor me, Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas is not just a vision for India. It is a belief for the whole world: PM\nIn the last two and half years, we have partnered with almost all our neighbors to bring the region together: PM\nPakistan should walk away from terror if it wants to move dialogue with India: PM\n\nDistinguished guests,\nLadies \u0026 Gentlemen,\nToday seems to be a day of speeches Just a while ago we heard President Xi and Prime Minister May Here I am with my words. Maybe an overdose for some Or a problem of plenty for 24/7 news channels.\nIt is a great privilege to be inaugurated in the second edition of the Raisina Dialogue. Prime Minister Harper, Prime Minister Kevin Rudd, excels in Karzai Also, a warm welcome to all the guests. Over the next couple of days, you will get many conversations on You will debate its certainty and prevailing flux; its conflicts and risks; its successes and opportunities; its past behaviours and likely prognosis; and its potential black swans and the new normals.\nFriends,\nIn May 2014, the people of India also ushered in a new Normal. My fellow Indians spoke in a voice to honor my government Change not just of attitudes but of mindsets Change from a state of drift Change to take bold decisions A mandate in which reform is not possible A transformation that is embedded in the aspiration and optimism of India's youth, and in the boundless energy of its millions Every day at work Every day at work, my 'to do list' is guided by the constant drive to reform and transform India, for prosperity and security of All Indians\nFriends,\nI am aware that India's transformation is not different from its external context. Our economic growth; the welfare of our farmers; the employment opportunities for our young; our access to capital, technology, markets and resources; And, the security of our nation has all been deeply affected by developments in the world. But, the reverse is also true.\nThe world needs India's sustained rise, as much as India needs the world Our desire to change our country is an indivisible link It is, therefore, only natural that India's choices at home and our international priorities form a seamless continuum. Firmly anchored in India's transformational goals.\nFriends,\nIndia is pursuing its transformation in unsettled times, which is equally the result of human progress and violent turmoil. For many reasons and many levels Globally connected societies, digital opportunities, technology shifts, knowledge boom and innovation. But, sluggish growth and economic volatility are also a sobering fact. Physical borders may be less relevant in this age of bits and bytes. But, the walls within nations, a sentiment against trade and migration, and the world of rising parochial and protectionist attitudes are also in stark evidence. The result, Globalization gains are at risk and economic gains are not easy to come by Inequality, violence, extremism, exclusion and transnational threats continue to proliferate in dangerous directions. And, non-state actors Institutions and architectures built for a different world, by a different world, are outdated. Posing a barrier to effective multilateralism As the world begins to re-order itself a quarter century after the strategic clarity of the cold war, the dust has not yet settled on what has replaced it. But, a couple of things are clear The political and military power is diffused and distributed The multi-polarity of the world, and an increasingly multi-polar Asia, is a dominant fact today. And, we welcome it.\nBecause, it captures the realization of many nations It accepts that many of the voices of the global agenda. Therefore, we need to guard against any instinct or inclination that promotes exclusion, especially in Asia. The focus of this conference on Multilaterism with Multipolarity is thus timely.\nFriends,\nWe inhabit a strategically complex environment. In the broad sweep of history, the changing world is not necessarily a new situation. The crucial question is how do nations act in a situation where the frames of reference are rapidly changing. Our choices and actions are based on the strength of our national power.\nOur strategic intent is shaped by our civilizational ethos of:\n· Realism,\n· Cooperation, and\n· Participation.\nThis looks expression in a clear and responsible expression of our national interests. The prosperity of Indians, both at home and abroad, and the security of our citizens are paramount importance. But, self interest alone is not our culture nor our behavior Our actions and aspirations, capacities and human capital, democracy and demography, and strength and success will continue to be an anchor for all round regional and global progress. Our economic and political growth represents a regional and global opportunity of great significance. It is a force for peace, a factor for stability and an engine for regional and global prosperity.\nFor my government, this is a path of international engagement focused on:\n· Rebuilding connectivity, restoring bridges and rejoining India with our immediate and extended geographies.\n· Shaping relationships networked with India's economic priorities.\n· Making India a human resource to be reckoned with, by connecting our talented youth to global needs and opportunities.\n· Building development partnerships that extend from the islands of the Indian Ocean and Pacific to the islands of the Caribbean and from the great continent of Africa to the Americas. · Creating Indian narratives on global challenges\n· Helping re-configure re-invigorate and rebuild global institutions and organizations · Spreading the benefits of India's civilizational legacies, including Yoga and Ayurveda, as a global good. Transformation, therefore, is not just a domestic focus. It encompasses our global agenda.\nFor me, Sab Ka Saath; Sab Ka Vikas is not just a vision for India It is a belief And, it manifests itself several layers, multiple themes and different geographies.\nLet me turn to those that are closest to geography and shared interests. We have seen a major shift towards our neighbors captured in our determined \"Neighborhood-first\" approach The people of South Asia are joined by blood, shared history, culture, and aspirations. The optimism of its youth seeks change, opportunities, progress and prosperity. A prosperous well-connected and integrated neighborhood In the last two and half years, we have partnered with almost all our neighbors Where necessary, we have shed the burden of our region The result of\nIn Afghanistan, despite the distance and difficulties in transit, our partnership assists in reconstruction, by building institutions and capacities. In the backdrop, our security engagement has been deepened The completion of Afghanistan's Parliament building and the India-Afghanistan Friendship Dam are two shining examples of our dedication to forge developmental partnership.\nWith Bangladesh, we have achieved greater convergence and political understanding, through connectivity and infrastructure projects, and significantly, the settlement of the land and maritime boundaries.\nIn Nepal, Sri Lanka, Bhutan and Maldives, our overall involvement in infrastructure, connectivity, energy and development projects is a source of progress and stability in the region.\nMy vision for our neighbourhood puts a premium on peaceful and harmonious ties with all South Asia. That vision had led me to invite leaders of all countries, including Pakistan, for my swearing in. For this vision, I had also travelled to Lahore. But, India alone can not walk the path of peace. It also has to be Pakistan wants to walk away from terror\nLadies and Gentlemen,\nFurther west, we have redefined, in a short span of time, and despite uncertainty and conflict, our partnerships with Gulf and West Asia, including Saudi Arabia, U.A.E., Qatar and Iran. Next week, I will have the pleasure to host His Highness the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi, as the Chief Guest at India's Republic Day. We have not only focused on changing the perception. We have also changed the reality of our ties.\nThis has helped us protect and promote our security interests, nurture strong economic and energy ties and advance the material and social welfare of around 8 million Indians In Central Asia too, we have built our business in shared history and culture to unlock new vistas of prosperous partnership. Our membership of the Shanghai Cooperative Organization provides a strong institutional link to our engagement with Central Asian Nations. We have invested in all round prosperity of Central Asian brothers and sisters.\nAnd, have brought about a successful reset to longstanding relationships in that area. To our east, our engagement with South East Asia is the center of our Act East Policy. We have built a close engagement with the institutional structures in the region like the East Asia Summit. Our partnership with ASEAN and its member countries have served to increase commerce, technology, investment, development, and security partnerships with the region. It has also advanced our strategic interests and stability in the region. In our engagement with China, as President Xi and I agree, we have been able to tap the vast area of ​​commercial and business opportunities in the relationship. I see the development of India and China as an unprecedented opportunity, for our two countries and for the whole world. At the same time, it is not unnatural for two big neighbors. In the management of our relations, and for peace and progress in the region, both our countries need each other's core concerns and interests for sensitivity and respect.\nFriends,\nPrevailing wisdom tells us that this century belongs to Asia. The sharpest movement in Asia There are large and vibrant pools of progress and prosperity that spread across the landscape of this region. But, increasing ambition and rivalries are generating visible points. The steady increase in military power, resources and wealth in the Asia-Pacific has raised its stakes for its security. Therefore, the security architecture in the area should be open, transparent, balanced and inclusive And, promote dialogue and predictable behavior rooted in international norms and respect for sovereignty.\nFriends,\nOver the past two and a half years, we have given a strong momentum to our engagement with the United States, Russia, Japan and other major global powers. With them, we only share an desire to cooperate. We also hold converging views on opportunities and challenges that face us. These partnerships are a good fit with India's economic priorities and defense and security. With the United States, our actions have brought the speed, material and power to the full spectrum of our engagement. In my conversation with President-elect Donald Trump, we agreed to keep on building our strategic partnership. Russia is an abiding friend President Putin and I have held long conversations on the challenges today. Our trusted and strategic partnership, specially in the field of defense is deepened.\nOur investments in new drivers of our relationship, and the emphasis on energy, trade, and S \u0026 T links are showing successful results. We also enjoy a truly strategic partnership with Japan whose contours now stretch to all fields of economic activity. Prime Minister Abe and I have spoken about our determination to intensify our cooperation. With Europe, we have a vision of strong partnership in India's development, specially in knowledge industry and smart urbanization.\nFriends,\nIndia has had decades for the forefront of sharing our capacities and strengths with fellow developing countries With our brothers and sisters in Africa, we have further strengthened our ties in the last couple of years. And, built meaningful development partnerships Today, the footprint of our development partner stretches all the whole world.\nLadies and Gentlemen,\nIndia has a long history of being a maritime nation In all directions, our maritime interests are strategic and significant. The arc of influence of Indian Ocean extends well beyond its littoral limits. Our initiative of SAGAR - Security and Growth for All in the Region is not just limited to safe-guarding our mainland and islands It defines our efforts to deepen economic and security cooperation in our marine relationships. We know that convergence, cooperation, and collective action will advance. We also believe, that the primary responsibility for peace, prosperity and security in the Indian Ocean rests with those regions. Ours is not a unique approach And, we aim to bring countries on the international law. We believe that respecting Freedom of Navigation and adhering to international standards is essential for peace and economic growth in the greater and inter-linked marine geography of the Indo-Pacific.\nFriends,\nWe appreciate the compelling logic of regional connectivity for peace, progress and prosperity. In our choices and through our actions, we have reached the Barriers to our outreach to West and Central Asia, and eastwards to Asia-Pacific Two clear and successful examples of this tripartite agreement with Iran and Afghanistan on Chabahar; and our commitment to bring to the International North South Transport Corridor. However, equally, connectivity in itself can not override or undermine the sovereignty of other nations.\nOnly by respecting the sovereignty of countries involved, can regional connectivity corridors meet their promise and avoid differences and discord.\nFriends,\nTrue to our traditions, we have reached the international burden of our commitments. We have taken assistance and relief efforts in times of disaster. We were a credible first responder during the earthquake in Nepal, evacuation from Yemen and during humanitarian crises in the Maldives and Fiji. We have also not hesitated in our responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security. We have increased collaboration on coastal surveillance, white shipping information and fighting non-traditional threats like piracy, smuggling and organized crime. We have also shaped alternative narratives on long standing global challenges. Our strong belief in delinking terrorism from religion, and rejecting artificial distinctions between good and bad terrorism, are now a global talking point. And, those in our neighbourhood who support violence, encourage hatred, and export terror stand isolated and ignored. On the other pressing challenge of global warming, we have moved into a leading role. We have an ambitious agenda and an equally aggressive target to generate 175 giga watts from renewable energy. And we have already made a good start We have shared our civilizations for the well-being We also brought the international community together to create an International Solar Alliance, to harness the power of sun to propel human growth. A high point of our efforts is the revival of international interest in the cultural and spiritual richness of India's civilization. Today, Buddhism, yoga and Ayurveda are recognized as the humanity as a whole. India will celebrate this step As it builds bridges across countries and regions and promotes overall well-being.\nLadies \u0026 gentlemen,\nIn conclusion, let me say this. In connecting with the world, our ancient scriptures have guided us.\nRig Veda says,\nAa no bhadro: Krittano, but World Means: \"Let noble thoughts come to me from all directions\".\nAs a society, we have always favored the needs of one. And, preferred partnerships over polarization. We hold the belief that success of one should promote Our task is cut out And, our vision is clear Our journey of transformation starts at home. And, is strongly supported through our constructive and collaborative partnerships that span the globe. With resolute steps at home, and expanding network of reliable friendships abroad, we will understand the promise of a future that belongs to one billion Indians. And in this endeavor, you will find in India, my friends, a beacon of peace and progress, stability and success, and access and accommodation.\nThank you.\nThank you very much\nIt is a great privilege to talk about the inauguration of the second edition of the @raisinadialogue: PM @narendramodi"