"\nSwami Vivekananda shows what one can achieve at a young age: PM\nThe work that the youth are doing today is the future of the nation: PM Modi\nGuides who are on cashless transactions: PM Modi urges youth\nInculcating the habit of doing cashless transactions in at least ten families a day: PM urges youth\nPM Modi's 3Cs ministry - Collectivity, Connectivity \u0026 Creativity\nThe support from youth in the fight against corruption has led to the conclusion that it is possible to bring a positive change in the nation: PM\nMany-many Congratulations to my young friends, all the dignitaries present on the festival Though in person I am not with you in Rohtak for the lack of time but this is the occasion of making me clear that this year is now matured as a 21 year young man. The beaming faces of my young friends are coming from the nooks and corner of the country\nToday is National Youth Day and Birth Anniversary of Swami Vivekananda I greet you in this country on this very occasion. Swami Vivekananda is one of the finest examples of achieving a short span of life. He is a very short life Swami Vivekananda was a source of unlimited motivations. In his words- \"For now our nation calls for young with strong nerves as well as strong will power of young people\".\nSwami Vivekananda wanted to marry as young generation that was caring as well as being worthy of no discrimination. Youth is one who does not worry about his past, works for his future goals. Likewise what you all do today becomes\nFriend, today more than 80 crore country men are below the age of 35 years. Treading the path of Swami Vivekananda has the potential of launching an era that can make India a World Leader\nFor all my friends who are at present in Rohtak, this Haryana Land is very inspiring. This land of Haryana is Vedas, Upnishads, Geeta. This land is of brave ones, especially the working heroes. This is the land of sacred Saraswati The initiatives of continuously marching ahead can be learned from this soil by understanding and safeguarding of own culture.\nI am happy to note that the theme of this Youth Festival is \"YOUTH FOR DIGITAL INDIA\". Youth will be trained in day-to-day Digital Transactions in this festival. My fervent appeal to all the youth present here to train at least 10 people in their neighborhood. In creating a CASHLESS Economy you all have a big role This will be one of your important contributions to the country in getting rid of black money and corruption.\nDaughter has been chosen as Logo of this festival We love the name of her \"MHAARI LAADO\" Through this festival the effort to improve awareness about \"Beti Bachaao Beti Padhaao\" is appreciable. Central Government launched this campaign from Haryana itself. This campaign has seen wide ranging effectss here. Things have begun to change SEX RATIO has also changed remarkably. For this I specially congratulate people of Haryana This shows that when people decides to be impossible I am sure Haryana will soon get a point of pride for this nation.\nYouth of Haryana is contributing in a big way The youth of Haryana has given this country the accolade and proud moments by winning medals in many international sports events for ever.\nFor attaining new developmental heights, more and more contributions from young people are a dire need. The aim of India is to enable our youth in skill and potential for making this century as an Indian Century.\nFriends, National Youth Festival is a platform of showcasing your talent. You have come from different cultural backgrounds will have a chance of mutual interaction and assimilation. This is the real meaning of Ek Bharat- Shreshtha Bharat. Just now we have seen a march past the cultural troupes from All States and Union Territories.\nEk Bharat- Shreshtha Bharat is an attempt to improve the cultural diversity of nation in one string. This is one spirit despite language divide, different food, varied life style and distinguished culture. It is- Indian ness and we all are proud of it\nInteraction between young people from one new experience It will pave way for mutual understanding and respect for each other Assimilation and living together dispels many misgivings and one comes to know that the difference between food habits and language disasters are superficial things. Insight further makes things transparent and makes clear that our values, our human nature and our thinking are alike.\nFriends, under Ek Bharat- Shreshtha Bharat is different from two different states. This year, Haryana has entered into a partnership with Telangana. Action Points have been drawn for a possible number of subjects. I hope Youth from Telangana will have something very special to learn in Haryana.\nEk Bharat-Shreshtha Bharat is not only a scheme It is being pushed forward as a mass movement and it will be a full success only when the youth will support it wholeheartedly.\nYoung friends this year is being observed as the birth centenary year of Pundit Deen Dayal Upadhyay. He gave the basic ministry Chairaveti- Chairaveti (Move on-move on) to the youth. Means, do not stop but move on continuously for nation building.\nIn the age of technology the young ones need focussing on 3 \"C\" s For me 3 \"C\" s means COLLECTIVITY, CONNECTIVITY and CREATIVITY .... . COLLECTIVITY, until we are united and assimilated by dispelling inequality Collective force is unmatched. The second one is CONNECTIVITY It's a new age technology that has made the world very small. The whole world is in your hands CONNECTIVITY is need of the hour Through CONNECTIVITY and technology we will enrich human values ​​too. The third one I have mentioned is CREATIVITY which enshrines new ideas and new innovations. This is what we expect from young generation When CREATIVITY decimates, innovation and advancements also halts. So CREATIVITYs should be given as much as opportunities\nSo communicate and get connected with each other Learn about the new ideas Do not leave your thoughts by simply terming them very small or timid or thinking Remember, new and big ideas have always seen rejections at initial stages The system that prevails always opposes new ideas But I hope everyone like this\nFriends, more than fifty years ago What the Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyay said on Integral Humanism (Ikaam Manav Vad), do have an important message for the young ones Deen Dayal Upadhyay had given a clearion call for nation building in and countering the corruption. He said then:\n\"We will have eliminated many customs and will have to go on many reforms.\" We will do what we need to do. We need not have a type of physique given to them. Live and healthy organs should not be chopped off But we will keep an end to the persistent untouchability and discrimination within the society which is proven to fight the nation if, people do not mind other people alike them \".\nThe call by Pandit ji still holds ground. Still there prevails untouchability, corruption, black money, illiteracy and malnutrition in the country The young ones have used their power for the elimination of such maladies. Recently the government has pounced heavily against black money and corruption. The immense support given by my young friends for this action is a glaring evidence of your immovable desire for the elimination of evils.\nSo when I say my country is changing Thousands and lakhs of youth are confronting social disparities and challenges in their own style. Not only this, they are coming froth with such new ideas Just some days ago I had referred to one little girl in \"Man Ki Baat\" who gave the idea of ​​giving a banquet of saplings as a return gift to guests in the marriage ceremonies. What an amazing idea to conserve the environment?\nSimilarly in one area people were confronting with the shortage of dustbins. So young there clubbed advertising with dustbins Now you will find there dustbin at almost every place carrying advertisements. Now there was dustbin is called adbin.\nNow there are some young ones who paddled cycles in relay format to complete approximately 6 thousand kilometer long \"Golden Quadrilateral Challenge\" in 10 days. They had a very attractive motto- \"Follow the rules and India will rule\".\nSuch energy enriched youths are present in our country Somebody is producing electricity from the small rivulets, but it is not a waste of time. drought prone areas Such millions of young people are doing hard work 24 hours for nation building\nFor such energetic young ones I once again repeat the message of Swami Vivekananda- Stand up, get awaken and do not stop\nStand up means to make your body fit and fit. Sometimes people are up So they are unable to judge So it is necessary to get awake Do not stop till the goal is attained .... The concept of goal should be clear\nIf the destination is not selected then the destination bound vehicle? So when the goal is set, make it continuous\nFriends, you are present here as country's intellectual power. Today Today it is required that young mind set should be protected from being misguided. Keeping youth away from crime and addiction is needed Attain your targets after due consideration and thought. Infinite horoscope is possible\nToday it is necessary that young will become an exemplary icon of service Honesty and justice They should be ready They should be proud of their glorious heritage Their conduct and character should be based on moral values My high emphasis on this aspect is just because it is easy to get deviated from the target instead of the attainment.\nAmbition of having happy-luxurious life is alright but along with this duty and responsibilities towards society and nation should also be kept in mind. I am telling you about six challenges that are to be handled.\n1. Ignorance towards society\n3. Outdated approach towards society\n4. Inability to get the idea of ​​caste and creed\n5. Misbehaviour with mothers-sisters-daughters\n6. Callousness towards environment, irresponsible approach\nThe youth of today must keep these six challenges in their mind and will have to strive to overcome them. Wherever you live and work, you should also have a solution.\nYou're all tech-savvy young ones. You have to convey this messages to masses that can be a positive change.\nAll of you are strive for touching the life of those who are deprived, marginalised and exploited. You have to give your time and energy for the future The strength of youth, their energy and approach Now the crores of youth voices have become the voice of the development and further in the development process.\nMy friends should you touch the new vistas and heights. Chalk out a new vision of development and reach new successes. With this greeting I will be honored for the National Youth Day and Festival. Have a remembrance of Swami Vivekanand, take our natural energy use it for the welfare of society and country and especially the poor villagers and farmers and take a resolve to give some of their life time for them. This will give you a life of satisfaction and the power gained from this noble deed. My best wishes are with you Ahead of me is the youth here This mini India is full of new inspirations and vigor and is in the land of Geeta which spells the voice of Karma, Nishkam Karma (Work without any desire). You carry it with your resolves"