"Swami Vivekananda's powerful thoughts continue to shape many minds: PM\nIndia today is a young country and it should develop both spiritually and materially: PM\nIndia is a youthful nation The thoughts of Swami Vivekananda inspire the youth towards nation building: PM\nUnity in diversity is India's strength and countrymen should resolve to maintain oneness: PM\nPoverty will be eliminated when the poor are empowered: PM Modi\nMost respected Morari Bapu Ji, President of the Vivekananda Shri P Parmeshvaran Ji, My ministerial colleague Pon Radhakrishnan Ji, Swami Ji of the Vivekananda Ashram Chaitanyanand Ji, Balakrishna Ji, Bhanudas Ji, Vice President of the Vivekananda Center, Nivedita Ji and my dear friends !\nI would love to be on my way but thanks to the power of technology And, in any case, I'm not a guest but am a part of this family. I am one of your own\n12th January- this is not ordinary day. This is a day etched in history as a day when India was blessed with one of the greatest thinkers, a guiding light and a stalwart who took the whole world to India's message.\nI offer my tributes to the revered Swami Vivekananda He was a giant, whose powerful thoughts\nToday Vivekanandapuram is going to be inaugurated by Ramayana Darshanam, Bharat Mata Sadanam. Hanumanji's 27 feet high statue and the same stone is being set up. I have seen the video I sent to you about this, and seeing this video I can say that there is Divinity too - there is grandeur too.\nToday the portrait of late Eknath Ranadeji, founder of Vivekananda center, is also being unveiled. I congratulate all of you with heart for this event of today.\nBrothers and sisters, the place you are in today is not a normal place. This land is like the penance of this nation. If Hanuman ji got his purpose of life then he got on this earth. When Jammant told him that your birth was only for the work of Lord Shri Ram. On this earth, Mother Parvati's Kanyakumari got her purpose of life. This is the land where great social reformer, Saint Thiruvalluvar, received nectar of knowledge two thousand years ago. This is the land where Swami Vivekananda also got the purpose of life. Here, after practicing penance, he found a way to achieve the goal of life and achieving the goal. This is the place where Eknath Ranade ji got a new turn in his life, the journey of life. A new goal was established. He sacrificed his entire life for the same work as a life one mission. This sacred land is my virtue to this Tapo Bhumi, I bow my head.\nIn the year 2014 when we were celebrating the birth centenary of Eknath Ranadeji, I had said - that this opportunity is to awaken the mind of the youth. Our India is young - it became a divine and also a grand. Today the world is looking forward to the feeling of divinity from India, and India's poor, dalit, victim, exploited and deprived, it expects India's grandeur. And for the world, we have to move forward in the direction of nation building by building grandeur and the combination of these two countries.\nBrothers sisters, today India is the youngest living in the world. Youth is the country. More than 80 million people are under 35 years of age. Swami Vivekananda is not among us today but in his thoughts, there is so much power in his thoughts that such strength is such a motivation that organizing the youth of the country is showing the path of nation building.\nEknath Ranade ji founded Vivekananda Center and Swami Vivekananda Rock Memorial to unite this youth power. Eknath Ranadeji used to say that Swami Vivekananda feels good to us, nothing will happen from just such a number. To realize the Swami Vivekananda's imagination for the country, he used to consider that continuous contribution too important.\nEknathji who had given his life for the purpose was - the creation of youth like Swami Vivekanand ji. He always tried to establish the same ideal of nation building in the youth, which were the ethics which belonged to Swami Vivekanand ji. It was my great privilege that for many years of life, I got an opportunity to work as a close friend of Eknathji. Many times on this earth, I got an opportunity to come back and refine life in their perfection.\nIt was decided during the birth centenary of Eknathji that an exhibition showing the influence of Ramayana on our culture culture and our thought process should be started. Today Ramayana Darshanam is in front of everyone in the grand form. And I believe the passengers of the country and the world come to the Rock Memorial. These Ramayana Darshanam will probably motivate them too much. Will also impress. Shriram is in the particle particle of India. People are in the mind of the people. And so when we think about Sriram, then Shriram was an ideal son-brother-husband, friend and ideal king. Ayodhya was also an ideal city, then Ramrajya was an ideal governance system. Therefore, the attraction of Lord Rama and his kingdom from time to time persuaded the great men of the country to interpret Ramayana in their own way. The glimpse of these interpretations will now be found in Ramayana Darshanam.\nMahakavi Kamban described Kumba Ramayanaam as a state of good governance. He wrote in Tamil that if I translate it into English then he wrote-\nNone in the land as\nNone was needy;\nNone likes brave as none defied;\nTruth was unnoticed as there were no liars;\nNo learning standing out\nSince no one in city\nNone is ignorant and none fully learned;\nSince all alike had all the wealth\nNone was poor\n\nThis is a presentation of Ramrajya by Kamban. Mahatma Gandhi used to talk of Ramrajya because of these characteristics. Definitely it was a rule where the person was not important, but the Principle used to be important.\nGoswami Tulsidas also described Ramrajya in Ramcharitmanas in detail. Ramrajya means that no one is poor, no sadness, nobody hates anyone, where all are healthy and educated. Where there is synergy between nature and man. He has written -\n\nPhysical Divine Material Tapa, Ram Raj Nahin Kahuhhi Vyapa\nEveryone loves to love each other, walks towards the self-righteous, Shruti policy.\nNot a little death, no wonder Kavinu Pira, all the beautiful all bears.\nNothing was hurtful, neither was it sad, neither was it easy nor light.\n\nRam did not become big by defeating Ravana. Rama became Ram but when he took those people together, he was a proletarian. Were useless. He restored the self-pride of those people and made them believe in victory. In the life of Lord Rama, he did not accept the role that the traditions he had by his ancestors. We know many things in one vertex. They came out of Ayodhya. Right now, the city does not come out of its own but the whole world is absorbed in the whole humanity itself, what is the ideal, what is the value. What is the dedication of life towards values? He showed him to Jikir. And therefore I think that this Raman Dasanmah is a relevant in Vivekanandapuram itself and we know as much as the society needs to progress, the state should also be a state of good governance.\nWhen Ramji sees, then the development of the person, development of the system, these things are easily seen.\nBrothers sisters, Eknathji always wanted that the power of the country or the working power being planted in constructive work by awakening the country's spiritual power. Today, when the statue of Hanuman ji is being established at the center of Vivekananda, then it is also known about the inspiration of his statement.\nHanuman ji, that is the form of devotion, devotion to Hanuman ji. In which service became the ultimate religion. When they were crossing the sea, the Manak Mountain wanted to rest them in the middle. But there was no scope for Hanuman before procrastination. They did not rest until they reached their goal.\nOn the service of Hanuman ji Bharat Ratna C. Rajagopalachari ji also wrote in his Ramayana. When Hanuman ji returned to meet Sita mother, Lord Ram ji tells her mother to be happy, then Ram Ji says-\n\"The deed done by Hanuman none else in the world could even conceive of trying-crossing the sea, entering Lanka safe by Raavana and his formidable hosts and the task of accomplishing not only the complete but all of the festive hopes beyond his king \"\nRaj ji said that Hanumanji had done that work, which was not doing any hope till then. The samurai of the difficulties that Hanuman ji had crossed, he could not even think.\nAnd so, brothers and sisters, we are also following all these developments on this Guiding Principal. Whether the poor through the Janhanan Yojana for the poor, the poor should be linked with the banking system. By doing an arrangement with the poor today, we tried to move forward. And therefore there is an option to insure. Farmers got the benefit of this. Farmers have been given crop insurance scheme at the lowest premium. Teach daughters to save their daughter, teach their daughter daughter, save her daughter. A countrywide plan has been made for financial assistance to pregnant women. 5 million families who burnt the wooden stove and the mothers cooked the food. And the smoke of four hundred cigarettes in a day used to go from the girl's stove to the body of that mother. Those mothers will get good health. Get the primary convenience. Pioneered gas connection in 50 million households and gave 1.5 crore.\n\nThis is the service of the dalit, the victim and the deprived. The Dalit youth of our country are being empowered through stand-up india, start-up india. Small businesses can get loans on low interest, hence the currency scheme has been started. Poverty of poverty will be overcome only when it is empowered. When poor will be strong, then it will continue to suffer poverty. And he will enjoy the liberation from poverty and he will go forward with a new force.\nIn Ramayana, when there was a dialogue about rule between Lord Rama and Bharat, Lord Rama had told Bharat-\nKachid Vishnu Vishnichi Minor Moolam Maha Udayam.\nKshipram Arbhesh Kartum Na Longyasiy Raghav ||\nThat is, ie, implement such schemes, from which the maximum expenditure will be benefited by the maximum number of people. Ramji also told Bharat that the implementation of these schemes should not be delayed at any time.\nIncome: Extra: Raw raw materials expense.\nApatyasu nahi katcha kosho gagchhati raghav ||\nThat is, Bharat, keep in mind that the income is high and the cost is less. They also instruct that the ineligible or undeserving can not get the benefit of the state fund.\nIt is also a part of government's work culture to save the government treasury from disadvantages. You may have seen that we have linked direct access to the bank account by linking the Aadhar card, removing fake ration cards, removing fake gas connections, removing fake teachers, removing those who took away the rights of others, all this, Taken in mode.\n\nBrothers sisters, today's Bharatmata Sadan is also being unveiled by Maa Bharati's statue made from Panchaloh. It is a privilege to open the symbol of Mother Bharti. I greet all the people who were engaged in this special yagna for this virtuous work.\nCompanions, I also salute the statue of Saint Thiruvalluvar built near Vivekananda Rock Memorial. Thiruvalluvar, the sutras, which were given the mantra, are equally relevant today, they are relevant. His learning was for the youth -\n\"In sandy soil, when deep you delve, you reach the springs below; The more you learn, the freer streams of wisdom flow. \"\nThat is, the deeper you dig in the sand, you will reach the water one day. Just as much as you will learn, one day you will reach the Gana of wisdom, Ganga of wisdom.\nToday is the call for young people of my country on Youth Day - let's never stop this process of learning, the process of learning. Never let this student of your life die. The more you learn, the more you develop your spiritual power, the more you develop your skills, the more you develop and the country also.\nWhen some people come to know about spiritual power, they do not understand that they see it within the scope of the cult. But spiritual power is paramount from the sect. It is directly related to human values. It is with divine power. Dr. APJ Abdul Kalam, our former President and the son of this earth, used to say-\n\n\"Spirituality to me is the way we relate to God and the Divine. Staying connected with our spiritual life will keep us grounded and always be reminded of the value of life and important values ​​such as honesty, loving our neighbors, and many other important traits that will make the workplace a positive environment \".\nI am happy that the Vivekananda Center has also been making efforts in this direction for the last several decades. There are more than two hundred branches of Vivekananda center today. Center projects are running in over 800 locations across the country. Health, education, rural India and culture are constantly working in important areas.\nFrom Patna to Port Blair, from Karbi Anglong of Arunachal Pradesh to Anantnag in Kashmir, from Rameshwaram to Rajkot. About 28 thousand students are being taught through this center in remote areas.\nI would particularly like to appreciate the works of Vivekananda center in the northeast states. In Arunachal Pradesh, 7 residential schools were opened in the absence of Eknathji. Today Vivekananda center is connected to social work in more than 50 places in the northeast.\nNumerous students, IIT students, doctors and many professionals voluntarily work as Vivekananda centers. For this, they are not given any kind of salaries, but it is done with all service charges. I believe that this service is an inspiration for all of us for selfless service to the society. Living a normal life is the ideal example of social service. There is a direction for the youth of the country, there is a path.\nPeople associated with the Vivekananda center are now making an important contribution in nation building. I hope this center will continue to create new Vivekananda in the coming generations.\nToday every person who is pro-active in nation building is performing his duty, he is Vivekananda. Every person who is working for the development of the underprivileged and the deprived, it is Vivekananda. Every person who is putting his energy, his ideas, his innovation in the interest of the society, he is Vivekananda.\nआप सभी जिस मिशन में जुटे हैं, वो मानवता के लिए, हमारे समाज के लिए, हमारे देश के लिए एक बड़ी तपस्या की तरह है। आप ऐसे ही भाव से देश की सेवा करते रहें, यही कामना है।\nविवेकानंद जी के जन्मदिवस पर, युवा दिवस पर आप सभी को एक बार फिर बहुत-बहुत शुभकामनाएं। बापू को मेरा जय श्रीराम, और वहां परमेश्वरम जी वगैरह सब को नमन करते हुए मैं मेरी वाणी को विराम देता हूं। और मुझे विश्वास है जैसा मुझे निमंत्रण दिया गया कन्याकुमारी आने के लिये। मेरा अपना घर है ये। देखता हूं कब मौका मिलता है दौड़ता रहता हूं। दौड़ते – दौड़ते कभी एकाद बार बीच में मौका मिल जाएगा। मैं जरूर वहां उस धरती को नमन करने के लिये आ जाऊंगा। आपके बीच कुछ समय बिताऊंगा। मुझे इस अवसर पर मैं वहां रुबरू नहीं आ सका इसका खेद है लेकिन फिर भी दूर से सही। यहां दिल्ली में ठंड है वहां गर्मी है। इन दो के बीच हम नई ऊर्जा और उमंग के साथ आगे बढ़ेंगे। इसी विश्वास के साथ आप सब को इस पावन पर्व पर बहुत बहुत शुभकामनाएं। Thanks a lot."