"Prime Minister inaugurates Vibrant Gujarat Global Summit 2017\nIndia's strength lies in three Ds -Democracy, Demography and Dividend: PM\nIndia has become the fastest growing major economy in the world: PM\nOur government is strongly committed to the reform of the Indian economy: PM\nOur government has given high priority to ease of doing business: PM\nOur development needs are huge Our development agenda is ambitious: PM\nThe Vibrant Gujarat Summit I also wish you a very happy, prosperous and successful new year. I fondly recall the modest launch of this event in 2003. Since then it has been a very successful journey.\nI express my gratitude to the partner countries and organizations - a list that includes Japan, Canada, USA, UK, Netherlands, Australia, Denmark, France, Poland, Sweden, Singapore and UAE. I specially thank you for the initial partner countries of the vibrant Gujarat event: Japan and Canada.\nMany other global global organizations and networks are also partners of this event. I Your presence is a source of motivation for business leaders as well as young entrepreneurs gathered here. Without your support, this event could not have seen eight biennial chapters; each better and bigger than the previous one\nThe last three events The presence of political and business leaders from more than 100 countries, and a large number of organizations can make this a truly global event.\nI would urge the participants to reach out to this summit. You should also visit the trade show and the exhibition where hundreds of companies have showcased their products and processes.\nGujarat, the land of Mahatma Gandhi and Sardar Patel, also represents the business spirit of India Through the ages, it has led in commercial and enterprise. Centuries ago, its people went in search of opportunities. Even today, this state boasts of being the highest number And wherever they have gone, they have created a mini-Gujarat. I proudly say: Jean-ji is a Gujarati, her everlasting Gujarat. In other words, Wherever a Gujarati resides; there, forever, resides Gujarat\nGujarat is currently in the midst of the Kite Festival. May the kites inspire us all\nFriends!\nAs I have often asked India's strength lies in the three Ds: Democracy, Demography and Demand\nOur great strength is the depth of our Democracy Some people say that democracy can not deliver effective and fast track governance. But we have seen in the last two and a half years that it is possible to deliver quick results in a democratic set up as well.\nOver the last two and a half years, we have also developed a culture of healthy competition among states. States are being rated on Parameters of Good Governance The World Bank is helping us in this process.\nComing to Demography, our nation is a nation of vibrant youth. The disciplined, dedicated, and talented youth of India offers a global unmatched work-force. We are the largest English speaking country Our youth is not looking for jobs They have begun taking risks and often preferred entrepreneurs.\nOn the Demand front, our growing middle class offers a huge domestic market.\nAfrica, the Middle East and Europe including the seas that surround the Indian peninsula, connect us to some of the world's biggest markets.\nNature has been kind to us. Our three crop seasons enable us to grow food, vegetables and fruits in abundance.\nThe diversity in our flora and fauna is unparalleled. The richness of our culture and its living symbols is unique. Our Institutions and scholars are recognizing the world over. India is now an emerging R \u0026 D hub. We produce the world's second largest number of scientists and engineers.\nOur entertainment industry is making waves worldwide All this helps to ensure a good quality of life, at relatively low cost.\nFriends!\nOur government was elected first and foremost on the promise of providing clean governance and end the prevailing rule of corruption and nepotism. It is our vision and mission to bring a paradigm shift in the ways of our polity and economy. We have taken a series of decisions and steps in this direction. To give some examples, we are bringing a shift:\nFrom relation based governance to system based governance;\nFrom discretionary administration to policy based administration;\nFrom random interference to technological intervention;\nFrom favouritism to level playing field;\nFrom Informal Economy\nIn doing this, digital technology has played a key role. I have often said that e-Governance is easy and effective. I have also emphasized Online processes help bring speed and openness in decision making. Towards this end, we are working to adopt and absorb newer technologies, to bring transparency, and to end discretion. Believe me, we are the threshold of becoming the world's most digitized economy. Most of you wanted this change in India I'm proud to say that\nOver the last two and a half years, we have worked relentlessly to realize India's potential, and to set right the economy. The results have been encouraging. GDP growth, inflation, fiscal deficit, current account deficit as well as foreign investments\nIndia has become the fastest growing major economy in the world. Despite the global slowdown, we have registered excellent growth. Today, India is a bright spot in the global economy. We are seen as the engine of global growth.\nWorld Bank, IMF and other organizations have also projected In 2014-15, India contributed 12.5 percent of global growth. Its contribution to global growth is sixty eight percent higher, than its share of the world economy.\nCreating an enabling environment for business, and attracting investments, is my top priority. We have to do this in order to create our youth. With that spirit, we are moving toward implementation of some historic initiatives. This includes the Goods and Services Tax\nThe Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, The National Company Law Tribunal, a new arbitration framework and a new IPR regime are all in place. New commercial courts have also been set up. These are just some of the examples. My government is committed to reform\nFriends!\nWe have placed the highest emphasis on ease of doing business. We have taken steps to ease licensing processes, and rationalize provisions and procedures related to clearances, returns, and inspections. We are monitoring implementation of hundreds of points across various sectors, aimed at improving the regulatory framework. This is our commitment of Good Governance.\nThe outcomes of our efforts are visible in India's global rankings on various indicators. A number of global reports and assessments over the last two years have shown that India has improved its policies, practices and hence its economic profile.\nIndia's ranking has improved considerably, the World Bank's Doing Business Report\nIndia is ranked third in the list of the top prospective host economies for 2016-18 in the World Investment Report 2016 released by UNCTAD.\nOur rank also improved by thirty two positions in World Economic Forum's 'Global Competitiveness Report 2015-16 and 2016-17';\nWe have gone up sixteen ranks in the 'Global Innovation Index 2016' brought out by WIPO and other organizations;\nWe have gone up nine positions in the World Bank's 'Logistics Performance Index of 2016.'\nYou can see that we are moving closer to global best practices. Day by day we are getting more and more integrated with the world. Our confidence has been boosted by the positive impact of our policies and practices. This also gives us the motivation to be the simplest place to do business.\nEvery day, we are further developing our policies and procedures, to make it simple for businesses to establish and grow.\nWe have liberalised our FDI regime in many sectors and various ways. India is today among the most open economies\nThis change in environment has been recognized by both domestic and foreign investors. An encouraging start-up eco-system is now taking shape in the country. This is unleashing\nThe total FDI inflows in the last two and a half years have touched US Dollars one hundred and thirty billion. The FDI equity inflow in the last two financial years was sixty percent higher as compared to previous two financial years. In fact, the total FDI inflow was the highest ever.\nThe number of countries from where FDI is coming in, and the sectors in which they are being routed have also diversified in the last two years. India is now the leading recipient of the capital market in Asia-Pacific. It is also going to be among the top ten countries globally in terms of FDI inflows.\nBut the story does not end here India has left all other country behind in terms of return on investment. In 2015, India has risen to first position in the Baseline Profitability Index.\nFriends!\nMake in India has been the biggest brand that India has ever had It is directed towards making India a global hub for manufacturing, design and innovation. 'Make in India' has celebrated its second anniversary recently\nI am happy to share that we have become the sixth largest manufacturing country in the world, up from nineth largest ago. Our Gross Value Added in 2015 has been increased in nine percent by 2015-16. This is too high than the five to six per cent growth in the last three years.\nAll this is helping us expand the job market and raise the purchasing power of our people. But the real potential is even higher\nTo give you a few examples: India's Food Processing Industry is expected to grow about five fold in the next ten years. Similarly, India's low vehicle penetration makes it the world's most attractive auto markets.\nAt the Government level, we have to ensure that our growth process is inclusive and embraces both rural and urban communities. We are committed to an India with:\nBetter job opportunities;"