"\nInaugural of India International Exchange is a momentous occasion for India's financial sector: PM\nIndians are now at the forefront of Information Technology and Finance, both areas of knowledge where zero plays a crucial role: PM\nIndia is a great time zone in West \u0026 East. It can provide financial services through day and night.\nIFSC aims to provide onshore talent with an offshore technological and regulatory framework: PM Modi\nGift city should become the price setter for at least a few of the largest traded instruments in the world: PM\nI am happy to be here at Gift City to inaugurate India's first international stock exchange, that is, the India International Exchange. Indeed, India's financial sector\nAs you are aware, this project took shape in the year 2007. The vision was to create a world class finance and IT zone for India, not only to India but to the whole world services provided.\nIn those days, as now, wherever I went, I would meet some of the financial brains of those countries Whether in New York, London, Singapore, Hong Kong or Abu Dhabi, I would find many of them be Indian origin. I was impressed by their understanding of the financial world, and also their contributions to our adopted countries\nI used to think, \"How can we bring this talent back and at the same time, provide leadership to the whole financial world?\"\nIndians have a long tradition in mathematics. India invented the concept of 'zero' and the 'decimal system' more than two thousand years ago. It is no accident that Indians are now at the forefront of Information Technology and Finance, both areas of knowledge where zero plays a crucial role!\nWhen the Gift city was conceptualized, I was Chief Minister of Gujarat. Technological progress has accelerated manifold We had a world class talent of Indian working in India and abroad. India had a leadership position in Information Technology Finance was increasingly married to technology It is becoming very clear to us that finance combined with technology, or \"fintech\" as it is sometimes called, India's future development.\nI deliberated a lot with experts about how to make India, a thought leader, in the field of Finance. It was clear that we need to have the best facilities and the ability to transact in all markets in the world. Gift Our aim was to provide world class facilities to India's world class talent in finance and technology. Today, with the inauguration of the Exchange, we have reached a very important point of view.\n\nI had visited the Bombay Stock Exchange in June 2013 for a book launch. At that time, I had invited BSE to set up a world beating International Stock Exchange. In the year 2015, during the Vibrant Gujarat event, they signed a MoU with Government of Gujarat. Today, I am happy to be here to inaugurate the new India International Exchange. It is an important milestone not just for Gift city but for India, in creating 21st century infrastructure.\nI am told this exchange will trade in equity, commodities, currencies and interest rate derivatives in the first phase. Later, it will trade equity instruments of Indian and foreign companies. I am also told to trade here. Many more companies from Asia, Africa and Europe should be able to raise funds from this important International Finance Center. This exchange is set to be among the fastest exchanges in the world with the most modern trading, clearing and settlement systems. India is a great time-zone between West and East. It can provide financial services. The exchange, I am told, will work twenty two hours a day, starting when the Japanese markets start, and closing when US markets close. I am sure, this exchange will set new standards for speed and time.\nThis exchange is part of the International Financial Services Center, - IFSC - at Gift city. The concept of an international financial services center is simple but powerful. It aims to provide an overshore technological and regulatory framework. This is to enable Indian companies to compete on an equal footing with offshore financial centers. Gift City IFSC will be able to provide facilities and regulations as well as any other leading international finance center in the world.\nIt is not easy to create an offshore-like environment in a large country like India with a huge domestic market. India can not be compared to small city states Such countries have very small local markets and therefore can afford to have specially favourable tax and regulatory regimes. Large countries can not do the same Creating an offshore-like center within a large country like India, hence did pose regulatory challenges I am glad that the Ministry of Finance, the Reserve Bank and SEBI have found solutions to the regulatory issues.\nThere has been criticism for long that a lot of trading, even in Indian financial instruments, is currently taking place abroad. It is said that India has stopped becoming the price setter for even some Indian financial instruments. Gift city will be able to mitigate many of these criticisms But my vision for Gift City is big My vision is that in ten years from now, Gift city should become the price setter for at least some of the largest traded instruments in the world, whether in commodities, currencies, equities, interest rates or any other financial instrument.\nIndia needs to build 30 million new jobs over the next twenty years. It is a huge endeavor. Skilled and well-paying jobs in the service sector have to be part of this job revolution Indian youth can do it The international exposure which will be our youth will be able to get from Gift city will ensure that more and more of them will be able to join this important field. I urge Indian companies, exchanges and regulators, to help build a pool of experienced professionals. They can work out of this great new city Over the next ten years, I expect this city to generate many millions jobs.\nI would like to know Gift city is the first city to be truly smart city in the country. All the 100 smart cities will do well to understand how Gift city has been able to create its underground infrastructure, which can compete with the best in the world. I have said before that India can become a developed country in one generation. New cities will be important in our dreams:\n- a confident India\n- an inclusive India\n- our India\nI hereby declare the India International Exchange open. I wish Gift city and the India International exchange the very best.\nThank you.\nDelighted to be here Gift City to inaugurate India's first international stock exchange, that is the Indian International Exchange: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) January 9, 2017\nIndians are at the forefront of IT and finance, says PM @narendramodi pic.twitter.com/5fjpOCeR2G\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) January 9, 2017\nAn important milestone for creating 21st century infrastructure: PM @narendramodi @VibrantGujarat #TransformingIndia pic.twitter.com/z8dpFtRGRW\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) January 9, 2017\nIndia International Exchange will set new standards of quality and service of traffic: PM @narendramodi pic.twitter.com/vahzh6GNU5\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) January 9, 2017\nCombination of talent and technology .... enabling Indian companies to compete on an equal footing with offshore financial centers. pic.twitter.com/ensTKBwang\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) January 9, 2017\nNew cities will be important in our dreams! pic.twitter.com/v5Cr9WX2j3"