"\nGovernment is continuously working for the sustainable environment\nIn the last 4 years, old laws have been abolished and hundreds of rules are made possible: PM\nIt is our constant endeavor to simplify procedures for small entrepreneurs: PM Modi\nAll the brothers and sisters present here\nFriends, usually with big business summit, we used to see this kind of event abroad. Now with the vibrant Gujarat, the launch of the Ahmadabad Shopping Festival, as I said - is a commendable initiative. I can feel your enthusiasm for this event.\nI have been told that from different parts of Gujarat, traders from street vendor to shopping mall have joined this festival. From handicraftsmen, businessmen connected to the electronics and hotels, restaurants have come here to spread their products.\nFor the artisans and artisans associated with Khadi and other handicrafts, the Saras Mela has also been organized here. When I went to the stalls a while ago, I had a wonderful glimpse of the tradition of Gujarat and the handicrafts of Gujarat.\nMany entrepreneurs from outside Gujarat are also participating in the festival. A wonderful combination of clothes, jewelry, electronics, our ancient culture and modernity is seen in this festival, especially from the heritage fair. And I will say the most, that you need a heritage fair. Go on the heritage fair even if there is less time.\nPatolan patola ho, bindhi saree, Kutch's handycroft, mirror work, artifacts of tribal areas, things made of bamboo, jute made items; Such a big jute bag And here I saw the things made of stones from the Khambat, also the Warli painting made by tribals; This is a great example of Gujarat's cultural prosperity.\nThere is such a huge and huge collection of such items in our country, that we can strengthen our identity in the whole world with very fast. Such a festival is certainly very helpful for small entrepreneurs to get bigger market. They get a huge platform from such events.\nFriends, the government is constantly making new efforts to create an environment conducive for trade and business in the country. Hundreds of rules have been made easier in the last four and a half years.The old laws were abolished and transparency was being made a part of the system. The result of this is that, four years ago, where we were at 142nd in the ease of doing business ranking, we have reached 77th rank today; I.e. the 65th jump record. Changes, electricity connections, environmental clearance, construction permit, transportation rules - almost every arrangement has been much easier than before.\nGoods and service tax, that is, GST is also a huge step towards creating an honest business system in the country. The dozens of taxes that were used before were reconnected in one.\nRecently, GST Council took a decision that now 40 lakhs turnover; Here are all business people, their work is; GST registration is not mandatory for all merchants up to Rs 40 lakh turnover. Earlier this limit was 20 lakh rupees.\nFriends, efforts to make the GST system more robust, and simple are continuing. The process of continuous improvement is being done on the basis of business, customer suggestions and experiences.\nBrothers and sisters, small and medium industries are the backbone of our economy. As much as India exports, it contributes 40 to 45 percent of the contribution of the small and middle-class entrepreneurs of the country. To strengthen the entrepreneurs like you, the government is also focusing on exports of small products.\nA very big market is also waiting for India outside India. They can make their place in the global market, take advantage of India's growing credibility; For this, the Central Government is doing every possible help of small entrepreneurs.\nThe government has decided to give only two-and half months back that every MSME registered MSME will be given a two per cent rebate of interest on new loan up to Rs 1 crore or on incremental loan amount. In order to promote its exporter, especially the brothers, the government has increased the exemption of the rate of interest in the pre-shipment and post-shipment period, from three percent to five percent.\nApart from this, in the beginning of this year, the government has taken another important decision related to small industries. This decision will greatly benefit small enterprises engaged in textile, leather, handicraft machinery.\nThe interest, which was given to the enterprises engaged in the manufacturing sector, was given in the interest of credit in the same, pre and post-shipment form. For many days there was a demand that merchant exporters in the same should be added. Who have a large role in MSME sector.\nTwo weeks ago the government has accepted this demand and it is going to be a big advantage for the small traders associated with the export. According to an estimate, the small traders who will be able to get the benefits of about Rs 600 crore will be given to these small traders.\nSmall and medium enterprises get new markets by the government, cash flow is not difficult, cash money is not trapped; All new arrangements have also been started for this.\nThe comrades, the government has also created an online platform GEM (i.e. government e-market place). The feature of this platform is that most of the purchases in every department of the Central Government are from GEM Portal. The government has also made rules that about 25 percent of the purchases can be made from small and small industries only.\nThe benefit of this is that now a small entrepreneur who lives in a remote village in the country, any householder can sell his product directly to the government. The result is that through this platform, there has been a turnover of approximately 16.6 billion rupees. 16 thousand rupees, this amount is not small and it has happened in such a short time.\nFriends, the government is trying to make processes for the small entrepreneurs as easy as possible. We are moving towards the system when banks give loans to small entrepreneurs on the basis of their GST and other returns.\nWith the same thought, the government has started a portal, through which the entrepreneurs get theoretical approval of a loan of up to Rs 1 crore in just fifty nine minutes; Not even an hour in those sixty minutes.\nFriends, handloom, powerloom, handicraft - The skills of millions of families associated with this are also being promoted, it is also being spread. For this, the government has implemented a number of schemes. Hot fairs are being arranged across the country, as well as centers of world-level exhibitions are being made for exhibitions. As I said earlier, such an event helps them to explore a larger market, increase their export, help them.\nBrothers and Sisters, there is another legacy which has an emotional attachment from the entire country including Gujarat. This legacy is also associated with the Satyagraha of Bapu and also the renunciation made for the freedom movement and the tenacity and sacrifice. This legacy belongs to Khadi, whose memory only links to the freedom movement.\nThat's why our government has taken the initiative to take khadi again and it is the result of the policies of the government that Khadi has shared the country as well as foreign fashion. Today there is an unprecedented sale of khadi in the country.\nFriends, the Government is engaged in fulfilling all the aspirations of you with full devotion. Be tourism, be manufacturing or our service sector; Millions of jobs have been made in the last four and a half years. Make in India has become a global brand today.\nThe speed of development due to the faith of the brothers and sisters, the countrymen is no longer a hindrance. Be a young person, a farmer or a young man; The new India is the face of everyone's dreams. We need to make every effort to be positive and honest by avoiding every negative. And so, when we are moving in that direction, I give many merchandise many good wishes to all.\nToday I came in the afternoon, this is my fourth event. An international trade fair was inaugurated at Gandhinagar. Now the pride of Ahmedabad, the pride of Gujarat, such a Sardar Vallabh Bhai Hospital- the modern hospital, the excellent hospital- had the opportunity to inaugurate it and sitting on the banks of river Sabarmati, a child who used to study and who had studied science and technology In the world, the name of the country illuminated, became the place of space in the world of space; I have got the opportunity to give birth to such a child, the pride of this city, the statue of the country's great deity Vikram Sarabhai.\nThis year is the year of the birth anniversary of Dr. Vikram Sarabhai and the year of birth of the birth centenary of Dr. Vikram Sarabhai will create an attraction for science among the children of our Gujarat, we take people towards the scientific temper; I think it will be a great tribute to them. And I saw, it seems that Vikram Sarabhai himself is sitting here and doing his studies. From art point of view, the best place is enhancing the glory of this river front. It was a pleasure for me that I got an opportunity to inaugurate it today.\nToday, when this shopping festival is going on, I will urge the Gujarat government, Ahmedabad and friends like our Shailesh Bhai Patwari to make a certain program every year. And at the same time every year, but with this you must have seen these kinds of shopping festivals have become very popular in many places in the world.\nThose people who have seen this shopping festival in New York, have an event associated with them and they say Message Day Parade, it is very popular. All traders push their own things through this kind of way. Message Day Parade The parade of which people of the world come to see him.\nDo we also set a certain date for all of our products; Even if the poor small village creator is a craftsman - then he should get the reputation and gather all the people at the message parade, become popular as a huge festival and the festival starts on the second day.\nI think Shailesh Bhai and his team work on doing this work. Very young youngsters have organized it with great enthusiasm 1 I believe that will move it further.\nAnd my second request will be- see, what was the image of Gujarat in the past - we had a common trader identity. Taking too much, what is the trader, buying a place from one place, selling to another place and from the middle of your hard earned brokerage? That was what he used to run his business. From here on, gradually became a Gujarat manufacturing state today.\nBeing a manufacturing state from Trader State is the result of a very large, long successful journey of Gujarat in itself. And so, understanding this strength, Gujarat itself is a global community in a way. The people of Gujarat have global exposure. In every tehsil, in the district, some family has gone abroad in the nearby village; He keeps the world's information.\nThe businessman of Gujarat used to have the power to sell his goods in the world with small boats 200, 400 years ago. I went to the street once; There is a place in Russia, a state. I saw there that a good shop is a very good value - so its name is kept 'Okha' with great urgency. Our Dwarka has 'Okha' Why? 400 years ago, our people used to go there to trade and the goods sold there were of great pride, it was believed to have come from 'Okha'. Even today generations have gone but if the 'Okha' brand is found then the goods are good; This is the tradition of people.\nI believe that now every person working on earth in Gujarat and Gujarat should make his place in the world trade. How to grow our exports, target and these small things are very big in the market. Small parts, small handicrafts; There is a huge market for this. If we take advantage of it, then a new opportunity will arise for Gujarat.\nAnd we have natural links. Fear of unknown, who is said to be, is not for the Gujaratis anywhere, anywhere, somebody is familiar. We try, try collectiveism, take advantage of incentive and we play our dancers in the world market; With this one expectation I once again Ahmedabad, changed Ahmedabad; Have done this job.\nI would urge the customers to take the most out of this shopping. And Ahmedabadi, I am sure, will take advantage of this. The news about the discount is very big in itself and also the lottery number in it; Then it becomes like double bonanza. So I urge the Ahmedabad and the people of Gujarat and the guests from abroad to take advantage of this opportunity too.\nThen I would like to say very well.\nThank you very much."