"Share\n\nRailways connect every citizen of India Prime Minister Narendra Modi\nNDA government has given topmost priority to the railways: PM Modi\nWe want to make our rail network modern: PM Modi\nWe want our railways to bring a qualitative difference in the lives of citizens: PM\nBudget allocation has increased, doubling work, gauge conversion work is happening fast: PM\nRailway gives 'Gati' and 'Pragati' to the nation: PM\nDear brothers and sisters,\nIn our country, the railway is a system related to the common people of the country. Railways have been a resort to poor families also. But unfortunately the railway has been left out on its luck. And in the last 30 years, especially when there were mixed governments in Delhi and in that manner the companions who lived in the same manner would have joined the cabinet or supported the government if they met the railway ministry. That is, in a way, the Ministry of Railways came to work for distribution of Rewi to make governments. This is a bitter truth, and the result was that the political party of any political party who came to the railway was less concerned about the Railways. I do not have to say what the rest will be.\nThis government has given priority to the Railways, expanding the railway; Development of railway; Railways became modern and how did the railway become helpful with a qualitative change in the life of general public? And if you have seen the activities of the railway in the last two and a half years, you will come to the attention that the budget has been doubled compared to earlier. This is not a small issue. And the railways are also used by the poorest of the poor, so the budget for such a big budget is decided to spend on the railway. If the work of doubling in the day was a few kilometers a year, then today the work of doubling is being doubled, already three times.\nMaking Broad Gaze from Meter Gaze first work of gaze conversion in railway, making Broad Gaze from Narrow Gaze; This work was in the last section, it was given priority. He has been able to achieve many times more success than before. If the railways run from diesel engine, going from coal, environmental questions, diesel, then import diesel from abroad from across the world. Environment is also protected; Foreign exchange can not even go; How to get railways from the diesel to electrification; In very large quantities, electrification of rail lines is being done at a faster pace, the construction of the Rail Engine Electric engine is being done. Azad has come in the area of ​​the largest foreign direct investment railroad in India and the work is going to work for two big Loco Engineering Manufacture. In the future, it is going to be the engine of changing the speed of the entire railway.\nBy taking these things together with cleanliness, the convenience of the railway was emphasized, Bio-toilet; Otherwise we know that the tracks on the train are full of dirt. Work on it very fast, stressed, a huge expense. But this does not appear immediately, but it is going to make big profit for a long time.\nThe effort of a change from the point of view of health, has given greater emphasis in that direction. How to speed up the rail? Otherwise, it was moving and moving; They are sitting, they can go off and then climb up; All this can be changed. The work in Special Mission Mode is underway, what are the arrangements for exiting what to improve so that the speed of the train is increased. Technology is changing, people are adding people from the world in terms of technology that security is a matter of great concern and there is a challenge.\nTechnological change in the world has happened so that the railways can be made secure. Concerns and arrangements are going on for a large amount of budget to be spent if the compartment is spent. Freight Corridor, railroad goes to the rail world with 70 percent cargo, goods and rail, 30 percent goes by road. The guarantee is a country where 15-20% goes by rail, goes from 70-80% road. And when the cargo goes by road then it becomes very expensive. If someone thought that the salt produced in Gujarat would go to Jammu and Kashmir and if by going by Road it would be so expensive that no one can buy. And hence the more cargo transport through the rail, the poorest of the poor will get cheaper. And so work is going on in increasing the cargo.\nWhen I had given the work to the railway people, I said the salt which is the container of the railway, its weight is 16 tons and then it hardly brings two tons, three tons of salt, I said the 16 ton Container is 6 tons What happens? If it is 6 tons, then 12 tons of salt will be salt and salt will go, where salt will reach, it will start getting free and salt of those who produce salt will also be able to reach very soon. Railways have designed the design, how to carry salt, container, so that the weight is reduced. That is, the railways are working towards making a change in one thing.\nAnd I believe that the train will change at very fast speed. The convenience of the common man will increase, the railways will reach far and wide areas, the railways will connect the monkeys of India, railways will be connected with the mines of India, rail connectivity with the consumers of India, but also economically. Whatever the railway stations are in the Heart of the City That land is so valuable but the sky is empty. It is a matter of great discretion that even if the railroad goes down, make up a ten-storey, 25-storey things on the top, there will be Mall, theater, the hotel, the market, it will continue on the rail; Below the train will move. The place will be doubly utilized, the railroad will increase in income, the investment investor will come to invest. In Gujarat, we successfully used people, developed bus station based on Public Private Partnership Model. Today, the poor go to the poor bus station, they get the same facility which rich people go to the airport, they have shown by Gujarat.\nIn the coming days there are thousands of railway stations in India, which can develop like this. You will remember everyone on the day that he had laid the foundation stone of Mahatma Mandir, Golden Jubilee Year was Gujarat, in 2010; And on this first day on May, I had said that the foundation which is laid today in the Mahatma Mandir, and I am clearly watching, one day it will come when this great Mahatma temple will sit and talk about world peace.\nMahatma Mandir connected with the name of Mahatma Gandhi, but we made that Mahatma Mandir so fast, now those arrangements are needed that the people of this type of world should come and come, this hotel being built at the railway station. The people coming in will naturally use the Convention Center of the Mahatma Mandir; There you will meet here and there will be exhibitions on the Helipad Ground. That is, I see the possibility of a magnetic center of the entire business of the whole of India as a whole corridor, railway be, Mahatma Mandir, Helipad area. And hence the Infrastructure Railway, which was being built at the railway station, was going on, the land was lying, but it was used to join it together and due to which the Mahatma Mandir has been busy for 365 days for 300 days, there has been a direct and straightforward chance with him. . There are also prospects for which there are world-class programs to be created and this is also the basis for the development of the railway.\nThis is the first project of Hindustan today to start Gandhinagar. In the coming days, India will also move further. Our Suresh Prabhu ji has provided Wi-Fi facility at railway stations. The dream of Digital India is going to be fulfilled. Some people are poor people of this country, what they understand and you will be surprised, 60-70% of the people in the Indian Railways do online Ticket Purchase, do Sixty-Seventy Percent? Online Ticket Purchase, it is the power of Hindustan.\nThe common man who goes to Rail is also booking and taking the Ticket of Online Railway today. Wi-Fi has the experience that today is the analysis of all the people of India and the world, when Google's people came, they were discussing, the capacity of Wi-Fi at India's railway station is probably the highest in the world. In the station area, And the result is that many students who like to study online, use things for download and learning, they try to get to the railway station and sit on their computer, Laptop The work is done and the things that are needed in the world are available. This is how the system can change how an arrangement is shown in the two-and-a-half years by the Railways of India.\nUnder this, Gujarat is going to start a project that is useful for the entire country in the coming days and in other cities of India as well as taking the railway to new heights, making the railway a medium of convenience for the common man. And the railway that gives speed to the country, it is the railway which also gives progress to the country. I feel proud of the people of Gujarat, the people of Gandhinagar, and today on this eve of the Vibrant Summit, I feel very proud and contented.\nThanks a lot."