"\nPM Modi attends Pravasi Bharatiya Divas 2017\nIndians are not allowed They are respected for the contributions they make: PM\nThe Indian diaspora represents the best Indian culture, ethos and values: PM\nEngagement with the Indian community has been a key area of ​​priority: PM\nThe security of Indian nationals are extremely important to us: PM\nExcellencies and friends,\nTo begin with, let me offer our deepest condolences to the people and government of Portugal on the passing away Mr. Mario Soares, former President, Prime Minister, a great leader of Portugal and a global states-man. He was the architect of the re-establishment of diplomatic relations between India and Portugal. We stand with Portugal in full support\nYour Excellency, the Vice President of Suriname, Mr. Michael Ashwin Adhin,\nYour Excellency the Prime Minister of Portugal, Dr. Antonio Costa,\nShri Vaju Bhai Wala, Governor of Karnaktaka\nMr. Siddaramaiah ji, Chief Minister of Karnataka\nHonourable Ministers,\nDignitaries from India and Abroad,\nAnd the most important of all, the global family of overseas Indians\nIt is a great pleasure for me to welcome all the 14th Pravasi Indian Diwas. Thousands of people have traveled from far-off lands to join us today today. Millions more / are connected through digital platforms\nThis day is a celebration to mark the return of India to one of the greatest Pravasis- Mahatma Gandhi\nThere is a festival in which there is a host by itself, and the guest is also you. This festival is a festival of a nation meeting its children living abroad. The real identity and the glory of this event is yours. It is a matter of great pride for us to be included in this festival. All of you are warmly welcomed.\nWe are celebrating this event in the beautiful city of Bengaluru. I wish to thank the Chief Minister, Siddharamaih ji, and his whole government for his assistance and efforts in organizing this event / and making it a big success.\nIt is my special pleasure to welcome the Prime Minister of Portugal, the Vice President of Suriname, the honorable ministers from Malaysia and Mauritius to the event.\nTheir achievements, the name they have earned in their own societies and globally, are a great inspiration for all of us.\nIt also reflects the success, glory and enterprise of Indian diaspora the world over.\nThere are over 30 million Indians living abroad. Their footprint is all over the world But, Indians are not allowed to They are respected for the contributions they make - to India and to the societies and countries where they live in foreign lands and communities across the globe, regardless of the path they take, and the goals they pursue, the Indian diaspora is the best Indian culture, ethos and values Their hard-work, discipline, law-abiding and peace are nature models\nYour inspiration is many, the objective is many, the paths are different, the floors all but the one-on-one Indianism. Where the migrant Indians live, it is considered as a karmabhoomi, where they came from, considered as a state of mind. Whereas the migrant Indians have developed there and they have made immense contribution to where they belong.\nFriends, For my government and for me personally, engagement with the overseas Indians In the United States, UK, Australia, South Africa, UAE, Qatar, Singapore, Fiji, China, Japan, South Korea, Kenya, Mauritius, Seychelles, I have met and spoken to hundreds of thousands of our brothers and sisters. Malaysia and other countries.\nAs a result of our sustained and systematic out-reach, there is new energy, keen desire and strong drive among Indian expatriates to connect with more extensively and deeply with India's social and economic transformation\nThe remittance of close to sixty nine billion dollars annually by the overseas Indians makes an unmatched contribution / to the Indian economy.\nOverseas Indians have indomitable will for the development of the country; They are a steakholder in the progress of the country. In our development journey you are our VALUABLE PARTNER. You are a participant in our efforts to convert India's Brain Drain into BRAIN GAIN.\nNRIs and PIOs have made outstanding contributions to their selected fields.\nAmong them, there are politicians of stature, scientists of repute, outstanding doctors, brilliant educationists, economists, musicians, famous philanthropists, journalists, bankers, engineers and lawyers. And, sorry, did I mention our well-known Information Technology professional? Tomorrow, 30 overseas Indians will receive from the President, the prestigious Pravasi Indian Samman Award, which in the contribution made by them / in various fields, both in India and abroad\nFriends, Irrespective of their background and profession, the welfare and safety of all Indians abroad is our top priority. For this, we are strengthening the entire eco-system of our administrative arrangements. Whether it is on loss of their passports, need for legal advice, medical assistance, shelter, or even transportation of mortal remains to India, I have directed all Indian embassies to be proactive to address problems of Indian nationals abroad.\nOur response to the needs of the Indian nationals is defined by\nAccessibility, sensitivity, speed and promptness 24 by 7 help-lines by Indian Embassies; 'Open House' meetings with Indian nationals; consular camps; twitter seva for passport services; and use of social media platforms for immediate access; are some of the measures that we have put in place on a clear message.\nThe security of Indian nationals abroad In situations of distress faced by Indian nationals, we have reached / to ensure their safety, rescue and repatriation. Our External Affairs Minister\nSmt. Sushma Swaraj, has been specializing in proactive and prompt / in reaching out of distressed Indians abroad using social media.\nUnder Operation crisis redemption in July 2016, we evacuated over one hundred and fifty Indian nationals from South Sudan within 48 hours. Prior to that, we evacuated many thousands of our citizens from conflict situations in Yemen in the well-coordinated, smooth and swift operations. In the last two years - 2014-2016, we facilitated the repatriation of over ninety thousand Indian nationals from about 54 countries. Through the Indian Community Welfare Fund / We have assisted more than eighty thousand Indian nationals abroad / who were in contingency situations\nOur aim is / that for every Indian abroad, home should never be far away For those workers who seek economic opportunities abroad, our effort is to ensure maximum flexibility and to ensure the least inconvenience. Our motto is: \"Go Safe, Go Trained.\" For nearly six lakh emigrants, foreign employment for online registration / registration through recruitment agents for emigration clearance online. Online registration of foreign employers on e-migrate portal has made mandatory\nAnd, the grievances, complaints and petitions of the Indian migrant workers continue to be addressed online through e-migrate and MADAD platforms. We are also taking strict action against illegal recruitment agents in India. Prosecution sanctions by CBI or State Police against illegal agents; and increase in the amount of bank guarantees deposited by the recruiting agents from Rs.20 lakhs to Rs.50 lakhs; are some of the steps in this direction To ensure that the migrating Indian workers enjoy better economic opportunities, we will soon launch a skill development program\nThe Pravasi Kaushal Vikas Yojana is targeted at Indian youth who seek overseas employment.\nFriends We have a special bond with the Indian Diaspora which is living in the Girmitiya countries - who are deeply and emotionally attached to their place of origin. We are aware of the difficulties faced by Persons of Indian Origin / from these countries in obtaining an OCI Card if they moved abroad four or five generations ago. We acknowledge our concerns and endorses these issues.\nI am glad to announce that starting with Mauritius, we are working to put in new procedures and documentation requirements so that the descendants of Girmitiyas from this country can become eligible for OCI Cards. We are committed to addressing similar difficulties of PIOs in Fiji, Reunion Islands, Suriname, Guyana and other Caribbean states.\nI will encourage all PIO card holders to convert their PIO Cards to OCI Cards. I know that you are quite busy. Looking at this, I am happy to announce that we have extended the deadline for such conversion from\n31 December 2016, until June 30, 2017 without any penalty. From first of January this year, beginning with airports in Delhi and Bengaluru, we have also set up special counters at Immigration points in our airports for OCI Card holders.\nFriends, Today, there are about 7 lakh Indian students / pursuing academic programs abroad I am convinced that every Indian living abroad, is eager to join India's progress. Their science and the union of India's knowledge. India will take economic progress to unlimited height. I have always tried and believed that capable and successful migrants should get a full opportunity to join India's development story. Especially in science and technical areas.\nWe have taken several steps for this. One of them is the Department of Science and Technology is introducing Visiting Associate Joint Research Faculty or VAJRA scheme which enables NRIs and overseas scientific community to participate and contribute to research and development in India. Under the scheme an overseas Indian can work for one to three months in an institution in India. And, that too, at good terms But the most important thing is that the Overseas Indians will be an integral part of the country's progress.\nFriends, It is my firm belief that connect between India and over-seas Indians should be sustained and enriching for both. To meet this goal, in October last year, on the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, I had the honor of inaugurating the Pravasi Indian Center in New Delhi. This is Kendra is the over-seas Indian community We want to get a symbol of the global migration, experiences, struggles, achievements and\nAspirations of the Indian Diaspora I am confident that the center will become another important platform for crystallizing the ongoing efforts of the government to redefine its engagement / with the over-seas Indian community.\nFriends, our Native American is from abroad for many generations. Every generation experience made India more capable. Like new affection on new plants emerges within us, in the same way, the young overseas Indians living abroad also are special for us.We would like to have close and strong contacts with young Pravasis from the younger generation of migrant Indians. To provide the young Indian-origin youths in a chance to visit their motherland and reconnect with their Indian roots, culture, and heritage-we have expanded the government's Know India program, under which for the first time, six groups of young over-seas Indians are visiting India this year\nI am very happy to know / that 160 of these young over-seas Indians today are participating in the Pravasi Indian Divas. A special welcome to the young Pravasis- I hope that on returning to your respective countries, you will remain connected with us, wherever you are, and visit again again. Last year, the first edition of the online quiz for young\noverseas Indians called \"Bharat ko Jaano\" saw participation of more than 5000 young NRIs and PIOs. In the second edition of this year, I hope to see the participation of at least fifty thousand young overseas Indians.\nFriends, today India is moving forward towards a new progressive direction. Such progress which is not only economic but social, political, and administrative. In the financial sector, the FDI norms for PIOs and NRIs are completely liberalized. Investments by PIOs on non-repatriation basis; and by companies, trusts and partnerships are owned by them, are now deemed to be a domestic investment. Many of our programs like Swachh Bharat Mission, Digital India, Make in India and Start-up India,\nThose who can join directly with the progress of the common man of Indian / Indigenous Indian.\nThere are some people who want to contribute in business and investments. Swachh Bharat, Namami Gange and others.\nSome others may feel motivated to spare their valuable time and effort in volunteering in India. Under the privileged or contributing to capacity building programs in various sectors\nWe welcome all your efforts that seek to strengthen India's partnership with the over-seas Indian community. I also invite you to visit the exhibition in the PBD Convention which gives you a glimpse of some flagship programs.\nFriends, we have taken a pioneer against black money. Black money is slowly hollowing our politics, country and society and rule. Some political priests of black money call our efforts anti-people. I congratulate him for the support given by the Nationals of the Indian Government in abolishing black money.\nFriends Finally, I would like to say that as Indians, we have a common heritage that brings us all together. And, no matter where we may be around the globe, it is in common bond / that we are strong\nThank You and Jai Hind\nPM begins, condoles death of Mario Soares, architect of the re-establishment of diplomatic relations btw India and Portugal # PBD2017 pic.twitter.com/IpMGiULJEh\n- Vikas Swarup (@MEAIndia) January 8, 2017\nIt is a great pleasure for me to welcome all of you on this 14th Pravasi Indian Diwas: PM @narendramodi # PBD2017 @PBDConvention\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) January 8, 2017\nIndians are not allowed They are respected for the contributions they make: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) January 8, 2017\nThe Indian Diaspora represents the best of Indian culture, ethos and values: PM @narendramodi # PBD2017 @PBDConvention\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) January 8, 2017\nEngagement with the overseas Indian community has been a key area of ​​priority: PM @narendramodi @PBDConvention # PBD2017\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) January 8, 2017\nRemittance of close to sixty nine billion dollars annually by overseas Indians makes an unimportant contribution to the Indian economy: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) January 8, 2017\nNRIs and PIOs have made outstanding contributions to their selected fields: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) January 8, 2017\nThe welfare and safety of all Indians abroad is our top priority: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) January 8, 2017\nThe security of Indian nationals are extremely important to us: PM @narendramodi @PBDConvention # PBD2017\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) January 8, 2017\nEAM @SushmaSwaraj is specially active and prompt in reaching out of distressed Indians abroad using social media: PM at # PBD2017\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) January 8, 2017\nFor those workers who seek economic opportunities abroad, our effort is to ensure maximum facilitation and to ensure a minimum inconvenience: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) January 8, 2017\nI will encourage all the PIO Card holders to convert their PIO Cards to OCI Cards: PM @narendramodi @PBDConvention # PBD2017\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) January 8, 2017\nPM: We will soon launch a skill devt program - The Pravasi Kaushal Vikas Yojana - targeted at Indian youth seeking overseas employment pic.twitter.com/4VJbL4CWE2\n- Vikas Swarup (@MEAIndia) January 8, 2017\nPM: Starting w / Mauritius, we are working to put in place procedures so that the descendants of Girmitiyas could become eligible for OCI Cards pic.twitter.com/wGng9BjFj9\n- Vikas Swarup (@MEAIndia) January 8, 2017\nPM: We have committed to addressing similar difficulties of PIOs in Fiji, Reunion Islands, Suriname, Guyana and other Caribbean States. pic.twitter.com/KTd9yYKQEv\n- Vikas Swarup (@MEAIndia) January 8, 2017\nWe welcome all your efforts that seek to strengthen India's partnership with the overseas Indian community: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) January 8, 2017\nPM: We have expanded the deadline for PIO card conversions to OCI from 31 December 2016, until June 30, 2017 without any penalty.\n- Vikas Swarup (@MEAIndia) January 8, 2017\nPM: From1st of January this year, starting with Delhi \u0026 Bengaluru, we have set up special counters at immignn points for OCI cardholders\n- Vikas Swarup (@MEAIndia) January 8, 2017\nPM speaks of how overseas Indians in the scientific field can share their knowledge and expertise through programs like VAJRA schemes pic.twitter.com/slIa8rnZcF\n- Vikas Swarup (@MEAIndia) January 8, 2017\nPM on the Pravasi Indian Center: We want to become a symbol of global migration, achievements and aspirations of the Diaspora.\n- Vikas Swarup (@MEAIndia) January 8, 2017\nPM: A special welcome to the young Pravasis - I hope that on returning to your respective countries, you will remain connected with us pic.twitter.com/QeESshH9qm\n- Vikas Swarup (@MEAIndia) January 8, 2017\nPM concludes: whether knowledge, time or money, we welcome your contributions'ns that strong India's partnership w / overseas community pic.twitter.com/eibfXZYbZD"