"Share\n\nIndia \u0026 Portugal has built modern bilateral partnership on the foundation of a shared historical link: PM\nOur partnership is also strengthened by a strong convergence on global issues, including the United Nations: PM\nExpansion and deepening of trade, investment and business partnerships between India-Portugal is our shared priority: PM\nPartnership being forged between Start-up Portugal and Start-up India will help us in our mutual quest to innovate and progress: PM\nPM Modi thanks PM Antonio Costa of Portugal for consistent support for India's permanent membership of the UN Security Council\n\nYour Excellency, Prime Minister Antonio Costa,\nDistinguished delegates,\nGood evening, to you all\nExcellency,\nIt gives me immense pleasure to welcome you and your delegation to India. This is your first State Visit to India, but you are not a stranger to India, nor is India unfamiliar to you. So, in addition to a warm welcome on this chilly evening, I must also say, Welcome back! We are deeply honored that you have accepted our invitation to be the Chief Guest at our Pravasi Indian Divas, the Indian Diaspora Day celebrations, in Bengaluru. Tomorrow, we have given the privilege to celebrate our outstanding achievements. I also want to congratulate you for some successes. Under your leadership, the Portuguese economy is on a steady course and right direction.\nFriends,\nIndia and Portugal have built a modern bilateral partnership on the foundation of a shared historical link. Our partnership is also strengthened by a strong convergence on global issues, including the United Nations. In my broad discussions with Prime Minister Costa today, we reviewed the full range of India-Portugal ties across different sectors We agreed that the two countries should focus on action oriented approach to the potential of economic opportunities in our partnership. The agreements signed today are just one point of view.\nFriends,\nExpansion and deepening of trade, investment, and business partnerships Areas of infrastructure, waste and water management, solar and wind energy, and innovation are full of opportunities to build strong economic relations between our two economies.On our ecosystem for creating an experience, start-ups for bilateral engagement of a exciting area. It offers unique possibilities for building a futuristic partnership between our young business entrepreneurs that creates both values ​​and wealth for both our societies. I am confident that the start-up of Portugal and Start-up between the partnership has been created by our mutual quest to innovate and progress Prime Minister Costa and I also agreed to deepen our partnership in the field of security and defence.The MoU on Defense cooperation today will help us mutness in this field of muteness in our respective strengths.portports is another area that will be our bilateral ties We are aware, Excellency, that is a real football fan. Portugal's strength in football and the rapid development of the sport in India could well form the nucleus of an emerging partnership in sporting disciplines.\nFriends,\nIndia and Portugal share common views on many international issues. I thanked Prime Minister Costa for Portugal's consistent support for India's permanent membership of the UN Security Council We are also grateful for the support extended by Portugal to India's membership of the Missile Technology Control Regime, and for its continuous support for India's membership of the Nuclear Suppliers Group. We also discussed the need for the global community to take strong and urgent action against terrorism.\nExcellency,\nIndia and Portugal share a common cultural canvas. We deeply appreciate the contribution of your father, Orlando Costa, to enriching this space and to Goan and Indo-Portuguese literature. Today, we have released a commemorative stamp celebrating two dance forms. These two art forms, one Portuguese and the other Indian, are wonderful examples of our cultural affinities.\nExcellency,\nYou have a exciting agenda of engagements and travels in India over the next couple of days. I wish you and your delegation the very best for stay and experience in Bengaluru, Gujarat and Goa. I especially like to have a memorable visit to Goa and are able to reconnect\nThank You\nThank You very much\nIt gives me immense pleasure to welcome you and your delegation to India: PM @narendramodi to PM @antoniocostapm https://t.co/Iy8hu3Nre5\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) January 7, 2017\nIndia and Portugal have built a modern bilateral partnership on the foundation of a shared historical link: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) January 7, 2017\nOur partnership is also strengthened by a strong convergence on global issues, including the United Nations: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) January 7, 2017\nExpansion and deepening of trade, investment and business partnerships between our two countries is our shared priority: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) January 7, 2017\nPartnership being forged between Start-up Portugal and Start-up India will help us in our mutual quest to innovate and progress: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) January 7, 2017\nI thanked PM @antoniocostapm for Portugal's consistent support for India's permanent membership of the UN Security Council: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) January 7, 2017\n"