"\nGuru Gobind Singh ji has inspired many people: PM Modi\nGuru Gobind Singh ji put knowledge at the core of his teachings and inspired so many people through his thoughts and ideals: PM\nGuru Gobind Singh ji did not believe in any form of social discrimination and he treated everyone equally: PM Modi\nBihar will play a major role in the nation: PM Modi\nShri Patna Sahib, Guru Dassi Nagari Vikhe Dasmesh Father Sahib Shri Guruji Govind Singh Ji Maharaj Give Birthday to Guru Sahihan The Bakhshish Lane, I am Sadh Sangat, Tihanu I live Yes Yes Didda Yes, I have given this holy day and I gave it to you.\nToday, we have been fortunate to celebrate this holy festival on this holy land of Patna Sahib. But today, wherever the Indians live, the Sikh community lives, in all the countries of the world, the Government of India has planned to celebrate this Festival of Festivals through our Embassy so that not only in India but the entire world It is a matter of fact that Guru Gobind Singh Maharaj was born a hundred and a half hundred years ago (350) which has given inspiration to humanity. The world has also made a lot of effort in that direction.\nI especially congratulate Mr. Nitish on the Government, his allies and the people of Bihar, because this festival is a special significance in Patna Sahib. The unity, integrity, brotherhood, social harmony, universal equality of Hindustan is the power to give its very strong message, it is in celebration of the festival of light in Patna Sahib and therefore, with the hard work, Nitish ji told me that he himself Gandhi has planned to make such a grand ceremony by coming to the ground and worrying about everything closely.\nThe venue of the event may be in Patna Sahib, but the inspiration is to the whole of India; Motivation is to the whole world. And therefore, this lighthouse is to follow the path of humanity to us, what are our values, what are our values, what can we give to humankind, once again remembering new excitement, enthusiasm and energy This is an opportunity to move forward.\nGuru Gobind Singh Ji Maharaj was an image of sacrifice. We can imagine that you see the sacrifice of your pious father in front of your eyes and see your children in the presence of ideals, for values, sacrifice for humanity, and after this, see the culmination of renunciation; Guru Gobind Singh Ji Maharaj could also carry this Guru tradition, but his long vision was that he kept the knowledge at the center and considered every word of the Guru Granth Sahib as a jivanmani and for the rest of us it was said in the end; Now Guru Granth Sahib, every word of his, his every page will inspire us to the ages to come. These were also part of the example of their sacrifice; Even further, when he was the father and father of the Khalsa creed, he was also trying to add entire India to it.\nWhen people talk about Adi Shankaracharya, they say that Adi Shankar had tried to strengthen the unity of India by constructing a monastery in four corners of India. Guru Gobind Singh Maharaj Sahib also made a wonderful effort to bind the entire Hindustan by the Khalsa tradition to the form of unity in different parts of India by the choice of those panch-ki, which is still our heritage. And I always feel by heart that I have some blood relation because those five-pious ones who were earlier panch-beloved were not told this to them. You will get this, you will get this post, you come forward, come forward. No, the criteria of Guru Govind Singh Maharaj Sahib was also very high standard. He had also invited to cut; Come, your head will be cut off and on the basis of this sacrifice, it will be decided how to move forward. People came forward from different corners of the country to give their heads, in that one was the son of tailor-made society of Dwarka in Gujarat, that too came forward and found the place in Panch-beloved. Guru Govind Singh Maharaj Sahib embraced him and constructed Panch-kare Khalsa tradition, Guru Gobind Singh Maharaj Sahib wanted that this tradition could have passed, but this was his sacrifice, his height was that Guru Govind Singh Maharaj Saheb himself tied himself to the bonds, and he said that these are the panch-dareyas, these Khalsa traditions have been made; Do not do too for me; do not; When to do, how to do; I will follow this decision.\nI understand that Guru Gobind Singh Ji Maharaj can not imagine the big sacrifice of this, that the system he created himself, the system which was created with his own inspiration, but he arranged that system on his head and himself Dedicated to that arrangement and the result of that greatness is to celebrate the festival of three hundred and fifty (350) years, then go to any corner of the world, on the Sikh Any person associated with the mirror will be there, there is a knit on him, he dedicates himself. Groom Govind Singh Ji Maharaj followed the tradition that he had kept.\nSo when such a great inspiration mentions Govind Singh Ji Maharaj, some historians only reveal the aspect of bravery and heroism. But his patience with his bravery was patience, that was wonderful, that was wonderful. They used to struggle but the culmination of renunciation was unprecedented. They used to fight against evil in society. High values ​​of low caste, caste of caste, also fighting against them, forming society in the form of unity, equality of all, there is no difference between the high and low, even in the midst of life for them, I used to spend my life in.\nBeing a social reformer, inspiration of bravery, sacrifice of selflessness in the ascetic of asceticism and penance, all the qualities of the guru Govind Singh Ji Maharaj's life has been inspired by the generations to come. We are also equal to every class of society, with no universal equality, neither is it high nor lowly, neither is anyone, nor is there any alienation; By taking these great mantras we will also establish those ideals all over the country.\nThe unity of the country will be strong, the strength of the country will increase; the country will achieve new heights of progress. We also need bravery, we also need patience; We also need bravery, we also need Parakram; We also need sacrifice and penance. This balanced society system, in every word of Guru Gobind Singh Ji Maharaj Sahib, has been inspiring us in every work of life, and hence, today we have the good fortune to bow in the feet of this great holy soul.\nToday, Guru Gobind ji Maharaj came to the same place and had the privilege of bowing down to Guru Granth Sahib too, I am confident that this will inspire us. Here Nitish ji touched a very important thing. Mahatma Gandhi's century of Champaran satyagraha, but I congratulate Nitish on one thing from heart. The task of social change is very difficult, it is very difficult to work. It is also very difficult to dare to put it in hand. But in spite of that, he has campaigned for drug addiction. I congratulate him for the efforts he has taken to save the coming generations, I congratulate him.\nAnd I will also ask all the political parties from all the political parties, those working in all social life, this work is not just for the government, this is not just Nitish Kumar's job, this work is done only by a political party Is not; This is the work of the people. If you make him successful then Bihar will become the inspiration of the country. And I believe that the leader who has raised Nitish ji will definitely be successful and in this work to save our next generation, this light festival of Guru Gobind Singh Ji will give him a new strength, give him a new strength. And I believe that Bihar will become a very precious power of the country, Bihar will contribute a lot to further the country. Because it is the land of Bihar which has given us so many great men from Guru Govind Singh Ji Maharaj Sahib. Remember Rajendra Babu Champaran Satyagraha, Satyagraha is the land of imagination. Jayprakash Narayan, Karpuri Thakur; Countless, countless men and women of this earth have given birth to Mother Bharti. On such land, Guru Govind Singh ji Maharaj inspires us a new ideal, new inspiration, new power for all of us. We celebrate this festival with the same opportunity, the light of the festival, with the determination to bring the light of knowledge into our life.\nThis festival is being celebrated by the Embassy, ​​through different missions of the Government of India, which are being held around the world. I congratulate all the people who have remembered Guru Govind Singh ji Maharaj Sahab, who are spread all over the world, very much congratulations, I congratulate him very much. The Government of India has planned to celebrate this lighthouse very widely outside India and India, has formed a committee.\nHundred crore rupees have been employed for that work. Railways have set aside Rs. 40 crores separately to set up permanent arrangements for the purpose of this festival. The cultural department of the Government of India has also worked towards implementing various schemes by investing around Rs. 40 crores so that it will always be a work to inspire generations to come, in that direction we are working and further Will also go ahead with this work. Once again on this occasion, on this sacred occasion, I have had the privilege of being an interactive partner, enjoying my life blessed.\nYou bow to the highest regard, which is called Sow Nihal, Sat Sri Akal."