"\nIt is time to transform Uttar Pradesh: PM Modi in Lucknow\nNDA Government's goal is to transform India, but the first precondition is to transform Uttar Pradesh: PM\nPeople of India is the government's only high command: PM Modi\nCenter is the step to eradicate black money and corruption: PM\nLong live Mother India. Long live Mother India. Mr. Amit Bhai Shah, National President of Bharat Janata Party, sitting on the platform, the successful Home Minister of our country and representative of this city Mr. Rajnath Singh Ji, Mr. Keshav Ji Maurya, the young President of Uttar Pradesh Bharatiya Janata Party, My brothers and sisters in number\nI have been in politics for many years. In the Bharatiya Janata Party, it was a privilege to work in the organization at the national level. There was an opportunity to work as Chief Minister. There was an opportunity to serve you as a chief servant for two and a half years. There were also opportunities to go to address hundreds of rallies. But in my lifetime, I did not get a good fortune to address such a big rally.\nWhen I myself was contesting the Lok Sabha elections, I did not get the privilege of seeing such a spectacular view in any corner of India. At ten o'clock in the morning, my meeting was going on in Delhi. So one of our colleagues has shown me the tweet which has been tweeted by some of the Lucknow reporters on mobile phones. All the photos in it were crowded here. I called the people of the office. I said, brother is not being made a mistake anywhere. It is so crowded at ten o'clock. We have two meetings left. The time to leave is late. Just call it Lucknow and ask, somewhere we are not getting late.\n\nbrothers and sisters.\nFrom 10 o'clock in the big stage you came to bless us. I congratulate you on your heart, express your gratitude.\nThis land of Lucknow is the workplace of Atal Bihari Vajpayee. Many great men like Atal ji made their youth prepare, sweat on this earth, and night-by-day, in the whole of India, the Bharatiya Janata Party's bot tree was prepared. Atal ji served a lot in Lucknow too. His attachment to Lucknow, his constant effort to do something for Lucknow. He still feels like this.\nbrothers and sisters.\nThis scene of today, when Atalji will be watching on TV, will be the biggest event of satisfaction for them. That's what I say with confidence. Serving as governor in Rajasthan, former Chief Minister of this state, Mr. Kalyan Singh, will be seen on TV in Jaipur today. Then he will bless us all from there.\nbrothers and sisters.\nYou've done amazing today. Today is amazing. Who are political pundits, account for elections. Which direction will Uttar Pradesh choose? What is the calculation of his book, after seeing this rally, no one will have to work hard so that what is going to happen in the elections. The attitude of the air is clearly visible.\nbrothers and sisters.\nThe opportunity to serve Uttar Pradesh was met by the Bharatiya Janata Party. 14 years have passed since. The era is such that people forget the old government in six months of changing the government, but today I can say with great pride. With great satisfaction, I can say that under the leadership of Kalyan ji, under the leadership of Ram Prakash ji, the government of Bharatiya Janata Party under the leadership of Rajnath ji formed. People of Uttar Pradesh remember him and compare him with the present government.\nbrothers and sisters.\nSome people say, two or three days ago I watched on TV, they were saying that the 14 years of BJP's exile will end.\nbrothers and sisters.\nThe issue is not for the exile of BJP. How many years have we been, how many years have passed, the Bharatiya Janata Party does not weigh down politics in this scope. And hence the issue is not for 14 years of exile. The issue has been exhausted in Uttar Pradesh for 14 years. Development has been exterminated. Development did not come, brothers sisters. After 14 years, once again on the earth of Uttar Pradesh, I am also looking at this vision of new opportunities for development.\nbrothers Sisters.\nAs the Prime Minister of the country, in political terms, you made me MP. Help me from all over Uttar Pradesh. Because of that 30 years later, the country got the government of absolute majority. But brothers sisters. Therefore, I do not have such a limited consideration of BJP's government. My thinking is in the context of Hindustan. We want Hindustan to move forward. We want poverty from India to disappear. We want Hindustan illiteracy to disappear. We want the disease to disappear from India.\nBrothers sisters This dream of Hindustan is not complete until the difficulties are far away from Uttar Pradesh. And therefore, the first condition is to change the fate of Hindustan, we have to change the fate of Uttar Pradesh.\nAnd so brothers sisters If India has to move ahead then it is very important for Uttar Pradesh to move forward.\nBrothers sisters The people of Uttar Pradesh are politically understandable people. His discretion intellect has the power to separate the milk milk and water from the well.\nbrothers Sisters. It must have been necessary at some point of time, the effect of caste. It must have been necessary at some point of time, the game of your pursuit. You have seen all this. The people of Uttar Pradesh have tolerated everything. Once upon a time, my brothers and sisters of Uttar Pradesh once raised above their status and rose above the caste and only voted for the development of Uttar Pradesh only. You see, Uttar Pradesh changes or does not change.\n... and so the brothers sisters\nI am MP from Uttar Pradesh. What kind of governments do you run here I have experienced. I had never imagined that the government could be such. It hurts me too much In my own Banaras area, to make a road, to make the path, weighed with the scales, that suggestion has come from the side of the person. After that it was decided that the path was made or not. Hey there will be your opposition to politics. Your complaint will be in politics. When the path is not created then the people of that area suffer pain. All my MPs used to complain in the day that if there is any thing, then the Uttar Pradesh government does not. Whose loss is there. What will this game play?\nBrothers sisters\nEver since our government in Delhi has been formed. Uttar Pradesh government gets more than one lakh crores of rupees every year through the finance commission every year. One lakh crores is not less 2.5 billion rupees in two and a half years brothers Sisters. If Delhi Government alone had used the money properly, then where did Uttar Pradesh reach from today?\nBut brothers and sisters The development here is not in their priority.\nI want to tell my farmer brothers. What is the reason that the sugarcane farmers have kept the money for farmers for so many years? When we came, we had owed Rs 20-22 thousand crores. The Delhi Government, we made a plan of sitting. The result was that in the old dues, in a lot of quantity, we could make the money to the farmers.\nbrothers and sisters. The Uttar Pradesh government is not ready to take any responsibility. Hands up and inflame the farmers of the area.\nBrothers sisters\nWe can understand the politics between the two parties. But the people of the state should not have politics with politics. There should not be politics with the people of the country. Political parties should be limited to parties. But brothers sisters. Even when it comes to politics, it comes in politics. When there is a sense of selfishness, development stops and the people go backward.\n... and so the brothers sisters\nYou tell me Our farmers work so hard. Paddy yield. Putting the night in the night But when there are paddy in the market. Delhi Government fix minimum support price Tell the state government that you buy the paddy, the Government of India will take its responsibility. Today I have to say with sadness that even after getting all the help from the Indian government, the Uttar Pradesh government is not ready to buy the farmers' paddy.\nThis time we helped a lot in the pulse, from the government so that our farmers could produce pulses in such a large quantity so that they did not have to take pulses from abroad. Poor pulses should not be expensive. And the farmers of my country, besides the other crops, have sown the pulses on the sayings of the Delhi government. Lentils have been cultivated. But there is a government of Uttar Pradesh, it is not ready to buy it too.\nAnd brothers and sisters This condition of the farmers is not approved by us. These conditions should change. And change is necessary to change the situation. And that's why the entire Uttar Pradesh has come out with a resolution, taking a transformation journey.\nbrothers Sisters. You tell me Corruption should end this country or not ... Tell it with full force. Corruption should end or not ... fight against corruption should not fight or should not fight ... black money should go or should not go ... black money should be finished or not. ... see now the country is watching. We say the point of fighting a war against corruption, fighting against black money. And you must have seen it in the last days, have seen it. All are gathered, on one thing, on one thing.\nHave you ever seen the SP-BSP together? If the sun comes out then the SP will say that if the sun has come out, then the BSP will say that the sun is burning. That is why there is a quarrel between the two ... the opposition is not that ... After so many years they have gathered on one issue. The two got together Together they are saying, change Modi, remove Modi. Modi is saying, change the note, remove black money. You have to decide. The decision you have to make is brothers sisters. He said, remove Modi, I say, remove black money. They say Modi is removed, I say, remove corruption. The people of the country have to decide what we have to do. ... and how many protesters-in what things?\nbrothers Sisters. Is politics down so far? Today we come to this park and bow to Bhim Rao Ambedkar, salute Ramabai, we feel proud.\nBut brothers sisters.\nJust three days ago, we launched a mobile app called \"Bhima\" for money transactions, through technology for money transactions. Bhima was named because Baba Saheb Ambedkar had mastered economic thinking in India. The bank that was running the bank today, its leader was Babasaheb Ambedkar. About 80 years ago, Baba Saheb Ambedkar wrote a detailed essay on what is the rupee. The great man who knew the strength of the rupee in India was so long ago, the banking system was aware of it. The economic business was aware of If Hindustan's future business goes through that name of Bhima, why are the rats racing in someone's stomach, I do not understand. On one hand, the people of Uttar Pradesh are determined to change, have decided. The change is certain.\nbrothers Sisters.\nThere are some groups which are not known in Uttar Pradesh. There is a group that is trying to designate his son for the last 15 years. But so far the lentil is not seen. The second party is such that he is worried about where to put money. They are engaged in saving money. Looking for a far-off bank. The banks in which the money is collected by depositing money can be saved. So a team is fully engaged in saving money. And there is a third party, which is what the entire strength will be to the family, engaged in it. Now the people of Uttar Pradesh have to decide that for the money, to save money, the entire party will be able to save Uttar Pradesh ... what is the whole party which has collapsed in the family? Will you save the state ...\nbrothers and sisters. Today, the money-saving party on one side. On one hand, the party confused in the family. The only party is the Bharatiya Janata Party which came to save Uttar Pradesh. Someone has to save money, someone has to capture the family. It is a guarantee that only and only Uttar Pradesh is to be saved.\nAnd so came to say to the people of Uttar Pradesh. And so came to say to the people of the region. Do not make changes half incomplete Make a victory for the Bharatiya Janata Party with the overwhelming majority. You tell me brothers Today, the government itself can decide whether or not to ... Today, this is the prime minister of this country ... after 30 years there is a government whose high command is more and only one hundred crore citizens of India. Second, there is no high command. She is not going to bow down to anyone's house. This is the owner of the hundred and fifty million people. They can ask him the answer. And because of that you have formed the government of the absolute majority. Do not do anything incomplete even in Uttar Pradesh. To create a government in Uttar Pradesh with huge majority, there is no barrier to change the fate of Uttar Pradesh. Delhi's power came completely with you The power of Uttar Pradesh will be added. See Uttar Pradesh change after watching.\nAnd so the brothers and sisters I came to urge you You tell me Gentle citizens, honest citizens in Uttar Pradesh, only a citizen who lives well in his small family, if he is faced with felony in the day, face the people who grab his land, do not pick up his motorcycle. , Their daughters have to worry about their parents to come home in the evening. Is this Uttar Pradesh approving us ... Whether these felony should end or not .... They should not have to go to rob those lands ... The common man should get the right to live happily or not. Law system should be maintained or not ...\nbrothers and sisters.\nWhen the Bharatiya Janata Party came to power in Uttar Pradesh, it was shown by doing this. I trust you, give us the opportunity. We promise to give you the life of happiness ... Brothers sisters.\nअभी दो दिन पहले, नववर्ष प्रारंभ होने से पहले, मैंने दूरदर्शन के माध्यम से देशवासियों को संबोधित किया। जो भी धन जमा हुआ है, मैंने पहले ही कहा था, ये सरकार गरीबों को समर्पित है। और जब मैंने 50 दिन के बाद, गरीबों के लाभ के लिए योजनाएं बनाई, गरीबों के घर के लिए योजना बनाई, प्रसूता माताओं के लिए योजना बनाई, गांव के विकास के लिए योजना बनाई। छोटे-छोटे कारोबारियों का कारोबार अच्छा चले, उसके लिए मदद के लिए योजना बनाई। कुछ लोगों को इससे भी तकलीफ हुई। मोदी पैसा ले ले तो भी वो परेशान, मोदी गरीबों को पैसे दे दे, तो भी वो परेशान। इनकी परेशानी... भाइयों बहनों। इस बात की है कि इनकी परेशानी कुर्सियां हिल रही है। कुर्सियां हिल रही है। इसलिए ये परेशान है। ये इररिलिवेंट हो गए। हिन्दुस्तान की राजनीति में विरोध करते-करते इररिलिवेंट हो गए हैं। और इसलिए वो अपनी जमीन खोज रहे हैं। और इसलिए विरोध का रास्ता अपनाने जा रहे हैं।\nभाइयों और बहनों।\nदेश भली भांति इनको पहचान गया है। देश कभी भी ऐसे लोगों को माफ करने वाला नहीं है। और मैं देशवासियों को कहना चाहता हूं। भ्रष्टाचार और काले धन के खिलाफ ये लड़ाई कभी रूकने वाली नहीं है। हम जड़ से उसको उखाड़ करके रहने वाले हैं। ये गरीबों को लूटा गया है, ये गरीबों को लौटाने के लिए हमने ये बीड़ा उठाया है। ये मध्यम वर्ग के लोगों को शोषण किया है। उस शोषण को रोकने के लिए हमने इतनी बड़ी लड़ाई को छेड़ा है। और इसलिए भाइयों और बहनों। हमें उत्तर प्रदेश में भी आशीर्वाद चाहिए। आपके आशीर्वाद चाहिए। और आपके आशीर्वाद, 2017 का ये नया वर्ष। और 2017 का मेरा ये पहला कार्यक्रम मुझे सार्वजनिक रूप से मेरे उत्तर प्रदेश में आकर के उत्तर प्रदेश के आशीर्वाद के साथ आगे बढ़ने का अवसर दे रहा है। इससे बड़ा मेरा सौभाग्य क्या हो सकता है।\n... और इसलिए भाइयों बहनों।\nविशेषकर भारतीय जनता पार्टी के कार्यकर्ताओं से कहना चाहूंगा। और दलों के लिए ये चुनाव होगा, और दलों के लिए सत्ता हथियाने का प्रयास होगा। और दलों के लिए कौन एमएलए बने, मंत्री बने, कौन मुख्यमंत्री बने, इसका खेल होगा। भारतीय जनता पार्टी के लिए ये चुनाव सिर्फ हार-जीत का मसला नहीं है। भारतीय जनता पार्टी के लिए 2017 का उत्तर प्रदेश का चुनाव एक जिम्मेवारी का काम है, जिम्मेवारी का काम।\nहमारे ऊपर जिम्मेवारी आने वाली है। हमें अपने आपको जिम्मेवारी निभाने के लिए योग्य बनाकर के आगे बढ़ना है। और इसलिए बहुत बड़ी जिम्मेवारी और उत्तर प्रदेश की जिम्मेवारी सिर्फ उत्तर प्रदेश से नहीं है। उत्तर प्रदेश का प्रभाव पूरे हिन्दुस्तान पर होता है। एक प्रकार से हिन्दुस्तान को बदलने की नींव उत्तर प्रदेश में पड़ी हुई है। ये जिम्मेवारी का चुनाव है। और इसलिए उसे हार जीत का चुनाव मत बनने देना। उसे जिम्मेवारी चुनाव बनाना। और जिम्मेवारी का मतलब है सामान्य मानवी को तकलीफों से मुक्त करने की जिम्मेवारी। जिम्मेवारी का मतलब है सामान्य मानवी के सपनों को पूरा करने के लिए दिन रात मेहनत करने की जिम्मेवारी। जिम्मेवारी का मतलब है भ्रष्टाचार काले धन से मुक्त उत्तर प्रदेश को सरकार देना। जिम्मेवारी का मतलब है सबके साथ, समान व्यवहार। Everybody's company will help in everybody's growth. इस मंत्र को कभी छोड़ना नहीं। हर किसी का भला हो। जो हमारे साथ होंगे उनका भी भला हो, जो हमारे साथ नहीं होंगे, उनका भी भला हो, जो हमारे सामने होंगे, उनका भी भला हो। सबका साथ, सबका विकास। इसी मंत्र को हमें जिम्मेवारी के साथ निभाना है। और इसलिए भारतीय जनता पार्टी के लिए जिम्मेवारी का चुनाव है। भारतीय जनता पार्टी के लिए दायित्व का चुनाव है। भारतीय जनता पार्टी के लिए कुछ कर दिखाने का चुनाव है। भारतीय जनता पार्टी के लिए परिवर्तन सच्चे अर्थ में लाने का चुनाव है। आप उसे पूरी पूर्ण करोगे इसी विश्वास के साथ, दोनों मुट्ठी बंद करके पूरी ताकत के साथ मेरे साथ बोलिए। Long live Mother India. Long live Mother India. Long live Mother India."