"Share\n\nIn the past, illiterate people were called 'angutha-chaap' but now your thumb is your bank: PM\nThe biggest power of technology is that it can empower the poor: PM\nDr. Ambedkar's message was upliftment of the poor: PM\nDr. Ambedkar's contribution to economics as important as his role in drafting the Constitution: PM\nPM Narendra Modi\nOn the day of Christmas, the Government of India started a gift and the plan to meet 15 thousand people every day for 1000 days under the Lucky Draw and it is the beneficiary of those who use Digital Technlogy. Doing a customer as a buyer is more than 50 rupees and less than 3 thousand rupees; So that the reward is met to the poor.\nIn 100 days, the reward is going to be rewarded in millions of families, and after three days of drawing, the people of the bank remove the name from who they are, the first day that was drawn, in which the reward was given to four of them to me today There was an opportunity to reward with your hands\nOn the 30th of today, the Dakshin Business Scheme along with the Luckee Client plan has also been drawn. This week is happening one day, today was the first; And there is a plan to encourage those traders who motivate customers in their shop for digital payment, explain them, give them a system and on April 14, a Mega Draw on the birth anniversary of Babasaheb Ambedkar Ji, in which Rs. Will go I congratulate those who have received this award in the Luck Draw, but I express my gratitude because they used this technology as a small young man living in small villages like Jharkhand, adopted this technology; Women used And so the people in the country who are connecting with it are working to strengthen the foundation of bright India in a way, and therefore I congratulate them, congratulate them.\nOne more thing happened today, from my point of view, this most important thing has happened and that is a new App Launch that has been named BHIM. Very few people would know that the great man who gave us the Constitution, Dr. Bhimrao Ambedkar, his expertise in economics, was his true identity. And from today about 80-90 years ago, the rupee of India, wrote the Thesis on it and how the currency policy is; At that time the rule of the British was; Bhimrao Ambedkar presented his ideas to the world with a newness in relation to India's currency policy. And today the RBI we talk about, we talk about RBI, the doctor who wrote the Thesis, was the birth of this Reserve Bank by taking into consideration the light of the same. Not only this, our federal structure in independent India is a result of the views of Baba Saheb Ambedkar Bhimrao Ambedkar, which has been conceived by the Finance Commission for how the financial system runs between the states and the center.\nTo say that in India's currency system, in the imagination of India's Central Bank, India's Federal Structure had a clear vision of one of the great men in relation to the economy. One of the best contributions was that, the name of that great man is Dr. Bhimrao Ambedkar. And so, in the days of App and in the coming days that all the business that we used to do with the first notes or coins will not be far away when all this business is going to run by this BHIM App. In other words, Baba Saheb Ambedkar's name is coming in the Central Stage through the BHIM App in all the economy. It has been started under this program.\nIt is very simple, after downloading it you can use Smart Phone, 1000-1200 modest feature phone, you can use it. It is not necessary to have internet, and within the next two weeks, another work is going on, whose security checking system is running these days. It will be the strength of this BHIM after it comes, it will be that you do not need a mobile phone, no smart phone will be needed, no feature phone will be required, no internet will be required; Just your thumb is enough, your thumb is quite enough. Someone can imagine, a time was illiterate called the thumb impression, the time has changed; Thumb! Your thumb! You Your Bank, Your Thumb Identifies You! The thumb of you business you.\nHow big a revolution is coming and after two weeks, when the system starts, I am very clear, this BHIM will be the biggest wonder for the world. Aadhar card in the country, more than 100 crores people have got the Aadhaar number, those who are younger than 12-15 years of age, work is going on, but those who are older than 14 are above; Nearly one of them has become the maximum number of people, some have been left out, so the work is going on. On the other hand, there are over 100 million phones in the country, Mobile Phone The country which has 65 percent of young people under the age of 35 years, the people of the country should have a mobile phone in their hands, the country that has been assured of their future in the thumb of their country, once the country has made a digital connectivity then It will show you how big a new history can make. How far ahead of the world in the field of technology will be the country, also for them, and so they will go to Google, Google will ask Guruji what is BHIM? In the beginning, he will see Bhima of the Mahabharata, and if he goes deeper then he will know that on the earth of India there was a great man named Bhimrao Ambedkar, Bharat Ratna Bhimrao Ambedkar. The mantra of the life of Bhimrao Ambedkar was that, \"Bahujan Hitiayya, Bahujan Sukhaan.\" He was a messiah of dalit, afflicted, exploited and disadvantaged. This technology is his biggest strength; The power of empowering the poor from the poor lies in it. This is the illusion that it is a treasure of educated wealth; No, this is a treasure of the poor. This power is going to give to the poor, it is going to give to the small trader, he is going to give to the farmer living in far-off village, he is going to give tribal life to the people in the forests, and hence his name is associated with that great man, Who had spent his life for the oppressed, oppressed, exploited and deprived Adivasis.\nIn the beginning, sometimes it seems, there are many prosperous countries of the world, educated Forward Country, when they discover that millions of people in India vote by pressing the button and when the counting occurs, then in two hours If the results begin to come, then many countries of the world are amazed that in the elections which we have so far, they print ballot, people come to vote in village village, stamp them, then put them in boxes They are, then we divide it, do separation, then counting it, we are here week or week. The country which is called illiterate, to the citizens of the country; Some people raise question marks on their understanding, that country can proud in front of the world that we are people who bring revolution in the world through Electronic Voting Machine and we do so successfully in such a large amount.\nSometimes I am amazed, there are some people, there are some people whose hearts start their life with disappointment, their morning is also frustrating. There is no drug available for such pessimistic people right now. So these pessimistic people greet them with their despair Anyone can imagine, there was a time in India; You have seen the old-fashioned movie, the businessmen in the share market screamed and screamed, by doing such fingers, they used to sell their shares in the market and tie it to the person who wrote it again, He is speaking this dialect; There was a time like this.\nYou should have seen, before investing in the stock market, there were large share certificates, they had to be handled, no one cared in the house, if the shares were shared, then what was the price rise, decreased? Today, how has India accepted the change, millions of crores of people do their entire business online from the stock market, from De Market, middle and lower middle class people invest in it, and they are not a piece of paper, The business of billions of trillions of rupees is going on, but inside this country; Maybe I said today if some people will wake up, will go to find that what Modi was saying was true that it is wrong. Does it really happen in the stock market all inside online? Because no one has ever cared about it, it has happened, it has happened, but no meditation. But these days when I say that for e-payment, people think they have brought something new. Modi seems messy. And so big people, people living in high positions, they too have their own; Speak softly in soft language, speak softly, how can it be, the country is illiterate, where is the mobile phone; Say so. Therefore, I do not have any medicine for those who grew up in despair, but for the optimists, I have thousands of opportunities.\nBrothers, sisters, today a dhobi can think that he can take a loan from the bank? A person cutting a hairdresser running a small hairdresser can think that I can get a loan from the bank? Can anyone think of a newspaper collector or a newspaper seller? He can not imagine that I will go to the bank, get money. Can not think because we have put the condition in such a manner.\nThis is what I talk of Digital Payment, how it will bring revolution and when it is BHIM, it is not BHIM stuff, it is going to be the financial super power of your family, how? Suppose Dhobi is coming today, people come to him, clothes are drycleaning, dumb, frosty, he earns 500-1000 rupees in the evening, takes his house home, but the day he starts taking digital payment, His full track record will be ready, his mobile phone will say that he comes in 800-1000 rupees daily, he gets Rs 100-200, and if he has to take a loan from the bank then he will tell the bank, brother, check my mobile, In my account, The donation moves. Now I need a five thousand rupees, give it. This arrangement will be such that today he has to charge five thousand rupees from high interest to the moneylenders; that day will not be far from his mobile phone; Within 5 minutes - within 5 thousand rupees will be found in his account. This e-banking system is going to grow, these days will not be far away friends. it's gonna happen. And to carry on this work, a common platform today, as BHIM, when I came to the country in the end of the year 2016, I am giving this niceties to the best of 2017.\nBrothers, sisters, pick up the newspaper three years ago today, if you go to the old, you will go to tube, which has clippings of old TV news which they see, what comes, how much, how much went, how much went in coal, how much in 2 g , The news was how much it was. See people today how much come today Look, it's time to talk about time. This same country, this people, this law, this government, these files, this rule; It was also a time when it was discussed that, this is also a time; there is talk of coming; People are counting on Monday how much came on Tuesday.\nIf brothers, sisters, if there is passion for the poor, their devotion to them, then God gives strength to do all things well. I am amazed a leader gave a statement, he said, Khoda dungar and cleared Chuia, brother had to take me out of the stomach; That's all they eat. By working hard by the farmer, the farmer will work hard to make a grain pile, two chicks come, sir, they all end. So, whatever Netaji said, I thank him for saying that at least the truth is that it is the job of catching the chicks which used to eat the country's poor; It is only the job of catching chicks, they are running and running at a fast pace.\nBrothers, sisters, I want to express my gratitude to friends of media at this time. You will know what happens to the media people who have a bearing on it. When people were used to roaming in the red light cars, then Media was back. The camera was taken, the good is sitting on the red light. Gradually, who had the right to red light, he also scared. Many people were saying the government, apply the law Seat belt, seat belt impose, no one imposed. Media has gone behind, someone is sitting in a car big man; He used to take it immediately, did not put the Seat belt, then on the other day he used to show on TV, his shirt became so much. That's the awareness of the Seat belt.\nFor Helmet, the government says that to save your life, set a helmet, do it, do not listen; But the people of Media used to catch a policeman without helmet and they used to show on TV and then they would tremble again. People also used to go, look, it looks like they are going. The government also woke up, the police also awakened. Here, this service is not low, this service is very big.\nSuch an awareness has come, even the campaign of cleanliness, no media should be kept clean, it is a different thing, but I saw that in the evening the people of his camera used to roam the place and someone used to catch them immediately and then interview him again. . Then he does not run like this, nor did I intend, I did not see it. He used to say that he does not see; He ran away. Look, I believe the electronic media of our country, I can count on a lot of things like this because I am a optimistic person and I look good from him. Some people want to complain why they do this; I do not. I feel good. And so in the days to come, Media can serve a lot.\nYou should have seen the last 50 days, I used to lecture that Digital should be, Mobile should have shown me and next to someone with Pedal Rickshaw asked that you have Mobile? He did not say that. You know cashless, do not speak. Then he me ... a Modi! And because of that, the government had to think that yes, Bhai should also be done in the feature phone, in the thumb also the bank should come. Did not come? तो बोले Media को मैं Thank You कहूं कि ना कहूं? इसीलिए मैं उनको Thank You कहता हूं। लेकिन मुझे विश्‍वास है आप लोग चेत करके रहिए। अब Media वाले एक तारीख के बाद आपके हाथ में Mobile देखेंगे, कैमरा खड़ा करके पूछेंगे तेरे पास Mobile है; is. BHIM है Cash लेके क्‍यों घूम रहा है? पढ़े लिखे हो क्‍या कर रहे हो? आप देखना 2017 में Media के लोग आपको पूछने वाले हैं। सब हिन्‍दुस्‍तान वालों को पूछने वाले हैं कि दो-दो Mobile Phone ले करके घूम रहे हो, फिर भी तुम Cashless नहीं हो रहे हो? इसी से revolution आता है, क्रांति इसी से होती है। और मुझे विश्‍वास है कि देश विश्‍व के आधुनिक देशों की तुलना में technology के क्षेत्र में और technology के साथ Common man की connectivity, ये होके रहने वाला है।\nभाइयो, बहनों! मैं साफ मत का हूं। हमारा देश ऐसे ही सोने की चिडि़या नहीं था। हमारा देश ऐसे ही सोने की चिडि़या में से गरीब नहीं बना है। हमारी अपनी कमियों के कारण, अपनी गलतियों के कारण, अपने गलत आचरण के कारण सोने की चिडि़या कहा जाने वाला देश गरीब देश की गिनती में आकर खड़ा हो गया। लेकिन इसका मतलब ये है कि आज भी इस देश में फिर एक बार सोने की चिडि़या बनने का Potential पड़ा हुआ है। इस सपने के साथ, इस विश्‍वास के साथ क्‍यों न हम, क्‍यों न हम देश के गरीबों को उनका हक दिलाएं, मध्‍यमवर्गीय लोगों का जो शोषण हो रहा है उसको रोकें। ईमानदारी के रास्‍ते पर देश चलना चाहता है, उसको हम बल दें।\nभाइयो, बहनों! मैं जानता हूं, आज लोग इसका मूल्‍यांकन करने की न हिम्‍मत करेंगे, न ही शायद उतना सामर्थ्‍य होगा, लेकिन वो दिन दूर नहीं होगा जब इस सारे घटनाक्रम का मूल्‍यांकन होगा, इतिहास की तारीखों में जब मढ़ा जायेगा तब एक बात उजागर होने वाली है, हमारा देश; कभी कहा जाता था यूनान, मिस्र मिट गए, लेकिन क्या बात है कि हस्‍ती मिटती नहीं हमारी! ये वो कौन सी बात है? ये कौन सी बात है कि हस्‍ती हमारी मिटती नहीं!\nभाइयो, बहनों! आप अपने कार्यकाल में भी देखा होगा, जो छोटी आयु के हैं उन्‍होंने भी देखा होगा, जब भी हमारे देश में कोई बाहरी हमला होता है, कोई बाहरी जुल्‍म होता है, कोई बाहर से कुछ कह देता है तो पूरा हिन्‍दुस्‍तान एकजुट हो करके उसके खिलाफ मुकाबला करने के लिए तैयार हो जाता है; ये हमने कई बार देखा है। लेकिन पहली बार इस देश ने इस बात को अनुभव किया है और जो इतिहास में स्‍वर्णिम अक्षरों से लिखा जाएगा। ये देश अपनी अंदर की बुराइयों को खत्‍म करने के लिए एक हुआ दोस्‍तो! अपने आप से लड़ने के लिए एक हुआ! अपने आप से लड़ने के लिए आगे आया, अपनी बुराइयों को परास्‍त करने के लिए सवा सौ करोड़ देशवासी इतना कष्‍ट झेलने के‍ लिए आएं, त‍कलीफ के बाद भी हंसते हुए कहें।\nभाइयो, बहनों! यही तो इस देश की ताकत है कि हम अपनी बुराइयों को खत्‍म करने के लिए खुद हो करके आगे आते हैं, समय मिलते ही निकल पड़ते हैं और करके रहते हैं। ये आठ तारीख के बाद देश ने इस का ताकत का दर्शन कराया है, जो देश की अनमोल ताकत है। अपनी बुराइयों के खिलाफ लड़ना ये सामान्‍य बात नहीं है। सवा सौ करोड़ देशवासी और ये भी सही है कि बुराईयां कुछ लोगों ने स्‍वेच्‍छा से स्‍वीकार की होंगी, कुछ लोग मजबूरन उसके शिकार हुए होंगे, लेकिन इच्‍छा-अनिच्‍छा से भी ये दीमक की तरह फैल गई है। और इसलिए दीमक की तरह फैली हुई बेईमानी की बीमारी समाज में भी कभी तो ऐसा लगता था कि लोग शायद इसे जीने की आदत बना लेंगे लेकिन आठ नवम्‍बर के बाद मैंने देखा कि लोग मौके की तलाश में थे। ऐसी जिंदगी उनको नहीं चाहिए। उनको ईमानदारी की जिंदगी चाहिए, उनको ईमानदारी का रास्‍ता चाहिए और ये देशवासियों ने, ये देशवासियों ने करके दिखाया है।\nऔर भाइयो, बहनों! मैं विश्‍वास से कहता हूं ये जो सारी मेहनत हो रही है, और ये काम छोटा नहीं है; दुनिया को अचरज हो रहा है कि 86 percent currency एकदम से व्‍यवहार से निकल जाए, दुनिया आज इस पर सोच नहीं सकती, देश कैसा है! कैसे लोग हैं! और देखो जी रहे हैं! सोच रहे हैं आगे बढ़ना है। ये देश की कोई सामान्‍य ताकत नहीं है; और ये ताकत देशवासियों ने दिखाई है। और यही ताकत है जो आने वाले दिनों में देश को आगे ले जाने वाली है।\nभाइयो, बहनों! और मेरा मत है, इस देश, इस देश के धन पर, इस देश की संपदा पर इस देश के गरीब का हक सबसे पहले होना चाहिए। गरीबी के खिलाफ लड़ाई नारों से नहीं होती है। आप देखिए, मैंने देशवासियों से एक प्रार्थना की थी, कहा था कि आप अगर आर्थिक रूप से अगर आपको ज्‍यादा नुकसान नहीं होता तो आप LPG की Subsidy छोड़ दीजिए।\nये देश जो कभी 9 सिलेंडर और 12 सिलेंडर पर 2014 के चुनाव का Agenda लेकर चल रहा था, एक पार्टी इस बात के मुद्दे पर चुनाव लड़ रही थी कि 9 सिलेंडर देंगे कि 12 सिलेंडर देंगे। जिस देश में पूरा चुनाव सिलेंडर की संख्‍या पर लड़ा गया हो, इस देश के अंदर एक सरकार आ करके लोगों को ये कहे कि Subsidy छोड़ दो, कितना बड़ा Contrast! हम आपको 12 सिलेंडर दे दो वोट दे दो, ये दूसरा ऐसा आया वो कहता है सिलेंडर की Subsidy छोड़ दो!\nऔर मैं आज सिर झुका करके मेरे देशवासियों के सामने नमन करते हुए कहना चाहता हूं एक करोड़ बीस लाख लोगों से ज्‍यादा परिवारों ने अपनी Subsidy छोड़ दी। और मैंने वादा किया था कि आप जो Subsidy छोड़ रहे हैं, मैं उस गरीब मां को दूंगा, जिस गरीब मां को लकड़ी के चूल्‍हे से, धुंए के आग में अपने बच्‍चों के साथ गुजारा करना पड़ता है। उस गरीब मां को एक दिन में 400 सिगरेट का धुंआ अपने शरीर में लेना पड़ता है। उस मां के स्‍वास्‍थ्‍य का क्‍या होता होगा; आप अपनी Subsidy छोड़ दीजिए, मैं ये सिलेंडर उस गरीब मां को देना चाहता हूं जो लकड़ी का चूल्‍हा जला करके खाना पकाती है। और आज, आज मैं देशवासियों को कहना चाहता हूं कि एक करोड़ बीस लाख लोगों ने Subsidy छोड़ी; अब तक डेढ़ करोड़ गरीब माताओं को गैस सिलेंडर हम दे चुके हैं। कहने का तात्‍पर्य ये है कि जो भी आ रहा है, अब जा नहीं रहा है। ये जो भी आ रहा है, गरीब के काम आने वाला है; गरीब की भलाई के लिए काम आने वाला है।\nदेश को बदलना है दोस्‍तों! देश के सामान्‍य मानवी की जिंदगी बदलेगी, तब देश बदलने वाला है। और जब मैं आज पंडित दीनदयाल उपाध्‍याय की जन्‍म शताब्‍दी मना रहा हूं, और भारत सरकार ने गरीब कल्‍याण वर्ष के रूप में इसको मनाना तय किया है तब ये सारा परिश्रम गरीबों को समर्पित है; उनके कल्‍याण को समर्पित है; मध्‍यम वर्ग के व्‍यक्ति को उसका हक दिलाने के लिए समर्पित है; उनके शोषण से मुक्ति दिलाने के लिए समर्पित है और मुझे विश्‍वास है कि देश ने जिस प्रकार से आशीर्वाद दिए हैं, कष्‍ट झेल करके आशीर्वाद दिए हैं; आने वाले दिनों में इस बदलाव के हकदार भी वही होने वाले हैं।\nमैं फिर एक बार फिर उस ईनाम को प्राप्‍त करने वालों को बधाई देता हूं, मैं देशवासियों से आग्रह करता हूं कि 2017 के पहली जनवरी को आप कम से कम एक जनवरी से शुरू करिए, अगर आपके पास Mobile Phone है, Smart Phone है, कम से कम पांच लेनदेन तो करिए। हर हिन्‍दुस्‍तानी एक बार पांच लेनदेन करना देखें तो फिर उसको आदत हो जाएगी और देश Digital Moment को Lead कर जाएगा। मैं फिर एक बार सबको बहुत-बहुत बधाई देता हूं, बहुत-बहुत धन्‍यवाद देता हूं।"