"\nLong live Mother India\nMr. Nitin Gadkari, my partner of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Ajay Bhatt, BJP President, in the center, sitting on the stage, my friend and former Chief Minister Mr. Khanduri ji, Kosariyi, Nishank ji, former Chief Minister Vijay Bahuguna Ji, My partner in Mr. Ajay Tamta ji, Dharmendra Pradhan ji, Manusukh Mannji ji, fellow Maharani Rajlakshmi ji in the Parliament, Mr. Satpal Maharaj ji, All senior dignitaries and a large number arrived at my dear brothers and sisters sat on the f ...\nYou guys have done amazing today. All the foreheads are looking at the forehead. There is so much crowd on the roof far away. I do not know if they are hearing or not listening to them. Such a large number of mothers and sisters have come to bless, I specially honor you. Brothers and Sisters ... This is God's land, it is the land of heroes too, this is the land of heroic mothers also, and on such a large number of such lands on earth you come to bless me, I salute you.\nToday in my mind you have a desire to make a complaint against the people. What do i do Then you will feel bad, do not believe at all. No, I will not agree again. sure. Absolutely sure ... do not feel bad at all. Good to tell me when there was a Lok Sabha election in 2014. I myself was the candidate of the Prime Minister's post and in this square I came to this ground. At that time the halfway ground was not even full. What is the reason today? At that time, half of the ground was full, yet you sent dust to the good people and sent it home. Gave all to everyone. I can guess what will happen this time.\nThese crowds ... In the cold lap of the Himalayas, such a large number of people coming to you in such a cold is a sign of the fact that now Uttarakhand does not want to wait for development. Brothers and Sisters, it is natural for the people of Uttarakhand to be happy about the project that has been laid here today. But today these Shilanyas are a tribute to thousands of people, who came from every corner of India, in the accident of Kedarnath, some had lost their life. This plan, this tribute to those people who were killed in that terrible accident from every corner of the country.\nBrothers and Sisters, these four Dham will provide good opportunities for the journey, good arrangement, people of Uttarakhand, will give new opportunities in the four directions in the development of Uttarakhand. But these stones are an opportunity to satisfy the mind of every Hindustani whose heart is sometimes to come to the banks of the Ganges. Haridwar Rishikesh is known, Badrinath-Kedarnath-Gangotri-Yamunotri, whose dream of going to Chardham, old mother wants to come up with the talk, you can imagine, this project of today is the old father who will travel in the coming days You will come and the road will be taken without obstruction, how many blessings are available from Hindustan, you can guess it.\nWhen someone comes to visit Badrinath, Kedarnath, when he leaves, he keeps empty for two to three days in the middle. Tell him the organizer of the tour that watch the time-table of the brother coming back will not be confirmed. Why? During the whole trip, there will be landlides somewhere, there will have to stay for a couple of days, then it will be difficult to travel. Brothers and sisters, travel in an atmosphere of uncertainty! The passenger's mind should be absorbed in God. The purpose that came from should be free of every worry.\nBut here he is worried that he will be able to reach the next level, he must have landlide somewhere, the traffic might have got stuck, the train would have broken down, we will be able to get ahead or not. Today is our journey to the big difficulties. In the mind of every person, in every person's mind, there is a desire to visit Badrinath, Kedarnath, Gangotri and Yamunotri, sometimes in the minds of every person, but in my country, such governments came to fulfill that desire of 100 million people. You also could not afford the necessary facilities for.\nBrothers and Sisters, you must have wondered why Modi did not start coming soon. If there was any political work for me, only the people-Janardhan's eyes would have been a dust-biting job, then in the first day, two carts would come up, and if it was standing in the asphalt and waist, then the work started. Every such government has done it, every Chief Minister has done it, now it is probably said everyday. Now the public ... understand this politician, that time has passed. The public knows everything. If you go to the stones without budget, then what plans will be made? If you show laughing faces on TV, will you drive?\nPolitics can be run by brothers and sisters, haste schemes, but society can not run and therefore our Nitin Jee is the wealthy of my ministerial colleagues at the center. Looking forward to finding the best in the world, anyone can know from far away that he has this information, first of all listen to him and how to be good, how best is best, every moment Thinking Nitin ji is my partner and from that day on which I formed the government, I had given him this work, but how to make such a raw mountain across the world ... and if there was a way, Minister does not go through difficulties and consulting around the world went to a masterpiece with the help of agencies.\nI assure you that whenever you visit Badrinath, Kedarnath, Gangotri and Yamunotri, in the ancient times, listening is done to remind the parents, in the days to come, you surely remember Nitin ji Will do And when the road is made, only the trains run, it is not the same, 12,000 crore rupees are engaged. The cement that looks in, the wire looks, the stone looks, sweats in it more than it does. And that sweat would be an employer to my youth in Uttarakhand. How many people will get employment, can you imagine?\nWhen you spend 12000 crores, you can guess that how many crores of rupees in your homes will earn millions of rupees. The transporters will get the money, the diggers will get them, the baggage holders will get the money. This poor job with poor people is so big. The whole economy will change\nBrothers and sisters, the biggest source of income of our Uttarakhand is the travelers here, there is tourism. If the arrangement is okay, if the facilities are appropriate, then what kind of family of brothers and sisters, Hindustan will be such that do not wish to live here five days or seven days? How big an economy, the economy will change Brothers and Sisters, when I came here in 2014, I told one thing to you You may have forgotten But I do not talk to forget.\nI told you that in mountainous life it is said that mountain water and mountain mountain of the mountain never get any work. Brothers and sisters, I have decided to change this proverb. The mountainous water will also be used for the mountain and the mountain will also be used for the mountain. Such Uttarakhand will create that the youth from the hills do not have to work in the filthy dirt of the cities. I am moving to dream like making Uttarakhand. We want to walk with new heights of development.\nBrothers and Sisters, our country has had so many years of independence. 18000, the villages came out, I was told that 70 years of independence, 18000 villages are still living in the 18th century. What is the power pole, they do not know. We took the initiative to deliver electricity to 18000 villages in a thousand days. My officers began to say that Saab was not doing 70 years of work to complete the completion of one thousand days. I said that whatever has happened has happened, now the people have changed the mood swings, the government has also changed, the country will also change and therefore, in one thousand days, it has taken the initiative to provide electricity to 18000 villages.\nBrothers and Sisters, it is late in the coming days, nearly 12000 villages have got electricity. The pillar has been reached, the wire has reached and the remaining 6000 villages are also working in it, there were also villages of Uttarakhand in it. Even there, we have started working at a high speed.\nTell me, brothers and sisters, electricity comes to remote villages in Uttarakhand, is it happening to the rich? Tell me with full force what is happening to the rich? Is this happening to the poor that is not happening? Is this happening to the poor that is not happening?\nBrothers and sisters, there was a time to take cylinders of gas in our country, then the leaders had to bolt in the house, someone had to be identified. That brother should get a gas cylinder here, get the connection. You will be surprised that the 2014 election was the Congress convention, all the channels of Hindustan were standing there that today will be a huge announcement. 2014 will be a big announcement for the Lok Sabha elections, the Congress session is going on. The meeting lasted all day. Trying to make such people bigger is not even describing. And what happened after the announcement?\nThe announcement of who will be the prime ministerial candidate is not announced. It was announced at such a large convention that I am talking about Congress, it was announced that if our government was formed, now in the one year 9 cylinders get, we will give 12 cylinders. You were told to get 9 cylinders of 12 cylinders to form their government.\nBrothers and Sisters, the country where gas cylinders are nine or twelve, the discussion goes on, and as soon as our government comes, we decide that in this country, five crore families living below poverty line within three years Will give gas connection to the cylinder. You can imagine how the government can make decisions. Where the connection between the nine to twelve and the whereabouts of the gas to poor families.\nBrothers and sisters, and especially mothers and sisters, have come here in such a large number. We know that the lives of the mountains, I have been fortunate that in Uttarakhand, I have had the opportunity to work for many years as a worker .. I am familiar with every street of this place, I am familiar with the happiness and misery here. I am familiar with the life here, and I have had the privilege of working on the ground and holding on to the shoulder side with many people here. I have gained the blessings of this godland and have grown up.\nAnd so I have seen, mothers sisters, going to the forests, finding woods, worrying about not being wet, and when a poor mother cooks a wooden stove, in one day four hundred cigarettes in that mother's body The smoke goes into her body, the smoke of four hundred cigarettes would go to her mother's body every day, what would be the condition of mother's health, what would be the condition of her mother's children? Should not these mothers should save or should they? Should not worry about the happiness, body pleasure of these mother sisters, or should not? Should not these mothers should save sisters from smoke or not?\nBrothers and Sisters, We Developed And till now the gas stove has reached the millions of families, the gas cylinder has reached. Those mother sisters have been freed from smoke. There are thousands of such families in Uttarakhand where we have delivered the cylinders of gas without any identity. Tell me, brothers and sisters, save with all the strength. What is the duty of the rich to save a poor mother from smoke, is there a plan for the rich? Are you working to do good to the rich? Do you tell me whether this is the work of the welfare of the poor or not, is it the job of doing good to the poor or not? It is not that it is the job of changing the lives of the poor.\nBrothers and Sisters, we made a decision that the land of Uttarakhand, there is Jija mother in every house, Shivaji is born in every house. The mother who is embracing death for the mother is in every family, it is Uttarakhand. For 40 years, the young men of my army were demanding from the Indian Government, One Rank of One Pension. And the people of the army live in dyspolin, tolerate, martyrdom is needed when needed, but never break the limits. The family who ruled for 40 years, the party they ruled never remembered the demand of the people of our army. One Rank One Pension, never thought of completing it. And when elections came, they felt that Modi had special love for the people of the army. This Modi will give some to the army and hence the work of stone throwing is going on, without any budget, at that time, put 500 crores in the budget and told that we gave one rank one pension. The budget of brothers and sisters, one rank one pension seems to be more than Rs. 10,000 crores Tell me that it was a mistake to throw dust in the eyes of Army soldiers by throwing 500 crores or not? Will you cheat with the soldiers of this country?\nWe told the army that it is difficult to give one thousand rupees a lump sum, so many jobs of the country will be stuck. Help me Today I salute soldiers of the country's army. He told me immediately. Modi tells us what help is needed. I said that I will not be able to give one lump sum, it will be made four pieces, and you will also give me money in four installments. I said that for 40 years this matter is stuck, I have to fulfill it. I am the person who is respected by the army, and I have to do something for them. Today, I salute the soldiers of the army that they understood the difficulties of the government and the rise of the brothers and sisters One Rank One Pension. So far he has been paid Rs 6600 crores and the remaining installment will also be reached.\nवन रैंक वन पेंशन और उत्तराखंड में तो शायद ही कोई गांव ऐसा होगा जहां 50-100 घर ऐसे न हों जहां सेना से पेंशन आता हो। मुझे बताइए भाईयों और बहनों इतनी बड़ी मात्रा में पेँशन घरों में आया तो उत्तराखंड की इकोनॉमी को फायदा हुआ कि नहीं हुआ?\nहमारा मकसद एक ही है विकास करना लेकिन आप जानते हो 2014 में मैं चुनाव लड़ा, आपने हमें वोट दिया, देश ने पूर्ण समर्थन दिया, तीस साल के बाद दिल्ली में पूर्ण बहुमत वाली सरकार बनी। आप मुझे बताइए आपने मुझे प्रधानमंत्री रिबन काटने के लिए बनाया है क्या? दिए जलाने के लिए बनाया है क्या? छोट-मोटे उद्घाटन करने के लिए बनाया है क्या? कुछ कर दिखाने के लिए बनाया है कि नहीं बनाया, मुझे कुछ कर दिखाना चाहिए कि नहीं?\nआपने मुझे काम दिया है चौकीदार का। चौकीदार का काम दिया है। अब मैं चौकीदारी कर रहा हूं तो कुछ लोगों को परेशानी हो रही है। उनको लग रहा है ऐसा कैसा चौकीदार आ गया, चोरों के सरदार पर ही पहरेदारी कर रहा है। भाईयों और बहनों, देश के कालेधन ने बर्बाद किया है, कालाधन भी जाना चाहिए, कालामन भी जाना चाहिए। भ्रष्टाचार के खिलाफ लड़ाई लड़नी चाहिए कि नहीं? भाईयों और बहनों मैंने इस लड़ाई को छेड़ दिया है। भाईयों और बहनों बताइए आपका आशीर्वाद है? पूरी ताकत से बताइए आशीर्वाद है कि नहीं?\nभाईयों और बहनों, आप जानते हैं सरकार में एक ड्राइवर की नौकरी चाहिए, पिओन की नौकरी चाहिए, क्लर्क की नौकरी चाहिए, प्राथमिक विद्यालय में टीचर की नौकरी चाहिए तो भी सबसे पहले कोई पूछता है कि तेरे मार्क्स तो बहुत आ गए लेकिन कोई जान पहचान नहीं होगी तो तेरा मेल नहीं बैठेगा। तुम कुछ भी कर लो यहां तो गांधी जी चाहिए गांधी जी। ग्रीन कलर की नोट पर गांधी जी की छवि होगी तब तेरा काम बनेगा।\nभाईयों और बहनों ये चलता था कि नहीं चलता था। तभी भारत सरकार में मैंने निर्णय कर लिया मुझे बताइए कि ये इंटरव्यू है क्या चीज? जब वो एग्जाम देकर के मार्क ले आया है तो तुम तीस सेकेंड में क्या इंटरव्यू करते हो? इंटरव्यू हुआ कि चलो-चलो जल्दी करो और फिर जो पैसे देता था उसको नौकरी दे दी जाती थी। मेरे प्यारे भाईयों और बहनों हमारी सफलता उस चीज में है, मैंने फैसला कर दिया कि भारत सरकार में वर्ग तीन और वर्ग चार में अब इंटरव्यू नहीं किया जाएगा, भ्रष्टाचार खत्म किया जाएगा। मेरिट के आधार पर नौकरी अपने आप मिल जाएगी। कोई जान पहचान की जरूरत नहीं। हमने राज्यों को कहा हमने किया है तुम भी तो करो। लेकिन वो नहीं चाहते। उनको तकलीफ हो रही है। लेकिन कोई बात नहीं, थोड़े दिन हैं। जैसे ही उत्तराखंड में भारतीय जनता पार्टी की सरकार बनेगी, ये काम उत्तराखंड में भी हो जाएगा।\nहम तो हैरान हैं साहब हमारी तो लड़ाई ऐसी है हम नोट घर में जमा करने वालों के खिलाफ लड़ाई लड़ रहे हैं। नोटें कबर्ड में भर-भर के रखे थे, बिस्तर के नीचे रखते थे, ऊपर सोते थे बताओ। ये पैसा गरीब का पैसा लूटा गया है कि नहीं? ये पैसा सरकार के खजाने में वापस आना चाहिए कि नहीं। इसलिए भाईयों और बहनों 1000 व 500 का नोट बंद कर अच्छे अच्छों के कबर्ड खोल दिए। लेकिन बेईमानों की आदत जाती नहीं है। उनके ब्लड में ही बेईमानी घुस गई है। उन्होंने क्या सोचा कि अच्छा मोदी ने 1000 व 500 के नोट बंद कर दिए हैं। अब मोदी को हम दिखाते हैं। पिछले रास्ते से नोट बदलने में लग गए। उनको लगता था मोदी को दिखता नहीं है। लेकिन भाईयों और बहनों उनको पता नहीं था कि हम क्या करेंगे। आज वो बेईमान पकड़े जा रहे हैं कि नहीं जा रहे? नोटों के ढेर, सोने के ढेर आ रहे हैं कि नहीं आ रहे? सबका पसीना छूट रहा है। भाईयों और बहनों ये सफाई अभियान है। और देश मेरा साथ दे रहा है इसलिए मैं ये लड़ाई लड़ पा रहा हूं। अगर देश का साथ मुझे नहीं मिलता तो ये न जाने क्या क्या कर देते मेरे साथ। अभी भी इसी फिराक में हैं कि मौका मिले तो टूट जाएंगे मोदी के ऊपर। लेकिन उनको पता नहीं है। सवा सौ करोड़ देशवासियों की रक्षा कवच लेकर के बैठा हुआ हूं। जब तक सवा सौ करोड़ देशवासियों का रक्षा कवच है मेरे पास, देश को लूटने वाले हम पर उंगली नहीं उठा पाएंगे।\nभाईयों और बहनों, इंसान पैसे खाता है ये हमने सुना था, इंसान पैसे मार लेता है ये भी सुना था। लेकिन उत्तारखंड में तो स्कूटर भी पैसे खा जाता है। हमने अखबार में पढ़ा था कि जिस स्कूटर मं 5 लीटर की टंकी होती है वो 35 लीटर पेट्रोल खाता है। बताइए चोरों को कहां-कहां पकडेंगे। इंसान तो चोरी करता था, उत्तराखंड में तो स्कूटर भी चोरी करता है सरकार के पैसे का। भाईयों और बहनों ये दुराचार, ये भ्रष्टाचार ने भारत देश को तबाह कर दिया है। सोने की चिड़िया कहा जाता था मेरा देश उसको हमीं लोगों ने लूटा है, हमें ही उसे बचाना है, इसलिए हमें ही उसे बचाना है। मुझे इसमें आप लोगों का साथ चाहिए।\nऔर मैंने आपको कहा था कि मैं जानता हूं कि आपको तकलीफ हुई है, तकलीफ कम नहीं हुई है, बहुत तकलीफ हुई है लेकिन फिर भी ये देश ईमानदारी की लड़ाई लड़ने के लिए आगे आया इससे बड़ा सौभाग्य क्या हो सकता है? इस देश का जितना ऋण मेरे सर पर है, इस ऋण को चुकाने के लिए मैं जीवन भर कोशिश करुंगा। क्योंकि इस देश को आगे बढ़ना है तो ये लूट खसोट बंद होनी चाहिए। ये भ्रष्टाचार, ये कालाधन, ये ड्रग माफिया ये जाली नोट का खेल खेलते थे। नवंबर को धमाक से ये जाली नोट का कारोबार जीरो हो गया। आतंकवाद, ड्रग माफिया, ह्यूमन ट्रैफिकिंग, अंडरवर्ल्ड उनकी सारी दुनिया पल भर में तबाह कर दी गई।\nऔर ये सारे फैसले देश के हित के लिए किए गए, देश के उज्ज्वल भविष्य के लिए किए गए। और मुझे विश्वास है कि इस देश का सामान्य मानवीय ईमानदारी को पसंद करता है। वो ईमानदारी के लिए सहने को तैयार होता है। इस देश का सामान्य मानवीय बेईमानी को नफरत करता है, उसको स्वीकार करने को तैयार नहीं है। यदि ऐसा कभी उसको मजबूरी में करना पड़ता है तो रात को वो सो नहीं सकता, उसे नींद नहीं आती है, ऐसा मेरे देश का आम आदमी है। लेकिन कुछ मुट्ठि भर बेईमानों ने ईमानदारों को दबोच कर रखा है। मैं ईमानदारों की ताकत बढ़ाने के लिए लड़ रहा हूं। उनकी शक्ति बढ़ाने के लिए लड़ रहा हूं। और इसलिए उत्तराखंड के वीरों से, माताओं से मुझे आशीर्वाद चाहिए, जिस आशीर्वाद को लेकर हम जीतेंगे। भाईयों और बहनों, अब कुछ ही दिनों में 2017 आएगा। अटल बिहारी वाजपेई जी ने हमें उत्तराखंड दिया। हम वाजपेई जी का जितना आभार प्रकट करें उतना कम है।\nलेकिन भाईयों और बहनों, उत्तम उत्तराखंड बनाना जिम्मेदारी हमारी है। और भाईयों और बहनों ये उत्तराखंड ऐसे गड्ढे में पड़ा हुआ है, ऐसी खाई में पड़ा हुआ है, ऐसे तबाह कर रखा गया है। इसको बाहर निकालने के लिए ऐसा नहीं है कि पांच पचास लोग धक्का मार कर बाहर निकालेंगे तो निकलेगा, इतना बर्बाद किया हुआ है। ट्रैक्टर लगा दोगे दो तो भी नहीं निकलेगा। इस उत्तराखंड को इन मुसीबतों से बाहर निकालना है तो डबल इंजन की जरूरत है। एक इंजन दिल्ली का और दूसरा देहरादून का। अब दिल्ली में तो आपने इंजन लगा दिया है, देहरादून में भाजपा का इंजन लगा दीजिए। आप देखेंगे कि देखते देखते दोनों इंजन लग जाएंगे तो एक गति से आगे बढ़ेगा। मैं फिर एक बार इस विशाल समारोह के लिए सभी महानुभावों का, आपका भी हृदय से अभिनंदन करता हूं। दोनों मुट्ठी बंद कर मेरे साथ बोलिए भारत माता की...जय। ऐसे नहीं पूरी ताकत से बोलिए भारत माता की...जय। Long live Mother India. Long live Mother India. Thanks a lot."