"#MannKiBaat: Prime Minister Modi extends Christmas greetings to the nation\nPM Narendra Modi pays tribute to Pt Madan Mohan Malviya on his Jayanti #MannKiBaat\nPM Narendra Modi extends birthday greetings to Bharat Ratna Atal Bihari Vajpayee on his birthday during #MannKiBaat\nAtal ji's contributions Under his leadership India conducted nuclear tests: Modi during #MannKiBaat\n#MannKiBaat: Shri Narendra Modi launches 'Lucky Grahak' and 'Digi Dhan' scheme to promote cashless transactions\nAwareness towards online payments and using technology for economic transactions is growing: PM during #MannKiBaat\nGlad to note that there was 200 to 300 per cent of cashless transactions: PM Modi #MannKiBaat\nWe should be at the forefront of using digital means to make payments and transactions: PM during #MannKiBaat\nPM Modi warns those spreading lies and misleading people on demonization during #MannKiBaat\nSupport of people is like blessings of the Almighty: PM Modi during #MannKiBaat\nGovernment is taking regular feedback from people and it is alright to make changes according to it: PM during #MannKiBaat\nWe have made a very strict law on 'Benaami' property: PM during #MannKiBaat\nIndia is the fastest growing large economy today: PM Modi during #MannKiBaat\n#MannKiBaat: Because of the constant efforts of our countrymen, India is growing on various economic parameters, says PM\nAn important bill for 'Divyang' people was passed. We are committed to uplifting our 'Divyang' citizens: PM #MannKiBaat\nNarendra Modi during #MannKiBaat\nPM Narendra Modi extends new year greetings to people during the #MannKiBaat\nMy fellow countrymen, Namaskar, many felicitations and season's greetings on Christmas. Today is the day to give importance, our sacrifices and compassion Jesus had said - \"The poor do not need our favours but our acceptance with love.\" In the Gospel according to Saint Luke, it is written - \"Jesus not only served the poor but also the poor service done by the praise\" And this is what real empowerment is A tale associated with this event is also very popular. It has been mentioned in that story that Jesus was standing near the treasury of a temple; Many rich people came and donated bountifully; Then a poor widow came and parted with only two copper coins. Now just two copper coins really do not amount to much Thus it was natural that there was a lot of curiosity in the minds of the disciples gathered there. Then, Jesus declared that the widow was the greatest of those donors, while the others had donated substantially, that widow had given away all she possessed.\nToday, 25th December, is also the birth anniversary of Mahamana Madan Mohan Malviyaji, who kindled resolve and self confidence in the psyche of the Indian people and gave a new direction to modern education. My most sincere and heartfelt tributes to Malviyaji on his birth anniversary. About two days ago, I had the opportunity to launch a developmental work in Banaras, the sacred workplace of Malviyaji. I also laid the foundation stone of Mahamana Madan Mohan Malviya Cancer Center in BHU at Varanasi. This Cancer Center is going to be a people on the people of not only eastern Uttar Pradesh but for the people of Jharkhand and Bihar also.\nToday is also the birthday of Bharat Ratna and former Prime Minister Venerable Atal Bihari Vajpayee Ji. This country can not forget Under his leadership, the country also proudly grew in nuclear power. Whether in the role of a party leader, Member of Parliament, a minister or the Prime Minister, Atalji always established an ideal. I salute Atalji on his good health. As a party worker I had the privilege of working with Atalji. Many memories before This morning When I tweeted, I shared a video, in which you can see me as a small party worker.\nToday, on Christmas Day, as a gift the countrymen are going to get the benefits of two schemes. In a way Throughout the entire country, be it villages or towns, the educated or the illiterate, there is an atmosphere of curiosity as to the cashless, how can you make cashless business! Everybody wants to understand and learn from each other. To encourage this trend, to strengthen mobile banking and to inculcate the habit of making e-payments, the Government of India is launching today's encouragement schemes for consumers as well as traders. To encourage customers, the scheme is 'Lucky Grahak Yojana' and to encourage traders the scheme is 'Digi Dhan Vyapaar Yojana'.\nToday, on 25th December, as a Christmas gift, fifteen thousand people will get rewards through a draw system, whereby each of the fifteen thousand winners will have one thousand rupees in their accounts and this is not only today; starting today this scheme will continue for the next 100 days Everyday fifteen thousand people are going to receive rewards of one thousand rupees each. In the next 100 days, lakhs of families are going to receive crores of rupees as gift, but you will be entitled to this gift only if you make use of mobile banking, e-banking, RuPay Card, UPI, USSD - such means and methods of digital payment The draw for rewards will be done on the basis of such digital payment methods. In addition, there will be a grand draw once every week for such customers in the prize money will be in lakhs of rupees and three months later on April 14th, on the occasion of the birth anniversary of Dr. Baba Saheb Ambedkar, there would be a mega bumper draw where rewards would be in crores of rupees.\n'Digi Dhan Vyapar Yojana' is mainly for traders and businessmen. Traders should adopt this scheme themselves and should promote their business cashless. Such traders will also be rewarded. The traders will run their business activities smoothly. This scheme has been designed keeping all sections of society in mind, with a special focus on the poor and lower middle class segments. Therefore only those will get its benefits who make a purchase worth more than 50 rupees but less than three thousand rupees. Those who make purchases of more than three thousand rupees will not be entitled to rewards under this scheme.\nEven the poor people can use USSD on Simple feature or ordinary mobile phones to buy and sell goods as well as make payments and thus all of them can also become potential beneficiaries of this reward scheme. In rural areas too, people can buy or sell through AEPS and they can also win rewards. Many will be surprised to know that now there is about 30 Crore, i.e. 300 million RuPay Cards in India, out of which 200 million RuPay Cards are related to poor families which have 'Jan Dhan' accounts. These 300 million people can immediately become part of the rewards scheme. I have confidence that the countrymen will evince interest in this system and if you enquire from the young people around you, they will be aware of these things. Come on, if there is a child studying in 10th or 12th standard in your family, he or she will also be able to teach you about this. It is as simple as sending WhatsApp messages on the mobile.\nMy dear countrymen, I feel happy about learning about how to use technology, making e-payments, making online fast payments. During the past few days, the cashless transactions, or cashless trading has increased by 200 to 300%. To give cashless trading a big boost, Government of India has taken a big decision. The business community, our traders can well understand how this decision is? Those businessmen who adopt digital transactions, who develop online payment process instead of cash transactions in their trade activities will get Income Tax Rebate\nI congratulate all the states and union territories, who have promoted this campaign in their own way. The Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh, Mr. Chandrababu Naidu is the head of a committee. However, I have seen that the government also has initiated and implemented many schemes. I have been told that the Government has decided to grant a 10% discount on property tax and business license fee. The branches of Grameen, that is, Rural Banks get there 75% of their customers to make at least two digital transactions between January and March will get 50 thousand Rupees referrals from the government. They have announced that under the 'Uttam Panchayat for Digi-Transaction', the reward of 5 lakh rupees will be given to villages doing 100% digital transaction till 31st March, 2017. Assam Government has decided to reward 5 thousand rupees to the first 10 farmers as 'Digital Krishak Shiromani', who will buy seeds and fertilizers completely through digital payments I congratulate Assam Government and also those who have taken such initiatives\nA number of organizations have successfully carried out many experiments to promote and disseminate them. I have been told that GNFC or Gujarat Narmada Valley Fertilizers \u0026 Chemicals Limited, which is primarily manufactures fertilizers, has installed a thousand PoS machines for sale of fertilizers for the convenience of farmers and in just a few days 35 thousand farmers sell 5 lakh sacs fertilizers on digital payment and this was done in just two weeks! And the interesting fact is that compared to last year the fertilizer sales of GNFC has increased by 27%.\nBrothers and sisters, the informal sector occupies a major segment in our economy and in our pattern of life and in most of these people have their labour and hard work in cash for paid wages. They are paid their salaries in cash and we know that due to this, they are exploited also. If they are received 100 rupees, they get only 80 rupees, if they are to pay 80 rupees, they are given only 50 rupees. They are deprived of facilities like insurance and those related to health sector. But now the practice of cashless payment is being adopted; The money is being directly deposited in banks In a way, the informal sector is getting converted into the formal sector, the reduction is coming to an end, the cut, which has been paid earlier, has stopped now and it has become possible for the worker, the artisan, such poor persons to get their full amount of money In addition, they are also entitled to other benefits due to them.\nOur country is blessed with the maximum number of young people Thus, we are favourably placed for using technology A country like India should be ahead Our youth have benefited quite a lot from 'Start-Ups' This is the digital movement They should be able to use this as much strength as they can with their new ideas, technology and processes. But we must also connect with the money\nMy dear countrymen, I request every month before 'Mann Ki Baat' that you please give suggestions, share your thoughts; and Narendra Modii on IGov, I definitely say that 80 to 90% of suggestions are the debate about corruption and black money against the war, the demonetization of the mention. After I examined all the suggestions, I can say that this is macroscopically be roughly divided into three categories. Some have written in detail about people experiencing difficulties and facing inconveniences. The other group of correspondents have stressed that this is a good work being carried out for the welfare of the country, such a sacred task but they have also noted that in spite of this there were many scams committed and dishonesty of new avenues being explored. The third group is the one who has, while fullheartedly supporting the action taken, clearly stressed that this fight should be forward forward; corruption and black money must be completely destroyed and if this is needed too, they must be taken. We have many people writing this most emphatically\nI am thankful to the countrymen for helping me Shriman Gurumani has written on MyGov - \"This step of reigning in black money is praiseworthy. We are experiencing some difficulties, but we are all fighting against corruption and we are happy that we are fighting a fight in this fight. We are battling corruption, black money etc on the lines of Military Forces. \"The sentiment behind Gurumani Kewalji's text is being echoed in the country of every nook and corner. All of us are experiencing it. When the people face problems, undergo hardships, rare will be a fellow human being who does not empathise I feel as much pain as you do But when a task is taken up with a noble purpose, to realise a lofty intent, a clear conscience, the nationmen remain firmly in support of all these trials and tribulations. These people are the real Agents of Change, pioneers of transformation. I love you They have not only braved hardships, but also have powerfully given a retort to those limited few who have been mislead them.\nSo many rumors were spread, even the fight against corruption and black money was sought to be tainted with shades of communalism. Somebody spread a rumor that the spelling on the currency notes was faulty, someone said salt prices had spiraled, someone proclaimed that the 2000 rupee note also withdrawn, even 500 rupees and 100 Rupee denominations notes their way out on rumored. But I have seen that despite rampant rumor mongering, citizens have been firm with their faith And not just that, many people came to the fore and through their creativity and intelligence, exposed the rumor mongers, brought out the falsity of the rumors and established the truth. I salute this great ability of the people\nMy dear countrymen, I am experiencing one thing every moment When a hundred and twenty five million people are standing by you, nothing is impossible The people represent the will of the Almighty and their blessings become His blessings. I thank the people of this country and salute them for participating in this Mahayagya against black money and corruption with utmost zeal. It was my earnest wish that the ongoing campaign against corruption and black money, including the realm of political parties and political funding, be discussed extensively in the Parliament. Had the House functioned properly, there was been a comprehensive deliberation. Some people are spreading the rumors These people are absolutely in the wrong The law applies equally to all. Whether it is an individual, an organization or a political party, everyone has to abide by law and one will have to People, who can not endorse corruption and black money openly, resort to searching for the mistakes of the government relentlessly.\nAnother issue Why are rules changed time and again? This is the government The government endeavors to take a feedback from them. What are the problems of the people? What are the rules that are creating hindrances? And what are the possible solutions? The government, being a sensitive government, amends rules as required, keeping the people as its topmost consideration, so that citizens are not subjected to hardships On the other hand, as I said earlier, on the 8th to be precise, this drive is a unique one. For the past 70 years, what kind of forces are involved in this murky enterprise of perfidy and corruption? How mighty are they? When I have resolved to wage war against them, they too will come up with new tactics. To counter these new offensives, we have also been able to defect appropriate new responses and antidotes. When the opponents have been trying out new tactics, we have decided to counteractively, since we have resolved the corrupt, shady businesses and black money.\nOn the other hand, many people have been named in their letters. how newer wily ways and means are being devised In this context, I offer my heartiest greetings to a very remarkable thing. These days you should be seen on T.V. and newspapers, everyday many new people are being taken in custody, currency notes are being seized, raids are carried out Influential people are being caught How has this been made possible? Should I let the secret? The secret is that my sources of such information are people themselves. Information being received from common citizens is many times higher than that being And we are very successful in our operations on account of the awareness and alertness that the people have displayed. Can anyone imagine the level of risk, which is the citizen of my country is going to expose such elements! The information received has been largely proven to be fruitful If you want to share this information, you can send it on an e-mail address set up by the government for this purpose. You can also provide it on MyGov. The government has committed to fight all such wrongdoing and maladies. And when we have your active support, this fight becomes much easier.\nThirdly, there is another group of letter writers, also existing in large numbers. They say - Modiji, do not feel exhausted, do not stop and take the most stringent measures that you can Now that you have chosen this path, the journey should culminate at its intended and logical destination. I specially thank writers of such letters, since their writing exudes a certain confidence, fortified with blessings. I sincerely assure you that there is no way going to be a full stop. This is just the beginning We have to win this battle and the question of feeling exhausted or stopping. Armed with the good wishes of a hundred and twenty five million people, there is no question of a retreat. You are probably aware of a law about Benami Property in our country which came in 1988 in the US, but neither its rules were ever framed, nor was it notified It just lay dormant gathering dust. We have recovered it and turned it into an incisive law against 'Benami Property'. In the coming days, this law will become operational For the benefit of the nation, for the benefit of the people, whatever needs to be done will be accorded top priority.\nMy dear countrymen, I had mentioned in last month's 'Mann Ki Baat' that even among these hardships our farmers tirelessly toiled and last year's record sowing It is a sign of good times for the agricultural sector. The diligent hard work by this country's workers, and farmers, and youth has scripted a new chapter of success with flying colors. Recently India proudly inscribed her name in various sectors of the global economic scenario. It is solely on account of the tireless exemptions of our countrymen that on myriad indicators, India has charted an upward trajectory in global rankings. India's ranking has gone up in the Doing Business Report of the World Bank. We are trying our best to raise the level of business practices in India to match the best practices in the world. And we are succeeding in that. In the World Investment Report released by UNCTAD, India's position has risen to third in the Top Prospective Host Economies for 2016-18. In the Global Competitive Report of the World Economic Forum, India has made a big leap upwards by 32 ranks. In the Global Innovation Index 2016, we have moved up 16 rungs and in the Logistics Performance Index 2016 of the World Bank, we have risen by 19 ranks. There are many reports whose evaluation indicates that India is taking rapid strides forward.\nMy dear countrymen, this time the session of our countrymen Indignation about the activities in the Parliament The President and Vice President also spoke explicitly expressed their displeasure. But even in such situation, sometimes good things also take place which makes an understanding of satisfaction in the mind. Amid the din in Parliament, a great work was accomplished, which has attracted attention Brothers and sisters, today with pride and joy I would like to mention that a bill in connection with my government's mission on Divyangjan, that is, differently or specially abled people parliament in passed. For this, I extend my heartfelt gratitude to all members of Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha. About the people of the country Our government is committed to the welfare of Divyaangs. Personally, I have been successful in this campaign. My intention was to ensure that the Divyangjan safe their rights and also the honour and dignity that they are entitled to. Our efforts and our trust were fortified by Our Divyaang brothers and sisters when they returned with 4 medals from the Paralympics. With their triumph, not only did they feel proud, they are pleasantly surprised many people through their capabilities and prowess. Our Divyaang brothers and sisters are an invaluable heritage, a precious endowment, just as every citizen of the country is. Today I am immensely delighted that the passing of this law for the welfare of the Divyaangjan will open additional avenues of employment for them. In government jobs, the extent of reservation for them has been enhanced to 4%. Special provisions were made for this law for their education, facilities and also for grievances. The extent of the sensitivity of the government towards the Divyaangs can be assessed by the fact that during the last two years, the central government set up 4350 camps for Divyaangs, spent 352 crore rupees for distribution implementations to 5,80,000 Divyaang brothers and sisters. The government has passed the new law in the United Nations. Earlier there were seven Divyaang categories; now adding fourteen new categories this has been expanded to twenty-one categories. Many such new categories of people have been incorporated thereby providing them first time justice and opportunities. For example, categories like Thalassemia, Parkinson's, or for that matter dwarfism had been included.\nMy young friends, during the last few weeks, news items coming from the world Being Indians In the cricket series against England, India has triumphed 4-0. In this, the performance of some of the young players deserves a special word of praise. The young Karun Nair scored a triple century and K. L. Rahul played a brilliant 199 runs innings. Test captain Virat Kohli batted extremely well and also provided inspiring leadership. R Ashwin has been declared 'Cricketer of the Year' as well as 'Best Test Cricketer' by the year 2016. My heartiest congratulations and many good wishes all have come to go. After an gap of 15 years, there was good news, in fact the great news from the hockey arena too. The Junior Hockey Team lifted the World Cup. The festive event has come as a result of fifteen years as the Junior Hockey team won the World Cup. Hearty congratulations to these young players This achievement is a very good omen Last month our women players too won laurels Indian Women's Hockey Team won the Asian Champions Trophy and just a few days ago in the under-18 Asia Cup, Indian Women's Hockey Team secured the Bronze Medal. I congratulate all our cricket and hockey team players\nMy dear countrymen, may 2017 be a year full of joy and enthusiasm; may all your resolves be crowned with success; let us scale newer heights of progress; The poorest of the poor get a chance to lead a better and fuller life of happiness and contentment; may 2017 be like this for all of us For the year 2017, my best and brightest wishes Many, many thanks\nI wish you all a merry Christmas This is a day of service and compassion: PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat https://t.co/Iy8hu3Nre5\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 25, 2016\nToday is the birth anniversary of Mahamna Madan Mohan Malviya, on December 25: PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 25, 2016\nMalvay ji, who created the determination and self-confidence in the Indian mind, gave a new direction to modern education: PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 25, 2016\nToday, Bharat Ratna and former Prime Minister Venerable Atal Bihari Vajpayee have a birthday too: PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 25, 2016\nThis country can never forget the contribution of Atal ji. Under his leadership, we did the head of the country even in nuclear power: PM #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 25, 2016\nI salute him on the birthday of Atal ji and pray to God for his good health: PM #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 25, 2016\nToday on the day of Christmas, as a sauga, the countrymen are getting the benefit of two schemes: PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 25, 2016\nGovernment of India, 'Promoter plan' for customers and small traders is being started from today: PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 25, 2016\nScheme to encourage customers - 'lucky customer scheme', plans to encourage traders - 'Digi Dhan Business Plan': PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 25, 2016\nYou will be eligible for the prize if you are using mobile banking, e-banking, RuPay Card, UPI, USSD (1/2)\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 25, 2016\nThese digital payment methods will be used by them, draws based on the same basis (2/2): PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 25, 2016\n'Digi Dhan Business Scheme' is mainly for merchants: PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 25, 2016\nThese schemes, all sections of society, especially poor and low middle class, have been built by keeping them in the center: PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 25, 2016\nPM remembers days spent with #AtalBihariVajpayee as a young Karyakarta on #MannKiBaat https://t.co/vAovFMVla3\n- ALL INDIA RADIO (@AkashvaniAIR) December 25, 2016\nAwareness towards online payments and using technology for economic transactions is growing: PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 25, 2016\nIn the last few days, cashless business, non-cash turnover has increased 200 to 300 percent: PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 25, 2016\nPrime Minister appreciates his efforts to turn toward digital payments \u0026 transactions @sarbanandsonwal #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 25, 2016\nWe should be the forefront of using digital means to make payments and transactions: PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 25, 2016\nLike last month, many suggestions, inputs and comments were based on the fight against corruption and black money: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 25, 2016\nWhat are some of the difficulties happening to the citizens in what I have written to me, what discomforts are happening. Written in relation to this: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 25, 2016\nMany are writing that corruption has has continued to: PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 25, 2016\nI have the same pain as you, the same pain is to me: PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 25, 2016\nभाँति-भाँति अफवाहों के बावज़ूद भी देशवासियों के मन को कोई डुला नहीं सका है : PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat\n— PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 25, 2016\nजो लोग अफवाहें फैला रहे हैं कि राजनैतिक दलों को सब छूट-छाट है, ये गलत है : PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat\n— PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 25, 2016\nकानून सब के लिये समान होता है : PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat\n— PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 25, 2016\nलोगों के पत्र इस बात को लेकर के आए हैं जिसमें किस प्रकार की धाँधलियां हो रही हैं, किस प्रकार से नये रास्ते खोजे जा रहे हैं इसकी चर्चा है: PM\n— PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 25, 2016\nMany are writing to me- मोदी जी थक मत जाना, रुक मत जाना और जितना कठोर कदम उठा सकते हो, उठाओ: PM #MannKiBaat\n— PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 25, 2016\nमैं आपको विश्वास दिलाता हूँ कि ये पूर्ण विराम नहीं है, ये तो अभी शुरुआत है, ये जंग जीतना है : PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat\n— PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 25, 2016\nदिव्यांग-जनों पर जिस Mission को ले करके मेरी सरकार चली थी, उससे जुड़ा एक बिल संसद में पारित हो गया : PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat\n— PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 25, 2016\nOur sportsmen and sportswomen have made us proud: PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat"