"\nIn the last four years, our government has focussed on improving healthcare infrastructure: PM Modi\nAyushman Bharat has benefitted almost seven lakh people in just 100 days: PM\nHealthcare sector has the ability to generate jobs for the youth: PM\nBrothers and sisters,\nKem Choo,\nThis is my first visit to Gujarat in the new year. Happy New Year every one of you once again, very good luck. It's time for festivals, there are many festivals coming in the coming times. The celebration of Utsaran is celebrated with great enthusiasm. Another celebration in Gujarat is going to start tomorrow. Vibrant Gujrat This year i.e. people from all over the world are engaged here, the big names in the world of business and business have started looking at them.\nDue to the new arrangements of new India, there is a festival of celebration in trade and business and this is the specialty of Gujarat.\nThe happiness of companions, celebrations comes even more when all members of the family .. their health is best. Today, a very big task has been done in this direction.\nToday, I have had the opportunity to hand over a huge facility to Ahmedabad for Gujarat. I am grateful to the Ahmadabad Municipal corporation, I am grateful to the Government of Gujarat that you gave me a chance.\nSardar Vallabh Bhai Patel Institute of Medical Science of Research, which has a cost of Rs 750 crore, is dedicated to your service. I congratulate you all for this world-class hospital.\nThe colleagues, the country knows Sardar as a skilled administrator, a messenger of the leader and a farmer, but at the same time, Sardar Saheb was very impassable about cleanliness and public health. Under this spirit, he has contributed in building many health facilities. Wherever the spirit of Sardar Sahib will be, the city from which they started their political obligation to flourish like this, to become such a big hospital ... Wherever Sardar Sahib will be there, their soul will surely get peace. And all of you associated with this work will continue to receive many blessings of Sardar Saheb. This is my faith.\nThis new modern hospital made in Ahmedabad also ... I think in the world of health care, it has remained a great master in itself.\nCompanions, I reviewed this hospital a while ago, I really say that I am mesmerized and really and when a dream comes true, in front of my eyes, it gets an opportunity to see it, so much satisfaction will be its fantasy. can do.\nIn 2011-12, the topic we were worrying about was not even known, what kind of negativity was going on in the market, how to be embroiled with allegations? But whoever sees it today, it will surely be satisfied that the importance of such arrangements in the life of ordinary human beings is significant. And there will probably be very few corporations in the country, which, in addition to the responsibilities of their fixed services, handle such responsibilities and make it a very easy way to make world-equaling arrangements in a better, modern way.\nAnd therefore, Ahmadabad municipal corporation is specially congratulating, doing this work ... the people who got the work because it has been running since 2012 ... those who got the responsibility ... those who have their own Give time, put your intellect skills or power in a spirit of dedication, they are all congratulatory officers, due to which this is the best hospital today and not only for Gujarat but also for other states of the country .. and I understand The front is the hospital against world class hospital. Have rooms here, be bad or this whole campus. Modernity and environment are also taken care of. With the facility of 15 hundred beds, this hospital is going to take the healthcare of Ahmedabad at a very reasonable level. This is the first such government hospital where it has its own helipad, Air Ambulance has the facility to unload,\nCompanions, I remember that before 2000, there was a lack of good government hospitals in Gujarat, but for them there was a need for a doctor and another man power, there was also a great reduction.\nPeople used to avoid going to government hospitals. And before getting treatment in the hospitals, it was only for the resourceful people that they were able to do the same. And these things used to hurt the mind. To overcome this situation from the pain, the government had taken several policy decisions, we made new government hospitals, set up new medical colleges, and focused on increasing the number of medical seats.\nI am happy to see that today Gujarat has not only been standing as a competent unit in Gujarat but also providing better health facilities to the people of other states and other countries.\nMedical tourism has increased in the last decade and a half of the state, now people come to Gujarat for health benefits from abroad. And after the name of Sardar Sahib, this hospital will now further strengthen the health sector here. And most importantly, this is another hospital to connect with the Ayushman Bharat Scheme.\nGenerally it happens that the poor are afraid of having so much plush, feet in such a grand hospital. He believes that treatment in such glare will be very expensive. But I am very happy that in this hospital dedicated to Sardar Sahab, under the Ayushman scheme poor people will be treated for free.\nBrothers and Sisters, Ayushman India, Prime Minister Jan Arogya Yojana, in a very short time, has awakened a sense of security in the poor from poor to health. Today, about 500 million poor brothers and sisters in the country have got the belief that the government is standing in the position of serious illness. He does not need to keep his house, land, mortgage, not even money..he can also be healthy. This belief has got every poor person today.\nCompanions, some people also call this scheme as Modi care, its success can be estimated from the fact that within a hundred days only 60 lakh poor have free treatment in the hospital.\nUnder this scheme, average ten thousand poor people are getting free treatment every day. For these years, these people were unable to get treatment due to lack, and if trouble comes, then they say that how many days are there to live, they will suffer trouble, do not go to immerse children in debt. And the family members used to suffer but did not get treatment, because it was not possible. Today he got the support of Ayushman India.\nAll the people of the country, the health of the people, the health of the people is better, the government is working day and night for this. This is the constant endeavor of the Government that the poor and the middle class families get the best healthcare facilities in the least amount. For this, the Central Government has given priority to generic medicines too. We have launched a campaign to open the Prime Minister's Public Medicinal Center. So far, more than 5000 centers have been set up across the country. Generic drugs at these centers are about 50 percent cheaper than the market rate. The medicine that comes in one thousand rupees, it gets mixed in 2.5 to three hundred, four hundred and five hundred rupees. These centers have benefitted, especially those families who have to take medicines regularly due to diseases such as diabetes. Not only this, the Government has not exceeded more than eight hundred and eight hundred medicines and surgeries in the last four years and can not take more than that and the result is that today is the kind of surgery, drugs should be there. Available cheaply.\nBrothers and sisters, 85% of the stunts used in heart disease, and implant in knee surgery have been around 70% cheaper. Only by reducing the cost of stunts, the savings of poor and middle class people have saved more than Rs. 4.5 billion crore in a year. And the cost of these plants has saved the people around Rs. 15 crores annually. Apart from this, the Dialysis Center has been set up in the country for approximately half a hundred days for brothers and sisters suffering from kidney disease. Dialysis facility is being provided free of charge at these centers. Up to its previous year, about 3.5 million free dialysis sessions have been done. Not only that, every session has saved nearly two thousand rupees of some poor.\nUnder the leadership of the Allies, BJP, the Central Government has taken the initiative to improve primary health care facilities in the village-village of the country. When 75 years of independence, by year 2022, the Government of India is currently working on the goal of making 1.5 lakh health and wellness centers across the country.\nAll States including Gujarat are working on this fast. Here the general diseases will be examined if there are many types of stunts available for free.\nCompanions, in the last four years, it has also expanded its medical facilities as well as medical education. During this period more than 18 thousand MBBS and more than 13 thousand post graduate seats have been increased. For middle-class children who want to make a career in health sector, a great opportunity has arisen for them. Thousands of new seats have been added here in Gujarat. Work is being planned to open at least one medical college in every three parliamentary areas of the country.\nThe network of private hospitals is also expanding due to peer pressure, such emphasis on health. Due to the scheme like Ayushman India, there is a growing need in small towns too. So new hospitals are also open fast.\nNew hospitals are opening up, so the demand for doctors, nurses and other paramedical staff is also increasing. That is, many job opportunities for the youth are going to be created in the health sector.\nWhen the brothers and sisters, when it comes to employment and youth opportunities, the government has recently taken a very big decision. In addition to government services to poor children of general category, provision of 10 percent reservation in government and private educational institutions has been made in the constitution.\nI congratulate the Gujarat government that you have implemented it first. Now many state governments including the Central Government have issued orders to implement it.\nRaising above companions, caste, class, sect, the demand for reservation for the poor of the general category was going on for decades. But the lack of power of politics, during election-election, political parties used to throw these arrows. But there was a process of constitutional amendment, he did not have the courage to do it, but the NDA government at the Center showed this will power, we showed it.\nI am saying again that with the arrangement of reservation, this system which we have done has been done without circulating the right of any sections. That is, it will open new doors of social harmony, which will remain in the gill which will be preceded by it.\nCompanions, the Central Government has also decided that the educational institution will get the benefits of this new reservation from the new session this year. These reservations will be applied to nine hundred universities of the country, and about 40 thousand colleges.\nIn this, technical, non-technical, management will be implemented in all types of institutions. For this, the mandatory order will be issued soon. Not only this, the number of seats in the institutions will also be increased by 10 percent for the new system to not affect the current situation.\nBrothers and Sisters Our Government is committed to equality of opportunities in the country. The power of the new India is our youth, young power will be able to use its energy only when it will get suitable opportunities. Distinctions in opportunities have influenced talent, these things have been obsolete. The BJP's dedication to equality is related to our values, our accompaniment. We know what is the struggle of the poor. And so we are committed to equal opportunities in every field of society with complete loyalty.\n\nIn the absence of opportunities, brothers and sisters, no one is left behind, the middle class or the poor, the city or the village, any class of the country, and no corner movements, the government is constantly working for it. This is everyone's development. And this is our way to build New India. We all have to walk together on this path at full speed. With this insistence, I once again congratulate you for this new health service, but in the hospital opening it can not say that the hospital is filled. I would like that such a situation does not come, no one should come to the hospital, but if it had to come, when it first came, before it was better than before, it is my best wishes to all of you. Thank you very much, once again, Ahmadabad Municipal corporation has given many a lot of help for his successful attempts. Thank you."