"Share\n\nWe must plan for the future We will plan to improve our cities: PM\nGovernment of India is actively working on the Rurban Mission. This caters to those places that are growing \u0026 urbanizing quickly: PM\nCharacter \u0026 spirit of the village has to be protected \u0026 at the same time we need to invigorate our villages with good facilities: PM\nIn this nation, everybody is equal before the law.\nGentlemen present on the dais and the brothers and sisters of Pune now gathered here in large numbers.\nIndia is urbanizing at a very quick pace and despite being very high, it has become necessary for us to work in two directions. Quality work has to be done in villages The quality of life has improved Villages should get the same facilities, potentials and avenues available in cities Only then we will be able to visit the people of cities On the other hand, part of the meal is going to be targeted in elections after five years. We may have no political mileage for now, but after 25 or 30 years how our city will be visible and what should be the expected water requirement, the required schools and hospitals, estimated traffic flow and its management will be our vision of a part . Only then we will be able to meet the challenges of urbanization. You have given us power to run the nation as a government in New Delhi so we have made a policy that lays emphasis on permanent change instead of current gain. The Rurban Mission is now where cities are gradually becoming cities with spurt in population. Such villages are within the 25 km periphery of big cities. We have asked all the cities And a detailed work is going on in the Rurban Plan. This Rurban mission is a citizenized village with a rural soul. The spirit of the village should not die It should be secured and nurtured However, village dwellers can not be forced into the 18th century. So, in order to reduce pressure on cities, we have focussed on such hundreds of villages across the country and have tried to enhance facilities under the Rurban Mission. On the other hand Infrastructure is the first and foremost requirement. Till now This is for you In later stage when the road has to be widened, This leads to court cases and matter is kept in store for another 25-30 years. This has been the practice Laying of water pipelines will start and by the time the work is over, there will be too many population here. Then there will arise the issue of laying big pipelines but how? This indicates that we have not cared for future requirements and opted that kind of development model which offers only short term gains. Now a solution should be evolved\nIt is our ending now to develop more than 50 Metro cities in one go. You can imagine the magnitude of the burden. A decision to implement this in staggered manner and efforts of delaying the process may have resulted in enhanced project cost with increased problems on one hand with no guarantee of fulfillment of requirements on the other. So it is our solution to take projects in hand in such a manner that will be completed in the given time frame. So if possible, try to get things done after 25-30 years Today this approach may not be economically viable but the process takes off, we will also learn economically viable We want to bring chances in quality of life\nToday a Herculean task of connecting 2.5 lakh panchayats via Optical Fiber Network in the country is underway. This Digital India is not a city specific work. We can not push forward the nation unless we have the latest technology and science. There was a time when infrastructure was taken as road, rail or to a maximum airport was taken. This is past Now people want Highway with I-Way For I-Way We need Optical Fiber Connectivity Earlier people used to get satisfied with water pipes. Now with the time change they demand Gas pipeline too. So we have to update the visions and concepts of development. Only then we can think of meeting We have this potential Now the infrastructure is being expanded beyond the rail and road connectivity for water grid, digital network, gas grid areas and insurance payment for farmer's crop loss space technology of use through the process, as this is the hour of need. And India should become advanced in this manner Government is working on this vision\nI can understand the anguish of Pune people in the delayed implementation of this Metro project. This is but natural It was too much expenditure. People did not have the right and the purchased vehicles in large numbers with a thought that when the Metro is their why I should go for a vehicle. There is no parking space too. Anyhow, better late than ever Friends, the earlier governments have reserved some very good assignments for me and I have a chance to meet your expectations. I feel lucky How happy Jagtap ji is feeling now, I do not know. It is very difficult to express ones Just now Venkaiah ji said that Pune is getting 160 crore rupees instead of 28 crore rupees. On the eve of elections, if a municipality has 160 crore in its coffers, what can not be done? This happened because of my 8th November evening 8 pm address. This is not only in Pune but all over the country with the increase of 200 to 300 percent for urban bodies. Everybody though that better place it here This too is a good cause, other than the tax collection, urban bodies had never gone above 50, 60 or 70 percent. The contributors were masses and occasionally Law is violated But they are now in the queue In a country everyone is equal. Everybody must be abided by Law. How the government has functioned so far? I am not criticising anyone But it gives heart burns and pain What the country has been made? You will be surprised In 1988, Indian Parliament passed the Benami property Act after discussion and discussions. This becomes headline in newspapers. They wanted to get noticed and felicitations, got it with garlands around their necks. But that paper got lost in files after coming out of parliament. It's got traced only when I came That Act was notified then. Law did not come in force Had it been enforced by those who were in power in 1988, there had been no sin in the name of Benami The nation would have been safe. Such sin has been committed by those You ask me Please speak loudly for a solution Must we not do this rightly and must So my brothers and sisters, had a timely cure for this illness, I would not have been forced to take such a hard step. Such timely steps would not have forced my 125 crore fellow countrymen to stand in queues. I am also pained by this. But this decision is for country Inaction made country a big loser I would like to\nBrothers and sisters I have special expectations from Pune. This is a city of industrial heritage This is a educational hub also. If in the past Kashi was known for its intellectual bastion, so was Pune too. IT Profession has deep roots in Pune. Can Pune march further towards online payment? Can our mobile turn converted as mobile phone bank, yes or no? This bank can be in our hands Business can be done at any time Is it necessary to stand in bank queue? Is it required to stand outside ATM? Is every feature available or not? Will Pune people help me, yes or no? I am sure of your help We have said yes for payment through e-Wallet or using debit card. Now the services are also enabled Only use account, account number and your thumb impression This will go further. Mr. Sharad Rao, Kissan Leader is here with us You are aware that High Sugarcane yields to fall in produce prices, bumper onion crop witnesses the same, is it true or not? So is the currency notes Before 8th November was there no taker for 100 rupee note. Even a child at home is either worth Rs.1000 or Rs. 500 note instead of Rs. 100 as then that was taken as worth After 8th November it is now Rs. 100 everywhere glittering Small currency now has more value So friends after 8th November India has seen enhanced strengthening of both bigger as well as small ones. And my fight is for the poor\nBut you might have seen previous instances Some people think that all governments are alike Same as in the past Ok let us say it for some days. After that what? After we have all the way Have done it again Taking this as granted he went to bank deposits in the hope of getting it converted to white and valid. Though the did not get white instead of their faces got blackened Some people took bank employees on their sides in partnership for their easy run but now they have no courage to come out in public. With state of the art technology everyone can be traced right from his home to everywhere After one, two or three months First you did not know Those who took their money in bank will make it white and valid should now be cautious. Still you have a chance for a free ride. Be abided by law. Return to that So forth their no escape route. So from this Pune soil There are still some rules Come on the right track and have a peaceful tension If you do not return Brothers and sisters, I have started this war against corruption, black money, fake currency, terrorism and naxalism And this mood of 125 crore countrymen I am sure that those people are able to do their likes. Now it is the turn of 125 crore people to have their say And a select bank of people will find it difficult to supress their voice. Friends I am out of the countrymen I had referred 50 days of problem, increased problem. But after 50 days woes of honest people will start receding and trouble time for corrupt ones will start uprising. You will see this and this is started Big shots are getting arrested and being sent to custody. Many bank employees have been rested to their homes. Some were dismissed and some had been imprisoned.\nBrothers and sisters These steps have been taken after planning and thinking and keeping the interests of countrymen and I hope we will succeed, the country will succeed. Metro work should start at fast pace When the elections were going on, I had said that for 15 years this vehicle of Maharashtra is stuck in a ditch, bailing it out of that. One from Delhi and other one from Maharashtra Government You have trusted us Now this double engine has brought Metro. This is the power of double engine. So you gave us a chance for this\n"