"Even in the midst of struggle, Shivaji Maharaj remained a torchbearer of good governance: PM\nDevelopment is the solution to all problems\nThe strength of 125 crore Indians will bring about change in this nation: PM Modi\nGentlemen present on dais and my dear brothers and sisters assembled here\nYou can imagine how happy I am? When Bharatiya Janata Party gave me the responsibility of elections in 2014, I first of all came at Raigad Fort to visit the Samadhi of Chatrapati Shivaji, a braveheart and great warrior who wrote a new chapter in the history of his efficiency and capability amidst prevailing dangers while leading a struggling life. Probably it is near impossible to have such person in the world history who strengthens and furthered the good fortune in the continual combats. The historians and stage performers / artists have penned and posed their views on Shivaji as a horse rider with a sword and we also see that way. Chatrapati Shivaji was a multi-faceted personality. Evaluating the deeds of his personalities on the basis of Lord Ramchandraji by killing Ravana; defeat of Kansa by Shri Krishna and expulsion of Britisher's by Mahatma Gandhi is not a good approach and we have to accept that doing so as a flawed approach. The Ravana killing on the hand of Lord Ram was an incident in his life, while while so many instances from his life that still affect and inspire Indian life. Kansa was also not allowed The message of Gita in the battle ground- its amazing What kind of soil this nation has that gives birth to such souls who creates a stream of ideas that are still a source of inspirations for thousands of years i.e. Gita Mahatma Gandhi struggled against Britisher's for our independence Alongside he opened another front against social evils, tried to awaken masses and boost his self-pride. We can never under estimate that Likewise, Chatrapati Shivaji is also not allowed to fall, sword, war and victory. He was a dashing warrior and great inspiration. But you just imagine, just as Ram ji made small army from the common people and Vaaners, took them with him, fought and won war What a capacity of building organization? Chatrapati Shivaji also accumulated laymen, farmers, trained them for war in a very similar way.\nFor Engineering students of today, the basics of water management and water infrastructure for water in scarcity prone areas, the system developed by Shivaji Maharaj is a model and inspiration of the source. Shivaji had an offer of getting his money minted by foreigners. But he had a vision so he declined this offer and said if minting currency comes under ones control, no time left for any ruler for a defeat. So he built the infrastructure indigenously and never allowed foreign help\nNaval security has become a big global issue today. The whole world is on alert for naval security. Everybody is worried about his rights and commercial connections. But centuries ago a warrior from this soil knew the importance of naval power, so he established navy. Today all the costal forts we have seen provisions for naval security requirements Wherever in the world there are old and ancient systems, Iconic artefacts are a great attractions for tourism. In India, Taj Mahal is also a cause for tourism as anyone in the world who listen to it for a while. Such iconic symbols were created in the country by a particular country. In many countries stay at fortified tourism India also is a hub of many forts spread across the country that were built by kings of their times. They have built-in security features and architecture. The resources used then had specifications. But, unfortunately, we could not come out of Taj Mahal. Every nook and corner of this country has a number of tourist attractions. Proper and correct presentation of India before the world is full potential for attracting tourists. Tourism is the area which is now in the world. Tourism is now a Trillion Dollar Trade. India is a country of ancient practices So we should showcase the forts built by Chatrapati Shivaji after their proper conservation. Universities in India should be advised to start the tourism tourism and start tour by horse riding. I would ask ASI department to start this from Forts of Chatrapati Shivaji and an environment for fortune tourism. Brothers and sister today I am grateful to the people of Maharashtra for giving me a chance to be in the religious rites of doing the Bhoomi and Jala Pujan for the upcoming Shiv Memorial. Such a feeling of fullness I am sure this conception of Maharashtrata's Fadanavis Government will take shape finally The country will feel proud after its commissioning and will tell the world that the iconic Building is ours. This is the great personality who has given his life for the betterment of common man. Today I have a moment to pay my homage to such Chatrapati Maharaj.\nBrothers and Sisters Diverse methodologies were tested upon. However the 70 year experience made us concede that the one and only way of development was treaded from the beginning, the problems coming across now have not been grounded in our soil.\nThe only remedy is development It's immense potential Development is the power of giving poor their due For a long race A respectful life So brother and sisters we have focussed on development On this point we have definite approach that will be sustainable It should be a game changer in life for empowering and enabling So welfare of poorly focal point Soon after assuming office, one report that we got wondered Persons retiring from small scale state owned industrial units were getting pension from ranging from Rs.7 to Rs. 51. Someone were getting Rs. 80. No one getting around Rs. 150. Now for getting a pension of Rs. 7 why a 80 year old person will go to post office on a hired auto? So we decided that despite the burden on the government's retired person should get a minimum of Rs. 1000. 35 lakh people are not a small number and a big financial constraint of hundreds of rupees on government coffers we took a big step for the better life of the old persons Medicines are getting expensive so we pushed for Generic Medicines and opened up the public hospitals so that the poor person could get cheaper and standard medicines on time and they are not exploited. In order to make smokeless kitchens which were used in firewood and endangering the health of poor women, we have decided to give them LPG connections. Crores of persons now have this and during the coming three years around 5 crore BPL families will own such connections. Our freedom is now 70 years old, there are 18,000 villages still forced to live in 18th century. No electricity, not even a pole of electric wires. Can history forgive those people who have ruined these 70 years that these villages were forced to live in darkness We have vowed to electrify these villages in 1000 days. Half work is over The target will be achieved in stipulated period.\nBrothers and sisters who can not change? Having faith in the joint power of my 125 crore fellow citizens I can say yes from my three year experience and it will happen. You could imagine that the projects launched from this dais are worth more than one lakh six thousand crore rupees. This is a very big event from Mumbai.\nFriends being in Mumbai today Now a days it has become a fashion to ask for the documentary proofs. Can Win Losing election We have started our fight against the corruption and black money from the day. Took a number of steps and launched a big attack in the night of November 8. We gave a clarion call against fake currency, black money and corruption. Friends despite many hardships and sufferings Though confusions were mongers, they tried to dissipate and demoralize them. Rumour hub was activated. But to those we narrate illiterate used his common sense He did not yielded and sided The mandate of Maharshtra people in the last election was a message that with whom truth prevails and what direction the country desires\nFriends I had said in Goa that those who cherished for 70 years will try their level best to thwart such initiatives Have left no stone unturned However, they are unable to confront with the resolution of 125 crore people They can never be a winner and this nation can not be a loser Friends a country of 125 crore people can never be defeated Such handful people can never leave Some people who have not seen the money But side by the bankers did it There are many cases of getting apprehended in net and things are getting open. They think approaching bank will bail them out. But the game has just started My fellow countrymen, I had said People have better times Even they will bear the future hardships too But, I am sure that after fifty days sufferings of honest people will start receding and those who are corrupted and unscrupulous will see the blazing sun. I still want to be aware that the corrupt ones will be aware of it, stop your actions and a common man for a hassle free life. I am inviting you This government will not ruin you, nor is it bent on hang out But you have to cough up the poor's due There is no escape route. If anybody thinks that old practices are still used for a safe passage then you are wrong Now the government is different and there are many votes. You must know that the people of India have made this government for the eradication of corruption and black money. This government will deliver the same So the brothers and sisters the count down for the destruction of the people This is the cleansing operation For the wellbeing of a country The administration should be fair There must prevail an environment of mutual trust Nations will have the value and it should be upheld. Some people are habitual of unfair means but millions of people suffer due to such acts. If the corrupt ones and mischievous people are afraid of Modi, be it so. They do not care government, but they do not under estimate the anger and mood of 125 lakh people. You must have their fear Now they are in different posture They are not ready to go down They are not ready to accept. They are the harbingers and out in fight for black money. So Brothers and sisters, this war is auguring well with your support and cooperation from the Mumbai soil and that too from the Shiv Memorial of Chatrapati Shivaji. Let me assure that we will not stop until victory.\nOnes again my salute from the core of the envisioned Government of Fadanavis which is committed to development. Be it for arrangement of water for farmers or Infrastructure Development in cities or skill development of youth or the area of ​​education, on every node, Maharashtra is going forward for acclaiming new horizons. Now raise voice with me -Chatapati Shivaji Maharaj Ki Jai (Three times). Many many thanks"