"Share\n\nIndia is a bright spot Growth is projected to be the highest in the world: PM\nIn less than 3 years, our government has transformed the economy: PM Modi\nFinancial markets can play an important role in the economy, says the Prime Minister\nGovernment is very keen to encourage start-ups Stock markets are essential for the start-up ecosystem: PM\nMy aim is to make India a developed country in one generation: PM Narendra Modi\nIt is a pleasure for me to be here today to inaugurate this new campus. This is a time of slowdown in the global economy. Developed countries and emerging markets are both facing slow growth. Against this background, India is a bright spot. Growth is projected to remain the highest in the world.\nIndia's fastest growing economy To see how far we have travelled, we should look back to 2012-13. The fiscal deficit has reached alarming levels. The currency was falling sharply Inflation was high The current account deficit was rising Confidence was wasted from India The BRICS nations\nIn less than 3 years, this government has transformed the economy We have cut the fiscal deficit target every year and also achieved it every year. The current account deficit is low Even after the redemption of loans taken under the special currency swap in 2013, the foreign exchange reserves are high. Inflation is low, running at less than 4 per cent compared to the previous government. Public investment has increased largely, even when the fiscal deficit has been cut. A new monetary policy framework has been introduced. The Constitutional Amendment on Goods and Services Tax had remained pending for years. It has been passed and the long awaited GST will soon be a reality. We have made progress on the improvement As a result of all these policies, foreign direct investment has reached record levels. By claiming that demonetisation has stopped a fast moving car, our critics have also acknowledged the speed of our progress.\nLet me make one thing very clear: This government will continue to follow sound and prudent economic policies, to ensure that India has a bright future in the long run. We will not take decisions for short term political point scoring. We will not shy away from taking difficult decisions, if those decisions are in the interest of the country Demonetization is an example. It has short term benefits\nFinancial markets can play an important role in the modern economy. They help in mobilizing savings. They channel the savings towards productive investments.\nHowever, history has shown that financial markets can also do damage, if not properly regulated. It is to ensure good regulation that the Securities and Exchange Board of India, - SEBI - was established by the Government. SEBI also has a strong securities market.\nRecently, the Forward Markets Commission has been abolished. SEBI has given the task of regulating commodity derivatives also. This is a big challenge In the commodity markets, the spot market is not regulated by SEBI. Agricultural markets are regulated by states. And many commodities are bought directly by the poor and the needy, not by investors So the economic and social impact of commodity derivatives is more sensitive.\nFor financial markets to work successfully, participants need to be well informed. I am happy to note that the National Institute of Securities Markets is performing the role of educating various participants and providing skill certification. Today, our mission is to be a 'Skilled India' Indian youth should be able to compete with their counterparts in any corner of the world This institution has a vital role to play in such capacity building. I have been told that around one lakh fifty thousand candidates are taking examinations of NISM every year. More than 5 lakh candidates have been certified by NISM till date.\nIndia has earned a good name for its well-regulated securities markets. The spread of electronic means of trading and the use of the depositories have made our markets more transparent. SEBI as an institution can also take pride in this.\nHowever, there is still a long way to go for our securities and commodity markets. When I see the financial news, I often read about the success of IPOs and how some smart entrepreneur suddenly a billionaire. As you know, my government is very happy to start-ups. Stock markets are essential for the start-up ecosystem. However, it is not possible if the securities market is considered as successful by international investors or financial experts. Wealth creation is good, The real value of our securities market lies in their contribution\n• to the development of the nation\n• to the improvement of all sectors and\n• to the welfare of the vast majority of citizens\nSo, before I get financial markets to be fully successful, they have to meet three challenges.\nFirstly, the primary objective of our stock market should be helped in raising capital for productive purposes. Derivatives have a use in managing risk. But many people feel derivatives are dominating the markets. We should ponder as to how the capital market is doing its main function of providing capital.\nOur markets should show that they are able to successfully raise capital for projects. In particular, I am referring to infrastructure Today, most of our infrastructure projects are financed by the government or through banks. The use of capital For infrastructure projects to be viable, it is very important that the loan should be long duration. It is said that we do not have a liquid long term bond market. Various reasons were given for this But surely this is a problem, if you really want to put your mind to it. My call to you Today, only the government or external lenders like World Bank or JICA provide long term money for infrastructure. We will move away from that Bond markets should become a source of long term infrastructure finance\nYou are all aware of urban infrastructure. This Government has launched a ambitious Smart Cities program. In this context, I am disappointed that even now, we do not have a municipal bond market. There will be problems in creating such market. But the true test of an innovation is when it comes to solves a complex problem. Can SEBI and the Department of Economic Affairs ensure that at least 10 cities in India issue municipal bonds within one year?\nSecondly, the markets should provide benefits - namely our farmers The true measure of success is the impact in villages, not the impact in Dalal Street or Lutyens' Delhi. By that yardstick, we have a long way to go. Our stock markets need to raise capital in innovative ways for projects in agriculture Our commodity markets should become useful to our farmers, not just avenues for speculation. People say that the derivatives could be used by farmers for reducing their risks. But in practice, hardly any farmer in India uses derivatives. That is the fact Unless and when we make the commodity markets directly useful to farmers, they are just a costly ornament in our economy, not a useful tool. This Government has introduced e-NAM - the electronic National Agricultural Market. SEBI should work for closer linkage in spot markets like e-NAM and derivatives market to benefit farmers\nThirdly, those who profit from financial markets should make a fair contribution to nation-building through taxes. For various reasons, the contribution of tax from the markets has been low. To some extent, it may be due to illegal activities and fraud. To stop this, SEBI has to be extremely vigilant To some extent, the low contribution of tax can also be due to our tax laws. Low or zero tax rate I call upon you to think about the contribution of market participants to the exchequer. We should consider ways for a fair, efficient and transparent way. Earlier, there was an feeling that some investors were getting an unfair deal by using certain tax treaties. As you know, those treaties have been amended by this government. Now it is time to re-think and come up with a good design which is simple and transparent, but also fair and progressive.\nFriends\nI know that financial markets are very important to the budget. The budget cycle has an impact on the real economy. In our current budget calendar, the authorization of expenditure comes with the start of the monsoon. Government programs are not active in the productive pre-monsoon months. Therefore, this year, we are advancing the date of the budget so that the expenditure is authorized by the new financial year starts. This will improve productivity and output\nFriends\nMy goal is to make one generation India can not become a developed country without world class securities and commodity markets Therefore, I look forward to a growing contribution from all the financial markets to more relevant to this new era. I wish the NISM all success I also want to celebrate Christmas and a very happy new year.\nIndia is a bright spot Growth is projected to remain the highest in the world: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 24, 2016\nIndia's place as the fastest growing large economy is not about by accident: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 24, 2016\nIn 2012-13, the fiscal deficit had reached alarming levels.Currency was falling sharply. Inflation was high. Current account deficit was rising: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 24, 2016\nIn less than 3 years, this government has transformed the economy: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 24, 2016\nFinancial markets can play an important role in the economy: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 24, 2016\nHowever history has shown that financial markets can also do damage if not properly regulated: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 24, 2016\nFor financial markets to function successfully, participants need to be well informed: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 24, 2016\nIndia has earned a good name for its well regulated securities markets: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 24, 2016\nGovernment is very keen to encourage start-ups Stock markets are essential for the start-up ecosystem: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 24, 2016\nOur markets should show that they are able to successfully raise capital for projects, benefiting the vast majority of our population: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 24, 2016\nThe true measure of success is the impact in villages, not the impact in Dalal Street or Lutyens' Delhi: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 24, 2016\nSEBI should work for closer linkage among spot markets like e-NAM and derivatives markets to benefit farmers: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 24, 2016\nThose who profit from financial markets should make a fair contribution to nation-building through tax: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 24, 2016\nMy aim is to make India a developed country in one generation: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 24, 2016\n"