"We should ensure affordable \u0026 quality healthcare for all: PM Modi\nLand of Kashi is of spiritual significance and has tremendous tourism potential: PM Modi\nLet us make an important part of our lives: PM\nI am happy to have such an opportunity in Kashi, whether it is the foundation stone or dedication to the people or the instigation of various multi-purpose projects. Today, Kashi is getting several projects at the cost of about Rs 2100 crore a day . Today, keeping in view of the healthcare, especially the poor of the poor family should have proper healthcare in hospitals. In order to provide better healthcare for the poor people, ordinary labourers, factory labourers, ESIC hospitals have been modernized and their capacity has doubled in comparison to their earlier capacity. So, taking the whole project in my hand, the Government of India has taken this important step towards better service for poor and labourers. I think, the continuing efforts to bring transformation into system and its extension to connect with modern science and technology will be a new gift toward the healthcare facility in this locality.\nI have just visited Banaras University I found the foundation of a cancer research institute there. People living in this whole locality have to go to Mumbai for cancer treatment We know that it takes quite a long time to get a chance in Mumbai based hospitals. Why should not be a Mumbai like cancer hospital and well equipped hospital for providing the best patient care here in Utter Pradesh, specially in eastern Uttar Pradesh, which will also benefit the neighboring states of Jharkhand and Bihar? A very vast project, which I have laid the foundation in the program organized in Banaras University today, is going to benefit from this whole locality in a big way. We know that the public private partnership model is similarly important in health care sector. Quite a large number of private hospitals are operating in this locality. Shriman Shetty is like a son of India, who does make from Karnataka, but settled in Gulf countries. But, he has worked very well for the health care sector. His hospitals run in different places. Attracted with Kashi, he is going to launch a private hospital in Kashi. Today, I have got one too Setting up such a big hospital having 500 beds, is a very huge gift for Kashi. 200 beds out of 500 will be fully dedicated for poor patients, while the rest 300 beds will be super specialty health facilities. It is the poor people Thousands of youth will have new jobs Skill development This huge investment is going to be beneficial for this locality, whether they are paramedical staff, nursing staff and hospital maintenance staff.\nThis opportunity for me, to lay the foundation of such project today, is a result of the hard and weaving work and full hearted involvement of our present Minister Smriti Irani Ji's hard labor, who made continuous efforts in taking this project forward. In a very little time, I have the opportunity to inaugurate the project. I whole heartedly congratulate Smriti Ji and Gangwar Ji, who was previously the Minister of the Department, for this quality based and fast pace accomplishment. The completion of the first phase is only for the people of Kashi. A large number of people Kashi is a holy tourist destination too. Such a facility in Kashi may become a strong base in acknowledging its global distinctiveness. Now, rickshaw and taxi drivers must be known to this, so that they could take those people there, who are on their Kashi visit This way, they could be aware of the arts and crafts of the local people and their products. This will be more helpful in establishing a global identity of these products and processes. They can experience that how the people of Kashi have preserved this great heritage of India The aim of this trade center and museum is to Some people had sent me some pictures from here, which were very exceptional glimpses. In such a small time, such a work could have been done. Now, this ancient city has its modern identity with this modern building and ancient art. With this initiative, now the world will be able to properly and closely observe and identify a variety of textiles, handicrafts and the ability of the people to build their land, which is the special identity of Kashi.\nWe have been able to bring some changes There is a need of technological intervention and invention. Today, I got a chance to help some friends, by providing handlooms to them. Special stress has been given in modern technology with various handlooms, making them more user friendly, yielding and earning. A campaign has been launched throughout the country to provide identity cardsto. Our country has a huge capacity Neither their records are available, nor their identity Such a missing recognition is the reason for huge loss for us On the other end, anyone's installedrecognition helps emerge as a brand. Those poorest of the poor people of India, should have their own identity, who have the skill, art and work spirit.They are the brands themselves. Millions of people of our country, who are involved in such works, are themselves in brand. We have not yet been able to make this brand. Once, we have come to know the number of people having such ability and we have determined to give stress on their capacity enhancement and to improve in the area, we will have to make plans for them by making it very fast and opportunities to them We can be able to bring in this field. Even, I have got a chance to present a card to the people, who are identified, assessed and brandedcapacity with use of the latest technology. Also, I have got a chance to distribute the latest new looms to carpet makers, which are capable of producing user friendly and international quality based on the bestproducts, which can increase our exports. Now, we can give you the best quality items\nI have got a chance to distribute sports kits to many youth here. Although it is the soil of wrestlers, it is necessary to adopt the role of the youngsters in our country. It should become a characteristic of our social life It is sports, which creates a unique environment on our land. Everyone likes sportsman spirit But without sports, sports spirit is not possible Therefore, we are trying to promote sports, to provide opportunities to youth and enhance the various capacities within India. We are not allowed to promote only sports We are making efforts in that direction. I am happy today to be with you and you have a chance to dedicate such mega project. I believe that we will complete these projects within the time limit and possibly before the time limit, whose foundation has been given today and we will be able to serve it I am very gratef + ul to all of you\nThanks!\nIf someone is suffering from cancer, why should one go far for treatment We decided to start a cancer research institute\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 22, 2016\nThis land of Kashi is of spiritual importance and has tremendous tourism potential. It is also a trade center: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 22, 2016\nLet us make an important part of our lives: PM @narendramodi in Varanasi"