"Share\n\nRelationship between India and the Kyrgyz Republic is filled with goodwill from centuries of shared historical links: PM\nWe respect Kyrgyz Republic as a valuable partner in making a sustainable peace, stability and prosperity: PM\nPM to Kyrgyz President: PM to Kyrgyz President\nWe will give special emphasis to youth exchanges in our technical and economic cooperation program with Kyrgyz Republic: PM\nYour Excellency Mr. Almazbek Atambaev\nPresident of the Kyrgyz Republic,\nLadies and Gentlemen,\nMembers of the Media,\nI am delighted to welcome President Almazbek Atambaev on his first state visit to India. Excellency, the warmth of your hospitality and welcome during my visit to the Kyrgyz Republic in July last year is still fresh in my mind. Your visit this time helps us The relationship between India and the Kyrgyz Republic is filled with goodwill from centuries of shared historical links. Our communities share an understanding of warmth that permeates our contacts with Central Asia, including the Kyrgyz Republic. We are also bound by a common belief in democratic values ​​and traditions. Much credit goes to President Atambaev for nurturing and building strong foundations of democracy in Kyrgyz Republic.\nFriends,\nPresident Atambaev and I held extensive discussions on our bilateral engagement. We focus on our common priority of diversifying and deepening bilateral engagement. We also discussed how we were able to work together in the United States and the United States. We agree on the need to coordinate and work closely in addressing and overcoming these common challenges. We regard Kyrgyz Republic as a valuable partner in our common pursuit of Central Asia in a region of sustainable peace, stability and prosperity. The Shanghai Cooperation Organization will also give us a valuable framework to work on these issues.\nFriends,\nPresident Atambaev and I reviewed our cooperative engagement in the defense field. The Kyrgyz-India Mountain Bio-Medical Research Center is a great example of successful collaboration. It has been proven to be a rewarding research initiative. We have commenced work on a Kyrgyz-India Joint Military Training Center in Kyrgyz Republic. Our joint military exercises on counter-terrorism is now an annual feature. Next year in Kyrgyz Republic\nFriends,\nPresident Atambaev and I agreed on the need to connect our economies more deeply. To this end, we will work to strengthen bilateral trade and economic links, and facilitate greater people-to-people exchanges. We will encourage industry and business on both sides to play a leading role in exploiting opportunities in healthcare, tourism, information technology, agriculture, mining and energy. We have decided to build on our development cooperation in capacity building and training. People have been the center of such initiatives We will give special emphasis to youth exchanges in our technical and economic cooperation program with Kyrgyz Republic. The understanding concludes today In the first year of the Central Asian region, we had initiated tele-medicine links with Kyrgyz Republic last year. We are taking steps to expand this project to other regions of the Kyrgyz Republic.\nFriends,\nIndia and the Kyrgyz Republic will be marking the 25th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic ties between the two countries in March 2017. As we approach this milestone, President Atambaev's visit to India, the process and our partnership deepening of our efforts, It will also help consolidate the recent gains in our engagement and reinforce our ties in the months and years ahead. I wish President Atambaev a memorable and productive visit in India\nThank You\nThank you very much\nThe relationship between India and the Kyrgyz Republic is filled with goodwill from centuries of shared historical links: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 20, 2016\nWe discussed the issues of terrorism, extremism and radicalism: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 20, 2016\nKyrgyz Republic is a common partner in our common pursuit of making Asia a region of sustainable peace, stability and prosperity: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 20, 2016\nPresident Atambaev and I agree on the need to connect our economies more deeply: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 20, 2016\nWe will work to strengthen bilateral trade and economic links and facilitate greater people-to-people exchanges: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 20, 2016\nPM @narendramodi on economic ties: We will encourage engagement in healthcare, tourism, IT, agriculture, mining and energy. pic.twitter.com/Zz1W60O92N\n- Vikas Swarup (@MEAIndia) December 20, 2016\nPM @narendramodi: We have decided to build on our development cooperation in capacity building and training. pic.twitter.com/BIgHnitJx5\n- Vikas Swarup (@MEAIndia) December 20, 2016\nPM concludes: As we approach 25 years of diplomatic relations President's visit will drive our efforts of deepening our partnership pic.twitter.com/48rZXaZ2wS"