"\nTajikistan is a valued friend and strategic partner in Asia: PM\nTerrorism casts a long shadow of violence and the rest of the region (Asia): PM Modi\nAppreciate Tajikistan's role in the Central Asian region as a mainstay against forces of extremism, radicalism, and terrorism: PM\nOur planned adoption to the Ashgabat agreement will further help in linking to Tajikistan and Central Asia: PM\n\nYour Excellency Mr. Emomali Rahmon\nPresident of Tajikistan,\nLadies and Gentlemen,\nMembers of the Media,\nI extend warm welcome to President Rahmon and his delegation in India. Tajikistan is a valued friend and strategic partner in Asia. President Rahmon himself is very familiar with India We are happy In India, we deeply appreciate his leadership and strengthening our bilateral relations. Our strategic partnership is built on a foundation of mutual respect, trust and shared interests in regional security and development. Our countries and societies also enjoy a natural affinity anchored in deep-rooted shared history and heritage. Our cultural, religious and linguistic inter-mingling has been the subject of our people-to-people linkages today.\nFriends,\n\nPresident Rahmon and I have been fruitful discussions earlier today We assessed the progress of our partnership in different pillars of our bilateral engagement, including our partnership in defense and security. India and Tajikistan live in an expanded neighborhood that continues to face multiple security challenges and threats. The threat from terrorism is not just our two countries. It casts a lot of time Combating terrorism has, therefore, been a critical area of ​​our cooperative engagement. We appreciate Tajikistan's role in the Central Asian region as a mainstay against forces of extremism, radicalism, and terrorism. President Rahmon and I agreed today to strengthen action on this front based on mutually agreed priorities.\n\nWe will do many levels: -\nthrough reinforcing total bilateral security cooperation;\nthrough greater training, capacity building and information exchanges; and,\nthrough active coordination in regional and multilateral contexts.\nIndia's membership of the Shanghai Cooperative Organization will be a valuable platform for work closely on regional security and counter-terrorism efforts with Tajikistan. President Rahmon and I also discussed the developments in our region. We agree that peace, stability and prosperity in Afghanistan India and Tajikistan are joined in our steadfast support of the Afghan people and their aspirations for a peaceful and prosperous nation.\n\nFriends,\n\nPresident and I agree on the need to increase the scope and scale of our economic engagement, specially trade and investment traffic. In this context, hydel-power, Information Technology Pharmaceuticals and healthcare We agree that the enhanced surface connectivity is crucial to our partnership. India supports initiatives to the existing port and transport infrastructure and connecting it via road and rail network to Afghanistan, Tajikistan and Central Asia. In this regard, we will work to build trade and transit links through Iran in Chahbahar port. India is also engaged in facilitating the International North South Transport Corridor with other members, including Tajikistan. Our planned adoption to the Ashgabat agreement will help to linking us to Tajikistan and Central Asia. India and Tajikistan enjoy a rewarding partnership in capacity and institution-building, including under the Indian Technical and Economic Cooperation Training Program. President Rahmon and I agreed on sustaining and strengthening this partnership.\nFriends,\n\nNext year, We will commemorate the 25th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between India and Tajikistan. I am encouraged by the wide-ranging agenda for action that President Rahmon and I have set for our countries during this visit. I further expect that the agreements concluded today and our discussions will help boost practical cooperation in different sectors of India and Tajikistan. I once again welcome President Rahmon and wish him a very pleasant stay.\nThank you. Thank you very much"