"PM Modi addresses Parliamentary meet in New Delhi\nFor us, the nation comes first: PM\nPM asks BJP MPs to spread the message of demonetization\nPM Modi lauded the CM of Bihar and Odisha for supporting the demonetisation\nRespected national president, respected Advaniji and all senior colleagues,\nThere is a ruckus in Parliament in our country, not walking in Parliament; It was also earlier. There was a lot of difference this time, but there is a fundamental difference that there were obstacles in the first parliament, the interruptions were due, the chaos used to take the matter, that the horrific scandals in front of the country were exposed, serious allegations of corruption came out. Were; And the opposition fought on the issue of sincerity by becoming one. For the first time in the country, TreasuryBench is taking steps against corruption, taking action against black money; And most of the people in the opposition are getting involved in giving support to the dishonest. At times, in the absence of self-interest or selfishness, if someone has taken the side of the dishonest ones, then it would have been quietly done and would not have helped. Such a fall in the country has come into political life that some people have shown courage in speaking openly to the dishonest people. This is the most worrying topic.\nToday is December 16, 1971, the brave army of India; The mighty army forced Pakistan to kneel and the people fighting for the liberation of Bangladesh were conquered. But then there was opposition, there was a strong opposition; But then no opposition party had asked for any evidence from the government of the country on 1971, December 16 that the army did the feat, it is right or wrong, no one has asked for evidence. Today, the downfall has become so much that the warrior, who is carrying the fist to death, is also being forced to give evidence. This decline is a matter of public life, it is a matter of concern.\nI am surprised that the critics of this government would have had the power to discuss the issues and it should be noted that there are many people who are not ideologically in favor of the Bharatiya Janata Party or the NDA. In spite of that, they have come out with us in the fight against corruption and black money. I express my gratitude to the Chief Minister of Odisha Mr. Naveen Babu, I express my gratitude to Chief Minister of Bihar Mr. Nitish Kumar. There are many more people who openly come to us, and therefore I want to move ahead with all those who are accompanying us in this fight.\nDecision regarding the notes of 1000 and 500 is a crucial step in this battle, it is not the last floor of the battle. If the exploitation of the middle class is to be stopped, the poor are entitled to it, then it is mandatory to free the country from corruption and black money. And he will have to make bold decisions. March 26, 2014, while the country was contesting the Lok Sabha elections, UPA was the government; On March 26, 2014, what the country's Supreme Court said;\nSince 1947 for 65 years of thinking about the money stress away in Foreign Banks to The Country The Government has failed in his roll for 65 years. This court, fix that you have failed in your duty and so it has ordered the appointment for the committee headed by the former Judges of the Court. Three years have passed, but you have not done anything What is your done? Except for filing a report\nRegarding the old government's thinking, how serious is the remarks of the Supreme Court on March 26, 2014 regarding their business. I want to tell one more thing, in 1971, while Mrs Gandhi ruled this country; A Wanchoo Committee was formed, which was a report of the Wanchoo Committee, and in which the ban on notes was seriously discussed. And report that committee's report, and it's about Nineteen Seventeen One (1971);\nWe are fully aware of the 'not too successful' results of the demonatisation in 1946. Yet we are confident that the majors if introduce now will have significant results. The Wanchoo Committee said that there was no success in demonetization in 1946, but if done in Seventy One, then we will have great success. That is to say that the country needed it in the Nineteen Seventy One which we have done today. We can visualize how much damage done to the country by doing so for so long. And from that time, Cabinet Secretary, a Senior I.A.S. Officer, he wrote a book. I want to quote that book in one sentence. In that book, Mr. Madhav is the book of Godbole;\n\"Unfinished innings, recollections and reflections of a civil servant\", then later became Cabinet Secretary, and Yashwantrao Chavan, when he was finance minister; Then he was his secretary, then he mentioned a great fun in his book, When Y.B. Chavan said her, her means Smt. Gandhi, When Y.B. Chavantold his about the proposal for demonetization, and his view that he should be accepted and implementedforthwith, he has further described, Indira ji saw in front of Chauhan, saw some moment, and then said; She asked Chavan only one question, Chavan ji no more elections to be attacked by Congress P arty?\nIndira ji Y.B. Chavan asked if brother, is Congress to fight for the next election or do not fight? Chavan got the massage and the recommendation was slashed. Tell me, sir! Bigger country that big? These were all the reports in 1971, their finance ministers were saying that there is a need to do, it is necessary for the country, and Senior Civil Servant of that time wrote that Y.B. When it was asked to Chavan, the whole thing stopped. The work that was done in 1971, today it is not a waste of the country, in this way the country has been run.\nI want to ask the people of the Communist Party. When the Communist Party had made an electoral debate with the Congress in West Bengal, it seemed that perhaps there is a fight against Mamta ji's politics, they are getting together to overthrow Mamta ji. But this time the Communist Party's behavior in the House seems to be that he did not just elect an election in Bengal; The Communist Party has made its ideological settlement, the Communist Party has crushed its ideology. I'm saying so\nOn August 26, 1972, after the Wanchoo Committee report, what I said in Parliament, I would like that today's communist party leaders removed Parliament from the speeches and read it. Jyotirmiy Basu had said;\nSir, the primary recommendation of the 12th November, 1970, by this powered and eminent committee but immediatedmonetization, Sir, Indira Gandhi survived on black money Her politics lies on black money Therefore, the report was not implemented but it was suppressed for a year and half.\nAt that time, he had made such a serious charge in the House why you did not apply the report of the Wanchoo Committee and you were not ready to keep on the Wanchoo Committee's report table. 4 September, 1972, Jyoti Babu, he said, \"I have suggested demonetization and other measures.\" I do not want to repeat them Government should But the Prime Minister, Smt. Indira Gandhi and her Government with the class character that it heads, is a Government of the black money, by the black moneyand for the black money, Yajyoti Babu said on September 4, 1972. Harkishan Singh Surjeet, another of his ideologues, had said in the Rajya Sabha on 27th August, 1981: The serious propositions of any kind of steps which would lead to black money usage of stoppage, including one hundred Rupee notes and other such things of monetization.\nThat is, the Communist Party was fighting to cancel notes of Rs 100 rupees. You will be the former governor of one more RBI, Mr. B. Reddy, in his speech in a memorial lecture in October this year, highlighted one thing. He said that the Parliament had passed the BenamiTransaction Prohibition Act, 1988, for some reason or the other rules. In other words, it remains unimplemented for more than twenty five years There is no need to spend more brains on this why those who are doing this today. Their behavior shows that in the nineteen eighty eight, you pass the law for the benami property and even after passing so many years do not inform him. By passing the Press Conference in Parliament, you continue to do politics by earning publicity, but you do not apply it.\nNow this government has come and made a timely change, and changed and notify it. Now suppose I will take any further step, this government will take steps, why have we passed the law of Anonymous property? Now again they will shout, why did Modi hurry up? You have not applied it to Eighty Eight till date, gave an exemption to those who took the property in the country, and this government has passed the law, has notified it; Will take action to implement and then you will start yelling? Will the country run like this? The root of all this trouble is that for them there is a big party from the country, for us there is a big country of the party. And so, and as far as conceptual intentions are concerned, see how it is!\n2004, I am quote Speaker of Dr. Manmohan Singh, India 2015 will be a nation of capable an empowered men and women, welfared and gainfully employed modern and rational and actively engaged with the world. That is my dream for India. A I do not expect you to share my sense of urgency.\nWhen he became prime minister in 2004, he said. What was said on July 24, 1991? See how the difference is coming! The party is bigger where the country is in such a big confusion.\n91 had said, Nobody can deny that this size of large scale tax evasion, both in terms of income and in terms of wealth, unless I find substantial emigration in tax compliance in few months, government has no choice but to take strong majors to make The tax evaders pay a sufficiently high price for such delinquencies. This threat language was said at that time. And today all the tones have changed, why? They worry about their team, the country is not worried.\nBrothers, sisters! One very good thing has been said in the Chanakya policy, and UPA has ruled for ten years, in view of this it is very important that the Chanakya policy has been said. Sixth chapter of Chapter 15 of Chanakya policy, it has been said-\nKari uni Dhan Jorayu, Kari Uni Dhan Jorayu, Year of the Year.\nFor the Eleventh year, the root cause of the root is ..\nKari uni Dhan Joray, Year of the year.\nEleventh is the root of the root cause.\nMoney earned from injustice only last for ten years, when it takes 11th year, it gets destroyed with principal. These were gathered in front of their ten-year tenure, Chanakya had said at that time, they knew. And so, and I believe that when you are returning to your territory, with great confidence to release the country from corruption, to free from black money, we have to fight, take the fight forward.\nYou have seen things come on TV Sometimes you ask a rickshaw, do you know e-wallet? True, not all people in this country know. But whoever knows, we add them to it. Suppose that there will be 40% people in the country, whom we believe to be educated, whose hands hold smartphones, if they bring it here too; So, the poor rickshaw driver who does not spend any money with the cash, there is no dishonesty in it. The question is of those people who do not even know, and so to bring them on this path, this Digital Movement has to move forward.\nYou must have seen some important schemes launched by the government tomorrow. I want you to know how to extend it. A Lucky customer plan, the other is the Digi-Money Business plan. Under the scheme, on December 25, the first Launching Christmas Day of the Digi-Dhan Yantra, and the Christmas gift is a big deal. So, as a Christmas gift, people who do online transactions will do it anywhere, they have a special number AutomaticGenerate, everyone has it.\nA draw of one of those who had done the whole country from November 8 to December 25, December 23, 24, will be drawn on December 25. And that day 15,000 people who come in by winning the draw, 15,000! 1000 rupees in their account will be given as gift. 15,000! 1000 rupees to the people And who will be able to take advantage of this? Which has spent more than Rs 50, and has less than 3000; This is not for the rich. He will get the benefit, which has spent more than Rs. 50 and has less than 3000. So that's automatic technology, and this plan will run daily, daily draw.\nEvery day 15,000 families! 1000 rupees to each one And it will last for 100 days. You can imagine how many lakh families will get the direct benefit of this scheme. Now you will deliver these things to him, then he will definitely give Digital Payment, poor poor will also give Digital Payment. Then he will not say, brother, I do not have to cash, the reward will be found. Second, merchants should also get encouragement, and therefore, the traders who promote this work will have different draws, traders' draws. Customers who visit them here, and for them also will be rewarded. These prizes will be held once a week, in which the customers, who have a prize of millions of rupees; Merchants also have a prize of millions of rupees. Then after three months there will be a Bumper Draw, it is on April 14, the birth anniversary of Babasaheb Ambedkar Ji. And the prize of that day, from 8th November to 14th April, everyone who has participated in it will be included in it. And that's probably a prize in crores of rupees.\nHis full plan has been written to you in detail now. This is your job, as soon as the advertisement in the newspaper will come. You can clip the newspaper advertisements in every store in your area and put that poster on a cardboard; At every store. By meeting the shopkeepers you can explain that the Lucky Draw is so big, you get involved in it. If a small merchant has been added once, what is going to happen next?\nSee, today a little man, a washerman, presses, his father used to press, his grandfather used to press too. If the bank is going to take a loan today then the bank will not give him a money loan, why? That he has no record of income, how much do you earn, how do you earn? Nothing knows. He is poor, comes by paying someone five rupees, then presses him.\nIf he has a digital transaction, Automatic Online will maintain his record. A situation may come such, and I clearly see that it may come. Today it takes three to three, four-four months to take a loan from the bank, and have to give different kinds of documents; people like to bring it like this; One situation will come, which, which has been created by the Government of India, any businessman, if he does all the transactions online, then his record, my brother is so sure of the turnover. One day I see that if the dealer wants a loan, at most, it will take more than 6 minutes. With this technology in 6 minutes, he will get 25 thousand 50 thousand loan fireworks. This is a golden opportunity for a small businessman, because it will be recorded, no document will be seen. जो उस platform को लेगा, अच्‍छा भई पिछले महीने तुम्‍हारा 20 हजार का था, ठीक है 10 हजार रुपये तुम्‍हें और लोन दे देते हैं, तुम आगे बढ़ो, वो तुरंत निर्णय करेगा। पूरी Technology कारण corruptionजाएगा, सामान्‍य मानवी को ताकत मिलने वाली है।\nमैंने सरकार के अफसरों को दो सूचनाएं दी हैं, जिस बात को आप प्रचारित कर सकते हैं। कुछ व्‍यापारियों को लगता है कि भई अभी हम Digital चले जाएंगे और हमारा turnover बढ़ जाएगा। पहले तो हमारा turnover cash था तो हम दिखते नहीं थे, अब Digital जाएंगे। अभी तो हम सब लाइन पर आना चाहते हैं, मोदीजी के साथ चलना चाहते हैं, लेकिन अगर उसके हिसाब से अब पुराना निकालोगे कि भाई तुम्‍हारा दिसम्‍बर में Digital में दो लाख था, इसका मतलब कि तुम्‍हारा जुलाई-अगस्‍त में भी 2 लाख होगा; तब तो तुमने 20 हजार लिखाया था; चलो पुराना भी निकालो। मैंने सरकार के सभी अधिकारियों से कह दिया है पुराना कोई पोस्‍टमार्टम नहीं करना है; वरना आप किसी को भी मुख्‍यधारा में ला ही नहीं पाओगे, ला नही पाओगे। 8 तारीख के पहले ऐसे ही हम चाहते हैं, कि मजदूरों का शोषण बंद होना चाहिए।\nमजदूरों को उनके हक का पैसा मिलना चाहिए। आज क्‍या होता है, कैश देते हैं और कहते हैं इतना, देते हैं इतना। क्‍यों ऐसा करते हैं? कुछ मानों पूरा भी देते हैं लेकिन उनको लगता है भई labour act में आ जाएंगे इसलिए वो record नहीं रखता है। अब Digital payment से वो labour act के अंदर आएगा     । उसके लिए भी कुछ लोगों का कहना है कि साहब ये पुराना न खोलें। मैं Labour Ministry से भी कहा है कि 8 नवम्‍बर के पहले, अब आप कहोगे कि भई तुम्‍हारे यहां तो 100 employee हैं तुम digitally100 को देते हो पहले तो तुम दस ही बताते थे, अब पुराना भी निकालो, छह साल का निकालो; ये अफसरशाही नहीं चलेगी। बहुत साफ हूं मैं, मैं इस देश के सामान्‍य मानवी के लिए; ये सरकार जितना सकारात्‍मक कर सकती है उसे करने के पक्ष में हूं। और इसलिए 8 नवम्‍बर के बाद जो भी मुख्‍य धारा में आना चाहते हैं, उनको अवसर मिलना चाहिए। और ये Digital व्‍यवस्‍था के कारण ये संभव होगा और देश का हर व्‍यक्ति जी, ये अफसरशाही का जुल्‍म सहने को तैयार नहीं है; हम उससे मुक्‍त कराना चाहते हैं और ये एक ऐसी सरकार है जो अफसरशाही से भी सामान्‍य नागरिक को मुक्‍त कराने के लिए खुद कदम उठा रही है। तो ये आगे की सोच, आप कल्‍पना कर सकते हैं जब 6 मिनट में लोन मिल जाएगा, वो कितना बड़ा निर्णय कर पाएगा जी। उसके सामने मान लीजिए बाजार में कुछ खरीदने के लिए, बेचने के लिए किसान आया है; पैसा नहीं है, लेकिन वो अपना Record तुरंत request करेगा online mobile से; वो तुरंत अपना record देखेगा और 6 मिनट में लोन मिल जाएगा और किसान जो माल ले करके आया है वो तुरंत खरीद लेगा।\nकिसान का भी फायदा होगा, व्‍यापारी को भी फायदा हो जाएगा, Banking Systemभी सरल हो जाएगी। इतनी संभावनाएं Digital में पड़ी हुई हैं। और इसलिए ये Digital सिर्फ नोटों, कागज की नोटें कम करने का कार्यक्रम नहीं है जी, ये पूरी तरह एक way of lifeबदलने का कार्यक्रम है। एक Way of Economic System को बदलने का कार्यक्रम है। और दुनिया में उन्‍हीं देशों ने प्रगति की है जिन्‍होंने इन बदलाव को समय रहते हुए स्‍वीकार किया है।\nहम लोगों का ये prime responsibility होनी चाहिए कि हम इस बात को आगे बढ़ाएं। 15 हजार परिवारों को हर दिन ईनाम, आप पहुंच सकते हैं लोगों के पास, आप ध्‍यान रखिए कि आपके इलाके में किनको draw लगा है, उनका सम्‍मेलन कीजिए। देखो भाई मेरे यहां एक हजार रुपया आ गया। ये बात आपको encourage तब होती है जब आप उसके साथ जुड़ते हैं। बाकी सरकार एक के बाद एक जनहित में कदम उठा रही है, और आपको अब पता चल गया होगा हम टुकड़ों में नहीं सोचते हैं। एक पूरा full scale designके साथ सोचते हैं, पत्‍ता धीरे-धीरे खोलते हैं; लेकिन पूरे scale में सोच करके चल रहे हैं, उसी को आगे बढ़ना है।\nबेनामी संपत्ति का कायदा पहले पास किया था, Digital का फरवरी से अक्‍तूबर तक, 23 महत्‍वपूर्ण decision लिए हुए हैं इस सरकार ने। DigitalPromotion के लिए अप्रैल से अक्‍तूबर तक 23 महत्‍वपूर्ण decision लिए हुए हैं। लेकिन अगर हम उसको ध्‍यान नहीं रखेंगे, हम उसको ऐसे ही कार्रवाई मानेंगे तो बदलाव नहीं आ सकता है और जो सफलता ह‍में मिली है जी इस अभियान को, कोई कल्‍पना नहीं कर सकता है कि इतने सफल होंगे। जन समर्थन मिला है, और मैंने पहले दिन कहा है 50 दिन मुश्किल है; मुश्किलें बढ़ती जाएंगी, लेकिन 50 दिन के बाद मुश्किलें कम होते, होते, होते, होते स्थिति normal होने में देर नहीं लगेगी। 50 दिन! अभी भी, अभी भी मैं कह रहा हूं। वैसे आज रिपोर्ट शुरू हुआ है कि काफी normal हुआ है, फिर भी मैं कहता हूं 50 दिन तकलीफ है ही है। 50 दिन के बाद एकदम ऊंचाई तकलीफ पहुंचेगी; फिर धीरे, धीरे, धीरे करके ठीक होगी। ये बात हमको लोगों को बतानी होगी, अच्‍छा करने का हमारा प्रयास है, होके रहेगा मेरा विश्‍वास है।\nThanks a lot."