"Share\n\nInfrastructure development was the priority of our government and the Kollam bypass is an example: PM Modi\nAtal Ji believes in power of connectivity and we are taking forward his vision: PM Modi\nWhen we construct roads and bridges, we do not only connect cities and villages. We also connect aspirations with achievements, optimism with opportunities and hope with happiness: PM\nSisters and brothers of Kerala,\nI feel blessed to be visiting God's own country. In Kollam, on the banks of the Ashtamudilake, I sense recovery from the last year. But we are working hard to rebuild Kerala\nI would love to finish this bypass, which will make life easier for the people Ease of living We believe in sabkasa, sabkavikas With this commitment, my government gave the final sanction to this project in January 2015. I am happy that with contribution and co-operation of state government, we have completed the project in a effective manner Since May 2014, when my government took over, we have given top infrastructure Under Bharatmala is a detailed project report for the Mumbai Kanyakumari Corridor is under preparation. Many such projects are in different ways\nIn our country, we have often seen that infrastructure projects get stalled after announcement for different reasons. A lot of public money wasted due to cost and time over-runs We decided that money can not continue. Through PRAGATI, we are accelerating projects and overcoming this problem\nOn the last Wednesday of every month, I sit with all the secretaries of government and India.\nI was surprised to see that some projects are 20 to 30 years old and are hugely delayed. It is a crime to deprive the common man of the benefits of a long time. Till now, I have reviewed more than 250 projects worth about 12 lakh crore rupees under PRAGATI\nFriends, Atal ji believed in the power of connectivity and we are taking forward his vision forward. From national highways to rural roads, pace of construction has almost doubled as compared to the previous government.\nWhen we formed government, only 56% of rural habitations were connected by a road. Today more than 90% of rural habitations are connected by a road. I am sure that we will definitely reach 100% soon\nAs in road sector my government has given priority to railways, waterways and airways. National waterway from Varanasi to Haldia has already started It will ensure a safe mode of transportation. Regional air connectivity has also improved in the last four years. The rate of doubling electrification and laying of new tracks have been shown big improvement. All this is also possible\nWhen we construct roads and bridges, we do not only connect cities and villages. We also connect aspirations with achievements, optimism with opportunities and hope\nMy commitment is The last man in the queue My government has sanctioned a new fund of 7,5 00 crore rupees for the fisheries sector.\nUnder Ayushmann Bharat, we are providing cashless health assurance to the tune of Rs. 5 lakhs per family per year, for the poor More than 8 lakh patients have taken this scheme so far. The government has sanctioned more than 1,100 crores rupees till now. I request the Government of Kerala to expedite the implementation of this scheme, so that people of Kerala can take advantage of it.\nTourism is the hallmark of Kerala's economic development and the principal contributor to the state's economy. My government has worked hard in tourism sector and results are outstanding. India has ranked third on the new Power Ranking in the 2018 report of the World Travel and Tourism Council. This is a major development that is the best tourism sector in the country.\nIndia's ranking in the Travel and Tourism Competitive Index of the World Economic Forum moved from 65th position to 40th position.\nForeign tourist arrivals in India went up from around 70 million in 2013 to about 1 crore in 2017. That is a 42% increase! The tourism due to India by the foreign exchange increased by 18 billion dollars in 2013 to 27 billion dollars in 2017 ! It is a jump of 50%! In fact, India was among the highest growing tourist destinations in the world in 2017. It had a growth of 14% over 2016, while the world grew at an average of 7% year.\nIntroduction of the e-Visa for Indian tourism This facility is now available to nationals of 166 countries worldwide.\nMy government has initiated two flagship programs for tourism, heritage and religious destinations - Swadesh Darshan: Integrated Development of Theme-Based Tourist Circuits and PRASAD.\nRecognizing the tourism potential of Kerala, we have sanctioned 7 projects in the Swadesh Darshan and PRASAD schemes for an approximate amount of Rs. 550 crore\nLater today, I will inaugurate one such project at Sree Padmanabhaswamy\nTemple in Thiruvananthapuram.I will also seek blessings from Lord Padmanabhaswami for the welfare of people of Kerala and other parts of the country.\nI have heard of the phrase \"Kollam kandalillamvenda\" which means once in Kollam, one never misses home. I also share the same feeling\nI thank people of Kollam and Kerala for their love and affection. I pray for a developed and strong Kerala"