"\nNarendra Modi inaugurates India's largest cheese factory in Gujarat\nAlong with 'Shwet Kranti' there is also a 'Sweet Kranti' as people are now being trained about honey products: PM\nMerely talking about the poor is different from the NDA government is doing: PM\nI urge you all to integrate people with e-banking, e-wallets: PM\nIndia wants to progress Corruption and black money is slowing down These evils have to end: PM\nThese games of looting the poor and exploiting the middle classes will now be history: PM\nAll my dear friends and sisters of Banaskantha, sitting on stage,\nYou would think your name is Narendra Bhai in Hindi,\nEven the country should also know how Banaskantha's farmer works. If there is strength in the desert also, then the farmer of Banaskantha is in the farmer of North Gujarat. Who sheds his sweat and fills the ground. And so the country should know that this Banaskantha district, on the border of Pakistan, without water; Without rain; Desert living like a living person can change his destiny from his prowess, his happiness, his living example is the citizen of this district; He is a man of excellence, and his successes are.\nBrothers, sisters! I was told that after 25-27 years no prime minister has come to Banaskantha district. Brothers, sisters have not come in the form of prime minister between you, but as the children of this earth. This soil has made me big. And I have come today especially, to the revered Galbabhai; I came to bow to their austerity. From the millions of livestock, on behalf of millions of families, on behalf of the waste land of Banaskantha, today I commemorate the celebration of the centenary of Galbabhai; I bow to all of them.\nImagine, 50 years ago when Galbabhai was 50 years old, eight small little milk troupe; Started with it and today, with the help of farmers, through diligence, diligence, and even in it, the cause of my mothers and sisters of North Gujarat, due to the happiness of sisters; Who made animal husbandry a part of the family's service; They brought the White Revolution. Today, Banas Dairy also has the opportunity of golden jubilee. It is possible that on the one hand, the father of this great movement, the father of the Gala Bhai, the father of the White Revolution, and on the other side planted the seeds, planted with the eight troupe, has become a banyan tree in the form of today's dairy; This is the golden opportunity of his birth anniversary. And so in this 50 years, the great dignitaries who took this Banyan Dairy, carried forward, took it to this height, there would have been many Chairman, many administrators should have come, there must have been many employees, I will be here today in this 50 year journey -The people who have contributed, I congratulate them very much, I worship them.\nBrothers, sisters! If you go to Mumbai, visit Surat and go to some other place, who has come from Gujarat to spend life in difficulties, then most people would know that the people of Kutch and Banaskantha left their place, Used to go out because there were no natural resources here. And brothers, sisters, we were saying beforehand, once Mother Narmada will touch the land of this world of ours, my farmer will keep the soil in the house and keep it. Today, he has transformed this dry land into the gold, the desert land into gold.\nI remember equally, I had become the new Chief Minister. Many question marks were used for me. This is Modi! Chief Minister! What will! This ever! Not the village Sarpanch! Never contested elections! What will come to this! It was a big joke. At that time my first public show was in Deesa; it was on this earth; This happened in the ground. And that was Lok Kalyan Mela. And the sight that I saw on that day, I see many times big eyes in front of my eyes.\nBrothers, sisters! I remember the farmers of Banaskantha were very angry with me, used to be angry. Sometimes my effigy burns. And then I used to dare to go among them. And I used to tell them that if destiny is to change the destiny, then we have to save water, we will have to leave the wire of electricity. The farmer should not drink electricity; I used to say this at that time; It was my good fortune, but it is my good fortune that he is the builder, he is the farmer of my peasants, he offered my point to the eyes, and today in Drip Irrigation, in Tapir Irrigation (in Sprinkler), bringing the number in Gujarat Standing up I bow to all those farmers, bowing down to all those farmers today. They have not changed their destiny, it is not so, they have changed the fate of many generations of the coming generations.\nI remember, the year 2007 or 08 would be the same, for such a farmer was mine, so I came to Banaskantha. So we have a friend, Divyang is Mr. Gena Ji. Gena ji is from our lucky tahsil So do not let goa live, are divyang, but there are big progressive farmers. By taking such a big bang; Pomegranate came to meet me, was bigger than coconut. I was surprised, I asked him, how are you doing this amazing? Bole sahib today come to see the people of the entire district in my field, and you will see that Banaskantha will gradually go ahead in the cultivation of dadam. My Gena ji of a village belongs to the official Goriya, Ganayaji! It may have come maybe somewhere. Our gena ji would be sitting somewhere What is amazing, the brothers, sisters of Banaskantha, have left their image as a progressive farmer and there is no one-two farmers, an agitation has stood. Even today, Banaskantha has not recorded any record of potato yield per hectare. This work has been done by Banaskantha. Today Banaskantha Potatoes has started to go.\nBrothers, sisters! What are some things for a farmer? When Galbabhai started the work of dairy, where water is not desert, in 10 years, there is a famine for 7 years; Where farmers spend their lives on God's will; For him, suicide was the only way out. But this district turned the farmers towards animal husbandry, turned them towards milking and serving animals, carried out their families while doing milk revolution, taught children and took life forward.\nBrothers, sisters! This is the same Banaskantha, that is Gujarat, who led the White Revolution; Today, I am happy that Banas Dairy has described the White Revolution as well as the sweet revolution. Where there was a white revolution, there is going to be a Sweet Revolution. Madhu Revolution! Honey Banas has made arrangements like dairy milk for the farmers to follow beekeeping for honey. Started training. Today, he made the first package from Honey and placed it in the market. I am confident that there is a network of dairy in Gujarat, and almost all the districts have a network of dairy, the committees of the farmers remain. If the beekeeping in the field along with milk, even after feeding the milk, the milk will be filled, they will fill the honey, fill the item, honey and honey, and milk will also go in the vehicles of the dairy, honey will also be there. I believe that Extra Profit, Extra Benefit, a new way of extra earnings, dairy of Gujarat, all the farmers, can walk along this path, and bring a white Revolution along with a white revolution. There is a demand for honey in the world, a huge market. If we go ahead in honey too, and when the water of Narmada has come. In nearby areas of Narmada, it gets its benefits in very large quantities. Methods of using Fertilizer have to change, but the profit is so big and as the farmer of Banankant has changed his mind, it will also change. I believe that.\nToday, Banas Dairy started a plant of Cheese with Amul Brand. All the dairies that they have gone from the work of the cheese in Gujarat, you will be surprised that there are many countries in the world, they ask Amul's Brand's Cheese. The more the yield comes up immediately, the people get the customers. Today, there is an increase in this by Dairy, I congratulate them. Dairy has taken a huge initiative today, KanKrej's cow, we know the value of this breed; scientific methods have also accepted the cow, the cow of KanKrej (Conchret), its greatness. Now A2 Milk, which is a specialty of KanKrej's cow's milk, has special elements, kept him in the market today. Those who are Health Conscious, where children have problems of malnutrition, A2 Milk, KanKrej cow's A2 Milk is going to be beneficial for their health, such a partial work has started here today. Here are the scientific methods for promoting the breed of KanKrej, improving it, improving its capacity, and increasing its per capita milk production.\nWhen I came to Banas, then I would like to make a Dairy that he can do one thing more, and can do it. Beas Ho, Sambar Dairy Ho, Dairy Sea Dairy; These three can also do it together. Two things we create such, our farmer; But we sell cheaply. And what we cultivate castor, Dewela; Eranda. 80% of the cultivation is here, its production There is such a value addition on it, so that process happens. In the technology of space shuttle all over the world, things made from Castor oil are the most successful. But what we are, still our divera, what Eranda says; Sell ​​them like this. Make a research center in this Banas, Dudhsagar, Sambara and we, our farmers who produce castor here, produce vermicelli, generate a diveola, how to add value to it and our precious property goes out of the water mole That's what we save.\nThe second is Isabgol. Isabgol's power is very powerful. There can be a lot of value addition in it. When Kurien was alive, then I told Sir Kurien that you work on the value addition on Isabgol. He started, the ice cream was made of Isabgol. And the ice cream was named Esabkul At that time he had started in joy. Such a big global market is Isabgol's. Even if we work in scientific way, we can make a big difference, and we should bring it.\nBrothers, sisters, these days the discussion is going on in the whole country, what will happen to the notes? You tell me, what was the price of the 100 notes before the eight dates? 50 was there any value of note? There was no cost of 20 notes? Someone would ask the little? Everyone used to ask elders only. Thousand, five hundred; Thousand, five hundred; Thousand, five hundred After the eight dates, see how much the value of 100 has increased, how much power has increased, it has come to life.\nBrothers, sisters! As if eight days before the age of elders were asked, counting thousand and five hundred was counted, no one was asked about 20, 50, 100, no one was watching on the small side. After eight days no one is ready to look after the elders, all have been ready for the small brother. This difference has come and no big note like the strength of the small note has increased; Not a big person, I have made this very big decision to increase the strength of small people. The poor of the country, the common man of the country, like the strength of 100 rupees has increased, I have worked to increase the strength of the poor. You can imagine, brothers, you have seen to go buy anything, a sure bill? If you ask for a bill, then a small businessman also does not say, no need to take the bill, then go to another shop. If you have to give cash then bring it; Just like that. The house says, the houseman says so much in the check, so much in cash. Now the poor man will bring the cash from where?\nBrothers, sisters! In this way the notes were printed, printed, printed and the country, its economy, were pressed under the heap of these notes. Brothers, sisters are my fight against terrorism, terrorists get strength from fake notes. And what we are aware of is happening across the border, we all live in the neighborhood. What troubles have we suffered, the people of Banaskantha Patan district know more.\nBrothers, sisters! Forged note traders, as much as in the Hindustan, there is more out of it, outside the traders of counterfeit notes. Naxalism, all the youth have started coming back after surrender. Everyone thinks now should come back to mainstream. The terrorists were able to stop the paths from which they got strength. The business of these fake notes, its death hour, is done by a decision, brothers, sisters Who was the victim of corruption, black money, corruption and black money? An unscrupulous person had trouble with corruption or trouble with black money. If a corrupt person had to give something to another corrupt person, even if the corrupt person who was giving him was not unhappy. If someone was unhappy, then the honest citizen of this country was unhappy. Was upset if the upright citizen of this country was upset. For these honest people for 70 years; For 70 years you looted these honest people, you troubled them, you troubled them, made them difficult to live. Today, when I stand with honest people, then honest people are being provoked, and I am happy that the honest citizens of my country have given support to the government's decision even after inciting millions of people. I bow to 125 million nationals, that they helped me in such a great work.\nBrothers, sisters! Nowadays, the great intelligent people tell the speeches that Modi made you such a big decision, but living our lives will not get any benefit; After getting to die Brothers, sisters have become a charbagh sage in our country, these charbagh sages used to say: - '' Debam Karma, Ghartham Pitaat '' He used to say hey! What's going to happen after death? Who knows, do what you want to do now; Drink whatever is food, drink ghee, drink it; Live with joy The Philosophy of this charbagh has never been accepted by Hindustan. हमारा तो देश ऐसा है, बूढ़ा गरीब मां बाप; पैसे बहुत कम हों तो बूढ़ा और बूढ़ी मां बात करते हैं कि ऐसा करो शाम को सब्‍जी बनाना बंद कर दो, थोड़े पैसे बच जाएंगे तो मरने के बाद बच्‍चों के काम आ जाएंगे। मेरा देश मरने के‍ बाद मेरा क्‍या होगा, ये कभी चिन्‍ता नहीं करता है; मेरा देश, मेरे बाद की पीढि़यों का भला क्‍या हो, ये सोचने वाला देश है। मेरा देश स्‍वार्थी लोगों का देश नहीं है। मेरे देश का चिन्‍तन सुख के लिए, खुद के सुख के‍ लिए जीने वाला नहीं है। मेरे देश का चिन्‍तन भावी पीढि़यों के सुख के‍ लिए चलने वाला है। ये नए चारबाग लोग जो पैदा हुए हैं ‘’ऋणम कृत्‍वा, घृत्‍तम पीवेत’’ ये जो बातें करने वाले लोग हैं, उनको पचास बार सोचना पड़ेगा।\nभाइयो, बहनों! आपने देखा होगा Parliament चल नहीं रही है, चलने दी नहीं जा रही है। हमारे देश के राष्‍ट्रपति, सार्वजनिक जीवन में इतना लम्‍बा अनुभव है; शासन चलाने वाले श्रेष्‍ठत्‍तम लोगों में से हमारे राष्‍ट्रपति जी रहे हैं। वो अलग राजनीतिक धारा में पले-बढ़े हैं। लेकिन देश की संसद में जो कुछ भी हो रहा था उससे इतने पीडि़त हो गए, इतने दुखी हो गए कि दो दिन पहले उनको सांसदों को सार्वजनिक रूप से टोकना पड़ा। विरोध पक्ष को नाम दे करके टोकना पड़ा। और मैं हैरान हूं, सरकार कहती है हम चर्चा चाहते हैं, सरकार कहती है कि प्रधानमंत्री बोलने के लिए तैयार हैं, सरकार कहती है प्रधानमंत्री आ करके कहने को तैयार हैं, लेकिन उनको मालूम है उनका झूठ टिक नहीं पाता है और इसलिए वो चर्चा से भागते रहे हैं, और इसलिए लोकसभा में मुझे नहीं बोलने दिया जाता; मैंने जनसभा में बोलने का रास्‍ता चु‍न लिया है भाइयो। और जिस दिन मौका मिलेगा लोकसभा में भी सवा सौ करोड़ देशवासियों की आवाज मैं जरूर पहुंचाने का प्रयास करूंगा मेरे भाइयो, बहनों।\nभाइयो, बहनों! मैं विरोधी दल के मित्रों से, आज महात्‍मा गांधी की इस धरती से, सरदार वल्‍लभभाई पटेल की इस धरती से सार्वजनिक रूप से आग्रह करना चाहता हूं। जब चुनाव होते हैं, जब चुनाव होते हैं हम सभी दल एक-दूसरे के खिलाफ बोलते हैं; आरोप प्रत्‍यारोपण करते हैं, अच्‍छी और बुरी नीतियों की चर्चा करते हैं, हर प्रकार से अपने विरोधियों पर जैसा मार कर सकते हैं करने की कोशिश करते हैं; सभी दल करते हैं। भारतीय जनता पार्टी भी करेगी, कांग्रेस भी करेगी, बाकी सब छोटे-मोटे दल भी; सब करते हैं। लेकिन सभी पार्टियां एक काम जरूर करती हैं, क्‍या? मतदाता सूची को ठीक करना, अधिकत्‍तम लोग मतदान करने आएं इसकी चिन्‍ता करना; मतदाताओं को कैसे बटन दबाना; वो सिखाना, सभी दल करते हैं। एक तरफ तो नीतियों का विरोध करते हैं, दूसरे को पराजित करने की ताकत लगाते हैं, लेकिन दूसरी तरफ सब मतदाता सूची पर ध्‍यान देते हैं, Electronic Voting Machine पर ध्‍यान देते हैं, अधिक लोग मतदान करने आएं इस पर ध्‍यान देते हैं, क्‍यो? क्‍योंकि लोकशाही हम सबकी जिम्‍मेवारी है।\nमैं विरोध पक्ष के मित्रों से कहना चाहता हूं, आप ये तो नहीं कहने की हिम्‍मत कर रहे हो कि मोदी हजार और पांच सौ वाला नोट वापिस ले लो क्‍योंकि आपको पता है कि जनता का मिजाज बदला हुआ है। Yes! कुछ लोगों ने कहा, अच्‍छा मोदी जी ये तो ठीक है लेकिन ऐसा करो एक हफ्ते के लिए रोक लो। क्‍यों भाई! ये हफ्ते में कौन सा जादू होने वाला था? ये एक हफ्ता रोकने का इरादा क्‍या था? लेकिन कोई दल ये नहीं कहता है कि निर्णय को Roll Back करो। सब दल कहते हैं, ठीक से लागू करो। मैं सभी दलों से कहना चाहता हूं कि जैसे चुनाव में हम एक-दूसरे का घोर विरोध करते हैं, लेकिन मतदान बढ़ाने के लिए मेहनत करते हैं, मतदाता सूची के लिए मेहनत करते हैं, Electronic Machine की training के लिए मेहनत करते हैं, आज समय की मांग है कि आप खुल करके मेरा विरोध करिए, मेरी आलोचना करिए, लेकिन लोगों को Banking सिखाने के लिए काम कीजिए, Electronic पद्धति से पैसे कैसे लिए जाते, दिए जाते ये सिखाइए। हम सब मिल करके देश को भाग्‍य बदलने का एक ऐसा उत्‍तम अवसर आया है, हम सब उसको काम करें। और आप भी फायदा उठाइए।\nमुझे खुशी होगी मेरे विरोधी दल के लोग जन-जन को इस काम में लगा करके अगर राजनीतिक फायदा उठाते हैं तो देश का भला हुआ इसका मुझे आनंद होगा भाइयो। Hey! राजनीति से ऊपर राष्‍ट्रनीति होती है, दल से बड़ा देश होता है; भाइयों बहनों गरीबों पर बातें करना अलग होती हैं; गरीबों के लिए नीतियां बना करके कठोरता से लागू करने के लिए समर्पण का भाव लगता है, और समर्पित भाव से आज ये सरकार आपकी सेवा में लगी है।\nभाइयो, बहनों! मैंने पहले दिन से कहा है, ये निर्णय मामूली नहीं है मेरे भाइयो, बहनों! बहुत मुश्किल भरा निर्णय है, कठिन निर्णय है। और मैंने कहा था बहुत तकलीफ पड़ेगी; मैंने कहा था मुसीबत आएगी, और 50 दिन ये तकलीफ होगी ही होगी। और तकलीफ रोजमर्रा थोड़ी बढ़ती भी जाएगी, लेकिन 50 दिन के बाद मैंने हिसाब-किताब लगाया है, वो एकदम से धीरे-धीरे, धीरे-धीरे करके पहले जैसी स्थिति की तरफ आगे बढ़ेगा। 50 दिन तक ये कठिनाइयां रहने वाली हैं। 50 दिन के बाद आप ही देखेंगे कि धीरे-धीरे-धीरे आपकी आंखों के सामने परिस्थितियां सुधरती नजर आ जाएंगी।\nभाइयो, बहनों! देश भ्रष्‍टाचार से मुक्‍त करने का एक महत्‍वपूर्ण कदम है, और कुछ लोग आपने देखा होगा; इन दिनों सरकार बराबर पीछे लग गई है, बैंक वाले जेल में जा रहे हैं; बड़े-बड़े गठ्ठे ले करके भागे हुए लोग जेल जा रहे हैं; चारों तरफ! उनको लगा था कि ठीक है मोदी जी 1000, 500 के बंद कर देता है, हम पिछले दरवाजे से कुछ कर लेंगे, लेकिन उनको मालूम नहीं था, मोदी ने पिछले दरवाजे पर भी कैमरे लगाए हुए हैं। ये सब के सब पकड़े जाने वाले हैं, कोई बचने वाला नहीं यहां। दो महीना, तीन महीना, छह महीना, जिन्‍होंने भी आठ तारीख के बाद नए पाप किए हैं, वो तो‍ किसी हालत में बचने वाले नहीं हैं भाइयो, बहनों। उनको सजा भुगतनी पड़ेगी। सवा सौ करोड़ देशवासियों के सपनों को चूर-चूर करने का पाप जिन्‍होंने किया है वो बचने वाले नहीं हैं, ये मैं देशवासियों को विश्‍वास दिलाना चाहता हूं।\nभाइयो, बहनों! आपने मुसीबत झेली है, तकलीफ झेली है, अभी भी झेलनी है। आपका आशीर्वाद देश के लिए और जो लोग कहते हैं न ईमानदार लोग लाइन में खड़े हैं, ईमानदार अपने लिए नहीं खड़ा रहता है, वो देश के‍ लिए खड़ा रहता है भाइयो, बहनों; वो देश के लिए खड़ा रहता है।\nऔर इसलिए, दूसरा! आज जमाना बदल चुका है भाई। एक जमाना था हमारे दादा-दादी, उनसे सुनेंगे तो बताते थे कि हमारे जमाने में तो ‘’चांदी का गाढ़ाना पेड़ा जोड़ो रुपयो होतो एमके आपण ने’’ कि बैलगाड़ी के पहिए जितना बड़ा रुपया चांदी का हम देखते थे, उपयोग करते थे। भाइयो, बहनों! ये चांदी के रुपये से बदलते, बदलते, बदलते कितनी mettle बदल गई, तांबा आया, और आया, न जाने क्‍या क्‍या आया। और धीरे धीरे करके हम कागज में चले गए कि नहीं चले गए? अब याद आता है कि चांदी का रुपया होगा तभी रुपया माना जाएगा याद आता है क्‍या? अब वो रुपया कागज का भी हमारी जिंदगी का हिस्‍सा बन गया। कभी चांदी का रुपया हुआ करता था, धीरे-धीरे कागज का रुपया आ गया।\nभाइयो, बहनों! अब वक्‍त बदल चुका है, अब तो आपके मोबाइल फोन में ही आपका बैंक आ गया है। आपक बटुआ भी आपके मोबाइल फोन में है। आप चाय पीने जाएं, बटन दबाएं, चाय वाले को पैसा पहुंच जाएगा, receipt मिल जाएगी। बीच में लोग cheque देते थे, cheque फाड़ते थे, दो महीने के बाद पता चलता था कि cheque वापिस आया, बाद में केस कोर्ट में है; जो सबसे ज्‍यादा केस चलते हैं, वो cheque वापिस आने के चलते हैं। आप नौजवानों का धन्‍यवाद आपने बहुत बड़ा काम उठाया है, मैं आपको बधाई देता हूं और बनासकंठा जिले को आप ई, ई-बटुआ से जोड़ दीजिए भाइयो। लोगों को E-Mobile Banking से जोड़ने में सफल होंगे मुझे विश्‍वास है।\nभाइयो, बहनों! हम जानते हैं, कि आप वो कागज के नोटों का भी जमाना पूरा होने जा रहा है। अब तो आपके मोबाइल फोन में आपकी बैंक है। एक बार बैंक में जमा हो गया, आपको बैंक में कतार में खड़े रहने की जरूरत नहीं है, आपको एटीएम के बाहर लाइन लगाने की जरूरत नहीं है, आपको टाइम बरबाद करने की जरूरत नहीं है। अखबार में advertisement आता है, TV पर advertisement आता है। आप अपने मोबाइल फोन से, अगर आपके पैसे बैंक में पड़े हैं; तो आप अपने पैसों का जो खरीदना, खरीद सकते हैं। cheque तो bounce होता था, इसमें तो जैसे ही पैसे दोगे, तो सामने receipt आज जाता है, पैसा मिल गया या पैसा पहुंच गया। कोई बाउंस-वाउंस होता ही नहीं, वहीं पर पता चल जाता है कि रुपया गया कि नहीं गया।\nभाइयो, बहनों! हिन्‍दुस्‍तान दुनिया में तेज गति से आगे जाना चाहता है। ये नोटों के बंडलों के ढेर, ये नोटों के पहाड़, हमारे अर्थतंत्र को दबोच रहे हैं। काले धन और भ्रष्‍टाचारियों को वो काम आ रहे हैं। गरीब की ताकत कम हो रही है, जैसे हजार के नोट की कीमत थी, सौ की नहीं थी; अमीर की थी, गरीब की नहीं थी; आज गरीब की भी ताकत बढ़ गई है, सौ के नोट की भी ताकत बढ़ गई है। और अगर आपने ई-बटुआ पढ़ लिया, बैंकों की कतारें खत्‍म करके बैंक को ही अपने मोबाइल में ले गए, आपको बैंक की कतार में जाने की जरूरत नहीं; बैंक आपके मोबाइल की कतार में खड़ी हो जाएगी। मैं आपसे आग्रह करता हूं, मैं देशवासियों से आग्रह करता हूं, मैं मीडिया के मित्रों से विशेष प्रार्थना करता चाहता हूं; मोदी की आलोचना करना आपका हक है, आज जरूर कीजिए। कतार में जो खड़े रहे हैं उनको तकलीफ हो रही है, वो आप दिखाते हैं; मुझे कोई शिकायत नहीं है, लेकिन साथ-साथ आप ये भी सिखाइए कि अब कतार में खड़े रहने की जरूरत नहीं है, बैंक आपके मोबाइल फोन की कतार में खड़ा हो जाएगा। बैंक वाला आएगा कि मुझे आपके यहां रख लो, वो दिन आ सकते हैं, Technology उपलब्‍ध है, व्‍यवस्‍था उपलब्‍ध है,\nभाइयो, बहनों! अब देश भ्रष्‍टाचार सहन नहीं करेगा। अब देश जाली नोट सहन नहीं करेगा। अब देश काला धन सहन नहीं करेगा। गरीबों को लूटने का खेल, मध्‍यम वर्ग को शोषण करने का खेल अब नहीं चलेगा और इसलिए मुझे आपके आशीर्वाद चाहिए। खड़े रह करके दोनों हाथ से तालियां बजा करके मुझे आशीर्वाद दीजिए, मेरे गुजरात के भाइयो, बहनों। मेरे डीसा के भाइयो, बहनों आशीर्वाद दीजिए। पूरे ताकत से आशीर्वाद दीजिए।\nभारत माता की, जय\nभारत माता की, जय\nभारत माता की, जय\nये लड़ाई, ये लड़ाई भारत का भाग्‍य बदलने की है, ये लड़ाई भ्रष्‍टाचार को खत्‍म करने की है, ये लड़ाई काले धन का खात्‍मा बुलाने के लिए है, ये लड़ाई जाली नोटों से देश को मुक्‍त कराने की है, और उसमें इस बनास की धरती ने मुझे आशीर्वाद दिए, मैं आप सबका बहुत-बहुत आभारी हूं। आपका बहुत-बहुत आभारी हूं। फिर से बोलिए भारत माता की, जय, पूरी ताकत से बोलिए, पूरा देश सुन रहा है\nभारत माता की, जय\nभारत माता की, जय\nबहुत, बहुत धन्‍यवाद।"