"\nIndia is the world's fastest growing large economy: PM Modi\nOur policies are focussed on improving India's long term economic and social prospects, rather than on short term headlines: PM\nWhile the global economy is going through a period of uncertainty, India has shown tremendous resilience: PM\nForeign Direct Investment in India was at the highest level in 2015-16, at a time when global FDI has fallen: PM Modi\nHydrocarbons will continue to play an important role in India: PM\nAs a responsible global citizen, India is committed to combating climate change, curbing emissions \u0026 a sustainable future to ensure: PM\nEnergy sustainability, for me, is a sacred duty. It is something India does out of commitment, not out of compulsion: PM Modi\nTo make India a true investor friendly destination, we have come up with a new Hydrocarbon Exploration and Production Policy, says PM\nMy message to global hydrocarbon companies is: We invite you to come and make in India, says PM Modi\nOur commitment is strong and our motto is to replace Red Tape with Red Carpet: PM Narendra Modi\nMy colleague Mr. Dharmendra Pradhan,\nOil and Gas Ministers from overseas,\nCEOs and experts from the hydrocarbon sector,\nDistinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen\nEnergy is a key driver of economic growth. Sustainable, stable and reasonably priced is the energy of the pyramid. Hydrocarbons will remain the most important source of energy. Therefore, the theme of the conference \"Hydrocarbons to Fuel the Future, Choices and Challenges\" is both apt and timely\nIndia is the world's fastest growing large economy This growth has been supported Our policies are focussed on improving India's long term economic and social prospects, rather than on short term headlines. Our efforts are showing results in terms of economic growth and development.\nApart from fast growth, our economy has also been more stable than most others While the global economy is going through a period of uncertainty, India has shown tremendous resilience. Our Current Account Deficit has improved and the decade low in the June quarter. Foreign Direct Investment in India was at the highest level in 2015-16, at a time when global FDI has fallen. According to the Bank of International Settlements, India is less vulnerable to banking distress among the major economies.\nIndia's economy is expected to grow five fold by 2040. As per estimate, India is 2013 to 2040. During the incremental global energy demand of one-fourth of the account for poised. Total Europe is 2040, We expect manufacturing to account for twenty five percent of GDP by 2022 with sixteen percent cent.\nTransport is also expected to increase manifold The commercial vehicle population of thirteen million is projected to reach fifty six million by 2040. In civil aviation, India is currently the eighth largest market in the world and set to become the world's third largest by 2034. Growth in the aviation sector raise demand for aviation fuel four times by 2040.\nFriends\nHydroCarbons will continue to be an important part of India's growth. The prospect of rapid growth I am glad that so many participants from India and abroad have taken the time to come here. I am sure all of us will benefit from the experience and expertise of each other. I take this opportunity to share some of my thoughts on the expectations from the hydrocarbon sector and our endeavor to achieve energy security.\nEnergy in general and hydrocarbons in particular India needs energy which is accessible to the poor It needs efficiency in energy use As a responsible global citizen, India has committed to combat the climate change, curbing emissions and a sustainable future. Given global uncertainties, India also needs energy security Therefore, my vision for India has four pillars:\n--Energy access\n--Energy sustainability\n--Energy security\nLet me start with energy access While some of India's rich are buying hybrid cars, many of India's poor are still cooking firewood for cooking. Use of firewood and other biomass for cooking is a health hazard. It also reduces their productivity. We have launched the Ujjwala program with access to cooking gas. In one stroke, this program improves health, increases productivity and reduces harmful emissions. The government bears the one time cost of the gas but the consumer pays the full price for the gas. This program has already provided almost ten million new connections.\nThe government also aims to extend Piped Natural Gas to 10 million homes over the next five years. We are committed to expanding the national gas grid network from its current length of fifteen thousand kilometres pipeline to thirty thousand kilometer. We are building a new gas pipeline from the least developed eastern region which will become the catalyst for millions of new jobs. We are working to ensure that every village in India has access to electricity by March 2018.\nLet me now turn to energy efficiency India's commercial transport sector has become skewed An increasing proportion of goods is transported by road. To increase energy efficiency, my government has given the highest priority to the railways. We have stepped up public capital investment in railways by more than one hundred percent between 2014-15 and 2016-17. We are completing dedicated freight corridors. We are building a high speed rail corridor between Mumbai and Ahmedabad. We have given a big thrust to waterways, both inland and coastal. Our Sagarmala project will connect the whole of India's long coastline We have also opened up new inland shipping routes on large rivers. These steps will improve energy efficiency The long awaited law on a national Goods and Services Tax has passed. By removing physical barriers at state boundaries, GST will accelerate long haul transportation and further increase efficiency.\nOil ministers from developing countries know the sensitivity of energy pricing Despite this, we have de-controlled petrol and diesel prices. Cooking gas price is also determined by the market. To protect the vulnerable and middle class, a subsidy is paid directly to one hundred and sixty nine million. This has eliminated leakages and misuse of cooking gas subsidies, resulting in large fiscal savings. These measures too have increased\nEnergy sustainability, for me, is a sacred duty. It is something India does get out of commitment, not out of compulsion India has taken the lead in owning a reduction of thirty three percent in the carbon intensity of its GDP from its 2005 level over the next fifteen years. We have done this I have been committed to produce 40 percent of our power from non fossil fuel by 2030. I have set a massive target of 175 gigawatt of renewable energy by 2022. Thanks to our efforts, the capabilities have increased and renewable energy prices have crashed. We have also given a big thrust to LED lighting.\nCNG, LPG, and Biofuels are the cleaners We need to explore options to produce biodiesel on barren lands, which will provide financial assistance to farmers R \u0026 D on second and third generation biofuels and fuel cells are required to meet the country's energy challenges.\nLet me now turn to energy security We need to increase our domestic oil and gas production and reduce import dependence. I have set a target to reduce dependency by ten per cent by 2022. This has to be achieved during a period of increasing oil consumption.\nWe have a strong, investment friendly policy framework in place to boost domestic hydrocarbon production. Almost two decades ago, India had introduced the New Exploration Licensing Regime This allowed one hundred percent FDI and provided an opportunity to private players to come, invested and operated in the Indian upstream sector. However, many factors have adversely affected India's domestic oil and gas output.\nTo make India a true investor friendly destination, we have come up with a new Hydrocarbon Exploration and Production Policy. This provides for\nUniform license for exploration and production for all forms of hydrocarbons, including shale oil and gas and coal bed methane\n• Open acreage policy allowing bidders to select acreage\n• Revenue Sharing model instead of sharing the scope for disputes\n• Marketing and pricing freedom for the crude oil and natural gas produced\nLast year, we announced the new Marginal Fields Policy Under this policy, sixty seven fields were offered for bidding. Together, these sixty seven fields are estimated to hold in-place Oil plus Oil reserves of eighty nine million metric tonnes. The estimated recoverable reserves are about 50 million Metric Tonnes. I understand that a stimulating response has been received in many global companies participating.\nThe downstream sector is now more open, making a level playing field for all market players. The resulting competition will increase the efficiency and effectiveness of our marketing companies.\nOur proactive foreign policy and energy diplomacy is helping our neighboring countries. I hope that our oil and gas sector companies will take the opportunity to tie up their foreign counterparts. Recent acquisitions of hydrocarbon assets in Russia by investing 5.6 billion dollars for fifteen million tonnes of equity equivalent Indian energy companies should become multinational; and work towards India-Middle East, India-Central Asia, and India-South Asia energy corridors.\nNatural gas is the next generation fossil fuel - cheap, and less polluting. We have given up on a gas based economy. Efforts should be made to increase natural gas production. Natural gas will also have an important balancing role to play as India's renewable energy production rises. To provide balance and peaking power, gas-based power will be critical\nFriends To achieve this vision, we need to be very efficient in terms of project and resource management. This is an area that needs to improve. This will not only improve our refining and processing efficiencies but also ensures timely and efficent project completion.\nIndia has always been a inspiration for others in terms of intellectual capability and enterprise. I am confident that with initiatives like \"Make in India\", \"Startup India\", and \"Standup India\", there will be opportunities for youth to venture into Indian Oil and Gas sector and to bring innovative ideas. Technology development in refining, nanotechnology, catalyst development, biofuel and alternative energy are areas. The successful development of IndMax technology by IndianOil is an example of innovative thinking which is now commercial application stage.\nMy message to global hydrocarbon companies is: We invite you to come and make in India Our constant efforts have improved Let me assure you that our commitment is strong and our motto is to replace Red Tape with Red Carpet.\nFriends\nOn one hand, to meet the increaising demand, we need affordable, and reliable, sources of energy. Hydrocarbons will be an important part of this mix. On the other hand I am sure, this august gathering will come up with innovative ideas, in which the hydrocarbons will continue to be a future in a more efficient and sustainable way.\nI assure you of all possible support from the Government I thank you for being here and becoming a part of the transformation of the energy sector in India.\nWhile the global economy goes through uncertainty, India has shown tremendous resilience. FDI is at the highest level: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 5, 2016\nIndia's economy is expected to grow five fold by 2040: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 5, 2016\nWe expect growth in manufacturing, transport, civil aviation among other sectors: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 5, 2016\nHydrocarbons will continue to play an important part in: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 5, 2016\nEnergy in general and hydrocarbons are the most important areas of our vision: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 5, 2016\nIndia needs energy which is accessible to the poor It needs efficiency in energy use: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 5, 2016\nEnergy sustainability, for me, is a sacred duty. It is something India does out of commitment, not out of compulsion: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 5, 2016\nWe need to increase our domestic oil and gas production and reduce import dependence: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 5, 2016\nMy message to global hydrocarbon companies is: we invite you to come and make in India: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 5, 2016\nOur commitment is strong and Red Tape with Red Carpet: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 5, 2016\nTo meet the growing demand, we need to provide reliable sources of energy: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 5, 2016\nWe will also be sensitive towards the environment: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 5, 2016\n"