"NDA Government is committed to serve the poor, the farmer \u0026 the marginalized: PM Modi\nOur Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana ensures minimum premium \u0026 maximum insurance: PM\nCorruption \u0026 black money has ruined the nation India should now be free from all such evils: PM\nTechnology has simplified our lives Mobile phones have become bank today: PM\nLong live Mother India\nLong live Mother India\nMahatma Buddha's great construction site, the holy land of Kushinagar, worshiped the holy land ... all the work, farming, rowing people of Jotni-Bawani, people will come here in large number ... Gaggad ho gail ba You are the great servant of Logan..It is the land of Lord Buddha, Lord Mahavira is the earth ... The whole world including India, the teachings of peace, non-violence, Dehalas. Esther and Kranti, and the yoga enthusiasts, Shiva Avatari Mahayogi Gorakhnath ... Chalashanti Paulus in the field of great saint Kabir and the region, for the penance of this region, the birth of first democracy in the world on this land .... Now the time has come for the change of the holy land from the holy land. Ruvo people are now ready for the development of the state too.\nSitting on the stage, Mr. Om Ji, enthusiasts of the state .. Mr. Keshav Prasad Morya, President of the popular youth Mr. Vishnu Prasad, Mr. Manoj Sinha, Mr. Anupriya Patel, MP Mr. Adityanathji, Rita Bahuguna, Mr. Ramapati ji, Rameshwar ji , Sun Pratap ji, Upendra Shukla ji, Swami Prasad Maurya, our MP Mr. Rajesh Pandey, Mr. Kameshwar Singh Ji, Mr. Ram Chauhan ji , Santoshi ji, Janmejay Singh ji, Darasingh ji, Vijay Dubey, Independent Devsingh ji, Jaiprakash ji, Shri Pratap Shukla ji, Jaiprakash Nishad ji, Bhai Pankaj Singh ji, Mahendra Yadav ji, Shri Ganga Singh Kushwaha ji, Ravindra Kushwaha ji and Huge number of footprints ... my dear brothers and sisters ....\nI once again got the good fortune to come among you all. In the 2014 election, I was contesting from Kashi region of Uttar Pradesh. Luckily for me to get to many places in Uttar Pradesh, but my siblings ... at that time I was contesting myself ... here also came to Kushinagar, but at that time half of the people did not even come in the meeting ... and mothers and sisters did not even come. Today, such a large number of mothers and sisters have come to bless me ... such a huge mass gathering ... I have come to bless me. Mothers and sisters, brothers and sisters, I salute all of you bowing down to bowing down to you, I congratulate you and you have expressed this belief on me, by your blessing ... your belief never ... I do not get hurt I will not let it come. Brothers and sisters have come since we have heard ... that our country is a farming country.\nIf we had brought change in the village, the poor, the peasantry in his life in India, then the troubles which Hindustan has to face today ... do not ever face these troubles ... that our village would be strong ... our farmer would be strong So he would have stood first to overcome the problems of Hindustan and therefore the brothers and sisters who are sitting in Delhi today, this government is completely devoted to the poor, these government villages Programming is dedicated, the government is dedicated to farmers, the government oppressed, victimized, exploited, deprived ... all these dedicated people of our society, want their welfare. Brothers and sisters, here is how the farmers of sugarcane have undergone troubles, who do not know who?\nThe sugar mills became a challenge for their life and Rajesh ji was saying that if giving is strong then what is the need to ask? Brothers and sisters ... I am like you, this time it went ... When people sitting in the government believed that they have become the giver, we are the servants. Sewak, to serve you Your tribulation has come ... Your suffering is our tribulation, we have the responsibility to remove your difficulties, it is our responsibility to serve you ... Brothers and sisters, if there is someone to give, then the people are brothers and sisters, Sisters ... public janadan daan Occurs and you did pay I loans have so I'm so brothers and sisters that ... I have come to repay debt.\nIn 2014-15, sugarcane farmers' dues were 22 thousand crore rupees, brothers and sisters were 22 thousand crore and people got used to such a habit ... Bhai is okay without it came then ... do not come, if you do not come by this Take it People did not express heartburn too, they used to pray only with folded hands, the Chinese were saying to the owners that pay a little. In Lucknow, the government did not care, he thought that the elections would come ... if he would divide it somewhere else then he would go. People have been able to endure. When the people of Uttar Pradesh made a government in Delhi gave me the opportunity of such a big service ... we decided that the sugarcane would be worried about the farmers. Brothers and sisters were in excess of 22 thousand crores of 2014-15, they could now barely be able to count with finger, so much will be left to save all other things to the farmer's house.\nI had come to the Chinese, they were saying that sir ... the price has decreased. It is difficult to run the sugar factory, give us the package. I said that your habit of picking up a package is old but Modi is new ... I do not get this old habit, so in the first meeting I said that if I am ready to give the demand then I was very happy ... then I slowly I sent the officers and said, 'Give me a list of who is owed to the sugarcane farmer ... Give him a little list of people, but the people of the sugar mill started shivering, then came to meet again. I said the package will get but the owner of the factories will not get it. Give us the list ... Sugarcane farmers will pay the farmer what is owed directly to him in his bank account, you will not be allowed to come in the middle. He did not say. No sahib package should be needed, even the package does not want to say. The brothers and sisters decided that the sugarcane farmers are owing their package will not be given to Chinese owners, sugarcane will be deposited in the farmers' account and those who opened the account of the bank got the benefit of them immediately, in their account No middleman got deposited directly in the middle.\nBrothers and sisters, get sugar ... Let's go ... sugarcane farmers get their hard earned money, it is our great effort. But for this ... one step has to be taken after one, we took the step that when the price of sugar is reduced in the world ... then the sugar mills are closed, sugar mills stop, sugarcane farmers' sugarcane If no one buys and buys, then buys after three months, four months, and then he gets lost, the weight gets reduced, then the farmer goes to the deficit ... the game continues and the poor The farmer quietly tolerates The breakfast.\nWe decided that if the price of sugar in the world has changed around, then we will not make sugar in sugar factories of Hindustan, then we will make ethanol and make ethanol and use it instead of petrol, diesel, ... to drive He will burn them, but the farmer's sugarcane will not burn and the sugar mills should be made to make ethanol, those who have no plants have told them to plant the plant, the price of sugar falls So do not make sugar, make ethanol and use ethanol instead of petrol, use ethanol instead of diesel, but the sugarcane farmer will not be allowed to die ... This is done by the brothers and sisters we show.\nIndia has a record of 100 million liters ... till today that India has used it in trains by making 100 million liters of ethanol. Because of this, we have been able to make some savings in foreign oil ... which has to be brought here, in this case, the farmers of sugarcane have been able to pay. Brothers and sisters have problems but can be searched for problems. This government is such that every moment is ready to deal with the problems ... people stand and walk with the public.\n\nI always say to the brothers and sisters that the good of Uttar Pradesh will not be there until the eastern Uttar Pradesh ... Uttar Pradesh will not be developed. East Uttar Pradesh should be developed and rail work for development ... Road work ... For this, the Indian government is charging billions of rupees. Our Manoj Sinha, the Railway Minister ... is engaged in the development of railways in the state of Uttar Pradesh. How do people benefit from Uttar Pradesh? Wherever one becomes ill in eastern Uttar Pradesh ... When it arrived ... not a good hospital, the Indian government decided ... to set up AIIMS hospital inside Gorakhpur and to change the fate of that entire area, We will work to give them health protection.\nFertilizer factory ... We decided to turn it on. There was a time, brother ... a lot ... Your love is on your eyes, brother on your eyes, your love is on the head ... Now there is no place, no one will come forward, brother. These people have lost their lives.\nBrothers and sisters ... We have seen when our farmer needs urea ... urea, the farmer had to stand in the queues to buy urea overnight. Bones must be melted in such cold, they had to stand all night long, but never in the country did anyone suffer from it, and when the urea was taken, the police came and used to charge the sticks, the farmer did not get urea. My brothers and sisters have been for a year ... You should have seen that the customer does not have to queue for urea, in some places urea does not have to stick to the police, how did this happen? How did this magic come?\nBrothers and sisters, overnight, overnight ... no urea factory was found, but why did not get urea ...? What was the production of urea ...? The urea was breeding ... the urea used to go to the factory ... the farmer also got subsidy but urea did not go to the farmer's farm ... the thief went from the road to the factory and ... Urea was cheaply found. From that he used to sell his own things and sell it in the market.\nFertilizer used to be ... for harvest, fertilizer urea used to be good for industrialists. We came and searched for his medicines, finding a good solution. We said that we will neem coating of urea, which is a neem tree, neem which is the fruit, its oil will put on urea, from that ... which is the earth mother, it will also get good dose, and once Neemkoting was done on urea ... so that the urea became useless for any chemical, and hence 100 gm urea does not even go into the factory of chemical. As soon as Urea is born, goes to the farmer's farm, tell Brothers-sisters ... did not stop theft? Did not stop the dishonesty? Black market closed or not? Did the farmer get urea not found? Brothers and sisters ... Did not know this before? Earlier governments also had knowledge of it, all written on paper, but more than farmers ... they were concerned about the factories. And so, they never thought of urea in this way, we made 100% urea neem coating. Because of this, the farmer is getting urea today.\nBrothers and sisters ... We made a Soil Health Card for the farmer. Today you will see ... When we become ill and we become ill, then we make a blood test, the doctor says to get the urine tested, the doctor does not give medicines until he receives the report. He says that for getting the first pathological investigation, the report of the bulldoze test, the report of the urine test, after which he does the medicine. The nature of the body is like the brothers and sisters, the same is our mother's mother, there are diseases in earth mother too, there are strengths in earth mother, goodness, and therefore as blood may be examined in our body, Our blood may be examined, our urine may be examined, even if it is inside the mother earth ... what are the good ... there are weaknesses ..., it can be examined.\nAnd so, we have to make laboratory to examine this earth mother, get her land, test the field of the field and then report that this medicine should be added to your land ... should not be put ... it should be fertilized. ..It should not be ... should crop this crop ... should not grow this crop and due to which the money of the farmer was wasted, otherwise what was the farmer used to do? If the neighbor put a red colored medicine, then he would also put red-colored medicine. If the neighbor put a black boxed powder, then he also used to put black coated powder. And because of that the farmer had a great deal of harm. Brothers and Sisters ... We used to have a Soil Health Card ... How is the farmer's mother protecting her mother? How much more yield from that land mother? Opened the way for him and who is going to do good to the farmer in the coming days.\nBrothers and sisters ... Our farmer can work hard, but our farmer can work hard, but when a natural calamity comes, all his hard work gets in the soil, it flows into the water, the farmer gets wasted. Even if the farmers are unhappy, even if there is less rain, even if the farmers are unhappy, even if there is more water in the rivers, even if the farmer is unhappy, even if the farmer is unhappy, even if there is less crop, the farmer is unhappy, this farmer How will you protect?\nBrothers and sisters, therefore, we have brought the Prime Minister's Crop Insurance Scheme, the Prime Minister's Crop Insurance Scheme and the farmer has to pay very little, there is a lot to give, the Indian government will pay the money and if there is any natural loss to your crop then the farmer Whole money from the insurance scheme will get full ... Brothers and sisters Not only that, you have decided to sow in the month of June, but the rains did not come, you thought in July, even then it did not rain, you thought in August, even then there was no rain. If water does not come then where do you sow? और बुवाई नहीं की तो फसल कहां होगी?, और फसल नहीं होगी तो फसल बर्बाद भी कैसे होगी? तो ऐसी स्थिति में किसान क्या करेगा? जिसकी बुवाई नहीं हुई तो उसको तो फसल नहीं आनी है तो फसल बीमा लगना नहीं है। पहली बार इस देश में दिल्ली में ऐसी सरकार बैठी है, इसमें ऐसा प्रधानमंत्री फसल बीमा योजना लाए है कि प्राकृतिक आपदा के कारण अगर बुवाई नहीं हुई तो भी उसका हिसाब लगाकर उसको मिनिमम बीमा का पैसा दिया जाएगा।\nभाईयों-बहनों कभी हमारा किसान... अच्छी फसल हो... खुशी मना रहा हो... खेत में फसल काट कर खलिहान में बड़ा ढेर किया है.... अपनी किसानी पैदावर का, अब वो इंतजार कर रहा है कि कोई ट्रैक्टर मिल जाए और ट्रैक्टर में समान रखकर बाजार में मंडी में जाकर के बेच कर के आ जाऊंगा। अब उसको ट्रैक्टर आने में देर हो गई दो-चार दिन, पांच दिन, ट्रक आने में देर हो गई, मंडी सामान पहुंचाने में मुश्किल हो गया और अचानक... अचानक बारिश आ गई, सारी फसल तैयार है खेत में ढेर पड़ा है, फसल का बीमा कहां से मिलेगा क्योंकि सब पूरा हो गया था। ये दिल्ली में ऐसी सरकार है, जो किसानों की चिंता करने वाली सरकार है। हमने प्रधानमंत्री फसल बीमा में योजना बनाईं कि फसल की कटाई के बाद जो फसल का ढेर है, अगर 15 दिन के भीतर-भीतर कोई प्राकृतिक आपदा आ गई और किसान का नुकसान हो गया तो उसका बीमा भी मिलेगा भाईयों-बहनों।\nआप मुझे बताईए भाईयों कि बुवाई से लेकर कटाई तक हर परिस्थिति में बीमा देने की ताकत ये दिल्ली में बैठी सरकार लेकर आई है, लेकिन मैं दिल्ली की सरकार को कहना चाहता हूं कि अगर अब झगड़े शांत हो गये हो, आपके पास समय हो, यहां के गरीबों की चिंता करने की फुर्सत हो, किसानों की चिंता करने की फुर्सत हो तो ये उत्तर प्रदेश सरकार ये प्रधानमंत्री फसल बीमा योजना उत्तर प्रदेश में लागू करवाए। यहां के किसानों को जरा लाभ मिले, खर्चा दिल्ली सरकार करने को तैयार है, काम करने के लिए उत्तर प्रदेश सरकार कुछ करे। मुझे नहीं लगता है कर पाएंगे। उनको इसमें इंटरेस्ट ही नहीं है भाईयों, समस्याओं का समाधान करने में इंटरेस्ट नहीं है।\nभाईयों-बहनों आप बताइए कि यहां हमारी गंडक नहर... कितनी लंबी गंडक नहर है, लेकिन उसकी तलहटी में सारी मिट्टी भरी पड़ी है और उसके कारण पानी की संग्रह क्षमता कम हो गई है और केनाल के आखरी में पानी पहुंचता ही नहीं है। पानी दिखता है फिर भी किसान का खेत सूखा है। भाईयों-बहनों हम कह-कह कर थक गए इन सरकारों को... उत्तर प्रदेश सरकार को कह-कह कर थक गए कि मनरेगा के पैसे हम दे रहे हैं आप मनरेगा से इस गंडक की नहर जो है... उसको जरा मिट्टी निकलवाइए ताकि पानी मेरे किसानों को पहुंचे, उनको ये करने की भी फुर्सत नहीं है।\nआप मुझे बताईए भाईयों क्या ये कूड़ा-कचरा निकालना कोई राजनीति है क्या? राजनीति है क्या? ये कूड़ा-कचरा निकालोगे तो किसानों का भला होगा कि नहीं होगा? अगर नहर साफ होगी तो किसानों का भला होगा कि नहीं होगा? लेकिन भाईयों-बहनों ये ऐसे राजनीतिक प्रकृति के लोग हैं कि उनको कूड़ा-कचरा निकालना ही नहीं है। उनको सब जगह पर कूड़े-कचरे में ही मजा आता है।\nअभी पिछले दिनों हमने एक निर्णय किया भ्रष्टाचार के खिलाफ... काले धन के खिलाफ... 500 और 1000 के नोट बंद कर दिए। आप मुझे बताइए मेरे भाईयों-बहनों... ये भ्रष्टाचार ने देश को बर्बाद किया है कि नहीं किया है? ये काले धन ने बर्बादी लाई है कि नहीं लाई है? ये देश को भ्रष्टाचार से मुक्त कराना चाहिए कि नहीं कराना चाहिए? इस देश को काले धन से मुक्त कराना चाहिए कि नहीं कराना चाहिए? किसी ने तो कदम उठाना चाहिए कि नहीं उठाना चाहिए? भाईयों-बहनों बीमारी के कारण, जब बीमारी दूर करने के लिए दवाईयां देते हैं तो थोड़ी तकलीफ तो होती है कि नहीं होती है?\nआज मैं देश का आभार व्यक्त करने आया हूं। भगवान बुद्ध की इस धरती से मैं देशवासियों का आभार व्यक्त करता हूं, क्योंकि यही तो महापुरुष थे, जिन्होंने हमें संयम का मार्ग सिखाया है, यही तो महापुरुष हैं, यही तो महात्मा गांधी की धरती है जिसने हमें ट्रस्टिसशिप का सिद्धांत सिखाया है। भाईयों-बहनों दूसरों का लूट कर के जमा करने वाले लोग... क्या कभी किसी का भला करेंगे?  हक का पैसा हरेक को मिलना चाहिए लेकिन लूट का पैसा मिलना चाहिए क्या? ये सरकारी खजाने में जमा होना चाहिए कि नहीं होना चाहिए? और इसलिए भाईयों-बहनों सरकार ने 8 तारीख को निर्णय किया है और मैंने देश से 50 दिन मांगे हैं 50 दिन... पहले दिन से मैंने कहा है कि तकलीफ होगी... जो बड़े-बड़े हैं उनको बड़ी-बड़ी तकलीफ होगी लेकिन छोटे लोगों को छोटी-छोटी तकलीफ तो होगी।\nमेरे भाईयों-बहनों ये देश की जनता को मैं नमन करता हूं, ये लोकतंत्र की ताकत देखिए, कल चीन के अखबारों में लिखा है कि लोकतंत्र में कोई ऐसा फैसला लेने की हिम्मत नहीं कर सकता है, अरे उन्हें मालूम नहीं है कि भारत की जनता की रग-रग में ऐसा लोकतंत्र है, जो औरों की भलाई सोचता है, अपनी भलाई बाद में सोचता है। और इसलिए जनता-जनार्दन के आशीर्वाद के कारण ऐसा कठोर फैसला करने का साहस होता है।\nमैं इस बात से सहमत हूं। मैंने पहले ही दिन से कहा है कि ये निर्णय सरल नहीं है, उसको लागू करना भी सरल नहीं है। 8 तारीख को हीं मैंने कहा था कि 50 दिन तकलीफ रहने वाली है अभी तो मेरे प्यारे भाईयों-बहनों 20 दिन ही हुआ है, अभी 30 दिन बाकी है। सरकार पूरी तरह आपकी समस्याओं का समाधान करने के लिए लगी हुई है और देशवासियों ने तकलीफ झेल करके भी मेरा साथ दिया है, इसके लिए मैं देशवासियों का जितना आभार व्यक्त करुं, उतना कम है। भाईयों-बहनों ये बात सही है लोग ऐसा समझाते हैं कि हमारे पास नोटें नहीं है तो हम क्या करें...\nभाईयों-बहनों आप लोग अपना मोबाइल फोन रिचार्ज कराना जानते हैं कि नहीं जानते हैं, क्या किसी स्कूल में पढ़ने के लिए गए थे? नहीं गए थे न...? आ गया कि नहीं आ गया? आपको मोबाईल फोन रिचार्ज कैसे करना है? आ गया कि नहीं आ गया? कितने पैसे भरना? कैसे भरना? कहां भरना? सब आया कि नहीं आया...? कोई सिखाने आया था...? Did not come.\nभाईयों-बहनों आप whatsApp  करते हैं whatsApp.... यूं-यूं करते हैं चला जाता है कोई सिखाने आया था...? कोई पढ़ाने आया था? किसी स्कूल में सीखने गए थे? आपको आया कि नहीं आया? आज भाईयों-बहनो टैक्नोलॉजी इतनी सरल है कि यहां आप लोग फोटो निकालते हैं और यहीं से अपने दोस्तो को फोटो भेज रहे हैं... भेज रहे हो न... मैं देख रहा हूं सब लोग फोटो निकाल रहे हैं... भेज रहे हो न, जितनी आसानी से आप अपने मोबाइल फोन से फोटो भेज सकते हो, whatsApp भेज सकते हो, अपने मोबाइल फोन का एकाउंट रिचार्ज करा सकते हो, उतनी ही आसानी से... बैंक में अगर आपका खाता है, बैंक में अगर आपका पैसा है तो आप मोबाईल फोन से जो भी खरीदना हो... खरीद सकते हो, जो भी लेना हो... ले सकते हो। आज आपका मोबाइल फोन... ये आपका मोबाइल फोन यही आपके बैंक की ब्रांच बन गया है। आपकी हथेली में आपकी अपनी बैंक बन गई है। पहले जेब में बटुवा रखना पड़ता था, और बटुए में पैसे रखने पड़ते थे।\nअब जमाना चला गया है। अब बटुए की जरुरत नहीं.. अब मोबाईल फोन में ही पैसे होते हैं। दुकानदार के पास जाइए और उसको बताइए कि भई... बताइए मेरे पास ये बैंक का एप है। मैं आपके यहां से 20 रु का सामान लेना चाहता हूं, मैं मोबाइल फोन से पैसे दूंगा वो कहेगा हां-हां दे दीजिए... तुरन्त उसके मोबाइल में एक सेकेंड में पैसा चला जाएगा, आपको 20 रु का माल मिलेगा।\nभाईयों-बहनों... आज हमारे देश में आधे से अधिक लोग जो रेलवे में जाते हैं वो खुद जाकर के पैसे देकर टिकट नहीं लेते ऑनलाइन टिकट लेते हैं, उनके पैसे वापिस आते हैं तो ऑनलाइन आ जाते हैं। भाईयों-बहनों आज आपने अखबार में एक इश्तेहार देखा होगा, एक एडवर्टाइज़मेंट आज आपने अखबार में देखा होगा। मेरा आप सब से आग्रह है कि इस एडवर्टाइज़मेंट को पूरी तरह पढ़ें और इसका कटिंग करके हर दुकान पर लगा दें... अखबार से निकाल करके सब लोग इतना काम ज़रुर करें और इसमें किस प्रकार से मोबाइल में खाता खोला जाता है, उसकी सारी विधि बताई गई है। आप के पैसे आप के हैं, बिना नोट के भी आप इसका खर्च कर सकते हो।\nभाईयों-बहनों ये नोटों का उपयोग काले धन वाले संग्रह करना चाहते हैं। हम काले धन वालों को सफल होने नहीं देना चाहते हैं, हम भ्रष्टाचारियों को सफल होने देना नहीं चाहते हैं। और इसलिए भाईयों-बहनों मुझे आगे के भी उनके रास्ते बंद करने हैं। आज के अंग्रेजी अखबारों में भी इसका एडवर्टाइज़मेंट छपा हुआ है, आज के हिंदी अखबारों में भी ये इश्तेहार छपा हुआ है।\nमेरा आप सब से आग्रह है, और यहां जो भारतीय जनता पार्टी के कार्यकर्ता हैं वो अखबार से कटिंग निकाल करके हर दुकान के बाहर एक बोर्ड पर लगा दें और ऐसे इश्तेहार रोज आते जाएंगे। स्टेट बैक ऑफ इंडिया की एप है, सरकार की एप है, आपको सिर्फ अपने मोबाईल फोन पर उस एप को डाउनलोड करना है, आपके गांव के मोहल्ले के व्यापारी को डाउनलोड करना है, सीधा आपका पैसा बैंक से चला जाएगा जो सामान खरीद चाहते हैं, खरीद सकते हैं। एक रुपया के बिना कोई काम अटकने वाला नहीं है...ये व्यवस्था मौजूद है भाईयों। और इसलिए.. इसलिए मुझे आपसे मदद चाहिए। मेरी विशेष पढ़े-लिखे नौजवानों से आग्रह है, सरकारी मुलाजिमों से आग्रह है कि आप भी अपने अड़ोस-पड़ोस में... जिसके पास भी माबाइल फोन है, उसको ज़रा सिखाइए कि किस प्रकार से मोबाइल फोन से कारोबार किया जा सकता है।\nआप देखिए ये जो सारी चर्चाएं हैं आप खुद उसको एक मिनट में बंद करवा सकते हैं। और देशवासियों ने सहयोग दिया है, हमारे पास रास्ते भी हैं उस रास्तों पर चलिए देश में कभी भ्रष्टाचार दोबारा आने की हिम्मत नहीं करेगा भाईयों, देश में दोबारा काला धन पैदा होने की ज़रुरत नहीं पड़ेगी। देश में नोटें छाप-छाप कर के ढेर करने की ज़रुरत नहीं पड़ेगी, और नोटों के बंडल किसी को बिस्तर के नीचे छुपाने की नौबत नहीं आएगी।\nभाईयों-बहनों एक तरफ में भ्रष्टाचार का... भाईयों-बहनों एक तरफ सरकार... एक तरफ हम सब भ्रष्टाचार के सारे रास्ते बंद करने में लगे हैं, काले धन के सारे रास्ते बंद करने में लगे हैं, और दूसरी तरफ.... भारत बंद करने में लगे हैं। आप मुझे बताइए... भ्रष्टाचार का रास्ता बंद होना चाहिए कि भारत बंद होना चाहिए? पूरी ताकत से बताइए कि भ्रष्टाचार का रास्ता बंद होना चाहिए कि भारत बंद होना चाहिए? भ्रष्टाचार का रास्ता बंद होना चाहिए कि भारत बंद होना चाहिए? काला धन का रास्ता बंद होना चाहिए कि भारत बंद होना चाहिए? काले धन का रास्ता बंद होना चाहिए कि भारत बंद होना चाहिए? काले धन का रास्ता बंद होना चाहिए कि भारत बंद होना चाहिए? भाईयों-बहनों सिर्फ और सिर्फ गरीब के लिए मैंने ये फैसला लिया है। 70 साल तक जो लूटा है उसको निकालना है... और गरीब का घर बनाना है, 70 साल तक लूटा है, किसान के खेत में पानी पहुंचाना है, 70 साल तक लूटा है उन पैसों को निकाल कर के गरीब की झोपड़ी में बिजली का तार पहुंचाना है, 70 साल तक लूटा है उन पैसों से गरीब बच्चों की पढ़ाई करवानी है। 70 साल तक जो लूटा है उन पैसों को निकाल कर के गरीब बुजूर्गों को दवाई दिलवानी है।\nभाईयों-बहनों ये जो कुछ भी निकलेगा ये सारा का सारा गरीबों की भलाई के काम आने वाला है और इसलिए मेरे भाईयों-बहनों अब हम लुटने नहीं देंगे देश को... और मुझे विश्वास है भाईयों, जिस देश में सवा सौ करोड़ देशवासियों के आशीर्वाद हों वहां पर काला धन का खात्मा संभव है, भ्रष्टाचार का खात्मा संभव है, भाईयों-बहनों देश अच्छी दिशा में जाने के लिए तैयार बैठा है और मुझे विश्वास है ये देश इस महायज्ञ में, ईमानदारी के महायज्ञ में, देशवासियों को कष्ट झेलकर केभी आहूति देते मैं देख रहा हूं... और इसलिए भाईयों-बहनों आने वाले दिनों में देश इस बात को स्वीकार करेगा कि फैसला कठोर था, लेकिन भविष्य उज्जवल है, और इसलिए मेरे भाईयों-बहनों मैं आपसे अनुरोध करने आया हूं कि आप गांव के हर दुकानदार को इन अखबार के माध्यम से कैसे मोबाइल पर उनकी बिजनेस लगाया जा सकता है... सिखाइए।\nआप स्वंय कम से कम दस परिवार, पंद्रह परिवार उनको सिखाइए... बिना पैसे सारा कारोबार चलाने की दिशा में सारी दुनिया चल पड़ी है। हम पीछे रह गए भाईयों, हम पीछे रह गए भाईयों अब हिंदुस्तान पीछे नहीं रह सकता। आप मुझे बताइए, आप मेरी मदद करेंगे...? दोनों हाथ ऊपर कर के मुझे आशीर्वाद दीजिए... आप मेरी मदद करेंगे...? आपके आशीर्वाद रहेंगे....? ये परिवर्तन आकर रहेगा... भ्रष्टाचार जाके रहेगा... काला धन जाएगा... भाईयों-बहनों आपका भविष्य बन जाएगा।\nआपके आशीर्वाद के लिए मैं आपका बहुत-बहुत आभारी हूं।\nThank you ....."