"Share\n\nWhen the whole country stands with our forces, the strength of our jawans increases 125 crore times: PM Modi during #ManKiBaat\nDecision to implement demonetisation was not easy There will be the trouble of 70 years: PM #MannKiBaat\nGovt, post offices, banks are working hard and with dedication to fight evils black money \u0026 corruption: PM Modi during #ManKiBaat\nWhile inconvenience, people have accepted demonetisation drive. This shows their potential: PM during #MannKiBaat\nVillagers, farmers \u0026 small traders have a pivotal role in our country's economy: PM Modi during #MannKiBaat\nUrge small traders to embrace technology by using banking apps \u0026 digital payment systems: PM Modi during #MannKiBaat\nBy embracing technology, we can build a cashless society. This will be a big transformation: PM during #MannKiBaat\nWe can gradually move from a 'less-cash' society to a cashless society. Youth can play a major role in this: PM Modi during #MannKiBaat\nPM Narendra Modi during #MannKiBaat\nMy dear countrymen, Namaskar Last month, all of us were celebrating Diwali Like every year, this Diwali too, I have gone to the border, to China border, to celebrate our soldiers, our jawans I celebrated Diwali with ITBP men and army jawans on the lofty heights of the Himalayas. I do it every time, but this Diwali was a completely different experience. The heartening effect of the novel way in which our 1.25 billion countrymen dedicated this Diwali to soldiers of our army, to our defense forces, were clearly evident on their faces They appeared charged with emotions, and not just that, the act of our countrymen of sending greetings, including the protection forces of the nation in their rejoicing, a wonderful response. And it is not just people There was an earnest heartfelt connection. Some written poems, some painted pictures, some created cartoons, others made videos; it was as if there was a fight And when I saw those letters, I used to be amazed at the magnitude of creativity and emotions behind this endeavor. And this gave rise to a thought in MyGov that the selected items could be compiled to make a coffee table book. Work is underway on that Your collective contribution, the sentiments of soldiers, your emotional universe dedicated to our security forces as expressed in your creativity this volume of content will form.\nA soldier wrote to me - Mr. Prime Minister, we have the festivals like Holi and Diwali on the borders. We are devoted to the country every moment. Bu we do miss our near and dear ones back home during festivals But, to tell you the truth, this time we did not feel so. Never did it show us the festivities It was as if we were celebrating Diwali together with a hundred and twenty five crore Indians\nMy dear countrymen, this warmth of emotion, this fervour that has been kindled in the hearts of our defense forces, our soldiers this Diwali, is it only a few occasions to be confined? I appeal to you that we should make it our nature, our characteristic as a society, as a nation that will be a celebration of a festival or any joyous event, we should keep the soldiers, the jawans of the military of our nation in our hearts and minds When the whole nation stands by the armed forces, their might mutiplies a hundred and twenty five crore times\nA few days ago, all the cities of the villages They were from the Jammu and Kashmir Panchayat Conference. They had been from different villages of the Kashmir valley, there were around 40-50 Pradhans I got an opportunity to talk about them They have come to discuss some of their villages; they had some demands But when the deliberations began, issues such as conditions in the valley, the law and order situation, the future of children came up in a natural way These villages have spoken about these topics with such affection and openness that everything touched my heart. In the course of the conversation, there was also a mention of schools in Kashmir. And I felt these Pradans were as saddened as our other countrymen were, at that. They did not even say that they were not just schools, that had been set ablaze I had urged them to focus on these children's future, on their return home. I am feeling happy today that the Pradhans, who had been from the Kashmir valley, kept their word in letter and spirit. They return to their villages Recently, just a few days ago, when the Board examinations were held, 95% of sons and daughters of Kashmir, the young students appeared in the examinations The most successful of students, who appeared in the Board Examinations, is a clear indication that our children from J \u0026 K are committed to achieve newer heights of progress, to build a bright future through the medium of education. For their resolute zeal I congratulate them students and I also felicitate their parents, their kith and kin, their teachers and all the Gram Pradhans as well as the depths of my heart.\nMy dear brothers and sisters, this time when I asked people for suggestions for 'Mann ki baat', I can say that all the suggestions were received echoed one theme. Everybody wanted me to talk in more detail about 500 \u0026 1000 rupee notes On the 8th of November at 8 in the evening, in my Address to the Nation, I had talked about a new campaign to bring about reforms in the country. When I had taken this decision and presented it before you, then also I had said openly that it was not an ordinary decision, it was a fraught with difficulties. It is a very important decision And I also had foreseen that this was the result of our daily routine. And I had said then also that this decision was so great enough that it would take us 50 days to come out of its after effects and only then would we be able to move towards normalcy? These maladies have been afflicting us for the past 70 years and the campaign for getting rid of these can never be a easy task. I can not understand But when I see your support, when I look at your co-operation; Although many efforts are on to misguide you, though, and despite witnessing some disturbing events, you have full heartedly comprehended the path of righteousness and truth, you have favourrably accepted this step taken in the best national interest.\n500 and 1000 rupee notes and such a vast country, wide proliferation of currencies, billions and trillions of bank notes and amidst that, this decision - the whole world is intensively observing, every economist is analyzing it, it is evaluating. The whole world is watching - will hundred and twenty-five crore Indians finally attain success after facing numerous hardships? This question However, India has nothing but faith and faith only and supreme confidence in his hundred and twenty five million countrymen that they will definitely fulfill their resolve. And our country will emerge as a shining one. And the reason for this is The route to this success has also been\nAcross the country, central government, state governments, all units of the local self government institutions, one lakh third thousand bank branches, lakhs of bank employees, over one and a half lakh post offices, over a lakh Bank-Mitras are relentlessly at work , day and night, with complete dedication. In the midst of immense and varied stress, all these individuals are working hard, maintaining a calm and composed demeanor, taking it as a Yagya of Service to the Nation, a great transformation towards an attempt.\nThey begin work early in the morning, not knowing when they will wind up at night Everyone is busy working And as a precise resultence of this diligence, there are clear indications that India will be successful in this endeavor. And I have seen that in the midst of such difficulties, all personnel of banks and post offices are very hard working. And when it comes to the practice of humanity, they appear two steps ahead. Someone told me that in Khandwa, a gentle gentleman met with an accident. Money was urgently This came to the knowledge of local bank personnel, and I was happy to learn that they were handled and handed over on cash at their home, for help in treatment. Innumerable such incidents come from light to daily through television, media, newspapers and mutual conversations. I would like to thank all such compatriots who have strive hard to perform this mahayagyah, and lived up to the lofty virtue of PURUSHARTH. The greatest validation of Shakti, strength, comes when the same is put to test. I distinctly remember, when the Prime Minister's Jan Dhan Yojana was launched, bank employees earnestly and zealously shouldered their responsibilities and showed that they lasted 70 years in what was not done. Their capabilities were manifested Today, once again, they have accepted the challenge and I do believe that the steely resolve of one hundred and twenty five crore countrymen, their collective demonstration of Purushartha will go a long way in its path of progress\nBut the vices are so wide and deep-rooted that even today there are people. Even now, some people think that they can re-introduce in the system, money from corruption, black money, unaccounted wealth and Benami money (money in unknown person's name), using some route or the other They seek illegal means to save their ill-gotten wealth The saddest part is that, for this too, they have chosen to misuse the poor, the underprivileged people. By misguiding the poor, enticing them through the vices of avarice and temptation, wrongfully pumping money in their bank accounts, or getting some of them wrongful activities, some people are trying to save their black money. I want to say such people today - whether you are refreshed or not is up to you, whether you are respect and follow the law or do other is up to you; Of course, the law will take its own course to decide on the requisite action; But, for God's sake, please do not Do not do anything on the name of the poor people And the law regarding Benami property that has been enacted and is being implemented very strict and it is going to be extremely difficult on wrong doers. The government does not want to face undue hardships\nOne Mr. Aishish has called up and appreciated the fight against corruption and black money through the action on 500 and 1000 rupee notes:\n\"Sir, Namaste. My name is Aishish Paare I am an ordinary citizen of Village Tiraali of Tehsil Tiraali in District Harda of Madhya Pradesh Your move to demonetize 1,000 and 500 rupees notes is a commendable step. I wish that Mann Ki Baat, you quote instances of people, who, despite being hardships, has given the nation's progress for this step. This will further enhance people's zeal. A cashless economy is necessary for nation building And I I am truly happy that you have done away with 1000 rupees and 500 rupee notes. \"\nI have received a similar call from Mr. Yellappa Velankar Ji from Karnataka: -\n\"Modi Ji, Namaste I am calling from a village in Koppal district of Karnataka. My name is Yellappa Velankar I would like to thank you fullheartedly because you had said that good days will come, but nobody has ever thought that you would take such a big step. You have taught a lesson to black money mongers and the corrupt through the demonetization of 1000 and 500 rupee notes. For every and every citizen of India For this I thank you from the core of my heart. \"\nWe get to know certain things through media, through the people and through government sources. It gives us such a great happiness and a sense of pride to know that the common man in my country has such a wonderful capability. A restaurant on the National Highway-6 in Akola in Maharashtra has said that if you have only old currency notes in the pocket and want to have food, please, do not worry about money and do not leave hungry from this place. Please, do have your food and pay later So people go and eat there and make payments on their next visit after 2, 4 or 6 days This is the strength of my country which encompasses the spirit of service, of sacrifices and also of genuineness and honesty.\nDuring elections, I used to have 'talk about tea', that is the discussions over tea and this got publicized around the whole world. People in many countries of the phrase - 'Chai Par Charcha' But, I did not know 'Chai Par Charcha' could be linked to a marriage too. I learned that on 17th November, a marriage was solemnised with 'Chai Par Charcha' in Surat. One daughter at Surat in Gujarat served as tea to all the guests. There was no big function, no feast or banquet because there was a shortage of cash due to demonetization. Guests from the bridegroom's side also gracefully accepted it as their ceremonial welcome. Bharat Maaroo and Dakshaya Parmar from Surat, through their marriage, have made a valuable contribution in the ongoing fight against corruption and black money and set up a very inspiring example. I convey my blessings to the newlyweds in India and Dakshaa and profusely compliment them also for their transformations in the form of a new opportunity. Whenever confronted by such difficult times, people are successful in exploring and finding good avenues and solutions.\nI was seen in the news on TV, when I had returned late in the night, a report about a small village named Dhekiajulli (Dheikajuli) in Assam, where tea workers reside. These tea workers get their wages on weekly basis. Now, what they did when they received a 2000 rupee note as wages? Four women from the neighborhood got together and made the purchase and made the 2000 Rupee note; They did not need small currency as they jointly made their purchases and had decided that they will meet next week. People are getting themselves ways ways And just look at this change The government received a message that people in tea gardens in Assam are demanding setting up of ATMs in their areas. See, how the village life is also getting transformed Some people are getting instant benefits from this campaign. The nation will reap these benefits in the days to come but some people have got benefits instantly. On asking, I got to know about the impact of small towns. On the basis of reports received about 45-50 cities, I have collected that non-payment of debts before accrued due to their business. Many people were in the habit of not making tax payments, such as water tax, electricity bills, etc., they just did not pay Now all of us are very well that the poor people always like to clear their debts 2-3 days in advance. It is the well-off people, who do not pay their taxes and bills as they have higher connections and know that nobody is going to ask or do anything against them Thus there are big debts, which remain pending All municipalities receive hardly 50% of their tax revenues. But, this time after the decision taken on the 8th instant, people rushed to their old currency notes 47 urban institutions had received about 3 to 3.5 thousand crore rupees in tax last year. You will be surprised and also happy to know that during this one week, these institutions receive 13 thousand crore rupees. Imagine the difference - from 3 to 3.5 thousand crores to 13 thousand crores. And, that too with the help of those payments payments Now that these municipalities have received 4 times the money, it is quite natural that poor localities and slums will get better drainage facilities, better water supply and better Aanganbari system. Many such examples are obviously seen.\nBrothers and sisters, our villages and our farmers Every citizen is making requisite adjustments. But, I would like to I was just collecting data of the crop season. I am glad that be it wheat, be it pulses, be it oilseeds, the data received till 20th November indicates that the sowing has increased substantially as compared to the last year. Our farmers found new avenues The government has also taken many important decisions, where our priority is accorded to our farmers and villages. Despite these measures, some difficulties persist but I am confident that our farmer who bravely faces every difficulty, including natural calamities, is standing firm in the face of present odds also.\nSmall traders and businessmen of our country In the last budget we had taken an important decision that just like the big malls, the small shopkeepers in the villages will also be allowed to operate round the clock and no rule will stop them from doing so. 24 hours, why the poor village-shopkeepers should not get the same facility? A number of initiatives were taken from Grameen Bank under Mudra Yojana. These small traders were provided loans worth millions and crosions under Rupees under Mudra Yojana because there are hundreds of such small traders and they are worth billions of rupees of business activities. But naturally they too had to face difficulties due to this decision However, I have seen that these small businessmen too have kept their customers in their own ways through the use of technology such as Mobile App, Mobile Bank and Credit Card and on the basis of mutual trust. And, I want to tell our small trader Brothers and sisters that are also interested in their entry in the digital world. You too Download Apps for Banks on your mobile phones You can keep a POS machine for transactions in Credit Cards. You can learn more about cashless business You can see how the big malls are expanding their business. A small trader can also help There is no possibility of things being lost I invite you all. You can make a very big contribution in creating a cashless society. You can create a full-fledged banking facility on your mobile phone and there are many ways. There are technological methods which are safe, secure and instantaneous. I want that you not only extend your campaign into successful but also lead the process of transformation and I have full confidence that this change for you leader. I am sure you can handle your business using this technology.\nI want to tell heavy workers who have faced heavy exploitation. The wages shown on paper are much higher than the wages. If ever full wages are paid, someone stands out to forcibly take his cut and the worker is compelled to accept it as his fate. We want that under this new system you should have a bank account; Your wages should be deposited directly into your bank so that payment of minimum wages is ensured. You get your due wages in full, without anybody extracting a cut No one should exploit you And, once the money is credited in your bank account, you can use your mobile phone as an e-wallet and you do not need any hi-fi smart phone for this, because even with the help of your general mobile phone itself you can make purchases from the neighbourhood shops and make payments as well. That is why, I specially requested our workers to take part in this scheme because after all I took such a momentous decision for the poor people, the farmers, the workers, the deprived and the oppressed people of the country and , hence, these benefits must reach them.\nI want to talk to you We keep telling with great fanfare the whole world that is 65% of the population below the age of 35 years. I know, dear young men and women of my country I also know that you support my decision. I even know that you are making a big contribution in this mission forward. But dear friends, you are my true soldiers, my true partners. We have got a wonderful opportunity to serve our mother India and new economic heights. Dear youngsters, can you please help me? You will not be enough The old generation does not have the exposure and experience of the new world which you possess. Possibly your elder brother and even your parents and uncles and aunts also may not know. You know what an 'App' is, what 'online banking' is and how 'online ticket booking' done. For you are also used But, the great task that the country wants to achieve is a realization of our dream of a 'cashless society'. It is true that a hundred percent cashless society is not possible. But why should India not make a start-in a 'less-cash society'? Once we embark on our tour to make a 'less-cash society', the goal of 'cashless society' will not remain very far. And I require your physical help, your own time, your own resolve and I am sure that you will not disappoint me as we are the ones to cherish the life of the poor people of India. You know how many opportunities are there for a cashless society, for digital banking or for mobile banking. Every bank provides online banking facility. Every bank in India has its own 'mobile app'. Every bank has its wallet. Wallet simply means an e-purse Various types of cards are available Under Jan Dhan Yojana, crores of poor families in India have Rupay Cards. Used scarcely earlier, after 8th November the poor people have started using Rupay Cards and this user has seen almost 300% surge. Just as there is a prepaid card for mobile phones, prepaid cards are also available in the bank. UPI is a very useful platform for carrying on business activities, which enables you to make purchases, send money and even get money. And, this is the process of sending messages through WhatsApp. Even an illiterate person today knows how to send and also WhatsApp messages. Not only this, with the simplification of technology, we can not\nCash can also be transferred to A washerman, vegetable vendor, milk supplier, newspaper vendor, tea stall owner or a chanaa vendor, everyone can easily use this facility. I have also provided further simplifying this system. All banks are engaged in this and are doing their best. We have now canceled the online surcharge and you may have seen in the newspapers during last 2-4 days that all the extra charges for such cards are eliminated in order to achieve a 'cashless society'.\nMy dear young friends, despite all these things, there is a whole generation which is ignorant in these matters. And I know it is very well. The kind of creative messages that you send on WhatsApp - slogans, poems, anecdotes, cartoons, new imagination, jokes - the present challenges among the young generation of these signifying the creative power of This is the specialty of our 'Bharat Bhoomi', our motherland where GITA was created on a battlefield. Today when we are passing through these gigantic changes, your original creativity is manifesting itself within you. But, my dear young friends, I need your help in this task. Yes, yes, yes - I repeat that I NEED YOUR HELP and I am very sure that millions of young people of our country will accomplish this tremendous task.\nYou just do one thing, take a resolve today itself that you will become a part of the 'cashless society' Every technology needed for online payment will definitely be available on your mobile phone. But not only this, you must be half an hour, one hour or two hours daily to educate at least 10 families, what is this technology is, how to use this technology, how to download apps of your banks, how to spend money from one's account, how to make payment to shopkeepers Also teach the shopkeepers to conduct their business with this technology. You have to voluntarily give your leadership to this great campaign, this Maha Abhiyan, to create a 'cashless society', to eradicate corruption from our country, to abolish the scourge of black money and to help people overcome their difficulties and problems. Once you teach the poor people about the use of Rupay Card, they will shower their blessings on you. When you teach the common citizen these new techniques, he will probably become free from all his concerns. And if all the young people of India join us in this great endeavor We can emerge and take our place in the world as a new modern India within a period of one month. And you can do this through your mobile phone by going to 10 homes daily and bringing 10 families daily under the campaign. I invite you - come, do not just support this transformation but be one of its leading soldiers and we will achieve the desired transformation. We will carry forward this struggle to free our country from the evils of corruption and black money. There are many countries in the world where the youth has changed the nation's life and it has to be accepted that it is the youth who brings about great changes, which creates revolutions. Kenya made a solution and set up a mobile based system M-PESA, adopted appropriate technology which was named M-PESA and today in Kenya, in this region of Africa, total business this system to shift is ready. That country has brought about a big revolution\nMy dear young friends, I will be able to take this campaign. I invite you to work for this mission individually and collectively in every school, in every college, in every university, in NCC and in NSS We should take this forward. We have got a chance to render a great service to our nation; This chance should not be missed\nDear brothers and sisters, Today is the birth anniversary of a great poet of our country - Shriman Harivansh Rai Bachchan Ji and on this occasion today, Shriman Amitabh Bachchan Ji has given a slogan for Swacha Mission. You must have noticed, that Amitabh Ji, the most popular actor of this century, has been the whole of the hearteningly promoting the campaign for cleanliness. It appears as if the subject of cleanliness has become so dear to him also on his father's birth anniversary he remembered the Cleanliness Mission. He has quoted one line from a poem written by Harivansh Rai Bachchan Ji where he said: \"Mitti Ka Tann, Masti Ka Mann, Kshan Bhar Jeewan, My Parichay. (feV ~ vh dk ru] eLrh dk eu] {k.kHkj you] esjk ifjp;) \"Harivansh Rai Ji used to be his introduction through this line. His son Shriman Amitabh Ji, who has the cleanliness mission running in his veins, has written to me - \"Swachch Tann, Swachch Mann, Swachh Bharat, My Parichay. LoPN ru] LoPN eu] LoPN Hkkjr] esjk ifjp; \"Based on Harivansh Rai Ji's lines I respectfully bow to Harivansh Rai Ji I also thank Shriman Amitabh Ji for connecting in such a warm way with 'Man Ki Baat' and for taking the Cleanliness Campaign.\nMy dear countrymen, now your views and your sentiments are 'Man Ki Baat' though your letters, on MyGov, on NaarendraModiApp keep me constantly connected with you Presently Mann Ki Baat is broadcast at 11 AM but we are going to start its broadcast in regional languages. I am grateful to Akashvani for taking up this initiative which will definitely provide a opportunity to connect our countrymen even in those areas, where Hindi language is not prevalent. Many thanks to all of you\nLast month we all celebrated Diwali Like always, I celebrate this festival with our Jawans: PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 27, 2016\nIn the unique sense that the country dedicated the soldiers of Diwali to the security forces, its effect was expressed on the faces of every jawan: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 27, 2016\nA soldier's army wrote to me - we are on Holi, Diwali, every festival on the outskirts of the soldiers, every time they are immersed in the defense of the country: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 27, 2016\nकुछ समय पहले मुझे जम्मू-कश्मीर से, वहाँ के गाँव के सारे प्रधान मिलने आये थे : PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat https://t.co/Iy8hu3Nre5\n— PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 27, 2016\nकाफ़ी देर तक उनसे मुझे बातें करने का अवसर मिला | वे अपने गाँव के विकास की कुछ बातें लेकर के आए थे : PM @narendramodi\n— PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 27, 2016\nमैंने उनसे आग्रह किया था कि आप जाकर के इन बच्चों के भविष्य पर अपना ध्यान केन्द्रित करें : PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat\n— PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 27, 2016\nजम्मू-कश्मीर के हमारे बच्चे उज्ज्वल भविष्य के लिये, शिक्षा के माध्यम से - विकास की नई ऊँचाइयों को पाने के लिये कृतसंकल्प हैं : PM\n— PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 27, 2016\nइस बार जब मैंने ‘मन की बात’ के लिये लोगों के सुझाव मांगे, तो मैं कह सकता हूँ कि एकतरफ़ा ही सबके सुझाव आए : PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat\n— PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 27, 2016\nसब कहते थे कि 500/- और 1000/- वाले नोटों पर और विस्तार से बातें करें : PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat\n— PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 27, 2016\nजिस समय ये निर्णय किया था, आपके सामने प्रस्तुत रखा था, तब भी मैंने सबके सामने कहा था कि निर्णय सामान्य नहीं है, कठिनाइयों से भरा हुआ है: PM\n— PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 27, 2016\n70 साल से जिस बीमारियों को हम झेल रहे हैं उस बीमारियों से मुक्ति का अभियान सरल नहीं हो सकता है : PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat\n— PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 27, 2016\n#PMonAIR : आपकी कठिनाइयों को मैं समझता हूँ, भ्रमित करने के प्रयास चल रहे हैं फिर भी देशहित की इस बात को आपने स्वीकार किया है #DeMonetisation\n— All India Radio News (@airnewsalerts) November 27, 2016\nGovernments, post offices, banks...they are all working very hard and are working with dedication: PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat\n— PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 27, 2016\nइतनी कठिनाइयों के बीच बैंक के, पोस्ट ऑफिस के सभी लोग काम कर रहे हैं : PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat\n— PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 27, 2016\n| शक्ति की पहचान तो तब होती है, जब कसौटी से पार उतरते हैं : PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat\n— PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 27, 2016\n#PMonAIR लेकिन बुराइयाँ इतनी फैली हुई हैं कि आज भी कुछ लोगों की बुराइयों की आदत जाती नहीं है | #MannKiBaat #DeMonetisation pic.twitter.com/BpxMhsJzaw\n— All India Radio News (@airnewsalerts) November 27, 2016\nइतना आनंद होता है, इतना गर्व होता है कि मेरे देश में सामान्य मानव का क्या अद्भुत सामर्थ्य है : PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat\n— PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 27, 2016\nAudio calls from MyGov users Ashish Pare from Madhya Pradesh and Yellappa Velankar from Karnataka mentioned by PM in #MannKiBaat ."