"\nNarendra Modi\nCenter will not stop at laying foundation stones but the completion of projects on time: PM\nOur government will do everything for the welfare of farmers: PM\nPakistan now knows well what the Indian Army is capable of: PM\nOur Govt is taking steps to ensure that the middle class is not exploited and the poor get their due: PM\nIt is my good fortune that I once again got the opportunity to come between you. Last month, Ludhiana came, when I said that due to lack of time, I can not go to Bhatinda but soon I will come to Bathinda and today I am fulfilling that promise.\nSocial infrastructure for the more ordinary citizens than the importance of the development of the country, become the airport, the rail runs, its importance; Whenever there is a school, a hospital, poor poor service, education from poor to poor, then society becomes powerful. And today by the Government of India and the Punjab Government, by joining the shoulder to the village; poor; FArmer; Far-off areas; To bring about change in their lives, where there was no electricity, electricity came; Where there is no water, water reaches; Hospital where there is no hospital; School where there is no school; It is stressing on that work. And accordingly, AIIMS is going to be constructed at a cost of nearly Rs. 1000 crores, more than Rs. 100 crores in Bhatinda today. This AIIMS will only remove sick diseases, not the education of Paramedical, the education of nursing, the education of the doctors, in the lives of the young people, the whole of their future; And not the generation of one generation, the strength of changing the future of future generations also remains in the plan of this AIIMS.\nHow big would be this area, my former speakers have discussed it in detail. And as Badal Saheb used to say, the discussion of the inauguration is the nature of this government. We also inaugurate the work that we do in our own tenure; Otherwise, the first governments used to go to every lane to come and stand in stone after coming to the polls. He used to explain to people that he would be; And later forgot. When we make plans, then ask the brother what date will be fulfilled; And then there is speed in the country. And these days I have seen, the Government of India, which takes the project, decides what date it is, and then the competition creates the competition. Some people complete it prematurely and I also award them to such people so that they become habituated to work early in the country.\nBrothers, Sisters Pakistan is not far from here. Those who live on the border, remain oppressed from across the border. Army soldiers should be stabbed in the chest, arms in their hands; Despite this, they can not show their strength; They have to bear. Look at the strength of our soldiers, sisters, our army, 250 kilometers long, when brave soldiers of our army did the Surgical Strike, there was a big hike across the border, their case is still not known. But I am standing in the neighborhood of Pakistan, then standing on the border, then again, I want to talk once again with the voice of Pakistan. I want to say to the people of Pakistan that this is Hindustan, there are hundreds of millions of people here. When children are killed in Peshawar, the tears in the eyes of 100 million Hindus are dripping. Your pain every Hindustani also feels your pain. Let the Pakistan come to terms with their demands; If you have to fight then fight against corruption, fight against black money, fight against, fight against counterfeit notes; Hey, fight against poverty. They are also destroying themselves fighting with India and going to become guilty of death of innocents, and therefore the Awam of Pakistan also wants to get rid of poverty. There is no reason, the atmosphere of this tension is maintained to straighten up your political owl. And now Pakistan has seen how much breath is in the Indian army, how much is the strength of our troops, now it has been introduced.\nBrothers, sisters Indus Water Treaty, Satluj, Vyas, Ravi, water of these three rivers, in which the water of the right of Hindustan is in it, it is the water of my farmers' brothers. That water does not come to your farm, through Pakistan it flows into the ocean. No Pakistan uses it, nor does the farmer of Hindustan come to power. I am moving forward with a great commitment. I have created a task force, which is the Indus Water Treaty, which has the water of India's right; Now which is flowing in Pakistan, now I am determined to bring that water to the farmers of Punjab, Jammu and Kashmir, Hindustan farmers, by stopping the drop of water.\nBrothers, sisters, there is no reason, we should not even use our rights. And my farmer continued without water. You should bless me by taking the intention of filling your fields with brothers, sisters, your fields, I am walking. There are solutions to water problem. Can get out of the way by mixing. Water in Pakistan and the governments in Delhi came, went away, slept, and my farmer cried.\nIf the farmers of Bhaiyo, Sisters and Punjab get water, then by making the gold from the soil fills the country's vault, the country is full of stomachs. Concerning the farmers, to give them the right, the government sitting in Delhi is also a government run by the shoulder side with Badal Saheb.\nBrothers, sisters, I want to do a thing with the farmers today. Someone will say that Modi does not come to politics, elections are front and gives such advice to the farmers. My farmers brothers, sisters, I have nothing to do with the mathematics of the election. I am good for my farmer, this is my account book. Tell me, my farmers brothers, sisters, before today, when we did not have complete knowledge, we used to burn whatever we used to do after harvesting the fields. Then we did not have much knowledge, we thought that due to this the farm is being wasted, burn it. Never used to hurry so burn it. But now science has proved that whatever is the crop in which the waste is released after harvesting it, say Parari, say anything, that land which is Mother Mother is the best dose of its best . If you rotate the machine once, rotate the tractor, rub it on the ground, then the soil of your own farm has a good dose of Mother Earth.\nMy farmer brothers, sisters, like earth moles are thirsty for water, even if the mother of the land is hungry, she needs food too. If you put it in your stomach again, then this earth blesses you, ten times its blessing and your farm will grow-brothers, sisters. And so do not burn it, it's your property. Do not burn property of billions of trillion rupees. And I am not the only person to talk about the name of the environment, I am talking about the right kind of farmer. And so Punjab should be Haryana, West Uttar Pradesh, North Rajasthan, we do not burn this incident. And now science is moving forward, the possibility of becoming an Ethanol in this wastage is clear. The Government of India is working on it with great speed. In the coming days, our farmers will get the benefit of it, and when the benefits are available then money will also come from the neighbors. And so, my brothers, sisters, today, resolve that we will not burn the food which is our right to this earth mother, that will bury her in the same land, she will become fertilizer; Mother's belly will also fill; There will also be good crop; Which country will also fill the stomach and hence I have come to urge you today.\nBrothers, sisters, you know corruption, black money, has looted the middle class of this country, has exploited it, and corruption, black money has deprived the poor of its rights. I want to stop the exploitation of the middle class, what is happening to them; They have to stop the loot, and I have the right to the poor who have the right. Do anything, children have to move to school even if the schoolman says, Cheque will take so much in cash; Buy the land, take the cash from Cash so much will take from Cheque, go to the hospital doctor, Cash so much two, Cheque so two. This black business is going to account like a termite to the country. And so brothers, sisters, 500 and 1000 rupees have been banned, the new note is going to come gradually and the problem of the people of the country has been difficult; Brothers and sisters, my words fall short due to the gratitude of millions of people. You have been standing with this good work even after suffering; Standing with honesty's work\nBrothers, sisters are also the path to difficulties and for that path I have come to seek your help. You, the mobile phone you have, is not just Mobile Phone. You can make your mobile phone your own bank, you can make your mobile phone, even if you do not have a cash bank note of Rs. Even today, science is like this; Technology is such; If your money is deposited in the bank, you can buy it from the mobile phone from the market, you can pay by mobile phone, you can do your full business even without touching the hand.\nThere are four times the number of families in our country, in the hands of people. Mobile Phone is Today, Mobile Banking runs, in future even if the corrupt people do not have to give up again, black money is not to be raised, I urge the countrymen to make a bank branch in your mobile phone only. There are apps for banks on mobile phones, download them. I will say to the Nojavans, I will tell the Universities, tell the politicians that train the citizens in their area, educate the traders. If every app comes in the mobile then I will go to the shop I will tell that I have this app, I want the goods worth 200 rupees, you number one in the mobile phone, 200 rupees will go to him in a second, and he will see Yes my 200 rupees came, your work got done.\nBrothers, sisters, now that time went away, that the notes in the pocket should be filled up, there was no fear of thieves and robbers. Brothers, forged notes, fake notes, this has ruined the youth of our country. To save the youth of my country, to destroy fake notes, this time is demanding. And so, my dear brothers and sisters, I urge you, I have come to urge you to join the shoulder in the campaign that you have given the full support to make this country great; Help everyone; And take our Punjab forward\nIt is a privilege of Punjab that such a great leader like Badal Saheb is on the land of Punjab. These countries are proud of the fact that when the youngest Chief Minister of India was discussed, it was said that India's youngest is a Chief Minister, then Prakash Singh Badal. And today, who is the Chief Minister of India, who is the Chief Minister, then he is also Prakash Singh Badal. For a long period of time people believe in a person's personality, this is the path of great penance that we all experience.\nCome, brothers, sisters, brothers and sisters of Punjab, this Delhi is with you for the bright future of Punjab; Heart is with you; Meet together, make new Punjab; To make powerful Punjab; To change the lives of young people here is to make Punjab; And a new chapter is opening from AIIM which will be an important step towards healthy Punjab.\nI once again thank you very much for all, thanks to Mr. Badal."