"Share\n\nIt is because of 26th November that we celebrate 26th January as our Republic Day: PM Modi\nEvery person has right to spend his money and no one can stop doing in doing so: PM\nDue to demonetization, some people were facing the heat as soon as they were ready to get ready: PM\nThe common citizen of India has become a soldier against corruption and black money: PM\nRespected Sumitra and all the senior dignitaries present\nCelebrate 26 November as Constitution Day, 2015 The idea is that our new generation should be connected with this convention with its processes and its objectives. It does not happen that everything moves but how it does not know. And a constant recollection of such things is necessary. Those who remember the basic elements frequently and in the context of that time.\nThe meaning of the subject which can happen 40 years ago, the meaning of that same thing will appear in a different form after ten years is a progressive format, but it happens when we will tighten everything with these basic things, weighing down Will stay All children of our school colleges are preamble of the constitution at least once in a year, their reading, annihilation, interpretation will be beneficial, that the greatness of the constitution will become a place in the normal life. Such incidents in the life of very few countries probably decrease in which the constitution is mentioned repeatedly, but India is a country such that whenever we remember the Constitution, we will remember the virtue of Dr. Baba Saheb Ambedkar That is, Baba Saheb and the Constitution. The Constitution ie Baba Saheb, Baba Saheb i.e. Constitution. The accomplishment of such a life is impossible in any person's life which Baba Saheb did not say we are experiencing today in the life of Baba Saheb Ambedkar. Someone may have not even recognized it in their era, but as time passed, all of us feel that what great work we are doing for people.\nConstitution, time has changed so that everybody in the constitution keeps on looking for their rights, and even tries to fill more of their rights. Big clever people sometimes limit the boundaries to the extent of using the constitution as the basis for misusing the authority. This creates an anarchy and used to talk about Baba Saheb Ambedkar's grammar of anarchy. It is the responsibility of all of us, be the citizen, the governing system, the government, the different parts of the governance system. Our constitution is the biggest source of synergy between each one. There is also the power to do lubrication, there is power in the constitution, then it is in the constitution and so it is very important to join us with the soul of this constitution, not just talking with the streams does not interfere. Spirit of the constitution And so the book that has come out of its process today may perhaps be useful to open that one page for spirit of the constitution, so I welcome it too.\nIt is true that the country was liberated after the excellent expression of duty. Every citizen of the country regards the freedom movement as his duty. By the time the country was free, the duty of duty had reached such heights which was unmatched and the people had won it for more than a century. But immediately after independence, we came down to that height that all the values ​​of duty were converted into rights and the author, Haq, mine, did it in our life that it is going to disappear from duty.\nHow to balance the duty and authority through the Constitution, there is a challenge before the country. And in that direction paths are being searched through such efforts. We celebrate with great pride on 26th January, but do not forget that 26th January is incomplete without 26th November. The strength of January 26 is in 26th November and therefore, as the constitution day 26 November, specially remembered for its new generation, efforts should be made to do different things at different places.\nThere should be a competition for children on the online competition for essay writing competition. These things are finally connecting people with it. These days corruption, black money is a big fight against the country, the country is fighting the common citizen of this country has become a soldier of this battle. He feels that for seventy years, those who misuse the rules of the laws have drowned the country in corruption. The Constitution is done by misusing the law. There is very little criticism about this decision of this government, but what is the criticism of some people, the fact is that the government did not make all the preparations.\nI think the issue is not that the government is not ready for the whole thing. The pain of such people is that the government did not give time to prepare someone. The misery is about this if they got ready for a 72 hour work, then no one like Wah-wah Modi has taken any big step, and so even then there is such a big country. The decision is very big, see the country's bright future. It is so much expected that let us all together overcome the difficulties of the normal human. Having succeeded in this greatness, we should promote India as a powerful nation, the whole country, the whole world, when the survey happens, India's name appears in the very front row of corruption, India has to look down . We have to proudly raise the crown and therefore have to take decisions and follow the decisions and also have to get the achievements and I invite all the political parties to the social institutions, media to the second digital currency, everyone has the right to his money Everyone has the right to use his money, but it does not necessarily mean that every time the note is in hand, then the arrangements should be made today. Electricity is available | Where you can spend all your bucks from your mobile phone, you have your right over your pie-pie. Through this medium, when the constitution is being discussed, the constitution is vigilant to these arrangements.\nI urge the media from all the people, who lead the society and especially the society, whose country has fifty-five percent youth, be a young man under 35, in which the country has more than 100 million mobile phones, now in the country Technology is also available for business from mobile phones, if all the banks have their own app, then why not motivate people, train people and this is no problem Neither is it work when we went to learn where to wear the utopian college, even after going to an engineering college and visiting the IT college, the illiterate person knows that how to see whatsupust is going to be how to turn whotsup, as easily as the whitesupup is forwarded. We can easily shop from our mobile phone. For the bright future of the country, we need to bring Transparency, we need to go towards Digital Currency and 500 cities of India, 500 cities if possible in a week, can do this work. You have to wonder, who raised the biggest advantage of the outcome of this decision of November 8, I took account today. Some municipal corporations, fewer municipal councils, municipal corporations. I was told about 40-50. The first three three and a half million rupees came after the 8th November 13 thousand crores were deposited in their treasury. Whose money will come in this village, there will be some places in the poor settlement in the village, somewhere the electricity will be found, water will be taped, a society is working towards revolution in life. And so on the politics too, the society which has a lot of work to do, the constitution gives us the thought. The Constitution gives us responsibility to handle our heritage. It is our responsibility to handle our great heritage in it.\nCome, let us all learn together the words of Baba Saheb Ambedkar together with his words and expressions in a generous context in generations, we learn to live, teach Jai, and give the country new strength, new energy every moment.\nI congratulate Sumitra ji for this time. This time there was no Parliament on 26th, even though he had done such a big project to maintain the Mahatma of this Constitution Day. His initiative was also taken in the state, taken initiative in the school college and gradually it will also become an important opportunity. It is believed that we got an opportunity to come to this time, due to the difficulty of my time, I apologize for the early coming.\nThanks a lot"