"Share\n\nNDA Government has initiated many steps for the welfare of people: PM Modi\nYears after Independence We are working to change that: PM\nDecision on currency notes\n500 \u0026 1000 rupee notes ceasing to be legal tender has adversely affected those fake currency rackets and narcotics: PM\nLong live Mother India\nLong live Mother India\nSits on the stage of our company and in charge of Uttar Pradesh, Shri Om G Mathur, my partner Mr. Narendra Singh Tomar, sir dr. Mahesh Sharma, the Council of Ministers of Uttar Pradesh BJP youth president, Mr. Keshav Prasad Maurya, center, nun Niranjan Jyoti ji, Mr. Ramkrupal ji Yadav, Mr. Rajyavardhan ji Rathod, Dr. Anil Jain, Mr. Swatantra Deo Singh, Mr. Ashok Kataria, Mesh Bidhuri, BL Verma, here MP-brother Ram Shankar Katheria law, Mr. SPC Baghel G, Chaudhry arrived in Lal Ji, Mr. Rajesh Diwakar Yes, sir Hrtwar G Dube and a large number of my dear brothers and sisters ...\nI was told that you had started coming from 10 a.m. You have been waiting for hours, you have taken so much trouble to come and bless me ... so I salute you all, thank you.\nBrothers and sisters ... this morning due to a rail accident near Kanpur, many people died, many were injured, brothers and sisters of relief ... every work of defense is underway. There will be complete investigation of this accident from the Central Government, but those who are injured, who have died, have died. The financial support of the families of all those people, the worry of the injured people ... the full power of the railway is engaged, but the accident that has happened, I express my condolences towards all those families who have lost their lives. I express my gratitude towards the dead. And brothers and sisters, today I have come here with you by introducing a huge program of Government of India here in the neighborhood itself. There were two major programs, one was Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Rural), when our country celebrates 75 years of independence in 2022, the poor from India should have their own home with the poor, I am working with this resolution. And so today in Agra, under the leadership of our Narendra Singh Ji Tomar, I had the privilege of making the foundation of the Prime Minister's Rural Housing Scheme under the leadership of his comrade Shri Ramkrupal ji. 267 square feet home and for the first time we have ... a habit of the people of that area, the type of house that they have built, they have taken a pioneer in making such a house by making such flexible arrangements. According to the habit of the people of more than 100 different states, its models have been prepared and the house is not even just four walls, the house also stands a box, closed the box and the family closed in the box. Not so, the true meaning In today's work of building the house, under the Prime Minister's Rural Housing Scheme, I am starting the scheme for the whole country today with the land of Agra in Uttar Pradesh.\nThere are millions of homes to build. To build this house, artisans will also take place, majestic will be. The unemployed people will meet the country, but when the work is done, the masons will not be available and therefore the government has launched a major campaign to train young people to make masons in the corner of the entire India for the last few months. So that the village-village locals should be ready, millions of crores should be built and the young man also gets employment due to that house. Along with this, the money of MNREGA was not known beforehand, whose work comes, and who does not come. We said that if the people of the family will work hard to work for their own house, then they will be given money as MNREGA so that they can build their own house and make their house better, and will build their own house also earn money. .. such a plan is planned. We have decided to make the house even that which has electricity, cooking system. Not only this ... Ujjawala, under the Prime Minister Ujjwala plan, that poor also get the connection of gas, so that they can cook the food on the gas stove. Brothers and sisters, a complete plan ... for the poor of Hindustan ... for the poor of the village and just a few days ago I launched the prime minister house scheme for the urban people, today I am launching rural housing. I mean, it means that there should be urban area, rural area is the first benefit that does not have its own house, it is going to meet my poor people. And to complete 75 years of independence, this work has to be done. Today I do not exist railway official, the minister was not present because they had reached Kanpur railway but also plans Bhuteshwar from almost Palwal, Mathura Mathura plans 1100 cr ... fourth line ... in a way Here is an economic momentum program .... I have also laid the foundation stone for it ... due to which the stops in the train here, due to the fourth line ... the speed will increase. Rails will play a very big role in bringing about change in the life here, and also started that work. Brothers and sisters, this government is dedicated to the poor. We did the work of the Prime Minister Jan-Dhan account so that the poor should have a bank account, we implemented the Aadhaar scheme so that the poor should get their entitlement, no middleman should be sacked from the hands of the poor. Brothers and sisters, we made the Prime Minister Ujjwala plan so that when my poor mother burns a wooden stove and cooks it in one day then the smoke of 400 cigarette goes to her body. What will be the condition of the poor mother's health? And so, my dear brothers and sisters, under the Prime Minister Ujjwala scheme, poor mothers get a gas stove, get a gas connection and cook on the gas stove in the big rich house on gas, now in the poor house of my country It will also eat on the gas stove. The mother will not have to die in smoke, children will not cry in the smoke. Wood will not wander poor villages, forests and woods to find, and quit the business working for cooking will not spend two hours Kitchen, will change the poor life, the work I started. Brothers and Sisters In this country, 18000 villages have become 70 years of independence, 18,000 villages have lived in the 18th century even after 70 years of independence; no electricity was ever seen in that village. Brothers and sisters I started, I have to complete the work of electricity in 1000 days; most of the villages were lying in the darkness ... more than 95% of the work done by the brothers and the rest of the work is going on fast is.\nWe are moving forward in the prescribed time, giving priority to the work of the poor in the prescribed form. Brothers and Sisters Today, when I came to the land of Agra, I want to bow to the people of the country's poor, the people of the country, the educated people of the country, bowing down the heads of honest people of the country through all of them. I am brothers and sisters To liberate the country from corruption, to liberate the country from Black Bazaar, to liberate the country from black money ... The blessings that I have taken are given by the poor and middle class people. I salute them and I assure you that your dreams will come true. Brothers and sisters have told me 50 days ago I had said on the first day that this work is very big, it is time consuming work, it will have to work, it is a work like this, there will be some discomfort, I also said that, but I am surprised my countrymen will suffer from the pain Even after ... are trying hard to succeed in this work. To free the country from this black money, to free the country from corruption, the pain you are suffering from, my poor brother who is suffering, my middle class brothers who are suffering, my Dalit brothers Troubles are rising, my tribals are suffering, my farmers are raising the tribulation, my mothers are flowing, they are suffering. I assure you that your tenacity will never be useless. The country will come out of the darkness like a gold, and the country will come out of the darkness like a gold ... It is my complete faith. And the brothers and sisters, I had said at 8 o'clock at 8 o'clock that I would evaluate the whole state for every two to three days and if I need to increase the discount, I will increase it and if I want to improve the system then I will do it. We are not the kind people of such a streak.\nAnd from where I came to the public from the earliest days, there was some resilience, but we have been resilient. Have worked for the betterment of the poor but you know the brothers and sisters at one time, the city which used to get eye water to collect 5 million billions of electricity. After the 8th, Modi took a note of 500 and 1000 notes, where the bill of 5 crore was coming, the municipality started coming to the bill of 15 crores. Who did not pay these bills, who did not follow the rules, did the middle class not ?, did not the poor? Those who have more access to leaders who can reach the side of the Babus, they can enjoy the same. Today, all of them have to pay pi-pie after 8th day. Brothers and sisters are now on date 18 today. The brothers started the work on the 8th, the bank started work on 10th day, today is 20th day. My brother and sister have deposited more than Rs 5 lakh crore in bank deposits, 5 lakh crore Brothers and sisters, do you tell me a middle class person has black money? The poor have black money? Do people earning jobs have black money? But if he has to leave the child in school then the schoolman says, Rs 2000 crores will be given, 5000 rupees will be given to the child, then the child will be admitted to the school, any poor person also has to give his white money even black. He has to compulsorily raise his honest money from the bank and give it in cash. Brothers and sisters, I have taken steps, these poor, middle class parents who want to give good education to the children can not be given due to the robbers because of the absence of money. Now that sickness is going to go, my brothers and sisters The disease is going to go. Brothers and sisters want to buy a house person to a middle class, the house wants to make money, are housed in are banks and insurance agents, the legal work, money honestly, but when speaking with then buying houses houses 3 He will have to pay a crores of rupees and he will have to pay so much check that he does not have any cash ... he says do anything and bring it. He has to sell the poor to white in black, his money goes away and he has to pay it black. The entire colony was wasted by some people and the poor of my country looted the middle class of my country. You have been inconvenienced due to closing the 500 and 1000 notes, I did not deny it on the first day. But for some people the whole life is destroyed, so they have punished those people. Because they have looted the poor, the middle class is looted, they have run their own business of robbing their rights. That is why I have waged this fight between brothers and sisters, and I know how-how people are raising their voices against me.\nDoes the country do not know whose money was invested in the chit fund's business? Millions, millions of poor people had deposited money in chit-fund and have the blessing of politicians billions, missing money multi-crore chit fund and a chit-fund went hundreds have led to the suicide of the chiefs of the family die Take a look at history and see what they are asking me today. The common man of brother and sister country hardens, wants to live honestly, but some unscrupulous people do not want to let him live. Whether it is the responsibility of the government to protect him and that is why the brothers and sisters earn by doing the hard work of the middle class, but his black businessmen exploit, exploit them ... by my step, the middle class humanity There is security. And the poor who have the right, but they do not get the right, they need pure water to drink, they want education to read the children, they are sick for the elderly, then cheap medicine should be taken, the poor should have his right, In the meantime, due to the robbers, the poor are not able to get their right. The exploitation of the middle class will be stopped, the poor will get the right, the money will be deposited. 5 lakh crore rupees have come in these banks, it will come forward, what will the bank do, will it ... what will be kept in the box ...? They will have to give in the market ... people have to buy something, then they will have to pay a lone, if you want to shop for a hairdresser, you will have to pay a loan, if you want to shop for a dhobi, then you will have to pay a loan, If you want to shop for a pot, you will have to pay a loan and in order to get so many money, they will have to reduce interest too. Brothers At a very low interest rate, the rupee is going to get poor and middle class. Brothers and sisters in our country, on one hand, terrorism takes the soldiers of our army to death, on the one hand economic terrorism on the other hand leads youths into drugs and the country towards economic catastrophe. Imprint of fake notes, imprinted in India, you must have seen that the business of drugs runs in the cash, the business of intoxicants goes into cash, there is no account of it. There are money in the bag, going around and going around .... The entire business of the forged note bigger due to the closure of the brothers and sisters 500,1000 ... the big shock is the brothers. The crores of crores ... forged millions of notes in this country have been intruded and the country has been ruined. ड्रग और इन पैसों से शस्त्र लाकर के आतंकवादियों को पहुंचाएं गए और आतंकवादियों ने मेरे देश के नौजवानों को  गोलीयों से भून दिया है। भाईयो क्या ऐसा पाप चलने देना चाहिए क्या? क्या मेरे देश के सेना के जवानों को मरने देना चाहिए क्या? कब तक चुप रहेगा देश, 70 साल तक चुप रहे भाईयो, 70 साल चुप तो रहे और चुप इसलिए रहे इसलिए नहीं की उनको पता नहीं था, इसलिए नहीं की उनको बीमारी का मालूम नहीं था, लेकिन उनको देश की चिंता कम थी और कुर्सी की चिंता ज्यादा थी, इसलिए कदम उठाने को तैयार नहीं थे। भाईयों-बहनों मैं जानता हूं कि कुछ लोगों का तो सब कुछ लूट गया है। आपको एमएलए बनना है.. इतनी नोटें लाओ, इतनी नोटें लाओ... तब एमएलए बनोगे। नोटें भर-भर के रखी थी क्या हुआ उन नोटों का....? ये नोटें किसकी थी गरीब और ईमानदार आदमी की थी कि नहीं भाईयों...? ये खेल बंद होना चाहिए। देश में और इसलिए मेरे भाईयो  और बहनों हमने जो कोशिश की है देश के मध्यम वर्ग को उसका हक मिले, देश के गरीबों की आशाएं पूरी हो, मध्यम वर्ग का शोषण बंद हो ये काले जो अर्थनीति चली है, जिसने देश को अंदर से खोखला किए हुए है भाईयों-बहनों मैंने कोई निर्णय किसी को परेशान करने के लिए नहीं किया है, मैंने निर्णय देश की भावी पीढ़ी का भला करने के लिए किया है, नौजवानों का भाग्य बदलने के लिए किया है।\nप्यारे मेरे देशवासियों पहले दिन से मैंने आपसे 50 दिन मांगे है कि नहीं मांगे है आप बताईए मांगे है कि नहीं मांगे है... 50 दिन थोड़ी तकलीफ रहेगी मैंने कहा है कि नहीं कहा है, इतना बड़ा देश, इतना बड़ा निर्णय थोड़ा कष्ट झेलना पड़ेगा मैंने कहा था कि नहीं कहा था...? भाईयों-बहनों आज मैं आपसे आग्रह करने आया हूं, मेहरबानी करके ये बदमाशी करने वाले जो लोग होते हैं बड़े चतुर होते हैं, जो गरीबों के जन-धन अकाउंट खुले हैं न... वहां पहुंच जाते हैं और समझाते हैं देखो तुम्हारे खाते में ढाई लाख डाल दो 6 महीने के बाद मैं उसमे से तुम्हें 50 हजार दे दूंगा, दो लाख मैं ले जाउंगा... भाईयों-बहनों ऐसे पापियों को घुसने मत देना क्योंकि कानून इतना सख्त है पैसा देने वालों का तो जो होगा, सो होगा वो तो कह देगा कि मैंने तो दिए ही नहीं थे, ये तो मेरे पैसे है ही नहीं, खाते में जिसके होगा वो बोलेगा और बेकार में मेरा गरीब भाई-बहन परेशान हो जाएगा। मैं नहीं चाहता हूं कि मेरा कोई गरीब भाई-बहन परेशान हो। ये लोग देने वाले पकड़े जाएंगे तो झूठ बोलेंगे कि मैंने तो दिया ही नहीं... ये हाथ ऊपर कर देंगे कि मैंने तो दिया ही नहीं और आप मुसीबत पड़ जाएगी... आपके सर पर भाईयों-बहनों किसी का भी रुपया 500 और 1000 का नोट कोई पकड़ा देता है, मेहरबानी करके मेरे भाईयों-बहनों उससे जितना दूर रह सको.. रहो। वरना आप में डाल दिया तो आपको फंसा कर भाग जाएगा और मेरा गरीब आदमी मर जाएगा। भाईयों-बहनों ये गरीबों को बचाने के लिए मेरी योजना है, ये मध्यम वर्ग के लोगों को बचाने के लिए मेरी योजना है, ये मेरे आदिवासी भाई-बहनों को बचाने की मेरी योजना है, उनका भला करने के लिए मेरी योजना है, मेरे किसानों का भला करने के लिए योजना है, और मेरी एक-एक योजना इन लोगों को तकलीफ दे रही है और इसलिए मौके के इंतजार में रहते हैं कि मोदी का क्या होता है? आपको मालूम है मेरे किसान भाईयों-बहनों जब खेत में यूरिया की जरुरत होती थी तो यूरिया के लिए इस देश में दो-दो, तीन-तीन दिन मेरा किसान कतार में खड़ा रहता था। ठंड में भी वो फुटपाथ पर सोकर करके यूरिया लेने के लिए कतार में खड़ा रहता था।\nरहता था कि नहीं रहता था भाईयों...? और जब यूरिया वाला यूरिया नहीं देता था हो-हल्ला होता था तो ये पुलिस आकर के किसानों को डंडा मारती थी कि नहीं मारती थी? हमारा किसान लहू-लुहान होता था कि नहीं होता था...? भाईयों-बहनों ये इसलिए होता था कि काला बाजारी करने वाले लोग यूरिया की चोरी करते थे। आता था किसान के नाम से सब्सिडी वाला यूरिया और वो ट्रक से उतरता ही नहीं था, कैमिकल के कारखाने में चला जाता था क्योंकि कैमिकल कारखाने वाले को वो सस्ते में मिल जाता था, और मेरा किसान यूरिया के बिना परेशान रहता था। मैंने आकर के एक काम कर दिया, मैंने यूरिया का नीमकोटिंग कर दिया और यूरिया और यूरिया का नीमकोटिंग किया वो भी शत प्रतिशत किया, हंडरेड परसेंट किया और जब तक कोई काम हंडरेड परसेंट नहीं करते हैं न... सफलता नहीं मिलती है भाईयों-बहनों। 500 और 1000 का भी हंडरेड परसेंट करना पड़ा मुझे..। यूरिया का नीमकोटिंग किया, नीमकोटिंग करने के कारण अब यूरिया किसी भी कैमिकल के काम नहीं आता है, वो सिर्फ और सिर्फ किसान के खेत में ही काम आ सकता है, उसका कोई उपयोग नहीं हो सकता और उसके कारण यूरिया की काला बाजारी गई, यूरिया का गोरखधंधा गया, किसानों की कतार गई, किसानों पर लाठी चार्ज गया औऱ मेरे किसान के खेत को नीमकोटेड यूरिया मिलने के कारण उसके खेत में भी फायदा हुआ क्योंकि नीमकोटिंग यूरिया से जमीन को ज्यादा लाभ होता है वो भी हुआ, फसल को भी लाभ हुआ। भाईयों-बहनों अच्छा करने के लिए अब मुझे बताईए... जो व्यापारी, जो कैमिकल के कारखाने वाले... जिनको सस्ते में यूरिया मिलता था... मोदी ने दरवाजे बंद कर दिए वो मोदी से नाराज होगा कि नहीं होगा...? वो मोदी से हिसाब चुकता करने का रास्ता खोजेगा की नहीं खोजेगा, मोदी परेशान होगा तो उसको आनंद होगा कि नहीं होगा...? अब ऐसे तो कितने लोग हैं। चंडीगढ़ में... चंडीगढ़ ऐसा शहर है,  जिसमें सब घरों में बिजली है, सब घरों में गैस का कनेक्शन है, वहां केरोसिन की कोई जरुरत नहीं है फिर भी 30 लाख लीटर केरोसिन चंडीगढ़ को जाता था।\nमैंने पूछा कि भाई चंडीगढ़ में तो केरोसिन की जरुरत ही नहीं है, कुछ झुग्गी-झोपड़ी के घर हैं, उनको चाहिए तो कितना चाहिए? 500, 1000 लीटर चाहिए, 50,000 लीटर चाहिए, ये 30 लाख लीटर... तो पता चला कि पिछले दरवाजे से डीजल में मिक्स करने के लिए काले काम करने वालों को चला जाता है। हमने एक-एक घर की जांच की, हमने एक-एक घर की जांच की... जहां गैस नहीं था, जहां बिजली नहीं थी, ऐसे घर को गैस कनेक्शन दिया और ये 30 लाख लीटर केरोसिन जो चंडीगढ़ में चाऊ हो जाता था, वो बंद हो गया, और किसी का नुकसान तो हुआ होगा। इतने दिन जो मलाई खाते थे, उनको तकलीफ तो हुई होगी..., हुई होगी की नहीं हुई होगी,,, तो क्या वो मोदी को फूल चढ़ाएगा क्या?  क्या मोदी का जयजयकार करेगा क्या? गाली देगा कि नहीं देगा ,   मोदी का बुरा चाहेगा कि नहीं चाहेगा, ऐसी सरकारें इन लोगों को चाहिए जो उनके इशारे पर नाचने वाली हो, उनके पैसे लेकर सोने वाली हो, भाईयों-बहनों ये बिकाऊ माल आपने नहीं भेजा है, उत्तर प्रदेश ने बिकाऊ माल नहीं भेजा है। ये उत्तर प्रदेश के लोगों की शान है कि उन्होंने बिकाऊ माल बाजार में नहीं रखा है। दम के साथ गरीब के लिए जीने मरने वाला इंसान  आज दिल्ली में आपने सेवा करने के लिए बिठाया है और इसलिए मेरे प्यारे भाईयों और बहनों ये लड़ाई लंबी है .. ये लड़ाई लंबी है लेकिन गरीबों के लिए लड़ने का आनंद कुछ और होता है। मैं गरीबों के लिए लड़ूंगा, मैं मध्यम वर्ग के लिए लड़ूंगा, मैं आपके हक के लिए लड़ूंगा, ये लुटेरों से आपको बचाने के लिए लड़ूंगा, मुझे आपके आशीर्वाद चाहिए, मुझे आपके आशीर्वाद चाहिए, दोनों हाथों को ऊपर करके आशीर्वाद दीजिए भाईयों...  दोनों हाथों को ऊपर करके आशीर्वाद दीजिए, भाईयों-बहनों ये 50 दिन तकलीफ है वो आप झेलेंगे, जोर से जवाब दीजिए ये 50 दिन की तकलीफ झेलेंगे, 50 दिन की तकलीफ झेलेंगे, ये बेईमानों की लड़ाई, बेईमानों के खिलाफ जीतेंगे, ये बेईमानों से देश बचाना चाहिए, ईमानदारों की रक्षा होनी चाहिए, आपका मुझे आशीर्वाद है...? आपका मुझे आशीर्वाद है...? आपका मुझे आशीर्वाद है....? भाईयों-बहनों आपके सपने सच होकर के रहेंगे, देश सोने की तरह तप करके बाहर निकलेगा, ये मेरा विश्वास है। मेरे साथ बोलिए भारत माता की.... जय, भारत माता की....जय, भारत माता की....जय\n"