"Narendra Modi to be the 'Gati' and 'Pragati'\nIn a technology driven century, innovation in railways is essential: PM\nThe focus of our government's rail budgets has never been ruled: PM Modi\nIndian Railway has to develop and be financially strong: PM\nThe century has changed and so should the systems in our Railways: PM Modi\nYou will be a lot of people, who may not sleep at night, there will be such a question in your mind that why the Prime Minister is saying this? The reason for this is that there is probably no railway line near this place of Surajkund. I will not be able to hear the track and most of you are those who do not sleep until the rail and rail tracks are heard. Sometimes comfort for people like you becomes un-comfort.\nIt is a unique effort, I have a long experience of experience that if we want to change anything, how many ideas are available from outside, get ideas, get suggestions, does not have the same effect and effect as one from within The voice raised. You are those people who have spent their lives in this life. Someone has seen 15 years someone has been in the age of 20 years, every 30 years; You know also when the momentum of speed has increased; Know what the opportunity is; What are the challenges, what is the hindrances, it is also well known and I had come to this idea in my mind that such a big rail is such a big power, have we ever sat together and thought that the whole world will change Gone, the whole world's railroad changed; What is the reason that we are tied in one border, how much will increase the stoppage or how much will the cans increase? Our world has gone around this.\nAll right, in the last century, all these things were necessary, this century is completely the technology of technology. I have had many experiments in the world, efforts have been made, innovations have taken place. India needs to understand that the rail, it is a huge system of speed and progress for India. If the country wants speed, it will also get by rail, if the country wants progress, it will also get from the rail. But this thing which is in the railway, unless it identifies itself with it, such a big change is not possible. The Gang-Man he would do his job well; The Station-Master, he would do his job well, who would be a Regional Manager, he would do a good job, but if all the three are doing good in pieces then the result is never going to come. And so it is necessary that we have a mind, we all together think of what we have to give to the country. Do we want to run such a rail, that our son who is Gang-Man, also grew up becoming Gang-Man? I want to change this. We have created such an environment that why should not one of our Gang-Man's son become an engineer and make a new contribution to the railway? Our partner, poor, poor, connected to rail, our person working on a small section, how to change his life? And it is necessary to make these changes, make railroad progress, train development, railways become financially prosperous. So, the benefit will be received by the country, at least, that of our 10, 12, 13 lakh people, at least of the railway family, those small sections of people should be given them at least. The way we are running today, I have been worrying about that, what will happen to millions of poor families? What will happen to small people who are working here? The benefit of the progress of the first railroad will be those lakhs of small sections of the railway family. If we work everyday in front of us, our everyday life passes with us, we will think of changing the way of life, change the mind will be our own. Everyone will get the benefit of the progress of the country.\nOccasionally there will be many big people, who have gone to the big seminar, have gone to the Global level conferences, they have heard many new things, but after coming, that idea remains is. It was a dream, it looks like. After coming and going back to our old system, we get depressed. With this collective thought, and people of every strata are here, living together; Three days living together This is very rare, maybe it will happen for the first time. There is a great power of group thinking. And sometimes a small experienced person gives such a light solution to the problem which can never come in the way of elder Babu. A big person does not get into meditation. Both types of people are sitting here, who have experience and who also have a global exposure. When these two people meet, then how big can they make?\nWe can imagine, as many as two and a half million people have an interface with you every day as per your system. Millions of tons of goods go from one place to another, but our speed, our time, our systems, until we change; Now we are going to become a beneficiary of what is happening in the whole world; We will not be able to become a contributor. What has emerged from this contemplation camp, there is no agenda. You also have to decide the solution, you also need to find solutions, the idea that emerges is the road-map itself, and any outside person will do it, the best you will be able to do. This is my complete confidence.\nAnd so, this collective thought gives a great potential. There is also a power of co-life, many of you will be those who will not even be known about the strengths of your partner. There is no fault in this. The composition of our work is such that we know very few, we know the work. Because of the co-life here, 12 15, 25 people working next to you, the extra-ordinary strength within them, in this light-weight environment you will realize it. How many capable human resources you have. You will notice due to being together, which is never known.\nWhen you open the discussion, you will get into meditation. Hey brothers, they used to sit at the ticket window first and never thought that they would think so, they would have so many ideas. Ever take one of us, we were thinking that we were serious, we were scared, we were afraid of them, no - otherwise they are of big human nature and they can be talked about. These walls will collapse. And the power of any organization is that when the walls of the Hierarchy collapse, the family atmosphere of belonging will become, seeing the changes begin to happen.\nSo this cum-life-cum-life is going to change in itself as a very big force. The composition that has been created here, too, comes from a great brainstorm. I was told that more than one lakh people have contributed in this whole idea. Someone has written papers, someone has discussed in small group, some facts have been taken out and then sent above, somebody has sent ideas from online, someone has worked using their SMS, but above the top One million people of the class, what is the railway status; What are the possibilities; What is power; What are the challenges; What are dreams; If you present it, then it is the people's work that you get rid of pearls from such a big churn.\nThe contribution of one million companions is not small, it is a big event. But if we failed to find pearls from it, and I heard that you are in this camp here in a large number. If you try hard to work harder, then good pearls will emerge from them. And these pearls which will come out, which will come out of the Amrit-Manthan will be used to take the railway to new heights.\nFirst, I thought in my mind that I should stay with you this evening, I would like to eat with everyone, anyway I am the person who has given me more time, I do not have much work left, I sit and listen, I listen Everyone But due to the continuation of the house, such a program could not be created. But the day after tomorrow I am coming, I am not threatening, I am coming to see you all. You are coming to see everyone, who is coming to you to chant the Amrit that is churning you. Because you are the rail, you are the future, you have the future, and I believe in you and so I am coming to you. I am coming to meet, I will meet people in an open environment. I will try to understand what will come out of this churning there. I will try to understand the difficulty. Defining policies will definitely have an effect on these things.\nYou saw that, and you must have fully meditated that I have no political agenda. The railway budget which was first came from the government, from then on you have seen, generally the aspect of rail budget used to be the factor where the MP got the train, where the MP got the stoppage, the new box for which MP got added, and the entire railway budget The thundery of applause was on this matter. And when I came and saw that so many announcements have happened, what happened is brother Around 1500 announcements came to my attention, that no work has been done except that only on the day of the budget, the applause. I could also do this work, I can also give pleasure by applause, Wah-waho Modiji gave such a good railway budget, that he got good. I have kept myself free from that political greed and instead of making such kind of public talk, I have the courage to streamline the system.\nI have dared to suffer political losses, because that is my first dream that my youngest companion in the train, standing somewhere on crossing, would have stood up and forth, would walk somewhere on the track in the morning By reading and writing to her children, the children who are now seeing in the Babu family, can they even reach that place? And this will be my dream when I make the railway stronger, I will strengthen the railway. And if the railway becomes strong, then the country itself will have to benefit. And so there is no temptation for me to take immediate advantage, there is absolutely no temptation to take political gains, only and only the century has changed; Rail should also be changed.\nTo the 21st century, we have to give new rail, new system, new speed, new strength, all this and people can give it together. If any one of us lives in a small house, then it does so, but there is some good situation, and suppose to go to the flat, then how to stay in a new way, who will be in the room, where will the guests come, Everyone starts thinking and gets started. Changes human beings Even before living in a room, he used to live, but he used to adjust his life. If you change the tone that we have to set ourselves in the 21st century, changed century, then we will also start the change and this is possible.\nSister-in-law, as much as you have been with the train, at least my relationship is old. My childhood has passed on the rail track. And I am in a way between you, I am the railway itself. And at that time I have seen the railway in every way in my childhood. There was nothing else seen in life, whatever saw the railway itself saw the train. And with him my childhood is so attached to me that I consider these things equally well. And when the opportunity comes to bring about the change in childhood attachment, then you can imagine how big the happiness will be. There will be a change in the train, the joy of it, the more you will be, I will not be less than that. Because I'm out of the same neighborhood. Even today when I go to Kashi in my parliamentary constituency, I go to stay in the system of the night to stay in the night. I feel like an affair like me, looks good, otherwise the Prime Minister can get even more arrangements. But I stop by going to the railway's guest house. I feel a lot like enough.\nSo I have so much love from you people. And so I expect you to let us use the most of this three days, with the intention of doing well. To do good, do the courage to take responsibility. What is the arrangement for connecting colleagues? What's New Our Human Resource Management? You see and meditate on all these things.\nTo run the country, to accelerate the country, there is no big organization, there is no larger organization than you have to progress to the country, there is no big system. On one side, all the arrangements of India and the arrangement of the railroad on one side - so big you are aware. Can not you do anything? And so I urge you to have full use of time, focus, do something, come out with this intention, and think about the coming less. Difficulties will be very much, there will be trouble, injustice should happen, posting should be done here, there must have been, promotion should not have happened here. There will be many such issues, there will be no shortage of complaints, but for the days to come, for the hundred and fifty million people, you have my greetings to the people of India in the changed world, give excellent results. Thank you very much, with this expectation."