"Share\n\nPress Council Things normalized after Morarji Desai becomes PM: Shri Modi\nPM is responsible for upholding free speech: PM Modi\nMedia has played pivotal role in furthering message of cleanliness across the country: PM\nI have congratulated all of the great dignitaries who have been honored today, have greeted them, and conveyed the best wishes to them. Press Council is completing 50 years, but it is also true that in the meantime there was a period in which the Press Council was abolished. Therefore, by adding this period, you may be able to celebrate 50 years of celebration once again after two years. By the way, in 1916, perhaps it worked in Sweden, but when it was named, it was the Court of honor for the press and later its name moved to the changing Press Council and perhaps in the world today, One is only familiar with. There is an independent system, and most of these systems, to maintain the freedom of this area, to maintain freedom of expression, and to face any problem, then by increasing itself, solving it itself, making changes in itself. In the same way in the old age, there were not many challenges as it is in this era.\nVery senior, who are people related to journalism, had the time to think about it, when he returned home by filing his report and even in the evening, he was still in the mind that I have filed a report file today, tomorrow will be split, Maybe these words will not be okay, then they would try to go home and try to contact the editor who is the head of the desk or contact the editor, now Bhai came by writing but maybe this word will not be okay, it seems that Will be good At that time, his telephone communication was not, he used to go back and go back to the night, and even after leaving the page. He had a pressure on his mind till even after writing one in his morning, he would have been worried, that if I came in the report or whatever I have been writing, I will come out tomorrow, then what effect will it have, my words will be fine Was not that? My headline I was trying to make, is it fair? And he also tried to improve it.\nThose who are today, they do not have these opportunities. He has to run at such a fast pace. There is also competition for news, competition for industry houses, so there is a big crisis in front of him, that Bhai then speaks for those who spoke; For those who show up, showed up, and the printed publisher, but before that, they have to run online media. That is, it has changed so fast.\nIn the event of this change, how do such institutions, how to help them, help them overcome their difficulties? A mechanism can be prepared for senior people to sit and be useful to the people of the new generation, because it is such an area, that area, Mahatma Gandhi used to say that uncontrolled writings can cause a huge crisis, but Mahatma Gandhi Were also called; That an outside control will cause catastrophe. And so the imagination of outside control can not be imagined to take that society forward.\nFreedom, its expression, its freedom, catching that principle, but simultaneously uncontrolled state, why we are not fit; Still the mother says that brother, eat a little less, or do not eat it. No mother is an enemy, but she is saying that mother is in the house. So the outside will say? Who are you, who are you worried about my son, I am. And therefore, this system is such that only those who want to be safe in the family, the governments should not tumble into it at all. How can we develop these stages by sitting by people, through the arrangement of this council, through the experience of the senior people, and the omnipresent interest of society? This is very difficult because how to criticize someone in between? If someone is outside, then we are ready to report but what do we sit? And that's why this hard work happens.\nSublimation is a very difficult task. I remember equally, when I lived in Delhi, my party used to do the work of the organization, in those days Kandahar incident took place. Now the incident happened in Kandahar, the aircraft was highjack, and in our country electronic media was in the initial period, then there was no fault of how anybody had happened, but that was the beginning of the round. But the news of the family members who were trapped in the ship; Those families were procuring procession, sloganeering against the government, and just let them out, and as soon as the anger grew here, the terrorists would have been excited that the goodness of the good Hindustan is such that now no matter what They can do it. But this incident continued, but I know that later all the leaders of the media were sitting, all the prominent people were sitting. In house was sitting and the press council was probably not in it. They were sitting and sitting and themselves had scratched their hair. I believe this is not a small incident. Many people remember that this was such a report, but very few people know that the media people themselves had to meet their own hair. And what mistake did we make, why, how was the loss, how did we get carried away? And everyone should meet, follow some norms, it was discussed quite a lot. Arun ji is sitting here, maybe he will know that probably all of them started between them. And they fixed some norms. I think this was the opportunity of this great service.\nThe second opportunity came, 26/11. After that, after the incident of Mumbai happened, sitting in it, its reference also came, the incident of Afghanistan. But there were so many different views that he could not introspect, not because he did not want to do it; To sit then were sitting, myself; But the talk was incomplete. But as long as this type of sensing mindset is in leadership, press is in the world, media is in the world, I believe the mistake also happens to us; The mistake is also from you; The mistake also happens to others. Evaluating the media based on mistakes will not be appropriate. But it is a matter of joy, there is a very mature responsible class in it, who wants to protect it from evil, by sitting on it, how to save from shortcomings, how to make it more powerful. This is a great endeavor for the world in itself; I believe this; And they should continue to run, but with outside controls, outside rules will not change the situation.\nWhen the Emergency Eye Press Council was abolished in the country, the basic thing was abolished and it was closed for about a year and half. Later (78) when the government of Morarji Bhai came in, this system was reborn and at that time there was an atmosphere of great generosity towards the media when (78) seventy-eight works again. Its form was created from that but it is still going on.\nThis is also the obligation of those associated with the Press Council, those associated with the Press, that what can we do to bring about a change? What can you do to prepare a new generation? Even the government, one day, that day, we are saying whatever area we have to say to the government, but there can be a system other than that, what? In which the absence of government information, due to this, how do problems arise? How will the work of giving information to the government if it is 30 years old? But also to bring about these changes in government, senior people of the Press Council can help to bring about change in the functioning of the government. How do we change the way to give information? And this is the responsibility of all governments.\nIt is precisely that an essential part of journalism is also to find something other than what seems to be seen; It is an important part, it can not be ruled out. But at least those who hear it, they can be seen in some way, hear them, and hear them on time, appear on time, these responsibilities are mainly of people sitting in government. But I see this communication gape, because every time my friendship with friends of my journalist world is very old, all of them, that's always, my brother, no one knows what's going on. It's fine that he needs only 10% of the information, 90 then he will reach somewhere else, will bring it. He just got to know that this is happening, he will be coming later. His complaint is that of the earlier 10%. But unfortunately, this is also the choice of leakage among the governments. Those who love the good, where the government praised, give it a little bit of information, the evils of such a government, the drawbacks Or somewhere, a non-serious attitude, it also demands a change.\nIn the Press Council, if there are some discussions, and to be placed before the government, the government can not do it, I can not say it, but at least this should also be done. As soon as you wake up in the morning, you are complaining about the people, but the government also listens to our complaints. These two-way channel, these two-way channel, if we are alive then there are expectations on the two sides of the changes; And its benefits should be met by the public, its benefits should not be given to any party in power or any person in power. Whatever the benefit, the people should go, whatever benefits the future should go, for the bright future, the foundation should be for the foundation. If we can do this then such institutions, such opportunities are very useful and we should use those opportunities.\nThese days, especially those related to the media of press, and the news of the murder that happened last time, it is painful. The killing of any person is painful, but the killing of a media person is because he tries to uncover the truth, then he becomes very serious, becomes more worrisome. When we got a meeting of Chief Ministers, I had kept this subject with the request that we are only part of our freedom, we are the parties to freedom, we should keep telling our principles that this is not enough.\nWe have the responsibility of governments that whatever wrong conduct they have with such people should get justice, they should be concerned about security, and should be in the list of priority of these governments; Otherwise this is the second most dangerous way to suppress the truth. Sometimes if someone gets angry and criticizes any media then that speech is freedom, it is a negative part, assuming everyone will forgive but nobody will lift the hand; Blow on the body; This is the biggest cruel oppression on top of freedom. Now, therefore, governments too need to be equally sensitive about this subject, taking priorities of what is very important. It is a matter of great happiness that today the greatness of our neighboring countries is also among us. Because in a way we have not had some limitations in the large world today, its effect, they are traveling very fast. Coordinated effort is as much a benefit as possible.\nThe Nepalese earthquake prompted the whole of India to run for Nepal. But the news of someone else's country, let's have news, it would have been like this. So maybe India is going to help Nepal as quickly as possible, they may not be able to complete the society, because it can not be known, but as soon as the news of Nepal came and the media of India conveyed the plight of the people of Nepal to the people of India. And all over the country, Nepal should do something, making its environment, a great deal of humanity happened. So these are not our limitations today, in this way we become complementary to each other, help each other, this is also a whole atmosphere of cooperation in this area, this is how to verify something in the form of a union So it becomes easily verified.\nOccasionally, every representative does not even exist in every country, but if there is a contact, then talk, ask, 'Bhai, have heard, do not tell anything,' he will say, 'I am telling you in a single hour, I see, I There are no two-three sources, I try. But it is necessary that this kind of increase in our co-ordination and especially with our neighboring countries where our behavior is very much greater, we are partners of happiness and suffering; That is how we can work to create a positive image for this entire land and in the world.\nA wholesome competition has become very essential in society and life and media can serve as a catalystic agent for healthy competition. These days you may have seen, India Today started a long time ago; He used to rate those states between the states, who is doing the state in which he is performing. He gradually started to become a benchmark for states that Bhai let us also follow some of these four things; We go ahead; We do.\nHaving a positive contribution It created an environment of healthy competition. These days, by media, which is not the subject of their area, take cleanliness and award; Honoring people by taking cleanliness; Take cleanliness and go to the area by making a jury; This is happening through media; This is not happening by the government. I think this environment that has started, it can give new power to India. In which a Competitive nature is creating. The nature of Healthy Competition is going to create that which is good, the state did it, we will do this; That city did this, we will do this; This is a positive environment.\nSurely this has made a huge contribution to the campaign of cleanliness, but there is no dearth of good in our society. And I have said earlier and have not said it as a criticism; It is said in the form of the truth of life that the country which is visible on the curtain of the TV is not the same as the country, apart from this, the country is very big, which shines in the pages of the newspaper, it is not the same as the name paper They are also people who have very good leadership in society and life. और इसलिए इन शक्तियों को बाहर लाना और भारत जैसे देश में ऐसा एक Competitive साकारात्‍मक वातावरण, उसको अगर हम बल देंगे तो समाज को भी लगता है यार हम अच्‍छा करेंगे, हम भी अच्‍छा करेंगे।\nमुझे विश्‍वास है कि आज का ये दिवस हम सबके लिए आत्‍मचिंतन के साथ और अधिक सशक्‍त बनने के लिए काम आए, मानवीय मूल्‍यों की रक्षा करने के लिए काम आए, भारत की भावी पीढ़ी के लिए हम ऐसी नींव को मजबूत करते चले जाएं जो भावी पीढ़ी को मानवीय मूल्‍यों की सुरक्षा के लिए सहज अनुभूति करा सके। इसके लिए आज के अवसर पर फिर एक बार इस क्षेत्र को समर्पित सभी महानुभावों को बहुत-बहुत अभिनंदन करता हूं। Thank you."