"Share\n\nOdisha holds immense cultural significance Our government is leaving no stone unturned to promote the rich cultural heritage of the state: PM\nCentral government is committed to enhancing connectivity across the state of Odisha: PM Modi\n10% reservation for the economically weaker people belonging to the General category aimed at ensuring equal rights for everyone: PM\nJai Jagannath ... Jai Jagannath! Jai Maa Samili ... Jai Maa Patteshwari ... Jai Maa Ramchandi Devi ... Jai Maa Vindhavasini ... Jai Shri Harishankar ... Jai Shri Narsingh Nath ...\nLong live Mother India !\nWith the blessings of Lord Jagannath, I have had the good fortune of visiting you again. The affection of the people of Odisha is bringing me here again and again. Regarding the many resolutions of 2020-22, for the third time in the last three weeks, I have come among you. Even today, you have come to bless us with such a huge number, I bow to your affection and bow down. Saraswat Sadhak and Yugpurush Saint Kavi Bhim Bhoi, 'Swara Kavishi' Gangadhar Meher, great freedom fighters Veer Surendra Sai, Madho Singh and Hathi Singh ... I bow to all these great figures.\nAlso, I pay tribute to Achyutanand Sahu, the son of Balangir, whom the cowardly Maoists targeted their violence, and just recently I had the opportunity to meet his mother, his father and his brother. Son's sacrifice ... Serving the country, offering his young son to the nation, I also salute such a brave parents. The death of this young fellow engaged in showing the country's democracy through Doordarshan was very sad. Such sacrifices have strengthened our resolve to end this phase of violence.\nSisters and brothers, this is a holy month. This is especially the month of worship of the sun. And Odisha is the only land of sun god. The light emanating from Konark has been shining all over India for centuries. On this holy occasion, I have inaugurated, inaugurated and laid the foundation of more than 1500 crore projects related to the development of Odisha. Along with this, within a month, work on development projects worth more than Rs 20,000 crore has started either, or the release has been done. I want to ask the brothers and sisters of Odisha - have anybody ever imagined that the Indian government works in a small amount of 20 thousand crores in Odisha ... you can imagine. Just remember you, how much work? 20 thousand crores ... how much ... how much .... 20 thousand crores should be found in development inside Odisha ...! For this momentum of development, I congratulate you all for this new stream of new Odisha construction.\nFriends, all these projects will make life easier, create new jobs, I want to take some questions in front of you. These questions are related to our identity, our livelihood is connected. Will you answer my questions? Are my questions reaching you? Ask questions? You, my friends, tell me, is not that India is a cultural center of the world? Has our civilization been the most prosperous or not? From knowledge to science, has India been the world's top or not? The work of giving new height to this superiority ... Tell me my brothers and sisters, should we do this work or not? I want your blessings, should I do this work or not?\nBrothers and sisters, what you understand ... you are answering all the yes. But, those who are far away from Odisha, understand the communities of Sultanates sitting in Delhi. They have been ruling like Sultanate. Who are still busy establishing their Sultanate with lies and lies. The result of their negligence is that, which is our real estate, which has been abundant for hundreds of years, its propaganda has not been able to keep away from it properly. The wealth which caused the world to burn, the foreign invaders, who went waste and devastated, did not show the seriousness towards their upliftment and rebuilding, which should have been. Odisha has been an important part of our cultural ojas. Oriya song, Oriya music, Odisha dance, Oriya language poetry and literature is wonderful, it is wonderful. India's glorious history in Odisha is the precious heritage of our civilization and culture. What to go far away, take this from Cholasathyogini Temple of Balangir, Lehiriguri Temple, Raniguri Temple, Someshwar Temple, they all have been built many centuries ago. Similarly, the Neelmadhav and Siddheshwar temple of Buddhist district, Kapileswar temple. Every district of Odisha has such important places of faith which are symbols of our cultural heritage. One of the world's oldest civilizations is the identity of our civilization. There are proofs of the skills of our ancestors.\nRenovations and beautification of many such temples of Sathiyo, Odisha- It has been taken up by the government of Bharatiya Janata Party sitting in Delhi. What was the first time? It was left to its own place. Likewise, the dust was allowed to place significant places of glorious and glorious Kalinga Kingdom. How big was the political and commercial center of Kalahandi's Asurgarh fort? No seriousness was shown about its maintenance. I am glad that the work of revival of all these has been started today.\nBrothers and sisters, the Indian government is determined to intensify the ancient identity of India with the combination of modernity. It is the result of the commitment of keeping the national pride in the forefront that looted or stolen from other places including temples of India ... you will be happy to know that there was a time when statues were stolen from our country. Since our government has been formed, the successful efforts to bring those idols to India, which were stolen from the countries of the world ..., are continuously going on. In the last four years, many ancient idols of this type have been brought to India from abroad.\nFriends, this wealth has come to be known only to Modi, it is not so. Earlier governments also knew this glorious past. Even then, there was a demand for grooming these places. The difference was only of condensation, of love towards culture, of dedication to culture. There was a resolution for culture. When the government that thinks in a totality comes, then what is the result, we can see it. Those parties, which gave the country the opportunity to run the government for decades, gave the opportunity to increase the pride of India. This criminal mistake will always stick with them. Surprisingly, they have not taken lessons from this even today. Right now, they oppose the International Yoga Day, which has begun to celebrate the whole world. The glory of International Yoga Day ... This is not the pride of Modi. This is our legacy given to our glorious past and our sages-mystics, which is accepting the world today. Modi did just that that the voice at the world's forums gave more importance.\nFriends, these people are opposed to the Statue of Statue of Unity, Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel. Raise questions on the memorial of Veer Shivaji. Baba Saheb also criticized Bhim Rao Ambedkar's monuments. When the government recently announced the name of some islands in Andaman on Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose and on the heroes of India's independence, they also lost their sleep, they began to suffer. Brothers and sisters, in fact, they neither have the understanding of the real wealth of India nor the power of sector strength like tourism. The statue of Unity, which was making fun of this, has established the height of Sardar Patel, today he has become one of the important tourist centers in the country. Due to the world's tallest statue, there are people who are nearby, they are getting opportunities to employ them. This is the strength of tourism.\nFriends, India has immense potential of heritage tourism. We are also doing this in Odisha for new expansion. Brothers and sisters, employment opportunities are created when the connectivity of a region is good. Therefore, the central government is also emphasizing on increasing connectivity here. Last time, when Jharsuguda was in the neighborhood, it was here that Odisha's second airport was inaugurated. In addition to air traffic, the Government's focus is on the expansion of railways in eastern India including Odisha. In the last four or four years, a budget of more than Rs 20 thousand crore has been allocated for development of Railways in Odisha. Our Odisha work alone in railways work of 20 thousand crore rupees ... Who will not be proud of Odisha! This is five times more than the old government. That is, the amount of work we did, if the old government had to do it would have taken 25 years. Your second-third generation will come Not only that, in the matter of laying rail tracks, our government is working three times faster.\nPartner, today many projects related to railways have been inaugurated and inaugurated. With the launch of new railway line between Balangir and Bichupli, the new train on this route has started from today. This will not only save you time, but also save money. The rail line inaugurated today is expanding till Khoda. When this full line is ready, this area will be added to Howrah, Chennai. The coastal and western Odisha will be connected. Cities like Delhi and Mumbai will also reduce the distance of Bhubaneswar and Puri. Besides, besides, four more important railway projects have also been inaugurated today. All these facilities will make movement easier in this entire area, which will prove helpful in the proper development of our natural resources here. There will be new industries here. Smaller industries here, their development will accelerate. Not only this, it will also benefit our farmer's brothers and sisters. Now their access to the bigger markets of the country will be easy. They will be able to send fruits, flowers and vegetables to their large market easily.\nSister-in-law, when we talk about the development of everyone, we also have special emphasis on the brothers and sisters living in our tribal areas. You are the custodian of the estate of all countries. Due to your protection, the infrastructure of India is being built so much that today. Make in India is becoming a worldwide identity. Keeping in mind the tribal rights, the central government has made a major amendment in the mining law. Under this, a 'District Mineral Fund' has been created. Through this fund, it has been arranged that people of the state who are in the mining states also get their share of the benefits from the land. Mining work was being done in our country for decades. But, poverty did not remove from the area where it was happening. No previous government was concerned about the locals. We are the first such government, which fixes a portion for the citizens of the country where the mining is done.\nAfter the decision of the Central Government ... brothers and sisters, due to this decision, Odisha too has received an amount of more than Rs.4000 crores. How much? Four thousand million! But, today I have to say sadly, it is money for you, there is money for the tribals of Odisha, where mining takes money for the development of the area. But, sadly, out of four thousand crore the government has spent a lot of money. That money is just like that money. I am surprised, what has happened to the government here? There are money, people need it, people have the right, but the government is comfortable. The Odisha government should give the benefit of this provision to the people of tribal interests. Do not wait for the election, hey, remove the troubles of the people, the elections will come, they will go. These are the rupees, these are the rights of my tribal siblings, which the central government has given them, have been legally guaranteed.\nFriends, the BJP government at the Center is constantly trying to get rid of every weakness in the system, which helps in snatching the rights of the poor. Brothers and sisters, in the last four years our government has more than six crore in the country ... You will remember this figure, will remember, will you remember the matter? After we came to government, more than six crore fraudulent ration cards were found in the country, fake gas connections, people who received scholarship from fake names, people who grab pensions by wrong name - such fake beneficiaries were found. Who is this fake name, where is it, whose favor is there, all this explored - nearly sixty million! Think .. and with courage .. these robbers robbers, middlemen, they used to eat goods by the name of six million, they canceled these six million fake names. You think, more than the entire population of Odisha, such fake people, paper people, the country's rupees were stolen, they were stolen in their names. They were taking advantage of this, whose real entitlement is not a middleman, he is not a broker, he was a citizen of India who was entitled to whom we had worked for him. These were people who were never born. But, in the name of other people, other middlemen were filling their safes. Brothers and sisters, I want to give you an example. You will reach these people to the people..I will deliver this thing to the people..and bring home..will we reach the meeting .. will sit in small groups and talk? So I explain to you in detail. The Central Government, by purchasing one kilo of wheat in twenty-four and twenty-five rupees .. You should consider, the Indian government buys from the wheat market, takes it from the farmer, takes it from the market. Twenty-four-twenty-six-twenty-seven-rupees are worth. एक किलो गेहूं का बीस-पचीस रुपये और उसे सिर्फ दो रुपये में राशन की दुकान में गरीब को मिले, इसकी व्यवस्था करती है। यानी, पचीस-सत्ताइस रुपये का गेहूं.. गरीब भूखा न सो जाए, गरीब की थाली खाली न रहे, इसलिए सिर्फ दो रुपये में उसको दिया जाता है। चावल भी केंद्र सरकार तीस-बत्तीस रुपये में खरीदती है, और तीस-बत्तीस रुपये का चावल गरीब कहां से खरीद पाएगा ! वो बेचारा रात को भूखा सो जाएगा ! तो भारत सरकार तीस-बत्तीस रुपये में खरीदा हुआ चावल सिर्फ तीन रुपये में गरीब के लिए पहुंचाती है, गरीब को मिले, इसकी चिंता करती है। लेकिन, ये गेहूं और चावल उस गरीब तक पहुंचने नहीं दिया जाता है। एक समूचा तंत्र ऐसा बना हुआ था, जो फर्जी राशन कार्ड की मदद से अधिकांश अनाज उठवा लेता था, और जब गरीब सस्ता राशन लेने दुकान पर पहुंचता था तो वहां बोर्ड लगा होता था कि सामान सारा बिक गया, माल नहीं है और गरीब बेचारा खाली हाथ लौट आता था। ये गरीब के पेट पर लात मारने का काम होता था, बिचौलिए खा जाते थे, सबकी मिलीभगत हुआ करती थी। हालात ऐसे थे कि केंद्र सरकार द्वारा भेजा गया वही अनाज बाद में वही गरीब दूसरी दुकान से ज्यादा पैसे देकर खरीदने को मजबूर होता था, ताकि रात को बच्चे भूखे न सो जाएं।\nआप कल्पना कर सकते हैं कि देश का कितना ज्यादा पैसा बिचौलियों के पास जा रहा था, काले धन में बदल रहा था और कोई सुनवाई नहीं थी, कोई पूछने वाला नहीं था, कोई डर नहीं था। ये लीकेज बंद करने का काम केंद्र की भाजपा सरकार ने किया है। अब जब फर्जी राशन कार्ड से होने वाली लूट बंद हुई है, तो गरीबों को सस्ते राशन का भी रास्ता साफ हुआ है। पिछले चार वर्षों में बिना जनता पर बोझ डाले सरकार ने सस्ते राशनों की कीमतों को स्थिर रखा है। जिसका वो हक था, उसका वो हक सुनिश्चित करने का हमने काम किया है। अब आप मुझे बताइए, इतने सारे.. हजारों करोड़ रुपये जिन-जिन की जेब में जाते थे.. अब मोदी ने ये सब बंद कर दिया, तो ये मोदी पर गुस्सा करेंगे कि नहीं करेंगे, मोदी को गाली देंगे कि नहीं देंगे ! मोदी ने उनकी तो नींद हराम कर दी है, और इसलिए मोदी उनकी आंख में खटकता है। लेकिन, आप मुझे बताइए, इन बेइमानों को मुझे जेल पहुंचाना चाहिए कि नहीं पहुंचाना चाहिए? ये बेईमानी बंद होनी चाहिए कि नहीं होनी चाहिए? गरीब को गरीब का हक मिलना चाहिए कि नहीं मिलना चाहिए?\nभाइयो-बहनो, आपने मुझे आशीर्वाद दिया है, इसी काम के लिए, और जी-जान से लगा हूं इस काम में। इसके अलावा, हमारे प्रयासों की वजह से आज देश के सौ प्रतिशत राशन कार्डों का डिजीटलीकरण का काम पूरा हो चुका है। हर दस में से आठ राशन कार्ड को आधार नंबर से जोड़ा जा चुका है। फर्जी गैस कनेक्शन, फर्जी राशन कार्ड, फर्जी नामों को हटाकर.. आपको जान कर खुशी होगी, जो रुपये चोरी होते थे, बेईमान लूट लेते थे, दलालों की जेब में जाता था, हमने 90 हजार करोड़ रुपये से ज्यादा इन चोर-लुटेरों के पास जाने से बचाने का काम किया है, जो आपके लिए है। आप मुझे बताइये, आपका यह प्रधानसेवक, जब ये लूटपाट बंद कर रहा है, तो उसके अनेक दुश्मन बनेंगे कि नहीं बनेंगे? जिनका लुट गया वो मोदी के दुश्मन बनेंगे कि नहीं बनेंगे? तब मोदी की रक्षा कौन करेगा ? मोदी की रक्षा कौन करेगा? देश के गरीबों की रक्षा कौन करेगा? गरीबों के हक की रक्षा कौन करेगा? मुझे ये लड़ाई करनी चाहिए कि नहीं करनी चाहिए? गरीबों का हक बचाना चाहिए कि नहीं बचाना चाहिए? लूट बंद करानी चाहिए कि नहीं करानी चाहिए?\nभाइयो-बहनो, 90 हजार करोड़ रुपया जो लूट रहे थे, उसको मैंने रोका है। ये नब्बे हजार करोड़ रुपये पहले जिस-जिस की जेब में जाता था, जिससे वो बड़ी-बड़ी गाड़ियां खरीदते थे, बंगले खरीदते थे, हवाई जहाजों में उड़ते थे, अब ये बंद हो रहा है तो उनको मोदी पर गुस्सा आना बहुत स्वाभाविक है। जिनकी तिजोरी में गरीबों से लूटा हुआ धन जाना बंद हुआ है, वो मुझसे बदला लेने की फिराक में हैं। कोशिश करेंगे लेकिन, आपके आशीर्वाद से वे सारे विफल होने वाले हैं, ये मेरा विश्वास है।\nसाथियो, आज देश में यही तो हो रहा है, और इसीलिए तो मोदी के खिलाफ झूठे आरोप लगाए जा रहे हैं, साजिशें की जा रही हैं। इतना ही नहीं, मोदी को रास्ते से हटाने के लिए अब ये लोग इकट्ठे होने लगे हैं। मैं भी भगवान जगन्नाथ की धरती से ऐसे लोगों को कहना चाहता हूं, ये चौकीदार...भगवान जगन्नाथ की धरती से कहना चाहता हूं, ये चौकीदार गरीबों की कमाई को लूटने वालों के सारे खेल बंद करा कर ही रुकने वाला है। जिस-जिस ने गरीबों को लूटा है, उसे ये चौकीदार सजा दिलाकर ही मानेगा।\nसाथियो, केंद्र सरकार विकास की पंचधारा पर काम कर रही है- बच्चों को पढ़ाई, युवा को कमाई, बुजुर्गों को दवाई, किसान को सिंचाई और जन-जन की सुनवाई। बीते हफ्ते हमारे प्रयास से एक और महत्वपूर्ण कार्य संपन्न हुआ है। ये सीधा ओडिशा के युवाओं से जुड़ा हुआ है। साथियो, सबका साथ सबका विकास तब सुनिश्चित होता है, जब समाज के हर वर्ग को समान अवसर मिले। अवसरों में असमानता से समाज में खाई अधिक बढ़ती है। आजादी के इतिहास में पहली बार, केंद्र की सरकार ने, भाजपा की भारत की सरकार ने इसके लिए एक बहुत बड़ी पहल की है। संविधान में संशोधन कर सामान्य वर्ग के गरीबों को शैक्षणिक संस्थाओं और सरकारी सेवाओं में दस प्रतिशत आरक्षण की व्यवस्था की गई है।\nभाइयो-बहनो, इस उत्साह, इस आशीर्वाद के लिए मैं आपका आभारी हूं। एससी-एसटी और ओबीसी को मिले संवैधानिक हक को छुए बिना, छेड़े बिना, छीने बिना ये नया प्रावधान हमने किया है। इससे ओडिशा के सामान्य वर्ग के गरीब परिवारों को अपने सपने पूरे करने में मदद मिलने वाली है। साथियो, इसके अलावा, यहां के आदिवासी बेटे-बेटियों के लिए एकलव्य स्कूलों का निर्माण तेज गति से किया जा रहा है। केंद्र सरकार का प्रयास है कि देश के हर उस ब्लॉक, तहसील या तालुका में जहां आदिवासी आबादी कम से कम बीस हजार हो, वहां एकलव्य स्कूल होना चाहिए। ओडिशा को इन एकलव्य स्कूलों का तो लाभ मिल ही रहा है, केंद्रीय विद्यालय का भी एक नेटवर्क यहां खड़ा किया जा रहा है। आज ही सोनपुर में नए केंद्रीय विद्यालय के लिए शिलान्यास किया गया है। साथियो, आदिवासी युवा के एक और कौशल को बढ़ाने का काम व्यापक स्तर पर हो रहा है। दुनिया की बड़ी आर्थिक ताकत तो हमारा देश बन ही रहा है, साथ में स्पोर्टिंग पावर बनने की दिशा में भी, खेलकूद की दुनिया में भी हमारे कदम तेजी से आगे बढ़ रहे हैं। देश को खेल के मैदान में आगे बढ़ाने में आदिवासी अंचलों के युवाओं का महत्वपूर्ण रोल रहा है, और आगे ये और अधिक बढ़ने वाला है। इसके लिए, आदिवासी क्षेत्रों में खेलों की सुविधाओं का निर्माण किया जा रहा है। केंद्र सरकार की कोशिश है कि आदिवासी युवाओं के खेल कौशल को निखारने के लिए आदिवासी बाहुल्य जिलों में विशेष खेल सुविधाओं का निर्माण हो। इसके लिए हर जिले को आने वाले वर्षों में 5 करोड़ रुपये तक की सहायता का प्रावधान किया गया है। ओडिशा तो वैसे ही भारत को खेलों के अनेक सितारे देता रहा है। केंद्र सरकार के इन कदमों से यहां के नौजवानों का बहुत लाभ होने वाला है।\nसाथियो, ये हम सभी का प्रयास है कि नया ओडिशा, नया भारत भव्य और दिव्य हो। हमारा यह देश विकास के अपने प्रकाश पुंज से दुनिया को आलोकित करता रहे। बड़े-बड़े जानकार, बड़ी-बड़ी संस्थाएं कह रही हैं कि भारत तेज गति से विकास करने वाला है। ये दौर हमारा है, ये युग हमारा है, बस हमें ईमानदार प्रयास की जरूरत है, निरंतर जुटे रहने की जरूरत है। एक बार फिर, आप सभी को विकास की सभी योजनाओं के लिए बहुत-बहुत बधाई देता हूं। आने वाले त्योहारों के लिए भी आपको अनेक शुभकामनाएं देता हूं।\nवंदे उत्कल जननि। भारत माता की...जय ! जय जगन्नाथ ! Thanks a lot !"