"India \u0026 Israel are committed to advance our engagement on several fronts: Prime Minister\nOur engagement is multi-dimensional and wide-ranging: PM Modi to President of Israel\nOur economic initiatives, emphasis on innovation, research \u0026 technological developments match well with Israel's strengths \u0026 capacities: PM\nIsraeli companies can scale up their tie-ups with our schemes of Make in India, Digital India, Skill India, and Smart Cities: PM\nPresident Rivlin and I deeply value our strong and growing partnership to secure our societies: PM\nIndia is grateful to Israel for its clear support to India's permanent candidature in a reformed UN Security Council: PM Modi\nYour Excellency President Reuven Rivlin\nAnd Friends from the Media,\nI am proud to welcome President Reuven Rivlin, and distinguished members of his delegation to India. President Rivlin is his first ever visit to India We are happy to receive him on this special occasion. Excellency, your visit will provide crucial push to our new pillars in our partnership. It will carry forward the momentum from the first ever visit of the President of India last year. Next year, both countries will be celebrating 25 years of the establishment of full diplomatic relations As we approach this big milestone, we are both committed to advance our engagement on several fronts. And, build on convergences and commonalities in our interests and concerns on regional and global issues.\nFriends,\nOur engagement is multi-dimensional and wide-ranging.We are partnering in:\nenhancing agricultural productivity and efficiency;\nboosting research and innovation linkages;\nemploying applications of science and technology for the benefit of our societies;\nForging strong links and investment ties;\nBuilding defense ties to secure our people; and\nEnhancing people to people ties through greater cultural and tourism links.\nPromoting educational exchanges. The growing number of Indian students, going to study in Israel and vice versa can be a critical bridge in our bilateral partnership.\nFriends,\nEarlier today, in our discussions. President Rivlin and I agree that there are several strong areas of ongoing cooperation between our countries. We are aware of Israel's advances in agriculture, and its expertise in micro-irrigation in drought-prone areas and water management. We have identified water management and conservation, and collaboration in scientific research and development as two areas of priority engagement. We both agreed that Israeli companies for the development of many promising opportunities. Our economic initiatives and programs, and emphasis on innovation, research and technological developments match well with Israel's strengths and capacities. Israeli companies can scale up their tie-ups with our flagship schemes of Make in India, Digital India, Skill India, and Smart Cities. I would like to encourage private sector stakeholders on both sides to take advantage of these areas. Indian and Israeli companies can also work together in high-technology manufacturing, and service sectors. Make in India and as President Rivlin told me in our discussion, Make with India can generate jobs and benefits both geographies. Our partnership can generate jobs and benefits both geographies. IT services is an area where our partnership can make a difference for both economies.\nFriends,\nPresident Rivlin and I deeply value our strong and growing partnership to secure our societies. Our people are constantly threatened by forces of terrorism and extremism We recognize that terrorism is a global challenge, knows no boundaries and has broad links with other forms of organized crime. Regrettably, one of the countries of its origins and spreads is India's neighborhood. We agree that the international community must act with resolve and resolve against terror networks and States that harbor them. Failure to act and silence We, agreed to intensify our cooperation to fight against the forces of extremism and radicalization. We also offer preliminary and specific engagement in the cyber domain. We noted the strength of our growing defence partnership. And, agreed on the need to make it more broad-based through production and manufacturing partnerships. India is also grateful to Israel for its clear support to India's permanent candidature in a reformed UN Security Council.\nFriends,\nAs fellow democracies, our people are our biggest strength and the largest beneficiaries of a strong India-Israel partnership The 2000-year old Jewish community in India represents a thriving link to this past. Today, it is a vital part of our composite cultural mosaic that continues to thrive in their traditions. We are proud of the Jewish community in India. President and I agree that promoting people-to-people contacts, which has a shared history\nExcellency,\nTwo and a half decades of our friendship have brought rich dividends for both nations. It has also strengthened voices of peace, stability and democracy globally Your visit provides an opportunity to break new lands and shape new contours of our partnership. With these words, I once again welcome President Rivlin on his first visit to India, and wish him a productive and enjoyable stay in India.\nThank you."