"Share\n\nMandate of 2014 is helping shape a new India free from corruption \u0026 black money: PM Modi\nOur government's aim is to transform lives of the poor and farmers: PM\nDuring the Emergency, Congress turned the nation into a prison, threatened \u0026 arrested people: PM\nNDA Government will never let anyone loot the money that belongs to the poor of India: PM Modi\n\nLong live Mother India\nLong live Mother India\nLong live Mother India\nE-Gajipur Raja Ghazi's Nagari Hau, Maharishi Vishwamitra and Yamdaghi Rishi, also known as Dhari Hau, great farmer leader Swami Shajanand Saraswati ji. For the sake of the country's independence, 8 Shaheed including Dr. Poojan Rai ... This is the land on December 18, Dahal. In the war of 1965, Veer Abdul Hameed, who is the master of the pattern tank, will be able to capture Pakistan's pride. We bow down to the holy earth. More than 5,000 jawans from the same village on this earth have also worked for the country's defense in the army, and repeatedly bowing down the earth.\nMy colleague of the Council of Ministers at the Center sitting on the platform ... Mr. Suresh Prabhu, the Railway Minister of the country, my partner of the Council of Ministers at the Center and Mr. Manoj Sinha, the son of this land ... our senior leader Mr. Om Ji Mathur Mr. Keshav Prasad Maurya, the young President of the Bharatiya Janata Party and the continuously smiling President, Dr. Mohinder Nath, my colleague of the Council of Ministers at the Center. Mr. K.P.C., Member of Parliament Mr. Harinarayan Rajber, Our Council of Ministers at the Center, Mr. Anupriya Jee Patel, MP Mr. Bharat Singh Ji, Mr. Suresh Khanna, Leader of the BJP Legislative Party in Uttar Pradesh Legislative Assembly, BJP's Regional President Mr. Laxman Acharya ji, BJP's State Secretary General, Mr. Swatantra Singh Singh, National President of BJP Mahila Morcha Shrimat Swati Singh ji, Member of Legislative Council Mr. Kedarnath Singh ji, Member of Legislative Assembly Mr. Upendra Tiwari, Member of Legislative Council Mr. Vishal Singh, BJP Regional Vice President Mr. Krishna Bihari Rai, BJP District President Mr. Bhanupratap Singh and a large number were present. My dear brothers and sisters who bring the roar of Ghazipur to the whole country.\nBrothers and sisters, it is my good fortune that for the second time in two years I got the privilege of taking blessings of the people of Ghazipur, I got the opportunity to see you. Brothers and sisters in 2014 when the election was at the peak. The preparations for the voting were going on, and on 9th May I came to Ghazipur and I said ... trust me, I said, my younger brother is contesting election .. Brothers and sisters, the people you love, you people Whatever my words have trusted, and you have not only given Manoj Sinha from Ghazipur, but the whole of India has done the task of building a very strong foundation ... in the election of the previous Lok Sabha. Yes If there is no help in the formation of the absolute majority in Uttar Pradesh 2014 elections, then there will be no concern for the corrupt, nor the black money holder.\nIt is the strength of your vote that poor sleep is sleeping and in the market to buy rich sleeping pills ... the market is revolving around. This is the strength of your vote, the support you gave it ... is the reason. Brothers-sisters Manoj ji sit sit..that..you ... listen to the roar of the people of Ghazipur. I love you my brothers and sisters on my eyes and eyes ... on my eyes And I had promised, those who are giving me love, those who are churning in this dark sunshine, I will bring development and return with interest ... I said. Fertilizer factory in Gorakhpur ... no one could have imagined that this body can be recovered again, we have done the work of making it alive, to change the fate of the farmers here.\nIf the man in the Purvanchal fell ill, then he could not know where to go? How should I go? Where should I get relief? By giving Ames to the Purvanchal, I have to work to worry about poor diseases of the city ... Honesty Brothers-sisters have done with Brothers and Sisters 1962 Pandit Nehru is the birth anniversary of his first Prime Minister of India today. Many Prime Ministers from Uttar Pradesh got the country ... Pandit Nehru was the first Prime Minister, at that time Mr. Speaker Mr. Vishwanathji, Member of Parliament from Lok Sabha, had said that he stood in Parliament. Vishvnath ji was speaking ... ... the stream of tears was flowing in his eyes and Vishwanath ji had said that Panditji has chosen you from Uttar Pradesh, you have reached the post of Prime Minister from Uttar Pradesh, but in the same Uttar Pradesh There is a Purvanchal, an Eastern Uttar Pradesh ... poverty is so terrible that the people here pick and choose the grains of wheat from the cow dung and wash their stomachs ... Prime Minister ....\nThis speech was done in 1962 by Vajwanath Pratapji, MP from Ghazipur in front of Pandit Nehru. The brothers and sisters were tears in the eyes of the whole parliament. Everyone was shocked to hear the statement of this situation, and then visiting Pandit Nehru made a Patel Committee. He was from Patel Gujarat ... HM Patel Saheb ..., he had created a committee. That committee gave a report. What to do for the good of this area? The brothers and sisters went to Pandit, after which the Prime Minister came to..they went away. I am the Prime Minister of the 9th place from Uttar Pradesh ... the first eight have come in my ninth ... Brothers and sisters have been closed in that report ... nothing happened ... Brothers and sisters today I will find out on November 14 , The choice is here to come ... because people who mislead the country on the birth anniversary of Panditji came to know that in 62, that thing happened in 2016, you did not look at it till my arrival in 2016. And therefore, Panditji wherever your soul is, Pandit, wherever your soul is, in 1962 you went to the poor people for their hopes and expectations, in the file of the paper, you went away .. You went away..Your party is good Only the leaders of your party, the leaders of your party, you make false allegations against me ... Even then, Panditji is starting to complete this unfinished work today on your birthday.\nPanditji should have given such a tribute to you before anyone who is giving you an MP from Uttar Pradesh today. Brothers and Sisters 62 had said that a rail should be put on the bridge by creating a bridge on Ganga so that the area becomes an opportunity for development. Brothers and sisters have come..Guess, leaders come..gay, meetings have happened..tallies ... vote ... but there is no arrangement for crossing mother Ganga. Today I am happy and I congratulate Manoj Sinha on Suresh Prabhu ji, the Indian Railway Department, that today I have had the opportunity to make a foundation for him in a program of government, and on TV It should be seen that the work started. Now you should have been shown on the screen ... the work has started and the brothers and sisters will fulfill this work in time frame, they will tell you also.\nBrothers and sisters, my peasant siblings here ... There was a time, you used to produce good perfumes from Kannauj ... all went away, I have to bring that joy again. There is a new strength in my farmer's life. The vegetable which is produced here produces the best type of vegetable, with the grace of mother Ganga, it has a special taste, if it is arranged to deliver, to prevent it from getting worse ... The people here are invited to eat vegetables here till Assam. He is ready to give money to the farmer here. We have arranged a system for Good Good where where you can keep your produce safe, save you from deterioration and if you get the right price you can sell it in the market. I can not exploit my farmer ... its arrangement. Brothers and Sisters .. Prime Minister's Crop Insurance Scheme, for the first time, we have given a prime crop insurance scheme to the farmers of India, through the crop insurance scheme, my dear brothers and sisters ... farmers have consumed a lot of tea and coffee with very little money. ... With so much money, he can take his crop insurance, and the government will fill the remaining amount. And the peasants on their own yield ... Suppose there was a natural disaster. The crop is sown, the preparation is ready, the rain has come down, the hail fell, got destroyed. We have implemented the insurance plan of my farmers, brothers and sisters, you will get the money. Not only that, your crop has been harvested, harvested, there is a lot of stock in the field, now the tractor has to come, the market is going to go. Everything got ready and suddenly fell wet ... suddenly it rained. After harvesting, no one was ready to see. We have implemented such crop insurance scheme that if the crop has been stacked for 15 days after harvest, even if there is any damage to the produce, my farmer will get the insurance cover. We did this work by the people.\nNot only this, my brothers and sisters, sometimes we decide that Bhai will sow in May, June ... rain will come ... do not come ... sowing. Then waited for 15 days ... the rain did not come ... sowing. Then the month waited ... the rain did not come ... sown.\nIf you do not sow till June, July, August, then the poor farmer will not be able to sow, there is no question of crop production and there is no reason for the crop being wasted. Farmer's farm is drought like this, what will the farmer do during this time ...? For the first time we have brought such crop insurance scheme that even if the farmers have not sown due to natural reasons, then they will be given the crop insurance for accounting so that my farmer ... never suffer from trouble.\nBrothers and sisters, this government is for the village, for poor, for the farmer, my dear brothers and sisters, there is no shortage of money in India. But where's the money that's lying is the problem .... where there should not be, where should not be ... there is a lot of pile. Tell me, Brothers-sisters, I came here on May 09 in 2014, I promised you that the corruption that is going on, I will fight against this corruption ... I did not say that? Did you hear that I did not? Did you hear that had not heard? Did you make me prime minister to fight against corruption or did not you?\nTell me what you told me should I do or should not ...? Should not do that ...? If I close the notes of Rs 500, I close the note of 1000 rupees, then I am doing the same thing that I am doing ...? You tell me brothers and sisters ... all of them ... hands up ... tell the country by clapping ... tell the country ... this corruption should end ...? Should these 500-1000 rupees be made of rupee paper ...? What will be the trouble for you ... you will be caught ...? Will you have trouble ...? Will tolerate the problem ...? My dear brothers and sisters, when the person of the village is ready to withstand so much suffering for the honesty of the country ... I believe there is no saving left for the dishonest people in India now.\nBrothers and sisters, I know this, my dear brothers and sisters I know you are having trouble. It is not that you are not suffering. You tell me to get married in the house ... the procession is coming ... to get married with the blows ... even the child is earning a little in the city ... even if you think of yourself on the walls of the house Apply a nice color ... apply or do not apply? If you apply the color then do you apply it to look good? But the smell of that color ... lasts for ten days or does not it? Is it that night sleep due to the smell of the color does not happen? But since the procession is coming, why do we get good color despite the smell coming out of the wall or not? Does the problem happen that does not happen? Do any work, brother ... the problem is a little bit different.\nYes, goodness should be good. Brothers and sisters of my dear Ghazipur, this is what I am doing ... you answer me by clapping ... .... I am doing what I am doing for the betterment of the country ...? Am I doing for the betterment of the country ...? I am doing good for the poor ...? Am I doing this for the good of the village? Am I doing for the good of the farmer ...? The political parties who are very upset ... they are worrying about them now. Do they ... the beads of notes ... there were such garlands ... Mundi did not even look. In such a case, you used to read in the newspaper, in Madhya Pradesh, income tax went to a Babu's house, Rs. 3 crore was withdrawn from under the bed ... Whose money is it, brother? Is that not the poor ..? You tell me how many years will it take for a brother to go to find me in a house ...? Tell how long it will take ...? And if I see a house then he will hide in the third house ... I will look in the third house, then he will first hide in the house ... will not do that ...? Will these dishonest people find a way or not? So I had only one solution ... put 500 and 1000 notes together in a paper pocket.\nTell me ... all have become equal or did not happen. Bhai .. The poor-rich all became equal or not ... some people are suffering. The common honest person who is suffering ... The trouble which is causing him trouble, I have a lot of suffering ... Brothers and sisters, it is a lot of pain. I will be able to reduce your pain during night and night, as far as I can be, that I am doing ... I will continue. But some people are getting too much trouble. These are not those people. These are just a few people. He speaks himself ... smiles himself ... Modi ji has done good ... then says backwards to the people ... Hey fling ... go roaring ... ho-attack ...\nI want to say today in the name of honesty ... to the leaders who mislead the people of the country in the name of honesty ... If you have the courage, tell the public that the notes of 500 and 1000 should be run ... corruption should be run. .. काला धन चलना चाहिए...बेईमानी चलनी चाहिए... बताओ... लोगों के नाम पर गुमराह करने की बातें मत करो... और मैं कांग्रेस वालों से ज़रा विशेष पूछना चाहता हूं... वो कहते हैं कि जनता को तकलीफ हो रही है.. आप तो बयान दे   हे हैं मैं तो जनता की तकलीफ को अनुभव करता हूं... खुद पीड़ा को अनुभव करता हूं... और मैं उसको दूर करने के लिए भगवान ने मुझे जो शक्ति दी है, बुद्धि दी है.... ऐड़ी-चोटी का ज़ोर लगा रहा हूं... गरीब की मदद करने के लिए।\nलेकिन जनता की चिंता करने वाली कांग्रेस ये मुझे बताए कि आपने तो 19 महीने आपातकाल लगाकर के... इमरजेंसी लाकर के इस देश को जेलखाना बना दिया था। हिन्दुस्तान के देश के लिए जीने-मरने वाले लाखों लोगों को 19 महीने तक आपने जेल की सलाखों के पीछे बंद कर दिया था। आप कांग्रेस वालों ने हिन्दुस्तान में... उस जमाने में आपकी पुलिस लोगों के घर जाती थी.. तुम्हारा वारन्ट निकलने वाला है... और वो बेचारा हाथ-पैर जोड़ता था और वो कहती थी कि एक लाख रुपया दो वारन्ट नहीं निकलेगा। इस देश के करोड़ों लोगों से... जेल में बंद कर देंगे इस नाम से करोड़ों रुपये ऐंठ लिए थे आपके नेताओं ने कार्य़कर्ताओं ने... आप... आपने हिन्दुस्तान के अखबारों पर ताले लगवा दिए थे। आपने हिम्मत करने वाले अखबारों के जेल की सलाखों के पीछे एडीटरों को डाल दिया था। आपने पूरे हिन्दुस्तान को जेलखाना बना दिया था। अरे कोई बोले भी तो भी उसको जेल के दरवाजे दिखा दिए जाते थे। और किस काम के लिए... क्या ये सारा काम आपने देश से भ्रष्टाचार को मिटाने के लिए किया था...? क्या यह काम आपने गरीबों की भलाई के लिए किया था...? देश को याद है इलाहाबाद की कोर्ट ने श्रीमती इंदिरा गांधी को पार्लियामेंट मेम्बर से हटा दिया.. कानूनन हटा दिया तो सिर्फ और सिर्फ आपके प्रधानमंत्री इंदिरा गांधी की गद्दी बचाने के लिए 19 महीने आपने पूरे देश को जेलखाना बना दिया था। मुझे पूछ रहे हो...\nमेरे भाईयों-बहनों.. मेरा निर्णय जरा कड़क है। और जब मैं छोटा था न तो जो गरीब लोग होते थे, वो मुझे खास कहते थे मोदी जी चाय जरा कड़क बनाना। गरीब को ज़रा कड़क चाय ज्यादा अच्छी लगती है। और मुझे तो बचपन से आदत है तो ज़रा निर्णय मैंने कड़क लिया। अब गरीब को तो कड़क चाय भाती है, लेकिन अमीर का मुंह बिगड़ जाता है। (मोदी-मोदी के नारेबाज़ी)\nये कांग्रेस वाले आज मुझे समझा रहे हैं, भाषण दे रहे है, उनके बड़े-बड़े वकील भाषण दे रहे हैं। किस कानून से आपने 1000 रुपया बंद कर दिया..500 रुपया बंद कर दिया, जरा मैं कांग्रेस वालों से पूछना चाहता हूं कि भाई जब आपकी सरकार थी तब आपने भी एक बार...चवन्नी बंद कर दी थी। वो चवन्नी बंद कर दी थी तब कौन सा कानून था जरा मुझे बताओ? किसको पूछा था? ये ठीक है... आप चवन्नी से आगे चल नहीं पाते हो। आपने अपनी बराबरी का काम किया, हमने हमारी बराबरी का काम किया। आप मुझे बताइए भाईयों-बहनों ये आतंकवाद, ये नक्शलवाद, ये दिन-रात बंदूकें, बम, निर्दोष लोगों को मौत के घाट उतार दिया जाए, हमारे शहीद हों, हमारे नौजवान जिंदगी के सारे सपने तो अभी बाकी हों... मां भारती के लिए बलि चढ़ जाए। ये आतंकवाद को पैसा कौन देता है? ये नक्शलवाद को रुपये कहां से आते हैं? ये उग्रवाद के पैसे कहां से आते हैं? भाईयों-बहनों सीमा पार से हमारे दुश्मन वहां पर नकली नोटें छाप-छाप करके हमारे देश में घुसेड़ रहे हैं। मुझे बताइए की क्या ये दुश्मनों की चाल चलने देनी चाहिए...? ये दुश्मनों की चाल खत्म होनी चाहिए कि नहीं होनी चाहिए...? मैं उन नेताओं से सवाल पूछना चाहता हूं... आतंकवाद के खिलाफ लड़ाई लड़ने के लिए, नक्शलवाद के खिलाफ लड़ाई लड़ने के लिए, उग्रवाद के खिलाफ लड़ाई लड़ने के लिए, ये जाली नोटों का खात्मा होना चाहिए कि नहीं होना चाहिए...? ये जाली नोटें समाप्त होनी चाहिए कि नहीं होनी चाहिए...? मुझे बताइए की 500 और 1000 के नोट पर अगर मैं हमला न बोलता तो ये जाली नोटें कभी खत्म हो सकती थीं क्या? सामान्य मानवीय को पता चलेगा कि कौन सी सही और कौन सी नकली? इसी से वो कारोबार चलाते थे। और भाईयों-बहनों जब से 500 और 1000 नोटों पर हमला बोल दिया है ये परेशान हैं, पेमेंट नहीं कर पा रहे है पेमेंट। भाईयों-बहनों कुछ अफवाहें फैलाई जा रही हैं, गृहणी को भड़काया जाता है कि देखो तुमने तो बेटी की शादी के लिए घर में से दो रुपया, पांच रुपया, पचीस रुपया बचा, बचा.. बचा कर के बेटी बीस साल की हुई तुमने पैसा जमा किया, अब ये मोदी सारे पैसे ले गया। मेरी माताएं-बहनें जब तक तुम्हारा ये भाई जिंदा है, मेरी माताएं जब तक तुम्हारा ये लाडला जिंदा है, आप विश्वास कीजिए, आपने कड़ी मेहनत करके पांच-पचास, पांच-पचास रुपए बचा..बचा करके बेटी की शादी के लिए पैसा बचाया है, उस पर एक भी सरकारी अफसर आंख तक नहीं लगा पाएगा।\nआप हिम्मत के साथ बैंक में अपना जमा करा दीजिए, अपना खाता खुलवा दीजिए, अरे मेरी सरकार उस पर ब्याज भी देगी। आपकी बच्ची की शादी में वो ब्याज भी आपके काम आएगा और मेरा इनकम टैक्स डिपार्टमेंट ऐसी माताओं, बहनों को पूछेगा तक नहीं कि ये ढाई लाख रुपया आया कहां से था, लेकिन क्या ढाई करोड़ वालों को भी छोड़ूंगा क्या?  बिस्तर के नीचे से रुपए निकले क्या...उनको भी छोड़ दूं क्या?  गनी बैग में भरे हुए थैले भर-भर के रखे पैसे उनको भी छोड़ दूं क्या?  \nइन दिनों आपने देखा होगा, जरा जाकर के शहरों में देखना रात को गाड़ियों निकलती है..देखती हैं कहीं सीसीटीवी कैमरा तो नहीं है, अगर सीसीटीवी कैमरा नहीं है तो चोरी छुपे से मूंह पर कपड़ा बांध कर के जो कूड़े-कचरे का ढेर होता है न उस पर जाकर के नोट फेंक कर के भाग जाते हैं। क्योंकि मैंने कहा है ये जो नोट फेंकने आ रहे हैं, सीसीटीवी कैमरा में अगर वो भी हाथ लग गए तो हिसाब तो देना ही पड़ेगा। क्योंकि आपने गरीबों से लूट के लाया हुआ है। ये गरीबों का पैसा है तुमने लूटा है... मैं लूटने नहीं दूंगा, ये मैं कह के निकला हूं भाईयों। आप देखिए हम तो गंगा किनारे पर रहते हैं। अमीर से अमीर आदमी भी आएगा तो फूल चढ़ाएगा। कोई सौ ग्राम दूध चढ़ाता है तो कोई बड़ा सुखी होगा तो एक लीटर चढ़ाएगा, बड़ा धनी होगा तो शहद चढ़ाएगा, बड़ा धनी होगा तो थोड़ा दही भी चढ़ा देगा और ज्यादा से ज्यादा एक या पांच रुपए का सिक्का डालेगा।\nऐसा कभी देखा था कि गंगा में लोग आज नोटें डाल रहे हैं नोटें..500 की 1000 की बह रही है। अरे पापियों गंगा में भी नोटें बहाकर भी आपका पाप धुलने वाला नहीं है। भाईयों-बहनों मैं जानता हूं, जानता हूं... मेरे पर क्या-क्या बीतेगी?  क्योंकि जिनके पास ये खजाने भरे पड़े हैं न वो बड़े ताकतवर लोग हैं वो तो सरकारों को खरीद लेने की ताकतें रखते हैं, वो तो सरकारों को ऊपर से नीचे करने की ताकत रखते हैं, वो अच्छे-अच्छो को... उनके भविष्य को तबाह करने की ताकत रखते हैं। बड़े ताकतवर लोग हैं लेकिन मुझे.. लेकिन मुझे बताइए मेरे देशवासियो क्या मुझे ऐसे लोगों से डरना चाहिए? पूरी ताकत से बताइए डरना चाहिए...? घबराना चाहिए? भाग जाना चाहिए? ईमानदारी का रास्ता छोड़ देना चाहिए? आपका आशीर्वाद है मेरे प्यारे भाईयों-बहनों, आपका आशीर्वाद है इसीलिए इतनी बड़ी लड़ाई मोल ली है मैंने।\nलेकिन मेरे प्यारे भाईयों-बहनों हमारे देश का स्वभाव है, आज देखा आपने जिस ट्रेन का नाम रखा है, जो ट्रेन यहां से कलकत्ते जाने वाली ट्रेन है, उसका नाम क्या रखा है? क्या नाम रखा है? आपको पता है न...? इससे बड़ा इतिहास को याद करने का कोई सोच नहीं सकता कि एक ट्रेन के नाम पर हमारी पुरानी विरासत हमको याद आ जाएगी हमारी ताकत का परिचय हो जाएगा भाईयों। सत्यवेदी, ट्रेन का नाम सत्यवेदी, ट्रेन का नाम महामना... वरना पहले तो सब कुछ एक परिवार में ही था। देश के लिए मरने मिटने वालों को कोई याद नहीं करता था भाईयों। ये सत्यवेदी... भाईयों-बहनों आपके लिए एक नए विकास के युग का अवसर लेकर के आया है।\nभाईयों-बहनों आपसे मेरी प्रार्थना है और इस गाजीपुर की जनता के माध्यम से देश को लोगों को भी मेरी प्रार्थना है। ये इतना बड़ा काम है, नोटें बदलने का... इतना बड़ा काम है कि बेईमान लोग इसका फायदा न उठा जाए इतना बड़ा काम है कि सही लोगों को सही हक मिले तो मेरे प्यारे भाईयों-बहनों उसमें थोड़ा समय भी लग सकता है, उसमें थोड़ी तकलीफ भी हो सकती है और इसलिए मेरे प्यारे भाईयों-बहनों मेरा आपसे आग्रह है कि आप स्वयं सक्रिय होकर के गांव-गांव लोगों को विश्वास दें, धैर्य दें विश्वास दें। और मैंने कल भी कहा था, 8 तारीख को रात 8 बजे भी कहा था कि मैंने सिर्फ 50 दिन मांगे हैं। 30 दिसंबर तक ये सारी प्रक्रिया पूरी करने के लिए अठारह-अठारह, बीस-बीस घंटे हमारे बैंक के लोग काम कर रहे हैं भाईयों। छुट्टियां खत्म करके काम कर रहे हैं। घर में मां-बहन कोई बीमार हो... तो भी बैंक में काम कर रहे हैं अरे कांग्रेस वालों ने तो अपनी कुर्सी के लिए उन्नीस महीने देश को जेलखाना बना दिया था। मैंने तो गरीबों की खुशी के लिए 50 दिन थोड़ी सी तकलीफ झेलने के लिए प्रार्थना की है। आप तकलीफ सहन करेंगे? मेरी मदद करेंगे? देश की मदद करेंगे? गरीबों की मदद करोगे? ईमानदारी की मदद करोगे? अरे जिस देश के गांव का लो व्यक्ति भी ईमानदारी के इसलिए इतना कष्ट झेलता हो तो मुझे विश्वास है मेरे प्यारे भाईयों-बहनों मेरे देश में अब बेईमानों के दिन खत्म होकर रहेंगे, खत्म होकर रहेंगे।\nएक बार भाईयों-बहनों आप सब खड़े होकर के तालियों के गड़गड़ाहट के साथ मुझे आशीर्वाद दीजिए... इस पवित्र काम के लिए तालियों की गड़गड़ाहट के साथ इस पवित्र काम के लिए मुझे आशीर्वाद दीजिए। आपकी तालियां बंद नहीं होनी चाहिए, आपका आशीर्वाद बना रहना चाहिए। भाईयों-बहनों एक ईमानदारी का एक महायज्ञ मैंने शुरु किया है, आपके आशीर्वाद...आपके आशीर्वाद... पूरा देश देख रहा है, ये टीवी वाले आपको तालियों की गड़गड़ाहट पूरे हिन्दुस्तान को सुना रहे हैं, ये आपके आशीर्वाद पूरा देश देख रहा है, हिन्दुस्तान का पूर्वांचल मेरे देशवासियों देखिए... ये गरीबों की अमीरी देखिए, मेरे देशवासियों... ये गरीबों की अमीरी देखिए, ये वो भूमि है जहां से पंडित नेहरु के सामने कहा गया था कि गोबर में से गेंहु निकाल करके... धोकर के खाना पड़ रहा है, ऐसे गरीब इलाके के लोग ईमानदारी के उत्सव में आशीर्वाद दे रहे हैं।\nगरीब हमारे साथ है, फिर एक बार तालियां बजाईए भाईयों... देश को पता चले, झूठ फैलाने वालों को पता चले, ईमानदारी के उत्सव में रुकावटें डालने वालों को पता चले, ये लड़ाई है, ईमानदारी के लिए है, ये लड़ाई है देश को बेईमानी से खत्म करने के लिए लड़ाई है..आईए..आईए मुझे आर्शीर्वाद दीजिए...फिर एक बार आशीर्वाद दीजिए..मां गंगा को याद करके आशीर्वाद दीजिए, तालियों की गड़गड़ाहट से आशीर्वाद दीजिए\nबहुत-बहुत धन्यवाद..."