"\nResearch and innovation vital for us: PM Modi\nIn the 21st century, it is necessary to educate \u0026 skill our youth. They can take the country to greater heights: PM\nNDA Government will never take steps that troubles innocent and honest people: PM Modi\nOur Government would not spare those who are guilty: PM\nDear brothers and sisters,\nFirst of all, I salute those seven sages. The teachers are so many. There are good teachers, teachers are good teachers, there are dedicated teachers, but perhaps in the history of the immortal teacher, they have to be used, then these seven saints will have to implement. Such teachers, even after 100 years, are still studying this generation, are educating. Perhaps in some places in history, it is unlikely to hear such rare events which have been proven by this KLE society.\nI see all these young men sitting in front of me in the millions. All this is the result of the penance of those Satya Rishis. Inspired by Lokmanya Tilak ji. The social revolution which was played by Sant Basaveshwar not only through the education of social revolution, but also to the masses, to reach generation generation, this Bhagiratha work was done on this earth 100 years ago. For the whole country, this is a matter of pride for everyone who believes in education.\nInstitutions are formed, worsened, it also shuts down, but you imagine what those seven sages have laid a strong foundation. Today, even after 100 years, it has been fruitful, it is flourishing and inspiring the entire nation.\nToday there will be someone in every corner of the world who will say that I was a student of KLE and even in the world when someone would be interviewed, job inquiries would have happened, when he would have told, he would tell all the certificates, show his marks But when he would say, \"Yes, that's all right, this coefficient, these certificates, these marks, these grades, but the biggest thing I have is, I'm learning about KLE I am And the moment the interviewer will also see that there is a good KLE Oh, come, come.\nHow many generations have contributed 100 years of how many generations would have done penance? Then, such a life system is born and that which is moving.\nToday, the business of education in the country is being discussed. Even big people think that joining the trade of education will get some profit. There is a lesson for all those people that the sage sages What would be their salary 100 years ago, the salary of these teachers would have been 30 rupees, 35 rupees 50 rupees. 100 years ago whose income was 30 rupees, 35 rupees 50 rupees would have been salaried, he would have got salaries so much that he contributed so much to the society. This is an example, inspiration for those who want to serve in the field of education.\nBrothers and sisters, political parties can not run 100 years. How many pieces are there, the family also do not survive. You can imagine that going for an institution for 100 years, continuous growth, being a creation of a democratic system, and moving it forward with the public money, with the help of the former students, to move it forward, in itself, the whole country There is a very big example.\nI am the elderly, our scholar friend, especially in the media of the media, I want to publicly pray to him today. If a person is 60 years old, then a good article is printed in the newspapers. Even if a government has 100 days, there is a very good article in the newspaper. Even if a person is 75 years old, it is also cheerful. It would be good, in the media of entire India, what these Satish Rishis have done, something about the centenary of their work and the country can be found. This should be followed in different corners of the country which are dedicated people who are devoted to education, people dedicated to society, such people get inspiration from such an incident, strength, and in such other corners of the country such an agitation should stand Could.\nBrothers and sisters, when freedom movement was going on, Mahatma Gandhi gave birth to an education institution named Gujarat Vidyapeeth to prepare freedom fighters. Lokmanya Tilak ji emphasized on education to create freedom fighters and to make the nation stand on its strength. Even in the 21st Century, if India wants to have its iron in the world, it can be our young generation, their skill, their education itself.\nBrothers and sisters, there was a time when India was identified in the world. These are people of snakes, they are the people who witchcraft. They have no knowledge outside of snakes and rats; Hindutva has such an identity in the world. But a few years ago, when the 18-20 year old young men of India started moving their fingers on the computer's keyboard, the whole world began to change, thinking changed. The world had to change the way of thinking for India, the world had to believe that India has amazing power, amazing power and her basic education. In 100 years, you have made a huge contribution in bringing about the change in society in life, giving strength to the life of entire Karnataka by education and through it all the power of the whole country.\nWhen I came last time, our Prabhakar Ji told me that for 32 years people keep giving me these jobs. This is not a small issue, Prabhakar ji I congratulate you, congratulate your whole team. And it happens through a democratic method. Such people have worked for so many generations, but the good of the institution, the good of education, the good of the students, did not compromise it, it is a big deal in itself. But today, when I see this good work in front of my eyes, I also feel that I too should go and ask for something from you today. Can I ask, will I?\nYou will say, how is such a Prime Minister of the country, you have come to demand. This is the Prime Minister, he is the only one, he keeps on demanding from the public. I want to ask you something today and I believe that I believe in those saints, believe in today's system, these millions of young people are sitting in front of me, I believe in them, so I am daring to demand. Demand? A little voice should come loudly, ask, really demand?\nLet me tell you that this institution has more than three million students, so many institutions run, can our KLE make the resolution that in 2020 when there will be an Olympic in Tokyo then some gold medal will be of this KLE too. You can make friends, can, possible, friends, it is possible for you. My dear youngsters, I would also like to have innovation, the herbs of innovation development. If there is no innovation, then research does not occur then life stops and those who do research will go ahead. We just become a buyer for their product. I have seen you last time and I have seen it. Such a great scientist, you have such excellent institutions, people with such excellent technical knowledge. Any kind of innovation that can be internationally recognized every year, KLE can provide for the human race, will not it? Will sure\nThirdly, brothers and sisters are the first 100 best universities in the world today. We do not have that in it. Feeling embarrassed Government of India has made an important decision in this budget. We have said that 10 Government and 10 Private Universities come with this resolution, which is to make the place in the world's first 100 universities. Those who want to come forward for this work will be given special financial help from the government. Those who want to come to do this work, those bonds which are made by the government servants, permission, permission, these rules will be redeemed in that rule, even in it, open ground will be given. I invite the 10 private universities of the country, I invite 10 Government Universities to the Government, I dare. What is in the 100 which is in the world, what is in ours is not in us. We have shown our country and our country, now only the country was yesterday and today there has been an increase, it will not be so much, now the effort to reach the best in the world, this should be the dream of Hindustan. She should walk with him.\nBrothers and sisters, today I have come to Karnataka's land and through the TV, the country is listening to my point of view. So I want to discuss another topic too. I want to hear you 08 saw you at 8 o'clock in the night 2012, 2013, 2014 There were news in the newspapers that at Kikoil, there were so many millions of crores. Evergreens have eaten so many lakh crores in 2G scam and after 08th you saw them. For Rs 4000 rupee had to stand in line. My dear countrymen, this government does not want to disturb the honest person but my dear brothers and sisters are not to leave the dishonest. 17 years have passed. You tell me the country has been looted and it has been looted. Corruption has happened which has happened. Large notes are stacked at home and they are located. I am amazed that the people of our Congress are saying that why did you close 1000 notes, why did they close 500 notes? Bhai, when you stopped Chavani, I asked. You know that the Congress Party had stopped Chavnani. This country did not make any screams. Okay your strength was so much. You also agreed to shut down but you did not have the power to stop big notes. Chavnani had to drive a car and those who ask me questions today, Madam has done magic of 1000 notes.\nBrothers and sisters, people who listen to my speech, listen to me. I did not say this for the first time. Five years ago in the public meeting, I had said that the Congress party did not have the breath, Chavani was shutting down. If I go, I close the notes of 1000. Even today his video will run somewhere, you can see people.\nBrothers, I have not hid anything with the country. In the first day, my dear brothers and sisters, if I lie, you give me the full right to anger me. I had said on the first day that give me 50 days for this work, give it till December 30. Said what was said. I had said on the first day that till December 30, there would be some shortcomings, who said what was said. Brothers and sisters, I have done the work of taking the country into confidence. Honesty in the country, millions of people who live for honesty, endure due to honesty. You tell me that there is no work to protect the honest people of the government. There should be no protector of honesty. And if there is a shortage of 50 days to punish the tyrants, then you will help me whatever you do. Both hands up and speak sisters and sisters. With the thundering applause, tell the country that every young man of India, every Hindustani. See these scenes, who have suspicions. See who are advocating dishonest people sitting in the air-conditioned room, what public-janadana wants.\nBrothers, we know that elections are conducted in our country. Voter list, this is not a secret job. To ban the ban, it was very important for me to remain secret. If he gets leaked, then the strength of these unscrupulous people is such that even after going to work, do their work. The country is happy. On 08th, India was sleeping with poor chains and there was no one to give the market went to buy rich sleeping pills.\nBrothers and sisters, the electoral rolls are made in the election and there is no secret. The government seems to be, teachers seem like the Asha worker, the whole government takes over. Every party worker never takes up. Even then, the day the voting is done, the complaint comes, no one comes. My name remained, my name was left, my family's name remained, my name was left, tell me, it does not matter who comes. Even if such a big job is open, there is still some lack of something that remains. You see, when the elections are held in India, the whole country runs for about three months. The entire business gets frozen for 90 days. All the officers, everyone has to work only for election. Why not in any department. Brothers and sisters, the government seems so powerful in the elections, it seems like the political parties, even if the media gets help, even 60-70 percent of the voting is done and the vehicle runs for 90 days. My dear countrymen, I have only asked you for 50 days. My brothers have asked for the country.\nBrothers and sisters you must have seen that this time we had a plan in the budget. Those who listen to my \"mind\", I also said that there is a solution to fighting corruption, cashless society. These cash notes should be gradually reduced by the rupee-paying business. Credit card, debit card, plastic currency, should go to this. Therefore, the Government of India in its budget had a tax on credit card, debit card, we had removed the tax and told the government departments to reduce or delete them. Many departments have done less and some departments have also removed them. It did because I had to do this today. When I opened the Prime Minister Jan-Dhan account, opened accounts of the poor, he gave them a credit card, gave a debit card, Rupee card. 20 crore people, so that the poor people will gradually get used to getting their business done by that card. It will take time but this work has done two years ago. I have not suddenly. It is true that the disease is so deep. इतनी 70 साल की पुरानी बीमारी है भई और हर कि‍सी को ये बीमारी लग गई है। भाइयो-बहनों, मैं दवाइयों का dose बढ़ा रहा था, पहल एक dose देता था फि‍र दूसरा dose दि‍या, अभी जरा बड़ा dose दि‍या है और बेईमान लोग और बेईमान लोगों की रक्षा करने वाले लोग, ये भी कान खोलकर के सुन ले कि‍30 दि‍संबर के बाद मोदी अटकने वाला नहीं है। जो लोग गंगा जी में चवन्‍नी नहीं डालते थे आज वो नोट डाल रहे हैं। मैं एक दि‍न देख रहा था कि‍कूड़ा-कचरा साफ करने वाली एक महि‍ला, कहते है कि‍कि‍57,000 रुपए उसको कूड़े-कचरे में मि‍ला वो बेचारी पुलि‍स थाने में जमा करवाने चली गई कि‍साहब इतने रुपए मि‍ले हैं। मैं अभी आया तो यहां स्‍वागत में मेरे प्रभाकर जी ने लोगों पर फूल की पंखुड़ि‍यां डाल रहे थे। मैंने कहा वो दि‍न दूर नहीं होगा जब कोई नेता आएंगे तो लोग 1000-1000 के नोटों की कतरन करके डालेंगे।\nभाइयो-बहनों, सफाई करना जरूरी है और इसलि‍ए मुझे आपकी मदद चाहि‍ए। तकलीफ पड़ेगी, मैंने ये कभी नहीं कहा था कि‍तकलीफ नहीं पड़ेगी। मेरी पूरी कोशि‍श हो। आप देखि‍ए जी, मैं कल देख रहा था कि‍बैंकों में बैंक के कर्मचारि‍यों ने एक साल में जि‍तना काम करते है न, उससे ज्‍यादा काम ये दि‍नों में कि‍या है। हम सब सभी बैंक के कर्मचारि‍यों के लि‍ए तालि‍यां बजाइए । इतना अच्‍छा काम कर रहे हैं आज बैंक के लोग हमारे। उनका अभि‍नंदन करे।\nमैंने देखा कि‍75 साल की उम्र के, 70 साल की उम्र के, 60 साल की उम्र के जो बैंक में से रि‍टायर्ड हुए है ऐसे लोग बैंकों में गए। उन्‍होंने कहा कि‍साहब इस समय में मुफ्त में भी हमारी सेवा चाहि‍ए तो हम काम करने के लि‍ए तैयार हैं, हमारे पास बैंक का अनुभव है। देश में ऐसा हुआ है। मैंने ऐसे नौजवान देखे जो कतार में senior citizen खड़े थे उनके लि‍ए अपने घर से कुर्सि‍यां उठाकर के लाए, उनके बैठने की व्‍यवस्‍था की। मैंने ऐसी माताएं-बहनें देखी जो कतार में खड़े हुए लोगों को घर से लाकर के पानी पि‍ला रही हैं। भाइयो-बहनों सि‍नेमा थि‍येटर के बाहर टि‍कट लेने के लि‍ए कभी-कभी झगड़ा हो जाता है। इतना बड़ा हि‍न्‍दुस्‍तान शान्‍ति‍से कतार में खड़ा है और अपने नंबर का इंतजार कर रहा है। देश बेईमानी से थक चुका है।\nभाइयो-बहनों pain है, मैं मानता हूं मेरे इस निर्णय के कारण pain है लेकि‍न देश को gain ज्‍यादा है। और मैं आपको वि‍श्‍वास दि‍लाता हूं कि‍मैं आपके साथ खड़ा रहूंगा। मैं ईमानदार लोगों से कहना चाहता हूं कि‍आप कि‍सी बेईमान को अपनी 500 या 1000 की कमाई का नोट जल्‍दबाजी में मत दीजि‍ए। 30 दि‍संबर तक आपके पास समय है। कोई 400 में लेने वाला नि‍कल जाएगा, कोई 800 में 1000 की नोट लेने वाला नि‍कल जाएगा। आपके 500 रुपए मतलब कि‍four hundred ninety nine and hundred paisa पूरा का पूरा 500 का आपका हक है और सरकार आपको देने के लि‍ए बंधी हुई है। 1000 का आपका ईमानदारी का नोट आपका हक है। सरकार बंधी हुई है। 30 दि‍संबर तक ये प्रक्रि‍या चलने वाली है। प्रक्रि‍या संतोषजनक होने वाली है। हो सकता है कुछ गंगा में बहा देंगे, कुछ कूड़े-कचरे में डाल देंगे, कतरन बना देंगे। खुद तो शायद बच जाएंगे नोट जाएंगे उसके, 200 करोड़-400 करोड़ जाएंगे। लेकि‍न कोई दूसरे रास्‍ते से। बैंक में जमा करके ईमानदारी का खेल करने गया तो देश आजाद हुआ तब से अब तक का सारा चि‍ट्ठा खोलकर के रख दूंगा। 200% लगने वाले पर 200% दंड लगाउंगा। बहुत लूटा है।\nमेरे प्‍यारे देशवासि‍यों, लूटने वालों को आपने देख लि‍या है। 70 साल देश लूटा गया है, मुझे 70 महीने दीजि‍ए मैं देश को साफ करके रख दूंगा। मोदी ने क्‍या कि‍या। जरा 08 तारीख रात 8 बजे का टीवी खोलकर के देख लो कि‍मोदी ने क्‍या कि‍या।\nमेरे प्‍यारे देशवासि‍यों, मेरे कर्नाटक के भाइयो-बहनों और इसमें ज्‍यादातर गांव के लोग है, मेरी आपसे एक प्रार्थना है कि‍ये जो मैं पवि‍त्र काम करने नि‍कला हूं, देश में ईमानदारी के लि‍ए नि‍कला हूं। अगर आपको मेरे ईमान पर भरोसा है, अगर आपको मेरे काम में भरोसा है। ये जो नोटों की सफाई का मैंने अभि‍यान चलाया है। अगर आपको मेरी बात पर भरोसा है मुझे आपका आशीर्वाद चाहि‍ए। आपसे मेरी वि‍नती है कि‍अपनी जगह पर खड़े होकर के दोनों हाथ से ताली बजाकर के मुझे आशीर्वाद दीजि‍ए। ये ईमान और पवि‍त्रता के काम को मैं आप सब से प्रार्थना करता हूं कि‍आप खड़े होकर के ताली बजाकर के ये एयरकंडीशन कमरों में बैठ करके दि‍न-रात हमारे बाल नोंचने वालों, ये गांव के लोग है, ये पढ़े-लि‍खे लोग है। ये ईमानदारी के लि‍ए कष्‍ट झेलने वाले लोग हैं। ये मुझे आशीर्वाद दे रहे हैं। ये आपका आशीर्वाद देश में सफाई करके रहेगा। I am very grateful to you. मैं आपका बहुत-बहुत धन्‍यवाद करता हूं। मेरे लि‍ए खुशी की बात है। आम तौर पर पत्रकार लोग अपनी कुर्सी पर से खड़े नहीं होते हैं। मैं आज देख रहा हूं कि‍पत्रकार भी खड़े हो गए। मैं आज सौ सलाम करता हूं, इन पत्रकारों को मैं आज सौ सलाम करता हूं। बहुत बड़ी बात की है जी। मैं बहुत आभार व्‍यक्‍त करता हूं, बहुत-बहुत धन्‍यवाद।"