"\nIndia-Japan share deep linksages in the thought streams of Hinduism and Buddhism: PM\nOur Special Strategic and Global Partnership is marked by a growing convergence of economic and strategic issues: PM Modi in Japan\nThere is also a lot that we can do as close partners, not just for the benefit of our societies: PM in Japan\nJapan has always been a valuable partner in economic prosperity, infrastructure development, capacity building: PM\nYour Excellency Prime Minister Shinzo Abe,\nDistinguished Guests,\nLadies \u0026 Gentlemen,\nKonban wa!\nIt is a great honor for me to be back in Japan. The people of India have long hailed the dedication and dynamism; vigour and vitality; and achievements of the Japanese people\nThere is much to learn and absorb from Japan's experience. India and Japan have long enjoyed close and friendly ties. Our societies share deep linksages in the thought streams of Hinduism and Buddhism. We both value the need to maintain balance between economic growth and preserving our civilizational ethos.\nOur relations are strengthened by common values ​​of openness, democracy and respect for the rule of law. Today, our Special Strategic and Global Partnership is marked by a growing convergence of economic and strategic issues.\nThere is also a lot that we can do as close partners, but also for the region and the whole world. Our partnership promotes the goodness of our region\nOur capacity could also be used to respond to both, the opportunities and challenges that we jointly face in present times. And, together with the global community we can, and we must fight against the rising threats of radicalization, extremism and terrorism.\nFriends,\nJapan has always been a valuable partner in economic prosperity, infrastructure development, capacity building and technology advancement. The scope and scale of our co-operations\nOur economic links continue to flourish Trade ties And, Investments from Japan is on the rise Japanese companies have much to gain in participating We, in turn, have got to gain from Japan's unparalleled status as the leader in technology and innovation.\nA welcome feature of our ties is the increase in contacts and co-operation between states in India and prefectures in Japan. It is a reflection of the high priority that we accord with Japan in our worldview. Our ties are nurtured by the fountain of goodwill and mutual admiration that our two peoples have for one another. And, are the strong leadership of Excellency Abe.\nMy meeting with them is the last two years As we celebrate the many outcomes of our Summit meeting, I wish to express my sincere gratitude to Prime Minister Abe and the Government of Japan for warm welcome and excellent arrangements made me and my delegation.\nWithout doubt, our destinies are interlinked. The ocean waters of the Indo-Pacific that lap the coast of Japan also form the surf that breaks on the shores of India. Let us work together, prosperity and development.\nLadies \u0026 Gentlemen,\nMay I now propose a toast:\nTo the good health and personal well-being of Their Majesties the Emperor and Empress of Japan, to the profound success of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, the friendly people of Japan and you are here today,\nTo the ever-lasting friendship between India and Japan,\nKanpai!"