"Share\n\nIn last 2 and half years with the support of 125 crore Indians, India has become the \"bright spot\" in the global economy: PM\nFor development, our motto has been 'Sab Ka Saath Sab Ka Vikas': PM Modi\nOur government is dedicated to the poor. It will remain dedicated to them: PM Modi\nSIT headed by retired Supreme Court judge\nIn the last 2 and half years, we have brought in nearly 1 lakh 25 thousand crore rupees of black money: PM\nInflation becomes worse through the defect The poor have to bear the brunt of this: PM\nTo break the grip of corruption and black money, we have decided that Rs. 500 \u0026 Rs. 1000 notes currently will not be legal tender: PM\nNewly designed notes of Rs. 500 and Rs. 2000 to be brought by the RBI\nMy dear citizens\nI hope you end the festival season of Diwali with joy and new hope. Today, I will be talking about some critical issues and important decisions. Today I want to make a special request You may recall the financial situation in May 2014 In the context of BRICS, it was said that the \"I\" in BRICS was shaky. Since then, we had two years of severe drought Yet, in the last two and a half years with the support of 125 crore Indians, India has become the \"bright spot\" in the global economy. It is not just this; It is being told by the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank.\nIn this effort for development, our motto has been 'Sab Ka Saath Sab Ka Vikas': We are all citizens and for development of all citizens. This government is dedicated to the poor. It will remain dedicated to them In our fight against poverty, our main goal has been to empower the poor, and make them active participants in the economic progress.\nThe Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana,\nthe Jan Suraksha Yojana,\nThe Pradhan Mantra Yojana for small enterprises,\nThe Stand-up India program for Dalits, Adivasis and Women,\nThe Pradhan Mantri Yojna Scheme for gas connections in the homes of the poor,\nThe Pradhan Mantri Fasal Beema Yojana and Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchai Scheme to protect the income of farmers,\nThe Soil Health Card Scheme to ensure the best possible yield from farmers' fields,\nand the e-NAM National Market Place\n-These are all effects of this approach\nIn the past decades, the spectrum of corruption and black money has grown. It has weakened the effort On the one hand, we are now 1 in the rate of economic growth But on the other hand, we were ranked close to one hundred in global corruption perceptions ranking two years back. In spite of many steps taken, we have only been able to reach a ranking of seventy-six. Of course, there is improvement This shows the extent to which corruption and black money have spread their tentacles\nThe evil of corruption has led to selfish interest. They have ignored the poor and cornered benefits. Some people have abused their office for personal gain. On the other hand, honest people have fought against this evil. Crores of common men and women have lived lives of integrity. We hear about poor auto-rickshaw drivers returning gold ornaments We hear about taxi drivers who take the owners of cell phones left behind. We have heard of vegetables vendors\nThere is a strong and decisive step in the history of a country. For years, this country has felt that corruption, black money and terrorism are festering sores.\nTerrorism is a frightening threat. So many have lost their lives But have you ever thought about how these terrorists get their money? Enemies from across the border run their operations using fake currency notes. This is going on for years Many times, those using fake five hundred and rupee notes have been caught and many such notes have been seized.\nBrothers and sisters,\nOn the one hand is the problem of terrorism; on the other is the challenge posed by corruption and black money. We started our decision against corruption by setting up an SIT headed by a retired Supreme Court judge, immediately on taking office. Since then\n• a law passed in 2015 for disclosure of foreign black money;\n• Agreements with many countries, including the USA, have been made to add provisions for sharing banking information;\n• A strict law has come into force from August 2016 to curb benami transactions, which used to deploy black money earned through corruption;\n• A black money after paying a hard penalty;\nMy dear countrymen,\nThrough all these efforts, in the last two and a half years, we have brought about 1 lakh 25 thousand crore rupees of black money belonging to the corrupt. Honest citizens want this fight against corruption, black money, benami property, terrorism and counterfeiting to continue. Which honest citizen would not be pained by the reports of crossover worth of currency notes stashed under the government officers? Or by reports of cash found in bags?\nThe magnitude of cash in circulation Inflation becomes worse through the defect The poor have to bear the brunt of this It has a direct impact on the poor and middle class. You may have yourself experienced when buying land or a house, that apart from the amount paid by check, a large amount is demanded in cash. This creates problems. The misuse of cash has led to artificial increase in the cost of goods and services like homes, land, higher education, health care and so on.\nHigh circulation of cash also strengthens the trade which is directly connected to black money and illegal trade in weapons. Debate on the role of black money in elections\nBrothers and sisters,\nTo break the grip of corruption and black money, we have decided that five hundred rupees and thousand rupee currency notes are currently not used in legal tender since midnight tonight, that is 8th November 2016. This means that these notes will not be Acceptable for transactions from midnight onwards. The five hundred and thousand rupees notes are hoarded by anti-national and anti-social elements. The rights and the interests of honest, hard-working people will be fully protected Let me assure you that notes of one hundred, fifty, twenty, ten, five, two and one rupee and all coins will remain legal tender and will not be affected.\nThis step will strengthen the hands of the common man in the fight against corruption, black money and fake currency. To minimize the difficulties of citizens in the coming days, many steps are being taken.\n1. Persons holding old notes of five hundred or one thousand rupees can deposit in these notes in their bank or post office accounts from 10th November to close of banking hours on 30th December 2016 without any limit.\n2. Thus, you will have 50 days\n3. Your money will stay yours You need not worry about this point\n4. After depositing your money in your account, you can get it when you need it.\n5. Keeping in mind the supply of new notes, in the first few days, there will be a limit of ten thousand rupees per day and twenty thousand rupees per week. This will be increased in the coming days.\n6. Apart from depositing your notes in your bank account, another facility will be there\n7. For your immediate needs, you can go to any bank, head post office or sub post office, show your identity proof like base card, voter card, ration card, passport, PAN card or other approved proofs, and your old five exchange hundred rupees notes for new notes\n8. From 10th November to 24th November the limit for such exchange will be four thousand rupees. From 25th November to 30th December, the limit will be increased.\n9. There may be some who, for some reason, are not able to deposit their old five hundred or rupees notes by 30th December 2016.\n10. They can go to specific offices of the Reserve Bank of India up to 31st March 2017 and deposit the notes after submitting a declaration form.\n11. On 9th November and in some places on 10th November also, ATMs will not work. In the first few days, there will be a limit of two thousand rupees per day per card.\n12. This will be raised to four thousand rupees later\n13. Five hundred and rupee notes will not be legal However for humanitarian reasons, to reduce hardship to citizens, some special arrangements have been made for the first 72 hours, that is midnight on 11th November.\n14. During this period, government hospitals will continue to accept five hundred and rupee notes for payment.\n15. This is the benefit of those families whose members may be unwell.\n16. Pharmacies in government hospitals will also accept these notes for buying medicines with doctors' prescription\n17. For 72 hours, till midnight on 11th November, railway ticket booking counters, ticket counters of government buses and airline tickets counters at ticket counters ticket purchase for old notes accepted. This is for the benefit of those people\n18. For 72 hours, five hundred and rupee notes will be accepted also at\n• Petrol, diesel and CNG gas stations authorized by public sector oil companies\n• Consumer co-operative stores authorized by state or central government\n• Milk booths authorized by State governments\n• Crematoria and burial grounds.\nThese outlets will have the right records of stock and collections.\n19. Arrangements will be made at international airports for arriving and departing passengers who have five hundred or thousand rupee notes of not more than five thousand rupees, to exchange them for new notes or other legal tender.\n20. Foreign tourists will be able to exchange foreign currency or old notes of not more than Rs 5000 in legal tender.\n21. One more thing I would like to mention, I want to stress that there is no restriction of any kind on non-cash payments by checks, demand drafts, debit or credit cards and electronic fund transfer.\nBrothers and sisters,\nIn spite of all these efforts Experience tells us that the citizens are always ready to make sacrifices and face difficulties for the benefit of the nation. I see that spirit when a poor widow gives up his LPG subsidy, when a retired school teacher contributes his pension to the Swac Bharat Mission, when a poor Adivasi mother sells her goats to build a toilet, when a soldier makes up to 57 thousand rupees his village clean I have seen that the citizen has the determination to do anything, if it will lead to the country's progress.\nSo, in this fight against corruption, black money, fake notes and terrorism, in this movement for purifying our country, will our people not put up the difficulties for some days? I have full confidence that every citizen will stand up and participate in this 'mahayagna'. My dear countrymen, after the festival of Diwali, now join the nation and extend your hand in this Imandari ka Utsav, this Pramanikta ka Parv, this celebration of integrity, this festival of credibility\nI am sure all political parties, all governments, social services organizations, the media and indeed all sections of the society will take part in this with enthusiasm and make it a success.\nMy dear countrymen,\nSecrecy was necessary for this action It is only now, as I speak to you, that various agencies like banks, post offices, railways, hospitals and others are being informed. The Reserve Bank, banks and post offices have to make many arrangements at very short notice. Obviously, time will be needed Therefore all banks will be closed to the public on 9th November. This may cause some hardship to you I have full faith that banks and post offices will successfully carry out this great work of national importance. However, I appeal to all of you to help the banks and post offices to meet this challenge with poise and determination.\nMy dear citizens,\nFrom time to time, based on currency requirements, the Reserve Bank with the approval of the Central Government. In 2014, the Reserve Bank sent a recommendation for issue of five thousand and ten thousand rupee notes. After careful consideration, this was not accepted. Now as part of this exercise, RBI's recommendation to issue two thousand Rupee notes has been accepted. New notes of five hundred rupees and two thousand rupees; Based on past experience, the Reserve Bank will soon make arrangements to limit the share of high denomination notes in total currency in circulation.\nIn a country's history, there were moments when every person feels he too should be part of that moment, that he too should make his contribution to the country's progress. Such moments come soon rarely Now, we have again a chance where every citizen can join this Mahayajna against the ills of corruption, black money and fake notes. The more help you give in this campaign, the more successful it will be\nIt is a matter of concern for all of us that corruption and black money tend to be accepted as part of life. This type of thinking has afflicted our politics, our administration and our society like an infestation of termites. None of our public institutions are free from these termites.\nTime and again, I've seen that the average citizen has to choose between dishonesty and bearing inconvenience, they always choose to put up with inconvenience They will not support dishonesty\nOnce again, let me invite you to make this grand sacrifice for cleansing our country, just as you cleaned up your surroundings during Diwali.\nLet us ignore the temporary hardship\nLet us join this festival of integrity and credibility\nLet us enable coming generations to live with their lives\nLet us fight corruption and black money\nLet us confirm that the nation's wealth benefits in the poor\nLet us enable law-abiding citizens to get their due share.\nI am confident in the 125 crore people of India and I am sure the country will get success.\nThank you very much Thanks a lot\nNamaskar."