"Share\n\nIndia-UK ties are truly special It is an enduring partnership, which is nurtured by our shared values: PM\nIndia-UK ties are nurtured by a common vision for a peaceful and prosperous world: PM\nScience and Technology is a vibrant and fast growing space in India-UK partnership: PM Modi\nGrowing Business Partnerships, and expanding trade and capital flows between India-UK is crucial to our economic partnership: PM\nSecurity of the Cyber ​​space, especially involving our critical infrastructure is an area of ​​shared interest: PM\nIndia-UK global partnership is expanding. There is growing convergence of our views on leading global issues: PM\nUK backs India's membership of the UN Security Council and Nuclear Suppliers Group\nYour Excellency, Prime Minister Theresa May Members of the media,\nFriends,\nExcellency, I am honored to welcome you to India We deeply appreciate that you have selected Last week was a great holiday in India. You also celebrated Diwali with much fanfare in London. Your visit today gives us reasons to celebrate the vibrant and strong India-UK partnership.\nFriends,\nIndia-UK ties are truly special It is an enduring partnership, which is nurtured by:\nour shared values;\nbroad people to people linkage lets not forget cricket here;\nwide spread economic engagement for the prosperity of our societies;\nCommon efforts and\nA peaceful and prosperous world\nOur Strategic Partnership is geared towards the current, new and emerging challenges of the twenty first (21st) century and contributing to the big regional and global good.\nFriends,\nIn my broad discussions with Prime Minister May today, we looked at the full range of our partnership. The spread and depth of our engagement has been really impressive. We also agreed to add new domains and initiatives to broaden the scope of our linksages.\nEarlier this morning, Prime Minister May and I jointly inaugurated the India-UK Tech Summit. It marked a fitting celebration of 2016 as the India-UK Year of Education, Innovation and Research.\nScience and Technology is a vibrant and fast growing space in our partnership. It is an area of ​​tremendous potential and promise. It allows the convergence of novel ideas, new research and next generation technologies And, brings the benefits of science and technology collaboration to the lives of common people, not just in India and the UK, but in the whole world.\nAt the Summit, new bilateral initiatives on clean energy development and energy. These will be critical for development of Smart Cities and to our quest for innovative solutions to tackle challenges and climate change.\nFriends,\nGrowing business partnerships, and expanding trade and capital flows between our two economies are crucial to our economic partnership. The Indian companies have successfully invested in the City of London. We are encouraged by the London Stock Exchange today. It reflects the strong investor confidence in the fast growing Indian economy.\nA meeting of the India-UK CEO's Forum, held earlier today and their valuable recommendations, will help us deepen business to business ties. The meeting of the India-UK joint economic and trade committee later this afternoon will take forward the business agenda. We have also signed a joint work group on Trade. We believe that a group should not only focus on trade in goods, but also on the expansion of services trade, including through greater mobility of skilled professionals.\nFriends,\nI also discussed with Defense and Security partnership with Prime Minister May. I encourage British companies to look at the Indian defense sector. Looking beyond trade in defense equipment, I invite them to build partnerships with Indian enterprises that focus on manufacturing, technology transfer and co-development. Security of the Cyber ​​space, especially involving our area of ​​shared interest. I welcome our growing cooperation in this field. I also discussed with Prime Minister May, ways to work together for the growing forces of radicalization and terrorism. We agreed that it is not a limited security challenge Its arc of threat spreads across countries and regions. Terrorist moves across borders with ease, and endanger the whole humanity. I conveyed our deep concerns to Prime Minister May about cross-border terrorism and the need for the international community to take action against terrorism.\nFriends,\nIndia-UK global partnership is expanding. There is a growing convergence of our views on leading global issues. I thanked Prime Minister May for UK's consistent support for India's membership of the UN Security Council and Nuclear Suppliers Group. We also agreed on the need for early adoption of International Terrorism.\nExcellency,\nOur multifaceted relationship is, indeed, unique Your visit to India and the outcome of our discussions today will add new dimensions and substance that would further strengthen India-UK partnership. I also take this opportunity to convey my best wishes to the English cricket team, who will begin their campaign in Rajkot, Gujarat, day after tomorrow. May the best team win! Excellency, let me once again extend a very warm welcome to you and your delegation to India.\nThank you."