"\nToday, the world is on an inflection point where technology advancement is transformational: PM Modi\nVital that India and the UK, two countries linked by history, work together to define the knowledge economy of the 21st century: PM Modi\nIndia is the fastest growing large economy with the most open investment climate: PM Narendra Modi\nScience, Technology and Innovation are immense growth forces and will play a very significant role in India-UK relationship: PM\nIndia and UK can collaborate in 'Digital India' program and expand information convergence and people centric e-governance: PM\nRight Hon'ble Theresa May, Prime Minister of United Kingdom,\nMy colleague Harsh Vardhan, Minister for Science \u0026 Technology and Earth Sciences,\nDr. Naushad Forbes, President of CII,\nDistinguished members from the Academia,\nEminent scientists and technologists,\nIndustry Leaders from UK and India,\nLadies and Gentlemen,\nI am happy to address the India-UK Tech Summit 2016\nThe Tech Summit was envisaged during my visit to the UK in November last year to reinforce the friendship between India and the UK. It also marks the high point commemorating 2016 as the 'India-UK Year of Education, Research and Innovation'.\nIt is a privilege that the Right Honorable Theresa May, the Prime Minister of United Kingdom has joined us at this event. Madam Prime Minister, I am aware that India has always been close to your heart and you have been a great friend of India. Recently you celebrated Diwali at your home!\nYour presence here today reaffirms your commitment to the bilateral relationship. It is an honor for us that you choose to visit India as your first bilateral tour of your immediate neighborhood and we extend a warm welcome to you.\nToday, the world is an inflection point. It is vital that India and the United Kingdom, two countries linked by history, work together to define the knowledge economy of the 21st century.\nIn the current global environment, our two countries face many economic challenges which direct impact trade and commerce. But I am confident that we can leverage our scientific strengths and technological prowess to create new opportunities.\nIndia is the fastest growing economy Our innovative entrepreneurs, talented work force and R \u0026 D capabilities combined with large markets, demographic dividends and growing economic competitiveness.\nSimilarly, the UK too has experienced resilient growth in the recent past. It excels in academic quest and technological innovation.\nEven though the quantum of bilateral trade has remained the same level for the past five years our investments in both directions have been robust. India is the 3rd largest investor in the UK, and UK is the largest G20 investor in India. Both countries support large numbers of jobs in each other's economies\nThe present India-UK cooperation in science and technology is driven by 'high quality' and 'high impact' research partnerships. I am glad to mention that in the 'Newton-Bhabha' program, we have started a wide range of collaborations, starting from the social challenges to address the basic science.\nTogether, our scientific communities are working on new vaccines for infectious diseases, inventing new smart materials, providing solutions for clean energy and climate change mitigation, and improving crop productivity including agriculture and food security.\nWe have agreed to install India-UK Clean Energy R \u0026 D Center on solar energy with 10 million pounds. A new Anti-Microbial Resistance initiative with joint investment of 15 million pounds is also launched.\nI feel that India and UK can partner in harnessing the vast traditional knowledge base in India coupled with modern scientific investigation for a holistic approach to preventive healthcare. This can help address some of the modern life style diseases that we face.\nIndia's partnership with UK in industrial research has been one of our most exciting programs. The Global Innovation \u0026 Technology Alliance or GITA platform of CII and Department of Science and Technology along with innovative-UK support industry led R \u0026 D projects in affordable healthcare, clean technology, manufacturing and ICT.\nThese sectors open new potential for Indian and UK businesses to convert the scientific knowledge into technology based enterprises. I call on all participants here to contribute and value-add to these exciting bilateral programs, aimed to foster innovation and techno-entrepreneurship.\nI firmly believe that Science, Technology and Innovation are immense growth forces and will play a very significant role in our relationship. The Tech Summit aims at strengthening our strategic partnership for mutual gains based on our shared technological prowess and scientific knowledge.\nI have always said that It is in this context that such a summits thrive on a future understanding of our future relationship.\nThe convergence of my government's flagship development missions, our technology achievements and aspirations, and our strong bilateral relations offer huge new growth avenues for Indian and British industries.\nThere is a chance for India and UK to collaborate in the 'Digital India' program and expand information convergence and people centric e-governance.\nIndia will soon have over one billion phone connections with a urban tele-density of around 154%. We have 350 million internet users We are bringing in last mile connectivity to nearly 100,000 villages across the country. Such rapid growth offers new digital highways and new markets for UK and Indian companies to address\nA natural collaboration emerges in India's rapidly developing financial services sector. 'Fintech' is emerging as the next big transformation for India as we bring 220 million new homes in the 'Jan Dhan Yojana'. This financial inclusion scheme is being melded with mobile technology and the unique identification card to form the largest social security program in the world.\nWith UK's leadership in financial technology and international finance, promising opportunities can be harnessed by our enterprises in the mission.\nWe also expect 'Make in India' to be a key sector of bilateral engagement. Advanced Production is a special initiative under this program. UK as a leading player can benefit from our liberal FDI policies in defense manufacturing, aerospace and electronics engineering.\nThe 'Smart City' mission aims to integrate digital technology into our rapidly urbanizing environment. I am glad that there is already a high level of interest from the UK in projects in Pune, Amravati and Indore. I understand that UK companies have already signed deals worth 9 billion pounds and I encourage more participation.\nThe 'Start-up India' program aims at converging innovation and technology with entrepreneurship for our tech-savvy youth. Today, India and UK have emerged among the top three biggest startup hubs in the world, with an exciting ecosystem of investors and innovators.\nTogether, we can create a vibrant and thriving environment for new commercial applications with breakthrough technologies.\nThe selected themes for this Summit like advanced manufacturing, biomedical devises, design, innovation and entrepreneurship all present new openings for business collaboration in our trade relations.\nI believe that India and the UK must continue to nurture and support an ecosystem of high quality fundamental research.\nI am happy to note that the India-UK Tech Summit focuses on higher education. Education is important for our students and will determine our participation in a shared future. We must encourage more participation in education and research opportunities.\nI congratulate the Department of Science and Technology and the Confederation of Indian Industry for organizing this signature event with United Kingdom as partner country. I am confident that the tech summit will be the foundation for the next phase of India-UK relations. It will take us into a successful based on scientific knowledge and technological prowess.\nI thank all the participants from UK and India whose contribution and attendance are crucial to the success of this meet. I would like to thank Prime Minister Theresa May for gracing this opportunity and sharing her vision and vision in building a new India-UK partnership."