"Research in agro-biodiversity is vital to ensure global food, nutrition and environment security: PM\nIndia holds a unique place due to its geo diversity, topography and climate zones: PM\nOurs is agriculture based society: PM\nKeeping our natural resources sustainable and sustainable is our philosophy: PM\nEvery country must learn from other countries for strengthening research in agro-biodiversity: PM\nStage Other Excellence,\nLadies and Gentlemen,\nToday, I am feeling excited by the big scientists, academics, policy makers and my own peasant brothers working in the field of Agobiodiodiversity. On this occasion, I extend my heartfelt condolences to this historic city of Dehlegates, from different parts of the world. This important theme- The first time world-level conference on Agrobiodiversity is being started from India, it is a matter of double happiness for me.\nThe amount of exploitation of nature in the indiscriminate race of development, no one has done it, and if it is said that the biggest loss has happened in the past few centuries then it will not be wrong.\nIn such a situation, the challenges are going to increase in the coming times. At present, discussing agrobiodiversity for GLOBAL FOOD, NUTRITION, HEALTH and ENVIRONMENT SECURITY, research on it is very important.\nDue to its geo-diversity, topography and different types of climatic zones, India is a very rich nation in terms of biodiversity. If there is a desert in the west then it is the most humid part of the world in the northeast. In the north there is the Himalayas, then in the south there is the ocean.\nThere are more than 47 thousand plant specifications in India and there are more than 89,000 species of animals. India has a coastline of more than 8100 kilometers.\nIt is a wonderful ability of this country that, despite having only 2.5 percent land area, this land is handling 17 percent of the world's humankind population, 18 percent of the ANIMAL populations and 6.7 percent of Bio-diversity in it.\nOur country's society has been based on agriculture for thousands of years. Even today, the Agriculture sector is providing employment to more than half of the country's population.\nIndian Agriculture has been doing philosophy, keeping natural resources intact, using them according to their requirements and using them accordingly. Today, the development programs in the world are centered on this philosophy.\nThe center of biodiversity should be in rule-laws or regulations, but not in our consciousness i.e. CONSCIOUSNESS. For this, a lot of old will have to forget, learn something new. These Indian thoughts of natural consciousness are seen in the Ishavasi Upanishad. The idea is that in BIO-CENTRIC WORLD human is just a small part of it. That is, the importance of trees, animals and animals is not less than human beings.\nUnited Nations MILLENNIUM DEVELOPMENT GOAL has accepted the major role of culture in the development. UN 2030 AGENDA FOR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT has also been acknowledged that the contribution of cultures and civilizations to sustainable development is absolutely essential.\nCulture is very important in coordination with nature. We should not forget that the CULTURE is also associated with the AGRICULTURE.\nDifferent variations of different SPECIES present in India are still alive in so many years because our ancestors were well-versed in socio-economic policy. He combined the PRODUCE with social rituals. Tilak will also be accompanied by rice grains, betel leaves will be kept in pooja. In the days of Navratri or fasting, the bread or pulse is made from kutu or buckwheat flour. Buckwheat is the seed of a wild flower. That is, when species were combined with social values, protection was also done and the economic benefits of the farmers.\nFriends, churning should be done about this, it is necessary because even after accepting the proposals of the Biological Diversity Convention in 1992, there are still 50 to 150 SPECIES ending every day. In the coming years, one in eight birds and one fourth of animals is also prone to extinction.\nSo now the way of thinking has to be changed. Along with protecting what is in existence, it will have to pay attention to strengthening it. Every country in the world will have to learn from each other. This will only happen when research in the area of ​​agrobiodiversity will be emphasized. Different ways are being adopted in many countries of the world to save agrobiodiversity. It would be appropriate for you to consider whether you can make a registry of such practice where all such PRACTICES can be recorded by mapping them and then research them in a scientific way to see which such practices are being promoted further. needed.\nIn our different parts of India, our culture has also preserved such species, which generate surprise. In South India there is a very old variety of rice- KONAMAMI (KONAMAMI) This variety is being used as a basis for raising rice yields around the world. Similarly, the variety of Kerala's Pokkali rice is being developed for places where water is very high, or saline, is salty.\nI would like to specifically mention the FOREIGN DELEGATES that there are more than one lakh RADS of rice in India and most of these are hundreds of years old. Over the generations, our farmers kept these and kept developing them.\nAnd it was not just in a specific area. In Assam, Aguni Bora is a variety of rice which can be eaten even after soaking in water for a while. Even in the case of glycemic index, it is very low, so patients with diabetes can also include it in their diet.\nSimilarly, there is a species of wheat in Bhal in Gujarat - Bhaliya wheat ... It contains more protein and carotene, so it is very popular for making porridge and pasta. This variety of wheat has been registered as a geographical identification.\nIndia has contributed a lot to other countries in the area of ​​Agriculture Biodiversity.\nMurrah of Haryana and Jafarabadi buffalo of Gujarat are identified as international trans-boundary breeds. Similarly, India's cow-like breeds like Ongole, Gir and Kancherja were made available to Latin American countries for the fertility improvement program. From the Sundarbans of West Bengal, the sheep breed of the sheep was sent to Australia.\nIn the case of animal biodiversity, India is a prosperous nation. But in India, Nondescript animal species are inaccessible and so far only 160 species have been registered. We need to turn our research in this direction so that more animal breeds can be characterized and they can be registered as appropriate breeders.\nMalnutrition, starvation, poverty - technology has a huge role to overcome it. But it must also be focused on how technology is impacting us. There are people who have been here for a few years before, and I have also been able to have 15-20 phone numbers for everyone. But now the condition is that we do not remember our own mobile number or phone number after the mobile phone arrives. This technology is also a negative impact.\nWe have to be alert about how the technology being adopted in agriculture is changing. An example is HONEY BEE's. Three years ago, on the cover page of HONEY BEE TIME magazine. It was told that the pesticide is being used to protect the crops from insects, so bee forgets the way to reach its honeycomb. A small thing brought the crisis of existence to bee. We all know the role of bee in polythene. The result was that the production of crops also started falling.\nPesticide is a major concern in the agricultural ecosystem. Using insects that harm the crop by using it, they also die INSECTS which are essential for the entire ecosystem. Therefore AUDIT OF DEVELOPMENT OF SCIENCE is also required. With no AUDIT, the world is struggling with many challenges.\nThe difference in biodiversity in our country should be taken as a strength. But this will happen when the value addition of this strength is done, research on it. Just like Gujarat has a grass, Bunny grass. There is high nutrition in that grass. Because of this, the buffalo there gives more milk. Now by adding value to the features of this grass, it can be spread all over the country. For this, the scope of research has to be increased.\nAbout 70 percent of the country's land is surrounded by the ocean. In the world, 10 percent of the different species of fish are found in India. We can not only concentrate this power of the sea for fishing. Scientists must also increase their efforts about the cultivation of marine vegetation, SEA WEED. SEA WEED can be used in making bio-fertilizer. After GREEN and WHITE REVOLUTION we now need to see BLUE REVOLUTION in totality.\nLet me give you another example. There is a variety of mushrooms in Himachal Pradesh - Gucci. Its also MEDICINAL VALUE. Gucci Mushroom sells up to 15 thousand kg in the market. Can something be done to increase the yield of Gucci? Likewise, CASTOR or MILLET i.e. millet. These are also required to have VALUE ADDITION according to the current requirements.\nBut there is also a fine line here. Value addition does not mean species tampering.\nHumans have created problems like climate change by interfering in the normal process of nature. Due to the increase in temperature, changes in the life cycle of plants and organisms are changing. According to an estimate, due to climate change, up to 16 percent of total wild species can be extinct till 2050. This situation creates anxiety.\nConsidering the same danger of global warming, India has ratified the Paris Agreement on the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi on October 2 last month. India is playing an important role in implementing this agreement in the whole world. This is due to our responsibilities and responsibilities towards nature.\nPROPER Management of Agobiodiversity is a priority for the whole world. The continuous growing population pressure and the indiscriminate race of development are going to spoil the natural balance. One of the reasons for this is that attention is being taken on the many crops and animals selected in Modern Agriculture. While it was also necessary for our FOOD SECURITY, ENVIRONMENTAL SECURITY as well as AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT.\nThe important aspect of the conservation of biodegradability is to prepare the surrounding environment for the challenges. For this, it will have to be provided for the use of farmers in addition to conserving a specific GENE in GENEBANKS. So that when he is in GENE farm, the climate will be under pressure, it will be favorable to the surrounding environment only when the resistance will be developed.\nWe have to prepare such mechanisms that our farmer should value the DESIRABLE GENES in his farm and also give the farmers a fair price. Such farmers should make us part of our research work.\nIf you work by creating a pool of international, national and private organizations and expertise, technology \u0026 resources for the protection of biodiversity, then the probability of success will definitely increase. In this endeavor we have to move towards creating and adopting a shared vision.\nWe must also look at how to harmonize the various rules related to the protection of agrobiodiversity, so that these laws do not hinder the progress of agriculture and farmers in developing countries.\nYou are all EXPERTS of your own area. In this conference you will be given a thorough discussion on the various aspects of agrobiodiversity in the next three days.\nToday millions of people in the world are struggling with challenges like poor Hunger, Malnutrition, and Poverty. The role of science and technology is very important in dealing with these challenges. It is necessary that churning on these issues should not be overlooked when critical issues like protection of sustainable development and biodiversity are not ignored.\nCompanions, our agrobiodiversity is the heritage of future generations, and we are only its patrons, so with our collective endeavor to ensure that these NATURAL RESOURCE we entrust them to our future generations in the same form as our ancestors had entrusted to us . With this once again you are welcoming everyone with heart\nthanks a lot"