"PM Modi visits Balangir in Odisha, launches development projects worth Rs 1500 crores\nGovernment is making continuous efforts for the development of Eastern India and Odisha: PM\nEducation leads to human resources development But, it is connectivity that transforms into resources in opportunity: PM Modi\nProfessor Ganesh Lal Ji, Governor of Bharat Mata, Mr. Ganesh Lal Ji, Governor of Jai Odisha, Mr. Jual Oram ji, Union Minister, Mr. Dharmendra Pradhanji, Minister of Odisha Government, Snehagini Churia ji, my colleague Mr. Kailesh Narayan Singh Dev ji in the Parliament and here are my dear sisters And brothers! New year has got good luck again in Odisha. Coming here on the occasion of Makar Sankranti and connecting with new light of development is important in itself. On this sacred occasion of festivals, all the citizens of Odisha, many good wishes to all the citizens of the country.\nProfessor Ganesh Lal Ji, Governor of Bharat Mata, Mr. Ganesh Lal Ji, Governor of Jai Odisha, Mr. Jual Oram ji, Union Minister, Mr. Dharmendra Pradhanji, Minister of Odisha Government, Snehagini Churia ji, my colleague Mr. Kailesh Narayan Singh Dev ji in the Parliament and here are my dear sisters And brothers! New year has got good luck again in Odisha. Coming here on the occasion of Makar Sankranti and connecting with new light of development is important in itself. On this sacred occasion of festivals, all the citizens of Odisha, many good wishes to all the citizens of the country.\nPeer Education develops human resources. This resource then changes into opportunities when connectivity is also supported. Under this sentiment, connectivity is being expanded in Odisha. Today, six projects related to railways have been inaugurated or inaugurated. With this, the connectivity within Odisha will be improved only, movement will be easier even to other states of the country. This will facilitate the arrival of people to the people, farmers will be able to reach their produce in bigger markets or to big cities. Having a facility for transportation for freight and freight will also create a better environment for the industries. When industries start coming here, there will be many employment opportunities for the youth.\nIt has been inaugurated that the new railway line has been created between the partners, Bichhpalli, a while ago. Along with this the new train has also been flagged off. I congratulate all of you for this. Apart from this, all of you are very much congratulating for the multi-modal logistics part of Jharsughara, Jharsughara Vijinagaram and Sanbhalpur Angul line, electrification of Barhpali Dugaripalli and Balangir Devgaon and bridge built on river Nagawali. I wish you all the best.\nWhen the connectivity is good, it has positive effect on almost every sector. Especially for tourism, the highest probability increases. Odisha is thus the center of attraction for all types of tourists. There is also a forest and there is also a coastal edge. Nature has left no shortage here. The same has been the center of history and a kind of faith.\nFor the past four years, the central government has been engaged in developing places of heritage and faith in this spirit. Efforts are being made to beautify many temples, old forts and other places of Odisha and to beautify them. In this connection, the work of renovation and beautification of Neel Madhav and Sidhadeshwar temples has been started today. Similarly, the work of renovation and beautification of the West Somnath Temple, Bhubaneswar Temple and Kapileshwar Temple has been completed and today it has also been inaugurated. Apart from this, the traditional trade route here connects Odisha with Central India. There are many historical monuments in that way. Here, Ranipur, Jhariyal, which is a group of monuments in Balangir, is also being saved. There are 64 yogini temples there, or the Lohagunisa Someshwar, Raniguni or the Indraili temple, and all these ancient heritage, which are visible to our historical site, are going to enhance their divinity and grandeur.\nThe commencement of another memorial renewal has begun today. Asuragarh fort of Kalahandi was a symbol of our bravery, and there was also an important political and business center. It used to connect Mahakanta to Kalinga. I am very happy to be reunited with these golden chapters of my history. I believe that the basic features that have been developed here. The work that has been done for the devotees and tourists will accelerate the tourism here, and employment opportunities will increase many times.\nHere, six new Post Office passport service centers have been started today. Apart from Balangir, the opening of this new center in Jagatsingh Pur, Kendrapara, Puri, Phulbani, Bargarh, now people do not need to go far away for a passport.\nTogether, today, I congratulate Odisha residents for all those projects that make everyone's life easier for the Odisha residents. I wish you a happy new year again.\nThanks a lot."