"Things are now moving with 'Jan Sahyog': PM Modi\nRole of Media in spreading awareness about cleanliness laudable: PM Modi\nHealthy discussions and debate should be a part of democracy: PM\nCombining Lok Sabha and Vidhan Sabha elections will save time and resources: PM\nBharatiya Janata Party national president Mr. Amit Bhai, Manchat all the greatness and all the new old comrades ... It is a good opportunity for some people, maybe for some 15-15, 20 years this Diwali will be seen. The troupe will happen. Maybe some change may have happened in some, good opportunity, this excuse has the chance to get the most. We all have very good luck to you all on the occasion of Deepawali. In the development journey of the country ... there are some things which are the decisions of the government and, in our country, the decisions of the government are discussed, but there is a lot of work that is successful on the power of the people. And these days you must have seen ... things that go with public support ... he has created a different place. And my experience in those things is that the media, especially the media has increased it by expanding it, it has helped. Has played a major role in building a positive thinking of the country.\nThis does not mean that there are no shortcomings in all those works or there will be no shortcomings, but everybody has a mood whether or not the brother should change these things. Such is the topic of cleanliness ... sometimes it has not got place in the form of cleanliness in our country. Sometimes, if someone becomes epidemic, the dirt in his reasons, and the discussion of that mess ... it has been happening to us here. But awareness of cleanliness of society, cleanliness becomes the nature of society, cleanliness is the responsibility of all of us. These days, the competition is going on between the states too.\nOkay, in terms of Open Defication, the way the job is done. Three states have been declared allready open definition free, even if they are small but a good start. In all the states, there are two districts, five districts, ten districts, and also a competition environment that brothers will do so ... some people will do it further. There are many topics in India that should be the agenda of the people's general ... something is going to look like this, I believe it will get good results. And for this, the contribution made by the media world for taking forward the country, I would especially like to appreciate. I want to thank all of you. Some discussions in society have come to a halt as it seems ... It would be good if the media rolled out to carry forward those discussions. Because in the talks, it turns out that if it is good then it is good ... but like now ... the election of the Lok Sabha and the assembly together. Because the country and the more parties we meet ... all the political parties ... there is no rest in it. In private talk, there is something that Modi has to say. I also spoke once or twice ... After speaking, I saw that some political parties have started shouting after being spoken vocally. This will be the situation. It should be discussed on some days because the senior officials of the code of conduct and also in the Observers and Observer want an Election Commission.\nObserver also goes to the two-two, two-and-a-half months, as an observer in other states. In the state where there is no election, 10-12 officers are well-off officers who are in good hands. So many kinds of obstacles are experienced ... there is a financial burden. The country has grown so much that sometimes it should be discussed. No one can impose, the government's decision can not be ... the government does not even have to make this decision. But all the political parties ... those who worry about such topics in the country ... it is necessary to emphasize the discussion of these topics. And I would like to meet Deepavali on this holy festival, then ... and there are many people who have ever made such issues and have made this issue a big issue.\nNow, in the country, if it feels okay, if it is done, it can be done like doing it, maybe it is not possible to get strength, it is not bad in that. It should not be wrong, should it be Should meet, the discussion should be democracy. But I see that it comes to a halt, it stays. I hope that all of this will help us together. I wish you all very well. Thank you ..."