"\n2015 a momentous year as world adopted 2 important frameworks- the SDGs \u0026 Paris Climate Agreement\nOver the last two decades, the world and specifically our region has undergone many changes- most of them positive: PM\nToday, over thirty Asian countries have dedicated institutions leading disaster risk management efforts: PM Modi\nAll development sectors should imbibe the principles of disaster risk management: PM Modi\nWork towards risk coverage for all-start from poor households to SMEs to multi-national corporations to nation states: PM\nWe should encourage greater involvement and leadership of women in disaster risk management: PM\nWe should leverage technology to improve the efficiency of our disaster risk management efforts: PM\nOpportunity to learn from a disaster After every disaster there are papers on lessons that are rarely applied: PM\nDistinguished dignitaries on the dais,\nLadies and Gentlemen,\nI welcome you all to New Delhi for this landmark conference, the first after the adoption of the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction.\nI commend the national disaster risk management agencies, their governments in the Asia-Pacific region, the United Nations, and other stakeholders for coming together for this important cause.\nFriends,\n2015 was a momentous year! Apart from the Sendai Framework, the international community adopted two other major frameworks to shape the future of humanity:\n- The Sustainable Development Goals,\n- and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change\nThe spirit of inter-connectedness, highlighted in the film, is the hallmark of these global frameworks. The success of every two of them Disaster Risk Reduction is a pivotal role in support adaptation to climate change as well as sustainable development. It is in this context that this conference becomes timely and relevant.\nFriends,\nOver the last two decades, the world, and specifically our region has undergone many changes - most of them positive Many countries in our region have transformed their economies and become engines of global economic growth. Hundreds of millions of people have been out of poverty The Asia-Pacific region has been a global leader in more ways than one\nBut we must not take this progress for granted There are challenges as well. Over the last twenty years, more than eight hundred and fifty thousand people died from disasters in the Asia-Pacific. Seven of the top ten countries in the world in terms of the deaths due to disasters are in the Asia-Pacific.\nI have seen the human suffering caused by disasters. I witnessed the Gujarat earthquake of 2001, and later, as Chief Minister of the State, I worked with my people to support post-earthquake recovery. It was distressing But I was also inspired by their courage, ingenuity and resolve to recover from the disaster. In my experience, the more we relied on people's own leadership, the better were the results. This was not only limited to ownership, but also the construction of community buildings. For example, when we entrusted the community the task of reconstructing a school, the earthquake-resistant building was completed in time, at a lower cost, and the savings were returned to Government We need to support such initiative and leadership through policies and practices.\nFriends,\nWe have been learning from disasters. A quarter century ago, only a handful of Asian nations had national disaster management institutions. Today, over thirty Asian countries have dedicated disaster risk management efforts. After the Indian Ocean Tsunami of 2004, the five worst affected countries brought in new laws for disaster risk management. In a couple of days, we will observe the first International Tsunami Awareness Day. This will be a festival to be celebrated as the major warnings. In December 2004, The Indian Ocean Tsunami caught us unprepared, and there was no warning. We now have a fully functional Indian Ocean Tsunami Warning System. Along with its Australian and Indonesian counterparts, the Indian National Center for Ocean Information Services is mandated to issue regional tsunami bulletins.\nThe same goes for improvements in cyclone early warning. In India, if we compare the cyclone events in 1999 and 2013, we can see the progress we have made. Similar progress has been made in many countries For example, after the 1991 cyclone, the Government of Bangladesh launched a large community-based cyclone preparedness program. It led to a significant reduction in losses from cyclones. It is now recognized as a global best practice.\nFriends,\nThis is just the beginning There are daunting challenges ahead. The Asia-Pacific is rapidly urbanizing. Maybe within a decade more people in the region will live in cities than in villages Urbanization will pose greater challenges for disaster risk management, by concentrating people, property and economic activity in smaller areas, many of them in the disaster prone locations. If we do not manage this growth, in terms of both planning and execution, the risk of economic and human losses from disasters will be higher than ever before.\nIn this context, let me outline a ten-point agenda for our efforts towards disaster risk reduction:\nFirst, all development sectors should be imbibe the principles of disaster risk management. This will ensure that all development projects - airports, roads, canals, hospitals, schools, bridges - are built to fit standards and contribute to the relilience of communities. Over the next couple of decades We need to make it the best available standards of disaster safety. This is a smart strategy, which pays off in the long term.\nAll our public expenditure should take into account risk considerations In India, the 'housing for all' program and 'smart cities' initiative represent such opportunities. India will work with other partner countries and stakeholders to build a coalition or center for promoting disaster resilient infrastructure in the region. This will help generate new knowledge for hazard risk assessment, disaster resilient technologies and mechanisms for integrating risk reduction in infrastructure financing\nSecond, work towards risk coverage for all - starting from poor households to small and medium enterprises to multi-national corporations to nation states. Currently, in most countries of the region, penetration of insurance is limited to only middle and upper-middle income groups. We need to think big and also think innovatively States have an important role in not just regulating but also encouraging coverage for those who need it the most. In India, we have taken steps to ensure financial inclusion and risk insurance for the poorest. The Jan Dhan Yojana has brought millions of people into the banking system. The Suraksha Bima Yojana provides risk insurance to millions who need it the most. We have launched the Fasal Bima Yojana, which will provide millions of farmers. These are the basic building blocks of resilience at the home level.\nThird, encourage greater involvement and leadership in women in disaster risk management. Women are disproportionately affected by disasters They also have unique strengths and insights. We must train a large number of women volunteers to support We need women engineers, masons and building artisans support reconstruction, and women self help groups.\nFourth, invest in risk mapping globally For mapping risks related to hazards such as earthquakes Based on these, in India, we have mapped seismic zones, with five as the highest seismic risk and two as low risk. For disaster risk related to other hazards such as chemical hazards, forest fires, cyclones, different types of floods, we need to evolve similar globally accepted risk categories. This will help us ensure that we have a common understanding of the nature and severity of disaster risks in different parts of the world.\nFifth, leverage technology to improve the efficiency of our disaster risk management efforts. An e-platform that brings together maps and exchange expertise, technology and resources will go a long way in our collective impact.\nSixth, develop a network of universities. After all, universities have social responsibilities too. Over the first five years of the Sendai Framework, we should develop a global network of problems. As part of the network, different universities could specialize in multi-disciplinary research on disaster issues. Universities located in coastal areas could be specializing in managing risks from coastal hazards, and the ones located in the hill cities may focus on mountain hazards.\nSeventh, use the opportunities provided by social media and mobile technologies. Social media is transforming disaster response It is helping respondents in quickly organizing themselves, and enabling citizens to connect more easily with authorities In disaster after disaster, affected people We must identify the potential of social media and develop applications for all aspects of disaster risk management.\nEighth, build on local capacity and initiative. The task of disaster risk management, specially in rapidly growing economies, is so huge that enabling conditions to be created in the formal form of the state can at best be instrumental. Specific actions are to be designed and implemented locally Over the last two decades, most community based efforts have been confined to disaster preparedness and contingency planning for the short term. We need to expand the scope of community based efforts and support communities to identify local risk reduction measures and implement them. Such efforts reduce risk and create opportunities for local development and sustainable livelihoods. Localization of disaster risk reduction will also ensure that we are the best of traditional best practices and indigenous knowledge.\nResponse agencies need to interact with their communities, and make them aware of disaster response. For example, if a local fire service visits one school in its area every week, it would be sensitized for thousands of children over a period of one year.\nNinth, sure to learn from a disaster is not wasted. After every disaster there are papers and reports that are rarely applied. Often the same mistakes are repeated We need a more vibrant and visual system of learning. The United Nations could start an international competition of documentary films that record disaster events, their scale, and relief, rehabilitation, reconstruction and recovery afterwards.\nPost-disaster recovery is a opportunity to not just 'build back better' in terms of physical infrastructure, but also in terms of improved institutional systems for managing risk. For this we need to put in place systems that can quickly provide risk assessments. India will work with partner countries and multilateral development agencies to provide a facility for post-disaster reconstruction of houses.\nAnd finally, bring about greater cohesion in international response to disasters. In the aftermath of a disaster, disaster responders pour in from all over the world. This collective strength and solidarity could be further enhanced if we work under a common umbrella. The United Nations could think of a common logo and branding under which they are helping with relief, rehabilitation and reconstruction operations.\nFriends\nArmed Forces But to deal with disasters, we need to teach\nWe have been wholeheartedly embraced the spirit of Sendai, which calls for an all-of-society approach to disaster risk management.\nIn India, we are committed to implementing the Sendai Framework. In June this year, India's National Disaster Management Plan was released which is aligned with the priorities set out in the Sendai Framework.\nIn our effort to build disaster resilience, we should Regional and International Cooperation has an important role in our efforts.\nLast year in November, India organized the first-ever South Asian Annual Disaster Management Exercise. In the spirit of regional cooperation, India will soon launch the South Asia Satellite The capabilities of this satellite and other space-based technologies can support the full disaster risk management cycle - risk assessment, risk mitigation, preparedness, response and recovery. India is ready to make its space capabilities available for any country.\nAs we implement the Sendai Framework, we will welcome new opportunities for regional and international collaboration.\nI am sure, this conference will energize our efforts and the results of the conference will be a solid blueprint for collective action.\nThank you.\n2015 was a momentous year! Apart from Sendai Framework, international community adopted 2 major frameworks to shape future of humanity: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 3, 2016\nThey are the sustainable Development Goals and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 3, 2016\nOver the last two decades, the world and specifically our region has undergone many changes- most of them positive: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 3, 2016\nThe Asia-Pacific region has been a global leader in more ways than one: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 3, 2016\nWe have been learning from disasters: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 3, 2016\nA quarter century ago, only a handful of Asian nations had national disaster management institutions: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 3, 2016\nToday, over thirty Asian countries have dedicated organizations leading disaster risk management efforts: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 3, 2016\nWe now have a fully functional Indian Ocean Tsunami Warning System: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 3, 2016\nSame goes for improvements in cyclone early warning. If we compare the cyclone events in 1999 and 2013, we can see the progress made: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 3, 2016\nLet me outline a ten-point agenda for renewing our efforts towards disaster risk reduction: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 3, 2016\nFirst, all development sectors should imbibe the principles of disaster risk management: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 3, 2016\nSecond, work towards risk coverage for all-start from poor households to SMEs to multi-national corporations to nation states: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 3, 2016\nThird, encourages greater involvement and leadership of women in disaster risk management: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 3, 2016\nFourth, invest in risk mapping globally For mapping risks related to hazards like earthquakes we have accepted standards \u0026 parameters: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 3, 2016\nFifth, leverage technology to improve the efficiency of our disaster risk management efforts: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 3, 2016\nSixth, develop a network of universities to work on disaster issues: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 3, 2016\nSeventh, utilizes the opportunities provided by social media and mobile technologies: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 3, 2016\nEighth, build on local capacity and initiative: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 3, 2016\nNinth, opportunity to learn from a disaster After every disaster there are papers on lessons that are rarely applied: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 3, 2016\nAnd tenth, bring about greater cohesion in international response to disasters: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 3, 2016\nWe have been wholeheartedly embrace the spirit of Sendai which calls for an all-of-society approach to disaster risk management: PM"