"Share\n\nThe colonial rulers were scared of those who wrote and expressed themselves through the papers: PM\nPrime Minister Narendra Modi\nTechnology poses a challenge to the media News that could be premedited in 24 hours now in 24 seconds: PM\nAll senior noblemen,\nMany people who received the award today, very much congratulating me on my behalf. And there will be many people who might not have reached the award but they will be very close. I congratulate them also. So that the series continues. Keeping everyone's pen, everyone's thinking and hard work contributed in some way to the country.\nThere are many people who make space in their area during their lifetime. There are some people, who make their place outside their work area in their lifetime. But there are very few people, who, despite their lifetime, make their place in the periphery of their area, they get immortality. And that name is Ramnath Goenka ji.\nIt was my privilege that I had the opportunity to visit Ramnath Ji. They came to Gujarat Now, at the place where he was, it is natural that the scope of his meeting can be the president of a political party or the chief minister or the media may be in the future that they can be big editors. I did not have anything Maybe he demands time from an editor in the city, he does not even fill the month. But I got a good fortune of Ramnathji's philosophy. That was the period of the movement of Jaiprakash ji. And there was fire within Ramnath ji. They could have experienced the fire. And that Indian Express was a newspaper and it was not like that. The newspapers which used to express them through the newspaper were not satisfied. The newspaper too short for their feelings. And so they wanted to do something outside the newspaper's periphery and used to do it. And someone who did the job of standing behind Jai Prakash ji at that time was done by Goenka ji. Staying so firmly in your principles that it is in this part that everyone knows about the family. If there is a close relationship with him, I do not know where he comes from. Does anything get it There was no shortage of those who tried for the kindness of that family. The basis of the principles was closely related to this family. But on the basis of principles, someone had shown the courage to break the relationship with the family, then Mr. Goenka ji showed it and on principles and ideals,\nAnd therefore, through the journalism section, which appears. The other day those people who read in the newspaper. Not limited to And see the whole history of India, I do not know what is the syllabus of the student of journalism today - what happens. But if we look at the history of journalism of India His entire development journey was associated with the development journey of the freedom movement. There was no such movement of freedom of this country, which is not connected to any newspaper. And everyone thought that the British had to fight against the Sultanate, so I had a tool, they used to fight. And most of the people who ran the movement of freedom of the country by the service of the field of journalism had to live life in prisons for many years. But they did not give up fighting. And the name of every big person in our country, whether it is Tilak, take Gandhiji, everybody's name, even Sri Arvindo, everybody in the era of his life, became a great force in the movement of freedom through the newspaper. Another feature of India, we feel that our mothers are the children of Saraswati. Poetry that is comfortable, whose literature is created and spontaneous. Mother Saraswati is blessed by her blessings. But there was an era that almost all the major literate people of India preferred to join journalism. And journalism is not learned. He used to quote the poem with poetry. But the zeal that was filled with journalism used to inspire the movement. More than the power of poetry they had the power of journalism at that time. And from this path of poetry to your joy. But the path of journalism for the nation's welfare, it is for us the whole generation of literary life. That is, the journey of India in a way. And English Sultanat also saw some areas for the crisis. There was an area in it. People who read this writing And they felt that there should be some arrangements against them to fight against them.\nCountry is free After independence, India's journalism has played an important role in strengthening India's democracy, for democracy to move in the right direction. Not for anyone's criticism. Not to say bad to anyone. But we know that a big epidemic has arrived. Someone came sick, so everyone remembers the first major disease that happened at that time. Because going from Known to Unknown is easy. And that's why democracy can be threatened and how important it is. Emergency period in India is very useful to understand this. People say bad if they speak of emergency. He is seen with political scales. I think the political game has ended. Today, I am using the words of the airplanes I am not using the words of criticism on its airplane. It must be kept in every generation so that there should not be such a ruler in this country that whoever wants to commit this kind of sin will be born. It is very important for us to remember the times of the community we are in order to keep our attention alert. It is also true that at that time the media from which the world was stuck is called such. When the power of the media was discussed. But that period did not show whether those who listened to it were not seeing it is anything else. Very rarely came out, very little. Who chose the path to challenge the emergency And his leadership was done by Ramnath Goenka ji, the Indian Express did it and was very anxious. I think that these pages of history are necessary for the need for democracy. Democracy is required to be sharpened every time in every age.\nToday, at my own place, I think maybe the challenges that the media did not have in the last full century. Those challenges are today. Probably there was no one in the whole of the whole century. And that is the root cause technology. Technology has created a huge challenge especially for the media. Even the first news came even after 24 hours, the news was news. Today 24 seconds may be too good - well you do not know. Hey, it's done, in the hands of the telephone in his hands. Anyone in the world is aware that yes, when it has come. I do not agree. When TV media came, governments were upset that news on TV in one place would come. Government should have a response time. Mano epidemic came and people have to mobilize, if there is a riot, then the police have to send. The media does not give that much time. So news for him - news. breaking news. Do not know, no. But not even the power of the government to co-up him, the social media came first, which was of fraction of Seconds ... .. First journalism written by anybody who came in the system, people joined in some system, today nothing is the man of the village. Fixes it, removes the photo, gives it up. And due to this people have lots of cough. And in this situation, Credibility is a lot of thing. Habitual people take the newspaper every morning. This habit is like habit like drinking tea. They watch the news on TV, but once they pick up the paper. But now he does not read the news, he verifies that he had seen in the mobile yesterday that he is coming second is that. And then he calculates that it is good that the brother has gone two rupees today and hence I understand the challenge is very big. And how we will cop-up this challenge. But at the same time, we also experience what kind of talent is there in the country - what kind of human society is filled with sensations. Every little thing he sees by analyzing closely.\nI miss equals I was the CM of Gujarat, and sometimes the leader of the people used to be featured in the newspaper. Everybody has to print it once every year once someone has it twice. These VIP Culture are taken with so many carts, Dhikana-fruits are a very interesting subject and if there is no news then ready-made is also available. We also used to read I also used to tell our officials that what is the purpose of taking care of this thing. Do not say Sir, this is written in the Blue Book, we can not even compromise it. We were not even able to understand them. But once I was passing my convoy from Ahmedabad, when it was evening time. A young man started recording in his mobile. And as the carts were going, one or two counting was going on. And uploaded it. I myself was very active in social media, so I went to me in two or three hours. I was more than influenced by the criticism in the newspapers. The upload which a young man uploaded had an effect. I tell my point of how much strength has been done. Empowerment of people is a good thing. And at this time to maintain Credibility, I understand that there is a great demand for time.\nTwo things are such, though this is such a square and this is the area which everyone has the right to say. Nobody has any right to tell them. And then what will happen then? I also know that you also know well. Well I would be grateful to the media for lifetime, or else who knew me. If any politician got such good luck after Independence, then I am alone. So two things always stay in my mind. And I would like to have a thought. Look, the world has changed. Only Economy Globalize should not be so, the whole life has become globalized. The whole world is inter-connected Inter-dependent. What is the reason that there is no place for Indian origin in the media world of the whole world. Some people still meet today. Hey I heard in the BBC now has reached Aljazeera. The matter is CNN, BBC, Aljazeera. People of this field should understand this challenge. If there is a world class of Indian origin and if we are a player in the world, then the effect of our every aspect should be born in the world, I do not think anyone feels bad or does not feel. I think my country should have an impact. We have a lot of strength here as I have just received an award on Environment. I asked Vivek. I said Vivek is reporting on the pollution that is on the environment. In such a joke I was asking.\nToday discusses global warming and environment for the whole world. How to live with nature in the veins of India, what is the significance of nature, accepting the power of nature is in our veins. If we had any media at this level then explain to the world that we have ruined ourselves to save the cause of the waste. We have harmed ourselves. These Mahatma Gandhi lived on the banks of Sabarmati. The river was then filled with water in the 1930s. But with Gandhiji giving water glass, he used to say that brother bring half, half back in that mat, do not waste water. The rivers were sitting on the banks of the river flowing. The discussion of natural resources is in our veins. This is the country that teaches children in childhood that the son keeps the feet down from the bed and ask for the forgiveness of the earth mother that you are keeping your feet on the earth. This is how our Sanskar maa is written so read to the child that this sun is your grandfather, this moon is your mama, the whole universe is your family. This is filled with rugs here. Why do not we have the power of journalism to save the world from global warming. We have a Global Institution, let's tell the world that Bhai is the way. but it is difficult. What can we do in that direction?\nAnd I believe that maybe somebody will emerge and this should not be a government. The government should not be at all. And as Vinoba was saying that I always liked the mantra which I liked. Vinoba ji was a great expert in playing games. And I liked it very much to read Vinova. He wrote in one place the non-official-effective word is the same, the non-government-effective (Effective), it should be our dream that in the world we should also have a place in Media World of that level. And perhaps those MediaWeers who are going to be research will know that all the top countries in the world are engaged in the work of today, Finance, Budget, arranging how the communication agencies of this level are ready. Governments of Governments are engaged. Everyone thinks that Bhai is not just Globalized Economy, this whole world is shaping in this way. It is very important to see us in it. There is also an opportunity to challenge. We should think about that.\nThe criticism of the other governments is as good as that, so I have no problem in it. So do not make a mistake in reporting. But India is a country full of diversions. Is a country full of characteristics. The unity of the country is news for you and immediately after the publication, you are searching for the second news. But sometimes he gives such a deep wound. It does not mean that these sins and people do not do that we do more than you people, our people, our communities. But it is a matter of concern that how we emphasize things that increase the unity of the country. I give examples. And I am wrong, so many people are sitting here that they will not say so, but after the month they will say. If there was any accident before, it would have been news that a truck accidentally happened in the village and in the cycle, the bicycle became injured, it was expired. Slowly changed The change was done by rash driving in the village of Phalna village, the drunk driver, the innocent man crushed. Reports gradually changed. BMW car crushed a dalit सर मुझे क्षमा करना वो बीएमडब्ल्यू वाले कार को मालूम नहीं था कि वो दलित थे जी। लेकिन हम आग लगा देते थे। Accidental reporting होना चाहिए होना चाहिए? Should be. अगर हैडलाइन बनाने जैसा है तो हैडलाइन बना दो।\nबजट आता है बजट का reporting क्या करना है कि भई सरकार का बजट आया deficit है या नहीं है। दो हजार करोड़ का टैक्स लगाया, हजार करोड़ का लगाया। ये न्यूज है। लेकिन हमें न्यूज नहीं पढ़ने को मिला। न्यूज मिलता है मोदी सरकार का कमरतोड़ बजट! मोदी सरकार का उत्तर प्रदेश चुनाव को ध्यान में रखकर के बजट! खैर ये बातें तो आप भी समझते हैं मैं भी समता हूं। लेकिन ये कोई आलोचना के लिए नहीं है। हमारे लिये बहुत आवश्यक है।\nइतने बड़े देश को सरकारों से नहीं चलता है जी। जितनी संस्थाएं देश को एकजुट रख सकती हैं। जितनी संस्थाएं देश को आगे बढ़ा सकती हैं। हम सब मिलकर करेंगे। there is no reason. हमारा देश पीछे रह सकता है। कोई कारण नहीं है दुनिया को हम कुछ दे नहीं सकते। और ऐसे नौजवान जिन्होंने पत्रकारिता को अपना धर्म मानकर के उत्तम से उत्तम प्रकार से अपने जीवन की शुरुआत की है। उनको मेरी बहुत-बहुत शुभकामनाएं हैं। और उनसे प्रेरणा पाकर के नई पीढ़ी भी तैयार होगी। उनको भी मेरी शुभ कामनाएं है। भाई विवेक ने मुझे बुलाया। परिवारजनों के साथ मेरा नाता बहुत पुराना है। लेकिन आज इस अवसर पर आने का सौभाग्य मिला। मैं परिवार को बहुत – बहुत आभारी हूं। Thank you."