"\nLet every citizen of Haryana pledge to protect the girl child: PM Narendra Modi\nPeople of Haryana have given their lives for the nation by serving in the armed forces: PM\nModi has done a work to ensure female foeticide does not happen: PM\nThe girls of Haryana have made India very proud on multiple occasions: PM\nLet us think about making ODF in this golden jubilee year: PM Modi\nToday Haryana is commencing its golden jubilee. My very best wishes to all the villagers on this important occasion. As the Chief Minister told that the opportunity of Golden Jubilee is of no team, neither is any government; These opportunities belong to every single Haryana.\nCelebrating an anniversary in the person's life, celebrating some special occasions, inspires the person to take new resolutions. In the same way, the state and the state inspire people to make such resolutions something new.\nIn the period of this golden jubilee, I will pray to all the people of Haryāियाāvās that the things that have been kept for making Haryana in 1996, the agitations that have been organized, the ideas presented, the newspapers of that time, the details of that time, Once all those things should be taken by every Hariyanwi think about what motivated them; Which way did they go; Which floor did you get to get; Where have they reached; How much more will it cost now; What can be done to reach the earliest, this is also a time for accounting.\n50 years of glorification, 50 years of humble tribute, resolve, resolution; He has brought Haryana here today. But the pace that used to move ten years ago today, could have been talked about. Between the light jokes, sitting in the village on the cot, the person of Haryana has the power to tell the most accurate thing. He even tells a great deal in his rural language.\nMy good fortune is to work on the earth for many years, and so I am well aware of these things. Although Haryana may be a small region, but there will be no area of ​​life, in which the person of Haryana does not have the excitement of sweat. Though it seems that the people of Haryana are mostly farmers, but where the people of Haryana are in business, and in many states of India, they have also got their iron in business.\nPeople think that the people of Haryana do farming in the village, but every ten jawans of this country belong to a young man in the army. No area will be like this where the Haryana people did not recognize any of the finest of sacrifice for the country. And this is also the feature of Haryana that the effect of Swami Dayanand Saraswati is very deep in Haryana. You will find hundreds of families, where even today Swami Dayanand Saraswati ji remembers his eyes. And this is the earth which has a shadow of the names of many great men.\nPerhaps there will be war in the world, but there will hardly be such a war in the world where life and death play on the battlefield, at the same time, the best of the ideals of life and guide you for thousands of years, such a Gita Composition has happened in the battleground. This is a strange phenomenon, or else there is something that comes out after the inner sinking in the Chintan-Mannan's calm-edged corner, but see the specialty of the battleground, even in the battlefield, the philosophy of life's ideals can be served, such is the earth. But the greatness of which he is, so is his great responsibilities. I always had the pain of one thing that such a territorial state, such a strong state, a new state of acceptance at all times, is the reason that daughters are killed only in the womb?\nI want to congratulate Manoharlal ji, I want to congratulate the people of Haryana, when I saved my daughter, daughter had asked for the teachings of the people of Haryana to protect the lives of daughters. And today I can say with satisfaction that the people of Haryana respected this sentiment. Today, in the state of gender ratio, which is bringing improvement in the speed of improvement, it is bringing the state of Haryana.\nI want to congratulate those mothers who were in the womb of a womb, as a mother-in-law; As a mother; He resolved to protect him. I respect the elderly, who will not allow the daughter to die in Haryana, will not kill, taking this resolution has led to improving the situation. Every class of society has the opportunity for me to celebrate the golden jubilee of all these elderly people of Haryana, bowing their head and bowing down. And this is Haryana's daughter, which is not only of Haryana but the whole of India has been blessed with honor. In this Golden Jubilee, every Haryana should resolve that in the matter of saving the daughter no Haryana will be allowed to do any harm, neither will the child be killed, every Haryana will protect the right to give birth to the daughters. There can be no opportunity for greater golden jubilee from this.\nI congratulate the Government of Mr. Manohar Lal Ji for this matter also today that he has declared some districts open open defecation today. Imagine that between the one and a half decade of the 21st century, we have gone through, and even today our mothers and sisters have to go for open defecation in the village, what can be the matter of great embarrassment. And they go to shame before either the sun rises, for the sake of defeats, either the sun waits for the sun to fall. How much pain can not go anywhere in the world due to shyness, what can be a big crime, and therefore I expect the people of Haryana, I congratulate the Haryana government, now that there is nowhere in our village Also, no one has to be forced to go out in the open. If possible, at this time we should open open defecation to the entire Haryana State in this golden jubilee, we should release it from open defecation in open, and I believe Haryana can do this, can do it.\nToday Haryana has given a new direction to the whole country. I congratulate on the heart of the Chief Minister, his whole team for this. They made some districts free of kerosene, eight of which eight were released from kerosene. Now it was not understood that electricity has come, there is a gas connection in the house, gas is the cylinder, but the kerosene quota is also going on. He is not carrying kerosene, someone else takes it. Some middleman, a broker, is in his black money game. And they mix kerosene in diesel, the vehicle runs it, damages the environment, loss of foreign currency.\nI have urged all the governments of the entire country that you will save the amount of kerosene that will be used, the more money you save from it, I will give you more money, but save it. Today, eight districts were completely free of kerosene and I was told that the entire kerosene of kerosene in Haryana will be freed from these grenades, till March this year. What could be the bigger opportunity than Golden Jubilee?\nI am happy that this opportunity of Golden Jubilee has not been made a government program. It has been made a festival of public opinion. How Haryana has moved with public participation, every Haryana has some contribution. Dear Haryana dear ones, my Haryana sisters, if the citizen of Haryana gets one step ahead of the golden jubilee, then Haryana can go two and a half million steps ahead. If one Harinvi goes one step further, Haryana can move two and a half million steps further. If once Haryana goes two and a half million steps ahead of this golden jubilee, then there is a power in any state in India that can overcome Haryana?\nShould the people of Haryana decide whether or not to do it? Should we make Haryana the number one or not? We are ahead in our power, but there are many such powers, which we have not yet recognized, identify our those powers, and we, just go ahead, go ahead; Not so, this is Delhi, it's all around you, and if you go ahead, you will be left behind Delhi. The advantage of your strength, Delhi will also move forward. And if Delhi goes ahead, it is the capital of the country, the power to give India the opportunity to move forward, it is in Haryana.\nGeographically you are in a place where you can give strength to the country. And therefore, the opportunity of this golden jubilee became the crossing of those new boundary marks, the resolution for the masses, the change is from our village, the change will be from our region, and its result is influenced by the whole Haryana's change. Ho. If we take this feeling, we will celebrate this golden jubilee, will do many programs, will do it with public participation, and the program will not do for the program, some will do something to achieve, some will do something to fulfill.\nYou see, there is such power in Haryana, so much power that he can work as a growth engine to take the country forward.\nOnce again, to all the Haryana people spread all over the world, to all the citizens living in Haryana, giving many good wishes on the occasion of this Golden Jubilee, we expect that we should take the spell of peace, unity, goodwill, shoulder By joining the shoulders, go in the right direction to ensure the fate of the coming generations.\nThose dreams which were made by Haryana, to fulfill those dreams, take the aim of putting a huge jump, and have the power in Haryana. This is my complete confidence. Haryana can do this, it is my complete confidence. And the one who trusts is expected. And I believe that on the occasion of Golden Jubilee, you will cross these new heights, I wish you many very good luck. Thank you."