"\nDevelopment is the only way to solve the problems that India is facing: PM Modi\nOur skilled youth can pull themselves out of poverty and help the engine of growth: PM Modi\nThe Center, states, municipalities and panchayats should work together to eradicate poverty: PM Modi\nSkilled youth can pull themselves and others out of poverty \u0026 add to the country's economy: PM\nPeople with enough skills can help boost the country's economy: PM\nMr Balram Das ji Tandan, the Governor of Chhattisgarh, who was present on the stage, Dr. Raman Singh Ji, the popular Chief Minister of Chhattisgarh, Mr. Vishnu Devji, my colleague of the Council of Ministers at the Center, Mr. Gaurishankar Aggarwal, President of Chhattisgarh Vidhan Sabha, all the Ministers of Chhattisgarh Government, Member of Parliament Mr. Ramesh ji, all my brothers and sisters of Chhattisgarh who have been camping at the platform And sisters.\nRight now, the country is immersed in the festival of Deepawali. Diwali is being observed all over and at this time I got an opportunity to come to Chhattisgarh. I convey to you all very well on this holy festival of Deepawali. Today, I have a special fortune, when the mother blesses us, the power to do your work increases many times. Today, on this festival of Bhaiyudaj from Chhattisgarh, sisters have given me blessings in millions of millions. Especially my tribal sisters have blessed me. I bow to all these sisters. And I assure you that your brother will not have any shortage to work with your blessing for the good of the hundred and fifty million people for the welfare of mother Bharti.\nToday, our governor of Chhattisgarh is also the birthday of Mr. Balram Das, the senior leader of all of us. I congratulate him very much. And today is such an important day, for which we thank the former Prime Minister of India, Atal Bihari Vajpayee Ji, as much as thank you. Today, on behalf of entire Chhattisgarh, from whole of Madhya Pradesh, from entire Uttar Pradesh, from entire Uttarakhand, from whole of Bihar, from whole of Bihar, we all very thankful to Atal Bihari Vajpayee. They congratulate him for creating Chhattisgarh.\nThe creation of a state in such a peaceful manner, in a loving atmosphere, give more strength to the sense of belongingness, in this way, every generation should be formed in Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand should be formed, Uttarakhand will be constructed in a longer way. Vajpayee ji is a very good example of how the state is composed by following the democratic traditions and by following the demands of the people while addressing everyone by taking along with them. presented. Otherwise we know. In our country, the creation of states has created bitterness. What kind of controversy has arisen. If you do not work correctly, instead of being a separate state, instead of the developmental journey, then you always keep on blooming between enormous values. We are lucky that the great leader like Vajpayee gave us Chhattisgarh. Who thought that when Chhattisgarh was formed 16 years ago, who thought that in tribal expansion of tribal expansion in the development journey of the states of India, the Naxal-dominated area will also compete with the developed states of India. And the issue of development will go forward. For 13 years Dr. Raman Singh has got the opportunity to serve. And we have been the mantra of the people. Of development The problem of every problem in the country can be solved only by one and the only way, and that is the path of development, development.\nWhere we have the opportunity to serve - where. In all those states and at present, in the Government of India, we are endeavoring to progress on the path of development with a dedicated dedication. Today is my good fortune too. All of us guide the guide of whose thinking on the foundation of contemplation, in the light of their contemplation we make our policies and prepare strategies. And for the welfare of the person sitting at the last end of the society, we keep on spending ourselves with sacred service. It is our inspiration man Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay Ji, whose birth year is year. And we focus our time on the welfare programs of Governments, Society, Clean Organizations and the poor, throughout the year as the year of poor year of Pt. Deendayal Upadhyay Ji during the poor welfare year. Today, it was a privilege to inaugurate the statue of Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay, the great Pandit. And from Janpad to Rajpath, even a self-centered person, who has an introduction to contemplation of Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay ji in one word, is the integration he has created the integrated path. I have come since this morning. Going everywhere was looking at plans. Plans that create impact on the big mind have been created. Works have been great. And today when no one will come to Chhattisgarh after 50 years, the new Raipur will look, see the unitary path, then it will feel that even a small state of India can do wonders. Tribal areas can also bring a new look. Its message that today's shilanyas have taken place in a manner. The foundations are being kept in 21st Century, Chhattisgarh today. The plans which are being carried forward today. The work of welfare of the poor is being emphasized. The natural wealth here is made by Make In India. It is an effort to strengthen India's economy by increasing the value of the economy of Chhattisgarh, by the citizens of Chhattisgarh, by the government of Chhattisgarh, which is being done by the team of Dr. Raman Singh ji. Its effect is to stay on the whole century. This strong foundation is getting ready. The fate of Chhattisgarh is going to change. Not only that, he is also going to play an important role in transforming the fate of India.\nToday, Dr. Raman Singh took me in my favorite project Jungle Safari to roam around. And it seemed that Tiger knew them. Eye came in the eye to make eye contact. I believe that not only people from Chhattisgarh but also from other parts of the country, people will come to see the jungle safari built in this natural environment in terms of tourism. There is very possibility of the development of tourism. And in Chhattisgarh there is a lot of strength inherent to strengthen tourism. The craft art here is an important part of the attraction of tourism. The forest here, the natural resources of the tourists today are made of mood to go back to Basic. When they are invited to Eco Tourism, a very big possibility is that Eco Tourism lies in the forests of Chhattisgarh. And tourism is such an area in which at least the capital investment employs more and more people. Put the amount of capital in applying a factory. The more they get employment. With more than one-third of the capital of the capital, people get jobs from Tourism. And tourism is an area that earns poor from the poor. Auto rickshaw will also earn The toy seller will earn, the fruit will sell the seller, the chocolate biscuit will earn, and the seller of tea will also earn. It provides employment to the poorest of the poor. And therefore, this new Raipur is the only way to develop the forest safari integrated path development but can become a destination of tourism in the future. And the way Dr. Raman Singh Ji was giving me the details of these things continuously. I believe those dreams that they have been given will be in front of the whole of Chhattisgarh's eyes in the very near future. And will be led by Raman Singh ji. It's a matter of great satisfaction.\nBrothers sisters, when I am talking about Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay birth centenary, in this country, to get rid of poverty, to be able to eliminate poverty, be the center, be the Panchayat or the municipality. We all have to fight together with the full strength of together with the shoulders of freedom from poverty. And the way of salvation from poverty, in poverty, those who have to live their lives. Can not stop sharing them with them. They can be made by making them powerful. If he is educated. She should be taught skillfully. If he is given an opportunity to work, then he will only remove the poverty of his family. Not so, he also has the power to remove the poverty of two families of neighboring neighboring neighbors. And therefore, in the direction of Empowerment of Poor we have stressed the work.\nWe know poor children have government schemes, vaccination, health, but despite the fact that the mother has read, there is little awareness that the local people are very active, then vaccination becomes a disease of the child of the poor. Receives a safety armor to avoid it. But still there is illiteracy in our country. The poor mother does not know what the child has to vaccinate. And millions of children, despite being governmental schemes, used to avoid vaccination even while spending the budget. We have created a rainbow scheme. Vaccination in the routine under this rainbow scheme. There is no stuck there. Village Village Gali Gali is going to the poor home to find out. Who are the children who have left vaccination. The hard work is going on but we have all the partners. And we have tried to find such children in millions of people and vaccinated them and tried to give strength to their health. Successfully run the campaign. It is emphasized in this point that adding not just the planning figures to the results.\nThere was a time in which the member of the parliament used to get coupons of 25 gas connection and hundreds of people, big men used to roam around the side of the MP sahib that they would give a coupon of a gas connection. To set up gas connections in the house. Large - big people used to recommend And used to come in the newspapers that some MPs were selling gas in the Kupan Black. There were also such news. How difficult it was to get a gas connection This is not a very old thing ten or fifteen years ago people were also people. I pioneered the brothers sisters that my poor mothers who lit their wooden stove and spent their lives in the dust. When a poor mother cooks the food by burning a wooden stove, then the smoke of four hundred cigarettes goes to her body every day. You can imagine. If a poor mother is to smoke four hundred cigarettes in her body every day, then what will be the condition of that mother's health. What will happen to those children? And how will the future of my country be? Will we continue to force our poor mothers to live such a life or leave them in their fortune? We have pioneered. In the next three years, the families of these poor families in five crore families have been relieved of the wooden stove and smoke to reach the connection of the gas under Prime Minister Ujwal Yojana, bringing the gas stove and saving the forests from bites. Protecting her When it is necessary to provide food to the children, it is a very good work to do.\nBrothers sisters have the same ideas at whose origin is the same idea. Delivering the country from poverty. Brothers sisters, we are running the campaign of Make in India. Why? Our country has a young man They have strong lines. The heart is also the brain. If they get opportunity, then they have the strength to make the best of the best in the world. They have to learn the skill if the skills taught. Skill Development: My young men have the power to stand on their feet. After the formation of our government, we created a separate ministry of skill development. Separate minister made Separate budget allocated. And through the government through the state through public private partnership, by the government, a big campaign of skill development is implemented by implementing the model wherever applicable. skill development Where children from happy families run well, they get a place in colleges. Going abroad, this is a poor child who reads hard to the third grade, up to fifth standard and leaves reading. And then gives life satisfaction to the unskilled labor. We are working to find such children and work towards skill development. So that the poor child of poor can also honor their future with the help of their hands on the strength of their hands. We are working in that direction Because we have to liberate the country from poverty. How difficult it is to work But the good of the country is in the liberation of poverty. If you do not get rid of poverty, do fifty things you can not change the destiny of the country. And so, our full thrust is for the welfare of the poor. Our farming family is growing and growing. The scope of the land decreases. The share of land continues in generation to generation generation. Stomaching in low ground sometimes makes it difficult to run home. A farmer has three sons, and ask the father, what have you thought, will say that one son will keep the farming and send the two to the city, earning roti. We have to make our agriculture sustainable to our agriculture. In small land too much production will be done. Be a valuable product. And in my natural calamity, my farmer has the power to fight the crisis. Such an economy can be an agricultural economy. The farmer who produces should get the market in the entire country. Some brokers in neighboring neighbors take advantage of their compulsion and take away the goods. These conditions should be closed. And for this, we have created e-NAM online network of mandis all over the country. From our mobile phone, the farmer has developed such a system that can sell its merchandise where it gets a higher price.\nI have seen this today that the store of agriculture also has arranged to understand the E-NAM people, Chhattisgarh has done. Farmers across the country get a similar market. He got the price from the farmer's will. Worked to emphasize on that. Nowadays, natural calamities, sometimes the famine, sometimes the fierce rain, after the harvest, the rain farmers are destroyed. पहली बार प्रधानमंत्री फसल बीमा योजना के तहत मेरे देश के किसानों को सुरक्षा का एक गारंटी दिया गया। और बहुत कम पैसों से बीमा की योजना है। किसान को बहुत कम देना है। अधिकतम पैसा सरकार देगी। भारत सरकार देगी। अगर जून महीने में उसको फसल बोना है, लेकिन जुलाई तक बारिश ही नहीं आई। उसने फसल बो ही नहीं पाया। तो फसल तो खराब नहीं हुई। उसको तो बीमा नहीं मिल सकता। हमने ऐसी प्रधानमंत्री बीमा योजना बनाई है कि प्राकृतिक संकट के कारण वो बो नहीं पाया। तो भी उसका हिसाब लगा करके उसने एक इंच भी जमीन बोई नहीं होगी। तो भी उसके साल भर की आय का हिसाब लगाकर के उसको बीमा का पैसा मिलेगा। पहली बार देश में ऐसा हुआ है।\nफसल तैयार हो गई फसल तैयार होने तक बारिश वारिश सब अच्छा रहा। सोला आने फसल हो गई खेत में फसल का ढेर पड़ा है। बस एक दो दिन में किसी का ट्रेक्टर मिल जाए फिर तो मार्केट मे जाना ही जाना है और अचानक बारिश आ जाए। पूरा फसल तैयार की गई बर्बाद हो जाए। अब तक ऐसा होता था तो insurance वाले कहते थे । भई जब तुम्हारी फसल खड़ी थी तो तुम्हारा कोई नुकसान नहीं हुआ तो पैसा नहीं मिलेगा। हम एक ऐसी प्रधानमंत्री फसल बीमा योजना लाए हैं। कि फसल की कटाई के बाद ढेर पड़ा है। और 15 दिन के भीतर भीतर कोई प्राकृतिक आपदा आ जाए और नुकसान हो गया तो प्रधानमंत्री फसल योजना बीमा के जरिये किसान को पैसा मिलेगा। यहां तक की व्यवस्था है। मेरे देश के किसान को सुरक्षित करना साथ साथ किसान के लिए मूल्यवृद्धि करना। किसान जो पैदावार करता है। उसकी मूल्यवृद्धि हो। Value addition  हो। अगर वो आम पैदा करता है तो आम का आचार बनता है। तो ज्यादा मंहगा बिकता है। अगर वो टमाटर पैदा करता है लेकिन टमाटर का कैचअप बनता है तो ज्यादा मंहगा बिकता है। वो दूध पैदा करता है। और दूघ बेचता है तो कम पैसा मिलता है । दूध की मिठाई बना बेचता है तो ज्‍यादा पैसा मिलता है । ये मूल्यवृद्धि होनी चाहिए। Value addition  होना चाहिए। छत्तीसगढ़ ने कई ऐसे कार्यक्रम शुरू किए हैं मैं देख रहा था। जिसमें किसान जो पैदा करता है। उसमें  Value addition  है। अगर गन्ना पैदा करने वाला किसान गन्ने बेचता रहेगा तो कमाएगा नहीं। लेकिन शुगर तैयार हो जाती है। गन्ने से किसान भी कमाता है। और इसलिए हमारा बल गांव, गरीब,किसान, मजदूर, नौजवान इनके सामर्थ को कैसे बढ़ावा मिले देश विकास की नई ऊंचाइयों को कैसे पार करे। उस दिशा में एक के बाद एक कदम उठाए जा रहे हैं। देश की सरकार cooperative federalism को लेकर के cooperative competitive federalism को बल दे करके आगे बढ़ रही है। हम चाहते हैं कि राज्यों राज्यों के बीच में स्पर्धा हो। विकास की स्पर्धा हो। अगर एक राज्य open defecation free हुआ तो दूसरे राज्य का मिशन भी बन जाना चाहिए कि हम भी पीछे नहीं रहेंगे। हम भी कर के रहेंगे। अगर एक राज्य उद्योग की एक धारा को पकड़ता है तो दूसरा राज्य दूसरी धारा पकड़ कर के कि हां देखो मैं आपसे आगे निकल गया। हम स्पर्धा चाहते हैं राज्यों के बीच में । विकास की स्पर्धा चाहते हैं। और भारत सरकार इस विकास के यात्रा में जो तेज गति से आगे आना चाहता है। ऐसे सभी राज्यों को किसी भी प्रकार के भेदभाव के बिना हर प्रकार की मदद करने के लिए हमेशा हमेशा प्रतिबद्धता है। छत्तीसगढ़ भविष्य के विकास के लिये जो भी योजना लाएगा। छत्तीसगढ़ ने जिन-जिन योजनाओं को लाया है। दिल्ली में बैठी हुई सरकार छत्तीसगढ़ के कंधे से कंधा मिलाकर के खड़ी है और आगे भी खड़ी रहेगी। और छत्तीसगढ़ को नई ऊंचाईयों में ले जाने में हम कभी भी पीछे नहीं रहेंगे। मैं फिर एक बार छत्तीसगढ़ के इस राज्योत्सव के समय पर छत्तीसगढ़ के कोटी कोटी जनों को अनेक अनेक शुभकामनाएं देता हूं। छत्तीसगढ़ के उज्जवल भविष्य के लिए भारत सरकार की तरफ से पूर्ण सहयोग के लिए आश्वासन देता हूं। और आइये हम सब मिलकर के छत्तीसगढ़ को विकास की नई ऊंचाइयों पर ले जाएं इसी एक शुभकामना के साथ मेरे साथ बोलिये भारत माता की जय। आवाज दूर दूर तक जानी चाहिए। Long live Mother India. Long live Mother India. Long live Mother India. Thanks a lot."