"Sardar Patel unified India Narendra Modi: The unity in diversity is our strength: PM\nSardar Patel Whatever he did was devoted to India: PM\nModi should encourage cooperation between our states: PM\nSardar Patel gave us Ek Bharat, Let us work towards making a Shreshtha: PM Modi\nWhen we are celebrating the birth anniversary of Sardar Sahib and when we talk about unity, the message is clear that I am BJP, Sardar Sahab was a Congressman. But with the same dignity, we are doing this work with the same respect, because every great man has different thoughts in his own period and the dispute is also very natural with the idea. But later generations have no right to use to share the contribution of great men. Finding things that add to it, adding yourself and trying to add if you can add everyone. I am surprised that some people are blaming me on who are you who are celebrating the birth anniversary of Sardar Saheb. This is true but Sardar Saheb was such a family whose family has not taken any copyright. And anyway in public life, who did nothing for his family, whatever he did, done as a duty, done as a responsibility, done only for the country and only.\nIf these things present today's generation as an example, then we can tell anyone that Bhai is fine family but look at a little country too. Therefore, there are many great men, there is no one, there are many great men whose life should be presented to us in front of the new generation in the form of 'On Baan Shan'. There are very few things that come out. Whatever we should do to remember someone in our country, but some people were so great, they were so great that even 70-70 years of efforts were made to invite them, but success has not been achieved. That is why many things in the life of Sardar Saheb\nSometimes we hear that reservation for Women reservation women in the governance system. You will find many names which you claim or their followers will claim that women go to pay the amount of reservation. But as much as I have read, in 1930, when Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel was the president of Ahmedabad Municipal Party, he has proposed 33% women reservation. Now when he went to the Mumbai Presidency, he put it in a garbage cap, he did not allow it. These things are examples of how a long time great men think.\nA glimpse of Sardar Saheb's personality, Mahatma Gandhi wrote a lot of fun at one place. He was the president of the municipal party of Ahmedabad, so there is a Victoria Garden. And how did this Sardar think, he took the statue of Lokmanya Tilak in the Victoria Garden? How would you like to imagine the British at that time and perhaps that is the statue of Lokmanya Tilak ji who is sitting in the throne, who imagined, and made them sit on the throne.\nThe second feature, Gandhiji, urged Gandhi to release it, that you should open it.\nThirdly, he said that I will not stay and Gandhiji wrote that diary on that day, on the occasion of the inauguration, he wrote that who is sitting in Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation. If you want to know, then this decision shows that some Sardar is sitting. Words can be different I can not remember the whole sentence, but this Gandhiji has himself come to the Sardar Ahmedabad Municipal Party, meaning Ahmedabad has got courage. He expressed this kind of sentiment.\nWe know this in history that he is not properly kept up. Even though looking at the history of a group, pages have to be found somewhere. When the country was liberated, it was a matter of giving leadership. What is the proposal from the states. They came in favor of a Sardar Sahib, Pandit did not come in favor of Nehru. But Gandhiji's personality was such that he thought it would be better to have someone else than Sardar Sahib. I have not even been aware of it, maybe I have not even been aware of it, but perhaps I will make Gujarati and Gujarati too, then I do not know.\nWell this is my literary argument, historical evidence is not so. I am saying in a joke but people think that Bhai, see how Sardar Saheb is. No revolt, no storm, no matter the case of the president of the municipal party, well, after me 30 people are coming, this is what I did, did not do this. But this did not happen. This thing is not being given so much exposure but the truth can not be denied. But who is the Sardar sahab, the matter is known by another incident. 01 November, 1926 i.e. OK, tomorrow is 01 November, 90 years ago. While Sardar Sahab was the president of the Ahmedabad Municipal Party and the election of the Standing Committee. Now everyone had the urge to run the business if the Chairman and the standing committee chairman are one. At the insistence of everyone, Sardar Sahab stood for election. One minute before them They were standing by Dulterrai. And both got 23-23 votes. Then casting casting came to the president Who were Sardar Patel. There were also self-candidates and casting was to vote and the country would be surprised that Sardar Patel voted against himself. The thing that happened in front of Mahatma Gandhi's eyes at the time of India's independence, was a matter of fact that 01 November 1926, 90 years ago, a great man, who had no pressure on Gandhi's personality, The voice of his soul was saying I want to run this municipal party. casting vote i do not sit properly Good casting casting vote Let me give my opposition and let him sit, they sit down. Is it not that these things are about to come in handy to learn every little person of the political life of the present. If it is, then it should be highlighted or not. I'm just trying to do just that much. Imagine you have a very old history, not a period of 47, 48, 49.\nToday, how big a sahib is to be the leader of a municipal party, to say that Bhai is fine everything is yours. Suppose but I feel you leave it. Will anybody leave, what is his ancestral property, his parents have been hard-working? People have given opportunity in democracy for five years, and it is necessary that after three years you leave. Someone will tell me what will drop And if you do not leave it then what will you do? We consider this thing that we do not leave anybody. Here also, if a big guest is to come and leave the chair, then we will see such. It would seem that he does not know that he has come. The basic nature of man is sir. We go on tour in the bus, sometimes on the plane, travelling, the adjacent seat is empty. We kept our book, kept a mobile phone and the ship is in the process of running, it is just ready to walk. In the last one, a passenger arrived, that seat was not ours, it was empty. And we kept something. We feel so bad that man, man. Where did it go All have to raise. Am I not speaking the truth? But you are very confident that I am not talking about you.\nHuman nature is there. But imagine what kind of personality this great person will be. What is the fastest bandage in Sardar Sahib? Such ancestors went to the state whose ancestors had the power found on the sword of their sword, it was never found by their muscles. Our ancestors had made sacrifices but Sardar said that Bhai's time has changed, the country is awake and he has signed for a moment. Hundreds of ancestors of the ancestors of Raj-Rajvad had given a royal printery to a human being. Imagine how big the height of that personality will be.\nI am from Gujarat. In Gujarat, Kshatriyas and Patel have long been in a variety of ways. People who cultivate Patel thought that people pressed us. They felt that they have no understanding, we are kings, and so on etc. There are many small and big ones here in our society. Imagine, imagine a son of Patel, Kshatriya politician, is asking the king, leave and Kshatriyas leave the honor of a Patel son. What is this big power in society? How big is this And in that sense we see One aspect, an effort to reveal the power of Sardar Sahib\nA digital museum has been built here. They can not be the entire Sardar. Even if we all tried together, the Sardar was too big that nothing would be missed. But everyone has tried it together. And the task of opening the window to see, see and understand the entire Sardar is in this endeavor, I do not make much of that claim. A lot of effort has been made of modern technology. Attempts have been made to survive events and the original message is that the responsibility of today's generation is to 'emphasize the unity of India'. We will see people in the morning. It seems as if we are searching for ways to scatter. As we are sitting with binocular, there is a thing to scatter in some corner, then catching man. Break, divide, break. These countries full of diversity can not run like this. We will have to effortlessly live the mantra of unity. Jikir will have to show and in a way he will have to interconnect as our cultural heritage and he will have to percolate in generation after generation.\nWe can not let this country break apart, and then by coming, we get the life of such a great man, his talk, we get used to. History is a witness that at any given time even because of the contradictions, due to the ego, this country was powerful because of my self-expression, but it was still scattered. A Chanakya name was 400 years ago, he had made a successful effort to unite the whole of India and the extent to which he had taken the boundaries of India. After that Sardar Saheb who did this work. We should try the people. You must have seen that one of our children learns Spanish language, we present a sample in front of the guests who come to the house, my son comes to Spanish, my daughter comes to France. Good thing, I'm not criticizing it. Everyone thinks that it is important in their career. But it is not always proud that we were born in Punjab but one of my children speaks Malayalam language very well, to say it. We used to live in Orissa but Marathi used to speak very well, she used Marathi poetry. We have a child, Rabindra listen to music on the radio morning and early in the morning, he enjoys Bengali songs very well. Ravindra Music feels very sweet to her, why should not she mind? I live in Punjab but whenever guests come, I say yes. I am going to make dosa, they have learned it. If I go to Kerala then somebody said that Modi has come to you, let's feed Dhokla. With these things, there is a growing interaction between us. But we should try hard to know our country, should live. We should expand ourselves. I was born well in any one state, read a lot in a language, but it is my country, everything is mine. I should join her. This pride's pride shows us the path to living the mantra of unity.\nThere has been a big fight in our country that we will accept Hindi language or not, but if we carefully consolidate all the languages ​​in our lives, then there is no chance for this struggle. You see, sometimes we do not notice any word, so use the English word. If you do not understand in your language, then we speak English words very easily. But sometimes there is a good word in my language that I do not have a good word, but if I look at Marathi language, see Bengali, see Tamil, then I have searched and searched for a good word for it. I do not want to adopt him. I am easily a good word in any of my country's languages, so do not adopt it. But I do not have the knowledge that I should get rid of that ignorance, you should know about yourself.\nThis is a small effort. In this, extract 100 sentences of colloquial Where, where will you get good food nearby, how much is the city's population, where are the autorickshaw stand, small questions. I feel like sickness, what a doctor will get in close proximity, such small sentences. This sentence is available in every language. The day people are available in this hand, online too. He will feel good Bhai, we are going to Kerala. Let us catch these 100 sentences, it will not be difficult, talk about it, get it. Our own legacy 'Ek Bharat Bharat Bharat' is launching this program through this program today and the effort is in the beginning. You must have seen everyone in the country need to become global, there is a need too, I am not against it.\nA state will be associated with a state of Russia, a city will be linked to a city in America. But in my own country I will join a city, I will join any state in my own country, I will join any university in my own country, why do not we do these things? These are the innate things that increase the strength. Today, the six states which have entered into an agreement with the state of the other, it means that for a year this state will do different types of work with that state so that both of them understand each other well, cooperate and Become a hitchhiker in the development journey. There is no need to keep the nature of programs bigger, lightweight. Let's say Kerala made an agreement with Maharashtra. Or maybe Orissa and Maharashtra happened. मान लीजिए उड़ीसा और महाराष्‍ट्र ने समझौता किया है। क्‍या हम 2070 में महाराष्‍ट्र के स्‍कूलों और colleges से जो tourist जाएंगे। उनको कहेंगे कि भई 2070 में तो आप उड़ीसा जरूर जाइए। उड़ीसा से जो जाएंगे 2070 में tour के लिए, tour में तो जाते ही हैं, आप इस बार महाराष्‍ट्र जाइए। फिर ये भी तय कर सकते हैं कि ये यूनिवर्सिटी उस जिले में गई तो ये यूनिवर्सिटी उस जिले में जाएगी, जोड़ सकते हैं।\nपहले जाते थे तो धर्मशाला या होटल में रहते थे इस बार तय करे कि नहीं इस योजना के तहत आए हो, 100 student आए हैं। हमारे इस कॉलेज के 100 student के घर में आपके 100 लोग रहेंगे। 100 परिवार। और जब घर में रहेंगे तो सुबह कैसे उठते हैं, कैसे पूजा करते हैं, कैसे खाना खाते हैं, क्‍या variety होती हैं, मां-बाप के साथ कैसा व्‍यवहार। सब चीजें वो अपने आप जीने लगेगा। अब इसके लिए खर्चा भी कम हो जाएगा tour से। खर्चा मेरे ध्‍यान में जरा जल्‍दी आता है।\nअब मुझे बताइए। अभी इन दिनों मैंने देखा है कि पूरे देश में देशभक्‍ति का एक भाव प्रखर रूप से बढ़ता है। हर कोई दीवाली का दीया जलाता है लेकिन उसको उस देश का जवान दिखता है। देश के जवानों की शहदात दिखती है भाव पैदा हुआ है। क्‍या हम पांच अच्‍छे गीत। अब महाराष्‍ट्र के लोग स्‍कूलों में पांच गीत एक साल में उड़िया भाषा में गाना शुरू करे और उड़िया भाषा पढ़ने वाले, उड़ीसा वाले पांच मराठी गीत गाना शुरू करें तो जब मिलेंगे तो भाव क्‍या जगेगा आप खुद ही बता दीजिए। हमारी एक कहावत है कि किसी भाषा में हम बोलते होंगे लेकिन आपने देखा होगा कि हमारी कहावतों का जो central thread होता है वो common होता है। शब्‍द अलग होंगे, अभिव्‍यक्‍ति अलग होगी लेकिन जब सुनेंगे और अर्थ समझेंगे तो पता है, अच्‍छा ये कथा, कहावत तो हमारे हरियाणवी में भी है यार, हम भी तो कभी-कभी बोलते हैं। इसका मतलब कि हमें जोड़ने वाली ताकत तो पड़ी है। एक बार पता चल जाता है यार तुम भी तो वही बात करते हो जो मैं करता हूं। मतलब तुम और मैं भाषा अलग हो लेकिन अलग नहीं है। पहनावा अलग हो लेकिन अलग नहीं है, खान-पान अलग हो लेकिन अलग नहीं है। हम एक है। ये अपने आप पैदा होगा।\nदेश में बिखराव के लिए बहुत रास्‍ते खोजे गए हैं एकता को तो हमने taken for granted मान लिया और उसके कारण बिखराव ने क्‍या बर्बादी लाई है उस पर हमारा ध्‍यान नहीं गया। 50 साल में इतनी बुराइयों को हमने अपने अंदर प्रवेश करने दिया है कि वो बुरा है, वो भी पता नहीं चलता। इतनी हद तक घुस गया है। तब जाकर के हमें प्रयत्‍नपूर्वक एकता वाली जितनी चीजें हैं उनको पकड़ना होगा और मैं इसको सिर्फ स्‍कूल, कॉलेज तक सीमित रखना नहीं चाहता हूं। मान लीजिए उड़ीसा के किसान मछली के काम में बहुत अच्‍छा काम कर रहे हैं। छोटे-छोटे तलाब में भी अच्‍छी मछली तैयार करते हैं, अच्‍छा मार्किट मिलता है तो महाराष्‍ट्र में भी तो छोटे-छोटे तलाब में मछली पैदा करने वालों को आकर के सिखा सकते हैं। महाराष्‍ट्र के लोग उड़ीसा में जाकर के अच्‍छी मछली, ज्‍यादा मछली कैसे होती हैं सीख सकते हैं सिखा सकते हैं। आर्थिक दृष्‍टि से भी लाभदायक है। मान लीजिए वो उनकी खेती पैडी , चावल की खेती करने का उनका तरीका है। वहां ज्‍यादा पानी है, यहां पर चावल की खेती करने की दिक्‍कत है क्‍या उनको कम पानी से चावल की खेती करना सिखाया जाए। और उनकी ज्‍यादा yield है वो क्‍या के किसानों को दिखाया जाए। agriculture revolution का वो कारण बन सकता है कि नहीं बन सकता है। बिना किसी यूनिवर्सिटी की मदद के दो क्षेत्र के किसान अपने अनुभवों को share करे तो हो सकता है कि नई चीज दुनिया को दे सके।\nफिल्‍में, आज तो dubbing हो सकता है, कोई बड़ा महंगा भी नहीं होता है। अगर मान लीजिए महाराष्‍ट्र उड़ीया फिल्‍मों का फस्‍टिवल करे। बॉलिवुड वालों को परेशानी नहीं होगी न, लेकिन करे। मुंबई में मत करना, कहीं और करना। करे मानो और उड़ीसा वाले मराठी फिल्‍मों को करे। भाषा को सहज समझा जाएगा। कभी उड़ीसा और महाराष्‍ट्र के सभी विधायकों का संयुक्‍त सम्‍मेलन हो सकता है क्‍या। और सिर्फ दोनों राज्‍यों की अच्‍छाईयों पर चर्चा करे, उड़ीसा के विपक्ष दल वालों को भी अच्‍छाई बोलनी पड़ेगी, महाराष्‍ट्र के विपक्षी दल को भी अच्‍छाईयां बोलनी पड़ेगी। सब मिलकर के अच्‍छाई की बात करेंगे तो अच्‍छाई की ओर जाने का रास्‍ता खुल जाएगा।\nमेरे कहने का तात्‍पर्य यह है कि हमारे देश में एक दूसरे से सीखना, पाना, समझना बहुत कुछ है। हमारा ज्ञान, हमारी अनभिज्ञता ये हमारी सबसे बड़ी रूकावट बन चुकी है। ‘एक भारत श्रेष्‍ठ भारत’ एक जन आंदोलन में परिवर्तित करना है। विशेष रूप से परिवर्तित करना है। आज सरदार साहब की जन्‍मजयंती पर इस महा अभियान का भी आरंभ हो रहा है। सिर्फ और सिर्फ जोड़ने के लिए है और जोड़ने के लिए कोई नया एकता का इंजेक्‍शन नहीं देना है। राख लगी है सिर्फ उसको निकालकर के ज्‍वाला को प्रज्‍जवलित करना है, कोई चेतना को प्रज्‍जवलित करना है। उसी बात को लेकर के मैं खासकर के आपसे तो आग्रह करूंगा कि आप जरूर जल्‍दी होगा तो भी जरूर देखकर जाइए प्रदर्शनी को, और भी लोगों को प्रेरित करें। और इस प्रदर्शनी को सिर्फ student देखें ऐसा नहीं है। समाज के प्रबुद्ध लोग परिवार के साथ आने की आदत बनाए, उन्‍हें पता चले कि ये महापुरुष कौन थे, क्‍या-क्‍या करते थे। और जो जीवन जीकर के गए हैं, उससे बड़ी प्रेरणा नहीं होती है। मुझे विश्‍वास है कि ये प्रयास न सिर्फ सरदार साहब को अंजलि है लेकिन सरदार साहब ने जो हमें रास्‍ता दिखाया है उस रास्‍ते पर चलने का एक प्रमाणिक प्रयास है।\nमैं फिर एक बार पार्थसारथी जी, उनकी पूरी टीम को इस भगीरथ कार्य के लिए बधाई देता हूं। जैसे आज आप एक म्‍यूजियम देख रहे हैं, मैंने एक प्रयास शुरू किया है, आजादी के आंदोलन की बातें। सचमुच मैं बताता हूं हमने देश के नागरिकों के साथ बहुत अन्‍याय किया है। आजादी का आंदोलन नेताओं का आंदोलन नहीं था जी। आजादी का आंदोलन जन सामान्‍य का आंदोलन था। बहुत कम लोगों को मालूम होगा कि 1857 में इस देश के tribal ने बिरसा मुंडा समेत जितना बलिदान इस देश के आदिवासियों ने दिया है हम कल्‍पना नहीं कर सकते। लेकिन न आपमें से किसी को पढ़ाया गया होगा न किसी को पता होगा। हमने सोचा है शुरूआत में हर राज्‍य में जहां-जहां आदिवासी जनसंख्‍या और आदिवासियों से जुड़ी घटनाएं हैं, एक Virtual museum आजादी के आंदोलन में आदिवासियों का योगदान, इस पर हम बनाएंगे। इस देश के लोगों ने हमें इतना सारा दिया है। हम उन चीजों को जानने के लिए प्रयास करे। धीरे-धीरे मैं इन चीजों और आगे बढ़ाना चाहता हूं और technology के कारण ये चीजें कम खर्चें में हो सकती हैं, छोटी जगह में हो सकती हैं। और आने वाला व्‍यक्‍ति अपने सीमित समय में भी बहुत सी चीजों को काफी अच्‍छी तरह अनुभव कर सकता है। 3डी होने के कारण और ज्‍यादा लाभ ले सकता है। interactive होने के कारण बच्‍चों के लिए वो शिक्षा का कारण बन सकता है। इस ‘एक भारत श्रेष्‍ठ भारत’ में मेरी कल्‍पना यह है कि राज्‍य अपने राज्‍य से संबंधित minimum 5000 questions का एक data bank बनाएं। राज्‍य के संबंध में सवाल हो उसमें, जवाब भी हो, ऑनलाइन available हो कि भई राज्‍य का सबसे पहला हॉकी player कौन था, राज्‍य का सबसे पहला कबड्डी player कौन था, National player कौन-कौन है? कौन-सी इमारत कब किसने बनाई थी? छत्रपति शिवाजी महाराज कहां रहते थे क्‍या? सारे इतिहास हो, लोक-कथाएं हो, 5000 सवालों का बैंक। फिर उसका quiz competition करे, state में भी करे। अब मान लीजिए महाराष्‍ट्र के 5000 सवालों का quiz bank है, उड़ीसा के 5000 सवालों का quiz bank है। महाराष्‍ट्र के बच्‍चे उड़ीसा के quiz competition में आ जाए, उड़ीसा के बच्‍चे महाराष्‍ट्र के quiz competition में भाग ले। अपने आप दोनों राज्‍यों के बच्‍चों को उड़ीसा भी समझ आ जाएगी, महाराष्‍ट्र भी समझ आ जाएगी। ये पूरे देश में, लाखों सवालों का बैंक बन सकता है जी, जो सहज रूप से। जो क्‍लासरूम में नही पढ़ाया जा पाता वो पा सकते हैं। तो एक बड़े व्‍यापक फलक पर और जिसमें Digital world का ज्‍यादा उपयोग करते हुए ‘एक भारत श्रेष्‍ठ भारत’ चलाने का प्रयास है।\nमैं फिर एक बार इस प्रयास को करने वाले सभी लोगों को बधाई देता हूं। सरदार साहब को आदर पूर्वक नमन करता हूं अंजलि देता हूं और देश की एकता के लिए काम करने के लिए देशवासियों से प्रार्थना करता हूं। Thank you."