"\nSardar Patel's contribution for India is immense and invaluable\nSardar Patel led the movement of independence with Gandhi ji \u0026 transformed into a Jan andolan: PM\nAll Indians want India to be a strong, prosperous nation For this to happen the country should always stay united: PM\nFirst of all you will say slogan with me, I will say Sardar Patel, you will say, stay immortal, stay immortal.Saradar Patel, immortal, immortal\nSardar Patel, immortal remains, immortal\nSardar Patel, immortal remains, immortal\nToday the entire country is celebrating the birth anniversary of Sardar Saheb. Today, in Hindustan, we go to Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel, under the leadership of a Tricolor, from Kanyakumari, Katak, Katak, from Himalaya to Sagar, which is watching a Hindustan, Hindustan is seen under a tricolor flag. When the British left the country, they created such conspiracy that only after the departure of the British, the country would be divided into more than 500 princely states. Scatter in small pieces Inside the King-Rajwada, the fight ended in death. The rivers of blood flowed in the country, such conspirators went to form the English. But this Iron Man was Sardar Patel, who, through becoming a saasah with Gandhi in the movement of freedom, woke up mass movement, tried to provide man's power to every thought of Gandhi. Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel had shown the power to show the stars to the British during the freedom movement. The same Sardar Sahib, after independence, immediately buried the idea of ​​the British in the land of Hindustan, joined Raje-Rajwads, and one India is living all of us today.\nIn our country, the Himsagar train runs from Kanishka to Kanyakumari, the longest train. Arises from the umbilicus of the Himalayas and reaches the ocean of Kanyakumari. When we travel in this train, there are many states on the way. But we do not have to get a permit from any state, no state has to take a visa, no state has to pay taxes, once it starts with Kashmir. Kanyakumari goes uninterrupted till. This work was done due to Sardar Sahab, then it was possible by going.\nBrothers, sisters, you tell me, should India be strong or not? Should India be strong or not? Hindustan should make its iron in the world or should it not? Should the world accept India or should it be Hindustan or not? Brothers, Sisters These dreams are of 100 million Hindustanians. Here is a small India in front of me, every language-speaking person is in front of me. Everyone's dream is to be strong Hindustan; Hindustan should be strong; Hindustan should be strong. Hindustan should be strong; Hindustan should be prosperous; But brothers, sisters, the first condition of fulfilling this dream is that unity in India should be there. In the name of the community, on the poison of casteism, on the perverted mental practice of high and low, between rich and poor trench, between the village and the city, these countries can not experience unity.\nAnd so, my dear brothers, the message of unity on the birth anniversary of Sardar Patel, the great man who united the country with his own strength, his intellectual skills, his political will. Every Hindustani should also play its own responsibility to strengthen India's unity with the spirit of patriotism. In order to break the country, to create scarcity in the country, there are a lot of powers working to create contradictions in the country. At such a time, conscious effort is needed to unity, it is necessary to be vigilant. It is necessary to remember them as often as they are related to us. This is the mother of Bharat Mata, this Bharat Mata has embellished the wreath of hundreds of thousands of Hindus as flowers. They are tied with garlands in the form of twenty-three million living flowers, and the thread which connects these hundred and one hundred flowers is the thread, the sense of our Indianness. The feeling of our Indianness, the sense of Indianness, that thread reaches hundreds of millions of hearts, hundred and fifty million brains, hundred billion people, as the necklace of mother Bharati and the fragrance of these hundred and one hundred thousand flowers, The fragrance of hundred crores flowers, this aroma is our patriotism. This patriotism gives us energy every moment, gives inspiration, gives consciousness. Recalling him repeatedly, we have to be determined to create an atmosphere of unity and integrity in the country.\nMy dear young couple, today, 31 October, the land of Delhi, is going to get a valuable salutary from the Indian Government on behalf of the Government of India. After a while, I am about to open a digital museum on the life of Sardar in Delhi. I urge you to take at least two hours, at least, more than enough to take out the whole day, take out the week. Such things look like there, like understanding, like studying. This Permanent Digital Museum is just around Pragati Maidan.\nAfter so many years of independence, after Sardar Saheb's farewell these days, today Sardar Sahib is being presented in Delhi in this form. Hopefully! This work would have been 40, 50, 60 years ago, but I do not know why, why not. The answer to those who do not wish will be asked for the history. We wanted to walk by doing something and take this same spirit.\nIn order to make the mantra of the unity of Sardar as an intuitive part of life, today I am going to launch a new scheme in the same program to create the innate nature of every Indian - 'One India, Great India' That plan will also be a plan to strengthen the unity of the country and at the time of inauguration of that exhibition, I am going to launch it today. Once again, the Run For Unity 'Race for Integration' has been organized in different corners of India throughout the week from October 31, I will urge the countrymen that we should never forget Sardar Sahib . We should never forget the mantra of Sardar Saheb's unity. The first condition of making India like us is that the unity of the country, the unity of the people, the unity of every mind, one's resolve of every mind, our Mother India becomes great, it has to move forward and move on. I once again feel like you all in such a large number, that too during the festival of Diwali, you really feel happy, thank you very much."