"Share\n\nThe contributions of Sardar Patel, in the formation of the All India Civil Services is immense: PM\nComplement the legal fraternity for giving power to Alternative Dispute Resolution mechanisms: PM Modi\nChallenges come, but we have to prepare roadmap so that the toughest situations can overcome: PM\nWhile drafting laws, we need to be the best of the talent inputs. This is the biggest service to judiciary: PM\nChief Justice of India Justice TS Thakur, my colleague of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Ravi Shankar Prasad, the Lt Governor of Delhi Mr. Najib Jang, Chief Minister of Delhi, Shri Arvind ji, Chief Justice of Delhi High Court, J. Rohini ji, Delhi High Judge Justice Justice Badar Durrez Ahmed ji\nSenior Superintendent of All Supreme Court present, all the Senior Excellence of Delhi High Court, Senior Gana I have never been fortunate to go to court. But I have heard that there is a very serious environment. And perhaps his influence is also seen here. Celebrating fifty years of celebration. Smile some I can understand the seriousness of Dias so that there is no wrong perception. But here I do not think there is any problem.\nThis work has been achieved with the help of all the fifty years of journey. Whether outside friends, even if there was no computer in the past, then sitting outside would be typing, under the pad, or sitting on a dias, the justice would be settled. Or it may be that someone in the campus will be the person who gives tea to the people. Everyone has a contribution in it. Contribution - in your own way. Today, when we are celebrating fifty years, we gladly accept the contributions of everyone. Express your gratitude towards them. And everyone has some value addition in these arrangements in their own way. Everyone has had some positive contribution. And this same positive contribution is enhancing the institution's reputation. Enhances institutional importance And the days of Institution need to feel more. I believe that in the light of the Constitution of India, anyone who has the responsibility to fulfill the hopes, aspirations of ordinary citizens of the country. He should make a great effort to fulfill it. Everyone should do it.\nToday, 31 October is the birth anniversary of Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel, who has spent 50 years in the Delhi High Court for the unity of India today, today, October 31. As a great ally of Mahatma Gandhi, agitation for the rights of the masses could have left the life of a barrister. They could also have built a perfect career in this environment. But instead of living a barrister for the country's need, he went out to sacrifice everything for the country instead of living a life. A great service of Sardar Sahib that still remembers the country. These independent Hindustan government system should be of Indianity. Developing systems like All India Civil Service. I can assume a huge contribution to him. There was a profile of the unity of the country and we are seeing that in a country full of diversity like India, due to this arrangement of the All India Civil Service, a fibers are connected in some quantity. A bridge remains. And the officer sitting in the district also has been trained in such a way that he breaks things into a national environment, thinks and plays his role in decision-making. The dreams of the All India Civil Service were seen in different forms, gradually there were many classes, the arrangements were made. Become a topic of discussion. All India judicial service has been in disputes. But this is the fundamental body of democracy. Debate, dispute and dialogue There should be discussion, there should be debate. The system that Sardar Saheb had set up Which was further extended by many people. There are such people who are sitting here may be such a churn. But we can not contribute much to it, nor will we gain if we do. But those who are sitting here can contribute quite a lot. Does the person coming from the sub-section of Dalit, suffering, exploited, deprived, poor and neglected society of this country can get an opportunity to come in this system too? Can such a new arrangement be made? Because now in the earlier times, the boundaries of the field of justice have expanded so much that it has become so global. Perhaps no one would have thought of it in the last thirty years. Today, its scope is very big, no matter how many problems arise in front of the court, there will also be a question for the court. Hey Bhai, where did the topic come from, whether it is a background, its background. What is its aspect? The way technology has made its place in the world. So the challenges are very big. But running away from challenges does not affect the person. Finding paths from challenges, increasing capability if technology is needed, add it. Today, when we are celebrating this system for fifty years, now on the basis of the experience of fifty years, we can make our own road maps. And have to make it together. These things can not happen from any one place. But this country has power, it can become. It is not that can not be made. Pathways can be searched. And unremitting efforts to find should also continue. Do not shut the doors of anything. And then the change is possible by going.\nIt is true that the people who are sitting in the courts. The strength that Alternate Mechanism has received from their efforts and their contribution. The poor people go there. They have satisfaction. Come on, I got justice. We have seen the report of the poor Delhi High Court, everywhere in India and I have seen the contribution of the outside also. There is also contribution to people sitting in the judiciary. And they are doing this work without taking away their work from their personal times. And due to this poor people are also benefiting a lot. An awareness will also come. But awareness has to be increased further. General human must be educated. The more educated you can get. That would be the benefit. Most judiciary's maximum time goes on between us. Meaning that Modi is not the government, the government is the biggest litigant government. The government keeps on bickering every issue. I have always told the people of our government that brother A teacher got justice for him in his court, he won. The issues of ten thousand teachers of the same type are lying. Make him the base and complete ten thousand Why are you increasing the burden of judiciary? But they do not know their mind. They do not think they were an individual issue and we can not fiddle on Individual issues within the scope of the law. I do not know, I do not know all these nuances, but I am convinced that brother, how can we reduce this burden? The second I have seen, perhaps twenty-five thirty years ago, politics was not media driven so much. And because of that, the debate in Parliament was due to the discussion of law in the light of a lot of legislation, especially in the light of a Constitution and for the future, and developing some such convenient arrangements for public. Today, when we discuss it in the House, its form is one. Who has brought the government. Based on that, what will the front will say? If we sit there then we will say that. If we sit here then they will speak second. This is ours If there is a problem in the standing committee then they are not reported in the media. Together they decide to see how the brother will do. It is time demand that law makers go into such subtleties in making laws so that the talent input will be there. And as many good laws we can make. So maybe we will be able to serve the biggest in the field of justice. And the responsibility is of electrified governance. We of people I have seen that the promising children coming to National Law Universities these days are coming to read. In the past, he used to study in Routine College and then later went to Law. These days, accept it as a profession. It is being seen that very talented youth are emerging from these universities today. We will create the scope of drafting capacity in it. And at the level of drafting we get good input. And we will be able to make good laws. If there is a change in law then it will come in that area. So the scope of discrimination or interpretation would be nirao. It is difficult but zero will be done. And when the scope of Interpreting and Disinfection is narrower. Then by reading Black Ann White himself, he can decide that yes, it is my right, it will be together. There will be no dilemma. But this reduction still seems to be there. It has to be completed. We all have to meet together. If we can do this we will be able to serve the country better. I congratulate all those greats of Delhi Bar on this Golden Jubilee opportunity. Those who have contributed to it There are many judges who will get their services from this court. I congratulate them also. And India's judicial system has been a place of reverence for centuries. For thousands of years we have been listening to the teachings in the scriptures. There is a place of reverence. Do not hurt that place of reverence. His pride continues to grow Its strength continued to grow Everybody who has done his own responsibilities wherever he is. The people sitting in the government will have to play a special role. And I believe we will continue this day. Keeping the results will continue. Thanks a lot."