"Share\n\nOur Tribal communities have faced many challenges But, they are blessed with the ability to overcome any obstacle: PM\nTribal communities should get their rights No one has right to snatch their lands: PM\nWith Vanbandhu Kalyan Yojana, we want to ensure that the tribal communities are not deprived of their priorities: PM\nPrime Minister Narendra Modi\nFor the first time in the history of the country, Deepavali will be celebrated in the capital Delhi between tribal brothers and sisters coming from the corners of the country. About four days, Delhi will experience how big India is, how many varieties of India is full of and how much strength is there in our tribal siblings who have spent life in the jungles. To do something for the country, despite being in remote and remote forests, they will be able to see how big they are contributing.\nIndia is a country full of diversity. 'Twenty-village - change bidding' This is our old saying but we have seen its glimpse here. It was only a glimpse, if all the tribal artists from all over the country had to see, then maybe this fair, from morning till evening, will continue here, even then it may not be complete. Occasionally, people living in the city may face a small problem, if they do not get the result of imagination, then do not know how many diseases are affected, they go into depression and some people Choose a way to commit suicide Just look at these tribal brothers and sisters, if you talk about lack, there is a lack of danger on those areas, life has to be fought every moment. It takes more time to live life and less time to fight. But in spite of this, he has made the way to live life - joy, every moment dance, sing in every moment, live in the group, move by step by step, this tribal society has kept up in its mind. They also know the difficulties to live Of the difficulties, he has the power to fill passion in life.\nIt was my good fortune that I had the opportunity to spend among the tribals in social work for the best years of youth. I have had the privilege of seeing tribal life very closely. When you talk, you can hardly complain about their mouth in an hour or so. They do not know to complain. Living in crises, how to raise happiness between absence, if we have to learn the people living in the city, then there may not be a greater guru than my tribal brothers.\nArt and music are amazing. It's hard to hardly tell your dialect, your tradition, your costumes, time-consuming new colors, but not letting yourself lose yourself. This power belongs to your country. These strengths are a manifestation of our manpower and therefore, to keep these diversities in a vast country like India, respect these diversities, coordinate them, and experience the unity of India in these variations as a pink flower; Enhances\nWe do not know more about people, than the normal things of the forest, like if a bamboo is taken, our tribal brothers make such things from bamboo that they get place in five star hotels, then guests are amazed. How would that be wow? Will any machine be made? The produce produced by the tribals in the forests, which are used in normal life, but in the same amount of marketing it should be, branding should be, to create a new opportunity from the financial point of view, in that direction we still have a lot of Have to rest.\nAdivasis have come from all over the country We have also come up with these products. How are the tribal siblings produced in the corner corners of the country, and how can they be used in our homes, in business, in the shop, in the decoration, a great opportunity for this has been available in the field of progress. The larger the quantity we will buy, they will give financial support to the lives of our tribal brothers and sisters living in the forests. The occasion is not only that Delhi can experience only her song music, but also the power of her economic power, we also understand it well and to strengthen that economic power, we will try it in that direction.\nI had the opportunity to go to Sikkim sometime ago. I got acquainted with a young man there. From the garb, it seemed that they were coming from a big city. I approached him. I asked if both were saying both were from different states, both were educated at different IIMs. I said, come here to see Sikkim? They said, \"No, we are living here for a year and a half. After completing the studies, we went to Sikkim and lived here in the mountains who are our poor farming brothers, we packing, branding things, doing branding and we do the work of sending abroad \". You can imagine? Two children studied in IIM knew that power and they set up a very big startup. We are working to deliver products from the world markets there.\nIf someone goes there, then it is not known that there is so much power left? Even today, the world has started slowly going to the attention of people towards Holistic Healthcare. The world has started attracting traditional medicine. If we go among the tribal brothers, take the herbs from the forest immediately and give it to you, \"Good brother is a fever, do not worry, it will be fine within a few hours\", and they take juice from the herb and give it to the piglets. Which is the mode they have?\nThis is the traditional power that we need to recognize, mold in a modern form, reflect on the medical science the world understands. Through this, our medicines, whose wealth is our tribal siblings, through them, is a great opportunity for us to know and recognize all this power in front of the world. There are also people who have come here to identify the medicinal strength inside herbs. Those things can be used to show them what it can be.\nNow the artists of Gujarat were showing their art here. There is a Dang District, there is a small, tribal settlement. I used to work there many years ago Then there was nothing to do with my politics. In the meantime, when I had to go there as the chief minister, I was surprised, there is a food in it - Nagli. This iron is rich. We have a lot of problems with malnutrition, especially for women, which are lacking iron, which is rich in coconut oil. But 30-35 years ago when I used to go, I used to be black in black and used to make roti which he used to make black. When I was known as my chief minister, I said naturally, we have come to eat Nagli, but this time the coconut roti was white. I was a little surprised Indeed, those tribals had found success in producing some research in it and producing it from Kali to white Nagli.\nThat is, the big scientist who does Genetics Engineering, my tribal brother can change with genetic intervention. I mean to say that how much power is lying down. We need to recognize this power. There is such a large tribal population in our country but there was no separate ministry for the tribals in the Indian government. When I am standing between the large tribal community today, I want to honor the former Prime Minister of India, Atal Bihari Vajpayee Ji, to congratulate him that for the first time after fifty years of independence, for the first time when the government of Atal Bihari Vajpayee Ji became the first For the tribe of the tribe, there was a separate ministry in the country and our Jual Ji made his first minister in Hindustan.\nFrom then on, the development of tribal areas, the development of tribal communities, the power of tribal society, recognizing the power of its different types of projects are going on. Money is spent, but why does not the result be seen? And its root cause is that as long as we sit in the air conditioned rooms of our plans, especially in tribal communities, in the air conditioned rooms of Delhi or in the air conditioned areas of the state capital, we prepare the designs of those in the tribal communities. The change can not come. The change comes after what the tribal community wants to do in their area, what is its priority, on the basis of which allocation of the budget will be done and to fulfill those projects in the time limit, to make those tribal communities shareholders You will see that changes will take place after seeing it.\nWe have brought the Indian Forest Service Welfare Scheme of the Government of India. Today, more than 28 government departments are sitting in the middle of the tribal community with some responsibility of work. And what is it? One department works in one village, the second department works in the other village, there is no change or no effect is seen. And so under the Forest Bldg Kalyan Yojna, schemes of all these departments .... Keep the plans moving but giving priority to the needs of those tribal communities, implementing projects, there is a great work being done, whose results are good Are there. Now being a tribal community partner. He is becoming a partner in the decision process. This is a fundamental change and due to this the right use of money is to be developed for its development.\nIn our country, big people think that if you meet big environmentalists, then you have to protect the forests, protect the forests. I say with experience if the forest is saved by someone, then my tribal communities have rescued. He will give them all but the forest will not be destroyed. This happens in his sacrament. If we have to protect the forests then larger than tribal communities we can not have any protector. Our effort is to give priority to this idea.\nOver the years, for generations, in the small pieces it is cultivated to keep its stomach while keeping the forest alive. He has no papers, neither is written, nor has anyone given something, which is what is the result of his ancestors for centuries. But now the governments are changing, constitution, law, rule and sometimes due to its tribal brothers who have spent life in the forests have to face problems. The Indian government is continuously running a big campaign to give land lease to the tribals in collaboration with the states. And the tribals should get their rights. This is our priority. There should not be any right in this country to take the land of tribals, nobody should have an opportunity, this is our commitment. And in that direction the government is in favor of harsh action and we are doing it to us.\nIn the same way, tribals should also get the right of land because the land is his life, the forest itself is his life, the forest is his god, worship is, he can not be separated from him. Whether our country has natural resources, whether it is coal, iron ore and other natural resources, most of our natural resources and forests and tribal communities are all together. Where there are forests, there are tribal communities and in those forests there are only natural resources. Now, without a coal, he will not have to walk. Do not walk without iron ore, it will have to be removed. If the country has to move forward, then the value of the property will have to be edited. But that should not be done by exploiting the tribal community, keeping their rights unchanged. For the first time in the last budget, the Government of India made an important decision, which received direct and direct benefit to our tribal communities who have been living in the forests. what did we do? Whatever natural wealth that comes out of these forests, put a few percent tax on the mineral deposits that come out, make a foundation of that tax. Each district has a different foundation. The government officials of that district were kept in charge. And the government decided that the money that comes in this foundation will be spent for the welfare of the tribal community of the same area. Schools will also be built for them, then hospital will be made for them, road will be made for them, will be made for them, if Dharamshala becomes, then it will be made for them. For those same communities\nWhen I met the Chief Minister of Chhattisgarh Dr. Raman Singh, he said, Modi has made such a big decision that in the seven districts of our seven districts, due to this tax this money will be coming so that the common budget that we spend today There will be many times more money than that. At one time it will come that we will not have to pay a single penny in the state's vault in these seven districts. So much money is going to be spent for the tribal community. The benefit of thousands of crores of rupees will be obtained from this foundation. Whereas before going to coal from there, iron ore would also go, but the tribal community living there did not get the benefit. Now we will get the direct benefit that we are working towards that direction.\nWe are giving importance to one thing. We have to save our forests, save the land of our tribal community, and keep them safe for those financial means, so we want to emphasize undergraduate mining through modern technology. So that the above jungle would be like that, living the same way. Go deep down into the ground and collect coal so that there is no problem in life there. Government of India is committed towards the same modern technology.\nSecond, to make coal gasification through modern technology, i.e., it should be removed from the coal by making coal from the ground so that there is no harm to the environment also, there is no harm to our tribal community.\nऐसे अनेक प्रकल्प जिनके द्वारा जनजातीय समुदाय का कल्याण करने का हमारा प्रयास है। सरकार ने एक रर्बन (ग्रामीण-शहरी) मिशन हाथ में लिया है। इस मिशन के द्वारा आदिवासी क्षेत्रों में जहां जनजातीय समुदाय रहते हैं वहां पर नए ग्रोथ सेंटर तैयार किए जा रहे हैं। जहां आर्थिक गतिविधि के केंद्र विकसित हों। आज भी आदिवासियों के अलग-अलग जगह बाजार लगते हैं। वो वहां जाते हैं, अपना माल बेचते हैं और बदले में दूसरा माल लेकर आते हैं। बार्टर सिस्टम आज भी जंगलों में चलता है। लेकिन हम चाहते हैं कि 50-100 आदिवासी गांवों के बीच में एक-एक नया विकास केंद्र विकसित हो। जो आने वाले दिनों में आर्थिक गतिविधि का केंद्र बने। अगल बगल के गांवों के लोग अपने उत्पादों को वहां बेचने के लिए आएं। अच्छी शिक्षा का वो केंद्र बने। अच्छे आरोग्य की सेवाओं का वो केंद्र बने। और अगल बगल के 50-100 जो गांव हैं जो आसानी से उस व्यवस्था का उपयोग करें।\nवो स्थान ऐसे हों जहां आधुनिक सुविधाएं उपलब्ध हों। कभी शहर का शिक्षक जाने को तैयार नहीं होता आदिवासी बस्ती में, कभी डॉक्टर जाने को तैयार नहीं होता। ऐसे में इन रर्बन सेंटर पर वो सुविधाएं हों ताकि हमारे शहर के लोगों को वहां सरकारी नौकरी मिलती है तो वहां रहकर काम करना पसंद करें। ऐसे 100 से ज्यादा आदिवासी इलाकों में रर्बन सेंटर खड़े करने का हमारा प्रयास है जो नए आर्थिक ग्रोथ सेंटर के रूप में काम करेंगे। जहां पर वहां के जीवन की आत्मा जनजातीय जीवन की होगी, लेकिन वहां सुविधाएं जो शहर के लोगों को मिलती हैं वो सारी उपलब्ध होंगी। ऐसे ग्रोथ सेंटर का एक जाल बिछाने की दिशा में भारत सरकार काम कर रही है.\nआज देश भर से आए हुए मेरे आदिवासी जनजातीय समुदायों के भाइयों बहनों, दिल्ली में आपका ये अनुभव आनंद उमंग से भरा हुआ हो, आप अपनी जो कला, कृतियां और उत्पाद लेकर आए हैं वो दिल्ली वासियों के दिल में जगह बना लें, व्यापारियों के दिल में जगह बना ले, एक नए आर्थिक क्षेत्र के द्वार खुल जाए, ये दीपावली आपकी जिंदगी में और नया प्रकाश लाने वाली बने, विकास का प्रकाश लेकर आए, ऐसी दिवाली के लिए मैं आप सबको शुभकमाएं देता हूं। और आप सब इस पावन त्योहार के निमित्त यहां इतनी बड़ी संख्या में आशीर्वाद देने के लिए आए, मैं सिर झुकाकर, आपको नमन करते हुए, अपनी वाणी को विराम देता हूं।"