"\nGuru Gobind Singh Ji was a great warrior, philosopher poet and guru: PM Modi\nGuru Gobind Singh Ji fought against oppression and injustice His teachings to people focused on breaking the barriers of religion and caste: PM\nGuru Gobind Singh Ji's values ​​and teachings will continue to be the source of inspiration and the guiding spirit for the mankind in years to come: PM\nWah guru ji khalsa .. wah guru ji ki fateh !!\nI welcome you all the great privileges that come here from different corners of the country. Congratulations to all of you, Lohadi also the entire country. Especially, for my ancestors of our country, this season of harvesting has brought about an endless happiness, I congratulate them.\nToday, the celebration of Guru Gobind Singh Maharaj is celebrating the celebration of companions. I commend my devotion to Guru Gobind Singh Ji, devoted to the values ​​of Khalsa creed, humanity's followers, devoted to Indian values. On the occasion of Guru Gobind Singh ji's Festival of Lights, along with all the colleagues, I congratulate the people dedicated to the Sikh faith throughout the country and around the world and devoted to Indian culture.\nCompanions, last year we celebrated Guru Gobind Singh Ji Maharaj as 350th birth anniversary year. To make this important occasion of Sikh Cult more memorable, on behalf of the Central Government, I had the privilege of dedicating a memory of Rs. 350 rupees to the countrymen.\nBy the way, the coin of Guru Gobind Singh Ji has been running on the hearts of people for hundreds of years and will continue for several hundred years. Therefore, whose work has been running our life by becoming a value, we have been encouraging people, we are making a small effort to remember him forever. This is a small effort to express respect and reverence for them and for this we all feel a satisfaction.\nThere was a confluence of many astrologers in the personality of associates, Shri Guru Gobind Singh ji. He was the master, the devotee was also superior, the devotee was also excellent.\nHe was as good a warrior as the best poet and writer. As much as they had a strict stand against injustice, the same was the urge for peace.\nTo protect humanity, to protect the nation, to protect religion, the country and the world are familiar with their supreme sacrifice.\nDue to these sons\nWhat happened to the four quarters, many thousands alive ..\nTo protect thousands of children, sacrifice to their children, the sacrifice of their offspring. To protect the nation, to protect religion, what could be a bigger example of sacrifice and sacrifices?\nHis patience with companionship, valor, was patience, that was wonderful. They used to struggle but the culmination of renunciation was unprecedented. They used to fight against evil in society. Guru Gobind Singh ji fought against the high and low prices, casteism, against him. All these values ​​are in the origin of the creation of new India.\nCompanions, Guru Sahib, keeping the knowledge at the center, used every word of Guru Granth Sahib as a jivanmunna. He had said that now Guru Granth Sahib, every word of his, his every page will inspire us to the ages to come. Whenever the panch dar and khalsa creed were formed, they were also trying to add entire India to it.\nThe development of the Khalsa sect was the result of deeper contemplation and study of Guru Saheb's long time. He was the knower of the Vedas, Puranas and other ancient texts. Guru Sahib was from Guru Nanak Dev to Guru Tegh Bahadur, the tradition of the Sikh faith, during the Mughal rule, he had extensive knowledge of the events related to Sikhism. They have their thoughts on every event that is going down in the country and society.\nCompanions, many of you have read 'Dasamagrha Saheb'. Those who hold on language and literature are amazing. Every juice of life has been lectured in such a way that it touches the normal person from the normal. It is decking, posture, verses, flow, mesmerizing. His knowledge of the Indian languages ​​and his fascination was incomparable.\nThe poetry of colleagues, Guru Gobind Singh ji, is the simple expression of the Indian culture, the simple expression of our life philosophy. As his personality was multi-faceted, his poetry also covered many and various topics. Many knowledgeable people of literature also consider them as inspiring and nutritious.\nCompanions, culture of any country brightens its glory. Fine. In this way enriching and promoting culture has always been in the priorities of the world's powerful civilizations. This effort has been done by our government for the past 4½ years.\nA comprehensive effort is being made to bring the cultural and knowledge heritage of India to the masses of the world. The country has succeeded in re-establishing its reputation from yoga to ayurveda. This work is continuing continuously.\nIt is being tried that the world benefits from the message that our sages, princes and gurus gave to the companions, global health, prosperity and peace. We celebrated 350th light festival of Guru Gobind Singh Ji, now preparations for the celebrations of the 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev ji are also going on. It is a great privilege of our government that we have got the privilege of joining the holy opportunities these days.\nThe Government has decided that this festival will be celebrated in all the states and Union territories of the country and this event will also be organized in our Ambassi throughout the world.\nNot only this, you also know well that now with the relentless and unprecedented effort of the Central Government, the Kartarpur Corridor is going to be built. Now every Indian, every Sikh who walks on the path of Guru Nanak, will be able to go to Narowal with his eyes instead of binoculars and will be able to visit the Darbar Sahib without a visa.\nIt was his repentance in August 1947. The most important point of our guru was just a few kilometers away, but he was not taken with him. This corridor is a valid attempt to reduce that loss.\nCompanions, Guru Gobind Singh Ji or Guru Nanak Dev Ji, our every guru has given the lesson to stand up with justice. Walking on the path shown by them, the central government is engaged in bringing justice to the period of injustice started in 1984 today. For decades, mothers, sisters, sons and daughters, who have shed tears, will work to wipe them out, to give justice to them.\nCompanions, today's holy day, there is a need to take a resolution again to follow the 11-point route of Guru Gobind Singh Ji Maharaj. Today, when India is on the path to becoming a strong nation, then there is a need to strengthen India's spirit.\nI believe that, all of us will strengthen our resolve of new India by way of the guidance given by Guru ji.\nOnce again all of you greeted the light festival. The new year brings you many happiness, along with this desire,\nWho said, Nihal! .. Sat Sri Akal!"