"\nUrge all citizens to send their # Sandesh2Soldiers \u0026 Remember their valor: PM Modi in Varanasi\nThe real aim of initiatives is proper execution and bring in positive change in common man's life: PM\nSchemes should be implemented on time and within the budget; There is no delay in this: PM\nWe are not a government We hope that projects are completed on time: PM\nWe have modernized our Railways It's the engine of growth\nI want to thank the Kashi people first, thank them. When I saw on TV, read in the newspapers, some local citizens called me and told us that the Kashi people accepted the small Diwali. When the country's army took power on September 29, the whole Kashi got up As the MP of the Kashi, who gave the honor to the security forces of the country, as dedicated to the Aarti of mother Ganga, as the MP you have so much respect for the army, there is no excitement for my happiness.\nI express my gratitude to you for the small Diwali that you had observed. After many years, hundreds of hundred million countrymen have been successful in realizing that you are not alone, the country of one hundred crore is standing behind you. Now we are going to celebrate big Diwali. We will celebrate Diwali with our family, will share happiness between our loved ones, burn lamps, remove the darkness, bring light, will do everything, but this is possible when we are positioned on the red border of a mother, Pays for yourself\nBy celebrating this little Diwali, you gave the direction to the country. I urge the people of Kashi, the citizens of Uttar Pradesh, the citizens of Hindustan, from the land of Kashi, in the same way we give our best wishes to these people in this Diwali, in the same way we have our soldiers in the army, our security The forces will send their message to Deepawali and realize their attachment to them. Whether they are in the army, the army should be in the army, be in the air force, be in the Coast Guard, be in the Indo-Tibetan Force, be in Assam Rifles, be in BSF, in the CRPF - everyone, 100 million nationals Is deployed for safety. In Deepawali we should send a message to all of them.\nWill you send? How to send?\nYou make missed calls from your mobile number to 1922 There you will receive a message. With that message you can download the Narendra Modi app on your phone. There is a place for sending troops to the army, they will send you a message. The country's security forces will get your message.\nThe security forces of the country should take every moment that we are putting our youth on the country, how proud is the countrymen to us, how proud they are. They should experience this replica. It's not enough to just be around the sounds of bombs, guns and bullets. In many countries of the world, if the soldiers of the army are going in the airplane, going to the rail and other travelers see them, then they glorify their applause and they pass through it. This is the usual nature. When a particular situation arises in our country, it comes to the power of patriotism, then patriotism emerges completely, but then slowly it cools down. With the army, the culture of adding a true, proud, respectable bond with the security forces must always be maintained. These are not enough to be made on specific occasions.\nThat's why I have sent a message to the army personnel this time and also told the countrymen that you also join me in this message.\nBrothers and sisters, first of all, I express my gratitude to all the ministers, their ministries, because you implemented so many schemes in my parliamentary area and you did such a great job to facilitate the voters of my constituency. I first express your gratitude. I want to congratulate the Railway Department officials that you understand my nature well and have completed the project prematurely. Other governments are such that the government makes a foundation stone, the inauguration comes in the second or the third government's fortune. Governments come, go, change, but those stones are lying there.\nIt is such a government that we also do the Shilanas and we also want to inaugurate. Plans should be in the time limit. Must be in the prescribed budget. If possible, time should be avoided, money should be avoided and work should be good. The effort to develop this culture is that the government that you have set up in Delhi is trying and I assure you that it has become in every field.\nYou must have seen, as many of our ministers said here, as well as the time when you told the program's plans. Because one of my requests remains, I sign on the program or on a file, then ask me, when will you tell me full? Plans are not just for publishing in newspapers, it is not just for newspapers in the applause, schemes are to change the lives of the masses, to implement it. And this government is urging that we will implement the schemes we bring.\nYou saw it here, Sukanya Samrudhi Yojana. The day we have announced this plan, it should have come in the newspaper too, some people have known, some people have not known and the talk has come. But we do not do this, we are striving to tell that we are doing this. No? Is the benefit to all the girls reaching or not? Do not look back or look? So look, are.\nHere you have seen, I got a chance to give gas cylinders to some families. We know how difficult it was to get a gas cylinder. Recommendation was required. The MP had to walk around. The big officers also used to catch the MPs that my transfer was done here. I have come here to get the connection of gas, see me, no big trouble. Mix 25 coupons to the MP to get a gas connection. And he used to roam around with 25 coupons, 200-200 people used to roam around that sir give me a coupon too. It all went away. The government is looking for the poor from the front, looking for the poor's house.\nMy dream is that in the home of the poor families of Hindustan, where the wood stove burns, where the cooking is very smoked within every mother, the mothers have to be protected from fumes. The burning of a gas stove is in the house of the poor. I am trying to do this.\nBut along with this, the foundation stone of the gas pipeline program in Varanasi is going on today. I do not know whether water from the tap in the kitchen would come in every house or not. People still have to go to take water out of the house. My efforts and especially the daughters of Kashi, bless me, that the gas will come from the tap on the kitchen, the food will start cooking. Work is being started today in the direction of laying gas pipelines by spending hundreds of crores rupees in due time.\nEnergy is of great importance in the economy. Gas is needed in the production of gas based economy, fertilizer. The work of the Jagdishpur-Haldia pipeline was to be done for him but with him, we decided to give gas to the seven cities in the country, especially in eastern India, from the pipeline. These cities are Varanasi, Ranchi, Cuttack, Patna, Jamshedpur, Bhubaneswar, Kolkata. Under it, work is being done to bring gas from the pipeline in the houses of my parliamentary constituency today.\nEven in traffic, where you drive vehicles from petrol diesel, now you can drive with CNG. CNG is cheaper than petrol-diesel, it also benefits the environment. Here are about 20 lakh vehicles which will be benefited when CNG stations are available. And in these seven cities there are huge amounts of vehicles, so the environment will be of great benefit. The country has to bring petroleum from abroad, it will also save the country financially. So, a scheme which is also a public utility and is going to protect the environment for future generations also.\nIt is not clear to me that if we think any area of ​​India will move forward then the country will move forward. It is not possible. The country will move forward only if there is development in every corner of India, especially in eastern India. Whether it is Eastern Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Bengal, Jharkhand, Orissa, Northeast, and Assam - if this whole area is to be the center of economic activity, then we have to add it with such facilities.\nIn the past you will have seen Kashi's music world got place in heritage. He was the subject of pride for Kashi. It is the center of omnovance. Kashi has given a lot to the country and the world in the field of music. That heritage got place inside the world as a heritage. Inspired by that, Kashi's postal stamp today .. and I would like Kashi people to add this habit of putting the postal stamp of Kashi in his mail. He increases your identity in itself. Once the postal stamp goes, then there is a reason for tourism in the world. He gets an identity from him. Kashi's pride is recited. Long ago, the postal stamps of the cities were imagined in our country, but that did not move the case forward. We chose Kashi for this work. Once again it has begun and due to this our work will be one of the unique identities of this ancient city in front of the world in a new way.\nFor the farmers here today, the foundation stone of a very important King Talaab has been taken. Our farmers produce vegetable next to big cities. This King Lamba is a place which is the focal point in the connectivity of road and rail in east, west and north. This is the area where our farmers cultivate the most vegetables, fruits and flowers. If they get such a facility and save them for waste and facilitate transport, our farmer will get the most benefit. And this system is such that it will be very beneficial for the farmers of this area. When he gets the price, he can sell the goods, otherwise he can keep his goods safe. If the facility is available, the system will be found, and if it connects with the transport system, the farmer can reach not only in this area but also for selling his vegetables from Kolkata to Delhi. The cauliflower here is so famous. The things here are delicious. Here is the blessing of Mother Ganges. It also has a unique test. So this will create an identity in the market due to this.\nToday our Manoj Sinha gave Kashi another glory. The postal department is our very old system. As long as the technical did not come, the postman used to be the reason for waiting in every house. The mail did not come or came, but every family would have noticed that the postman did not come. If son lives outside, then he used to remember Dr. Dia every day. The post has its own importance.\nThe format of the post has changed in the new time. We are translating the post into banking sector. Post Office will provide banking facility. The number of branches in the country today are the same as the branches of post offices. More than one and a half million They will do all the banking work. When a new zone is created, a special monitor is built on the facilities here, the skill comes and results are available. To make that work, a regional arrangement has been made by adding districts around Kashi. New zones have been built.\nNowadays the case of e-commerce is increasing. People buy their things online. But the time will not be far away when the post office will become a very large center of delivery. Today, give money to MNREGA, to pay scholarship money, to pay pension money - the branches of banks are low. Due to the increase in the facilities which are elderly people, students, widows, these facilities will be readily available due to their mailing and bank joining. Due to this, a new facility will be available to the business class, especially to small traders to run their business. This work has also been presented to you today.\nRail is the old system of our country. When the budget came in Parliament and Railway Minister announced thousands of millions of crores, no MP did not listen to them, but as soon as they started speaking that a box was added to the city from Falna city, immediately the MP started playing applause Were. Stops will be provided at the fencing site, the rhythms were ringing. If the new train was to be installed at the Falani place, then the rhythm played. The railway budget was limited to the extent of which MP in which area of ​​the train will not stop or stop, will not or will not. Here the train is limited.\nRail India has such a large network, but its recent movements are of color variation from the previous century. We have dreamed that the rail needs to be modernized. Need to speed up the railways. Electrical convergence of railways is required. Gauge conversion is required. Need to connect far and wide and therefore, as a huge plan our railway minister was saying, the amount of money spent after Independence, the amount of work that has not been done, has worked so much in the last two and a half years and in the past months. . And under this, when Allahabad becomes double line, a new bridge will become, speed will increase, business will also benefit. Once such a dynamic infrastructure becomes available, then the economic activity also gets accelerated. This is not just a game of tracks, it is not just a train running game, it changes the whole economy. We have taken this big step today for this work here. You will also get the benefit of this.\nToday, there was an open offer for electricity. बिजली होती तो है लेकिन ज्यादातर लोगों को पता नहीं होता कि बिजली के कारखाने में बिजली बनने से बिजली मिलती नहीं है। बिजली का कारखाना भी लग गया, तार भी लग गए तो उससे बिजली नहीं आ जाती। जैसे पानी के बहाव को पहुंचाने कि लिए बांध की जरूरत पड़ती है या ट्यूबवेल से जरिए पानी को ऊपर ले जाकर टंकी में भरने के बाद पानी नीचे पहुंचता है, वैसे बिजली को भी इस प्रकार के सब-स्टेशन की जरूरत पड़ती है जिससे बिजली को आगे पहुंचाने के लिए धक्का लगता है।\nये बड़ा खर्चीला काम होता है लेकिन सब-स्टेशन न हो तो बिजली आती है, जाती है, कभी टीवी जल जाते हैं, कभी मोटर जल जाती है, कभी एसी जल जाता है, स्थिरता नहीं आती। क्वालिटी पावर नहीं मिलता है। इसके लिए बुनियादी ढांचे की आवश्यकता होती है। लेकिन ज्यादातर सरकारों को इस प्रकार के खर्च करने से डर लगता है। उनको लगता है ठीक है लोग चला लेंगे, बिजली आई न आई वो थोड़े दिन चलाते रहेंगे। नहीं, क्वालिटी बिजली होती है तो आर्थिक विकास का एक बहुत बड़ा सरल रास्ता हो जाता है। उद्योगपति भी पैसे तब लगाते हैं जब क्वालिटी बिजली मिलती है। आती है, जाती है, पूछते हैं, करते हैं, हुआ, नहीं हुआ इन बातों से कभी विकास नहीं होता है। ये जो पावर के सब-स्टेशन डाले गए हैं जिसका उद्घाटन हुआ है वो क्वालिटी पावर की गारंटी देते हैं।\nएक प्रकार से आज किसी एक समारोह में करीब-करीब 5000 करोड़ रुपये का काम काशी की धरती को अर्पित हो रहा है।\nये छोटा काम नहीं है। और बड़ी-बड़ी योजनाएं मैं कहूं तो आज सात योजनाएं मेरे काशी वासियों के सामने लोकार्पण के रूप में या शिलान्यास के रूप में मैंने रखी हैं। एक तरह से ये सप्तर्षि है। जैसे आकाश में सप्तर्षि दिशा का काम करते हैं, सप्तर्षि को देखकर के समंदर में नाविक अपनी दिशा तय करता है, पहले के जमाने में जंगलों से गुजरने वाले लोग सप्तर्षि को देख अपना रास्ता तय करते थे। काशी की विकास की राह तैयार करने वाला ये सप्तर्षि आज मुझे यहां की धरती को दने का अवसर मिला है।\nकाशी का अविरल प्यार मुझे मिलता रहा है। भरपूर प्यार मिलता रहा है। मैं आपका ह्दय से बहुत-बहुत आभारी हूं और मुझे विश्वास है कि विकास की यात्रा तेज गति से पूरे पूर्वी भारत को बदलाने का काम करेगी और काशी अपनी ताकत दिखा कर रहेगी इस विश्वास के साथ आप सबका बहुत बहुत धन्यवाद।"