"Contribution of our Armed Forces in keeping the nation safe is immense: Prime Minister\nCenter is set to turn Uttar Pradesh into 'Uttam Pradesh': PM Modi\nIn UP there are those who are more concerned about family issues But, BJP wants growth of UP: PM\nParties like SP and BSP are unable to transform people's lives in Uttar Pradesh: PM\nNarendra Modi to be the Chief Minister of India\nLong live Mother India\nLong live Mother India\nLong live Mother India\nEeru-Udal, like the hero of the warrior, is eating e-earth, and his valor is recited repeatedly. Ram-Rama by adding two-hand food to the hard-working farmer and unadulterated laborers who cultivate perspiration of Darr Dar in Bundelkhand rocky soil. All the elderly, Matai-father, boy Bitian Khan Ram-Ram.\nOn the stage, Mr. Om Prakash Mathur Ji, our fast-paced young man, Mr. Keshav Prasad Maurya, State President of the Bharatiya Janata Party of the always-bland state, my partner of the Council of Ministers at the Center and the pioneer of giving water to the farmers in the corner of India who raised This is Ms. Uma Bharti ji, my partner of the Council of Ministers at the center ... this is the son of the son of Uttar Pradesh. Niranjan Jyoti ji, Regional President Mr. Manvendra Singh Chauhan, our popular MP Mr. Pushpendra Singh Chandel ji, Mr. Independentev Singh, Mr. Vijay Bahadur ji, Shri Bhanupratap Verma ji, Shri Vaibhav Prasad Mishra ji, Mr. Ravi Sharmaji, Ms. Ranja Upadhyay ji, Mr. Babu Prasad Nisad ji and dear brothers and sisters ...\nI salute the heroic son of Naresh Kumar Pal, who was martyred in the same area, who was serving the life of Mother Bharti in the last week, seeking the protection of innocent citizens from terrorists with the help of militants. I bow to them. And I have urged the countrymen this time that we remember our loved ones very much in the days of Diwali. The lights are lit in their house. Resolve to remove darkness. Whether our brave soldiers protecting the country's light in this Diwali ... whether it is in the army, whether the army is in the army, whether it is in the air force ... be in the BSF ... in the CRPF, in the Coastguard. In ITBP, there are countless government organizations, in which the youth of our country sacrificed themselves for our happiness by having a pill on their chest to protect us. In this Diwali, every Hindustani send them the message of the wishes of Deepawali ... I have sent my message and urge to the countrymen that our security forces ... our security forces ... and only the army Not only this ... there are even more security forces ... who all spend their youth on our happiness. Such soldiers wish our best wishes for Diwali ... for the country. And the land of Bundelkhand is the voice of their strength. It is the voice of the nation's strength, and so when I remember Shaheed Veer Nareshpal, I remember his virtue. I request you to send auspicious message to this country, and to the people of Uttar Pradesh, also to the Happy Diwali. This land is very special, this earth has shown the sword of the sword and also the consciousness is awakened from the pen.\nThis is the earth which has given birth to great warriors, how many names are not known, eli-udal, Maharraa Chhatrasal, Lakshmibai, Jalakari Baai, Rani Durgavati. The freedom struggle of 1857 ... Today, for the people who are breathing for freedom, this land has shed their blood, which gives us the life of happiness and happiness today. This land is also the land of spirituality ... Maharshi Vedavas, Maharishi Valmiki ji, Goswami Tulsidas ji and presently the Maithilisharan Gupt, Vrindalal Verma ... all these great series of greatness ... numerous names, I have come here on this earth today. I bow to submission to all of these. We wish for His blessings, so that we get a power that liberates the people of this Bundelkhand .. here ... give them a break from the crisis. Let us get such a power that such a power will be available to us. Brothers and sisters, I used to see the work of Chief Minister of Gujarat for many years, there are rivers in Bundelkhand, in our Gujarat, there is no other river except Narmada and Tapti Mayia, but then we had undertaken that one of the rain- Will save a drop. As far as the water of Narmada river is reached, it will reach. The state that lives in drought ... today is free from the crisis of water after 15 years of hard work. Brothers and sisters, you will hear ... Let the media people do their work, I have seen, now will be heard ... Your love is my brother-in-law brother When I used to hear about Bundelkhand Here are five to five rivers, but due to the lack of water management, there are stone stones, but the soil is dry.\nBrothers and sisters, the farmer was devastated and therefore the land of Bundelkhand ... which has the power to give diamonds, pearls, gold and what do not give it from the land of the land, but till the farmer gets the stomach no food Can give If the water is administered then the farmer can produce gold from the soil, the gold from the soil ..... Under the guidance of our Uma, we have taken a big program in our hands, whose benefits are to get the entire area here. Its dream was seen by Atal Bihari Vajpayee Ji, but later people came to such people who are very concerned about their concern, people are not worried at all and that was the plan, connecting rivers, there are many rivers in our country. Due to flood, the entire area is destroyed and some rivers are dried after 15 days of rainy season. If these rivers are added to where excessive floods occur, then the water should be flown in the dry rivers ... If these rivers are brought alive, then water will also fall within the earth, dried well will also get water and access to agriculture also Will increase. And that was why Atal Bihari Vajpayee ji had a dream- Keneweva Uma ji has extended this work and this work has been carried forward, and I am convinced that under the leadership of Uma ji, this work will be completed and the result is going to get the entire area. Thousands are going to cost millions, and when I came here .. In the 2014 elections the area was visited, even then I had said that if Bundelkhand gets water, there are watery people here, who have the power to change life here. Are.\nWhen I was in Gujarat, Holi etc. had to meet festivals like Hindi speaking people, people of North Indians, most people live in Bundelkhand's Gujarat. Maybe a village would be such that if a family does not go to Gujarat, then I had to ask them, who are you from Bundelkhand, from Bundelkhand in Madhya Pradesh or from Bundelkhand in Uttar Pradesh, all in the beginning, I and everyone would tell me Was not that we are from Bundelkhand, Uttar Pradesh. Later, I stopped asking because I knew that if it came to Gujarat then it does not come with Madhya Pradesh, Uttarakhand ... Uttar Pradesh's Bundelkhand comes because there is no employment potential. Why can not brothers and sisters, where there is so much natural wealth, develop? If you are a fan, then difficult and difficult situations can be changed.\nYou must have heard of the desert of Kutch, if a governmental person was transferred, then he would have said that I have been sent to Andaman Nicobar. There was also a terrible natural crisis from Bundelkhand. But today he has become the fastest growing district of India. Bundelkhand also has such strength that brother and sister can move forward .... Brothers and sisters, Uttar Pradesh has witnessed a lot of politics, seen every kind of sport. Those who had to play games, they played sports, who had to get it, they found. Ever, never, BSP .... Sometimes BSP ... sometimes the BSP ... their world keeps moving ... There is no change in your world, brothers and sisters. And so in Uttar Pradesh ... If you feel that Uttar Pradesh wants to make India the best state in the next 10 years, then get out of this SP-BSP outbreak, brothers and sisters. It has been enough ... You must have seen that when elections come and SP is a government, then BSP speaks a lot of speeches on the corruption of the SP. You- I do ... accuse ... confuse the public and then sit down again. But did the BSP work for five years ... Did a single SP send the prison? What did one take action against a SP person? ... did not raise. The BSP will still confuse you, and if you have the opportunity to come to power then they will be friendly ... behind the curtain ... no one will take any step on this ... these SP-BSP will be seen in each other's Do the same for You loot in your time ... I will loot in my time. When your turn comes, do not tell you ... I will not tell when my turn comes ... This game is running SP BSP, it has destroyed Uttar Pradesh.\nUttar Pradesh has to change the fate, then exit the SP and the BSP's affair, Brothers and sisters Today you are seeing that the government's Mulajim are the same, see the 2014 newspaper Brothers ..., what was the whole newspaper filled with ...? There was a scam of so many lakh crores ... every day there was a news. Today, for two and a half years, have you placed me a news you have heard of corruption? Is there any news from anywhere? Ever heard in the ear ...? If you decide to run the country honestly, then the country can go, today there are honest people in the country, today there are honest Babu people in the country, today there are honest officers in the country, today there are honest police in the country, strength -It is necessary to give strength to honest people and honesty can come in the country. So brothers and sisters .. I want to say that this game of foul play in Uttar Pradesh. That game is to save Uttar Pradesh. Brothers and sisters, this time the picture of Uttar Pradesh elections is clear, this time there was no dilemma in the election of the Lok Sabha like .... It was obvious that the difference between milk and water of milk is what happens ... what is black and white what was clearly visible. The people of Uttar Pradesh made the biggest help of India ... In forming the government of the absolute majority, the citizens of Uttar Pradesh had realized that if this game continues, the country will be wasted ... If the change is to be done then 100% Should bring and the people of Uttar Pradesh have shown such strength that there was a hundred percent change in Delhi. I am grateful to you, I am grateful to Uttar Pradesh, I am grateful to the whole of India that they have made such an important decision. This time too is not a matter of much confusion, on the one hand, those people who are worried about saving the family, on the other side are those people who have to reach the throne in any manner ... to hold the chair. Brothers and sisters are on one side those people who are worried about saving the family, there is concern about getting a chair on the other side.\nThe third, we are worried about saving Uttar Pradesh alone, are worried about making Uttar Pradesh, there is a concern about furthering Uttar Pradesh. You decide ... Will Uttar Pradesh family spend money to save, will Uttar Pradesh try to give someone a chair, whether Uttar Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh will pay for the decision, you have to decide, brothers and sisters ... and so I I believe that this time the people of Uttar Pradesh and especially my youth ... especially my youthful ... You have to think of your fate. Your ancestors, your dad, grandfather ... in some sense came to somehow orthodox and kept the SP and BSP handy in some places, afterwards it will be felt that the man is your own. But he did them ... your parents, grandparents, uncle-aunt ... did not do anything to anyone ... nor did it in your village, nor did it in your area, my young people Due to this loss suffered, but my youngsters do not mistake you .... You worry about your fate, you worry about this Uttar Pradesh, if you worry about the fate of Bundelkhand then you will get the change my brothers and sisters .... Someone told me that this natural property is not right here, it is your right to do it ... whether it is your right or not, you should not have a share in its earnings or anything from it should be done in your pocket. That should not happen, should be made in the way of your village or not, your pond should be fine or not, should the well of your farm be ok or not, should you get the price of your crop New that do not meet ...? But a handful of people come from the blessings of Lucknow and occupy all of them ... they destroy all, do not want to remove such a mafia or not? ... should be removed (public) ... You told me today that Uttar Pradesh's two parties are SP and BSP ... do they have a maan in the fight against the Mafia ...? Can they fight ...? Can anyone take any action on those who trust them ...? Brothers and sisters, there is such a single BJP party that is ready to fight against these Mafias ... ready for you. Brothers and sisters .. Where there are good governments, there is a law for land reform law to protect the common man's land, to protect their land, to protect their border, that no one should take care of him, Do not write ... Every government, which is good, does some work for land reform, but it is Uttar Pradesh, the government should be of the SP, the government is the BSP ... here there are no work to improve land, land was used to grab land. Are.\nकौन कितनी ज़्यादा ज़मीन हड़प लेगा उसको टिकट दी जाती है, उनको फिर नेता बनाया जाता है। भाईयों-बहनों ये उत्तरप्रदेश की धरती हम सब की मां है मां, इस मां को अब लूटने नहीं दिया जाएगा, माफियाओं से ये जमीन छीनने के कारोबारों पर हम कठोर से कठोर कार्रवाई करना चाहते हैं। और इसलिए भाईयों-बहनों मुसीबतों से मुक्ति पाने के लिए हम कदम उठाना चाहते हैं। भाईयों-बहनों आपने सरकारें देखी है। मैं आज आपके सामने.. अच्छी सरकारें होती है तो क्या फर्क आता है इसका उदाहरण बुंदेलखंड एक बढ़िया जगह है। कोई भी नागरिक समझ सकता है और इसलिए मैं चाहता हूं कि इस बात को हम समझें। बुंदेलखंड का एक हिस्सा मध्यप्रदेश में है, बुंदेलखंड एक हिस्सा उत्तरप्रदेश में, उत्तरप्रदेश के बुंदेलखंड पर कभी सपा ने राज किया तो कभी बसपा ने राज किया और मध्यप्रदेश के बुंदेलखंड पर भारतीय जनता पार्टी ने राज किया, भारत सरकार ने दोनों को करीब-करीब 3,500-4,000 हजार करोड़ रुपया दिया... दोनों को दिया.... परिणाम क्या आया...? मध्यप्रदेश वाला बुंदेलखंड... जहां पर भारतीय जनता पार्टी की सरकार है... जहां कभी उमा जी ने मुख्यमंत्री के नाते काम किया, जहां कभी शिवराज सिंह चौहान मुख्यमंत्री के नाते काम कर रहे हैं, उन्होंने जो काम किया मध्यप्रदेश के बुंदेलखंड में... केन्द्र सरकार से जो पैसा गया पाई-पाई का पूरे हिसाब के साथ काम किया गया। लेकिन उत्तरप्रदेश में जो हुआ... कहीं पता नहीं चल रहा है कि उन पैसों का क्या हुआ...। मैं बताता हूं आपको... यहां के किसानों को पानी की किल्लत है, मध्यप्रदेश के बुंदेलखंड को भी पानी की किल्लत है।\nमध्यप्रदेश सरकार ने योजना के तहत करीब-करीब पानी पहुंचाने का 90 प्रतिशत काम पूरा कर दिया, और उत्तरप्रदेश में अभी भी 40 प्रतिशत से आगे काम नहीं पहुंच पाया है। ये जिम्मेवारी सपा-बसपा दोनों की है। भाईयों-बहनों... यहां पर सिंचाई की योजना लागू करने के काम, कुआं वगैरह के काम, उत्तरप्रदेश में सिर्फ 70 योजना शुरु की गई, एक भी योजना पूरी नहीं की गई। जबकि मध्यप्रदेश के बुंदेलखंड में 170 योजना शुरु की और 170 की 170 सभी योजना पूरी की गई। पाई-पाई काम में लगा दिया, मध्यप्रदेश का किसान सुखी हो गया और उत्तरप्रदेश के बुंदेलखंड का किसान तबाह हो गया। वॉटर-शेड मैनेजमेंट का काम... मध्यप्रदेश ने 1000 नए प्रोजेक्ट लिए वॉटर शेड के..., ट्यूववेल के काम किए... उत्तरप्रदेश बुंदेलखंड ने एक भी काम उस दिशा में नहीं किया। दिल्ली से भेजे गए पैसे सड़ते रहे, आपके काम नहीं आए भाईयों-बहनों। नए कुऐं बनाने    थे, 30,000 का लक्ष्य था नए कुऐं इस इलाके में बनाने का...भारत सरकार ने पैसे दिए थे... किसानों के लिए 30,000 नए कुएं। आपको जानकर के दुख होगा उत्तरप्रदेश बुंदेलखंड के मेरे प्यारे भाईयों-बहनों...मेरे किसान भाईयों-बहनों... 30,000 में से सिर्फ 3,500 कुओं का काम हुआ है। 27,000 के करीब कुऐं किसी ने देखा तक नहीं है। पैसे कहां गए... पता नहीं, दूसरी तरफ मध्यप्रदेश, उसका बुंदेलखंड... उन्होंने 45,000 कुओं की योजना बनाई, और आज मैं गर्व के साथ कहता हूं कि मध्यप्रदेश भारतीय जनता पार्टी की सरकार ने मध्यप्रदेश के बुंदेलखंड में 47,000 कुओं का काम पूरा कर दिया...47,000 कुओं का काम पूरा कर दिया भाईयों-बहनों...।\nजो किसान पैदा करते हैं उनकी फसल बर्बाद न हो...इसलिए एक स्टोरेज का काम करना था। मध्यप्रदेश बुंदेलखंड ने किसानों के लिए 6 लाख टन अनाज संग्रह के लिए... गोडाउन वगैरह तैयार करने थे... कर दिए। उत्तरप्रदेश बुंदेलखंड में एक किलो की भी वृद्धि नहीं की गई... ये पैसों की बर्बादी नहीं है तो क्या है...? भाईयों-बहनों जहां सूखा होता है जहां किसानों को परेशानी होती है, वहां अगर पशुपालन पर ध्यान दिया जाए, दूध उत्पादन पर ध्यान दिया जाए तो वहां के किसान को बचाया जा सकता है। भाईयों-बहनों...मध्यप्रदेश के बुंदेलखंड में 18,000 परिवारों को इस काम में जोड़ा, पशु-पालन में, दूध उत्पादन में, दूध की व्यव्स्था करने में लेकिन उत्तरप्रदेश बुंदेलखंड ने...जहां सपा-बसपा की सरकारें हैं, जो पुरानी मंडलियां थी, उसमें भी राजनीतिक उठा-पटक का खेल खेला और ज्यादातर मंडलियों को ताले पड़ गए भाईयों-बहनों। ये काम सपा और बसपा वालों ने किया है। भाईयों-बहनों..मैंने ये विस्तार से इसलिए बताया कि अगर भारतीय जनता पार्टी की सरकार होती है तो जनता के पाई-पाई का समय पर उपयोग करती है। और सपा-बसपा की सरकार है तो सत्ता का उपयोग खेल खेलने के लिए किए जाते हैं, जनता की भलाई के लिए नहीं किए जाते हैं और इसलिए भाईयों-बहनों मैं आज ये अनुरोध करने आया कि आज आप उत्तर प्रदेश का भाग्य बदलने का संकल्प कीजिए, उत्तरप्रदेश का भाग्य बदलेगा... तभी आपका भाग्य बदलेगा। भाईयों-बहनों... उत्तर प्रदेश ने अनेक प्रधानमंत्री दिए हैं देश को...अनेक प्रधानमंत्री दिए हैं। मुझको भी उत्तरप्रदेश ने बनाया है। उत्तरप्रदेश का मुझ पर हक है... भाईयों-बहनों... उत्तर प्रदेश को ऐसी सरकार दो अब तक उत्तर प्रदेश से जितने भी पधानमंत्री हुए, उन्होंने जितना काम उत्तरप्रदेश के लिए किया है...मैं अकेला उन सब से ज्यादा काम करना चाहता हूं। मुझे ऐसी सरकार दो... मैं कुछ करके दिखाना चाहता हूं भाईयों-बहनों। मुझे आपके लिए कुछ करके जाना है... भाईयों-बहनों मैं कर्ज चुकाने आया हूं। मैं सामने से आपकी सेवा करने आया हूं। अभी उमा जी एक नारा बुला रही थी, मैं ज़रा उस नारे को करेक्शन करना चाहूंगा, उमा जी ने कहा “मोदी जी, आप राज करो... हम आपके साथ हैं...” जी नहीं, नारा ये बुलाओ की मोदी जी सेवा करो हम आपके साथ हैं। मोदी राज करने के लिए पैदा नहीं हुआ है, मोदी राज करने के लिए पैदा नहीं हुआ है। मैं तो एक मज़दूर की तरह... आपकी तरह... मुझे जो काम मिला है, आपके लिए अपने आप को खपाने वाला इसान हूं, सेवा... यही मेरा परमोधर्म है... इसी को करना चाहता हूं। गरीब के आंसू पोंछना चाहता हूं, किसान की जिंदगी बदलना चाहता हूं, गांव के जीवन में नई चेतना लाना चाहता हूं, नौजवानों के सामर्थ्य से... देश का भाग्य बदलना चाहता हूं। इसलिए सेवा... यही मेरा रास्ता है, आपकी सेवा के लिए खपने के लिए मैं आपका आशीर्वाद चाहता हूं। और इसीलिए आज आपकी बुंदेलखंड की धरती को नमन करने आया हूं। भाईयों-बहनों..कोई भी समाज हमारी माताओं-बहनों के साथ अन्याय करके आगे नहीं बढ़ सकता है। “बेटी बचाओ-बेटी पढ़ाओ”, ये बात लेकर के मैं जब चला हूं, ज्यादातर हिन्दु समाज में ऐसी एक विकृत धारा है कि बेटा पैदा हो तो अच्छा और बेटी है तो बोझ है। और इसका परिणाम ये आया... 1000 लड़के पैदा होता है तो सामने 800 या 900 बेटियां पैदा होती हैं। हर हजार में 100,150 बेटियां कम होती हैं... समाज में असंतुलन पैदा हो रहा है। बेटियों को मां के गर्भ में मार दिया जाता है।\nभाईयों-बहनों...ये पाप है...गुनाह है। अगर गुनाह करने वाला हिन्दु है तो क्या हुआ। मेरी सरकार ने कठोर से कठोर कदम उठाए हैं। बेटियों की रक्षा होनी चाहिए, माताओं की रक्षा होनी चाहिए। धर्म नहीं देखना चाहिए...सम्प्रदाय नहीं देखना चाहिए, माताओं-बहनों की इज्जत होनी चाहिए। हमने हिम्मत से इस बात को आगे बढ़ाया है, अब बात आई है तलाक की... अगर कोई हिन्दु... मां के गर्भ में बेटी को मार देगा तो उसको जेल के सलाखों के पीछे जाना पड़ेगा वैसे ही मेरी मुसलमान बहन... उसका क्या गुनाह... कोई ऐसे ही टेलीफोन पर तीन तलाक बोल दे और उसकी जिंदगी तबाह हो जाए...। क्या मुसलमान बेटियों के हकों की रक्षा होनी चाहिए कि नहीं होनी चाहिए? क्या मुसलमान माताओं-बहनों को रक्षा मिलनी चाहिए कि नहीं मिलनी चाहिए? क्या मुसलमान बहनों को समानता का अधिकार मिलना चाहिए कि नहीं मिलना चाहिए? कुछ मुस्लिम बहनों ने अदालत में अपने हकों की लड़ाई लड़ी, सुप्रीम कोर्ट ने हमें पूछा कि आप भारत सरकार क्या कहती है.. हमने साफ-साफ अपने शब्दों में कहा कि माताओं-बहनों पर कोई अन्याय नहीं होना चाहिए, सम्प्रदाय के आधार पर कोई भेदभाव नहीं होना चाहिए। मैं हैरान हूं... हिन्दुस्तान की कुछ पॉलिटिकल पार्टियां, वोट बैंक की भूख में 21वी सदी में मुस्लिम औरतों के साथ अन्याय करने पर तुलें हुए हैं, ये कौन सा न्याय है..और इसलिए भाईयों-बहनों... चुनाव अपनी जगह होती है, राजनीति अपनी जगह पर होती है, लेकिन हिन्दुस्तान की मुसलमान औरतों को उनका हक दिलाना...संविधान के तहत दिलाना...ये सरकार और समाज की जिम्मेवारी होती है। मैं मीडिया से सार्वजनिक रुप से आज अनुरोध करना चाहता हूं, टीवी डिबेट करने वालों से मैं अनुरोध करना चाहता हूं कि तीन तलाक को लेकर के जो विवाद चल रहा है, मेहरबानी करके उसे सरकार और विपक्ष का मुद्दा न बनाएं, मेहरबानी करके उसको भाजपा और अन्य दलों का मुद्दा मत बनाए, मेहरबानी करके उसको हिन्दु और मुसलमान का मुद्दा न बनाएं। डिबेट ये होनी चाहिए कि जो मुसलमान समाज में जो शास्त्रों को जानते हैं, जो कुरान को जानते है, ऐसे Expert लोग टीवी पर आएं और वे चर्चा करें। जो पक्ष में है वो मुसलमान बताएं। मुसलमान समाज में पढ़े लिखे जानकार लोग हैं, आधुनिक विचार रखने वाले लोग हैं।\nमुस्लिम महिलाएं पढ़ लिख कर के मुस्लिम महिलाओं के हितों लिए अच्छे से अच्छा विचार रखने वाली हैं। अगर टीवी डिबेट करते हो, मीडिया में चर्चा करते हो तो उसको हिन्दु मुसलमान का मुद्दा मत बनाइए। मुसलमानों में जो लोग सुधार चाहते हैं और जो सुधार नहीं चाहते... उनकी चर्चा हो... ताकि देश के सवा सौ करोड़ नागरिक जान सकें की सचमुच में मुद्दा क्या है? अरे लोकतंत्र में चर्चा होनी चाहिए, और सरकार ने अपनी बात रख दी है, और इसलिए जो लोग तीन तलाक के मुद्दे से हट कर के ऐसे-ऐसे विषय उठा रहे हैं और लोगो को भड़काने की बातें करते हैं। इस देश में हिन्दू को भी... मां के गर्भ में बेटियों को मारने का कोई हक नहीं होगा वो हिन्दु होगा तो भी जेल जाना होगा। इस देश मुस्लिम बहनों को भी तीन तलाक कह कर बर्बाद करने वाले लोगो को भी आज के युग में बर्बाद करने का मौका नहीं दिया जा सकता है, इन माताओं-बहनों की रक्षा होनी चाहिए और इसलिए हम काम कर रहे हैं। भाईयों-बहनों आज बुंदेलखंड की धरती पर मैं जब हैलीकॉप्टर से आ रहा था तो मैं देख रहा था, मीलों तक रास्ते भरे पड़े थे, लोग शायद पहुंच भी नहीं पाए होंगे। ये इतना जन-सैलाब और अभी ठंड शुरु नहीं हुई है, इतनी गर्मी में... भाईयों-बहनों दिल्ली में बैठे हुए लोगों को पता चल गया है कि उत्तरप्रदेश की जनता ने... उत्तर प्रदेश के लिए वोट देना तय कर लिया है, उत्तरप्रदेश का भाग्य बदलने के लिए वोट देना तय कर लिया है, उत्तर प्रदेश का जीवन बदलने के लिए वोट देना तय कर लिया है। अब सपा-बसपा के चक्कर से मुक्ति का ये आंदोलन है, सपा-बसपा के चक्कर से उत्तर प्रदेश को बचाने का ये आंदोलन है, सपा-बसपा की कुरीतियों के कारण तबाह हुए उत्तरप्रदेश को बचाने के लिए आह्वान करने आया हूं। आपने जो जन- समर्थन दिया... मैं बहुत आभारी हूं। मेरे साथ बोलिए भारत माता की...जय, दोनों हाथ ऊपर करके पूरी ताकत से बोलिए भारत माता की...जय, दोनों हाथ ऊपर करके पूरी ताकत से बोलिए भारत माता की...जय, भारत माता की... जय, भारत माता की...जय,\nThanks a lot."