"Share\n\nIndia is today the fastest growing major economy, and one of the most attractive destinations for FDI: PM Modi\nWe are enacting a Goods and Services Tax law, to create an integrated national market: Prime Minister\nIndia is experiencing a digital revolution This is bridging the digital and economic divide in Indian society: PM\nInnovative business models and app-based start-ups have developed a spirit of enterprise in Indians: PM\nWe have initiated far-reaching legal reforms. Over a thousand archives have been scrapped: PM\nIndia has no dearth of brilliant lawyers and judges: PM Modi\nChief Justice of India, Justice T. S. Thakur,\nHon'ble Judges of the High Courts,\nDistinguished Guests and Friends,\nLet me begin by congratulating NITI for organizing this global conference.\nPerhaps the simplest definition of arbitration comes from Mahatma Gandhi, who said:\n\"I had learned the true practice of law. I had learned the best way of handing out I realized that the true function of a lawyer is to unite the parties involved in a dispute. The lesson was so indebted to me that the big part of my time during the twenty years of my practice as a lawyer was carried out in private compromises of hundreds of cases. I lost nothing thereby, not even money and certainly not my soul. \"\nFriends\nIndia is today the fastest growing major economy, and one of the most attractive destinations for FDI. Indeed, we stand out as the global economy. This is the result of India's fundamental strengths: democracy, demographic dividend and demand. We need to fully harness these strengths This can happen only if businesses make long-term investments that create jobs and sustain economic growth.\nOur domestic market has been fragmented. Different taxes have made more expensive. This is the hampered growth in inter-state commerce. We are enacting a Goods and Services Tax law, to create an integrated national market. This will boost domestic demand, create more opportunities for Indian business and drive job creation.\nIndia is experiencing a digital revolution This is bridging the digital and economic divide in Indian society in general; and rural society in particular A boost to the rural economy through this revolution will make the Indian economy even more robust.\nInnovative business models and app-based start-ups have been developed. Yesterday's job seekers are becoming today's job creators. The legal profession is also opening up the promises of the digital world. From cause-lists to case-laws, the lawyer's library is now just a click away on your mobile phone.\nFriends\nBusinesses seek assent of the market They need to be assured that the rules of the game will not change overnight, in an arbitrary fashion. And that commercial disputes will be resolved efficiently A robust legal framework is backed by a vibrant arbitration culture.\nTowards this end, we have reached far-reaching legal reforms. Over a thousand archives have been scrapped. We have enacted a comprehensive insolvency and bankruptcy code, 2016, implemented the National Company Law Tribunals, established a statutory monetary policy committee and effected a merger of the commodities and securities market.\nFurther, in the case of the Bankruptcy Code, we have amended the SARFAESI and DRT Acts this year to suit the changing credit landscape and augment the ease of doing business.\nHowever, legal reforms can deliver only when there is a effective and efficient dispute resolution mechanism. The independence of the judiciary is a basic feature of the Indian Constitution. Common citizens as well as businesses in the United States Our Government has taken various initiatives to improve the judicial infrastructure and administration.\nWe have enacted the Commercial Courts, Commercial Division and Commercial Appellate Division of High Courts Act, 2015, for speedy resolution of commercial disputes.\nA National Judicial Data Grid has been set up to provide data on cases pending in the district courts. Steps are being taken into the e-Court\nOur government has been working on a strategy for convergence of existing tribunals. This will help transform the existing complexated system into a simpler structure.\nWe need to simultaneously facilitate a vibrant ecosystem for alternate dispute resolution, including arbitration, mediation and conciliation. This will provide additional comfort to investors and businesses. More importantly, it will also ease the case-load on Indian courts.\nResolution of disputes through arbitration is not new to us In ancient India, there were several mechanisms for settlement of the parties. These included the Kulani, or village council; Sreni, or corporation; and Puga, or assembly Similarly, commercial issues were decided by Mahajans and Chambers.\nToday, corporates and financial institutions want legal experts who can help close business deals and transactions without any disputes and litigations. If a dispute arises, corporates want to resolve them quickly, without going to courts. For this, they require specialized arbitration lawyers Alternative dispute resolution processes also preserve personal and business relationships that may otherwise be damaged by the adversarial process.\nRecent trends indicate that Asian centers like Hong Kong and Singapore have emerged as preferred arbitration destinations. As popular business hubs, they also rank high in the level of ease of doing business. Thus, availability of quality arbitration mechanisms is an integral component of the Easy of Doing Business, to which our Government is committed.\nFriends\nCreation of a vibrant ecosystem for institutional arbitration, is one of the foremost priorities of our Government Recently, major amendments have been made to the Arbitration and Conciliation Act This has made the arbitration process easy, timely and hassle-free. Our law is based on the UNCITRAL model law.\nThe objective is to ensure that in normal circumstances, the arbitral tribunal makes its award within 12 months. In case of a fast track process, such award can be given in 6 months. Even the appointment of the arbitrator has to be decided by the court within a period of 60 days. The impediments encountered earlier in the grant and process of award, have been removed.\nFurther, as per the new law, any application challenging the award is to be disposed off by the court within one year. The enforcement of award can be canceled only by international practices. These amendments have brought our arbitration process into global best practices. This has given us a chance to emerge as a leading arbitration jurisdiction. However, great opportunities pose great challenges These challenges include: Availability of excellent quality and globally recognized arbitrators; Observance of professional conduct, ensuring neutrality, and timely completion of proceedings; and, Cost effective arbitration proceedings\nFriends\nIndia has no dearth of brilliant lawyers and judges. India also has a large number of retired judges, engineers, and scientists who can act as competent arbitrators in various fields. India's economic interests will be better served by a high number of arbitration experts and lawyers. This in turn requires widening of the legal education in India. Special arbitration bar association We also need professional run arbitral institutions which can deliver international standards of services at reasonable costs We welcome internationally recognized organizations in this effort.\nWe must deliberate on ways and means to the efforts of the judiciary and arbitration mechanisms. Mediation is one such mechanism, the potential of which is not much used in the country.\nFriends\nAn enabling alternative dispute resolution ecosystem is a national priority for India We need to promote India globally as an arbitration hub. As Roscoe Pound famously commented, \"The law must be stable but it should not stand still.\" We need to take inspiration from beyond our shores. This conference has provided the ideal platform for the crucial regulatory policy and mindset reforms on this.\nI am sure, the deliberations here will help in further strengthening the arbitration in India and set a milestone in positioning as a global hub for arbitration among international practitioners, corporate houses and the legal fraternity. We are successfully implementing your recommendations.\nThank you.\nIndia is experiencing a digital revolution This is bridging the digital and economic divide in Indian society: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) October 23, 2016\nFrom cause-lists to case-laws, the lawyer's library is now just a click away on your mobile phone: PM Modi https://t.co/I88hu3Nre5\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) October 23, 2016\nOver a 1000 archaic laws have been scrapped. We have\nenacted a comprehensive insolvency and bankruptcy code, 2016: PM Modi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) October 23, 2016\nWe have implemented the National Company Law Tribunals \u0026\nestablished a statutory monetary policy committee: PM Modi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) October 23, 2016\nWe have enacted Commercial Courts, Commercial Division \u0026 Commercial Appellate Division of High Courts Act 2015 for speedy resolution: PM Modi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) October 23, 2016\nA National Judicial Data Grid has been set up to provide data on cases pending in the district courts across the country: PM Modi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) October 23, 2016\nWe need to facilitate a vibrant ecosystem for alternate dispute resolution, including arbitration, mediation and conciliation: PM Modi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) October 23, 2016\nMajor amendments have been made to the Arbitration and Conciliation Act This has made the arbitration process easy, timely \u0026 hassle-free: PM Modi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) October 23, 2016\nIndia has no dearth of brilliant lawyers and judges. We have a large no of retired judges, engineers \u0026 scientists who can serve as arbitrators\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) October 23, 2016\nAn alternate dispute resolution ecosystem is a national priority for India We need to promote India globally as an arbitration hub: PM Modi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) October 23, 2016\nAmbitia will help in strengthening the arbitration and set a milestone in positioning for India as a global hub for arbitration: PM Modi"