"\nPM Modi distributes assistive devices in Vadodara, Gujarat\nIn every infrastructure we create, we have to be conscious about the needs of our Divyang sisters and brothers: PM\nOur work is only making plans \u0026 initiatives It is about to ensure they reach the beneficiaries: PM\nGovernor of Gujarat Shri Om Prakash Kohli, Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani ji, Deputy Chief Minister Shri Nitin Bhai Patel, Mr. Ashok Ganpati Raju, Mr. Jayant Sinha, MP, Mrs. Ranjanben, here is my colleague of the Council of Ministers at the Center. From the area, legislator Manisha Ben, state government minister Mr. Rajendra Jee, Secretary of the Department Mr. R. R. N. Choubeji, Chairman of the Airport Authority of India, Dr. Gurprasad Mohapatra, all the brothers and sisters present.\nIn May of 2014, all of you as the Prime Minister had entrusted me with the responsibility of work. Then there were two such important things in a while that we did the important work that we did Among them was a work for which Gujarat was waiting for five decades, struggling and was facing difficulties. It was the task of increasing the height of the Sardar Sarovar dam.\nAs soon as we came to government, one of the first things we did in the early days was to allow Sardar Sarovar scheme to increase the height of Sardar Sarovar scheme, and I congratulate the Government of Gujarat because of the speed at which this The work is going on, I am confident that the Gujarat government will complete this work just before the time limit.\nSecond, the construction work of this airport. Its work has also been started in June-July of 2014 and will be considered as one of Vadodara Airport which will be counted as the most respected Airport of India today.\nIn this day, whatever the Indian government does in the field of architecture, one thing is emphasized that environment friendly and eco-system has been taken care of. I am happy that after the formation of a new government in India, two airports have become part of the Green movement in a manner. An airport was inaugurated in Kochi in Kerala and the second is today Vadodara Airport, which is dedicated to the nation.\nIt is based on property construction, energy saving and environmentally friendly from terminal waste. When these types of prestigious buildings are ready, the enthusiasm of the general public also increases by seeing this type of work. Initially, things are more expensive but once the government intervenes and starts, then they are prepared economically for even the general citizen.\nThere was a time when there was a heap of coal ash along the coal-fired power plant. There was a large pile of coal from the electric factory. And had to pay for the ashes of Kaiyache. Those who lived nearby used to shout that Bhai should be removed, we will die. The bricks used in the building of this terminal have been used by coal ashes. It also gets strengthened and the garbage that had to be spent in removing the waste has been brought here and the environment has been protected.\nThe aviation sector is moving very fast in India. His development is very fast. Now the middle class family feels like flying, it does not feel good to go by train. Relatives ask, hey come on the train? So they do not think we should go in the airplane. It has started connecting with prestige in our country.\nIt is estimated that within five years at the airports of India, this will be the situation that the number of people in the US will be in the airports in our country throughout the year. That is, you can imagine how far the aviation sector is going to grow. India will probably become the world's third largest country in the very near future, which will exceed the airport activity standards. This will increase employment prospects. Due to this, the economy and business get accelerated.\nFor the first time since independence, this government has created a separate aviation policy. In our country the airplanes used to be airports, airports were made, but the country did not have any aviation policy. So where to reach it in five years, where to reach in ten years, there was no point of what to do for the needs of the common citizen of the country. If it used to run, ran, used to run, used to stop and stopped. It was.\nThese countries are vastly vast. With 80 or 100 airports we think about running the country, we create obstacles in the development journey of the country. Cities in tier-2, tier-III category have the same likelihood as in cities of the upper class. If they get benefit of the aviation sector, then the new dimensions of the country's development journey can be opened. And so to promote it, there is a ticket of Rs. 2500 for 500 kms so that there is no remote to go to Nagaland or anyone has to go to Arunachal or someone has to go to Mizoram, someone has to go to Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Lakshadweep, Someone has to go to Kutch, someone has to go to Bhavnagar, Junagadh .. There are areas where traffic is not available today, where air strikes have been made from old times. So work on a very large scale expansion mission is going on. And this is going to work on the model of private-public partnership.\nConnectivity is very important in the world today. Physical connectivity also needs digital connectivity. If the highway should have come I-they too Information waves are also needed. The same is the need for air traffic in the same way. There is a great need of air service in the tourism sector today.\nTourism is progressing fast in India. The possibilities are immense. If we allow people to go to destinations then they stay for two to three days. If you live much more and spend more then there is a lot of strength in the economy. So in this sense air traffic generates multi-dimensional economic impact. Keeping these things in mind, the present government has tried to promote the aviation sector.\nVadodara residents are getting this new look today. I believe Vadodara has its own identity only, it will be arranged to make four-moans in that identity.\nVadodara is known as a cult city, but Vadodara is also a hub of education. Vadodara has made its place in technical education. Vadodara and Vidyanagar have done a lot of work in that direction. Keeping these things in mind, the Government of India has taken a very important decision. The effect of which will be on the whole of the coming century. An important decision has been made for the hundred years which is going to be affected. It is the decision that the first railway university in the country will be built in Vadodara.\nIf the entire world is reaching 100 in the railway area, then India stands at number 10. Even today, our coaches, their speed, that flag hoist is the same. The world has changed. There have been very innovative experiments. Old Railways but it can be changed according to the needs of India by modern technical and innovative experiments. In order to give priority to that work, the Indian government has selected Vadodara by Indian Railways.\nThis year Railway University, which is the first such university in India, is going to be built in Vadodara town. From that you can imagine what big contribution Vadodara is going to do for the country.\nI got an opportunity to meet you today I am very grateful to you that in such a large number you came, blessed me.\nToday I have come here for two programs- inaugurating the new airport and this program to be with Divyang sisters and brothers: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) October 22, 2016\nDistributing Equipment is a very small part of the program. The big aspect is our duty to care for our Divyang sisters and brothers: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) October 22, 2016\nIn every infrastructure we create, we have to be conscious about the needs of our Divyang sisters and brothers: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) October 22, 2016\nIn every infrastructure we create, we have to be conscious about the needs of our Divyang sisters and brothers: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) October 22, 2016\nThe work of this department, for the Dalits and marginalised, is now the center stage of the working of the NDA Government: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) October 22, 2016\nIndia is among the fastest growing economies of the world: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) October 22, 2016\nLack of education facilities, lack of health facilities, poverty ... development will solve all these problems: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) October 22, 2016\nDo you remember how to get a gas connection? One will go to MPs pleading for a cylinder: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) October 22, 2016\nWe decided we will give gas connections to those This will specially benefit women: PM @narendramodi"