"India's friendship will stand with Myanmar in full support and solidarity: PM\nIndia has a strong development cooperation program with Myanmar: PM\nMOU on Cooperation in Power Sector will help create the framework for advancing India-Myanmar linkages in the sector: PM Modi\nAs close and friendly neighbours, the security interests of India and Myanmar are closely aligned: Prime Minister Modi\nIndia-Myanmar enjoy a cultural connect that is centuries old: PM Modi\nYour Excellency, State Counselor,\nDistinguished members of the delegations,\nMembers of the media,\nIt is a great pleasure for me to welcome Her Excellency Daw Aung San Suu Kyi on her first State Visit to India. Excellency, you are no stranger to the people of India. The sights, the sounds and vibrancy of Delhi are familiar to you. Welcome, Excellency, to your second home!\nYour clear vision, mature leadership, struggle and endual success in establishing democracy in Myanmar It is really an honor for us to receive you in India. We are also grateful for your participation at the BIMSTEC and the BRICS-BIMSTEC Outreach Summit in Goa a couple of days ago.\nExcellency,\nMyanmar has started a new journey under your capable leadership. It's a journey of hope and much promise.\nYour dynamism and popularity is leading your country to develop;\nits agriculture, infrastruture and industry;\nstrengthen its education and skill its youth;\nbuild modern institutions of governance;\nConnect more deeply with South Asia and South East Asia; and\nprovide security to its citizens\nLet me assure you, that as you lead Myanmar to become a modern, safe, economically prosperous and better connected nation, India and its friendship will stand with you in full support and solidarity.\nFriends,\nThe State Counselor and I have just concluded extensive and productive discussions on the full range of our partnership. India has a strong development cooperation program with Myanmar. From the mega connectivity projects like Kaladan and Trilateral Highway, to projects in the fields of human resources development, healthcare, training and capacity building, we are sharing our resources and expertise with Myanmar.India's nearly US Dollars 1.75 billion development assistance is centered on people Today, our negotiations are in agriculture, power, renewable energy and power sector incluidng many areas in our engagement to enhance the agreement. India will develop a Varietal Development and Seed Production Center in Yezin in Myanmar to enhance the quality of seeds.We will also work to develop a mutually beneficial arrangement for trade in pulses. We have provided the power supply from Moreh in Manipur to Tamu in Myanmar. We will also partner in a pilot LED electrification project on a site named by the Government of Myanmar. The MoU on Cooperation in the Power Sector signed on just now will help create the framework for this important sector in our linkages.\nFriends,\nAs close and friendly neighbours, the security interests of India and Myanmar are closely aligned. We have agreed that a close coordination to ensure security in the areas along our border, and sensitivity to each other's strategic interests, will serve the interests of both countries. Our societies enjoy a cultural connect We have offered assistance in restoring pagodas damaged in the recent earthquake in Myanmar. The Archaeological Survey of India will also soon start work on restoring two old temples and inscriptions of King Mindon and King Baygyidaw in Bodh Gaya.\nExcellency,\nMyanmar is a proud partner and friend of India. I hope you and the people of Myanmar all success\nThank you. Thank you very much\nPM: begins Press Statement, says Daw Aung San Suu Kyi: You are no stranger to the people of India Welcome back, to your second home! pic.twitter.com/WnIZKtY85Q\n- Vikas Swarup (@MEAIndia) October 19, 2016\nThe State Counselor and I have just concluded extensive and productive discussions on the full range of our partnership: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) October 19, 2016\nIndia has a strong development cooperation program with Myanmar: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) October 19, 2016\nWe have agreed to improve our engagement in several areas incluidng agriculture, power, renewable energy and power sector: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) October 19, 2016\nAs close and friendly neighbours, the security interests of India and Myanmar are closely aligned: PM @narendramodi"