"Share\n\nMSME is crucial for India's economy and our aim is to target the global markets: PM Modi\nIndia can play a major role in providing power to global economy that is facing slowdown: PM Modi\nBefore it was only 'Khadi for nation', now it's also 'Khadi for fashion': PM Modi\nWe have to bring the poor in economic mainstream. India's progress is closely linked with this: PM\nBrothers and sisters associated with Micro-Industries, small entrepreneurs coming from the corners of the country,\nNormally it was said that Delhi is remote, Delhi is very far away and it was the same. Such a big country, but every small task used to be in Delhi. We changed that tradition and it is our endeavor that even after Delhi, there is a huge Indian outside Delhi too, we must accept it. So now Delhi is not remote, Delhi is adjacent to Delhi, it is a realization. In the last days, as many new schemes implemented by the Indian government, all the schemes were done in different centers of India. Sometimes in Calcutta, then in Ranchi, then in Raipur, then Bhubaneswar, then Chennai, sometimes Sonepat-Haryana Every state has its own importance, it has its own power and it is a pleasure for me today that a small India in small scale sector in Ludhiana is in front of me today. People from all corners of India are present here in this area and I am fortunate that I have the opportunity to honor all the industrialists who contributed in this field. Well, those who today have to be respected, this number is about 250, because for many years these old governments have kept a lot of work for me. It would be a matter of great pleasure for me to meet those two hundred and two hundred winners, I would have met them, respected them, only to meet them, I could get the benefit of their little energy, which would be useful for the country. But the limitations of time remain. And if it was to give 250 people, then half of them would stay here. The organizers said that if possible, each state will be represented by each one as a representative, later will be honored by the Council of Ministers by everyone. But from my side all of you have many good luck to get your dream of dreaming for your successful journey, the dreams of your future destination, not just the best wishes, to emphasize the decentralized economy to bring about change in the economic life of India, micro and Giving strength to small industries, moving forward while targeting the global market, with this fine thinking, the Government of India is completely with you, shoulder to shoulder Ready to run with you.\nI believe that in the way that the world's fastest growing economies today, in today's big economy, India is the fastest growing economy, despite having a two-year affair. Our farmer was upset, there was a huge decline in agricultural production, despite this, the manufacturing sector, especially these micro and small industries, showed a great performance and not only let India's growth rate come down, and not only that, And the result is that the World Bank, the IMF, the credit rating agencies, all the world is saying in a voice that the economic activity of India, when the whole world is 200 8 has come in the situation, slow-down, is a lone Hindustan which is also stressing the economy of the world and behind it is also a major contribution to the manufacturing sector, Service sector.\nToday, there are three other types of opportunities for me. First of all, the mothers and sisters of the village of Punjab, I have had the opportunity to give a spinach to the 500 mothers and sisters of Token, and these days, we are giving emphasis on khadi, increasing the work on the yarn, the result of all this It is that in the family in which there is a charkha, almost those mothers and sisters, I was talking to all the mothers and sisters, earning more than Rs. 150 per day is earning them. In a way, through the home industry, to live a self-reliant life through khadi, to promote self-employment and the dream of Mahatma Gandhi, to strengthen this foundation of the economy and also to contribute towards it Today, an important work has been done by Khadi. I was later on to their stall. I also urge you to take a look. The first time we thought, that time has changed, see the quality of Khadi today, see the package of khadi, khadi competes for corporate world, has made a successful attempt to present itself in that form. And one thing is right that when the movement of freedom was going on, Khadi had its own importance. The mantra of that time was 'Khadi for Nation'. Now the country is free. We have to go towards the economic revolution and hence the mantra of today is, 'Khadi for Fashion'. 'Khadi for Nation' before Independence, 'Khadi for Fashion' after Independence. If we encourage this, then he also has a power to bring changes in the economic life of the village, the poor, the common man and I always urge the people that it is not necessary that you become a Khadiqadi. Everything from bottom to top of khadi is not my request. But if there are fifty types of fabric in your house then some khadi should also have the item of fabric. If every family of India has some khadi, and if we buy some khadi at the time of Diwali then Diwali's Diya burns in the poor house. What can be the satisfaction of a greater life than this?\nToday, I had the opportunity to get the blessings of the mothers and sisters of all those families. Today, another important work is being done from the land of Punjab. And when I am talking about the land of Punjab then it has its own importance too. At this time when we are celebrating 350th birth anniversary of Guru Gobind Singh ji and when I came here today on the soil of Punjab, remembering the virtue of Guru Gobind Singh Ji, he wanted to mention one thing that he had said. Guru Gobind Singh ji had said, 'Manas ki ji sabai, an identity he' The human being is the only one, it does not get elevated, nor is it lowly; It is neither indecent or untouchable. Guru Gobind Singh ji raised the voice against caste, contagious and untouchable in that era. But we know that our distortions in society, sometimes even with our Dalit brothers, hear such incidents, the forehead bends down with shame. Now 70 years after independence, we can not wait much longer. We will have to sharpen our direction and change the pervasiveness of our work, will have to be expanded. Aboriginal, dalit, aspiration is more among the other youth of India, more than that aspiration is in my dalit brothers and sisters and my tribal brothers and sisters today. If they get an opportunity to change India's fortune, they are not even behind us. They can contribute more.\nIn our country, our millindia is from dalit society, self-employed. They have created an organization all over the country. Dalit Chamber of Commerce of Dalit Society's entrepreneurs has started. I once had the opportunity to go to their ceremony. Hindustan's top most entrepreneurs who do more than 500 crores business, more than 1000, have got an opportunity to visit me in his program. There I met some mothers and sisters who were from the dalit family, were entrepreneur. He said that in the organization of our women, there is also an organization of more than 300 Dalit entrepreneur women and they carry more than 100 crore business. When I met him, I came to my mind that we should give him another force and this should be encouraged by the schedule caste, schedule tribe, which is entrepreneurship in it. That's why today we have announced in the previous budget, I am launching this scheme for the whole country, on the land of Ludhiana today, to build a Hub for Schedule caste, Schedule tribe entrepreneur. The Dalit is my brother and sister, the aborigine is my brother and sister, who do not want to stand in line to get a job. They want to make such a life, they themselves also create the power to give jobs to anyone. This is a mood of dreams, I want to do some work for them.\nThe banks have said, 'Start-up India, Stand-up India', under this program, there are branches of 100 million banks in India, from the nationalized bank. I do not talk of banks and, aside from cooperative et cetera Give every bank's branch a woman, one schedule caste, one schedule tribal to one crore rupees from the bank and help them to become an entrepreneur. On seeing the hundred million branches can give birth to four lakh new industrialists. How big a revolutionary step can be taken. Whatever our Dalit siblings who manufacture, the Government of India procures things, we have also requested the State Governments that who are our dalit and tribal entrepreneur, who will be manufacturing, four percent should be taken from them so that they are natural Get a market and be encouraged, bring those sections of the society to the center of economic activity, so that the new level of new powers to take the country to a new economic height Are the result we get, try to work in that direction came with it.\nToday, another project has started here, ZED. 'Zero effect Zero defect' You all know this fact that the common man is not ready to compromise the quality. First we used to see the market in India and thought that these things are going to be sold in the urban areas, among the people who have been educated, it is not okay to finish a little bit. This will sell him in Tier II, Tier III cities and those who look a bit slight and go to the village, then they will be sold. Most of us think of thinking of the market of India, and in the end it is such a big country, then no product is left lying, no garment will be made, top quality will be going to big city and become a bit of light quality. So let's leave Bhai in the village market will run. Now that is not the time. Thinking is changing But bigger than that, is the small businessman of India, whether the micro-industrialists of India will run their business only by keeping India's market in mind? If we have to serve the country best then we should all be aiming that we will adopt the global standard in quality control and in the market of the world, we will try to make India's identity to reinforce our foot.\nAfter World War II, Japan was devastated. No one could imagine that Japan would be standing. But their small enterprises have taken steps in the manufacturing sector without compromising quality. We know people, we used to go shopping in the market some 15-20 years ago today, and if it was written on made in Japan, then we would never have asked which company made, price was asked, They used to walk because they believed that there would be no mess in a quality. Can not the identity of India be made in any market of the world, as soon as he reads make in India he will stop by blinding that it will be worth it, it will be good, economical will be made and it will be ready to take it. If we have to walk through this dream and have to fulfill this dream then Zero defect will be its first condition. And sometimes even a small reduction can cause such a big loss. If a sailor has to go by boat, in the river, he sees his boat equally in the sea. Even a small hole is somewhere, no, he looks firm. Someone will say that there is such a big boat, what is a small hole in the corner Do not worry, come on. Does not go. He knows that a small hole will never help him to come back, life will be fulfilled right there. It should be mentioned in the mind of the manufacturer that after Zero defect, I will be able to reach my strength within the world and therefore the standardization, quality control and branding from it are born.\nGlobal market is waiting for us. Some people think that Bhai, we are a small person, a small machine, there are three workers- five are workers - there are ten workers, we will see the world. do not think so. Today in the field of space in the world, in the world of satellite, the world considers the iron of India. We did Mars mission. We succeeded in the Mangalyaan and India is the first country in the world which has already succeeded in the trial in Mangalyaan. Look at the strengths and strength of our young people. How much did it cost? If you have to move from one place to another in Ludhiana in auto rickshaw, then maybe one km Will be charged 8-10 rupees. We have prepared the mangaline. One kilometer Only 7 rupees have been spent. Not only that, Hollywood films that are made in the United States, Indian scientists, scientists, technicians complete the expense of the Mars mission, in less cost than the cost of the Hollywood film.\nIf such a great success, if you see history, will come to mind that in today's world, our name is in space. Sometimes it was said to be the world business of space, two different people used to do this work together in Bangalore and other places where people used to live in the empty space of the motor garage, and you used to do this work in the early days One photo will be seen, then two people are taking a portion of the satellite on the cycle and they are being taken by the tow to the cycle so that they have to go to the sky. Anyone can imagine that on that day who would have seen that taking the part of the satellite on the cycle, this country today feels its iron inside the world. For the small businessmen, they should have a dream in their mind that even though our product would seem to be small today, it would seem trivial, but in-built strength to reach a much larger height inside it is realized, if we realize that If we do, then we can cross those heights and walk with those dreams.\nThe time has changed. As much as the importance of the product, sometimes it seems to be more important than packaging. कभी-कभी हमारा माल बहुत बढ़िया होता है लेकिन पैकेजिंग में कंजूसी के कारण हम मर जाते हैं। जब पंडित नेहरु जी की सरकार थी तो आयुर्वेद को पुनर्जीवित करने के लिए एक कमीशन बैठा था और उस कमीशन का काम था कि आयुर्वेद हमारी traditional medicine है, वो खत्‍म होती जा रही है फिर से उसको पुनर्जीवित कैसे किया जाए। उसको popular कैसे किया जाए तो एक हाथी कमीशन बैठा था, जयसुख लाल हाथी करके थे। उन्‍होंने उसकी रिपोर्ट दी थी। वो रिपोर्ट बड़ी पढ़ने जैसी है। उस रिपोर्ट के पहले पेज पर बड़ी महत्‍वपूर्ण बात लिखी है। उन्‍होंने लिखा है कि आयुर्वेद को अगर बढ़ावा देना है तो सबसे पहले उसकी पैकेजिंग पर ध्‍यान देना चाहिए। ये कागज की पुड़िया में जो आयुर्वेद देते हैं दुनिया में ये चलने वाला नहीं है। उसकी पैकेजिंग बदलनी चाहिए आयुर्वेद अपने आप दवाईयां बिकने लगेंगी। पहला सुझाव था उनका और मैं ये 60 की बात कर रहा हूं। आज तो हम जानते हैं कि पैकेजिंग का कितना महत्‍म्‍य बढ़ा है। हमने भी हमारी product के साथ पैकेजिंग को भी उतना ही महत्‍व देना होगा और जैसा देश। अगर हम जो देश अंग्रेजी नहीं जानते, अगर वहां हम अपना product हमारी पैकेजिंग पर अंग्रेजी में लिखकर के बेचेंगे तो कहा बिकने वाला है। आपको उसकी भाषा में पैकेजिंग बनवाना पड़ेगा। इसलिए हर चीज में Zero defect. इन दिनों इस ZED योजना के तहत एक बड़ा competition की कल्‍पना है। Bronze से लेकर के platinum तक पांच अलग-अलग layer के इनाम दिए जाएंगे और बड़े handsome prize दिए जाएंगे। कोई सीधा platinum नहीं पा सकेगा। पहले उसको नीचे के layer से पांच layer करते-करते उसको आगे बढ़ना होगा और उसको विशेष मान्‍यता मिलेगी। उस मान्‍यता के तहत दुनिया के बाजार में उसकी एक साख बनेगी। हमारी कोशिश है और मेरा उद्योगकारों को निमंत्रण है कि इस ‘Zero defect Zero effect’ movement में कम से कम 10 लाख उद्योग उस competition में आए आगे। 50 parameter तय किए है। उस 50 parameter के लिए अपने आप को सज्‍ज करे। कुछ कमियां हैं तो ठीक करे। आप देखिए Global market के लिए हमारे product जगह बनाना शुरू कर देंगे और भारत सरकार का यह प्रयास, यह सर्टिफिकेशन जो है वो दुनिया में काम आने वाला है। उस दिशा में एक महत्‍वपूर्ण initiative आज यहां किया गया है।\nZero effect की बात जब मैं कर रहा हूं तब, दुनिया के देश, उनकी भी अपनी-अपनी एक रणनीति रहती है। अगर आपका माल दुनि‍या के बाजार में पहुंच रहा है तो कभी एकाध आवाज उठ जाए कि‍ कि‍सी NGO के द्वारा दुनि‍या में से कि‍ हि‍न्‍दुस्‍तान से फलां चीज आती है लेकि‍न वो तो environment को नुकसान करके manufacture होता है तो हम उस चीज का बहि‍ष्‍कार कर देंगे। इतनी सी आवाज कि‍सी ने उठा दी तो आपका माल उस देश में जाना बंद हो जाएगा। ऐसी स्‍थि‍ति में ये मानकर चलि‍ए कि‍ 5 साल-10 साल के भीतर-भीतर ऐसे कुछ लोग पैदा हो जाएंगे जो भारत की चीजों को अपने देश में प्रवेश करने से रोकने के लि‍ए environment नाम की चीजों को जोड़ देंगे। हमें अभी से तैयारी करे कि‍ हमारी manufacturing से environment को zero effect होगा। Zero negative effect होगा। उस पर हम बल दे और डंके की चोट पर दुनि‍या को हम कहे कि‍ हम वो चीज लेकर के वि‍श्‍व में आए है जो मानव जात के भाग्‍य को भी सुरक्षि‍त रखती है, भवि‍ष्‍य को भी सुरक्षि‍त रखती है और आपकी आवश्‍यकताओं की भी उत्‍तम से उत्‍तम पूर्ति‍ कर सकती है। इसलि‍ए ‘Zero effect, Zero defect’, इस मंत्र को हम आगे बढ़ाना चाहते हैं।\nभारत सरकार ने एक महत्‍वपूर्ण नि‍र्णय और लि‍या है और मैं चाहता हूं कि‍ आप लोग इसका फायदा उठाएं। पहले भारत सरकार इस प्रकार के जो सर्टि‍फि‍केट देती थी, अवार्ड देती थी तो आप अपने चैम्‍बर में लटकाते थे। कोई आए तो उसको दि‍खाते थे लेकि‍न अब हम इसकी प्रति‍ष्‍ठा को और अधि‍क व्‍यापक बनाना चाहते हैं। भारत सरकार वि‍धि‍वत रूप से आपको इस बात की अनुमति‍ देती है कि‍ आपको ये जो अवार्ड मि‍ले हैं, आपको जो उसका एक logo मि‍ला है, वे अब आपकी फैक्‍टरी में जो laborers है उनकी यूनि‍फॉर्म पर लगा सकते हैं। आप अगर अखबार में advertisement देते हैं, तो ये logo का उपयोग कर सकते हैं क्‍योंकि‍ ये आपकी मालि‍की हो गई अब। इसके कारण आप उसके साथ गौरव अनुभव करेंगे। पहले इतने सारे बंधन थे आप इसका उपयोग नहीं कर पाते थे, हमने इसको relax करना तय कर लि‍या ताकि‍ इसका आप भली-भांति‍ उपयोग कर सके और इसके कारण जो आपका laborer होगा, जब उसके सीने पर वो लगा होगा तो वो कहेगा कि‍ मैं उस कंपनी में काम करता हूं जो अवार्ड winner कंपनी है और देश की वि‍कास की यात्रा में इतना बड़ा contribute करने वाली कंपनी में मैं मुलाजि‍म हूं। वो भी एक शान का अनुभव करेगा। उस दि‍शा में भी काम करने की दि‍शा में हमने सोचा है।\nअनेक ऐसे वि‍षय हैं जैसे मैंने आपके सामने रखा, इन सारी योजनाओं का। आज लुधि‍याना की इस धरती पर नई गति‍ मि‍ली है। मैं फि‍र एक बार manufacturing सेक्‍टर को बड़ा महत्‍व देता हूं।\nStart-up पर हमारा बल है। मुद्रा योजना के द्वारा बैंकों से बड़ी मात्रा में छोटे-छोटे कारोबारि‍यों को पैसा देने का काम कि‍या है। आपको हैरानी होगी कि‍ योजना को शुरू हुए अभी सवा डेढ़ साल हुआ है। डेढ़ साल में करीब-करीब साढ़े तीन-पौने चार करोड़ कारोबारि‍यों को दो लाख करोड़ रुपया, बैंक से without गारंटी पैसे दे दि‍ए गए। वे नए रोजगार का नि‍र्माण करने की ताकत रखते हैं और अच्‍छी बात यह है कि‍ यह जो करीब पौने चार करोड़ लोगों को दो लाख करोड़ रुपया मि‍ला है उसमें ज्‍यादातर करीब-करीब 70 प्रति‍शत महि‍लाएं हैं, दलि‍त, पि‍छड़ी जाति‍ के लोग है। वे कुछ करना चाहते हैं। मुद्रा योजना के द्वारा उनको ये अवसर दि‍या गया है।\nआज आपने देखा होगा कि‍ उद्योगकारों के साथ-साथ हमने बैकों को भी सम्‍मानि‍त कि‍या क्‍योंकि‍ हम बैंकों को भी competition में लाना चाहते हैं कि‍ सूक्ष्‍म और लघु उद्योग को कौन तेजी से पैसा देता है, कौन ज्‍यादा पैसा देता है, कौन ज्‍यादा मदद करता है, ऐसे बैकों को भी हम प्रोत्‍साहि‍त करना चाहते हैं। ताकि‍ बैंकों के बीच में भी लघु उद्योगकारों को पैसा देने का competition पैदा हो, उनके अंदर एक स्‍पर्धा चले और ज्‍यादा से ज्‍यादा इन छोटे उद्योगकारों को आर्थि‍क कठि‍नाई न आए, उसकी व्‍यवस्‍था खड़ी हो। ऐसे अनेक पहलू है। उन सभी पहलुओं को जोड़कर के भारत में छोटे-छोटे उद्योगों का एक बड़ा जाल नि‍र्माण हो। हमारी जो नई पीढ़ी है वे साहस करना चाहती है, innovation करना चाहती है और ये बात सही है कि‍ हम अब ये सोचे कि‍ मेरी ये product मेरे दादा के जमाने से चलती थी तो अब भी चल जाएगी, तो ये होने वाला नहीं है। हर पीढ़ी को इनोवेशन के साथ नया product लाना पड़ेगा। छोटा उद्योग होगा तो भी innovation करते ही रहना होगा। Start-up innovation को बल देता है। talent को अवसर देता है। Start up में से लघु उद्योगों के लि‍ए scale-up कि‍या जाए, ऐसी अनेक नई चीजों के काम हो रहे हैं।\nइन दि‍नों जो स्‍वच्‍छता का अभि‍यान चला है। स्‍वच्‍छता के अभि‍यान में भी एक बहुत बड़ा आर्थि‍क कारोबार संभावि‍त है। अगर हम स्‍वच्‍छता को आर्थि‍क दृष्‍टि‍ से भी देखे तो waste में से wealth create करने के लि‍ए बहुत सारी संभावनाएं है। हम ऐसे tools बनाए, ऐसी मशीन बनाएं। अब जैसे आपने यहां एक प्रदर्शनी देखी होगी। पांच लाख रुपए की एक छोटी मशीन बना दी गई। पांच लाख रुपयों में वो फलों का essence नि‍कालकर के fragrance वाली चीजें market में ला सकता है। अब गरीब व्‍यक्‍ति‍ भी और मंदि‍र वाले भी। मंदि‍र के बाहर एक मशीन लगा दे तो मंदि‍र में जि‍तने फूल चढ़ते हैं उसमें से बहुत बड़ी quality का इत्र तैयार करके बाजार में बेचा जा सकता है। कैसे ऐसी छोटी-छोटी मशीनें तैयार की जाए, सहज रूप से काम आने वाली मशीन कैसे तैयार की जाए। अगर हम इस प्रकार की innovation को बदलेंगे। Start up को बढ़ावा देंगे। आप देखि‍ए हम लघु उद्योग सूक्ष्‍म उद्योग की दुनि‍या में बहुत बड़ा contribution कर सकते हैं।\nमैं फि‍र एक बार कलराज जी और उनकी पूरी टीम को, उनके सभी मंत्रि‍यों को, उनके वि‍भाग के सभी अधि‍कारि‍यों का हृदय से बहुत-बहुत अभि‍नंदन करता हूं। जि‍स तेज गति‍ से गृह उद्योग से लेकर के लघु उद्योग तक, सारा ये जो पूरा holistic network है उसको बल देने का जो प्रयास हो रहा है, इसके लि‍ए वि‍भाग के सभी अभिनंदन अधि‍कारी है।\nमैं बादल साहब का भी बहुत-बहुत आभारी हूं कि‍ पंजाब सरकार ने इस कार्यक्रम को सफल बनाने के लि‍ए भारी परि‍श्रम कि‍या। इसको यशस्‍वी बनाया और मैं बादल साहब ने मुझे भटिंडा के लि‍ए याद कराया है, वैसे मुझे भटिंडा पहले जाना चाहि‍ए था लेकि‍न समय अभाव से मैं जा नहीं पाया हूं। करीब एक हजार करोड़ रुपए की लागत से बहुत बड़ा एम्‍स का अस्‍पताल भटिंडा में बनाने की भारत सरकार योजना है। लेकि‍न मैं वादा करता हूं बादल साहब आप तो हमारे सबसे बड़े सीनि‍यर है। आपकी इच्‍छा हमारे लि‍ए आदेश होती है। मैं जरूर भटिंडा आउंगा जि‍तना हो सके उतना जल्‍दी आऊंगा और एम्‍स के कारोबार को आगे बढ़ाएंगे।\nमैं फि‍र एक बार आप सबका हृदय से बहुत-बहुत आभार व्‍यक्‍त करता हूं। पंजाब सरकार का आभार व्‍यक्‍त करता हूं। वि‍शेष रूप से बादल साहब का आभार व्‍यक्‍त करता हूं। Thanks a lot."