"The valor of our armed forces could not be forgotten: PM Modi\nCentral Government is dedicated to development of the country: PM\nOur Govt has implemented OROP pending for over 40 years This has benefitted ex-servicemen: PM\nWe are working towards construction of toilets and hydro projects, rural roads and railways connectivity: PM Modi\nOur Govt's aim is to empower and transform people across the country: PM\nLong live Mother India...\nLong live Mother India...\nThe leader of Himachal Pradesh, the Chief Minister of the state, Prem Kumar Dhumal, the former Chief Minister, my colleague of the Council of Ministers at the Center, the son of Himachal Pradesh, Jagat Prasad Nadda ji, my fellow youth, Power Minister Piyush Goyal, the state of the Indian public. The President of the party Mr. Satpal Ji, the former Chief Minister and senior leader Shanta Kumar ji, Mr. Anurag Thakur ji, here Members Mr. Ram Swaroop G, MP Virender Kashyap, I'm your'm very grateful to Mr. Ram and got HP My dear brothers and sisters .... me the opportunity to come to this Devbhumi you came in such large numbers for it. I am a member of the Kashi Lok Sabha and the Kashi MP has got the opportunity to bow in the small Kashi today. This is another good fortune for me.\nToday, when I came here, there was a doubt in my mind that I was shaken from within that the people of Himachal gave me so much love and I delayed coming here, I thought you would be angry, but coming here I saw that The heart is big like the Himalayas. You gave me the same love. As the ice melts throughout the moment, all the gila lessons are dispelled. I salute your head bend ... for your love but you know that when new responsibility gets to learn new work then it seems that if you go late in between late then it would have been so natural that they did more work. You got an opportunity to come here today. And if you come to the Mandi, then you will remember Shapu Bari and how will the work of Zhol work? But now even the relationship has broken, but the Test of the mandi is still intact. Dussehra of Himachal is famous all over the country and remains in the minds of all that Dussehra of Kullu will get an opportunity to see it sometime and tomorrow only Raghunath ji returned to Maharaj Temple. You laugh with great devotion, you came in the arrival and departure of the gods ... Today the country is benefiting from the source of a new energy from Himachal's land and on the same occasion I got an opportunity to come among all of you. I have had the opportunity to launch three hydro projects together, it is a privilege to say that when Atal Bihari Vajpayee was the Prime Minister, Premkumar Dhumal was the Chief Minister, then the project whose foundation stone I was also in charge of an organization in which I was also where I thought I would get an opportunity to come for his release, but it is a pleasant coincidence that Atalji, under the responsibility of the responsibility given to you by me, It was started and Atal ji did not consider Himachal any outside. He himself considered Himachal as his second home and therefore, when I am releasing this project, I also bow down to that superficiality of Atal ji. He who has the power to change the entire economic vision of Himachal, has such a great power of its power, through any one medium, Himachal has the ability to overcome new heights of development in small states of India.\nToday, when I come to the Mandi, I congratulate the people of Mandi, especially the residents. When I used to see the work of the organization in Himachal, he used to visit Tehsil, Tehsil, then many familiar faces I see in front of me today. At that time Dhumal ji was the government and Nadda was the environment minister, and for the first time in Himachal, the first step was taken for sanitation by taking a decision on the polythene and this time I have a chance to reward those who promote cleanliness in Delhi. Among the people who received the reward was Mandi district. I congratulate the MPs of the Mandi for his team and the entire district, for the people who have taken pride in the field of sanitation. People here have come here besides Mandi, Mandi people have got a new height inside the cleanliness, but I am also urging you that when you go from here, there will be absolutely plain plastic bottles, etc. Will not leave. Otherwise, the Mandi will complain to me because the people here have set up a huge parameter in the field of cleanliness. Himachal is not such a place of worship, people here are also holy, who give full power to such things. Himachal is also a Devbhumi and Veerabhoomi is hardly any family here that will not be deployed on the border to protect Bharat Mata. Such a family will be hard to find, in every family there is a military, the birthplace of Himachal warriors with a tradition of generations ending for the country in every family. If you see the list of Param Vir Chakra, a small-looking Himachal, with its pride and elegance, will be seen standing high in the whole of India. I bow to those soldiers. I bow to those heroes. Nowadays, the power of our army is discussed in the entire country, first Israel had done so, but the country saw that India's army is no less than anybody. As much as pride is done on those officers stationed in the Army, the pride is for those retired soldiers because they have also given a new energy communication to the new generation by upholding this great tradition. And so, those who are posted on the border today are my hundred hundred salutes, and also those who are retired in every house of Himachal, they also have my hundred hundred salutes. During the Lok Sabha election, I came to the ground to attend the meeting and during the same meeting, I spoke about One Rank One Pension.\nToday, in this bravery, the army should bow down to their families and say with great satisfaction that you had the right for which you were fighting for the last 40-40 years, the promises made by the governments were very high, People also tried to throw dust in the eye by putting 200 to 500 crores in the budget, but no one has calculated whether the one rank is one pension, how much financial burden will it come from ... how will G did not when I did was work taken in hand out new things every day was growing financial burden. I was amazed that the previous government used to say 200, 500 crores, the case was about 10,000 crores. One such lump sum for any government was such a big thing, I talked to the people of the army that I said this is my promise and I respect the army very much. I said I need your help. People of the army told me what should I want to say, I will not be able to give it in four years, I will give it in four Kishtas, they agreed once and I would like to thank them that they have paid about 550 crores today. I will continue to pay the next installment. One rank One pension hanging for 40 years Question about the dead people for the country, this is the government which fulfilled the work that glorifies the army of the country and wherever today I am not only a soldier but also the blessings of his family I get it and I get the energy to make such people new. Today, there is a Rampur Hydro Power which will cost around Rs 4,200 crore on the Sutlej river, Coal Dam, 800 MW and also on Sutlej river, and very few people would be aware that in 1962, it was proposed to build coal coal with Russia. The government came in such a way that the water flowed in the Satluj and the paper remained there only, but after the arrival of Atal ji, the work was carried out and today its fruit is getting Himachal and the country. It's a matter of great pride. Parvati, this is a great project, Project 1, Project 2, Project 3, if there are three daughters in the family and the third is getting married before, then it feels strange. Right now Project 1 is being started for two and three, so I have to hit a lot.\nI do a 'Pragati program', through Technologia and review the projects of lakhs of crores, I review and review the projects I am running. When I took the responsibility of the Prime Minister and when I used to campaign during the election, I never thought that the Prime Minister and the PMO would have to run an archaeological department. But when I became the Prime Minister, I had to open an archeological department of a new method in which I had the foundation of Baba Adam's time whose foundation has been laid and 30, 30 years have lost his file, then I am searching for such things that brother What happened. I was surprised that I saw a project. I saw the railways Nangbhaand Talwada project which started in 1981, today it has been 35 years. Today, our Archeology Department has discovered it. When this project was started, it was only 34 crores and now the project has grown to 2,100 crores. You can imagine that if this project was completed at that time then one would get completed in 34 crore and how much would benefit the people And today the expenditure for carrying 2100 crores does not come to this government. Starting the project on paper and putting stones on it, it is the result of this, that Bhanupalis, Vilaspur, Beri rail lines were visualized about 10 years ago and after that the 3000 crore project was forgotten and left. We carried forward this project and have also been ordered to start work on this. To make progress in the field of energy in Himachal Pradesh too there is immense potential in the field of tourism. And the people of Himachal Pradesh know that whenever whenever BJP came to power in Himachal, our first Chief Minister, Shantakumar, went to any corner of Himachal, Shanta Kumar was identified as the Water Chief Minister. He had taken the initiative to bring water. He later became Dhumal's government, he became identified as the Rural Road Minister, identified as the Chief Minister of the village village, and what the identity of the Chief Minister is, what will be the need to know. ..? This is the difference between the Chief Minister of BJP and the rest of the Chief Minister. The Chief Minister of the BJP, someone has expelled himself for the water, and someone who did not know for himself what was spent for the water. Most of the governments are identified by any one task ... But today the government that is sitting in Delhi tries to touch every area of ​​life.\nIf we worry about making toilet, then the same concern is to make the Hydro project, if we worry about building the roads of the village, then the same concern is to carry out the railway-stuck project. Himachal, on one hand, has the power to power the whole country. In Himachal, we also save energy. Himachal can say that the energy consumed by the energy is much higher than that of them, even then why Modi is asking to save energy, but Himachal, with a population of 70 lakh, Himachal, with almost 10 lakh families, using approximately 9.5 million And the savings of 3.5 crores of the year are being done by the families here. Here are examples of how the work is done. Using the LED also protects the environment, and emphasizing the protection of the environment ... it is necessary for the people here. When Dhumal ji was a government, he had started a scheme for tree planting, then I was the Chief Minister of Gujarat and I had sent a team that even a few learns from the scheme can be done in Gujarat also. And today, we have taken a lead in saving the forest and have planned to give gas connections to poor families in the coming three years.\nMost blessings will be given to mothers when they have gas in their house. In Himachal, it does not know how much time it takes to make tea from wood in the cold. In this, gas connection is the biggest blessing for the mother of Himachal. The Ujjwala scheme is being expanded rapidly. Now Dhumal was worried that the Indian government was giving so much money, whenever he wanted to account for the Himachal government, his point is absolutely right. Why will we also ask Himmachal's people to account for them, because the 14th Finance Commission has got 21 thousand rupees for Himachal Crores were allocated. And in the Government 15th Finance Commission has allocated 72 thousand crores. And I hope that the government here, in this case, will use the money-pie of this money to help the people of Himachal, then surely Himachal will become the state to give to the nation. Farmers who cultivate fruit I sell the Pepsi which I sell now, sell Coco-Cola, fill the bottles and sell them, have urged them to use 5% of the nutritious fruit juice in their juice, and I am happy that in oranges in Nagpur The use of juice was agreed between farmers and Coco-Cola, and now farmers who cultivate fruit will get an immediate market. For the farmers of Himachal, who also cultivate fruits, they will also be blessed for the coming days. We know that our country is surrounded by natural calamities, sometimes there is such a flood that the farm's farm takes away the harvest. The crop gets damaged For the first time, the Prime Minister Crop Insurance Scheme has started in Azad Hindusthan, so that any farmer can stay in the natural calamity for a whole year. I urge the Himachal government that the governments of the entire country have given priority to the Prime Minister's Crop Insurance Scheme, for which agencies have booked, the tender process has been started. Thousands of farmers of the country have started taking advantage of this scheme, but in Himachal the scheme has not got any pace.\nहिमाचल के मेरे किसानों के साथ ये अन्याय नहीं होना चाहिए और इसलिए भारत सरकार ने यह अहम कदम उठाया है, मैं हिमाचल सरकार से आग्रह करता हूं कि यहां के किसानों को इस योजना के लिए प्रेरित करें, यहां के किसानों का जीवन बदल जाएगा। हम फूड प्रासेसिंग पर बल दे रहें हैं। हमारे यहां किनोर इलाके में आलू वगैरह जाने जाते हैं लेकिन अगर फूड प्राँसेसिंग होता तो उनको और आय की ताकत मिल जाती। हमारी सरकार फूड प्राँसेसिंग पर बल दे रही है क्योंकि हम जानते हैं कि पहाड़ी इलाकों में फसल तैयार होने के बाद शहर तक जाते-जाते काफी मात्रा में नष्ट हो जाता है और इसे बचाने के लिए आवश्यक इंफ्रास्ट्रक्चर, आवश्यक कोल्ड स्टोरेज, आवश्यक पैकेजिंग, आवश्यक ट्रांसपोर्टेशन, ई-मंडी का प्रयोग ताकि किसान जो चाहे वो दाम उसको मिल सके उस पर बल देते हुए हम चीजों को आगे बढ़ाने का प्रयास कर रहे हैं। मैं एक बार फिर आप सब का आभार व्यक्त करता हूं कि मुझे आप सबके बीच छोटी काशी में आने का अवसर प्राप्त हुआ।\nभारत माता की जय...... भारत माता की.... जय\nLong live Mother India"