"\nIndia's soldiers are a symbol of humanity: PM Modi\nOur jawans put their lives on the line whenever there is a natural disaster: PM Modi\nIndian Armed Forces rank among the best in the world on parameters like discipline and conduct: PM Modi\nIndia is one of the leading contributors to peace keeping forces worldwide, says the Prime Minister\nIndian Armed Forces had evacuated not just thousands of Indian nationals, but citizens of other countries as well: PM\nIndia has never coveted territories of other nations: PM\nDuring the World Wars, so many Indian soldiers sacrificed their lives defending foreign lands: PM\nWe should not forget, and we should also make sure that the world does not forget, the sacrifices made by our jawans: PM\nThe strength of the Indian Armed Forces is the morale of its jawans, which comes from the support of 125 crore Indians: PM\nOur Government has fulfilled its promise of One Rank, One Pension: PM\nShaheed Amar Raho Amar Raho Shaheed Amar Amar Raho Raho\nMartyrs remain immortal\nMartyrs remain immortal\nBande matram bande matram\nBande matram bande matram\nBande matram bande matram\nIt is my privilege to have come among all of you on this important historical occasion and I have had the opportunity to bow down to the brave soldiers of this country and have the privilege of offering devotional worship. When we remember the army in our country, most of the discussion is of the same form. Uniform, arms in hand, jhala in the eye, every moment like an enemy is looking for the enemy. But sometimes also think that the Indian military forces are a great example of humanity. There is a natural crisis anywhere, in the last few days, we are in the memory of everyone, Badrinath, the natural crisis of Kedarnath Now the entire country was bowing down to the soldiers of their country. The way in which he used to struggle and give up his life to save the lives of those trapped in the objection.\nTwo years ago when there was a severe flood in Srinagar, for the first time Srinagar saw such a severe flood. Combating such problems was also a difficult task for a government. At that time the country saw that the soldiers of our army were spending themselves in saving the lives of the flood victims in Srinagar's pledges. And when he was serving the people stranded in these trouble, he was engaged in saving them, see the training of my army, see the humanity filled inside my army, that he never thought that these people are those people, Whoever stoners, sometimes bruises our eyes, sometimes bruises our head, and sometimes the attack of stones is so fierce that death becomes a refuge. Even after experiencing all this, when humanity has challenged, that is what my army of soldiers, what happened yesterday; Who did that; Keeping it in mind, his life is the life of my countryman, he has been busy with his life to save him.\nThere are security forces in the world today, the security forces of the world, maybe many countries of the world will have hundreds of times more than military power, but when the world evaluates our security forces with different parameters then discipline India's army is seen in the first line in all these standards, conduct, ethics, behavior towards ordinary citizens, is seen all over the world. There is a peace keeping force for peace all over the world. In which soldiers of defense forces from all over the world come in turn, they serve two years there; Give three years; In the country they are used to go; They are ready to take their lives for the peace of that country. The world's peace keeping force, every Indian will be proud that if there is a country which is consistently the largest contributor to this world's peace keeping force, then that country's name is Hindustan. And it is possible that the soldiers of our security forces have succeeded not only on the basis of the weapon but on the basis of ethics, on their conduct, on their behavior, the world over their behavior, when they go and achieve this accomplishment.\nThese days the voice of a constant bomb blast in West Asia is heard. Terrorism has taken a terrible appearance. Thousands of citizens of India were stranded in Yemen, bombs were raining, India's civilians were surrounded by trouble between life and death, we sent army troops there and sent them for help, and this army Look at the bravery of the soldiers, more than 5000 people brought back to our brothers and sisters stranded over there, saluting Hindustan. And not only Hindustan, but also citizens of many countries of the world; Pakistanis also; Had brought them safely. This Indian army, these forms are still seen from time to time, but we sometimes forget about this power and only the limits, bullets, bombs, guns, pistols, enemies, Around this, we balance this power on the scales. Very few people will know, the history of India is witness to this, there is our history of thousands of years, our ancestors have never quarreled for one inch of land, have not fought, any country in the world To rebel, do not invade to build itself. But if the value of values, the battle of life-death for ideals came to play, the army of Hindustan is never behind.\nMy dear brothers and sisters, very few people would know that we did not fight these World War I and World War II, nor did this war happen to us nor did we have any benefit to the outcome of this war. We had nothing to do with it. But in the two world wars, the children of this land, the brave soldiers of my country, my heroic soldiers, 1.5 lakh soldiers sacrificed, 1.5 lakhs. The whole world is forgetting this thing, it is unfortunate that sometimes we forget too. This sacrifice of sacrifice and sacrifices made to humanity in our ancestors in front of the world on the injury of Danke is needed to remind the world again and again. Here Gandhi is not born, here Buddha is not born, there is a great tradition from which heroic soldiers die for humanity, Gandhi also lives for humanity, this is the specialty of this land. And by taking the same feature, today we can take pride in our army in the world. Water, space, land, our security forces, BSF jawans, the way they are on the border, CRPF soldiers, Coast Guard personnel, there are countless arrangements, which therefore give their youth expenditures We can sleep in peace. The army of my country sleeps in peace, we get the most happiness. We fall asleep in peace, it is satisfying. He does not complain about our sleeping. But even when we wake up, the army never forgives us, and unfortunately, sometimes we get to sleep while awake. In Sanskrit it is said:\nNational Pragati Jyagaray Vyam Eternal Vigilance is The Price of Liberty.\nStay awake constantly. And only the soldiers of the army keep awake, this will be injustice to them. We must also wake up while awake. At that time we do not have the right to sleep. If someone forgets how much modern weapon is in hand, how far the pill can go, if the army wins with so much, then this is our confusion. This is our confusion. The greatest weapon in the army is its morale. Her mind has the power. And this morale does not come from the power of the mind, comes from the hundred and a half million people living together after standing behind them.\nIn our country, I remember a very old incident, 62 days after the war of sixty two, on the day of Diwali, people used to send packets of sweets to sweets, if there is any address, it is fine that the country's army The youngsters used to send them by saying this. Reaching the reach, they might even get spoiled but reaching with devotion. I had ever heard that a daughter from Baroda sent a sweets to a young man, put his address in it as well. The young man who reached that sweethear also came along. And later I came to know that throughout the lifetime, that military gave the sister more love than her sister. These are the forms of the army, sometimes we do not understand it well. Our army, and I said the army does not speak, the army does the mighty. And that day my hair used to be screwed, Modi is sleeping, Modi is not doing anything. But, like our army does not speak, they do battle, our defense minister does not even speak.\nDear Countrymen, I congratulate the Madhya Pradesh Government especially that they built this bravery memorial, war memorials, martyr monuments are also there; But the Shaurya Memorial contains all this inside it, plus it is Plus. This bravery memorial is a pilgrimage center for all of us. This is a temple of inspiration for our future generations. If we look right, experience, we know what is the right army? What is their life? What kind of training is that the Hindustan Samaj is in the rugs? What is the reason that the entire mother of India has made her a family and let her leave alone alone? This small renunciation is not friends; It can not be described in words. This is the saga of heroes, every moment every step gets a new power of inspiration from these heroes. His life, his work keeps insisting on the life of every Indian for the country, doing something for the country. And all the dignitaries of our country, their pen, no pen will be such a pen, who have not remembered the brave soldiers of the country, martyrs, heroes, warriors, soldiers, and have not given anjali. We used to read as a childhood poetry of Makhanlal Chaturvedi, and Makhanlal ji said: -\nThrow me away, throw on that path you throw\nSheesh of the motherland, the path that leads many heroes\nBrothers sisters, Ramdhari Singh Dinkar, today, while inaugurating this bravery memorial, one of his poems is very accurate, he wrote: -\nPen, pen, today their jai bol\nPen, write about his glory today\nTurn-bone burns\nChinga in which Chingari\nBurning bones alternate, churning in which sparrows\nOn the ascended altar, which ascended on the altar of virtue\nFor the neck of the neck, for the neck of the neck,\nHe climbed the pious altar\nSuch great men, heroic men, we know our country's jawans were demanding from every government for the past several decades, One Rank One Pension Many retired, demanded but but were military, were disciplined, the country was the first to them, they themselves later, so, like the unionmen they had never been contentious, they were speaking their ways in a manner. And every government used to promise very well-in great words. There is no government who has not made promises. And some people were so smart that they even put two hundred and five hundred crore in the budget. After this government came, we promised that we would implement One Rank One Pension. And today I have fulfilled this promise by bowing down in front of my brave soldiers, today I feel the feeling of satisfaction. In four installments, we have decided to pay it in four installments, because there is such a huge financial burden that it is difficult to give even for the Indian government in a year. So that's why he divided it into four installments. So far, 5000 crores rupees have been distributed. The house of the military has been deposited in his account. And how much profit has happened, the constable who worked for 17 years, Seventeen Years army and retired, before OROP, he got 4 thousand rupees 4090, 4090. After OROP, he started getting around Rs. 7600. I.e. more than 30 percent increase.\nBrothers, now came the 7th Pay Commission. There are some Anomaly in every pay commission, every time one lives, an Anomaly Committee sits, he searches for a solution to the problem. The Government of India is also in that direction, after the Seventh Pay Commission, the heads of our army have given us a letter, we are working on that. And of course good results will come from him too. But one important thing I say, 7th Pay Commission has said that the salary which was received by the 6th Pay Commission was increased to 2.57 times in the 7th Pay Commission. The Indian government could do this because the 7th Pay Commission said. But we did not do that. If we give 6th Pay Commission as the basis and if you give to the army of the people, if you give pension to retired people then they will have very little benefit. We said that we have decided that after getting the OROP, the wages of their salary will be counted as 7th Pay Commission, they may double but they are necessary for the soldiers of my country. We have done this.\nOnce upon a time, I have a progress program. In which all the Department of Video Conference resolves problems with all the states. I have examined what is the situation of the retired army officers. And I was surprised that a lot of complaints were pending. We have used technology and the complaints of our retired soldiers at a very fast pace, to solve them and to achieve great success, have been successful at a faster pace. We've done another job. We know, civilian society does not come to this notice. The civilian society thinks that whatever you have to do in brotherly youth, then what can you do later? Yavani's care is different in his mind, and after 35-40 years of age, he thinks he has done a lot, now look, he will spend life with ease. The army is inverted, the age of life that we consider to be the age of fun, is the age of passing by, when the young man of my country pays his youth on the border. Happiness-glory, ash-rest, joy, dreams, Armaan Maa Bharati, dedicates her life by dedicating to the soil. And after 15-17 years of service, when we come home, we are 40, 42, 35 years old, we have spent lot of time at that time, now we will live comfortably and think. He comes and thinks how to start a new life now. Let's start life with a Question Mark.\nToday, we arrange immediate jobs for the retired soldiers every year, 50,000 people. The Government of India has done a great job right now. फौज में से जो रिटायर होना तय कर लेता है कि बस मुझे अब नहीं रहना है जाना है, एक उम्र के बाद उसको जाने दिया जाता है। तो आखिरी वर्ष सरकार की तरफ से उसको Skill Development के Certificate Course के लिए Training दी जाती है। भारत सरकार का Skill Development Department और हमारी सेना के तीनो अंग, उनके साथ MOU हुआ है। Skill Development करने के बाद उसको Certificate दिया जाता है। अब फौज के लोग फौज के अंदर Training तो पाते ही हैं, वहां भी Communication Expert होते हैं, वहां भी Technology के Expert होते हैं, वहां भी Expert Driver होते हैं, लेकिन जब वो बाहर आते हैं, तो लोग कहते हैं भई तुम्‍हारे पास Certificate है क्‍या? तो काम नहीं मिलता है।\nपहली बार भारत सरकार ने फौज में निवृत्‍त होने वाले लोगों के पास जो Skill है उसको Special Training आखिरी वर्ष में देना, Certificate देना और जिस प्रकार के जो Market हैं वहां उसको एक रोजगार मिले, वरना उसकी जिंदगी आने के बाद भी कहीं न कहीं चौकीदार के नाते जाती थी। अब वो के Trainer रूप में काम करेगा, Skill Developer के रूप में काम करेगा, देश की युवा पीढ़ी को Skill देने का काम करेगा। ये एक बहुत बड़ा अहम फैसला इस सरकार ने किया है।\nशायद बहुत नागरिकों को कम पता होता है। सरकार में एक रक्षा मंत्री विवेकाधीन राशि रहती है, जो निवृत्‍त फौजी होते हैं उनके परिवारों में कोई तकलीफ हो, आवश्‍यकता हो, कोई बच्‍चों की पढ़ाई का विषय हो, कोई जरूरत हो, बेटी की शादी हो, इन सारे विषयों के लिए वो मदद करता है। पहले एवरेज ये लाभ 10 से 12 हजार लोगों को साल में मिलता था। ये हमारे रक्षामंत्री जी इतने Pro Active हैं कि आज हर वर्ष 50 हजार परिवारों को कोई न कोई मदद इस व्‍यवस्‍था से दी जाती है। पहले फौज से जो निवृत्‍त हुए उनके बच्‍चों को Scholarship देते थे और वो करीब-करीब साल पूरा होने के बाद पहुंचती थी। अब उसको Technology से जोड़ दिया है, ताकि उसको पहले सत्र में ही ये Scholarship मिल जाए, ताकि उसके जो व्‍यवस्‍था हैं उसको चलती रहें।\nपहले Scholarship 4,000 रुपये मिलती थी, इस सरकार ने आ करके फौज के इन संतानों के लिए 4,000 से बढ़ा करके इस राशि को 5,500 कर दिया है ताकि उनको इसका लाभ मिल सके। हवालदार तक के जो फौजी होते हैं, जो निवृत्‍त होते हैं और सेना में 80-90 Percent लोग यही होते हैं। बाकी तो 10 Percent में सब आ जाते है। 80-90 Percent यही लोग होते हैं। हवालादार तक के जो लोग रिटायर होते हैं, अगर उनकी बेटी की शादी हो रही है तो पहले सरकार बेटी की शादी के लिए 16,000 रुपये देती थी। हमारे रक्षामंत्री जी की उदारता है, अब ये राशि 50,000 रुपया कर दी गई। हमारे यहां फौज में जो Disable लोग होते हैं, लड़ाई में चोट पहुंचती है, Injury होती है, फौज के लोगों को परेशानी रहती थी, अस्‍पताल से Certificate लेना कि कितने Percent Disable हैं। बहुत बड़ा संकट का काम रहता था और वो इसको बड़ी मुश्किल से पार करता था। कोई कहता था नहीं 20 Percent है, कोई कहता था 25 Percent, कोई कहता था 30 Percent, कभी ज्‍यादा हुआ तो कोई 45, 50, 55, और उसके आधार पर उसको आर्थिक सहायता मानदंड रहता है। इस उलझन से फौजियों को बड़ी तकलीफ होती थी। कुछ फौज के लोग मुझे मिले थे, ये बाते मेरे ध्‍यान में लाए थे। अब हमने उसको एक Broad Branding की व्‍यवस्‍था बना दी है जिसके कारण 50 से कम वाले, 75 और 50 के बीच वाले और 75 से ऊपर वाले तीन ही Slab में सब डाल दिया ताकि अब फौजी को इस संकट से गुजरना न पड़े और इस काम को वो आराम से कर सके।\nइतना ही नहीं हमारे फौज के जवानों को निवृत्‍त होने के बाद भी Medical Help के लिए हमने करीब Four Hundred Seventy Two नए अस्‍पताल Empanel किए हैं जिसमें फौजी को Cashless Treatment दी जाती है। हमारे मध्‍यप्रदेश में हमने Sixty Four अस्‍पताल को फौजियों के लिए Empanel किया है। तो एक के बाद एक ऐसे अनेक काम आज फौजियों के लिए, हमारे जवानों के लिए, एक संवेदनशील सरकार, भारत की आन-बान-शान, ये हमारे जवान, उनके लिए प्राथमिकता देते हुए हम देश के अंदर योजनाएं बनाते हैं। हमारी कोशिश है कि रक्षा के क्षेत्र में भारत आत्‍मनिर्भर कैसे बने? सशस्‍त्र हमारे देश में उत्‍पादन कैसे हो? हमारे देश के नौजवानों में भी Ability है, Talent है, दम है। पिछले दो साल से मैं लगातार इस दिशा में प्रयास कर रहा हूं और मुझे विश्‍वास है कि वो दिन जरूरत आएगा जब हिन्‍दुस्‍तान अपनी आवश्‍यकताओं की पूर्ति के तो शस्‍त्रात्र यहां बनाएगा, बनाएगा, लेकिन दुनिया को भी बेचने की ताकतवाला बन सकता है, ये ताकत इस देश में पड़ी है। और हम उस दिशा में भी काम कर रहे हैं।\nमेरे प्‍यारे-भाइयो, बहनों, मैं फिर एक बार वीर शहीदों को प्रणाम करता हूं। मैं उन माताओं को प्रणाम करता हूं जिन माताओं ने ऐसे वीर योद्धाओं को जन्‍म दिया है। मैं उन बहनों को प्रणाम करता हूं जिसने शायद अपना पति खोया होगा, जिसने शायद अपना भाई खोया होगा और उसके बाद भी मां भारती की सेवा करने का प्रण ले करके जीने वाले इन परिवारों को भी मैं आज नमन करता हूं।\nभाइयो-बहनों, दुनिया में, दुनिया में कई देशों में परम्‍परा है, अभी वो परम्‍परा हमारे देश में पनपी नहीं है। लेकिन वो पनपे ऐसी है, हम कर सकते हैं। आपने देखा होगा कि दुनिया के किसी देश में मान लीजिए आप Airport पर बैठे हैं, सैंकड़ों मुसाफिर बैठे होते हैं Airport पर। और अगर फौज के दो-चार जवान यूनिफॉर्म में वहां से निकलते हैं, तो Airport पर बैठे हुए सारे नागरिक खड़े हो जाते हैं, तालियों से उनका अभिनंदन करते हैं और वो अपने रास्‍ते पर चलते रहते हैं। अपने जो जहाज में जाना है, चले जाते हैं। रेलवे में कहीं दिखाई दिए, तो वहां के देश के नागरिक उनको देखते ही खड़े होते हैं, तालियां बजाते हैं, उनका गौरवगान करते हैं। क्‍या हम हमारे देश में, हम हमारे देश में धीरे-धीरे ये स्‍वभाव बना सकते हैं क्‍या? मेरे फौज के लोग जाते हों कहीं भी, हर समय युद्ध के समय उनको याद करें वो ठीक नहीं है। चौबिसों घंटे उनके प्रति हमारे मन में आदर रहना चाहिए, उनके प्रति भक्तिभाव रहना चाहिए।\nक्‍या आप लोग कभी भी इस प्रकार से फौजियों को आते-जाते देखेंगे तो तालियों की गड़गड़ाहट से उनका सम्‍मान करेंगे? भूल तो नहीं जाएंगे? चीजें छोटी होती हैं लेकिन सामान्‍य जीवन पर और खास करके फौजी के जीवन पर इसका बहुत बड़ा प्रभाव होता है। मुझे विश्‍वास है कि शौर्य स्‍मारक जैसी व्‍यवस्‍था के द्वारा हम हमारे देश के नागरिकों को भी प्रशिक्षित कर पाएंगे। ये सिर्फ जवानों का सम्‍मान है, इतना ही नहीं, हमारी पीढि़यों को संस्‍कारित करने का भी एक Open School है ये। ये Open University है, उस रूप में उसका उपयोग हो। मैं फिर एक बार आप सबका हृदय से अभिनंदन करता हूं, मध्‍यप्रदेश सरकार का भी अभिनंदन करता हूं। मेरे साथ पूरी ताकत से दोनों मुट्ठी बंद करके बोलिए:-\nशहीदो - अमर रहो।\nअवाज दूर-दूर तक जानी चाहिए।\nशहीदो - अमर रहो।"