"Share\n\nModi is the enemy of humanity: PM\nThe forces of humanity across the world should now unite against terrorism: PM Modi\nGlobal community has united to put an end to terror, the \"enemy of humanity\": PM Modi\nIndia is a country which follows the principles of peace as taught by Lord Buddha: PM Modi\nWomen need to be respected and treated right, no matter what religion or background one comes from: PM\nJai Shri Ram, dear brothers and sisters in large numbers,\nMany of you wished all of VijayaDashami-many good wishes. I have had the privilege of attending the ceremony that was very ancient today, Ramlila. This is the land of the land of Hindustan, the land which has given us such pilgrimage life - one Lord Ram and the other Shri Krishna, from the same land. And on such a land, come and worship at the festival of Vijaya Dashmi, what can be the good fortune of this big life?\nThe festival of Vijaya Dashami is the festival of victory over the untruth. It is a festival to defeat Thutai. We burn Ravana every year, after all what lessons do we have to take from this tradition? While burning Ravana, we should have the same resolve that we too will be able to eliminate those evils in our internal, in our social form, whatever our evils are in our national life. And every time we burn Ravan every year, we should strengthen our resolve to end our evils, and it should also be accounted for during the triumph of Vijayadashami that we have eliminated many evils.\nToday probably will not be the form of Ravana at that time; Today probably there will not be a fight of Ram and Ravan like that time, but the interference within us is an ongoing process, and therefore within us even this message of Dussehra is also a message that it is also within us that ten Defeat the weaknesses, eliminate it - Dussehra, eliminate it; Life is never successful without conquering the number of things that bring life down to the fall. Not everyone has the power to finish everything, but in every one God has given the strength to try to end such evils, and in it, as a society, as a person, as a nation, within us as thought; In the form of ethics; In the form of glands; Bad thinking; Whatever Ravana has been doing, we have to make this nation glorious only by the end of the people.\nI am so grateful to this committee that like Lokmanya Tilak ji had converted Ganesh-festivities as an opportunity to awaken social consciousness by making public celebrations, you also remember the old things only with devotion to the staging of Ramlila. Not to be confined to, to come to see a new generation of new generation, the cast got opportunity, so did not. But in the time of every Ramlila you have created a tradition of performing this Ramlila staging while focusing on the goodness of such evils, such as some evils, or any goodness in society. I believe that the wonderful and inspiring people of the whole country are getting inspiration from this here by Ramlila. And through the characters of that Ramayana, we can also give a message for modern life, there is strength in it. And this country's specialty is that this is the biggest system of our cultural heritage from one generation to the next generation that through the story, we have kept this tradition alive by art, and its There is a great value in our society.\nTerrorism is a topic of this time staged. Terrorism is the enemy of humanity, and Lord Rama represents humanity; Represent the high values ​​of humanity; Represent the ideals of humanity; Underlines the limitations; And the discrimination, renunciation, penance, have left an example for us to leave. And why and who fought against terrorism first? What was a military? What was a leader?\nRamayana is the witness that if someone had fought the first fight against terrorism, then Jatayu had fought it. For the honor of a woman, a jaw was fighting against the powerful power of Ravana and continued fighting. Even today, when someone gives the message of Abhay, Zaitay gives it. And therefore, hundred and fifty million nationals - we can not become Ram, but in front of incest, atrocities and misdeeds we can play a role in the form of Jatayu. If the hundred and fifty million people become one and become alert, the terrorists are very difficult to be successful if they keep on meditating on every move of the terrorists.\nFrom today 30-40 years ago, when Hindustan used to discuss the problems of the world due to our terrorism, then the world did not get throat. I remember the incident of 92-93, I was speaking to the State Department of the State Department of the United States and when I used to discuss terrorism, he was telling me that this is your Law \u0026 Order problem. I was explaining to him that there is no law and order problem, terrorism is nothing else, his throats did not come down. But after 26/11 all the world has been embroiled so terrible is terrorism. And if anybody believes that we are left out of terrorism then do not be in misunderstanding, there is no limit to terrorism, there is no limit to terrorism, he is bent on destroying any humanist things by going somewhere. And so it is compulsory for the humanitarian forces of the world to be united against terrorism. The need to eliminate those who do terrorism has arisen. Those who give shelter to terrorism, who help terrorism, can not be spared even now. The whole world is being ruined, for two days we are seeing a picture of a small Syrian girl on TV; For two days we are seeing a picture of a little girl in Syria, on TV, tears come in the eye. In what way innocent people are being killed. And so today when we are burning Ravana slaughter and Ravana, then the whole world, not only India, but also me and you, the humanitarian forces of the entire world will have to fight against terrorism and become one against it. Without ending terrorism, protection of humanity will not be possible.\nBrothers, sisters, I have to destroy all the evils that we have in our society, and that Vijayadashami must take inspiration from us. Those things like Ravana will be small, but that is also a kind of Ravana form. What are these Ravana who are ruining our society, mistreatment, corruption? To eliminate this, the citizens of the country will have to be resolved.\nDirt, this is also a small form of Ravan. This is the dirt which takes the lives of our poor children. The disease destroys poor families. If we get rid of dirt, get rid of rubbish like dirt, millions of crores of families who are sheltered in the short life are killed; Become victims of disease; We can save them. Uneducated, superstition, these are also our drawbacks to destroy society. And to get even more salvation, we have to make a resolution.\nToday, we are celebrating the festival of Vijaya Dashmi, while the whole world is celebrating Girl Child Day at the same time. Today is Girl Child Day. I just want to ask myself, I want to ask the citizens, that we have resolved to burn Ravana, who has oppressed a Sita mother every year, and as long as the generations will continue to keep Ravana burning Sita was kidnapped; But sometimes we have thought that when the whole world is celebrating the Girl Child Day, then we make many difference in the mother's womb by differentiating between son and daughter. Who will end this Ravana in ours? Even today, in the 21st century will daughters be killed in the mother's womb? If you can sacrifice Jatayu for a Sita, then we should all be responsible for saving Sita, born in our house. A son is born in the house, as much as the reception, the daughter is born, the reception will be greater than this, we have to make a habit.\nThis time in the Olympics, our country's daughters illuminated the name. Now the difference between this daughter-son is only part of the mentality of Ravana. Be educated; Be illiterate; be poor; Be rich, be urban; Be a rural, a Hindu; Be a Muslim, be a Sikh; Be Christian, be a Buddhist; For any sect, why not; No economic background; No social background, but daughters should be equal; The rights of women should be equal, women should get justice in the 21st century if there is any tradition associated with it; Why do not we belong to any society, we must accept this age of glorifying women. Daughters will have to be respected; Daughters must save We have to liberate this country from within us who are scattered in the form of Ravana. And so when I came to Laxman's city, Goswami came on Tulsidas's land. There was also war in Shrikrishna's life, there was war in Ram's life, but we are those people who go from war to Buddha. By the bounds of time, war becomes sometimes mandatory with the circumstances of the situation, but the path of earth is not war, it is the path of earth to Buddha. And these countries; This country considers Sudarshan Chakkardhi Mohan as a Yugpurush, who said the Gita in the battle field; This country, Charkha Bhadhi Mohan, who gave the message of non-violence, also considers him a Yugpurush. This is the specialty of this country that on both the lines we are the people who take balance and walk. And so we are people traveling from war with Buddha. We are the people who have resolved to eliminate Ravana inside us. Our country is a people who have come out with a resolution to make Sujlam-Suphalam.\nAt such a time, the ancient era where Ramlila is, the children of many generations, in the form of Rama and Lakshman, they will have their feet at this place in the form of mother Sita, and those moments do not live in that life; They are absorbed in devotion, they are not eligible; They become the form of God. Today, on these same platforms, against all these Ravana which are within us, whether it is racism, whether there is dynasty, whether it is the evil of the high and low, even the sectarianism is born, these evils have spread in some form in some form of Ravana. Is the same form. And to get rid of it, eliminate it, and unite Hindustan; Ekras Hindustan; Samaras Hindustan, with the determination to surpass this dream, on the holy festival of this Vijaya Dashami, we are blessed only by Lord Ramji, we have the strength to walk on the path of humanity, the path of Buddha becomes our ultimate way.\nVery good luck to all of you Vijaya Dashmi with this one expectation. Talk to me with full strength Jai Shriram The voice should go far and wide. Jai Shriram, Jai Shriram, Jai Jai Shriram, Jai Jai Shriram"