"\nThe first thing we remember about is his simplicity: PM Modi\nIn a short span of time, 1 party completed the journey from 'Vipaksh' to 'Vikalp' and this was due to foundations laid by Deendayal Ji: PM\nPrime Minister Narendra Modi\nDeendayal Ji gave impetus to 'Karyakarta Nirman.' The Karyakarta inspired by him is centrecent and the party is nation centric: PM\nThe most respected Bhaiyaji Joshi, Shri Amit Shah, Dr. Mahesh Chandra Sharma, Shri Ram Bahadur Rai, Mr. Jawaharlal Kaul, Mr. Achyutanand Mishra, Prabhat ji, Atul Ji and all the senior nobility, brothers and sisters present ... the whole nation Navratri The festival is celebrating as the Shakti festival. The idea is a very big power in itself and the source of that journey travels us today in the form of Prasad. I am very thankful to the heart of all of you for this offering. We are going to celebrate Vijayadashmi in the coming days, this Vijaya Dashmi is very special for the country. There are many auspicious wishes for all my countrymen for VijayaDashami. Today we are ... First of all, I want to congratulate Mahesh ji, congratulate his team. In general, if there is a person in public life then it is easy to write something about them because things are available. But such a person ... whose life has been public, but sitting next to the train box did not even recognize who is that person. Living himself completely devoted life which has never left any of his identity ... living with this role and asking for every thirty years of his relationship with such a person, ask him, brother, tell me, you too, Deen Dayal ji They were together, how were they used to, what they used to say, what is written, what is the letter? I believe there has been a major earthquake that you have done, Bhagiratha has done the work. And so and when these fifteen clauses and periods of life were not big. Very small was of fifty years of age ... but in such a small era we went to Deendayal by giving such a big ideological position, these fifteen books in a way, the journey of Pandit ji, thoughts of Pandit ji, and Pandit ji Triveni is a journey of resolution. And this moment of today is a festival to take the journey of this Triveni, this is the occasion. Simplicity in the life of Pandit ji ... I understand that if anybody speaks of a pundit, then first comes the image of simplicity emerges. I could not find the privilege of seeing Pandit Ji. When he was killed, he was on the headline of the newspaper. We used to study in school at that time for the first time I went to meditation on this great man towards me. But there are many people sitting here who have had the privilege of working closely with Pandit ji to see, listen, talk. Now imagine someone can, in such a short time, cross political journey into political life, a political system, a political party, from the opposition to the journey to the alternative. This is not a small accomplishment. And it is possible that travel from opposition to alternative is possible because of the idea that Panditji had prepared the foundation from the bridge, which was laid out by the foundation, that today we have been able to present to the world by way of travel option from the opposition. We know the colors and colors of political parties in our country.\nBut this has contributed a lot to Panditji ... that he has set up an alternative of the organization based political party in the country. Not a group run by a handful, but a political party based on the organization and organization based political parties from India's Bharatiya Jana Sangh to the Bharatiya Janata Party in India ... it recognizes its own identity. And the credit for that time Manishi who carried this structure forward, the main role in it was Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay ji. Dr. Shyama Prasad Mukherjee knew the country and the world, was familiar with his personality; he was playing his important role in Pandit Nehru's Council of Ministers, but Shyama Prasad Mukherjee used to say that if he found Deendayal ji with him ... If I have another Deindayal (two Deendayals) then I can change the character of politics of India. Congress will continue to rule in this country. It will be the Congress itself. It was an atmosphere ... If Nehru was there, then there was no separate idea and then it would have come so that who was after Nehru? That was the thought that in the country ... after Nehru ... what was the idea that Nehru was the only one who followed this idea in the country. At that time we were small, used to read in the newspapers. It was that who came after Nehru There was no political party in the biline of Hindustan. From Panchayat to Parliament, there was a system of political parties. Suddenly, between 62 and 67 such vacuum creations started, there was a question in front of the country that who would fill this vacuum. The Congress was experiencing a decline in its position at a very fast pace, the group of other political parties had not yet stood, it was not an alternate, that was the period of a very large vacuum. To understand Panditji's political skill, the period of 62 to 67, he has a very big value. Because Ram Manohar Lohia ji had said ... Ram Manohar Lohia ji had said that when 67 states in several states the Congress lost its rule, the people wanted to like what they got against the Congress. At that time Lohia ji said that this was the result of a huge vision of Deendayal Upadhyay ji that a group of political parties came together ... a joint legislature party and an attempt to give an alternate government in this country. Lohia ji says that this was the result of this huge view of Pandit Deendayal Jee Upadhyay that this happened in the country. And after that we see that many parties have emerged on the political map, but for a long time the groups of parties should try to get the good of the country only ... it continues.\nAnother feature of Deen Dayal ji, he emphasized the construction of the worker. A new category of political workers is ready. Of which there is no political clan ... Such an independent thought, inspired by patriotism, dedicated to society, group of workers, organization created and politics from that organization can make life debut. And so he spent the maximum tenure of his life in the organization's expanding organization, in giving constructive accommodation to the organization, in the formation of a worker, in the expansion of the organization. And so it is such a political party whose worker ... organization is central and organization which is central to the nation, such a system has been given to the nation by the Panditji. And today we are seeing that wherever we have the opportunity to work, we can do any comparative practice, and I would like to be an analyst class of India, in this country in the last 50 years ... -Every political party has got an opportunity to come and serve in the government; Evaluation of any 25-50 points of his tenure, Evaluation at every fixed point of point, one compact study should come. In the case of who comes after the political party comes to power and what does he do?\nI can say with great conviction that if Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay ji saw his endless life and the end of life, then I would say with his blood ... the group that is consigned to, the idea that has flourished, that penance still on this criterion We are strong enough to come, we can say with confidence.\nIndia is such a huge country. Sometimes when talking of tradition then some people understand things very limited in a limited sense, then a big mistake happens. I want to read a quote from Pandit, it will come to understand how we have been a stream of people's contemplation. He has written in one place, \"We will accept whatever is necessary for the development of our lives in all areas of knowledge, science and culture. We are not anti-novelty, and we are blind devotees of rituals and dead traditions in the name of antiquity. \"This is our fundamental thinking, we are the people who constantly accept new streams of flow and flow. According to the need of the nation, according to the needs of the society, we are the people who mold themselves, and only then, in such a short time, from the opposition to the alternative, the trust of the hundred and fifty million people of India can win .\nThere is an extraction of things in Panditji's thoughts in our country, from Vedas to Vivekananda ... we have come to listen. Those who have come from Sudarshan Chakradhar Mohan to Charkha Bhadhi Mohan ... All those ideas were presented by Panditji in a modern context and guided for what the new systems should be.\nAnd, therefore, he insisted that the politics associated with the roots of India, the fundamentalism associated with the roots of India, the politics of India is rooted in its roots, it has the highest strength to change the fate of India. And no society in the world has grown up after cutting its roots, there is no such example in the world. It is easy to accept new things between your basic strength as per need, but if we are weak, then we will not get digested. If a sick person is given good food, he gets sick. And that is why they used to emphasize on the first condition that we would have to empower ourselves and when they talked about the power, they used to say clearly that the person is talented, powerful, family friendly, the family is powerful. They used to say ... society should be resolved with variations on the same basis. They used to say that the army in the nation should be extremely powerful and then the nation becomes strong. From the person to the nation, they are powerful, strong and strong, not for anyone, not in anybody's opposition, if we do any exercise in the morning, then there is no need to fear the neighbors that Bhai is doing it for me. He does his exercise for his health. So it has been ours that our country should be strong, be strong and strong. Today is the era of world-competition. There was a time when the world was divided into two parts: the camp, the camp, or you stay here or you can say as much as possible that we are neutral. But the case was the same.\nToday the world has become inter-dependent. If there is a debate over ten issues, four issues will be agreed, there will be four issues going on, one would think to run on ten issues ... This is the situation. At such a time, on the basis of its fundamental thinking, India is demanding time to strengthen itself to fulfill the requirements of the world and to fulfill that demand, hundreds of millions of people with dutiful commitment ... with resolution It is compulsory to make efforts for its fulfillment incessantly. The poor were in their centerpiece in the whole of Panditji's contemplation. They were not supposed to go from top to bottom in any financial system, they used to say every day that the composition of economies should be from above to bottom. It should be same at the center of our village, poor, farmer, Dalit, suffering, exploited and deprived all our schemes and its welfare ... This should be our center and then we can bring changes in the country. It is fine that this intrusion will continue, the one who has got something is awake to get more of it, but whoever gets nothing until he gets it, these people standing in a moderate place who look forward to getting more hinders Will come, the stoppage will come. If they want to go ahead then the bottom will have to be brought up, then those who are above will be able to go up higher and therefore all the flow of our development journey will take us in that direction where we empower the poor, empower them. And the poorest of us become a great soldier in the fight against poverty, we all can work together to create an India free of poverty.\nAnd the dreams of Panditji and when it is a centenary year, the Indian government has decided to celebrate it as a poor welfare year. And due to this, all departments of the government, all decisions of government can not forget this now that it is a poor welfare year, tell where your poor thoughts are, work, program? In order to change the thinking of the entire government, we celebrated this birth anniversary of Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay as an auspicious opportunity to inspire all people to make poor-centric schemes. Every kind of power should be created in the society, Panditji used to discuss a Saptah-Jahvanvi in ​​his talks and he used to say that Satguru Ganga ... he used to advocate the seven ideals of India ... for the glory of India. In those seven ideals he used to say ... monotony, hard work, equality, prosperity, knowledge, happiness and peace. With these dusk, we can make India glorious. We can not leave work This country is full of variations and that is its beauty. We are lucky that there are more than 100 languages, there are more than seventeen bids ... Every community of the world can be present here ... what a great pride it can be. It is this great bounty of this country and the monolithic society .. That was the dream of Panditji, where there is no mutation, no discrimination ... exploitation can not be imagined. With the imagination of such a society, we all have our political ideology and the same nation is devotion ... we have to move forward.\nAnyone can imagine. I was very young but I have heard that in Gujarat ... at that time perhaps there was an independent party, and the argument of the party had been given that Pu for 'Patel' and X for 'Kshatriya' ... by doing so. The people of the great royal family used to lead him. बसाणी साहेब जैसे बड़े नेता लोग थे तो गुजरात में जनसंघ नाम की एक इकाई चलती थी तो उनके साथ चुनाव समझौते के लिए मीटिंग होती थी... तो पहले तो मीटिंग यानि की कोई पहचानता नहीं था...कि जनसंघ के तो कार्यकर्ताओं का नाम कभी अखबार में नहीं आया...दीवार.. कभी फोटो न छपी हो तो उनको कौन पहचानेगा। लेकिन वो मीटिंग में जाते थे तो उस समय गुजरात में भाई टाटा करके स्वतंत्र पार्टी के नेता थे। तो जनसंघ के लोगों ने कहा कि भई हम चुनाव में आपका साथ देने के लिए तैयार हैं, हमें इतनी सीटें दो... हम लड़ेंगे आपके साथ... तो हंस पड़े उन्होंने जनसंघ के नेताओं के सामने कहा क्या दीवारों पर दीपक पेन्ट करने से चुनाव जीत जाओगे क्या...ऐसा मज़ाक उड़ाया था यानि उस समय हम कुछ नहीं थे... कुछ नहीं थे। लेकिन ये दीनदयाल जी का सामर्थ्य देखिए जब तक विजय का विश्वास न हो और वो एक जमाना था जनसंघ के कार्यकर्ता चुनाव लड़ते थे तो जिसकी जमानत बच जाए उन पैसों से पार्टी करते थे, महफिल बनाते थे।\nये विचार के प्रति प्रतिबद्धता के बिना संभव नहीं है। पर आज के समय में भी एक-आद की यदि जमानत बच जाए तो उन पैसे से सब मिलकर के महफिल बनाएं, अपने विचार के प्रति कितनी अद्भुत श्रद्धा होगी, तब ये मिज़ाज बनता है और इसका मूल कारण था, पंडित जी कहते थे उन्होंने बहुत अच्छा वाक्य कहा था- “विजय का विश्वास है, तपस्या का निश्चय लेकर के चलें।” आज भी पंडित जी के वो शब्द हमारे लिए उतने ही मायने रखते हैं। विजय में विश्वास है लेकिन तपस्या में कमी नहीं आनी चाहिए। पंडित जी ने कहा था चरैइवेति, चरैइवेति, चरैईवेति... चलते रहो... चलते रहो... चलते रहो... ये जो पंडित जी ने हमें सिखाया है ये आज भी उतना ही सार्थक है। उसे लेकर के हमें चलना है। मैं फिर एक बार पंडित जी के श्री चरणों में प्रणाम करते हुए इस महान विचार यात्रा को आगे बढ़ाने के संकल्प के साथ हम सब परिश्रम की पराकाष्ठा करें। मां भारती की सेवा करने का हमें जहां भी जो भी अवसर मिले.. हमारा अपना खुद का सबकुछ इस मां-भारती के गरीब से गरीब के कल्याण के लिए खपा दें। इसी एक संकल्प के द्वारा इस शताब्दी के हम पर्व को मनाएं। मेरी आप सबको शुभकामनाएं। आपके बीच आने का अवसर मिला। I am very grateful to you.\nThank you"