"Share\n\nIndian diaspora should be seen at, not just in terms of its numbers, but also in terms of its strength: PM\nWorld's keenness to engage with India has risen Our diaspora can play a vital role in furthering India's engagement with the world: PM\nWorld wants to engage with India In such times, \"fear of the unknown\" can be the biggest obstacle. Indian diaspora can help overcome: PM\nIndia has never attacked another country Indian soldiers have made sacrifices for protecting foreign lands in the two world wars: PM\nToday is October 02, Mahatma Gandhi and Lal Bahadur Shastri recalled these two great men, but when the present day of Pravasi Bhartiya Kendra is being inaugurated. It is very relevant that we are doing it on October 02. Mahatma Gandhi left the Hindustan. But the call of this country brought them back. And for any Indian who has reached the world, there can not be any inspiration from this incident. And this is such an event that what is the meaning of connecting Indian communities spread across the globe to India. This is how our involvement makes it feel.\nFor years we've come to see the same word. Our people are ready to read and go abroad. Brain Drain, Brain Drain We have come to hear these words. But not only as the number of Indian communities spread all over the world, but if we look at it as a power, then our concern of Brain Drain can be converted to Brain Gain.\nThe river flows very much in the river. But if someone makes a Dham, then when the energy is produced, the same water becomes the source of a new power. There is also meaning in the Indian community spread in the world. There is a need for such an establishment, that by converting that energy to work to spread the light in the nation. When the Policy Commission was created, then the Policy Commission wrote its main work, it would be one place in it and perhaps this would be the first such document in India, in which the power of the diaspora has been accepted. And the Overseas Indians, around 300 million people worldwide are either native Indians or they are either migrant Indians. And in our more than 150 countries of the world, sometimes our mission has reached or has not reached. Some migratory Indians have surely reached.\nThere are so many countries that, where power is multiplied by the power of the NRIs. There are many missions that run their business with great efficiency. The head of that mission recognizes the strength of the diaspora Indians and they work very efficiently to bring the message of India together by adding foreigners in that country for a whole year. Such sporadic efforts continue to run continuously. But now an attempt is how we will use it as an organized power.\nPride of India has increased, the world's attractiveness towards India has increased. At such a time, Fear of Unknown is a huge obstacle. And this is the Fear of Unknown that if anyone has the power to eradicate him then there is an Indian community spread across the globe. Do not worry that person of that country, I am the same. Once I say that I am there, then the Bhai Confidence level increases so much that the Fear of Unknown is eliminated. Well, you are from India. If he asks that when you had gone, he would come in a little bit difficult. But if he does not ask, he will believe that yes, that gentleman has met me. These are from Hindustan, so let me also go.\nThe world that spreads the world, the curiosity that has arisen in the world. The attraction that is born in the world is born. If there is any big seed for this, then someone can become. If more than a mission would believe in his words, then our Indian community spread out. And so it is necessary for us to first connect ourselves to our Indian community spread all over the world. Joining is important.\nAtal Bihari Vajpayee ji started very well. Started celebrating as Pravasi Bharatiya Divas. The rest of the Governments also kept this continuous and also through the Pravasi Bharatiya Divas, the focus of the mission was that in many of my works it is also an important task and due to this the migrant Indians began to experience that Bhai is now at any other end of the world Why not But there is a place for us that yes, someone is going to take care of us.\nIn the last two years, you may have seen that on the issue of humanity, India has earned a reputation for its special status by India's Foreign Office. People in twenty-five countries are trapped in a country, they will be people of Indian community. Largest countries in the world first contact the Indian Embassy that our people are trapped there. Your country will definitely do something. Save our people even a little. And more than 80 countries of the world will be like this, in the last two years, India has done a major job of protecting the Indians along with the crisis under the leadership of the State Department.\nThere was an earthquake in Nepal. After that earthquake, we could have worried about our Indian brothers, but we did not do this. We can help all those whom we can help on the basis of humanity. Whatever the crisis, whether it is Yemen, whether it is the crisis of the Maldives or humanity, this is our central inspiration nature. And on the basis of which things were considered to be the fiefs of some countries of the world, today India has to accept the world as a major contributor on issues of humanity. And this is not possible by our words, not just our great cultural heritage, not just our grand history, but it is possible from the events of our present. It was only that. But events do not cause people's throats to speak about this because of the present behavior of the Government of India.\nWe can imagine that of World War I, of World War II. These countries have never been hungry for land. This country has never invaded anywhere in the world. But in spite of this, more than one and a half lakhs of our soldiers were martyred in the first and second world war for anyone else. Half a million numbers are not less But we are Indians. By connecting with those martyrs, the world will not be able to realize our such a great sacrifice. And these days when I also go into the world, I would say that if there is a small memorial there, then I would go with great urgency. The world will accept that we are those people who die for someone. We are those people who sacrifice for someone. This is our great tradition, this is our bright saga. And this is our strength. It is our responsibility to keep the world from humanity to power.\nIn the coming days, the world is expecting India from the way the world is seeing now. There can be a huge role in our Indian community spread across the globe. Our Indian community does not go politics in the countries of the world. He does not get involved in the power grabbing game. They stay there and worry about what work can be done for the betterment of society. Go to any country in the world if the Indian community is living for a hundred years, if it has lived for fifty years, if it is living in its neighborhood for twenty years, wherever the Indian community lives there, the community there never There is no problem How easily they dissolve in them. Keeps your principles, but everyone feels their strength. And this is the result of our sacraments, our cultural heritage. Our people get anywhere and they get 'like water and your color like', just like our people get. And that he becomes our strength due to that water. This is the specialty of the Indian community. India has a lot of potential for tourism development. Growth is the fastest growing business in the world.\nYou will go to some countries of the world, you will find a lot of entertainment. But to see the great heritage of human history, then there are few countries where Hindustan can be attracted to people. We will give them such a great hotel. We will show our great architecture to us. In front of the world if we have a legacy from the area of ​​tourism to serve the world to India. Go to many countries of the world, ask if the old thing will be 200 years old, someone will say 400 years old. If someone comes here, we will start for five thousand years. We do not have anything to give to the world. We can do this work with the Confidence of India of Pravasi Bharatiya Divas. We want to do\nPravasi Bharatiya Divas Center which has gone out of India a hundred years ago. He knows so much that my color, my blood is linked to this country. But after coming here there is no one to ask him. who are you. Do not know the house or not the village. He'll feel that he's got me a house. They will make inquiries about taking my bed and making my place. It has become one of the three million people spread across the world, which is the only one who has just seen on the website. They come and someone will get it from person to person. Let's go to good station of Bihar. Well look like this is done. Well this was your village. Try to see if you find a relative. This is a very large Dedicated system. I am very happy for the overseas Indians spread all over the world.\nI was told that in over 60-70 countries, Overseas Indian citizens are watching this program, listening to it. Through Technology Another proposal was held here today. Yoga is the biggest reason for curiosity about India. The way the whole world is giving the initiative to celebrate the festival of yoga. The world's governments, the leaders of the world, all the people are joining. There has been a sense of reverence towards yoga. If there is someone in the power to give peace to the society passing through mental stress, then there is a system developed in India. There is the power to add body, mind and intellect to everyone. When International Yoga Day was celebrated on June 21. At that time, I called upon the people associated with yoga throughout the country. Especially for the citizens of India. That yoga is good thing to get publicized. It is a pleasure to expand the aura of yoga. But if yoga erases the disease, then it is very helpful for the common man. And I had requested the people of Yoga that diabetes is growing at a fast pace in India. And in every age there is diabetes. And diabetes is a system that invites all other diseases. That's the biggest host. They do not accept every one. And therefore, through yoga, can we survive diabetes? If there is diabetes through yoga then can you control it? Or Relatively Yoga, then you can be free from diabetes.\nWe constantly tried to persuade people of this subject. And I was told that a protocol has been prepared that by doing such things, doing this in such a way can help relieve diabetes. He released me the book of the protocol which I have released today. Dr. Nagendra is an expert of Yoga, he is present here. The AYUSH Ministry looks at this work that is also present.\nAnd it is also very desirable that Mahatma Gandhi himself has preferred to worry about health by natural method itself. He had great respect in naturopathy. Today, on October 2, we are launching the center of the International Indian Community. And this is what Yoga has spread in the world. It is consistent that this booklet has been launched along with this function today. Who is he who will work in the coming days? Today's topic when the last time Pravasi Bhartiya Divas started. Then I had a subject.\nAnd I congratulate the Ministry of External Affairs. Otherwise, the idea comes in the government, after the thought comes the meeting, there are new ideas after the meeting. Then there is a meeting in which the old idea is to find out what the original idea was. After that there is a meeting, then there is a discussion, then there is a discussion. Then he is stuck in the finance company. The government knows all about such movements. But the foreign department is there. Within nine months - this great work was done inside and it was Quiz Competition What was the nature of our country to know about India, especially the younger generation our country? And what were the features. And today due to the technology is very simple. There are thousands of questions answering India's information in the online Quiz Competition.\nAnd many countries of the world took part in the competitiveness of online youths coming online. Imagine showed good results out of Sometimes the children of Hindustan will also ask for a little more details about the Taj Mahal. These out-of-school children have been able to find and prepare and they are able to tell. One such movement has started online, which will be available to Indians spread across the world in the coming days. These information is not just enlightenment, it will only increase the attachment towards India. It is not so, they are knowledgeable when they went to school, would go to college, sit with their friends. You will know that India is like this. You know, I have read this in India. You know, such an incident happened in India. They will also sow the seeds of this tourism to his companions. These Quiz Competition will work to sow seeds for the most successful tourism of the future.\nAnd I congratulate, some winners have happened. Those who have come, will also get an opportunity to visit India. Some people might have visited India. There will be many people who have come to India for the first time. It is possible that this is possible. लेकिन मैं न्यूजीलैंड से आए हुए वरुण को बधाई देता हूं। साउथ अफ्रीका से आए हुए अखिल को बधाई देता हूं। केन्या से कार्तिक, यूएसए से आदित्य, आयरलैंड से श्वेता, यूएई से आदित्य ये सब winner हैं। उन सबको जो अवॉर्ड देने का मुझे अवसर मिला। लेकिन मैं फिर से एक बार आप ने जो उत्साह दिखाया। उसकी मैं अपेक्षा करूंगा। पूरी दुनिया से करीब पांच हजार लोगों ने इसमें हिस्सा लिया। लेकिन मैं उन पांच हजार लोगों से अपेक्षा करूंगा कि इस बात को आगे बढ़ाना आपका काम है। और आप ऑनलाइन सबको मोबिलाइज कीजिए। पचास हजार नौजवान कैसे Competition में भाग लें इस पर देखिए और बड़ी Competition हो और उसमें से भी विजयी होकर लोग आएं। मैं इसके लिए विजेताओं को शुभकामना देता हूं। विदेश विभाग को इस काम को इतने कम समय में सफलतापूर्वक करने के लिए बहुत बहुत बधाई देता हूं। और विश्व भर में फैले हुए भारतीय समुदाय को आज 02 अक्तूबर को महात्मा गांधी की जन्म जयंति पर एक बहुत उत्तम नजराना एक प्रवासी महात्मा गांधी आपको दिया है ये केन्द्र आपका है आपका आशियाना है। Thanks a lot."