"Share\n\nPM Modi welcomes Amritaandamayi on her 63rd birthday, prays for her long life and good health\nModi's blessings and unconditional love: PM Modi\nIndia is the land of such saints who have seen God Mankind is prominent among those things: PM\nServing the old and aged, and helping the needy Amma's childhood passions: PM\nAmma's initiative on building toilets has been a great help in the Swachh Bharat program: PM Modi\nAmma's ashram has already completed construction of two thousand toilets: PM Modi\nOne year ago, Amma generously donated one hundred crore rupees to the Namami Gange program: PM Modi\nPranaam Amma\nRespected Dignitaries on the Dais\nNamaskaram!\nOn this pious and holy occasion, I offer my deep regards to Amma. I also pray to the Almighty to give life She is the guiding light for millions of devotees Not only that, she has become the synonym of life for many devotees. Like a real Maa, she nurtures her devotees through direct and indirect acts; visible and invisible hands.\nI am very fortunate to be among those who have been receiving Amma's blessings and unconditional love. Three years ago, I had the opportunity to present at Amritapuri, to pay my respects on the occasion of Ammah's 60th birthday celebrations. Today, though I am so lucky as to present at the celebrations in person, I am happy to be able, through technology. I have just returned from Kerala, and I was touched by the people of Kerala.\nIndia is the land of such saints who have seen God Mankind is prominent among those things That is why we have to I am aware that even in my childhood Amma was fond of giving her own food to others. Serving the old and aged, and helping her childhood passions\nAlso, she used to worship Lord Krishna in her childhood.\nThese two qualities have been Devotion to God and Dedication to the Poor is thus, the message which I have personally taken from my association with Amma. Millions of devotees from all over the world also believe in the same.\nI am aware of the social and charitable works done by various organizations and programs run by Amma. She is always seeking to help the world's poor needs: food, shelter, health care, education, and livelihood.\nI would like to specifically mention the works done and donations made in the field of sanitation, water, housing, education and health. I understand that some of those beneficiaries will get their certificates today. Particularly, Amma's initiative has helped to become a great help in our Swachh Bharat program. Amma has pledged to contribute one hundred crore rupees towards sanitation efforts in Kerala. This pledge includes the poor Today, I am informed that throughout the state, Amma's ashram has already completed construction of two thousand toilets.\nI know that this is just a example of various works being done in the fields of environmental conservation and sustainability. One year ago, Amma generously donated one hundred crore rupees to the Namami Gange program. I am also aware of Amma's helping hands to suffer in the aftermath of natural disasters. It is also heartening to note that the researchers at Amrita University are innovating new approaches to solving the world's most pressing problems.\nAt the end, I would like to convey my sincere thanks for giving me the opportunity of joining the celebrations.\nOnce again"