"Share\n\nStarting with indelible ink which is the hallmark of our democratic fabric, CSIR has left an indelible mark on every sphere of life: PM\nCSIR is a reflection of India in its diversity and heterogeneity: PM Modi\nPM Narendra Modi to launch CSIR for modern technologies and emerging challenges\nCSIR needs to create an \"Ease of doing Technology Business\" platform to bring in the right stakeholders: PM\nNo nation can develop, unless it's the benefit of science and technology: PM\nIt is important to connect science with citizens in this century, which is technology driven: PM Modi\nFrom \"per drop, more crop,\" our purpose should be moved to \"an inch of land, and a bunch of crops\": PM Modi\nLet me begin by congratulating the Indian Space Research Organization for successfully undertaking one of its most challenging satellite launches.\nAs many as eight satellites have been launched in two different orbits, in a single PSLV flight.\nI am privileged to inaugurate the CSIR's Platinum Jubilee Function on the occasion of its Seventy-Fiveth Foundation Day.\nAlso as President of the Council, let me take this opportunity to welcome you all year-long Celebrations of CSIR Platinum Jubilee\nI specially welcome the One Hundred and Fifty Science students from Kendriya Vidyalayas, who are present here today, as well as IITs and IISERs at students and research scholars, who see this event live.\nIt is a matter of pride for every Indian that CSIR is celebrating 75th year of the contribution of modern India.\nThis has been a journey dedicated to the nation.\nStarting with the indelible ink which is the hallmark of our democratic fabric, CSIR has left an indelible mark on every sphere of life.\nWith an all-round approach to Research and Development CSIR is a reflection of India in its diversity and heterogeneity.\nFrom agricultural to aerospace, bio-sensors to bio-pharmaceuticals, chemicals to climate change, drug development to deep sea explorations, from earth sciences to energy, food to fragrance, glass to genomics, housing to healthcare, instrumentation to informatics, leather to light Combat Aircraft, microbes to mining to materials, optics to optical fibers, pigments to power electronics, roads to robotics, sensors to solar energy, tractors to transport, UAVs to underwater vehicles, and water to weather forecasting, CSIR has its presence.\nSwaraj, the first Tractor of the country, Baby Milk Powder, the first Super Computer of the country; These are just some of the achievements of CSIR\nBefore coming in this hall, I saw the achievements of CSIR show-cased in an exhibition. I would like to see this exhibition taken from other parts of the country, so that people can know and appreciate CSIR's achievements.\nOur efforts should be made for CSIR for modern technologies and emerging challenges\nIn my view, CSIR needs to create an \"Ease of doing Technology Business\" platform to bring in the right stakeholders, so the technologies reach the intended beneficiaries\nRecently, CSIR has developed the first Ayurvedic Medicine of the country for diabetic patients. All of you are aware of this medicine. Now our goal should be to make people aware of this medicine so that they can make the best use of the same.\nHistory is a witness that no country has developed in the modern era till it got the help of science and technology. At present, the country is moving ahead with more than 7% growth and it requires the cooperation of organizations such as scientific and research. Therefore, it should be a part of your strategy, as well as dealing with the current challenges, we are also preparing a road map for the future of our country. Like CSIR has made Solar Tree this year. This Solar Tree only occupies the space of four square feet. Now you should try to see how the Solar Tree reaches the corners of the country and people get the benefit of it. Solar energy, solar energy is very important for the disposal of electricity problem in the country. You can bring revolution in all fields. The goal of the government is to generate 100 gigawatt solar energy in the country by 2022. And to achieve that goal, the Government should give you full support from all scientists. Such as how the efficiency of a solar-cell can be increased to a maximum of at least cost. Any technique succeeds only when it comes to the common man's work.\nWhat is the need of the farmers' brothers today, how are the poor mothers, sisters, young people facing their problems in their daily life? How your invention or research can help them. It will have to think constantly and show results and show it. The purpose of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research is also the same. Scientific research This invention is not a day or a year's work, it is a continuous process. This continuous process takes birth as a game-changer in terms of game-changer, one day.\nCSIR has been doing this work for a long time. But now I see a need for a big change. We are doing research. But what time bound distribution can this become our prime agenda? I have a lot of expectations from you. And sometimes it seems that my expectations are a bit higher, but that's because you trust. Because of the 75 years you have given to the country, I think that, maybe you can give more and the one who is asking too can ask for it.\nAnd so when we are celebrating 75 years, then Time Bound Delivery, this one-one line agenda how can we bring it forward. Along with research, we must also focus on linking Value Change with firmness. With the Research Institute, the government, the industry, the NGO, the service provider, the consumer, on the coordination of these, because without the coordinated efforts, the result is not received and we have to pay attention to it.\nSometimes it has been seen that we do the invention, but the common people are not benefitted from it, either they do not reach the information of the common people or according to the needs of the common man, there is no modification, Under the principle there is a very good thing and therefore if we will bring things together by simplifying the resources available and in the midst of the problem, between them, then I think that this Can be expanded very easily, with the usefulness of normal human being. Scientific research institutes also have to make the system to take Feed Back at Stage Research and Development Stage from Stake Holders. If we do not have interaction with Stake Holders, we do not understand their requirements, then our product can come with very big awards in the competition, can bring prizes. Articles can be printed in very large magazines, but in a country like India, its success, in the solution of problems of common man, how useful it is, it is the criteria. CSIR should try to open more doors for the youth of the country filled with energy by its laboratories, it should be tried that in the labs of CSIR, more and more students also get the opportunity to research.\nWe see that nowadays this TVs do a very big program for talent search, singing, dancing and watching. We did not think so many talents are seen in small children and this is not a talent in this field, They have talent in every field. She is in search of opportunity. Can our labs, these become the center of attraction for our children, let's go to the brother, let's not go to Saturday, Sunday. Mama's house is not known, let's go to the lab today. The sahib will give some time and tell me something. The big Scientist who made you among them, remember your childhood. You were madness right here, only then you have come here, there are many people with this madness. Someone has caught your finger, someone has caught your hand. Someone might have brought you into the lab. Anyone should take these children too. The fate of this country will change.\nCSIR will also have a strong role in creating new entrepreneurs in the country with the help of its resources. We are running the Start-up India, Stand-up India, the young man who wants to do something and if you have done some searching and introduced him with that principle, then he can do the courage of the product. Is our CSIR Movement and the Government of India's stand up India movement, due to which the younger generation who wants to undergo new taxes and we have a kind of research, they have a problem, your research, problem, and its product Zeal All three can give a new thing to the world, a new area can open and it is possible. And if we work on it, how do we employ these possibilities, then I think that we can do a lot of it.\nThere is also a need to do research funding given by various organizations to the channel today. Can not create a web portal that has a complete account of funding, research and its results, it may be that I am not telling you to open your research, it is your bona fide, But you can keep things, otherwise what is happening in a lab, the same type of work is done by ten people in the other lab too. Our energy is being wasted, our funding is going to waste, if everyone will see a platform, yes, brother, these are ten things that are in the air today, I have tried to catch it, but it is already working. , Let me go to 11th. By making this we become a portal and I think it will also be good that we can also keep people in question, can also have problems, they think new things. Yes, I have also thought of torture, I can do it .\nThe Government of India has done 2022 whereas 75 years of independence of the country and 75 years of country's independence, like 75 years of your CSIR, there is excitement in your mind, 75 years of country's independence, Taxes should be made due to passing. We have a few years in the middle of now, we are in 2022, and we are going to double the income of the farmers of the country, to meet this goal, you have to prepare new varieties of crops. In particular, such varieties of pulses can be developed, then in the rain-fed area, they can be grown and they will also help to overcome the problem of malnutrition caused by deficiency of protein in the body.\nIf we have 2022 farming sector dream of doubling, and especially the protein requirement of our poor country and the realization of protein is Pulses, then how do we intervene, how to increase per hectare yield, which are our Pulses How can protein increase in it, and in today's scientific era, in the era of genetic science, our scientist can intervention and our farmer too, I came to talk to the farmers of the remote areas of the country, It will be seen, there is no intention to do something new in their minds. Can our scientists speed up, give direction, and can give results in a set time? The scientists should also develop new varieties of vegetables. Our objective should not only be to reduce the gap of production and consumption, but also to be exported in other areas. I am talking about exports that I went to Gulf countries in the past. They are struggling with a problem, they say that we do not have rain even an inch of water. We have to take everything out to eat. Fruits, vegetables, cereals, everything. Our population is increasing, Petroleum, dollar, we have, lot of money, lots of property. But we have to get things out of the house. Do we export the type of requirement from here, keeping in mind the requirement of Gulf countries. In our agricultural area, focused, targeted people can think in terms of developing such things, so that we can get the assured market for fifty hundred years to come. There are also quality, quantity too. They are affordable in the whole world. I believe that if our scientists can overcome this goal then the economy of the farmer of India will only benefit. But in our neighborhood, the necessity of Gulf countries is also very close to us. If there is a country with the possibility of bringing things to their lowest expense, then India is Hindustan. Why let us leave such an opportunity and so we can think of many things in the agricultural sector.\nCSIR has done a great deal for Health Sector. But in our country people are facing such diseases like TB, Malaria, Chikungunya and Dengue. How CSIR can relieve these diseases. It needs to be researched with a timed target. As we develop diagnostic kits, which are cost effective and assist in early detection of diseases. Because today the Health Sector has mostly become technology driven. The doctor does not check much, more machine checks. What is lacking in you, what is the problem, it determines the machine. Like a software, the doctor then removes it from it, give it to you, give it now, give it later, this situation has come. When technology driven has become complete medical science. So I think that is a great opportunity for you. Not only the medicines, this kit is my imagination, the more we will be kit to an ASHA worker inside the village. They can decide that these are difficulties and this can be done for this and that is technologically so Well-connected that we can check epidemic immediately. We can see the possibilities. And it's all possible in today's era. Do I hope that we can move towards new areas of research towards addressing things on a mass scale? And we will challenge our youngsters, give them opportunities, they will show them something that is my belief.\nAnd we also know that the poorest is the biggest cause of sickness, then it is a mess. Now I do not say to you that you go to clean the dirt. But through technology, we can develop affordable technology with new research in relation to disposal. There will be no huge rocket science. But which is a new star-up, it is likely to be such a big business that we give waste management, waste treatment to all of these things as much as technology intervention, so people can change dirt into a business and cleanliness You can come, which can help a lot in the health sector of the country. Even the issue of even nutrition can also be addressed with liberation, we can address. If there is liberation from dirt, then we can also emphasize purity in drinking water. And if the purity of drinking water is purified in drinking water, then the path of liberation becomes possible from many diseases. These are all things that are not limited to just medical science. Scientific world requires intervention. It is not that there is no technology in the world. India needs intervention for the cheap technology.\nIt is our requirement that technology be developed based on our available resources. And to meet those needs .. Sometimes what happens is that in our mind that we keep on searching, it will be 50 years after 100 years. Keeping in mind the problems we face, we take science, I think it is the first requirement for a country like India. And if these requirements will get success. Those successes can give you the ability to research with the need of the global level or with the requirements of the new era.\nCSIR has also done a lot of work on water security. But there is a need to make efforts and efforts towards using its water resources economically, efficiently and effectively. We know that there is a lot of discussion about water crisis. Everybody writes that the possibilities of war are accurate with water. Now he will keep writing what he has to write. लेकिन जो lab में बैठा है उसको तो समाधान खोजना होता है कि हम कैसे इस पानी के संचय को, पानी के सिंचन की ओर ध्‍यान दे। अब आज हम कोशिश कर रहे हैं। कृषि क्षेत्र में हमारा प्रयास है। ‘per drop more crop’ और अब तो मैं यह भी कहता हूं भारत जैसे देश में जहां जमीन का महत्‍व बढ़ता चला गया है। और इसलिए पानी और जमीन दोनों को ध्‍यान में रखते हुए ‘per drop more crop’ है साथ-साथ ‘an inch of land and bunch of crop’ यह जबतक कि मिशन हम लेकर नहीं चलेंगे तो हम पानी के उपयोग का भी महत्‍व नहीं समझेंगे, जमीन के उपयोग का भी महत्‍व नहीं समझेंगे।\nनदी जल प्रदूषण बहुत बड़ी समस्‍या के रूप में हमारे सामने है। गंगा की सफाई का काम कई वर्षों से चल रहा है। कई सरकारें आ करके गई। हमने वैज्ञानिक तरीके ही ढूंढने होंगे। जन सामान्‍य को प्रशिक्षित करना और वैज्ञानिक मार्ग खोजने यही चीजें हैं जो हमारी समस्‍याओं का समाधान दे सकती है। आम नागरिक की एक आवश्‍यकता.. अब हम देखिए आज के युग में हिंदुस्‍तान में जितनी जनसंख्‍या है उससे ज्‍यादा मोबाइल फोन है, लेकिन बेटरी की आयु यह उसके लिए tension का विषय है। उसको बेटरी recharge कराने के लिए बेचारे गांव के आदमियों को दूसरे गांव जाना पड़ता है और बेटरी जार्च होने के लिए वहां खड़ा होना पड़ता है जरा बेटरी जार्च कर दो। smart phone की बेटरी को लेकर एक परेशानी महसूस हो रही है। और ज्‍यादा उपयोग करते हैं वो तो बेटरी बैंक साथ ले करके घूमते हैं। क्‍या हमारे वैज्ञानिक इसका solution नहीं दे सकते क्‍या? और कितना बड़ा मार्केट है आप कल्‍पना कीजिए। और मैं नहीं मानता हूं कि जो विज्ञान छोटे level पर apply हुआ है वो बड़ी ताकत के रूप में कोई enlarge न हो ऐसा नहीं हो सकता। मैं scientist नहीं हूं लेकिन इतना तो मैं समझ सकता हूं कि आप कर सकते हैं। अगर आप इन चीजों को priority दे, तो उसको commercial value भी बहुत है। requirement बन चुकी है।\nआज आप देखिए sports खेल जगत जिस प्रकार से उसने रूप लिया है। वो सिर्फ खेल के मैदान का विषय नहीं रहा। अभी मैं वहां पर आपके प्रदर्शनी में कुछ चीजें रखी थी। उन्‍होंने मुझे बताया कि leather की चीजें हम कैसे बनाते हैं। मैंने उनको सवाल पूछा कि क्‍या कोई आपके यहां research हो रही है कि किस प्रकार के sport के लिए किस प्रकार के जूते चाहिए, किस प्रकार के costume चाहिए। इस पर कोई रिसर्च हुआ है क्‍या, जो उसके physical fitness में plus करता हो, comfort में plus करता हो। अभी आपने आप मं बहुत बड़ा रिचर्स हो रहा है दुनिया में। क्‍या हम इस प्रकार की चीजें, इतना ही नहीं खिलाड़ी के पास अच्‍छे साधन हो, खिलाड़ी के पास अच्‍छे मैदान हो, अच्‍छा कोच हो उससे ही वो खेल जगत में सिद्धियां प्राप्‍त नहीं करता है। खेल जगत के development के लिए मान्‍य हुआ है कि एक scientific environment required होता है। उसको psychology से ले करके comfort तक की हर चीज की व्‍यवस्‍था करनी पड़ती है।\nक्‍या भारत का वैज्ञानिक जगत, हमारे जो sport field के लोग उनके लिए उनके लिए एक बहुत बड़े व्‍यवसायिक क्षेत्र की संभावनाएं मैं देख रहा हूं sports में। हम उसके लिए कोई research की चीजें एक वैज्ञानिक environment क्‍या हो। अब space science में आप देखते है जितना space में जाने वाले लोगों की चिंता होती है उतनी space के लोगों के लिए scientific environment पर उनकी ट्रेनिंग होती है तब जा करके उनको भेजा जाता है। sport की दुनिया भी उसी प्रकार की है। क्‍या हम उस environment के parameter तय कर सकते हैं, उसके लिए उस तरह की व्‍यवस्‍था विकसित कर सकते हैं। कहने का हमारा तात्‍पर्य यह है हम हम विज्ञान के क्षेत्र को इतना सामान्‍य मानव से जोड़े। क्‍योंकि 21वीं सदी एक technology driven सदी है। अगर पूरी शताब्‍दी technology driven होगी तो हम इस प्रकार के नये अनुसंधान को 21वीं सदी की आवश्‍यकता और भारत जैसे देश की आवश्‍यकता के साथ जोड़ सकते हैं क्या?\nहमारी पारंपरिक समझ और ज्ञान को हम modern system में जोड़ सके तो भी कई समस्‍याओं का हल निकल सकता है। योग हो, आयुर्वेद हो आज पूरी दुनिया में उसकी चर्चा है। लेकिन उसका वैज्ञानिक रूप नहीं पहुंच पा रहा है। क्‍या हम उस दिशा में काम कर सकते हैं।\nऔर आज इस अवसर पर वैज्ञानिकों को national Award देकर भी सम्‍मानित किया जा रहा है। जिन वैज्ञानिकों को यह सम्‍मान प्राप्‍त हो रहा है। उनको मैं बहुत बहुत बधाई देता हूं। जिनमें 2012-15 का शांति स्‍वरूप भटनागर पुरस्‍कार है, 2012-14 का CSIR diamond technology jubilee Award है, ग्रामीण विकास में science and technology innovations के लिए CSIR का Award है, 2016 का CSIR technology Award है, 2016 का जी एन रामचंद्रन gold medal है, 2016 का CSIR young scientist Award दिया जा रहा है। यह सम्‍मान, यह Award न सिर्फ वैज्ञानिकों के लिए हैं, बल्कि उनके परिवार उनके मित्रों विशेष करके उनके शिक्षकों के लिए भी है। ऐसे शिक्षक जिन्‍होंने बचपन से ही उन्‍हें विज्ञान एवं अनुसंधान-अविष्‍कार के लिए प्रेरित किया।\nदेश को आज आप सभी पर गर्व है। मुझे उम्‍मीद है कि इस सफर पर आप एक नये उमंग और हौसले के साथ, और मजबूती के साथ आगे बढ़ेंगे। यह अवार्ड आपके अलावा दूसरों को भी देश के विकास के लिए आवश्‍यक नये अनुसंधान, नये अविष्‍कार की प्रेरणा देगा। स्‍कूल, कॉलेज और यूनिवर्सिटियों में पढ़ने वाले नौजवान आप आपको role model की तरह देखते हैं। इस अवसर पर मैं आप सभी से अपेक्षा करता हूं कि आप नौजवान पीढ़ी का मार्गदर्शन करने की अपनी जिम्‍मेदारी भी बखूबी निभाएं। CSIR से जुड़े देश के प्रतिष्‍ठित संस्‍थानों में काम कर रहे वैज्ञानिकों को स्‍कूल कॉलेज में पढ़ने वाले छात्रों के साथ अपना सम्‍पर्क बढ़ाना चाहिए। क्‍या संभव है कि महीने में कम से कम एक बार हर वैज्ञानिक कोई न कोई कॉलेज या यूनिवर्सिटी में लेक्‍चर देने के लिए जाए। उनसे विचार-विमर्श करे, नई पीढ़ी से चर्चा करे। क्‍या संभव है कि आज जिन-जिन महानुभावों को Award मिला है वो एक स्‍कूल या कॉलेज को mentor के रूप में adopt करके। अगर वो एक स्‍कूल या कॉलेज में सिर्फ पाँच छात्रों को भी mentor के लिए पसंद करके उनके पीछे थोड़ा समय दें, तो देश में तीन सौ नये वैज्ञानिकों को उभरने की संभावना खड़ी होती है। तो जिस प्रकार से देश को आप एक नया आविष्‍कार भेंट करे और पीढि़यों का भला कर सकते हैं, वैसे आप अगर देश को एक या दो scientist भी भेंट करे तो शायद सदियों का बड़ा काम करके जाएंगे।\nI once again greet you all very much. पचहत्‍तरवीं वर्षगांठ की इस महत्‍वूर्ण घटना आने वाले 2022 के लिए.. आप भी तय कीजिए 2022 जब देश की आजादी के 75 साल पूर होंगे, हम देश के लिए वैज्ञानिक दृष्टि से यह चीजें देकर रहेंगे, समय सीमा में देकर रहेंगे, देश की आवश्‍यकताओं की पूर्ति करेंगे। इसी एक संकल्‍प के साथ हम इस 75 वर्ष की यात्रा और आने वाले 25 साल के सपनों को ले करके आगे बढ़े इसी एक अपेक्षा के साथ आप सबको मेरी बहुत बहुत शुभकामनाएं। Thank you."