"Share\n\nPt Deendayal Upadhyaya, Gandhi ji and Dr. Lohia was great thinkers whose influence on today\nOur Government is committed to the welfare of the poor and it draws inspirations from Mahatma Gandhi and Deendayal Upadhyaya: PM\nThere is a nation in Asia whose aim is that this does not affect Asia's and is associated with terrorism: PM Modi\nTerrorists that our neighbors exported killed our jawans. Modi will never forget this: PM\nBoth our countries got freedom in same year but India exports software \u0026 Pakistan exporters terrorists: PM\nNational President of Bharatiya Janata Party, Mr. Amitbhai Shah, former National President of Bharatiya Janata Party, revered Advaniji, Dr. Murli Manohar Joshi, Mr. Venkayya Naidu, Mr. Nitin Gadkari, Mr. Rajnath Singh ji, on stage, Kerala State Party President and all the senior and senior officials of the Center and the state and my dear brothers from Kerala Arts \u0026 sisters ....\nPriya Sahodari Sahodaran Murare ... Allahavkum Namaskaram,\n\"Samuthuriyude Mannalvishalmayaai, Sammelanathir Aethi Carna Allahvakkum ante Asha Mashakal, Paja Shiria Vintayum, Kunjilimarkandayam, Nital Nangley Nerilkakanam, Ethee Cheran Swadi etc and Santosh Munda\"\nGod's Own Country\nFrom Kerala's memory ... a revered heart in the form of a God's Own Country ... a sense of sanctity arises.\nAnd this reverence, the sense of purity is not just because of the terrain, people here, the sages, the monks, the saints, the different traditions here, the high ideals, values, simplicity, Diligence is implemented within the people, the result of which is that today, wherever there is a person of Kerala in the whole country, everyone sees him with respect.\nIn the past, I got a chance to go to the Gulf countries ... in the Gulf countries. When a leader of a country goes to another country, it is natural to talk between the leaders of the two countries, but I had angered that whatever things will happen officially, but in this area, those people of my country who came and settled They are sweating, and in most of the people of Kerala I want to meet them ... I would like to see them.\nAnd the heads of the people of any country who met, had their heads, the people of Kerala, the people of Kerala .. their work .. their discipline .. listening to their lives .. I feel proud\nToday, I have had an opportunity to come back to this earth. A few years ago I had had the privilege of addressing a political rally, but in that day and in the day-to-day view ... I am seeing a lot of difference from the helipad to the evenings ... across the way, Heumann No chain ... I saw Humann Wall ... and saw the crowd of people filled with excitement.\nFifty years ago, the responsibility of Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay as the Chairman was fixed here, he took charge. Take out the newspaper fifty years ago and see. I do not know in any corner of the newspaper any news of the program of the Indian Jana Sangh will be printed or not. The picture of a leader of the Indian Jana Sangh will be printed or not. What is the Indian Jana Sangh ... why have they come to Kerala ... what are they doing .. I do not think there would have been any widespread discussion of fifty years ago. Political pundits of that time ... would be surprised today that the country of fifty hundred crore, such a big democracy ... such democracy filled with democracy ... so many languages, such traditions, within so many sects and fifty years within These parties became the number one party of Hindustan. With the absolute majority in India, the people of the country gave him an opportunity to serve him.\nToday, we are meeting on that eve tomorrow when Hindustan is going to celebrate the birth anniversary of Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay Ji, a Manishi of political thought.\nIn the last century, the political life of India influenced the thinking of three great men. The ideology of the political activists running today is still contributing to the politics of India. At the top are Mahatma Gandhi, Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay, Ram Manohar Lohia. Gandhi, Deendayal, Lohia ... These three great thinkers of the last century, whose influence of Chintan appears somewhere on the politics of today's Hindustan.\nWhen NDA's elected members of Lok Sabha elected me as their leader and my first speech as a leader in the Central Hall of Parliament, I said that our government is dedicated to the poor. These thoughts .. These expressions have been received from the thought of Mahatma Gandhi and Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay ji. They have been received from the inspiration ... from the imagination of Anindoday's Deendayal ji, we tried to illustrate the activities of our government. is.\nBefore coming to the corridor of power politics ... I had a good fortune to work for the organization for many years and I always used to say, I used to feel that the greatness of our party ... His thinking stream .. Our ideological Creates Heritage. But hundreds of thousands of workers from Kerala's Indian Jana Sangh and Kerala's Bharatiya Janata Party have sacrificed in decades. Thousands of workers have been tortured ... millions of workers ... There was nothing to be seen in front of ... power did not look far and wide. Even today, Kerala's workers have not got the good fortune of power. In spite of this, they remained standing. They kept fighting ... sacrifices for thought remained ... such workers of Kerala have always been inspired by the millions of workers of Hindustan.\nAnd I want to convince the workers of Kerala that the sacrifices you have made, the sacrifices you have suffered, the sacrifices you have given, will never be lost. Sometimes your sacrifice will bring color. Kerala's fortune will also change. The Bharatiya Janata Party will become an excuse to change the fate of Kerala. I am clearly watching this.\nEvery type of power is being formed in Kerala to become a state of India. We want to give him strength and move forward in the country ahead of Kerala ... For this, the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Government of India will always be fully prepared to give their contribution.\nThe country is moving forward at a very fast pace with the same mantra. With all the development and development of all, and taking the mantra of development, taking many schemes ... Today in the whole world, it is being said in one voice that in the world's fast moving economy, India is the fastest growing economy in the big economy today.\nWhether a fisherman or a laborer, a farmer or a businessman, the government sitting in Delhi is trying to empower everyone to give new energy, new power, new strength, new opportunities to all and all the schemes society Has been focused on empowerment.\nThere are many challenges in front of mankind today, we have been listening for many years .. 21st Century is Asia's century and 21st Century became Asia's century ... There are all kinds of possibilities for this. There are all kinds of powers. And all the opportunities are clearly visible.\nAll the countries of Asia, made of the 21st century Asia, every country is making excuses to contribute its contribution.\nBut there is one country in Asia that is not made of 21st century Asia, the whole Asia is bloody. The whole Asia will be in the grip of terrorism, bloodshed, innocent people should be killed in death ... they are fully engaged in the conspiracy.\nInside Asia where terrorism incidents are declining .. Every country considers one country to be guilty. The question is not of India alone. This is the only country which is engaged in exporting terrorism all around.\nAfghanistan ho, Bangladesh be ... neighbors and neighbors ... all away And you must have seen, whenever there is news of terror incidents in the world, it is also reported in a few days that the terrorist had either gone from this country, or after taking a terrorist incident, like Osama bin Laden came to that country Was settled. That same place was his shelter.\nBrothers and sisters, how terrorism happens, people of Kerala know Bhalbhanti. We took the daughters of Kerala up by taking the terrorists. To do the work of nursing ... to serve humanity ... In the Gulf countries our daughters of Kerala were working with service. Terrorists picked up. The whole country was restless ... we will save our daughters or they will not be saved. What will happen to his life ... he will survive or will not survive. What would we be able to answer to their parents ... There was an atmosphere of anxiety all around but the whole of Kerala ... saw that the government sitting in Delhi was so courteous, attempted excuses ... made diplomatic efforts and those of my Kerala We delivered the daughters to their house safely.\nTerrorism ... This is the enemy of humanity. Human beings of the whole world .. Humanists must be defeated by terrorism and in front of terrorism, Hindustan is inclined. No Hindustan will bend ... it will defeat terrorism.\nThese days, there is an atmosphere of anger in the whole country. In J \u0026 K - in Uri .. Our 18 soldiers had to be sacrificed by the exported terrorists from our neighboring country. Terrorist ears listen and listen ... This country is never going to forget this thing.\nMy dear brothers and sisters in the last few months 17 times .. The terrestrial exporters who had exported the neighboring country 17 times different groups ... sometimes in the number of four .. sometimes in the number of six. Fidayeen assailants attempted to seduce this country. But our Sena ... Jabanz army has failed these 17 attempts in the last few months ... the fidayeen assailants were killed by the Line of Control. In the last few years, at least 110 terrorists were killed by our army soldiers in such a short time.\nThe Jabenz Army did great work to save the country from these 17 potentially dangerous incidents ... the security forces did ... fought tactics and they fought for protecting the common man of the country. Always keep awake and we ... the hundred and fifty million people are proud of our army. We are proud of our army ... His valor is proud ... his pride is proud ... he is proud of his sacrifice of sacrifice.\nYou can imagine ... the neighboring country succeeded in an event and our 18 warriors had to be sacrificed ... If they were successful in these 17 events, how much would the country destroy ... its its You can guess.\nOur beloved soldiers, our army soldiers, our security forces personnel ... whether it is BSF or CRPF. Whether it is the police of Jammu and Kashmir ... whether it is the police of Northeast ... whatever our security forces are young Have gone to conquer the battle. The reason for this is not just arms. The weapon is a toy for the soldiers but the strength of the soldiers, the morale of the country is. Today, the highest morale of Hindustan is. And for the country .. The morale of the country's 500 million people for the soldiers of the country ... This is our strength and this is the strength of our military.\nThe leaders of the neighboring country and their dictators used to say that thousands of years will fight ... where they were lost within the period ... they are not seen anywhere.\nAnd today's dictators are singing songs of Kashmir by reading the speeches written by the masters of terrorists.\nI want to talk here from here directly to Pakistan. From those dictators ... who read lectures written by the terrorists' masters. The world has no hope for them. But I want to talk to the people of Pakistan from here today.\nI want to remind Aam Aadmi of Pakistan that before 1947 your ancestors used to salute the land of this United India, which considered it to be its soil ... and accordingly reminding you of those ancestors, I want to say things\nPakistan's Awam ask your commanders that you have a POK, you can not handle it ... sometimes in West Bengal, East Pakistan which is today's Bangladesh ... you also had it ... do not handle it too Found You are not able to handle Sindh. You can not handle Gilgit. You are not able to handle the Pashtunist ... you can not handle the Balochistan. You have it ... Your rule is ... You have not been able to handle it too and they are misleading you by talking to Kashmir. You ask the leaders of Pakistan to take care of those who are in the house.\nPakistan's Awam asked his dictators that both the countries were simultaneously free ... what is the reason that India exports software to the world and exports to your dictatorial terrorists ... what is the reason ...?\nI want to say to the people of Pakistan ... I want to tell you to mislead you ... talking about fighting for Hindus for thousand years. Today, such a government is sitting in Delhi. I am ready to accept your challenge.\nPakistan's Awam, I want to tell you ... Hindustan is ready to fight for you ... come ... come courage. Come on be brave ... fight then fight that thing ... let's end poverty Work to do You work to eliminate poverty in your country ... we both fight for the fight ... see first who eliminates the poverty of our country ... Come ... Pakistan's Awam will like it.\nPakistan's youngsters come fight for war ... Firstly, India annihilates unemployment that Pakistan first eliminates unemployment. Come on ... fight to finish the unemployment and see ... who wins first.\nमैं पाकिस्तान के छोटे-छोटे उन बालकों से बात करना चाहता हूं आइए हम अशिक्षा के खिलाफ लड़ाई लड़ें...पाकिस्तान भी अशिक्षा को खत्म करने के लिए लड़ाई लड़े। हिन्दुस्तान भी अशिक्षा को खत्म करने के लिए लड़ाई लड़े। और देखें कि पहले हिन्दुस्तान जीतता है कि पहले पाकिस्तान जीतता है।\nहिन्दुस्तान में भी नवजात शिशु मरते हैं. प्रसूता माताएं मरती हैं... पाकिस्तान में भी नवजात शिशु मरते हैं और प्रसूता माताएं मरती हैं। आओ लड़ाई लड़ें...नवजात शिशुओं को बचाने की...प्रसूता माताओं को बचाने की... आप बचाकर के दिखाओ..हम बचाकर के दिखाएं... देखते हैं कौन जीतता है।\nऔर पाकिस्तान के हुक्मरान सुन लें.. हमारे 18 जवानों का बलिदान बेकार नहीं जाएगा।\nभारत सफल रहा है आपको पूरी दुनिया में अलग-थलग करने के लिए और हम इसको तेज करेंगे और पूरे विश्व में आपको अकेला रहने के लिए हम मज़बूर करके रहेंगे।\nवो दिन दूर नहीं होगा जब पाकिस्तान की आवाम पाकिस्तान के हुक्मरानों के खिलाफ, आतंकवाद के खिलाफ लड़ाई लड़ने के लिए मैदान में आएगी।\nमेरे प्यारे देशवासियों... हमारे देश का भविष्य शांति, एकता, सदभावना से जुड़ा हुआ है। देश का जवान तब जीतता है जब हम कंधे से कंधा मिलाकर के खड़े होते हैं। एक स्वर से बोलते हैं.. एक ही संकल्प को लेकर के चलते हैं। आज सवा सौ करोड़ देशवासी उस देशभक्ति के ज्वर से भरे हुए हैं...आज सवा सौ करोड़ देशवासी भारत की आन-बान-शान के लिए हर कीमत देने के लिए तैयार बैठे हुए हैं और इसीलिए भाईयों-बहनों... भारत के उज्जवल भविष्य को देख रहा हूं। भारत में सुख चैन की ज़िंदगी देख रहा हूं और इसके लिए मिलकर के सफल होंगे...यह मैं आपको विश्वास दिलाता हूं।\nमेरे प्यारे देशवासियों पंडित दीनदयाल उपाध्याय जन्मशताब्दी वर्ष को हमने गरीब कल्याण वर्ष के रूप में मनाना तय किया। हमारे सभी प्रयासों का केन्द्रबिन्दु.. हमारे देश का गरीब हो। हमारा गरीब empower हो... गरीबी के खिलाफ लड़ाई लड़ने के लिए एक बहुत बड़ी ताकत निर्माण हो...उस दिशा में हम आगे बढ़ रहे हैं और इस केरल की धरती.. केरल के लोग... गॉड्स ओन्ड कंट्री...हमें आर्शीर्वाद दे ताकि हम देश के कल्याण के मार्ग पर...गरीबों के कल्याण के मार्ग पर...जन कल्याण के मार्ग पर... लोक कल्याण के मार्ग पर... हम तेज गति से आगे बढ़ें।\n21वीं सदी में हमारा संकल्प बने कि..\n“हिन्दुस्तान एक ऐसा देश हो... जो गरीबी से मुक्त हो - समृद्धि से युक्त हो।”\n“भारत एक ऐसा देश हो जो भेदभाव से मुक्त हो - समानता से युक्त हो।”\n“भारत ऐसा देश हो जो अन्याय से मुक्त हो - न्याय से युक्त हो।”\n“भारत ऐसा देश हो जो गंदगी से मुक्त हो - स्वच्छता से युक्त हो।”\n“भारत ऐसा देश हो जो भ्रष्टाचार से मुक्त हो - पारदर्शिता से युक्त हो।”\n“भारत ऐसा देश हो बेरोज़गारी से मुक्त हो - रोज़गारी से युक्त हो।”\n“भारत ऐसा देश हो महिला उत्पीड़न से मुक्त हो - नारी सम्मान से युक्त हो।”\n“भारत ऐसा देश हो जो निराश से मुक्त हो - आशा से युक्त हो।”\nपंडित दीनदयाल उपाध्याय जी की जन्मशती में हम सभी इस संकल्प को लेकर के आगे बढ़ें...इसी एक अपेक्षा के साथ आप सबका बहुत बहुत आभार और आप सभी को बहुत-बहुत शुभकामनाएं।\nमेरे साथ मुट्ठी बंद करकर के पूरी ताकत के साथ बोलिए..\nभारत माता की... जय\nभारत माता की... जय\nभारत माता की... जय\nThanks a lot"