"\nPM Modi distributes aids and assistive devices to Divyang at Navsari, Gujarat\nTime for phrases like 'Chalta Hai' is history; the world has expectedations from India and we can not let this opportunity go: PM\nAccessible India Campaign is aimed at focusing on areas where we may not have much attention before: PM\nOn the map of the world today Navsari has given the name of the golden letters. Lakh-lakh greetings to Navsari..You have broken three records today and with the World Records in the past, you have made such a long jump that now it will be difficult to break the record and that too will be recorded by Divyangjan, Will go.\nBy the way our Navsari telegram became a pilgrimage, known as a bookmaker, today it has become the Shiromar of the Sense of Divyanjono. Along with the Government's program, you have done Navsari today and have been working to bring the identity of Gujarat to the whole of India. I was watching the news on the night of the night that some shopkeepers from here were giving Divyaan children free of charge. Today, Divyang is in the family, as many as 67 families were donated to cow mother. Here, a list of twenty thousand people has been announced by the Jinnah who took the responsibility of adopting a Divine person and took full responsibility. Here's a check of Rs. 67 lakhs. He gave 67 lakh rupees to a trust and he will be spending Rs 67 lakh for the skill development of Divya. If any one program touches the emotions of the entire society, it is our responsibility to make such a sense to every person, and when there is such a problem, then there is no problem when every such problem gets resolved automatically. I am the most fortunate man in the team. I was just asking the people of this department, asking our minister to ask, is there any chance of any prime minister coming in such a program? He said no. Now tell me I'm lucky or not? Freedom came to 70 years, more than a dozen Prime Minister came, but I first got the privilege of serving the first Prime Minister, the Divya Jangano. Many times things are in front of their eyes, we see them everyday, but sometimes it is not our priority, our sensibilities are limited, and as a result, our attitude towards them is very normal. Yes..Yes .. okay brother..It is like now in the country like India, it will be seen, that time is complete. The world is expecting from India. The world has got attracted towards the immense potential of India, and then prepare to take this opportunity to take the opportunity of even a few hundred crores of Indians. Do not miss the opportunity. There will be no such person here, there will be no one in the whole Navsari who likes the dirt. Kisi does not like the filth, but the desire to run a cleanliness movement? After the country was liberated, the puzzle was discussed in the parliament of India on the cleanliness of the bells. Programs for awakening people towards the TV media cleanliness of Hindustan.\nBrothers, this is the thing that we remain neglected towards. It is not that we are dirty people by nature. Happens on. Due to moving it allows all to run and today even if there is a small child in the house, then he also tells his grandfather that \"Dada does not throw it here, Modi has not said Dada\". This is the experience of every family.\nBrother-in-law, this seed comes in front of the social revolution and it also used to build houses before, even toilets were built, even before the office was made, even the best design architecture was made, but this idea was not there. Is there any arrangement in this house for those who can not walk? Who is Divyaang, should have a separate toilet for them, have you ever thought? It was not known that this was not so. Railways also ran before but there was no such idea in the railway that if there is any Divya, then there is no arrangement in their possession box. We operated an expeditious India and when the people sitting in the government are full of sensation, then there is awareness towards every single incident, the way to solve it also comes out. This department has been functioning for a long time. TriSecal from 190-92 and it all goes on, but you will find a shock that, before becoming a government, only 57 Kampas were taken by this government in this country and today more than 4000 camps have been organized by the brothers in this two years and thousands of Divya A concerted effort was made to reach brother-sister. If any officer is transferred in all these departments of the government, then the rest of the officers will feel that this officer has been evaluated. There is no opportunity for a Prime Minister to make a meeting in this department.\nThere is a sensitive government in Delhi that brought this department forward and put our best officers in this department and the result is that the work started at very fast pace. You must be seeing here that my discourse for those who can not listen to them is being transported to diverse currencies. We do not know because we do not have the knowledge of this language. But you only said that if a Tamil-speaking person came to you and suddenly started talking to you in Tamil, what would you do? Do not know what this is saying. As it is difficult to understand other languages ​​and you will be sad to know this, the languages ​​of this language are taught in different places throughout the country of friends. Many people who can not speak, talk to two people, one will have a different sign and the other is different. But this thing does not come in government's attention. This government has taken care of, Developing an international standard sign system across the country, we should prepare a common syllabus for all our teachers who can talk to that sign language if our child goes anywhere in the world. We have enacted legislation for common sign language and its work is being done on a larger scale. Many times many reports are very big, and such things do not come in meditation, but it will communicate a new hope for such a family. If the matter is of cleanliness, or Divya's, the brother-in-law, the neglected work of the society, the neglected class should be sympathetic at all levels of Jain, and there is a strong belief that in this case we have taken this bead, in the coming days It will be a natural nature in the states, metropolis, and in the municipal corporation, and keeping the Divyan in mind, the construction of the machinery will be the same, it will also work in government offices.\nRight now we have started a lot of work in the railway, and when a Divyang sees the AC facility, there is also a system for me and satisfies them that I am not alone, my country is standing with me and the power that is the country's The power will become stronger and the meaning of which you hear this Divya word, friends are not the words that I find in the dictionary. I work towards changing social structure. When someone says that we are disabled, then our attention is in what part of their body is garbhed towards them. The immense power that is in them is not on them and therefore I said that the government came out of such words like these handicap and they probably do not have one limb but the strength of all other parts is equal to Divine and from this there is a sense of humor The blessings of Mujhe Devyangjan are met, the eternal blessings..Now the best of all the good luck that the family would have been born of Divyaang. Minister will be. Many times for whom we are indifferent, our name is illuminated.\nIt was a few days before Olympic competition. The country's name is illuminated by the daughters of the country. The rest of us, \"sit in the house, study what to do\", and our daughters illuminated the name of the country, which will have to change this vision. Betrayed by a son or a daughter like a singular, a government rule or a million-crore rupees, the best work done by our daughters was done by the Olympians. We did not know how much time we took to understand my divinas, people, and how long they took it, but now that the paralympic team of 19 people had gone and most of them performed well and won the medal, then the country came to know that the power of Divya It is a Kitaani and due to this there is a sensation for a section of society has arisen and no mercy, no Divine should be compassionate, she can live with self respect Security is like | He is not poor, we had double capacity, double Confidence in them. Just want to behave equally and how would it solve the problems of social life? There was a time when MP got 25 gas coupons. If you want a gas connection in your expanse, and if you are a MP, then you will be wow. There was a time in this country that a few years ago, the MP got 25 gas coupons and people of that expansion had to walk behind them, \"Saheb the children have grown up, they have to marry, if the gas connection is reached Then it will match up. \"The condition was the gas connection's. Recommendations for getting the connection of gas, used to be black.\nBrothers and sisters, we came with the Ujjwala plan and decided that every one of my poor mothers cooked the charcoal charcoal and cooked 400 cigarettes in their body every day. Think about how the situation of that mother's health would have happened. What will be the condition of those children in that house? A vigilant government decided that the five crore poor families of the country would provide gas connections to them within three years and would care for the health of five crore mothers and sisters, poor families would be worried. If a sensitive government thinks about the dalit, afflicted, exploited class of the society, then work with the same sensitivity, the example of which you will see in the present government you have seen. Brothers, it is possible that this is the prime minister of the country, the Prime Minister has done all the things. You have made a big difference. The people of Gujarat have made an awakening attempt to remove my deficiencies. Gujarat has taught a lot. It has humiliated humanity, sensation, rituals, and this is the reason why my birthday is being discussed here, then I bow to all of you, that you have given all this so much grace. It is my responsibility that you have given the rituals that you have offered, remain in the hall, or live with some of the greatness of the world, there is nothing to do with your charity. You should dedicate my life to the service of millions of people who have done my duty and have a good faith that your blessings are with me, the blessings of Divyangjan are with me, when poor mothers burn the gas stove, Gives.\nBrothers and sisters, the work is tough but we do not even have to do the hard work ... and you have chosen to work hard to work hard. I am grateful to you. Gujarat has done a very good job in many areas. New heights of development have touched and it is believed that the people's confidence in Gujarat, the collective power of Gujarat will work for an entire India's future, and Gujarat will keep touching new heights.\nA few days ago I was Fiji. Perhaps many of you will not know but many of the Navsari people went to Fiji. Here was my friend, Wenibhai Parmar, who used to be related to him in Fiji. Right now I went Fiji and read the name of the village as soon as I got it out of the airport. The name of the village is Navsari. The reason for this is that years ago, people of Navsari would have gone to Fiji, their memory is still there, due to which the people of Fiji know Navsari. One of our greats was speaker in Parliament there.\nBrothers and sisters, Navsari has a distinct identity and is a different strength and people here are enthusiastic and so were invited to Navasari's invitation to come here today, with many recruits we made a new place. I wish you many many wishes.\nThanks buddies ...\nNavsari has set 3 records and has made a mark for the map of the world. Congratulations: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) September 17, 2016\nThis land of Navsari made a mark for interest in reading. Today it has been distinguished itself by the care shown towards Divyangs: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) September 17, 2016\nTime for phrases like 'Chalta Hai' is history The world has the expectations from India and we can not let this opportunity go: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) September 17, 2016\nOur @MSJE_AIC initiative is aimed at focussing on areas where we may not have much attention before: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) September 17, 2016\n"