"Share\n\nPassage of 10% bill for reservation of economically weaker general section shows 'Sabka Saath Sabka Vikas' for NDA Government's commitment: PM Modi\nOur government is concerned about the middle class: PM Modi\nMiddlemen of helicopter deal also involved in fighter jet deal of previous government: PM\nBharat Mata Ki Jai, Bharat Mata Ki Jai, Bharat Mata Ki Jai ........\nMr. Vidyasagar Rao, Governor of Maharashtra, who was present on the stage, here is Mr. Devendra Fadnavis, the energetic and popular Chief Minister, Mr. Nitin Gadkari, my colleague of the Union Cabinet, all the members of Parliament, Minister of Maharashtra and MLA, and a large number of people here. My dear brothers and sisters\nSisters and brothers In recent years, I have had the opportunity to visit Solapur for the third time. When I came to ask you for blessings. You have given me a lot of affection. Has given great power of blessing. I remember that when I came here last time, I had said that all efforts will be made to solve the problems of BSP ie electricity, water and roads here. I am glad that many efforts have been made in this direction. Pradhan Mantri Gramin Yojana Yojana or National Highway, or under the good fortune scheme, there is work to provide electricity to every household, here everyone is working at a fast speed. I congratulate the government of Fadnavis that he is working very hard to give power to every household.\nNow, brothers and sisters have come here again to give you more work to expand this work. A short time ago, the inauguration and foundation stone of thousands of crores of projects related to Smart City, poor house roads and water has been done. I would also like to inform you that the Government has approved the Solapur Osmanabad via Tuljapur Rail Line, which is being built at a cost of around Rs.1000 crore.\nWith the blessings of mother Tuljapur Bhavani, this line will be ready soon. It will also facilitate the devotees coming to see the mother from all over the country along with the local people. I wish you all very well for all of these projects, very much congratulate me. Before speaking on the expansion of these plans, I want to congratulate the whole country from this land of Solapur today.\nA historic bill has passed in the Lok Sabha late last night. By the voice of your applause, I am feeling that you were also sitting to see the TV till late last night. Work has been done to strengthen the mantra of everyone, along with everyone, by putting a stamp on the 10 percent reservation for the poor in the general category. Every class has an opportunity to move forward. The feeling of injustice ended. The poor, even if he is of any field, gets the full benefit of development, with the determination to get priority in the opportunities, the Bharatiya Janata Party is dedicated to your bright future.\nHow many lies are spread by the brothers and sisters, how people are misled. By our decision of yesterday's parliament and I hope that in a very relaxed atmosphere in the Lok Sabha today it was discussed, there was talk of late night and there are some people with almost consensus that opposed, but despite this one important for the constitution The decision was made by the Lok Sabha yesterday. I hope the time of the Rajya Sabha has been extended in the Rajya Sabha, especially for one day. Even as many of our public representatives are sitting in the Rajya Sabha, we will also give positive discussions to further the process of social justice, to promote the unity and integrity of the society while respecting these few emotions, and a happy decision like yesterday. Will be immediately. I hope so.\nBrothers and sisters used to spread such lies in our country, and some people wanted to remove some of the Dalits who got their name in the name of reservation, they wanted to remove some of the tribals they had got, to get something from OBC who got it Wanted to vote and vote for the minority politics of the bank. We have shown that none of the Dalits can get anything from it. None of the tribals who get it can take anything. None of the OBCs can get any of that. By giving these extra ten percent, we have worked towards giving justice to all of us. And so we will take it, take it, these people who spread these lies yesterday, the Parliament has given such a reply, that such a thing has hurt their mouth that they will no longer have the power to spread lies.\nBrothers and Sisters Besides this, another important bill has passed in the Lok Sabha yesterday. This bill is also very important for every person who believes in India's mother. After passing the citizenship amendment bill passed in the Lok Sabha, the sons of Mother Bharti, who came from Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan, daughters of India mother, those who spoke Vande Mataram, those who loved the soil of this country, The path of citizenship has become clear.\nAfter seeing all the fluctuations in history, after having suffered atrocities, our brothers and sisters wanted a place in India's sphere. It is the duty of every Indian to give protection to them and the task of fulfilling this responsibility has also been done by the Delhi Government of the Bharatiya Janata Party. Companions, since independence, every government has been working for decades according to its own accord. But when this is done under the leadership of the BJP, its impact on the land and the public.\nBrothers and Sisters yesterday when these laws have been passed. Lok Sabha has done its job in Parliament. I hope the Rajya Sabha today will also work to save the lives of millions of families by passing it in the Rajya Sabha to the people who love our country.\nBrothers and Sisters, I want to convince the brothers and sisters of Assam, especially to the brothers of North East, that tomorrow's decision will be Assam, if they are young in the North East, their rights will not be affected. There will be no obstacles in their opportunities. I want to trust them.\nThe big differences have come in comparison to earlier brothers and sisters. It is of the determination, with the right determination to build the necessary policy. Instead of thinking in pieces, it is to take decisions with totality and completeness instead. There is hard and big decisions in national interest and public interest. Politics is the will of power. Together, everyone's development is the culture of our government, our sacraments and this is our concern also our tradition is also. The BJP Government has taken the lead in building new systems of new India with this institution from village, poor to cities. At the level and at the speed at which the work is working, there has also been an increase in normal life.\nTake the example of companions, infrastructure. It has become National Four Lane from Solapur to Osmanabad and today it has become dedicated to the country. This project of about Rs.1000 crore will be facilitated to people of every class, every sect, every region.\nCompanions, since independence till 2014, about 90 thousand kilometers in the country were almost national highways and today four years later, more than 1, 30 thousand kilometers. In the last four and a half years, about 40 thousand kilometers of national highways have been added. Not only that, around 52 thousand kilometers of national highways are under construction at a cost of around 5.5 lakh crores.\nThese projects of Brothers and Sisters National Highway are also very large resources for the local people. The Bharat Mala scheme is going on in the country to create a network of National Highways. Under it, many new opportunities of employment are being created and when I came to Solapur in Shilanasha, I had said that we also inaugurate the foundation stone of which we do. We do not work for the show, keep the stone, pick the election, then you have completely destroyed your house, the culture we created in our house, and I still tell you today. For the thirty thousand families who are building the house, today the shilanas have happened, we will come to give the key. The biggest bridge, the biggest tunnel, the largest expressway, all have become either in this government's tenure or are working on them at a fast pace.\nBrothers and sisters are the biggest and the longest, so its importance is not so, but it is also important because they are made where situations were difficult, where the work was not easy.\nWhy the brothers and sisters were not doing these things, things were happening 40-50 years ago, but there was a seat of Parliament, if they were not voted, they would have thought that due to this, The development of the eastern part should have been stuck. If the West India's development had taken place of East India, then where would the country have reached from where today the country would have reached but the brothers and sisters there is no more votes. Why spend more than two seats, the vote bank's politics has sinned in the development. Whether we get out of it or not there is a chance for the BJP or not, the population is less or more, we do not stop doing whatever we should do for the betterment of our country.\nCompanions, the same situation is about railways and airways. Unprecedented work is going on in the country today. Rail lines are being constructed and widened at double speed than before. Electricity is being done at a high speed. Today air travel is not limited to the resourceful people today, but we have tried to reach this to the common citizen. There is an ambitious plan like flying to enjoy the airplane to enjoy air travel. Airports and helipads are being made in the Tier-II and Tier-3 cities of the country. There are four airports in Maharashtra too, in future, Solapur is also trying to fly the flights under the fly plan.\nCompanions, when the connectivity is good, the social and economic activities of both the village and the city improve. Our city is then developed through a continuous process of decades of development of other cities including Solapur in the big center of employment of economic activities. But it is also true that if the development happened then it was planned, then where do we get from today? But it did not happen. There are very few cities in the country where a complete system has been constructed with planning and the result is that infrastructure of cities is not developed with the increasing population. Streets and lanes were tight, the lines of sewage leaked, raising a voice, the talk was avoided by light work.\nBrothers and Sisters Our Government has chosen the path of permanent solution instead of these enduring arrangements. Under this thought, a mission to make smart cities of the country is going on, in which it is also our Solapur. With the opinion of the people living in these cities, we have taken the initiative of combining our cities with modern facilities after a massive campaign of public participation in collaboration with the State Governments. Our efforts are now discussed in the world. In a recent report of an international agency, it was reported that in the coming decades, the fastest growing cities in the world will have ten cities in all ten cities of India. It is a matter of pride for any Indian. This is an indication of how far ten cities and ten cities of the world ... India will go forward.\nBrothers and sisters are seeing this world, but there are some people in the country who do not understand anything except politics. These are those people whose state of affairs deteriorated during the party rule. Today, these people are in the fun of the Smart City Mission, they are not leaving.\nCompanions, these missions are an attempt to give new dimension to the development of urbanization in the history of the country. Every facility of the city is an attempt to integrate the country. The life of ordinary people of the city is an honest effort to overcome the problems. In the last three years, the mission of the project of about two lakh crores has been prepared in this country. Out of this, work on about one lakh crores project is being completed fast. In today's episode, many projects related to Solapur Smart City have been released and laid out here. There are plans related to water and sewage.\nIn addition to the comrades, smart cities, basic facilities are being constructed under the neutral mission in other cities and towns of the country. In this, work on the project of about 60 thousand crore rupees is in progress. Here also in Solapur, a project of water supply and sewage related projects has been laid under the Amrita Yojana. When these tasks are completed, in many areas of the city, we will get rid of the problem of leakage of water. The same is the project of drinking water from Ujni Dam, which will reduce the problem of water in the city to a great extent.\nOur government is working with a new thinking for the poor and homeless people of the city, along with the partners, infrastructure, and so on. The people of the country have been witness to how shining society has become one and on one side the slum has been expanding. We have such a system that those who build houses, run factories, give energy to industries, they are forced to live in slums. Atal ji tried to change this situation, Atal ji started.\nशहरों के गरीबों के लिए घर बनाने का एक अभियान चलाया इसके तहत साल 2000 में यहां सोलापुर में रहने वाले कामगारों को झुग्गी और गंदगी के जीवन से मुक्ति दिलाने का प्रयास हुआ। करीब-करीब दस हजार कामगार परिवारों ने एक कॉपोरेटिव सोसाइटी बनाकर अटल जी की सरकार को प्रस्‍ताव भेजा और पांच छ: वर्षों के भीतर उनको अच्‍छे और पक्‍के घरों की चाबी भी मिल गई।\nमुझे खुशी है 18 वर्ष पहले जो काम अटल जी ने किया था उसी को विस्‍तार देने का आगे बढ़ाने का अवसर फिर एक बार हमारी सरकार को मिला है। आज गरीब कामगार परिवारों के 30 हजार घरों के प्रोजेक्‍ट का शिलान्‍यास आज यहां हुआ है। इसके जो लाभार्थी है वो कारखानों में काम करते हैं रिक्‍शा चलाते हैं, ऑटो चलाते हैं, रेहड़ी, ठेले चलाते हैं।  मैं आप सभी को विश्‍वास दिलाता हूं कि बहुत जल्‍द आपके हाथों में आपके अपने घर की चाबी होगी ये मैं आपको विश्‍वास दिलाता हूं।\nभाईयो और बहनों ये विश्‍वास मैं आपको इसलिए दे पा रहा हैं कि बीते साढ़े चार वर्षों में प्रधानमंत्री आवास योजना शहरी उसकी रफ्तार ने लाखों गरीब परिवारों के जीवन स्‍तर को ऊपर उठाया है। शहरों में पहले कैसे घर बनते थे, और अब कैसे घर बन रहे हैं। पहले सरकार किस गति से काम करती थी, हम किस गति से काम कर रहे हैं। आज थोड़ा मैं इसका भी उदाहरण देना चाहता हूं।\nसाथियों, 2004 से 2014 के दस साल दिल्‍ली में रिमोट कंट्रोल वाली सरकार चलती थी। 2004 से 2014 दस सालों में शहरों में रहने वाले गरीब भाईयो बहनों के लिए सिर्फ 13 लाख घर बनाने का कागज पर फैसला हुआ, कागज पर और इसमें से 13 लाख यानी कुछ नहीं है। इतने बड़े देश में फिर भी वो निर्णय कागज पर हुआ। काम कितनों का हुआ, इतने बड़े देश में सिर्फ 8 लाख घरों का काम हुआ। दस साल में 8 लाख। यानी एक साल में 80 हजार, इतने बड़े देश में एक साल में 80 हजार ये मोदी सरकार देखिए अकेले सोलापुर में 30 हजार। जबकि भाजपा सरकार के दौरान बीते साढ़े चार वर्षों में उनके समय 13 लाख कागज पर तय हुआ था। हमने 70 लाख शहरी गरीबों के घरों को स्‍वीकृति दी जा चुकी है। और जो अब तक 10 साल में जो नहीं कर पाए। हमने चार साल में 14 लाख घर बना करके तैयार हो चुके हैं।\nइतना ही नहीं जिस तेजी से काम चल रहा है। बहुत ही निकट भविष्‍य में 38 लाख घरों का काम और पूरा होने वाला है। सोचिए उनका दस साल का रिकॉर्ड और हमारे साढ़े चार साल का रिकॉर्ड। इतना जमीन आसमान का अंतर है अगर उनकी गति से हम चलते तो आपके बच्‍चों के बच्‍चों, बच्‍चों के बच्‍चों का भी घर बनता कि नहीं हम कह नहीं सकते। ये फर्क ही दिखाता है कि उन्‍हें गरीबों की कितनी चिंता रही होगी। इससे पूरा अंदाज आ जाता है।\nसाथियों, हमारी सरकार शहर के गरीबों की ही नहीं, बल्कि यहां के मध्‍यम वर्ग की भी चिंता कर रही है। इसके लिए भी पुराने तौर-तरीकों में बड़ा बदलाव किया गया है।\nभाईयो बहनों, निम्‍न आय वर्ग के लोगों के साथ-साथ 18 लाख रुपए सालाना तक कमाने वाले मध्‍यम वर्ग के परिवारों को हम योजना के तहत लाए हैं। इसके तहत लाभार्थी को 20 वर्ष तक होम लोन पर लगभग छ: लाख रुपए तक की बचत सुनिश्‍चित की गई है। छ: लाख की ये बचत मध्‍यम वर्ग का परिवार अपने बच्‍चों की लालन-पालन और पढ़ाई-लिखाई में इस्‍तेमाल कर सकता है। यही ease of living यही सबका साथ और सबका विकास।\nभाईयो और बहनों, यहां पर आए कामगार साथियों को मैं ये भी बताना चाहता हूं कि आपके घर तो बन ही जाएंगे इसके अलावा आप सभी के लिए बीमा और पेंशन की बेहतरीन योजनाएं सरकार चला रही है। अटल पेंशन योजना के तहत आप सभी को 1 हजार से 5 हजार तक की पेंशन का हक बहुत ही कम अंशदान पर दिया जा रहा है।\nइस योजना से देश के सवा करोड़ से अधिक कामगार जुड़ चुके हैं जिसमें से 11 लाख कामगार हमारे इस महाराष्‍ट्र के ही हैं। इसके अलावा प्रधानमंत्री जीवन ज्‍योति योजना 90 पैसे प्रतिदिन, 90 पैसे एक रुपया भी नहीं, चाय भी आज एक रुपए में नहीं मिलती है, ये चाय वाले को पता रहता है। 90 पैसे प्रतिदिन और प्रधानमंत्री सुरक्षा बीमा योजना प्रति महीने 1 रुपया यानी एक दिन का सिर्फ 3-4 पैसा। एक रुपया प्रति महीने के प्रीमियम पर ये बहुत बड़ी दो योजनाएं चल रही हैं। इन दोनों योजनाओं से 2-2 लाख रुपये का बीमा गरीब के लिए सुनिश्चित हो जाता है। इन योजनाओं से देश में 21 करोड़ लोग जुड़ चुके हैं। जिसमें सवा करोड़ से ज्‍यादा हमारे महाराष्‍ट्र के गरीब हैं। इन योजनाओं की वजह से संकट के समय 3 हजार करोड़ रुपए से अधिक का लाभ लोगों को मिल चुका है। 2-2 लाख के हिसाब से जिनके परिवार में संकट आया उनको पैसे मिले और इतने कम समय में 3 हजार करोड़ रुपया इन परिवारों के पास पहुंच चुके, मुसीबत के समय पहुंच चुके। अगर मोदी  ने 3 हजार करोड़ रुपए की बड़ी घोषणा की होती तो हिंदुस्‍तान के सभी अखबारों में हैडलाइन होती कि मोदी ने गरीबों के लिए 3 हजार करोड़ रुपया दे दिया। बिना बोले, बिना हैडलाइन छपे, बिना ढोल पीटे गरीबों के घर में 3 हजार करोड़ रुपया पहुंच गया, उसके खाते में पहुंच गया। आज मुश्किलें हल होती हैं। परेशानियों में सरकार काम आती है। तब ही सही विकास होता है, और नियत साफ होने का यही तो जीता-जागता सबूत होता है।   \nसाथियों, आपकी सरकार ये सभी काम कर पा रही है तो इसके पीछे एक बड़ा कारण है... आपको मालूम है ये सब कैसे हो रहा है, आप बताएगें, ये सारा इतना सारा पैसा हम खर्च कर रहे हैं, इतनी योजनाएं चला रहे हैं। ये कैसे हो रहा है भाई, क्‍या कारण है। बता पाएंगे आप.. मोदी नहीं, ये इसलिए हो रहा है कि पहले मलाई बिचौलिए खाते थे, आज वो सारा बंद हो गया है। चोरी, लूट की दुकानों को तालें लग गए हैं। गरी‍ब के हक का गरीब को मिल रहा है। और इसलिए पाई-पाई का सदुपयोग हो रहा है। ये सबसे बड़ा कारण है कि बिचौलिए गए कमीशन खोरों के खिलाफ एक व्‍यापक सफाई अभियान चलाया है। जब मैं शहर की सफाई की बात करता हूं, गांव की सफाई की बात करता हूं तो मैंने सरकार में भी सफाई चलाई है।\nदिल्‍ली में सत्‍ता के गलियारे से लेकर किसानों की मंडियों, राशन की दुकानों तक बिचौलियों को हटाने की मुहिम ये चौकीदार ने छेड़ कर रखी है। और इसी का परिणाम है कि जो सत्‍ता को अपना जन्‍मसिद्ध अधिकार समझते थे। पीढ़ी दर  पीढ़ी राज परंपरा की तरह ये कुर्सी उन्‍हीं के खाते लिखी गई थी। यही वो समझ बैठे थे ऐसे बड़े-बड़े दिग्‍गज भी आज कानून के कठघरे में खड़े दिखते हैं भाई रक्षा सौदों में रिश्‍वत खोरी के जवाब आज उनको देने पड़ रहे हैं। पसीना छूट रहा है, आपने देखा आंखे फटी की फटी रह जाती हैं।   \nभाईयो और बहनों, पहले की सरकार ने बिचौलियों के जिस कल्‍चर को सिस्‍टम का हिस्‍सा बना दिया था, उन्‍होंने गरीबों का हक तो छीना ही था। देश की सुरक्षा के साथ भी बहुत बड़ा खिलवाड़ किया। मैं कल अखबारों में देख रहा था कि हैलीकॉप्‍टर घोटाले के जिस बिचौलियों को सरकार खोज रही है। उन बिचौलियों में से एक को विदेश से उठा करके लाया गया है। अभी जेल में बंद है उसने एक चौकाने वाला खुलासा किया है। मीडिया रिपोर्टस के मुताबिक वो सिर्फ हेलीकॉप्‍टर डील में ही शामिल नहीं था। बल्कि पहले की सरकार के समय लड़ाकू विमानों का जो सौदा जहां होता था उसमें भी उसकी भूमिका थी। मीडिया वाले कह रहे हैं कि ये मिशेल मामा किसी दूसरी कंपनी के विमानों के लिए लॉबिंग कर रहा था। अब इस सवाल का जवाब मिलना जरूरी है कि कांग्रेस के नेता जो शोर अभी कर रहे हैं उसका मिशेल मामा से क्‍या कनेक्‍शन है। ये कांग्रेस को जवाब देना पड़ेगा कि नहीं देना पड़ेगा, देना चाहिए कि नहीं देना चाहिए, ये मिशेल मामा से किसका नाता ये बताना चाहिए कि नहीं बताना चाहिए। जरा बताइए देश को लूटने देना चाहिए क्‍या.... पाई पाई का हिसाब मांगना चाहिए कि नहीं मांगना चाहिए... चौकीदार ने अपना काम करना चाहिए कि नहीं करना चाहिए... चौकीदार ने जागना चाहिए कि सोना चाहिए.... जागना चाहिए कि सोना चाहिए.... चौकीदार हिम्‍मत के साथ आगे बढ़े कि न बढ़े... चौकीदार को आपका आशीर्वाद है कि नहीं है, आपका आशीर्वाद है इसलिए चौकीदार लड़ रहा है। बड़े-बड़े दिग्‍गजों के साथ लड़ रहा है। कहीं मिशेल मामा की सौदेबाजी से ही तो उस समय क्‍या डील रूक नहीं गई थी।\nसाथियों, इन तमाम सवालों का जवाब जांच एजेंसी तो ढूंढ रही है, देश की जनता भी जवाब मांग रही है। बिचौलियों के ये जो भी हमदर्द हैं उनको देश की सुरक्षा से किए गए खिलवाड़ का जवाब देना होगा। कमीशन खोरों के सारे दोस्‍त इकट्ठा होकर चौकीदार को डराने के सपने देख रहे हैं लेकिन मोदी है दूसरी मिटृटी का बना हुआ है.... न उसे खरीद पाओगे, न उसे डरा पाओगे, ये देश के लिए वो पाई-पाई का हिसाब लेकर रहेगा। लेकिन मुझे पता है उनको बहुत निराशा हाथ लगने वाली है क्‍योंकि ये चौकीदार न सोता है और कितना ही अंधेरा क्‍यों न हो वो अंधेरे को पार करके चोरों को पकड़ने की ताकत रखता है।  \nभाईयो और बहनों, चौकीदार को ये शक्ति, ये चौकीदार की शक्ति का कारण क्‍या है... मैं आपसे पूछता हूं ये चौकीदार की शक्ति का कारण क्‍या है... वो कौन सी ताकत है। भाईयो बहनों, आपके आशीर्वाद यही चौकीदार की ताकत है। मैं आपको विश्‍वास दिलाता हूं वो लोग लाख मुझे गाली दें, लगातार झूठ बोलें बार-बार झूठ बोलें जहां चाहे वहां झूठ बोलें, जोर-जोर से झूठ बोलें लेकिन चौकीदार ये सफाई अभियान को बंद नहीं करेगा। न्‍यू इंडिया के लिए बिचौलिया इससे मुक्‍त व्‍यवस्‍था का निर्माण होनी चाहिए।           \nइसी विश्‍वास के साथ एक बार फिर तमाम विकास की परियोजनाओं के लिए मैं आप सभी को बहुत-बहुत बधाई देता हूं। अनेकनेक शुभकामनाएं देता हूं।\nThanks a lot"