"PM Modi launches schemes for tribal development in Limkheda, Gujarat\nOur government is committed to the poor and marginalized: PM Modi\nWater supply was a major challenge for the state of Gujarat, but that challenge has been successfully overcome: PM\nDahod district is a tribal district, tribal dominated area. If there is a discussion on the role of Gujarat in the freedom struggle of 1857, we will have to start it with Dahod. We have confined the freedom struggle to freedom of freedom so that we forget the tribal brothers and sisters who fought for freedom. Friends, every village of this country, millions of people, continued for the freedom of sacrifice and lit the torch of sacrifice for centuries. Not even a tribal region of India that has not given the answer to British bricks by stone. For the last few days people are getting acquainted with Birsa Munda. Our Guru Govind fought so much for freedom. This land was fought for freedom. In the entire battle of Dahod in 1857, its tribal brothers and sisters had become the biggest challenge for the British. When we celebrate the 70th anniversary of independence today, then adorn tribal warriors, freedom fighters, who joined the war of independence, I bow to the holy, holy land of adivasis 100 years ago.\nBrothers and sisters,\nGujarat was formed in 1960. When Gujarat was created as a state separate from Greater Maharashtra, then it was a common discussion that Gujarat has no water, Gujarat does not have its own industry, Gujarat does not have minerals, this state will end. Gujarat will not ever be standing on its feet - this common perception had gone home in the minds of the people. This was the biggest argument in front of Mahagurjat's movement. Today, brothers and sisters, the whole nation is proud of Gujarat, this state, the people of the state, in the midst of many challenges, facing the difficulties, between the limits of natural resources, challenge every challenge, challenge every challenge Granted and achieved success after one, established new criteria of development. We faced the challenge and made successful use.\nWater was our biggest challenge. Where the water reached, the people of that place introduced themselves. Our eastern region of Gujarat, you see from Umargarh to Amaji, you will see rocky terrain, small mountains. Therefore it rains, gets water, but it flows. Water does not accumulate, water is not collected in the ground. Therefore, my tribal brothers used to irrigate their land with water, without sweating. He had to flee for the rituals. In the temperature of 40 to 50 degrees Celsius, the fire flows from the sky and in this fire, the tribal brothers had to make the roads of the village. The blisters fell on their feet. Life was like this. In this situation, we adopted visionary approach and gave priority to solutions to water, water problem. The Gujarat government's highest budget was spent on water and today it is happy that the problem of water has been solved. Today, one opening or fundraising program is being organized. Thousands of crores, this is not a nominal amount, thousands of crores of rupees were spent to solve the problem of water. A decade ago, we could not even imagine that water will come in the kitchen faucet! We started the campaign, because at the lowest level of society, the person is given power and strength, then he progresses rapidly. Not only this, he also attempts to associate himself, like his own, his associates with him.\nSince our government has been formed in Delhi since then, we have so far focused on things that are neglected. The bank was there, but entry was not restricted to the poor. There was a diversified insurance plan, but it did not get benefit from the poor. There were hospitals, but poor people had to stand outside their doors. Electricity was produced, but in the 70th year of independence, even 18000 people of the villages were forced to live in the 18th century. They had never seen baliya. What can be worse than the situation! Therefore, brothers and sisters, when you, the NDA sansad of this country, the Red of this land, which you have raised, which you took care of, which you took care of, as the Prime Minister of this country, in the form of Prime Minister Chosen, then in my first sermon in Parliament, I had said that my government is a poor government, my government is the government of dalits, victims and deprived people. If this large section of our society comes into mainstream of development then the new definition of country development can be strengthened. What do the farmers of this country want? If the farmer of this country gets water, then he is able to produce gold from the soil. Therefore, under the Prime Minister's Irrigation Scheme, we have started the campaign, has started a Bhagiratha work. We want to bring water to each village of this country in the coming years on the expenditure of millions of crores rupees. It was earlier said that the farmers of this country have three basic needs of poverty - water, water and roads. We added two more things to it - education and health. If these five things are given priority and are made available to the public, then employment will be paid automatically and a strong foundation will be created for the welfare of future generations. That is why today the same mantra is echoing in the corner of India - with everyone, everyone's development. We are trying to bring development to the new height with that mantra.\nWe have seen that in many states, the government is formed and when it comes, 100, 200 or 500 crores of rupees are weighed heavily. Newspaper headline becomes. The people of the state also discuss this. Good thing. But very few people know that many plans fill the treasures of the government. Not only the treasury of the state government, the municipal corporation, the municipality, the village panchayat - all the money is filled up. Just a little earlier, Chief Minister Mr. Vijaybhai was talking about LED bulb. It seems very small to appear. Gujarat has taken a campaign for two to three months. Gujarat has achieved the number one position in India in the case of LED bulbs by installing 1.2 million LED bulbs. The issue is not of the bulb, the thing is beneficial. You do not know that using the LED bulb, Gujarat will save Rs. 1000 crores annually. This money will be used for the welfare of the poor. The state government can decide on how to use this treasure, can make municipal, municipality, village panchayat. There is a village in the center of the whole scheme, is poor and the welfare of the farmers.\nNow talk about Vanbandhu Kalyan Yojana. Rs. 9000 crores and 60,000 crores in a decade. We have planned to spend 60,000 crores of rupees on tribals in a decade because we have to revive the tribal people of this country. Vanbandhu Kalyan Yojana is the result of this mindset. An experiment is being done through this scheme, which started in Gujarat. Today this experiment is taking place in the entire nation under the leadership of Mr. Jashwant Singh Bhabhar. This plan will be successful, it will be beneficial - this belief has also been spread in the people.\nBrothers and sisters,\nWhen I used to work in Dahod, I used to roam the scooter in general. Today, in the house of many people in our house, I drink tea and have eaten. At that time when I used to take a scooter, people used to say that you do not go into more interior detail. Sometimes they will fall into trouble. They used to stop At that time I used to spend time in Dahod. Seeing Parel, I used to think that this place is very important, but nobody has its approval. This is a very big place, but people have been looking forward to looking for rosary. In the past the governments made many plans, but only on paper. It was never executed. Friends, Parel is the largest building in this district. We have staged a campaign to transform Parel railway station. We have started work on a large scale. I used to think that Dahod is a very important station on the main line, the government has a system, but nobody wants to do anything good. This became the biggest example of waste of public's earnings.\nBrothers and sisters, the implementation of the scheme has begun. The entire project will be completed in three phases. The Railway yard of Samano Parel of your eyes will provide new opportunities for employment, there will be new enthusiasm in the economy. It is well known that tribal farmers of Dahod district are progressive. He has the courage to embrace the tradition, to embrace the new technician. Most of Gujarat uses farming words. From Umargarha to Assam, people use the farming word. It is proud to say that the tribal farmer of Dahod district has converted the farm into 'Phulwadi'. Today Dahod kheto cultivates flora of different varieties. Farmers of Dahod district have led it. He uses modern techniques in agriculture. In corn cultivation it is the number one. The land of tribals of Dahod district is less, but its mustache is elevated. He goes out, recruits new and then comes to the village to try it.\nBrothers and sisters,\nA campaign to provide drinking water to the tribal areas has begun from Umargarh to Amaji, irrigation has to be done from lift irrigation. Now we are putting more emphasis on this work. It will see good results in the future. Solar Pump is also revolutionary. This will end the government dependence of the farmers for sowing. The government will invest in the solar pump. New experiments are underway. These pumps will run on the strength of the sunlight. The experiment is underway, but a very big revolution is going to occur in the coming days. From this, we will also be able to make changes in the irrigation mechanism according to our circumstances. Benefits of Tribal farmers will be met in the coming days, farmers of India will meet.\nWe are taking a dream. We want that when the country celebrates 75th anniversary of independence in 2022, the income of the farmers of India should be doubled. Just a few days ago, I had called the Diwali industry's Chief Minister of Gujarat, who was interested to call him Diwali. I had met them with my officers. I told them that in every village, cultivate bee and produce honey. As people come in the village with cans of milk, in the same way people will bring honey in other small canes. The people will also have the income of honey with milk. Dairy should also process honey with milk. It has a lot of track in the world. Farmers of Gujarat can benefit from this. The country will get huge benefits in the coming days.\nBrothers and sisters, education, health, agriculture, today the pieces of land were given, these sisters did not come to picture only. The Gujarat government has given them pieces of land, for agriculture. First of all, my name is of tribal sisters. The second name is his grandfather. Tribal land was not owned by the people of the second century, today a tribal mother has become the owner of the land and what can be more than a pleasure!\nBrothers and sisters,\nI have spent many years in Gujarat but never celebrated birthday. Does not celebrate even today. But I try to spend some moments with my mother. I have blessed my mother, but the Gujarat government did not want to give me back for free. His request was that when you are coming to Gujarat, then give us some time too. The Gujarat government organized two very good programs. A program is in Navsari, which belongs to the Government of India. I am fortunate that the tribal brothers found happiness. The old friends got the chance to see. You welcomed me, honored me, blessed me, gave a lot of love. I am your debtor and thank you I am grateful to the Government of Gujarat. Gujarat should set new standards of development, not just for himself, but for the whole of India and always remain number one. With this auspicious ... Thank you ....\nLong live Mother India\nWhen Gujarat was formed, people raised questions on whether Gujarat will develop but today we can see the state developed: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) September 17, 2016\nWater scarcity remains a key issue in Gujarat At times we will get enough rain but we have not been able to conserve water: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) September 17, 2016\nOn Day 1, I said that ours is a government that is dedicated to the poor, the marginalised: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) September 17, 2016\nMantra of 'Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas' is resonating all over: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) September 17, 2016\nI know that the farmer is very skilled and I have also seen the farmer is innovative: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) September 17, 2016\nAm glad i got my opportunity I always hope Gujarat continues to scale new heights of progress: PM"