"\nASEAN is central to India's 'Act East' policy: PM Modi\nOur engagement is driven by common priorities, bringing peace, stability and prosperity in the region: PM at ASEAN\nEnhancing connectivity central to India's partnership with Asia: PM Modi\nExport of terror, growing radicalisation pose threat to our region: PM Modi at ASEAN summit\nYour Excellency Prime Minister Thongloun Sisoulith,\nExcellencies,\nThis is my third India-ASEAN .Summit. I am delighted to renew close bonds of friendship that we have nurtured with ASEAN over the years. I would like to thank you for the excellent arrangements.\nThe visit to the beautiful heritage city of Vientiane reminds me of deep historical and cultural links. I also commend Vietnam for its leadership leadership as the Country Coordinator\nExcellencies,\nOur engagement with ASEAN is not just a solid base of shared civilizational heritage. It is also driven by our common strategic priorities of securing our societies and bringing peace, stability and prosperity to the region ASEAN is central to India's 'Act East' Policy. And, our ties are\nExcellencies,\nThe substance of our strategic partnership covers all three major segments of ASEAN activities-security, economic and socio-cultural. And, the ASEAN India Plan of Action for the Year 2016-2020 has served us well in our objectives. We have already implemented 54 out of 130 activities identified in the Plan of Action\nExcellencies,\nEnhancing connectivity in all its dimensions- physical, digital, economic, institutional and cultural-is the heart of India's strategic partnership with ASEAN And, readiness to link our economic success, and share development experiences with ASEAN nations, especially the CLMV countries, drives our engagement.\nExcellencies,\nIn face of growing traditional and non-traditional challenges, politico-security is a key emerging pillar of our relationship. Rising export of terror, growing radicalization through ideology of hatred, and spreading of extreme violence. The threat is local, regional and transnational at the same time. Our partnership with ASEAN seeks to craft a response that relies on coordination, cooperation and sharing of experiences at multiple levels.\nExcellencies,\nNext year will be a historic milestone in our ties. We will celebrate 25 years of our Dialogue Partnership, 15 years of our Summit Level interaction and 5 years of our Strategic Partnership.\nThe celebrations will be launched at ASEAN-India Foreign Ministers' Meeting in 2017. We will also host a Commemorative Summit on the theme \"Shared Values, Common Destiny.\" A host of other events - a Business Summit; CEO's Forum; a car rally and sailing expedition; and cultural festivals are also planned. I look forward to working on this memorial.\nThank you."