"Share\n\nAdvent of Buddhism from India to Vietnam and the monuments of Vietnam's Hindu Cham temples stand testimony to these bonds: PM\nThe bravery of the people in gaining independence from colonial rule has been a true inspiration: PM Modi\nOur decision to upgrade strategic partnership to comprehensive strategic partnership captures intent \u0026 push of our future cooperation: PM\nVietnam is undergoing rapid development \u0026 strong economic growth. India stands ready to be a partner and a journey in the journey: PM\nEnhancing bilateral commercial engagement (between India \u0026 Vietnam) is also our strategic object: PM\nASEAN is important to India in terms of historical links, geographical proximity, cultural ties and the strategic space that we share: PM\nYour Excellency Prime Minister Nguyen Xuan Phuc,\nMembers of the media,\nThank you, Excellency, for your warm words and welcome to me and my delegation. Earlier this morning, you made the special gesture of me showing me ho Chi Minh's house. Ho Chi Minh was one of the tallest leaders of the twentieth century. Thank you, Excellency, for extending me the privilege Let me also congratulate the people of Vietnam on their national day.\nFriends,\nThe links between our societies go back over 2000 years. The advent of Buddhism from India to Vietnam and the monuments of Vietnam's Hindu Cham temples stand testimony to these bonds. For people of my generation, Vietnam has a special place in our hearts. The bravery of the people in gaining independence from colonial rule is a true inspiration. And, your success in national reunification and commitment to nation building We in India have admired your determination, rejoiced in your success and have been together in your national journey.\nFriends,\nMy conversation with Prime Minister Phuc has been widely and productive. Our discussions covered the full range of bilateral and multilateral cooperation. We have agreed to scale up and strengthen our bilateral engagement. As the two important countries in this region, we also feel it necessary to further our ties on regional and international issues of common concern. We agreed to tap into the growing economic opportunities in the region. We also recognize the need to cooperate in responding to emerging regional challenges. Our decision to upgrade our Strategic Partnership to a Comprehensive Strategic Partnership captures the intent and path of our future cooperation. It will provide a new direction, momentum and substance to our bilateral cooperation. Our common efforts will also lead to stability, security and prosperity in this region.\nFriends,\nWe realize that our efforts to bring economic prosperity to our people Prime Minister and I have, therefore, agreed to deepen our defense and security engagement to advance our common interests. The agreement on construction of offshore patrol boats has been signed today. I am also happy to announce a new Defense Line of Credit for Vietnam of US $ 5 Hundred million for facilitating deeper defense cooperation The range of agreements signed in\nFriends,\nVietnam is undergoing rapid development and strong economic growth.\nAs Vietnam seeks to:\nEmpower and enrich its people;\nModernize its agriculture;\nStrengthen its Science and Technology base;\nCreate new institutional capacities for faster economic development; and\nTake steps to build a modern nation\nIndia and its 1.25 billion people stand ready to be Vietnam's partner and a friend in this journey. Prime Minister and I agree to take several decisions today India will be offering a grant of US $ 5 million for the establishment of a Software Park in the Telecommunications University in Nha Trang. The framework agreement on Space cooperation would allow Vietnam to join hands with Indian Space Research Organization to meet its national development objectives. Enhancing bilateral commercial engagement is also our strategic objective. For this, new trade and business opportunities will be tapped to achieve the goal of fifteen billion dollars by 2020. I also demanded the ongoing Indian projects and investments in Vietnam. And, have invited Vietnamese companies to take advantage of various schemes and flagship programs.\nFriends,\nThe Community We hope for an early establishment and opening of the Indian Cultural Center in Hanoi. The Archaeological Survey of India will soon start the conservation and restoration work of the Cham monuments at My Son. I am thankful for Vietnam's leadership in facilitating enrollment of Nalanda Mahavihara as a UNESCO World Heritage Site earlier this year.\nFriends,\nASEAN is important to India in terms of historical links, geographical proximity cultural ties and the strategic space that we share. It is central to our 'Act East' policy. Under Vietnam's leadership as ASEAN Coordinator for India, we will work towards a stronged India-ASEAN partnership across all areas.\nExcellency,\nYou have been a generous and a graceful host. The affection shown by the people has touched my heart. We can take the satisfaction from our partnership and direction of our partnership. At the same time, we must stay on the momentum in our ties. I have enjoyed your hospitality It will be my pleasure to host you and the leader of Vietnam in India. We look forward to welcoming you in India.\nThank you."