"Share\n\nMy visit to Vietnam is to nurture a relationship between our two societies and nations: PM Modi\nOur shared and strongest desire for the progress and prosperity of our people has shaped our ties. In India: PM Modi\nThe Cuu Long Delta Rice Research Institute, is a prime example of the great impact of our cooperation: PM in Vietnam\nMatter of great satisfaction that we have decided to upgrade our relationship to \"Comprehensive Strategic Partnership\": PM\nStrong India-Vietnam partnership will lead to prosperity, development, peace \u0026 stability for our people, \u0026 in the wider area: PM\nExcellency Prime Minister Nguyen Xuan Phuc,\nDistinguished Guests,\nXin Chao\nI would like to express my deepest appreciation to the Government of Vietnam and its leadership for the warm welcome extended to me and to the members of my delegation.\nFriends,\nMy visit to Vietnam is a relationship between our two societies and nations. The linkages between our two countries have deep historical and civilizational roots, going back over two thousand years. These cultural bonds reflect themselves in many ways Most prominently, in the connect between Buddhism and the monuments of the Hindu Cham civilization. In recent decades, our shared and strong desire for the progress and prosperity of our people In India, we believe in sharing our knowledge, experiences and expertise with other developing countries There are no better examples of our multifaceted bilateral cooperation with Vietnam over the last four decades. The Cuu Long Delta Rice Research Institute is a great example of our cooperation. India helped set up the institute in the Mekong Delta, sending agricultural experts and training its in India. Today, Vietnam is the world's third largest rice exporter. We are happy to partner with Vietnam in its emergence as a major rice production and exporting country.\nFriends,\nAs two partners, we should also take advantage of our synergies to jointly face emerging regional challenges, and to exploit new opportunities. It is a great satisfaction that, we have now decided to upgrade our relationship to a \"Comprehensive Strategic Partnership\". Next year, we will celebrate the forty fifth (45th) anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations and the tenth (10th) anniversary of the Strategic Partnership between our two countries. In a few months, now we will jointly celebrate these milestones.\nFriends,\nI believe that a strong India-Vietnam partnership will lead to prosperity, development, peace and stability for our people, and in the wide area. Vietnam is a strong pillar of India's Act East Policy. Our bilateral ties are based on strong mutual trust, and understanding, and convergence of views on various regional and international issues.\nExcellency, ladies and gentlemen,\nIt gives me great pleasure to invite you in a toast:\nTo the health and happiness of His Excellency Nguyen Xuan Phuc, Prime Minister of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, and all of you present here;\nTo the wellbeing and prosperity of the people and leadership of Vietnam; and\nTo everlasting friendship between India and Vietnam"