"Share\n\nWe have been able to inject a new confidence in the people of India\nGST Bill is the biggest reform in the country since independence: PM Narendra Modi\nGST will harmonize many central and state levies, allow seamless movement of goods and services across the country: PM\nIn the past 2 years, India has attracted the highest ever FDI This shows our commitment towards improving the economy: PM\nMy mantra is 'Reform', 'Perform', 'Transform' \u0026 'Inform': PM Modi\nNarendra Modi\nWe are focusing on Skill development. It is need of the hour: PM Narendra Modi\nEconomic progress alone is not the solution Peace, unity and harmony is essential for society: PM\nWe have to develop India as well Poverty will be eliminated only by empowering the poor: PM Modi\nUrge countrymen to declare undisclosed income by September 30: PM Modi\nIndians living abroad are true ambassadors of the country\nVotebank politics is disastrous for the country: PM Modi\nKashmir wants peace and development We are committed to the welfare of the state: PM Modi\nBy neem-coating urea, we have stopped its black marketing and reduced corruption: PM\nI get tired Working for the country gives me satisfaction: PM Modi\nNew Delhi: Prime Minister Narendra Modi sat down with Network 18 Group Editor Rahul Jogi for a comprehensive interview covering a wide variety of subjects including politics, economy, Dalits on the recent attacks after his government of criticism, vote bank politics and casteism. rare peek in himself, his working style and his closely held beliefs.\nAppended below is the edited transcript of the interview translated from Hindi to English\nQuestion: At the beginning, thank you for this interview to Network 18. Two years ago, you have been elected with a historic mandate, the most decisive in three decades. How do you see the last two years and what did you think has been your biggest achievement?\nPM Modi: After getting the responsibility of becoming Prime Minister is about two years and three months. India is a democratic country and people evaluate governments regularly The media also evaluates And these days, professional survey agencies also do this. And I think this is a good thing and that's why I leave it to the people.\nBut I will definitely want to say that whenever my government is evaluated, the situation of the government before it came to power should be kept in mind, what the media was talking about If we keep that view, those days, newspapers were filled with news of corruption, despair ... people had lost hope, they thought everything was sunk\nIf a patient, though good the doctor, is depressed, medicines will not cure him But if the patient is hopeful, then even an average doctor can cure him The reason for the patient's inner faith\nMy first priority after forming the government was that the atmosphere of despair should be removed and to create hope and belief in the country. That does not happen with speeches Concrete steps need to be taken, it has been shown to be done And today after more than two years, I can say with certainty that there is only hope in this country, the trust of the whole world in India has grown.\nThere was a time when we were seen as a sinking ship. In the BRICS, the 'I' (representing India) was seen as wobbly. Today it is said that if there is a bright spot, it is India I think this is a good way to evaluate\nQuestion: You came to power on the issue After a lot of effort How big is a success? What is the common man?\nPM Modi: This is probably the largest tax reform since the independence of India This reform will bring a big change in India Very few people in the country pay taxes. Some people pay taxes because they are patriotic Some pay taxes because they do not want to break the law. Some pay to avoid trouble But most do not pay They think they may get stuck in the process and will not be able to come out GST will simplify tax payments\nSecondly, today if you go and eat in a hotel, the bill that you get is with this tax, that is ... people send messages on Whatsapp details the bill amount and paid the payout. All this will end And then we routinely see at octroi and border checkposts, miles of vehicles standing. When the vehicle stands, it hurts the country's economy Now all of it will become seamless, the movement of goods from one state to another.\nTaxation systems will also be simplified and this will not only benefit the common man, the revenues will help develop the nation. Today, there are incidents of mistrust between states This will end that situation, it will be transparent and strengthen the federal structure.\nQuestion: After coming to power, your biggest challenge was the economy. The task before you was not just to get it on track Have you managed to achieve this?\nPM Modi: You are right The country's traders and industrialists started looking out There was a paralysis in government On the one hand it was the situation On the other we had to face two successive droughts. Third, there was a slowdown in the global economy. So there was a series of challenges It was only after we took charge Even after that were challenges But our intention was strong There was no vested interest The result of this is that positivity spread too quickly.\nToday, we have the highest amount of foreign direct investment after Independence. The whole world says that at 7% growth, we are the fastest growing economy Whether it is the World Bank, IMF, credit agencies, even UN agencies ... they are all India is growing rapidly.\nSo those policies All obstructions are being removed All this has resulted in speeding up the economy This time the rains have been good and this helps agriculture, which is the driving force for the economy. This has raised hope that the coming days will be much better.\nGenerally it is one or two things that are talked about, but today's growth has been talked about in all sectors Electricity production has gone up and so has demand Infrastructure work is also growing rapidly and when there is demand in the economy From all this it looks like better days\nQuestion: You are absolutely right that the monsoon is very encouraging and stock markets are also up Can you please tell us the next wave of reforms will be?\nPM Modi: First of all, in our country, only what is talked about is seen as reform. If it is not talked about It shows our ignorance. Actually I am referring to reform I say in my government - Reform, Perform and Transform And since I am sitting for an interview, I would say Reform, Perform, Transform and Inform\nTake ease of doing business Our ranking is improving very quickly This is possible without reform. Our systems, processes, forms were so complicated These have been reformed, so our rankings are going up. A UN agency has said that from 10 in the next two years, we could be at number three. These small things need to be improved Even today is there licenses raj in some areas. That needs to go This is an important reform that is happening at every level - administrative, governance, legal.\nLike the example we removed 1,700 laws that the 19th and 20th centuries I have also asked These are very big reforms that people, because of lack on information, do not consider reforms.\nTake education, where we have taken an important step We have said that 10 government and 10 private universities will be freed of all Universities Grants Commission rules. We will give them money and they will move towards becoming world class universities. If the rules were to be held, Now do it and show us This is a major improvement\nDirect Benefit Transfer Earlier who knew where MNREGA money was going? Now it is sent by DBT. So are gas subsidy payments and student scholarships For me all these reforms in governance, transparency. We are getting into more technology These have to be done at a large scale. At the Center How to make life easier for the common man, how they will get their right, we want to stress on these\nQuestion: While there has been economic growth, private investment in the economy is still tepid. Some sectors like real estate are still in trouble Venture capitalization of startups has slowed. Do you want to give private industry and foreign investors at this juncture?\nPM Modi: Today I think, before presenting the first Budget, I should have placed a white paper in Parliament on the economic situation in the country. This thought had struck me then then I had two paths then Politics told me that I should put all the details. But the nation's interest told me that this information will increase the sense of hopelessness, markets will be badly hit, it will be big blow to the economy and the world's view of India is also worse. It was very difficult to get the economy out of that ... I decided to stay silent in the national interest at the risk of political damage. At that time the situation in public sector was coming out ... It was us, we were criticized But I took the political damage in the country's interest.\nThe effect of all these issues from the past have impacted private investment, like the non-performing assets in banks I held a session with bankers and told them there would be no call from the government to you These steps would have tightened the screws.\nDespite that, the pace at which roads are being made, how railways is expanding, the six-fold increase in electronic goods manufacturing ... these things show we have not taken shortcuts. And my motto is, as it says on railway platforms: 'short cut will cut you short' We do not want to show any\nAnyway the situation is now improved. We do not have the right path in the beginning - May 2014 - I chose the tough path When unbiased people, they will be surprised\nQuestion You have adopted a tough line on Black Money In fact, it is said that because of this crackdown on black money, some businessmen are hiding either in the Dubai or London. You have not spared political dynasts either Will this process continue?\nPM Modi: Firstly, I have not seen this from a political standpoint and I will do so in the future. I have been a state CM for 14 years. And history bears witness to the fact that I have never given any file due to political considerations I have never been accused of this either It's been over two years here too The government has not given any instruction to open any file. The law will take its own course I have no right to indulge in any cover up You saying that we have not spared any dynasty is correct\n\"We have made requisite legal changes so that the black money circulating inside the country can also be curbed. There is a scheme which is running till the 30th of September. For all those who are still willing to come in the mainstream. Whether it has been done willingly or unwillingly, here is your chance. Come in the mainstream. I have the plan for people sleep at peacefully at night People should accept this. And no one should blame me if I take tough decisions after the 30th. This money belongs to the country's poor. will continue the effort\nQuestion: Mr Prime Minister, let us talk about politics Many States Social discrimination and fundamentalism Dalits and members of the backward classes have actually started saying that the BJP and the RSS are anti Dalit. How do you assure the people that your project is development and development alone?\nPM Modi: The country has full faith that our agenda is only development. There is no confusion in the minds of people But all those people who never wanted that a government like this to come to power, they are the ones who have trouble So, development is our only issue and it will remain so. And this is not a political issue, this is my conviction If we want to free this country of poverty then we need development. We will need to empower the poor\nAs far as some events are concerned, they need to be condemned It has no place in any civilized society But we should not forget Some are selectively picking issues and blaming Modi for it. I do not know what is doing it But this is surely Such incidents should not happen From a statistical point of view, Whether it is communal violence, atrocities against Dalits or atrocities against tribals, the data shows that such incidents have gone down in number, compared to previous government.\nBut the issue is not what happened in their government The issue is that this is not as per our society. We have a culture dating back thousands of years. We have seen some inequalances in our society and we have to be intelligently taking our society out of the imbalance. This is a social problem It is deeply rooted Politics on social imbalances To all the people who have faced injustice for generations If you look at Dalit MPs and Dalit MLAs, tribal MPs and tribal MLAs, the BJP has a sizable presence.\nEver since I was celebrated the 125th anniversary of Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar, when the UNO also celebrated its anniversary and 102 countries observed the 125th anniversary, and the parliament discussion of life and works of Babasaheb Ambedkar for two days, many people think that Modi is a devotee Ambedkar They started having problems All those who were self-appointed guardians of the Dalits did not like it, that Modi devotes to tribals I am devoted to the development of all the dalits, oppressed, underprivileged, deprived, women Those who see this as an obstruction to their politics\nAnd this is why they are levelling baseless allegations. All those people who have fed this country the poison of caste divide has destroyed the country They should stop giving political tones to social problems We will move And I want to ask this society too: are these incidents a civilized society?\nI spoke from the ramparts of the Red Fort on the incidents of raping ... I said that parents should ask their sons too - where they are going, what they are doing? We ask our daughters these questions\nAnd I want to say this to our politicians too, also my party's leaders too: reckless statements, saying something about media before media or any person's community The media will come to you It needs its TRPs But you are answerable to the nation And that is why, all those living in public life .. whether political or social workers - even if we are a particular community - for the benefit of the country's unity, the common bonhomie for the sake of society's unity, we must be extra vigilant\nWhenever we are wounded, even the slightest touch of pain also causes pain. Thousands of years of injustice The slightest damage This is why, it does not matter whether the incident is big or small, what matters is the incident should happen in the first place. Which government did not know We all have the ability to collectively\nQuestion: How important is social harmony for economic progress?\nPM Modi: Economic progress alone is not the solution Peace, unity and harmony Even in a family, no matter how well-off you can ... even if you are sitting on a heap of money, the family's unity is important This is true for the society too. We do not need only one We need to be united and harmonious We need to be committed to social justice And that is why, unity is not important Peace, unity and harmony are useful in family, life, society and for the nation. And to all those who believe in Vasudhaive Kutumbakam, the whole world is one.\nQuestion: All political parties talk about removing poverty Yet poverty remains an issue in our country Job creation is a major challenge for you and you have kept it in mind too. What is your strategy on both these counts?\nPM Modi: You are right Poverty Alleviation has been a political slogan. A lot of politics has happened And a lot of programs for poverty alleviation have also started elections in mind. I do not want to get into a controversy on whether it was good or bad. But my path is a little different We have to empower the poor If the poor are empowered, then they have enough power to alleviate poverty Politics can be done by keeping the poor poor But freedom from poverty The biggest tool for empowerment is education The next point is If we get economic empowerment, then it will serve as its own.\nAll the initiatives that we have taken over the past few years, like the Mudra Scheme - at least 3.5 crore people have taken the benefits of the Mudra Scheme and they got this scheme through 1.25 lakh crore rupees. Many of them are who has got money from the first time. These people do something or the other They will get sewing machines, stitch clothes ... they will do something It is possible This empowerment will give a lot of power To educate their children\nSuppose a person buys a taxi Then they will educate their children They will move forward. One of the things that we have done I have told banks that every branch should give financial aid to a Dalit, a tribal and a woman. They must make them an entrepreneur\nThe country has 1.25 lakh branches of banks If they empower even 3 people each, they will benefit 4-5 lakh families. People who did not have this kind of financial empowerment would feel empowered They will be an economic strength Start Up India ... To give employment to the young, I have started this scheme. These are small decisions I have also sent an advisory to the states That direction\nWe have big malls in our country Lakhs and crores of rupees are made in construction. There is no time restriction for them. They can run till 10 pm, 12 pm, 4 am, but there will be a government representative with a stick in his hand and ask a small shopkeeper to shut his shop ... Why? We have said that these small traders who have small enterprises, they are free to be open 365 days, 24 / 7..so that they can go about doing their business and even some a few. And they are the people who drive the economy in our country. This is where we are working to empower\nWe have laid a lot of stress on skill development. Skill development is the need of the hour We have changed systems Skilled development is a ministry It has a different budget And work is being done on a massive scale. Skill development by government, skill development through public private partnership, skilled development through skills universities, collaborating with other countries The country has 80 crore youth They are below 30 years of age. If youth have the skill And we are laying stress on this. The country's youth \u0026 employment are the center of all economic activity. In the field of agriculture also, if you move towards value addition, it will create more opportunities to generate employment. A village youth who had had big cities under pressure, if he has given value addition and agriculture-centric rural development, if we empower him, then employment opportunities will be created. We are laying stress on this. And we can see some good results.\nQuestion: You are the first Prime Minister who had a direct communication with Indians abroad. How has this benefitted the country?\nPM Modi: Everything should not be measured on a scale of profit and loss. In any part of the world, anyone who is Indian, at whatever post he may be, has a feeling in his heart And if they get unfavourable, they are the most upset Because they are away, it pricks them even more We get a lot of things They get affected They have a lot of love for India But they do not get a chance We have acknowledged the power of the diaspora in New Delhi. This is such a global strength They have global exposure They have academic quality and qualifications ... a zeal to work for the country And wherever they are, their love Why should we disassociate with them? We will establish a link with them. And there will come a time, when they will be true ambassadors of India And I have seen that more than a government's mission, India's power is largely due to the diaspora's attitude and contacts. Mission plus Diaspora, when they get together, our strength grows manifold So this is my result\nQuestionPM: Firstly, it's unfortunate that in our country everything is done. UP elections are still away, yet Super political pundits can not get out of their minds Their minds buzzing with politics run faster in AC rooms Again, in our country Elections here, elections there ... elections, elections, elections Every decision is There will only be an impact on our country. It's high time we delinked the two Polls will be announced soon Why link them now?\nLeaders of political parties, when they meet me, emphatically tell me let us please keep elections aside. They tell me 'why do not we club assembly elections with Lok Sabha poll?' And why do not we hold local body elections as well as that time, so that the entire election process is completed in one week to 10 days time for five years the country runs uninterruptedly? There will be decisions and momentum and the bureaucracy will work effectively Everybody is talking about this All parties will have unitedly do this. Government alone can not do this Election Commission has led the effort I can not do anything about it. This has to be done democratically But I do not expect much discussion and debate.\nThere will be elections in five states in the coming days As far as the BJP is concerned, we will fight on development issues only Our focus will be the welfare of farmers, villages, jobs for the youth, and we will stay committed to the cause of social justice. Our focus will be to maintain peace, unity and brotherhood in our country We will take steps in these regards and move forward.\nQuestionPM: The poisons of casteism and communal vote banks have caused great damage in our country. The biggest obstacle There was no environment of vote bank politics There was the atmosphere of development politics After 30 years, all sections of our society unitedly voted for a majority government An entire section of our society has made a shift. It's possible that the people of UP do a similar thing for betterment of UP They will keep voting in their mind.\nQuestionPM: Whenever we talk about Jammu and Kashmir, we should take the entire picture of Jammu, the Kashmir Valley and the Ladakh region to account. The seeds of the problem have been sown since independence and division of our country Every government had to deal with this problem This is a new problem. It is a old one I believe the youth of Kashmir will not be distracted. We will continue maintaining peace, unity and goodwill so that the heaven called Kashmir will remain a heaven. Problems will also get solved That's why I always maintain that people need to develop and trust And 1 billion Indians have always stayed committed to both development and it has never been wavered from its commitment of trust This is not so We will meet on the path of development and trust. And we will succeed\nQuestion: It's widely believed that high level corruption has come down sharply under your rule, but low level corruption is still rampant. How can you fix this?\nPM Modi: I'm grateful to you that you have accepted that high-level corruption. If the Ganga is clean at Gaumukh, it will gradually become pure while flowing down. You may have noticed that we have taken many steps which have been neutralized. For example, we have moved the gas subsidy system into the Direct Benefit Scheme. Ghost clients who used to misunderstood the gas subsidy are no longer there Chandigarh was supplied 30 lakhs liters of kerosene. Using technology we stop providing kerosene to those homes which has gas connections and electricity And we provided gas connections to those who did not That's how we made Chandrayaan kerosene free and saved 30 lakh liters of kerosene from being sold in the black market.\nThe other day, Haryana's Chief Minister was telling me he is going to make eight districts kerosene free by this November. You will know our farmers used to sell their brands and used to buy from black market. Black marketeers ruled. In some states, the farmers bought urea from the black market were even lathicharged. You have noticed there is no news of urea shortfall these days No queuing up of farmers anywhere, no lathicharge anywhere and black marketing has stopped. Why is not happening anymore? Before the urea meant for farmers Chemical factories used to process this as raw material and brought out. They used to get urea cheap. Chemical factories and middlemen enjoyed the cream We started neem coating of urea. As a result even one gram of uranium can not be used by chemical factories and now whole urea is 100% Additionally, we raised production of urea by 20 lakh tonnes. We are also neem coating imported urea Not only that, tribals in Gujarat who were engaged to collect neem seeds for this purpose have started extracting neem oil while neem coating, and have earned up to 10 to 12 crore rupees. This is a win-win situation. Corruption and difficulties both gone Likewise, we can do away with low level corruption decisions and using technology. You will start at lower level\nQuestion: Mr Prime Minister, it's said that Lutyens did not like you, but have you started liking Delhi?\nPM Modi: As you know the position of Prime Minister is that there is no question of liking or disliking Lutyens Delhi But there is a need to deliberate on this. In Delhi's power corridors, there is a active group of people It could be because of their own reasons or personal gains. It's not a question of Modi Look back at history What happened with Sardar Patel This group presented Sardar Patel as a simple person from a village. Look at what happened to Morarji Desai This same group never talked about his abilities, achievements It has always talked about what he drank. What happened with Deve Gowda? A farmer's son became the PM, yet he said he only sleeps And what happened with the supremely talented Ambedkar They made fun of him What happened with Chaudhury Charan Singh? They again made fun of him So I am not surprised when they make fun of him These custodians are those who have been dedicated to the country. So I do not want to The welfare of the billion people is my biggest task and I will not lose anything if I do not associate myself with Lutyens Delhi. It's better if I live with the people\nQuestion: It's often said in media circles that if TRP rating is down cut to Modi rallies. Still you have a bitter-sweet relationship with media What do you have to say about the media?\nPM Modi: Media has played a major contribution to whatever I'm today Yes, I do not give soundbytes here and there Media can complain that Modiji does not make spicy, controversial comments This is a genuine complaint. I'm more involved in my work. For a long time I was involved in organizational work. So I have a strong friendship There is no media personality with whom I have not had tea I know So those expectations are natural Most of the media has seen big personalities becoming PM, not someone like me\nMedia is doing its job and it should I believe the media should strongly criticize Otherwise democracy will not work But unfortunately, in the TRP rat-race, the media does not have enough time for research. Criticism is not possible without research. For 10 minutes of criticism you need 10 hours of research. Instead of criticism, it gets into levelling allegations. As a result democracy gets weakened. Governments must be afraid of media criticisms, but that's fast going away. I want media to be very critical based on facts. The country will benefit from this. It's right that media has its compulsions. It has to win the TRP race. So I'm glad that at least I'm useful to them this way. More than my rallies, to win TRP they get people to abuse me.\nQuestion: Like the media you seem to have a strained relationship with the judiciary. Why?\nPM Modi: This is a totally wrong perception. This government goes by rules, the law and the constitution. There is no scope for any confrontation or tension with any constitutional institution. There must be as much warmth with judiciary as needed for constitutional decorum. I try my best to maintain as much decorum as possible.\nQuestion: I would like to ask you few some personal questions. You have this image of a strong leader, but on a few occasions your emotional side came out. People would like to know what kind of human being you are. Viewers would like to know what is the real Narendra Modi like? Or there are many layers to Modi's character.\nPM Modi: A soldier who bravely fights on the border and the same soldier when he plays with his daughter cannot behave in the same manner. Narendra Modi, whatever he is, is after all a human being. Why should I suppress or hide what's inside me? I'm what I am. Let people see what they see. As far as my duties and responsibilities are concerned, I have to fulfill them to the best of my abilities. If I have to take strong decisions for the country's sake, then I will have to make those decisions. If I have to work hard for that then I will have to. If I have to bend I'll bend. If I have to walk fast then I'll walk fast. But these are nor facets of my character, these are part of my responsibilities. There is nothing like real or fake Modi. Human being is a human being. If you take off your political glasses, then you will see the real Modi. But you will do a mistake if you continue to judge Modi through your perceived notions.\nQuestion: Modiji, I have met you many times in Gandhinagar when you were CM and even in the PMO. I have never seen any file, paper or even phone on your table. No one ever intervened during our meetings. You function like a CEO. Some say you hear more and speak less. What's your working style?\nPM Modi: You have made right observations. I have been painted as one who doesn't listen and only talks down. I actually hear a lot and observe a lot. That's how I have evolved as a person. I have benefitted a lot through this. I'm a workaholic, but basically I always like to live in the present. If you have come to meet me then I get immersed in that meeting. I don't touch the phone or see the paper and I don't lose focus. When I see files I similarly get immersed and get lost in those files. I live every moment in the present. The person who meets me is always satisfied that I have given him quality time.\nSecondly, one must do justice to one's work, I have always tried that. One must always learn and understand. One must have the courage to leave those ideas that were relevant in the past years back but are no longer now. One must have the courage to change oneself. This is how I developed my style of functioning.\nQuestion: You have punishing schedule of 16 to 18 hours. So how do you relax?\nPM Modi: I relax through working only. I never get tired of working. In fact the opposite tires me. If you have to write 10 letters and you may start feeling tired after writing two. But you feel satisfied if you have finished writing all 10 letters and skipped your meal because you feel the work is finished. Actually we get tired by not working and work gives you satisfaction. That satisfaction gives you energy. I have felt this and always tell this to my young friends. Tiredness is more psychological. Everyone has the same capacity needed for the volume of the work. You keep accepting new challenges and your inner self will always back you. This is in-built.\nQuestion: Who have been your key influences in life?\nPM Modi: My village belonged to the Gaekwad estate and as a child I gained a lot from that environment. The specialty of Gaekwad king was that he used to build libraries and primary schools in every village. I studied in that school. I developed an interest in reading books. Now there's not much time to read. Those books made an impact. From 12 years of age I started taking part in oratory competitions. I used to like Vivekananda quotations and his style of delivery a lot. I had taken a liking for the Hindi language. I can say Vivekananda's thought has made a huge impact on me.\nQuestion: Where does Narendra Modi like to find himself in Indian history?\nPM Modi:Why should a person who loves to live in the present worry about history? One must not make that mistake in one's life. Unfortunately in our country, governments, political parties, leaders have always tried hard to make their own image. What if we had dedicated to build the image of our country rather than our own? The image of this country is the unending legacy of 1.25 billion people. Modi is just one of those 1.25 billion Indians, nothing more. Modi's identity must get lost among those 1.25 billion people. There will be no greater joy for me than Modi getting lost in the pages of history.\nModiji thank you so much for giving me your time. This is my first TV interview and I feel privileged and honoured to done with no less a person than the Prime Minister.\nPM Modi: Your are from the financial world and yet you did a political interview. I liked your confidence. I congratulate you and keep doing the good work.\nYou please keep giving us interviews...\nPM Modi: Why interview politicians only, there are so many others from other walks of life to interview. During election time, reporters start shooting from your bedroom and start asking about breakfast etc. But not many know the sacrifices of our sportsmen. Instead of wasting time on politicians, we should spend more time on our sportsmen -- how they control their food, sleep, how they still stay committed even after losing. Our youth must be shown those sacrifices. I would like your channel to choose 30 sportsmen from the Rio contigent and show their life story. That way we can change the way we see our sportsmen. Also, I feel there are so many personalities to interview beyond politics."