"#MannKiBaat: PM Modi pays tributes to Dhyanchand, recalls his contribution to Indian hockey\n#MannKiBaat: Daughters of our country has made the nation proud at # Rio2016, says PM Modi\n#MannKiBaat: Performance of our sportspersons at # Rio2016 is laudable, says the PM\nA sports committee will make the upcoming Olympics: PM during #MannKiBaat\nShare your views on 'Narendra Modi Mobile App' how India can do better in the upcoming Olympics\nPM Narendra Modi pays tribute to Dr. S Radhakrishnan during #MannKiBaat\n#MannKiBaat: Role of teachers as important as Mothers, says PM Modi\nShare your memories \u0026 anecdotes how teachers shaped your lives on 'Narendra Modi Mobile App'\nLokmanya Tilak said \"Swaraj is our birthright\", but today our priority should be 'Surajya': PM during #ManKiBaat\n#MannKiBaat: Mother Teresa spent her whole life in upliftment of the poor, says PM Modi\nHonor for every Indian that Mother Teresa will be considered as Saint on September 4th: PM during #MannKiBaat\nCenter is coordinated with five states for Swachh Ganga: PM Modi during #MannKiBaat\n#MannKiBaat: Swachhta has become a part of everyone's life, says PM Modi\nOver a lakh children in villages wrote letters to their parents for construction homes in their homes: PM #MannKiBaat\nUrge people to use clay idols during Ganesh Chaturthi \u0026 Durga Puja: PM during #MannKiBaat\nIndia always wants good relations with her neighbors: PM Modi #MannKiBaat\nRashtrapati ji inaugurated #AkashvaniMaitree will be more people to people ties between India \u0026 Bangladesh: PM during #MannKiBaat\nAll parties came forward for passing GST Bill Modi goes on: #MannKiBaat\nLoss of lives in Kashmir, be it young or security personnel, it is our country's loss: PM during #ManKiBaat\nAll parties stand united on Kashmir, says PM Modi during #MannKiBaat\nIndia is a diverse country We should further strengthen the country's unity: PM Modi during #MannKiBaat\nMy dear countrymen, Namaskar,\nTomorrow, 29th August is the birth anniversary of hockey wizard Dhyan Chand. This country is celebrated as 'National Sports Day' throughout the country. I offer my tributes to Dhyan Chand and I want to remind you about his valuable contribution. He played a pivotal role in helping India win a gold medals in the Olympic Games of 1928, 1932 and 1936. All of us cricket lovers know the name of Bradman very well. He has complimented Dhyan Chand ji by saying that 'he scores goals like runs'. Dhyan Chand was a living example of sports spirit and nationalism. During a match in Kolkata, one player from the opposite team hit the hockey stick. At that point, only 10 minutes And, Dhyan Chand ji scored three goals in just those ten minutes and said - \"I avenged the hit by scoring goals\".\nDear countrymen, as the time of Mann Ki Baat draws near, a very big number of suggestions were received on MyGov or NarendraModiApp. These are on varied topics. But, I saw that there were many of these suggestions, people who asked me to say something about the Rio Olympics. I find it a very positive sign that our common people have such attachment and awareness about Rio Olympics and they are insisting that the matter on this matter It shows that Besides Cricket, our people have so much involvement in and awareness and knowledge about other sports and games too. For me, even reading these messages One Shri Ajit Singh has written on NarendraModiApp - \"Please, this time in 'Man Ki Baat' do talk about the education of our daughters, our 'Betis' and sports in their participation because they have won medals by country for laurels at the Rio Olympics. \"One Mr. Sachin has written to urge that in 'Man Ki Baat' this time, Sindhu, Saakshi and Deepa Karmakar about a mention please. Any medals we got had earned from our daughters These Betis have once again proved that they are second to none in any respect. One of these daughters is from North India while there is one who belongs to South India and then there is one from the eastern part. All in all, they represent all countries It seems that our daughters in the whole of India have decided to take the responsibility of bringing glory to the nation.\nShikhar Thakur has written on MyGov that we had been better at the Olympics. He has written - \"Respected Modi sir, first of all, congratulations on our winning two medals at Rio However, I want to know your performance really good? And, the answer is 'No'. We have a long way in the field of sports Our parents, even today, insisted on studies and academics. Sports is a waste of time in our society We need to change this mindset Society needs inspiration for this And, no one can do this better than you. \"\nSimilarly, a Shri Satya Prakash Mehra has written on NarednaraModiApp - \"In Mann Ki Baat, there is a need to focus on extra-curricular activities, especially children and youth play to encourage.\" Thousands of people have expressed similar sentiments. There is no denying the fact that we can not perform up to the expectations. Some of our players did not even touch during the Games. In the medals chart, our tally was only two medals. However, it is also a fact that if we look closely, we will find that despite missing medals, Indian players have given a very good account of some of the events.\nSee, Our Abhinav Bindra too narrowly missed the medal Dipa Karmakar produced a superb performance in gymnastics, although she remained at the fourth place and missed a bronze by a very narrow margin. But, how can we forget that she is India's first daughter to qualify in gymnastics for the Olympics and also to reach the final round. The pair of Sania Mirza and Rohan Bopanna met almost a similar fate in Tennis. Our Athletes After 32 years of P.T. Usha's feat, Lalita Babar qualifies for the finals in track and field. Our Women's Hockey Team Qualified for the Olympic Games Men's Hockey Team reached knock out stage after 36 years Our team is quite strong And the interesting part is that Gold Medalist Argentina lost just one match in the entire tournament and the team which defeated them INDIA. Thus, the future definitely seems bright for us\nVikas Krishna Yadav reached the quarter finals in Boxing but was not won Bronze Many players like Aditi Ashok, Dattu Bhokanal, Atanu Das gave a very good performance. But my dear countrymen, we do have a long way. And if we stick to the same routine, we may probably keep facing the same disappointment. I have announced setting up of a committee The Government of India will make an in-house analysis and will study the practices being followed around the world. We will prepare a roadmap We have prepared a far reaching plan keeping in view the Olympics in 2020, 2024, 2028. I urge the State Governments to set up similar committees to find out as well. What can you do? The States can take one or two sports\nI urge our sports associations also to do the job and impartial brainstorming on this. And, I also request all citizens of the country who have been interested in this matter in their suggestions on NarendraModiApp. They may write to the government; Associations may discuss these issues and submit their memoranda to the government. State governments too should deliberate on this matter and provide their suggestions. But, we should prepare ourselves and fully And, I am confident that we, the nation of 125 crore people, comprising 65 percent youth population, can also reach a global status. We have the solution\nMy dear countrymen, 5th September is 'Teachers Day'. For many years, I have been spending a lot of time with students on Teachers Day and that too I used to learn quite a lot from those young children For me, 5th September was Teachers Day as well as an Education Day. But, this time I have to leave for G-20 Summit and so felt in my heart that I want to express my feelings in this regard in 'Man Ki Baat' today.\nIn our life, a teacher holds the same place as a mother does. We have also seen such teachers who care more for their pupils They devote their lives for their disciples, their students These days, after Rio Olympics, Pulela Gopi Chand is being talked about everywhere He is a player first but he has set up a glorious example of what a good coach, that is, a teacher should be. I see Gopi Chand today as a great teacher. And, on Teachers Day, I saluted Pulela Gopi Chand for his hard work, his dedication towards sports and his manner of finding happiness in his disciples. We always feel the contribution of our teachers in our lives. 5th September is the birthday of India's former President Dr. Sarvapalli Radhakrishnan ji and the country celebrates this as Teachers Day. Whatever happened in his life, he always tried to teach like a teacher, an educator. Not only this, he always said that \"a good teacher can only be one who keeps the student inside always alive\". Dr. Radhakrishnan ji showed this by living as a teacher and by keeping alive the student within him\nSome times when I think of it, I remember However, I can happily say that even now I received a letter from my teachers, who has turned 90 now. In this letter, he mentions books by him during that quotation. He also gives his comments on what he deems correct or otherwise It is as if he is, even now, teaching me in the class room In a way, he is conducting a course for me even today. And, about his handwriting even at the age of 90, I marvel that he writes so beautifully while my own handwriting is very poor. That is why, whenever I look at somebody's good handwriting, I have a great respect for it. You may also be having similar experience If you tell the world about which teachers have changed It will be a matter of pride and it is our duty to increase the respect of our teachers in the society. If you have a photograph with your teacher or an inspirational thing associated with your teacher, please do share the same on NarendraModiApp Looking at the contribution of teachers in the country from the point of view of students is also immensely valuable in itself.\nMy dear countrymen, Ganesh Utsav is drawing near Ganesh ji removes all obstacles and let us all wish that our country, our society, our families, and every one of us may lead a life free of obstacles. But, when we mention Ganesh Utsav, it is natural to remember Lokmanya Tilak ji. The tradition of public celebration of Ganesh Festival is Lokmanya Tilak's gift to us. By publicly celebrating Ganesh Utsav, he turned the religious festival into a national awakening and social refinement. These Ganesh festivities include holding wide-ranging discussions on the issues that touched our lives and society, and incorporated such programs that will provide a new vigour and vitality to our social fabric. Also, his minister \"Swaraj, that is, freedom is my birthright\" should be the main focus thereby strengthening the freedom movement. Now, not in Maharashtra alone but in each corner of India, Ganesh Utsav is celebrated publicly. Young people make elaborate preparations, they are full of vigour Some people even try to follow the path by Lokmanya Tilak ji. They organize debates on topics of public interest, and hold essay competitions and rangoli competitions. Tableus depict the issues of social concern in a very artistic manner In a way, a mass campaign of public education gets underway these Ganesh festivities. Lokmanya Tilak ji gave us the inspirational ministry - \"Swaraj, that is, freedom is our birthright.\" But now we live in independent India So do we come through these public Ganesh festivals move now to SURAAJ, that is, good governance by proclaiming 'SURAAJ is my birthright'. Good governance, SURAAJ, should be our priority; can we not recite this ministry and give a message for it in the public Ganesh Festival? Come on, I invite you all.\nIt is true that festivals express the vitality of a society Festivals infuse new life into individuals Life seems to be impossible without festivals but these are to be molded I have seen that many people have written me Ganeshotsav and Durga Puja. They are worried about One Shri Shankar Narayan Prashant has strongly urged - \"Modi ji, kindly tell the people through your Man Ki Baat that they should not use Ganesh idols of Plaster of Paris. Why should not use Ganeshji idols made of the clay from the village pond. POP idols are not environment friendly \". He has also expressed a great pain, others have also I request you all as to why we can not use clay in making Ganesh and Durga idols and revert to our old tradition. This will help in environmental protection, prevent pollution of our rivers and ponds and also provide protection for small animals living in water. This is the service of God Ganesh ji removes obstacles So, we should not make such Ganeshji idols, which create problems I do not know how to do the same thing I have heard about many such people including Pune based sculptor Shri Abhijit Dhondphale, Kolhapur institutions Nisarg-Mitra and Vigyan Probodhini, Nisarg Katta in Vidarbh, Pune of knowledge prabodhini, and Girgaoncha Raja of Mumbai. Many such institutions work hard to promote Ganesh idols made from clay and they also propagate it. Eco-friendly Ganeshotsav is also social service. There is still time left before the start of Durga Pooja festivities If we resolve now, our efforts will lead to employment generation for those families who traditionally used to make clay idols in the past Also the clay will go back and get dissolved in the pond or the river I offer my best wishes to Ganesh Chaturthi\nMy dear countrymen, India Ratna will be canonized, that is, accorded sainthood on 4th September. Mother Teresa devoted her entire life to the service of the poor in India Though she was born in Albania and her mother tongue not English, yet she transformed her life When Mother Teresa, who served the poor in India all through her life, is accorded Sainthood, it is quite natural for you Indians to feel proud Indian government will send a delegation of foreign ministers to overseas sushma swaraj to represent 125 crore Indians at the canonization ceremony on 4th September. We keep learning some or other from great people and women, saints, sages, holy people. We will continue to get something,\nMy dear countrymen, when develops a mass movement, a big transformation takes place Peoples' power is, in a way, considered to be a divine incarnation. Government of India has made a successful effort to clean the Ganga and join the project with the support of five State Governments. Pradhans of villages located on the banks of the river Ganga were invited to Allahabad on the 20th of this month. They included men as well as women They came to Allahabad and took a oath before Mother Ganga that they will make all out efforts to open defecation in their villages, located on the banks of Ganga, a campaign of building toilets and also that these villages will make their full contribution in cleaning up Ganga and will ensure that Ganga is not polluted now I congratulate all the Pradhans who had assembled in Allahabad with this resolve from different states; They had come from Uttrakhand, from Uttar Pradesh, from Bihar, from Jharkhand and from West Bengal. I also congratulate all those Ministries of the Government of India and also those ministers who turned this vision into reality I also want to thank the Chief Ministers of these five states for taking important steps in making the Ganga clean by involving people's power.\nMy dear countrymen, certain things touch me very deeply and my heart bows in respect to those who like to visualize such heartwarming initiatives. In Kabirdham district of Chhatisgarh, more than 1.25 lakh students from about 1700 schools collectively written letters to their parents. Some students wrote in English, some wrote in Hindi and some in Chhatisgarhi to their parents telling them that there should be toilets in their homes. They demanded building toilets Some students even wrote that they should not be celebrated\nStudents of age between seven to seventeen And this has had such an impact, such an emotional impact that while the students were going to school the next day, positively a certain date by the toilets to build toilets. My compliments to those who visualized this idea, compliments to these students and special compliments to those parents who took their children's letters too seriously and also took a decision to construct a toilet. This is what inspires us\nIn Koppal district of Karnataka, a sixteen year old girl started Mallamma with a Satyagrah against her own family. She launched the Satyagrah and stopped eating and she did not want to ask for her clothes. This girl was indicted for being a guest in the house. But, the family was not a good position economically The daughter stuck to her demand and she was not ready to end her Satyagrah. The village president Mohammad Shafi came to know about this. He was told that Mallamma had protested against his request for getting a toilet built in his house. Now, look at the gesture of village Pradhan Mohammad Shafi, he arranged eighteen thousand rupees and got a toilet built within a week. Just look the power and strength in Mallamma's protest, and also consider the grand gesture of a village Pradhan like Mohammad Shafi. Look how the solutions are found\nMy dear countrymen, Swachha Bharat has become the dream of every Indian Some Indians have made it their resolve. Some Indians have made their aim and purpose But, every one is connected to it or another way Daily we hear about this direction Acting on one such idea, The Government of India has called on people to make short films of 2 to 3 minutes on Swachhta, that is, cleanliness and send it to the Government. You can find details of this plan on website. A competition will be held and the winners will be awarded on Gandhi Jayanti Day on 2nd October. I request TV channels also to invite Creativity can give new strength to Swachhata Abhiyan or cleanliness campaign. New slogans will emerge, newer methods will come to knowledge, a new inspiration will be generated and all this will happen Lesser known artists could be taken and it is not necessary to have a big studio and a big camera. You can also shoot a movie I call upon you all to come forward and participate.\nMy dear countrymen, India has always tried its best to have close, cordial and vibrant relations with its neighbors. A very important event took place recently. The Honorable President of India Shri Pranab Mukherjee inaugurated a new radio channel named 'Akashvani Maitree Channel' at Kolkata. Now, some people may wonder whether Honourble President will inaugurate a Radio Channel? But this is no ordinary Radio Channel We have Bangladesh as our neighbor We know that both Bangladesh and West Bengal continue to have a common cultural heritage. So, Akashvani Maitree on this side and Bangladesh Betaar on that side will share the content and Bengali speaking people on both sides will enjoy the programs of Akashvani, that is, All India Radio. Akashvani The President launched this radio channel. I extend my thanks to Bangladesh for this initiative. I congratulate the friends in All India Radio too for their contribution in our foreign policy also.\nMy dear countrymen, although you have entrusted me with the responsibilities of Prime Minister but I also am a human being At times, sensitive events touch me a little too deeply. Such sentimental incidents generate new energy, give new inspiration and this is what motivates us Indians to do remarkable things. I received a letter recently A motherly lady of about 84 years of age who is a retired teacher wrote that letter to me If she had not been allowed to disclose her name, I would like to talk to her. She wrote in his letter that after my appeal to the people, his cooking gas subsidy, she had given up subsidy and then she even forgot about it. However, a few days ago a person on my behalf went to her and delivered a letter in which she was thanked for her giving up the subsidy. And, she has said that a letter from the Prime Minister was no less than a Padma Shri honour for her.\nDear countrymen, you may be knowing that I have tried to send a letter, to be delivered personally through my representatives, to all those who surrendered their cooking gas subsidy on my appeal. My mission is to send letters to more than one crore people. Under this plan, I received a letter from my mother who wrote back to me saying that I am doing a good work under the campaign of providing relief to those poor ladies who are getting freedom from the smoke of a Chulha. I am a retired teacher and will cross the age of 90 years within a few years and I am sending you a donation of fifty thousand rupees. You may well imagine the missionary spirit of this retired teacher living on pension and donating an amount of fifty thousand rupees for the sake of gas connection to the other poor mothers and sisters, in order to save them from the effects of Chullah smoke . It is not a question of 50 thousand rupees but the basic question is of the compassion in the old lady and it is because of the blessings of this lady and of crores of our mothers and sisters which strengthens my faith in the future of the country . And, she did not write to me as this letter as a Prime Minister but she straightforwardly wrote - \"Modi Bhaiya!\" I salute this wonderful mother and I also salute crores of similar mothers in India. the benefit of others\nMy dear countrymen, we were struggling with drought-like conditions last year but this August we have been facing the fury of floods all through. In some parts of the country, there has been repeated repetitive floods. State governments, Union government, local self-government bodies, social organizations and the citizens did whatever the best could be done. Yet, even the reports of these floods, some such events happen which should be remembered. Which show the power of unity, and how big results can be achieved by working together? The month of August this year has become memorable. In August 2016, about 90 political parties in the country, many of these parties in the parliament, which were staunch opponents of one another and which each other against the slightest chance missed, all these parties got united and GST Act passed. The credit for this And, this is an example which shows that great tasks can be accomplished by working in unison. Similarly, about the incidents that took place in Kashmir and all that happened in Kashmir, all political parties in the country collectively expressed their views in one voice. A message was sent to the whole world, a message also went to the separatist forces and our sympathy. Whichever way I was on Kashmir resounded with these views quite prominently and if I could try to summarize these views and comments, the gist and essence were unity and affection; These two were the fundamental points. And, we are all of the view, and this is the view of all 125 crore Indians, right from the village Pradhan to the Prime Minister that every loss of life in Kashmir - whether it is a young man or a security personnel - It is our own loss, a loss of our people, a loss for the nation! Those trying to disturb peace in Kashmir by putting small children in the front and hiding behind them will have to be answerable\nMy dear countrymen, ours is a vast nation, full of diversities. To keep this country of manifold diversities united, we all as citizens, as society and as the government, have a responsibility to strengthen our national unity and highlight these with full vigor, only then we will make our country's future bright, and , of course, this will be achieved I have full faith in the power of my 125 crore countrymen. That is all for today, many many thanks\nTomorrow, on 29th August, the birth date of Hockey magician Dhyana Chand Ji is. Celebrated in the form of 'National Sports Day' throughout the country: PM #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) August 28, 2016\nI pay tribute to Dhyana Chand Ji and on this occasion, you want to remind everyone of their contribution: PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) August 28, 2016\nWhenever it comes time to 'talk about the mind', there are many more suggestions on MyGov or on NarendraModiApp: PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat"