"\nPM Narendra Modi\nWe now live in an age where change is constant and we are variables. We must change both external and internal reasons: PM\nToday, countries are interdependent and inter connected. No country can afford any longer to develop in isolation: PM\nIf India is to meet the challenge of change A metamorphosis is needed: PM Modi\nThe transformation of India can not happen without a transformation of governance: PM\nA transformation of governance can not happen without a transformation in mindset: PM\nA change in mindset can not happen without transformative ideas: PM Modi\nWe have to change laws, eliminate unnecessary procedures, speed up processes and adopt technology: PM\nOne of the greatest reformers and administrators of our time was Lee Kuan Yew, who transformed Singapore to what it is today: PM\nHis Excellency Mr. Tharman Shanmugaratnam, Deputy Prime Minister of Singapore\nMy Fellow Ministers,\nChief Ministers,\nInvited speakers and friends,\nThere was a time when the capital and labor Today we know that the quality of institutions and ideas Early last year, a new institution was created, namely, the National Institute for Transforming India or NITI. NITI was created as an evidence based on India's transformation.\nOne of NITI's functions is:\n- to mainstream external ideas in Government policies, through collaboration with national and international experts;\n- to be the government's link to the outside world, outside experts and practitioners;\n- to be the instrument through which ideas are out of policy-making.\nThe Government of India and the State Governments have a long administrative tradition. This tradition combines indigenous and external ideas from India's past. This is the administrative translation Above all, it has protected democracy and federalism, unity and integrity, in a country of glorious diversity These are not small achievements Yet, we now live in an age where change is constant and we are variables.\nWe must change both external and internal reasons Each country has its own experiences, its own resources and its own strengths. Thirty years ago, a country may have been able to look inward and find its own solutions. Today, countries are inter dependent and inter connected. No country can afford any longer to develop in isolation Every country has a benchmark its activities to global standards, or else fall behind.\nChange is also required The young generation in our own country is thinking and aspiring so differently, that government can no longer afford to stay in the past. Even in families, the relationship between the young and old has changed There was a time when Today, with the spread of new technology, the situation is often reversed. This increases the challenge for government in communicating and in growing expectations.\nIf India is to meet the challenge of change A metamorphosis is needed\nThat is why my vision for India is rapid transformation, not gradual evolution.\n• The transformation of India can not happen without a transformation of governance.\n• A transformation of governance can not happen without a transformation in mindset\n• A transformation in mindset can not happen without transformative ideas\nWe have to change laws, eliminate unnecessary procedures, speed up processes and adopt technology We can not march through the twenty first century with the administrative systems of the nineteenth century.\nFundamental changes in administrative mindsets India is fortunate to become a stable democratic polity In the absence of such shocks, we have to make special efforts. As individuals, we may learn new ways by reading books or articles. Books open the windows of our minds. However, unless we brainstorm collectively, ideas remain confined to individual minds. We often hear the new ideas and understand them. But we do not act on them, because it is beyond our personal capacity If we sit together, we will have the ideas What we need is a collective opening of our minds, to let new, global perspectives To do this, we have to absorb new ideas collectively rather than individual It requires a concerted effort\nAs many of you know, ever since taking office, I have personally participated in structured brainstorming sessions with bankers, with police officers and with Secretaries to Government, among others. The ideas coming from those sessions are being incorporated into policy.\nThese efforts have been The next step Culturally, Indians have always been receptive to ideas from elsewhere. It is said in the Rigveda - \"Aya no Bhadra: Kratvo Yantu Vishvat\", which means, let us welcome noble thoughts in all directions.\nThis is the purpose of the Transforming India Lecture Series. It is a series which we will not attend, but as part of a team who collectively make change happen.\nWe will draw the best from the wisdom and knowledge of eminent persons, who have changed, or influenced change in the lives of many, to make their nation a better place in the planet.\nThis lecture will be the first in a series You have all been given a feedback form. I would like to improve this process. I request you to get the names of experts and panelists from inside and outside India I also request all the Secretaries to Government to conduct a follow up discussion in a week's time, with the participants from their Ministries. The purpose is to convert ideas into emerging groups in specific action points to each group. Wherever possible, I request you to participate in these sessions.\nOne of the greatest reformers and administrators of our time was Lee Kuan Yew, who transformed Singapore to what it is today. It is so fitting that we are inaugurating this series with Mr. Tharman Shanmugaratnam, Deputy Prime Minister of Singapore. He is a prolific scholar and public policy maker. Apart from being Deputy Prime Minister, he is also the Coordinating Minister for Economic and Social Policies, Minister of Finance and Chairman of Monetary Authority of Singapore. In the past, he has served as the Minister of Manpower, Second Minister of Finance and Minister of Education.\nMr. Shanmugaratnam was born in Nineteen Fifty Seven and is Sri Lankan Tamil ancestry. He earned his Bachelor's degree in Economics at the London School of Economics. He has a Master's degree in Economics from Cambridge University. He has a Master's degree in Public Administration from Harvard University. At Harvard, he was honored with his outstanding performance.\nMr. Shanmugaratnam is one of the world's leading intellectuals. I would like to give you an example of the range and sweep of his ideas. Today, Singapore's economy depends on a lot on transshipment. But if global warming melts the polar ice caps, new navigation routes may open and possibly reduce Singapore's relevance. I am told he has already started thinking about it.\nFriends The list of achievements and honors received by Mr. Shanmugaratnam is long. But we are all So, without further delay, it is great pleasure that I welcome Shri Tharman Shanmugaratnam to this stage and request him to enlighten us on the subject of India in the Global Economy.\nDevelopment now depends on the quality of institutions and ideas: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) August 26, 2016\nWe must change both external and internal reasons: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) August 26, 2016\n30 years ago, a country could have been able to look at its solutions. Today, countries are inter dependent \u0026 inter connected: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) August 26, 2016\nNo country can afford any longer to develop in isolation: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) August 26, 2016\nYounger generation in India is thinking and aspiring so differently, that government can no longer afford to stay in the past: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) August 26, 2016\nIf India is to meet the challenge of change A metamorphosis is needed: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) August 26, 2016\nThe transformation of India can not happen without a transformation of governance: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) August 26, 2016\nA transformation of governance can not happen without a transformation in mindset: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) August 26, 2016\nA transformation in mindset can not happen without transformative ideas: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) August 26, 2016\nWe can not march through the twenty first century with the administrative systems of the nineteenth century: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) August 26, 2016\nWhat we need is a collective opening of our minds, to let new, global perspectives: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) August 26, 2016\nOne of the greatest reformers \u0026 administrators of our time was Lee Kuan Yew who transformed Singapore to what it is today: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) August 26, 2016\nIt is so fitting that we are inaugurating this series with Mr Tharman Shanmugaratnam, Deputy Prime Minister of Singapore: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) August 26, 2016\nMr. Shanmugaratnam is one of the world's leading intellectuals: PM @narendramodi"