"Rahul Joshi, group editor of Network 18,\nAll the journalists associated with Network18,\nPeople associated with management,\nOther dignitaries present here,\nViewers of Network 18 and my dear friends,\nJust recently, I had the privilege of dedicating National Samar Memorial to the country. See also the coincidence that right after this Rising India Summit is getting an opportunity to speak on a topic which is very close to my heart.\nI congratulate the network 18 team for this topic- Beyond Politics: Defining National Priorities. In the world's largest democracy, continuous churning on what is the direction of nation building, our priority as a nation, it is very necessary.\nNow when I am between the media partners, I will follow your preferred method to pursue this discussion. That is what was before and what is now. From this, you will also be clear that what was prioritized earlier, and what is now. From this, it will also be seen that when nationality is given priority when it is separated from politics, then what kind of results will come out?\nCompanions, in the first year of 2014, the situation in the country was that what was supposed to grow was decreasing and the event that was needed was growing.\nTake, for example, the example of inflation. We all know that inflation should stay in control. But what was the reality? The prices of essential items in the previous government were skyrocketing. Inflation was opening mouth like a sari.\nAll of you, especially the newsroom producers, will remember that the costly witch is being eaten, how many times have you had to run in your show.\nMy colleagues, you had quite a good report that inflation had crossed 10 percent. But in our government today inflation has dropped to around 2-4 percent. This difference comes when politics is given priority over politics.\nCompanions, the same situation was about income tax. The middle class continued to give voice to the discount but nothing was found in the name of relief. Our government has reduced the exemption limit on income tax up to Rs 2.5 lakh, then for tax of Rs 5 lakh, the tax has been reduced from 10 percent to 5 percent, and this time the taxable income up to 5 lakhs is only out of the scope of tax Is done.\nWith the help of colleagues, now GDP Growth, you will be able to understand the earlier government and now the government, the priorities of the priorities and the difference of priority now, and the clarity. You would know that the government of Atal ji had given the UPA 8 percent growth rate in 2004. But in the year 2013-14, when the UPA was getting farewell, then the growth rate was close to 5 percent.\nOnce again in 2014 we accepted this challenge. Today, our government has again reached the GDP growth rate between 7 to 8 percent. Those enlarged were reduced and we again increased the reduced. This is our priority.\nCompanions, the same thing happened to India's Global Standing. We all had been reading that the twenty-first century is India's century. But what happened in UPA government? India was flown to the 'Fragile Five' countries of the world by 2013. Today, once again the government's determination and the hard work of 100 million people, India has become the 'Fastest Growing Major Economy'.\nIn the rankings of the easiest of Doing Business, the previous government had left no stone unturned in the name of the country going. It was the result of Congress culture that slipping from the number 132 in 2011, India's rankings went up to 142 in 2014. Think of what kind of business environment was created in the country at that time. Our government has done the task of improving this ranking to the 77th position.\nCompanions, the country's ranking was also slipping in Is of Doing business during the previous government, because the corruption graph was skyrocketing. From spectrum to submarine, and from Coal to CWG, nothing was left out of corruption. Every institution in that period, whether it is Supreme Court, CAG, media, everywhere files of government corruption were open.\nToday the situation is that for the political opposition, our partners of the opposition go to court in a pseudo way and from there they are reprimanded and the government gets an Appreciation. These meaningful changes in official rites have come during our government.\nBrothers and sisters, different from politics, how our government's priorities were different, how we are moving forward from one scheme to another, and from what I'm going to be smooth and transparent, on another example, I talk to you in detail Want to do\nYou will remember that when we started the Janhana Yojna four years ago, then how much fun was made? Some people used to say that by opening a bank account of the poor we hit the arrow. Many people even said that those who have nothing to eat, what will they do by opening an account in the bank?\nBecause of such a mentality, even after so many years of independence in our country, more than half of people did not have bank accounts. Now due to our government's efforts, bank accounts of more than 34 crore people are open in the country.\nAfter the opening of the associates, the Janhanan account, we added them to the Aadhaar numbers, tried, that more and more accounts could be linked to the mobile number. Here, we were opening public accounts in the country, while the government schemes were also being explored, in which the beneficiaries were provided the money. How did you get the money before, who was medicated in between, you know this too.\nBrothers and sisters, we went through a one-by-one scheme and linked them to public accounts. Today the situation is that the money of more than four hundred schemes of the government is being transferred directly to the beneficiaries' bank accounts.\nDuring our government, about 6 lakh crore rupees have been sent directly to the beneficiary's account. And I'm proud to say that like before, not just 15 paise out of 100, but the whole money is getting the beneficiaries.\nYou also need to know about these effects of government's influence on corruption and black money.\nThe result of connecting associates, public accounts, base and mobile resulted in the fake names buried in paper after one by one. You should think, if 50 people in your group or channel are going to be getting salaries every month, but they will not be in reality, what will happen then?\nNow people here with HR will say that this can not happen to us here. But the comrades, the previous governments, had made arrangements in the country, there were not two or eight crore fake names in whose names the government benefits were being transferred.\nWith the efforts of the government, more than one lakh rupees thousand crore rupees are avoiding the wrong hands. And when I say that 1 lakh 10 thousand crore rupees are saved, then think also that earlier this money was also going to someone else.\nThese money were going to those middlemen year after year, going to people who were not entitled to it. Now all these leakages have been closed by our government.\nThis strength of partners, bank account, data and technology is becoming the strongest base of the world's biggest welfare schemes.\nUnder the Ayushman Bharat Scheme, which is being provided free treatment of about 50 million poor people of the country to the extent of 5 lakh rupees, there is no scope for leakage. The full amount of treatment goes directly to the hospital account. The beneficiaries of which are equipped with Aadhaar numbers and their election has been done based on the Socio-Economic Survey published in 2015.\nThis method is being adopted for almost every welfare scheme, thereby reinforcing both dishonesty and leakage.\nIt is your knowledge that our government has started the Prime Minister Kisan Adhash Nidhi Yojna tomorrow. For the nearly 12 crore farmers of the country to fulfill their small need, such as to buy fodder, to buy seeds, to buy pesticides, to buy fertilizer, the government will get around 75 thousand crore rupees a year, direct farmers Is going to transfer to the account. Leakage is not possible in this scheme too.\nNow think, how to do a fodder scam? Because now the message comes directly to the mobile, the whole arrangement of a raw-fixed slip has been eliminated by Modi. That is why I drink and drink water!\nBrothers and sisters, for whom I have stopped the looting, she is showing me so much affection nowadays that do not ask. Gathering on one platform, so much abuse is rarely given to anyone.\nCompanions, it is a priority for them to commit abuses, it is a priority for me that the honest taxpayer of the country, who works so hard, works hard, the right one is used by the government to get one by one.\nHow do we have a tradition of not understanding the public's publicity for a long time, you know too. If this were not the case then hundreds of schemes remained incomplete for decades, do not get caught up in the dilemma.\nThat's why our government does not consider delays in plans less than criminal negligence. I give you just 2-3 examples of how the work has been done in the previous decades and how it has affected people's life and on taxpayer's money.\nCompanions, there is an irrigation project in UP, by the name of Bansagar. The scheme started almost 4 decades ago. At that time it was estimated that the work of 300 crore rupees would be completed. But it was hanging, stuck in. After our government was formed in 2014, it was started again. By then, the cost amount increased to Rs 3 thousand crore.\nIt was not that the previous governments were prohibiting from doing any work, was refusing. Then Rs 300 crore is strapped, I do not even believe it. In fact, the work was completed by the time, there was no desire from within itself. The thought was that it was okay, it would have been late, it would have happened, what was my loss?\nAnother dam project, Mandal Dam of Jharkhand This was also incomplete for four decades. When it started, its cost was only 30 crores and now the dam is being completed by spending around 2400 crores. That is, the honest tax payer of the country is paying 80 times the price of hanging.\nBrothers and sisters, you used to hear the news of the scandal, they would have been alerted. it's a good thing. But because of the delay in such hundreds of projects in the country, who was careless about the millions of crores of the country, the money which was being constantly wasted like an honest taxpayer like you? Respecting this money was the priority of our government and that's why I have tried my first day to change Late Lateefi's culture in the government system.\nI am sitting with the Chief Secretary of each state, I am sitting in the secretariat of each ministry, whatever is there, but the plans should not be delayed, public money should not be wasted. Companions, I have reviewed the old plans of more than Rs.12 lakh crores.\nCompanions, as many projects were reviewed through progress, most of them belong to Eastern India, are from the North East. This has also been another major part of our government's priorities. Making East India a growth engine of development of new India, with everyone, is an important aspect of our vision of development. You have reported many times that how the railways are reaching for the first time in decades in eastern and northeastern India, for the first time the airport is becoming operational, for the first time electricity is reaching.\nCompanions, our whole effort is that every section of the society or country, which was feeling neglected for some reason, should be reached to it, and efforts should be made to address its concerns. The decision of reservation of 10 percent of the general category poor or the historical plan of pension for workers,\nFor the people of Dhanmant community, it is decided to set up a Welfare Development Board or a separate department for millions of crores of fishermen in the country, we are working together on the mantra of all development.\nOur priority to reach every person, every class, every corner of the country and the light of faith is becoming the cause of New India's new confidence. Between this confidence, I would like to talk to you about the topic, which has been your favorite topic. This topic is employment. I have been told that in the network 18, since 2014, one person has not got a job? Rahul Ji, is this information right?\nDo not be surprised. I was trying to tell the question of the answer to you guys.\nbrothers and sisters,\nJust think, when India has become the fastest growing economy, is it possible that this should be done without creating a job? When FDI in the country is All-Time High, is it possible that jobs are not being created?\nWhen many international reports are saying that India is fast eliminating poverty, is it possible that people without jobs are coming out of poverty? Just imagine, when the road is being constructed in the country with many times the speed of the road, the work of expanding the railways is being done.\nReconstructing the construction of millions of houses for the poor, new projects like construction of new bridges, new dams and new airports such as infrastructure are being done. Investment in the field of tourism is on the rise, is it possible that all these activities have not created employment?\nYou must have seen a doctor, engineer or charted accountant moving forward in your surroundings. According to the data of Income Tax Department, over 6 lakh professionals are involved in the system during the last four financial years. Each of these professionals will also need support staff. In this way, we can estimate that these professionals have given employment to lakhs of people in the last 4 years.\nयही नहीं सड़क पर दौड़ने वाली गाड़ियां भी एक नई तस्वीर दिखाती हैं। कोई मुझे बता रहा था कि आपके फिल्म सिटी, नोएडा में पहले जहां आधी से अधिक जगह खाली रह जाती थी, अब वहां गाड़ियों की पार्किंग की जगह भी नहीं बची।\nकहने का मतलब ये है कि पिछले 5 वर्षों में ट्रांसपोर्ट सेक्टर में जबरदस्त बूम आया है। कमर्शियल वाहनों की ही बात करें तो पिछले साल ही भारत में लगभग साढ़े 7 लाख गाड़ियां बिकी हैं। क्या ये मुमकिन है की नौकरियों के बिना इतनी commercial गाड़ियाँ बिक रही है?\nअब प्रधानमंत्री मुद्रा योजना को ही लीजिए। मैंने मीडिया में ही इससे जुड़ी एक से बढ़कर एक प्रेरित करने वाली कहानियां देखी हैं। इसमें से कई लाभार्थियों से तो मैं खुद मिला हूं, उनकी सफलता की कहानियां मैंने खुद जानी हैं। किस प्रकार उन्होंने लोन लेकर अपना रोजगार शुरू किया और आज दर्जनों को रोजगार दे रहे हैं।\nसाथियों, इस योजना के तहत 15 करोड़ से अधिक उद्यमियों को 7 लाख करोड़ रुपये से ज्यादा का लोन दिया गया है। आपको जानकर आश्चर्य होगा कि इनमें से 4 करोड़ से ज्यादा युवा उद्यमी ऐसे हैं, जिन्होंने अपने बिजनेस के लिए पहली बार लोन लिया है। क्या ये संभव है कि इतनी बड़ी संख्या में छोटे उद्यमियों को लोन दिया गया हो और उससे लोगों को रोजगार नहीं मिला हो?\nसाथियों, रोजगार को लेकर सरकार को EPFO से भी एक व्यापक जानकारी मिलती है। जहां तक EPFO की बात है तो करोड़ों लोगों का पैसा कट रहा है, अंशदान जमा हो रहा है तब जाकर ये आंकड़े आते हैं। ऐसा नही है की हज़ार - 10 हज़ार लोगों का सर्वे करके आँकड़े बताए जा रहे हो। सितंबर, 2017 से नवंबर, 2018 के बीच हर महीने लगभग 5 लाख subscribers, ईपीएफओ से जुड़े हैं। इसी प्रकार Employee State Insurance Corporation यानि ESIC से हर महीने करीब 10 से 11 लाख subscribers जुड़े हैं।\nअगर हम इसे EPFO के आंकड़ों से 50 प्रतिशत overlap भी मानें, तब भी formal workforce में हर महीने लगभग 10 लाख लोग शामिल हुए हैं। यानि 1 करोड़ 20 लाख नौकरियां प्रति वर्ष।\nसाथियों, बीते 4 वर्षों में विदेशी पर्यटकों की संख्या में क़रीब 45 प्रतिशत की ऐतिहासिक वृद्धि हुई है। पर्यटन से होने वाली विदेशी मुद्रा की कमाई भी बीते 4 वर्षों में 50 प्रतिशत बढ़ गई है। इतना ही नहीं भारत के एविएशन सेक्टर में भी ऐतिहासिक बढ़ोतरी हुई है। पिछले वर्ष 10 करोड़ से अधिक लोगों ने हवाई सफर किया। क्या इन सबसे रोजगार के अवसर सृजित नहीं हुए हैं? इन आंकड़ों से यह साफ पता चलता है कि देश में हर क्षेत्र में रोजगार के अवसर पैदा हुए हैं और लोगों को नौकरियां मिली हैं।\nहो सकता है कि कइयों को मोदी की बात न माननी हो। लेकिन ये भी तो याद रखिए कि पश्चिम बंगाल सरकार कह रही है कि पिछले साल उसने नौ लाख नौकरियां सृजित की हैं। और 2012 से 2016 तक अ़ड़सठ लाख नौकरियां दी हैं। कर्नाटक सरकार कहती है कि पिछले पांच साल में 53 लाख नौकरियां दी हैं। क्या ये संभव है कि पश्चिम बंगाल और कर्नाटक में नौकरियों के अवसर बन रहे हैं लेकिन भारत में नहीं बन रहे?\nसाथियों, रोजगार को लेकर मैं मानता हूं कि अभी भी देश में काफी कुछ करना बाकी है, लेकिन जिस दिशा में और जिस तेजी से हम आगे बढ़ रहे हैं, मुझे पूरा विश्वास है कि जॉब्स को लेकर भी भारत पूरी दुनिया के सामने एक मिसाल बनकर उभरेगा।\nसाथियों, इस न्यू इंडिया को बनाने में, सशक्त करने में मीडिया की, आप सभी की भूमिका भी बहुत अहम है। सरकार की, सिस्टम की कमियों को उजागर करना आपका स्वभाविक अधिकार है, लेकिन देश में सकारात्मकता के माहौल को और सशक्त करना भी आप सभी की ज़िम्मेदारी है। मैं आपको साधुवाद देता हूं कि आपने अपनी सकारात्मक भूमिका को जिम्मेदारी के साथ निभाया भी है। समाज और व्यवस्था से जुड़े सुधारों के बारे में आपने पूरी ईमानदारी के साथ जन-जागृति का काम किया है।\nमुझे विश्वास है कि New India के Rise में आपकी ये भूमिका और सशक्त रहने वाली है और मजबूत होने वाली है।\nअंत में, आप सभी को इस समिट के आयोजन के लिए और यहां पर मुझे फिर आमंत्रित करने के लिए बहुत-बहुत आभार।\nधन्यवाद !!!"