"\nOur determination is to work for everyone. Nation\nBJP can showcase the world what a truly democratic party driven by Karyakartas is: PM\nWhether the party is in power or opposition, it will never compromise on its ideals: PM\nSacrifice of generations of party Karyakartas inspire us to work more: PM Modi\nIndian Janata Party is not a leader, a PM or a CM This is a party made by its Karyakartas: PM Modi\nBharatiya Janata Party National President Venerable Amit Bhai Shah, Advisory Advisor, Joshi Ji, all former Presidents of the party, all senior nobility and workers, brothers and sisters.\nVery good luck to all of you with a witness. Today, on the holy festival of Raksha Bandhan, India's daughter witness has given a new strength to the Indian tricolor flag, has given new respect. Very much congratulations to this daughter of the country, very good luck. The holy festival of defense is celebrated differently in different states of India but in it the central idea, family, society becomes powerful, it is in its basic element. And the way the country's politics has reached, the situation that has reached, increasing the strength of the country - the increasingly violent people also have a lot of tactics. At that time the society became more empowered, became a society and society, everybody should take care of their responsibilities to protect everyone, follow discipline in personal and social life, continue to expand the scope of mystery constantly and continuously. We all are committed people with this commitment, to walk with everyone, to do something for everyone, to show everyone the development of this mantra with everyone. And on the holy festivities of the defense-bond, we want to sanctify that sacred place, building our nation, it is our priority, and also the arrangements in the formation of the nation are also required. This office is also a small part of the system, which we need to develop, which is our dream of nation-building, and which we have painted with the color of modernity. I congratulate the party team very much, why this work has not happened suddenly. Discussions have been going on for a long time, needs have been considered. What will be needed in the future, it must have been conceived, what is the situation of the resource, it has been thought. And for many years to come, this system is going smoothly. It has been composed by thinking all things, I congratulate the team for this work.\nThe Bharatiya Janata Party will probably be the only party in Hindustan, which is the Pandit people, I would like to do the research, that in which any party had to face the opposite flow from birth to life, every trouble has to suffer at every turn. The effort must have been seen with a bad view, it should be tested ... and therefore perhaps even during the British era, the Congress party has not been able to undergo such a flaw , As much as we had to undergo Lcshavdi workers last fifty-six years. Our former partners have been humiliated in this way, we can not imagine, in many places a office is needed ... office ... to open the office to rent. And if anyone knew that the office was available, then he would have had trouble of poorness. There was an election in Bengal now, if anybody had given the Bharatiya Janata Party's candidate in Calcutta to open an office, his poorness would have been hard to live. Perhaps no sacrifices by any single party after independence in India have been given, hardly any political party has given such a sacrifice. Hundreds of our workers were killed because they were not involved in political thinking, which was widely publicized in India. This sacrifice is not low and therefore whether we are in the government or in the organization, at every step, sacrifice of fifty-sixty years of sacrifice, sacrifice, sacrifice of millions of workers, dedication of four-four generations gives us inspiration to act. . It is our biggest inspiration to keep values ​​in life. We are working by taking inspiration from that. And that's why the construction of this office is not just the building, it is the excitement of the sweat of those militant workers. This is not a brick-built office, it is coming in the form of an ascetic form of penance of millions of activists. And so its purity will be devoted to the interests of the nation, not just for political interests, but the dedication of this house. And so on the holy festival of this defense-bond, the party which has 11 million members ... then conceptual training, training of work, training of work culture, becomes a huge challenge. Because we ... are not the crowd, people working for the organization. If the crowd speaks such a populist speech, then there is a crowd. But the strength to survive in every difficulty comes from the ideological establishment. Work from the shoulder to the shoulder work culture. There was a time when mass movement used to be too much. The party workers had to stay in prisons for months. There was an easy opportunity to live together, work together, tour together. And because of that, our work culture was easy to transition. One generation went to the second generation to hand over their work culture. If I had the privilege of working with Kushabhau, then I had a great deal of ease to learn Kushabhau's style of functioning. If I had the privilege of working with Bhandari ji, then Bhandari ji's style of functioning, what was the prority, I had an intuitive opportunity to understand them. Today we do not have to lose that opportunity. He needs to deepen and needs to be made more vibrant and at the same time, the Bharatiya Janata Party is no longer the only subject of the competition of political parties in Hindustan. But in front of the world, in front of the democratic countries, what is the democratic political organization, the organization free from familyism, what is the organization devoted to ideals, how the series of workers works to travel from self to chastity One of the best examples of this should be presented to the world in front of the democratic countries.\nThe introduction of people in our subject is very little, the world knows about us which is what others have said for us, as it is. At the time when the Joint Parliamentary Party formed the government (SVD) in 1967- for the first time, the government was starting to emerge from the exit of the Congress. SVD was formed in Madhya Pradesh, the leadership of the Jana Sangh, many countries of the world wondered how these people reached to power, who are these people, what is the way and what I remember in those times is the form of a student My life was in, I had read somewhere that America's good research institute had been studying on the subject that after all this is the Jana Sangh ... its decision process is what it took Rship what his Decision making is the process, what plan their development, and deeply were many people at that time the state of the global study. When Vajpayeeji's government was formed, then once again the world became amazing, he reached here ... Because ever, through the people through which he used to know us, he always understood us correctly Not available Today once again the world's curiosity has risen. The curiosity of the political scholars of the world has arisen that the dedicated organization of democratic values ​​is committed by thought through the system, what is political life, what are political activities. This has become the subject of a study. And when these things are being studied on the global panel then it is also very necessary for us or else what are we ... we are absolutely perfect ... people living our culture and do not keep records due to them. .. It has been done ... It was the service of the country ... done.\nIf we say today that Bhai was the Satyagraha of Kutch, then Atal ji get a photo search. Naka goes out but the photograph of Atal ji does not seem to be ... Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay used to travel in the rail. . They used to take so much trouble, hey Bhai somehow remove the photo of that time .... is not available. Because the intensity of surrender was so intense that we did not even have awareness about our history. It was not a crime, sacrifice was a tradition of penance. But today's demand is that we record all our things. We are part of history. One worker who works in small villages also has an importance. And what kind of incidents in the life of the Bharatiya Jana Sangh used to give strength ... In the Calicut Bharatiya Janata Party was the convention, Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay was elected as the president, became the national president. Deendayal ji for every one of us in life ... that is why a type of name inspires so much, the people who worked with them will be in the form of a great power in their life. What did Deendayal ji do after becoming the president ... It was also a surprise to me when I came to know ... a small town named Botan in Bhavnagar district and victory in the municipality of Jansangh in the city. Gaya. The victory of a Chhotan Nagarpalika in Botanagar town of Bhavnagar district for the whole of India. It became the pride of the BJP of the whole of India. Not only this, the national president Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay ji came to the boat, congratulated the public, thanked the workers. We have seen those days. In a municipality. Probably, there will be no party, whatever the security we have confiscated in India, it will not be a team, the record holder too. These securities are not confiscated, there is a sense of dedication to the party, even when the seizure is seized, I will live for the idea, I will be battling for the idea. This is the fun ... This is the fun this workers have created. Going party is made. Imagine what you have not been willing to take, to become, in the political life of Hindustan .... Will there not be any populist talk of Bharatiya Janata Party workers from the parties? Has there been no one in this country who would have ever had this mind ... Man, if Atalji came here, it would be great. It would be great if Advaniji came here. It would be great if Dr. Joshi ji came to our party. If we get help from them in Uttar Pradesh, then it will be beneficial .. What has not happened ...? Everything must have happened ... Everyone has tried, but this is the leadership of the Bharatiya Janata Party, if they remain in the Opposition, they will remain, but they will remain alive for the idea ... it has been shown by doing.\nIn Gujarat there were three MLAs of the Jana Sangh. In it there was a Harisi Bhai Bhahee, he was closely associated with the Raj families; During the integration of India he was very active, the age was too big. We were close to their people. The very earth ... was very inspiring life. There was an election of Rajya Sabha in Gujarat, that was needed in the elections of that Rajya Sabha, there was such a possibility that if any party would win them all the people. A leader went to meet Harisi Bhai, to say that if you get your three votes if you want sir, then you will get it, he will get it, if he wants, he will get it ... He continued to explain them to fifteen minutes and Harisi Dada told them that if my life, my austerity was found in the soil today, he was shocked, told him ... I am the representative of Harisi, Jana Sangh and your courage to bring this offer to me. ... the defect is not yours ... perhaps ... maybe it is a lack of my penance. You can imagine that so many things are lying in front, and a worker sitting on three corners in one corner ... does not blame the political situation for those ideals, he says maybe .. maybe there is no shortage in my penance It happened, that you dared to come to my door. Well he apologized, the gentleman who went, the gentleman went away. I mean to say that in every corner of the country, the stories of sacrifice, penance and dedication of such militant workers, inspire us all. And this party has not been created due to any leader, this party has not been done due to any Prime Minister, this party has not come due to any Chief Minister, this party has been due to millions of workers, due to their renunciation, and their departure By now we have reached this height today. It is the strength of the same workers, the worker is our ... this change really is an arrangement. She is playing her role in making changes through her life. Today, the construction of this building will be filled with new colors in it, and the new strength will be filled, modernity will be found. We have run the party .. be alive, are not alive ... respecting them all respectfully and giving you all very well.\nThanks a lot"