"\nUnity is the biggest strength of our democracy: PM Modi\nOur existence is due to the people of this country: PM Modi at All Party Meet\nKashmir needs peace and center will provide whatever Kashmiris need for development: PM\nJammu and Kashmir is a symbol of regional and national integrity: PM Modi\nEvery Kashmiri wants to live in harmony and believes in democracy: PM Modi\nPrime Minister of India\nOur Govt has allotted 80 thousand crores for all round development of Kashmir: PM\nIt is very happy to see all our colleagues.\nToday, when we talk of Jammu \u0026 Kashmir, we should talk about four parts of Jammu \u0026 Kashmir: Jammu, Kashmir Valley, Laddakh, and Pak-occupied Kashmir.\nI am thankful to leaders of all political parties for the concerns. The rich traditions nurtured by our democracy for the last six decades have had great strength of unity and integrity of our country We may have some differences on some issues but when it comes to the integrity and sovereignty of the country, we all stand united.\nLike every Indian, I have been deeply hurt by the recent events in Jammu \u0026 Kashmir. It is very sad to see that children are not able to study, apple products are not able to reach the mandis, shopkeepers are not getting their daily income and government offices are not able to implement works of public interest. The poorly\nOur existence They are our strength; sources of our energy; In fact, people's power is a vital part of our public life. Irrespective of whether a civilian or security force is injured or killed, the pain is felt by all of us My deep sympathies are with their families We are committed to provide better healthcare services to the injured; We want to restore peace in the valley at the earliest possible so that people can lead their normal life, can earn their livelihoods, send their children to school and have a sound sleep at night.\nWe are committed to a permanent and peaceful solution. We have a open mind and our doors We are committed to the welfare of every citizen of Jammu \u0026 Kashmir. We have seen the path shown by Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee Ji to find a solution.\nJammu and Kashmir In fact, Jammu and Kashmir is a symbol of age old commitment of equanimity towards all sects, where Hindus, Sikhs, Buddhists and Muslims have been living together for centuries. The state of Jammu and Kashmir is the symbol of our founding fathers' faith which defines us as a Indian in spite of our diversity. J \u0026 K is not only a matter of our territorial integrity but also defines our nationality. We can not deny the fact that the security forces have attacked all types of injuries and have been attacked in the planned way. In spite of all this, our security forces have shown restraint. The figures show that the security personnel have been injured in large numbers.\nEven after misleading propaganda by certain elements in Kashmir, the percentage of those spreading misunderstanding and unrest; and those instigating youth are very low in Kashmir Every Kashmiri wants peace, has faith in Democracy That's why even after intimidations by separatists' elements during every election- which are like festivals of democracy; The Kashmiri public has expressed its faith in Indian Democratic System Even just before the recent disturbances, high voting was cast in the constituency of CM Mehbooba Ji. So, it is far from being a public movement.\nIn some areas, certain restrictions were placed in order to maintain law and order. This is a legal way of maintaining law and order. Otherwise the lives of peace loving people will be affected adversely In reality, a common man was not troubled as much as such prohibitions, as he was troubled by continuous strikes declared by separatists' elements\nDuring this period, the Amarnath pilgrimage was going on nicely. In addition, the state government has continued to work on solar energy in Laddakh region. NEET, CET, UPSC Civil Services Examinations were organized as per schedule. Even all essential commodities were provided to citizens The up-coming period is perfect for tourism Besides, the apple crop is about to arrive, which is the paramount importance for the livelihood of a common Kashmiri. Certain separatist elements taking advantage of this time want to disturb the peaceful environment and peace-loving citizens of Kashmir\nThe fundamental cause of disturbances in Kashmir Valley is cross-border terrorism. Due to terrorism Since the beginning of terrorist activities in Kashmir in 1989-1990, the Security Forces have attained following:\nMore than 34,000 AK 47 Riffles were seized.\nMore than 5000 Grenade launchers were seized.\nAround 90 LMGs were seized.\nMore then 12,000 revolvers were seized.\n3 Anti Tank Guns and 4 Anti Air Crafts Guns were seized.\nMore than 350 missile launchers were seized.\n63,000 kilograms of explosives including RDX and more than one lakh Grenades were seized.\nDuring this period more than 5,000 foreign terrorists were killed\n\nWhen weapons have been seized in such huge numbers, so many foreign terrorists have infiltrated to eliminate people, therefore the world will never accept the false propaganda and Pakistan of the millions of lies.\nPakistan forgets that it bombs its own Citizens by Fighter Planes in its own land Now the time has come that Pakistan will have to deal with the people in the Baluchistan and PoK.\nThe fundamental rights of the people Even our laws against terrorism are more humane, than any other democracy of the world Our government and our security forces have shown\nIndia will fight against terrorism with her full might and resolve It is our national duty To consider India's commitment to the rule of law, as a weakness, will be a mistake by the opponents India is determined to route out terrorism For us 'means and ends' are both important and we are able to adhere to them.\nIt is also a reality that Kashmiri Pandits have been displaced from Kashmir Valley who have been living here for centuries in their ancestral home. This kind of oppression against a particular community is the misdeed of terrorists trained and armed with weapons by Pakistan and their sympathizers, but certainly not the deeds of those who believe in Kashmiriat.\nFor all round development of Jammu and Kashmir, a decision has been taken for a development package of more than Rs. 80 thousand crore in consultation with the State Government. Under this package not only roads and electricity projects have been included but also the development of every region and every section of the society has been kept in mind. This includes better facility for education of children, employment to youths, modern facility for treatment, facilities for promotion of tourism in the state and special facility for fruits in the State.\nIn order to provide employment, the government has decided that 10 thousand Special Police Officers (SPOs), about 1200 Para Military and about 4000 candidates in 5 IR battalions will be recruited. In addition, about 1 lakh 25 thousand people will be trained under UDAN and HIMAYAT scheme so that the unemployed people could get appropriate employment.\nThe PDP-BJP government led by Ms. Mahbooba Mufti is making the best efforts to address During the last one month, Government has tackled the situation very carefully. The whole nation stands with the Government\nI would like to reiterate that the Central and State Governments are committed to address the people's genuine grievances and restore peace in the state. We will strictly deal with the acts of violence, terrorism and anti India activities. At the same time genuine grievances of every person will be heard and addressed.\nI would like to reinforce that all the political parties and countrymen will fight against the United States against terrorism and destructive forces. At a time when terrorism is spreading its wings across the world and when we are surrounded by terrorism instigated by our neighbor, we have to fight together against terrorism. The government has decided to support All political parties while burying their differences will have to cooperate in this matter to restore peace and prosperity in the state. I fully believe that with the efforts of the state government and your full cooperation, we will be able to restore normalcy in Jammu and Kashmir very soon.\nI would like to reiterate about our main steps and policy in respect of Kashmir:\n1) It is the duty of any government to maintain law and order. There will be no compromise with the act of terrorism\n2) In this age, civil society, while integrating with citizen activities, will be promoted as per the democratic traditions.\n3) We will take forward the political process with respect, in accordance with the democratic traditions.\n4) The process of connecting Kashmiri youth with economic activities\n5) The states in which people of Jammu and Kashmir are living, whether they are Hindus, Muslims, Sikhs or Buddhists or any religion, must approach them and should make efforts so that they have close relatives who are in contact with Jumbo \u0026 Kashmir and can apprise them about their own progress and the progress in other states of India\n6) Ministry of External Affairs should make efforts to reach out to the people of the world and collect information about the poor conditions in PoK and bring it into the knowledge of world community.\nI want to thank you for this meeting. I We are all committed to the national spirit that can not be a compromise on India's territorial integrity. Constitution of all sections of the Constitution\nThanks!"