"\nPeople like Chandrashekhar Azad inspire us to work for the nation: PM Modi\nWe have got the chance to live Let us contribute to nation building: PM\nThe country progresses through Jan Shakti, says PM\nEvery Indian wishes to go Kashmir, every Indian loves Kashmir: PM\nUrge the youth of Kashmir to cooperate with Central \u0026 State Governments to take newer heights of progress: PM\nIt is vital for us to stand and act in unison to take the nation forward on the path of development: PM\nThe tricolor binds us together and inspires us\nToday is August Revolution Day. On 8th August, Mahatma Gandhi had called a Hind-Quit to avenge the British, Quit India, against the British, and on 9th August the English sultanate started hitting all over the country's freedom divisions. Today this event is going on for 75 years. And on August 15, the country was liberated, it has been 70 years. And that's why this is an opportunity, we once again remember those freedom festivals, who sacrificed their youth, sacrificed their lives. Because of which we are breathing in freedom today. What we are experiencing is a freedom which is the result of sacrifice, sacrifice and sacrifice of the divan of those freedoms. Our forefathers betrayed our lives, spent life, destroyed their family. Dedicate everything to your country. As a child, it becomes the duty of hundreds of millions of citizens, it is our responsibility to remember all those great men who have given us freedom. We take the great objectives that they fought against the British, to fulfill those great objectives. He had seen Bharat's dream. To fulfill those dreams of fulfilling our dream of fulfilling the dream of India, we must bind ourselves with some kind of responsibility. Every Hindustan has a resolution that I too will do something for the country.\nWhen we remember Tantia Bhil, when we remember Bheema Nayak, when we remember Rana Bakhtiar Singh, when we remember millions of dedicated lives of the country, then we come to the notice that they have a Moments did not even exist. Whether or not they got good luck in reading or writing, but knew fully what it means of freedom and they were ready to loot everything to get it.\nIt is my good fortune that today I got an opportunity to bow my head after coming to the Azad Temple on the birthplace of Chandrasekhar Azad, there was an opportunity to bow. And when we remember such great men, we also get inspiration to do something for the country. Brothers and sisters are many of us who are born after independence. The maximum population of India who have not seen slavery. We are born in Azad Hindustan. Those who fought for freedom, got a chance to die for the country, got an opportunity to sacrifice for the country, the country got the good fortune to loot its family. This good fortune was found to be immortal. We have not got that good luck. But today, when August is celebrating 75 years of revolution, we are preparing to commemorate 70th year of independence, we also have the determination that like the freedom of the people, like Bhima Nayak, like Tantia Bhil, the opportunity to die for the country. Not found, but at least there is a chance to live for the country and our criterion is not that it is great for the nation to sacrifice then it is great. Good luck today is not possible. Today, we have the good fortune to live for the country. The country has got a chance to do something. Are you a village, poor, poor, oppressed, oppressed, exploited, deprived, trying to fulfill those dreams, after fulfilling those dreams, after 70 years of independence, is it not our responsibility that at least Less electricity came to every village in our country.\nBrothers and sisters 70 years, this is not a short time. But even today there are thousands of villages in Hindustan where there is no pillar of power, even the power cable has not reached. Those people who lived in the 18th century had to be forced to spend the same life in the 21st Century. They may also remember when life goes away after the darkness of the evening, then they will remember that the diwali of freedom gave such a sacrifice, when will I get electricity? When I came to the government, brothers and sisters, I asked for a account, tell me what is it? More than 18 thousand villages came out such that the people of the villages who are still in power in the 21st century have not experienced this. Brothers and sisters, I took the initiative that I will send electricity to these 18 thousand villages. On August 15, I announced to the Red Fort that I will try to do this work within a thousand days. I will try to complete the work that was not done in 70 years, in a thousand days. Brothers and sisters have not yet completed even a year and more than half the village work has been completed. Electricity has reached, pillars have taken place, stars appeared, there was a lot in the house, and the child started reading too. Growth, every government attempts to develop. We do not say that in 70 years nobody has done anything, but it should not have been as much as it should have been in 70 years, we are enjoying this trouble. With this I have to bring the country out.\nEven today, our daughters should be deprived of education, school, teachers, or children in the village, but in spite of this, if my studies have not been done, in 70 years of my beloved countrymen, we will resolve that in our village a child school We will not let them out, we will not let them stay outside of studies. We will be reading something or something. Can not my countrymen resolve this? The school is teacher, it is all, the government gives salaries. But even if we do not encourage our children to go to school, even after encouraging them, then my dear brothers and sisters will lag our country. The biggest strength of the country to pursue is the manpower of that country. The money comes in handy, but the country moves forward with manpower, with the power of manpower, with the power of manpower, the manpower of manpower, the dreams of manpower, the sacrifice of manpower, then the country moves forward. And therefore, take the resolve of the 100 million countrymen to take the country forward as Team India ...!\nThe Parliament is going on these days. You will have seen a law of public interest being passed after one. Laws benefiting the public have been getting passed for a long time. Now to implement it, the government head has to join the common man till then, then go and get benefits. Brothers and Sisters Our country's freedom freed the sacrifices of the country, making this country a sujlam-sufalam. Our Kashmir is heaven land for our countrymen. Every Hindustani has a dream that sometimes it has to go to Kashmir. There is a desire to see that paradise land in his mind. But we are seeing what Hindustan loves so much Kashmir, so few people, some misguided people are hurting somewhere in this great tradition of Kashmir. When Atal Bihari Vajpayee was the Prime Minister of the country, the path he had adopted - humanity, cashmere and jamyriyat We are people who are on the same path and I want to tell the brothers and sisters of my Kashmir today through this great holy land of Chandrasekhar Azad, Kashmir has got the same strength as Kashmiri power has given to the Hindus. The freedom that every Indian experiences, the independence of every Kashmiri is also fortunate. We want to take Kashmir to new heights of development. We want to give every panchayat a power in Kashmir. We want to provide employment opportunities for the young generation in Kashmir. And I congratulate the Government of Jammu and Kashmir that despite the intentions of some people, Amarnath Yatra is going on with Ana, Bahan, Shan. Millions of people are traveling to Amarnath. New projects of solar-energy are being run on the land of Ladakh. Peace, unity, goodwill in Kashmir, and especially I call upon the youth of Kashmir, come to my friends, let us all together, make Kashmir a world of paradise, take this dream and walk.\nBrothers and sisters sometimes suffer. Children in the hands of the children, in the hands of the young people, children who have a laptop in hand. Children should have a ball of balls in the hands of a ball of ball, cricket should be bat, gardens should have fun games, book should be in hand, dreams should be in mind, today stones are handed in the hands of such innocent children. Some people's politics will go on, but what will happen to these naive kids? What will happen to these naive kids? And so humanity, Kashmiri will not be allowed to stain it. It will not be hurt. There is a path to Jammuriyat, the path of dialogue, the path of dialogue, the way of the principles of democracy.\nThe festival of freedom is going to celebrate the day. I would also like to say in the name of any Maoist in the country, in the name of any militancy, young guns coming out on the shoulder. How much blood was shed, how many innocents were lost, but did anyone find anything? Let's take the gun off the shoulder, solve the farm, it will be red soil, greenery. This country will become Sujlam-Sufalam.\nThe plight of Kashmir, the brothers and sisters on one side, we are those people, under the leadership of Mehbooba ji, be the government of Jammu and Kashmir or our government is sitting in Delhi. We are those people who are searching for a way to problems of our problems on the path of development. And those people who are not digested by the development, they are sitting on the path of destruction only. I also thank the political parties of the country, in particular I express my gratitude to the Congress Party that on the issue of Kashmir, all the political parties of India in a very mature way, in a completely patriotic environment, Has made efforts to solve Even today, all the political parties of India are speaking in a voice about Kashmir, are determined to go in one direction. And this is the strength of Hindustan, which is the power of Hindustan. By taking that power, we want to move forward. Kashmir wants peace. Rosemary earns on the basis of the normal human tourism of Kashmir. Those who used to visit Amarnath also used to go to Srinagar and there was a tourism work for the roti and roti. Apple's season will start in the coming days. The apple of whole of India remains lazy to eat. My Kashmir brothers and sisters, this should reach your apple India, you should get the money that you have cultivated, your money should be run, your market should run. The government of India is standing with you for the help you need for it. Doctor, become a lawyer, be an engineer, a professor, a farmer, a businessman, a farmer of fruits, you have to do your business, run your employment.\nGovernment of Jammu and Kashmir, Government of Delhi, all the political parties of Hindustan and all the hundred crore Hindus all want your good wishes, you want your well-being and want to give whatever you have to give to your development. Always ready for If there is less than two kilometers in the way, then it will run, but we will not let your way down.\nBrothers and sisters, we have gone through the mantra of development and remembering the sacrifices of freedom, there is no dearth of people who have died for the country even on Kashmir's land. Brothers and sisters from Kashmir, Kumari Kumari Aasetu, Himachal, this whole of India became one and died for the dreams of freedom. Today is the need of the hour that we have a chance to take a dream in the form of a country and move forward to reach the destination of the height by taking a resolution, setting a path.\nIn the coming days, tri-color trips across the country are going to run. This tricolor travel, this tricolor flag connects us all. This tricolor flag reminds of heroic sacrifices. This Tricolor flag inspires India's fortune to change. What is bigger than the tricolor flag for us? By taking that tricolor flag, in the 70 years of independence, village-village, alley-street once again the tide of patriotism went on. If there is no end to the country, the confidence to do something for the country is to be born, to create this atmosphere and I believe that my beloved countrymen, 70 years of entire India's independence, will create a new excitement, new excitement, new consciousness in the country To move forward with full force.\nToday I got an opportunity to come here and I congratulate the Chief Minister of Madhya Pradesh, the district officials, and every heart of the government of the small government very much from the heart. Because I have seen water while lying on the floor and how you worked in such a difficult situation, I have great anxiety in my mind. Sometimes there is concern that none of you become sick, because you have worked night and day, then it would have been possible by going. But Chandrashekhar Azad is such an inspiration that you must have left sleep, worked in the rain, even if the food was not available at such a small place, it would have worked and this is the inspiration for the country. And this is the strength of the country.\nToday I congratulate the heart of India's team of all those who have worked hard for the country in India at Chandrasekhar Azad's birth place. I congratulate you very much. I also salute Janata Janardan. I see you are all standing in water. जमीन नहीं दिखती है, सब दूर पानी ही पानी था, लेकिन पानी में खड़े रह करके देश की आजदी के दिवानों को याद करने के लिए आना, चंद्रशेखर आजाद को इससे बड़ी श्रद्धांजलि क्‍या हो सकती है। और निमित चंद्रशेखर आजाद है, लेकिन आप लोग जो इस प्रकार से कष्‍ट झेल करके आए हैं यह नमन हिंदुस्‍तानभर के लाखों भर के आजादी के दिवानों के लिए है। जो अंडमान-निकोबार की जेलों में जिंदगी काटते थे, उनके लिए है जो फांसी के तख्‍़ते पर चढ़ जाते थे, उनके लिए है जो जवानी जेलों में खपा देते थे, उनके लिए है जो लोग जीवनभर समाज कल्‍याण करते-करते आजादी का मंत्र गूंजा रहे थे, उनके लिए है, जो अहिंसा के रास्‍ते पर चलते थे, उनके लिए है जो सशस्‍त्र क्रांति के मार्ग पर चल रहे थे, उनके लिए है, यह नमन उन सभी महान पुरूषों के लिए है, जिन्‍होंने हमें आजादी दि   ायी है। I bow to you. आपका अभिनंदन करता हूं। Thanks a lot."