"Share\n\nGST is a \"Great Step by Team India, a Great Step towards Transformation and a Great Step towards Transparency\": PM Modi\nPassage of GST is a victory not for any political party, but for ethos of Indian democracy: PM Modi\nConsensus over GST is proving that Rashtraneeti is above is Rajneeti: PM Narendra Modi\nWith GST, we intend to bring uniformity in taxation, make consumers the king: PM\nGST will help reduce corruption in collection: PM Modi\nSmall businesses will gain tremendously from GST and will feel more secure: PM\nGovernment is focusing on economic and educational empowerment of poor to reduce poverty: PM\nToday is 8th August. The bugle of the August Revolution was played on August 8 and Mahatma Gandhi had left India with this mantra, stirring the entire movement of freedom with a great intensity. And on 9th August, a lot of oppression was put on the dioceses of freedom. Today, August 8, 75 years are happening. Recalling those devonors of all freedom, today, on August 8, the release of Tax Terrorism ... an important step in that direction. Our Parliament is going to take a very big step by joining all the MPs of both the houses.\nThere is a situation of taxation in our country. Perhaps some people will know. There was an issue in the Supreme Court regarding tax and the topic came to the fact that coconut is considered to be fruit that is considered to be a vegetable. Taxes on the basis of coconut on the basis of the tax that the tax on the basis of tax is tax free. The matter went to the Supreme Court. So our old tradition of tax has been. How the fluctuations have come in it. To understand this, this incident is enough in itself.\nI am standing here to thank all the political parties of all the political parties in this way, thanks to the governments which are going on.\nWe are making such a decision in which the Rajya Sabha, the Lok Sabha, the state of 29, and because some of the prominent leaders have come out victorious. Such 90 political parties, all of them, gave us a broad churning by churning the ideas and delivering it to us today and to whom we will be stamped for the final decision after some time. And so it is true that no one should give birth, no one should follow them.\nSomebody gave birth to Krishna, someone made Krishna big but it is also true that this is not the victory of any government of any party. This is the victory of the high traditions of India's democracy. This is the victory of all political parties. It is also before and all the current governments have contributed and therefore who has won the one who does not believe in me, no dispute is needed.\nAnd therefore GST means Great Step by Team India, GST means Great Step Towards Transformation, GST means Great Step Towards Transparency and so we are going through a new system.\nThis is the dream of every one of India-the best India. When we look at the railway side of an India. The experience of an India comes. When we see our post office, the experience of an India comes. When we see all India Civil Services. The smell of an India comes. We look at the IPC, CRPC. So we get an identity of India. When today we talk about India net. Talk about Digital India. Talk about the sea garland. All these activities are an India. In this connection, we give strength and give strength, and in the same series today, GST is a new pearl we are wearing in this garland, which gives strength to the spirit of India. This is not just tax system. All the states and the Center should develop a system that will have small states or a bigger state, and this arrangement will be made for everyone. It is a matter of strength to India and in that sense, I understand its importance.\nSometimes there were doubts about GST. When I was the Chief Minister, I was also very skeptical in my mind too. I also discussed it with Pranab Mukherjee Sahib many times. And after seeing GST as a Chief Minister, it has been easy for me to address those issues after becoming Prime Minister. That experience has come to me. And because of that, the states at which time we could not address address. Some things can not be exposed because some things go awry. All these things are due to such a long collective churning and only my contribution is not so, it is all contributing. We have succeeded in removing many shortcomings. And this is the result of the collective brainstorming, yet it is true that we can be perfect too. There can be no shortage. There will be no shortfall in the future. At least one person can not do such a cowardly. And so, so many of the brains that have been tried have been tried. Have tried to do good. And the result of that effort will also be found. And today the country is experiencing that a platform, a vote, a path, a mantra, these mantras, we all have experienced all this effort of GST. And so it is true that in the mathematics in the Rajya Sabha, this bill could have come in crisis. It is also true that the states had an atmosphere of mistrust against the Center. Because of their experiences - was due to their experiences. And this was the greatest need that there was a trust between the states and the center. The biggest requirement was that this is not a decision based on the majority. We do not want anything and I have said earlier in this House that democracy can not be just a game of majority. This is the figure of consent. This is the figure of consent. And when the figure of consent will go further. And this we have been continuously discussing. Today our Maulvi Saheb felt very bad that this house is called Junior House. People who use this type of words. Your message will definitely reach those people. It will be difficult to change whether it will change or not, but it will reach. But- But when I called the respected Soniaji for the discussion. The respected Manmohan Singh had called. From a Lok Sabha to a Rajya Sabha, I had discussed the issue of GST giving importance to both of them. And that's why we have been trying to accept the suggestions of everyone. We know that the atmosphere of an unprecedented agreement has arisen. And one power from it arises. That power is a huge amount of money for the state. We are all linked to different political ideas. Politics is in the eyes of people and in our talks. It is also very natural to come somewhere. But in the discussion of this whole GST we saw that the holy place none of us allowed it to become a platform for politics. These national podium consider national interests as paramount.\nThis is one of the brightest aspects of India's democracy. There is a nation policy above politics. This thing does not mean that we all have a meeting, no one will complain about it. Not necessarily will complain. There are some people sitting here who would think that maybe it would have been better to do this instead. It would be nice if the full stop was here instead of the coma. This is to stay. This is the power of democracy. But in spite of that, all of us have tried to move forward.\nDue to the arrangement of this GST, we are seeing the possibility of great simplicity. Today we know that filling out forms of different forms in each state is such a long process. And also government officials will also check these papers, this uniformity will also come in it. Within the tax history, it is going to have a direct result inside the rate of tax inside its processing and its result. This message is going to go very clear. The biggest feature of Consumer is a King GST is that it is going to get a clean message. Ultimately Consumer is a King and a law Make a system Consumer to be king, I think there is a huge contribution in itself.\nToday, after this GST, my style is different from 7 to 11, which are different tax systems. As a result, small entrepreneurs have to fight the trader. Due to this, such heavy tax practices will be eliminated from seven to 11, 12, 13. A simplification will come and small entrepreneurs will also benefit from this and the consumer is going to get the most benefit. GSTs are small producers. Guarantees them safety. And these are small entrepreneurs in our country's economyy drive. They are a huge force. The more we safeguard them. The more I understand that due to this there is a lot of benefit. We know there will be different aspects of the advancement of the economy.\nI think in a small way that if we focus on five things to run the economy faster in order to run the economy smoothly, Man, Machine, Material, Money and Minute - their optimum utility If our arrangements in doing this go ahead, the economy will not have to find any new opportunities to grow.\nToday we see that because of our taxpayer practice, in the middle of the state, where there are two boarders, there are taxpayers. We see queues up to miles. Machine vehicles inside our country and it is anticipated that these are the means of moving in our country, they only utilize 40% of their capacity. 60% of them have to stop somewhere.\nAn economically researched research agency has justified its survey that due to these reasons, there is a windage of one lakh forty thousand crore rupees in India. Just because of their stay There is no taxation of Sarah in all the role. But a huge amount is just taxing. Due to GST, all these hurdles, and types, they will come out in time. But due to its environment the environment will benefit. The carts that stand, which keeps on burning the petrol, the diesel burns. It is late in reaching a lot of our goods from one place to another. All these things are going to create a huge facility and due to which the simplification is coming, and due to which we bring our country such a big petroleum from abroad. That will also reduce us. And in a way, we do not have all kinds of power. Each state has an inter-dependent relationship with each other. If someone has to take one thing, then another state has to give it. Then they go and run their business. And in today's arrangements it creates a great stir. The difficulties that are due to this arrangement will help to overcome those difficulties. The income of such states will increase.\nToday, the state which is considered backward state in our country. It is a guarantee that due to this arrangement, their income increases. And because of this, if these states have to invest in education, if money is to be invested in the sports sector, if money is to be invested in infrastructure, the income which is going to increase due to this arrangement for them. Such income is going to be bigger than those states. And it is certain that the development we are seeing in the West for the development of India. First of all, the Eastern part of Hindustan should bring it immediately in its equal footing. Otherwise this unbalanced development can cause the country to interfere with reaching new heights at high speed. Due to GST, such states got a new opportunity. And I will request such states today that after the GST is implemented, they will have the maximum benefit. The money that came to them will give strength to the fundamental things of the state. Seeing the country, the dreams which the people are watching. We will be able to fulfill those dreams. This is true due to GST that there are some problems facing manufacturing states. Consumer States are going to get more profit. But the Government of India has made provision in GST to compensate them through GST. And the benefit of this is to the states only. His solution is also going to be in this.\nUsually, if there is a fight between two brothers. In the middle of brother-in-law, either property may be due. The tension between the states and the center is mostly either with natural resources, or it stays with the property. Why do we give us so much time that we should get it? We should get it. Due to this arrangement a transparency will come. How much money is being collected from the center and the state. How much is being deposited in the treasury. This state will also know, the Center will also know. And depending on which rules it will be split. And because of that, the biggest requirement is in the Federal Structure. This new system is in the form of a very large catalytic agent to create these beliefs. Which is going to strengthen India's federal structure. And whatever tax collection this will be. Both of them will be in the information. Due to which many facilities are going to grow.\nIt would have been nice that our Khadga ji saw some things in the deal closely. Probably did not have the opportunity to see at the time the time would have been created. But I'll never tell.\nThis GST bill is such that there are so many things used for the poor. They are all out of the scope of tax. About 55% of food and essential medicines are out of GST in the item for determining Consumer Inflation.\nDue to this arrangement sometimes how some things are beneficial. We are aware that in our country, revenue or fiscal deficit was always one of them. And all went together to the law of a FRBM. States also accepted the matter for financial discipline.\nThe Center also created pressure. And in a way, due to the FRBM law in India there has been a synergy between both revenues and deficit and a balanced effort. And due to this, the economics of states have changed a lot in his Economy Health. There has been a positive change.\nThis government has made an important decision in law. And by law I am saying it is of great importance. And the law has taken this decision. There is a big discussion in our country, the RBI's thinking is one and the government's thinking is second. And always, growth and inflation are seen by connecting with each other and it always happens that Bhai Inflation is so that this situation of interest rate will remain. Investment rate will remain if Investment will not come. If the investment does not come then We have come to hear all this controversy.\nपहली बार इस सरकार ने कानूनन रिजर्व बैंक के साथ कहा है। अब Inflation 4 प्रतिशत स्थिर करना चाहिए, 2 परसेंट प्लस माइनस। कानूनन कहा है। और ये 2021 तक ये रहेगा। और इसके कारण अब सब जितनी भी फाइनांस से जुड़ी हुई इंस्टिट्यूशन है, उनका Inflation के संबंध में एक जिम्मेवारी बनने वाली है। पहली बार ये कानूनन किया गया है। और उसका लाभ मैं समझता हूं कि आने वाले दिनों में हमारे टैक्स collection सिस्टम , हमारा जो मनी बल्क है। उस बल्क का डेवलपमेंट के लिए उपयोग करने की दिशा में और अधिक जिम्मेवारी बढ़ेगी और माहौल बदलेगा ऐसा मेरा पूरा विश्वास है। ये बात सही है देश आजाद हुआ आज तक हम गरीबी से लड़ रहे हैं। और जब कोई कहता है 65 प्रतिशत लोग गरीबी के नीचे हैं, ये विरासत हमें मिली है हमें मालूम है। लेकिन कुछ अच्छा मिलता है तो कुछ कम अच्छा मिलता है दोनों स्वीकार करना पड़ता है। अब हमारे भाग्य में देश की गरीबी हमारे नसीब में आई कैसे। लेकिन गरीबी के खिलाफ लड़ने की इच्छा हम सबकी है और यहां बैठे हुए इस पार हों उस पार हों सबकी है। तरीके अलग – अलग हो सकते हैं। हमारी कोशिश है कि Economically Empowerment of the poor , educational Empowerment of the poor ये दो ऐसी चीजें जिसके माध्यम से हम एक ऐसी गरीबों की फौज तैयार कर सकते हैं जो स्वयं गरीबी को समाप्त करके विजयी होने के लिए सर खड़ा कर के निगल सके। और इसलिए जीएसटी इस माहौल को तैयार करने में एक बहुत बड़ा प्लेटफॉर्म बन सकता है। और जिसके लिए गरीबी के खिलाफ लड़ने के लिए भी ये हमें काम आ सकता है। हम जानते हैं छोटे उद्यमकार बैंकों में लोन लेने जाते हैं तो कितनी दिक्कत होती है। हम कोशिश कर रहे हैं ये पुरानी आदतो में बदलाव लायें इसके लिए। लेकिन अब इतने सालों की आदतें कैसे बदलेगी मेहनत तो कर रहे हैं। लेकिन ये सच्चाई है कि काफी बुरी आदतें पड़ी हुई है। छोटे उद्यमकार बैंक में अगर लोन लेंगें तो पचासों कागज मांगेंगे या कागज को Question करेंगे, Question कर के रिजेक्ट करेंगे। और उनके पसंदीदे लोगों को वो पैसे देंगे। जीएसटी के कारण हर व्यक्ति का आर्थिक कारोबार का खाका certified रूप में every minute available होगा। वो जब बैंक को उस खाके को रखेगा, किसी बैंक के पास डिस्क्रिमिनेशन करने की कोई ताकत नहीं होगी। जिसको लोन लेना है वो लोन ले। गरीब से गरीब व्यक्ति को भी एक ऐसा सबूत सामान्य मानवी के हाथ में आने वाला है। जिस सुबूत के माध्यम से वो सामान्य कारोबार करने वाला व्यक्ति भी दूध बेचने वाला हो, चाय बेचने वाला हो, नाई हो, अखबार बेचने वाला हो छोटा व्यक्ति भी वो अपनी चीजों को लेकर के इस काम कर सकता है और इसलिए जीएसटी का सबसे बड़ी ताकत है technology और उसके कारण real time data available होगा। और जब real time data available होता है। तो व्यक्तियों को अपनी ताकत अपनी क्षमता उसको सुबूत के रूप में पेश करने में कभी कोई दिक्कत नहीं आती है। और उसके कारण उसको चीज का लाभ मिल सकता है।\nइसके कारण सहज रूप से जब धन की उपलब्धी होती है, तो एक प्रतिस्पर्धा भी आती है। manufacturing की प्रतिस्पर्धा की संभावना बनती है। और manufacturing की प्रतिस्पर्धा बढ़ती है तब अर्थ रचना को गति मिलती है। नए लोगों के लिए रोजगार उत्पन्न होते हैं। और इस व्यवस्था के कारण money flow बढ़ने के कारण रोजगार की संभावनाएं भी बढ़ने के लिए इस व्यवस्था के तहत पूरा अवसर मिलने वाला है। हमारे देश में निवेश बढ़ाने की दृष्टि से GSDP ratio ये हमेशा एक question mark के साथ चलता रहा है। इस नई व्यवस्था के कारण ये सवालिया निशान हमेशा-हमेशा के लिये मिट जाएगा।\nऔर इसके कारण राज्य भी अपने निर्णय कर के विकास के Infrastructure के, social सैक्टर की मदद करने के, सारी बातों को तेज गति से आगे बढ़ा सकते हैं। और मैं समझता हूं कि इसको बढ़ा पाएंगे।\nकभी कभार हम लोग भ्रष्टाचार के खिलाफ बहुत कुछ कहते हैं। लेकिन भ्रष्टाचार को खत्म करने के लिए व्यवस्थाओं को भी उतना ही मजबूत बनाना पड़ता है। व्यक्ति अच्छा ही करेगा इस विश्वास के साथ इतनी बड़ी बातें चल नहीं सकती अगर व्यवस्थाएं ठीक होती तो गलत इंसान को भी व्यवस्थित रहने के लिए मजबूर होना पड़ता है।\nइस जीएसटी के कारण जो टैक्स चोरी करने की जो बातें होती हैं। हम जानते हैं हमारे यहां कच्चा बिल और पक्का बिल ये शब्द traders में बड़ा पोप्युलर है। कच्चा बिल और पक्का बिल। जीएसटी के कारण व्यापारी स्वयं प्रेरित होगा पक्के बिल के लिए। इसलिए जैसे अगर मानों हमारा हेल्थ इंसोरेंश है। अगर हेल्थ इंसोरेंश है, तो हम क्या करते हैं। हमारे सारे मेडिकल बिल बराबर संभाल कर रखते हैं। कहीं इधर उधर न जाए क्यों, क्योंकि हमें मालूम है की वो सारा रहेगा तब जाकर के मैं क्लेम कर पाऊंगा। तब जाकर के मुझे पैसे मिलेंगे। जीएसटी में वो व्यवस्था है कि जो भी व्यक्ति है जो अपने बिल प्रस्तुत करेगा। उसके खरीद की जितनी चीजें थी उसका रिफंड मिल जाएगा। और इसलिए ये जो पुरानी जो हैं कच्चे – पक्के की दुनिया एक प्रकार से काले धन को भी मोबिलाइज करती है। इस पर ये पूरी तरह रोक लगा दी। पूरी तरह ये बंद हो जाएगा। ये एक प्रकार से भ्रष्टाचार से काले धन दोनों को समाप्त करने में ये व्यवस्था काम आने वाली है। और उसकी दिशा में हमलोग प्रयास कर रहे हैं और मैं समझता हूं इसको लाभ मिलेगा।\nहम जानते हैं कि हमारे देश में टैक्स collection के पीछे बहुत बड़ी फौज लगी रहती है। ऊपर से नीचे तक और collection का cost भी बढ़ता जा रहा है। इस व्यवस्था के कारण सभी ऑनलाइन होने के कारण टैक्नॉलॉजी आधारित होने के कारण हमें cost of collection में बहुत कमी आएगी। जो पैसे देश के गरीब व्यक्ति विकास के भलाई के लिए काम आएंगे। उसी प्रकार से जहां पर भी सरकारी व्यवस्थाओं को interference का अवसर मिलता है। तो कहीं न कहीं से करप्शन की बू आना शुरू हो जाती है।\nये एक ऐसी व्यवस्था विकसित हो रही है जिस व्यवस्था के कारण भ्रष्टाचार इस पूरी collection प्रक्रिया में जीरो की तरफ जाएगा। और उसके कारण भी देश को भ्रष्टाचार मुक्त बनाने की दिशा में हमें अवसर मिलेगा। यहां डाटा integration होने वाला है। यानी कच्चे माल से लेकर के अंतिम product तक हर जगह पर वो कहीं न कहीं ऑनलाइन रजिस्टर होके जाने वाला है। और इसलिए नेचुरअल क्रॉस में क्रॉस चैकिंग की व्यवस्था है। और क्रॉस चैकिंग की व्यवस्था होने के कारण कहीं पर भी चोरी तुरंत पकड़ी जाती है। कहीं भी कुछ गलत हुआ है, गलती हुआ है पकड़ी जाती है। और उसके कारण एक प्रकार की seamless व्यवस्था। इस seamless व्यवस्था हमें लाभ करेगी। एक ऐसी व्यवस्था विकसित हो रही है। जिसमें tax payer और tax collector इनके बीच का human interface करीब करीब जीरो हो जाएगा। उसके कारण इतना दोगे तो तुम्हारा काम पूरा हो जाएगा। इतना करोगे तो पूरा हो जाएगा। वो आएगा तो ये होगा। ये सारी चीजों से भारत का सामान्य मानवी मुक्त हो जाएगा। और उसकी दिशा में, मैं समझता हूं कि हमें बहुत बड़ा लाभ मिलने वाला है। जीएसटी के कारण एक प्रकार से टैक्स पेयर का व्यवस्था ही ऐसी बन रही है कि जिसमें उसको ईमानदारी से मुनाफा होता है। जितना वो देगा उसे पता चलेगा मुझे इतना मिलने वाला है। और उसके कारण इन चीजों को हम काले धन को रोकने में भी सफल होंगे।\nराज्य और केन्द्र के टैक्स के आंकड़ें एक ही जगह पर उपलब्ध होंगे और रजिस्ट्रेशन हो रिटर्न हो टैक्स पेमेंट की डीजिटल व्यवस्था हो। ये सारी चीजें। ऑनलाइन होने के कारण transparency के लिये एक बहुत बड़ा प्लेटफॉर्म हम इसमें पा सकते हैं और पाएंगे।\nआगे की दृष्टि से अरुण जी हमारे सामने रखेंगे। हमारे लिए आज जो यहां मतदान करते हैं इस पवित्र कार्य को पूरा करेंगे। लेकिन 16 से अधिक राज्य जितना जल्दी इसको पारित करें। ये आवश्यक होगा। उसके बाद भी कई सवैंधानिक व्यवस्थाएं हमको पूरी करनी होगी। और भी कई कानून सेन्ट्रल जीएसटी है इंटिग्रेटिड जीएसटी है, स्टेट जीएसटी है ये सारे कानून हमें पारित करने होंगे। लेकिन इन सारी प्रक्रियाओं के लिए आज एक दरवाजा खुल रहा है। और हम एक शुभ शुरुआत के साथ हम आगे बढ़ रहे हैं। और उसका परिणाम मैं समझता हूं कि आने वाले दिनों में हमें मिलने वाला है।\nये भी सही है कि हम लोगों को, क्योंकि नया विषय होता है तो लोगों को शिक्षा भी जरूरी होती है। IT preparedness की जरूरत है। Legal preparedness की आवश्यकता है। टैक्स ऑथोरिटी ऑफिसर्स की preparedness की आवश्यकता है। Consumer के भी preparedness के लिए हमें काम करना पड़ेगा और तब जाकर के हम इस काम को कर पाएंगे।\nमेरा कहने का तात्पर्य यह है दुनिया में लोकतंत्र के जो बड़े माहिर देश माने जाते हैं। लोकतंत्र की दृष्टि से दुनिया को उपदेश देने का जो सामर्थ रखते हैं। ऐसे देशों में भी फाइनेन्स बिल जैसी महत्वपूर्ण बातें भी कभी –कभी करा पाना बड़ा मुश्किल जाता है। ये हिन्दुस्तान है ये भारत का लोकतंत्र है। ये भारत के लोगों की maturity है। ये भारत के राजनेताओं का दूरदृष्टि है कि आज हम वैचारिक विरोधों और राजनीतिक मातृभूमि अलग होने के बावजूद भी इस महान कार्य को एक स्वर से कर रहे हैं। साथ मिलकर के कर रहे हैं। ये अपने आप में भारत की लोकतंत्र की बहुत बड़ी ताकत है। एक perception जो भी बाहर बनता हो। लेकिन आज में इस सदन के सामने बड़े गर्व के साथ नम्रता के साथ और सभी राजनीतिक दलों का सम्मान करते हुए गौरव करते हुए इस सदन में जहां भी बैठेंगे होंगे, आप सामने बैठे हों, neutral बैठे हो लेकिन हम इस बात के लिए गर्व कर सकते हैं कि इस सरकार को करीब सौ सप्ताह से ज्यादा समय हुआ है। लेकिन इन सौ सप्ताह से ज्यादा समय में इसी सदन ने सौ से ज्यादा कानून पारित किये century पार कर दी। यही तो इस सदन की ताकत है। और यही देश के लोगों में एक नया विश्वास जगाते हैं। और इस काम के लिए सबकी सकारात्मक भूमिका रही है।\nसब अभिनन्दन के अधिकारी हैं। और मैंने जब ऑल पार्टी मीटिंग हुई थी तब भी कहा था कि इसका यश सबको जाता है। सभी सदस्यों को जाता है। सभी राजनीतिक दलों को जाता है। लगातार जिन जिन लोगों ने प्रयास किया है। उन सबको जाता है और मुझे मेरे अपने विचार रखने के लिए अवसर मिला। मैं अध्यक्ष महोदया जी का, सदन का हृदय से बहुत बहुत आभार व्यक्त करता हूं। और हम सब मिलकर के इस कदम की ओर आगे बढ़ें। यही शुभकामनाएं देता हूं। Thanks a lot."