"Share\n\nThe Center and States are now working together to fulfill the objective of cooperative federalism: PM\nOnly resources can not lead to success of initiatives;\nNew thermal plant in Telangana will help revive shortage of electricity supply in the state: PM\nNew railway lines have been laid to connect regions of Telangana to whole India: PM\nFertilizer unit in Telangana will cater to farmers needs; give boost to agriculture sector in the state: PM\nIndia is a diverse country PM Modi\nSolutions to all issues lie in development: PM Modi\nA large number of my brothers and sisters in front of me\nThis is my first visit after my dear brothers sisters became Telangana and Telangana is the youngest state in India. Just two years have passed. But in the short life of two years, for Telangana to fulfill the mass aspirations, I have taken the steps that have been taken for the needs of the common people. I believe that the intention of Telangana was made by the people of Telangana, the government of Telangana Will be able to complete. It is my belief.\nToday I had a vision of Panchashakti. There was an opportunity to join this Panchashakti, which also has water, there is light, there is also transportation, together with five projects and that also together with the Government of India and the Telangana government and that is the Cooperative Federalism. At one time India had always used the language of tension between the center and the state. Today it is time that the Center and the State are working together to bring India to the new heights of shoulder to shoulder. After the independence of Parliament, the biggest economic reform work was done. In it, Mr. Chandra Shekhar Rao and his party supported him a lot. I express their gratitude for this.\nToday I see here that the government of India and Telangana should work on electricity, work of fertilizer, rail work, work of water, together, are stepping in the direction of growing up. This is the path that will lead the country. And I will say one thing. Every time I have met Chandrasekhar Rao as Chief Minister, every time he talked about the development of Telangana. Every time he talked about water, being so emotional, he used to talk. It seemed that the water had become a huge mission of his life. Once came to me, \"Modiji sent my team to Gujarat. And how did you get water in Kutch? He went to study. And where-there is a good work of water. I'm studying it. And I will make a long-term plan for drinking water in whole of Telangana and will bring water from home. \"\nSome people think that all the plans are successful from the resources. It is true that resources seem to be started. But success does not get success from the resources only, and when the resolution happens, then the mass becomes additive and then the achievements are achieved. Today the work has begun. But I believe the work will go forward.\nGovernment of India has also dreamed. Prime Minister Agriculture Irrigation Scheme If our country's farmer gets water, then he has the power to produce gold from soil. And therefore, to bring water to the whole country is a major work where-where there are water resources, where-where is the catchment area-where is the command area and there are schemes stuck for years. In the past, we have decided these plans in the Cabinet. In the coming days, the country will play an important role in bringing water to the farmers of the country. India's Agriculture Sector of India is our economic power. To emphasize that strength, we are focusing on priority basis. But I would like to say that the people of Telangana should also tell the countrymen. When there is water, we never understand the value of water. If you are very thirsty and do not see anything far enough, then what happens to a human being? When water does not happen then it shows up. But when there is water, the most apathy is towards him. And so this is our civil religion that we must save water. If water prevents water will reach and if water reaches then a new life is attained. And so how to save water every drop of rain.\nIf any one of you had the good fortune to visit the place of birth of Porbandar Mahatma Gandhi, then I request you to ever get a chance to go and once again see where Mahatma Gandhi was born, you will bow down and also offer flowers . But there was no system in every household to save rain water 200 years ago. What was the water of the water in the ground? Do not waste water throughout the year. What was the technology for him? The 200-year-old system will go to see Mahatma Gandhi's birth place even today. 200 years ago there was no water crisis. Even at that time our people understood the importance of water and today the whole world is going through the water crisis. Then our obligation increases even more. And therefore, there should not be any pleasure to get water under this scheme. The burden of liability should also be increased to handle water like offerings. Then going will be the benefit.\nToday the foundation stone of an electric factory is done. An electricity factory was inaugurated. The states which once struggled with the lack of electricity There was a shortfall. Today I can say with pride that the Government of India and our Piyush Goyal and his ministry have created such a situation in two years that such states which were troubled due to lack of electricity have been made as power surplus state. If the intention is good, if it is intended to meet the needs of the common man, then the solutions of problems also come out. And now Piyushji was telling me that if Telangana had to buy electricity earlier then one unit would have cost around eleven rupees eleven rupees. Eleven eleven rupees of sister units of the unit were re-processed in the way the government of India today. Increased power generation.\nSpending in Transition Line Sarah did a decent business. The result is that the power unit which was found sometime ago was found in eleven rupees eleven rupees. Today, I am getting this date for one rupee ten paise today. How much money will the state treasure be left? Money will come in the state treasury, how much work will be done for the good of the people of the state. You can do it well. So in the power of the brothers sisters we are focusing on Nuclear Power. Are focusing on Hydro. Stressing on Solar. Because water, light is the most important necessity of life. And both things are met with contradiction. Water also comes with the grace of God and light also comes with the grace of the sun god and therefore stressed on Solar Energy.\nI was just talking to the Chief Minister to tell that the water you use to deliver is attached to Solar Energy. So that the full use of water delivery will be free from the cost of electricity. So it will be facilitated in making economically viable. There was a time, in the country there was less than one thousand MW Solar Energy. Within less than a thousand, within two years, it has more than three thousand megawatts. How fast the speed of the work is How big is Quantum of work You can guess it.\nThe railway line you have been demanding here for many years today. Today, the rail line is going on. How many prime ministers did they come? Come also out of your own Every time every MP demanded from every government for this railway line. But the railway line was never seen far and wide. Connectivity is very important for development in today's era. The financial form of infrastructure is. And that's why we are planning to make economic development all over the country and further by adding rail connectivity. At first, the situation of the train was such that four MPs gathered and sounded a bit, then the railway minister would say it is okay to give you a box. We found four MPs and found that they would give you a stops here. The train runs like this. We made a radical change. Considering the economic development of the country. Keeping in mind the requirements of the general public. We nationalize rail, we want to move forward. And today under the scheme, there was a long demand of the project of Telangana, we are completing it today. And I believe if any obstruction does not come, then this railway project will also be completed in the time limit. And today's requirements for the public have its foundation stone for the first time and the first Fertilizer factory in the history of Telangana.\nThere is no factory of fertilizer near Telangana. The farmer needs urea. The farmer needs to eat. If fertilizer is not produced, then increasing demand for fertilizer is a growing demand for fertilizer. We can not fulfill it. Earlier, such announcements would give such subsidy to Fertilizer to please the farmers. In newspapers, it was printed. Elections would go out. Politicians were used to work. But my farmer used to stay there right there. Why subsidy was announced but if fertilizer is not available then where will the subsidy be found? This is the business. Brothers sisters have stressed that the farmer has to deliver the fertilizer. And who was forced to buy Fertilizer in Black Marketing in BlackBazaar. Urea was forced to buy In some states, people had to stand in line to buy Fertilizer from night and night. Sometimes the police used to charge the sticks. And even then Fertilizer did not get it. And when I became Chief minister, the letter of the Chief Ministers, the first letter I got, what was the letter that the sahaj season is lacking urea. Give our state so much urea Almost all the states wrote letters to Urea for the Prime Minister. Today I can say with great satisfaction. Today, I can say by bowing in front of my farmer's sisters, that for the last two years, no Chief Minister had to write a letter for urea.\nWe have brought a new revolution in the field of Fertilizer under the leadership of our Mr. Anant Kumar ji. Neem coating urea This strength has come in the urea due to this. Which benefits the land which does good for the land. Due to neem coating, the strength has come in urea. Because of which the urea was stolen. And went into the chemical factories. Subsidy's bill was cracked In the name of the farmers, some people's pocket subsidy went on. And Fertilizer reaches cheap prices in chemical factories. They used to make their own chemical and sell them in the world. The farmer poorly used to stay there right there. Due to neem coating, now a gram urea can not be used for any chemical factory. Corruption was also done, stolen, government treasures were looted, that too closed. And the farmer started getting the urea easily. For the first time in Freedom, the prices of Fertilizer decreased. Two hundred rupees, two and a half rupees on one sack were possible for the first time.\nIf the brothers work for the well-being of the society, the brothers can work for the betterment of the village, then how can it be brought about change? If Urea studies this by making a study, then it will come to mind that there is a good government and just like Chandrashekhar Rao is praising the honesty of the Indian government. He himself has been in the Government of India. They have seen the Government of India closely. They are not from the Bharatiya Janata Party. He is saying that after years, an honest government is sitting in Delhi, the result comes from it. The result is that. But brothers and sisters, our agriculture needs a lot of change in us. This is a way of fertilizer, etc. But we have to think about the health of our mother earth. If these parents are ill, then there will be new changes. But sometimes these mothers will turn us away. And for the farmer, there is no bigger mother than the earth mother. And so we have worried about this earth mother through the Soil Health work. How to complete its drawbacks, how to be fulfilled. His power is how to be used. He has tried to emphasize it.\nThese days, a big discussion is going on in the name of the cow. But our governor of Himachal is sahib. He is a person who has many experiments in agriculture himself. He has launched a big campaign which has left the cow which people in Himachal have left. They are giving such cows to the farmers of the hold-hold. The cow not giving milk is giving to the farmers. And farmers say that you have added the cow to your cultivation. Cow's excretion will give you a new strength in your farming. He himself has used these experiments. Have successful experiments. And therefore whoever believes in Gay Devotee. Whoever believes in cow's service My most urgent request is that we connect cow to agriculture. Add cow to agriculture. The cow will never be burdened. And Mahatma Gandhi used to tell a great story for the cow. Mahatma Gandhi used to say that our mother gives us milk for some time in my childhood. Keeps us But the cow mother gives us milk throughout our life and nourishes us. Cow mother ahead even after death, the work of human beings is the way trees and plants are wealth. Well our Cattle is also Wealth's property. It is necessary to organize a proper manner by connecting the nation with its economic development. And sometimes the worry also hurts. Those who are tired of breaking the fabric of society Those who are tired of losing the society Those who are troubled by the unity of India. Such a handful of people are trying to bring conflicts in society in the name of cow protection.\nI want to tell all the countrymen. Be wary of such fake guards. I also tell the state governments to save our farm, to save our farmer, and what was said by Vinoba Bhave to save our farmland. What was said by Mahatma Gandhi जिस गौ रक्षा के लिए विनोबा जी ने आमरण अंशन किया था। जिस गौ रक्षा के लिए भारत के संविधान में निर्देश है इस गौ रक्षा के लिए ये बात जिस बात को गांधी ने माना हो वो गलत नहीं हो सकती है। लेकिन ये जो नकली गौ रक्षक हैं इनको गाय से लेना देना नहीं है। वे समाज मैं तनाव पैदा करना चाहते हैं और इसलिए हमारी सरकारों को कहना चाहता हूं इसलिए आप भी ऐसे नकली गौ रक्षकों की छानबीन कीजिए। उन पर कठोर कार्रवाई कीजिए। और साथ-साथ मैं सच्चे गौ भक्तों को प्रार्थना करना चाहता हूं, सच्चे गौ पूजकों को प्रार्थना करना चाहता हूं। आप भी सजग रहिए। कहीं आपका ये उमदा काम मुट्ठी भर लोग अपने निजी स्वार्थ के लिए तबाह न कर दें ऐसे लोगों को खोज करने में आप भी आगे आइए। ऐसे लोगों की इस प्रकार की प्रवृत्ति करने से खुला कर लीजिए समाज के सामने उसको। ताकि ऐसे लोगों की हरकत न चलें।\nभारत विविधताओं से भरा हुआ देश है विविध मान्यताओं से भरा हुआ देश है। अनेक सम्प्रदायिक मान्यताओं से चलने वाला देश है। देश की एकता अखंडता ये हमारी प्राथमिक जिम्मेवारी है। और इसलिए इसको परिपूर्ण करने के लिए हम सब देशवासियों ने सकारात्मक रूप से गौ सेवा करें गौ भक्ति करें गौ पूजा करें गौ समर्थन करें। वो तो राष्ट्र की सम्पत्ति में बढ़ावा करना है। वो राज्य राज्य के लिए संकट नहीं पैदा करता है। लेकिन नकली लोग देश को और समाज को तबाह कर देते हैं। उनके सामने जागरूक होने की जरूरत है। ऐसे लोगों को isolate करने की जरूरत है। ऐसे लोगों को Expose करने की जरूरत है। ऐसे लोगों को दंडित करने की जरूरत है। तब जाकर के हम सब शान से देश को नई ऊंचाइयों पर ले जा सकते हैं।\nभाइयों बहनों हर समस्या का समाधान एक ही बात में है। हमारी सारी आवश्यकताओं की पूर्ति सिर्फ और सिर्फ विकास के मार्ग से होगी। आज मुझे खुशी है कि राज्यों राज्यों के बीच विकास की स्पर्धा हो रही है। हर राज्य को लगता है मैं उस राज्य में आगे निकल जाऊं। ये तंदरुस्त स्पर्धा देश को नई ऊंचाइयों पर ले जाएगी। और इसलिए मैं सभी राज्यों के मुख्यमंत्रियों को आह्वान करता हूं। आइए राज्यों राज्यों के बीच विकास की स्पर्धा करें। राज्यों और केन्द्र के बीच विकास की स्पर्धा हो। गर गांव गली मोहल्ले में विकास की स्पर्धा हो।\nउसने इतना किया मैं उतना कर के दिखाऊंगा। उसने इतने में किया मैं उससे कम में कर के दिखाऊंगा। उसने इतना अच्छा बनाया मैं इससे भी बेहतर बना कर कर दूंगा। ये वातावर्ण बनाने का प्रयास करने की जरूरत है। देश देखते ही देखते नई ऊंचाइयों को पार कर लेगा। मैं फिर एक बार आदरणीय मुख्यमंत्रियों का आभारी हूं। जितने विषय उन्होंने रखे हैं। मैं तेलंगाना वासियों को विश्वास दिलाता हूं। दिल्ली सरकार विकास के हर काम में कंधे से कंधा मिलाकर के आपके साथ चलेगी। हम मिल कर के विकास की ऊंचाइयों को पार करेंगे। अब दिल्ली आपके लिए दूर नहीं है। आपका हैदराबाद जितना आपका है दिल्ली भी उतना ही आपका है। इस विश्वास के साथ आगे बढ़ें। Thanks a lot."