"\n#MannKiBaat: PM Modi urges nation to send their wishes to Indian contingent\n#MannKiBaat: Ready to become a postman to extend your wishes to Indian contingent, says PM\nShare your good wishes for Rio Olympics on the 'Narendra Modi Mobile App' #MannKiBaat\nResearch and innovation are the souls of technology: PM Modi during #MannKiBaat\nWhen we remember Dr. Kalam we think of science, technology Our future is going to be driven: PM during #MannKiBaat\nLet us 'aim' for innovation, where aim is 'Atal Innovation Mission': PM Modi during #MannKiBaat\nWe have to develop an ecosystem of innovators and encourage innovation, experiment, entrepreneurship: PM during #MannKiBaat\nMust not Consume medicines and antibiotic without recommendation of doctors: PM during #MannKiBaat\nOur Government has started the Pradhanmantri Surakshit Matritva Campaign: PM Modi during #MannKiBaat\nLet us create a mass movement of planting as many trees as possible: PM Modi during #MannKiBaat\n#MannKiBaat: My South Africa visit was a 'Tirth Yatra', says PM Modi\nWith advancing technology, digital threats are also rising. We have to be watchful and alert: PM during #MannKiBaat\nUrgent people to gift social security schemes on Rakshabandhan: PM Modi during #MannKiBaat\nMy dear countrymen, Namaskar!\n\nEarly this morning, I had a chance to spend some time in Delhi. And I believe, in the days to come, the spirit and fervor of sports will envelop every young person in the country. All of us know that in a few days time, the world's largest sports event, the biggest sports carnival will take place. RIO is going to resume The whole world will be at play ... every country in the world will keep a close watch on the performance of its sportspersons; You too will be doing the same All of us harbor a lot of hopes and expectations, but also our sports contingent at RIO high is also 1.25 billion countrymen. In Delhi this morning, The Government of India had organized a very good event, 'Run for RIO', 'Play and Live', 'Play and Blossom'. In the days to come, wherever we are, let us do our bit to encourage our sportspersons. A sportsperson, who makes this stage, does not have a lot of hard work. It's a kind of severe and dedicated 'tapasya'. However much one cherishes all kinds of food, one has to sacrifice However, a lot of people want to get into the cold weather, one has just got up and leave for the track and field. And this happens only Even their parents leave no stone unturned for their children. Sportsperson are not made overnight; It takes long and sustained perseverance to attain that stature. Victory and defeat are certainly important, but what is even more important is reaching this level in a sports or sports discipline and, therefore, let's all Indians join hands in our RIO contingent very best. I'm ready to do this on your behalf; The Prime Minister of the country is ready to be a postman. Do not send your best wishes to our sportspersons in 'NarendraModi App' I'll love you Just like 1.25 billion Indians, I too would like to be a citizen, encouraging them, cheering them up. Come, over the next few days, let us try the fullest extent possible to make our players feel proud of their endeavors and exertions; And today, as I speak on the Rio Olympics, I would like to mention the name of a poetry lover, Suraj Prakash Upadhyay a student of the Punjab Central University, who has sent me a poem It's possible that many poets would have written poetry, some may be planning to write, some may even compose their verses in songs, in all languages But here I would like to share with you the poem sent by Suraj Ji.\n\n\"The bugle's got sounded\nThe festivities of competitions\nIn this mega sporting odyssey\nAmidst the melodious chimes of RIO\nMay India start on a grand note\nMay it rain gold, silver and bronze!\nMay India start on a grand note\nMay it rain gold, silver and bronze!\nMay the turn be ours also this time\nMay be ready\nSet your sight\nBut let a loss not deject you\nYou are a billion hearts\nYou are the heartbeat of your sport\nMarch ahead and set records\nLet our tricolor flutter with pride in RIO\nLet our tricolor flutter with pride in RIO\n\nSuraj Ji, I dedicate your feelings to our sportspersons and extend to them the warmest and heartiest wishes from my country and 1.25 billion countrymen, that is, our tricolour is really joy and proud in the sky of the RIO\n\nA young man Mr. Ankit has reminded me of the death anniversary of President Abdul Kalamji, which was observed last week. The country, in fact the world paid glowing tributes to him The only mention of Abdul Kalamji's name brings the images of science, technology, missiles - in fact the entire spectrum of strengths and capabilities of India in the days to come. And that's why Ankit asks me ... What is your government doing to ensure that Abdul Kalamji's dreams come true? You are right The future And technology is extremely dynamic. Day by day, technology keeps updating, changes form, transforms its effect. You can not shackle technology If you strive to hold it still, it will move beyond your understanding. If we have to match its strides and move forward, research and innovation are the keys, these are its lifelines and moving spirit. In the absence of research and innovation, technology will become a burden, just as still stagnates and even stinks. And if we are going to just use old technologies without research and innovation, we will get into this rapidly changing world and age. And that is why the government too has taken steps to attract new generation towards science and research \u0026 innovation in the field of technology. And that is why I say 'let us aim to innovate' And when I say \"let us aim to innovate\" my AIM stands for \"Atal Innovation Mission '. This mission is being promoted by the National Aiyog. The purpose is to create an eco-system in the entire country through the Atal Innovation mission, to forge a vibrant chain of innovation, experiment and entrepreneurship, which will also increase the potentialities of new employment generation. If we have to develop the next generation innovators, we will have to link our children with it. And that is why the Government has taken the initiative of 'Atal Tinkering Labs' Wherever such tinkering labs were established in schools, those would be given 10 lakh rupees and further 10 lakh rupees will be provided for maintenance period of five years. Similarly, innovations are directly connected to the incubation centers. If we have strong and well-equipped incubation centers, a system comes into place for innovations, for start-ups, for experiments and a certain level. Creation of new Incubation Centers is essential only as it is necessary to strengthen the older incubation centers. And when I talk of Atal Incubation Centers, the government has considered allocating the huge sum of 10 crore rupees for this also. India is grappling with diverse challenges We see problems in daily life We will now be able to provide these solutions. Through the 'Atal Grand Challenges' we have exhorted the young generation of the country that if they see problems, they should seek solutions for the path of technology, doing research, applying innovations and bring those on board The Government of India wants to provide solutions to our problems And I am happy that people have evinced interest in these things. When we spoke of Tinkering Labs, about 13 thousand schools were applied and when we talked of the incubation centers, over four thousand academic and non-academic institutes came forward. I firmly believe that the real tribute to Abdul Kalamji will be involved in harnessing research and innovation for developing technology to solve solutions to problems in the day to day life, and ridding us of the difficulties we face. The more the new generation devotes itself to this task, the greater will be their contribution with immense significance for the modern India of the 21st century. That will be the real tribute to Abdul Kalamji.\n\nMy dear countrymen, while some time ago, we were worried about a drought like situation, these days, on the one hand, we are enjoying the rain, but on the other, reports of floods are also coming in. Central Government and State Governments are working in hand with their help. Despite being some hardships, rains make every human heart joy since rain, and agriculture, are the focal point of our whole sphere of economic activities.\n\nThere are times when one has to face an illness that leaves a scar for a lifetime. But if we are aware, alert and active, the prevention is also very easy. Take the case of Dengue It is preventable. Pay attention to cleanliness, be alert, try and be safe and take special care of children. And the mindset that is such a disease, it is not valid in the case of Dengue. Dengue first enters affluent localities and we should try and understand it. You must be watching TV on the advertisements but there were times when it was on the proactive and informed action taken. The government, hospitals, doctors will of course do their job, but I urge that we should also be alert in ensuring that Dengue does not enter our homes, locality, family, for that matter, stagnant water with any illness related.\n\nI would like to get the attention of my dear countrymen In today's fast paced, rat race of life, at times we do not have time When we fall sick, we want to get well as soon as possible and as a result pop in just any antibiotic. It may give instant instant, but my dear countrymen, this random pill popping habit can land you in deep trouble. It may give you temporary succor, but we should be completely stop taking antibiotics Avoid it until a doctor gives you a prescription. Do not use the short cut method; It can lead to serious complications Although random and rampant use of antibiotics gives immediate relief to the patient, but gradually the disease causing bacteria get accustomed to that drug. The drug then loses its efficacy and one has to fight the battle, develop new medicines, do new research; It takes years and till then these diseases create other complications That's why we have to be very aware about that. One more problem Suppose the doctor advises that brother, take this antibiotic and he tells that 15 tablets of that be taken over a period of five days. I urge you to complete the entire course of medicine as determined by the doctor. Because if the treatment is abandoned halfway, it will benefit the bacteria. If the medicine is taken more than what is needed, that too will be the favour of the bacteria. And that is why, it is extremely necessary to take the entire course of antibiotic medicine in terms of tablets as well as days. If we leave the treatment halfway due to improvements in our condition, we are only helping that bacteria getting more strong and difficult to treat. Microbes spreading TB and malaria are about rapid mutations in the self, rendering medicines ineffective. In medical parlance it is called antibiotic resistance Therefore, it is necessary to follow rules in the administration of antibiotics. The government is committed to prevent antibiotic resistance. You must have seen, these days, on the antibiotic medicine You must pay attention to that.\n\nWhile we are the subject of health, I would like to talk about one more issue. I feel very concerned about the life of pregnant women In our country, close to 3 crore women become pregnant every year. Sometimes the mother loses her life, at times the infant does. There are times when both die It is true that in the last decade there is a large number of pregnant women. Anemia during or after pregnancy, pregnancy related infections, high BP, any such complication can have devastating effect. Keeping in view these issues, in the last few months, The Government of India has launched a new campaign 'Prime Minister Safe Motherhood Campaign'. Under this, on the 9th of every month, all pregnant women will get a check-up at government health centers free of cost. I urge all poor families to ensure that all pregnant women avail this benefit on the 9th of every month, so that if they reach 9th month any complications, it can be dealt with suitably in time and both of lives Mother and child can be saved I have specially asked the gynecologists whether they could offer their services on the 9th of every month, for the sake of under privileged mothers! Can not my doctor brothers and sisters spare 12 days in a year for this under privileged? Over the last few days There are thousands of doctors who have applied. But India is such a vast country We need millions of doctors to join this campaign. I do believe that you will do so\n\nMy dear countrymen, today, the whole world is deeply about climate change, global warming and the environment. These are discussed in the country and across the world. In India, this has been accorded great significance for centuries. In the battlefield of Kurukshetra too, Lord Krishna talks about trees. Showing concern towards trees also in the midst of a battle, underlines trees with how much importance was attached. In the Gita, Lord Krishna says, 'ashwatth sarvvrikshanam' which means all trees, I am the Peepal Tree. It is proclaimed in Shukracharya Neeti that 'naastimulam anaushadham' means that there is no plant that does not have medicinal values; The Anushasan Parv of the Mahabarta elaborates on this concept at greater length. It is said in the Anushasan Parv that whosoever plants a tree begets an offspring in the form of that tree. There is no doubt about this fact. He who donates a tree, that tree in return is a ladder to salvation just like children. Therefore it is appropriate that parents should wish their well-being and their children.\nOur scriptures like Gita, Shukracharya Niti and Anushasan Parv of the Mahabharta contain such lofty ideals. However, there are some people in the present generation too, who live up to these ideals A few days ago, I came across a mention of Sonal, a young daughter from Pune. It touched my heart It is mentioned in Anushasan Parv in Mahabharata that a tree is like an offspring and becomes the means of salvation in life, Sonal has not only taken it on her parents' wishes but society's expectations also. Mr. Khandu Maruti Mhatre, a farmer of Narayanpur village of Junner Taluka of Pune got his granddaughter Sonal married in a very inspiring manner. What did you do in Sonal's marriage? He gifted all his relatives, guests and friends with a sapling of 'Kesar' variety of mango. I saw a picture of this marriage in social media. I was surprised to see that in the wedding festivities, instead of members of the wedding party, saplings were more visible! That picture really touches one's heart I think that sonal, who is himself an agricultural graduate, came on this idea And to present Mango saplings in the marriage, just think, reflects the love for nature in a brilliant manner. In a way, Sonal's marriage in an eternal story, I congratulate Sonal and Shriman Mhatre Ji for this innovative effort. And such experiments are done by many people I remember, when I was the Chief Minister of Gujarat - the temple of Ambaji was there in the month of Bhadrapad by lakhs of devotees travelling by foot. A certain NGOs decided to distribute saplings as 'Prasad' to the devotees, and the devotees were told that Mata Ambaji will keep showering her grace, if they planted their trees and trees in their maturity till the maturity. And lakhs of such saplings were distributed to the devotees traveling on foot to Ambaji temple that year. Other temples too can start the tradition of distributing saplings instead of 'prasad' during the rainy season. It can easily grow into a people's movement. I repeatedly tell my farmer brothers that instead of destroying our land in building fences around our fields, why there was no time to start planting timber trees. Today India has spent billions and trillions of rupees to import timber wood from abroad for construction of houses and furniture. If we plant on the boundaries of our fields, the timber trees that can be used for construction of homes and furniture and which can also be cut and sold 15 to 20 years after the permission of the government. This way, not only can you become a new source of your income, but can also save India from importing timber.\n\nSome days ago, some states taking advantage of this weather has started many campaigns in this direction and the Government of India has also passed CAMPA law, under which about 40 thousand crore rupees will go to the states for planting trees. I have been told that the Maharashtra government planted about 2 crores sapling in the entire state on 1st July and next year they have taken a pledge to plant about 3 crore trees. The government has transformed into a people's movement. Rajasthan, desert area, has celebrated Van Mahotsav in a very big way and pledged to plant 25 lakhs trees To Plant 25 lakhs of sapling in Rajasthan is not a small matter! Those who know the soil conditions of Rajasthan would know Andhra Pradesh, too has decided to increase its green cover by 50% by the year 2029. Under the central government's ongoing 'Green India Mission', Railways too has joined in this endeavor. Gujarat too has a fabulous tradition of observing Van Mahotsav This year, Gujarat has undertaken many projects like 'Aamra Van', 'Ekata Van' and 'Shaheed Van' as part of Van Mahotsav and launched a campaign to plant crores of trees. I am not able to mention\n\nMy dear countrymen, I had the opportunity to visit South Africa for the first time some time back. During a foreign visit, diplomacy is practiced, there are trade deliberations, discussions about security and as is customary, many MoUs are concluded. But for me the tour of South Africa was more like a pilgrimage. When we think of South Africa, it is very natural to remember Mahatma Gandhi and Nelson Mandela. Whenever we hear the words - non-violence, love and forgiveness, the inspiring faces of Gandhi and Mandela appear before us. During my South Africa tour, I visited Phoenix settlement where Mahatma Gandhi's home was known as 'Sarvodaya'. I also had the good fortune of traveling from Pietermaritzburg station in the train in which Mahatma Gandhi had travelled, and which was the site of the incidence that sowed the seeds of the transformation of a Mohandas in Mahatma Gandhi. But what I want to tell you is the fact that this time I had a chance to meet those great men who had devoted their young lives for society fighting shoulder to shoulder with Nelson Mandela for ideals of equality and equal opportunity; who had spent 20 to 22 years of their lives in prison with Nelson Mandela, effectively sacrificing the whole period of their youth I had the privilege of meeting these gratities, these close associates of Nelson Mandela such as Shriman Ahmed Kathrada, Shriman Laloo Chiba, Shriman George Bizos and Ronnie Kasrils. All were Indians but they were settled wherever they settled and decided to offer their lives for those who are living. So much strength they had! And the greatest thing was that while I was talking to them and listening about the experiences of their prison, they did not There was no single trace of desire, to get something, to become somebody, even after living such a great life of 'Tapasaya'. The essence of performing one's duty as explained in Gita was embodied in their persona. I will remember that meeting forever Equality and equal opportunities are the biggest 'mantras' for any society and government Equality and equal opportunity, compassion and fraternity, these are the paths leading us to a bright future. We all want a good future for our children Everybody has different needs and different priorities but there is one common path of development, equality, compassion and fraternity. Come, let us be proud about these Indians who have lived in their lives in South Africa embodying our highest and fundamental ideals.\n\nMy dear countrymen, I have received a message from Shilpi Varma, to whom I am grateful Her concern is very genuine She has made me aware of an incident: -\n\n\"Pradhan Mantri Ji, I am Shilpi Varma speaking from Bengaluru. Some days ago, I read in a news article that a lady became a victim of fraud and cheat email, lost 11 lakh rupees and committed suicide. Being a woman, I feel What is your opinion about such cheat and fraud emails. \"\n\nShe has pointed a certain incident, and you must be aware that we get messages on our mobile phones and emails, announceing attractive offers that have won a jackpot of so many rupees; If you pay a certain amount then you are eligible for the greater amount. People get duped by money These are new methods of technology that are spreading in the whole world. And just as technology plays an increasingly bigger role in our economic system, it also invites those who misuse it. A retired gentlemen, who had not only received his daughter but also made his home, one day he received an SMS, that there was a gift that came abroad from abroad and received a custom duty of 2 lakh rupees In a bank account and this gentlemen without giving any thought took out 2 lakh rupees from his hard earned life savings and sent it to some stranger. That too on the strength of just an SMS! And in very little time, he got laughing! You too must be getting similarly confused sometimes! These people write a letter in such style that it looks perfect They use fake letter pat They get your credit card number and debit card number And this new means of fraud I believe that we should be aware of such lure, must remain cautious and if such false communications come to our notice, then we must share them with our friends and also be aware of them. Shilpi Varma has brought this important thing to my notice, although even you should have faced it, but I can not say it seriously\n\nMy dear countrymen these days, the Parliament Session is going on, and during the Parliament session, I get many people from across nation. Our MPs also bring people from their constituencies and introduce them to me; they tell me many things, their difficulties also. But recently I had a pleasant experience, real pleasant experience! Had students come from meet You should have seen the enthusiasts of those boys and girls They had a big photo album with them and their faces were lit with joy. They showed me the pictures of how they had been beautified the Aligarh railway station! These were artistic painting done on the station. They have searched and collected the plastic bottles and oil cans lying in the garbage in the villages and by filling those with soil and planting plants, they have transformed those potes in a vertical garden. And by creating this vertical garden on the site of the railway station, they have given it a new look If you go to Aligarh, do visit the railway station. I am receiving news from many railway stations in the country where the local population has been depicted on the walls of the railway stations, their area's identity, through means of their arts. They have brought about a refreshing feeling This is a great example of great transformation. I felicitate all the citizens of Aligarh.\n\nMy dear countrymen, with the beginning of rainy season, there is also an offering of festival season in our country. There will be places everywhere, festivities will be observed in temples and places of worship. You too will become a participant at home and outside during the festival celebrations. The festival of Raksha Bandhan is a festival of special significance. Just like last year, can you gift on the occasion of Raksha Bandhan? Pran Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojna or Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojna to mothers and sisters of our country. Think about it, we should gift such a present to our sisters, which really provides her security in future. Not only that, we are having our homes a lady making food for us or a lady who cleans our house, a daughter of a poor mother! To you also, you can gift Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojna or Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojna on this festival. And this is what social security in reality is all about; This is the true meaning of Raksha Bandhan.\n\nMy dear countrymen there are many people who were born after independence. And I am the first Prime Minister of the nation 'Quit India movement' started on 8th August, and this year will be the 75th year of 'Quit Hind-Quiet India' and on 15th August, it will be 70th year of our independence. We are enjoying our independence and are proud to be free citizens, but this is an opportunity to remember those who sacrificed their all our independence. The 75th year of Quit India and 70th year of Independence can be a source of new inspiration, source of new enthusiasm and an opportunity to take a nation. The whole nation should be imbued with the spirit of those great patriots and we will once again experience the fragrance of freedom. Let us all create such an atmosphere Independence Day should not be a government event Just like Diwali, it should be our own festival I hope that you too be inspired with the spirit of patriotism and do something good in that vein. Do not send a picture of it on Narendra Modi app Let us create such an environment in the nation\n\nDear countrymen, I have the good fortune to talk to the nation from Ramparts of Red Fort on 15th August, it is a tradition You too must be having some thoughts I invite you to write your thoughts that I, as your representative, as your Pradhan Sevak should talk about the Red Fort. Send me suggestions, your advice and new ideas, I will try to rest I do not want to be the Prime Minister of the Ramparts. It should be the collective voice of 125 crores countrymen Do send me something, either on 'Narendra Modi app' or on MYGOV.IN Today the platforms of technology are such that your message can reach very easily. I invite you once again, come, let us remember and salute our great freedom fighters, who sacrificed their lives for India and let us move ahead with our country. My best wishes to you and many thanks\nThe Prime Minister is speaking about the Rio Olympics and urging people to encourage our athletes. Join https://t.co/Iy8hu3vQmx\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 31, 2016\nEven the player who reaches, he reaches after hard work. One type of harsh austerity: PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 31, 2016\nPlayers are not built overnight. After a great austerity: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 31, 2016\nOn the 'Narendra Modi App' share your good wishes to the athletes. Let us encourage our athletes as much as possible: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 31, 2016\nWhen we remember Dr. Kalam we think of science, technology ... future is going to be technology driven, we need to embrace it: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 31, 2016\nI say - 'let us aim to innovate' and when I say 'let us aim to innovate', then my AIM means 'Atal Innovation Mission': PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 31, 2016\nThere were an ecosystem of innovators and encourage innovation, experiment, entrepreneurship: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 31, 2016\nKnow more about the Atal Innovation Mission, Atal Tinkering Labs and the Atal Grand Challenges. https://t.co/Iy8hu3vQmx #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 31, 2016\nWe are happy with the rain but also the rains also have some illnesses, about which we have to be careful \u0026 which can be prevented: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 31, 2016\nWithout the advice of doctors, we stop taking antibiotic: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 31, 2016\nडॉक्टर जब तक लिख करके नहीं देते हैं, हम उससे बचें, हम ये short-cut के माध्यम से न चलें, क्योंकि इससे एक नई कठिनाइयाँ पैदा हो रही हैं: PM\n— PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 31, 2016\nWhen it comes to antibiotics, please complete the full course. Not completing the course or an overdose, both are harmful: PM #MannKiBaat\n— PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 31, 2016\nएक नया अभियान शुरू किया है - ‘प्रधानमंत्री सुरक्षित मातृत्व अभियान’ : PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat\n— PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 31, 2016\nइस अभियान के तहत हर महीने की 9 तारीख को सभी गर्भवती महिलाओं की सरकारी स्वास्थ्य केन्द्रों में निशुल्क जाँच की जायेगी : PM @narendramodi\n— PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 31, 2016\nएक भी पैसे के ख़र्च के बिना सरकारी अस्पतालों में हर महीने की 9 तारीख़ को काम किया जाएगा: PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat\n— PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 31, 2016\n#PMonAIR :पुणे की एक बेटी सोनल का एक उदाहरण मेरे ध्यान में आया, वो मेरे मन को छू गया। #MannKiBaat\n— All India Radio News (@airnewsalerts) July 31, 2016\n#PMonAIR :सोनल ने सिर्फ़ अपने माता-पिता की नहीं, समाज की इच्छाओं को पूर्ण करने का जैसे बीड़ा उठाया है। #MannKiBaat\n— All India Radio News (@airnewsalerts) July 31, 2016\n#PMonAIR :पुणे की सोनल ने अपनी शादी में रिश्तेदारों को केसर आम का पौधा उपहार में दिया| इस प्रयास के लिए सोनल को बधाई pic.twitter.com/81r4vEFXLW\n— All India Radio News (@airnewsalerts) July 31, 2016\nLet us create a mass movement of planting as many trees as possible: PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat\n— PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 31, 2016\nमहाराष्ट्र सरकार ने 1 जुलाई को पूरे राज्य में करीब सवा-दो करोड़ पौधे लगाये हैं और अगले साल उन्होंने तीन करोड़ पौधे लगाने का संकल्प किया: PM\n— PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 31, 2016\nThe state of Rajasthan has decided to plant 25 lakh trees. This is a very big thing and must be appreciated: PM @narendramodi\n— PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 31, 2016\nआंध्र प्रदेश ने 2029 तक अपना green cover fifty percent बढ़ाने का फ़ैसला किया है : PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat\n— PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 31, 2016\nPrime Minister mentions the heart warming story of Sonal from Pune. In her marriage mango sapling was gifted to all invitees. #MannKiBaat"