"Sports is not only about winning or losing: PM\nIndian contingent will win hearts of the world at Rio Olympics: PM\nOur Government has taken several initiatives to promote sports in the two years: PM Modi\nLet us affirm that in 2020 Olympics, there will be a minimum of athlete representing a district: PM\n\nFirst of all, these people who are the masses of thousands of people, the young man, I urge them that all of you will come to Rio with me for our 119 players, they will speak with me for their fondness, Bharat Mata Ki Jai, Bharat Mata Jay, Bharat Mata Ki Jai\nThey have reached there by hard work, doing hard work to make the 119 players, Bharat Mata, and working hard. We have crossed through every criterion. Went to win the resolution. And that victory is not for registering your name, that victory is for the happiness of the hundred and fifty million people of India.\nMost of the games are evaluated in win and defeat. Assessment of the game can not be won in victory and defeat. The game, the player is ready to fight, with the full strength of the capitol, stamina keeps the country proud for the honor. This is his biggest criterion.\nI am convinced that with the best wishes of the hundred and fifty million people, these 119 players will give us everything to boost India's reputation. I believe it. And when our team goes abroad, only in the field of sports, India is not seen, during the entire Olympics, speaking, sitting and sitting, I am confident that our players, this team of ours is the heart of the whole world Must be successful in winning. By their behavior, by behavior, will introduce India's great heritage.\nToday, we are sitting in a big position in Rio, what our players do there. India has been associated with Olympic Games for more than a century. We have been connected for more than a hundred years. Our players have got opportunity in less quantity. But for over a hundred years now, for the first time, a large team of 119 players has succeeded in bringing us Rio.\nIn 2020 (Twenty Twenty) the Olympics will be in the basket. I call upon the youth of my country, calling for more than 600 districts of India, every district should decide that next time in the Tokyo Olympics, not only of my state, but also a representative of my district will reach Tokyo. This time 119 have gone, can we do today to resolve more than 200 players next time?\nIn the games which are not far away from ours today, can such new games be started from the beginning of our work to prepare young people of India on the soil of India? India's youth have strength, talent, determination and big dreams too. This time we did not get much time. Two years became our government, but as soon as we came, we have made an innovative effort to make the whole department unobtrusive, aware, sensitive and active towards the game. Have succeeded in making considerable changes in comparison to the first. My countrymen, my youngsters who have worried about India's pride and pride, have made some changes, which will bring you the attention of the changes that India is now preparing for Tokyo.\nFirst of all, our players used to go to any country of the world to play for the Olympics, then the rule was to arrive two days earlier. Now the jet-lag seems, the climate changes, the poor can not be set up in two days, and then he has to come to the playground immediately. This time we have delivered the players to Rio for 15 days. This was done so that they become fully acquainted with the atmosphere there, become familiar with the field, become familiar with the weather there, become familiar with the climate. They set themselves up.\nDear brothers and sisters of my country, the player is ready to work hard, but some comfort is also needed. He also thinks that I live here for 20-25 days, I stay for a month, anywhere in my country's food. Our players used to go to the Olympics and eat the food of that country. This time we have allowed special budget. The Government of India will arrange for the Indian players who like to eat Indian things, and who are required by their game, to make them available to all the players, so that they can get them in such small things.\nYou will be surprised when the Olympic gam ends, the sports columnists in the media are very much criticized. Around 15 days, a month's big campaign of hair removal runs. But after the month, the whole subject is forgotten, and then when the Olympic comes after four years, then it is remembered that what happened last time. What have we been criticizing this time during the previous Olympics, we started studying it two years ago. After the formation of government, we started taking one step to overcome those shortcomings, we used it to convert the criticism into opportunity. You will know, first came after the news of the Olympics that the players who go to the Babu with the players, the officials get 100-100 dollars in the daily allowance. But the player, who gives life for the country, gets only $ 50. We came and decided why this discrimination? What is the reason that Babu has $ 100, and the player is $ 50? This time we have decided that whatever will go in the party, all will be given equal pay of $ 100 so that the players do not have any difficulty.\nWe sometimes have talent, but the types of instruments that exist for international games, there are rules, there are methods, our players are not familiar with it. For that, the exposure of a global level is necessary. And so this time the players who were selected, that is the people who can reach the Olympics, they were told to tell you where to go for training in the world. Who do you have to take training? Which city, country, what field, what your trainer, you decide For the first time the players of the country preferred their international trainer, decided the country of their choice, decided the ground for their favor, and the Indian government spent one million rupees from one million to one and a half million rupees.\nKeeping the Olympics in mind at one time, the budget used to last for more than 15 crores, 20 crores, this time we have reached this budget by nearly three hundred crores. And my dear young men, prepare you, prepare for the school's little boy, prepare for Twenty-Twenty Tokyo, this government, through our players, in the four years of coming to power in the world for their self-esteem. I will assure you, I will assure you. Recalling the great tradition of the game world, which I am proud of today, the player who is proud of the name of India, the country which is playing in Rio, hosts Country, the participating countries, I extend many good wishes to millions of Hindus.\nI am convinced that this whole ceremony, which also gives the message of brotherhood in the world, will be completely peaceful and I would like to extend my homage to the host country too. I wish all those hundred and fifty people from all over India, who give 119 greetings to the people of these hundred and fifty million people.\nThere are many players from the world who come to Rio, so many players from the world, but you are there, behind them, there are hundreds of millions of people standing with their lives. When on 15th August we will unfurl the tricolor of the 70th birth anniversary of freedom in India, I believe in this era, in Rio, every day will be blessed to hoist the tricolor somewhere.\nPlaying brothers and sisters, this is the need of life, in the international life the need of a nation has also become a necessity. Come play; Play and bloom. We also bloom, our country also blossomed. many many congratulations."