"Publications released today are Granths. Modi will leave a mark in history: PM Modi\nContribution of President Mukherjee to India is immense: PM Modi\nWe can learn from President Mukherjee how people from diverse political backgrounds work together: PM\nAll the senior executives present,\nOn completion of four years of the tenure of President, I congratulate the President of India on behalf of the President, congratulate him, congratulate and best wishes. For more than four years, I enjoyed working with you as the Chief Minister. I was new to the world of Delhi This whole atmosphere was new to me. At such times the President, like a guardian, held a finger on me on many topics like a mentor. Such good luck is available to very few people, which I have found\nMany texts have been released today. I am not saying a book, I am saying the book. I am saying that the texts are contained in those things which are not from the realm of the imagination, not from the history window. And the things that come out of the history window. They are leaving an indelible shade in the mind-temple of future generations. And in that sense this publication is going to be a part of the publication history. I congratulate the president and his whole team for this work very much.\nJust got a good chance to visit the Museum. Mr. Ghosh had so much excitement that if Omita would not have stopped it would have probably been here at eleven o'clock at night. And whichever of you have time to look at this museum. I would urge you to take out the whole day, there are such nuances. There is so much variety. And there is a wonderful effort to revive history. This is such a museum, where history, art, imagination, power and technology all meet and therefore, whatever it will be associated with. He can live history through these four. Only history can know, not so, he can live history for some moment. And in this sense, I understand that I congratulate Mr. Ghosh and his whole team for the scientific method, which has been presented in artistic form and for its presentation. And I congratulate them.\nThe President has contributed a lot to the life of India. There is a long tenure of his public life. But in the short term of four years you have given a lot to the Rashtrapati Bhavan too. In a way, Rashtrapati Bhavan has made common man, history and the highest place in India, in a way they have made a meeting point. And in this context we look forward to your contribution in this context. And the biggest pleasure is that, my political background is different. President's political background is different. But in the democracy, with different thought influences, how big people can work on the shoulder side by side. We can experience it every moment of living by the President.\nThe plans of the Government of India are as follows. There will be many states which may have some hesitation in speaking or implementing certain schemes of the Indian government. Today I say with great pride that the plans of the Indian Government, this Rashtrapati Bhavan complex ... is also a small village. More than ten people live here. An effort has been made to apply all those schemes in the form of this village. Regardless of Renewable Energy Talk about water conversation. Environment related initiatives Digital India, Digital Democracy In a way, the President has done a lot of effort to implement all the schemes of the Government of India in a miniature form here. Regardless of whether the person's party should be a government, even then the programs of that government should also become program of Rashtrapati Bhavan. These highlights can be shown in the famous Pranava da. And so I bow to their heart. I congratulate\nI believe and history comes as a herb of life. Those who forget history They lose the juice of life in a way. There are idols in the temple. The stones are well-elaborated. But with the devotion of many people for years, he takes on the form of God. Every stone in the historical places that stone has its own history. Every stone shrieks, telling the past yesterday by screaming and has the power to show the way for tomorrow to come. But it is necessary. To listen to that stone too, to generate power. Through this Museum the stone has been given the power to speak. We have the power to listen to him. And get a new meaning to give something new to the next generation.\nI once again congratulate everyone for this effort. After the completion of four years of the once-powerful President, we will get very good guidance for the next year. Thank you so much for expressing gratitude for inspiration while expecting this for you."