"Share\n\nI am congratulate Defense Minister Nirmala Sitharaman for bringing to light those nation, says PM\nThief always wants ouster of watchman: PM Modi on Rahul Gandhi's chowkidar barb at a rally at Baripada\nI want to make it clear that the investigating agency and the people of the nation will investigate those who are supported the middlemen: PM Modi on Christian Michel\nPM Modi lays foundation stone for 3 major highway projects, dedicates to nation Balasore-Haldia-Durgapur IOCL LPG pipeline at Baripada in Odisha\nToday, whole country is well aware that how a party has been attacked by the army from 2004 to 2014: PM Modi\nJai Jagannath - Jai Jagannath\nJai Jagannath - Jai Jagannath\nJai Jagannath - Jai Jagannath\nFor the second time in two weeks I have had the opportunity to come among all of you. Last time you had broken Khurd, then you broke the old record. Look, the field has fallen short, stop where you are today. Do not try to move forward, not just the place. Look, the ground is small, I pray to you, stay where you are now.\nLong live Mother India\nLong live Mother India\nThe last time you came to the lodge, you broke all the records. Here in Baripada you have broken that record too. This immense affection of the people of Orissa, I am overwhelmed with this blessing. This is your excitement, with your belief that the new India, the new Orissa, also seems to be an ardor.\nFriends, when Baripada came today, the memory of Maharaja Sri Ram Chandra Banjdev comes automatically. For Orissa, for the development of here, the contribution that he has given to the language and culture here is immense. I also salute the intellectuals like Pandit Raghunath Murmu, who prepared the oldest dictionary of Oriya language, Maharaj Poonchandra Banjhedo and the script of the Sanskrit language.\nIt is a matter of pride for the Bharatiya Janata Party that the government of Atal Bihari Vajpayee ji included the Sanskrit language in the eighth list of the Constitution.\nBrothers and Sisters, The last time I was in Khurda, I had the opportunity to honor the heroes of the Pekka Revolution. We can move forward while keeping the country's heroic sons-daughters, their old pride, protecting their culture, and simplifying it. With this thought, continuous efforts are being made to preserve many places of faith like Orissa's rich cultural traditions, Puri and Konark, in modern surroundings.\nIn the same episode, the inauguration of the project related to conservation and development has been inaugurated today by Rasik Arya Mandir and the old fort of Haripur Garh. At the same time, thousands of projects of infrastructure, including roads, railways, gas for the release of Orissa, have been inaugurated and inaugurated. Congratulations to all of you for all these development projects.\nSathiyo, Orissa's movement of freedom, tribal siblings have had a very big role here. And I have another relationship here. Gujarat's Dandi and its indigenous links to both Mahatma Gandhi and Salt Satyagraha. When we are standing on such a holy land, it is a very good time to remember those who have died for the country once again.\nSo remember these great men at such times, remembering the martyrs, remembering those who have preserved this great tradition, both hands up and speak with full force-\nLong live Mother India\nLong live Mother India\nVande Matram\nVande Matram\nVande Matram\nBrothers and Sisters, this annihilation has to be done because some people in the country are going to have trouble. The leader of the country's oldest party tells me why Modi greeted people with the glory of Mother India.\nFriends, now there is a new government in Madhya Pradesh. Look at the priority of that government, and they have not come up with winning the absolute majority, see their priorities and understand them- the hung assembly there, the Congress government that has made, the first thing to do is to come here- say an attack on Vande Mataram Gave. A storm broke out Now looking for the way to escape Secondly, to protect democracy, the pension which was received by the government from the government, against the atrocities like Emergency, was being tried to cancel the pension.\nBut the Bharatiya Janata Party has pushed the voices of all the nationalists, due to which they had to withdraw the order related to Vande Mataram and now the pension of the Emergency fighters will have to be restored to them.\nOur women power has played an important role in the brotherhood and sisters, Bharat Bhakti, country's freedom and the development journey of the country. The role of Orissa has been even more prominent in this case. This is where the goddess Subhadra's mother carries the mother and sisters. The tradition of pulling the chariot of goddess Subrahada by women has started from Panipada. This woman is a symbol of empowerment, respect and self respect. For the last four and a half years, the central government has been giving its strength to the women empowerment that Orissa has been doing for centuries.\nYou must have seen in Parliament only yesterday, the country's first Defense Minister has established the temple of the country's democracy with efficiency, with its strength, with the depth of important topics such as defense and with the efficiency of its inner spirit.\nI congratulate the country's defense minister, Nirmalji. Defense Minister Nirmalji has exposed the country's image in the eyes of the people of the country, the childhood of the people who use the Holy Parliament to entertain the politics of those who play the country's security.\nBetween 2004 and 2014, there was a conspiracy to weaken the army of the country, now the country has been watching and understanding its every detail. Now when our government is pulling out the forces of the country from the plot of their conspiracy, then we have begun to prick them like a thorn, we are beginning to knock them down. They want to remove the watchman at any cost. The tribe of thieves will be anywhere- society will be flat, factory will, will be in the neighborhood; The thieves first intend to remove the janitor, as long as the janitor is the thieves have made a dal mistake.\nBrothers and sisters, these goodies, these truths are also knocking, because their rajas are opening up. There has been a report in the newspapers - a letter from the helicopter scandal, Bicholia, the politician of Congress corruption - Michelle, who has been brought here from abroad, has been revealed. It has been revealed - this politician was deeply identified with the leaders of the top Congress, ministers, and was upset. The information of which file is going to the Prime Minister's Office, it had information about moment and moment-time. Even more information than the Prime Minister himself did not have, much information was kept from the middlemen in that era.\nNot only that, the cabinet committee on security, which used to take the country's army's security, decides on buying weapons and weapons for the country, also used to get complete information about its meetings. He used to send this information to foreign countries. He was sending abroad the complete information about which minister was taking decisions about the helicopter purchase.\nFriends, do not understand that the Congress has run the government or has run its Michel Mama's court. I want to make it clear today - instead of the country, whatever role has been played in the defense of the interests of intermediaries, the accounts will be accounted for by the public, the people of the country will do it.\nBrothers and Sisters, the Central Government is constantly taking big and tough decisions for the security of the country. Should you tell me to take such decisions or not? Should not make strong decisions that should not? Should the steps should be taken to protect the country or not? What should the previous governments do to do so? Should it be stopped or should not be stopped? Should it be reformed or should not be reformed? Those who have done injustice to the army, should also stand in the dock or not?\nBrothers, I assure you the law will not leave anyone.\nBrothers and sisters, when I was talking about women's empowerment, our government has done the job of giving daughters a new role in the army. Air Force, Navy; New records, new records are making our daughters.\nWhatever the Central Government is doing for the protection and empowerment of women today, the benefit of which Orissa should also be met. But I am sorry that the government here is not serious about the schemes related to the daughters. Despite almost two decades of governance, Orissa has lagged behind such education, health, safety, employment of women and children, it is far behind.\nFriends, the BJP Government of the Center has provided punishment for those who tortured daughters to hanging. But in Orissa, the security questions of daughters are in the vicinity. In the religious city of Puri, what was done with a Bitia in seven-eight years ago, the administration here has not been able to give justice to it. Due to the negligence of the investigation, the rage of daughters and sisters is natural.\nMy government will insist on this matter to be seriously investigated in this matter so that strict message comes to all the people with demonic tendencies.\nThe questions are being raised about the security of daughters on the Government of Orissa, and the track record is not good for Orissa's government even on the health of daughters. Whatever scheme the Central Government has run for women, it should be implemented seriously in Orissa too.\nFrom the health and safety of the brothers and sisters, women and children, the Central Government has worked with a new approach. An example of how we changed the policy and policy, the rainbow rainbow\nFriends, the vaccination campaign has been going on for several decades in the country - medicines come, vaccines come, villages and villages go, money is spent, advertisements are on TV, all is done, but the government in Delhi- Be the government of the center or the state government - the efforts of the previous governments -\nBrothers and sisters, this situation has been created, in any situation, the situation was going on for several decades, but they could not produce any results. 2014- The scope of vaccination was not even reached 60 percent in the country. The speed and the mentality of which vaccination was going on would take decades to achieve the goal.\nIn this way our government started the Mission Rainbow scheme and focused first on the districts of the country where vaccination could not be achieved. Where vaccineers were not accessible to many reasons.\nThe government has given speed to this task. All its ministries are put in this work. Social organizations have added and today the result is in front of the country. Friends, today the country is moving fast in the direction of immunization. If we were to run at the speed of the previous government then it would have taken two to three decades in achieving this goal, and till then how much the life of mother, daughter and sons would have been wasted.\nFriends, this is the way our government works, it is our work culture. Seeing the misery of the poor, seeing his sufferings, we go to the grassroots level and make decisions. Remember that people living in remote areas did not perform in any of the villages where there should be vaccinations giving life to our children. No poor had demanded that the children who developed the teak should be increased. To save the life of the poor, with our full sensitivity to save the lives of poor children, these decisions are taken by our government.\nFriends, due to this approach, so far, more than three crore children and 85 lakh pregnant women have been vaccinated in the entire state. It has 5 lakh children in Orissa and about 1.5 million women.\nFriends, the Central Government is concerned about the health of every citizen of the country. A while ago I was in Jharkhand. Under the Ayushman India, the poor who are getting treatment for free up to five lakh rupees are being provided to the poor, about 25 lakh poor people of Jharkhand have got the benefit of health. Unfortunately, millions of poor families of Orissa are deprived of it.\nI will urge the government here- she is attached to this scheme and giving free treatment to the poor-poor, the Government of India, take advantage of it.\nBrothers and Sisters, the Central Government has not left any shortfall for the balanced and holistic development of Orissa. Serious efforts are being made at every level of the education of youth or employment at all levels.\nToday, all the projects related to infrastructure development, inauguration or foundation stone are here, with everyone, our thinking of development is strong and strong. The LPG gas pipeline of Balasur-Haldia-Durgapur, built at a cost of around 1100 crores, will further strengthen our efforts to make every household smoke free. This will benefit lakhs of families of eight districts of Odisha and West Bengal.\nYou are also happy to give me this information - Under the Ujjwala scheme, in the 32 months, 60 million connections have been completed across the country. The most important thing in it is that the sister who got the 6 crore connections was named Jasbina Khatoon. It shows how the benefits of this scheme have reached every section of the society. The Dalits, the underprivileged, the exploited, the backward, the tribals have made a special advantage.\nCompanions, the schemes that we have built in the last four and a half years, have the essence of equality, equality and social justice. Whether it be a daughter save, a daughter study plan, a clean India campaign, a Jan-Dhan plan, a Prime Minister's house plan, the Prime Minister will be the village road plan; These plans are for everyone. Everyone is running in collaboration and everyone is getting benefits from them.\nCompanions, a long time ago, the construction of the highway and rail project has been started and the connectivity will improve the connectivity of Orissa. Now the Badam Hill Rail link will be connected to Howrah and Mumbai along with Orissa, via Tatanagar.\nबालासुर का multi model logistics park यहां के उद्योगों के लिए बहुत बड़ी सुविधा बनने वाला है। चिली किदारा-सगलपट्टा-नरनपुर-बसंतपुर रेलवे लाइन के चौड़ीकरण से यहां की खनिज संपदा का महत्‍व और बढ़ जाएगा। यहां के राजस्‍व में वृद्धि होगी, नए उद्योग लगेंगे, रोजगार के अवसर बनेंगे और आदिवासी बहन-भाइयों की आय में वृद्धि होगी।\nसाथियो, विकास के जितने भी प्रोजेक्‍ट यहां जमीन पर उतर रहे हैं, वो भविष्‍य में ओडिशा को विकास के नए आसमान पर पहुंचाने में सक्षम हैं। यहां की धरोहरों का विकास और connectivity सुधारने से यहां के युवाओं के लिए रोजगार की अनंत संभावनाएं तैयार हो रही हैं। अब इस गति को, इस स्‍पीड को हमें बनाए रखना है। नए ओडिशा, नए भारत के लिए हमें मिलकर साथ चलना है।\nआप यहां भारी संख्‍या में मुझे आशीर्वाद देने के लिए आए, इसके लिए मैं फिर एक बार आपका बहुत-बहुत धन्‍यवाद करता हूं। मेरे साथ पूरी ताकत से बोलेंगे-\nजय जगन्‍नाथ – जय जगन्‍नाथ\nजय जगन्‍नाथ – जय जगन्‍नाथ\nजय जगन्‍नाथ – जय जगन्‍नाथ\nThanks a lot."