"\nNowadays, there is a growing global demand for handmade jewelery: PM\nExcise duty issues given to the government for a better understanding the jewelery sector: PM\nUrge the Gems and Jewelery sector in India to look beyond the domestic market and establish a global presence: PM\nI call upon all those undisclosed income, to declare it before the 30th deadline: PM\nFor initiatives like #MakeInIndia to succeed, innovation is very important, says PM Modi\nI know where I came from because you are the people who bowed to many governments. You are the people who have forced good governments to take the step back. But the bending is there, where there is rust. We did not go out for war, we were out to win you. I'm glad we won you and you too have won us.\nLook, the issue of excise came first and you created the storm, the governments were scared. Every MP is your client. So you do not need to send a delegation to put pressure on the government. Just go to the MP and the daily relationship is yours. But what happened because of that? Governments were scared and the governments withdrew things and the matters remained there only. I think sometimes some thing also does a good job of a long time. For the first time, Excise Duty of this Budget has forced you to explain to the people what is the government? Because you did not know the government, you just knew the Excise Officer. And the mistake is from the same. If you thought that you got an Excise Officer, then the matter happened. It has now changed the government.\nFor the first time you came to know what the government is and for the first time the government came to know how nicely there are in this business, how difficult it is. When I was talking to the officers, I used to ask them that this topic which came from the industry, was not in meditation before? Speak, no sir never came into meditation. That is, for such anonymity and such a large area. It is enough for the Government to peek in itself for itself. Therefore, the decision of Excise of this time, it is fine that you have to spend some money, have to advertise, have to agitate, have to bring petrol to burn effigies, have to do a lot. But despite this expenditure, the advantage also was that there was a deep dialogue between the government and you and that is the power of democracy. You also have the right to keep your point, your way, and the government is responsible for making a lot of effort to understand your point. Had we already been scared, would have believed the MP's say, then any government would come, sometime after 25-30-40 years. Then he miss you. Then it would come by 1% -2%. The problem is not resolved.\nYou must think that Modi does not bend, Modi is blind, Modi is not it. The question is not of Modi, the question is to solve the problems. That's why we created the committee. Your people are in the committee. Attempted to listen to every aspect of your Because of this, I believe that in future even when the government will make some decisions, all these aspects will play a bigger role for overall economy and development of the country.\nNow Jitu brothers were telling that the budget came on 28th February. On March 03, he came and met Modi Ji and said that no one was available before. See, the government is yours, these doors are always open for you. You have the right to keep your point out of resentment too Because if the government does not communicate, if there is no dialogue, then the problem is not solved and it is good that there was also excise and problems were solved.\nYou felt that excise all now, that's fine old experience, and so it is natural to fear you. But in this changed situation you will also enjoy how much joy you have to live with Bhai rules. How deep sleep comes at night. This is the atmosphere of fear that we have done.\nI had a meeting with the officers in between, even then I had said that we understood the citizens as Nation building partner, we do not understand taxpayers as thieves. This is not my fault. But it is true that you also know what is going on here. Good-loved ones have to go to jail, I remember. This government has not started it yet. I am telling the old thing. So there are also some people in us, which causes slander. But this is necessary, as Praveen Ji was giving example, Surat's example. There was the same image of the time of Surat, but they have made themselves modern by following all the rules and regulations and because of this they are taking iron with the world today. You can also take and I stand with you.\nThe Jewellery market in the world is so big, that, its growth is so much, compared to that we are far behind. There is a huge demand for something in the world and whose power we have, but we are unable to match. Handwork manual jewellery in the whole world is its big craze. I'm right, no. I do not want to come to your business, do not worry\nWhen I was in Gujarat, I used to meet jewellery consistently. I started the institute of skill development of jewellery because I know that she has such power. We have a Guru-disciple tradition in Man-made jewellery here. There is very little area in which there is a guru-disciple tradition, there is a jewellery in it. The sonar's work is going to burn the furnace, which gradually becomes the sonar. The Guru-disciple tradition is there and due to it some good things happened and some obstacles also came. The master was as much as he was, the disciple found so much, that a generation came out of his mind. New innovation, innovation, new experiment, its element was very low and due to this we were rolled up in the global arena. We have a legacy of thousands of years. One area is such, there is a legacy of thousands of years. How were the gold used, these things are found in the Vedic texts here, so the ancestors associated with this region in ours will be there to do it.\nBe such a big old legacy and we should not be in the world. This challenge should be accepted by us. How do we go to new designing, how do we need to be sustainable with quality product, zero defect, what we say, quality product and today product. The things that come in, look good and go in a few months, they have a new type of tag, I do not want to speak. We want Bhai to be of India, take it blindly, it is fine. It should be. Make in India is not enough that work is done here and there is employment here. It should be one stage when the world came to know Make in India, Hey Bhui, stop the eye. Take it. This is the brand, pick up.\nTo create this credibility, innovations are very necessary, very necessary. Innovation is to create an environment, the skill development mission that is run by the government, I want people of Gems \u0026 Jewelery to become partners in the work of skill development. We create syllabus which is the vision of the people of Gems \u0026 Jewellery and I believe that more than the people sitting in government, your vision will be more and more clear that yes, this is the demand of time and that should be so. And what you talk about, the university has already become a skill university in Baroda, people of Gems \u0026 Jewelery joined them, make their syllabus with them. Just like what you need. There will be a complete facility for Human Resource Development and I agree that two things emphasize; One Human Resource Development and another Technology Up-gradation. See, Diamond has put a sting on the world in Surat, the reason for this is that she did not take any action in Technology Up gradation. They got new things every time and they felt that there was such a problem in diamond cutting and when somebody arranged diamond cutting with lesser technique, they adopted it immediately. And here we have developed technology on home ground. Which got approval It means that we can do all these things if we wish.\nIt is true that gold has become associated with social status in India and due to this there will be gold in somebody's house, jewelery may have to be done, once or twice a year, there is a chance to wear it. He is lying in the form of dead money. The scheme has been developed for the development of the nation. You can also motivate your client that Bhai is not going to go, keep you there. When needed, bring it, if needed. Because of this, the economy of the country gets strengthened and the economy of the country should be strengthened, in which we should contribute to the people. Wherever the facilities have to be set up, wherever they have to be raised, this government is clear that it is an area of ​​employment for most people who is still untapped, with the potential of being behind us, we are far behind. But we have such a big market in the domestic market that we do not even mind to innovate. Our biggest problem is that the domestic market is very big. There are 100 million people, if there are 200 million married anniversaries in a year, then your five fingers in ghee So you do not mind looking at the world market. I urge you that you will not come out of the limited thinking of the domestic market, by then the breakthrough will not be there. It is fine that the domestic market is too big that you may not even be able to fulfill it. But if you look at the global market then perhaps you will be able to serve the domestic market as a product by yourself. There will be no problem. And what is needed for him will be thought of.\nNow you have only praised praise today, so nothing will be printed in the newspaper tomorrow. If you talk about something here and there, then it will be printed. We should turn this into an opportunity. Should move as far as possible. Pravin ji later said that now should get rid of black money. At least that applause fell at that time. I tell the truth and I want to tell the people of your country also that why are these people sitting on the burden, sleeping in peace, sleeping, and what will be the pleasure of a greater life than this? These fears of income tax officials are scared. Why this fear of the government? This is the biggest solution to change the situation, let's declare whatever is before 30 September. Because I do not want anyone to be sleepy after 30th September. I slept in the hundred and fifty million people of the country, I want this. And I do not want to do that sin which I have to do on September 30. That's why I invite you and tell you the people associated with you because they are most connected to you.\nI am a people of this association, so much so that people have spoken openly about everything. Otherwise nobody tells the government. When this Lahiri Committee was formed then your people would come together and say, 'Sir, our people used to bring money in the trunk. Where do we put it in Hey told you the truth. This means that you know them all. So do not convey my message. Because it is the area of ​​itself that where it has the maximum facility, then the land is there, then there is a world of building construction. You are the first If you help me then the country will be helped.\nSo you must have seen how much difference comes from the dialogue. We can comfortably tell our difficulties. And now what you are asking for so small Praveen ji He is saying that a minister will give a department, a ministry. Hey, keep the whole prime minister. Look, for the development of the country, in order to increase your strength and globally, this government is always with you, the Prime Minister is with you. So do not hesitate in the small ministries, I am sitting for myself. But I invite you. Now the old things you used to do, except those things, have been enough, now what is needed. Now there is a new rule, a new system has been created and made for good, made for the development of the country. Let us work together, take the country to new heights.\nYou welcomed me today, honored me, I am very thankful to you. I assure you that nobody can ever complain that we can not think and I am happy that you accepted the government system. And the reason for this acceptance is faith. Perhaps you would not believe in this government, even today, you used to keep burning effigies, it does not work, but it happened because your government believes and faith in democracy is the biggest capital. Against the rule of the people, against the people of governance, this belief is only the one that connects us and when we join then we also get involved to do something. I believe that we will go here with a resolution to do much for the country. Thanks a lot."