"PM Modi interacts with youngsters at launch\nSports should be a part of everyone's life, says PM\nSports can be a great means of national integration: PM\nWe It should inspire us to work hard and shine: PM\nMy best wishes to all of you. The game itself should be a part of the life of the ordinary person and if the game does not make us a part of life then life does not grow in a way. It has been filled in some people's mind that play is essential for physical health. This is very limited thinking. For the overall development of personality, it is very mandatory to be part of sports life for overall development. The game also develops society-life, nation-life also develops.\nCountries like India where there are about 100 languages, there are 1700 dialects, like the clothes of different kinds, like the food of the family. In our country, if playing field level teams from one end to the other end, playing 12 months can not be the game, this can be the biggest one of National Integration. And so the game in India, with the development of personality, for a lubrication inside the society, because the sportsman spirit comes when the sportsman spirit happens and then in a family life, in a social life, in the national life It works as lubrication, brings openness, gives the ability to accept others.\nThe more powerful it is to win in the game, one big power of digesting more defeats comes from the game. The person who keeps playing in life. Sometimes it gets rolled up and once again he gets up and he does not accept defeat on other occasions of life. The game develops such qualities inside one life, gives strength to cope with life, and the player never feels defeated. The player who plays physical game only, I do not talk about that. Those who are connected to the game with body and mind, can find it and therefore sports should have significance in their lives, in the life of the nation.\nAll of you are starting to play soccer today, are matching and I congratulate Reliance Sports Foundation that they have tried to give importance to the game by joining the youth of the country. Searching for talent, this is the biggest job and unless our child friends get a chance to play on a wide scale, Talent is not aware of it and with today's sports, glamor has come and sometimes due to it Family members also want to make children as players, but when it comes to work at 4 o'clock in the morning, if they are left behind, then glamor will come in first, even if it becomes a status of celebrity but the game will not go ahead without hard work. Can grow up.\nI am confident that many different tournaments will continue to run on the grass route to promote continuous sports by Reliance Foundation and talents will emerge from the competition and the more talent will emerge from the competition, the greater the benefit. My Reliance Foundation is very good luck to Nita Sister, and you do not have to be disturbed by all the students, you always consider the defeat in the life of sports, the occasion of sports, and never be disappointed with the defeat. Defeat teaches, teaches a lot, and who does not play, does not win or be defeated. He also wins, defeated is the one who plays and blooms too which is what plays.\nIf you play, you can not bloom if you do not play. And therefore, to develop personality, to see itself blooming. Just as a lotus flower blossoms, like a plant blossoms, life also blossoms, and the game is one of the biggest medicines to blossom, the biggest opportunity, the biggest challenge is also. And that's why I give all the good wishes to all those involved in the sports world through all the friends today. Words of the word, with that one word, we can explain what is the direction of the game world, what is the vision of the game world, it can be interpreted in the best manner. When we say sports: S stands for Skill, P stand for perseverance, O stands for optimism, R stands for Resilience, T stands for tenacity, all of these things, we will compose our very successful And today, on this occasion, I wish you all very well, I wish you all the best.\nSports must be a part of everyone's life: PM @narendramodi speaks at the launch of RFYS\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 23, 2016\nWe are a big and diverse nation Sports can be a great means of national integration: PM @narendramodi speaks at the launch of RFYS\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 23, 2016\nIn order to be a good sportsperson, it is necessary to be hardworking: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 23, 2016\nIf you do not play, you will not shine And never let defeat affect you so much: PM @narendramodi to young sportspersons"