"\nFor the development of India, the development of eastern India is essential: PM\nSecond green revolution will take place in eastern India, including here in eastern Uttar Pradesh: PM\nThe reopening of the fertilizer unit can ignite an industrial transformation in the state: PM Modi\nNeem coating of urea made corruption stops and farmers get the urea that need to: PM\nBharat Mata Ki Jai, Bharat Mata Ki Jai,\nAll the senior greatmen who were sitting on the stage and a large number of my beloved brothers and sisters of Gorakhpur,\nIn the Gorakhpur hand factory and the contribution of young people present in the fundraising program of AIIMS, I first want to congratulate everyone, if someone says that the factory that was closed for twenty-six years was due to me, due to Modi it is wrong . After twenty-six years, this factory is going to start again, if its credit, its full success goes to anyone, then all the public goes to Janardan. If you had not selected me from a foreign country, if you had not won the one-way BJP and its allies in UP, then twenty-six years of work would still have been hanging. This is because you have formed a government working for you in Delhi, so this work is going on. If you choose your government by keeping your interests in mind, the government also runs to work for you.\nI would like to congratulate you on this whole state of Uttar Pradesh if you did not give us such a force, then a strong and stable government after India in India has never been able to make it, so I thank you and your brother for gratitude. Express\nYour third congratulations I have to do, especially in eastern UP, you have selected our such prominent MPs in the entire East, have chosen such kind of MPs, have chosen such active MPs due to which they regularly visit Delhi You take iron from me with your questions, so I congratulate you. And people ask me when are you going to sleep? You have sent such strong MPs, will they give me sleep? Today, today this is the achievement of the credit of Yogi from Adityanath ji to all MPs stand up. MP, this is the MP who has worked day and night because today one work is being succeeded one by one. I congratulate him and respect him.\nBrothers sisters have not been from my beginning that if India develops then we will have to run the chariot of this development on two frontes. One wheel is of western India and the second wheel of eastern India. If the wheel of East India will not be strong, the wheel alone will be strong only in the West, Gujarat is Maharashtra, Maharashtra is Karnataka, Rajasthan is Haryana, Goa is all that is the western region of India if it is the strongest Hua and India's eastern desert east Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal, Assam, Orissa, North-East, if it is not strong in the eastern region of our country, then it is India's development chariot. Can not run the process and therefore brothers and sisters have been my strength that the wheel of the East India Hindustan strong were the wheel as in the West also made a move forward the development juggernaut. Therefore, if brothers are to move east India, then we will have to move forward revolutionally.\nSecond Green Revolution in India second green revolution If it is going to happen then it is going to be in eastern India, it is going to be done from eastern Uttar Pradesh, if second green revolution is needed then our farmer needs manure, Fertilizer should you have seen such a thing that brothers Fertilizer factories in the house are closed, the young people are sitting unemployed, the development of the area is stuck and the government sitting in Delhi has been demanding from abroad; Show fertilizer Mngwate, what a mistake will be a normal human? Will anybody do If you have food items in your house, will you bring anybody from outside? But in this Delhi, such a government closed the factories of the house, but the fertilizers were brought from outside. We decided that the farmers should give as much urea as they want, but will try to start the factories that have been closed in my country, and this is all the eastern India Is in. Shindari Ho, Barauni Ho, Gorakhpur, this is happening injustice to the farmers of this area and so brothers and sisters not only will these Shindari and Barauni factories also start us. I assure you.\nBrothers sisters were always the Chief Minister of Gujarat when I was the Chief Minister of Gujarat, I always wrote a letter to the Government of India, always complaining in it that my farmers should urea, you should give urea and Delhi government did not answer. When I became the Prime Minister, in the first year, this letter of chief ministers came to me that we need Urea and I had a news in the newspaper selling in Urea Black. The farmer stood in front of the shop for twelve-twelve fifteen-fifteen hours in order to take urea. The farmer has gone to take urea and the loincloth is doing the lathi charge. These days you have to remember people, remember that it was not like that, brothers and sisters, in one and a half years I have not received any letter from the chief minister, there is no lathi charge anywhere, urea has not allowed black marketing anywhere. .\nBut brothers and sisters and therefore farmers are needed, even today, if there is a loss of power in our country to carry out that matter, then in the name of farmers, in the name of farmers, the problem of consumption of urea is to blame farmers The fact was that urea did not even reach the farmers. The urea went out of the factories and went to the factories of the factory workers, the farmer waited for the poor and all the sub Idi Chemical factories were granted to those who had not come destined to farmers. We searched for the solution and said, \"Neam coating of urea and Neam coating of urea, then a gram urea will not be used by any chemical factory, no one can steal whatever urea will be used only in agriculture and anybody Can not come in handy, due to which it was stolen, corruption was done, dishonesty, the bill which was bursting in the name of farmers, false, also closed and the farmers got urea according to the need. Areas served. Brothers sisters are our efforts to create such a strategy for the production of urea in the coming years, due to which we can not bring urea from abroad, if the gas is available in foreign countries, we will make urea there and we will bring urea only.\nIf the prices of tomatoes increased in our country, the prices of tomato decreased in the country, the people who criticized the government are ready, the price of the vegetable has increased, the four quarters fall, the people who criticize the government are prepared. But he never remembers these farmers. Should the farmer not meet his or her entitlement? The farmer should work so hard that he should get the benefit of his should not get it. Brothers sisters, the discussion of inflation in our country is very natural but sometimes important decisions are made, if the significant value gets reduced, then it is forgotten. In the last thirty years, I have heard that you have ever heard that the prices of the fertilizer will be reduced in our country, have they ever heard of the brother? Did not happen? This is the first government in Delhi that you are happy to tell me that my brothers and sisters are happy to tell me that due to the policies of our government, the constant efforts of ending corruption in our country, and the good of the common farmer in our government. Because of worrying day and night, my farmer brothers, our government has achieved TLP manure, which has succeeded in cutting rupees two thousand rupees And because of this, when the farmer takes a sack of fifty kilograms, then he will have to give less than a hundred and twenty five rupees. We have done this work. MOP, the farmer should take the MOP in his value by showing a reduction of five thousand rupees in the value of the brother's sisters, five thousand rupees less and because of that fifty kilograms of bag will be saved, he will be saving up to two hundred rupees. Brothers sisters, we have reduced the average one thousand rupees per tonne of the composted NPK and due to which the farmer is going to save fifty rupees on the sack. If all these accounts were calculated, then before any time a farmer got to eat cheaply, never had any government thought. This is the first government, who has thought in this direction.\nBrothers sisters, we have implemented the Prime Minister's Crop Insurance Scheme. Once the farmer takes the prime minister's insurance plan, he will ever get this insurance in the hour of crisis, his family will be able to spend the rest of the year, such a provision is in the Prime Minister's Crop Insurance Scheme and that At least premium and maximum benefit in the Prime Minister's Crop Insurance Scheme, such a scheme has come for the first time for the farmers after independence. My brothers, my sugarcane farmer, sugarcane farmer is disturbed when I had made thousands of crores of rupees for the prime minister, thousands of rupees, two years of famine, the agriculture sector being in trouble also affects the government, but one step after another We raised such a thing that the farmer who had owed thousands of rupees to the sugarcane farmer, in my old dues, my words are carefully said I am saying In the aruna, which was outstanding, which had owed thousands of rupees, now there are only one hundred seventy, one hundred and fifty thousand, one hundred and eight hundred thousand remaining. Where is the balance of thousands of crores and where one hundred and fifty rupees is worth millions? Not only that, 93% payment has been made in the present account and I will urge the Uttar Pradesh government to complete the same when the Government of India has given so much help, why not stop it for 7%. And the present also should be 100% payment.\nIn the world of sisters, the prices of sugar in the world will be low and more, its direct measurement falls on our farmer, we started together with brothers and sisters of sugar as well as the works of ethanol. Before making sugar from sugarcane, make ethanol, the government will buy it so that the price of sugar will be high, even then the farmer of my sugarcane has never suffered from it, we have worked to make such a permanent arrangement and we also have protection from environment. That is. In our vehicles, the use of Ethanal in the tractor can be done by the government has officially given its permission.\nHow to help the brothers and sisters in the farm can be changed in the farmer's life. The factory of some of the fertilizer, some people will say that a factory is not just a factory. This is not the only case for urea for farmers. This major change is the biggest change that you will become the economy of this area. Jagdishpur-Haldia, which goes to the pipeline of gas, will now start bringing gas to this belt of Gorakhpur and Eastern UP by pipeline. This factory will produce urea on the basis of that gas, its cost will be less but this gas will not remain for the factory only.\nIn every house of Gorakhpur, pipeline from pipeline such as water comes from the pipeline, the pipeline will get gas from the pipeline. Give me the blessings of mother and sisters of this area, I am working for you to take gas from the pipeline in the pipeline. Due to this, when the electricity gets, the gas gets, and the young people working, the line of the industry is set up.\nThis is also the start of the Industrial Revolution in Uttar Pradesh. Brothers and sisters, this is not just a factory plan. But this Vijay Vijay journey has taken place today. The foundation stone of a triumph of Vijay travel is that Vijay travel is a triumph of victory over poverty. The Vijay Vijay Tour is the victory of defeating unemployment. Victory is the triumph of Vijay to stop the destruction and to move towards development. The triumph of Vijay is part of the triumph of victory of happiness and happiness to every family. That Vijay Tour started here today.\nWhen the brothers and sisters, when gas comes, how the economic situation changes, people who know it will write in the coming days.\nToday, the second work we are doing is that the foundation stone of AIIMS. Brothers and sisters are very much in hospital but in India AIIMS has been considered as a criterion. Do you know what the AIIMS is for those who are Delhi? Should my sick brothers and sisters of Uttar Pradesh get the AIIMS or should they not meet? People from far away have to go to Delhi, they should get medicines here or not. Brothers and sisters will take more than one thousand million rupees But one will get 700 bed from modern to modern hospital. Right now, under the leadership of our Nadda and Anupriya, we are taking many steps towards furthering the health plans in India. An important step in this is that we are implementing AIIMS in Gorakhpur today.\nBrothers and Sisters, when I came to the election, I mentioned this to you and when I heard the brain fever. In India, Japanese disease was called the Japanese disease, Japanese disease. How many children fell asleep in death, how many children became ill, brothers and sisters will not be allowed to die. These girls will not be allowed to die and I said at that time the belt in Bihar had trouble of black tide. We got behind him. Jwala is moving forward in direction towards emancipation from Jharsa. आज AIIMS के माध्‍यम से यहां के स्‍वस्‍थ्‍य जीवन के लिए मैं भाइयों और बहनों यहां के स्‍वस्‍थ्‍य जीवन के लिए मैं भाइयों और बहनों यहां के स्‍वस्‍थ्‍य जीवन के लिए मैं भाइयों और बहनों ये दीमागी बुखार जिसने हमारे बच्‍चों की जिंदगी बर्बाद की। यहां इसलिए उत्‍थान चाहिए यहां जिस प्रकार की बीमारियां हैं अध्ययन उस प्रकार का होना चाहिए। यहां जो डॉक्‍टर तैयार होंगे उनकी उस पर मास्‍टरी होनी चाहिए। तब जा करके यहां तो बीमार लोगों को मदद मिलेगी। और इसलिए भाइयों और बहनों आज AIIMS का यहां जब योजना लगी है, बहुत की कम समय में मैंने आज इसका पूरा प्रोजैक्‍टशन देखा।\nइस समारोह में आने से पहले मैं दो और कार्यक्रम करके आया हूं। एक महंत अवैद्य नाथ जी की प्रतिमा का अनावरण करने का सौभाग्‍य मिला। दूसरा भारत सरकार के द्वारा शिलान्‍यास का कार्यक्रम था। वो दोनों कार्यक्रम करने के बाद ये मैं तीसरे कार्यक्रम में पहुंचा हूं और ये तीसरे कार्यक्रम में मैं उसकी विस्‍तार से चर्चा आपके सामने कर रहा हूं कि भाइयों और बहनों हजारों करोड़ रूपया यहां के गरीब से गरीब व्‍यक्ति को अच्‍छी स्‍वास्‍थ्‍य सुविधा मिले । इसके लिए हमने काम किया है। मैं आज हमारे आरोग्‍य मंत्री नड्डा जी को, आरोग्‍य मंत्री अनुप्रिया जी को, उनके सभी साथियों को, सरकार के अधिकारियों को एक बात के लिए बहुत-बहुत बधाई देना चाहता हूं। उन्‍होंने जो इन्‍द्रधनुष योजना चालू की और हम जानते हैं टीकाकरण होता रहता है, जो छूट जाते हैं वो छूट जाते हैं फिर उनकी तरफ देखना वाला नहीं है। इन्‍द्रधनुष योजना के द्वारा नड्डा जी अनुप्रिया के नेतृत्‍व में पूरे देश में टीककरण से जो लोग छूट गये हैं, जो माताएं छूट गईं हैं जो बच्‍चे छूट गये हैं उनका टीकाकरण का अभियान चला गया। 50 लाख से ज्‍यादा ऐसे लोगों को खोज खोज करके झुग्‍गी झोंपड़ी में जा करके जहां भी मिले उनके पास जा करके टीकाकरण का काम करके उनकी जिदंगी बचाने का बड़ा भगीरथ काम किया है, बहुत बड़ा सेवा यज्ञ किया है। \nभाइयों और बहनों, हमें विकास की नई –नई ऊंचाइयों पर हमें पाना है। लेकिन आरोग्‍य के क्षेत्र में मुझे आज कहना पड़ेगा कि उत्‍तर प्रदेश के लिए, उत्‍तर प्रदेश के लिए भारत सरकार ने सात हजार करोड़ रूपया बजट में आवंटित कर दिया है। आरोग्‍य के लिए सात हजार करोड़ रूपया सामान्‍य रकम नहीं है। लेकिन आज मुझे दुःख के साथ कहना पड़ रहा है कि अभी तक सात हजार करोड़ रूपया ready पड़ा है। लेकिन उसमें एक नियम है, जैसे-जैसे खर्च करोगे हिसाब दोगे आपको पैसा मिलता जाएगा। ये सरकार 2850 करोड़ रूपये ही ले पाई है, सात हजार करोड़ सात हजार करोड़ रूपया पडा है। उसको लेने की फुर्सत नहीं है। क्‍योंकि काम करने की उनकी ताकत नहीं है। जो सरकार आपके आरोग्‍य के लिए काम नहीं कर पाए, भारत सरकार पैसे देती हो उसके बाद भी काम अटका पडा हो। तो भाइयों और बहनों ये दीमागी बीमारी हो या कोई भी बीमारी हो। आपको कभी स्‍वास्‍थ्‍य नहीं मिल सकता और इसलिए आपने दिल्‍ली में ऐसी सरकार बनायी आपके लिए दौड़ रही है। लखनऊ में भी ऐसी सरकार हो जो आपके लिए दौड़नें वाली हो। \nभाइयों और बहनों एक और काम मुझे करना है, मैं जानता हूं कि पूर्वी उत्‍तर प्रदेश में टूरिज्‍म के लिए बहुत संभावना है। कृषि क्रांति के लिए संभावना है। औद्योगिक क्रांति के लिए संभावना है। भगवान बुद्ध के दुनियाभर में भक्‍त हैं। वे यहां आना चाहते हैं। अच्‍छी सड़कें होनी चाहिए। अच्‍छी रेल की सुविधाएं होनी चाहिए, अच्‍छी विमान सेवा होनी चाहिए। हमने विमान सेवा में नई पॉलिसी बनाई है। उसके कारण ऐसे गोरखपुर जैसे छोटे-छोटे स्‍थान पर भी अब विमान आने की संभावना बढ़ेगी। उसके कारण टूरिस्‍ट आने की संभावना बढ़ेगी। सड़कें बनाने का अभियान चालू किया है। हजारों करोड़ रूपया हम सड़कों के लिए लगा रहे हैं। अगर अच्‍छी सड़कें इस इलाके में बन जाएं, तो हमारे टूरिस्‍टों को शान के साथ इस इलाके में जा सकते हैं और जब टूरिस्‍ट आता है तो गरीब से गरीब व्‍यक्ति को रोजी-रोटी मिली है। बहुत पैसे खर्च नहीं करने पडते। ऑटो रिक्‍शा वाला भी कमाता है, टैक्‍सी वाला भी कमाता है, होटल भी कमाता है, चाय बेचने वाला भी कमाता है, बिस्‍कुट बेचने वाला भी कमाता है, फल-फूल बेचने वाला भी कमाता है, प्रसाद बेचने वाला कमाता है, खिलौने बेचने वाला कमाता है। हर प्रकार से इस तरह के छोटे लोगों को आय होती है और इसलिए टूरिज्‍म को बढ़ावा देने के लिए भाइयों और बहनों हमने बहुत बड़ी मात्रा में रोड के काम पर बल दिया है। सोनाली से गोरखपुर, नेशनल हाईवे 570 करोड़ रूपये, इंडो-नेपाल बार्डर राजौरी तक 550 करोड़ रूपया, गोरखपुर-वाराणसी four-lane 650 करोड़ रूपया। भाइयों और बहनों ग्रामीण सड़क के लिए तो अलग। ये सारी बातें रेलवे में तो आप देख रहे हैं। कितनी तेज गति से काम चल रहा है आप अपनी आंखों से देख रहे हैं। \nभाइयों और बहनों infrastructure को बल दे रहे हैं। दूसरा महत्‍वपूर्ण काम अभी हमारे पीयूष जी बता रहे थे। आजादी के 70 साल होने वाले हैं। ये 15 अगस्‍त को देश आजादी के 70 साल मनाने वाला है, लेकिन भाइयों और बहनों मैं एक दिन हिसाब कर रहा था। 18,500 गांव ऐसे हैं आजादी के 70 साल होने आए वहां बिजली का खंभा भी नहीं पहुंचा। कुछ समय पहले मैंने हिसाब-किताब मांगा। अफसरों ने कहा साहब इन 18,500 गांव में पहुंचना है तो सात साल लगेंगे। मैंने कहा भाई ये मोदी है, वो सीढ़ी भी चढ़ता है तो दौड़ के चढ़ता है, सात साल क्‍या मतलब है भाई? मैंने एक दिन लालकिले पर बोल दिया मुझे एक हजार दिन में काम पूरा करना है एक हजार दिन में। अभी 340 दिन हुए हैं, 340 दिन हुए हैं मेरे भाइयों और बहनों, लेकिन आज मैं गर्व के साथ कह सकता हूं कि 18,452 गांवों में से 9 हजार 33 गांव में बिजली पहुंच चुकी है।\nभाइयों और बहनों, उत्‍तर प्रदेश में भी 1529 गांव, 1529 गांव ऐसे थे, जो 18वीं शताब्‍दी में जीने के लिए मजबूर थे। बिजली क्‍या होती है? उस गांव को पता नहीं था भाइयों और बहनों। उन 1529 गांवों को खोज करके बिजली पहुंचाने का बीड़ा उठा है और आज मैं संतोष के साथ कहता हूं कि 340 दिन में अब सिर्फ पौने दो सौ गांव सिर्फ अब बचे पौने दो सौ गांव। ये काम भी पूरा कर लिया जाएगा।\nभाइयों और बहनों, उत्‍तर प्रदेश ने मुझे इतना दिया है मैं उत्‍तर प्रदेश का कर्ज चुकाने के लिए दिन-रात लगा हुआ हूं, दिन-रात काम कर रहा हूं।\nभाइयों और बहनों, परिवार की राजनीति बहुत हो चुकी, जातिवाद की राजनीति बहुत हो चुकी, अपने-परायों का खेल बहुत हो चुका। हर किसी की झोली भर के देखी आपने। लेकिन आपकी झोली भरी क्‍या? नौजवानों का भला हुआ क्‍या? किसान का भला हुआ क्‍या ? भाइयों और बहनों अब समय आ गया है। मेरे नौजवान सोचिए, ये जातिवाद का जहर, ये परिवारवाद का खेल, उत्‍तर प्रदेश का भला नहीं करेगा। आप का भी भला नहीं करेगा सिर्फ विकासवाद ही आपका भला करेगा। विकास की राजनीति भला करेगी। और इसमें नये मैं आपको विकास के लिए निमंत्रण देने आया हूं। आइए जैसे मुझे आर्शीवाद दिया वैसा आने वाले दिनों में आर्शीवाद देते रहिए। आपके सपने पूरे करके रहेंगे। इसी बात के साथ मैं आपका बहुत-बहुत अभिनन्‍दन करता हूं। आपका बहुत-बहुत अभिनन्‍दन करता हूं। आपका बहुत–बहुत धन्‍यवाद करता हूं।\nI am very happy that you have come to this public meeting in large numbers. I thank you all: PM @narendramodi https://t.co/PdWbVITQwf\n— PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 22, 2016\nIf you think this fertiliser plant opened again, after 26 long years due to Modi then you are mistaken. Its due to people: PM @narendramodi\n— PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 22, 2016\nThe people reposed faith in us and that is why this development work has been able to take place. You have elected a Govt. that works: PM\n— PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 22, 2016\nFor the development of India, the development of eastern India is essential: PM @narendramodi in Gorakhpur https://t.co/PdWbVITQwf\n— PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 22, 2016\nThe 2nd green revolution will take place in eastern India, including here in eastern Uttar Pradesh: PM @narendramodi in Gorakhpur\n— PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 22, 2016\nWhy should fertiliser plants be shut \u0026 youth not have jobs. And to add to that fertiliser be imported from abroad. This isn't acceptable: PM\n— PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 22, 2016\nNeem coating of urea ensured corruption stops and farmers get the urea that they need: PM @narendramodi in Gorakhpur\n— PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 22, 2016\nThe reopening of the fertiliser unit can ignite an industrial transformation in the state: PM @narendramodi\n— PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 22, 2016\nResources have bee allocated so that people lead a healthy life in this region: PM @narendramodi in Gorakhpur\n— PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 22, 2016\nEastern UP has great scope for tourism: PM @narendramodi in Gorakhpur\n— PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 22, 2016\nUnder the new Civil Aviation Policy, regional connectivity has become a priority area and this will bring more tourists: PM @narendramodi"