"Share\n\nThis forum of cooperative federalism is perfect setting to deliberate on the interests of people, address their problems: PM at Inter State Council\nUrge the States to be increasingly using Inter-State Council as an effective instrument to strengthen our democracy: PM\nInter-State Council is certainly the most significant platform for strengthening Center-State and Inter-State relations: PM\nThe nation can progress only if the Union and State Governments walk shoulder to shoulder: PM\nTotal amount received by states from the center 2015-16 is 21 percent higher than the received in 2014-15: PM\nThrough CAMPA Act, we are trying to free up about 40,000 crore rupees lying idle in banks, for disbursal to states: PM\nAadhar card has become a symbol of empowerment: PM Modi\nIndia's biggest asset is its youth. Center \u0026 States should work together to provide children in an enabling environment\nMerely going to school is not education Education should generate curiosity among children: PM\nWe need to continuously increase our efficiency and capacity on internal security. We should constantly stay alert and updated: PM\nChief Ministers and Lt. Governors of the States and Union Territories, and my Cabinet colleagues,\nI welcome you all to this important meeting of the Inter State Council.\nThere are only few occasions when the leadership of the Center and the States, assembles together. This forum of cooperative federalism is the perfect setting for deliberate on the interests of the people, address their problems, and take collective and concrete decisions. It highlights the vision of our Constitution\nLet me begin by recalling what our beloved former Prime Minister Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee had said at sixteen years ago:\n\"In a democracy as big and diverse as ours, debate, deliberation and discussion help evolve policy that relates to the ground reality. More importantly, they will enable the effective implementation of such policies.\nThe Inter-State Council is an inter-governmental forum that can be used for evolving policy as well as its implementation. I, therefore, urge the states to increasingly use this forum as an effective instrument to strengthen our democracy, our society and our polity. \"\nThe Inter-State Council is certainly the most significant platform for strengthening Center-State and Inter-State relations. There is a long hiatus since the last meeting in 2006, but I am happy that through the efforts of the Home Minister, Mr. Rajnath Singh, the process has restarted. Over the last one year, he has convened meetings of five zonal councils. The increased dialogue and connect has culminated in this gathering today.\nThe nation can progress only if the Union and State Governments walk shoulder to shoulder It will be difficult for any government Therefore, the provision of adequate financial resources is as important as the responsibility for implementation.\nWith the acceptance of the 14th Finance Commission recommendations, the states' share in central taxes have increased from 32% to 42%. This means that States have now more great resources to use in accordance with their requirements. I am happy to share that the total amount received by states from the center 2015-16 is 21 percent higher than 2014-15 in the amount received. Similarly, Panchayats and Urban Local Bodies will receive 2.87 lakh crore rupees during the period of the 14th Finance Commission, which is substantially higher than last time.\nThe rights of states have been kept in mind, even in the revenue received from the auction of natural resources, the auctioning of coal blocks, 3.35 lakh crore rupees to the States in the coming years. Auctions of other mins will yield an additional 18,000 crore rupees to states. Similarly, through amendments to CAMPA Act, we are trying to free up about 40,000 crore rupees lying idle in banks, for disbursal to states.\nThe Union Government also wishes to share with States, the amount that is being saved as a result of transparency. Kerosene is one example. Electricity connections are growing in villages. The Union Government will provide 5 crore new cooking gas connections over the next three years. The supply of LPG will further increase. All these efforts have a direct bearing on the consumption of kerosene. Recently, the Chandigarh Administration declared the city a kerosene-free zone. Now, the Union Government has launched a scheme, under which, if there is a reduction in consumption of kerosene by a state, the center will result in 75% of the resultant savings in subsidy, as the grant to that State. The Government of Karnataka, while moving swiftly on the initiative, has made the Petroleum Ministry This has been accepted and the grant has been disbursed to the State Government. If all states decide to reduce kerosene consumption by 25 percent, and actually do so, they can receive about 1600 crore rupees as grant this year.\nApart from Center-State relations, the Inter State Council is a suitable forum for discussion matters which are of concern to large segments of our population. How can we evolve consensus at the policy formulation stage? How do we address issues of mutual interest?\nTherefore, in this meeting of the Inter State Council, besides the Punchhi Commission Report, three very important subjects have also been added to the Agenda.\nOne of these is Parliament has passed the Aadhar Act-2016 The Passage of this Act enables us to use Aadhaar for Direct Cash Transfers for subsidy and other services.\nAs of date, 102 crores of cards have been distributed in our country of 128 million people. 79 percent of our people Among the adults, 96 percent of people have their cards With your support, we will connect every citizen of the country with an Aadhar card by the year-end.\nToday the simple card verification has become a symbol of empowerment. Benefits are now only available to people who are entitled to receive them, with money being directly credited to their bank accounts. This has not only brought in transparency, but also resulted in savings of thousands of crores of rupees, which is being used for development.\nFriends, Babasaheb Ambedkar had written - \"The path of social reform like the path to heaven at any rate, is strewn with many difficulties. Social reform in India has few friends and many critics. \"\nThe words written by him Therefore, eschewing criticism, we must focus on promoting social reform schemes through mutual cooperation. Many of these schemes have been designed by sub-groups of Chief Ministers under the aegis of the NITI.\nAnother important area of ​​discussion in the Inter State Council is Education India's biggest asset is its youth. More than 30 million children are currently schooling age So, our country has the ability to provide The Center and the States should work together to provide our children an enabling environment in which they will develop their skills and today's needs for themselves.\nIn the words of Pt. Deen Dayal Upadhyay: \"Education is an investment. While planting trees, we do not charge them any fee. \"We are aware that these trees will give us oxygen in the future, and benefit the environment. Similarly, education is also an investment.\nPt. Deen Dayal Upadhyay ji said this in 1965. Since then we have come a long way in terms of education. But a lot still remains to be done. We must discuss the extent to which our education system is genuinely educating our children.\nThe best way of improving the standard of education in children is to make them aware of the purpose of education. Merely going to school is not education Education should generate curiosity among children Knowledge It should motivate them continuously\nSwami Vivekananda also used to say that education does not mean attaining bookish knowledge. The aim of education is character building. Education means strengthening the mind, and enhancing one's intellect, so that one can become self-reliant\nGiven the kind of efficiency and ability that is needed in the economy of the 21st century, it is our responsibility to ensure that our young ones are equipped with at least some skill-sets. We have been able to think logically, think out of the box, and work creatively\nInternal Security is another important issue on the agenda today. We have to discuss this in internal security challenges confronting the country, the solutions to these challenges, and mutual cooperation. The internal security of the country can not be strengthened until we focus on intelligence sharing, it is a great coordination among agencies, and equip our police with modern approach and technology. While, we have come a long way, we need to continuously increase our efficiency and capacity. We should constantly remain alert and updated.\nThe meeting of the Inter State Council provides an opportunity for an extremely free and frank manner. I am sure you will share your agenda items. This will be of tremendous value\nThe more we have been able to solve this important issues, the better we will be able to tackle them. In doing so, we will not only strengthen the spirit of cooperative federalism and Center-State relations.\nThis forum of Cooperative Federalism is a good example for the public to discuss the interests of the public, to solve the difficulties together: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 16, 2016\nVajpayeeji had said \"In democracy like India, policies can only be made by debate, deliberation, discussion, which will take care of ground truth\": PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 16, 2016\nInter State Council is a platform that can be used to create and implement policies: PM Modi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 16, 2016\nThe meeting was not held after 2006, but I am happy that Home Minister Rajnath Singh has tried to resume this process: PM Modi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 16, 2016\nIn the last one year, he has convened a meeting of five Zonal councils across the country. The result is that we are all gathered today: PM Modi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 16, 2016\nDevelopment of the country is possible only if the Center and the State Governments should follow the shoulder: PM Modi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 16, 2016\nI am happy that the amount received from the Center in the year 2015-16 is 21% more than the year 2014-15: PM Modi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 16, 2016\nPanchayats and local bodies will get Rs 2 lakh 87 thousand crore rupees in the period of 14th Finance Commission, which is much higher than last time: PM Modi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 16, 2016\nEfforts are being made to give states Rs 40 thousand crore rupees in the bank through changes in CAMPA law: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 16, 2016\nDr. Ambedkar had said that the path of social reform, the harder it is to go to heaven. Due to social reform, friends get more critic: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 16, 2016\nIndia's strength is our young man More than 300 million children are in school age. We have the capability to provide the world a skilled manpower: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 16, 2016\nTogether with the Center and states, children will have to provide an environment of education in which they can develop their skills according to the needs of today: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 16, 2016\nSwami Vivekananda used to say that the purpose of education is to construct a character, to increase its intellectual power so that it can stand on its own feet: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 16, 2016\nHow to deal with the challenges of the country's internal security and how to deal with each other, it will be discussed today: PM Modi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 16, 2016\nInternal security can not be strengthened until there is no focus on intelligence sharing. We have to be alert and updated all the time: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) July 16, 2016\nWith mutual discussions, we will not only strengthen central-state relationships but will also ensure better future of the nation's citizens: PM"