"Jambo, Namaskar,\nThank you for such a warm welcome.\nI bring you the greetings and good wishes of the 1.25 billion people of India. From over two millennia ago, the waters of the great Indian Ocean have facilitated the inter-mingling of our two peoples. We are marine neighbours\nCommunities from the western shores of India, specially from my state, State Gujarat, and the eastern coast of Africa have settled into one another's lands. In the end 19th century, Indians came to Kenya during the colonial era to build the iconic Mombasa Uganda Railway. Many of them stayed and contributed to the economic development of Kenya. Many joined the freedom struggle, and stood for shoulder to shoulder with Joe Kenyatta, the founding president of Kenya. I count Makhan Singh, Pio Gama Pinto, Chaman Lal, M.A Desai among others.Ancient links between societies have also enriched our cultures. The rich Swahili language contains many Hindi words.\nIndian cuisine is now an intrinsic part of Kenyan cuisine.Excellency, Last evening, you and I saw first-hand the love and bonds of the Indian diaspora with Kenya. They are a strong bridge between the two countries.And, heritage I am happy to return to your beautiful country which I first visited in 2008. I have been able to rekindle our personal friendship which started in New Delhi in October 2015. In the last Some hours, we have been able to impart new vigor and our long-standing relationships: Our political understanding and commitment have deepened.\nWe are ready to join hands in Kenya.\n-In sectors of your selection; and\nAnd, be it:\n-agriculture or health care;\n- Needs of education, vocational education or training;\n-development of small businesses;\n-Renewable power or power transmission; and\n-building of institutional strengths\nKenya's benefit\nExcellency, we have a rich economic and commercial relationship. But, it is not a temporary or transactional relationship It is a time-tested bond, built on the foundation of shared values ​​and shared experiences.\nFriends,\nBoth India and Kenya have young population Both cultures value education Now is the time for skill development.As the Swahili proverb goes: \"Elimubilaamali, Kamantabilaasali\" (Means: Knowledge is practiced like wax without honey). Kenya and India have always worked for world peace. We can also unite our efforts with other Development countries, not just for the well-being of the weak and the poor. But, also to help preserve our Mother Earth\nWe can learn from one of the most important areas of conservation. As Mzee Jomo Kenyatta said, \"Our children may learn about the heroes of the past.\"\nPresident Uhuru Kenyatta, Distinguished Guests, May I now raise a toast\nTo the health and well-being of President of Kenya, His Excellency President Uhuru Kenyatta;\nTo the progress and prosperity of the people of Kenya, our Indian Ocean neighbors,\nTo the eternal friendship between the people of India and Kenya .."