"Share\n\n99 big irrigation projects, which has been stalled for decades, are now being fast tracked, at a cost of almost Rs. 90,000 crore: PM\nGovernment is working for a new vision for agriculture and farmers, by trying to fundamentally solve problems related to agriculture: PM\nFor the first time since independence, the government is thinking of housing needs of the middle class and giving relief on interest, along with financial assistance: PM\nGovernor of Jharkhand Shrimat Dropadi Murmu, the Chief Minister of the State, Mr. Raghuvar Das ji, my colleague of the Council of Ministers Mr. Sudarshan Bhagatji, my companions of Parliament from Bihar and Jharkhand, honorable members of the Jharkhand cabinet, and such a large number My beloved brothers and sisters and I are watching, what I see in front of me is no longer known Is that true gathering even there. Maybe three times there are people out there and who are standing outside in the sunlight, I do not know that they would have been heard or not, so with such excitement and enthusiasm in a large number, all of you came to bless us. I salute your head and bow down to you.\nWitnessing the development visit of Jharkhand, you are all part of this development journey. This is your co-operation with which due to this development journey is moving fast. The year 2019 has started and the very first week when I came between you. So I wish you all the best new year too.\nVeer Prasuta Earth Palano, where the freedom fighter who chewed the Naka gram of the British, is part of the life of Ailambar Pitamber's Gaurav Gath. Every saint of this earth, every hero, every daughter we bow to. I also congratulate those 25 thousand beneficiary families of the Prime Minister Housing Scheme who are entering their new, permanent home today. In the new year, the double greetings of the new house and the house is confirmed, the resolution becomes even stronger and the dreams also start to be pleasant. And so many congratulations to the beneficiaries of a new home.\nCompanions, today I have had the opportunity to lay the foundation for projects involving more than Rs. 3,000 crores related to agriculture that transform the lives of farmers. The irrigation projects that have started work today are an important part of our effort to double the income of the farmer. If the cost of irrigation is reduced, then the cost will automatically decrease. So, from traditional systems of irrigation to the country, new technology is being transported to the farmers. Soon Kanhar pipeline scheme of about 12 crores of rupees can irrigate more than 14 thousand hectares of land. In addition, more than 3 lakh people of this area are getting drinking water. Under this project, length of more than 25 kilometers of pipe shall be laid within the ground, that is, the land will continue to be cultivated and irrigation facilities will also be available.\nHere's the reply of the previous governments about the schemes which should have been worked out to empower the peers, farmers, and the North Koleel project here. This Mandal Dam Project is his testimony. Imagine 47 years ago that half a century of the project was in complete form of ruins. In 1972, its files were run and then hanging and wandering. For the last 25 years, the work of this project was halted on one hand.\nYou tell me, should a half-century should be completed in the completion of a dam project, is it not a criminal negligence done with farmers in the drought prone area, it is not that the peasants, with the farmers, with the thugs, the country There is also evidence of dishonesty with honest taxpayers.\nThe project which was to be completed in 30 crores for only 30 crores will now be completed in about Rs. 400 crores. That is, nearly 80 times more value will be paid to the taxpayers of this country for the entire plan. You tell me who has done this is not a crime or a criminal for the people, whether they are criminals or not, they are not your culprit, are they not guilty of Bihar or are they not guilty of Jharkhand? . Such criminals should be punished or should not be given ... Modi should fight against such criminals or should not fight ... a janitor should do this or should not do it.\nThis is a project like how a country has run for so many years after independence, a case study of these poorly awake farmers. The project also witnessed that how earlier the injustice was done to the people of Jharkhand and Bihar.\n\nThe brothers and sisters are the only people who understand this farmer as the voting bank and the farmer as the food adder .... On one side there are people for whom the farmer is the vote bank, on one side we are the people for whom our farmer is food adder. The difference is that they were the farmers who were the first to understand the vote bank and today we are, who are sincerely trying to overcome all the difficulties in your farming as an ancestor.\nCompanions, today some people will see this opportunity in such a way that a work that has been hanging for so many years today is moving forward. This thing is not so small Think of you when Joint Bihar was there, Jharkhand was not formed. The same government used to sit in Patna if there was some sensitivity towards farmers, if there were some knowledge of the problems of the people here, this work would not have been hanging for so many days, and a total of 24 million of 30 million It does not matter.\nSecondly, in India, there is a fight between the neighboring states of water related to water, cases are pending in the Supreme Court. Water is flowing in the ocean. But battles are being fought for political reasons.\nToday, this incident will have to be specifically notified to the country. I congratulate Bihar Chief Minister my friend Nitish Kumar. I congratulate my fellow Chief Minister of Jharkhand Chief Minister Raghuvar Das Ji. That the two governments have taken intelligible steps in the direction of completing this project linked to both the states.\nI congratulate our MPs from Bihar. I congratulate my MPs of Jharkhand. Both the states, MPs, whenever I came together, came together, along with both the directions of Jharkhand and Bihar, and this problem of this state ... not of that state, the farmers of our country should get benefit from them. ... congratulating and congratulating all these MPs that he has never been sitting in peace with this one issue, he is not able to sleep peacefully. They have been running for you day and night and have been running me too, and therefore I congratulate these MPs today especially, and hence this DAM is today, along with the work of giving new power to India's federalism. Both Bihar and Jharkhand have joined together. This is a special pride for me. It is a matter of joy. And for other states of the country too, there is a lot to learn from this. And so I especially congratulate the MPs, the two governments, heartily to the two Chief Ministers.\nCompanions, today some people are flushing the farmers of the country in the name of debt waiver, lying to the farmers. I know that he has never heard of the name of the North Kole project. They did not even know that Kokal is the name of Pankhi that the name of the dam is that the name of the river is not known. When their government was in the center, such people never cared that irrigation projects in the country are stuck for years, they are incomplete, they should be fulfilled.\nYou tell me ... that if this project had been completed at about half a century, then this farmer of this area would have ever made a borrower ... ... would have made ... what would he have to take a loan ... Did he drown in debt ... before you forced him to borrow. His live without making the loan impossible and now he has left for politics. It would have been nice if there was a little sympathy for the farmers. If all such work had been done, my farmer would never have been burdened with debt. Hey ... he would have had the power to lend to the world.\nBrothers and Sisters, when our government came, we took the lead in spreading water to the farmer's farm. When the paper of the old untimely irrigation project was removed, such feats came to know that my eyes were opened ... the open was open. In a way the eyes burst ... have done such a thing.\nYou can imagine, that there was not only the North Kole project but there were many irrigation projects where the dam was built. The canal was not built. If the canal was built then the dam's work was incomplete. If the dam and canal become both, then the work of adding it is not done. So ... no care, if the money went away, the land was gone, the farmer is dying, he is dying. It's been doing the same thing. This kind of injustice is being done with the farmers, along with the country's irrigation project.\nI made lists of such big projects across the country, arranged for the budget and then started the Prime Minister's Irrigation Project. Today, due to this project 99 major projects in the country are being completed. Which was stuck for 30-30, 40-40 years, files were also lost.\nCompanions, you know how much money we are spending on it. I tell you .... Nearly 90 thousand crore rupees, that is, one way is 1 lakh crore rupees ... this is how our work is done.\nBrothers and Sisters, If I had to do politics, if I had to make the farmers share the share of the vote bank then it was very easy for me, what was the need to work behind such plans of Rs 1 lakh crore. What was the need to inquire from day to day, what was the need to run the babus? Simultaneously, a million rupees of rupees are distributed to the farmers by the debt waiver. But I did not choose a way to mislead farmers, not sin. The debt waiver would have been of one generation, would have been of one year but the water that came out of 1 lakh crores will do good to the people for the coming centuries. The farmer's 5-5, 25-25 generation will do well. We did the work that he never made borrower. We are not the vote bank politics, we have worked to strengthen my farmer and therefore the efforts of the brothers and sisters to win these elections are the result of the same game that they have kept the farmer borrower. He has kept the youngster in a quandary. They have kept the mothers unsafe. They have created such a system that people believe in all the things that the government believes, I am trying to change that system.\nNot to the country government, the country should run with the people. The country should not be from you to us, you must be on the strength of your strength. With this intention we are working.\nMany schemes have been fulfilled due to the constant efforts of the brothers and sisters, the government and I mostly see that many projects have reached the final phase. And in the last phase, it is a matter of fact that the earlier governments which understand the farmers as the vote bank and our government consider farmers as food additives, there is a direct difference. This difference will make you ... this will never know the people sitting in the air conditioner room of the TV, the news headlines will not be known and therefore, for the bright future of the brothers and sisters, the power of the farmer is to follow this path And let us serve only our duty and our duty to the farmers, serving the country. It is our duty to accept this as our religion.\nOur team is moving forward with a new thinking to empower the farming and farmers, our effort is to strengthen the farmer by raising new systems from seed to market.\nBrothers and Sisters, all the governments of the country have been working according to their own understanding and capabilities since independence. Someone paid attention to the name, then someone paid attention to the work. Today, 25 thousand people have got new homes under the Prime Minister's Housing Scheme. And so I want to give you an example of this plan too.\nCompanions, four and a half years ago, when all of you had given the opportunity to the Bharatiya Janata Party government, we made a promise to the poor of the country, from homeless people. Efforts will be made to provide a permanent roof over the head of every countryman, whether it is the country's village or city by 2022. In this endeavor our government started the Prime Minister's Housing Scheme. Separate for the cities, separate for the village, when we started this scheme, then the question was raised that such a plan was before, what will you do differently, how will you do it, you are just changing the name, maybe that name will be shuffled . But what is the real change in the scheme, how it happened, what is the impact of this today I want to send you through the holy land of Jharkhand to every poor in the country.\nThe brothers and sisters, in our country, planned to give home to the poor before. But he used to run a scheme in the name of a family, there was less worries about maintaining the name of the family. We made changes to come ... We did not make the Narendra Modi housing scheme, we did not make the Namo Housing Scheme, we did not make the Raghuvar Das housing scheme. We told the simple fact that whenever the Prime Minister comes, will increase. Name feud should not work for name.\nI want to know that no one here will remember that before the big leaders who used to make plans in the name of the house, where is the house ... will be seen on the paper .. the earth will not be seen. Where did these bucks go ... Where did they go, where did they go, where did they go, the money went on playing this brother brothers sisters? What was the first plan? जब तक उनके खासदारों को उनके आस-पास के चेले-चपाटों को दक्षिणा नहीं देते तब तक आपका नाम भी तय नहीं होता था।\nसाथियों, देश में पहले जो आवास योजना थी उसमें किसे घर मिलेगा, कैसे मिलेगा इसकी चयन-प्रक्रिया में बहुत बड़े-बड़े खेल हुआ करते थे। दलाली हुआ करती थी। मैं सार्वजनिक रूप से पूछ रहा हूं। ये जो मुझे सर्टिफिकेट दिखा रहे थे, 25 हजार लोगों को घर मिला है ऐसे लोग बैठे हैं। मैं आपसे पूछना चाहता हूं कि क्‍या प्रधानमंत्री आवास योजना पाने के लिए आपको किसी को रिश्‍वत देनी पड़ी है, जोरों से बताइए वो सर्टिफिकेट ऊपर करके बताइए देनी पड़ी है... किसी को पैसे देने पड़े है, किसी ने आपसे पैसे मांगे है।\nमैं देश भर के लोगों को कहना चाहता हूं। दलालों को हमारे यहां कोई जगह नहीं है, बिचौलियों की कोई जगह नहीं है और इसलिए गरीब के खाते में सीधे बैंक से पैसे जमा करा रहे हैं। नाम तय करने में भी हमने वैज्ञानिक तरीका अपनाया है। 2011 की जनगणना के आधार पर और पहले तो बीपीएल लिस्‍ट और वो भी बदलता रहता था। लोग शिकायतें करते रहते थे कि मेरा नाम नहीं है। पहले था लेकिन अब कट गया है। वो कटता इसलिए था वो बिचौलिये की जेब में कुछ डालता नहीं था। प्रधानमंत्री आवास योजना में हमने सबसे पहले इसी अव्‍यवस्‍था को सुधारा।\nअब गावों में किसे घर मिलेगा ये 2011 में जो जनगणना हुई थी उसके आधार पर ग्राम सभाओं द्वारा तय किया जाता है। इतना ही नहीं अगर किसी वजह से किसी का नाम उस लिस्‍ट में नहीं है या किसी को कोई शिकायत है तो उसे भी अपील करने का पूरा मौका दिया जाता है।\nघर आंबटन में पारदर्शिता और ज्‍यादा बढ़ाने के लिए हमारी सरकार ने ये भी तय किया है कि जिन-जिन को घर दिया जा रहा है उनकी लिस्‍ट को ग्राम पंचायतों की दीवारों पर लगाया जाए। पूरे गांव को पता होना चाहिए कि ये-ये लोग हकदार है और उनको घर मिलने वाला है। यानी हर स्‍तर पर हमारा ये प्रयास रहा कि गरीबों को घर मिले जबकि पहले हर स्‍तर पर प्रयास होता था कि गरीबों का नाम कटे, लिस्‍ट से नाम निकले और दलालों की जेब भरती रहे। यही कारोबार होता रहा था।\nभाईयो और बहनों, पुरानी योजना से अलग एक और महत्‍वपूर्ण कार्य हमने किया, आज जिन्‍हें घर मिले हैं वो भी इसके गवाह है कि पहले यहां लाभार्थी का ऑनलाइन रजिस्‍ट्रेशन होता है और फिर उसके बैंक खाते का सत्‍यापन किया जाता है। ये भी इसलिए किया जाता है ताकि लाभार्थी के खाते में सीधे पैसे ट्रांसफर करने में कोई दिक्‍कत न आए।\nभाईयो और बहनों, पहले की योजना में स्थिति ये रहती थी कि अलग-अलग स्‍तर पर अलग-अलग बैंक खाते होते थे। जहां से लाभार्थियों को पैसे रिलीज किए जाते थे इस वजह से अक्‍सर उनका पैसा अटक जाता था। अब हमने राज्‍य स्‍तर पर सिर्फ एक खाता बना दिया है जहां से सारे लाभार्थियों को पैसे ट्रांसफर किए जाते हैं। यानी घर पाने वालों की एक और दिक्‍कत को दूर करने का हमने प्रयास किया है।\nअब आते हैं घर निर्माण की मॉनि‍टरिंग पर..... पहले की योजना में किस तरह के घर बनते थे, आपने भी देखा होगा उनकी ऐसी बुरी हालत रहती थी कि लोग घर मिलने के बाद भी उसमें जाने के लिए तैयार नहीं होते थे। ये स्थिति इसलिए थी क्‍योंकि पहले की योजनाओं में मॉनि‍टरिंग का कोई उचित तरीका ही नहीं था। प्रधानमंत्री आवास योजना के तहत बनने वाले घरों की क्‍वालिटी पर नजर रखने के लिए हमने नई व्‍यवस्‍था स्‍थापित की।\nअब जो घर बनते हैं उनमें निर्माण के दौरान तीन अलग-अलग स्‍तरों पर फोटो ली जाती है। उसकी जियोटैकिंग की जाती है। यानी किस तारीख पर फोटो ली कहां पर ली ये सारी जानकारी सही तरीके से जमा की जाती है। इतना ही नहीं सरकार ने जो व्‍यवस्‍था बनाई है उसमें ये भी इंतजाम किया है कि इन फोटो को कोई भी देख सकता है।\nभाईयो और बहनों, पहले जो घर मिलते थे उसमें सिर्फ खाली चारदीवारें होती थी। अब जो घर मिल रहे है उसमें तमाम मूल सुविधाएं हैं जो एक परिवार के लिए जरूरी होती है। बिजली का कनेक्‍शन, रसोई गैस का कनेक्‍शन, शौचालय ये सब सुविधाएं घर के साथ ही मिल रही हैं। इसके अलावा एक और बड़ा काम किया है। हमनें घर की डिजाईन को लेकर.. पहले छोटे-छोटे घर बनते थे हमनें उनका जरा क्षेत्रफल.. दायरा बढ़ा दिया जिन्‍हें घर मिलता है उन्‍हें डिजाईन के कई विकल्‍प भी उपलब्‍ध कराए जाते हैं। कोशिश ये होती है कि स्‍थानीय साम्रगी का इस्‍तेमाल करते हुए कम लागत में आधुनिक तकनीक का उपयोग करते हुए नए डिजाईन के घर लोगों को दिए जाए।\nसाथियों, आज जो मैं आपको बता रहा हूं वो यहां मौजूद हजारों लोगों का अपना अनुभव है लेकिन देश में बहुत से लोग है जो इस बारे में जानना भी नहीं चाहते अब उन्‍हें बताने और जताने का समय आ गया है। आज जो लोग मुझ पर कीचड़ उछाल रहे हैं जब वो सरकार में थे तो उन्‍होंने अपने पांच साल में गरीबों के लिए पांच साल में जरा याद रखोगे आंकड़ा मैं बताता हूं, याद रखोगे मैं जो बता रहा हूं याद रखोगे पक्‍का रखोगे। उनकी जब सरकार थी। मैडम रिमोट कंट्रोल से जब सरकार चला रही थी तब गरीबों के लिए गांव में पांच साल में सिर्फ 25 लाख घर बनवाए थे और जब से ये सेवक आया है न, आपकी सेवा के लिए आया है न मोदी... सेवक ने पांच साल में और उससे भी कम समय में 1 करोड़ 25 लाख घर बना दिए.... 1 करोड़ 25 लाख यानी उनके पांच साल में जितने बने उससे पांच गुना। मतलब हमने जितना काम किया वो करना है तो उनको और 25 साल लग जाते मतलब आपके बच्‍चों के बच्‍चे भी बड़े हो जाते लेकिन आप झोंपड़ी में ही जिंदगी गुजारते।\nइतना ही नहीं ये हमारा ही काम करने का तरीका है कि पहले की सरकार में जहां एक घर बनने में करीब-करीब 18 महीनें लगते थे अब जिस प्रकार की टेक्‍नोलॉजी, जिस प्रकार के साधन जिस प्रकार की व्‍यवस्‍था को हमने लागू किया है 18 महीनें से ज्‍यादा समय पहले लगता था आज 12 महीनें से भी कम समय में वो अपने घर में रहने चला जाता है और भाईयो बहनों, हमारे देश में घर है तो पुरुष के नाम पर, गाड़ी है तो पुरुष नाम पर, जमीन है खेती है तो पुरुष के नाम पर, दुकान है पुरुष के नाम पर, जो कुछ भी है पुरुष के नाम पर और पुरुष का स्‍वर्गवास हो जाए तो उसके बेटे के नाम पर बेचारी मां के नाम कुछ है ही नहीं। हमने तय किया प्रधानमंत्री आवास योजना उस परिवार की जो मुख्‍य महिला है उसके नाम पर दिया जाएगा। मेरी माताए-बहनें ताकत है..... उसी के खाते में पैसा जमा होगा। ये जो मकान बन रहे हैं उसके पीछे ये भी कारण है कि पैसे इधर-उधर नहीं जाते हैं वो बहनें ध्‍यान देकर के मकान बनवा देती हैं।\nदेश में जो भी बेघर है उनको घर मिलने में... हमारा वायदा है, काम तेज गति से चल रहा है, अभी भी बहुत लोग जिनको मकान पहुंचाना है। जिनको घर मिला नहीं उनको मैं विश्‍वास दिलाता हूं। हमने करके दिखाया है पांच गुना तेजी से काम साढे चार साल में करके दिखाया है। 2022 में मकान का काम पूरा करने के इरादे से दौड़ रहे हैं। जिसको नहीं मिला है उनको भी मकान मिलेगा ये मैं विश्‍वास आज देना चाहता हूं। मेरे सामने ऐसे अनेक भाई-बहन बैठे है जो गवाह है कि उनको कितनी आसानी से बिना किसी को खिलाए-पिलाए अपना घर मिल गया और मैंने पूछ लिया है अभी...\nसाथियों, मैं खुद सरकारी योजनाओं के लाभार्थियों से संवाद करता रहता हूं। ऐसे ही यहां झारखंड के लाभार्थियों से मैंने बातचीत की है और जिससे मुझे पता चला है कि किस प्रकार का बदलाव आया है।\nमुझे एक बार वीडियो कॉन्‍फ्रेंस से झारखंड की बहनों से बात करने का मौका मिला था। खुंडी की बहन नीरु, अंजली, गायत्री सहित अनेक ऐसी बहनों से उस दौरान मेरी काफी बातचीत हुई थी। उसमें बहनों ने बताया कि कैसे उन्‍होंने अपना घर बनाया। झारखंड की सरकार ने जो रानी मिस्‍त्री बनाने की जो ट्रेनिंग दी है उसके बाद पहले उन्‍होंने दूसरों के लिए शौचालय बनाया और बाद में अपने लिए घर बनाया।\nभाईयो और बहनों, ऐसे तमाम लाभार्थी बताते हैं कैसे चार किश्‍तों में सीधे उनके बैंक खाते में करीब सवा लाख रुपये पहुंच रहे है। टायलेट के लिए अलग से पैसे मिल रहे हैं। पहले सिर्फ 70 हजार रुपये मिलते थे उस पर से भी घर पर कितने लगते थे, ये आप उनको पूछिए जिन सौभाग्‍यशाली लोगों को पहले की सरकार के दौरान घर मंजूर हुए है।\nसाथियों, गरीब को जब घर मिल जाता है तो उसका आत्‍म विश्‍वास चरम पर पहुंच जाता है। जब उसको गर्मी, सर्दी बरसात की चिंता नहीं रहती तो वो कमाई पर ध्‍यान देता है और उसका जीवन स्‍तर ऊपर उठने लगता है।\nइतना ही नहीं ये जो घर बन रहे हैं वो परिवार की महिला सदस्‍य के नाम पर हम दे रहे है ऐसे में सिर्फ एक घर से ही गरीब के सशक्‍तीकरण का पूरा आंदोलन खड़ा करने का प्रयास हो रहा है। घर भी मिल रहा है, रोजगार भी, आत्‍मसम्‍मान भी और आत्‍मविश्‍वास भी जो गरीबी को भारत से हटाने में बहुत मददगार सिद्ध हो रहा है।\nजब घर की बात होती है तो एक और बड़ा अंतर पहले की तुलना में ये है कि आजादी के बाद पहली बार किसी सरकार ने मध्‍यम वर्ग के घर की भी चिंता की है। मध्‍यम वर्ग को आर्थिक मदद के साथ ही ब्‍याज में भी राहत दी जा रही है। इस देश के हर नागरिक का अपने घर का सपना पूरा हो इसी तरह हम पूरी ईमानदारी से हम प्रयास कर रहे हैं और अगर मध्‍यम वर्गीय परिवार 20 लाख रुपये का फ्लैट लेने जाता है तो बैंक से उसको कर्ज लिया है तो हमने उसमें मदद ऐसी की है कि 20 साल में जब पैसे जमा करेगा तो पहले की तुलना में उसका छ: लाख रुपया कम हो जाएगा, बच जाएगा। ये काम मध्‍यम वर्गीय परिवारों के लिए हमने किया है। 20 लाख रुपया भरते-भरते उसका छ: लाख रुपया बचाने का काम ब्‍याज कम करके हमने किया है।\nभाईयों और बहनों, झारखंड यहां के आदिवासियों को, यहां के सामान्‍य जन के संघर्ष का परिणाम है। ये राज्‍य आप सभी की आंकाक्षाओं का प्रतीक है। जिसको अटल जी की सरकार ने सम्‍मान दिया था। इसके संतुलित और समग्र विकास के लिए केंद्र और झारखंड की सरकारें पूरी ईमानदारी से जुटी है। सबका साथ सबका विकास हमारा मार्ग भी है और लक्ष्‍य भी है।\nइसी सोच का परिणाम है कि यहां से जिस आयुष्‍मान भारत प्रधानमंत्री जय योजना पीएमजे योजना की शुरूआत मोदी केयर के नाम से लोग जानते हैं। तीन महीने पहले की गई थी वो आज लाखों गरीबों को जीवन-दान दे रही है। सिर्फ सौ दिन के भीतर ही करीब-करीब साढ़े छ: सात लाख से अधिक बहन भाईयो को देश भर के हजारों अस्‍पतालों में या तो इलाज मिल चुका है या फिर वो अस्‍पताल में इलाज करा रहे हैं इसमें झारखंड के भी करीब 28 हजार लाभार्थियों की मदद हुई है।\nसाथियों, आज आयुष्‍मान योजना का इतना विस्‍तार हो चुका है कि हर रोज करीब-करीब 10 हजार लोगो को इसका लाभ मिल रहा है। यानी ये योजना हर रोज 10 हजार लोगों के जीवन को बचाने, उनकी परेशानी को कम करने का प्रयास कर रही है।\nभाईयो और बहनों विकास की पंचधारा यानी बच्‍चों की पढ़ाई, युवाओं को कमाई, किसान को सिंचाई, बुजुर्गों को दवाई और जन-जन की सुनवाई इसको न्‍यू इंडिया के संस्‍कार बनाने में हम जुटे हैं।\nआप सभी झारखंडवासियों का भरपूर आशीर्वाद हमारे साथ रहा है। न्‍यू इंडिया के लिए रहा है, न्‍यू झारखंड के लिए रहा है। विकास के प्रति अपने विश्‍वास को आप यूं ही बनाए रखेंगे इसी भावना के साथ मैं फिर एक बार नीतीश कुमार और रघुवार दास जी को दोनों को बधाई देता हूं। हमारे सभी एमपीस को बधाई देता हूं और जनता जनारधन को बधाई देता हूं।\nइस परियोजनाओं के लिए अनेक-अनेक शुभकामनाएं देता हूं। और आपने इतनी बड़ी संख्‍या में आकर के, इतने धैर्य के साथ आशीर्वाद दिए इसके लिए मैं फिर एक बार सर झुका करके नमन करता हूं। मेरे साथ पूरी ताकत से बोलिए... दोनों मुट्ठी बंद करके बो‍लिए....\nभारत माता की जय....ऐसे नहीं,\nभारत माता की जय....शाबाश....\nभारत माता की जय....\nभारत माता की जय....\nThanks a lot."