"\nBanda Singh Bahadur was a great warrior: Prime Minister Modi\nDue to efforts of Banda Singh Bahadur, farmers got their rights for the first time, gave their rights to the common man: Prime Minister\nBanda Singh Bahadur considered himself to be a partner of governance. He never used this right for himself: Prime Minister Modi\nBanda Singh Bahadur ji took the words of Guru Gobind Singh in his mind and order and made a bright example of the Guru-disciple tradition: Prime Minister\nI bow to Baba Banda Bahadur for his bravery and sacrifice: PM\nBanda Singh Bahadur's life is inspiration for all of us: PM Modi\nThis year, Baba Banda Singh Bahadur Das 300 years of martyrdom day, not only Punjab, but also the whole country, where V Hindustani is celebrated, large excitement is being celebrated. All the people who have lost their lives, remembering the lassanari martyrdom, they bow down their heads, yes, I would like to share something about this great warrior.\nToday, we heard the poem Rabindranath Tagore's sacrifice and sacrificing the saga of sacrificing and sacrificing through a very beautiful poem and believe that the period has come alive in front of us. It is clear from this verse that Banda Bahadur was the name of that person, where on the heritage of sacrificing sacrifice and sacrifice, the sentiments of society, wished to die for the happiness and misery of society, not just heroism, not only Sacrifice; But today, on the 300th martyr of the great warrior who laid the foundation of the common humanities, such a strong foundation, on his 300th martyr today, to take inspiration from them, to learn something from them and to bring their learning into our activities today We are remembering His virtue.\nThe talk of Baba Banda Singh was not limited to Punjab or North India. His life is an ideal which has been inspiring people of India for 300 years. We all know that Banda Bahadur ji has been a great warrior, and has also used his name on history as a very sensitive administrator towards the general humanities. But when Gurudev Tagore wrote about him, he presented the human qualities before us, which is an example for others. Those who inspire others throughout life. Even in difficult situations during the war, Banda Singh Bahadur was never disturbed by his journey even during the entire tenure, and even a dagger got distracted by his path, Bahadur Banda Singh could not even look for him anywhere in history. This is not a small issue.\nBanda Singh kept the sword in his hand till the whole of his life, it is not so. They used to live on the edge of the sword and due to this, the struggle of life, the government period, but never to be distracted by the path, let the goal not disappear; I understand that such powers in history are rarely seen.\nBanda Singh Bahadur's courage was his duty. Rabindranath became the inspiration for Tagore. This is an example in itself. Even in the opposite circumstances, with courage, with self respect, life is fought in life, if this is to learn from someone, then the words written by Guru Rabindranath Ji on Banda Bahadur ji have been written by one word of that life to us Inspires to live, paves our way.\nDuring the period of 18th century Banda Bahadur Singh ji was born, the country was living with social, economic and political turmoil at that time. Whatever age you are, you are in any part of the country, but the effect of these changes falls directly on every section of the society. The childhood of Banda Bahadur Ji is also not untouched by these things. They are looking at the surrounding environment, understand. But it is said that many times in one's life, only one incident decides the success of his coming life. It was the same with Banda Singh Bahadur ji. After killing an animal in a teenage age, he became so disturbed, he became so self-conscious, he became resentful.\nWe hear the story of Lord Buddha. When two brothers go to the forest, we become the Siddhartha Buddha who would kill the protector and the favor of the protector. Banda Bahadur Singh, an incident has stirred his mind and he became a recluse. This vairag took him to the feet of Guru Gobind Singh. After the meeting of Guru Gobind Singh ji in Nanded, the identity of his old life was left behind. He left the world. He was once known as Madhav Das, that thing was immersed in the house of history and he took the name of Banda Singh, after this meeting, after the visit, this infatuation of Guru Gobind Singh ji led the way to become a great soldier. . Baba Banda Singh Bahadur ji lived the words of Guru Govind Singh in his mind and order. Perhaps this surrender to Guru, which Banda Bahadur has shown, can be said in a brilliant example of the Guru-disciple tradition and the history is lost that after this Guru of Govind Singh ji added thousands of people with him, system change Let's introduce a new one. As a great organization, he added people of all sections of society with him. Just as Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj had created a great military power by connecting small Malwanas with them. Banda Singh Bahadur also introduced the people of all sections of the society with his organization skills of a great military power, a great organizer. And with the power of the organization, big goals can also be achieved. They had no resources, neither were money nor money. It was the skill of the organization, the courage was very strong and they used to prepare for every moment that they were determined, to prepare themselves for the purpose of inviting them with the power of life for every moment. For the first time in the rule of Banda Singh Bahadur, the poor farmer land on the land of Punjab became the owner of land. Banda Singh Bahadur returned the right to the farmers, who gave them the same bay. Banda Singh knew that if the poor have to rise then they have to give them rights. They were favored for the economic freedom of the farmers. Those who discuss the socialist ideology today, will see each decision of Banda Singh's reign. So how to empower the common humanitarian society. How to awaken the developmental shadows within and how to take the whole nation towards freedom on the basis of the powers of the common man, we used to feel within every decision of the whole kingdom of Banda Singh Ji. They knew that poverty will be overcome in this country, when every section of the society is developed. He removed every bottleneck of unbalanced development. The interests of the poor and the backward castes were completely safe in their means and they got justice with no discrimination. Despite being a great warrior, Banda Singh Bahadur's dedication to democracy is still an example, inspiring. He did not keep all the powers of governance in his hands. They considered themselves to be just a partner of governance. Even coins and seals, he did not own his name, Guru Nanak Dev ji and Guru Gobind Singh ji. Never put your name forward. Look at the politics of today's era. When they came to know, they swore life on the sword and sat on the governing system. Their rights were made but they never used this right for themselves. What would have saved democratic values ​​in the underlying mind, we could have felt from this, can experience.\nThey respected the cultural and religious diversity of this country. Well, Sikhs, on every page of history .. and I say with great responsibility. On every page of Sikh history, the martyrdom of the martyrs is recorded. But there is hardly any other example we can find in the martyrdom of Baba Singh Bahadur ji. Those who had ever lived, patriotism had given so much courage that they were not afraid of torture, nor were they afraid of death.\nOn this occasion of 300 years of martyrdom, I commend the singular talent of Banda Singh ji, his courage and his martyrdom. In the words of Kabir ji, the devotee of Shri Guru Granth Sahib,\nRecognize Sura Soo, who has fought for the oppressed.\nDo not die, do not leave the field.\nI am happy that under the leadership of Venerable Prakash Singh G. Badal, the Punjab Government paid tribute to martyrdom of Baba Banda Singh Bahadur and his companions by making Fatah Burj in the historic grounds of Chappar Chittar in 2010, giving a very historic honor. This Fatah Burj is not only for Punjab but for other parts of the country as well, for youth, it is also a source of inspiration for generations to come.\nIn the last one year, the Shiromani Gurdwara Management Committee, including the Punjab government and several other organizers have organized several events to commemorate 300 years of martyrdom of Baba Banda Singh Bahadur, a committee of Delhi Sikh Gurudwara Management Committee, Baba Banda Singh Bahadur ji. In addition to saluting this great man, many programs, many good luck for these programs too.\nAnother good luck this year is going to meet the people of the country and it is good luck that the 350th anniversary of the birth of Guru Gobind Singh Ji is being celebrated with great honor and will be celebrated in every corner of the country. . All over the world where Hindus spread, they will be celebrated everywhere. For this purpose, the Government of India has allocated an amount of Rs. 100 crores. A high level national committee is being formed to organize the function.\nI believe that these events in history will connect our future generations, our roots. Those who forget history can never make history. History can be built only on the roots of history. So maybe we celebrate 300 years, we celebrate 350 years, we celebrate the centenary, all these opportunities connect us with those great traditions, associate with the historical heritage and give us a new energy to decide the future path, Give new inspiration, give a new cheek.\nI am convinced that those who are remembering Baba Banda Singh Bahadur Ji, along with valor, along with sacrificing sacrifice and sacrifice, as an administrator, will also reach society as a social reformer. I salute him in his stages and by inspiration from his life, we can serve the society, serve the country, wish it and I got the opportunity to come to this festival, for the honor I received, Thank you very much. Wah guru ji khalsa, wah guru ji fateh\n"