"Share\n\nLike our farmers, our nation is very proud: PM Modi #ManKiBaat\nMet College students who made one of the satellites that was launched with 20 others a few days ago by ISRO: PM #MannKiBaat\nPM Modi launches ISRO for launching 20 satellites in a go during #MannKiBaat\n'Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao' has touched so many lives The results of examinations show that students are excelling: PM #MannKiBaat\nPM Modi appreciates induction of three women pilots in the Air Force during #MannKiBaat\nThe world marked # IDY2016 in a big way People from all over the world joined the Yoga Festival: PM Modi #MannKiBaat\nTwitter too joined #YogaDay celebrations through a special emoji: PM Modi during #MannKiBaat\nUN headquarters were the first time to celebrate #YogaDay: PM Narendra Modi during #MannKiBaat\nNarendra Modi during #MannKiBaat\nUse #YogaFightsDiabetes and share your experiences on how Yoga can help reduce the diabetes: PM during #MannKiBaat\nPM talks about Emergency imposed during 1975, says the night of 25-26th June was the darkest for democracy #MannKiBaat\nAbout 3 lakh people took part in 'Rate My Government' on MyGov portal. This is not a mere thing: PM Modi during #MannKiBaat\nGovernment has set 30th September as last date to declare all undisclosed income: PM Modi during #MannKiBaat\nMet Chandrakant Kulkarni, a retired government who is donating almost a third of his pension for a Swachh Bharat: PM during #ManKiBaat\nMy dear countrymen, my greetings (namaskar) to you all\nLast year, we had to endure so many trials - the scorching heat of the summer, scarcity of water, drought conditions and so on. However, the past two weeks have been the harbinger of the welcome news of rain. You too have felt it Going by the predictions of the scientists, this time there should be good rainfall, far and wide and throughout the rainy season. This news in itself is a lot of enthusiasm. I extend my best wishes to our farmers.\nIn our country, like the toiling farmers, our scientists are also achieving success. I have believed it right from the beginning that the new generation should nurture the dream of becoming scientists, should have a strong interest in science, and our youngsters should step forward. I also want to share Yesterday I went to Pune, on the occasion of the City of the City of the Year. Over there I met those students of the Pune College of Engineering, who on their own has made a satellite, which was launched on 22nd June. I had called them to meet me, as I had a wish to see these young friends, they were interacted with them and to experience firsthand the energy and enthusiasm within them. For the past many years, many students have made their contributions to this project. In a way, this academic satellite is a living example of the soaring flight of courage and ambition of the young India. That has led us to make this satellite The dreams are big and lofty; they are too high; the efforts On similar lines as achieved by Pune students, the students of Satyabhama University of Chennai in Tamil Nadu also created their satellite; and their SathyabamaSAT has also launched We have been listening to these things since childhood, and every child wishes his heart to touch the sky and grab some stars. Keeping this in mind, in my opinion, these two satellites made by the students and launch by ISRO, are extremely important and most valuable. All these students deserve hearty congratulations I would also like to congratulate the people of the country on 22nd June, our scientists at ISRO launched 20 satellites simultaneously in space, and in the process set a new record, breaking their own records. And this is also a matter of joy that the twenty satellites which were launched in India, 17 satellites were from other countries. Along with America, the satellites of many other countries were launched on Indian soil by Indian scientists and along with these, those two satellites made by our students also reached the outer space. And it is also worth notable that its cost of success with lesser cost, ISRO has carved its special place in the world. And for this very reason, many countries of the world are today looking towards India for the launch of their satellites.\nMy dear Countrymen, \"Save the Girl Child, Educate the Girl Child\" (Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao), has already become the Man Ki Baat, the heartfelt desire of all people of India Still, some new incidents in this slogan This time in the results of 10th and 12th classes, our daughters have been wondering well, which is a matter of pride. And my dear countrymen, there is another significant event that we should take pride in. On 18th June, the Indian Air Force for the very first time inducted its first batch of women fighter pilots. You get goose pimples just at the mention of 'women fighter pilots'; We feel so proud that these three Flying Officer girls of ours- Avni Chaturvedi, Bhavna Kanth and Mohana, have achieved this great feat. What the three girls have accomplished is really special Flying Officer Avni is from Rewa in Madhya Pradesh, Flying Officer Bhawan is from Begusarai in Bihar and Flying Officer Mohana is from Vadodara in Gujarat. You have noticed that all three daughters do not come from metro cities of India. They do not even come from the capital city of their respective states. Though hailing from small cities and towns, they nurtured dreams as high as the sky, and they also made them come true. I extend my heartiest wishes to these three daughters Avni, Bhavana and Mohana as well as their parents.\nMy dear Countrymen, some days ago on 21st June, the whole world organized grand shows in the anniversary of the International Day for Yoga. As an Indian, when we are the whole world coming through Yoga, we realize that the whole world is getting associated with our past, present and future. We are a unique bond with the rest of the world. In India too, the International Yoga Day was celebrated at over 1 lakh places, with a lot of fervor and enthusiasm in myriad forms and hues, and in an atmosphere of gaiety. I also got a chance to perform Yoga in Chandigarh amidst thousands of Yoga lovers. It was worth watching the young and old alike You should have seen that last week the Indian government issued a postage stamp on 'Sun Namaskar' on the occasion of International Yoga Day. This time, people on all the world, on Yoga Day, were witness to two special events. One was the New York City where the United Nations Organizations -UNO Head Quarters building is located. A special projection depicting different postures of the various yoga sessions. And passersby kept taking pictures of these, and these pictures were soon all over the world. Tell me, which Indian would not feel proud such happenings? One more interesting thing happened Technology is at work Social media has created an identity of its own. And this time Twitter made a light hearted pleasant experiment in Yoga with its 'Yoga Imaging'. As soon as we typed 'hash tag yoga day', we will get a picture of our image. And this image too went viral all over the world. Yoga by itself means adding - getting connected Yoga has the power to connect But for that to happen, first all of us need to get connected to Yoga\nSwati Srivastava from Satna in Madhya Pradesh, called me up on the telephone after the Yoga Day and left a message for all but it seems that it pertains more to me: -\nSound Byte: \"I wish that my whole country should be healthy and all the poor people also should remain free from diseases For this I want that among many advertisements that are played on Doordarshan, there should be one ad on Yoga, how it is done, and its benefits?\nSwati ji, your suggestion is very good, but if you observe careful not only on Doordarshan, but this days in India and outside India too, the Indian T.V. Channels and channels of other countries are pitching in their contribution to propagate Yoga. They are all shown on different times, but if you watch carefully, all these things are being done. And I have seen that there are some countries in the world which have T.V. Channels exclusively dedicated to Yoga 24 hours a day. And you probably know that, during the month of June, in the International Yoga Day, I used to share a video of one particular asana of Yoga via Twitter and Face Book. If you go to the website of the Ministry of Ayush, you will see available there a 40-45 minutes very good video demonstration one after another, different types of yog ascension for body of different parts, that you can do, all ages of people can do To you and to you you are interested in Yoga, I would like to get connected to it.\nThis time I have made an appeal. When we say that Yoga is a way to rid yourself of illnesses, then why do we bring together all different schools of thought, which have their own methods, their own priorities and their own experiences. But all of them All the prevalent systems of Yoga, all the functioning Yoga institutes, all the different Yoga Gurus, I have urged them all to run a successful campaign. Can you control Diabetes through Yoga? Some people have been successful in that. Everyone has searched for a wayin this regard. And we know that there is no definite cure for diabetes. One has to manage it with medicines Diabetes is the master switch that triggers all other illnesses. It becomes an entrance for many other diseases. And so everyone is worried about Diabetes A lot of people Some diabetic patients have also been able to control their thoroughness. Why do not we share our experiences with other people in the end of this endeavor and create a kind of atmosphere for it for a whole year? I urge you to use- \"Hashtag Yoga Fights Diabetes\" I repeat- \"Hashtag Yoga Fights Diabetes\". Use this Twitter handle and share your experiences on social media. Or send us on NarendraModiApp Let us see what the different experiences are At least, give it a try I would like to share your experiences on \"Hashtag Yoga Fights Diabetes\".\nMy dear countrymen, sometimes my 'Mann Ki Baat' is ridiculed too much However, this can only happen because all of us are committed to democracy. But today, as I speak to you on 26th June, and I want to say specifically that the new generation that this country has taken into account, this democracy that has granted great power to us, every citizen has been empowered ... but 26th June 1975 was also a day ... the night of 25th June and the next morning, was a dark hour for the democracy of India when Emergency was imposed in India. All rights of the citizens were suspended The country was turned into a prison Lakhs of people along with Prakash Narain, thousands of leaders, many organizations were put behind bars. Many books have been written on that dark period. Many discussions have been held on it. But today, as I talk to you all on 26th June, we should not forget that our power lies in our democracy. Our strength lies in the people's power Our strength lies in We have the ability to carry forward this commitment and make it strong. And it is this people's power which has sustained democracy as its living embodiment. There had been locks on newspaper houses, radio was the only one kind of language, given the opportune moment, the citizens give an example of the power of democracy. A great example of the democratic power of the people And we must keep And our endeavor should be made aware of their power and to always be the tendency to be more strong. I always stress that democracy does not mean that people vote for you and give you the contract to run this country for five years. Certainly Not! Voting is certainly an important component And the biggest dimension is that of people's participation, their attitude, their thinking. And the more the government, the stronger they become The chasm between the governments and the people leads to ruin. My endeavor has always been to ensure that the nation is moving forward.\nRecently, when my government completed two years of work, some young people of modern thinking suggested, \"When you talk like big things about democracy, then why do not you get your government rated by people too.\" a tone of challenge But that stirred my mind I grew up with some of my senior colleagues. Their first reaction was, \"Oh no! Sir! What are you thinking of doing? These days technology has changed so much that if people get together and form a group and if they decide to misuse technology, then who knows in which direction they might forward this survey. \" But I felt, \"no, we should go ahead\" We should give it a try and see what happens. Now a lot of surveys are conducted after the elections, during the elections, at other times also over some issues, sometimes to gauge the popularity, but these surveys of the sample size is very large. However, my dear countrymen, I am happy to state that when I, through the medium of technology, using different languages, appealed to the masses to rate my government, many people have expressed your opinion on 'rate-my- government-MyGov In 'Lakhs of You Displayed your interest in this but 3 lakh people have their time and put in serious effort for giving each and every question to answer. I am grateful to these 3 lakh people that they displayed a lot of self initiative in rating the government I will not discuss results. Our media people are sure to do that But I can say that And this was a matter of joy for me that people speaking all the languages ​​of India, residing in every corner of the country, hailing from all types of background ... all of them participated in it. And the biggest thing was ... and this, of course, came as a surprise to me ... that maximum number of people took part in this exercise through the portal of the Rural Employment Scheme of the website. government Thus, my primary impression is that there is a large and active participation. This I liked the most So you have seen that while on 26th June some years ago the voice of people was stifled, now the time, when the people make their decisions, they judge whether the government is doing the right thing or not, is doing good or poorly . This is the real power of democracy\nMy dear countrymen, today I want to make a special appeal for one thing There was a time when taxes were so pervasive, that tax wasted. There was a time when many restrictions were imposed on foreign goods in the country which gave rise to a lot of smuggling. But slowly, times have changed Now it is not very difficult for the taxpayer to get the taxation system of the government. But even then, old habits die hard One generation still feels that it is best to keep away from the government Today I want to impress you that you end up losing our peace of mind. As a result, anybody can trouble and harass us Why should we let this happen? Why do not we, on our own, give the correct details of our income and property to the government, so that we can rid ourselves of the burden of hitherto undeclared assets? I appeal to the countrymen to do this. To the people who have undisclosed income, the Government of India has given a chance to declare such income The government has given a special facility to disclose undisclosed income by the 30th of September.\nWe can free ourselves of various burdens. I have also vowed that for those who are voluntarily declaring their government and their undisclosed income, then the government will not conduct any kind of inquiry. Not once will it be asked from where it was acquired And so, this is a good opportunity for you to become a transparent system. At the same time, I want to tell the people of the country, which is up to 30th September as your last chance. In between, I had also told the Members of the Parliament that after 30th September if any citizen is not able to follow any of the issues, then it will not be possible to help them. I want to say this to the people that we do not wish that after 30th September anything will happen And so I say that please avail of this facility before this date and save yourself from any possible trouble after the 30th of September.\nMy dear countrymen, I had talked about this in Man Ki Baat today because recently I held a two-day conclave with the revenue departments- all the officers of the Income Tax, Customs and Excise Departments. And I have told them in clear words that we should not know citizens as crooks We should have faith and faith in the citizens We should hold hands with them. If they want to follow rules, we should encourage them. It is important to build a atmosphere of trust. We will have a change through our conduct. We will have to reassure the taxpayer I stressed this on them and I noticed that they too realized that today when the nation is surging ahead, all of them should be contributed to it. And when I was taking inputs from them in the conclave, I gathered information which I would like to share as well. None of you will believe that in a country of 125 crore people, one and a half, only one and a half lakh people are present, whose taxable income is more than 50 lakh rupees. Nobody will be able to swallow something like this. People having a taxable income of more than 50 lakh rupees can be seen in big cities in large numbers Just looking at their bungalows worth 1 or 2 crores, one wonders how they are in a tax bracket of less than 50 lakhs. This means that there is something wrong somewhere We have to change this situation And this is has to change before 30th September. Before taking any extreme steps, the government should give a chance to the people And so my dear brothers and sisters, this is a golden chance for you to disclose your undisclosed income. And in another way, this is the way to save yourself from any trouble that may arise after 30th September. I urge you to come forward in this work, for the upliftment of the poor And I do not want that any problems after 30th September\nMy dear countrymen, the country is always looking for When I asked people to give up their cooking gas subsidy, more than 1 crore families of this country And now I want to get an example especially for those people who have undisclosed income. When I went to Pune for the Smart City program, I got the chance to meet Shri Chandrakant Damodar Kulkarni and his family. I got them to meet me And what was the cause? Anyone who has never evaded tax, my words may or may not inspire that person, but the example of Mr. Chandrakant Kulkarni is sure to inspire him. Do you know what the reason is? Mr. Chandrakant Kulkarni is an ordinary man who is an average middle class family. He used to work for the government Then he retired He receives a pension of sixteen rupees And my dear countrymen, you will be surprised to hear, and those who are in the habit of evading tax will get a shock to know that Chandrakant Kulkarni Ji, who gets a pension of only rupees sixteen thousand, some time back me saying that out of his pension of 16,000, he is willing to donate Rs. 5000 per month for the Cleanliness Campaign And not just this, he sent me 52 checks, post dated, which is a date for each coming month. We are not able to pay any tax on this country, where there is one such government employee, who after retirement, out of a pension of mere sixteen thousand rupees, gives five thousand for the Cleanliness Campaign Chandrakant Kulkarni is a great source of inspiration. And for the people who were associated with the Cleanliness Campaign, there was no better inspiring example than Chandrakant Kulkarni. I called Chandrakantji face to face I met him and his life I express my felicitations and admiration for the Kulkarni family, I congratulate them. And surely there are many people who have no information. These are the very people ... and this is the power and strength of the masses A man with a pension of six hundred rupees sends me checks worth two lakhs, sixty thousand in advance, is this a small thing? Come, let us search deep down inside our hearts, and ponder over the fact that the government has given us a opportunity to disclose our income. While thinking of Chandrakant Kulkarni, let us also follow him.\nMy dear countrymen, Santosh Negi from Pauri Garhwal in Uttarakhand, has called up to his experiences. He has given a message related water conservation Friends, his experience can be used as well as: -\nSound Byte: \"Drawing inspiration from you, in our school, before the beginning of monsoon we dug 250 small trenches which were 4 feet deep, along the side of the playground, so that rainwater could be collected in these. This way the play ground was unspoilt and there was no danger of children drowning in these ... and we managed to save millions of rainwater which fell on the playfield. \"\nSantoshji, I would like to thank you for this message. Pauri Garhwal is a hilly area where you have done such splendid work You deserve congratulations for that The people of our country should definitely enjoy the rains but let us also be aware that this is a holy gift from the Almighty. This is a limitless wealth We should make every effort to save How can we retain the rainwater of the villages there and similarly preserve rainwater of cities To recharge Mother Earth once again, how can we replenish water back to the earth? If there is water today, only then can be there tomorrow Water is the basis of all life An atmosphere is definitely created in the country. Lately, in all the states have been treated for water conservation. But now that we are going to have the bounty of rain water, we must see that it does not just flow away We are so concerned about saving lives; We should be equally concerned about saving water\nMy dear countrymen, you already know that number 1922 ... it must be a part of your memory by now ... 1-9-2-2. This 1922 is one such number that if you give a missed call to it, you can listen to Mann Ki Baat in your choice of language. By listening to Mann Ki Baat, at the time of your convenience, in the language of your choice, you too can make your mind and resolve to contribute to the nation's progress.\nMy name is once again my countrymen, Thank You\nPM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat For the last few weeks we have got positive news about rain in different parts of the nation: PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) June 26, 2016\nLike our farmers our scientists are working very hard and making our nation very proud: PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat https://t.co/ORSt201yKG\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) June 26, 2016\nYesterday I was in Pune where I met college students who made one of the satellites that were launched with others a few days ago: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) June 26, 2016\nThis satellite signifies the skills and desires of the youth of India: PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat https://t.co/ORSt201yKG"