"Share\n\nPeople of India are the smartest Wonders will happen When skills of all 125 people are harnessed: PM Modi\nSwachhta initiative is the closest to people's heart. People are becoming more aware about the change: PM\nPM Narendra Modi\nGone are those days Today, our cities are marching on the path of progress: Modi\nCities will not be evaluated on the roads Every city has its own distinct identity: PM Narendra Modi\nSmart cities are about modern facilities and growing centers of development: PM\nIt is not so in our country that there was no work before. It is not that governments did not spend budget. But in spite of this, many countries of the world were liberated after us. Very poor financial situation comes from What is the reason that in such a short time many countries of the world have gone far beyond us and I constantly ask this question to myself, think and discuss with people. Analyze the old experiences too. It keeps on continuously churning. And the experience has come that we are the people who are sitting in Governments, in the government, in the system, the army of lakhs of girlfriends, the officer is Babu. From most Panchayat chief to the Prime Minister, from the village patwari to the cabinet sector we All the millions may be in the number, but if we are the most smart then the country is a citizen.\nOnce if the power of these hundred and a hundred million citizens of the country is shocked, then if there is a need for good deeds, there will be no need for all the people, the world will run automatically, it will run very fast and hence it is the smart city concept. Only this money will be given for this work, it is not. This is a huge mass movement in itself. It is a worthwhile effort to lay the foundation of a bright future on the basis of yesterday's experience and I am experiencing that this experiment has been successful. When our secretaries initially used to come to me, they used to spend a lot of money in the department with the city of Venice, there was a lot of confusion in their minds about how the city would be decided. And our country is such that if you work on this side of the road in the same city then people on that side of the road will continue to agitate, why not here? So we have got a master's in this country. In such a scenario, if any city chooses, it does not know how much good it can be, but there is a great opportunity to make others angry.\nNow Vasundhara ji congratulated me, congratulated Vaankaya ji that you have selected Jaipur and Udaipur. I would like to tell Vasundhara ji, we have not selected. Take this back to us which you have congratulated, but give it to the residents of Jaipur, people of Udaipur, give it to the people. They have won in this competition. They have shown strength to complete these parameters, the difficulties are over. In the time-frame, they are run to complete the work.\nAnd for the 20 cities today, there has been no work plan. Some work has started.\nA lot of work, now those who were counting Vankaya, they are getting a big speed. The root cause is that the people led by that unit, the employees of the corporation sitting there, the siblings and the conscious citizens of that city, is a collective effort of everyone that has a desire in everyone's heart that this time our city in India is also The number should be one.\nWe are backward in the country, we are poor, its competition has been run. They were going to find out who were the paths to go back. This is the government which is competing to go ahead, looking for ways to go ahead.\nI would like to congratulate some media houses on this forum today. Many newspapers took this work into mission mode. Through his newspaper, he tried to awaken the citizens of that city. Pressure is created and this has happened. Now, Mysore took the number in cleanliness, there was a big storm inside Bangalore, what happened to Bhai! Why stay behind Bangalore Now will push, Bangalore will take it forward. This is an environment created. We have to move this thing further.\nEverything is far away from the atmosphere of a competition and the participation of the people.\nToday, a platform has just been launched. How did Pune become, it can not think of Delhi, as much as Pune could think. How Bhubaneswar became, what is the work of Bhubaneswar street, where is the sidewalk, where the path of the cycle, where the pond is, where the fountain is, where the hospital is, where the parking is, the Bhubaneswar decision can not be in Delhi. But if there is a Jodhpur idea on the web, Bhubaneswar will also see, Man! These people of Jodhpur have some new ideas, let us also see something new in Bhubaneswar, how can it be. Participatory approach in a huge development and an attempt of talent pool too. And I believe this is going to be the cause of a huge change in the days to come.\nCleanliness has become the most popular topic in our country. It was such a time that the scheme of governments was popular where something was found from the public exchequer. Someone came in somebody's pocket, something came in his stomach, something was coming in someone's village. Then people used to believe that this is a good scheme.\nFor the first time there was a change in which the prime minister was not giving anything. Much more advice is being given and saying, Bhai! All of us should be clean, cleanliness should be kept clean, cities from city to city are clean. The government does not give anything but the public says. Take a look at all the surveys, the number of people surveyed by the media, in every one of the top number, people have got a popular, they have got cleanliness. This means that till now, in India it was thought that people would get something, whereas people like it, they think.\nWe have done injustice to the powerful people of our country, by making such thinking .. They are not those people, my countrymen, who are looking for something, they say that give us the opportunity, we want to do something . And this is mood swings. This hygiene campaign is a reflection of that mood. The general humanities think that's not enough. Now there is a change.\nThere was a time in our country. You will remove old newspapers, read many articles, see the analysis, urbanisation, it has been considered a major crisis. Every time this urbanization is happening, what will happen, what will happen, these discussions are going on. I think differently. We do not understand the problem of urbanisation, we understand urbanisation as a chance. This is the opportunity, this urbanization is happening. Do not understand this as a crisis, it's an opportunity. If we understand the crisis then our way of addressing it will be the same, oh! See there some people have settled, what to do now, how to transport water, how to deliver electricity, what can be done, what does the school do for their children. Headache in the brain Instead, we consider a chance that our Pune is in 2016, this is likely in 2025. Bhai! Can move forward on this side, can move on in the sky, such things can be taken, the speed can come such, the water will become so much of the drainage. This system. If it starts thinking from now on, then it will turn in opportunity. So we want to turn this urbanisation into an opportunity.\nWhether we believe it or not, there is a power in the city on which people of our economic field see it in a different form, terminology, growth sector. I see him differently. I say that if anyone has the power to digest poverty, then it is in the city. The city gets digested of poverty and due to this there is a lot of poverty, people go out to the cities because they have a hope that there will be some work in that city. I will be able to sleep after dinner, I will be sending 50-100 rupees to my parents; With this belief, he comes to the city and in a few days, whether he will clean the car, even if he fills the air in the cycle, he can do anything. But finds the way. This is possible because the city has the power to digest poverty. Now it is our responsibility to give that strength to the city, to give strength to the city that it can consume the highest poverty, quickly consume poverty, and from the same poverty that the energy, energy created, Create dimensions; In this direction we have thought.\nIt is possible, this is not a difficult task. Every city can not be measured with the size of the roads, from the size of the roads. Every city has its own beauty. Every city has its own soul, every city has its own identity. When we talk of Smart City, then to identify the city, its spirit specifically for its emphasis, we ask public-state-specific suggestions. Like Jaipur, which has envisaged its Smart City, he has also kept an idea that we want to start a new series of night time heritage walk. It meant that they would be a little heritage walk in front of closed houses, if the camper came during the night, there would be no special electricity for them. His time passed well, there would be some arrangement for this. That is, the city will start cheering on the night too, then it will be called Jaipur.\nEvery city even today, if Banaras will be familiar with religious reasons, but there will not be any women from India who would not be aware of the sari of Benaras. Every city has its own identity. Therefore, how can we give new recognition to our identity in the 21st century, how to decorate with modern colors so that the soul remains the same, but by becoming rejuvenated, become a beautiful identity. 'Smart City' so I said that these buildings are not games. In the changed life, the system wants speed. At least wants to wastage.\nToday, technology, a person uses technology from their smart mobile phones. But how will this technology become a medium of mass service? We heard Chandrababu ji In what way did he use the digital world to serve the public? Today, Pune's plans have been launched, in which the use of digital world, how people will be used in drying up, things have been launched.\nThe campaign of LED bulb has been going on all over the country. If any government in our country says that we will invest Rs 1 lakh crore in the energy sector in the coming days, in the production of electricity. 20 thousand Mw will generate electricity and give electricity to the people. So I say that .. for three days the newspapers came in the headline, wow Modi ji! One lakh crores rupees, 20 thousand mw electricity, wow, wow This is not it? But the LED bulb campaign is run, the day when the entire cycle will be complete, you will be happy with my countrymen. 20 thousand MW electricity will be left. Will save one lakh crore rupees and this is going to save the money of poor people of my country.\nWhat's the way now? Solar Energy campaign Today Pune city is already operating on solar project and has kept a lot of interest. Roof top Solar, on top of our homes, electricity on the roof, the use of the house, and the more power which is the electricity, buy government. You see how the crisis of electricity can be settled, how it can be changed, how to change it. As long as we think things in pieces, there is no change. Should be comprehensive, should be interconnected and the result should be oriented.\nWe should say that cleanliness but then the question comes that today the land is getting expensive. Where to clean the garbage, where will the landfill be taken for landfill, then now the city is growing, how far will it go, how much will be the cost of transport? But our effort is to waste Creating wealth in Waste For the first time, in the country, the compost fertilizer which will be removed from the urban bodies, and compost fertilizer for the first time bought our farmers, for which subsidy was given in urea, the Indian government has now given subsidy to the compost fertilizer. Have decided. Due to this, due to our chemical fertilizer the farmer's land is being wasted, our mother earth is being wasted, it will also be a task to save, cleanliness in the city, and after selling the compost, both of them win- win situation will happen. The municipality will also get some money, the municipality will also get some money.\nSolid waste management, liquid waste management, today is the water crisis. Sometimes where do our people from the media go to things that you can not even play cricket. Wherever there will be stadiums, wherever cricket matches. Whether it is a match of cricket or not, 365 days they have to sprinkle water. But the country agreed that if the match was closed then the water stopped sprinkling. Let the country know Be blessed. They have to drink water for 365 days. Only then does greenery, otherwise it will not be possible to play in that stadium even after two years. But now they do not know where they come from, new-new, big philosophy goes on and due to this there is a great loss of Maharashtra. But with liquid waste as well as liquid waste ... this is the drainage water that we use, that water should be used in the garden, use in the field, in this kind of work, if we use the water crisis in the future Will be able to distribute well. And so we will have to see things to meet the population's needs. Why do not people of our country get international water, we can not get access to water, why do not we get access to them, why not get them. If we try, then do so. One liters, five liters, seven liters of water continued to grow.\nWe want every person to give the house to the house. Pune has taken a project to slum in cities. Convert slum hut to Housing Scheme and give them a house. You see life changes. If the poor man lives in a hut, then there is one way to think, but if he gets a roof to live, if he gets a house then he also thinks that if you bring this curtain then let it be good if not old sari Put the curtain down to make the veil This window is not well. His brain starts. झुग्‍गी-झोपड़ी में रहता था उसको footrest की जरूरत नहीं थी अब लगता है यार ऐसा करो एक ताड़ को छोटा सा पीस भी तो रखो, घर में कोई आता है तो पैर साफ करके आएगा। उसको लगता है कि यार पैसा बचा लो, दरी लादे मेहमान आएंगे तो बैठने के लिए काम आएगी।\nमकान मिलते ही सिर्फ चार दीवारें नहीं मिलती, छत नहीं मिलती, जिंदगी की नई सोच मिल जाती है। उसके भीतर एक expression पैदा होता है और आखिरकार प्रगति का कोई अगर सबसे बड़ी ताकत है, तो योजनाएं नहीं होती हैं सवा सौ करोड़ देशवासियों का expression होता है जो गति लाता है, लक्ष्‍य की पूर्ति का कारण बनता है और देश एक विशालता और भव्‍यता की ओर आगे बढ़ करके अपने आप का डंका बजाता है।\nऔर इसलिए यह competition का युग है। मैं सभी शहरों को निमंत्रित करता हूं। यह चुनौती है। देश के सभी शहर और सिर्फ उसकी elected body या उसके मुलाजिम नहीं, उस शहर का नागरिक उस चुनौती को स्‍वीकार करे। चाहे स्‍वच्‍छता की स्‍पर्धा होगी, चाहे Smart City में entry पानी होगी, शहर को Smart बनाकर रहना होगा। यह जन भागीदारी से होगा, जन संकल्‍प से होगा। जब मैंने माई गोव डॉट इन पर लोगों से कहा आप इस पर सुझाव दीजिए, आप हैरान होंगे 25 लाख से ज्‍यादा लोगों ने serious nature के सुझाव भेजे हैं। जिसको सरकार को ध्‍यान में लेना पड़े, ऐसे 25 लाख लोगों ने contribution किया। जितनी जन भागीदारी बढ़ती है.. मैंने बीच में मन की बात में एक बार यही कहा था कि हमारे रेलवे स्‍टेशन पर हमारे अपने गांव की पहचान क्‍यों न हो। अंग्रेजों ने हमारे रेलवे स्‍टेशन जब बनाए तो उनके दिमाग में वो पिजा हाउस जैसा था। अमेरिका में आप किसी भी कोने में जाओ एक ही प्रकार के पिजा हाउस होता है। तो हमारे रेलवे स्‍टेशन भी एक ही प्रकार के हैं। आप जाएंगे तो दायीं ओर यह आएगा, बायीं ओर यह.. पक्‍का सा। भारत ऐसा नहीं है। भारत विभिन्‍नताओं से भरा हुआ है। उसे नवीनीकरण चाहिए। मैंने कहा ठीक है दीवारें तोड़ने की जरूरत नहीं है, लेकिन दीवारों के रंग-रूप बदल कर तो शहर की पहचान बना सकते हो। और मैं इतना हैरान हुआ महीने के भीतर-भीतर उस गांव के, नगर के जो भी Artist थे, स्‍कूल के बच्‍चे थे, स्‍कूल का ड्राइंग टीचर था सब लोग रेलवे स्‍टेशन पर पहुंच गए। जो भी अपने पास था वो अपना कलर का काम करने लग गए और इतनी सुंदर दीवारें पेंट की है। छोटे-छोटे रेलवे स्‍टेशनों ने अपनी पहचान बना दी और नगर की पहचान को उन्‍होंने जोड़ दिया है।\nआज देश के लोगों को बदलाव चाहिए। बदलाव में वो शरीक होना चाहते हैं, जुड़ना चाहते हैं। यह smart city उसकी सबसे बड़ी विशेषता यही है। कुछ लोगों को smart शब्‍द सुनते ही बड़ा परेशानी हो रही है। कोई ऐसा करने जा रहे हैं जो कभी सोचा, ऐसा नहीं है जी। मेरी smart की कल्‍पना बड़ी simple है जी लोगों को पीने का पानी sufficient मिले। सोसायटी के पहले वाले मकान को तो मिले और आखिर वाले मकान को न मिले ऐसा तो नहीं होना चाहिए। होता यही है न कि एक इलाके में पानी आता है जो आगे हैं उनको पानी पहुंचता है जो पीछे हैं उनको पानी नहीं पहुंचता है। बिजली सबको मिले, समान रूप से मिले। लोक सुविधा की आवश्‍यकता को आधुनिक ढांचे से परिपूर्ण करना है। यह प्रयास है और जैसा मैंने कहा एक ऐसी आर्थिक गतिविधि का केंद्र बने। Development Environment friendly हो, Green हो। गरीबी को पचाने की ताकत जितनी ज्‍यादा बढ़े, उतना शहर का विकास सही दिशा में है। वो जितनी गरीबी को पचा पाए, अपने आप economy आगे बढ़ेगी। घर में वही मेहमान को खिला सकता है, जो दो टाइम सुख से खा सकता है, वरना मेहमान को कैसे खिला पाएगा और इसलिए शहर भी आर्थिक दृष्टि से वो viable सी होनी चाहिए, वो ताकत होनी चाहिए कि जो बाहर से गरीबी हमारे यहाँ आती रहती है उस गरीबी को संभालने की, पचाने की, उस गरीबी से उसको बाहर निकालने की ताकत इस शहर में होनी चाहिए। तो एक नया बदलाव, नये तरीके से बदलाव, जन भागीदारी से बदलाव उसकी दिशा में प्रयास चला है।\nमैंने कुछ दिन पहले क्‍या-क्‍या काम हुआ उसका review किया। मैं सचमुच इतना प्रसन्‍न हो गया कि जनता के भरोसे पर कोई काम करते हैं तो कितनी ताकत होती है, उसका यह उदाहरण है। यह smart city, इतने लोग उसमें जुड़ रहे हैं, चर्चा कर रहे हैं। सारे Architecture, पहले आप Architecture को कहोगे कि यह काम है तो वो कहेगा कि साहब यह Tender कब निकलने वाला है। आज वो Tender को नहीं पता है, बोलेगा हां-हां, हम भी competition में आएंगे, हम भी करेंगे। पूरा माहौल बदल गया है। तो मैं फिर एक बार श्रीमान वैंकेया नायडू जी, उनकी पूरी टीम को बहुत-बहुत बधाई देता हूं। पुणे शहर को बहुत-बहुत बधाई देता हूं। लेकिन पुणे वाले याद रखे आप शायद डेढ़ मार्क्‍स से नंबर-2 हो गए हैं। सिर्फ डेढ़ मार्क्‍स से पीछे रहे गए। अगर डेढ़ मार्क्‍स आपको ज्‍यादा होता, तो भुवनेश्‍वर की जगह आप होते। आप देखिए कितनी बढि़या competition चल रही है। मैं अगली बार पुणे आऊंगा तो चाहूंगा कि अगली बार जब कोई भी competition हो यह हमरा पुणे होना नंबर वन चाहिए। यह छत्रपति शिवाजी महाराज की विरासत है, यह लोकमान्‍य तिलक की अमानत है और इसलिए उसी मिजाज से हम पुणे को आगे ले जाए और देश के लोगों से मैं कहता हूं आप भी फैसला कीजिए पुणे से पीछे रहना नहीं है। देखिए कितना मजा आता है।\nThanks a lot."