"PM Modi addresses one of the 2nd International Yoga Day in Chandigarh\nInternational Yoga Day has become a mass movement: PM\nYoga is not about what one can get, PM\nIt is Important to integrate Yoga with our lives Do not wait, make Yoga a part of life: PM\nLet's make Yoga more popular globally Let India produce good Yoga teachers: PM\nAt this time people are associated with this yoga program in every corner of the country and all the countries of the world are associated with this program with the convenience of their time. The International Yoga Day is being celebrated all over the world by the United Nations. It was started last year on request from India. The date of June 21 was so liked that in a very large part of the world, today's day is the longest day and in such a way, this festival of close association with the Sun is kept and keeping it in mind, Yoga has been liked as Day. The support of the whole world, the developed country, the developing country, the support of every section of society has got support.\nBy the way, many such international days are celebrated by the United Nations. I do not mention everybody but perhaps in the so many days celebrated by the United Nations, a mass movement has become a day ... in every corner of the world, she receives support and acceptance, maybe not equal to International Yoga Day, no other day. He is able to do that within a year.\nThere are many international programs. World Cancer Day is by World, World Health, World Mental Health Day, World Age Day, many more are also. Many of the health is celebrated by Day Day UN. But this is what is directly related to health, there is a connection with physical-mental-social fitness, that yoga has become a mass movement on such a large scale today and I believe that our ancestors gave us the heritage What is the strength of this legacy? What is the identity of this legacy? Introduce it.\nSometimes I say that Yogasana becomes a ritual of life discipline in a way. Sometimes people can not understand completely because of their lack of ability to understand it. Sometimes people think what will get from Yoga? This is not only for taking full science but also for taking science. Yoga, what will get, is not for it. Yoga, what will I give up, what will I be able to give, what kinds of things I will be free from, I am the path of salvation, there is no way to get.\nAll the sects, religions, devotion, worship-lessons, they emphasize that you will get what you will get after going out of the world after death, after going into Parlok. If you practice worship in this manner, worship God, then you will get it in the world. Yoga is not for life. What will get after death, its path does not show yoga and therefore it is not religious rituals. How to get peace in your yoga yahlok, how to get health of the body, how the unity in society will remain, gives strength to it. This is not science of paradise, it is the science of this science. What will be found in this birth, its science.\nIn relation to yoga, body, mind, intelligence, soul work in a synchronized way, a training is done by yoga. If we look at our side then we must have seen that we can not walk or walk, we are inspirational or lazy, weary or energetic, our body can be anything, loosened, similarly. Come on, man, where will you go, sit there. But mind, mind never stays stable He whirls around, sitting here and if you remember Amritsar, you will go there. When Anandpur Sahab remembers, he will go there, if he remembers Mumbai then he will go there. If a friend remembers, then he will have his mind gone. The mind is unstable, the body is stable. This is Yoga which teaches us how to make the mind stable and how to make the body move faster. That is, the change in our fundamental nature is done by yoga, by which training of stability of the mind and body gets trained in mobility and if it becomes balance then God is given life, this is our body, all our resolutions Can become the perfect medium for fulfillment.\nIn this sense Yoga is also for the believer, Yoga is also for the atheist. There is no health insurance anywhere from anywhere in the world with zero budget, but yoga is such that the zero budget provides health assurance. Yoga does not distinguish between rich and poor. There is no difference between scholar-illiterate. Even the poorest of the poor, rich and rich people can do yoga easily. There is no need for anything. To find a place to spread a hand, he can do his own yoga and keep his body and mind fit. If poor people like India, the poor country of the world, the developing countries, their health budget, the emphasis on preventive health care can be substantially saved and can be used in the right work and therefore the measures of preventive health care. Yoga is a simple, inexpensive and accessible to everyone, such a way.\nIt is important to connect yoga with life. There will be a lot of people, if they have got up early today, they may be watching on TV or they have the opportunity to watch these programs on television in the daytime. I pray to people from all over the world, for you to join yourself, to know yourself, I am urging you to increase your self, do not wait. Make yoga a part of life in this life. As the mobile phone became a part of your life today, the more easily you can make yoga a part of your life. There is no hard work, he needs to move towards simplicity.\nSometimes when we talk about yoga, then a religion friend became a yogi in Brazil. He claimed that there are 1008 postures of yoga, 1008 and they tried and did 908 rugs of photography, those actions. Born in Brazil, was dedicated to yoga. Yoga is a matter of prestige today in every part of the world and when there is a charm of yoga, there is a reputation for yoga; Then the great men, the sages, the Munis, have given us this science, we are responsible for the fact that we can bring it to the world in the right way. We build our capacity. Best yoga teacher from India should be ready.\nAt present, the Government of India is a council which is responsible for quality, quality council How did he train yoga, trainer of yoga, work towards fixing some of his norms. Together with the WHO, the Government of India has started work on what is the protocol of yoga throughout the world, what scientific methods are, What is the arrangement for promoting yoga throughout the country, how to reach the correct form of yoga in the world and its purity, to maintain it? It's working on it. New resources are also required.\nYou must have seen, nowadays in big cities, who are Gynaecologist doctors, they ask pregnant women for pregnancy, Yoga, Yoga is sent to the trainer, so that they are the most help form in the delivery period, Yogic actions . To say it is, as it is necessary, as time goes by, as it is necessary, it is necessary to make amendments while modifying it.\nWe are very busy With themselves, we can not get involved with ourselves, nor do we live with ourselves. We have been cut-off by ourselves. Yoga and connecting with someone or not, connect with yourself, so Yoga has become the focal point for our physical, spiritual and social consciousness. He gives physical fitness, can make a path to spiritual perception and teaches us to behave balanced with society, so I would like that this yoga should be done without controversy, for the good of the masses and for the service of the world, Parlok Not to serve. There is a sect for the world, religion is, tradition, Guru is Maharaj, there is a lot. Yoga is for enhancing the capacity, therefore, we attach ourselves to yoga, not everyone can dedicate themselves to yoga. But joining Yoga is an excellent way to connect with yourself. I believe we will move forward in this direction.\nToday, Yoga is becoming a very big financial business in the world. The world is developing as a very big profession. There is a growing demand for trainers of yoga in the world. Demand is increasing in every country of the world. There are possibilities of providing employment opportunities for the youth. The turnover of the trillions of trillions of people is growing today with the system of yoga. There are so many countries in the world where TV channels go for 100% yoga only, such TV channels run. It is also developing as a very large business.\nToday we do yoga in every way. I want to make a prayer from this public forum today with all the great benefits associated with yoga. This is my request. What will be the next year when we celebrate Yoga Day, this is one year, for one year, we will be doing Yoga; Whatever we do, but on one subject can we focus? And that's my subject Diabetes, Diabetes. Diabetes and Yoga All the people of the yoga world, whatever the knowledge they possess, the ways they have; The rest of the yoga process will run throughout the year, but it will be prominent. The number of diabetes in India is increasing. By Yoga, you can get rid of diabetes or not, but it can be controlled. What is the yogic remedy in the state of diabetes, can we create a mass movement to teach? With the problems caused by diabetes in the country, we will also liberate a few percent of people, then yoga will get another year in the achievement of this year. But I want to address any disease anywhere for this perfect health and we hold a disease for one year and run the agitation.\nSecond, yoga This is not the path of freedom from disease. Yoga, this is a guarantee of wellness. It's not just fitness, it's a guarantee of wellness, so we are also on wellness. If life has to move towards a holistic development, this is his best way.\nToday is the second year of International Yoga. India has given this precious heritage to the world. The world has accepted it today in its own way. At such times, on behalf of the Government of India, I am going to announce two awards today. When the International Yoga Day will be celebrated on June 21 next year, then India will have a two-year award for this award. They will be given the award at the same ceremony. Best work for yoga at an international level, award for them. Second, the award for the best work done for Yoga, within India, in India. An International Yoga Award, a National Yoga Award\nIndividuals, organizations, everyone can join in this. Jury will decide which will be his expert committee, he will make his rules, Jury will decide, but the way in the world, the glory of many global awards is remembered, it is considered as his greatness. Hindustan wants that India, people of the world, who are connected with yoga, should respect them. Let us honor those who are working for the yoga in India and this tradition we will go ahead. Gradually, we can take it to the state and district level, so we are trying to work in that direction.\nOnce again, I express my gratitude to the world for expressing my gratitude to the world for joining with this great tradition of accepting this great heritage of the whole world, to accept this great heritage of India, I express gratitude to the countrymen, I express gratitude to the yoga gurus. I express my gratitude to the people of all generations dedicated to yoga, who have maintained this tradition and are still pursuing the tradition of yoga with full dedication and as I said, this health assurance with zero budget, Give new strength, give new energy, give new inspiration.\nI joined all the yoga, today on the land of this Chandigarh, I was just asking Badal sahib that such a great use of this premises has ever happened before? I used to come here very long ago, I lived in Chandigarh, I have been here for about five years, I was well aware of these things, so when it came to making this program in Chandigarh. I had said that this could not be a good place, no good campus, and today seeing the best use of this premises, the mind is feeling very happy that seeing the people associated with yoga in thousands of people will be very happy And the world is full, it is a matter of pride in itself. I once again, thanking the great tradition and wishing for a bright future, thank you very much.\nAt present, in all parts of the nation, people have been connected to Yoga: PM @narendramodi in Chandigarh #YogaDay # IDY2016\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) June 21, 2016\nThe world supported the idea of ​​International Day of Yoga All sections of society came together in this endeavor: PM #YogaDay # IDY2016\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) June 21, 2016\nThis is a day linked with good health and now it has become a mass movement: PM on popularity of #YogaDay # IDY2016\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) June 21, 2016\nYoga is not about what one will get, it is about what one can give: PM @narendramodi #YogaDay # IDY2016 https://t.co/vbG9VFN31Q\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) June 21, 2016\nWith zero budget, Yoga provides health assurance Yoga does not discriminate between rich and poor: PM # IDY2016 pic.twitter.com/YABoXVkGvQ\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) June 21, 2016\nImportant to integrate Yoga with our lives Do not wait, make Yoga a part of one's life: PM @narendramodi # IDY2016 pic.twitter.com/fsDhRQl4ua\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) June 21, 2016\nLet's make Yoga more popular globally Let India produce good Yoga teachers: PM @narendramodi in Chandigarh #YogaDay # IDY2016\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) June 21, 2016\nYoga will connect you to yourself, which is important in these times when everyone is so busy: PM @narendramodi #YogaDay # IDY2016\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) June 21, 2016\nLet's focus on one thing in the coming days, how to reduce diabetes through Yoga Diabetes can be controlled through Yoga: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) June 21, 2016\nPM talks about two Yoga awards, one international and one for India PM says we want to honor those working to popularizing Yoga # IDY2016"