"Share\n\nOur government is also working to get the Citizen Amendment Bill passed in Parliament: PM Modi\nI assure everyone that no Indian will be left out of the National Register of Citizenship, says the PM\nOur vision is of Act-East and Act-Fast on East, says PM Modi in Silchar\nWe are constantly working to improve the ease of the people of Assam and North-East: PM Modi\nPM Modi says today the system of honesty is being raised and intermediaries are being removed from the system\nLong live Mother India !\nMr. Sarbananda Sonowal, the popular Chief Minister of Assam, who is on the stage, Mr. Ram Madhav, BJP National Secretary General, Dr. Hemant Biswa Sarma, President of Neda, Mr. Ranjit Das, Chairman of Assam Pradesh Bharatiya Janata Party, our old senior leader, Venerable Kavindra Purkayastha Jee, my dear brothers who came to give blessings to all the senior noblemen and huge number of people sitting on stage. Yo and sisters ...\nI have had the fortune to come in between you and me every other within ten days. Many of you have had to travel a long way from the corner of Barak Valley, many of you would have had to travel a long way, and I was told that most people have come from eleven o'clock. In spite of this, your enthusiasm, the brightness of your face, is also inspiring, it is going to be pleasurable. I express my gratitude to you for this unprecedented blessing! Brothers and sisters, rivers of Barak and Brahmaputra, this area is a source of inspiration for Assam and the country, the great personalities here have contributed to the country and society. Freedom fighter Ulaskar Datta ji, Dwarka Prasad Tiwari ji, Arun Kumar Chanda ji, Indu Prabha Devi ji, I would like to thank all those great figures coming in between you remembering their virtue and giving reverence.\nFriends, all the Bharatiya Janata Party and NDA have been continuously encouraging our governments. In the Panchayat elections that have taken place just a few days ago, you have also extended a lot of support to the Bharatiya Janata Party and our allies. We were nothing in the district councils, there were some people in name, today, in the Panchayats at fast speed you gave the faith to the Bharatiya Janata Party, blessed and in these short periods, at our intentions of development from Panchayat to Partiment You have expressed confidence. I especially express gratitude to the people of Assam including Barak Valley. Brothers and sisters, your love for this affection, the love of this love is on me, which I will not keep any effort to repay on the path of honest development. Right now the Chief Minister was telling me that after the formation of government here only I have come 16 times in Barak Valley. Those whom you sent from here and got the post of Prime Minister, they probably did not come so many times. Actually, I'm not coming, it's your love that brings me back. Assam's asmita and aspirations, or the security and strength of the country- due to your belief, the government takes tough decisions and takes big decisions too.\nThe contribution of allies to the security of the brothers and sisters, Assam and the country is unprecedented. Whatever efforts you are making to implement an important decision stuck for decades will be remembered with future generations. The message that will be sent from the corner of the border alongside Barak Valley as well as the future of the whole country is supernatural. A clear message from here will be that the security of its citizens for India, respect of its citizens and the prosperity of its citizens is paramount.\nFriends, I have come here to assure you that the National Register of Citizenship NRC, reassures you that no Indian citizen, no Indian citizen will leave him, I assure you that. Do you trust me? Have full faith? If you have such blessings then it will all be done. Many of you have had problems during this entire process, some difficulties have happened, some have been worrying. I have a full sense of it. But if the decade hanging for decades is coming down on the ground, then sacrifice and dedication to all of you - this is his biggest strength. I congratulate the government of Mr. Sarbananda Sonowal Ji, his whole team. Despite all the challenges, he is engaged in reaching this big task to the end. Continuous efforts are being made for ordinary citizens to get the least trouble, everybody is hearing.\n\nSetho, the entire process of NRC would be easy, for this we had made a special request to the Supreme Court. The government had asked to accept Relief Eligibility Certificate, Camp Inmate Certificate and other government receipts, notices, government orders, for acceptance of citizenship and I am happy that the Supreme Court has accepted this request of the government, It has been easy.\nBrothers and sisters, our government is also moving forward on the Citizenship Amendment Bill. This bill is related to emotions, it is linked to people's lives. If anywhere around the world, any son and daughter who have faith in Mother Bharti will be tortured, where will she go? Will the color of his passport be seen? Is there no relation with blood? The country was divided, people trusted those who divide, some people had an attachment to the land there, they had an attachment to their homes. They decided to stay there, they stayed there. But, those intentions were divided with the same intentions to try to break their stance. In such a situation, will mother Bharti not give place to her son and daughter in her womb? Will not listen to their call? Okay, there will be mistakes in the past. The shortcomings in the time of divisional divisions, I do not want to go into their expanse. However, atonement of those mistakes is necessary.\nAfter the great brainstorming with this thought, after thinking of every aspect, after every perspective, the Citizenship Amendment Bill was brought in 2016 after tireless work. The Citizenship Amendment Bill, it is not a favor. This is the atonement of the injustice that has happened in the past. This is a big responsibility for those who have faith in Mother Bharti. I hope this bill will be passed from the parliament as soon as possible and India will protect all the interests of those who have faith in the mother.\nBrothers and sisters, I want to congratulate you while talking to you today. You are deserving of congratulations that you have failed the conspiracies of all those powers which wanted to break into the society, this is the identity of Assam, that is the pattern of Assam. Sadly, when some political parties are unable to assess the nature of Assam and the country. Assam has given these parties the opportunity for the country to resolve the issues related to normal human life for a long time. But, they just worried about the vote bank, appeasement of appeasement. The people of Assam have not been worried.\nFriends, the sovereignty of the country for votes, the security of the country, the resources of the country and the cultural heritage of the country will never be compromised and there should be no doubt in it. Assam is not just a terrain but is full of immense resources and rich culture, a vibrant living-symbol. The government is fully committed to the tradition, its language, its food and its resources, that is, the development of Assamese rights, and for the development of 'everyone with everything'. Whatever provisions the government has to make in the constitution, the law will also be done.\nKeeping in view this sentiment, brothers and sisters, keeping in mind that the pride of Assamese is the pride of Barak valley, Brahmaputra is the pride of the valley, keeping it in mind, the Government has made a very big decision for Assam two days earlier. Assam Accord, when did you remember, did not you? Our government has decided to implement the clause 6 of Assam Accord, which had been hanging for thirty-thirty years. This will strengthen the way to protect, conserve and strengthen Assam's social, cultural, language and heritage. A high level committee will talk to all stakeholders here and clear the road ahead, prepare a roadmap. All of you, every citizen of Assam, after getting the long wait, for this protection, I congratulate all the Asmodians on the heart of today and congratulate them very much. I will say again, the government of India, NDA, is dedicated to the overall and balanced development of every section of Assam, every corner.\nSister-in-law, one thinking is that, who leaves legacy for the future of his family, leaves the money, leaves the resource. Our rites are not the same, for us, more than power, our country, ours is India, we are 130 million citizens. We want to build the legacy of infrastructure for a better present and glorious future of the country. It is our endeavor that the life of the people of the country is easy, to make business and business easy, to be any area or person, to be balanced development, to create better employment, this is the only way in which young India's young energy and youth aspirations To complete With your blessings our government is making an honest effort.\nBrothers and sisters, we are continuously engaged in creating new infrastructure for New India. In this also the eastern part of the country, our North-east is the leader. A serious effort to ensure connectivity in North-East corner is running for the last four and a half years. Ten days ago I was in Bogibeb There, India's longest railway-road bridge was inaugurated. All of you must have seen how a project has been discussed in the country and the world. Beogeebile or Bhupen Hazarika Setu- These two large infrastructure projects of the country are here on our Assam land. Our government has got the privilege of fulfilling these two projects which have been hanging for years and devoted to the country.\nWe are continuously making efforts to ease the lives of brothers and sisters, Assam and North-East. With this thought, the government is working to build new bridges on Brahmaputra. Trying to connect far-flung areas with better facilities of cities, efforts are being made. Highways, railways, airways, waterways, or even airways - connectivity is being strengthened at every level. During the last four and a half years, about 700 kilometers of roads have been constructed at a cost of more than Rs 3,000 crore in Assam. Apart from this, work on roads more than 400 kms is underway at a cost of approximately Rs.5000 crores.\nFriends, many projects of National Highway, Bridges and villages connecting Barak valley here have been completed in last four and a half years and work on many projects is underway. The four-lane highway dreaming of connecting Barak Valley with the East-West corridor is also going to be ready soon. Apart from this, more than 1000+ rural roads, including more than 100 bridges, have been approved in Barak Valley under the Prime Minister's Road Scheme. I am happy that the government of Assam has been strengthening the efforts of the Central Government.\nBesides, along with the road, work is also being done at a fast pace to ensure the connectivity of the railways. Today the broadening of almost all railway lines of North-East has been completed. Lamding-Silchar's railway line is also one of them. After this, the Ministry of Railways has introduced new passenger trains in Barak Valley.\nEfforts are also underway for brothers and sisters, air connectivity and strengthening from Assam's country and the world. A new Integrated Building is being constructed at a cost of more than Rs. 1200 crores in Gauhati Airport. The process of extending the runway of Dibrugarh Airport is also underway. Due to this, large airplanes in Dibrugarh can easily get off. Apart from this, construction of river routes in Assam with the cost of crores rupees is also going on fast. At the same time, the central government has made a provision of about 1.50 billion rupees for strengthening the power system of Assam.\nBrothers and sisters, our Vision is of 'Act East and Act Fast on East'. From here to East and South Asia, our business and business will be strengthened, open new ways of public relations, in this direction we are working with speed. India-Myanmar-Thailand Highway Ho, Agartala-Akhaura Rail Line, Paro-Singapore Via Gauhati Flight Ho, open Bhutan in Gauhati and Consulate of Bangladesh - There are many such efforts going on.\nAll these projects of co-operatives, connectivity and infrastructure will make Assam's life easier, in the coming time, there will be new industries and businesses, the tourism sector will expand, so that young colleagues will get many employment opportunities. There are plenty of possibilities for tourism in Assam. There is also Kaziranga Sanctuary, then Kamakhya Shakti Peeth is also here. In view of this, the Central Government has sanctioned Rs 1.25 crore for constructing facilities in Assam under 'Swadesh Darshan' and 'Prasad' scheme. Various attempts have been made for the youth here to find tourism related to tourism, hotels and other services. Crores of rupees have been allocated to enhance facilities in the Hotel Management Institute of Gauhati and Jorhat. The financial assistance for the food craft institute of Naogaon has also been increased.\nBrothers and sisters, central and state government are engaged in ensuring Panchadhara of development in Assam and the country - education of children, earning youth, medicines to the elderly, irrigation of farmers, and people's hearing. चाय के बागानों में काम करने वाले लाखों बहन-भाइयो समेत करीब डेढ़ करोड़ असमिया लोगों के पहली बार बैंकों में खाते खुलवाए गए हैं। करीब पचास लाख मुद्रा लोन असम के युवा साथियों को अपने उद्यम लगाने के लिए बैंकों से दिलवाए गए हैं। असम के करीब 25 लाख लोग प्रधानमंत्री जीवन ज्योति और सुरक्षा बीमा योजना से जुड़े हैं। ढाई लाख से अधिक असम के कामगार बहन-भाई अटल पेंशन योजना से जुड़े हैं। साथियो, असम की 24 लाख गरीब बहनों को मुफ्त गैस के कनेक्शन दिए जा चुके हैं। जिसका परिणाम है कि असम में साढ़े चार वर्ष से पहले तक जहां करीब 40 प्रतिशत घरों में गैस सिलिंडर था, वहीं आज ये दायरा दोगुना करीब 80 प्रतिशत हो चुका है। इसी प्रकार, असम के हर गरीब-बेघर परिवार को, मध्यम वर्गीय परिवार को अपना घर देने का प्रयास किया जा रहा है। आयुष्मान भारत योजना के तहत असम के लाखों गरीब परिवारों को हर वर्ष पांच लाख रुपये तक का मुफ्त इलाज सुनिश्चित हुआ है।\nसाथियो, आज जनहित के ये जो भी काम हो पा रहे हैं, वो तभी संभव हो पा रहे हैं, जब सरकार ने भ्रष्टाचार पर रोक लगाई है। ईमानदारी की व्यवस्था खड़ी की जा रही है। बिचौलियों को व्यवस्था से हटाया जा रहा है। कांग्रेस की सरकार ने दलालों को हर सौदे, हर कारोबार यानी व्यवस्था का हिस्सा बना दिया था।\nऔर भाइयो-बहनो, पिछले दिनों विदेश से एक राजदार को पकड़ कर लाए हैं। हेलिकॉप्टर के मसले में, दलाली के मसले में, रुपये किसको दिए, कितने दिए, कैसे दिए, कितना बड़ा खजाना देश का लूटकर किसने पहुंचाया- एक-एक चीज बारीकी से निकल रही है। और आपने देखा होगा जेल में तो वो राजदार है, पूछताछ राजदार की हो रही है, लेकिन जैसे उस राजदार को पकड़ कर ले आए, कांग्रेस का वकील उसको बचाने के लिए पहुंच गया। इतना ही नहीं, कोर्ट ने इजाजत दी थी कि वकील को मिलने दिया जाए, तो मिलने के समय विडियोग्राफी होती थी, पुलिस के जवान बैठे रहते थे, तो उन्होंने चोरी-छुपे एक चिट्ठी की लेन-देन की, वकील ने और इस राजदार ने। आपको मालूम होगा, बोफोर्स के मसले में एक कांग्रेस के विदेश मंत्री थे, माधव सिंह सोलंकी, वो यहां से एक चिट्ठी लेकर गए थे और वो बात बाहर आई तो उनकी नौकरी चली गई थी, मंत्रिपद उनका चला गया था। ये दूसरा चिट्ठी का कारोबार हाथ लगा है। ये राजदार और वकील के बीच में चिट्ठी का लेनदेन हो रहा था। भाइयो-बहनो, जब से राजदार आया है, आपने नामदार का चेहरा देखा होगा, आंखें फटी-फटी रहती हैं, चेहरा उदास रहता है, नींद गायब हो गई है। दिन गिन रहे हैं, दिन ! – ये कुछ बोल देगा तो, कुछ बात खुल जाएगी तो पता नहीं क्या होगा। और इसलिए, बौखलाते चले जा रहे हैं, बौखलाते चले जा रहे हैं, और पता नहीं, अनाप-शनाप भाषा पर उतर आए हैं।\nलेकिन भाइयो-बहनो, बताइए, देश का जो धन लूटा गया है, ये लौटना चाहिए कि नहीं लौटना चाहिए ? लूटने वालों को पहचानना चाहिए कि नहीं पहचानना चाहिए ? लूटने वालों की जो जगह होती है, वहां पहुंचाना चाहिए कि नहीं पहुंचाना चाहिए ? देश को लूटने वालों को सजा होनी चाहिए कि नहीं होनी चाहिए ? ये काम मोदी को करना चाहिए कि नहीं करना चाहिए ? ये चौकीदार की जिम्मेवारी है कि नहीं है ? चौकीदार को जागते रहना चाहिए कि नहीं जागते रहना चाहिए ? चौकीदार जमके काम कर रहा है कि नहीं कर रहा है ? चौकीदार के कारण लोग परेशान हैं कि नहीं हैं। ये चौकीदार जम करके खड़ा है, इसी के कारण परेशानी फैल रही है। मैं देशवासियों को विश्वास दिलाना चाहता हूं, मैं आपको विश्वास दिलाना चाहता हूं, जो-जो भी ऐसे राजदार हैं, खोज-खोज करके लाया जाएगा। देश के हक की चीज, देश के करोड़ों नागरिकों के हक की चीज, उसको बाहर निकाली जाएगी और चौकीदार के नाते हमारा काम करते ही रहेंगे, ये मैं देश को विश्वास दिलाता हूं। गरीब के हक का पैसा, सरकारी योजनाओं का पैसा बिचौलियों की जेब में डालने की संस्कृति, ये कांग्रेस की देन थी।\nभाइयो और बहनो, असम का हर युवा, देश का युवा एक भ्रष्टाचारमुक्त नया भारत चाहता है। वीआईपी कल्चर से मुक्त एक पारदर्शी व्यवस्था चाहता है। हर व्यक्ति की सरकार तक पहुंच हो, ऐसी व्यवस्था के निर्माण के लिए हम पूरी तरह से संकल्पबद्ध हैं। आप सभी साथियो, असम के हर बहन-भाई के सहयोग से हम अपने संकल्प को सिद्ध कर पाएंगे- इसी एक विश्वास के साथ आप सभी का फिर से बहुत-बहुत आभार व्यक्त करता हूं। भाइयो-बहनो, आपने देखा होगा 2018 की 30 दिसंबर को मैं अंडमान-निकोबार गया था, आपने टीवी पर देखा होगा। 1943 में 30 दिसंबर को नेताजी सुभाष बाबू ने वहां हिन्दुस्तान का झंडा फहराया था। उस घटना के पचहत्तर साल हुए और हमने अंडमान-निकोबार के एक टापू को नेताजी सुभाष बोस के नाम से पहचानने का फैसला किया है। इस देश के लिए जीने वाले-मरने वाले हर किसी का सम्मान करना- ये हमारा संकल्प है।\nभाइयो-बहनो, मैं फिर एक बार ब्रह्मपुत्र वैली हो या बराक वैली हो, यही मेरे असम की ताकत है, यही मेरे असम का भविष्य है। मिलजुल करके, कंधे से कंधा मिलाकर के हमने असम को, A FOR ASSAM- ये मेरा जो सपना है, A FOR ASSAM, ये करके रहना है। मैं फिर एक बार आप सबका बहुत-बहुत धन्यवाद करता हूं। भारत माता की...जय !"