"\nIndia is poised to be a new engine of global growth: PM\nIndia is a big and growing market. But India is much more than a market: PM\nIndia is a reliable partner, a source of high quality scientific, engineering and managerial talent: PM\nA very unique feature of the Indo-American relationship is the critical role of the Indian-American community in the US economy: PM\nWe have taken steps to improve the 'ease of doing business' and have already started the global rankings in the climbing steeply: PM\nJan Dhan Yojana has also transformed the ability of the poor to make and receive electronic payments: PM\nWe want to make India a destination which is not only welcoming business but is it easy to do business: PM Modi\nIndia is the future human resource powerhouse of the world with a hard-working population: PM Modi\nLadies \u0026 Gentlemen,\nI am happy to be here again as such a large and distinguished gathering of political and business leaders. Earlier today, I had the pleasure of meeting President Obama and we shared our thoughts on a number of issues related to our two nations India's bilateral relations with the United States is stronger than ever and we both agree that the future will be even bright.\nI am speaking to you at a time when the global economy continues to be weak. Many parts of the world This is a time when the world needs new engines of growth. From the point of view of the world's oldest democracy, obviously it will be nice if the new engines are democratic engines I am happy to tell you that today India is poised to contribute as a new engine of global growth.\nA large Indian economy has multiple benefits for the world Obviously, India represents a big and growing market. But India is much more than a market India is\na reliable partner;\na source of high quality scientific, engineering and managerial talent;\na crucible of development ideas and experiments;\nAn efficient source of high quality R \u0026 D;\nand a testimony that democracy and rapid growth can co-exist.\nAs India embarks on a new era of development, it needs to learn more from America's tradition of entrepreneurship and innovation. America remains the forefront of scientific and technological innovation from\nair traffic control to air quality improvement,\nfrom drugs to drones,\nfrom hybrid cars to hydro fracking\nIndeed, to me, America is not just a country with a great past; It is a country with a exciting future. I am sure there is a partnership which sees both nations benefits.\nA very unique feature of the Indo-American relationship is the critical role of the Indian economy. It is rare that emigrants from one nation, who become immigrants in another, enjoy such high respect and repute in both countries Indian-Americans are a powerful cementing force in our growing economic and cultural ties.\nI have just completed two years in office. When I addressed you in 2014, I had just taken over the reins of government We have faced a particularly challenging domestic and external environment. Confidence of investors Doubts were being expressed The business community was unhappy with the inertia and stagnation that had set in. There was a frustration with archaic policies and red tape. In 2 years, we have managed to overcome the odds and register an impressive economic performance.\nI would like to take a look at this policy. I have said many times that my goal is to reform to transform For me, reforms are those policies In the last two years, we have taken a comprehensive package of reforms which go beyond more economic reforms. I can classify them in four types\nFirst, macro-economic policies to create a strong foundation;\nSecond, policies to stimulate growth and employment, and to increase efficiency and productivity;\nThird, policies to ensure that growth benefits the poor and the weaker sections of society, including women and farmers;\nFourth, a frontal attack on corruption.\nLet me start with the macro-economy\nSince we took office, inflation, the fiscal deficit and the balance of payments GDP growth, Foreign exchange reserves, stock market valuations, and investor confidence have all increased. This is the success of a series of well thought out policies. We have a legislative framework with inflation. We embarked on a course of fiscal consolidation and our fiscal deficit has been substantially reduced in three budgets so far. Even while cutting the fiscal deficit, we have greatly increased productive public investment\nThis is possible in two ways Firstly, we have carbonated taxes on fossil fuels. We took the bold step of de-controlling diesel prices and thereby eliminated energy subsidies. We then replaced them with taxes A Clean Environment has been increased by eight times from Rs.50 per ton to Rs.400 per ton. Globally, there is much talk of carbon taxes but much of it is just that - TALK. We have actually acted Secondly we have reduced wasteful expenditure through innovative methods and use of technology. Subsidies are increasingly credited directly to bank accounts of the deserving with fool proof biometric identification.\nLet us now turn to our policies to stimulate growth and employment. This audience is probably aware of the sweeping liberalization that we have undertaken in direct direct investment. We have put most sectors on automatic approvals and opened up sectors like defence and railways to foreign investment. The long pending insurance law was successfully passed. Many insurance companies, including American companies, have already enhanced their investment in the insurance sector. We have taken steps to improve the 'ease of doing business' and have already begun climbing steeply in the global rankings. We are encouraging foreign and domestic investors to set up. We have greatly enhanced investment in roads, railways, ports and waterways to improve logistics. We have made major process improvements in our ports to reduce the time for cargo to enter and exit. We encourage you to start your business. We are making a beginning in replicating it. Our Start-Up India program has stimulated a new breed of innovators. In 2016, Bengaluru has become the fifth most preferred location for innovation centers. It was also considered in the Top 10 in 2015.\nFor our economy to succeed, we need a strong banking system We inherited a system where cronyism and corruption were believed to be in rampant in public sector banks. I held the first ever retreat of Prime Minister with bankers. We have set up clear performance measures and accountability mechanisms. We are committed to sure enough capital Interference in banking decisions has ended. A new process for appointments has been put into place under the Bank Boards Bureau. Credible and capable bankers have been appointed to head banks. 47 years ago Private sector professionals have been appointed in key positions.\nI now turn to our policies to ensure that growth is inclusive. We have brought two hundred million people into the banking system through the Jan Dhan Yojana. This is more than the population Now, these millions are part of our banking system, and words like 'interest rate' have a meaning for them. These people have shown that there is great power at the bottom of the pyramid. Believe it or not, accounts opened under Jan Dhan Yojana today has a total balance of nearly six billion dollars.\nThe Jan Dhan Yojana has also transformed the ability of the poor to make and receive electronic payments. Every Jan Dhan account holder is eligible for a debit card. India's banks and post offices are also being promoted to 'mobile ATMs'. A mobile ATM is one where cash can be used.\nWe have provided a security net through new social security schemes. We have introduced three non-subsidized but low cost schemes covering accident insurance, life insurance and pensions. Because of their massive coverage the premia is low. There are now over 120 million subscribers\nWe have paid special attention to gender justice and to empowering women. We have a new savings program to help pay for girls' education. To relieve rural women from the health hazards of cooking with firewood, we are giving 50 million new gas connections in poor rural areas. Under our new self-employment finance program (Mudra), over 70% of the beneficiaries are women. More than 27 million new women-headed businesses have been assisted. We have changed our policies to women in combat roles in the armed forces. Board of Directors\nAgriculture remains India's mainstay in terms of providing livelihood. There was a tendency to depreive by farmers for subsidized fertilizers. A simple but very effective solution is neem-coating of fertilizer which makes it unsuitable for diversion. We have moved toward universal neem-coating of urea. It has already saved crores of rupees of diverted farm subsidies and improved fertilizer availability to farmers. It is an example of how simple reforms can be very effective.\nWe have introduced a Soil Health Card nationally, which tells every farmer the condition of his or her soil. It enables the farmer to choose the best crop and mix of inputs. This greatly reduces wastage of inputs and increased crop yield besides protecting the soil. By reducing unnecessary chemical inputs, it is also good for consumers It reduces costs, increases yields, improves the environment and protects the health of consumers. 140 million soil health cards will be issued, requiring a collection of over twenty-five million soil samples, and tested through a nationwide network of approximately 1500 laboratories.\nThis brings me to an achievement that I think also our worst critics do not dispute. This is the change in levels of corruption For many years, economists and other experts have held corruption from one of the main constraints on the growth of any developing economy. We have taken steps I have already referred to We removed discretion in allocation of key resources and moved to transparent auctions of mine, spectrum and FM radio licenses and we have plugged leakage through direct benefit transfer. We have revamped our personnel management to ensure that senior positions are held by integrity of persons. We have launched an on-going campaign against tax evasion and black money. The poor are the greatest beneficiaries of the reduction in corruption.\nLooking to the future let me outline what I see in the years\nFirstly, we will continue to have disciplined and prudent macro-economic policies. I firmly believe that the sound macro-economic fundamentals\nSecondly, we will combine this with a continuation of inclusion and equity. This is to ensure the fruits of development accrue not to some, And this will also mean continuous our attack on corruption.\nThirdly, we will continue to improve the investment climate and the ease of doing business. We want to make India a destination which is not easy. We have largely achieved the first by drastically liberalizing our foreign direct investment policies. We have made a good start on the second and will continue to make more improvements.\nWe will continue to strengthen the \"Make in India\" initiative. That is why, for the whole world. It is very important for us that developed countries open their markets, not only to goods from India but also to services. I see this as a win-win proposition for the US and for India India is the future human resource powerhouse of the world with a young hard-working population. In my vision, a partnership between American capital and innovation, and Indian human resources and entrepreneurship can be very powerful. I am convinced. economies through such a partnership\nWe will continue to make our tax policies more predictable We have made major strides of predictability by signing a number of Advance Pricing Agreements with the United States. We are committed to taking this further. At the same time, like the U.S., we are cracking down on tax evasion and unfair tax avoidance.\nWe will continue to open up our defense sector. I am aware that licensing policies may sometimes slow down the process of investing in India's defense sector. We are exploring a simpler and more efficient project. In the field of nuclear energy, we are purchasing six nuclear reactors from Westinghouse which will mark a new era in our nuclear and scientific cooperation. I was delighted when GE became one of the first companies to make a major investment in the newly liberalized railway sector. It is setting up a locomotive manufacturing plant in the relatively poor state of Bihar. I expect many more such investments\nThe River Ganga has a special significance for India The 'Namami Gange' program is able to clean the river. It will be a big priority over the coming years. This project offers major opportunities for American companies with their expertise in environmental engineering, water and sewage treatment and the like. This project is a high priority for my government and our aim is to restore the Ganga to its pristine glory.\nLadies and Gentlemen, We have started our journey towards a transformed India. A transformed India The journey will be long But the progress we have achieved so far, convinces me that we will reach our destination. I invite you to join us on that journey. It is a journey which offers the exciting potential of not only building a better balance sheet but also building a better India, building a better America, and building a better world.\nThank you."