"\nGovernment's work will be analyzed carefully in all aspects: PM Modi\nWork done by our Government in last 2 years is now a inspiration for us too better: PM\nOur government believes in 'Vikasvad' and not 'Virodhvad': PM Modi\nThe term of corruption has been eaten away, but we have been able to curb it: PM\nIn our campaign to stop corruption, we saved over 36,000 crore rupees: PM Modi\nOur focus is on farm sector \u0026 farmers Soil Health Card is a initiative in that direction: PM\nPeople of India have placed their faith in us. We'll leave no stone unturned in our hard work: PM\nHello to the countrymen.\nTwo years ago we gave a new responsibility to the people in the country and this is the greatness of democracy that there should be a constant assessment of the government elected by the people. There are drawbacks, good ones, it should be accounted for. Looking at the two-year tenure, it also realizes that we were able to reach where we went to reach, we did not reach the direction in which direction was right or not; That is not the end of the motive.\nAnd when two years of accounting, a new self-confidence for the coming days not only arises in the government but also in the heart of the countrymen. Throughout the country, I am seeing every work of the Government of India for the last nearly 15 days is being evaluated very closely. Every aspect is being closely watched, and I am standing with great satisfaction in front of the countrymen today. After such a thorough investigation, we have been able to achieve a new faith, achieve new excitement, and the blessings of public life are increasing every day, the enthusiasm of doing our work is also increasing . I can not say anything for those people who are opposed to political reasons, and that is also natural in democracy, but the country has seen two things in the last 15 days, there is evolutionism on the one hand and on the other side there is opposition . And in the midst of evolutionaryism and opposition, these people can name well enough of what is truth, by drinking milk of milk and water of Janardan milk.\nThere have been discussions on many topics and therefore I do not want to repeat these things here. But worry is of that thing, depending on the issues, the rigid assessment of every work on the basis of realities is necessary for democracy. But somewhere we do not make such a mistake that attempts to induce the country in the pit of disappointment without any reason. These things appear somewhere in which there is no basis for realities, but on such situations, this kind of situations will get rid of, sometimes it worries.\nThe accounting of government work is in the context of the work of the old government. What was happening now is a comparative study of what is happening now. We completely ignore the things of past governments and if we talk about things suddenly, they probably will not be able to evaluate correctly. If today my government say that we have solved the problem of coal. You can imagine that suddenly the Supreme Court can cancel the licenses of coal mines and there is a coal crisis in the power plants and in such a critical situation, the entire government has paid defamation within the country due to the corruption of coal.\nTwo years ago no newspaper, no day, no TV, no channel, no discussion, no speech, these horror was not untouched by corruption, but today if I say that the auction done, in the Transparent way. There is no question mark yet, lakhs and crores of rupees have been fixed in the country's treasures. Money is going on in states treasures. Not only that, where the coal mine is located, most of our tribal people live there, for their welfare, it is going to get fund from it.\nIf I tell you all these things, then it seems that Bhai Bhai Modi ji worked. But its strength then comes to understanding why the Supreme Court had to do such a thing, why there was so much corruption in coal, what methods were there and bringing the country out of it .. Then go to understand how much work Has grown up, how important is the work, and so long as we remember the days of the government, examine the present decisions, then we will come to the notice of how big the change has come. .\nWho can deny this, that like the termite, corruption has hollowed the country from inside, destroyed it. If the power to crush all our dreams is in a termite then that termite's name is corruption.\nAnd I have taken a very united effort against corruption to take a step after one and try to clarify this issue which has stirred the minds of Hindustan and when you go deep into them, you will be shocked. You can imagine how the country has gone. The daughter who has never been born, she also becomes a widow in the files of the government of the country, and the widow gets started getting the pension and the pension goes for years and sometimes such corruptions are not discussed.\nWhen we started distributing subsidy direct to LPG under the direct benefit transfer scheme, linked it to the base, Linked to the public money account and what wonderful results have come. The countrymen would be surprised to know that so many fake names were found in the LPG alone, the discussion of so many fake cylinders came out, to which we tried to stop the leakage. Almost 15,000 crores of rupees have saved your money.\nIf anyone gets raid here and if someone gets 50 crores from here, then our country becomes headline. If you get 500 million rupees ... by making a lot of hard work, then around 15 thousand crore rupees is almost to save the country. I say my country, I will also say this for one of my work, Modiji is doing you right.\nYou will be surprised by the ration card, which gives cheap food to the poor, kerosene is available, its needs will be fulfilled. We started a little investigation that what is going on in the business, because the rice rice in the poor plate, then it seems that I got rice in rupees 3, got it in rupees 2, got it in rupees 1, but that He does not talk to the poor when he gets rice in his plate, then 27 rupees on one kg goes by the treasury of the Indian government. He does not know. Then, on his plate, Rice comes in 1 rupee, 2 rupee, 3 rupee and it is of ration card. Right now my work is going on, but as much as it has been. So far, till now, we have searched more than 1 crore 62 lakh fake ration cards. 1 crore 62 lakh fake ration cards. That means whatever went on the ration card, he used to go to someone's pocket. Somewhere there was dishonesty.\nThe Haryana Government launched a campaign, under our base plan, under the scheme of Jan Dhan, under mobile connectivity. I was told, the number of people taking the carrotine, fake caroison was 6 lakh in a small state. It went to the kerosene with subsidy in the name of 6 lakh people. It would be called kerosene, it would go to mix in diesel, it would go to the pollution, the work of a chemical factory would come and the money from the government's treasures would go in the name of the poor.\n1 crore 62 lakhs ration cards, 6 lakhs of kerosene, now we have saved Rs. 540 crores in one state under this scheme, Rs. 540 crores, what is the fake teacher, is going to the uniform, going uniform, Going food Why should a teacher be a school? This is all open from the investigation. And what is the result of it, I used to calculate roughly, then about 36,000 crore rupees, these leakages have stopped. This corruption went away, and for a year, it is going to be such a year away and it is just the beginning, there is a new morning.\nSome people say that Modi works so hard, you do so much work, why you have so much resistance. Why do so many storms against you every day? Make your communication strategy right. Do something to talk to you media Many people explain to me, how can I explain to them that brother! If people who pocket 36 thousand crores in their pocket which Modi has stopped, then Modi will not abuse, what will he eat? What kind of troubles would have been for those who looted, we can do well. I tell many such topics on which we have taken initiatives in a very precise manner in two years. And its result is getting to be seen today.\nYou see, how many times did the LED bulb was sold, how much is sold in today, anywhere on the price of LED bulb 200, 250, 300, now it has come to 60, 70, 80. If we have a power plant in our country and we announce that two lakh crores power plants will be installed, or one lakh crores of power plants will be installed, then there are newspapers writing on the financial topics of our country, the headline Will create that Modi has dreamed a lot, new lakhs of electricity will cost one lakh crore rupees, it will happen, he will be, Dikana-will have to be done, someone will also write that Modi talks But where does Rupees come from, where one lakh crore is, all things can happen, but it will not be discussed that due to the campaign of LED bulb, the five hundred cities we have targeted, those five hundred cities In the case of 100 percent of the LED bulb we have been successful and we are going to be ready, on the day that the work will be completed, around 20 thousand MW electricity is going to be saved in this country. 20 thousand MW electricity is meant to survive, the cost of a one lakh crores power plant is going to be avoided, but can it be the news topic of 60-70 LED bulb? What is the news in it and that's why we are bringing changes that are changing at a fast pace and the changes that the country is experiencing today, one after the plans, which some people have imagined now, in our country, we have seen the last elections, To see many of your elections, which was the only discussion that 12 cylinders should be, or six should be. The big leaders used to declare and the second day the headline was printed in the newspaper that 9 cylinder would no longer get subsidy on 12 cylinders and votes were asked for 9 cylinder to 12 cylinder. Remember the days when a member of the Parliament in India got coupons of 25 LPG gas. Being a MP and using 25 coupons, people used to obelise their workers and colleagues, supporters, give me a gas coupon. I remember equally, we had an officer at the airport in Ahmedabad, they do not know every MP, because they used to go to the airport, every MP used to say that give a gas coupon or not, My son, who has been living separately, wants a coupon for LPG. And even a single MP could not give it to him all year round. We do not forget that day of a gas connection. This is talking about five years, ten years ago, I am not talking about a very old matter in which the discussion is in the country and the Prime Minister of this country should ask the people of the country to leave the gas subsidy. And I bow down to the country: 14 million people left their subsidy, did not change it, it is not a change of mind, this country is not a change, what's bigger than public participation for the development of the country For example Does it This country has experienced it. And we also decided that we have left this gas subsidy, the mother burns a wooden stove in the poor house, and the smoke of nearly four hundred cigarettes goes to her body due to food all day long. Who will worry about that mother of four hundred cigarettes, and we have given connections to more than three crore households in the last one year with new LPG connections. Such a huge task has never happened in Azad Hindusthan in a year and we have decided that in the coming three years, we will bring five crore families who do not have LPG today because they are poor families, till the middle class, the kitchen The gas is reached. The lower middle class has not reached. There is no question of the cottage, but we have raised the raft. How is this possible, it would be understandable that there were quarrels for 9 cylinder-12 cylinder, then it would be understood that a member of a parliament was proud of 25 gas subsidy coupons, giving gas to anyone This is a change of five million gas connections in front of that day. And so, see scale, see quantum, watch speed, see target group, then you will notice that for the welfare of the poor, take one step after the other for the good of the poor.\nOur farmer, whether we say rain sometimes, that the rain has not come yet, but we do not discuss anything about the situation of Mother Earth. If the farmer poorly become ruined, then say that the seed was bad or water did not come, but we do not see this thing that we ruined the mother earth. We have exploited this mother so much that it is necessary to save our mother. And so we started carrying a huge mission of Soil Health Card. What is the health of the soil, what properties are there in the soil, which deficiencies, which kind of crop is favorable for the crop, which medicine will run, which fertilizer will run. The manner in which the person tests the blood, the urine test is done, the diabetes is not there, it decides, this government has taken up the same task of doing this earth's mother and we have made this big thing to the farmers of the country. And in a considerable amount of time, today farmers are deciding on how to change the crop pattern through their Soil Health Card.\nI mean to say that we have done many such things in the direction of bringing normal life in the life of the common man, and there is an important work in it, and I believe that democracy has huge capital, the first condition of democracy was It is necessary that the rulers should have unequaled trust in their hearts, they should have faith. We have run governments till now, disbelieve on the public. One day I had a meeting of Income Tax Officers, I said why are you running businessmen as thieves, brother? Will the country like this? This whole method is wrong, thinking is wrong. We started the change\nहमारे यहां तो graduate हैं, कहीं apply करना है, तो certify कराने के लिए किसी corporator या कोई MLA या MP के घर के बाहर कतार में खड़ा रहना पड़ता था और आपका चेहरा भी नहीं देखता था और उसका छोटा सा लड़का घर में बैठता था ठप्‍पा मार देता था। आपको certify कर देता था, हां आपका certify कर दिया। अगर यहीं करना है, तो जरूरत क्‍या है हमने कहा कोई जरूरत नहीं लोगों को कह दिया आप अपने ही certify करो और सरकार में भेज दो जब final order होगा तब आप original certificate दिखा देना। हमने जनता जर्नादन पर भरोसा करना चाहिए। यह देश उनका भी तो है।\nएक बार जनता पर हम भरोसा करते है, आप देखिए आपको बदलाव आएगा। मैं एक सुरेश प्रभु को कह रहा था। मैंने कहा सुरेश कभी ये तो घोषित करो कि फलानी तारीख को, फलाने रूट पर ट्रेन में एक भी टिकट चेकर नहीं रहेगा। देखिए ये देश के लोग ऐसे है हम विश्‍वास करें, कभी ये भी करके देखना। हम कोशिश कर रहे है, मैं एक के बाद एक ये जो अफसरशाही चल रही है, उसको दूर करने की कोशिश बड़ी भरपूर कर रहा हूं।\nये लोकतंत्र है, जनता-जनार्दन की ताकत ये सर्वाधिक होनी चाहिए और उस दिशा में एक के बाद एक कदम उठा रहे है। अभी हमने निर्णय किया, ये निर्णय देश के नौजवानों के लिए अत्‍यन्त महत्‍वपूर्ण निर्णय है। हमारे देश में corruption का एक area कौन सा है? नौकरी! वो written test देता है, लिखित परीक्षा देता है, तब तक तो ज्‍यादा चिंता नहीं रहती बेचारा देता है और उसमें भी interview call आ जाता है। Interview call आ जाता है, तो उसके मन में एक आशा जग जाती है। तो वो interview में क्‍या पूछेंगे, कैसे कपड़े पहन करके जाऊं, ये चिंता नहीं करता है। चिंता ये करता है interview call आया है यार, कोई सिफारिश वाला मिल जाएगा क्‍या? कोई मुझे मदद करने वाला मिल जाएगा क्‍या? और कोई दलाल उसके यहां पहुंच जाता है कि देखो भई तुम्‍हारा interview आया है, ये नौकरी चाहिए, पास होना है, इतना देना पड़ेगा। ये corruption का पूरा खेल interview के आस-पास चल रहा है। हमने तय कर दिया भारत सरकार में वर्ग 3 और 4 के जो employees है कोई interview नहीं होगा, merit list कम्‍प्‍यूटर तय करेगा कि पहले इतने लोग है इनको नौकरी चली जाए। दो निर्णय गलत हो भी जायेंगे, लेकिन इससे देश को जो दीमक लगी है इस दीमक से मुक्ति मिल जाएगी और इसलिए एक के बाद एक ऐसे निर्णय हमने किए है और ये निर्णय, पूरे निर्णय एक नए सोच के साथ है।\nऔर यही सबसे बड़ा बदलाव है कि देश के अंदर एक विश्‍वास भरना, संकल्‍प के साथ चलना और सामान्‍य मानव की जिंदगी की आशा-आकांक्षाओं को पूर्ण करने का निरंतर प्रयास करना। सरकार के दो साल के कामों पर मुझे अगर बोलना हो तो हो सकता है कि दूरदर्शन वालों एक सप्‍ताहभर यहां मेरे पूरा दिन भाषण रखना पड़ेगा। इतने सारे achievements, लेकिन मैं achievements की चर्चा करने आपके बीच में नहीं आया हूं, मैं आपको विश्‍वास दिलाने आया देशवासियों ने हमें भरोसा दिया, उस भरोसे को हम पूरा करने के लिए पूरी कोशिश कर रहे हैं। और देश ने देखा है, बदइरादे से कोई निर्णय नहीं किया है। मेहनत करने में कोई कमी नहीं रखी है और राष्‍ट्रहित को सर्वोत्‍त रख करके जन-सामान्‍य के हितों को सार्वोत्‍त रख करके हमने अपने-आप को जुटा दिया है।\nTeam India का कल्‍पना लेकर चले है। राज्‍य को कंधे से कंधा मिलकर काम में जोड़कर चले है, लेकिन ये बात सही है कि जिन्‍होंने आज तक खाया है उनको तो मुश्किलें आनी ही आनी है, उनको तो तकलीफ होनी ही होनी है। किसने खाया, कब खाया वो मेरा विषय नहीं है लेकिन ये देश का रुपया है गरीब का पैसा है, ये किसी औरों के पास जाने नहीं दिया जाएगा। इस काम पर मैं लगा हुआ हूं। जिन को तकलीफ होती होगी, होती रहे, हम देश के लिए काम करते रहेंगे। देश की जनता हमें आर्शीवाद देती रहें। मैं फिर एक बार आज इस अवसर पर आप सब के बीच आने का अवसर मिला, मेरी बात बताने का अवसर मिला, मैं आपका बहुत-बहुत आभारी हूं।\nThank you"