"No village in the country will be left without electricity by 2018: PM\nWe are committed to connect all north eastern states with a country's railway network: PM\nI think North East as a gateway to South East Asia: PM\nMy government has been proactively following the Act-East policy: PM\nWe need to take advantage of the Under-17 #FIFA World Cup and ensure development in football in the country: PM\nPM Modi inaugurates 3 new passenger trains for North-East\nPM Modi inaugurates Doppler Weather Radar in Meghalaya\nBefore arriving at the stage here, I visited an exhibition of stalls by Self-Help Groups comprising women from all eight North Eastern States. The artefacts and products are displayed in this exhibition Let me begin by congratulating the ladies from these Self-Help Groups, who are present here today and have just given me a glimpse of their immense talent.\nThe promotion of Self Help Groups has got a boost from the Deen Dayal Antyodaya Yojana. A large number of Self Help Groups are also benefiting through credit linkages by North Eastern Development Financial Institution with the component of interest subsidy being provided by the Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region.\nThe Government has committed to developing the Self Help Groups, especially Women Self Help Groups. Keeping this in mind, in December 2015, the Union Cabinet approved a special package fund for the North Eastern States. The objective is to accelerate the implementation of the National Rural Livelihood Mission, so as to cover two-thirds of all rural households in North East States by 2023-24.\nFriends\nToday, I unveiled a wooden stadium. We are all aware of the love that the people of the north-east, and especially the Meghalaya, have for Football. Football is a passion here and is played in every nook and corner We are all familiar with famous football players like Eugeneson Lyngdoh, Aibor Khongji, and Marlangki Suting. They have done both the country and the state proud, by representing India in International Tournaments, and their clubs in the Indian Super League.\nI am told that the State Government's Meghalaya Mission Football aims at detecting talent at the grass-root level and providing support for grooming and nurturing promising children and youngsters as professional footballers. I am sure the football stadium will be constructed at a cost of 38 crore rupees with the support of the Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region.\nNext year, that is in 2017, India is hosting the Under-17 FIFA World Cup. We need to take advantage of this event being held in India; and also the other parts of the country.\nMeghalaya has a large number of football clubs and associations. Perhaps, you can organize competitive local tournaments and lead the way to other parts of the country, to build a series of major events leading to the Under-17 World Cup.\nFriends\nWe all know Cherrapunji, for being the place that receives the highest rainfall in the world. Today, another feather has been added to its cap The Doppler Weather Radar at Cherrapunji has been dedicated to the Nation. I congratulate the Indian Space Research Organization; Bharat Electronics Ltd. .; and the Indian Meteorological Department for setting up this radar in Cherrapunji.\nThe North East, a land of beauty and adventure, has been hit by many natural calamities in the recent past, on account of heavy rain and landslides.\nThis Weather Radar System will enable better weather forecasters, especially for the North Eastern region. This should help in minimizing the weather.\nEarlier today, I had a chance to participate in the North Eastern Council Meeting and interact with the Governors and Chief Ministers of this region. This gave me a chance to get a glimpse of the North East. A lot is being done Much more still needs to be done\nMy Government has been proactively following the 'Act East Policy'. I think the North Eastern Region as the Gateway to South-East Asia. As part of this policy, it is our mission to upgrade the infrastructure in Road, Rail, Telecom, Power and Waterways in the region. And today, as part of that mission, I have flagged off three new trains. We are committed to connect with all the North Eastern States. Since the formation of the NDA Government at the Center, we have spent more than Ten Thousand Crore Rupees for the development of the Railway Network in the North East. The Railway Ministry plans to spend more than Five Thousand Crore Rupees during the current year for the same.\nIn November, 2014, Meghalaya and Arunachal Pradesh were brought on the rail map of India. Recently, Agartala in Tripura has been connected with a broad gauge railway line. Today is really a red letter day in the history of the North-East. Broad Gauge Passenger Trains will now connect the states of Manipur and Mizoram. Today, Kamakhya in Guwahati has been directly connected with Vaishno Devi in ​​Katra, near Jammu.\nWe are opening up both Road and Rail routes to our neighboring countries. This will give a boost\nThe Union Government has incorporated a special Corporation named 'National Highways and Infrastructure Development Corporation' in July 2014, for the development of the Highways in the North Eastern Region. This Corporation is constructing three new bridges on Brahmaputra River. It is implementing 34 road projects in the North Eastern Region to build around 1,000 kilometers of roads at a total cost of Ten Thousand Crore Rupees. The North East Road Sector Development Scheme has started, with an aim to connect every district in the region with a National Highway.\nThe development of inland waterways has given a boost. The Union Government has declared 19 Waterways in the North East as National Waterways\nWe are committed to provide 24 by 7 electricity to all people Keeping this in mind, the Union Government is making heavy investment in the power sector Two projects covering all the eight North Eastern States are being implemented at a cost of around Ten Thousand Crore Rupees for improving power transmission.\nThe commissioning of the Bishwanath-Chariyali to Agra transmission network has made 500 megawatts of power in the region from outside. Out of the 18,000 unelectrified villages in the country, we have already connected more than 7000 villages with electricity I expect that no village in the country, including the North Eastern States, would be left without electricity by 2018.\nThe Government is implementing a comprehensive telecom plan for the North Eastern Region at a cost of over 5,300 crore rupees. Agartala has become the third city in India to be connected with International Gateway through Cox Bazar of Bangladesh. This has improved telecom connectivity and will give a boost to the economy.\nDuring my last visit to Gangtok a few months ago, Sikkim was declared as the first Organic State in the country. Other North Eastern States can take a lead from Sikkim to become Organic States. In fact, the North Eastern Region has the potential to become Organic Food Basket of India. This will increase the income of the farmers\nFriends\nToday One need not go through the tedious scrutiny of a banker to get small loans. The Union Government has launched the Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana, under which collateral free loans are provided to small business entrepreneurs. During 2015-16, more than three crore forty eight lakh entrepreneurs have been sanctioned loans worth more than one lakh thirty seven thousand crore rupees. Of these, six lakh loans have been sanctioned in the North East States for a value of around 2800 Crore Rupees.\nSimilarly, 93 lakh bank accounts have been opened in the region under the Prime Minister Jan Dhan Yojana. Around 21 lakh people have been enrolled under the Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana. Around 19 lakh people have been enrolled under the Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana.\nThe Textile Sector provides employment to most people after agriculture Within the sector, it is the apparel segment that provides maximum employment. A large number of women are employed in the segment.\nIn order to boost industrial activity and employment under the North East Region Textile Promotion Scheme, one apparel and garment making center is being set up in each of the eight states at a cost of Rupees One Hundred and Forty Five Crores. Out of the eight centers, seven centers have already been completed, each having three units.\nFriends\nMeghalaya has a distinct historical, cultural and ethnic heritage. It is blessed with natural beauty and wildlife. There is no reason for a tourist to not visit to Meghalaya There is a tremendous opportunity for tourism, as well as adventure tourism, in the North Eastern Region, specially, Meghalaya.\nWe need to develop Tourist Circuits by providing better facilities to tourists, in terms of improved road connectivity, hotels, and cleanliness. The Union Government has launched a new scheme of Swadesh Darshan, under which it is developing Tourist Circuits in the country. One such circuit is proposed for the North East\nLess than two years ago, on 2nd October, 2014, The Union Government started its journey to create Swachh Bharat by October 2019, as a tribute to Mahatma Gandhi, 'The Father of the Nation'. In exactly one year, from 15th August, 2014 to 15th August, 2015, under the Swachh Bharat - Swachh Vidyalay Program, we have constructed four lakh seventeen thousand toilets in over two lakh schools.\nThe Swachh Bharat Mission is a public movement for cleanliness. The biggest beneficiary of the poor I request you to actively participate in the movement and ensure a open defecation free society and clean environment.\nI am happy to note that the traditions of hygiene and cleanliness in the region got a boost with the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan. Mawlyynong village in Meghalaya, the cleanest village, and the whole state of Sikkim, including Gangtok, have become major tourist attractions.\nI would like to congratulate all the winners of the run with the theme 'North East leads the way - Swachh Bharat Abhiyan'. I congratulate the North Eastern Council for organizing the run. Gangtok deserves applause for being the cleanest city of the North East.\nCongratulations to the people of Meghalaya for hosting the North Eastern Council Plenary Meeting in Shillong. I also express my gratitude to you for a wonderful interaction.\nJai hind"