"Share\n\nGovernment has been focussing on the development of the North East region through its pro-active \"Act East Policy\": PM\nGovt focussing on improving all round connectivity of North-East with rest of India via road, rail, telecom, power and waterways: PM\nI see no reason why the North East region can not develop: PM Modi\nIndia can move forward if all regions develop including the North East region: PM Modi\nThe North East is the gateway to South East Asia and we need to take advantage of this: PM Modi\nThere are a number of strengths of the North East which we need to harness for healthy growth of the region: PM Modi\nNorth East can become the organic food basket for this country: PM Modi\nI am very happy to be here I also take this opportunity to welcome you I hope the deliberations that have already taken place since yesterday and further deliberations that we have today.\nI am also happy to note that the North Eastern Council has supported the development of the North East region. It has been instrumental in establishing a number of institutions and taking up projects in the region.\nThe North Eastern Council was set up in 1972. Since then it has been contributed to the development of the North East region. To meet the growing aspirations of the people, it is important that the North Eastern Council introspects and assesses the extent to which it has achieved its objectives. Perhaps, there is a need to re-orient and upgrade the North Eastern Council. You may like to consider developing the North Eastern Council as a state-of-the-art resource center for the North Eastern States with the necessary resources, knowledge and skills. The resource center may enable the states and the implementing agencies to properly plan and execute projects, promote research and innovations and strategic policy vision for the region.\nThe North Eastern Council may look into a specialised domain expertise either by itself or through an agency model to assist states and central ministries in their development planning as well as problem solving issues. This will enable the imbibing of good governance and best practices in the region. The North Eastern Council should also focus on issues in emerging areas of livelihood, entrepreneurship, venture funds, start-ups and skill development. All this will help in generating jobs\nThe government has been focussing on the development of the North East region through its pro-active \"Act East Policy\". As part of this policy, we are focussing on reducing the isolation of the region by improving all round connectivity through road, rail, telecom, power and waterways sectors.\nIf the region of the country can develop, I see no reason why the north east region of the country can not develop. I am also convinced that India can move forward if all regions develop including the North East region. The North East region is also very important And it is my conviction that we have the region at par\nIn the current Budget, more than Rs.30,000 crores have been earmarked for the North East region. It should be our endeavor to ensure that the region is well developed.\nWe believe in cooperative and competitive federalism States that are strong and need to grow And States that are not so strong It is in this regard that the report of the Chief Minister, we have decided to continue to provide assistance in the ratio of 90:10 for core Central schemes and 80:20 for non-core schemes to the North Eastern States .\nIn the recent past, we have established two important projects in Assam - Brahmaputra Cracker and Polymer Limited and Numaligarh Refinery Limited's wax unit. These are big projects that will create huge employment opportunities in the North East region. However, it has taken many years to complete these projects. We have to ensure that we are able to complete our projects in time and without cost over-runs. Only then we can rely on real benefits of these projects.\nThe North East is the gateway to South East Asia and we need to take advantage of this. We are opening up both roads and rail routes to our neighboring countries. This should give a boost\nWe have created a specialised highways construction agency for the North East - the \"National Highways and Infrastructure Development Corporation\" - that was incorporated on 18th July 2014. Since then it has set up its Branch Offices, each North Eastern State in each one. As of today, it is implementing 34 projects in the North Eastern States covering a length of 1001 kilometres at a total cost of over Rs. 10,000 crore\nIn the road sector, we need to keep in mind this area. Most of the North East areas get a lot of rain and are also prone to natural calamities and land-slides. The area of ​​roads in this area\nWe have recently implemented an improved internet connectivity project for the North East region in collaboration with Bangladesh. This will make available 10 GB of seamless alternate bandwidth for the region This integration will benefit the North East region tremendously\nThe government is also making a heavy investment in power transmission projects covering all eight North Eastern states at a cost of around Rs 10,000 crore. This will ensure power to more areas The recent commissioning of Bishwanath-Chariyali-Agra transmission line has also brought 500 MegaWatt additional capacity to the region.\nThe railways have undertaken a major expansion in the region at a cost of around Rs 10,000 crore. In November 2014, Arunachal Pradesh and Meghalaya were placed on the rail map. Agartala in Tripura has also been connected with broad gauge line. We are on the way to ensure that all the North East states come on the rail map soon.\nIn the North East, the Indian Railways has commissioned about 900 kilometer of Broad Gauge in the last two years, leaving only about 50 kilometres meter gauge lines to 2016-17. In addition, a 132 kilometre part of third alternative connectivity route to North East (that is New Maynaguri - Jogighopa) has also been commissioned.\nThere are a number of strengths of the North East which we need to harness. All the states of the North East region are blessed with natural scenic beauty, distinct historical cultural and ethnic heritage. All the offers are for tourism in the region There is also a great scope for mountaineering, trekking and adventure tourism in the region. If developed and promoted well, this can be the biggest employer in the region. It can also add to the growth and income of the region.\nI understand that the Ministry of Tourism has I hope that the North Eastern States will make the best use of the scheme to develop tourist circuits and attract tourists from all over the world. The region can also see some of the popular destinations of the neighboring countries with their tourism circuits. This is an added attraction for tourists.\nThe majority of young people With improved connectivity and language skills, you can look at the BPO industry in the region.\nThe Government has approved North East BPO promotion scheme in the Digital India program. The North East States must avail facilities and get these BPOs operational in their respective states. This will promote growth and provide jobs.\nThe North East is home to exotic fruits, flowers, vegetables, aromatic plants, and herbs. Most of them are organic in origin If we focus on our farming strategy, it will help the region\nA few months ago, I was in Sikkim and participated in a function in Sikkim as the first organic state in the country. Other states can take a lead from Sikkim and the North East Council can also play an important role in the field of organic farming in the region. The North East Organic products are going to be widely used widely and if the North East Council can assist the states in the region, it will be immensely the people of the income and the region.\nThere is a large rural population in the North East region. If we talk of Assam alone, 86% of the population lives in rural areas. We have initiated the Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Mission to bring in economic, social and basic development of the rural areas in a cluster model. It should be the endeavor of the region's regions.\nIn the end, I would like to express my gratitude to the Chairman and all the members of the North Eastern Council for successfully conducting the plenary meeting in Shillong.\nMy special thanks to the Governor and the Chief Minister of Meghalaya for hosting this meeting. I am sure that the deliberations in this meeting will be given to the development. Thank you."