"Share\n\nWith Sarbananda Sonowal, Has Has A Chief Minister from the Tribal Community: PM\nCenter work on the principle of cooperative federalism We want to give states maximum power\nDemocracy is about Bhāgidari: PM Modi\nCenter and the States should walk to the shoulder for development: PM\nWe are focused on comprehensive and all-round development of India: PM Modi\nIndia will progress when Eastern part of the country develops: PM Modi\nMy beloved brothers and sisters of Assam, who were present on this important occasion,\nFirst of all, I want to bow down to the Assamese who dreamed of development and gave opportunity to serve Mr. Sarwanand and his colleagues for the development.\nI know Sarwananda ji very well Adivasi society across the country can be proud of Sarwananda ji. It was born in tribal society and such a belligerent leader dedicated to society, is going to lead Assam now. As a companion of the Council of Ministers in the center, I have seen many of the many qualities I have seen closely. Madurata, perhaps the second name of his body language. Simplicity, simplicity, softness are easily accessible to them and I believe that Sarvanandji, who always remains buoyant, will not leave any stone unturned for the blessings of Assam. With complete hard work and perseverance, make every effort to change the fate of Assam. I believe that their entire team will also use the full time of the time for the welfare of the Asomites.\nI assure you people today that the government, sitting in Delhi, who rely on cooperative federalism, rely on competitive cooperative federalism, giving maximum power to those who want to progress for us; Those states who are experiencing difficulties to progress, try to take them forward and take them forward and all the states and the central government, shoulder and shoulder states and Hindustan should be taken to new heights, an ongoing effort is going on. is. Assam will never be allowed to feel any shortage. As much as Assam will run, the government will run as much as the Assam government, the Delhi Government will always try to run one step more than that.\nI will also urge the people of Assam to fulfill your dream that you only get support in the election, not enough enough. It is necessary that democracy goes with participation, the government and the public should move ahead with the shoulder and then get amazing results. The people of Assam will do their best to change the fate of Assam by joining the shoulder side.\nYou've heard me sometimes from the Red Fort. You have also heard me at the door of Parliament. I believe in the idea that once the country is free, whether it is the center, the state, whatever governments come, every government has tried to do something good in its own way and so whatever is good , To increase that goodness further and to overcome the shortcomings which have been left behind, moving ahead with speed, it is time demanding.\nI believe that there is a great heritage of Assam under the leadership of Sarwananda ji. It is the center of cultural consciousness. India has the power to give inspiration in many subjects on this earth. It is my belief that the use of that land will be to give Assam new heights and to give new power to the country. I have always believed that India's development is all-inclusive, India's growth is balanced, India's development is universal, and for this the eastern end of India, if it is deprived of development then it is not our Bharat Mata Prosper Might be possible. If this is the western end of India, then the eastern end of India should move forward at the same speed and Assam, Bengal, Bihar, Eastern Uttar Pradesh, Odisha, North East, all these regions, Hindustan should come forward in a decade Can give economic power, give speed to new energy.\nOur Act of East Policy, this land of India is of great importance in making India's influence and identity in the former countries. This our Ashtakalakshmi region was once called the seven sister region. The development of this whole North-East is not only to Hindustan, but also to our eastern countries, it has the power to create influence and therefore Assam is a very big focal point for the development of the entire North-East. Guwahati is a very big focal point. I assure you that the center and the state will work together to push it forward. I congratulate Mr. Sharman ji for his whole team, the people of Assam, very much from the heart."