"Share\n\nManipur is fast moving forward on the path of development on every scale: PM Modi\nWhenever there is a discussion about electrifying India's villages, the name of Leisang village in Manipur would also come: PM Modi\nNorth East, which Netaji described as the gateway of India's independence, is now being transformed as the gateway of New India's development story: Prime Minister\nMy dear brothers and sisters,\nIt is a big conjunction that in the beginning of January last year, I had come to you for the Congress, and even today I am coming here today by inaugurating the Sense Congress in Punjab. It is always a very pleasant experience to come among all of you. This is the part of the country where diversity and unity in every corner, you feel in every sphere. Here also women gave the direction of the freedom movement and gave direction. Today I bow to bowing down to every fighter of Manipur, Manipur's men who wish to revive their lives in the independence movement.\nCompanions, the first interim government of undivided India, formed here in Moirang, it was formed. Our colleagues from the northeast then gave a lot of support to the Azad Hind Fauj. One proverb was very popular at that time, non pok thong hungani means i.e. the path of freedom will open from the east gate. Azad Hind Fauj opened this door once, then the enemy could never stop it.\nThe colleagues, who have made Manipura, the north-east, the gateway to India's independence from India, are now busy creating the war of New India. From where the country had seen the light of freedom, the strong picture of the new India is visible in everyone's eyes.\nWith the same thinking, just a few moments ago, about a dozen projects worth more than Rs. 15 crores have been opened and laid out and I highly congratulate all the brothers and sisters of Manipur for this. These projects are going to make your life easier. This will strengthen your children's education, earning youth, medicines to the elderly and irrigation facilities to the farmers.\nCompanions, all of you have been witnessing that what the previous governments had done in the past decades with Manipur and North-East. His attitude gave Delhi away from you more. For the first time at the time of Atal ji's government, this important area of ​​the country was taken to the path of development. Today, the central government is firmly pursuing their same initiative. We have brought Delhi to your door. Now as before, the ministers and officers of the center do not go back to Delhi on the same day after cutting lace. Now they stop here. Staying in you, listen to you, listen to your suggestions, understand your difficulties.\nI have come to North-East almost 30 times in the last four and a half years. I meet you, I speak, I get a different happiness, I get experience. I do not have to report the report by the officer. You meet people directly The difference is in the previous government and in the government today Due to such constant efforts, we have changed the separation into attachment.\nToday, due to these efforts, the whole East-East is going through a major phase of change. Projects stuck for 30-30 years, 40-40 years have been completed. Trying to make your life easier. If I give an example from Manipur, then the name of the village here has made important teaching in the development journey of India. He has got an important identity.\nAmong the 18 thousand villages of the country which got rid of darkness in record time, the last village of Kongpoki is Leishang of this district. Whenever it comes to campaigning for electricity from every village of India, the name of Leishang and Manipur will also be taken.\nbrothers and sisters,\nToday, Manipur has got the gift of an Integrated Check Post made at cost of more than Rs. 100 crores. This is not just a check post, there is also a center for dozens of features. Located on India's Myanmar border, these checkposts will provide passenger and business facilities. Along with this, services like customer clearance, foreign currency exchange, immigration clearance, ATM, rest room will also be found here. Here the memorial of the national flag is being made as a symbol of respect for the country and the first free land.\nCompanions, the projects that have been made here today, have been the commitment of our government to the development; they also highlight the ways and means of the previous governments in front of you.\nbrothers and sisters,\nThe file of Dualiethabi Barrage lasted in 1987. Remember, these things run in 1987, the construction work started in 1992 at a cost of 19 crores. After that the matter got stuck. In 2004, it was made part of the Special Economic Package, but again hanged for ten years.\nWhen we came in 2014, about hundred such projects across the country were reviewed. Then the work started on this project and after the expenditure of Rs. 500 crores, this project of 19 crores is now ready to be ready. If that happens then it would have been in 19-20 million but the criminal negligence is the result of that the project of 19-20 crores has reached 500 crores. This money belongs to the citizen of India, this money belongs to you. They have allowed to be ruined.\nCompanions, if this project is completed first, the thousands of farmers here do not crave for drop-water. Similarly, the Thangal Surang Eco-Tourism Complex, which employs the youth here, was also started in 2011. Our state government gave its work and it is ready for your service today. Takul's Integrated Tourist Destination Project was more or less the same. Work started on this in 2009, our government accelerated the work on this, and today the dedicated extension of Manipur's tourism is dedicated to you.\nCompanions, farmers or young people, every class has suffered heavy losses from the previous government's stunts, shocks, hanging culture. Our government is making sincere efforts to change the old habits of slowness and negligence in the system. You must have wondered what did Modi do that, there has been so much speed in the schemes here, you must think ... You people are seeing fast work. But I want to tell you even more people today that after all what is the story behind it? How is this happening? How did it happen before now? People are the same, the officer is the same, the same office, the file itself, the people also need to be bhai? What are we looking for?\nCompanions, after becoming the Prime Minister in 2014, a big challenge came to me. These projects have to be completed incomplete, delayed, strayed for decades. The previous government's approach, the reason for which slow work was done. They had this stone somewhere to win the elections ..., lose some lace, win the elections ..., give a press note somewhere, win the election ... this game is going on.\nYou would be surprised to hear ... It was ... that the hundred crore project would have been completed by spending 200, 250 crores. After all, this wastage of money, how could I tolerate this wastage of resources. I could not see, I used to have trouble, the country's pie was ruined, it made me bacchan. I was also observing that if the project was completed on time, if this work had happened then how much benefit would there be to the people there and so I had a system developed in the Prime Minister's Office, a system developed, and a lot of technology in it Used and I named it progress.\nIn the meeting of progress, I join the video conference with officials of the Central Government, State Government officials. I answer questions on one project alone. Trying to understand where it is a problem, then we all sit together and try to remove those difficulties in front of the video camera. I also encourage the officers, I also explain them, I assure them that they will be fully cooperative.\nCo-workers, such frequent meetings take place, in dozens of meetings so far we have discussed projects worth Rs 12 lakh crore and these schemes worth Rs 12 lakh crore were lying in the potholes, the files were buried, the stones were also lost They were gone, and now they are working towards implementing them and starting them. Because of this, hundreds of projects in the country which were held for decades have accelerated. This is a new work culture which we have tried to develop in the government. Run the campaign to eliminate silos. Every department, every officer should work together and work together, center and state work together; Understand the state's troubles centers; Understanding the need of the Center is such a great kind of culture that we have developed.\nCompanions, by working hard, working hard to prove the resolution we take, keep on proving it. We realize that the delay in planning leads to the future generation of the country. They have dreams, they have them. He does whatever he wants to undergo. Those poor people who are living in trouble have to endure more troubles. Damage to normal human beings I want to give you some examples.\nThe FCI godown of Sawombung, important for food security of Manipur, was released today. Work started on this in December 2016 and we have completed this work and have started the recital today. On completion of time, we were left out of excessive expenditure and even 10 thousand metric ton additional arrangements have been made for Manipur's requirement to store grains. Many projects are underway to double the storage capacity in Manipur. They are also going to be completed soon.\nSimilarly, work on Buffer Water Reservoir started in November 2015 in view of the needs of thousands of families of Ukhrul and its surroundings. It has been ready and today it was also inaugurated. These projects are about to meet the needs of 2035.\nChurachandpur, Zone-3 project also started work in 2014 and four years later it was also inaugurated. By this, the water needs of around one lakh population will be fulfilled till 2030-31. This plan to quench the thirst of thousands of families of children in and around the school in Lambu, started work in 2015 and three years later it was also inaugurated.\nBrothers and sisters, this small glimpse of the difference in the rituals of the government has been presented to me in a hallmark. There are many projects in North-East that our government is completing before the deadline. Our government is working with full potential to replace the old arrangements. In the next few days, work will be started from Khabam Lemkhai, road project between Hananchang Henggang, Infixius Disease Center in Imphal, new Community Health Center and Mini Sports Complex.\nBe it the government of the central government or the government of Biren Singh ji in Manipur, our vision is with everyone ... It is being emphasized that all development, development, development, no people, no field is left. Under the program like Go to hills or Go to Village, the state government is reaching far-flung areas. Attempts to make shareholders part of government schemes are commendable. This is the reason that Manipur is now in the process of closing and blocking out of the rounds to meet the expectations and expectations. This country is witness to it, it shows.\nCompanions need peace and order for better law, connectivity is equally important, and therefore we are working on this vision by Transformation by Transportation. In the last four and a half years, about two and a half thousand kilometers of national highways have been added in the whole of North East. More than 3 hundred kilometers of national highways have been added in Manipur since 2014.\nTogether with the state government, about two thousand crore rupees are being constructed. On the other hand, work is being done to connect the capitals of all the states of North-East with the railway. Work on 15 new rail lines is being done for about 50 thousand crore rupees. There is also a new railway line between Jiribam and Tupul-Imphal in Manipur. Illustrating the engineering skills of the country, the Jiribam-Imphal Rail Bridge is also going to be a huge base for the development of the North-East East.\nAlong with associates, highways and railways the air connectivity is being improved here. Imphal is being connected to helicopter service from remote areas like Jiribam, Tamanglong and Moreh. Under the Flying Plan, five helipads are being constructed which will be connected to Imphal Airport. Imphal International Airport is being expanded and air cargo terminal will also be started in the coming days. IIFEs are being constructed along with highways, railways, airwaves in Manipur, Information will soon be connected to all Panchayats and districts of Manipur with digital broadband i-way, which will benefit the benefits of social schemes directly to the people. Crillions of rupees are being spent for this too.\nbrothers and sisters,\nAlong with connectivity, the electricity system here is also being strengthened. Today, the 400 KV Silchar Imphal line has also been dedicated to the nation. This line made with a cost of more than Rs. 100 crores will remove the problem of power cut.\nCompanions, Manipur on every scale is going on the path of development today. In the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, Manipur has also freed itself from the open defecation. Chandel district, which has more than one hundred aspirational districts in the country, has seen very much improvement in all the parameters.\nभाइयों और बहनों, मणिपुर के युवा साथियों को हायर एजुकेशन और प्रोफेशनल एजुकेशन के लिए देश के दूसरे हिस्‍सों में न जाना पड़े इसके लिए भी अनेक योजनाओं पर काम चल रहा है। आज शिक्षा, स्किल और स्‍पोर्ट से जुड़े प्रोजेक्‍ट का शिलान्‍यास किया गया है। धनमंजूरी विश्वविद्यालय में इंफ्रास्ट्रक्चर से जुड़े प्रोजेक्‍टस हों, राष्‍ट्र के इंजीनियरिंग कॉलेज से जुड़े प्रोजेक्‍टस हों, ये सभी युवा साथियों को सुविधा देने वाले हैं।\nसाथियों, महिला सशक्‍तिकरण में भी मणिपुर आगे रहा है। मणिपुर की बहनों के आर्थिक सामर्थ्‍य को और मजबूत करने के लिए जल्‍द ही हमारी सरकार तीन नए ऐमा मार्किट का भी कार्य शुरू करेगी। इसके अलावा सरकार द्वारा करीब पांच लाख बहनों के जनधन खाते बैंकों में खुलवाए गए हैं। मुद्रा योजना के तहत जो सवा लाख लोन यहां के युवाओं को मिले हैं, उनमें से आधी संख्‍या महिलाओं उद्मियों की है। वहीं यहां के करीब एक लाख बहनों को उज्‍ज्‍वला योजना के माध्‍यम से मुफ्त एलपीजी गैस कनेक्‍शन भी दिया गया है।  \nसाथियों, यूथ आइकन और देश में महिला शक्ति की एक बड़ी मिसाल मेरी कॉम की जन्‍मभूमि और कर्मभूमि स्‍पोर्ट की संभावनाओं से भरी हुई है। नार्थ-ईस्‍ट का भारत को स्‍पोर्टिंग सुपर पावर बनाने में बहुत बड़ा रोल रहने वाला है। बीते 3-4 वर्षों में जितने भी इंटरनेशनल टूर्नामेंट हुए हैं, उसमें देश ने नॉर्थ ईस्ट के खिलाडि़यों के दम पर उत्‍साहजनक प्रदर्शन किया है। अब नॉर्थ ईस्ट के सामर्थ्‍य को मणिपुर का राष्‍ट्रीय खेल विश्‍वविद्यालय विस्‍तार दे रहा है। आज भी जिन योजनाओं का शिलान्‍यास हुआ है उनमें हॉकी स्‍टेडियम में फ्लड लाइट और फूटबॉल स्‍टेडियम में एस्ट्रोटर्फ लगाने की योजना है।\nहमारा प्रयास है कि देश के छोटे से छोटे इलाके में र्स्‍पोट्स की बेहतरीन सुविधाएं दी जाएं। इसके साथ ही हम ट्रेनिंग और चयन में पारदर्शी व्‍यवस्‍था का भी निर्माण कर रहे हैं। इसी का परिणाम कॉमनवेल्‍थ गेमस में, एशियाई खेलों में, पैरा एशियाई खेलों में, यूथ ऑलंपिक में और दूसरी वर्ल्‍ड चैंपियनशिप में हम देख रहे हैं, देश गौरव कर रहा है।    \nभाइयों और बहनों, करप्‍शन चाहे र्स्‍पोट्स में हो या फिर सरकार की दूसरी योजनाओं में देश इन्‍हें कभी बरदाश नहीं कर सकता। यही कारण है कि हमारी सरकार उन लोगों को भी कानून के कठघरे तक ले आई है जिनके बारे में पहले कोई सोच भी नहीं सकता था। आप भी देख रहे हैं जिन्‍होंने देश से धोखा किया है, जिन्‍होंने भ्रष्‍टाचार को ही शिष्‍टाचार बना दिया था ऐसे लोगों को आज अदालत का सामना कर पड़ रहा है। देश के ईमानदार करदाताओं के पैसे से अपनों का भला करने वालों को उनकी सही जगह पर पहुंचाकर ही हम दम लेंगे, आपको ये विश्‍वास दिलाने मैं यहां आया हूं।\nविकास से युक्‍त, भ्रष्‍टाचार मुक्‍त नए भारत के संकल्‍प के लिए आपका आशीर्वाद हमेशा हमें मिलता रहे, मिलता रहा है, मिलता रहेगा। एक बार फिर मैं आप सबको आज की परियोजनाओं के शिलान्‍यास और लोकार्पण की बधाई देता हूं । “पुम ना माकपु अमुक्का हन्ना खुरुमजारी”\nभारत माता की जय...., भारत माता की जय...., भारत माता की जय....                                             \nThanks a lot."