"\nAt Simhastha Kumbh convention, we are seeing a new effort: PM\nWe are a tradition where even a Bhikshuk says, may well happen to everyone\nWe should say the whole world about the organisation of an event like the Kumbh: PM\nLets hold Vichar Kumbh every year with devotees ... discuss why we need to plant trees, educate girl child: PM\nWe have been a defect of people, as a society that we always understand ourselves beyond the circumstances. We have grown up in the principles that the body comes and then goes. We are people associated with the immortality of the soul, and because of this, our soul's thinking does not allow us to be confined to time, nor allow us to become a slave of the times, but due to this a situation arises that our great tradition, these thousands of years Old culture, many aspects of it, that tradition began in which social context, what time of birth was born in the womb, which of the thoughts churned out in churning, it is almost indistinguishable and because of its How will began the tradition of Kumbh Mela not different variety in its theme prevalent period is too big, huge gaps.\nSomeone will say thousand years ago, someone will say 2 thousand years ago but it is certain that this tradition is one of the old arrangements of the cultural journey of human life. When I think in my own way, I think that the Kumbh Mela happens once in 12 years and it is Nasik, Ujjain, Haridwar is there once in 3 years at Prayagraj only once in 12 years . If we look at that period, I think that in a way this effort to reconcile this vast India was done through this Kumbh Mela. I can say with logic and conjecture that society Vedanta, Saint-Mahant, Rishi, Muni who used to discuss and worry about the happiness and misery of the society at every moment. Innovations used to innovate new fate for the fate of society and for the future. Wherever they were our sages, they used to do research in the outer world and also try to find the inner journey, then the process continued to run, continued for centuries, every generation continued for generations, but the work of rites of transmigration The work of compiling the contemporary ideas to weigh on the scales. All these things were contained in the tradition of this age, it was contained.\nOnce, at the Kumbh fair of Prayagraj, a final decision was taken by everyone that the society went here and here in the last 12 years, reached here. Now what will be the direction for society for the next 12 years, what will be the style of society, what things will be the priority and when people used to go from Kumbh, people used to reach their own agenda and after every three years Sometimes in Nashik, sometimes in Ujjain, at the time of Kumbh Mela in Haridwar, it was a mid-term appraisal that the decisions we had taken in Bhai Prayagraj, what happened in three years and of Hindustan People used to come from the corner.\nStaying in one place for 30 days, the activities of society, the needs of society, the era changing age, contemplating meditation and then once again the causal agenda of 3 years was fixed. In the light of main Mahakumbh used in Prayagraj and then after 3 years, the second was when the Aquarius was to be reviewed again. It was a wonderful social work but gradually the experience comes that the tradition remains, life is lost. Our experience also came that the tradition remained but there is a lack of time, who will be 30 days, who will be 45 days. Come, brother, take a dip 15 minutes, sin will be lost, earn virtue and go away.\nIn such a situation, a new attempt has begun with the blessings of the saints in this Kumbh of Ujjain, and this new effort is, in a way, a modern edition of that age-old system and in which present understanding, in the context of mankind, in the context of mankind What are the challenges, what can be the path of human welfare? In the changing age, how dare to abandon external things, the burden of old things gets exhausted. These old times, except for external things, a new belief, how to move forward with a new freshness, a small effort of this has happened inside the Mahakumbh.\nThe 51 points, the nectar point, have resulted in this because it is not a one-day festival. As told by Shivraj ji. The people of this country and the people of this world have churned for two years, have discussed all this year and have contemplated this in the context of great saints who have played the rishis, Munis and saints tradition from the last three days on this holy occasion. And 51 of these nectar points have been presented for the society. I do not believe that it is a matter of ours for politicians to embrace this matter. We do not believe in it, but we certainly believe that people who work for selflessness for society, whether they are garlands or not, but live on the basis of renunciation and asceticism. Whether a scientist is spent in his laboratory, even if a farmer is exposed to his farm, even if a laborer is sweating his sweat, even if a sage guides the society, all these powers can move in one direction, so much It can bring big change and in that direction it is 51 nectar point which in the days to come, how can India think of the masses and the global masses, and on the political platform, how can the people Cars are expensive division can be realistically will discuss that in the coming days, so I think that this effort would be worthwhile.\nWe are those people, where our smallest thing is like understanding. We are the people who came out of this rituals Sarita. Where a monk goes to ask for alms, even then his mihil emerges from his mouth 'whatever good he will not give, even if he does not give it.' This is not a small issue. This is the result of a ritual tradition that even a monk mouth comes out of the word 'It will be good for the one who does not even do good to him.' That is, the basic thought element is that everyone is well-being and well-being. It is filled with our veins in every way. The guarantees are people who have been taught. TEN TATEN It will be enjoyable only if you enjoy it. It is filled with our veins. What is in our veins, is not it untouched by our life's behavior? We are not giving such a great tradition anywhere we lose. But sometimes the world should be added to it that the experience is not even today that these powers have existed in our country.\nAt any time, Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri of this country had called upon the country to leave the evening meal one day a week. The country needs food. And the crores of people in this country had shown Tenaiktan Bhujitha by doing it in his life. And some generations people are still alive. Which Lal Bahadur Shastri had said. Do not eat a day in the week. Such people are still today Tane Tekteen Bhujinatha's mantra is in our veins. In the same days in the last few days, I had put a topic in front of the people of the country in the last March. It was kept like this. I did not even think that the mind of the common people of my country was full of such heights. Sometimes it seems that we fall short of reaching those elevations. I had said so much. If you are successful, you are capable, then why do you need subsidy of LPG? What is kept in thousand rupees five hundred rupees. That's what I said. And today I want to bow down in front of more than 10 million families of my country and say to the world. More than one crore households left their gas subsidy. Ten Tycten Bhujinatha And what is the result of it? The result is also straightforward on the governance system. We thought in our mind that if one crore households are leaving the subsidy of gas cylinders, then it is not entitled to fill the government's vault.\nThis should go back to the poor house again. The mother who burns a wooden stove and takes as much as four hundred cigarettes of smoke in her body in one day. That mother should give a kitchen gas from the stove of a wooden stove and in the same manner resolved that after giving gas cylinder to five crore households in three years, they would have given them freedom from the stove with this smoke.\nHere is an issue of environmental issues. I think not burning wood stove in five crore households will save these forests, it will also reduce carbon and will also bring changes to the health of our mothers in poor mothers. Here's the talk of women's empowerment, the dignity of the woman has happened. This gas stove maintains its dignity. Worries about his health and therefore I say - Tein Tuketan Bhujinita If we believe in this mantra, then. What kind of change can we get if we give it to the common man? They are experiencing this.\nOur country, I do not believe there is such a thing in our scriptures, due to which we will go astray. These are ours that we keep on lifting things and we have left the nature of seeing things completely. We have been told here - Narayan should be done if you want to do it - and it is said by our sages that the Munis have said. Have they ever said that Narayana should be done if you worship men? Have not said. Have they ever said that if a male narrative does, Narayan should be done? did not say. Saints have also said: Narayan should be done if you want to do it and that is why this 51 nectar point is in front of us. One of his messages is that if you want to become Narayan, you can become Narayan. And that's why we should be bound to do so and only then Arjun was also told this to Yoga: Karmasu Kaushal. This is our Yoga, in which the greatness of Karma has been accepted and therefore on the occasion of this sacred task, we can revive the idea flow again once again, whether it is Jyotirgam, These thoughts are not small. And what light is that light which is the light of the light, which is the light of light. And there is a guarantee that there are people who say that knowledge is not east nor does the west. Knowledge does not last, it is tomorrow, knowledge does not come tomorrow. Knowledge is immortal and is beneficial in every era. It has been our tradition and therefore internalizing the digestion, digestion, digestion, which is the best in the world, has been used by us for centuries.\nWe are people of such a society. Where there are diversities and sometimes the outside person is also seen in conflict. But the world is doing so much seminars on conflict management, but not getting the path. We are taught inherent conflict management. Otherwise we could never think of extreme extreme We worship Lord Rama, who had obeyed the command of the father. And we are those people who worship Pehlad as well, who had contempt of father's command. Such a big conflict, a great man who believed in the father's command, was also our revered and another great man who disobeyed the father's command, he too is our great man.\nWe are those people who bow to Mata Sita. Who gave his life according to the wishes of husband and father-in-law. And in the same way, we also worship the mira which disobeyed the husband's command. That is, what kind of conflict management are people we know. This is the reason for our situation and the reason is that we are not people tied with constipation. We are people associated with philosophy. And the philosophy, Darshan Tappi keeps coming out in the form of cutoff ideas and squeezing out of life style. Which gets its expansion in a time-bound manner. A broad form of it comes in time. And that is why we are the people who came out of the traditions of that philosophy which still inspires us to live this life.\nHere's a topic in mind churning - Values, Values ​​change. If in the world today there is a nature of study, then study it. The world's rich-prosperous country, when they go to the field of elections, the political parties of that region, the politicians of that place, mention one thing repeatedly in their election. And they say - we will restore the families values ​​to our country. The whole world, family organization, the value of family life has started to understand its importance very well. We are big in it. That is why there is a small difference in it, then it is not known how big the losses are. But the challenge before us is that values ​​and values ​​do not mean that your beliefs and my beliefs Those who have come up to the test of time, they are values. And so every society has its own values. How are we aware of those values? These days I see. Say for the sake of ignorance, either because of the inferiority complex, when there is a big crisis, a big controversy comes, we run away by saying more and more that it is our tradition. Today the world is not supposed to obey these kinds of things.\nWe have to put our points in front of the world on a scientific basis. And that is why this discussion is needed in the era of Aquarius, which can remove the values ​​of our values, our thoughts.\nWe know that sometimes those who listen to tradition from the mouth. This country was afflicted by the belief that our sages, the monks, the saints should not cross the ocean. Should not go abroad. We used to believe it. And there was a time when crossing the sea was considered bad. That was also a tradition but yesterday changed. If the same saint visits the world today, seven go through the ocean. Traditions do not create any obstruction for them, so why should traditions interfere in other things. ये पुनर्विचार करने की आवश्यकता है और इसलिए परम्पराओं के नाम पर अवैज्ञानिक तरीके से बदले हुए युग को, बदले हुए समाज को मूल्य के स्थान पर जीवित रखते हुए उसको मोड़ना, बदलना दिशा देना ये हम सबका कर्तव्य बनता है, हम सबका दायित्व बनता है। और उस दायित्व को अगर हम निभाते हैं तो मुझे विश्वास है कि हम समस्याओं का समाधान खोज सकते हैं।\nआज विश्व दो संकटों से गुजर रहा है। एक तरफ ग्लोबल वार्मिंग दूसरी तरफ आतंकवाद। क्या उपाय है इसका। आखिर इसके मूल पर कौन सी चीजें पड़ी हैं। holier than thou तेरे रास्ते से मेरा रास्ता ज्यादा सही है। यही तो भाव है जो conflict की ओर हमें घसीटता ले चला जा रहा है। विस्तारवाद यही तो है जो हमें conflict की ओर ले जा रहा है। युग बदल चुका है। विस्तारवाद समस्याओं का समाधान नहीं है। हम हॉरीजॉन्टल की तरह ही जाएं समस्याओं का समाधान नहीं है। हमें वर्टिकल जाने की आवश्यकता है अपने भीतर को ऊपर उठाने की आवश्यकता है, व्यवस्थाओं को आधुनिक करने की आवश्यकता है। नई ऊंचाइयों को पार करने के लिए उन मूल्यों को स्वीकार करने की आवश्यकता होती है और इसलिये समय रहते हुए मूलभूत चिंतन के प्रकाश में, समय के संदर्भ में आवश्यकताओं की उपज के रूप में नई विधाओं को जन्म देना होगा। वेद सब कुछ है लेकिन उसके बाद भी हमी लोग हैं जिन्होंने वेद के प्रकाश में उपनिषदों का निर्माण किया। उपनिषद में बहुत कुछ है। लेकिन समय रहते हमने भी वेद के प्रकाश में उपनिषद, उपनिषद के प्रकाश में समृति और स्रुति को जन्म दिया और समृति और स्रुतियां, जो उस कालखंड को दिशा देती है, उसके आधार पर हम चलें। आज हम में किसी को वेद के नाम भी मालूम नहीं होंगे। लेकिन वेद के प्रकाश में उपनिषद, उपनिषद के प्रकाश में श्रुति और समृति वो आज भी हमें दिशा देती हैं। समय की मांग है कि अगर 21वीं सदी में मानव जाति का कल्याण करना है तो चाहे वेद के प्रकाश में उपनिषद रही हो, उपनिषद के प्रकाश में समृति और श्रुति रही हो, तो समृति और श्रुति के प्रकाश में 21वीं सदी के मानव के कल्याण के लिए किन चीजों की जरूरत है ये 51 अमृत बिन्दु शायद पूर्णतयः न हो कुछ कमियां उसमें भी हो सकती हैं। क्या हम कुम्भ के मेले में ऐसे अमृत बिन्दु निकाल कर के आ सकते हैं।\nमुझे विश्वास है कि हमारा इतना बड़ा समागम। कभी – कभी मुझे लगता है, दुनिया हमे कहती है कि हम बहुत ही unorganised लोग हैं। बड़े ही विचित्र प्रकार का जीवन जीने वाले बाहर वालों के नजर में हमें देखते हैं। लेकिन हमें अपनी बात दुनिया के सामने सही तरीके से रखनी आती नहीं है। और जिनको रखने की जिम्मेवारी है और जिन्होंने इस प्रकार के काम को अपना प्रोफेशन स्वीकार किया है। वे भी समाज का जैसा स्वभाव बना है शॉर्टकट पर चले जाते हैं। हमने देखा है कुम्भ मेला यानी एक ही पहचान बना दी गई है नागा साधु। उनकी फोटो निकालना, उनका प्रचार करना, उनका प्रदर्शन के लिए जाना इसीके आसपास उसको सीमित कर दिया गया है। क्या दुनिया को हम गर्व के साथ कह सकते हैं कि हमारे देश के लोगों की कितनी बड़ी organizing capacity है। क्या ये कुम्भ मेले का कोई सर्कुलर निकला था क्या। निमंत्रण कार्ड गया था क्या।\nहिन्दुस्तान के हर कोने में दुनिया में रहते हुए भारतीय मूल के लोगों को कोई इनविटेशन कार्ड गया था क्या। कोई फाइवस्टार होटलों का बुकिंग था क्या। एक सिपरा मां नदी के किनारे पर उसकी गोद में हर दिन यूरोप के किसी छोटे देश की जनसंख्या जितने लोग आते हों, 30 दिन तक आते हों। जब प्रयागराज में कुंभ का मेला हो तब गंगा मैया के किनारे पर यूरोप का एकाध देश daily इकट्ठा होता हो, रोज नए लोग आते हों और कोई भी संकट न आता हो, ये management की दुनिया की सबसे बड़ी घटना है लेकिन हम भारत का branding करने के लिए इस ताकत का परिचय नहीं करवा रहे हैं।\nमैं कभी-कभी कहता हूं हमारे हिंदुस्तान का चुनाव दुनिया के लिए अजूबा है कि इतना बड़ा देश दुनिया के कई देशों से ज्यादा वोटर और हमारा Election Commission आधुनिक Technology का उपयोग करते हुए सुचारु रूप से पूरा चुनाव प्रबंधन करता है। विश्व के लिए, प्रबंधन के लिए ये सबसे बड़ा case study है, सबसे बड़ा case study है। मैं तो दुनिया की बड़ी-बड़ी Universities को कहता हूं कि हमारे इस कुंभ मेले की management को भी एक case study के रूप में दुनिया की Universities को study करना चाहिए।\nहमने अपने वैश्विक रूप में अपने आप को प्रस्तुत करने के लिए दुनिया को जो भाषा समझती है, उस भाषा में रखने की आदत भी समय की मांग है, हम अपनी ही बात को अपने ही तरीके से कहते रहेंगे तो दुनिया के गले नहीं उतरेगी। विश्व जिस बात को जिस भाषा में समझता है, जिस तर्क से समझता है, जिस आधारों के आधार पर समझ पाता है, वो समझाने का प्रयास इस चिंतन-मनन के द्वारा तय करना पड़ेगा। ये जब हम करते हैं तो मुझे विश्वास है, इस महान देश की ये सदियों पुरानी विरासत वो सामाजिक चेतना का कारण बन सकती है, युवा पीढ़ी के आकर्षण का कारण बन सकती है और मैं जो 51 बिंदु हैं उसके बाहर एक बात मैं सभी अखाड़े के अधिष्ठाओं को, सभी परंपराओं से संत-महात्माओं को मैं आज एक निवेदन करना चाहता हूं, प्रार्थना करना चाहता हूं। क्या यहां से जाने के बाद हम सभी अपनी परंपराओं के अंदर एक सप्ताह का विचार कुंभ हर वर्ष अपने भक्तों के बीच कर सकते हैं क्या।\nमोक्ष की बातें करें, जरूर करें लेकिन एक सप्ताह ऐसा हो कि जहां धरती की सच्चाइयों के साथ पेड़ क्यों उगाना चाहिए, नदी को स्वच्छ क्यों रखना चाहिए, बेटी को क्यों पढ़ाना चाहिए, नारी का गौरव क्यों करना चाहिए वैज्ञानिक तरीके से और देश भर के विधिवत जनों बुलाकर के, जिनकी धर्म में आस्था न हो, जो परमात्मा में विश्वास न करता हो, उसको भी बुलाकर के जरा बताओ तो भाई और हमारा जो भक्त समुदाय है। उनके सामने विचार-विमर्श हर परंपरा में साल में एक बार 7 दिन अपने-अपने तरीके से अपने-अपने स्थान पर ज्ञानी-विज्ञानी को बुलाकर के विचार-विमर्श हो तो आप देखिए 3 साल के बाद अगला जब हमारा कुंभ का अवसर आएगा और 12 साल के बाद जो महाकुंभ आता है वो जब आएगा आप देखिए ये हमारी विचार-मंथन की प्रक्रिया इतनी sharpen हुई होगी, दुनिया हमारे विचारों को उठाने के लिए तैयार होगी।\nजब अभी पेरिस में पुरा विश्व climate को लेकर के चिंतित था, भारत ने एक अहम भूमिका निभाई और भारत ने उन मूल्यों को प्रस्तावित करने का प्रयास किया। एक पुस्तक भी प्रसिद्ध हुई कि प्रकृति के प्रति प्रेम का धार्मिक जीवन में क्या-क्या महत्व रहा है और पेरिस के, दुनिया के सामने life style को बदलने पर बल दिया, ये पहली बार हुआ है।\nहम वो लोग हैं जो पौधे में भी परमात्मा देखते हैं, हम वो लोग हैं जो जल में भी जीवन देखते हैं, हम वो लोग हैं जो चांद और सूरज में भी अपने परिवार का भाव देखते हैं, हम वो लोग हैं जिनको... आज शायद अंतरराष्ट्रीय Earth दिवस मनाया जाता होगा, पृथ्वी दिवास मनाया जाता होगा लेकिन देखिए हम तो वो लोग हैं जहां बालक सुबह उठकर के जमीन पर पैर रखता था तो मां कहती थी कि बेटा बिस्तर पर से जमीन पर जब पैर रखते हो तो पहले ये धरती मां को प्रणाम करो, माफी मांगों, कहीं तेरे से इस धरती मां को पीढ़ा न हो हो जाए। आज हम धरती दिवस मनाते हैं, हम तो सदियों से इस परंपरा को निभाते आए हैं।\nहम ही तो लोग हैं जहां मां, बालक को बचपन में कहती है कि देखो ये पूरा ब्रहमांड तुम्हारा परिवार है, ये चाँद जो है न ये चाँद तेरा मामा है। ये सूरज तेरा दादा है। ये प्रकृति को अपना बनाना, ये हमारी विशेषता रही है।\nसहज रूप से हमारे जीवन में प्रकृति का प्रेम, प्रकृति के साथ संघर्ष नहीं, सहजीवन के संस्कार हमें मिले हैं और इसलिए जिन बिंदुओं को लेकर के आज हम चलना चाहते हैं। उन बिंदुओं पर विश्वास रखते हुए और जो काल बाह्य है उसको छोड़ना पड़ेगा। हम काल बाह्य चीजों के बोझ के बीच जी नहीं सकते हैं और बदलाव कोई बड़ा संकट है, ये डर भी मैं नहीं मानता हूं कि हमारी ताकत का परिचय देता है। अरे बदलाव आने दो, बदलाव ही तो जीवन होता है। मरी पड़ी जिंदगी में बदलाव नहीं होता है, जिंदा दिल जीवन में ही तो बदलाव होता है, बदलाव को स्वीकार करना चाहिए। हम सर्वसमावेशक लोग हैं, हम सबको जोड़ने वाले लोग हैं। ये सबको जोड़ने का हमारा सामर्थ्य है, ये कहीं कमजोर तो नहीं हो रहा अगर हम कमजोर हो गए तो हम जोड़ने का दायित्व नहीं निभा पाएंगे और शायद हमारे सिवा कोई जोड़ पाएगा कि नहीं पाएगा ये कहना कठिन है इसलिए हमारा वैश्विक दायित्व बनता है कि जोड़ने के लिए भी हमारे भीतर जो विशिष्ट गुणों की आवश्यकता है उन गुणों को हमें विकसित करना होगा क्योंकि संकट से भरे जन-जीवन को सुलभ बनाना हम लोगों ने दायित्व लिया हुआ है और हमारी इस ऋषियों-मुनियों की परंपरा ज्ञान के भंडार हैं, अनुभव की एक महान परंपरा रही है, उसके आधार पर हम इसको लेकर के चलेंगे तो मुझे पूरा विश्वास है कि जो अपेक्षाएं हैं, वो पूरी होंगी। आज ये समारोह संपन्न हो रहा है।\nमैं शिवराज जी को और उनकी पूरी टीम को हृदय से बहुत-बहुत बधाई देता हूं इतने उत्तम योजना के लिए, बीच में प्रकृति ने कसौटी कर दी। अचानक आंधी आई, तूफान सा बारिश आई, कई भक्त जनों को जीवन अपना खोना पड़ा लेकिन कुछ ही घंटों में व्यवस्थाओं को फिर से ठीक कर दी। मैं उन सभी 40 हजार के करीब मध्य प्रदेश सरकार के छोटे-मोटे साथी सेवारत हैं, मैं विशेष रूप से उनको बधाई देना चाहता हूं कि आपके इस प्रयासों के कारण सिर्फ मेला संपन्न हुआ है, ऐसा नहीं है। आपके इन उत्तम प्रयासों के कारण विश्व में भारत की एक छवि भी बनी है। भारत के सामान्य मानव के मन में हमारा अपने ऊपर एक विश्वास बढ़ता है इस प्रकार के चीजों से और इसलिए जिन 40 हजार के करीब लोगों ने 30 दिन, दिन-रात मेहनत की है उनको भी मैं बधाई देना चाहता हूं, मैं उज्जैनवासियों का भी हृदय से अभिनंदन करना चाहता हूं, उन्होंने पूरे विश्व का यहां स्वागत किया, सम्मान किया, अपने मेहमान की तरह सम्मान किया और इसलिए उज्जैन के मध्य प्रदेश के नागरिक बंधु भी अभिनंदन के बहुत-बहुत अधिकारी हैं, उनको भी हृदय से बहुत-बहुत अभिनंदन करता हूं और अगले कुंभ के मेले तक हम फिर एक बार अपनी विचार यात्रा को आगे बढ़ाएं इसी शुभकामनाओं के साथ आपका बहुत-बहुत धन्यवाद, फिर एक बार सभी संतों को प्रणाम और उनका आशीर्वाद, उनका सामर्थ्य, उनकी व्यवस्थाएं इस चीज को आगे चलाएगी, इसी अपेक्षा के साथ सबको प्रणाम।"