"Share\n\nPM Modi conveys his best wishes to the members of the Rajya Sabha who are retiring\nCountry has benefited from the knowledge and experience shared by retiring memebers of Rajya Sabha: PM\nHope that experience \u0026 knowledge of the retiring members will continue to be beneficial for the nation: PM\nThe Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today joined the members of the Rajya Sabha, in the bidding farewell to the retiring members of the House.\nSpeaking on the occasion, he said the country has benefited from the knowledge and experience shared by members who are retiring today. He said that the State Sabha helped broaden the outlook and the horizons of the members. The experience enriches them, and this wealth is for the nation and the society, he added.\nHe expressed hope that the experience and knowledge of the retiring members will continue to be beneficial for the nation.\nHe said that the members who are retiring today, have been part of many important decisions. He added that it was also better if two more decisions, which had benefited the States, One of them, he said, is the GST Bill, and the other is the Compensatory Afforestation Fund Bill, which enabled a large amount of funds to be disbursed to the states for forestation.\nThe Prime Minister wished the retiring members well, and on behalf of the government, thanked them for their cooperation.\nFollowing is the PM's farewell speech to the retiring members of the state council:\nRespected Chairman,\nThe Rajya Sabha has a special benefit that is not to the Lok Sabha and it is that we ourselves can also give farewell to our respective people and welcome them. That good luck is not to the Lok Sabha and the good wishes of this House, from here who retire, do not get them to retire, inspire them to be more motivated, give strength. I also thank all those who have done their responsibilities with two Governments in the last 6 years, played their role and in the important decisions of national interest, they gave their knowledge, experience and the benefits of special needs of the region. And both governments have got the benefit of your experience. This government got less, the old government got more, but the country got its benefits in full form.\nWhen we come here, there is a limit to our own thoughts. Here, from every corner of the country, sitting with people of all kinds of backgrounds, discussions of our own are very vast, and in a way, when we came to the house, what were we, when going from the house We are a lot more and those who are many, they become the capital of the nation's society. I think that the House has played a very important role in making us bigger, expanding our vision, expanding our vision, every colleague has played a role. And after taking that great Samvat, we are leaving, even after going for field special, your experience for the problem and for the nation will continue to work. I always wish you all the best and always will be there.\nAfter going to the house, the government will be willing to work for you in the same way as you are entitled to a right to a member, and even after this, as far as the Government is concerned, you will have the same right, And I would like you to take full advantage of this right and get your strength and contribution in the service of society.\nYour contribution has been in many important decisions. If you see the session of the same time that you are now farewell, the decisions of significant reform have happened in your presence, in your partnership, your intervention. Major decisions have been made, but always because I represent the state, the interest of that state, it should remain your priority and also remain. Two things will be taught in your mind. When viewed as a state, it would have been nice if you had two such decisions, in your presence, then the state you represent is always proud of you.\nA GST so that people come here from Bihar. The GST was going to benefit from Bihar, the UP was going to get a lot of benefit. Except one or two states, all the states were going to benefit greatly and the people who came to this House were responsible for this obligation and it is proud that now you have not received that opportunity. But those of you who come back I believe they will get this opportunity and the important state of the good will of the state will come from your hands which will come back.\nThe second important work I believe is that of the CAMPA. If we had made this decision this time, then the states, the CAMPA, were supposed to meet 42,000 crore rupees and almost every one state would get the money around two thousand-three thousand crores and this money .. two Thousands-three thousand crores are not worth less. They were supposed to meet for forestry and in these rainy season these money could have been the most used. There was a good decision to do but maybe this time it is not possible. The rainy season will go away, 4-6 months will have to wait, but the work of these states is left to be done straightforward.\nI believe that wherever you are, you should be giving good wishes, keep on striving so that the benefits can be given to the states, which can reduce the House and perhaps reduce it. I believe that your strength, your experience will also work.\nOnce again, I am giving you a lot of good wishes to all of you, who are retiring today, on the path of being more motivated, and for your cooperation, I am very much from the Government. I express my gratitude.\nThank you.\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 13, 2016\nPM @narendramodi notes the contribution of retiring Rajya Sabha MPs to parliamentary proceedings\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 13, 2016\nI wish the GST had passed during your tenure in RS The GST will help states like UP and Bihar: PM to retire members of RS"