"I congratulate ISRO team for successful launch of IRNSS-1G: PM Modi\nIndian scientists have played paramount role in space science: PM Modi\nWith day to day innovations in space science, we can transform lives of the common people: PM\nIndia has launched 7 such navigation satellites that have been successful: PM Modi\nWith launch of GPS satellate, ISRO scientists have given an invaluable gift to the 125 crore Indians: PM\nWith successful launch of IRNSS-1G, we will determine our paths powered by our technology: PM\nThe new technology will benefit our people, our fishermen The world will know it as 'Navic': PM Modi\nI first thank all the scientists of ISRO and the entire team of ISRO with heart, thank him. I also give many hundred and fifty million best wishes to this new observer. In space science, scientists of India have achieved many accomplishments by doing unshakable success and today the country is experiencing. How much change can be made in the life of general humanities through space science. How technology can be beneficial in a person's life, and India's entry into the field of space technology is playing a big role for facilitating ease of change, in order to improve the lives of ordinary human beings in India. |\nToday, in the field of navigation, India has launched its 7th satellite. Seven satellite, successfully launched one after the other. And due to this accomplishment today, India today stood proud in those five countries of the world, in which its own GPS system, its own navigation satellite system was created. To date, we were dependent on the systems of other countries for the GPS system. Today we have become self-reliant. In our way we will decide, how to go, where to go, how to reach, it will be through our own technology.\nAnd so scientists of India today gave 125 million countrymen a priceless gift. We know that in this era of today the GPS system has become a big role. One of our fishermen is also where the fish catches under this arrangement, where to go for catching fish, what will be the shortest route, it will now be able to work under the guidance of Indian satellite. The path will be shown from the sky. The permanent address of the floor will be decided. Now if we plan to land our planes, they will be able to do it with their Indian system with very accuracy, accuracy. Somewhere a disaster has happened, a major natural disaster has happened, how to help in that situation, where to reach, what will be the specific location, all these systems will be benefitted due to the new system developed by this Indian satellite. Is there. It has the potential to provide services to Kanyakumari, Kutch from Kamrup to Kamrup till all the corners of India, but in addition to 1500 sq. Km area, if anybody wants to take any services it will be available to them. This means that the SAARC countries in our neighborhood are also interested in using this service of India as they are today, by taking care of the services of any other country in the world. Now India, if she wants, then this service can make her available.\nIn a way, our sailors used to jump in the ocean centuries ago, with the help of stars, with the help of the Moon and the Sun, they used to make their way and try to reach the destination. Over the centuries, our sailors used to reach the unknown place and used to resort to it using the help of the stars of the sky, the moon and the sun. Now with the help of science, we are going to do this work through this satellite and technology. Our fishermen of India, our centuries-old trader with courage in the navigator of India, is our old tradition, it has taught courage in an unknown place on an unknown place and therefore the courage shown by the fishermen for thousands of years has been Who has tried to reach the world with unimaginable courage and so today we have decided to provide services through this whole new technology that all this business Was, we now will be called GPS \"navigator\" |\nWith this intention of devoting centuries-old traditions of crores of crores of fishermen in this country, with the intention of dedicating this entire system to the poorer fishermen of the country, today it will recognize the world as 'sailor' and this service is now available as 'sailor' Will be. This will be our own sailor. Our mobile phone will be our sailor. The sailor who can give us the address of where we are, can give way to where he is going, and where he is to reach, he will also show us the sailor path. And when I am talking about a sailor, if I have to say in the language of technology, then I would say that Navigation satellite system, Navigation with Indian Constellation, NAVIC, in this form I dedicate to you today.\nThe hundred and fifty million people got a new sailor today, the sailor who will work to make us feel our way to decide our destination. It will come in handy for the skyy arrangements, it will come in handy for the ground arrangements, it will also work for the water systems. This service of India will be available with more acccuracy to our shipping arrangements.\nOur railway; Today we have to use GPs to know when our rail is where. Now, from where crossing, where the train spread, how many signals are far away, there is no signal to the railway in the current train, to give information, we can give it to the sailor. We are going from the car going by the scooter, we have a mobile phone in our hand, we can decide with the help of the sailor, how much we reach, where to reach, where are we standing. In a way, the task of fulfilling the needs of the masses is now done by our scientists, Make In India, Made in India, Made for Indian, this dream has come true. Today, on this auspicious occasion, I am feeling very happy and proud to give 500 crores of our countrymen a sailor. And I congratulate the country's scientists once again. I very much appreciate and I believe that our scientists and new activities will show new innovations, and will show new discovery and the name of India will cross the horizons of the sky, our flag wanders in the world, very much good luck with this expectation very much Congratulations |\nThanks a lot"