"Common man has high level of faith in the judiciary: PM\nGovernment \u0026 judiciary could work together to solve the problems faced by the mechanism: PM\nGovernment removing archaic laws from the statute books: PM Modi\nAll the respected Chief Ministers of All Respected Judges,\nThis type of one year is our meeting. This time there are quite detailed agendas, issues. I have been told that for two days the judges have discussed in great detail, quite good suggestions have come and I was told that there has been an effort from all sides to pursue things with greater commitment. I congratulate the respected Thakur Saheb and his entire team for this, so that meaningful efforts are being made to take these things forward.\nIn the past, there was a program of a retreat in Bhopal whose yesterday, I was listening to Thakur Sahib, which I was very happy about. Even if there is a very big country outside the law point, then what is it going on to understand and what is happening at the national international level, what are the challenges, what are the prospects and the country's distinguished experts? And all the judges were listening to them. Were question-answering I think this tradition is a very good tradition in itself. Maybe in the states, even if this kind of effort was to be done further, perhaps Thakur Sahab who was in the middle ... but was closed for many years. I think a lot of catalysts will be able to connect with such things.\nMany topics are going to be discussed here, so I do not go too deep into it. But it is true that the common citizen of India still has full faith in the justice system. Trust! One is faith, it is reverence. And this is our country's huge capital. We all have this obligation to maintain this faith. Let us maintain that. So that no matter where ever such a situation does not come in the life of normal human being then now. There is a place where he believes that I can go. And the government also has a huge responsibility in making that situation. And I believe that the government will never be able to fulfill its responsibilities.\nToday Thakur Saheb said that I have not been a part of this world of law nor have I been such a background, then when the Supreme Court was born, what happened in that whole expanse has given me the benefit of this knowledge today. And also I can understand that if things happened in 87, in 2016, in 2016, they must have been some reason till 87 or so there must have been some compulsions. I have never gone to his court, what happened in 87, how it happened. But 'when it rises morning'! Next we do something good. What is the burden of the back, while reducing the burden, how do we grow ahead?\nThere will be many reasons and the description of one reason is still done by Thakur Saha that strength is a very big reason in itself. But some social life also changes. This change we know that there was a time when there was a Vaidyarraj in the village and the whole village was healthy. Now the eye has become a doctor now, the ear has become separated, the doctor of the feet has become separated, the heart is separated, but the disease has increased. So this problem will come in many ways in the society, how will it be that we all have a subject of contemplation, what is the reason?\nI also believe in the government that we are feeling low in the amount of vigilance we should be doing while making the law. From drafting, from debate to law, till law is created, and that has made a very big reason that things go in very large quantities by taking interpretation in the court. Otherwise law should be such that if any person decides, the dilemma is low. Gradually, that efficiency will have to go further.\nThe second one is that we have a lot of laws here. I have started a work as soon as I come, how to get rid of the burden of these laws, how to reduce the number of laws, how to reduce the number of laws, to normal human beings. There was a committee that around 1500 to 1700 such laws have come to notice that those who were 1800 years old. Such laws of 1850s, 80s, 90s that have now become irrelevant. So what happens is that anyone who has to stop any work, shows 200-year-old law. See, it was such a law that it will not happen to you, then he goes to court. So these things are doing a lot of trouble in the arrangements. Cleaning is going on. Gradually I understand as much time as I have got, I will make a lot of effort at that time. Procedures should be at a fast pace, be quick and try to meet the needs. These dreams are all work we will do. Should also be done.\nAnd I would like if Thakur Sahab has a facility, maybe some constitutional boundaries create difficulties, then sometimes two or four people from the Akad government and all the people of your team sitting together should be able to solve these problems in the room. How to get rid of Then there may be something because what you said was important. And there is a way to find those important things too. I'm not the only person I'm going to listen to. I will try to find some way of taking him seriously. Success - failure is a different thing but should try. I would like to try And I believe that if you get along with experienced people, then I am not in this field. It is my advantage too. It is also my loss. So if you get help from people, then definitely we will find the way.\nI remember that I have been in this meeting for 15 years and always used to sit in front of me and later when I used to sit in front of the camera, I would have talked freely. And I had once said that how could you extend time to the court of Honor? How do you reduce the vacation? And I did not know that there was such an agony that after lunch there were many judges caught in the lunch, what do you think yourself? Then I was scared of the same day that I was afraid But still I believe that the person who has the responsibility, everyone is working honestly, honestly, for the poor man of the country, these beliefs should all be of us. And I have full confidence that the judiciary of our country is active in that direction, is conscious. I have full faith. And we will all trust that the problems of the country will also be resolved. And we will find solutions by meeting and also, I have faith in my confidence.\nOnce again, all the respected chief ministers have listened to all the things. They also run governments with the same responsibility. Because they also have the answer to the public Janardan and every five years has to be given once and now the elections come up again and again, therefore, it has to go three or three times in a year or five in some form. Because this discussion is going on this day. All the parties are saying to me that sahab how these elections are with the Lok Sabha and Vidhan Sabha. In every way because being a lot of time is going. Many things stop in the forty-forty, fifty-fifty days of judgment because of the code of conduct. And there is some place in the country where there is a Code of Conduct. So these days I met all the leaders of the Opposition, they were also saying that Sir take a path. Therefore, the assembly and the election of the parliament should be together so that some other work is done. So there are some difficulties, all those things have to get out of the way, they have to get together.\nAnd I will apologize so that I have to go to Jharkhand from here today, but then I welcome you all, thank you and today a meeting with the chief ministers will be there and some things will come out. Thanks a lot."