"\nJai Jawan, Jai Kisan, Jai Vigyan, Jai Anusandhan: PM Modi at 106th Science Congress\nAs we boost our discovery science ecosystem, we must also focus on innovation and start-ups: PM Modi\nBig data analysis, artificial intelligence, block-chain etc. should be used in the agricultural sector, especially the farmers with relatively small farm-holdings: PM\nGovernor of Punjab, Shri V.P.C.G., my colleague, Dr. Harshvardhanji, other dignitaries, present students and delegates, greetings for the New Year.\nI am happy to inaugurate the hundred and sixth session of the Indian Science Congress. It is a pleasure to be in the company of the eminent scientists, scholars and students.\nBy the way, my attempt was to get on time between you, but due to fog, there was a delay.\nFriends, I am happy that on this land of prosperity this year, Indian Science Association has chosen an exact topic, Future India, Science \u0026 Technology. I believe that greatness of India is only in our knowledge, science, but the real purpose of this greatness is also to connect our science, technology and innovation to society.\nFriends, The Science of India is a rich legacy. Some of India's finest mines include Acharaya G.C. Boss, C.V. Raman MeghnathSaha and S.N.Boss have been associated with it. In the race of maximum struggle in Minimum resources, he served people with his thoughts, inventions. Even today, we are learning from their commitment and creativity.\nIn 1917, Acharya Jagadish Chandra Bose founded India's first dedicated Scientific Research Center, the Bose Institute of Calcutta. His inaugural speech of science He said, \"I dedicate today this institute not only a laboratory but a temple to the nation\". The live and works of hundreds of Indian Scientists are a compelling testament of integration with deep fundamental insights with technology development and nation building. It is our modern temples of science that India is transforming its present and its future to secure work.\nFriends, our former Prime Minister, Lal Bahadur Shastri Ji gave us the slogan, Jai Jawan Jay Kisan Twenty years ago in an historic address at Pokhran, our great Prime Mnister Atal Ji had given the contribution of science and technology for India. He added 'Jai Jeevan', 'Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan, Jai Science'\nI believe it is now time to take one more step ahead. I wish to add 'Jai Research' So, the slogan becomes now, 'Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan, Jai Science, Jai Research'\nIndeed the pursuit of vigyan is fulfillment of two objectives. The first is, generation of profound or disruptive knowledge The second is the use of socio economic good As we push our discovery science eco-system, we must also focus on innovation and startups.\nOur government has launched the Atal Innovation Mission for the promotion of innovation among our scientists. More technology business incubators have been established in the last four years then in the forty year before that Industry should now contribute by providing timely direction, vision, mentorship and partnership to the Startups. Our scientists must make themselves addressing problems of affordable health care, housing, cleaneair, water and energy, agricultural productivity and food processing. While the science is universal, technology needs to be provided for local needs and conditions.\nTo deal with the socio-economic challenges faced by us today, the National Research Laboratories and Scientific Organizations will have to create accessible, easy and cheap solutions. I give you some examples In our country, there is a large number of farmers who have less than two hectares of land. They have the most technological needs to produce more than less labor. We have made a lot of progress in agricultural science. Our yields have also increased, the quality has also been ensured, but there is a lot to do in order to meet the needs of New India, new expansions are needed.\nOur focus should be on the use of big data analysis, artificial intelligence, block chain and all the technology related to communication in low cost. Now, today's demand is that with the help of all these inventions, help our farmers by creating a package of sensor technology, drones, satellite imaging and artificial intelligence. Through this help, our farmers will be able to take all the decisions related to their crops, cereals, irrigation, fertilizer, transport and pesticide with the help of today's scientific methods.\nFriends, the way we are continuously moving forward in ease of doing business, in the same way, we have to work fast on the ease of living of 100 million Indians. To clarify what its direction is, churning on some questions is necessary. Can we work on draught management better and scientifically in less rainy areas of our country? Can further improvements in the mechanisms of rain, cyclone and other disasters? This will benefit the agriculture only, many lives will be saved.\nCan we find a better technological solution to improve the problem of the malnutrition that has come from our country for decades? In such a way that the better health of our children is ensured. Can we find the cure for our children to free India from diseases such as chikungunya and encephalitis? Can the waste make energy and develop more effective techniques for the cleanliness and generate revenue? Can we develop new techniques related to recycling and conservation to deal with the problem of drinking water? Can we create a system that will allow our sensitive institutions to get cyber security that it can not be impeded? Can we prepare solutions for the use of solar energy which can be available to poor people from very poor prices? We have to find answers to these questions.\nWe have to connect science with the lives of ordinary human beings. In the rapidly changing world, now we have the right to stop India and specially, we will use it, we also have the time of waiting for this. We have to take leadership, we have to show something in the world. We have to find solutions according to time, within that time frame.\nFriends, 2018 was a good year for India science Among our achievements this year is the production of aviation grade bio-fuel, divine nyan a machine for visuallyimpaired, inexpensive device for diagnosis of cervical cancer, TB, dengue. A real time land slide warning system in the Sikkim, Darjeeling region. There is a We need strong pathways to commercialization that leverage our research and development achievements to industrial products. The future is about conversions and connected technologies We shouldcatalyse, harness and mange change for the nation's prosperity. Scope us data wise indicates that India has positioned among the top five nations of the world in terms of scientific publications. This is not mean achievement and deserve full hearted appreciation. This is the strong foundation to build advanced India, modern India, scientific India.\nTo make colleagues, advanced India, today, science of India will be ambitious. We do not have to compete only, we should show superiority. We do not have to do research just to do research but to take our findings to that level by which the world will start following it.\nTo achieve this, we have to create a detailed eco-system of research. Today, the need for such mechanism is highest. Whether it is climate change or artificial intelligence, population dynamics or biotechnology and digital market place. Today, through this eco-system we can take advantage of the potential of our country's talent pool.\nIf we have to stand in the line of world of knowledge society in the future, then the country will have to do everything possible to increase its research capacity. We will have to do an interdisciplinary research by keeping a goal.\nFriends, intellectual creativity and identity of any country is made up of its history, art, language and culture. In such a situation, we have to be free from the bondage of the genres. Now there is a need for research in which fusion of innovations of arts and humanities, social science, science and technology. This can make our country's identity strong and glorious.\nFriends, we must always remember that our ancient knowledge has been based on research. Indian scholars have lit the science, from science to mathematics, from art to literature, from linguistics to logic and medicine to philosophy, the world is illuminated. Now the time has come that India will get the same place in the world. This is possible only when we become one of the three largest economies in the world and we give direction to the world through our research and innovation.\nFriends, our strengths in research and development are built on the backbone of our national labs, central universities, IITs, IISs, TIFR and ISER. However, over 95 percent of our students go to state universities and colleges where research is still limited. A strong research eco-system must be developed in these universities and colleges. I call upon the Prime Minister's Science Technology and Innovation Council to discuss these issues in detail and formulate an action plan in consultation with human resources development to push research in our colleges and state universities.\nFriends, In the Tirupati Session up Indian Science Congress I had spoken about the global rise or fiber physical systems. This had the potential to pose an unprecedented challenge to our demographic dividend. We can turn it into the huge opportunity by research, training and skilling in robotics, artificial intelligence, big data analytics. The government has approved a national mission on interdisciplinary cyber physical systems with an investment of over three thousand six hundred crores. The mission will cover in a seamless wayRND, technology development, human resources and skills, innovation, Startup Eco System and strong industry and international collaborations.\nData is the engine that drives artificial intelligence Our scientists working with relevant ministries should evolve effective data policy and practices that are based on data generation from data flow, to data protection, to data sharing, to data used.\nOur strengths in sociologists, science and technology, our skills are revealed by the recent successes of the Space Mission. Recently we have satellitelaunch 30 and associated with navigation, communication and hyper spectral imaging, including the CARTOSAT 2 series satellite. By 20-22, the preparations for sending three Indians to their space in Gaganaya are in full swing.\nISRO has also demonstrated a special technology crew escape system for this. I have full faith in my scientists that our dream of Gaganayan will be completed in the due time.\nCompanions, there are many areas where scientific and technological intervention can lead to changes in the lives of ordinary human beings. Can we not create continuously operating reference stations network with the power of technology? So that we can get high resolution Geo Special digital data at a faster pace. This will enable us to provide better data to our sailors, scientists, people in planning. They can make planning, monitoring, management and implementation of development plans more effective.\nFriends, last time when the program of Indian Science Congress was held at Imphal, then I had appealed to all scientists that scientists have to find the way to the problem of sickle cell anemia, cheap, accessible and effective treatment. Our tribal society is affected by this disease. I am happy that CSIR and DBT have started the campaign for this. Scientists of both institutions are now developing gene therapy with the prevention and treatment of this disease, which can be cured of hemoglobin disorders.\nFriends, India needs a new futuristic road map for science and technology and innovation. With these objectives we have recently made the Prime Science Technology an innovation advisory council. This council will help you determine proper science and technology interventions, catalyst collaborations across stakeholders, ministries and implement multistake holder policy initiatives. Government is in the process of improving the quality of education with special focus on higher education sector. We have liberalized the higher education sector UGC has brought out classified autonomy regulations to give functional and financial autonomy to well performing universities and colleges. We are in the process of setting up institutions of eminence that compete with the best in the world. These efforts will encourage competition, bring private investment and improve quality of higher education institutions. We have launched the Prime Minister Research fellows The schemes under which a thousand bright minds from the best institutions in the country will be offered in direct admission in PhD program in IITs and IISC. The scheme will catalyze quality research and address shortage of faculty in the premier education institutions.\nFriends, I want to recall a quote of our late President Dr. A.P.J. Abdul Kalam. \"With vivid imagination and consistent efforts, the forces of the universe can be made to work. How do we keep the minds of Indian youth who are the foundation for cutting edge research and usher in renaissance in Indian science.\nIndia is brimming with a new generation of creative, energetic and confident minds. The government is committed to provide a new India through science. An India that is ready to take the challenges and opportunities for the present and the future. An India that is bubbling with ideas, knowledge, wisdom and action An India is strong, confident, prosperous and healthier. An India that is compassionate and inclusive\nI wish you all a creative and rewarding new year 2019\nThank You Thank You very much"