"Share\n\nJ \u0026 K is drawing students from all over the nation and this gives power to India: PM\nWithout 'Khel' there can not be 'Khilna' ... the person who plays, shines: PM Modi\nWe are hosting FIFA U-17 World Cup \u0026 this is a chance for us to celebrate sports: PM\nPreventive healthcare is very important: PM Modi\nWe all have work together for development of India that is fast-paced \u0026 all inclusive: PM Modi\nCenter and State Government are working for the infrastructure development in J \u0026 K: PM\nTourism has vast potential in Jammu and Kashnmir: PM Modi\nAll the noblemen and the large number of people sitting on the platform, my brothers and sisters,\nThe weather is very good. When I was listening to Mehbooba ji, she has resolved to see the dreams of J \u0026 K with the excitement and enthusiasm of creating a future. Has given energetic leadership and after getting their new government I got the chance to be here for the first time. I convey my best wishes to him and whole of Jammu and Kashmir with heart. Well, today's opportunity is an exciting new opportunity in the life of Jammu and Kashmir, but we feel the absence of Mufti Sahib on such a happy occasion. His long tenure was very long in public life and whenever I met him there was one thing in his mind, to pursue the movement of Jammu and Kashmir to take the country forward. One thing used to be in his heart, between Jammu and Srinagar, sometimes the distance that feels, erasing that distance too, and every Hindustan in India becomes proud in this monologue, running such a government, such a development This dream used to be seen by Mufti Saheb.\nThese days whenever I have met Mr. Mehbooba ji. I am observing that with the passion, he continued to discuss the development of Jammu and Kashmir. Here, even sitting is not talking about the weather - what will happen to tourism, what will happen to the road, there is a bridge over what will happen. When this feeling is formed, when it becomes a sense of dedication towards development, then it is sure to develop and therefore I congratulate Mehbooba ji.\nToday, I got an opportunity to do three programs, three occasions, coming to the feet of Maa Vaishno Devi. I got an opportunity to meet with young people today for the convocation of morning university. Very few people in India would know that Jammu and Kashmir is working closely with the students of all the states of the country by keeping them here. This is one of the identities of Jammu and Kashmir in itself, which gives strength to the country, enhances the glory of the country.\nToday I got to inaugurate a sports comlex too. If the game is not there, then blossoming in life becomes even bigger impossible. The one who plays, it blossoms. Sometimes we hear a word with great pride in life and they just do not listen to the playground. We hear every moment of life. If any person does something good in some different way, then we immediately say no, no brother, there is a big sportsman spirit in it. Anything happen between two brothers and a brother behaves with generosity, no, no he is a younger brother, or he is a big sportsman spirit. This is the result of the sportsman's spirit that the players play in the field of spirit words. If sport is sportsman spirit and if there is a sportsman spirit, then the intent to walk with someone with intention to leave something for someone else, with the shoulder to win, the courage to win, walk by step by step The intentions of this are exposed to themselves with the sportsman spirit.\nThis sport complex, made by Maa Vaishno Devi's Shrine Board, will not only promote sports but it will promote sportsman spirit which acts as a lubrication within life. Works to give life a power.\nWhen Kashmir's young person shines inside the cricket of India, Sena gets proudly flown. FIFA Under-17 World Cup football is going to be held in India in 2017. These FIFA Under-17 World Cup, should be an opportunity to be a new force in the coming days in the youth of India. People around the world, players will come here, we are not in a good position in football, we are very far behind. But still we create an environment that we can embrace the game. Experience the world, I would hope that the Sports Complex will also play some role in creating such an atmosphere of Hindustan's youth power, Hindustan's supremacy.\nToday I had the opportunity to inaugurate the hospital too. Now I can not make this mistake that I should say that your hospital is full-filled, I can not say that your hospital should never be empty, it is the opening of such a place. Would not anybody ever have to come to the hospital and if the sports are complex, play in life then it is possible to stay away from the hospital.\nPreventive Health Care is cheap and cheap too cheap. The more we focus on Preventive Health Care, the distance from the hospital will become fixed and we would like that at least the people of the country have to go to hospital, be forced to go. In life there was no such day that he had to go to the hospital and live in the trust of the doctor. But for this Preventive Health Care is changing our life style that now it is not sick, these people do not like the news, well done for so many years, you are not sick yet. When you walk fast, people ask that you do not feel tired? I think cleanliness is an act that protects us from the disease and International Experts says that due to the mess in India, the poor family gets average of 7 thousand rupees per day and if 4, 5 or 6 people in the family If so, then goes for medicines of 25-30 thousand rupees. And cleanliness is the disease of our bus, the subject of our hands.\nIt is said that if a child dies, it is said that in childhood, 40% of those deaths are those who do not wash the hands, do not wash with soap and some do not go to their stomach, ultimately death Becomes the reason for These small things also prevent us from going to the hospital. And so the mother is sitting at the feet of Vaishno Devi and then got such a big hospital from the blessing of Mother Balasho Devi, then it should be our endeavor that we run a campaign of hygiene, we live life so that we can be able to live healthy Find out.\nIndia has provided yoga in the world. Now the United Nations celebrates Yoga Day on June 21. Last year 193 countries of the world celebrated Yoga. Those who believe in Holistic Health Care have turned to Yoga today. Yoga has its own contribution to the health of Preventive Health Care and not only Health, but for health, and if we insist on those things then health guarantee is guaranteed. This hospital ... I want to congratulate the shrine board, especially on this issue that today they handed over the health card to those five people. Free health has been arranged for the people of those villages who have given this land and because of which the hospital has been built.\nI want to congratulate those villagers with heart, they gave something. Giving land is not very simple, but the villagers gave land, they gave land, but that land today has assumed the form which will work to give life to people and how much life will be satisfying. There was a time the land we owned, and we gave that land at the feet of mother Vaishno Devi. Today, a hospital has become a hospital, which has become the reason for saving the life of thousands of people and I believe what can be the satisfaction of a greater life than this and that is why I first congratulate those villagers with heart.\nI have also met today the Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board ... since Jagmohan ji used to be governor here since the development of the Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board. Many social posts are being used here for the people of Jammu and Kashmir. A good example of how to do this is presented by the Shrine Board today. They run sports complexes, they run the university, they run the hospital and in the distinguished hospitals of Hindustan, such a hospital is not normal. In our country, the wealth of this type of wealth that will be used in the country, will be the strength for the same society. And it is told by Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board. One way is shown. And so they are also very much executives for their congratulations.\nI am confident that due to this hospital, people of Jammu and Kashmir will not have to go far away for serious diseases. The arrangements will be good, but the doctors are also good. And here's the weather, if it takes 15 days to recover, then the weather here will be fine in five days. And in the place where the world will know in the world that there is such a hospital at the feet of Maa Vaishno Devi, there is such a time that the disease gets healed in half time then the world will also come to the hospital on medical grounds as well. . And it is possible that we should dream of the people of Jammu and Kashmir that for the sake of tourism, like the world has come here, we can also motivate the world to come here for health care tourism. On such altitude we can take J \u0026 K.\nOne thing is certain that Hindustan will grow faster at the speed of hundreds of millions of people, that is the dream we all have to try. Whether Kashmir or Kanyakumari, whether Kutch or Kamrup develops a balanced development around, development at a faster pace solutions to all our problems is in development. The country needs modern infrastructure. School need, college should, road should be electricity, normal human development should improve in life, this system should be improved. When Mufti Saheb was to set up a package of Rs 80,000 crore to replace the life of J \u0026 K. With the full force of the Government of India, with the full force to change the fate of Jammu and Kashmir with the Government, with the help of the government, it is progressing on every step and fulfilling the hopes and aspirations of Jammu and Kashmir.\nAtal Bihari Vajpayee ji, for whom the people of Jammu and Kashmir respected the support Perhaps there have been few such leaders in India that towards whom there is so much faith in the general human mind that Atal Bihari Vajpayee is seen in Jammu Kashmir and Atal ji used to say how we have to move Jammu and Kashmir. And he said humanity, Kashmiri and Jummyyat, on these three strength pillar, we have to take Jammu and Kashmir to new heights. And we have the same dreams as Vajpayee's dream Humaniya, Kashmereat and Jamuriyat have filled the color of 'everyone with development' in him. It is good for everyone, taking everyone along with them is to fulfill those dreams.\nAnd I believe J \u0026 K can also serve the country very much in the direction of tourism. And when Jammu and Kashmir comes in the world of tourism, the economic prosperity of Jammu and Kashmir is not only, it is not the economic prosperity of the whole of India. There are many such areas where Jammu and Kashmir's tourism is going to strengthen, where we can take new steps. And how to make him a modern tourism, people want to do adventure, how to create tourism for them. How to create tourism for people who want to live in spiritual activities. There are many such areas where we can emphasize the tourism of Jammu and Kashmir. And both the Government of Jammu and Kashmir and the Government of India are committed to provide modern infrastructure for tourism in Jammu and Kashmir. The facilities needed for tourism, ready for the general human. The rail work is running at a very fast pace. His very pleasant result is going to come in the coming days. Work is going on in the direction of new road from the road, from Jammu to half the time of going to Srinagar. As much infrastructure will grow faster we will be connected to Leh-Ladakh. So I believe that the coming passengers will come to this stage natural to come. And therefore, with the intention of crossing the new heights of development, the two governments are working on the shoulder joint with emphasis on infrastructure.\nMy dear Mehbooba has many good wishes. I also congratulate the governor, that Shrine Board has taken so many initiatives that will work for the good of the citizens of Jammu and Kashmir. Thank you very much to all of you, thank you\nSports is essential for youngsters: CM Mehbooba Mufti speaks at the public meeting https://t.co/Iy8hu3vQmx\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 19, 2016\nI was hearing Mehbooba ji The enthusiasm with which she spoke about the future of J \u0026 K and her energetic leadership ... I congratulate her: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 19, 2016\nWe remember Mufti Sahab He spent years in public life One thing was always on his mind: to bridge the gap between Jammu \u0026 Srinagar: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 19, 2016\nMehbooba ji always talks about the development of J \u0026 K when we meet When such a thought is there, development is bound to happen: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 19, 2016\nThis land is being students from all over the nation and this gives power to India: PM @narendramodi https://t.co/I88hu3vQmx\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 19, 2016\nWithout 'Khel' there can not be 'Khilna' ... the person who plays, shines: PM @narendramodi https://t.co/I88hu3vQmx\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 19, 2016\nThis sports complex will help sports sports and will help sportsman spirit: PM @narendramodi at the public meeting https://t.co/Iy8hu3vQmx\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 19, 2016\nWe are hosting FIFA U-17 World Cup and this is a chance for us to celebrate sports. The world should see our Yuva Shakti: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 19, 2016\nWhere is there sports Preventive healthcare is very important: PM @narendramodi https://t.co/I88hu3vQmx\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 19, 2016\nCleanliness ensures we are free from illness: PM @narendramodi #MyCleanIndia https://t.co/I88hu3vQmx\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 19, 2016\nWith this hospital people do not have too far for treatment. And the weather here is also very good: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 19, 2016\nWe all have work together for the development of India and this development has to be quick paced and all inclusive: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 19, 2016\nPeople of J \u0026 K respect He had a vision for the development of J \u0026 K: PM @narendramodi https://t.co/I88hu3vQmx\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 19, 2016\nCenter and State Government are working for the infrastructure development in J \u0026 K Tourism potential is immense here: PM"