"Share\n\nAlways remember what your parents did for you They sacrificed their own\nLet's pledge that we will do something for poor: PM\nOur nation is scaling new heights of progress and with such a youthful population\nDream to do some and PM: PM\nThis is a century of knowledge and whenever there is an era of knowledge.\nAttendees' greatness and today's focal point, all the young peers,\nThis is a very important opportunity for your life. In a way, starting with KG, 20 years - 22 years - 25 years, is an important stage of constant penance and I do not believe that you too will believe that this floor has been completed. So far someone has sent you here. Now you have to get yourself somewhere. Till now, you have taken a finger and brought it here, now you have to move ahead with your objective, tightening the test yourself, to get to the floor, to bear many challenges. But then it is possible that you take away from here. Do you have a treasure that is going to work to make you a living? The person who has filled up this treasure, he is going to get this work all the time, every moment, at every turn, somewhere. But who had thought to come here too.\nMostly if the youngsters ask what is thought forward? Then he says, once you start studying once. For those who think so much, after tomorrow, a huge question mark starts in life that it has happened, now what? But who knows what to do after this He does not seem to need anyone's support. When parents give birth to their children, their happiness is not fulfilled. But when the child receives accomplishment in life then the parents are absorbed in the infinite bliss. The joy of giving birth to the offspring gives thousands of times more happiness to those parents.\nYou can imagine that more than your birth gives the happiness of your life to your parents, then how much do your responsibilities increase. What kind of dreams will your parents have to do to make your life? You will have to buy something, money order will be required, there is a desire to transfer money to the bank, if two days have passed late then you may have been upset that you do not know what your parents are doing? And the parents also thought, Hey! The child who was to reach two days ago .. It's late. Next time something will think, reduce some expenses, save money, so that the child can reach. If we look at every moment of life, we will know if something will be contributing, then we can find something in life, something can happen. But mostly we forget these things. Those who forget should not forget, those who do not forget it becomes difficult to remember.\nMany of you who would have heard from their parents in their childhood that they have to make an engineer, that is to make a doctor, it is to make a cricketer. Some parents may have dreamed and slowly they will be injected inside you. Tenth class would have gone out of great difficulty but they would not have given sleep to sleep because the parents had said that the injected was done and if nothing happened then they went here on the go and did not enjoy it when they reached here. That such a great university has come in, there is a great education environment. But the problem remains one thing that if there was a knowing then it was there, it reached here. Whose heart and mind had to go, but there was no access to it, it is a burden, that life can never live, and therefore I am requesting you, I am unarmed. Okay, in my childhood, a lot of thought in the absurdity, can not be made, forget it. Those who have become, take pride in living your life, and you will become your life.\nFrustration, failure, obstacles coming in dreams, should not be a burden, it should be the cause of education. He has to learn something from him and if he learns it, then there is the ability to accept big challenges in life. In earlier times it was said that Bhai walked in this tunnel, the last floor where the tunnel will be completed from where it will be complete, will go out there. Now the time has changed. After this, it is not necessary that on the path you are walking on, there will be the last end, but you will have to live there. If you have the courage, then you can go somewhere by jumping and crossing another new horizon. These must be bold, they should have dreams. These dreams should be.\nA lot of students will be studying in this country, university. Are you one of those crores students, are you too a university student in the hundreds of universities? I think change the way to think. You are not a university student in the hundreds of universities. You do not have a student like that crores of students, you have something else. And when I say more then I mean that many universities will be moving in India, which will be taxed by the taxpayer's money, government money, your parents' fees. This is only a university exception, after all the rest is at the feet of Mata Vaishno Devi. The poor people who had given money, they did not have the money to reach the horse, they would have been 60-65-70, they would have left without reservation without much reservations from their village, from Kerala to Kanyakumari, they were Vaishno Devi Must have come. To offer a sacrifice to the mother, one must have left the meal on the way so that the mother has to offer the sacrifice. Such poor people and the poor people of every corner of India, the poor people of every corner of the corner, have given something in the footsteps of this mother Vaishno Devi. Then he would have thought that he might earn some virtue, but the result of the one who has given him is that the fortune to earn such a great virtue has been achieved. Therefore, in your education-in this wall, in this building, there is the habit of the dreams of the poor in this environment. And therefore we are a bit different from others and we are a bit different from the universities, and rarely in the world, millions of poor people run from two rupees-five rupees to a university, it is a wonder in itself and that's why our values ​​towards them Cottage should change in the sense of belongingness towards the poor. I can see any poor, why should I reach any height of life, I should look at that moment for something that is poor because someone was poor, who gave up one rupee at the feet of his mother leaving food once I came to work in my studies. And so we are going from here, then you will also be happy about that! It's enough, let's spend some time like this. There is a lot like this. But the criterion of life begins when you have to decide the direction on your own, take decisions.\nRight now, there will be anything in this campus, there will be someone who will catch you with a finger and run it. Whoever happens to be senior, does not even say, do not do it, man, you take care of it. Will be good There will be a tea seller outside the campus, he also says that brother is late in the night, do not read too much, just sleep a little, your exam is in the morning. No peon should have told you whether or not not a brother does not do it, why is he doing his university? How many people have run you.\nAnd for the first time the imagination of the convocation has been realized. These traditions in India have been institutionalized for thousands of years and in a way, the Convocation ceremony is not a festival of education and therefore I do not have the right to education. This is a convocation which we have attained education, which is what we have earned, to devote our life to the initiation, we have to take steps, to take steps to keep at the feet of the society. These countries are touching new heights of development. The country of 800 Million Youth, which is less than 35 Age Group, can not do anything in the world. Every young man's dream can become the cause of India's growth. We are those people who have traveled from Upanishad to the satellite. We are people who travel from upanishad to satellite. We are the people who have expanded themselves from Gurukul to the world, we are those people and the youngest of India, when the world was trying for years on Mars mission.\nEveryone got a lot of failure, many times got failure but it was a young Indian, Talent of India that in the first attempt, he became the first country in the world, in the first attempt, the Mars mission succeeded and we, the poor We are people of the country, we are not ours, how high the dreams are, we also come to the people to get rid of poverty. The cost of the Mars mission is to go to Katra, it will probably cost 10 rupees for 1 kilometer in auto rickshaw but it is the strength of the scientists of this country, the strength of the Talent of this country is that the journey of the mission of the Mars mission is 1 kilometer. Less than 7 rupees came. Not only this, my Hindustan youth can successfully make their move on Mars mission in less expensive than Hollywood movies. The country that has this talent, has the right to dream that the country has the potential, that country also has the purpose of giving something to the world and it also has the duty to make oneself capable of fulfilling it, To follow that duty, we will do life for the country today. If you try to get it, then you see life's satisfaction will multiply manifold. You are taking many dreams from here and dreaming to make something yourself, I do not believe that, but the dreams of occasional dreams also become due to disappointment. What you want to become and not become, as I said in the beginning, becomes a burden. But if there is a dream to do something then after every moment there is a solution, a new energy is attained, a new speed gets , A new goal is achieved, the new theory gets the ideal, and the life becomes an intention to tighten the criterion and that same life goes on and therefore today when the initiation of education from the feet of mother Vaishno Devi You are going and you are going and mother will also be happy that the girls have done amazing, maybe after a few days the movement of men's reservation, they also demanded that so many gold medal, then for us the reserve Should be there.\nYesterday, one of India's daughters Deepika illuminated the name of Hindustan. She was selected for Rio and for the first time a daughter is going for gymnastics. These are the things that give strength to the country. The incident is in this corner and in Tripura, the small state, where will the resources be, whether it is the source of resources, it is reaching Rio .... Not reaching due to the resolution. India's intention to elevate the flag is therefore reaching, and therefore the arrangements, facilities are all this in life, it is not so. The people who have succeeded in life say the history of which Abdul Kalam ji started S University, used to sell newspapers and became known as Missile Man. It is not necessary to create life, convenience, opportunity, arrangement only happens. Hoansla should be elevated, things start to grow and the paths come out. Who does not know the incident of Dashrath Manjhi? A poor farmer from Bihar, he was not educated, but he made his mind and made a path and made history, and he made history. It was not the only way that he had written a history of human happiness, and so he kept accounting for the same things in life, that would have been good if this happens, would have been good, if it were good then maybe those who have all facilities, they have nothing It does not seem difficult to create but you must have seen those who have everything in their inheritance, got it, the rest are many people who do not have anything, they will have their new milk Therefore, if the biggest asset is and 21st Century is loved and that is the wisdom and the whole world in the 21st Century it is the only leader who has the knowledge power and 21st century is the age of knowledge and history of India. Whenever the human race has entered the age of knowledge, India has led the world. 21st Century Knowledge is the century of the era.\nIndia has a package of knowledge to lead the world, and you are the people, who are the carriers of that knowledge, you are those who have the power to do something for the nation by taking knowledge as energy and therefore this conviction Thinking of my life from the ceremony, because of which it has found something in life, I will think for them, I will do something and a satisfaction of life will get from them and satisfaction in life will be very big. Page does not. Satisfaction itself is a difference energy, that is the difference energy that we have to keep constantly in our own hands. I liked one thing of Mehbooba ji that for the people here, we are those people whose things we are going to deliver around the world, how lovely people are, how great people are people of tradition, how generous people are, how are they With nature he learned to live and as an Ambassador I talk of this great land of Jammu and Kashmir, where I would go to talk about India's crowning gem, through this University. I can do the name of one of the students, and with this strength we go, many states of India are here. In this type of university, this is a mini-Hindustan in the hall. भारत के कई कोने होंगे जिसको पता नहीं होगा कि जम्मू-कश्मीर की धरती पर भी एक मिनी हिंदस्तान अपने सपनों को संजो रहा है तब हर भारतीय के दिलों में कितना आनंद होगा कि जम्मू-कश्मीर की धरती पर भारत के भविष्य के लिए सपने संजोने वाले नौजवान मेरे सामने बैठे हैं, उनके लिए कितना आनंद होगा।\nइस आनंद धारा को लेकर के हम चलें और सबका साथ, सबका विकास। साथ सबका चाहिए, विकास सबका होना चाहिए। ये संकल्प ही राष्ट्र को नई ऊंचाइयों पर ले जाता है और हम राष्ट्र को एक ऊंचाई पर ले जाने वाले एक व्यक्ति के रूप में, एक ऊर्जा के रूप में हम अपने जीवन में कुछ काम आएं, उस सपनों को लेकर के चलें। मेरी इन सभी नौजवानों को हृदय से बहुत-बहुत शुभकामनाएं हैं, विशेषकर के जिन बेटियों ने आज पराक्रम दिखाया है उनको मैं लाख-लाख बधाईयां देता हूं, उनके मां-बाप को बधाई देता हूं। उन्होंने अपने बेटियों को पढ़ने के लिए यहां तक भेजा है। बेटी जब पढ़ती है तो बेटी का तो योगदान है ही है लेकिन उस माँ का ज्यादा योगदान है, जो बेटी को पढ़ने के लिए खुद कष्ट उठाती है। वरना मां को तो करता होगा अच्छा होगा कि वो घर में है ताकि छोटे भाई के साथ थोड़ा उसको संभाल ले, अच्छा है घर में रहे ताकि मेहमान आए तो बर्तन साफ के काम आ जाए लेकिन वो मां होती है, जिसको अपने सुख के लिए नहीं बच्चों के सुख के लिए जीने का मन करता है तब मां बेटी को पढ़ने के लिए बाहर भेजती है। मैं उन माता को भी प्रणाम करता हूं, जिन माता ने  इन बेटियों को पढाने के लिए आगे आई है, उन सबको मैं प्रणाम करते हुए आप सबको बहुत-बहुत शुभकामनाएं देता हूं। Thank you.\nQuestion of what next will play on your minds. But the person who knows what lies ahead won't need to depend on others: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 19, 2016\nRecall what your parents did for you. They sacrificed their own happiness for yours: PM @narendramodi https://t.co/Iy8hu3vQmx\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 19, 2016\nYou may have thought of so much in your childhood but it may not have worked out. Forget that \u0026 instead think of what you have achieved: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 19, 2016\nThis university is built through the contribution of so many pilgrims, many of whom came from far away places: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 19, 2016\nLet's pledge that we will do something for poor, because it was a poor pilgrim who contributed to build this university: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 19, 2016\nYou will remember every moment of your time here: PM @narendramodi addresses students https://t.co/Iy8hu3vQmx\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 19, 2016\nOur nation is scaling new heights of progress and with such a youthful population we can achieve so much: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 19, 2016\nDream to do something and not to become someone: PM @narendramodi https://t.co/Iy8hu3vQmx\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 19, 2016\nThis is a century of knowledge \u0026 whenever there has been an era of knowledge India showed the way: PM @narendramodi https://t.co/Iy8hu3vQmx"