"\nThese elections are about scripting a bright future for people of Bengal: PM\nNever did the Congress, Left or TMC thought about welfare of people of Bengal: PM\nWest Bengal voted for TMC, thought there would be 'Paribartan' in the state but in turn there was 'Paribartan' in the TMC itself: PM\nLeft and Congress are contesting against each other in Kerala but are allies in West Bengal: PM\nA party that once had around 440 seats in Parliament today reduced to only 40 seats: PM\nTMC leaders have looted the money of innocent people, they have found indulged in corruption, accepting bribes: PM\nIndustries has been shut, Bengal now lacks job opportunities: PM\nWe want Bengal to develop ... A country can not be called developed\nI have only three agendas -Development, fast-paced development and all-round development for Bengal: PM Modi\nJan Dhan Yojana is transforming lives of people, Rs. 20000 crore deposited: PM Modi\nAll my dear brothers and sisters of Kolkata, who have been camping on the platform, have all the senior nobility and huge number\nMy dear voters, those elections, who became MLA, who did not; Whose government became, what was not made, this is not with limited purpose; These elections are meant to shape the future of Bengal and its youth. 70 years of independence, Congress, Lefts and TMC run their own governments There are four parties in this constituency, BJP on one side, Congress and Lefts on the other side and TMC on the third side. You have seen the remaining three party governments and their exploits. Will you still make the mistake of trusting such people?\nIn India, the generous people who are in West Bengal, hardly people of such a nature will be seen in India. If the government in such other state had such a plight, the people of that place did not see their face, but you are so generous that they demand apologies, if you join hands, then you accept it and it becomes special in the misuse of this Are. The British also made their own journey after coming, because they found that the people here are good. After Independence, Congress also never cares for you. After that the lefts did not do anything for three decades. When the Congress and Left removed the public, you see that their future is in danger. The people of West Bengal came with a great hope for change, but they changed.\nI want to say to you that till you will not punish those who ruined them, none of them will improve, and once they start punishing them, they will have to give their account of 5 years of work and they will do good work. Will be compelled to The people of West Bengal are good and sensitive, and people who live on ideals and values, but Leift and Congress believe that the new generation is a fool, then this is a huge mistake.\nIf there is a quarrel with ideology, then it should be done in Kerala and also face it face-to-face in front of it, but the lefts look amazing that in Kerala they are abusing the Congress and fighting against them and supporting Congress in Bengal. Can not understand that wrestling in Kerala and friendship in West Bengal? Both in Kerala give abuses to each other and in Bengal say that they are very good and will bless everyone. It's cheating with the public. Do not do so in Kerala either in Bengal or not in Bengal, but this coalition is not being done for the wellbeing or ideals of Bengal, but because of what happens if he dies.\nCongress used to sit in the Parliament with 440 seats and today it has reached 44 and hence they are looking for support. These games are being played to save themselves not to save Bengal. The country has seen different types of government models in 60 years. Now that the time is demanded that some parameters are fixed, then I say with the claim that wherever BJP has got an opportunity to serve, there has undergone radical changes and development has taken place.\nThe Left got a lot of public support here but what did they give in response? Bengal used to be the head of Hindustan and now what is the status of this state. Those who used to descend on streets against corruption, now do not speak on 'Narada'. What is the reason that people associated with it are being spared? In Kerala, Lefts and Congress are face-to-face, both are in Bengal and LeT, Congress and TMC are all together in Delhi. Not only that, the Ethical Committee in the Lok Sabha talked about the investigation of 'NARDA' but this is not the case in the Rajya Sabha because we are not in the majority in the Rajya Sabha. There is a move of Lefts, Congress and TMC and there is no talk of checking 'Narada' in front of the Ethical Committee.\nTaking money and dealing in front of the camera; Seeing this, entire Hindustan was shocked. Public money has been looted. Therefore, I specifically urge that such people do not have the right to live in government for a moment. The Vivekananda bridge was dropped and many people lost their lives, what was the crime of those people? The people who appear in 'Narada' are seen in the same 'Sharda'. All these people are associated with the tradition of sin. You should understand that what Left had left, sister has extended the same to him. If we have to compete with the states that are developing in the country then Bengal will have to get rid of these three.\nWhere will the youngster of Kolkata go for employment? Development looks at the western end of Hindutan but what is the reason is that entire East India is facing trouble. Leave the thing to move or move forward, you can not even stand on your feet. Take a look at eastern Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Odisha, Assam and Bengal. I have a dream - like in the body if one limb is weak, then we can not be called healthy. But when all the organs of the body are right, we are considered healthy. In the same way, my mother of India can not become healthy and prosperous till the whole of India has developed.\nSometimes, it seems that these parties have kept Bengal as old age home. The young people are leaving their village and town to earn their livelihood and the old parents are left here. Who would like to leave his village, house, farm-barn, parents, but today the youth of Bengal has to spend in slums of big cities to earn money. There was a time when the people of Hindustan used to come to Bengal to come. People used to be proud of living in Kolkata. Today the condition is that the young men here are strong on leaving their land. These are the solutions to problems and so I have three agendas to avoid these problems.\nMy 3rd agenda is - First development, second fast growth and third growth on four sides. When banks were nationalized, Congressmen had said that the bank should be for the poor. When I became prime minister, 40 percent of the country's poor were those who never saw the bank's door. The result was that the poor was forced to keep their earnings out and hence they were forced to keep their money in the Sharda chitfand. The poor did not just make money, their dreams became shattered. If the Congress and Lefts had opened the bank doors for the poor then the poor would not have to go to the Sharda chitfund and the fraud with them had not happened.\nWe thought of the solution and opened the account of the poor under the Prime Minister Jan-Dhan Yojana and he also got the Zero Balance Account. Go to the bank's poor home and open their accounts. Look at the richness of the poor, instead of opening a zero balance account, the poor opened their accounts by depositing some or some money and deposited about 20 thousand crores in the Prime Minister's Jan Dhan Account. We have shown how the arrangements are changed.\nIf anyone had to take gas cylinders in the country, then he had to make a recommendation. There will be many people whose house will not have a gas cylinder even today. People who make politics in the name of the poor, come in the election as poor and poor people, they have never understood who really needs the gas cylinders. Spending a day near a wooden stove means drinking 400 cigarettes; It is so smoked in the body. This has a very bad effect on the health of the poor mother and child. I started a campaign for this. In the last one year, gas cylinders were given to 10 million poor families. This is a record after independence. There are about 25 million families in India. Of this, about 10 million poor families got gas cylinders. After its success, I decided and in this budget too, there will be a gas stove in the home of 50 million poor families in the coming 3 years. This is an example of how it works for the poor.\nThey do not have to do anything other than the power of politics, corruption, brother-nephew, me-tera. I am running the campaign of make in India all over the country. FDI is coming at a large level from overseas. Being a World Bank, an IMF or a rating agency, everyone is saying that if a country is fast walking in the whole world today, Hindustan is going on. The youth should get the benefit of the journey of this economic development. Work is going on at a very fast pace in the center of all our plans to promote employment.\nI have come to change the fate of Bengal and ask for a vote for development here. You will know that the government that works and what a good government is saying to you. Even after so many years of independence, there are 18 thousand villages in the country where there is no pill of electricity. I decided to electrify these 18 thousand villages in 1 thousand days and the way we are engaged in this work, maybe we can complete it before 1 thousand days.\nThe demand of time is - children's education, the earning of young people, veterinary medicine. We want to serve you in West Bengal with these basic things. Jai-loser in democracy continues. There has been so much fear of defeat in sister's mind that they fought with the Election Commission, this is their acceptance of defeat. Even in the field of play the umpire is not challenged and you are challenging the umpire. Didi got a notice but the answer is, the Chief Secretary of West Bengal. Is there any difference between the party and the government? This should have been given to the party. It shows how much misuse of government is being done.\nLefts and Congress's misdeeds will not run in democracy. So my brothers and sisters, you have a new option. The country and Delhi are ready for your full help. I invite you to give full support to the BJP's candidates and make future of West Bengal.\nmany many congratulations! Thanks!"