"PM Modi launches e-NAM - the e-trading platform for the National Agricultural Market\ne-NAM initiative for farmers, agriculture in the country\ne-NAM initiates a turning point in the history of agriculture sector, says PM Modi\nAgriculture sector has to be seen holistically and that's when the maximum benefit for the farmer can be ensured: PM\nI convey the best wishes to the farmers of the country, congratulating how much big change in the economy of farmers is going to come through this effort. Today is the 125th birth anniversary of Dr. Baba Saheb Ambedkar and I had publicly told about 1 month ago that the beginning of E NAM will be done on the birth anniversary of Dr. Baba Saheb and I am happy that today work is being started in the time limit. Radha Mohan Singh Ji was saying that we can do it too soon, but this work is associated with the cooperation of the states. There are still some states in the country where Mandi has no law.\nNow there is a lot to hear for the farmers, but there are such states even in this country where there is no policy-fixing law for farmers for the Mandi. You can predict the exploitation of farmers in those states. I do not want to name the states because nowadays such topics are stuck in 24-hour disputes, I want to avoid them. But I would like to ask all those states to make their own laws in the Kisan Mandi. In the same way in which states have laws. Even now, new technology has come in. If there is a lot of system changes, then it is necessary to reform the law accordingly. I hope that if the state also has amendment in accordance with the suggestion given by the Government of India to the existing law in its respective areas, then in those states, the farmers will get the benefits of E NAM and hence I I urge you to prioritize it.\nWell I think that maybe I will not have to do this now because as soon as the news of these 21 mandis starts coming then the pressure from below will be born so that every state will feel that Bhai is my farmer then let me also come in So that the farmers of my state benefit. There are no rules in our country for some reason for some reason. In one state the agricultural production which was produced could not be taken in another state, they were also bonded. Ever lived legally and never lived illegally, because it seemed that if this happened, then what would happen to the state's economy, what would happen to the state's requirements, it would have continued and because of that I do not believe that, I do not see this as a big crime.\nThe governments there used to have a practical problem that the thing is produced here. If I went out of here, people would not get anything here, otherwise it was very natural, but the result was that the farmer could not get protection. The farmer was compelled to say that the price at which the market was in his area of ​​12-15-20-25 kms was fixed. He had to sell at the same price and by that he had to earn his livelier food. The problem of the farmer was that he did not have any choice. Once in the bullock cart from the house, the goods were taken in the market and the marketmen thought that the price was reduced today. Now the poor thinks that Bhai, now where I will take it back, I will take it 25 kms, then he would forcefully add his hands and feet and say, let's take it, give less than 5 rupees, take me where to take it. These are the farmers in our market here.\nThis scheme is such that the farmer has a lot of benefit from the scheme but it is not a scheme which only benefits the farmer. There is such a system, the whichever wholesaler is on the system, the facility is also going to increase. Not only this, this is such a scheme, which is going to benefit the consumer too. That is, such a market system is very rare in which the consumer also has the advantage, the consumer will also be benefitted, the middlemen who take the market business, take the goods and sell them, they also get the benefit and the farmers also get the benefit. What is happening today Unfortunately, real time data of agricultural production in our country still does not happen. Sometimes we feel that wheat is needed in the state of the state, then the government thinks what the good one will do, they need wheat but it does not know that in other states wheat surplus is lying.\nSometimes the wheat are surplus and they have to be transported there but at that time the arrangement of the train is not available and the consumer remains disturbed there, the farmers are worried, the goods are sold. Why this ... The structure that was made such that the structure in which it was tied, could not go outside of it. Due to E NAM today At present, 25 agricultural production items will be sold at this E NAM, the deal will be in 21 markets, but in the very near future probably will reach 250, because some states have done the same to improve the law. This is not a big task for technology. There will be a lab there, due to that lab quality of agro product will be decided. Now the dealer will decide by holding in his hand, no man is not good in your goods and the farmer will say no, no sir is very fine, just like before and ultimately that poor person thought that let's sell. Today the laboratory will say that the product of your grade is of A grade, B grade belongs to C grade and it will be a nationally certified recognition.\nSuppose Bengal is going to buy rice and Kerala needs rice, farmers of Bengal will go online and see what is the mandal of Kerala where rice should be of this quality, if there is a possibility of getting such a price, then it will say online only Bhai, I have so much goods and I have these certificates and these are my goods like this, should you tell me, and if the merchant of Kerala thinks that he is fine in 6 people, he will deal with them and give his goods. Some merchants will buy goods from Bengal, buyer will be from Kerala, but if he gets a market in Bengal then he will sell it there. My point is to say that such transparency will be due to this arrangement which will make our farmer decide, and will be able to decide whether the product, before loading it in the bullock cart or before landing in the tractor, will be what will happen to my product.\nFirst of all, after all the hard work went 25 km away to the mandi, then what would be the future. Today in my home, on my mobile phone, I can decide where I go, little I believe our country's normal person is probably not literate but intelligent. As soon as he gets to know, he will monitor what the trend is in the market, will see three days equal and then decide according to the trend that yes now it seems that the market has been cooked, then immediately enter inside and sell its merchandise. Today the farmer will be decisive, the farmer will be decisive. It is also convenient for those traders who are sitting in the market, because they feel that Bhai, where I used to buy before, there was no rice this time, so what will I do all year round, I will do rice I am a businessman but now he will not have to sit, he can order from any corner of India as per his requirement, and he can take it from the other trader, what else Neither he can take it, he can fulfill his needs.\nConsumer can also see which market is going on in the market, and therefore one goes locally to exploit itself, then says, lying, I have seen, on E NAM, you have taken the goods to take a lot You may but why are you taking so much? That is, the use of the production balance. E.NAM portal is also going to be a huge facility for this and I believe the nature of the farmer is like that. Once he got his faith, he would start moving forward on that trust. People will come at E NAM at very fast speed, transparency will come. Due to this coming into the market, the Government of India can easily monitor, state governments can also monitor where the production is, how much quantity is there. From this, it will also know how the transport system should be, how the use of the godown should be shifted in this godown, or in that godown, i.e. through a portal we can do scientifically and therefore I believe That's a turning point from today's phenomenon in a very big financial landscape of agriculture.\nWe are taking a turn that we were already waiting for or we could not see the prospect in front of us. Within one week, it will also know that when such a large amount of market opens, then the competition is very large. Buyer will try to buy good quality by paying a higher price. When the seller sells the goods from the lesser money, he will find that even if the market was not available, the market will send a message from the front that Bhai, you are sitting there in Siliguri but no one takes anything, I do not I am sitting in Ahmedabad, I am ready to take. It is such a big possibility, we can imagine that our farmer has the opportunity to decide for the first time that how my goods will be sold, where will be sold, when will be sold, at what price will be sold, the decision will now be done by farmers themselves in India.\nNow he will not be dependent on anyone, he will not be indulging, and when this address will run, then such a big competition has started, then it is natural that the rest of the state which are still behind, I believe that such pressure will be created from below Will also improve the law early and all the mandi will come on e NAM Portal and it is my complete faith. I have an urgency and I believe that agriculture should not be seen in pieces and hence we also named our Ministry, along with it has added farmer welfare. As long as we will not have a holistic approach to it, we can not improve the situation of the farmers and take holistic approach, so suppose that today solar revolution is happening. The farmer will have to think that the work of any industry is going on, the work of some industrialists is going on. Someone explains to him that this solar revolution is for you, brother.\nIf he got a solar pump for water, he put a solar panel in his own farm, then he would not have to spend the diesel costs today. Today, solar revolution is happening. Those who are big farmers use high technology. They bring the cutter, they bring the rest, they run from the electricity. On the day when he will know, now that all these resources are there, those who have come with solar energy will be reduced, its expenditure will be reduced and the instrument will start moving from its sun. That is, the technology which is developing. How to add useful things to our farmer with him If we have to produce more then the time of flood irrigation has gone, and now this science has proved that there is no good farming with flood irrigation but the nature of the farmer is that whenever the farm is filled with water, Neither, if all the plants do not look immersed, then they feel that the plant is starving, he becomes disturbed by the poor, because his spirit is attached, he can not sleep at night, as much as water Was new, not much, she gets upset but if he knew the science per drop, more crop.\nThere is no need to keep our production dipped in water. For years we have come to believe that if we have to cultivate sugarcane then we need plenty of water. Now gradually the experience has been that the sugarcane cultivation can be very good with sprinkler and if the sugarcane cultivation is done with sprinkler, sugar in container made from sprinkler or drip is more than the sugar which contains the normal sugarcane, If more sugar gets out of it then the farmer gets more prices and you should have seen the size of the cane from the flood irrigation and the size of the sprinkler and the size of the sprinkler shows the difference. Now the farmer has to understand and I believe that this thing can be reached to them and that's why my mission is per drop, more crop With one drop of water we can create prosperity, we can create a future.\nSometimes I used to have a habit of sitting with the farmers, I used to talk a lot, when I was in Gujarat. I used to say to him and I would like to say it again today, I used to tell him, imagine that your child is sick and he is 3 years old, he is 5 years old, he is 7 years old, but he is not growing , There is a smile on the face, such a thin, lonely one. Now think that this is the situation of your child and you think that a bucket will take milk, put saffron, almonds, pistachios in it and will bring a baby every day with this milk, it will make any difference to its health, what will it be, my farmer Do you have a brother but take 100 grams of a little milk in one spoon, 100 grams give him till the evening, it will not make any difference. The child who is of the same is from the plant. The nature of the child belongs to the plant.\nIf you give the plant water, then the plant will be strong, it is not so. Each drop of one spoon of water will be sprayed by one spoon, you will see how powerful the plant becomes and therefore we ... things are small but their strength is big. We have seen who is the biggest loss of our farmer. He believes in what he sees, farmers do not believe in what he hears. There is one kind of good thing too. As long as he does not see himself with his eyes, he does not trust, but because of that, his misguide becomes so that if a farmer cast a red box containing a drug in the field, then he thinks that he is a red box. Also comes with the red bins. If he puts two sacks of beside beside him, then he also puts two sacks and he knows more than that color only with a red-colored medicine, a black box, a long box, or a small box. Business is going on, she has developed her own science.\nWhy is this a mistake? He does not know how nature is working on the ground he is working on. ये धरा हमारी मां है, ये भूमि हमारी मां है, कहीं बीमार तो नहीं हो गई है, हमने ज्यादा तो इसका शोषण नहीं किया है, उसका भी कोई ख्याल रखा है कि नहीं रखा है, ज्यादा अनुभव आता है कि हम धरा के साथ क्या करते हैं, फसल के संदर्भ में धरा के साथ जो करना होता है, करते हैं। धरा की तबीयत, चिंतन करनी चाहिए, इस भूमि की चिंता करनी चाहिए, इस पर हमारा ध्यान नहीं होता है और अगर बीमार धरा हो, कितना ही अच्छा बीज बोएं, इच्छित परिणाम नहीं मिलता है और इसलिए हमारे कृषि जगत को बदलना है तो हमारी धरा की तबीयत और उसके लिए अब सरल उपाय है Soil health card, laboratory में धऱा की test करवानी चाहिए और उसमें जो guidelines दें, उस प्रकार का पालन करना चाहिए। वरना कुछ लोग होते हैं कि डॉक्टर के पास जाएं, तबीयत दिखाएं। डॉक्टर कहे डायबीटीज है लेकिन घर में आकर के बताते ही नहीं हैं कि डायबीटीज है क्योंकि मिठाई खाने का शौक होता है तो फिर वो laboratory काम नहीं आती है।\nअगर laboratory ने कहा कि डायबीटीज है तो फिर मिठाई छोड़नी पड़ती है। उसी प्रकार से धरा को check करने के बाद पता चला कि ये बीमारियां हैं, उस फसल के लिए आपकी धरा ठीक नहीं है, वो fertilizer आपकी धरा के लिए ठीक नहीं है, वो दवाई आपकी धरा को बर्बाद कर देगी तो मेरा किसानों से प्रार्थना होगी कि उसमें जो सुझाव देते हैं, उन सुझाव को religiously follow करना चाहिए। देखिए विज्ञान की बड़ी ताकत होती है, विज्ञान की बड़ी ताकत होती है। इन चीजों को अगर हमने ढंग से कर लिया तो आप देखना... कभी-कभार मैंने देखा है, हमारे पंजाब, हरियाणा में, इधर पश्चिम उत्तर प्रदेश में वो पुरानी पद्धति फसल निकालने के बाद बाद में जो रह जाता है उसको मुझे हिंदी शब्द तो मालूम नहीं है, उसको जला देते हैं। अब हमें मालूम नहीं है ये मूल्यवान fertilizer है, उसके छोटे-छोटे टुकड़े करके उसी जमीन में दबा दीजिए, वो आपकी जमीन के लिए, वो खुराक बन जाएगा लेकिन जल्दबाजी होती है, दुबारा फसल के लिए काम करना है, कौन करेगा इसलिए डालते नहीं हैं।\nमैं समझता हूं जिस चीज के लिए जो नियम हैं, प्रकृति ने बनाए हैं, उसका अगर हम थोड़ा सा पालन करें तो पर्यावरण का जो नुकसान हो रहा है और दिल्ली वाले चिल्लाते हैं कि धुँआ बहुत हो गया है, वो बंद भी हो जाएगा और मेरे किसान को ये फायदा  होगा। मुझे स्मरण है जो केले की खेती करते हैं। केला पकने के बाद, वो केले का जो पेड़ रह जाता है, उसको निकालने के लिए वो पैसे देते हैं लोगों को कि भाई उसको जरा आप साफ करके दे दो और पहले ये एक-एक एकड़ पर 15-20 हजार रुपए खेत खाली करने पर ये उनका खर्च होता था। बाद में उनके ध्यान में आय़ा कि ये तो most valuable है और आपको हैरानी होगी केला पकने के बाद वो जो खड़ा रह गया, बाकी बचा हुआ पुर्जा है, उसको आप कहीं गाड़ दें और वहां पर कोई पौधा लगा दें 90 दिन तक पानी की जरूरत नहीं पड़ती, उसी से पानी मिल जाता है, इतनी ताकत होती है उसमें। जब ये पता चला तो उन्होंने फिर से उसे फिर जमीन में गाड़ दिया और उनकी जमीन इतनी गीली होने लगी कि बीच में वो एक extra फसल करने लगे जो 60-70 दिन में पैदा होने वाली होगी, उस फसल का उपयोग करने लगे, उनकी income में पहले से डेढ़ गुना-ढ़ाई गुना तक फर्क होने लगा क्यों, उनको समझ आय़ा कि भई इसका उपयोग है।\nहम अगर उन छोटे-छोटे प्रयाग हैं। हमारे किसान इसको समझ भी सकता है, उसको कैसे पहुंचाए, हम उसके उत्पादन की ओर बढ़ें। हमारे देश का एक बहुत बड़ा दुर्भाग्य है किसी न किसी कारण से टोडर मल ने जमीनों को नापने का बहुत बड़ा काम किया था। उसके बाद उसके प्रति बड़ी उदासीनता रखी गई। सरकारों में नियम था कि 30 साल में एक बार जमीन नापने का काम regular होना चाहिए लेकिन शायद पिछले 100-150 साल में ये परंपरा dilute हो गई और उसके कारण exact पता नहीं है जमीन की स्थिति का। किसान conscious है कोई जमीन ले न जाए इसलिए वो क्या है बाड़ करता है। नाप का ठिकाना नहीं, कागज पर exact नाप नहीं है तो बाड़ लगाता है, वो बाड़ लगाने में एक मीटर जमीन इसकी खराब होती है, एक मीटर जमीन दूसरी वाली खराब होती है। हर खेत के border पर दो मीटर जमीन खराब होना यानि पूरे देश में देखें हम तो लाखों square meter जमीन इसी में बर्बाद होती होगी।\nअगर हम उसका रास्ता निकालें। आज देश को टिम्बर import करना पड़ता है। अगर हम हमारे border पर बाड़ करने के बजाए टिम्बर के पेड़ लगा दें। बेटी पैदा हो, उस दिन अगर पेड़ लगाया तो शादी करने का पूरा खर्चा एक पेड़ दे देगा। वो पेड़, बेटी बड़ी होगी उसके साथ-साथ बड़ा होगा और जब वो टिम्बर बेचोगे। आज हिंदुस्तान फर्नीचर के लिए टिम्बर दुनिया से import करता है, मेरा किसान अपने border पर, बाड़ पर ये काम कर सकता है आराम से कमा सकता है। उसके कारण जो waste of land है, वो हमारा बचा जाएगा। solar हम खेती के साथ solar बिजली पैदा कर-करके बेच सकते हैं। मैंने ऐसे किसान देखें हैं जो अपनी cooperative society बना रहे हैं और पड़ोस के किसान मिलकर के कोने पर बिजली पैदा कर रहे हैं और राज्य सराकारों को बेच रहे हैं, ये सब संभव है। मैं हैरान हूं दुनिया भर में honey का बहुत बड़ा market है, बहुत बड़ा market है और honey एक ऐसी चीज है शहद, जो सालों तक घर में रहे, जितना पुराना हो तो ज्यादा पैसा मिलता है और किसान अगर अपने खेत में साथ-साथ शहद का भी काम करें तो जो मधुमक्खी है वो भी फसल को ताकत देती है, वो एक जगह से दूसरी जगह पर बैठती हैं तो फसल को नई ताकत देती हैं। simple चीजें हैं, जब मैं कहता हूं double income संभव है, मेरे दिमाग में बहुत साफ है क्या-क्या प्रयोग करने से income double हो सकती है।\nचाहे Fisheries का काम हो, milk production का काम हो, पशु का रखरखाव हो, इन सारी चीजों में से income बढ़ सकती है और हम आधुनिक वैज्ञानिक तरीक से खेती करना शुरू करें तो हम देश की economy को भी बहुत बड़ा बल दे सकते हैं। मेरे देश के किसानों ने एक बार तय किया कि अब देश का पेट भरने के लिए बाहर से अन्न नहीं आएगा, हिंदुस्तान के किसानों ने कर दिया है। आज Pulses हमें बाहर से लाना पड़ता है दलहन, क्यों न हमारे किसानों को संदेश जाए कि जहां पर पानी बहुत कम है, वहां और प्रयोग मत करिए, आप दलहन पर चले जाइए ताकि आपकी भी गारंटी होगी और भारत सरकार उसमें आपकी मदद करेगी और भारत को अब दलहन बाहर से नहीं लाना चाहिए दाल क्यों बाहर से लानी पड़े, मूंग क्यों बाहर से लानी पड़े, चना क्यों बाहर से लाना पड़े, उड़द क्यों बाहर से लाना पड़े। हम ये अपने संकल्प कर लें तो मैं नहीं मानता हूं इस देश को... और अभी गया था सऊदी अरबिया, उसके पहले मैं गया था यूएई, वहां के लोगों ने जो बात कही, मैं समझता हूं कि मेरे देश के किसान इसको भलीभांति समझें, वो कह रहे हैं कि हमारे पास तो बारिश ही नहीं है, हमारे पास खेती योग्य जमीन नहीं है, हमारी जनसंख्या बढ़ रही है, पूरे गल्फ की countries में, हम भविष्य में हमारा पेट भरने के लिए अनाज पर भारत पर ही depend करेंगे, हमें वहीं से import करना पड़ेगा।\nआज भी हमारा सबसे ज्याजा अच्छा चावल उन्हीं देशों में जाता है। इसका मतलब ये हुआ अगर हम quality product की तरफ जाएंगे तो गल्फ का एक बहुत बड़ा market, agriculture product के लिए हमारा इंतजार करके बैठा है। वे ware house के लिए cold storage के लिए तैयार है, वो गारंटी के साथ माल खऱीदने के लिए तैयार है यानि भारत की कृषि भी एक global requirement के संदर्भ में उसे हम एक नया मोड़ दे सकते हैं, हम उसमें बदलाव ला सकते हैं और उस बदलाव लाने की दिशा में हमें प्रयास करना चाहिए। अभी इस बजट में एक बड़ा महत्वपूर्ण निर्णय किया, उस निर्णय की चर्चा बहुत कम आई है क्योंकि कुछ चीजें ऐसी हैं, जिसे लोगों को समझते-समझते दो साल चले जाते हैं इसलिए वो बात शायद पब्लिक में आई ही नहीं।\nभारत सरकार ने एक बहुत महत्वपूर्ण निर्णय़ किया कि Agro processing में हम 100 percent foreign direct investment को हम स्वागत करते हैं। अब कुछ लोगों का दिमाग शायद ऐसा है कि FDI का नाम आते ही उनको लगता है ये कुछ उद्योग वाला हो गया।\nये food processing की सारी process किसान को बहुत बड़ी ताकत देती है। अगर वो कोई ऐसी पैदावार करता है और उसका  technology solution से valuable addition होता है तो income बहुत बढ़ जाती है और उसके लिए पूंजी निवेश के लिए दुनिया से पैसे आते हैं तो किसान की ताकत बढ़ने वाली है। आप कच्चे आम बेचो तो कम पैसा आता है, पके हुए बेचो तो थोड़ा ज्यादा आता है। कच्चे आम बेचो लेकिन आचार बनाकर बेचो और पैसा आता है। आचार भी बढ़िया सी बोतल में pack करके बेचो तो और ज्यादा पैसा आता है और बोतल की advertisement कोई नट या नटी करती हो तो औऱ ज्यादा पैसा मिल जाता है। value addition कैसे होता है, food processing का value addition कैसे होता है और इसलिए अभी हमने कोका कोला कंपनी के साथ महाराष्ट्र government का एक agreement करवाया। मैंने इन सारी कंपनियों कहा है कि आप जो पेप्सी, कोका कोला ये सब पानी बेचते हो colorful होता है, tasty होता है लोगों को आदत हो गई है अरबों-खरबों का बाजार है। मैंने कहा मेरे देश के किसानों के लिए आप एक नियम बनाइए कि कम से कम 5 percent, कम से कम 5 percent natural fruit juice आप इस aerated water में mix करोगे।\nआप देखिए एक तो जो पीता है उसको फायदा होगा, कम से कम 5 percent तो माल अच्छा जाएगा शरीर में लेकिन उसके कारण किसान जो फल पैदा करता है, उसको तुरंत market मिल जाएगा,  वरना संतरा कोई पैदा करेगा, एकाध दिन में तो संतरा खराब हो जाएगा लेकिन संतरे का जूस अगर उसमें मिलना शुरू हुआ तो संतरे को market मिलना शुरू हो जाएगा, Apple को market मिल जाएगा, केले को market मिल जाएगा और इसलिए वो चीजें जो हमारे किसान को ताकत दें, ऐसे कई initiative लिए हैं और उस initiative के परिणाम मैं कहता हूं कि आने वाले दिनों में किसानों का भविष्य उज्जवल बनाया जा सकता है, सोची-समझी व्यवस्था के तहत बनाया जाता है और अब ये मंडी के माध्यम से, ई NAM के माध्यम से जो प्रयास किया है इस ई NAM के माध्यम से, मैं विश्वास से कहता हूं कि मेरा किसान अब तय करेगा कि उसका माल कहां बिकेगा, कब बिकेगा, कितने दाम से बिकेगा इसका फैसला अब मेरा किसान करेगा और consumer को कभी कोई बोझ नहीं होगा, ये मेरा भरोसा है। consumer को कभी कोई मुसीबत नहीं होगी, ये मेरा पूरा भरोसा है। मैं देश के किसानों को आज 14 अप्रैल बाबा साहेब अंबेडकर की जन्म जयंती पर जिनका empowerment of poor people वाला हमेशा रहा था, मेरा किसान empower हो इसलिए एक महत्वपूर्ण project आज प्रारंभ हो रहा है, मैं कृषि मंत्रालय को मंत्री के विभाग के सभी साथियों को हृदय से बहुत-बहुत बधाई देता हूं, मेरे देश के किसानों को बहुत-बहुत शुभकामनाएं देता हूं। असम का आज नया वर्ष है, असम का नववर्ष है, उस बिहू के मौके पर भी मैं शुभकामनाएं देता हूं। Thanks a lot."