"\nPM Modi Inaugurates the Maritime India Summit, 2016\nMaritime transport It is also the most eco-friendly mode of transport: PM\nDr. Babasaheb Ambedkar is the architect of water and river navigation policy in India: PM\nI offer my profound respect to Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar on this auspicious day: PM\nBabasaheb created two powerful organizations related to water, navigation and power: PM\nWith a GDP growth rate of more than seven percent, India is the fastest growing major economy today: PM\nWe Indians are the inheritors of a glorious maritime heritage: PM\nIt is my government's endeavor to revive and restore India's position of eminence in the global maritime sector: PM\nOur vision is to increase port capacity from 1400 million ton to 3000 million ton by 2025: PM\nIndia has had a glorious maritime history We are on the path of shaping an even better maritime future: PM\nHon. Governor of Maharashtra;\nHon. Chief minister of Maharashtra;\nHis Excellency Mr. Kim Young-Suk, Minister of the Republic of Korea\nOur Union Minister for Shipping, Mr. Nitin Gadkari\nOther Dignitaries on the dais;\nDelegates, Ladies and Gentlemen!\nI have great pleasure in being with you and welcoming you at the Maritime India Summit. This is the first time that a global event is being organized by India. I extend warm welcome to all esteemed guests in the event of the maritime hub of India. I am sure, this event; together with the seminars and exhibition, will showcase the emerging trends and opportunities in the maritime sector.\nWe all know that oceans cover more than seventy percent of the earth's surface. We also know that oceans contain ninety-seven percent of the Earth's water. Therefore, maritime transport is the most extensive mode of transport. It is also the most eco-friendly mode of transport. However, there is one more aspect to this fact. Which is that, oceans contain the ninety nine percent of the living space on the planet. This means that our lifestyle, transport systems and trading behavior should not spoil the ecology of the oceans. Also, maritime security, freedom of navigation and safety and security of sea lanes is equally important.\nThe challenges of climate change have shown that even offshore human behavior can change the ecology of glaciers and oceans. This is already causing a lot of concern for island countries and coastal communities in particular. I hope this summit will deliberate on these issues while discussing economic issues related with oceans. The elimination of sea piracy, which was a big threat to international shipping, some years ago, is a good example.\nFriends! There is a reason why this important summit has been organized today, on the 14th of April 2016. Today is the 125th birth anniversary of a great son of India who also lived and worked in Mumbai. I'm referring to Dr. B.R. Ambedkar, who was the architect of our Constitution He is also the architect of the water and river navigation policy in India. I offer my profound respect to Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar on this auspicious day. I also wish and pray that his wisdom continues to guide us.\nMany people can not know that Babasaheb created two powerful organizations related to water, navigation and power. They were: The Central Waterways, Irrigation and Navigation Commission and The Central Technical Power Board. His observations while setting up these two organizations is a testimony to his great foresight.\nI quote from his address on 3rd January, 1945:\n\"The objects which have led to the setting up of two organizations are advisable on how water resources can be best utilized and how a project can be made to irrigate more than other purposes.\"\nDr. Ambedkar had emphasized the importance of the new waterways policy in order to be a foundation of a prosperity for the country. I am happy to state that we have started the development of National Waterways in Babasaheb's vision and foresight. With a GDP growth rate of more than seven percent, India is the fastest growing major economy today. The IMF and the World Bank have indicated We are taking aggressive steps to ensure that our process of growth is both fast as well as inclusive. This summit is another step to realize Babasaheb's dream of an economically strong, socially empowered and technologically equipped India.\nI understand that more than 4500 dignitaries and delegates from around forty countries are participating in the Summit. I am particularly happy that the Republic of Korea is the Partner Country for this event. I thank you, Mr. Kim Young-Suk who is present here\nFriends! We Indians are the prouditors of a glorious maritime heritage. The world's first dock was built at Lothal in Gujarat around 2500 BC during the Harappan Civilization. This dock was equipped with berth and service ships. It was built after studying tidal flows\nIn addition to Lothal, there were also some other Indian ports, which were major drivers of global maritime trade two thousand years ago. These include:\nBarygaza - which is today known as Bharuch in Gujarat;\nMuziris which is today as known as Kodungallur near Cochin in Kerala;\nKorkai which is today's Tuticorin;\nKaveripattinam which is in Nagapattanam District of Tamil Nadu;\nAndArikamedu who is in Ariyankuppam District of Puducherry\nThere are many references in ancient Indian literature and in Greek and Roman works about the vibrant maritime trade of India with Rome, Greece, Egypt and Arabia. Ancient and medieval Indian traders maintained links with countries in Southeast and East Asia, Africa, Arabia and Europe.\nFriends! Since my government took over, among other things, we have built on futuristic infrastructure. This includes building next generation infrastructure in many sectors. Port, Shipping and Maritime Infrastructure It is my government's endeavor to revive and restore India's position of eminence in the global maritime sector.\nBuilding on our glorious maritime tradition, we are working hard to achieve new heights in this area. In the very early days of our government, we announced the Sagarmala program. This is aimed at leveraging our long coastline and natural marine advantages. It also focuses on promoting port development, energizing the coastal economy and infrastructure development in these areas. We would like to modernize our ports and integrate them with Special Economic Zones, Port-based Smart Cities, Industrial Parks, Warehouses, Logistics Parks and Transport Corridors.\nI must mention that our vast coastline of 7500 kilometers offers a huge investment opportunity. Apart from the length of the coastline, India's maritime potential also lies in its strategic location on all major shipping highways. In addition, we have a expansive and productive hinterland, through which flows a network of mighty rivers. Our maritime agenda will complement this ambitious infrastructure for the hinterland which is going on in parallel.\nI call upon the global business community to partner with us to give shape to our process of port led development. I am sure, the long coastline of India along with various coastal regions and hard working coastal communities can become an engine of growth of India.\nTo enable the growth of the Port and related sectors, we have carried out many reforms and taken a number of new initiatives.\nUnder our 'Make in India' approach, we have taken several steps to make India a global manufacturing hub;\nRecently MOODY's has appreciated the make in India initiative;\nWe have done a lot of corrections on the front of the ease of doing business - we have jumped up 12 ranks in World Bank's ranking;\nA lot of simplification has happened in the process\nWe have greatly liberalized the licensing regimes; This also includes the defense sector and ship building;\nWe have taken millions of items out of the licensing process\nMost FDI sectors are now put on automatic approval route;\nShipyards are given Infrastructure status; at par with the ports;\nRebate of service tax on coastal shipping has been increased to seventy percent;\nWe have granted customs duty and central excise exemption on inputs used in ship building;\nA scheme of financial assistance to promote ship building has been approved;\nCustoms and central excise duty have been exempted on bunker fuel for Indian flagged container ships;\nTax issues of sea farers have been resolved;\nA new company by the name of Indian Port Rail Corporation, has been established on the last mile connectivity to ports.\nWe have enacted a legislation for declaring one hundred and eleven waterways as National Waterways-1.\nWe have taken up skill development activities aggressively.\nThe results of our initial efforts are clearly visible:\nFDI inflows have gone up by 44 percent. In fact, the year 2015-16 has seen the highest ever FDI inflow in India;\nIndia's highest ever quantity of cargo handled by major ports was in 2015;\nThe port efficiency parameters have shown very good improvement;\nIndia's fastest average turnaround time in ports was in 2015;\nIn the last two years, our Major Ports has added 165 million tonne capacity with record additions each year;\n94 million tons capacity was added by these ports in 2015-16 alone which is the highest ever;\nThe traffic in Major Ports has shown a healthy growth of more than four percent in the last two years, despite global slowdown;\nThe Performance of the Major Ports in the last two years has been remarkable;\nOperating profit margins which were declining, have increased;\nIn 2015-16 alone, the operating profit of the twelve major ports has increased by about 6.7 billion rupees;\nDuring 2015-16, the Kandla Port in Gujarat has broken into one of the hundred million traffic markmarks.\nJawaharlal Nehru Port Trust registered a net profit of 10 billion rupees helped by a 12 percent increase in efficiency.\nOur flagship companies like the Shipping Corporation, Dredging Corporation and the Cochin Shipyard have registered as high profits as compared to the previous year.\nHowever, this is just the beginning We want to do more We are developing our own capacities of execution and implementation. The National Perspective Plan of the Sagarmala Program has been released today. During the last two years, major ports have awarded 56 new projects involving an investment of more than 250 billion rupees. This will create an additional port capacity of 317 million tonnes per year. Our vision is to increase port capacity from 1400 million ton to 3000 million ton by 2025. We want to mobilize an investment of one lakh crore, or one trillion rupees, in the Port Sector this growth to be enabled. Five new ports are planned to meet the increasing demand of the Exim trade which will rise in proportion with the fast-growing Indian economy. New ports are also being developed by many coastal States of India.\nCoal of domestic production in the anticipated rise in coal production of coastal transportation by 2025 by at least four times. We are shipping and marine security to promote our immediate and regional neighborhoods. Recently India has signed a Coastal Shipping Agreement with Bangladesh which will be mutually beneficial. India is also engaged in the development of Chahbahar Port in Iran. A special purpose vehicle by the name India Ports Global Limited has been established to take up Maritime Projects overseas.\nI am informed that the Ministry of Shipping is showcasing about 250 projects with investment opportunity in the Maritime Sector. These projects include various infrastructure development opportunities in 12 major ports, projects in eight maritime states and other agencies Of these, over 100 projects have been identified under the Sagarmala Program. With more than 14,000 kilometers of navigable inland waterways in the country, there is a tremendous potential for development in this sector. My government is committed to integration in infrastructure. We are committed to making an enabling environment for investors and to facilitate investments.\nFriends! All is being done This is being done to provide employment to the youth. Coastal communities Approximately eighteen percent of India's population lives in 72 coastal districts It comprises twelve percent of India's landmass Therefore, there is a need for holistic and sustainable development of coastal regions and communities. Development of coastal communities As part of the Sagarmala program, we will adopt a comprehensive approach with a focus on capacity building and training, upgrading of technology and for improvement in physical and social infrastructure. This will be done in collaboration with the coastal states.\nThese initiatives will create employment opportunities in the next ten years This includes four million direct and six million indirect jobs To broaden livelihood opportunities, we are planning to deploy modern and sophisticated fishing vessels. This would enable them to harness resources in India's Exclusive Economic Zone. In addition, we are also focusing on value addition in fisheries, aquaculture and cold chain development.\nThe Port Sector in India is a good mix of Private and Public Ports, with both contributing to the growth of the sector. The PPP model of development has succeeded in this sector and has helped Private Ports have been growing at a very healthy pace and have almost doubled their capacity in the last 5 years. They handle around 45 percent of total cargo Most of these ports are new, with modern facilities and can match the best international ports in terms of performance and infrastructure.\nFriends! India has had a glorious maritime history We are on the path of shaping an even better maritime future. The maritime sector is not only creates and facilitates economic activities; it also connects countries and civilizations Moreover, it is the cleanest and cheapest carrier of global trade. Investing in maritime sector is not only investment in one's own future; but in the future However, in this sector, no country can achieve the desired results in isolation. Nations have to deal with this challenge. The objective of this summit is to provide a forum and forum for such cooperation.\nTo conclude, I would like to say that:\nThis is the right time to come;\nIt is also possible to come through the sea route;\nThe Indian ship is well equipped for a long haul;\nDo not miss it;\nMissing it is a pleasant journey and a great destination.\nOnce you are here, I assure you that I will personally hold your hand to see that your berthing is safe, secure and satisfactory.\nThank You!\nI have great pleasure in being with you and welcoming you at the Maritime India Summit: PM @narendramodi https://t.co/I88hu3vQmx\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 14, 2016\nMaritime transport It is also the most eco-friendly mode of transportation: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 14, 2016\nOur life style, transport systems and trading behavior should not spoil the ecology of the oceans: PM @narendramodi https://t.co/I88hu3vQmx\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 14, 2016\nChallenges of climate change has shown that even offshore human behavior can change the ecology of glaciers and oceans: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 14, 2016\nThere is a reason why this important summit has been organized today, on the eighth day of April 2016: PM pays tributes to Dr. Ambedkar\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 14, 2016\nDr. Ambedkar is also the architect of the water and river navigation policy in India: PM @narendramodi https://t.co/I88hu3vQmx\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 14, 2016\nMany people can not know that Babasaheb created two powerful organizations related to water, navigation and power: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 14, 2016\nThey were: The Central Waterways, Irrigation and Navigation Commission and The Central Technical Power Board: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 14, 2016\nDr. Ambedkar emphasized the importance of new waterways policy to lay the foundation for a regime of prosperity for millions of poor of India: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 14, 2016\nWe have embarked on the development of National Waterways in Babasaheb's vision and foresight: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 14, 2016\nWith a GDP growth rate of more than seven percent, India is the fastest growing major economy today: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 14, 2016\nWe Indians are the inheritors of a glorious maritime heritage: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 14, 2016\nIt is my government's endeavor to revive and restore India's position of eminence in the global maritime sector: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 14, 2016\nIn the very early days of our Government, we announced the Sagarmala program: PM @narendramodi https://t.co/I88hu3vQmx\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 14, 2016\nWant to modernize ports \u0026 integrate them with SEZs, Port based Smart Cities, Industrial Parks, Warehouses, Logistics Parks: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 14, 2016\nOur maritime agenda will complement this ambitious infrastructure for the hinterland which is going on in parallel: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 14, 2016\nLong coastline of India along with various coastal regions and hard working coastal communities can become an engine of growth of India: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 14, 2016\nOur vision is to increase capacity from one thousand, four hundred million ton to three thousand million ton by 2025: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 14, 2016\nThis is the common citizen. This is being done to provide employment to the youth: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 14, 2016\nPrivate Ports have been growing at a very healthy pace and have almost doubled their capacity in the last 5 years: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 14, 2016\nIndia has had a glorious maritime history We are on the path of shaping an even better maritime future: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 14, 2016\nThe maritime sector is not only creates and facilitates economic activities; it also connects countries and civilisations: PM @narendramodi"