"Share\n\nPM Modi shares his thoughts on #TigerConservation, says India has long standing and successful track record of protecting tigers\n#TigerConservation: By protecting the tiger, we protect whole ecosystem \u0026 ecological services: PM Modi\nBenefits from #TigerConservation is enormous but intangible. We can not quantify this in economic terms: PM Modi\nIn India, we respect trees, animals, forests, rivers and other elements of nature like the sun and the moon: PM\nIn India, we think the earth as our mother, says PM Modi\n#TigerConservation: Forests are inseparable from wild animals Both are mutually complementary, says PM Modi\nPM Modi appreciates efforts of states on #TigerConservation\n#TigerConservation or conservation of nature Both can happen in mutually complementary way: PM Modi\nWith 70% of global tiger population, India has committed to complementary initiatives of other Tiger Range Countries: PM Modi\nMinister for Agriculture \u0026 Forests, Royal Government of Bhutan and Chairman, Global Tiger Forum,\nDistinguished Ministers from Tiger Range Countries,\nShri Prakash Javadekar, Our Minister for Environment, Forest \u0026 Climate Change,\nOther dignitaries on the dais, delegates from Tiger Range Countries, Ladies and Gentlemen!\nI am happy to welcome you all. The tiger has brought here This is an important meeting of the community. Your very presence is a testimony to your country attaches to this \"umbrella\" among species.\nAs we all know, the tiger is a consumer in the ecological pyramid and food chain. It requires a large amount of money, supported by good forests. Therefore, by protecting the tiger, we protect the entire ecosystem and the ecological services, which are equally crucial for the well-being of human beings.\nIn fact, the benefits from tiger conservation are enormous but intangible. We can not quantify this in economic terms Putting a price tag on nature is difficult. Since Mother Nature has bestowed them for its own protection, it becomes our own duty to conserve them In India, the tiger is much more than just a wild animal In our mythology, the mother goddess, who is the embodiment of Mother Nature, is depicted sitting on a tiger. In fact, most of our Gods and Goddesses are associated with some animal, tree or river. In fact sometimes these animals are on the same pedestal as Gods and Goddesses. No wonder the tiger is our national animal I am sure, other Tiger Range Countries had some cultural legacy associated with tigers.\nFriends! Species related to the animal kingdom, commonly do not act to their disadvantage. However, human beings are an exception. Our compulsions and cravings, our needs and greed, have led to shrinkage of natural habitat and destruction of ecosystems. Here, I recall the famous words of Gautam Buddha who said: \"The forest is a peculiar organism of unlimited kindness. It affords protection to all beings, offering shade even to the axe-man who destroys it. \"\nI appreciate the good efforts made by the Tiger Range Countries in conserving tigers. I compliment you all for this great ongoing effort. I also appreciate the efforts through \"Global Tiger Initiative\" and the Council.\nI must mention the great effort made by Mr. Vladimir Putin in convening the tiger summit in 2010. The Global Tiger Recovery Program was a significant result of these efforts.\nI also appreciate the initiatives of Mr. Dorji, The Chairman of the Global Tiger Forum.\nHowever, from what I had been told it appears that tiger habitats have drastically crossed across Tiger Range Countries. The situation has been aggravated further by the ongoing trafficking in body parts and the derivatives of this magnificent animal. In India too, we have been facing the challenge of poaching and disruption in their ecosystems.\nThe positive side for us in India is that majority of the population respect trees, animals, forests, rivers and other elements of nature like the sun and the moon. We think the earth as our mother Our scriptures Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam and People: Samastya: Sukhino Bhavantu is our philosophy. We pray for peace and prosperity of everyone - including the ecosystem: peace: peace, peace, peace, peace, peace: peace, peace: peace, vegetation: peace.\nFriends! Forests are inseparable from wild animals Both are mutually complementary Destruction of the other This is an important cause of climate change which is affecting us in many ways. This is a global phenomenon which is all about grappling with. As a solution, we have been able to work on specific specifications.\nIn my view, for the Tiger Range Countries, a viable tiger population undoubtedly symbolizes a mitigation strategy for climate change. This will create a huge carbon sink in the form of tiger bearing forests. Thus, conservation of tiger will go a long way\nIndia has a long standing and successful track record of protecting its tigers. We launched \"Project Tiger\" in 1973. Its coverage has increased from the initial 9 tiger reserves to 49 at present. Tiger conservation is a collective responsibility of Government of India and States. I also compliment our state governments for their efforts But the efforts of Government can not be successful Our cultural legacy which encourages compassion and co-existence has played an important role in the success of Project Tiger. Due to such collective efforts, there is an increase of thirty percent in the number of tigers. It has gone up from 1706 in 2010 to 2226 in 2014.\nOur National Tiger Conservation Authority has taken many landmark initiatives Use of modern technology, including intelligent, infrared and thermal cameras on a 24x7 basis is promoted for surveillance against poaching in sensitive tiger reserves. Several protocols for smart patrolling and tiger monitoring have been developed. Radio telemetry is also being promoted to monitor tigers. A national repository of tiger camera trap photo database is also being created. To do all this, we have, this year, doubled our alocation for tiger conservation. We have increased it from Rupees 185 crores to Rupees 380 crores; which is 3.8 billion Rupees\nI strongly believe that tiger conservation, or conservation of nature, is not a drag on development. Both do happen in a mutually complementary manner All we need is re-orient our strategy by fictoring in the concerns of the tiger in sectors where tiger conservation is not the goal. This is a difficult task Our genius lies in \"smartly\" integrating the tiger and wildlife safeguards in various infrastructures at the landscape level. This essentially takes much needed \"smart green infrastructure\", while adopting a landscape approach. The landscape approach will also help us to incorporate business initiatives toward various initiatives towards tiger conservation. In the Indian context, we intend to achieve this through the Tiger Conservation Plans.\nConsidering the ecosystem value of tiger conservation areas, we need to consider them as \"natural capital.\" Our organizations have done an economic valuation of some tiger reserves. This study has been highlighted in the fact that besides the conserving the tiger, these reserves also provide a range of economic, social, cultural and spiritual benefits. These are known as ecosystem services Thus, we need to define conservation as a means to achieve development, rather than considering it to be anti-growth. This calls for factoring in the value of the ecosystem in the economic arithmetic of development and growth.\nFriends! I am confident that we can achieve a framework for foster proactive engagement of industry for conservation. The natural capital denoting the stock of natural ecosystems should be treated at par with capital goods. Our economy needs to be seen as a major economy of natural resources and ecosystem services which sustains us\nAs a country having more than seventy percent of the global tiger population, India has committed to complement the other Tiger Range Countries We have bilateral arrangements with China, Nepal, Bhutan, Bangladesh. Issues of mutual concern for the tiger\nA major threat to the tiger is the demand for its body parts and derivatives. The forest and its wild denizens are the ones that can not be locked up. It is painful to learn about body parts and derivatives of tigers and other big cats. We need to collaborate at the highest level of government\nIndia along with Tiger Range Countries is a founder member of the Global Tiger Forum, which is headquartered in New Delhi. This is the only inter-governmental organization It is now working closely with the Global Tiger Initiative Council. As a host country, I assure you of our fullest support. We will also be happy to support the Wildlife Institute of India.\nThe Tiger Range Countries are signatories to other international conventions to address international trade on endangered species. In this regard, I want to give you another good news We are moving toward the legalization of South Asia Wildlife Enforcement Network.\nAt the end, I would like to emphasize that the tiger is not a choice. It is an imperative I would also like to emphasize that regional co-operation is essential for combating wildlife crime. In this conference, let us resolve the work together India is committed to engage with all Tiger Range countries for this purpose.\nI appreciate your presence and wish this conference all success!\nThank You!\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 12, 2016\nBy protecting the tiger, we protect whole ecosystem \u0026 ecological services, which are equally critical for the well-being of human beings: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 12, 2016\nBenefits from tiger conservation are enormous but intangible. We can not quantify this in financial terms: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 12, 2016\nI must mention the great effort made by Mr. Vladmir Putin in convening the tiger summit in 2010: PM @narendramodi @KremlinRussia_E\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 12, 2016\nIn India, the majority of the population respects trees, animals, forests, rivers and other elements of nature like the sun and the moon: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 12, 2016\nWe consider the earth as our mother: PM @narendramodi https://t.co/Iy8hu3vQmx\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 12, 2016\nForests are inseparable from wild animals Both are mutually complementary Destruction of one leads to destroy: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 12, 2016\nIndia has a long standing and successful track record of its tigers: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 12, 2016\nTiger conservation is a collective responsibility of Government of India \u0026 States. I also compliment State Governments for their efforts: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 12, 2016\nI believe the tiger conservation or the nature is not a drag on development. Both can happen in mutually complementary manner: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 12, 2016\nAs a country having 70% of global tiger population, India has committed to complementary initiatives of other Tiger Range Countries: PM"