"Share\n\nI have come here so sure for education, opportunities for youth and for development: PM Modi\nI have only three agendas: development, fast-paced development \u0026 all-round development\nFor 34 years the Left Front ruled and ruined Bengal; TMC stands for Terror, Maut, Corruption: PM Modi\nLeft and Congress contest against one another in Kerala but in ideological differnces are allies in West Bengal: PM\nAfter coming to power, Mamata Di said Maa, Maati, Manush but now it's all about only Maut and Money: PM\nSolutions to all the problems in development: PM Modi in West Bengal\nWe will ensure total development of Bengal and eliminate all the problems people face in the state: PM\n\nAll of my senior brothers and sisters of Asansol, who have been camped on the platform, have all the senior nobility\nToday I am touring from West Bengal in the morning. It comes on TV that this summer the heat that starts in the month of June has begun in the month of April and there is an election heat in West Bengal between such a fierce heat and you have such a tremendous enthusiasm for the people. While sitting in Delhi, no one can guess what the mood of West Bengal's elections is, what is the intention of the people here. I had never seen such excitement in West Bengal. I want to make a complaint to you when the Lok Sabha election was in 2014 and I myself was the prime minister's candidate and came to this field and then there was no half of its crowd. Today, the enthusiasm that you are showing to decide the future of West Bengal is not my complaint, you are congratulatory.\nLefts and TMC and the Congress running behind them, after seeing these meetings in the coming days, will think which are the goons who should be sent to Asansol so that these people can not vote, there is mood, violence. These meetings will also spoil sleepy and also spoil sleep for Lefts and Soniaji. You people have conveyed to West Bengal that now West Bengal wants freedom from both of them. What got West Bengal? For 34 years, the Left leaders merged Bengal's prestige and respect in the soil, and when the sister came, she had said that Mother, Mati and Manush, but we saw every day in 5 years - business of death, business of money.\nThe way the people of Bengal were cheated here, can anyone forget the Sharda chitfund? The money of the poor is submerged and these sins should have been done in the jails, Sister had to take tough action against such people but they did nothing. This government is a government that lends money to the poor. The poor poor looked after some dreams, daughter's marriage, or children's education, but these robbers digested the money of the poor and made them homeless.\nWhen there is a good and honest government, then make various welfare schemes for the poor. He started chitfand and we came with the Prime Minister Jan-Dhan Yojana; They made money from the poor in the name of Chitfund and we opened accounts without the money and opened the account for free. We gave the card to the poor so that whenever there was a crisis in his family, there would be insurance of 2 lakhs and the family would get the money. Many got these and also under the Jan Dhan Yojana, we opened the bank doors for the millions of poor in India. Assam, Orissa, Bengal, they did not leave the poor of anywhere. What elections should be won by the looters of the poor?\nI have come here today to insist that those people who have kicked the poor in the stomach, such people should not accept this election for a moment too. For 34 years there was a government of lefts in Bengal and they ruined Bengal. Needless to go away, 5 years ago, what Congress Congress leader had said against Left in the election, if you listen to the video, then you will know what the Lefts used to do and it is strange that the Congress led Let's go and hold the kurta. The Congress party which first disbanded the Government of Lefault in Kerala by imposing Section 356 and the Congress, which was angry against LeT, today the entire Congress party has stepped on the feet of the Lefts. When it gives public information, it tears the roof but when it takes it clears like garbage.\nIt was a time when the Congress Party used to sit in the Parliament with 400 people and the anger of the people was such that they came to 40. Today, look at the condition of the Congress that the lieutenant has to bow down to live and die and look at his dishonesty - if there is a quarrel with ideology, then it should be done in Kerala and also face it face-to-face. They are abusing the Communist and fighting with them, and dancing on the shoulders of the Communist in Bengal. Can not understand that wrestling in Kerala and friendship in Bengal? You are dying in the eyes of people. Both in Kerala give abuses to each other and in Bengal say that they are very good and will bless everyone.\nThere was a time when Sister used to hear the name of corruption, then she would throw the chair but now what happened to sister, how such a change came? He used to go out on the road against corruption, he used to latch; Today there is such a huge scandal, tender deals, notes of notes are being given and all the cameras are on, but despite this, sister did not take any action. It means that now sister has adjusted from corruption; Now sister is feeling all right. These looted rupees are of the public and these looters should be closed. These elections are an opportunity when those who do this should be released from politics forever.\nI sometimes think that this is TMC - T for Terror, M for Death and Sea for Corruption. In the five years, this direct meaning of TMC has come out. When we were small and won the Leftha election, we would ask people how they win elections on the lefts, the wise people used to tell me that the choice here was won by the scientific regimen. I had heard the scientific regime but in the secret of sister I see - Scientific Corruption. The business of the tender is settled before the tender gets out.\nNow the corruption of corruption in Kolkata has broken. Vivekananda Bridge has ruined many lives of those who lost their lives, I am sorry for them but Sister is also doing politics on death. The bridge has collapsed, the corpses are lying, the injured people are moaning and sister does not speak anything in the name of helping and saying that the bridge was contracted by the Lefts. I ask if this bridge would be used to inaugurate or if you tried to get the credit for making the bridge, If the Lefts had sinned, why did you raise that sin forward? The work done by the Lefts who went to the whole of West Bengal has been done by them, and therefore, West Bengal should be free from both Lefts and Didi.\nThe manner in which the atmosphere of the tire is being created, trying to finish its opponents is not a symbol of democracy and faith towards it. I am amazed by the debate going on in this election. They ask, how many murders took place in the secret of Mamta ji, Mamta ji says that so many murders took place in your sect; Lefts say that if there were so many rape incidents in your era, then Mamta ji says that in your era this happened, The riots are being counted between the two. I ask that this debate will run in the election? These allegations and reactions are wrong. It would have been nice to say that the Left people had made so many ways and we made it more; Lefts had opened so many schools and we opened schools more than that, this competition should have been there but the competition here is happening, who is worse.\nBrothers and sisters, our government has come to be two years old. Have you ever heard a single allegation against your MP Babul Suprio, who is a key minister in my government? We have been sitting for 2 years, we have not committed a single sin, such government is run. The solution to all our problems is not going to come from electoral hollowing. My 3rd agenda is - Development first, second fast growth and third development on four, on which I have been working since last year and also want to do it here too. You give me a chance to serve The solution to all our problems is in development.\nYou would be surprised that this West Bengal was so cute and progressive that even the British had come to Kolkata and had decided to do their work, it would have been great and wise to have our Bengal. Bengal used to show direction to the whole country but now see the condition of this Bengal. The nephew of Subhash Bhai, Chandra Kumar Bose is contesting from BJP and Siddi is so nervous and sister has given such a terror that no Chandra is giving Bose the place to open the office. People say that we will vote but by the time we have been till we will not be able to give you a house or we will not be able to survive. What is this democracy?\nAsansol was known as the beautiful city. The Indian government is constantly competing in the whole country and the jury examines it fairly. In the beginning of 2016, there will be competition in 72 cities of this country. Two months was given what you have to do. You would be sad to know that Asansol was at the bottom of the list from second to bottom. Didi made Asansol so that its honor in the whole of India was mixed into the soil. Asansol has been an industrial town, it should be neat but not concerned about the Bengal government, nor care for people sitting here.\nI say that you accept the BJP from Bengal and accept the BJP in Bengal. Delhi will take full vigor and will work together on the shoulder to remove all the evils that have been here for many years. Scientific Regime and Scientific Corruption; In the name of syndicate in West Bengal, all businesses are grabbed. What is the syndicate of black marketing in coal and this syndicate started by the Lefts and the Trinamool has pushed it forward. I have said before that those who have not left the country's coal, we will not leave them. You must have seen a few days ago that some people who black-banged the coalition were also punished and even got jail and now there is also a turn of others further.\nWe have fought a fight against corruption and I know that the more I fix these things, the more trouble these people are. That is why they yell loudly because they know that the days of coming to their jail are coming. The reason behind the developmental development and the other things being raised is that the trouble is now preparing to reach their feet. If there is a loud voice anywhere, then it is understandable that Modi has taken any such step which has started causing problems for unscrupulous people.\nI have come to ask you a vote. I want to vote - for the education of children, for the earning of young people, for veterinary medicine, for good education, for good life, for development, for development. By fully supporting you, make BJP candidates victorious.\nThanks a lot!"