"Share\n\nToday, people of the country are working towards creating a strong India, in line with Netaji's vision: PM Modi\nRoss Island will now be named Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose Dweep; Neil Island will be known as Shaheed Dweep; Havelock Island will be renamed as Swaraj Dweep: PM\nEfforts are made to make the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, as self-sufficient as possible: PM Modi\nVictory to Mother India!\nVande Mataram!\nVande Mataram!\nOn this day I urge you all to take your mobile phones and commemorating him, switch on the flash Say with with me -\nNetaji Zindabad!\nVande Mataram!\nThank you so much!\nAll the dignitaries present on stage, the family members of Subhas Babu who have specially come here today and my dear brothers and sisters who had gathered here a large number.\nI salute this land that had been purified by the sacrifices and heroism of the innumerable patriots who had put their lives on hold for freedom. The Andaman and Nicobar group of islands are not only a symbol of natural beauty but also as a tourist destination for the Indians. The greatness of this land remains in the golden history that illuminates not only its geography but also its past. This group of islands is a symbol of our struggle for independence and the heroism and resolutions of each and every Indian.\nFriends,\nOur government is committed to empower this group of islands that is significant in terms of the country's past, present and the future and to ensure that it's a critical part of the country's development story. In order to put this idea on ground, today, projects worth thousands of crores of rupees are being launched or foundation stones. These projects are associated with education, health, connectivity, tourism and industrial employment. I congratulate all my dear brothers and sisters for the various projects.\nFriends,\nI got the opportunity to visit two important monuments Firstly, I visited the Cellular jail and then went to the place where 75 years ago Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose had unfurled the flag while declaring the country's independence.\n\nFriends,\nA completely different feeling fills the mind while entering the cellular jail. I really do not know what those people were made of as they are happily suffered While walking inside the campus of the cellular jail, one feels that the valiant sons of Mother India are writing 'India Mata Ki Jai' with their blood and sweat on the waves of the sea; burning themselves and their lives every moment so that the rays of freedom are emanated.\nEvery and every event associated with the life of Veer Savarkar that we have read and heard about our eyes. Those cells where thousands of revolutionaries like Sawarkar, Baba Bhan Singh, Mahavir Singh, Indradhanush Ray had spent so many years and were tortured, Several heroes of freedom like Barindra Kumar Ghosh, Ullaskar Dutt, Prithvi Singh Azad, Trilokya Nath Chakraborty and Bhai Parmanand have glorified every corner of the cellular jail. The grateful nation can never forget this anonymous heroes of freedom.\nSay with with me -\nLet the Martyrs be immortal!\nLet the Martyrs be immortal!\nFriends,\nWhen it comes to the heroes of freedom, the name of Subhas Chandra Bose fills us with pride and a new zeal. The first Prime Minister of the Azad Hind Government had made this land of India On Netaji's call, many heroes of Andaman did their country for freedom after which the Azad Hind Fauj had unfurled the flag of independence here.\nToday 75 years have passed since that historic event of 30 December 1943. In the memory of that event, we are hoisting a 150 feet high flag to etch this event in memory of our citizens for eternity. Fortunately, I had also got a similar opportunity At that time, the Azad Hind Fauj completed 75 years.\nBrothers and sisters,\nA coin and postal stamp has also been released in the memory of this proud moment of history. Moreover, an important decision has been taken by the government so as to ensure that the freedom fighters including Netaji remains indelible in every corner of Andaman and the whole nation keeps seeking inspiration. Today, while I am talking to you, a notification is being issued. I am about to make that announcement before you are a great pride! From now onwards, the Ross Island will be known as Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose Island, the Neil Island will be known as Shaheed Island and the Havelock Island as Swaraj Island.\nBrothers and sisters,\nNetaji himself had declared India free from the British rule waving the land of this group of islands. On this day, he had addressed a large public gathering of Indians in this very ground, which has now become Netaji Stadium. Then he had said that the government has become a reality. After four years of that utterance, Mother India was freed from the bondage of slavery\nFriends,\nIf the questions and questions were ever raised about India's unity during the long period of colonial rule, that was a question of mindset not values. Subhas Babu too believed that he was one of those ancient times. One can not deny the truth. Netaji had a firm belief that by the name of India, that mentality could also be changed. Today I am happy that while walking on the path of 'Ek Bharat Shrestha Bharat', we are trying to move forward in the feelings of Netaji.\nFriends,\nOften, a few people, knowingly or unknowingly talk about mainland and island during discussions. This is a word of our vocabulary\nMy dear brothers and sisters,\nFor me, the whole India, every corner and part of it is Mainland. Port Blair is equally a Mainland as much as Delhi, Mumbai and Chennai are. This is why our government is focusing on connectivity in those areas which were left behind for whatever reason Our determination of strengthening the country's physical and emotional integration remains firm.\nBrothers and sisters,\nThe feeling of integration strengthens when we memorize our heroes from the past Time and again I say that the nation that fails to recognize its real heroes, its history and honour, can never progress. The country that preserves its history and heritage is a strong development trajectory.\nThe Central Government has been trying to revive every small part of its glorious history for the last four and a half years. It's also been trying to place it before the countrymen as a source of inspiration because history is not only a phenomenon but also a jewel. History is the day gone by as well as a realization of tomorrow. History not only enshrines courage, might and pain but is also a inspiration for the courage and might History is the test of our efforts as well as a reflection of our hard work. History forewarns us and teaches us to stay alert\nHistory is tied in time and also a new resolution. History gives us the courage to have new hope, new dreams and also gives us the courage to dedicate ourselves to the future.\nFriends,\nWith this idea, the government has completed the dream of the Police Memorial that was in limbo for many years. The government has constructed the Panchteerth of Baba Saheb Bhimrao Ambedkar. Our government has built the tallest statue of the world i.e. The statue of Unity to pay tribute to the leader of national unity and peasant movements Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel The country is proud of it today The various monuments are not only for the protection of the history but also to the tribute to the valiant sons who united the country.\nMoreover, we have declared National honours and awards named after Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose and Sardar Patel. Today I am also announcing to open Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose deemed University.\nBrothers and sisters,\nThe main element in the building of a new India We are trying to ensure that both our resources and culture develop simultaneously; Every corner and every person develops the country with 'Sabka Sath Sabka Vikas'. When it comes to the development of the resources\nThe government is committed to industrial development. All the efforts such as the use of solar power, LNG, electric cars, the traffic system of this place, are for creating a balance between development and environment.\nFriends,\nThe government has come up with a major scheme for industrial development in this area and I am going to announce it amidst you all today in this historic moment. It is called the Lakshadweep and Andaman and Nicobar Island Industrial Development Scheme. Under this, the government will provide financial assistance and the concession to the entrepreneurs who set up eco-friendly industries. With the help of this scheme, many industries will come here in the future.\nThis scheme will benefit thousands of enterprises related tourism, food processing and Information Technology. A policy book for startups has been released today. With all these efforts, the young friends here are sure to benefit. Attempts are made to develop tourism Today many projects related to tourism infrastructure Possibilities in the field of high-end tourism will increase with the Passenger Terminal to be built in Havelock port or with the expansion of Yard Marina. We are working on a scheme to extend it up to 100 yards instead of 20 yards.\nFriends,\nIndustries and tourism develop only when connectivity is good This year four ships have been incorporated into the transport sector of this place. Apart from this, under the Make in India program, 4 ships are being developed in Kochi Shipyard. We are trying to make this group of islands more and more self-reliant. Large vessels are maintained today Now, Port Blair's Dock Yard is too expanded.\nFriends,\nI was told that it used to take a lot of time from Chatham to Bombooflat. Now the approval was given for building a bridge between the two places. In the meeting that was held today with the local representatives, roads of issue also raised. I was told that there was a problem of repair and maintenance of roads in rural areas here. I urge the lieutenant governor The report should be sent to the Central Government within two weeks. And after the study of the report, The Central Government will provide all possible help\nBesides, to boost air connectivity, a new integrated terminal building is built on Veer Savarkar International Airport. This building will be done very soon. Chartered flights to Port Blair to Chennai and Kolkata will be available to you all on subsidized rate.\nFriends,\nAlong with the waterways, airways and roadways, I-ways too are extremely important. Phone and Internet connectivity are also being improved. The under-sea optical fiber coming from Chennai, will provide a good quality internet connection to Port Blair as is in the cities of Delhi and Chennai.\nMoreover, the SWAN i.e. The State Wide Area Network too has been started today. Under this, in the first phase, 12 locations of the major islands, the habitable areas will be connected. This will provide high speed internet to the government offices at district and block levels that will facilitate online delivery of government services. In a way, it will boost Digital India in the different islands along with Andaman and Nicobar.\nFriends,\n19 Fish landing centers are being set up so that the youngsters get employment in their traditional occupation as well as the new enterprises and tourism sector. Nine have already done and the work on the rest of the 10 is progressing at a rapid pace. In addition, financial assistance of Rs.200 crore is being provided to boost agriculture, pisciculture and animal husbandry.\nBrothers and sisters,\nToday's crucial projects have been launched and their foundation stones have been laid down. The height of the Dhanikari dam is being increased so that Port Blair and nearby areas do not face water problems for at least the next 20 years.\nWhen it comes to electricity, solar power plants of 7 MW have been approved in the last 6 months. Besides, the LNG power plant, the foundation stone of which has been laid today, will help in meeting the needs of electricity for the next 25 years\nPort Blair is playing an important role in the direction of the waste. The new Plasma Gas Plant that will be set up here will give you clean drinking water as well as clean energy and green fuel.\nBrothers and sisters,\nYour Resolutions is also commendable! I congratulate them I am really glad that the people of the island have been given the island as Open Defecation Free. Cleanliness is not only enhancing its health\nBrothers and sisters,\nOur government is the priority of the people You too are benefitting from it. Two years ago, the Andaman and Nicobar Island Institute of Medical Sciences started in Port Blair. More than 2500 poor and retired people have got their treatment done under the government's Andaman and Nicobar Island Scheme of Health Insurance. Similarly, many poor families are getting the benefits of the Ayushman Bharat Yojana. Free treatment of up to Rs.5 lakhs for serious illnesses in the most advanced hospitals\nFriends,\nWith the expansion of health services here, the two PHCs and CHCs are upgraded to district hospital. Besides, the foundation stone of an AYUSH hospital has also been laid today. After these facilities are well in place here, you will not need to travel to far-off places to get treatment.\nBrothers and sisters,\nThe government is also focusing on education besides healthcare. Four years back, a new college was opened and in 2016, a new college was also started. Now you also have the facility of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose Deemed University. Polytechnic College has also started in Diglipur and just a short while ago, I have a dedicated ITI in Nicobar to you all.\nBrothers and sisters,\nThe government has been making efforts for continuous efforts to ensure the 5 streams of development throughout the country - education for children, income for the youth, medicines for the elderly, irrigation for the farmers and addressing the people's grievances. All the schemes that had been launched and their foundation stones laid the same idea.\nMoreover, we are committed to ensure that our glorious history, culture and our heroes receive the honour for their valor and sacrifices.\nOnce again, I congratulate all my dear brothers and sisters for this historic occasion and for the projects that aim at making your life better.\nTomorrow is the last day of the year 2018. I would like to bring new enthusiasm, zeal and energy as well as the best health to the people of Andaman and Nicobar , Lakshadweep islands and the whole country. I would like to urge you all once again - to take your mobile phones, turn on the flash lights and say aloud with me ....\nThe place where Subhas Babu had laid the foundation stone of Swaraj, we are pledging to start a strong journey with 'Suraaj' on this occasion of 75th anniversary. Turn on the flash lights of your mobile phones\nVande Mataram!"