"PM Modi meets L \u0026 T workers in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia\nPM Modi lauds the hard work of the L \u0026 T workers\nIndia has potential and manpower that the world wants today: PM Narendra Modi\nIndia has previously \"one of the countries\" in the world but now it is a very important country: Modi\nPrime Minister Modi meets and interacts with Indian workers in Riyadh, lauds their hard work\nGovt's e-migrate program to regularize migration, resource center to benefit workers: PM Modi\nMy dear friends, this is the smell of your sweat that brought me here by dragging. Your sweat not only strains your family, but not only the dollar, checks the pounds, but your sweat enhances the oneness of India. When we work, then we do not know, we only understand that I am connected to a project. But if you look towards history, there are many things in the world, if you go to Africa then people of that place tell you a railway and at that time the railway was run at 45 degree height, and the people there were big Proudly say that the people of India came and worked hard on the railway line and went here. Today, if you go to Mauritius, the Mauritian government, where the Indians first landed, a grand museum was built on that place and when their ancestors came to India, in which condition, how they lived, and how they Mauritius has been created, its complete depiction has been done in it, and if he sees that the hawks are standing that 150 (150) years ago, people who went to India in these difficult circumstances had their bloodshed How has the history of humanity renewed from the chest? You too, maybe you will not know what you are doing today, but when these things will be discussed later, it will be a shock that such youths had come from India and they gave Riyadh (Riyadh) this new priceless treasure Had given.\nYou write a lot of people directly to me, but you wrote to your families and your families sent me, many such news keeps coming to me. And sometimes there is pain in it, pain also happens, there is anxiety, and sometimes happiness is also a treasure. And when I see these things, your difficulties in your life are your possibilities, when good news comes from you, then I am as happy as your families are happy. And if there is news of any concern to you, then I have to suffer as much as your family should have, because you are one family in my family and your happiness and misery, that is our happiness and pain. And that is why we continue to make efforts for the Indian community spread across the globe by the Government of India, in that direction. I am also very grateful to His Majesty King, whenever he gave me an opportunity to interact. How do the Indian community work here, I hear something from you saying something to you, and the satisfaction that I have expressed towards you, my chest becomes very wide.\nYou guys work here but that day will not be far away, when India's workforce has reached many areas of the world. Because the power of giving Manpower to the kind of manpower needed today is in India. Work is going on for such a long time. Millions of Millions of hours have been done, Millions of Millions man-days have been brought to work, and with great pride, I was given a presentation that so great work, such a huge work, the work of so many people, but not even one accident is.\nThis is Zero Loss, not just because of technology, it is not due to the inability of management, it is your reason. The credit goes to you because you have followed that discipline. You have never allowed anything to happen hastily and unless you have not been technically satisfied you have not stepped forward and that is the result that there is no harm to anybody.\nIf a wall falls a bit, it will be rebuilt, but if the person goes away then there is nothing left and therefore, with the discipline you have increased, the respect for India has increased, you are working, doing your work You may be worried about your children's education, but your work is also a by product and that by product is that when you see people do so good work! Then there will be another project, then they think that if you are bringing Bhai young people then bring them from India, the work will be good. This has given India the respect, has given strength to the youth of India and you have opened the door to opportunities for the youngsters inside India and that is why you have this skill, your strength is worthy of many-many congratulations.\nNow you people are so far away from your work sight, sometimes the work of Embassy, ​​not on the day of the embassy, ​​Embassy is on, you do not have a break, you have a lot of problems, and considering these things, the era of digital is government Has started a portal named 'Help'. You must take advantage of it From this 'help' portal you will be an Indian anywhere in the world, he can easily reach his point of view to the Indian government.\nThese days you will have seen that another identity of India has been created. In his diplomacy Predominantly human nature, human face, India has come immediately after the crisis has happened, the Indian government has arrived immediately. The way life has saved thousands of people from Yemen, even today there is news from anywhere in the world, even if the Ekad family also comes, then our Foreign Office, our External Affairs Minister Sushma ji, his whole team, urgently to him. Giving greater strength to the relations with any country means that if a citizen is in crisis on any part of the world then the government of India imposes it for him. And for this, this 'help portal' has been created.\nIn the same way there is a second arrangement of E-migrate, due to the E-migrate system which is the employer and who is the employee, the coordination between the two, and the coordination of the system by both, the coordination with the Government of India, these are also very easy There is a possibility of cheating at some place due to it, in the hands of some wrong people, there is less chance of being trapped in the hands of brokers, so an attempt has been made in that direction.\nTwo in the coming days, one to Regularised the Emigrant, the two are here to make a special effort, in the Riyadh and Workers 'resource center in Jeddah, these two will be opened, in order to meet our needs by this Workers' resource center. Will be completed. Second, a help line call center will be arranged 24x7 (twenty-four by seven). Free of charge The helpline will be operational so that now it will be benefited in different languages, in the coming days you will get the system, so that if you need any need somewhere, then you can tell your point through that help line.\nSecond I am free for 24 hours, I have no work left. If work is the work of 100 million people, and I have no work of my own. And therefore, the government of India, which is directly connected to the Prime Minister's Office, a mygov.in can also convey your message to him, he reaches me directly. In the same way you can download Narendra Modi App, I will always be in your pocket. And your prime minister is in your pocket, what more do you want? You will download Narendra Modi App on your mobile phone, everything will reach you to me, my point will reach you, we will be constantly in touch with each other. And I got an opportunity to meet you all.\nYou know, India is moving fast on these days, the whole world's work has been on the journey of India's economic development and at a very fast pace India has once again reestablished its place in the world. . If you say that you are from India then how do people get the response? What happens when anyone will know if it is from India? Is he glad that he does not? If he catches a hand, does not leave it? Say goodbye to India? How was the first, well-good India. See, for the sake of a Hindustani, the whole world is now seeing with so much glory. And this is the identity of young power of India, strength is created.\nI am very happy with all of you and I believe that the name of India is illuminated through you. Thanks a lot.\nYour hardwork draws me here: PM speaks at the L \u0026 T workers complex in Riyadh pic.twitter.com/MuPOJpyS1n\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 2, 2016\nWhen in the times to come, people will see the work you've done, you will realize the importance of your efforts: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 2, 2016\nYour happiness is my happiness and when you are not happy, I also feel the pain: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 2, 2016\nIndia has the kind of manpower that the world needs today: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 2, 2016\nWhenever an Indian has faced a difficulty in any part of the world, the government has helped: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 2, 2016\nThe MEA, the whole team of officers, @SushmaSwaraj ji ... they are always helping Indians who face any problems overseas: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 2, 2016\nThere are forums like MyGov \u0026 'Narendra Modi Mobile App' through which you can reach me and I can communicate with you: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 2, 2016\nPM @narendramodi: Govt has started a program called e-migrate. In the coming days, we are working on regularize migration."