"PM Modi pays tribute to victims\nThe whole of India stands in full support and solidarity with the Belgian people: PM\nIndia offers a huge opportunity - not just a market but as a huge talent pool: PM\nIndia is one of the brightest economic opportunities in the world today. We are one of the fastest growing economies of the world: PM\nI invite the Belgian government and companies to pro-actively associate with India's ambitious development projects: PM\nClimate change is one of the greatest challenges before mankind. We agree to improve our cooperation in renewable energy: PM\nYour Excellency Prime Minister Charles Michel,\nLadies and Gentlemen\nThank you for your comments.\nLast week Let say say Prime Minister that we share the depth of sorrow and sadness that people of Belgium have experienced in the last 8 days. My deepest condolences to the families of those who lost their loved ones Having experienced terrorist violence on the countless occasions, we share your pain. Mr. Prime Minister, in this time of crisis, the whole of India stands in full support and solidarity with the Belgian people I deeply appreciate your welcome and the time that you have pressed demands on you. As a part of our efforts to respond to this common challenge, we would re-start discussions on a Mutual Legal Assistance Treaty. Negotiation of Extradition Treaty and a Treaty on Exchange of Sentenced Prisoners can be concluded expeditiously\nFriends,\nOur two countries A hundred years ago, more than 130,000 troops from India fought in the first world war alongside your countrymen on the belgian soil. More than 9,000 Indian soldiers Next year will mark the 70th anniversary of India-Belgium diplomatic ties. To celebrate this important milestone in our friendship, we look forward to welcoming His Majesty King Philippe of Belgium in India next year. We will also be commemorating it with a joint program of activities in each others' countries. My conversation with Prime Minister Charles Michel today covered the entire spectrum of our ties. A system of bilateral foreign policy consultations\nFriends,\nIndia is one of the brightest economic opportunities in the world today. Our macroeconomic fundamentals are strong, and at 7% plus, we are one of the fastest growing economies of the world. I believe that a combination of Belgian capacities and India's economic growth can produce promising opportunities for businesses on both sides Prime Minister and I have just held a productive interaction with Belgian CEOs and business persons I invite the Belgian government and companies to pro-actively associate with India's ambitious development projects including Digital India, Start Up India and Skill India Belgian businesses can make their global supply chains more cost effective by manufacturing in India India's goal to modernize infrastructure, special railways and ports, and building of 100 plus smart cities also presents a unique investment opportunity for the Belgian companies. These partnerships can help us reach new heights in our trade and commercial partnership. I have invited Prime Minister Michel to visit India with Belgian businesses to see first-hand the reality of India's economic and political promise. Clearly, it is not just diamonds that can shine to our partnership. Climate change is one of the greatest challenges before mankind. Prime Minister and I have agreed to enhance our cooperation in renewable energy. We will also build partnerships in areas such as harnessing waste for energy, small wind turbines and zero emission buildings. Advancement in S \u0026 T and High Technology areas is of particular importance for India's development priorities. We welcome Belgium's collaboration in these areas Prime Minister Michel and I have just activated, remotely, India's largest optical telescope This product of Indo-Belgian collaboration is a inspiring example of our partnership. The work is also on other agreements in the areas of Information and Communication Technology, audio-visual production, tourism biotechnology and shipping and ports.\nFriends,\nIn a couple of hours from now, I will meet the E.U. leadership for the 13th India-E.U Summit. For India, E.U. Is one of our strongest strategic partners Trade, Investment, and Technology partnership between India and the E.U. would be one of the focus areas of our discussions. I feel that a progressive path and creative mind-set to India-E.U Trade and Investment Agreement can enable all European countries, including Belgium, to benefit from India's strong economic growth. I was once again expressing my sincere gratitude to Prime Minister Charles Michel for his time, welcome and hospitality. I look forward to welcoming him in India.\nThank you.\nPM starts press statement: Let say say PM, we share depth of sorrow \u0026 sadness that pple of Belgium has experienced pic.twitter.com/aOSo4ZKVYU\n- Vikas Swarup (@MEAIndia) March 30, 2016\nPM @narendramodi: In this time of crisis, the whole of India stands in full support and solidarity with the Belgian people\n- Vikas Swarup (@MEAIndia) March 30, 2016\nPM @narendramodi: Our two countries pic.twitter.com/gVH2XdRzP1\n- Vikas Swarup (@MEAIndia) March 30, 2016\nPM: I believe that a combination of Belgian capacities \u0026 India's eco growth can produce promising opportunities for businesses on both sides\n- Vikas Swarup (@MEAIndia) March 30, 2016\nPM: I have invited PM Michel to visit India with Belgian businesses\n- Vikas Swarup (@MEAIndia) March 30, 2016\nReflecting on the wide range of our engagements, PM says it is not just diamonds that can shine to our partnership!\n- Vikas Swarup (@MEAIndia) March 30, 2016\nRenewable Energy, S \u0026 T, space research, ICT, tourism, biotechnology, shipping \u0026 ports - PM speaks about the various aspects of cooperation\n- Vikas Swarup (@MEAIndia) March 30, 2016\nPM @narendramodi: India's largest optical telescope is a inspiring example of our partnership.\n- Vikas Swarup (@MEAIndia) March 30, 2016\nPM closes: I feel that a progressive path to #IndiaEU Trade \u0026 Inv't agreement can enable all to benefit from India's strong economic growth\n- Vikas Swarup (@MEAIndia) March 30, 2016\nHere is the full text of the Press Statement by PM @narendramodi during his visit to Belgium https://t.co/401CI1wk5n pic.twitter.com/FSs3VInDoS"