"PM conveys Easter greetings to people around the world\nPM congratulates Indian cricket team for their wins against Pakistan \u0026 Bangladesh\nI extend my best wishes to the match: PM\nI want to congratulate Coal India Limited for creating an eco-friendly mine tourism destination: PM\nThere is a lot of potential of job generation through tourism. We can create opportunities for millions of youths through tourism: PM\nIt is time for a new revolution in sports: PM\nIt is important to take football to every village \u0026 # FIFAUnder17 is a great opportunity: PM\nSend your suggestions on Narendra Modi App for branding India on global scale: PM\nSpend your holidays in a new skill: PM\nWe have launched 'Kisan Suvidha App' to assist farmers in all their operations and hope this is beneficial to them: PM\nSummer is a very important time for farmers. All of us have thought about water conservation: PM\nApril 7th is World Health Day and this year it is dedicated to diabetes: PM\nI urge my countrymen to defeat diabetes: PM\nGive a missed call to 81908-81908 \u0026 listen to PM Modi's #ManKiBaat in your regional language on the go!\nMy Dear Fellow Citizens,\nLet me begin by wishing 'Namaskar' to all of you. Today, the world over, Christians are observing Easter. I extend my warmest greetings to everybody on the occasion of Easter.\nSome of my young friends should be busy with their examinations. Some of them should have got their examinations now. For those of you who have still have examinations, it should be a test time on exams and one on T-20 Cricket World Cup on the other. I am sure you are waiting for the match between India and Australia this evening.\nSome days ago India won two fine matches against Pakistan and Bangladesh This T-20 Cricket World Cup is a fantastic momentum building. Today, as India and Australia get ready to play, I convey my best wishes to both teams.\nWith the young comprising of 65% of our population, there should be no reason why we should be absent from the world of sports. This will not do. We need to update We can see that happening in India As with Cricket, There is now increasing interest in Football, Hockey, Tennis, and Kabaddi.\nYou must have come to know that India will be hosting the FIFA Under-17 World Cup next year. Twenty-four teams from all over the world The Indian Football team won the gold medal at the Asian Games in 1951 and 1962, and came fourth in the 1956 Olympics. Unfortunately, over the decades we have slipped from there to the lowest rungs. Today our ranking in FIFA is so low that I feel irreconcilable even to mention it.\nOn the other hand, I have not beenicing that interest in Football in the youth in India has been rising - be it the English Premier League, Spanish League or the Indian Super League matches. Young Indians take time out to get the latest information on these matches and watch them on television. FIFA Under-17 World Cup, will we just play the role of a host and fulfill our responsibility? Or will we use our advantage to promote sports?\nWe should create an atmosphere of Football, Football, Football all around for the whole year - in schools, colleges, indeed, all over India Our youth, the schools in our schools, should be drenched in sweat just playing Football. If that happens, we will have real fun playing the host. So, all of us can make the effort to ensure the football reaches every village, street and alley. Between now and the FIFA Under-17 World Cup in 2017, we should inspire a spirit of enthusiasm in the youth. One advantage of playing the host for this event is that a whole lot of infrastructure will get ready. But I personally will be happy when we are able to link\nFriends, I would like to hear your views on how best to use the 2017 FIFA Under-17 World Cup to our advantage. How should this event be? What kind of programs should we organize How should it be publicized? What improvements do we need to make? How can we increase the interest of our youth in sports through the 2017 FIFA under-17 World Cup? How do we introduce an element of competitiveness in government, educational institutions and social organizations to associate with the game?\nWe can see this happening in relation to cricket; We should try to bring these elements into other sports disciplines as well. The FIFA event offers a unique opportunity to do so. Can you send me your suggestions on how best to use that opportunity? I see the FIFA event as a great opportunity to establish India as a brand at a global level. I think this is a way to let the world know of India's youth power - not in the sense of winning or losing a match. In the run-up to and preparing for the 2017 FIFA event, we can harness and display our many strengths; While doing so, we can do image-branding for India as well.\nI look forward to your suggestions on the 2017 FIFA Under-17 World Cup, which will be available through NarendraModiApp. Do let me know what should be the logo and the slogans How should we propagate this whole India? What should the songs be like? What should be in the souvenirs? Think about it friends. I would like to be a young ambassador for the 2017 FIFA Under-17 World Cup. You should robustly participate in this event It's a golden opportunity to build India's image.\nMy dear students, you must have traveled to your holidays. There are very few people who go abroad; Most people visit places within a week or so. Some people also go outside their states Last time too, I had requested to visit the places. And I have noticed that the kind of work which our Department of Tourism, our Department of Culture, State Government and the Government of India can not do, that kind of work has been accomplished by millions and millions of Indian tourists. Photos of such magnificent places are uploaded.\nWe have to take this task forward. Do it this time as well But this time, along with a photo, please write and send a small piece about the place, thus displaying your creative prowess. One gets to learn new places Things we can not learn in a classroom, within our family, from our friends, sometimes we learn those things by travelling. We get some fresh ideas for every new place we visit - we learn about people, their languages, foods and lifestyles. Someone has rightly said that \"A traveller without observation is a bird without wings\". \"If you have a desire to truly see, you should also develop an insight.\" Once you set out to see the country, the rest of your life will keep you new. I have been fortunate enough to travel. When I was Chief Minister and Prime Minister, I ran a lot Perhaps there is not a district in India which I have not visited.\nTravel plays a very strong role in shaping our lives. These days the youth of India is being driven by a spirit of adventure and curiosity. Unlike before, they do not want to go on the same track. They want to do something new I see this as a good sign Our youth should be bold They should be brave They should have the courage to set foot on places\nIn this context, I would like to specially congratulate Coal India Western Coalfields Limited at Savaner near Nagpur, where there are coal mines, has developed an Eco-friendly Mine-Tourism Circuit. Generally we do not think When we see pictures of miners, we wonder We even have a saying, \"Coal blackens your hands\", so people tend to stay away from coal mines. But Western Coalfields Limited has made these same coal mines a destination for tourism. This is only the beginning, but already about 10,000 people have visited this Eco-friendly mine-tourism site at Savaner near Nagpur. This in itself gives us a chance to see something new.\nI hope that when you set out on a vacation during the coming holidays There is a greater awareness about cleanliness and people making a tour. Both tourists and local residents Maybe it is not being done in a very scientific way, but it is being done Can you too, being a tourist, lay stress on the tourist destinations? I am confident that our youth will definitely help me in this task.\nTourism is a sector that provides maximum employment Even the poorest person gets a chance to earn from tourism When tourists visit a place, even the not-so-well-off between them spend money. Rich tourists are bound to spend more money. There are many employment opportunities created by tourism. India lags far behind in tourism when compared to the world. But if we, 125 crore Indians, decide that we have to pay attention to our tourism sector, we can attract the world We can draw a very large number of tourists to our side. Through this we can provide new employment opportunities to many millions of young people in India. Be it the government, institutions, society, citizens - we all have come together to do this happen Come, let's make an end in this direction.\nMy dear young friends, I do not like it when the holidays are just frittered away. You too should think along these lines Will you let your holidays be the most important years of your life? I will give you something Can you solve the problem, during a special attribute to your personality, during your holidays? If you do not know how to swim, can you solve the swimming during the holidays? If you do not know how to cycle, can you solve cycling during the holidays? Or you could say yourself, \"I type with just two fingers on the keyboard, so should I learn correct way of typing?\" Why not learn them? Why not some of our shortcomings? Why not add to our strengths? Do give it a thought\nIt does not like the lot of classes, a great trainer, or a big budget for this. You can find something around you Let's say you decide to make the 'best' out of 'waste' Just look for some waste material You will enjoy it. By the time the evening falls, you will marvel at what you have created from that rubbish. Suppose you are fond of painting and you do not know how to paint Just start painting and gradually you will get better at it. You must spend your holidays on your personality by developing some new talent, acquiring some new skill. There you can do so; It is not as if you are confined to only those ones This will help you in carving out your own identity and raising your self-confidence tremendously. Just try it for yourself When you return to school or college and tell your classmates about what you learned during the holidays, and when your friends find that they have not learned anything new, they will realize that they were wasted their time. They will admire you, \"You are a very determined man, my friend, you have accomplished something concrete.\" I am confident that you will surely do it and, yes, do share with me what you've learned\nThis time a lot of suggestions have come for Mann Ki Baat on www.mygov.in: -\nSound Byte- \"My name is Abhi Chaturvedi Namaste Dear Prime Minister, you had said during the last summer holidays, so we should fill a bowl with water and place it in the balcony or the terrace so that the birds have water to come. I did it and in this way I made friends I request you to repeat this task in Mann Ki Baat. Thank You. \"\nMy dear fellow citizens, I would like to express my gratitude to this little boy. He called me up and reminded me Frankly, I had forgotten about it. And I did not say it in my mind, but I have never said something on this topic, but I have been reminded that last year I had asked you to put a mouth on the birds.\nFriends, I want to thank this boy Abhi Chaturvedi He has reminded me of a good deed Last summer I was reminded of the birds in the summer. Abhi has told me that he has been doing this for a whole year and many birds The great Hindi poetess Mahadevi used to love birds. She has written this in one of her poems, \"We will not let you fly far way, we shall fill the courtyard with grains and fill the tank with sweet and cool water ...\" Come, let us also do what Mahadevi Ji used to do I greet you and thank you for this very important thing\nShilpa Kukke from Mysore has raised a very humane issue. She says milkmen, newspaper vendors, postmen come closer to our homes. Sometimes the hawkers and cloth sellers too pass by our homes. Have you ever offered them some drinking water during the summer days? Have you ever given them water to drink? Shilpa, I am very grateful to you that you have articulated something so sensitive in so simple a way It is a small gesture but when the postman comes and he offers water, he will feel good. Of course, it is a part of our nature in India. But I'm glad, Shilpa, that you observed these things\nMy dear farmer brothers and sisters, you must have repeatedly heard the term - Digital India Some people feel that Digital India is the best way to work in our cities. No, it's not like that You will be happy to learn that a 'Kisan Suvidha App' has been launched to serve your interests. If you download this 'Kisan Suvidha App' on your mobile phone, you will receive a lot of information related to agriculture and weather at your fingertips. There are many topics on this app, such as what is the state of the market, what is the position of the wholesale market, which are the good of these days, which are the appropriate pesticides. Not just this There is a button on the app which will connect you directly with agricultural scientists and link you with the experts. If you pose a question to them, they will reply it; They will explain things to you I hope that my farmer brothers and sisters will download the 'Kisan Suvidha App' on their mobile phones. Why do you have a look at this gift for you and give it a try? If you feel it lacks in anything then you can also complain to me\nMy dear farmer brothers and sisters, the rest of the people, but for you it is time to sweat it out even more A farmer waits for the rains Before that, he goes into his life and soul to get his field ready so even a single drop of rain For farmers, the season just before startup is important. We will have to give a thought Can we use this time to visit ponds, check the routes through which water flows in these ponds and spot the places where the garbage or something else flows from the water, because of which reservoirs get depleted. Can we not remove the blockage and clean the inlets so that more water gets collected? If we manage to save and collect more water during the first rain and fill up our ponds, rivers and streams, then even the rains fail later, our losses are reduced. But this can be possible only\nYou have noticed that this time it has been decided to construct five lakh ponds and farm water reservoirs. Under MNREGA also has a reservation for water conservation. Every village should save water How can we save every drop of water during the rain? How do we begin a exercise to ensure that the village remains in the village? You should devise a plan and get connected with Government schemes so that we can start a people's movement. Then everyone can join the campaign for water conservation. There must be many such villages in the country, many progressive farmers and many conscientious citizens. But we still need to\nMy dear farmer brothers and sisters, some days ago The Government of India had organized a very big Kisan Mela, 'Farmers Fair'. There I saw the modern technology that is now available for farmers. But we have to Now even the farmers have started saying the use of fertilizers should be curtailed. I welcome this. Excessive use of fertilizers has made our Mother Earth unwell. We are the children of our soil, so how we watch our Mother Earth suffering? When we add spices and condiments while cooking, it adds to the taste. But if we add too much of the spices and condiments, then would one want to eat that food? The same food will taste so bad, is not it? The same thing happens with fertilizers as well.\nNo matter how good fertilizers may be, if we use them beyond a limit There should be a balance in everything This will end up saving money. Our stand is clear: Less Cost, More Output Invest Less and Reap More We should move forward with this 'mantra' and improve our agricultural sector by using scientific methods. I hope we will, with full concentration, whatever is needed for water conservation. We have a couple of months from the beginning of the monsoon. Do remember, the more we save water, the more the will be saved.\nMy dear fellow citizens, The World Health Day is on 7th April. This year the theme of the World Health Day is 'Beat Diabetes'. I call on all of you to defeat the diabetes. Once it enters your body, a whole lot of undesirable guests in the form of illnesses follow it. It is said that in 2014 India had about six and a half million diabetics. Diabetes was found to be the cause of death Diabetes is two types - Type 1 and Type 2. Type 1 is hereditary; If the parents have it, so shall their child Type 2 is due to your habits, age and obesity The world is worried about Diabetes and so it's been the theme for World Health Day on 7th April.\nWe all know that our life is the biggest cause for diabetes. Physical Labor is getting reduced. There is no trace of sweat; there is just no walking around Even if we play games, we play them online; very little happens offline Can we not, drawing inspiration from this year's World Health Day and its theme, do something to lose Diet in our personal life? If you are interested in Yoga, then do Yoga Or else, the least you can do is a walk or a run. If every citizen of my country is healthy Sometimes we are not able to get our medical check-up done. When the condition worsens then only does it come to our notice that it is Diabetes to blame. What do you lose in a check-up done? Please get this much done at least Everything is available and a check-up can be easily Please do not worry about this\nOn March 24th, the world observed Tuberculosis Day. When I was a child we would not be scared by the word TB. It would have died inevitable for anybody suffering from this dreaded disease. But now we are not scared of it because everybody knows TB is curable and can be easily cured. Paradoxically, when TB was linked to death; but now that it is curable, we have become almost careless about it Compared to the world, we still have a large number of TB patients. If we want to free ourselves and our country from TB, then we need correct treatment, we need complete treatment If we leave the treatment mid-way, it can create new complications for us Tuberculosis is one disease that also the neighbors can spot. \"Oh look! You have a persistent cough and fever and you have lost weight Go get it checked You must have got TB. \"This shows TB is one illness that can be detected fast.\nMy dear fellow citizens, there is a lot of work on this direction. There are more than 13,500 Microscopy centers, more than four lakh DOTS providers, various advanced laboratories. And all these services are free Please go and get a checkup done This disease can be got rid of All one needs is the correct treatment I would like to appeal to you all, whether it is TB or Diabetes. We are going to eradicate these diseases from India But this can not happen with just the efforts of the government or by doctors or medicines. So I call on all of you today to defeat Diabetes and free ourselves from Tuberculosis.\nMy dear fellow citizens, a number of important occasions are coming up in April, especially on 14th April, which is the birth anniversary of Baba Saheb Bhimrao Ambedkar. His 125th birth anniversary was celebrated all over the country The five pilgrimage spots associated with him - Mhow, his birthplace; London, where he was educated, Nagpur, where he had his 'Deeksha'; 26, Alipur Road, Delhi, where his soul left him for his heavenly residence; and the cremation ground in Mumbai where his last rites were performed. We are making a constant effort to develop these five pilgrimage spots. I am fortunate to get the opportunity to visit Mhow, the birthplace of our revered Baba Saheb Ambedkar, on 14th April this year. Baba Saheb has given us a lot to help We can pay our best homage to him\nIn a few days from now, the new year of Vikram Samvat will begin. It's been celebrated in different states. Some call it Nav Samvatsar, some call it, Gudi Padva, some Varsh Pratipada, some Ugadi, but it holds significance in almost all states of India. My greetings to everybody on this auspicious occasion of New Year.\nAs you know and I have said it last time also, you can now listen to my Man Ki Baat in about 20 languages ​​whenever you want to. You can choose You can listen to it on your own mobile handset. All you have to do is a give call I am happy to state that although it has been barely a month since this service was launched, 35 lakh people have availed it. You too can note down the number 81908-81908 I repeat - 81908-81908. Give a missed call on this number whenever it is convenient for you If you want to listen to any previous episode of Mann Ki Baat, you can listen it in your choice. I will be happy to stay connected with you\nMy dear fellow citizens, my heartiest best wishes to you all Many, many thanks\nPM starts #MannKiBaat by conveying https://t.co/Iy8hu3Nre5\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 27, 2016\nPM congratulates Indian cricket team for their wins against Pakistan \u0026 Bangladesh \u0026 conveys best wishes for the match today. #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 27, 2016\nIt is time, in the course of a new revolution in sports: PM @narendramodi on importance of sports #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 27, 2016\nIndia had a good run in football earlier but that is not the case now. Our rankings are also very low: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 27, 2016\nI see that our youth is enjoying football like EPL Its important to take football to every village \u0026 FIFA U-17 is a great opportunity: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 27, 2016\nDue to the tournament that we are hosting, we will get a chance to make good sporting infrastructure too: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 27, 2016\nI would like my youngest to become the Ambassador of the 2017 FIFA Under-17 World Cup: PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat https://t.co/I88hu3Nre5\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 27, 2016\nPM #ManKiBaat: #FIFAUnder17 is a opportunity for India Send your suggestions on #NarendraModi App for branding India on global scale\n- Doordarshan News (@DDNewsLive) March 27, 2016\nIndia is full of diversity. Go out to see once, keep watching all the days, keep watching: PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 27, 2016\nTo build life, there is a great power of stay: PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 27, 2016\nI want to give a special compliment to Coal India. Western Coalfields Limited (WCL), Savner near Nagpur, where Coal Mines are: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 27, 2016\nIn that Coal Mines, he has developed Eco-friendly Mine Tourism Circuit: PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat https://t.co/Iy8hu3Nre5\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 27, 2016\nPM @narendramodi emphasizes on tourist spots across India. #MyCleanIndia https://t.co/Iy8hu3Nre5 #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 27, 2016\nMy young friends, do not let your holidays go like that. Pick up one skill during the holidays: PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 27, 2016\nAbhi Chaturvedi reminds me of last year #MannKiBaat https://t.co/Iy8hu3Nre5\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 27, 2016\nShilpa shared on @mygovindia that we should ensure that we offer water to those who sell milk, newspapers, deliver posts etc. #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 27, 2016\n#PMonAIR: The thing is small, but if the postman came near the house between the heat and we woke it, it would be so nice to him. #MannKiBaat\n- All India Radio News (@airnewsalerts) March 27, 2016\nYou will be glad that a 'Farmer Facilitation App' has presented to you all in the service: PM @narendramodi talks to farmers during #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 27, 2016\nThis is a very important time for farmers. All of us have a thing and that is water conservation: PM @narendramodi"