"I have three agendas for Assam-development, fast-paced development, all-round development: PM Modi\nAssam needs development, it needs road connectivity, industries and employment opportunities: PM Modi\nAssam has given a prime minister for 10 years, but the state did not prosper: PM\nWe want to provide good education to children of Assam; employment to the state's youth \u0026 better medical facilities for the elderly: PM\nOur fight is against poverty and unemployment with our sole focus on development: PM\nI urge the people of Assam to script a new chapter in the state's history so that the state's newer heights of progress: PM\nAll of my senior brothers and sisters who are sitting on the platform and all the senior nobles\nToday I am on an election tour of Assam from the morning. This is my fourth meeting but I saw a huge storm of change inside Assam. While sitting in Delhi, no one can imagine the mood of Assam. Assam has made up its mind and if I decide to see the presence of mothers and sisters in the meeting, then it is difficult to save the Congress. Assamese mothers and sisters have decided to bring changes in Assam, fulfill their dream and form a new government in Assam, I am clearly watching. Enjoy Assam, Sarvanchand!\nCongress Party has ruled in Assam for more than 60 years. The Prime Minister of Delhi also chose from Assam. The people of Assam have to be reminded that the gentlemen who went to the Rajya Sabha from here were made the Prime Minister of the country. If the Municipal Corporation is also a member, then the entire village remembers that it is a member of our Municipal Corporation. A prime minister lasted for 10 years and the people of Assam were not ready to remember him. You can imagine how terrible injustice has happened to Assam, how much pain there is in the heart of the people here and how their dreams have been shattered.\nHow is the country's youth power, how can a young country and the world change, it has shown the youth of Assam. I welcome these young people and salute their power. I am surprised that there will be some survival in Assam. If Congress people come then there will be corruption, the vault will be empty, it was heard but here also Rhino is not left. Rhino is not only the face of Assam but also the whole of India, but for political reasons its killers have been encouraged and have been running Rhino poaching. I stand with you on the shoulder side and now Rhino will not be allowed to die. Those who have hunted Rhino, the opportunity to hunt them has come to you. Hunting guns will be needed to hunt Rhino, but there is no need to press the button to hunt the hunters of Rhino.\nAssam is full of natural wealth. When the country became independent, one of the five prosperous states of the country, Assam was one of them and today, after the 60 years of Congress rule in Assam, Assam comes in five poor and undeveloped states, what can be a big painful thing is. I have to bring Assam out of this situation and take Assam to that height when every Hindustani child speaks - Assam on one. These prime ministers are ready to serve you. You have the opportunity to get relief from the problems of Assam. Let us all move together and make a government that will take Assam to new heights of development. Together we will change the fate of Assam; I have come to give you confidence; Give us the opportunity\nWe have to pay attention to development, otherwise our villages, cities, states will be lagged behind. Vote Bank's politics got a lot; This kind of politics has given this huge opportunity to liberate Assam from Assam. Our Chief Minister of Assam has been 15 years old, hands must be tired, elderly and in a few years, he will turn 90, and he says that I have a fight with Modi. You are too big, we will fight with you, we will bow to you, our sacraments are to salute the elderly and take their blessings. The tradition of our country is that the small ones will bow to their elders and bless the elderly little ones. I have to fight but not Goge, but by poverty, unemployment, fighting against illiteracy and fighting for development.\nI have three agendas to change the fate of Assam - first development, second fast growth and third development in four directions. We are moving forward towards development. From Mungaligarh to Jorhat, four lanes are taking place and we are spending around 4.5 billion rupees. In Assam, we are planning to construct only about 12 thousand crore rupees for roads, 10 thousand crore rupees for rail, because Assam can no longer wait for long. Assam has a hunger for development, it needs rail, needs road, wants industry, employs employment\nThe Honorable Chief Minister, the CAG is seeking the account with you. In the democracy, the government has to give account, but our Gogi Sahab is not ready to give an account, they give a smile when they ask for accounting. The CAG is demanding accounting for 1 lakh 80 thousand from the Assam government but they are not ready to give the account. The poor should get home and we have given money for it, but the Assam government has such a comfort that only one-third has got money and two-thirds of the money is rotting in the bank. If the poor's house had been built, the poor would have been satisfied today. Even after sending money from Delhi, the government here is not ready to build a house because it has got entangled in me and your politics. They do not care about the poor and hence the people here are waiting for development today.\nMany hundred years ago, there was no electricity and people used to live in the light of the sun or used to live in the light by setting fire to them. Even after 60 years of independence, 60 percent of households in Assam are in such a situation where electricity is not available; What could be worse than that? I have taken the initiative to give electricity to every village. I used to think that 50-100 villages would be such that there is no electricity and it is surprising that the states did not know how many villages have no electricity and no one was able to calculate. When I fell behind, it finally came to account and there are 18 thousand villages in the country where there is no power line. In my speech in Red Fort, I announced that I would give electricity to all of these villages within 1000 days. I put everyone on this job and now there are many days to complete 1000 days, in one-third of the villages, we have so far provided electricity. You can see through the app on your mobile that in which village electricity came. Assam also has about 2000 thousand villages where there was no electricity yet. I am glad that in about 1,000 of them we have provided electricity. Now you tell that those who kept you in the dark, should they be discharged or not? You would be surprised that the schools were made but they did not have toilets, especially for girls and for which reason our daughters had left studies. I also undertook this and campaigned and I am happy that we have more than 4 lakh toilets in schools.\nWhat I mean to say is that if the government gets caught up to one thing and resolves the problem then this country can be changed. I want to change Assam and for that I want your blessings. We have rice cultivation here but the government never buys, even if the Indian government gives money. These people will come from East India, the second agricultural revolution in India, which will be the states of West Bengal, Assam, Bihar, Eastern Uttar Pradesh and North-East; It is my belief that North-East has the power to become an organic capital of India. The oil that we produce, the peel which is on top of it, is the most expensive oil sold in the world and we export this oil. If the farmers of Assam who produce rice, the factory to make oil from its peel here, then you can estimate how much income will be made to the people of Assam. In the last 10 years, locals in Assam and around 32 thousand small and medium industries were involved and the government did not make any difference.\nPeople of Assam want employment and I have the dream that the children of Assam studied, earning money to the youth of the youth and medicines to the elderly. We have to emphasize this work. I see that the Congress is scheduled to go to Assam and the change is certain, but I am requesting you to form a government with a two-third majority, never do half-way work and clean the Congress completely and only then Destiny will change. Your responsibility is to start a new era of development in this election and take Assam to new heights of development.\nLong live Mother India! Long live Mother India! Long live Mother India!\nThanks a lot!"