"\nPrime Minister Narendra Modi, Bangladesh PM Sheikh Hasina jointly incomurate India-Bangladesh Power Grid Transmission Line\nIndia-Bangladesh Power Grid Transmission Line is our gateway to the East It is a step toward our 'Act East' policy: PM\nPM Modi expresses happiness about BBIN road connectivity\nThis is a historic opportunity from my eyes. Perhaps there will be very few such occasions in the world that through the medium of modern science, the Prime Minister of the two countries, together with a Chief Minister, unveils a scheme. From this point of view it is a huge important that I consider the opportunity. Through his speech, he forwarded this point, encouraged him. I thank you very much for this. Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman's relationship with India was very unbreakable. You also have always remembered how India has become a participant of your sad pain in that work of humanity in those days of crisis and has also expressed gratitude towards India. Even today, you are expressing those feelings with the same intensity.\nThere were days when there was a Bangladesh full of pain, pain and suffering. Today Bangladesh is heading towards tallies. Even then we are walking with you on the shoulder side, you are walking with us. Together we are keeping a precedent in front of the world that what kind of relationship with neighbors can be. What are the best ways to make an inter-dependent world, and I see that our efforts to support a companion after one have the potential to give very good results. And I see this opportunity in that form and I believe that I believe that the global community will see this event being done by a video camera in a small room at a global level too.\nToday's incident- electricity is going from Bangladesh to Bangladesh. This is an opportunity for a new energy, the power of development. On the other side, we have such a gateway open. Because the two of our entry in the digital world till date were our gateways, it was in the west, in a south. But our east was untouched. And I'm going to take an Act East policy, then for me this gateway of the East is very important. And opening the Gateway of the Digital World in collaboration with Bangladesh, it is in itself, in the eastern part of India, and especially in Assam, North East including Tripura and Sikkim, which is our state of Asht Lakshmi. For the young people there, it is going to be an opportunity to awaken a new consciousness. And today's world moves on the power of communication. This is the opportunity to promote the power of communication. And so thank you for the support you have given us, the facility that we gave.\nIn the coming days, the transmission lines which are being put in relation to electricity, we have already put more of its capacity so that in the days to come as it is necessary, and the more we can work with you in the field of energy. Our constant effort will be, and on today's occasion, I consider it a big issue and a few days ago, we carried forward the successful successful road connectivity of Bangladesh, Nepal, India and Bhutan. Today, we are giving a new energy through electricity and we are adding the 21st century important connectivity to digital connectivity. I.e. water, be it, be it Now Bangladesh and India are joining and joining the shoulder side and going as far as I said and came.\nNow we have to move forward in space as well. Bang-Bandu Satellite, India's wish is that we are connected to you in the Band-Bandu Satellite as well as on the road, like we are connected with you in the water, like we are connected with you in the digital world, also in space. Connect with and want to move forward. I once again greet you very much, and in particular, today India is celebrating Holi. Holi is considered to be a big holy festival here, there is also some land in Bangladesh where Holi festival is celebrated and on this holy festival of Holi, this opportunity will fill our relationship with new colors and new ones Will become the cause of energy and new connectivity.\nToday is another important occasion and today it is an important opportunity for Bangladesh and India to match T-20 today. I convey my best wishes to both the teams and when India and Bangladesh play our youngsters, then the strength of sportsman spirit is born in the relationship of raising above the defeat of sports. Like power gives new strength, our sportsman spirit also gives new strength. Today, play both teams with the same sportsman spirit and show the world of sportsman spirit. My two teams are very good luck. Thank you very much too."