"Share\n\n26, Alipur road will be an iconic building of Delhi and for us it will be a source of inspiration: PM Modi\nBabasaheb was the voice of the marginalised He is a World Manav: PM Modi\nDr. Ambedkar called for labor reforms \u0026 at the same time thought about Indianisation: PM\nDr. Ambedkar had united the country socially through the Constitution: PM Modi\nDr. Ambedkar raised his voice for all rights: PM\nToday I got the opportunity to give Ambedkar Memorial Lecture. This is the sixth lecture. But say this my good fortune, or say the reason for thinking of the country, I am the first Prime Minister to come here to speak. I consider it a privilege for me. And along with this there is also the opportunity to realize a plan of the Government of India that 26-Alipur, where Baba Saheb's Parinirvan is the site, will be a grand inspiration place. There can be a question in anyone's mind that the great man who had farewell from us in 1956, today after 60 years there is a memorial being started. 60 years have passed, 60 years have passed.\nI do not know who will respond to the incident in history. But we had to wait 60 years. It may have been written in my own destiny. Maybe Babasaheb would have been blessed on me that I got this good fortune for me.\nI first want to congratulate the heart of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee Ji. Because Vajpayee's government did not make this decision, because this property went privately. And in the house where Babasaheb lived, he was completely demolished and the new building was made there. But despite this, Vajpayee was the Prime Minister when he was in the government, he acquired it. But later his government is not there. Ambedkar did not remain in the heart of the others who came. And because of this, no work has been done even after acquiring the house. Our resolve is that this work will be completed by 2018. And from now on I also tell the department, I tell the Minister Shri 2018, on April 14, I will come to inaugurate this. The date is to work only and then it will happen. And it will be grand, it is my complete faith.\nWhatever design you have seen, you will also believe that the iconic buildings inside Delhi will now be named after this place. It will be an iconic building for the world, it is the inspiration for us, the place to give us an inspiring inspiration, and therefore in the coming generations, which has the motivation to work towards humanity in terms of humanity, it will increase. What can be the motivation location by doing.\nOccasionally there is a complaint and I have spoken this complaint many times but every time I want to repeat it. Sometimes we make a lot of injustice to Baba Saheb By making them the messiah of the dalits, they do injustice injustice. Do not confuse Baba Sahib like this. They were the inhuman, great people who raised the voice against every incident. He was a strong voice of every generation, exploited, crushed, buried. It is also okay to bind them in borders of India. We should see them as 'world human'. As the world looks at Martin Luther King, we can not see Baba Ambedkar Sahib less than that. If the voice of the oppressed people of the world can become Martin Luther King, then today, the voice of the oppressed people of the world can become Baba Saheb Ambedkar. And so for all those who believe in humanity, it is very necessary that Baba Saheb was the protector of human values.\nAnd what we got in the Constitution, we did not get it due to special caste. It has happened as an excellent effort to destroy the traditions of injustice. If I ever look at the window of history, I would like to see two great men, especially one Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel and the other Babasaheb Ambedkar.\nWhen the country was free, this country was scattered in many kings and kingdoms. Political dispersion was scattered in the system, the system was scattered and the British had intent to disintegrate this country. Every king and princess raised his head, leaving the country in the condition that he left, but Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel, who for the unity of the nation, through his diplomacy, by his diplomacy, his political They did this work by wheel and in very short time. And from today we have been able to see the creation of a grand Bharat Mata by Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel from Himachal Kashmir to Kanya Kumari. So there was a political dispersion on the one hand, on the other hand there was social scandal. The depression of ours, the poison of casteism, the caste of caste, the oppressed, the oppressed, the deprived, the tribal, and the sickness of this society have been living among us for centuries. Many great men came and they tried to improve. Mahatma Gandhi did, many, that is, no centenary will not be such that efforts have not been made to destroy the evils of Hindu society.\nBut Babasaheb Ambedkar pioneered social integration through political-constitutional arrangements, which was done by Sardar Patel of political unification, that work was done by Baba Saheb Ambedkar ji of social integration.\nAnd therefore, the dream which Baba Saheb has seen should not be used anywhere in the effort to fulfill that dream. There should not be any looseness in it. Sometimes, when we think about Baba Saheb, very few of us will know why Baba Saheb has been able to resign from the Council of Ministers. Either in our country history is dubbed, either in our country the history is diluted or diverted, it happens in its own way. Hindu code bill Baba Saheb was working under the chairmanship and at that time initially all the heads of the government and others were cooperating in this matter. But when the Hindu Code came to the notice of Bill Parliament and the issue of giving women rights in it, the right to property, rights in the family, and equal rights were given to women, because Baba Saheb Ambedkar was deprived, afflicted, Could not see the exploited. And it was not just for Dalits, it was also for the women of Tata, Birla family and also for the Dalit daughter. Look at Baba Saheb's vision. But, when the government of that time stood up in front of these progressive things, the voice did not stand, the government suppressed how such a thing could happen in India that women give rights to property, they go to become a daughter-in-law! Then do not know what will happen? How scattered in society, all these fears were born, and fifty people expressed their fear. At such times Baba Saheb felt that if India's woman is not entitled to it, then Baba Saheb can not even become part of that government and he had left the government. And the things that Baba Saheb had thought, he changed time later, people's thinking improved even a bit, gradually and once, the government accepted one thing, never considered two, sometimes one came, and two came . After all, Baba Saheb had gradually got to accept the government after all. But it took years, many governments came to visit\nMy point of saying is that if I limit the Baba Saheb within the Dalits, then Baba Saheb has given 50% of the population of this country to mothers and sisters, what will happen to them? And so it is necessary to understand Baba Saheb as his perfection, accept it.\nLabor Laws, working in the coal mine of women in our country was a big problem, but the law did not stop. And this work was so difficult that women could not get it. This Baba Saheb Ambedkar showed courage and Baba Ambedkar made a big decision to free women from the works of coal mines.\nWages in our country, not just Dalits were laborers, not like those who were laborers, Baba Saheb was the Messiah of them all. And so 12 hours, 14 hours a laborers used to work, the owner used to work, and the laborers did not even think that I too could have a life, I could have any human rights, that poor person did not even know . Nor did anybody come to Baba Saheb Ambedkar to give memorandum that we have taken so much work, do something us. It was the call of Baba Saheb's spirit that he was working 12 hours, 14 hours, limited to 8 hours. Even today, if the main law is that if there is any labor law in India, it was the father of Baba Saheb Ambedkar.\nYou take 50 leading leaders of India, who have the opportunity to participate in the decision making process of the country, what is the decision, the decisions which have affected Hindustan for a century. The idea that, in the entire 20th century, was effective on the country, which is working with the same strength in the beginning of the 21st century. If you decide on which of your decisions, if you make the blueprint, then I believe that Baba Saheb Ambedkar will be on number one, that the things thought by which the decisions made by him are still relevant.\nYou see, electricity generation, electricity, we are seeing today that the work that has taken place in the direction of energy in India was created by Baba Saheb if there was any structured system. And the result of that was that separate arrangements were made for the electricity board, electricity generation, which further expanded into the country, and the direction of energy supply to home energy in India to become self-sufficient in India. The result of that thought was that they gave a structured system to the country.\nYou must have seen, just bring a Bill in Parliament to bring people to us. When we brought these bill people would have thought that wow! What has the Modi government done? What we have brought, we understand the power of water in India, giving rise to water-ways, increasing our traffic through water-ways, increasing our goods-transport, in this direction, a major decision has been made in this parliament. is. But please do not think that it is Modi's thinking. Here we have got good fortune, but this basic idea is of Baba Saheb Ambedkar. Babasaheb Ambedkar, who at that time, had understood the maritime power of India and the power of India's water-ways and his system of structured. And wanted to move him there. If he got a chance to serve the government in the long run which I did just in the parliament, he would have been 60 years ago today. That is, the loss of the country of Baba Saheb is not enough, we know that and if a devotee of Baba Saheb comes into the government, then how is the work done even after 60 years, it seems to be seen.\nBaba Saheb gave us a message, and I believe that if someone has found the right treatment for the disease, then Baba Saheb has found it. There are many people who know the disease, there are some people who try hard to get rid of illness but a permanent solution, if anybody gave Baba Saheb, what is he? He told the same thing to society that be educated, become educated, solve all these problems in education. And once you are educated, you will be able to talk with your eyes in front of the world, no one can see you low, no one can call you untouchable. Here, this was the Inner Power, which was an attempt to give Inner Power. They did not give external forces, they showed the path to awaken your inner energy. Make another mantra, get organized and tell the third thing to fight in favor of humanity, raise voice against inhuman things. These three spells are still giving us inspiration, giving us strength. And so when we talk about Baba Saheb Ambedkar, then our responsibility also becomes and the obligation is made, to walk on the path of Baba Saheb. And it does not begin with the last mantra, it happens with the first mantra. Otherwise, some people like the last one, struggle. The first mantra is to be educated, the second one is the mantra, be organized. After all it will not be necessary, it will not come. Because there will be such a great power in itself that the world has to accept. And what Baba Saheb said, he showed it by living. Otherwise they could also leave education, the problems had come to them, the troubles had also come to them, the insults had to withstand them too. And I was happy that our Bihar governor had gone to Baroda with a delegation and went to Baroda and honored the SaharaRA family. Respected for this, that it was Sahavrao Gaekwad, which was first identified as this diamond. And if anybody had done the first thing to do this in diamond, then Sukrao Gaikwad had done it. And then there is a gift from Sahvarao Gaikwad to India that we get Baba Saheb Ambedkar. And so, thanks to the proposal, going to the family of Sahraoo Gaikwad, a lot of people went to the society and respected them, the family's. Otherwise, a peon was not ready to give water to Baba Saheb at that time. He used to lay down, then Babasaheb used to raise Saheb. In such an environment, Gaayakwad ji embraced Baba Ambedkar Saheb. This is the specialty of our country. These characteristics also we have to recognize. And on the basis of these characteristics we have to move forward our journey of development of further life.\nOccasionally in our country the work that Baba Saheb Ambedkar had done was the integrity of the pure Nation, the society was loyalty. Baba Saheb Ambedkar has never done any work by the inspiration of Raj Loyhta. The nation has done loyalty and society sincerely and therefore we have also shown our way to Baba Ambedkar Sahib to weigh our decisions on this scale, that our nation should be dealt with the scales of integrity, society should be dealt with by the scales of allegiance, and then जा करके वो हमारा निर्णय, हमारी दिशा, सही सिद्ध होगी।\nकुछ लोगों ने एक बात, कुछ लोगों का हमसे, हम लोग वो हैं जिनको कुछ लोग पसंद ही नहीं करते हैं। हमें देखना तक नहीं चाहते हैं। उनको बुखार आ जाता है और बुखार में आदमी कुछ भी बोल देता है। बुखार में वो मन का आपा भी खो देता है, और इसलिए असत्‍य, झूठ, अनाप-शनाप ऐसी बातों को प्रचारित किया जाता है। मैं आज जब, जिन लोगों ने 60 साल तक कोई काम नहीं किया, उस 26-अलीपुर के गौरव के लिए आज यहां खड़ा हूँ तब, मुझे बोलने का हक भी बनता है।\nमुझे बराबर याद है, जब वाजपेयी जी की सरकार बनी तो चारों तरफ हो-हल्‍ला मचा था अब ये भाजपा वाले आ गए हैं, अब आपका आरक्षण जाएगा। जो लोग पुराने हैं उनको याद होगा। वाजपेयी जी की सरकार के समय ऐसा तूफान चलाया, गांव-गांव, घर-घर, ऐसा माहौल बना दिया जैसे बस चला ही जाएगा। वाजपेयी जी की सरकार रही, दो-टंब रही लेकिन खरोंच तक नहीं आने दी थी। फिर भी झूठ चलाया गया।\nमध्‍यप्रदेश में सालों से भारतीय जनता पार्टी राज कर रही है, गुजरात में, महाराष्‍ट्र में, पंजाब में, हरियाणा में, उत्‍तर प्रदेश में, अनेक राज्‍यों में, हम जिन विचार को लेकर के निकले है, उस विचार वालों को सरकार चलाने का अवसर मिला, दो-तिहाई बहुमत से अवसर मिला, लेकिन कभी भी दलित, पीडि़त, शोषित, tribal, उनके आरक्षण को खरोंच तक नहीं आने दी है। फिर भी झूठ चलाया जा रहा है, क्‍यों? बाबा साहेब अम्‍बेडकर ने जो राष्‍ट्र निष्‍ठा और समाज निष्‍ठा के आधार पर देश को चलाने की प्रेरणा दी थी, उससे हट करके सिर्फ राजनीति करने वाले लोग हैं, वो इससे बाहर नहीं निकल पाते हैं, इसलिए से बातों को झूठे रूप में लोगों को भ्रमित करने के लिए चला रहे हैं और इसलिए मैं, मैं जब Indu Mills के कार्यक्रम के लिए गया था, चैत्य भूमि के पुनर्निर्माण के शिलान्‍यास के लिए गया था, उस समय मैंने कहा था खुद बाबा साहेब अम्‍बकेडकर भी आ करके, आपका ये हक नहीं छीन सकते हैं। बाबा साहेब के सामने हम तो क्‍या चीज हैं, कुछ नहीं हैं जी। उस महापुरुष के सामने हम कुछ नहीं हैं। और इसलिए ये जो भ्रम फैलाए जा रहे हैं, उनकी राजनीति चलती होगी, लेकिन समाज में इसके कारण दरारें पैदा होती हैं, तनाव पैदा होते हैं और समाज को दुर्बल बना करके, हम राष्‍ट्र को कभी सबल नहीं बना सकते हैं, इस बात को हम लोगों ने जिम्‍मेवारी के साथ समझना होगा।\nबाबा साहेब अम्‍बेडकर का आर्थिक चिंतन और वैसे तो अर्थवेत्‍ता थे। उनकी पूरी पढ़ाई आर्थिक विषयों पर हुई और उनकी पीएचडी भी, जो लोग आज भारत की महान परंपराओं को गाली देने में गौरव अनुभव करते हैं, उनको शायद पता नहीं है, कि बाबा साहेब अम्‍बेडकर की Thesis भी भारत की उत्‍तम वैभवशाली व्‍यापार विषय को ले करके उन्‍होंने पीएचडी किया था। जो भारत के पुरातन हमारे गौरव को अभिव्‍यक्‍त करता था। लेकिन बाबा साहेब को समझना नहीं, बाबा साहेब की विशेषता को मानना नहीं, और इसको समझने के लिए सिर्फ किताबें काम नहीं आती हैं, बाबा साहेब को समझने के लिए समाज के प्रति संवेदना चाहिए और उस महापुरुष के प्रति भक्ति चाहिए, तब जा करके संभव होगा, तब जा करके संभव होगा। और इसलिए बाबा साहेब अम्‍बेडकर ने अपने आर्थिक चिंतन में एक बात साफ कही थी, वो इस बात को लगातार थे कि भारत का औद्योगिकरण बहुत अनिवार्य है। Industrialisation, उस समय से वो सोचते थे, एक तरफ labour reforms करते थे, labour के हक के लिए लड़ाई लड़ते थे, लेकिन राष्‍ट्र के लिए औद्योगिकरण की वकालत करते थे। देखिए कितना बढि़या combination है। लेकिन आज क्‍या हाल है, जो labour की सोचता है वो उद्योग की सोचने को तैयार नहीं, जो उद्योग की सोचता है वो labour की सोचने को तैयार नहीं है। और वहीँ बाबा साहेब अम्‍बेडकर थे जो दोनों की सोचते थे, क्‍योंकि राष्‍ट्र निष्‍ठा की तराजू से तोलते थे। और इसलिए वो दोनों की सोचते थे, और उसी का परिणाम ये है कि बाबा साहेब औद्योगिकरण के पक्षकार थे और उनका बड़ा महत्‍वपूर्ण तर्क था, वो साफ कहते थे, कि मेरे देश के जो दलित, पीडि़त, शोषित हैं, उनके पास जमीन नहीं है और हम नहीं चाहते वो खेत मजदूर की तरह अपनी जिंदगी पूरी करें, हम चाहते हैं वो मुसीबतों से बाहर निकलें। औद्योगिकरण की जरूरत इसलिए है कि मेरे दलित, पीडि़त, शोषित, वंचित लोगों को रोजगार के नए अवसर उपलब्‍ध हो जाएं, इसलिए औद्योगिकरण चाहिए। दलित, पीडि़त, शोषितों के पास जमीन नहीं है। खेती उसके नसीब में नहीं है। खेत मजदूर के नाते जिंदगी, क्‍या यही गुजारा करेगा क्‍या? और इसके लिए बाबा साहेब अम्‍बेडकर ने इन बातों को बल दिया। औद्योगिकरण को बल दिया।\nइसी विज्ञान भवन में मेरे लिए एक बहुत बड़ा गौरव का दिन था, जब मैं दलित चैंबर के लोगों से यहां मिला था। मिलिंद यहां बैठा है, और देश भर से दलित Entrepreneur आए थे। और मैं तो हैरान, आनंद मुझे तब हुआ, कि दलितों में Women Entrepreneur भी बहुत बड़ी तादाद में आए थे। और उनका संकल्‍प क्‍या था, मैं मानता हूं बाबा साहेब अम्‍बेडकर को उत्‍तम से उत्‍तम श्रद्धाजंलि देने का प्रयास अगर कोई करता है, तो ये दलित चैंबर के मित्र कर रहे हैं। उन्‍होंने कहा, हम नहीं चाहते हैं कि दलित रोजगार पाने के लिए तड़पता रहे वो रोजगारी के लिए याचक बने, हम वो स्थिति पैदा करना चाहते हैं कि दलित रोजगार देने वाला बने। और उन्‍होंने हमारे सामने कुछ मांगे रखी थीं। और आज मैं गर्व के साथ कहता हूं, उस मीटिंग को चार महीने अभी तो पूरे नहीं हुए हैं, इस बजट में वो सारी मांगे मान ली गई हैं, सारी बातें लागू कर दी हैं। ये आपने अखबार में नहीं पढ़ा होगा। अच्‍छी चीजें बहुत कम आती हैं।\nदलित Entrepreneurship, उसके लिए अनेक प्रोत्‍साहन, venture, capital, fund समेत कई बातें, इस field के लोगों ने जिन्‍होंने तय किया, जिनका माद्दा है कुछ करना है हमारे दलित युवाओं के लिए। वो बात इतनी ताकतवर थी कि सरकार को मांगे माने बिना, कोई चारा नहीं था जी। कोई आंदोलन नहीं किया था, कोई संघर्ष नहीं था लेकिन बात में दम था। और ये सरकार इतनी संवेदनशील है कि जिस बात से देश आगे बढ़ता है वो उसकी प्राथमिकता होती है, और हम भी उस पर चलते हैं।\nमेरा कहने का तात्‍पर्य ये है भाइयो, कि हमें समाज की एकता को बल देना है। और बाबा साहेब से ये ही तो सीखना पड़ेगा। आप कल्‍पना कर सकते हो कि एक महापुरुष जिसको इतना जुल्‍म सहना पड़ा हो, जिसका बचपन अन्‍याय, उपेक्षा और उत्‍पीड़न से बीता हो, जिसने अपनी मां को अपमानित होते देखा हो, मुझे बताइए ऐसे व्‍यक्ति को मौका मिल जाए तो हिसाब चुकता करेगा कि नहीं करेगा? तुम, तुम मुझे पानी नहीं भरने देते थे, तुम मुझे मंदिर नहीं जाने देते थे, तुम, मेरे बच्‍चों को स्‍कूल में admission देने से मना करते थे। मुनष्‍य को जो level है ना, वहां ये बहुत स्‍वाभाविक है। लेकिन जो मानव से कुछ ऊपर है वो बाबा साहेब अम्‍बेडकर थे, कि जब उनके हाथ में कलम थी, कोई भी निर्णय करने की ताकत थी, लेकिन आप पूरा संविधान देख लीजिए, पूरी संविधान सभा की debate देख लीजिए, बाबा साहेब अम्‍बेडकर की बातों में, वाणी में, शब्‍द में, कहीं कटुता नजर नहीं आती है, कहीं बदले का भाव नजर नहीं आता है। उनका भाव यही रहा, और वो भाव क्‍या था, मैं अपने शब्‍दों में कह सकता हूं, कि कभी-कभार खाना खाते समय दांतों के बीच हमारी जीभ कट जाती है, लेकिन हम दांत तोड़ नहीं देते हैं। Why? क्‍योंकि हमें पता हैं दांत भी मेरे हैं, जीभ भी मेरी है। बाबा साहेब अम्‍बेडकर के लिए सवर्ण भी उनके थे और हमारे दलित, पीडि़त, शोषित भी, दोनों ही उनके लिए बराबर थे, और इसलिए बदले का नामो-निशान नहीं था, कटुता का नामो-निशान नहीं था। बदले के भाव को जन्‍म न देने का और समाज को साथ ले के चलने की प्रेरणा देने वाला प्रयास बाबा साहेब अम्‍बेडकर की हर बात में झलकता है और ये देश, सवा सौ करोड़ का देश बाबा साहेब अम्‍बेडकर का हमेशा-हमेशा ऋणी रहेगा, जिसने देश की एकता के लिए अपने जुल्‍मों को दबा दिया, गाढ़ दिया। भविष्‍य भारत का देखा और बदले की भावना के बिना समाज को एक करने की दिशा में प्रयास किया है।\nक्‍या हम सब, हमारे राजनीतिक कारण कुछ भी होंगे, पराजय को झेलना बड़ा मुश्किल होता है। लेकिन उसके बावजूद भी जय और पराजय से भी समाज का जय बहुत बड़ा होता है, राष्‍ट्र का जय बहुत बड़ा होता है। और इसलिए उसके लिए समर्पित होना ये हम सबका दायित्‍व बनता है। इस दायित्‍व को ले करके बाबा साहेब अम्‍बेडकर ने जो उत्‍तम भूमिका निभाई है, राजनीतिक कारणों से इस महापुरुष के योगदान को अगर सही रूप में उनके जीवनकाल से ले करके अब तक अगर हमने प्रस्‍तुत किया होता तो आज भी समाज में कहीं-कहीं-कहीं तनाव नजर आता है, कभी-कभी टकराव नजर आता है, कभी-कभी खंरोच हो जाती है। मैं दावे से कहता हूं, अगर बाबा साहेब अम्‍बेडकर को हमने भुला न दिया होता, तो ये हाल न हुआ होता। अगर बाबा साहेब अम्‍बेडकर को फिर से एक बार हम उसी भाव के साथ, श्रद्धा के साथ जनसामान्‍य तक पहुंचाने का प्रयास करेंगे तो ये जो कमियां हैं वो कमियां भी दूर हो जाएंगी, तो ताकत उस नाम में है, उस काम में है, उस समर्पण में है, उस त्‍याग में है, उस तपस्‍या में है, उस महान चीजें जो हमें दे करके गए हैं उसके अंदर पड़ा हुआ है और उसकी पूर्ति के लिए हम लोगों का प्रयास होना बहुत आवश्‍यक है।\nऔर इसलिए बाबा साहेब मानवता के पक्षकार थे। अमानवता की हर चीज को वो नकारते थे। उसका परिमार्जन का प्रयास करते थे और हर चीज संवैधानिक तरीके से करते थे। लोकतांत्रिक‍ मर्यादाओं के साथ करते थे। बाबा साहेब के साथ क्‍या-क्‍या अन्‍याय किया, किस-किसने अन्‍याय किया, ये हम सब भली-भांति जानते हैं। हमारा संकल्‍प ये ही रहे दलित हो, पीडि़त हो, शोषित हो, जो गण वंचित हो, गरीब हो, आदिवासी हो, गांव में रहने वाला हो, झुग्‍गी-झोंपड़ी में जीने वाला हो, शिक्षा के अभाव में तरसने वाला हो, इन सबके लिए अगर कुछ काम करना है तो बाबा साहेब अम्‍बेडकर हमारे लिए सदा-सर्वदा एक प्रेरणा हैं और वो ही प्रेरणा हमें काम करने के लिए ताकत देती है।\nआप देखिए, अभी मैं एक दिन बैठा था, मैं हमारे सरकार के लोगों से हिसाब मांग रहा था। मैंने कहा कि भई कितने गांव हैं जहां अब बिजली का खंभा भी नहीं पहुंचा है। आजादी के इतने साल बाद भी हिन्‍दुस्‍तान में 18 हजार गांव ऐसे पाए कि जहां बिजली का खंभा नहीं पहुंचा है। जिस बाबा साहेब अम्‍बेडकर ने power generation के लिए पूरा structure बना करके गए, 60 साल के बाद भी 18 हजार गांव में बिजली पहुंचेगी नहीं, तो बाबा साहेब अम्‍बेडकर को क्‍या श्रद्धाजंलि हम देंगे जी? हमने बीड़ा उठाया है, मैंने लालकिले से बोल दिया। जैसे आज बोल दिया न, 14 अप्रैल को मैं उद्घाटन करुंगा, 2018, लालकिले से मैंने बोल दिया 1000 दिन में मुझे 18,000 गांवों में बिजली पहुंचानी है और आप, आप अपने मोबाइल फोन पर देख सकते हैं, आज किस गांव में बिजली पहुंची। आजादी के 60 साल के बाद अब तक करीब-करीब 6000 से अधिक गांवों में बिजली पहुंच चुकी है, 18000 मुझे 1000 दिन में पूरे करने हैं, मैं देख रहा हूं शायद 18000, एक हजार दिन से भी कम समय में पूरा कर दूंगा। आप कल्‍पना कर सकते हैं, आप, आप एक साइकिल अपने पास रखो और सोच रहे हो कि भाई 2018 में स्‍कूटर लाना है। तो आप सोचते हैं किस colour का स्‍कूटर लाएंगे, किस कम्‍पनी का स्‍कूटर लाएंगे, अनेकों बार दुकान होगी तो देखते होंगे, brochure लेते होंगे, स्‍कूटर लाना है। साइकिल से स्‍कूटर जाएं तो भी एक और जिस दिन आए स्‍कूटर 10 रुपये की माला ला करके पहनाएंगे, नारियल फोड़ेंगे, मिठाई बांटेंगे, क्‍यों साइकिल से स्‍कूटर पर आए कितना आनंद होता है। 60 साल के बाद जिस गांव में बिजली आई होगी, कितना आनंद होगा, आप कल्‍पना कर सकते हैं। मैं उन 18000 गांवों को कहता हूं कि 60 साल के बाद आपके घर में भी बिजली आती है, तो मोदी का अभिनंदन मत करना, बाबा साहेब अम्‍बेडकर का करना, क्‍योंकि ये structure वो बनाके गए थे, लेकिन बीच वालों ने काम को पूरा नहीं किया। बाबा साहेब अम्‍बेडकर की इच्‍छा को मैं पूरा करने का सौभाग्‍य मानता हूं।\nअभी 14 अप्रैल को मैं मऊ तो जा रहा हूं। ये पंचतीर्थ का निर्माण भी हमारे सौभाग्‍य का कारण बना है। जहां-जहां भाजपा की सरकारें हैं उन्‍हीं के समय हुआ है, ये सब। फिर भी बदनामी हमको दी जा रही है। क्‍या कारण था कि Indu Mills पर चैत्य भूमि का कार्य पहले की सरकारों ने नहीं किया। क्‍या कारण था 26-अलीपुर का फैसला आज करने की नौबत आई? क्‍या कारण है कि लंदन का मकान आज हम ले करके आए और राष्‍ट्र के लिए प्रेरणा दी? कोई भी मेरा दलित अब जाएगा लंदन उस मकान को जरूर देखने जाएगा। पढ़ने के लिए जाएगा या घूमने के लिए जाएगा, जरूर देखने जाएगा, मुझे विश्‍वास है। ये पंचतीर्थ की यात्रा, एक प्रेरक यात्रा बनी है कि समाज जीवन में कैसा परितर्वन आया और हर काम दिल्‍ली के अंदर दो स्‍मारक, 26-अलीपुर और हमारा जो मैंने 15-जनपथ जिसका मैनें, शायद एक साल हो गया और construction उसका तेजी से चल रहा है, उसका लोकार्पण तो बहुत जल्‍द होने की नौबत आ जाएगी।\nतो ये सारे काम भारतीय जनता पार्टी के लोगों को सरकार बनाने का सौभाग्‍य मिला तब हुए हैं। और इसलिए क्‍योंकि हमारी ये श्रद्धा है। अभी 14 अप्रैल को मैं मऊ तो जा रहा हूं, लेकिन उस दिन हम एक बड़ा कार्यक्रम कर रहे हैं, मुंबई में। कौन सा कार्यक्रम? बाबा साहेब अम्‍बेडकर ने जो सपना देखा था भारत की जल शक्ति का maritime का water-way का। हम एक Global Conference 14 अप्रैल को पानी के संदर्भ में मुंबई में करने जा रहे हैं, वो भी बाबा साहेब अम्‍बेडकर की जन्‍म-जयंती पर तय की है।\nमैं मऊ में कार्यक्रम launch करने वाला हूं। हमारे देश के किसानों को, क्‍योंकि बाबा साहेब अम्‍बेडकर का आर्थिक चिंतन बड़ा ताकतवर चिंतन है जी और आज भी relevant है। बाबा साहेब अम्‍बेडकर ने किसानों की चिंता की है, अपने चिंतन में। किसान जो पैदावार करता है उसकी market को ले करके बहुत बड़ी कठिनाइयां हैं। और बेचारा घर से निकलता है मंडी में जाता है तब तक मंडी में कोई लेने वाला नहीं होता है। आखिरकार अपनी सब्‍जी वहीं पशुओं को खाने के लिए छोड़ करके घर वापिस चला जाता है, ये हमने देखा है। 14 अप्रैल को हम एक E-market , E-platform तैयार कर रहे हैं, जो हमारा किसान अपने मोबाइल फोन पर तय कर पाएगा कि किस मंडी में क्‍या दाम है, और कहां माल बेचने से ज्‍यादा पैसा मिल सकता है, वो मेरा किसान तय कर सकता है, ये भी, ये भी 14 अप्रैल, बाबा साहेब की जन्‍म-जयंती के दिन हम लोग उसका प्रारंभ करने वाले हैं।\nकहने का मेरा तात्‍पर्य ये है कि उस दिशा में देश को चलाना है। ऐसे महापुरुषों के चिंतन वो हमारी प्रेरणा हैं, हमें ताकत देते हैं और हम उनसे सीखते हैं। और मजा ये है कि उनकी बातें आज भी relevant हैं। उन बातों को ले करके चल रहे हैं और राष्‍ट्र के निर्माण के लिए, राष्‍ट्र के कल्‍याण के लिए ये ही सही राह है। एस: पंथ:, ये ही एक मार्ग है। उस मार्ग को ले करके हम आगे बढ़ रहे हैं। मैं फिर एक बार आप सब के बीच आने का मुझे सौभाग्‍य मिला और ये 60 साल से जो निर्णय नहीं हो पा रहा था, वाजपेयी जी ने जो सपना देखा था, उस सपने को पूरा करने का सौभाग्‍य हमें मिला है। मैं आपको विश्‍वास दिलाता हूं कि 14 अप्रैल, 2018, आप सब मौजूद रहिए। फिर एक बार उस भव्‍य स्‍मारक को बनाएंगे। Thanks a lot."