"Share\n\nAndaman and Nicobar Islands: PM Modi\nPM Modi appreciates the people of the Nicobar Islands for their spirit and hard work in rebuilding the islands after the tsunami\nPM Modi reaffirms government's decision to leave, or any part of the country\nAll the dignitaries present on the stage and my dear brothers and sisters of Car Nicobar\nYesterday I was with Mother Ganga in Varanasi and today I am here with you in the lap of this vast sea. Just like mother Ganga has been showering her blessings on the people with her purity, this sea is singing praises of Mother Bharti from time immemorial and providing energy to the country's security and strength.\nFriends,\nToday, as soon as I landed here, I saluted all our ancestors from various islands including Car Nicobar who had sacrificed their lives.\nFriends,\nYou not only have the nature of wonderful treasures but also the best culture, traditions, art and skills Just a few moments ago, the dance show by the children shows that India's cultural richness is as deep as this ocean.\nThe way you have held on the tradition of the family is a great strength for our Indian way of living. This is a true example of how work, resources and labor can be divided and properly utilized properly and efficiently. Kargil to Car Nicobar and Kutch to Kohima\nFriends,\nJust a few moments back I'm sorry There, I paid homage to those who lost their lives in that horrible natural disaster. 14-15 years ago that heart-breaking event had been affected by your loved ones. However, the way all of you have rebuilt Car Nicobar with your hard work, is indeed commendable!\nBrothers and sisters,\nToday, various projects have either been launched or their foundation stones as laid out and the uplift of the people of Car Nicobar with better facilities. It includes various projects ranging from education to health, employment to skill development, transportation to electricity and from sports to tourism. I congratulate you all for these projects This is an extension of our idea of ​​development which has its roots in infrastructure and connectivity i.e. 'Sabka Sath Sabka Vikas' This means that not a single person or any corner of the country should remain untouched by development. This is a manifestation of the same idea\nWe are working with the goal of ensuring that the gaps in expansive parts of the country are bridged and the spirit of co-existence strengthens in the hearts of the people. For the past four years, I have been relentlessly striving as a Prime Minister to personally visit every corner of the country and interact with you all.\nFriends,\nThe projects that were either launched or their foundation stones. You have been demanding for a long time the solution to the danger that was due to soil erosion. Working on this demand, a sea wall will be constructed at a cost of about Rs.50 crore and I have got the opportunity to lay the foundation stone of the same. Now work will progress on a rapid pace and on the completion of the sea wall project, it will work as a protective shield for Car Nicobar.\nFriends,\nApart from this, work is also being done to ensure that the 5 streams of development - such as education for children, income for the youth, medicines for the elderly, irrigation for the farmers and addressing people's grievances - are available in Car Nicobar. I realized that the youngsters here had traveled for long distance education and training. Now the setting up of Industrial Training Institute i.e. ITI in Arong village will benefit from a great extent. The youngsters will pass out as electricians, plumbers, automotive technicians and will be able to get jobs anywhere in the country.\nFriends,\nThe youngsters of Car Nicobar are today also moving towards other occupations such as the education and health sector along with the traditional sources of income. The skill in sports is inherent in its youth. Sports are in your veins Car Nicobar is now famous for its best sporting talent in various sports including football. A few moments ago, I have also got the opportunity to meet the talented sportsmen of this place. I was told that its junior football team has won the famous Subroto Mukherjee cup four times.\nFriends,\nThe modern sports complex that has been set up in Lapati village is here for nurturing the talent here. This is the only sports complex of Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Several facilities have been added to the sports complex constructed at a cost of approximately Rs.8 crore. Apart from hostels for boys and girls, a synthetic track has also been created here.\nCar Nicobar has produced several talented players for the fields of cycling, kayaking and rowing, besides football. In the future, a velodrome for cycling and a swimming pool will also be created in the sports complex, which has been laid today.\nFriends,\nThe central government is committed to provide every resident of Andaman and Nicobar the kind of facilities associated with his or her life. Efforts are being made to improve all the facilities such as providing affordable food grains, clean water, gas connections and kerosene oil. The government is also committed to provide better health facilities. The expansion of the Diglipur sub-district hospital will improve the healthcare facilities here to a large extent.\nFriends,\nThe central government is striving to develop these areas according to its needs and circumstances. The government is trying to protect the environment The government has taken several decisions\nThe government has taken some important decisions for the farmers residing in the coastal areas of the country including the Andaman and Nicobar Islands who are associated with the farming of Copra and coconut. The MSP of Copra has been increased by about Rs.2000 per quintal. The MSP of Milling Copra has been increased from Rs.7750 to Rs.9500 per quintal and the MSP of Ball Copra has been increased from Rs.7750 to Rs.9920 per quintal. Many farmers related with Copra farming will be benefitted out of this increase.\nFriends,\nThe central government is also engaged in the work of empowering our fishermen. Recently, a special fund of Rs. 7000 crores has been made to make fisheries Under this, the fishermen will get loans at reasonable interest rates.\n'Our coastal areas are capable of being the centers of Blue Revolution' - with this vision, our government is moving forward. Several projects such as business related to fishing or seaweeds are being promoted. The government is providing financial assistance to the fishermen for availing modern boats. With this vision, packages are being provided for various schemes related to fisheries, farming and animal husbandry.\nBrothers and sisters,\nIn order to protect the environment, Car Nicobar, the prospects of cultivating and using solar power is here as assessed and groomed. Today, India is among the countries of the world. We are committed to providing affordable and green energy. Today, India is providing leadership to the world for bringing a revolution in solar energy with International Solar Alliance. India is working with the vision of 'One World, One Sun, One Grid'.\nFriends,\nThe coastal areas of our country provide immense possibilities in terms of renewable energy. We are working in opportunities Under this scheme, a target of setting up a Rooftop solar plant with a capacity of 300 kilowatts in Car Nicobar has been set. I was informed that in many institutions including schools and hospitals, solar panels of 50 kilowatts have already been installed and are in operation. The government is trying to ensure that all the energy needs of Car Nicobar are met by solar power in the future.\nFriends,\nCar Nicobar, the sea and the Malacca Strait are important for both resources and security. This is a major shipping channel between the Indian Ocean and the Pacific Ocean. This is the busiest route of the cargo ships. Keeping this in mind, the modes of transportation are also being developed. This will not only benefits you\nBrothers and sisters,\nKeeping in mind, the foundation stone of Trans-ship Port has also been laid today. This project will create opportunities for new enterprises in the southern part of the Gulf.\nAlso, under the Sagarmala scheme, there is a comprehensive plan to upgrade the coastal areas of the country. Under this scheme, hundreds of projects are under construction at a cost of approximately Rs.2.5 lakh crore. 14 Coastal Employment Zones (i.e. CEZs) will be developed around the coastal areas of the country in the near future.\nFriends,\nPrime Minister Modi said, Under the Sagarmala scheme, the decision of extending Campbell Bay jetty to 150 meters at a cost of approximately Rs.50 crore in Car Nicobar has made. Besides, plans have also been made to increase the depth of mus jetty so that large ships do not face problems in mooring here.\nBrothers and sisters,\nThe government is going to improve the air connectivity The government is striving to improve your life and uplift the standard of living.\nFriends,\nI also express my heartfelt gratitude to Tribal Council You are playing a vital role in strengthening the country's democracy and accelerating the pace of development. I have been told that the sisters and the girls here have a good participation in the Village Council These efforts are too commendable.\nThe Car Nicobar In the new year, our efforts will continue with fresh zeal and enthusiasm!\nIn the end, once again I congratulate you\nThanks a lot! Jai hind!"