"\nOur aim is to double farmers' income by 2022: PM Modi at Krishi Unnati Mela\nIndia will transform the growth of agriculture, the prosperity of its farmers and its villages: PM\nImportant to modernize agriculture practices and use more technology: PM Modi\nSecond Green Revolution must be built on technology and modernization: PM Modi\nThe eastern part of India has had maximum potential for Second Green Revolution: PM Modi\nSoil Health Card Scheme, Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchai Yojana Important steps towards reduction input costs: PM\nAlong with crop growing, farmers could opt for timber plantation along the edges of their fields: PM\nDiversification in farming activity will reduce the risk associated with agriculture: PM\nPradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana characterized by minimum premium, and maximum security: PM Modi\nMy dear kisana brothers and sisters\nThis Kisan Mela is the fate of India's fate, if India's destiny is to change, it is going to change with the village, it is going to change with the farmer and the agricultural revolution is going to change. We have been farming in the same way from generation to generation for many years. There are very few farmers who use new or dare to do something new. The biggest challenge in front of us is how to make our farmer modern, how to make technology, how to bring modern innovators to the fields, which are modern inventions of our younger generation. How to reach the farmer's house This is a training effort through the Kisan Mela. And I am glad that today the Agriculture Department has made this program such that not only people sitting here but farmers are watching this program in every village of entire India.\nAnd just listen to the Prime Minister's speech, so looking at it is not like that. All the discussions that are going to be held here for three days, the farmers sitting in the village can also see it, listen to it, understand it. Because as long as we will not bring these things to the farmer, if we do not create faith in the farmer then he keeps doing what he sees in the side. And the nature of the farmer is that if the neighbor puts red colored medicine in his farm, then he will also go and bring the red-colored medicine. If the armpit puts yellow medicine, then it will also put yellow medicines. He feels like he did it and I do it too. And those who are going to sell, do not worry about it, sell any goods, sell it once. Later, who is going to ask what happened to the farmer.\nAnd therefore, this government is making efforts to develop the agriculture sector with a different perspective. The first agricultural revolution in our country happened to be the first agricultural revolution where water was based on water. But the second agricultural revolution will not solely satisfy the point of reliance on water. And so on the basis of the second agricultural revolution science, it has become necessary on the basis of technology, on the basis of modern inventions. The first agricultural revolution took place in western part of the western part of India. Punjab, Haryana, it led the second agricultural revolution in those states. On which if we look at a little bit, then there may be a big change and it is eastern Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal, Assam, North East, Odisha, the entire eastern region of India, where water is abundant, the abundance of land , The land is uppermost, but it is connected with the old system and hence this government has tried to see how the second agricultural revolution from the eastern part of India is going to move in that direction Are.\nIndia's economic stream is also associated with the village axle. If in the village, by the poor person of the village, if he buys five thousand rupees worth of goods from the market, he buys ten thousand in the year and next time he gives strength to the economy. The country moves forward And if this is to be done then the purchasing power of the people of the village will be increased, their purchasing power will have to be increased. And that purchasing power does not grow until the village is economically mobile. It is not possible if there is no business activity in the village.\nAnd so you have seen this time around the praise of this government's budget is being appreciated. Some people are silent because they are difficult to praise, but there is nothing to speak about in opposition. For the first time, those who have knowledge of this subject have written that after a big long period there has been a budget which has been completely devoted to the village, the poor and the farmer. And this work has been done if India To be prosperous is economic, to move forward continuously for 25-30 years, not to stop, it is only a village, it is poor, a farmer.\nWe have a dream, but that dream will not talk to me. If that dream is only of the Delhi Government, then the matter will not come up. Whether it is the central government, whether it is the state government, whether our farmers, our brothers and sisters, we all should have a mixed dream, we all should have the responsibility of responsibility. And that dream is 2022, six years left, when India's independence will be 75 years, can we double the income of the farmers of our country? Can farmers double the income? If a farmer, state government, the central government decide this together, then work is not difficult, my brothers and sisters Some people think that this is a difficult task. I do not want to go to this department. But that should not be done or there should be no dilemma, should definitely try.\nSo far, we have kept the growth of agricultural production in the center of the country. We can not do the welfare of the farmers by staying limited to the growth of agricultural production. We have to work for the welfare of the farmer so we have to add more fifty things to him, and then we can fulfill 2022 dream. Now we think that our soil mother does not speak poorly, there is pain, she does not cry, she keeps on tolerating whatever you do on her. If we do not listen to the voice of Mother Earth, then Mother Earth will not listen to our voice. If we do not feel the pain of Mother Earth, Mother Earth will never feel our pain. And that's why we all have the first obligation to understand the suffering of our Mother Mother. We did not know how oppressive it is, how do the camels give it to him. Do not know, how many medicines have been given to him or not, how many people have oppressed him, if we become ill, then neither the neighbors say that the son will not eat too many medicines and become more ill. The doctor also says that Bhai is fine, he needs medicines but it is not that he will eat 10 pills instead of one bullet, he will be fine. That is the condition of our body, the same is our mother Mother too. And so we should at least look at how right our mother is, how is the disease, and there is no disease? What is the reason that we sow the crop but the hard work does not get that much, why is the mother Rundi?\nAnd so you have to complete a big campaign with your help that the Soil health card What is the health of our land, how is its layer, what is the strength inside it, what are the weaknesses within it, and who are the diseases in it. We should investigate this and make it regular. This is not an expensive job, the government is helping you. And got the test done, but we have put the report into an account, got the paper, lying down, will not benefit. If a person is ill, go to the laboratory and do a test and it is known that the diabetes is coming and putting the paper in the house and eating as soon as he gets the sweet, the more you eat, what diabetes will he be? Whether the disease will increase or not will increase. Death will be fixed or not.\nAnd hence we have seen the weaknesses of land through soil health card. The strength of the land has come into meditation. According to the diseases of the land that have come to notice, we should cultivate, then your half problems will be solved right there. I claim to claim that my farmers, sisters, if you care about half of the problems, if you take care of the land, then your half problem will be solved right there. And once you take care of Mother Earth, neither the Mother Earth will take care of you four times more. Sometimes you will not need to look back.\nSecondly, water is the nature of the farmer, if he gets water then he can produce gold from the soil. She does not want anything else And so we have stressed on the Prime Minister's agricultural irrigation scheme. How do farmers reach water? And at least water is wasted, how to fall in that form, the work is going on. You must be surprised that I was just figuring out what many things have been made to provide water to our farmer. My peasant brothers and sisters should surprise you that if we do anything then our opponents say that this is our time. This is our age. What is the condition of their age. I tell about 90 projects of farmers that they should be able to find out where the water was filled, but there is no system to give water to the farmer. Now tell me brother, if a dam has been filled. Thousands, millions, millions of rupees have been spent, but if there is no management to take water to the farmer's farm, will he have any work to do without just seeing it? We have taken 90 such projects in hand. And have put a big emphasis on the fact that the water reached the farmer. As much as the capacity is reached, how is the water reached. When this work is completed, the water will reach around 80 lakh hectares of land. If you reach water, then you can guess how much that land will give.\nI am working towards setting up 20 thousand crore rupees for this work. Not only this, MNREGA is a big buzz, but the asset is not created anywhere. This government has stressed. And I would like to have the same work from village-village MNREGA in these summer days, there is only one work and only pond, so that the pond can be deepened, dirt can be stopped, where water can stop. There is a dream to make five lakh ponds in this budget, five lakh ponds\nWhere there are our small mountainous terrain, there are mountainous terrain where there are three or four mountains gathered, if there is a slight digging, then there is a possibility of creating a huge pond. I have also told the forest department to save the forests, then there should be small pond work, so that water will survive our forest will also survive. If there is forest, then the rain will increase, the rain will increase and water will rise in our land. Which will benefit my farmer for 12 months. How will we prepare the way to save water in the villages and villages this summer, and the more water you try to save, it will be filled in the first rain. And once again the rain will be there, even then the water will save our farming. In the same way, as the Mahatma is of water accumulation, the same great water is irrigated.\nWater is a gift given by God. We have no right to ruin it. One drop water should be used. And hence, per drop more crop One drop, how much the crop is born, work on it. When we go to micro irrigation, we go to drip irrigation to manage the water by putting small pumps. Give liquid fertilizer. You see the hard work will be reduced. The cost will be reduced and the production will increase. Some people have a misconception that sugar needs too much water, the time has passed. Now with micro irrigation sugar can also be done, paddy can also be.\nAnd that is why our old belief that if the fields are filled with immaculate water then the harvest will be there, there is no such need. Science changed now, technology changed You can do a comfortable change. And that's why my farmers, brothers and sisters, this is our daily work, if we pay attention to it. We will be able to reduce our expenditure. And will increase our income. And the welfare of the farmer is going to be the same.\nMarket for us here, on April 14, the Government of India is launching an e-platform on the birth anniversary of Baba Saheb Ambedkar, so where the farmer can sell his belongings, where the highest prices can be seen on his mobile phone. That's how to sell my merchandise to me in the market and because of that it got more value. Today, if the farmer becomes poor, if he leaves from the village, reached the market at two o'clock, he can not sell his merchandise, if he has brought the vegetable, then he leaves there and goes away because no buyer is there. If we use this kind of arrangement, and today I have just launched a farmer facility. Farmers can find information about their needs through today's modern science digital on their mobile phones. Take a report of the weather, take the report of the market. Where in the market can get a nice beach can be taken. Who is the scientist of agriculture, whom you should contact, have tried to give all this information in your palm.\nIf we use it then my peasant feels lonely today, he feels that I have no one. This government is a partner with the shoulders of the farmer and is a partner of the happiness and misery of the farmer and we want to work together with you, because we have to bring change that we want to work in that direction. In the same way now is the demand of time that we increase the value. Value addition, processing The more food processing, the more the income of our farmer is going to increase. The more value addition, the more earning is going to increase. If you sell milk, you get less money, but if you sell milk by making masks, you will get more money. Ghee is made from milk and sells more money. If you sell the raw mango, you get less money, but if the raw mango pickle is sold then it gets more money. You sell green chillies, get less money. But by making powder it is made by packing and sold by packing more money. हमारे किसान की आय बढ़ाने का यह एक उत्‍तम से उत्‍तम से मार्ग है कि हम food processing को बल दें और food processing के लिए भारत जैसे देश में दुनिया की बहुत बड़ी टेक्‍नोलॉजी की जरूरत है, ऐसा नहीं है, हमारे यहां आमतौर पर इन चीजों को करने का स्‍वभाव बना हुआ है। उसको बल देने की जरूरत है। और गांव मिल करके करेगा। तो बहुत बड़ी ऊंचाईयों पर चला जा सकता है गांव। और आज हमने देखा है कि ऐसी चीजों ने अपने जगह बना ली है।\nआज दुनिया के अंदर.. मुझे अभी गल्‍फ कंट्रीज के अमीरात के क्राउन प्रिंस यहां आए थे UAE के । उन्‍होंने एक बड़ी महत्‍वपूर्ण बात बताई। उन्‍होंने कहा हमारा जो गल्‍फ कंट्रीज है प्रट्रोलियम के पैसे तो बहुत है हमारे पास, लेकिन हमारे पास पेट भरने के लिए खेती के लिए कोई संभावना नहीं है हमारी जमीन रेगिस्‍तान है। हमारी जनसंख्‍या बढ़ रही है। हमें आने वाले दिनों में जैसे-जैसे जनसंख्‍या बढ़ेगी, हमारा पेट भरने के लिए भारत से ही अन्‍न मंगवाना पड़ेगा। इसका मतलब यह हुआ कि हिंदुस्‍तान का किसान जो पैदा करेगा दुनिया के बाजार में जाने की संभावनाएं बढ़ रही है। एक बहुत बड़ा ग्‍लोबल मार्केट हमारा इंतजार कर रहा है हम अगर अपनी व्‍यवस्‍थाओं को उस स्‍टेंडर्ड की बना दें तो दुनिया हमारी चीजों को स्‍वीकार करने के लिए तैयार हो जाएगी।\nइन दिनों holistic health care. हर किसी को लगता है आप भले तो जग भला। और इसलिए लोग organic खाना खाना पसंद करते हैं। कैमिकल से आया हुआ उनको खाना नहीं है। आम भी बिकता है तो पूछते हैं organic है। चावल भी लाए तो पूछते हैं organic है, गेंहू लाए तो पूछते हैं organic है। वो कहता है साहब पैसा डबल होगा, वो बोले डबल ले लो भाई दवाई खाने से ज्‍यादा अच्‍छा है कि महंगा चावल खा लूं, लेकिन दवाई खाने के लिए मुझे केमिकल वाला नहीं खाना। लोग सोच रहे हैं कि दवाई में जो पैसे जाते हैं उसके बजाय अगर वो पैसे organic चीजों को खाने में जाते हैं तो स्‍वास्‍थ्‍य भी अच्‍छा रहेगा और खर्चा भी कम होने लगेगा। लेकिन यह तब संभव होगा, जब हम organic farming की तरफ प्रयास करें। हम कोशिश करें।\nआज मैं सिक्‍कम प्रदेश को बधाई देता हूं| पहाड़ों में 2003 से उन्‍होंने मेहनत चालू की, 2003 से और दस साल के भीतर-भीतर सिक्किम के पूरे प्रदेश को उन्‍होंने organic state बना दिया। आज वहां chemical fertilizer का नामो-निशान नहीं है। और उनका उत्‍पादन बड़ा है, दवाईयां डालनी नही पड़ती है। जमीन में सुधार आया, पहले जो जमीन जितना देती थी। वो जमीन आज दोगुना, तीनगुना देने लग गई है। और उनका बहुत बड़ा ग्‍लोबल मार्केर्टिंग हो रहा है। क्‍या हमारे देश में हम organic farming को बल दे सकते हैं? ये तरीके हैं जो हमने आधुनिक कृषि की तरफ जाना है।\nमैं किसानों से एक और आग्रह करना चाहता हूं। हमारी किसानी को तीन हिस्‍सों में बांटना यह अनिवार्य हो गया है। आज हम हमारी किसानी एक ही खम्‍बे पर चलाते हैं और उसका कारण जिस समय आंधी आ जाए वो खम्‍बा हिल जाए, ओले गिर जाए वो खम्‍बा गिर जाए, बहुत बड़ी बारिश आ जाए, वो खम्‍बा गया तो पूरी साल बर्बाद हो जाती है, पूरा परिवार बर्बाद हो जाता है। लेकिन अगर तीन खम्‍बों पर हमारी किसानी खड़ी होगी तो आफत आएगी तो एक-आध खम्‍बा गिरेगा। दो खम्‍बे पर तो हमारी जिंदगी टिक पाएगी भाई।\nऔर इसलिए तीन खम्‍बे कौन से हैं जिस पर हमें किसानी करनी चाहिए एक तिहाई हम जो regular खेती करते हो वो, जो भी करते हो, मक्‍का हो, धान हो, फल हो, फूल हो, सब्‍जी हो जो करते है वो करें। एक तिहाई ताकत जहां आपके खेत की सीमा पूरी होती है। जहां boundary पर आप बाढ़ लगाते हैं बड़ी-बड़ी, एक-एक, दो-दो मीटर जमीन बर्बाद करते हैं। इधर  वाला भी जमीन बर्बाद करता हैं, उधर वाला भी जमीन बर्बाद करता है, दोनों पड़ोसी बीच में जमीन बर्बाद करते हैं। क्‍या हम वहाँ पर टिम्‍बर की खेती कर सकते हैं क्‍या? ऐसे पेड़ उगाए जिससे फर्नीचर बनता है, मकान बनाने में काम आता है। ऐसे वृक्षों की खेती करे। ऐसे पेड़ लगाए। 15-20 साल में घर में बेटी शादी हो करने योग्‍य जाएगी, यह एक पेड़ काट दोगे, बेटी की शादी हो जाएगी। आज हिंदुस्‍तान बहुत बड़ी मात्रा में टिम्‍बर import करता है। विदेशों में पैसा जाता है हमारा। अगर हमारा किसान तय कर ले कि खेत के किनारे पर जो जमीन आज बर्बाद हो करके पड़ी है, सिर्फ demarcation के लिए पड़ोसी ले न जाए इसलिए बाढ़ लगा करके बैठे हैं दो-दो, तीन-तीन मीटर खराब हो रही है, जमीन। आप देखिए कितनी बड़ी income हो सकती है।\nऔर तीसरा, तीसरा महत्‍वपूर्ण पहलू है animal husbandry. दूध के लिए कुछ करे, अण्‍डों के लिए पॉल्‍ट्री फार्म करे। मधुमक्‍खी का पालन करे, मधु का निर्माण करे, शहद का निर्माण करे। इसके लिए अलग ताकत नहीं लगती है। सहज रूप से साथ-साथ चलता है। और यह भी बहुत बड़ा ताकत देने वाला काम है।\nऔर मैं चाहूंगा कि भारत जो कि दुनिया में सबसे ज्‍यादा दूध उत्‍पादन करता है, लेकिन यह दुर्भाग्‍य है कि प्रति पशु जितना दूध उत्‍पादन होना चाहिए वो अभी हमें पार करना बाकी है। और इसलिए हमारे पशु की दूध की productivity कैसे बढ़े, उस पर हमने बल देना है। पशु  को आहार मिले, उस आहार के लिए अलग से प्रबंध करना है। पशु को आरोग्‍य की सुविधाएं मिलें उस पर ध्‍यान केंद्रित करना है। हमारे पशु की नस्‍ल बदलें इसके लिए सरकार बड़ा मिशन ले करके काम कर रही है। ऐसे अनेक प्रयास है जिन-जिन प्रयासों के परिणामस्‍वरूप हम हमारे पशुधन की ताकत को बढ़ा सकते हैं। उससे हम अपनी आय बढ़ा सकते हैं।\nआज शहद दुनिया में शहद का बहुत बड़ा मार्केट है। भारत का किसान शहद के उत्‍पादन में बहुत कम संख्‍या में है। और शहद ऐसा है कभी खराब नहीं होता। सालों तक घर में रहे, घर में भी काम आता है बेचने के भी काम आता है। दवाईयों में भी बिकता है और एक खेत के कोने में हमारे घर के ही कोई व्‍यक्ति उसको संभाले तो काम चल जाता है।\nइन तीनों खम्‍बों पर अगर हम हमारी किसानी को आगे बढ़ांएगे, तो किसान को प्राकृतिक आपदा के कारण संकट आने के बावजूद भी बचने का रास्‍ता निकल आ सकता है, बर्बाद होने से बच सकता है। और इसके लिए सरकार की योजनाएं हैं। इस बार प्रधानमंत्री फसल बीमा योजना मेरे किसान भाईयों-बहनों के चरणों में मैंने रखी है। यह प्रधानमंत्री फसल बीमा योजना यह सिर्फ कागज़ी योजना नहीं है, यह किसान की जिंदगी से जुड़ा हुआ काम है। और मैंने बड़ी भक्ति के साथ मेरे किसानों की भक्ति करने के लिए यह प्रधानमंत्री फसल बीमा योजना ले करके मैं आपके पास आया हूं। बड़ा विचार-विमर्श किया है मैंने किसानों से सलाह-मश्‍विरा किया है, अर्थशास्त्रियों से किया है, सरकारों से किया है, बीमा कंपनियों से किया है और तब जा करके योजना बनी  है।\nहमारे देश में अटल बिहारी वाजपेयी जी की सरकार ने फसल बीमा योजना चालू की। बाद में दूसरी सरकार आई उसने उसमें थोड़ा इधर-उधर कर दिया। मुसीबत यह आई कि किसान का फसल बीमा में से विश्‍वास ही उठ गया। उसको लगता है कि पैसे ले तो जाते हैं लेकिन मुसीबत के समय आते ही नहीं है। किसान की शिकायत सच्‍ची है। मैंने उन सारी शिकायतों को ध्‍यान  में रख करके योजना बनाई है। और यह पहली प्रधानमंत्री फसल बीमा योजना ऐसी है कि जिसमें प्रीमियम कम से कम है। और सुरक्षा ज्‍यादा से ज्‍यादा है। यह पहली बार ऐसा हुआ है।\nअब तक हमारे देश में सौ किसान हो, तो 20 किसान से ज्‍यादा फसल बीमा कोई लेता ही नहीं है। और धीरे-धीरे वो भी कम हो रहे थे। कम से कम इतना तो तय करे कि एक-दो साल में गांव के आधे किसान फसल बीमा योजना ले लें। इतना हम कर सकते हैं क्‍या? अब टेक्‍नोलॉजी का उपयोग होने वाला कि प्राकृतिक आपदा आई तो क्‍या नुकसान हुआ, कहां नुकसान हुआ? तुरंत हिसाब लगाया जाएगा। और तुरंत पैसे मुहैया कराने की व्‍यवस्‍था यह प्रधानमंत्री फसल बीमा योजना में है। अब दो-दो, तीन-तीन साल इंतजार करने की जरूरत नहीं।\nऔर एक महत्‍वपूर्ण काम है, पहले ओले गिर गए, आंधी आ गई, नुकसान हो गया, उसका भी हिसाब रहता था। लेकिन फसल काटने के बाद खेत में अगर उसका ढेर पड़ा है, और अचानक आंधी आई, बारिश आई, ओले गिरे, बर्बाद हो गया तो सरकार कहती थी कि भई नहीं यह फसल बीमा में नहीं आता, क्‍यों? क्‍योंकि यह तो तुम्‍हारी कटाई हो गई है, तुम घर नहीं ले गए इसलिए खराब हुआ तुमको ले जाना था। इस सरकार ने एक ऐसी फसल बीमा योजना लाई है कि कटाई के बाद अगर 14 दिन तक खेत के अंदर अगर पड़ा है सामान और अगर बारिश आ गई तो उसका भी बीमा मिलेगा, यहां तक निर्णय किया गया है।\nऔर एक निर्णय किया है कि मान लीजिए आपने सोचा कि जून महीने में बारिश आने वाली  है, सारा खेत तैयार करके रखा, बीज ला करके रखे, मेहनत करने के लिए जो भी करना पड़े सब करके रखा, लेकिन जून महीने में बारिश आई नहीं, जुलाई महीने में बारिश आई नहीं, अगस्‍त महीने में बारिश आई नहीं। अब आपका क्‍या होगा भई, जब बारिश ही नहीं आई, तो फसल खराब होने का सवाल ही नहीं होता है, क्‍यों, क्‍योंकि आपने बोया ही नहीं है। अब जब बोया ही नहीं है तो फसल हुई ही नहीं। फसल हुई नहीं तो फसल बर्बाद हुई नहीं और फिर बीमा वाले कह देते हैं अब तुम्‍हारी छुट्टी, कुछ नहीं मिलेगा। इस सरकार ने एक ऐसी योजना बनाई है कि अगर आपके इलाके में बारिश नहीं आई, आपका बोना संभव ही नहीं हुआ तो भी आपको 25 प्रतिशत पैसे मिल जाएंगे, ताकि आपका साल बर्बाद न हो जाए, यह काम हमने सोचा है।\nभाईयों-बहनों किसान के लिए क्‍या किया जा सकता है इसकी एक-एक बारीक चीज पर हमने ध्‍यान दिया है। अगर हमारे यहां पहले कोई प्राकृतिक आपदा आ जाए, तो 50 प्रतिशत अगर नुकसान होता था तब पैसे मिलते थे और वो भी एक पूरे इलाके में 50 प्रतिशत हिसाब बैठना चाहिए। हमने यह सब निकाल दिया और हमने कहा अगर 33 percent भी हुआ तो भी उसको मुआवजा दिया जाएगा। आजादी से अब तक सभी सरकारों में इस विषय की चर्चा हुई। हर किसानों ने इसकी मांग की, लेकिन किसी सरकार ने इसको किया नहीं था। हमने इसको कर दिया।\nभाईयों-बहनों प्राकृतिक आपदा में किसान को मदद कैसे मिले? इसके सारे norms बदल दिये। सारी परंपराएं निकाल दी है। और किसान को विश्‍वास  दिलाया है और दूसरा यह भी किया है कि जनधन अकाउंट खोलो, मदद सीधी आपके खाते में जाएगी। कोई बिचौलिए के पैर आपको पकड़ने नहीं पड़ेंगे। हम सब जानते हैं यूरिया के लिए क्‍या-क्‍या होता था। रात-रात कतार में किसान खड़ा रहता था। कल यूरिया आने वाला है। और यूरिया की काला-बाजारी होती थी। कहीं-कहीं पर यूरिया लेने के लिए लोग किसान आते थे, लाठी चार्ज होता था। और मेरा तो अनुभव है मैं प्रधानमंत्री बन करके बैठा तो पहले तीन, चार, पांच महीने सारे मुख्‍यमंत्रियों की एक ही चिट्ठी आती थी कि हमारे प्रदेश में यूरिया कम है यूरिया भेजो, यूरिया भेजो, यूरिया भेजो। भारत सरकार यूरिया क्‍यों देती नहीं है। जो हमारे विरोधी लोग थे वो बयान देते थे अखबारों में भी छपता था कि मोदी सरकार यूरिया नहीं देती। पिछले दिनों यूरिया पर इतना काम किया, इतना काम किया कि गत वर्ष मुझे एक भी मुख्‍यमंत्री ने यूरिया की कमी है ऐसी  चिट्टी नहीं लिखी। पूरे देश में कहीं पर भी यूरिया को ले करके लाठी चार्ज नहीं हुआ है। कहीं पर किसान को मुसीबत झेलनी पड़ी।\nऔर अब तो और कुछ किया है हमने यूरिया को नीम कोटिंग किया है। यह नीम कोटिंग क्‍या है? यह जो नीम के पेड़ होते हैं, उसकी जो फली होती है उसका तेल यूरिया पर लगाया गया है, उसके  कारण जमीन को ताकत मिलेगी। अगर आज आप दस किलो यूरिया उपयोग करते हैं, नीम कोटिंग है, तो छह किलो, सात किलो में चल जाएगा, तीन किलो, चार किलो का पैसा बच जाएगा। यह किसान की income में काम आएगा। किसान की income डबल कैसे होगी, ऐसे होगी। नीम कोटिंग का यूरिया। और इससे एक और फायदा है जहां-जहां नीम के पेड़ हैं वहां अगर लोग फली इकट्ठी करेंगे तो उस फली का बहुत बड़ा बाजार खड़ा हो जाएगा, क्‍योंकि यूरिया बनाने वालों को नीम कोटिंग के लिए चाहिए, क्‍योंकि भारत सरकार ने hundred percent यूरिया नीम कोटिंग का कर दिया है। इसका दूसरा परिणाम यह होगा पहले क्‍या होता था यूरिया सारा लिखा जाता था तो किसान के नाम पर। सरकार के दफ्तर में लिखा जाता था कि किसान को यूरिया की सब्सिडी में इतने हजार करोड़ गए। लेकिन क्‍या सचमुच में वो किसान के लिए जाते थे क्‍या? सब्सिडी जाती थी, यूरिया के लिए जाती थी, लेकिन यूरिया किसान तक नहीं पहुंचता था वो केमिकल के कारखाने में पहुंच जाता था। क्‍योंकि उसको सस्‍ता माल मिलता था, वो उस पर काम करता था और उसमें से वो चीजें बना करके बाजार में बेचता था और हजारों-लाखों रुपये की कमाई हो जाती थी। अब नीम कोटिंग के कारण एक ग्राम यूरिया भी किसी केमिकल फैक्‍ट्री को काम नहीं आएगा। चोरी गई, बेईमानी गई और किसान को जो चाहिए था वो किसान को पहुंच गया।\nमेरे कहना का तात्‍पर्य यह है मेरे किसान भाईयों-बहनों कि अब हमें आधुनिक विज्ञान का उपयोग करते हुए कृषि के क्षेत्र में आगे बढ़ना है। हमने प्रयोग करने की हिम्‍मत दिखानी है। आज सब कुछ विज्ञान मौजूद है। आज जो सरकार ने initiative लिए हैं, वो आपके दरवाजें पर दस्‍तक दे रहे हैं। मैं खास करके युवा किसानों को निमंत्रण देता हूं आप आइये, मेरी बात पर गौर कीजिए, भारत सरकार की नई योजनाओं को ले करके आगे बढि़ए। और मैं विश्‍वास दिलाता हूं भारत का ग्रामीण जीवन, भारत के ग्रामीण गरीब का जीवन, भारत के किसान का जीवन हम बदल सकते हैं और उस काम के लिए मुझे आपका साथ और सहयोग चाहिए। मेरी आप सबको बहुत-बहुत शुभकामनाएं। राधामोहन जी को बहुत-बहुत शुभकामनाएं है। यह कृषि मेला के द्वारा आने वाले दिनों में सभी किसान उसका फायदा\nउठाए। यही शुभकामनाओं के साथ बहुत-बहुत धन्‍यवाद।"