"\nPM Modi lays foundation stone of additional bridge at Hajipur, Bihar\nPM Modi lays stress on development\nThe nerve center of India's development lies in Eastern India: PM\nInfrastructure, roads \u0026 railways sow seeds of development for the country: PM Modi\nDear brothers and sisters, all the great men and sisters sitting on the platform,\nBy looking at your enthusiasm, I can imagine how great you are in the minds of this bridge, this bridge can not only affect the traffic but also how much bigger changes can be made in the economic life of this bridge. I can guess because of everyone's enthusiasm.\nMother Ganges combines both northern Bihar and southern Bihar but arrangements are necessary to connect the citizens. Now you can imagine when Nitish ji used to handle the railways, Atal Bihari Vajpayee was the Prime Minister, then this dream of this is being fulfilled today after many years. If it had not been neglected in the last ten years, even if it had done work from the part of the routine budget, perhaps maybe five to seven years ago it would have been completed. The project, which was built at a cost of Rs 600 crores, has reached 3000 crores due to delays. These are of public money, but there are some other reasons that the process of development is different in our country and the rest of the processes are emerging. In the last 18 months, most of its work was done in such a short time, in 18 months. Nearly 34 percent of the work which was incomplete had been completed and we believe that if India has to sustainable development, if India is going to cross the new points of development for the next 25 years and 30 years, then It will not be possible unless our eastern Hindustan will grow. Whether it is Eastern Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal, Assam, North-east, Orissa, all these areas will grow faster, Hindustan is going to move faster as fast as possible. Now the Nerve Center of India's development is in the Nerve Center East India and if we want to move east India then we will not be able to do it through the path of the shortcut.\nTill now we touch the problems of the present. Were addressing the needs of the people, but now it is time to demand that we address the needs of the people, but this whole area has to be taken to new heights of development and it is compulsory to develop long-term arrangements too.\nRail and road infrastructure, there is so much power within them that they not only laid the foundations of development but also gave rise to development and hence, the amount spent by the previous government in the last five years in Bihar, The government has done about two and a half times more in the last one-and-a-half years. It has done that because of my conviction that India's destiny is to be changed, then we have to change the fate of Bihar first. Bihar will have to take on new heights of development. It is my complete confidence that the center and state will do this work together with the shoulder joint, and I am fully confident that, together with the three project projects connecting North Bihar-South Bihar today, railways and road are being together and collection of foundation stones.\nNow you see, one thing I am doing today is where the first Mokama had a double line on either side but the bridge in the middle was such that there was no double line and due to which he had a double line on both sides There is no use because they came and became bottleneck. Now that we have taken this matter and I am confident that we will fulfill this in the bounds of time and that too will be very big for the development of the area.\nMy Bihar youth, you got a huge gift these days. Two locomotives, its very big factories seem to be on the earth of Bihar. Since 2006-07, this issue has been going on paper, it is being used in speeches but nothing on earth can be done. No tender was ready. We did some innovative things in tender We set the goal of export, we decided to order place by calculating the requirement of India and it was such a composition that the big companies of the world thought that we can now take the tender inside and if found So work can be done. That process brought color The world's largest companies came in. 40 thousand crores of foreign direct investment, these two places will be coming to Bihar, which will be considered the largest in India. This process has been completed and in less time after the formation of this government, 18 months have arrived in Delhi, but in 18 months, Bihar is our priority because we believe Bihar's development is essential for development of India. That's why this work has been executed and its result is also going to come in the coming days.\nBrothers and sisters, in today's era, gas pipelines have the same importance. If we do gas connectivity, there is a lot of cost of pipelines, but in spite of this, we are moving fast in the direction of linking Bihar with gas connectivity, which is going to make a big difference in our lives in the coming days. .\nMy dear brothers and sisters of Bihar, you must have seen in this budget that we have taken the initiative to give gas connections to poor families. I know work is hard. Five crore families living below the poverty line should get gas cylinders in place of the stove within the next three years and those mothers and sisters should be protected from fumes, they should be worried about their health. The important responsibility has been raised on the head. Scientists say that by burning the firewood, burning the woods and burning the coal, the mother who cooks the food cooks-cook as much as the smoke goes into her body is equivalent to 400 cigarettes. If the smoke of 400 cigarettes goes into our mother's body in a day, then what will happen to her body, how will her children be? This is the work of humanity; therefore, we have spent the money of the government vault but have taken the initiative that the poor families now have to get rid of this hearth, this coal, its smoke, its release.\nMy dear brothers and sisters, our country has been so many years of independence. Even in villages, electricity has not reached and it is no luxury. Electricity has now become part of life. It is not a noble game, it is important for the poor. I have reviewed one day, how is that? I was shocked to come 70 years of independence, 18 thousand villages were like this where there is still no electricity line. I told the officers, I have to complete the work in a thousand days. That which has not happened in 70 years is to be completed in a thousand days. Pioneered Just a thousand days to complete, it is very late, but today I came to know that the work of more than 6,000 villages will be completed, electricity has reached and the maximum benefit of the villages of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar has got. I am grateful to Nitish that he has been receiving full support from the state government for speeding up this work and because of this, the Indian government is doing it with speed. I believe if once the Government of India and the Bihar government decide, then the entire 18,000 villages that work in the whole of India, of which the rest of the work of Bihar can be completed by making Bihar a very proud Bihar and the way the work has been done, I believe that will happen, it will be done.\nMy dear brothers and sisters, whether there is electricity, roads, water, railways, these things are common man's needs and are trying to fulfill those needs. In our vast majority of Bihar, our young people keep going in the corner of India. Go to read, go to earn roti-roti but if you have to go to the railway, then it suffers. There is a reservation limit on trains for long journeys. This time our Railway Minister, Mr. Suresh Prabhu has taken a big step and I believe that the youngest son of Bihar will take the most of the important step if he takes any advantage. This important step has been taken that in the train of a long journey, two or four compartments will be like this, Deen-Dayal compartment, in which you have to climb the last moment, then climb up and go where you have to go. This is because reservation is not possible if poor people, if they have to go away, if son is working somewhere out of Bihar, suddenly got stuck and has to reach him. This will be such a system that due to which such people can not afford trouble, and can reach the time.\nThe topics have been taken such that due to which today a neo middle class, middle class, its bulk is also growing in our country. The bulk of middle class is growing in very large quantities. She wants a slightly more plus facility than before. And that's why we decided to start a Hamasferra Train which will have a third class air-condition train which will be available to the people of the common middle class, lower middle class, financially, and they will be able to run on good speed.\nRail is very old in our country. But if we allow the railway to remain old then the railway burden will become. If the train, which gave the speed to Hindustan, is in the same condition as the rail, then it will not take long to create the burden, hence the entire refurbishment of the railways should be done. In that direction, Suresh ji is our big innovative person, brings new ideas, guides people around the world. Also bring money from abroad and I believe that in a short span of time the whole railways will be rejuvenated, the railways will be renewed. Whether it is a matter of infrastructure, whether it is a matter of speed, whether it is the issue of qualitative service of passenger, whether there is a problem of railway stations, whether it is the issue of a passenger, whether the services of railway from mobile phones through digital technology It is a matter of taking, on the many aspects, the railway is being renovated in a very comprehensive way.\nA pioneer named, Tejas, the train named. This Tejas train is intended to run at a speed of 130. Today our train runs very low speed. Such a big country can not run with a picky-laden car, he needs to give speed, so we are moving ahead with the intention of running a new concept in an experimental form, by Tejas at a fast pace.\nI want to convince you about all these things, I want to convince the people that the rail is not just a means of traffic or traffic, the rail is a dynamic medium to accelerate the economy of India and in order to speed it up we The government has made the government dynamic and this is going to give results in the coming days.\nToday, these three projects have started, I believe Patna is a great boon. Today already the trains have started to run. Whether it is a munger, whether it is mokama, these three whole bodies are absorbed in one way by themselves. It is going to create a big impact, every person in Bihar knows it.\nI give lakhs of luck to Bihar today, thank you very much and congratulate the railway ministry too. Thank you.\n"