"PM Modi attends centenary year celebration of Patna High Court\nPM Modi calls for making the bar, bench and court tech savvy\nQuality of argument and judgment can be improved with active use of technology: PM\nPatna High Court has scaled new heights of progress in last 100 years. May\nAll the senior noblemen present!\nNitish ji has expanded the name of everyone, so I do not repeat but I respectfully welcom them all.\nThis is the closing ceremony of the centenary of Patna High Court. In a way, the responsibilities of the new century are the beginning and therefore the heights which the High Court has achieved in the last century, through which traditions have created a belief in the general humanities, the work culture which has become a hope in the society , Carrying out the best of it, forwarding it to the next century of Patna, what is the next century of this high court, the foundation of keeping its foundation strong Ewari, here is all present.\nIf we keep the foundation of the coming century as strong, the faith of democracy will deepen towards the general humanitarian systems of the country. And so when we organize the ceremony in this way, there is also a chance for new resolutions along with it. I would hope that today, when the centenary year is being concluded, whether it be Bar or Bauch, how can we proceed for a new benchmark, I am confident that the system that has a legacy of a century will give it much to the country. And this is Patna, the bar of which has given birth to many great men, many distinguished great personalities have come out of the midst of you. I am sure that you will maintain that bright tradition even in the coming times, so that I have full confidence in you.\nSometimes I feel that there are very few places in our country where people are aware that it took 50 years, 100 years and observed that occasion. Once when I was Chief, I went to a village school. Education was very low there. Hardly 30-32 percent was the education in that village. So let me go, please let me see what is right? When I went there, I was surprised, the school that was created there was about 120 years old. In the village where the school was born 120 years ago, the education of that village was stuck around 30-32%. Then there is a challenge in our mind that if the systems will not be alive, these systems will not be dynamic, if these systems are not progressive, then we will not be able to run with time, nor will we be able to fulfill the demand of time, There are challenges in front of people, how to make our systems live. Sometimes the development of the systems is not difficult, but it takes a lot of strength to make the systems alive, it has to struggle for a very long time. And so in that direction we do something with these 100 years of experience.\nIn the coming days ... I am thinking as a suggestion. When I was sitting here, the thought came, can our court remove a bulletin every year? The oldest pending case in our court is so old. Maybe 50 years old, maybe 40 years old. This will create a sensitivity. There will also be a discussion in the society because of this, people sitting in Bar will also discuss, Man, we have been sitting here for so many years, this is going on for 50 years. We should do something. We should do something. There will be an environment which will motivate us for the outcome of the target work. And this is not a difficult task. And this is not a wrong thing either. Suppose if a 50-year-old case of a case went out, then the people sitting today will not be responsible, they will all be retired. But it would be good to have a psychological environment to get out of the pendency that is due to it.\nThe other is a facility that these days which were members of the old generation from today, were not blessed with this fortune, which has been received by today's generation, today's Bar has received. And that is technology. At first, if you had to fight some case, then for a long time, the time went on in research, the whole team was engaged to find the old reference. Today Google is your bar member that lets you do whatever you want by searching Google and easily quote your judgment by quote perfect judgment, and so our Bar, our bench, our court, how much more techno savy How fast can we inject the digital system into our system, and due to its quality of argument, quality of judgments, space of the judgment, all of these can have a huge radical change. And we try that direction.\nLooking at the freedom movement of our country, we must admit that the movement of India's independence was led mainly by the lawyers, by the barristers. Bar was a member who fought the country's freedom fight. The use of its intelligence in front of the British sultanate, how can be fought using the legal system, if someone had ever made the tradition of Bar of this country, the tradition of lawyers has done this and this is how this A huge contribution of people associated with the project is linked to the movement of India's freedom. Even after that, when there was a crisis in India, there was a crisis on the basics, most of the bar had voiced, most of the courts tried to give him a new force, so for a democratic country like India, where diversity is so much. To keep the society together, to keep the country together, then an active effort and those who do not create distances in the society, are helpful in attempts to connect society, today's demand of our kind of movement is demanded today. If we run through the bar, we can bring a big change.\nOccasionally there is a change in an Intuit democratic values. One event is big for me .. I would like to share it. I was in the UK's migration in the past, then the Prime Minister there gave me a charter gift. Bar's charter of gifts and its history was such that in the freedom of India, which believed in the armed revolution. There were two streams - one believed in non-violence, believed in an armed revolution. The revolutionary was the revolutionary of those who believed in the armed revolution, Shyamji Krishna Varma. He died in 1930 and sat under the nose of the British in London, he fought for freedom. Madanlal used to inspire many people including Dhingra and so Bar's withdraw their sanad.\nWhen I went to this bar, Bar had officially reconsidered and after so many years, perhaps after 1920, after nearly 100 years he returned the honor with respect. That is, an attitude of India's independence, the British whose charter was taken. It was later taken but returned 100 years later. I mention this incident that after 100 years no relative of that person is also present there but there was one in the minds of those involved in the justice system that this situation should change and they took the initiative and changed the revenge. When the Prime Minister of India goes there, he is returned as an important event. This is our complete global thinking regarding the commitment of values ​​here, how we proceed with those things.\nToday, with the conclusion of this centenary celebrations, I wish you many best wishes at the beginning of the new century and the country will get many benefits from you. Thanks a lot with this one expectation.\n"