"PM Modi attends the inauguration of World Culture Festival\nIndia is so diverse and it has so much to contribute to the world: PM\nI congratulate Sri Sri Ravi Shankar for his message to various countries and representing Indian culture on a world stage: PM\nThis is a Kumbh Mela of culture: PM\nThe Supreme Lord Sri Sri Ravi Shankar ji ... all the senior nobility,\nI welcome all of you on the soil of India. India is full of such diversities, India has nothing to offer to the world. The world is not connected to economic interests. It is not so, the world can also be linked to human values ​​and can be added and added.\nIndia has that cultural heritage, it is a cultural establishment whose search is to the world. We can meet those needs of the world in some or some way, in some form. But this can happen when we are proud of our great heritage, be proud.\nIf we keep bashing ourselves, then we will continue to do evil of all things, then why will the world look at us?\nI congratulate Mr. Sri Ravi Shankar for this fact that this mission of the smallest age of 35 years has now spread the faith of this strength in more than 150 countries of the world, has adopted those countries. Through this Art of Living, this work has contributed a lot to the world in making a separate identity of India.\nI was just a while ago when Mongolia went to. I was surprised that my reception was kept in an estadium in Mongolia by all the brothers of the Art of Living. There were few Indians in it. The entire stadium was full of Mongolian citizens and in the way of introducing Indian Tricolor flag by hand, it was very inspiring in itself. Where power and regency are not accessible, at such places, soft power plays a very important role in international relations.\nToday we are seeing such a Kumbh Mela. This is the Kumbh Mela of the art. India had such prosperity that the art was fully developed here. This earth is such that every music of every moment is different. The music of the morning is different then the evening is different and hence will find the world of music in the market, the music that has been tuned to the market has filled the market but the music that is stirring the mind is full of Hindustan and the world now wants to pour the mind And that is the sadhana of music that can dwarf the world's mind.\nWhen a country is seen by art, the inherent strength of this country is recognized. Today, the people of India who have been doing the art of art and art practice for centuries have been giving a priceless gift to the world today. On such occasions nature also performed the criteria but this is the Art of Living. Living in comfort and simplicity can lead to living, there is no art in it. When it comes to your intentions, then the Art of Living is needed. When we take our dreams, then the Art of Living is needed. When struggling to cope with the crisis, then the Art of Living When you do not live for yourself, then you will need Art of Living. Art of Living is needed when you travel to Samasti. When I walk away from us, then we need Art of Living.\nWe are those people who start with Ahm Brahmasmi and travel to Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam, this is the Art of Living. We are those people who have traveled from the Upanishad to the satellite and the art of living that life is done by our sages, the monks, the enlightened people, the ascetics have inherited us. Human beings struggling with problems, human beings with problems in their personal life ... Family problems of India, family family, when this world is known to be such a heritage, it is astonishing. We have learned this art, have learned through centuries. But if there is scarcity in it then he needs to recover again.\nI congratulate the work that is going on through Sri Sri Ravi Shankar ji, very much best wishes and all the artists, all the seekers, to the workers of all Art of Living, through this grand ceremony, India's special image I congratulate the world in front of you very much.\nThank you."