"Contribution of women in nation building has always been immense: PM Modi\nIt's important to understand ourselves and our strengths: PM\nNobody can beat women when it comes to multi-tasking: PM Modi\nWomen get higher success ratio in the lesser opportunities\nWomen have the ability to adapt to technology: PM Modi\nModi to lead women in India: Narendra Modi\nI congratulate Sumitra on the heart of the heart that he planned, programmed the event but congratulated me more than I give to you all because I learned about how the sessions took place, became the subjects, all of you participated. , Being an active participant and, most people are present. Otherwise, if there is more work in Delhi, then it may be less then it is in itself, this festival is full of curiosity for you. Where you work-doing the difficulties you are suffering, want solutions.\nThe dreams that you have come into public life Find out how to make yourself capable of fulfilling those dreams, find some guidance from anywhere, get information, find an opportunity to find a way. The result of all these things is that you have actively participated in many issues in this one and a half days, but I would like to say to a third subject that at times this kind of work gets more than the things that get in the structured way. At the time of tea, at the time of the meal or coming and going, the acquaintances, the things that come from strangers. The experience that they have the opportunity to share, is more powerful than the structured programme and that you have found people and in that sense women's representatives from all over the country will celebrate this festival where you will go to their respective areas. Someone will play a positive role and you will definitely succeed.\nHere a quote of Sushma ji was mentioned, but I do not want to say it in the context of women and man but one thing is that women's empowerment, I need to change this psychological state. Empowerment is theirs, those who are not empowering but who are empowering, who will empower them, and I do not lose the point that men who are men who will empower, but it is necessary that we identify ourselves.\nWe do not recognize our powers until then, unless we have the opportunity to deal with the challenges. There is one thing in every type of society, the survey of life. If the wife dies, if the man runs the family alone, then the family can run for a long time and he can live longer, and if the person is not there, the woman has the responsibility to run the family. All the survey says that he Long live for a long time and show family well-being.\nThis is the proof that the inherent power and power that God has given you, is the people, the women. Knowing which is very important in itself. Nowadays, one word is very popular in the world of management. Multi star activity This multi task activity is a single tunnel activity in many countries of the world which has grown in personality. If he keeps walking in it, then he goes forward, contributes a lot but there is a hindrance in that tunnel, and it is not possible to go somewhere else. If daily he has a habit of going to lift, sitting on the 10th floor and suddenly going to power, then falling down from the stair case, what is his hour, what are the people, there are such people.\nMulti Task activity is today considered as a special power in the managerial world but look at the women in our country. Maybe in the Multi Task Activity there can be no one above them. He would also listen to songs on FM, talk to mobile and also cook, would also give information to the child, that means that if we look at this thing by a little dissection then the style comes, what is the strength, what power has given it . Do we know to glorify this power, recognize this power.\nSee also where-where the woman has the opportunity, her level of success is very high. Remember from the past years who was the Foreign Minister, you will not remember the name of the country but today Sushma ji immediately misses you. We feel the power\nThere were many Speaker in our Parliament, but every woman who came to the Speaker, had been aware that Meera Kumar was, Sumitra ji. Nowadays, too many women women are playing Speaker role in the state. Where they got the opportunity. If I do not know if someone has done a survey or not, but if surveyed, maybe the opportunities given to men, their success ratio and the opportunity given to women, their success ratio, I believe women will have gone above . It means that there is strength. This is the first government in our country to represent such a large number of women ministers because my conviction is that if they get opportunity, they can give very good results and today we are experiencing that give results.\nYou might have probably heard Rwanda, a small country in Africa, in the latter half of the last century, probably if you have come to your ears. There was a huge massacre, millions of people were killed and most men were killed. Later the women took charge of the country and courageously came to the ground. Today, around 65 percent women representatives are present in their lower house and women gave leadership to such a country out of such a terrible objection and women took out the country. Today Rwanda stood on the strength of his feet. This is a very big example in itself that even after passing through the difficulties, the people who got the opportunity, made a big change, how much big result has brought, and therefore, as a representative of the country, we are empowered that we can strengthen the nation Can the extra role play, the budget does not work to empower the nation. Road, pathways, port, airport, building, buildings, buildings are not available for empowering the nation.\nEmpowers the nation, the people of the nation empower the nation Empowers the nation, makes the citizen of the nation a citizen and makes any citizen stronger, if he strengthens him, makes him a character, makes a mother, no one can build a larger nation than that. Nobody can make empowerment, build a larger nation, and mothers and sisters have been doing for centuries. For the generation of perfect gems for generations, the most basic work of empowerment of life has been done by you, but if it is not proud of what has happened. We will remain in the inferiority complex only, we will think that it is better than those people, then I do not believe that what you intend to move forward will be helpful in crossing it. We ourselves are so powerful, its You will realize and this is because of what I say, no you are.\nOccasionally, there are two forms of women in the house, if they are cooking food on the stove, making chapati and making chapati-making a little steam out of it, steam came out and his finger burns if it burns but his focus Then it does not remain in the food, it does not remain in cooking. She waits for the arrival of the husband. Three times will go to the window and see if it is not there anymore and it keeps trying to make a picture of the burning finger in front of it. He feels that today my husband will see that I make Chapati today - my finger has been burnt. I will water, ask for water, I will give water, the burn is two hours before and the husband will come, tell him something. The same woman gets the steam from her chapati, if she fingers a little, she waits for her husband to see her husband but she started coming in the mohalla, mother has gone to buy a vegetable in the market, a small discount cell is going on. 10 percent, 20 percent, saris have come very nice and women have been looking for saris for purchasing, and they know that there is a fire in the neighborhood, they are running and kicking all the sarees.\nThe neighboring people are putting some soil to the house to extinguish the fire, some water is pouring, they come and shouts that my son is inside. Many men in the neighborhood will stand with mustaches, no one will dare to go. She will be caught in the fire playing the game of life and death and will come out with the baby. Whose finger is burning due to the steam emanating from Chapati, it is a form but it comes in front of the crisis when its love emerges, the other is power. It is the wealthy people of this power that you are and that is the power that makes the nation strong, makes the nation strong and therefore, as a representative of the people, suppose there will be many kinds of roles. Our job is to make laws in the legislature, have I seen the draft of which I have come to the legislation, that the person who is my agenda of empowerment, does it fit or does not sit in it. There is no shortage of words that is not there. If so, then I am trying to persuade that thing as a conscious representative or not I am doing it. You see, there will be a huge contribution.\nSuch a law is made in your tenure. The law inside which you put a word on it, which can change the life of future generations. What is the biggest contribution but is that the kind of effort I have been doing. It is my duty as a representative of the people that I am mainly my work in the constitutional work, and not only in any family, when the house is built, there are not many architecture, many designs come, but by the end Stomach she does a mother, no-no kitchen should be such, toilet should be here. The temple should be here, boots will be used here, the house will go well. Whether he is an engineer or not, that is not an architecture but he understands from experiences, In the same way when the law is made inside the house. By the same method we see what are the drawbacks, what are the good ones. What effect will be born to the coming generations? I would like you to try a bit, you can contribute a lot because you have seen, heard and given strength inside. Whatever you can look for things ahead of time, maybe you can not find the man.\nWhat reactions of him will be, you probably get it quickly, the man probably does not come. You have this divine power. Can it be used in the legislature, can we be where we are sitting, we should try that we will. As a Representative, we have an image of our own I believe that, I would urge you to be careful that you have an image in your field, your identity becomes that and this is a sadhana, there is a continuation, then it becomes the same. Let's assume that there is a public opinion that Bhai Mangal and Mercury are scheduled to meet at this place at 8 o'clock in the morning. Rain, sunshine, anything will become your identity. Oh wow, Mars or Mercury that means our people will be here, definitely will meet. We will say that please give a message on this telephone number, whether I stay or not, the telephone number will become as powerful as you. As such a people's representative\nIn our polling area, we can enter one identity and you see once your style of work, if you have a special image of your speech, thoughts, behavior, that will work for a long time, work for a long time Come and try it. Occasionally, politics is a sport of competition, the competition is every moment, but when the jealousy gets stronger in the competition, then let us assume that we are not entitled to go ahead and what happens because of that Two or four women in our work area look stunning, if we look strong then our pride is lost, we are scared. Now the man will not get the ticket next time, what will happen to me We should go ahead by making ourselves consistent and if we will try that I am what I am but if I do not let anyone come, then you should assume that the strength of the incoming stream will be so much that they will fall on you by falling down and then You will go down so much that you will never be above. But if you allow others to come, let them come. You will go up, your base will go down, your strength like the pyramid will increase.\nAs a public representative in this public life, I should try my best for my own strength and personality. Let us decide, in the scope of each and every one, one-third of the women are leading. Some are leading the village, some are leading the city, some are doing the city, some big city, one-third because one-third chairmanship is in the hands of a woman. These one-third representatives, leave the rest, these one-third representatives are your thinking, your thoughts, who work under you, are in your workplaces. If you are MLA and there are 100 villages, if there are 30-35 women from within that 100 villages, are the main women, have you empowered them, have you empowered them, have you ever spent a day with them?\nI would urge you that whatever Sumitra ji did for all of us here, can you do a one-day program, whether you are a women in your Lok Sabha constituency or in your assembly constituency, what are the women there? What can you take away, let's see if this thing goes down till then it will be a huge change in the direction of empowerment and why there is no party in it. Minister must. You see, there are people of all the parties here and I congratulate Sumitra ji. The committee that they created to create this program was all the people of the party and almost all Junior MPs, but with great enthusiasm, Done To say that we, how to empower this unit, how to make a powerful, how to bring strength inside them. ये सामर्थ्य लाने के तरीकों में हम खुद नेतृत्व कर सकते हैं क्या, अगर हम नेतृत्व करेंगे तो हम बहुत बड़ी परिवर्तन ला सकते हैं।\nएक और विषय है जिस पर मैं आपसे आग्रह करूंगा वो है Technology, हम ये मानकर चलें Technology का एक बहुत बड़ा role व्यक्ति के जीवन में, समाज के जीवन में सुनिश्चित हो चुका है। हमने अपने आप को उसके साथ cope up करना पड़ रहा है। मेरा ये मत है कि पुरुषों में Technology को adopt करने की जितनी ताकत है, उससे ज्यादा Technology को adopt करने की ताकत महिलाओं में है। आप देखिए किसी भी kitchen में जाइए आप, Most Modern Gadget Technology के लिए जो kitchen में उपयोग आता है वो महिलाएं आराम से उपयोग करती होंगी। इतना ही नहीं उनके घर में kitchen में मदद करने वाली कोई अनपढ़ भी महिला होगी लेकिन उसको वो सब चलाना आता होगा कैसे चलाना है, क्या कैसे चलाना है, सब कुछ उसे आता होगा। मतलब Technology adopt करने की महिलाओं की एक विशेष शक्ति होती है।\nआपने देखा होगा Consumer Product जो करते हैं उनका भी target क्या रहता है कि women centric production कि उसको मालूम है कि market तुरंत मिलेगा क्योंकि वो तुरंत स्वीकार करती है। Technology महिलाओं के लिए कोई नई नहीं होती है, वो स्वीकार करती है लेकिन जनप्रतिनिध के नाते जो बदला हुआ युग है, उसमें हम Technology का कैसे उपयोग कर सकते हैं। हमारे communication के लिए technology का उपयोग कैसे कर सकते हैं। हम अपने कार्यक्षेत्र में, लोक संपर्क के लिए technology का उपयोग कैसे करें, हम जनता का सामान्य बातों को जानने के लिए technology का कैसे उपयोग करें, हमारी अपनी बात जनता तक पहुंचाने के लिए technology का उपयोग कैसे करें, उसका भरपूर प्रयास करना चाहिए। आज आपका कोई मतदाता ऐसा नहीं होगा कि जो Mobile Phoneसे connect न हो, 2 percentभी नहीं होंगे लेकिन आप उनसे connect हैं, मतलब something is missingअगर आज यहां के दो दिन के अनुभव आप इस technology के माध्यम से करें तो देश औऱ दुनिया को पता चलेगा कि हां ये कुछ हो रहा है और जानकारियां पाने का उत्तम से उत्तम साधन है।\nमेरा तो अनुभव है। मैं ऩरेंद्र मोदी एप पर दखता हूं इतने लोग मेरे से जुड़े हुए हैं, मुझे इतनी जानकारियां देते हैं। हर चीज का immediate पता चलता है। कुछ हुआ तो immediateपता चलता है। इतनी well inform रह सकता हूं काम के अंदर। mygov.in एक platform चलाता हूं PMO से, उसके द्वारा भी मैं जनसामान्य को जोड़ता हूं। आप भी अपने तरीके से ऐसी व्यवस्था कर सकते हैं और मैं तो लोकसभा को, राज्यसभा को एक प्रार्थना करूंगा कि आप women प्रतिनिधि का एक e platform तैयार कर सकते हैं क्या और उनकी जो बातें हैं वो officially लोकसभा, राज्यसभा website को चलाएं। पूरे देश के महिला प्रतिनिधियों के लिए एक अवसर दिया जाए। देखिए technology की अपनी एक ताकत है और मेरा एक अनुभव है। मैं जब गुजरात में मुख्यमंत्री था, कपराडा एक तहसील है। बहुत ही interior बहुत ही Tribal belt है। आमतौर पर किसी मुख्यमंत्री का वहां जाना होता ही नहीं लेकिन मेरा अपने कार्यक्षेत्र में काम का आग्रह रहता था सभी क्षेत्र में स्थानों पर जाऊं, खुद जाने मेरा प्रयास रहता था। लेकिन मेरा वहां जाना बन ही नहीं रहा था। दो-तीन साल चले गए उस इलाके में जाना हुआ ही नहीं। मैंने कहा भई मैं जाऊंगा, कुछ नहीं तो एक पेड़ लगाकर के वापस आऊंगा, लेकिन जाऊंगा।\nखैर फिर हमारे अफसरों को भी लगा कि ये तो अब जाना ही है इनको तो आखिरकर उन्होंने एक कार्यक्रम ढूंढा, एक chilling center का उद्घाटन करना था। chilling center क्या होता है, दूध आता है, दूध को थोड़े समय रखने के लिए काम होता है और 50-60 लाख का होता है। अब वो संकोच कर रहे थे कि मुख्यमंत्री 50 लाख रुपए केproject के लिए जाएंगे। मैंने कहा भी मैं जाऊंगा, मुझे जाना है, उस इलाके में मैं गया नहीं, मुझे जाना है। मैं गया तो वो तो forest था पूरा तो जनसभा के लिए जगह भी नहीं थी लेकिन उससे तीन किलोमीटर दूर एक स्कूल के मैदान में उन्होंने public meeting रखी थी लेकिन यहां जहां chilling center पर मैं गया, वहां दूध भरने वाली आदिवासी 30-35 बहनें उन्होंने बुलाकर के रखी थीं,chilling center का उद्घाटन करना था। मैं हैरान था जब मैं वहां कार्यक्रम के लिए गया तो ये सारी Tribal बहनें वो, जो security की fencing की गई थी वहां पर खड़ी थीं। हर एक के हाथ में Mobile Phone था और photo निकालती थीं।\nमैं उस इलाके की बात करता हूं जहां CM जाते नहीं हैं forest है, बिल्कुल Tribal लोग हैं। उस समय की बात करता हूं, 10 साल पहले की बात कर रहा हूं। सब photo निकाल रही थीं तो मुझे आश्चर्य हुआ, मैं उनके पास गया, मैंने कहा ये photo निकालकर क्या करोगे आप लोग और उन्होंने जो जवाब दिया वो मैं आज भी भूल नहीं सकता हूं। उन्होंने कहा इसको जाकर के download करा देंगे। वो पढ़ी-लिखी नहीं थीं लेकिन download शब्द उनको मालूम था। Mobile Phone से किसी दुकान में जाकर के download होता है। कहने का तात्पर्य ये है कि ये technology कहां-कहां पहुंची है। क्या हमने अपने आप को उसके साथ connect करने का प्रयास किया है। आपकी अपनी ताकत बढ़ाने की दिशा में आपने प्रयास करना चाहिए।\nएक और विषय है communication, मैं ये नहीं कहता हूं कि आपने कोई बहुत बड़े orator बनना चाहिए, जरूर नहीं है, बन सकते हैं, अच्छी बात है लेकिन ये inferiority की जरूरत नहीं है। लेकिन अगर आप कोशिश करें तो आप अपनी बातों को ढंग से बताने की ताकत आ सकती है।\nआप जनप्रतिनिधि हैं, एक काम कर सकें अगर आप technosavy हैं तो अपने mobile पर उपयोग करें या तो एक छोटा सा I pad रख सकते हैं या नहीं है तो diary में लिख सकते हैं। क्या आप लगातार एक diary maintain करते चलें। अखबार में कोई चीज पढ़ी है लिखकर के और उसमें department बना दीजिए Education का, Irrigation का, Urban development का, Rural Development का और उसमें लिखते चले जाइए घटनाएं, जोड़ते चले जाइए। सालभर के बाद देखोगे आप, आपका अपना ज्ञान का भंडार इतना बड़ा होगा कि कहीं पर भी किसी विषय को लेकर के रूबरू हो रहा होगा तो दो मिनट लेगा आपकी diary को नजर कर लिया, आप एक बड़े विश्वास के साथ, facts and figures के साथ चीजें प्रस्तुत कर सकते हैं।\nमैं आपसे आग्रह करूंगा कि आपको अपने आपको प्रभावी भी बनाना पड़ेगा और अगर आप अपने आप को प्रभावी बने रहने के लिए जो प्रय़ास करने चाहिए अगर उसको आप नहीं करेंगे तो सिर्फ व्यवस्थाओं बदलने से परिणाम नहीं आता है। Structure में इधर-उधर बदलाव होता रहेगा, समय-समय पर होता भी रहता है। आवश्यकता है उसमें प्राणवान कैसे बनाएं हम अपनी ताकत को कैसे जोड़ें।\nहम कोशिश करें कम से कम समय में हम अपनी बात को कैसे रखें, सटीक तरीके से कैसे रखें और अगर इस बात में आपकी ताकत आई तो आप देखिए लोग आपकी बात से सहमत होते जाएंगे, जुड़ते चले जाएंगे। आपकी leadership establishment करने के लिए आपके पास उम्दा व्यक्तित्व जरूरत नहीं है, आपके पास विषयों की जानकारी होना जरूरी है। आप सदन में बोलते हैं। सब लोगों को सब विषयों का ज्ञान हो ये जरूरी नहीं है। क्या कोई प्रधानमंत्री बन गया तो सब विषयों का उसे ज्ञान होता है, कोई आवश्यक नहीं है लेकिन जिसमें आपकी रुचि है, ऐसे एक या दो विषयों पर आपकी मास्टरी होनी चाहिए। हर बात उससे संबंधित जो चींज मिले, उसको collect करते जाना चाहिए। आपको लगता है कि पानी पर मेरी मास्टरी, मेरे क्षेत्र में पानी का problem है तो मैं पानी पर मास्टरी करूं। आपको लगता है कि नहीं-नहीं मैं technology पर मास्टरी करूं, technology पर करूं। आपको लगता है नहीं-नहीं मैं शिक्षा विषय पर।\nएक विषय पकड़िए, जिस विषय पर आप सर्वाधिक grip ले सकते हैं, सरलता से ले सकते हैं, जानकारियां जोड़ सकते हैं। आप देखिए सदन में routine में शायद आपको आपकी पार्टी के लोग बोलने का अवसर न देते हों लेकिन एकाध पर विषय पर आपकी मास्टरी होगी तो वो खोजते हुआ आएंगे, नहीं-नहीं भई मंगल को Parliament-Assembly में जरूर आइए ये विषय है, आपको तो बोलना ही पड़ेगा, आप बोलेंगे तो दम आएगा क्योंकि आपके पास भंडार भरा पड़ा है। आपको किसी कृपा की जरूरत नहीं पडेगी और इसलिए हम स्वंय अपने आप में कैसे सज्ज करें अपने आप को, उसके लिए प्रयास करें और अगर ये प्रयास करें तो हमें उत्तम परिणाम भी मिलता है। समय काफी मैंने लिया है, आप लोगों को भोजन भी करना है और आप लोग photo के लिए भी तैयार होकर के आए हैं तो मैं फिर एक बार सुमित्रा जी को बहुत-बहुत अभिनंदर करता हूं और आप सबको भी, एक और बात मेरे मन में आती है ये जो Parliament की कमेटियां जाती हैं, Assembly की कमेटियां जाती हैं, राज्यो में जाती हैं। आप भी जाते हैं उसमें क्या आप प्रयास कर सकते हैं क्या, आप पूरा कार्यक्रम जो बनेगा, बनेगा लेकिन आप जहां जाएंगे वहां, वहां की महिला जनप्रतिनिधियों के साथ आधा घंटा, एक घंटा जरूर परिचय करेंगे, मिलेंगे, ये कर सकते हैं क्या, आप देखिए आपको इतनी जानकारियां मिलेंगी।\nदूसरा मैं विशेषकर के MPs को प्रार्थना करता हूं। यहां कई राज्यों के MLAs के साथ आपका परिचय हुआ है। सदन के अंदर देश के किसी भी कोने की चर्चा आ पड़ती है। क्या आपने telephone पर आपने जहां परिचय हुआ है उस राज्य की किसी MLA से उसको phone करके पूछ सकते हैं कि भई सदन में ये विषय उठने की संभावना है, तुम्हारे राज्य का हुआ है, बताओ न क्या है, वो कहेगी नहीं मैं एक घंटे में ढूंढकर के बताता हूं। देखिए दोनों तरफ फायदा हो जाएगा। वो भी उस घटना पर concentration करेगी, वो भी study करेगी, आपको घंटे भर में report करेगी और आपको भी अखबारों के द्वारा नहीं first-hand information मिलेगी कि भई केरल में, तिरुवनंतपुरम में ये घटना घटी है और वहां की MLA मुझे ये कह रही हैं तो मैं house के अंदर मैं इस बात के अंदर में ये सही बात बताऊंगी।\nआप देखिए जानकारियों के स्रोत ये बहुत आवश्यक हैं। इसमें से और कुछ हम साथ ले जाएं या न ले जा पाएं लेकिन ये जो दायरे से आपका परिचय हुआ है, दल कोई भी होगा, आप contact बनाइए आपको जानकारियों के स्रोत आपके बढ़ते जाएंगे तो हम कहीं जाएं दौरे पर, कमेटियां में आग्रह रखें कि हम वहां के जनप्रतिनिधियों से सामूहिक रूप से आधा घंटा, एक घंटा अवश्य मिले। सरकार programme बनाएं या न बनाएं, हम ये प्रयास करें। धीरे-धीरे ये अपने आप में एक शक्ति संफुट बन जाएगा। जो शक्ति संफुट राष्ट्र को सशक्तिकरण करने की प्रक्रिया में एक बहुत बड़ी अहम भूमिका अदा करेगा और वो दिन दूर नहीं होगा कि जब women empowerment तो होता ही होता चला जाएगा लेकिन देश में women development से आगे बढ़कर के women led development की दिशा में आगे बढ़ेगा। इसी एक पूरी श्रद्धा के साथ बहुत-बहुत शुभकामनाएं, बहुत-बहुत धन्यवाद।\n"