"Rules should be such that they facilitate the achievement of goals: PM Narendra Modi\nAnything that is not sustainable can not be developed: PM\nIn our culture, development means 'Bahujan Hitya, Bahujan Sukhaya', 'Survey Bhavantu Sukhino' and 'Lokka: Samastahta Sukhino Bhavantu': PM\nWe, in India, have a strong tradition of living in harmony We worship nature: PM Modi\nIndia can provide leadership in sustainable development: PM\nPoverty is the biggest challenge for environment Eradication of poverty is one of the fundamental goals of my Government: PM\nIt is our noral responsibility to ensure that we leave a healthy planet for future generations: PM Modi\nWe want to ensure a protective environment of 1.25 billion Indians to develop and prosper: PM\nHon. Chief Justice of India,\nOther Dignitaries on the dais,\nJudicial minds from India and abroad\nInvitees, Delegates, Ladies and Gentlemen!\nI am delighted to address the International Workshop on Rule of Law and Sustainable Development. I welcome our friends from abroad and their active participation.\nThis workshop is being organized soon after two important international agreements which happened during 2015. One is the Paris Agreement on Climate change. The other is the Agreement on Sustainable Development Goals. Therefore, this conference provides a timely and useful opportunity. This is not only the national context but also the global context. I hope you will keep in mind the welfare of mankind and the concerns of the international community in your deliberations.\nThe role of rules and laws in achieving sustainable development goals However, the rules should be such that they facilitate the achievement of these goals. Unfortunately, some times, the problem is narrowly We all have to realize that if there is conflict, no one's purpose will be served I hope that you will show us the way to build and ensure climate justice across the globe as well as social frameworks.\nLast year, in September, I attended the meeting of the UN General Assembly where the sustainable development goals for 2030 were adopted. These goals reflect our evolving understanding of the social, economic and environmental links that define our lives.\nThis was followed by the COP-21 Our commitments at COP-21 underline the Indian ethos which aims at changing human life along with changes in the manner in which we are engaged in economic activity. The problems of our consumptive lifestyles If we want to make a meaningful impact; Before the books of law\nFriends!\nI have always felt that anything can not be sustainable In our culture, development means 'Bahujan Hitiayya, Bahujan Sukhaya', 'Survey Bhavantu Sukhino' and 'Lokoka: Samastahta Sukhino Bhavantu'. This can not happen without the development process is inclusive and sustainable. Anything which compromises on the capacity to meet its needs can not be called development. We in India have always believed in sustainability For us, the law of nature holds great value. If we all observe it, then many man-made laws will not require Only the practice of life and co-existence will be In modern terminology, there is a word called stakeholder. A path becomes sustainable, if all stakeholders are benefitted However, I must add a word of caution here. The stake should be natural It should be inherent It can not be stretched to include those who are working with ulterior motives. Nature is pure So, only pure intentions can keep it intact.\nWe, in India, have a strong tradition of living in harmony We worship nature We worship the sun, the moon, rivers, land, trees, animals, rain, air and fire. These elements of Nature have been given the stature of Gods in our culture. Furthermore, in Indian mythology, most of the Gods and Goddesses are associated with an animal and a tree. Thus, the respect for Nature is an integral part of our culture, and has passed passed generations. Protection of environment comes naturally to us. This strong tradition has been a guiding principle for all of us.\nThere is a well-known Sanskrit saying:\nSarvaansam Swastibhavabhavu Sarvesh Shantirambhavavu\nSarvshans full moon Sarvesh Mangalgavavu ..\nWhich means:\nWe always pray for welfare, peace, fulfillment and sustainability of all; at all places and for all times\nThis is our commitment; not of today but since time immemorial If we remember this, follow this and act accordingly, India could provide leadership in sustainable development. For example, the practice of Yoga is aimed at balancing contentment and worldly desires, to lead a path of moderation and sustainable lifestyle. When I talk of yoga, it is not just its physical dimension. Yoga is very broad The ideas of YAM, NIYAM, PRATYAHAR teach us discipline, austerity and control.\nMuch before the debate on sustainable development began, Mahatma Gandhi, the Father of our nation, had said that we should act as 'trustees' and use natural resources wisely. It is our noral responsibility to ensure that we have a healthy planet for future generations.\nFriends! I am sure all of us agree Therefore, eradication of poverty is one of the fundamental goals of my government. Guided by our core values, we are working towards achieving this goal with sincerity. We want to ensure a conducive environment for 1.25 billion Indians to develop, and prosper. We are encouraging education, skill development, digital connectivity and entrepreneurship to provide an enabling ecosystem for our youth to blossom. We aim to do all this in a sustainable manner\nWe realize that fulfilling the demand for energy is vital to the achievement of our development goals. This is why, one of the first challenges that we took up to 175 Giga Waters of renewable energy We are well on our way to achieving this purpose.\nWe have also taken the Swacch Bharat and Clean Ganga Initiatives I am happy to note that millions of people have joined the cleanliness drive. I take this opportunity to invite the participants to explore the collective endeavor. I am happy to learn that the workshop will also discuss issues related to pollution and waste management. These are issues that need to be addressed proactively I look forward to your recommendations\nFriends!\nThe problems we face in India today are not unique. Other civilizations have also faced similar problems. I believe that through our collective efforts, we will succeed as well. While doing so, we must ensure that we continue to develop and develop sustainably. Our culture teaches us Union between the person and peace If we become one with the universal order, there are no conflicts of interest.\nTherefore, my government is treating the challenge of adapting to climate change as a chance instead of a problem. We need to adopt the philosophy of yoga: karmasu kausam We must do things in a way This is skill or mastery This is what I mean when I talk of zero defect and zero effect manufacturing. I have written some of my thoughts on this book, Convenient Action: continuity for change.\nFriends! The rule of law dictates that another's misdeed. We need to recognize that there are many people They are the people who are still waiting for access to modern amenities. They face the effect of climate change more than any other. This includes cyclones, droughts, floods, heat waves, and rising sea levels. The poor, vulnerable and marginalized groups have to deal with climate disasters. Unfortunately, their present and future generations are also burdened by laws and agreements on environment. That is why I talk about Climate Justice Moreover, the rules, laws, practices and principles of one country can not be applied to another uniformly. Every country has its own challenges If we apply the same set of rules for all countries and for all people; it will not work\nSustainable development is Our responsibility I am confident that we can achieve it, collectively. I am also confident that we are in harmony with nature. We can find them on the road travelled by our forefathers. I hope the deliberations during this workshop will help in developing a shared understanding of these imperatives.\nI wish this conference a grand success.\nThank you.\nI hope that you will show the way to build and ensure climate justice across the globe as well as social frameworks: PM Modi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 4, 2016\nI have always felt that anything which is not sustainable can not be developed: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 4, 2016\nIn our culture, development means 'Bahujan Hitya, Bahujan Sukhaya', 'Survey Bhavantu Sukhino' and 'Lokka: Samastahta Sukhino Bhavantu': PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 4, 2016\nWe have a strong tradition of living in harmony We worship nature: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 4, 2016\nWe always pray for welfare, peace, fulfillment and sustainability of all; at all places and for all times: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 4, 2016\nMuch before the debate on sustainable development started Gandhi ji said that we should act as trustees and use natural resources wisely: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 4, 2016\nIt is our noral responsibility to ensure that we leave a healthy planet for future generations: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 4, 2016\nPoverty is the biggest challenge for environment So eradication of poverty is one of the fundamental goals of my government: PM Modi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 4, 2016\nSustainable development is Our responsibility I am confident that we can achieve it collectively: PM @narendramodi"