"Share\n\nIn 2018, the world's largest health insurance scheme 'Ayushman Bharat' was launched, every village of the country got electricity: PM Modi #MannKiBaat\nOur festivals represent 'Unity in Diversity' and 'Ek Bharat, Shreshtha Bharat': PM Modi during #MannKiBaat\nThe global importance that Kumbh holds is very well exemplified from the fact that UNESCO has described it as 'Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity': PM during #MannKiBaat\nKumbh is in itself Narendra Modi during #MannKiBaat\nThis time, every devotee will be able to pray at Akshay Vat after the holy bath in the Sangam: Prime Minister Modi during #MannKiBaat\nPujya Bapu's connect with South Africa is unbreakable It was in South Africa, where Mohan becomes the 'Mahatma': Prime Minister Modi #MannKiBaat\nMahatma Gandhi started his first Satyagraha in South Africa and he stood against the discrimination based on the color of PM: PM #MannKiBaat\nSardar Patel He devoted every moment of his life to protect the nation's integrity: PM Modi during #MannKiBaat\nGuru Gobind Singh Ji was born in Patna, His karmabhoomi was North India and He sacrificed His life in Maharashtra's Nanded: PM during #MannKiBaat\nGuru Gobind Singh Ji calm but whenever, an attempt was made to stop the poor and the weak, then Guru Gobind Singh Ji raised his voice and standing firmly with the poor: PM #ManKiBaat\nGuru Gobind Singh Ji always used to say that strength can not be demonstrated by fighting weak sections: PM Modi #MannKiBaat\nMy Dear countrymen, Namaskar. The year 2018 is about to conclude. We will soon enter 2019. At such a juncture, it is natural to reflect on the year gone by; It is very similar to Whether it is the life of an individual, the life of a society at large or the life of a nation collectively; at the same time one has to try and look forward to the best extent possible Only then can the gains of experience be availed, only then can one's self-confidence renew further. What exactly should we do in order to ensure a change in our lives, simultaneously contributing our bit in taking our country and society forward? Many good wishes for you year 2019. You must have wondered how to keep 2018 etched in your memory! It is important to bear in mind HOW India as a country, as a collective entity powered by the might of a hundred and thirty crore people remembers the year 2018; something that swells our hearts with pride.\nThe year 2018 saw the launch of the world's largest health insurance scheme 'Ayushman Bharat'. Electricity reached the country Noted world institutes have accepted that the country has taken steps in the area of ​​poverty reduction. On account of the unwavering resolution of our countrymen, swachchata, sanitation coverage is rapidly forwarding towards the crossing the 95% mark.\nAfter Independence, for the first time ever, the tricolor was hoisted at Red Fort on the 75th anniversary of the formation of the Azad Hind Government. In honor of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, who was the first person to be a part of a common thread of unity, India witnessed the coming up of the tallest statue in the world, 'Statue of Unity'. The country secured a place of pride and glory in the whole world. The United Nations Environment Award 'Champions of the Earth' was conferred upon India. The world has taken notice of India's efforts in the areas of Solar Energy \u0026 Climate Change. The first General Assembly of the International Solar Alliance held in India It is due to our collective efforts that our country has seen unprecedented improvement in the 'Ease of doing business' ranking. The country's self defense mechanism got further reinforced. It was during this very year that our country has successfully accomplished the nuclear triad, which means we are now armed with nuclear capabilities-in water, on land and in the sky as well. Daughters of the country have done their pride by circumnavigating the globe through the NavikaSagarParikrama. India's first inland waterway was launched in Varanasi\nThis has laid the foundation of a new revolution in the waterways sector. The longest rail-road bridge, Bogibeel Bridge was dedicated to the nation-Sikkim's first \u0026 India's hundredth airport, Pakyong commenced operations. India scripted a thumping win in the under-19 Cricket World Cup and the Blind Cricket World Cup This time, India clinched a large number of medals in the Asian Games. India also performed very well in the Para Asian Games too. By the way, if I continue enumerating examples of the Purusharth, the character \u0026 the healing of Indians, or those of our collective endeavor, this episode of Man Ki Baat will go on and on, probably to the point when 2019 is an entry! And all this has been possible due to the relentless efforts of a 130 crore countrymen. I sincerely hope that India's journey on the progress and progress continues through 2019 too. Taking her newer heights with her inner strengths\nMy dear countrymen, this December we had to bear the loss of some extraordinary, exemplary countrymen. On the 19th of December, Dr. Jayachandran passed away in Chennai People fondly called him 'MakkalMaaruthuvar' since he had a special place in their hearts. Dr. Jayachandran was known for his efforts of making the most economical treatment possible. People tell us that he will never be ready \u0026 eager In the case of elderly patients, he would also bear the cost of his travelling to and fro. On the betterindia.com website, I have read about many of his endeavors that serve as a inspiration to society.\nOn similar lines, on the 25th of December, I learned about the loss of Sulagitti Narsamma in Karnataka. Sulagitti Narsamma was a midwife, aiding pregnant women during childbirth. In Karnataka, specially in far-off, remote places, thousands of women availed of her services. In the beginning of this year, she was honored with a Padma Shri. There are many exemplary personalities such as Dr. Jaya Chandran and Sulagitti Narsamma, who dedicated their lives to the welfare of all in society. Since we are referring to healthcare, I would like to mention the social endeavors of Bijnor, Uttar Pradesh. Recently, I was told by some of our party workers that some young doctors in the town set up camps offering free treatment for the underprivileged.\nEvery month, The Heart Lungs Critical Center was organized as camps, where free diagnosis and treatment for a host of ailments is done. Every month, hundreds of poor patients are benefitting from these camps. The dedication of these doctors is true. Today, I'm saying it with pride that it was collective efforts that made the 'Swachch India Mission' a successful campaign. I was told that some days ago, in Jabalpur, Madhya Pradesh, over three lakh people came together for the sanitation campaign.\nIn this 'Mahayagya', grand undertaking, the Municipal Corporation, voluntary bodies, school-college students, the people of Jabalpur; in fact everyone participated with enthusiasm \u0026 zest I just referred to the betterindia.com, where I got to read about Dr. Jaya Chandran Whenever I get the opportunity, I visit the better India website and try to know more about such shining, inspiring works. I am glad to observe that these days, there are many websites approving us of inspiring life- stories of such remarkable gems. Just as the poickyindia.com is doing great work in spreading positivity and infusing more sensitivity in society. Similarly, success stories of young innovators and entrepreneurs are women beautifully on yourstory.com. In the same way, you can easily learn the Sanskrit language sitting on home through samskritabharati.in. Can we join hands in one endeavor? .. Let us share such websites ourselves. Let's come together to make positive spirit\nI do believe that by doing so more and more people will get a change in society. Spreading negativity is fairly easy But some really good work is done in our society. A total of 130 million countrymen have been successful through the collective efforts.\nSports has its own significance in every society When a game is played, the spectators too experience a rush of energy in their beings. We observe name, fame and laurels when it comes to sportspersons. But, at times, in the background, there are many things that are much higher, much more than the world of sports. Let me tell you about one of our girls from Kashmir who won a gold medal in a Karate Championship in Korea. Hanaya is 12 years old and lives in Anantnag, Kashmir. Hanaya trained hard in karate with perseverance \u0026 fervor, studied its nuances and proven herself. On behalf of all countrymen, I wish her a bright future. Best wishes and blessings to Hanaya Similarly, the media discussed extensively about the 16 year old Rajani You have also read it. Rajani has won a gold medal at the Junior Women's Boxing Championship. The moment Rajani won the medal she rushed to a nearby milk stall \u0026 drank a glass of milk. After that, she wrapped a cloth around the medal \u0026 kept it in a bag. You must be wondering Why Rajani did that! She did it in honor of her father Jasmer Singh ji who sells lassi, at a stall in Panipat. According to Rajani, her father has sacrificed a lot, undergone hardships to help her reach. Early every morning, Jasmer Singh used to leave for work before Rajani and her siblings woke up.\nWhen Rajani approached her father, expressing her wish to learn boxing, he encouraged her, arranging for whatever possible resources that he could. Rajani had started his training in boxing with old gloves, since those days, the family was too too, financially. Despite so many hurdles, Rajani did not lose heart \u0026 went ahead with his training in boxing. She has won a medal in Serbia too My best wishes and blessings to Rajani I also congratulate her parents Jasmer Singh ji and Usha Rani Ji for support \u0026 encouraging Rajani. This very month, 20 year old Vedangi Kulkarni from Pune became the fastest Asian to cross the globe riding a bicycle. She rode for 159 days, covering around 300 kilometres every day. Just imagine ... 300 kms of cycling every day! Her passion for cycling is really commendable. Do not get such achievements, such accomplishments inspire us? Especially my young friends, when we hear about such feats, we get inspiration despite obstacles.\nIf your solution is strong, if your fervor, your enthusiasm is without bounds, all your hurdles halt in their tracks Hardships can never turn into obstacles When we come to know of such examples, we too\nMy dear countrymen, the month of January ushers in many festivals filled with hope \u0026 joy- such as Lohri, Pongal, MakrSankranti, Uttarayan, MaghBihu, Maaghi; on the occasion of these festivities, the length and breadth of India will be replete ... with the verve of traditional dance at places, the embers of Lohri symbolizing the joy of a bountiful harvest at others. Somewhere the skies dotted with colorful flying kites, elsewhere the funfilled air of a mela or carnival. The spirit of Sports \u0026 games will come to the fore ... and at places, people will gladly feed each other til \u0026 gur ... sesame \u0026 jaggery ... people will be heard exchanging the greeting phrase 'Tilgurghyaanyigorgor bola'!\nAll these festivals may be different names but they are singular - These are harvest festivals and the other or the other are farmers and farmers, with our barns and farmers, with the crop and farming. It is during this period that the sun enters north due to the north of the movement of the celestial sphere and enters the Makardasha. It is during this period that we begin to lengthen and the winter harvesting of our crops begins. Best wishes to our food providers, the farming brothers and sisters.\nOur festivals are replete with fragrance of the essence of Unity in Diversity and the Spirit of One India Great India. We can witness how closely our festivals are interlinked with nature In Indian culture society and nature are indistinguishable, in our culture the person and his environment are considered in totality. A great example of the interconnection between us and Nature is the calendar based on our festivals. It comprises festivals all around the year as well as the movements of the celestial bodies. This traditional calendar depicts our bonding with natural and astronomical events. The lunar and solar calendars based on the movement of the moon and sun. It is also dependent on the fact that calendar you follow. In many regions the position of the planetary constellations determines the occurrence and celebration of festivals. GudiPadva, Chettichand, Ugadi and others are all celebrated according to the moon calendar, while Tamil PutanduVishnu, Baisakh, Baisakhi, PoilaBoisakh, Bihu are all solar calendar according to celebrated.\nThe sagacity of conserving rivers and water is inherently reflected in many of our festivals. Chhath festival is associated with the worship of the sun, rivers and ponds. Millions of people take a tour of the streets on the streets of Makar Sankranti. Our festivals, impart to us many social values On the one hand, where they have mythological significance, on the other, every festival is quite easy in life - the value of living together, imbued with a feeling of brotherhood. I wish all of you a great year 2019 and do hope that you will enjoy the upcoming festival season. Doo share the photographs taken on these festivals with one other so that everyone can witness the diversity of India and the beauty of Indian culture.\nMy dear countrymen, there is a abundance of events in our culture, which we can be proud of and display them in the whole world with pride - and one of them is the Kumbh Mela. You must have heard a lot about Kumbh Even in films, a lot is exhibited regarding its grandeur and magnificence and most truly so, the dimensions of Kumbh are vast - supremely divine, as too magnificent. People from all over the world come and participate in the Kumbh. In the Kumbh Mela, there is a tidal upsurge of faith and reverence. Millions and millions of people from India\nThe tradition of Kumbh has bloomed and flourished as our great cultural heritage. This time the world famous Kumbh Mela is going to be held in Prayagraj from January 15, and many of you may be waiting for it. The process of Sant-Mahatmas converging at the Kumbh Mela has already started. It is a measure of its global significance that last year UNESCO has marked the Kumbh Mela in the list of the intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity. A few days ago the Ambassadors of many countries witnessed for the preparations for Kumbh. The national flags of many countries were gathered at the Kumbh. The festival of kumbh, to be organized in Prayagraj, is expected to have footfalls from more than 150 countries; The Divinity emanating from Kumbhwill spreads the colors of India's splendor throughout the world.\nKumbh Mela is also a great medium of self discovery, where every visitor experiences a unique feeling and learns from the worldly things from a spiritual perspective. This can be a great learning experience I myself went to prayagraj a few days ago and saw that the preparations for the kumbh were progressing on a war footing. People of Prayagraj are also very enthusiastic about the Kumbh. I inaugrated the Integrated Command and Control Center at the Kumbh, which will be of great benefit to the devotees.\nThis time much emphasis is being laid on cleanliness during Kumbh. If during the course of this event sanitation prevails along with reverence, then it will lead to a positive message reaching far and wide. This time every devotee will have able to have a glimpse of the pious Akshayavat after the holy dip in the confluence. This great symbol of people's faith was locked up in the fort for hundreds of years, due to which the devotees did not have a glimpse. Now the entrance gate of Akshay has been opened for everyone. I would like to share different aspects of Kumbh and photos on social media when you go on Kumbh so that more and more people feel inspired to go to Kumbh.\nMay this Kumbh of Spirituality become Mahakumbh of Indian Philosophy.\nMay this Kumbh of faith also become Mahakumbh of internationalization\nAnd a Mahakumbh of National integration\nMay this Kumbh of the devotees also become Mahakumbh of global tourists.\nMay this Kumbh of aesthetics also become the Mahakumbh of creativity.\nMy dear countrymen, there is a lot of curiosity regardingthe celebration of RepublicDay on 26th January, when we remember those great men who gave us our Constitution.This year we are celebrating the 150th birth anniversary of revered Bapu. We are fortunate that South African President Mr. Cyril Ramaphosa is going to grace the Republic Day Our revered Bapu and South Africa shared an unbreakable bond It was South Africa, where Mohan transformed into the 'Mahatma'. It was in South Africa, where Mahatma Gandhi started his first Satyagraha and standing rock in protest of apartheid. He also established the Phoenix and Tolstoy Farms, from where the demand for peace and justice echoed to the world. The year2018 is also being celebrated as Birth Centenary of Nelson Mandela, also known as 'Madiba'. We all know that Nelson Mandela was the role model of struggle against racism all over the world and who was the inspiration for Mandela? He derivedinspiration and endurance for spending many years in prison from Bapu himself. Mandela said this about Bapu - \"Mahatma is an integral part of our history, because it was here that he used his first experiment with truth; It was here, that he had displayed a great deal of determination for justice; It was here, he developed the philosophy of his satyagraha and his methods of struggle. \"Mandela used to think Bapu as his role model. Both Bapu and Mandela are not only sources of inspiration for the whole world, but their ideals have always encouraged us.\nMy dear countrymen, a few days ago, a DGP conference held at Kevadia on the banks of Narbada in Gujarat, where the world's highest statue 'Statue of Unity' was situated, there was the country of top policemen with a meaningful discussion . What kind of steps should be taken to strengthen the country and that of the countrymen, was discussed in detail. At the same conference, I also announced the awarding of 'Sardar Patel Award' for National Integration to be given to those who have contributed for national unity in any form. Sardar Patel He has always been engaged in keeping India's integrity intact. SardarSaheb believed that the power of India It is our way of paying homage to Sardar Patel's aspirations through the National Integration.\nMy dear countrymen, January 13 is the date of the sacred festival in honor of Guru Gobind Singh Ji's birth anniversary. Guru Gobind Singh Ji was born in Patna For most of his life, his work was centered in North India and he sacrificed his life in Nanded, Maharashtra. His birthplace was Patna, Karmabhoomi was the North India and the last moments were spent in Nanded. In a way, whole India received his blessings. A glimpse of his life After the martyrdom of his father Sri Guru Tegh Bahadurji, Guru Gobind Singh Ji attained the hallowed position of the Guru at a tender age of nine years. Guru Gobind Singh ji had inherited courage to fight for justice. He was bestowed with a quiet and simple personality, but when, a attempt was made to suppress the voice of the poor and the weak, or injustice was done to them, then Guru Gobind Singh ji raised his voice firmly for the poor and the weak and hence it is said -\n\"I can make one fight against one hundred and fifteen thousand,\nI can make the sparrow fight against the hawk\nThat be the reason that Gobindsingh be my name. \"\nHe can not be demonstrated by the weaker sections Mr. Gobind Singh Ji believed that human suffering. He was a divine figure full of heroism, valor, courage, sacrifice and devotion. He had a great deal of both weapons and Sastras He was an archer, and a pundit of Gurmukhi, BrajBhasha, Sanskrit, Persian, Hindi and Urdu and many other languages. I was once again bowing my objection to Shri Guru Gobind Singh ji.\nMy dear countrymen, there are many good events happening in the country, which are not widely discussed Such a unique effort is being tried by F.S.S.A.I viz Food Safety and Standard Authority of India. Many programs are being organized across the country in celebration of the 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi. In this regard F.SA.A.I. is engaged in promoting good eating or safe and healthy diet habits. Under the aegis of \"Eat Right India\" campaign, 'Swasth Bharat' is a trip to the country. These Campaigns will last till Jan 27th At times, government organizations are tagged as a regulator, but it is commendable that F.SA.A.I has been working beyond this brief for public awareness and public education. A clean and healthy India will spell a prosperous India too. Nutritious food is the best health. In this context, I extend hearty greetings to F.S.S.A.I for this initiative. I urge you to the utmost, let's join this initiative. You should participate in this initiative and specially I urge you to make me a witness. The education related issues\nMy dear countrymen, this is the last episode of the year 2018, we will meet again in 2019, and will engage in another episode of Man Ki Baat Whether it is the life of a person, life of a nation, or the life of a society, inspiration, is the basis of progress. Come, imbued with renewed inspiration, renewed enthusiasm, renewed resolution, new accomplishments, loftier goals - let's move on, keep moving, change oneself and change the country too.\nThank you very much\n2018 as India as a country,\nAs the power of the one hundred and thirty million people,\nHow to remember - It is also important to remember.\nWe are going to fill everyone with glory: PM #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/UJ0ESX0KLK\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 30, 2018\nI just mentioned https://t.co/jwNJuhGvwj.\nWhere I got to read about Dr. Jayachandran and when I get a chance, I am trying to find out such inspired things by going to the https://t.co/jwNJuhGvwj website: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 30, 2018\nGlad that there are many such websites that are familiar with many inspiring stories. Like https://t.co/HMBToQyh5G is working to spread positivity in the society.\nSimilarly, https://t.co/FkYsW9gxwz is told about the success story of young innovators and entrepreneurs on it: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 30, 2018\nSimilarly through https://t.co/N5uVDfOEBE you can learn Sanskrit language in a simple way of sitting at home.\nCan we do one thing - share this kind of website with one another? Viralize Positivity Together: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 30, 2018\nIt is quite easy to spread Negativity,\nBut, in our society, there are a lot of good things happening around us, and this is happening with the collective efforts of 130 million Indians: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 30, 2018\nMany festivals and festivals are going to come in January ... #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/4wu9otZL6Y\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 30, 2018\nUnity in Diversity '- The feeling of' India Bharat Bharat ', the fragrance of our festival is in ours #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/MlHxqQJ36m\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 30, 2018\nOur festivals, festivals are closely related to nature .. #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/9aRZy9rq2K\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 30, 2018\nI wish all of you a lot of good luck in 2019 and I wish you all to enjoy the festivals coming.\nShare the photos taken on these festivals with everyone so that everyone can see the diversity of India and the beauty of Indian culture: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 30, 2018\nThere is a lot of things in our culture which we can proud and show the whole world with pride - and they have one Kumbh Mela: PM #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/qDC8NpLYAU\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 30, 2018\nIndia's splendor from the divinity of Aquarius will sculpt its color throughout the world. #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/RypCXKL1B8\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 30, 2018\nI urge all of you to share different aspects of Kumbh and photos on social media when you go to Aquarius so that more and more people get inspiration to go to Kumbh: PM pic.twitter.com/MUGxODRl4e\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 30, 2018\nWe are very excited about the Republic Day celebrations on 26th January .. #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/QoxETgSzou\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 30, 2018\n2018 - Nelson Mandela's birth centenary is also being celebrated as .. #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/7mXDgjya6d\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 30, 2018\nA few days ago, a DGP conference was held in Kewaria on the banks of Narmada in Gujarat, where the world's highest statue is 'Statue of Unity', there was a meaningful discussion with the top policemen of the country: PM #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/qlkAJLE8HK\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 30, 2018\nJanuary 13 is the sacred festival of Guru Gobind Singh ji. #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/3TB8rmMvrj"