"Share\n\nBudget 2016 Clear calls for electrifying all villages, thus giving an impetus to rural infrastructure: PM #VikasKaBudget\nBudget 2016 will boost our dream of 'Housing for All': PM Modi #VikasKaBudget\nGovt has taken several initiatives in health sector We stand shoulder to shoulder: PM #VikasKaBudget\nOur youth, specially the Dalit youth and tribal youths want to be job creators and not job seekers: PM\nA qualitative transformation of the education sector is what we are giving priority to: PM Modi #VikasKaBudget\nBudget 2016 is about the dreams of the people: PM Narendra Modi #VikasKaBudget\nMy heartfelt thanks to Finance Minister Shri Arun Jaitley for this budget. Our focus is on the villages, poor, farmers, women and the youth. The budget has plans for ambitious schemes to bring in a qualitative change in their lives.\nThis budget presents a comprehensive, time bound action plan for poverty alleviation. Several measures have been done. Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchai Yojana is one of them where a substantial allocation has been made to ensure water to every farm.\nAll of us know the importance of power and road infrastructure. There is a vision in this budget to connect every village to road by 2019. Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana has been allocated substantial funds to connect with rural India by roads. Also there is a clear plan to provide electricity to every village by 2018\nIt will give an education to rural economy and bring about positive changes. If you ask a poor man, he will obviously share his dream. Owning a house Everybody from a middle class or neo middle class wants to own a house. How are we going to help this dream? This is possible without the help of That's why the provisions were made of this time to give a boost to the housing sector.\nPeople who are living in rented house have also got increased rebate in Income Tax on House Rent Those who are earning up to 5 lakhs will have to pay less tax\nThere is a lot of politics over the poor You will be amazed to know that if a poor lady who cooks food for her children using a Chulha faces the opposite effect on her and her children's health. Experts say that the smoke of that chulha, is equivalent to the smoke of 400 cigarettes per day. We have been helping people down the poverty line and that's why we have decided to provide free gas connections to such people.\n5 crore families who used to get free from smoking Poor will get health benefits\nOur government is also taking a decision At times, an ailment can destroy a poor family or a middle class family. We have submitted plans for senior citizens.\nOur country should be safe, our citizens should feel safe and our forces should be equipped with modern defense equipment and our soldiers should get One Rank One Pension post retirement. This budget has made provisions for boosting defence manufacturing and providing the forces with modern and potent equipment.\nYou may have seen that in infrastructure a provision of more than 2 lakh crore rupees has been made. This will benefit our forces who are guarding our borders.\nThe youth of the country is moving forward. In order to provide him employment opportunities, we are going to come out with two new initiatives, 'formalizing the informal' and 'employing the unemployed.'\nMy Mantra is Start Up India, Stand Up India To provide a favorable ecosystem for startups, the budget has provided plans in the taxes. Our Dalit and Tribal youth now wants to become an entrepreneur He does not want to get Job Seeker anymore In order to make him feel his dream, the government has decided to establish an entrepreneurial hub.\nThe youth of the country should be able to face global challenges and get opportunities in education. But due to archaic laws and regulations, education has suffered a lot and in order to improve it 10 public and 10 private institutions will be raised to global standards after selection through a challenge route. These institutions will be provided financial aid as well. This is a great initiative in educations sector Once you are there, you can imagine what impact will bring it.\nPrimary Education is equally important Till now, the government has been focusing on expansions of primary education which was also important but in order to combat today's challenges, qualitative change is also required for expansion. Children in far flung villages should get education, they should get qualitative education, this is our focus. And this budget presents priorities to such qualitative issues\nOur government has always stood our faith in our people.We should not doubt our country's citizens Income tax department officials should also have an understanding of our public and that's why a common citizen has to face the difficult process that he faces. Traders and professionals who are facing problems like this A common man who earns livelihood will be free from processing.\nOnce again, I congratulate Mr. Arun Jaitley and I assure my countrymen that this budget is a budget of your dreams. This budget has presented the commitment of your dreams.\nThanks\nBudget clear calls for electrifying all villages, thus giving a boost to rural infrastructure: PM @narendramodi on Budget #VikasKaBudget\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 29, 2016\nThrough this budget housing sector will be strengthened and this will boost our dream of 'Housing for All': PM on Budget #VikasKaBudget\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 29, 2016\nIn the health sector the government has taken many initiatives We want to stand on the shoulders\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 29, 2016\nSubstantial resources have been allocated to allocation: PM @narendramodi speaks on the Budget #VikasKaBudget\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 29, 2016\nOur youth, specially the Dalit youth and tribal youths want to be job creators and not job seekers: PM @narendramodi #VikasKaBudget\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 29, 2016\nFor us A qualitative transformation of the education sector is what we are giving priority to: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 29, 2016\nThis is the dream of the people I congratulate FM @arunjaitley and his team: PM @narendramodi #VikasKaBudget"