"PM Narendra Modi gives tips to students in #MannKiBaat master class\nMaster Blaster Sachin Tendulkar joins PM in #MannKiBaat\nSachin Tendulkar speaks about expectations \u0026 setting one's own targets during #MannKiBaat\nSet your targets and pursue them with a tension free mind without pressure: PM Modi #MannKiBaat\nCompete with yourself, not with others: PM Modi during #MannKiBaat\nExams are not just about marks: PM Modi #MannKiBaat\nAlong with studies, focus on health is important: PM Narendra Modi during #MannKiBaat\nIn our life, discipline plays a vital role in strengthening the foundations of success: PM Modi during #MannKiBaat\nModi during #MannKiBaat\nBe well rested, get a good night's sleep, be on a full stomach \u0026 stay calm: Viswanathan Anand during #MannKiBaat\nGive your exams with a peaceful mind: PM Modi to students during #MannKiBaat\nMorari Bapu joins Modi during #MannKiBaat, extends good wishes to students\nIt is very important to understand the questions ... read them two or three times and then try: PM Modi #MannKiBaat\nProfessor CNR joins PM Modi during #MannKiBaat, urge students not to worry and do their best\nThere are many opportunities in this country Decide what you want to do in life and do not give it up: Professor CNR Rao #MannKiBaat\nParents, teachers and seniors are an invaluable support system for students during exam time: Modi during #MannKiBaat\nPM Modi congratulates all scientists on #NationalScienceDay, recalls Dr. CV Raman's invaluable contributions\nGive a missed call to 81908-81908 \u0026 listen to PM Modi's #ManKiBaat in your regional language on the go!\nFellow citizens, Namaskar.\nYou might be listening to 'Man Ki Baat' on Radio but you will be the occupied with the exams of your children which begins tomorrow. For class 10th \u0026 12th exams are starting from March 1. I would like to join this tour of yours I am as much concerned about your children If we change our attitude towards exams, maybe we will be relieved of anxiety.\nIn the last edition of Mann Ki Baat, I had requested you to share your experiences and suggestions on Narendra Modi App. I am happy that thousands of people have shared their views with me These include teachers, successful students, parents and social thinkers. विशेष रूप से First, all those people who have written me, have stuck to the subject. Second, thousands of people shared their views. It is a reflection of how important the issue is We have been restricted to school premises, students and parents. Large number of views shared on my App show that student related issues should be discussed consistently across the country\nIn this edition of Mann Ki Baat, I want to discuss with students, parents and teachers. I will share whatever I have heard, read and have been told I will also share my thoughts and I feel that 25-30 minutes discussion will be very useful for students.\nMy dear student friends, before I say something why not open this edition of 'Mann Ki Baat' with the batting maestro, Sachin Tendulkar Let's find out what made him successful His experience will definitely help you I want you to listen to the message sent by the Indian youth and Bharat Ratna Shri Sachin Tendulkar:\n\"Namaskar, this is Sachin Tendulkar. I know that you are going to start in a few days I have a message for you Your parents, teachers, family members and friends Everybody will ask about your preparations and expected marks I want to set targets for yourself and do not buckle under any pressure. Work hard and set a realistic and achievable target for yourself. When I used to play cricket there were innumerable expectations from me too. Over the past 24 years, many difficult moments came Some nice moments were there as well Public reception was always there and it increased with passage of time I found I decided to set my own targets and to achieve them If I am setting my own targets and achieving them, then I am doing my goal I always tried to get those targets My focus was on automatically Please keep your thoughts positive So be positive and by God's grace My best wishes for your exams Write you exams in a tension free way Good luck. \"\nFriends, see what advice Sachin Tendulkar has for you Never get bogged down You have to build your own future Set targets for free, free thinking and free capability I am sure that Sachin's advice will help you a lot And it is true; Why waste our time in competing with others? Why not compete with ourselves? Why not to try our own records? You will see that nobody will be able to stop you from going forward. You will not expect any praise from anyone You will be satisfied internally\nFriends, do not consider exams as a number game Life should be linked with great purposes We should be pursuing our dreams and stay focused. Exams only tell us that we are treading on right path or not So, if dreams are big, this exam will become enjoyable Every exam is a step toward achieving that great purpose. Every success will become a key to achieve that great purpose. So, do not limit yourself to this year's exam Work with a much bigger purpose Even if you fall short a little, you will not feel disappointed. You will get more courage to achieve that purpose\nPeople have shared their views on my App One Mr. Shrey Gupta has emphasized that a healthy mind resides in a healthy body. Students should take care of their studies So that you can write a good health. On this last day, I will not ask you to do or run for 3 or 5 kilometers. But what is your routine, is important During all 365 days, out routine should be done. I agree with what Mr Prabhakar Reddy has said. He has suggested that students should sleep on time and get revised after getting up early. Students should reach examination center before time admittance card and other essential things Mr. Prabhakar Reddy has said this and I did not say this. Because I am little unconcerned about sleep My friends also keep telling me that I sleep too low. I will try it But I definitely agree with this. Stipulated time to sleep, the sound sleep is equally important as your other day-to-day activities. And this is possible I am fortunate enough And it is enough too for me But I will request you. Some people have a habit of talking on the phone for long time before sleeping and those thoughts occupy their mind, so how will they sleep? When I ask you to sleep, I am not asking To write well in exams, I am asking you to sleep tension-free. I am not asking It should not happen that when you score less and your mother asks the reason, you tell me to sleep and I slept I hope you do not do that\nIn life, discipline is a strong foundation of successes. Discipline provides a strong foundation. Unorganized and undisciplined people, who complete day's work in the evening, think that they have done the job In our body too, even if one part is paining Not only that, our routine also gets disturbed Any that is why; we should not You should never compromise on your decisions. Decide and try to do it\nFriends, I have seen two types of students who appear in exams. One is the one who concentrates on his strengths and learning. Second types of students doubt their ability and worry too much about their question paper. You had seen these two types of people Concern about the paper too The one, who is confident about whatever he has learned, is able to handle anything that comes up. Mr. Vishwanathan Anand He will share his experiences and tell you how to check-mate in exams:\n\"Hello, this is Viswanathan Anand. First of all, let me start off by my exams. I will talk about a little bit about how I went to my exams and my experiences for that. I found that in the future You need to be well rested, you need to be a full pet, you should definitely be hungry It is very similar to a game of Chess When you play, you do not know, which way will appear, just like in a class you do not know, which question will appear in an exam. So if you stay calm and you are well nourished and have slept well, then you will find that your brain recalls the right answer. So stay calm. It is very important not to put too much on you, do not keep your expectations too high. Just see it as a challenge - do I remember what I did during the year At the last minute, just go over the most important things and the things you feel, you do not remember very well. You may also recall some events or the students; while you are writing a test If you revise the questions you find difficult, you will find that they are fresh in your head and you will be able to deal with them. So stay calm, get a good night's sleep, do not be over-confident but do not be pessimistic either I have always found that fear before you So stay confident and all very best to you. \"\nVishwanathan Anand has really said a very important thing and you would have also seen him playing international matches with good health. He plays with his eyes too We used to hear about Arjuna, how he used to concentrate on the bird's eye. Similarly, Vishwanathan Anand's eyes are fixed on target when he plays and that is expression of the inner peace. It is difficult to say But we should strive for that, smilingly Even during exams, if we are experiencing the inner peace. You can not have inner peace When you are not talking to friends, walking alone, trying to read Laugh with your friends Share jokes You will feel peaceful environment automatically\nI want to share Just imagine, you are standing at a pond and you are getting a nice view of the water. Now, the nice view which you are getting is not there anymore. If water is still, no matter how they are clear But if water is not still, then nothing is visible inside. There is a lot inside you, labor of the whole year. But if your mind is not peace, then you can not find that treasure. If you have a peaceful mind, then you will be able to use your treasure\nI want to tell you something about myself When I go to attend some lecture or in government too, I When I try to understand, then I feel an inner pressure. Then I realize that I need to relax a bit Then I developed a technique of deep breathing and take 3-5 deep breaths. It takes me around 30,40 or 50 seconds but then my mind becomes calm and ready to understand the matter. This is my experience\nMr. Rajat Aggarwl has written a good story on my App He said, We should relax with friends, family for at least half an hour every day. This is a very important thing by Mr. Rajat. Most of the times, when we come back from exam, we start calculating about right and wrong answers. And if parents are educated and more so, if teachers, then they ask the exact answers They calculate whether you score 40,80 or 90 marks. Your mind is still in the exam You also share with friends. We get entangled in that only. Friends, please do not do this Once upon a time, it's over. Chat with your family on other topics, remember old memories. Try to remember the scenes of your parents. Spend half an hour on this. What is the truth?\nFriends, what can I say about peace? Today, before you take your exam, one such person has sent his message, who is himself a teacher. He teaches us the values ​​of life By using Ram Charit Manas in present context, he teaches us values He has revered Morari Bapu, he has given some important tips for you. He is a teacher and thinker also\n\"I am Morari Bapu speaking. My advice to all students is that at the time of the examination you are unburden your mind and with a clear, calm and concentrated mind take the exam. And then accept whatever situation comes. My view is that by accepting the situation as it is, we can be more happy and peaceful Take the exam with a light and calm mind, you will get confident, you will not feel guilty if you fail and not feel arrogant if you succeed. I end with a couple 'It is not necessary everybody get success in this world, learn to live with failures' I thank our honorable Prime Minister's program Mann Ki Baat I wish all the best. \"\nI am grateful to revered Morari Bapu for his inspiring message. Friends, I want to talk about one issue In their responses, people have invariably mentioned about Yoga It is a matter of satisfaction for me that when I meet people from different countries, a mention of Yoga always comes, may be briefly. I feel proud that there is so much curiosity about Yoga. How many people on my mobile app, Mr. Atanu Mandal, Sri Kunal Gupta, Mr. Shashank Kumar, Shri K G Anand, Shri Abhijit Kulkarni, innumerable such people have referred to Yoga and Meditation. I do not say that you start practicing Yoga from tomorrow, but those who practice it should not stop it, just cause of exams However, it is true that be it student life or later part of life, Yoga is a critical key for the development of conscience. And it is a key which is most accessible and simple You should definitely think about it If you search around you and find a Yoga teacher, they can definitely suggest you few things See if you can I have great faith in it\nMy young friends, you are a great hurry to enter the examination hall. You want to take your seat quickly Why do you do this in a hurry? Why should not you manage your time in such a way that if you are stuck in traffic Otherwise, the hurry adds to the tension. You must read Sometimes we think it is a waste of time Let it take 2 minutes, 3 minutes, 4 minutes, but read the instructions very carefully. You will know clearly what is to be done and it will ensure that you do not regret later. I have observed that if you read the instructions carefully, you will be able to cope with it. So please read the instructions very carefully.\nMr. Yash Nagar has written on my app that when he saw the paper for the first time, it appeared very difficult. However in the second look, it appeared easy to him Questions were the same It is very important to understand the question Sometime when we do not understand the question, they appear difficult to us. I emphasize this view of Yash Nagar. Read the question many times and try to match your knowledge.\nIt is a great happiness to me today that Bharat Ratna and renowned scientist Professor CNR Rao has stressed on patience. He has given a brief yet very effective message Let us listen to the message of Sri Rao:\n\"This is C.N.R. Rao from Bangalore I fully realize that the examinations cause anxiety That too competitive exam Do not worry, do your best That's what I say all my young friends At the same time, remember that there are many opportunities in this country. Decide what you want to do in life and do not give it up You will succeed. Do not forget that you are a child of the universe You have a right to be here All you need is doggedness, dedication and tenacity With these qualities you will succeed in all examinations and all other endeavors. I wish you luck in everything you want to do God Bless. \"\nSee how amazing is the way of a scientist? For that I take half an hour, he took just 3 minutes to communicate. This is the strength of science and a scientific mind. I am very much thankful to Mr. Rao for inspiration What he has highlighted are the qualities of dedication, determination, diligence. Remain steadfast friends, if you do not give up, fear will run away For achieving good things, a bright future awaits you.\nIn my App, Ruchika Dabas has sent a message, sharing her exam experience. She said that in her family, there is a conscious environment during examinations. Similar efforts were made in his neighboring families too. And this was emphasized by Mr. Sachin Tendulkar is also the positive attitude, positive frame of mind gives rise to positive energy.\nSometimes many things happen, which inspire us And please do not help In every phase of life, good examples, given strength, inspiration We all have read about Thomas Alva Edison, the inventor of electric bulb. Have you ever thought how many years he devoted to achieve this feat? How many times he faced failures, how much was wasted, how much money was spent, how much frustration he has felt, due to repeated failures? But today, the electric bulb is illuminating our lives. That is why it is said\nWho doesnt know Srinivas Ramanujam? One of the greatest mathematical minds of the modern world You must be knowing that he did not have any formal training in mathematics. Still, he made great contributions towards fields of mathematical analogies and number theory. His was a life full pain and sorrow; still he made a great contribution\nJK Rowling is a brilliant example of the fact that anytime can achieve success anytime. Harry Potter series is now popular all over the world Imagine, how many difficulties she has to face, how many failures? Rowling himself has said that it was the times of crisis she used to focus on her entire energy on the job.\nNowadays, students are not allowed to visit, but they are a test of family, teachers and schools as well. However, without the support system of parents and teachers, it is difficult for a student to cope up alone. If students, parents, teachers and even seniors work as a team and are in a planned way, examinations become easier.\nMr. Keshav Vaishnav has written on my App, he has complained that parents should never pressurize their children They should encourage and keep them relaxed.\nVijay Jindal writes that our own expectations should never be imposed on children. Children should be encouraged as much as they are Please do not pressurize children Do not stop him talking to his friends; create a lighter, positive environment You will see your children grow in confidence This confidence will be visible to you as well.\nFriends, I want to tell it to our young friends Our lives have significantly changed from the previous generations. We are witnessing every moment, a new innovation, new technology and a new face of science. The best part is we are not just dazzled by all this; Instead we want to move ahead in the pace of science.\nI am highlighting this point Every year we celebrate it as national festival of science. On February 28, 1928, Sir CV Raman has announced his famous discovery, The Raman Effect for which Nobel Prize Therefore, the country celebrates February 28 as National Science Day. Curiosity is the mother of Science Every mind should have the scientific temper and the quest for science Each generation will have to focus on the innovation. And innovation is possible without science and technology On National Science Day, let us resolve to make science and technology as an essential part of our lives. This year, the theme on the National Science Day is \"Make in India, Science and Technology Driven Innovations\". I bow to Sir CV Raman and appealed to you all in science.\nFriends, sometimes success is very late, and when the person is successful You may have been busy preparing for exams and some news events may not have registered in your minds. Still I want to repeat a story which you must have heard recently, that is a great discovery. Scientists of the world worked relentlessly, many generations of them contributed including our own scientists who discovered the Gravitational Waves. It is a very far reaching achievement in the field of science. The discovery is not only the theory of Albert Einstein, but also is quantum jump for physics. This is really a great achievement for the whole human race and also a great respect for this discovery. I want to extend my heartiest congratulations to all the scientist. In future too our scientists will work towards consolidating such gains and in all other international scientific endeavors. Gravitational Wave Observatory (LIGO) in India There are only two such laboratories in the world and India will be the third country. The process will come with the involvement of India Despite its meager resources, India will definitely become an active partner. I once again congratulate all the scientists\nFellow citizens, I want you to note down a number From tomorrow, if you give a missed call to this number, you can listen to my \"Man Ki Baat\", in your regional language. The number is 8190881908. I repeat 8190881908.\nFriends, your exams are going to start; I too have been in examination tomorrow before 125 crore countrymen Do not remember! Tomorrow is 29th February, Budget Day. Still, you have noticed your voice, how calm and confident I am Let my exam get over tomorrow and yours begin day after Wish me the success and let all of us come out with flying colors so that our country succeeds Friends my best wishes to all of you Move forward without the tension of failure or success Do not give up Thank you.\n\nI am sure your mind is starting or getting started: PM #MannKiBaat https://t.co/I88hu3Nre5\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 28, 2016\nIf we change the exam, our way of looking at the exams, then we may be anxious: PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 28, 2016\nPM @narendramodi appreciates students, parents and teachers for sharing their thoughts and experiences on the mobile app. #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 28, 2016\nLet me say something before, 'Opening the mind' before, why do not we go with the world's well-known opener: PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat @sachin_rt\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 28, 2016\nWell known cricket player, the widely admired @sachin_rt joins #MannKiBaat Hear https://t.co/Iy8hu3Nre5\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 28, 2016\nCricketer @sachin_rt talks about expectations \u0026 setting one's own targets Hear their inspiration comment. https://t.co/Iy8hu3Nre5 #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 28, 2016\nIt is very important for you to be positive thinking that positive thoughts will follow positive results: @sachin_rt #MannKiBaat https://t.co/Iy8hu3Nre5\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 28, 2016\nSet your targets and pursue them with a free mind, without pressure. Compete with yourself and not others: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 28, 2016\nExams are not just about marks: PM @narendramodi tells students during #MannKiBaat https://t.co/Iy8hu3Nre5\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 28, 2016\nLet's take a very big objective and if there will be something less than expected, then disappointment will not come: PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 28, 2016\nShrey Gupta wrote about the importance of good health during exams: PM @narendramodi during #MannKiBaat https://t.co/Iy8hu3Nre5\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 28, 2016\nPrabhakar Reddy also has a good rest during the exam times: PM @narendramodi during #MannKiBaat https://t.co/I88hu3Nre5\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 28, 2016\nIn life, discipline has a great reason to strengthen the cornerstone of success: PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 28, 2016\nYou see, do not get into a habit of compromising what you have ever set yourself: PM @narendramodi during #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 28, 2016\nFirst of all, let me start off by wishing you all the best for your exams: @ vishy64theking joins #MannKiBaat https://t.co/I88hu3Nre5\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 28, 2016\nYou need to be well rested, get a good night's sleep, be on a full stomach Anand #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 28, 2016\nHave always found that fear before you So stay confident and all the best: @ vishy64theking #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 28, 2016\nToday someone who is an educator, he has sent his message: PM @narendramodi talking about Respected Morari Bapu #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 28, 2016\nIn the time of the examination, without any burden on the mind, by taking a clear decision of wisdom and concentrating the chit, you sit in the examination: Pujya Morari Bapu\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 28, 2016\nNot everyone is successful, learn to live, with the failures: Pujya Morari Bapu quotes a few lines to express good wishes to students\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 28, 2016\nSo many people wrote on the Mobile App on Yoga and meditation during this exam season: PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 28, 2016\n81908-81908 ... By tomorrow you can hear my 'mind talk' from this number by calling miss, you can also hear in your native language: PM #MannKiBaat"