"\nIndia is a new hope: PM Modi\nIt has been 18 months since we formed Govt and there is no charges of corruption: PM\nBe it the World Bank or any other rating agency, they are upbeat about India \u0026 the country as a bright spot: PM\nDespite a global turmoil, India is scaling new heights of progress at fast pace: PM Modi\nPM Modi sheds on light of various aspects of Prime Minister Krishi Sinchai Yojana\nOur focus is on 'Jal Sanchay' as well as 'Jal Sinchan': PM Modi\nWe want to focus on 'Per Drop, More Crop', says PM Modi highlighting benefits of micro-irrigation\nWith neem-coating of urea, we have been able to stop its theft as well as boost crop productivity: PM\nOur new Prime Minister's scheme is a boon for farmers: PM\nWith Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana, now farmers have to pay very low premium, 2% for Kharif, 1.5% for Rabi: PM\nPrime Minister Narendra Modi will be the Prime Minister of India.\nMr. Prahlad Joshi, President of Karnataka State BJP, who is present on the stage, National Vice President of Bharatiya Janata Party and Mr. Yadurappa, a distinguished farmer leader, Mr. Ananth Kumar, my colleague of the Council, Mr. Sadanand Gowda, Karnataka Legislative Council Leader Mr. Ishwarappa, Assembly Leader Opposition Mr. Jagdish ji, National General Secretary Shri Santosh ji, Center Switch to the cabinet of my partner, Mr. Mr. Siddeswara G, Mr. Muralidhar Rao, MP in Rajya Sabha Shri Prabhakar Rao, on the popular MP, Mr. Suresh G and vast numbers came to my millions of peasant brothers and sisters.\nToday, on the birthday of our farmer Mr. Yedurappa, I wish him very well and this is a good coincidence that this is a farmers rally on his birthday. Brothers and sisters, you people will be waiting for the upcoming budget. The country and the world are also praising India's development palm today. Do you know the days when I got the responsibility of Delhi, what was the condition of the country? What were the newspapers filled with the news? The entire country was upset due to corruption. Water, land, water, everywhere, the only thing that came to the ears, corruption It took 18 months when you gave me the opportunity to work as a Principal. Our opponents also make statements on those issues, who do not count, these people have not even made any allegations of corruption on this government. They have not been able to dare to make false allegations.\nOn one hand, the credibility of India in the world had fallen completely, the world was not ready to count India. India was going through economic crisis, in every way the economic condition of the country had become helpless. From above, corruption was destroying India like a termite, and there was an atmosphere of disappointment. Today, be the World Bank or the world's rating agency, the whole world is saying in a voice that today if there is a ray of hope, then it is Hindustan. The financial condition of the world is bad, the world's great country is also going through a financial crisis. Even though there is such a huge recession in the world, India is making rapid economic progress. On the one hand, there is a recession in the world, there has been a drought in India for two years, apart from financial crisis, nothing has been achieved, despite this we have brought the country out of these crises within one and a half years, and by increasing faith, Has stood in front.\nIf this country has to move faster at the earliest, then the journey of development will have to be built on three strong economic pillars; One third of our farming, one-third manufacturing, and one-third service sector, we will encourage these three together, only then can this country cross any crisis. We have emphasized three basic things for development - how our farmer should be strong, how young people can get employment in our country, how the new industry is proposed for it and there is a lot of facility for the service sector, whatever the world needs The country where the power to give it can not move forward.\nWe have taken very deliberately steps in the agriculture sector and those steps have started to appear in the future today. If our country had given priority to water management after independence, then today our farmers have not been able to commit suicide due to drought. If the farmer gets water, then he has the power to produce gold from the soil. The farmer does not love anyone's favor.\nBrothers and sisters, we made the prime minister's agricultural irrigation scheme at a cost of 50 thousand crores to ensure that the farmers' fields reached water. The work of linking rivers will save the country. All of us will have to make the minds of adding rivers and leaving them. We have many countries in the world who, despite not having rains, have managed water management by presenting the best and presented them to the world. Israel is a very big example of how the agricultural revolution in the least water has been shown, and therefore we have to emphasize water harvesting and water irrigation.\nWater is not a thing in the factory, it is the offering of God. Go to some place of pilgrimage and if one of the Dana Prasad falls, then we are sorry and we ask God to apologize and take that offering. Similarly water is also God's offerings, if one drop is also wasted then we should apologize to God. This is to stop the water from being wasted.\nWe have emphasized yet another point that MNREGA should not be used to dig pits only. Money should be productive and therefore we have kept several urgent issues related to MNREGA, has pressed the states and said that if MNREGA works, then the first priority will be given to the water only, to fix the canal, to make ponds There are small check dams to make. If MNREGA money is used to save water then water will be purified, its level will increase.\nSecondly, we have said, but drop more, more crop than more than one drop. The importance of water accumulation is equally important to irrigation. Today, sprinkler micro-irrigation has made it easy to cultivate. Our farmers have been filled with brains for years, until the farm is filled with water, the crop does not grow and because of this, they do not need them, they pour water. Farmers are not ready to accept that sugar can be cultivated from micro irrigation. I have noticed that even micro irrigation can be the best farming of sugarcane. Not only this, Sugar cane is strong and sugar is also high. Water saves and the water can be used in other places. Therefore, we have given Koti-Kotti for the schemes of farmers for water harvesting, micro-irrigation.\nIf we want to make the farmer successful, then water management is the first step. The second step is to worry about his land. If we continue to take crops in the same way, keep adding medicines and fertilizers all over the world, our soil will continue to be wasted. When we are sick people say that do not take more medicines. The way our Bharatmata becomes sick, the way the body is wasted by eating excessive medicines. We must know what our planet is doing, the land has not lost any strength and therefore we have launched a huge campaign - Swayam Health Card If the farm is green then the field is green and therefore the villages are being taken to the laboratory by sampling the land of the farmers, its report is being transported to the farmers. Attempts have been made to reach out to the farmers in this year. When India's 70 years of independence in 2017, it is our intention to send our Health Health Card to farmers here and we are engaged. We should fix our crops on the basis of our land report.\nWe are pushing the ground on one side and on the other side. I urge the youngsters, especially young people of Bangalore, that today when we have started the campaign for start-ups, they will innovate innovation. Today the importance of science is increasing and you can do many things at home, can not make such a small instrument that the farmers themselves can measure the health of their land. I say to the young people of the village that in the way cities have pathology, why not open our laboratory laboratory watching our young land. If you are ready to do this then the government is ready to plan for it, ready to pay the money under the money scheme and the farmer will get habituated that he keeps checking his land samples every year, then you see that How big a change comes. The youth will get employment, the country will technically go ahead and the farmer will know every year that there is no disease in his land.\nThe third thing that matters is the seed. Be the best seed, the farmer should not be cheated, because many times it happens that after months of seed sowing, it shows that nothing has happened, I was ruined. Then there is no support besides crying to him. The government has made an effort to pay attention in the direction of seeds. The farmer needs a fitterizer. I remember that the last time our new government was formed, the government had been in 1-2 months and the chief ministers of the states were writing that our farmers are upset, they need urea. His officers and agriculture ministers used to come to Delhi and used to express their concern, and at many places, long queues seemed to take urea. There was blackbazar of urea and in many places the crowd was so that the police had to charge the sticks.\nWe have taken note of all these things and I congratulate my friend Anand Kumar that he did such a wonderful job as a Fertilizer minister that in the year, no one Chief Minister wrote a letter to urea for this year. There was a long line for urea, no such photograph was found in any newspaper or news paper, and the farmer had not been subjected to lathi charge anywhere. The biggest thing we did was that the urea that was stolen, corruption was there, we put a halt on it. These people who are troubled, so they are upset. Now what will happen if they do not get angry with Modi; Modi sticks in his eyes because the cream of the free of cost has been eaten for 60 years and now he is closed so he is upset.\nI also promised in the election that as long as I am seated, I will not allow any claw on Delhi's vault. Apart from stopping the theft of fertilizer, we have taken another step - neem coating urea. These are not my discoveries, and on paper, governments used to talk about it before but did not apply it. We decided that the government will go to the money and we will have neem coating of 100% urea. Today I am proud to say that together with his partner Anand Kumar, we have made 100% neem coating of urea.\nThe biggest benefit of neem coating is that if the farmer uses 10 kg of urea, but if using neem coating, then even 7 kg will work and save 3 kg of money. Neem coating has a new strength in urea. The second advantage is that the first fertilizer went directly to the chemical companies because subsidies were there and they would get trillions of rupees. Due to neem coating, now no one can come to work other than the urea farmer. The third benefit is that in these villages, the Women Self Help Group has started a new industry, which is the fruit of neem tree, collects it and companies buy it because it is used in neem coating. Due to this, poor people of the village started earning. I urge my farmer brothers to use Neem Coating Urea and where the first 10 kg was used, only 7 kg will work. You do, see how your crops also grow, the land also improves, you will be able to see it.\nBrothers and sisters, how to get protection from the farmer, I used to worry constantly. I wanted to convince the farmers that if God is Ruth, then Ruth will go but the government does not want to be ruthless. For this, I used to give myself time, talk to farmers, speak to progressive farmers, scientists, economists. After the big churning I have presented this Prime Minister's Crop Insurance Scheme. First of all, Mr. Atal Bihari Vajpayee ji did the work of bringing crop insurance scheme in our country. After that the second government did something in it, but despite all this, most farmers did not get the benefit of the insurance scheme because they feel that money will come but they will not. That plan was such that a farmer could not rely on crop insurance scheme. The premium was high and there was some such thing that more than 50% of the premium was talked about. How will the farmers now so much.\nWe fixed premium according to the weather; 2% for Kharif and 1.5% for Rabi; Therefore, 90% more money will go from the government's treasures than the money the farmers give. We have relaxed the farmer. We have added some new things too. The damage done before harvesting the first crop was not covered in insurance. We have come with insurance wherein if there is a loss within 14 days of harvesting, even then the farmer will be insured for that crop. This is happening in the country for the first time.\nOn the first crop insurance was decided, the average of 50 villages was accounted for. If some villages had good rains and some villages did not get rains and when the average turnout was all the same. We did it even while correcting that if a farmer had his own loss, he would get the benefit of insurance, even if the other farmer was not harmed. Secondly, if the wet fall, landslides, water harvesting, then our farmers did not get anything and even if the wet is not wet, then all the fields are wet. We decided in the Prime Minister's Crop Insurance Scheme that if a single farmer is affected by these things, he will get the benefit under this scheme.\nहमने एक और महत्वपूर्ण निर्णय किया अब तक होता था कि आप बारिश का अनुमान लगाएं और अगर बारिश न हो तो आप फ़सल बोते ही नहीं थे। पहली बार हम ऐसी योजना लेकर आए हैं कि मान लीजिए आपने सारी तैयारियां की लेकिन बारिश न आने की वजह से आप बौनी नहीं कर पाए तो साल भर अपना गुजारा करने के लिए पैसा दिया जाएगा। मैं बड़े विश्वास से कहता हूँ कि किसानों ने मेरा जो मार्गदर्शन किया और इसके बाद हमने पिछली सभी बीमा योजनाओं की कमियों को दूर किया है और एक परफेक्ट प्रधानमंत्री फ़सल बीमा योजना लेकर आए हैं।\nमैं चाहता हूँ कि आप भारी से भारी संख्या में प्रधानमंत्री फ़सल बीमा योजना से जुड़ें। आजादी के बाद कर्नाटक को जितना पैसा अकाल के समय मिला है, उससे ज्यादा पैसा इस बार भारत सरकार ने कर्नाटक की सरकार को दिया है। किसानों के लिए 1540 करोड़ रूपया भारत सरकार ने दिया है। पैसे तो यहाँ आते थे लेकिन यहाँ के अफसर उसे खर्च नहीं करते थे। जब मुझे पता चला तो मैंने दवाब बनाया और तब जाकर किसानों को पैसा भेजना शुरू हुआ और हमारा आग्रह है कि ये पैसा उनके जन-धन अकाउंट में जाना चाहिए।\nहम जब आए तो गन्ना किसानों का 21 हज़ार करोड़ रूपया बकाया था, हमने इस काम को हाथ में लिया, योजनाएं बनाईं, चीनी मीलों, गन्ना किसानों और बैंक वालों से बात की और आज मैं बड़े संतोष से कहता हूँ कि इतने कम समय में और सूखा होने के बावजूद 21 हज़ार करोड़ रूपया में सिर्फ़ 1800 करोड़ रूपया बकाया बच गया है। मेरा ट्रैक रिकॉर्ड कहता है कि अगर किसान किसी पर भरोसा कर सकता है तो दिल्ली में बैठी सरकार पर भरोसा कर सकता है।\nमैं किसानों के लिए आया हूँ, उनके जीवन में बदलाव लाने के लिए आया हूँ। मुझे गांवों में, किसानों और गरीबों के जीवन में बदलाव लाना है। मैं आपको यह विश्वास दिलाता हूँ कि आपकी कृपा और आशीर्वाद से हम और अच्छा काम करेंगे। सब पूरी ताकत के साथ बोलिये – जय जवान, जय किसान!\nThanks a lot."