"\n# RailBudget2016 a progressive, dynamic \u0026 passenger centric: PM Modi\nBe it the poor, women or youth, # RailBudget2016 caters to all sections of society: PM\nLast year we have seen lot of success \u0026 this budget is a effort to further improve on this: PM on # RailBudget2016\nAlong with using latest technology, investments in Railways has given importance to: PM on # RailBudget2016\nNorth-East: PM Modi # RailBudget2016\nI congratulate Rail Minister Suresh Prabhu, on presenting a dynamic budget for railways.\nThis budget strives for the dignity of the poor, honour of the women, enthusiasm of the youth and broadening the smile of the middle class.\nThis budget presents a predictive strategy for the future, while giving a full account of the promises made in the budget of the previous year. We have achieved a lot in the past one year and this budget presents an effort to make it further better.\nCleanliness and upgradation of passenger facilities and technology remains the last two budgets. Beside this, Railway Projects have been defined on the basis of 'Commissioning', in place of 'Completion'. I believe this policy-change is a paradigm-shift in nation's economy. The special arrangement of the 'Super-fast trains' for the poor through launch of Antodaya Express and Deen-Dyalu rail coaches, reiterate the commitment of our government to the poor.\nThis budget will have long-term positive impact on the national economy by effective execution, enhanced capital investment and technology of technology along with, in the Railways.\nAppropriate steps have been taken towards fulfilling the government's promise to increase connectivity in the backward areas of the country, particularly the North-East. Beside, the chronic problem of our rail routes, due to the lack of capacity, has been done away with a great extent over the past one year. This Rail Budget has further strengthened the measures ..\nWe have seen the budgets before Mr. Suresh Prabhu. I do not want to criticize those, but if I see the budgets of last five years by the previous government, the budget by Suresh Prabhuji has taken a big jump with 2.5 times higher investment. This budget will be a great tool. The best thing is that the State Governments are also enthusiastically participating in the expansion of our Railways. A detailed road-map in this direction has also been presented. Along with that effort has been made to co-operation of Passengers and the Railway Employees, as well. Discipline in spending, efficiency in management and accountability to the consumer, which is reflected in this budget.\nMy congratulations Suresh Prabhu, Rail Family and the Team Railway\nThank You very much"