"Share\n\nPeople who studied here have contributed through various ways, be it as a doctor, a teacher, a civil servant: PM at BHU\nI congratulate those students who gave their degrees today. I also convey my good wishes to their parents: PM Modi\nThe student is us to be alive always: PM\nBeing inquisitive is good We want the thirst for knowledge: PM Modi\nAfter getting your certificate, the way the world will look at you changes: PM Modi to students at the BHU convocation\nWorld faces many challenges India should play in overcoming the challenges: PM\nAll student friends and their parents, all faculty members here, present all the greatness!\nAn opportunity to go to the convocation is also available earlier. There is an opportunity to go to many places but the good fortune of going to a convergent ceremony at the university's centenary is something else. I admit at the feet of Bharat Ratna Mahamna ji that the seeds that they sowed 100 years ago became a tree of greatness, knowledge, science and inspiration today.\nWho are the great people, how are they? In our era, we should tell the equivalent person that this is a great visionary, a big visionary, it does not seem to be so much that what is a visionary what is visionary is what happens. But if you look at this work of Mahamma ji 100 years ago, then it is known that who is the long-awaited, who is called visionary. In that era of slavery, the heart of the nation's future dreams and only this country, what is the nature of the free India, it is not just dreams, but what is the primary requirement for fulfilling those dreams? And that is to make those dreams come true, such as creating a human community. Such a powerful, such a series of dedicated human beings can be done through education and rituals, and to fulfill that point, Mahamana ji dreamed of this university.\nThe British used to rule here, they were also building the Universities. But in most presidencies, whether Kolkata or Mumbai, they try it at such a place. Now wanted to build humans in such a way that their business continued for a long time. Mahamana ji wanted to prepare these great men that they consolidated the great traditions of India, stand up for the freedom of India in the nation's formation, stand with the strength and stand on the foundation of knowledge. Mahamna ji saw this dream, moving ahead with the Sarita of the sacraments.\nAfter 15-16 years of work, Mahatma Gandhi did this as a Gujarat University. Approximately, both of them wanted to prepare youngsters to do something for the country. But today we are seeing that the great seeds, which were planted by Mahamana, were given to the whole century till the whole century, how many dedicated academicians had expounded their knowledge, their foresight, and their sweat on this earth. In a way, the life span was spent, the generations were consumed. The result of the fate of these countless great men is that today we are fortunate to earn knowledge in the shadow of this huge tree. And so, with respect to Mahamana Ji, along with this whole century, all the great achievements of the kind of contributions that are contributed to the success of this great work which are contributing to the great work I bow myself today.\nMillions of youths have emerged from here in a century. These youths have contributed nearly 100 years ago in some areas of daily life. There will be no doctors, no engineers will be formed, no teachers will be formed, no professors will be made, no civil services will be gone, no industrialists will be there, and perhaps there was a time in India that somebody reached anywhere, life The work which is reached at any height of that, why not get so much prestige due to that work, but when he used to introduce himself, then Sena used to say Tanankar That I am a student of BHU.\nMy young colleagues have never been able to break up their relationship with the BHU where the millions of young people have been prepared from the land on which they have been created and they went wherever they went, not only did they hesitate in dedicating their work to BHU. It is very rare because when he receives heights in life, he feels that I have found that it was due to my pleasure, because of this discovery that I was due to this innovation. But this is the BHU that the students, who have gone through 100 years, have said in a voice, wherever they went, it is said that all this is being done due to BHU.\nWhat is the power of an institution? Where can one person reach the life of a learned person, and despite all the accomplishments, pride of being a BHU alumni in life, I think this is a big thing, it is a big deal. But sometimes there is a question that the student of BHU gives the pride of BHU but is it in the corner of India, in the heart of 100 million people, has this reverence towards BHU? What kind of workshops did they come, what thoughts flowed, what dilemma came to that, which has shocked somewhere in order to reach such a great tradition, the great institution to the people of India. Today is the demand of the time that not just Hindustan, see the world that on the soil of India, centuries ago we used to take pride in the Nalanda, Taxila, and in the coming days, we are proud of the BHU as Hindustani. This is India's heritage, India's security, the tranquility of the centuries has been banishment. The result of the penance of the people of Lakkhwad is that the BHU is standing here today and therefore, it is the pride, the respect of its things, its tradition, and with courage and with the ability to convey the truth to the world; Is expected.\nI sometimes think yoga Yoga, this is not a new thing. There has been a tradition of yoga in India for centuries. Common humanities have also attracted yoga in individual form. In different corners of the world, yoga has also been seen in curiosity in different forms. But we used to live in that mentality that we did not think that our yoga has the power that can adopt the world. Last year when the United Nations accepted Yoga as International Yoga Day. The world's 192 countries joined with it and the world had a great knowledge, the world enjoyed enjoying it. If we have pride for what we have, then the world is ready to go with us. When this belief, on the basis of knowledge, stands on the criterion of every thought, then its acceptance becomes more and more. This continuous effort is being carried out by the BHU.\nI congratulate him and his family on behalf of the students who have the opportunity to honor us today. I congratulate my heart with all those students who have received degrees in the Convocation ceremony after completing their education today. This is a convocation, we never bring it to mind that it is a teaching festival. Occasionally I feel that the convocation function should be the beginning of education in the right sense. This is not the end of education, and the biggest message of the Convocation is that if we have success in life, then if we want to maintain our status in life with the changing age then it is the first condition - our The student within, he should never be exhausted, he should never die. In this world, only this vast universe can find innumerable dimensions to this vast system, can find some quantity which attempts to remain a student till the end of life, the student within it remains alive.\nToday, when we are coming out of the Convocation, there is a vast world in front of us. At first we used to spend some of the square kilometer in the world. Meet the acquaintances. Were related to the familiar topic, but now suddenly going out of the whole world and going through a vast world. These initiatives are not normal. On one hand, I am so happy that I have worked so hard, three years - four years - five years have been in this campus. As much as I could have taken, I took it. But now as soon as the exit comes, the world turns to look at me.\nAs long as I was a student, family, society, companions, friends used to pamper my back, no-no son, do good, very good, go ahead, read so much. But as soon as I come through the certificate, the question arises, tell me, what will you do next? Suddenly, all the people were pushing me, helping me, encouraging me till the examination was done. But after returning home with certificates, all were asking, son, now what? Now our obligation has been completed, now tell us what you will be responsible for, and this is the beginning of life's criterion and therefore, like science has two parts - one is science and the other is the applied science. Now, the knowledge that you have gained in life, begins the application period and how you live in it, how you make yourself worthy in it. Occasionally in the middle of the campus wall, in the middle of the classroom, in the middle of the teacher, in the perspective of Acharya, things seem very simple. But when I have to do alone then it seems that I would have meditated when I was good. Man, at that time I was joking Masterji with my colleagues. Dude missed it. Then it seems, man would have been good, I would have seen. Many such things will be missing. You will remember the words of the university throughout your life, what was left and what would have been, would I have told you today? These moments miss every moment.\nMy young companions, here on the subject of discipline, Kuladipat ji conveyed the message in a traditional way. All of you will know that initiation after education in our country, this tradition is thousands of years old and is mentioned first in the Tutoric Upanishad, in which the first opportunity of convocation has been underlined. Since then this tradition of convergence is going on in India and today even this convocation becomes an opportunity for a new inspiration. You will be able to do a lot in life, will do a lot, but as I said, the student within you should never die, should not fade. Curiosity, it strengthens the roots of development. If curiosity is over then life stops. Whatever age it is, take the old age, make sure it becomes and therefore every moment, daily, new life, how the new consciousness should manifest within each moment, the excitement of renewing every moment is as it was 20 years ago New thing happened at the time of chewing. Then go and see life is more fun. Life should never fade and occasionally I prefer to die rather than fury. Life should remain feeding. Even in front of the crisis, it has the power to withstand and whoever digest it, he never fails in his life. But with the immediate things that move, darkness disappears. At that time, the light of knowledge shows us the path and hence, the knowledge gained from the earth of BHU gives us an opportunity to show us the path of showing the path of light during every crisis of life.\nThere are many challenges before the country and the world. Can India play a role in those challenges? Why not our institutions, our students, dream of giving mankind to the world for the coming ages? And I would like that in the hearts and minds of the students coming out of BHU, this feeling should always remain that what I am doing is good for them, but I will do something that will work for the coming ages.\nSociety has a basis for the power of life - innovation. New research is not just for getting a PhD degree, from a cut-paste world. I was thinking that maybe this thing would not have been known to BHU, but you know very well. But I believe that you may not use it. Necessity is required for us. And also for those of our own close circumstances, sometimes one thing in my mind hurts for several days. I went to meet many noble laureates of the world who have done some work in medical science and I used to have a subject in front of them. I said, the tribal brother and sister in my country, the area they live in. There is a 'sickle-cell' disease traditionally in that belt. My tribal families are destroying. Cancer is worse and more extensive. I have a pain in my mind that today's science, today's research, is constantly coming up new things for the cancer patient. Can I come with some scriptures for my tribal brothers and sisters, suffering from this sickle-cell, can my youth come with some innovation? They will be able to give themselves expense, find, give something and perhaps find someone who will be able to search in any other country of the world, more than that, because he is familiar with the interest, nature, trend here and then go to me The students of BHU expect the problems of our country. In the solution of those problems, can we give something in the coming era?\nToday, global warming, climate change is a big problem. All the countries of the world had just met in Paris. CoP-21 is to reduce the world by 2 degrees by 2030. The whole world is struggling, how can it? And if this does not happen, then I do not know how many islands will sink, the cities of how many seaside will be drowned. Due to global warming, no idea what will happen, the whole world is worried. हम वो लोग है जो प्रकृति को प्रेम करना, हमारी रगों में है। हम वो लोग है जिन्‍होंने पूरे ब्रह्मांड को अपना एक पूरा परिवार माना हुआ है। हमारे भीतर, हमारे ज़हन में वो तत्‍व ज्ञान तो भरा पड़ा है और तभी तो बालक छोटा होता है तो मां उसे शिक्षा देती है कि देखो बेटे, यह जो सूरज है न यह तेरा दादा है और यह चांद है यह तेरा मामा है। पौधे में परमात्‍मा देखता है, नदी में मां देखता है। ये जहां पर संस्‍कार है, जहां प्रकृति का शोषण गुनाह माना जाता है। Exploitation of the nature is a crime. Milking of the nature यही हमें अधिकार है। यह जिस धरती पर कहा जाता है, क्‍या दुनिया को Global warming के संकट से बचाने के लिए कोई नए आधुनिक innovation के साथ मेरे भारत के वैज्ञानिक बाहर आ सकते हैं क्‍या, मेरी भारत की संस्‍थाएं बाहर आ सकती हैं क्‍या? हम दुनिया को समस्‍याओं से मुक्‍ति दिलाने का एक ठोस रास्‍ता दिखा सकते हैं क्‍या? भारत ने बीड़ा उठाया है, 2030 तक दुनिया ने जितने संकल्‍प किए, उससे ज्‍यादा हम करना चाहते हैं। क्‍योंकि हम यह मानते हैं, हम सदियों से यह मानते हुए आए हैं कि प्रकृति के साथ संवाद होना चाहिए, प्रकृति के साथ संघर्ष नहीं होना चाहिए।\nअभी हमने दो Initiative लिए हैं, एक अमेरिका, फ्रांस, भारत और बिल गेट्स का NGO, हम मिलकर के Innovation पर काम कर रहे हैं। Renewal energy को affordable कैसे बनाए, Solar energy को affordable कैसे बनाए, sustainable कैसे बनाए, इस पर काम कर रहे हैं। दूसरा, दुनिया में वो देश जहां 300 दिवस से ज्‍यादा सूर्य की गर्मी का प्रभाव रहता है, ऐसे देशों का संगठन किया है। पहली बार दुनिया के 122 देश जहां सूर्य का आशीर्वाद रहता है, उनका एक संगठन हुआ है और उसका world capital हिन्‍दुस्‍तान में बनाया गया है। उसका secretariat, अभी फ्रांस के राष्‍ट्रपति आए थे, उस दिन उद्घाटन किया गया। लेकिन इरादा यह है कि यह समाज, देश, दुनिया जब संकट झेल रही है, हम क्‍या करेंगे?\nहमारा उत्‍तर प्रदेश, गन्‍ना किसान परेशान रहता है लेकिन गन्‍ने के रास्‍ते इथनॉल बनाए, petroleum product के अंदर उसको जोड़ दे तो environment को फायदा होता है, मेरे गन्‍ना किसान को भी फायदा हो सकता है। मेरे BHU में यह खोज हो सकती है कि हम maximum इथनॉल का उपयोग कैसे करे, हम किस प्रकार से करे ताकि मेरे उत्‍तर प्रदेश के गन्‍ने किसान का भी भला हो, मेरे देश के पर्यावरण और मानवता के कल्‍याण का काम हो और मेरा जो vehicle चलाने वाला व्‍यक्‍ति हो, उसको भी कुछ महंगाई में सस्‍ताई मिल जाए। यह चीजें हैं जिसके innovation की जरूरत है।\nहम Solar energy पर अब काम कर रहे हैं। भारत ने 175 गीगावॉट Solar energy का सपना रखा है, renewal energy का सपना रखा है। उसमें 100 गीगावॉट Solar energy है, लेकिन आज जो Solar energy के equipment हैं, उसकी कुछ सीमाएं हैं। क्‍या हम नए आविष्‍कार के द्वारा उसमें और अधिक फल मिले, और अधिक ऊर्जा मिले ऐसे नए आविष्‍कार कर सकते हैं क्‍या? मैं नौजवान साथियों को आज ये चुनौतियां देने आया हूं और मैं इस BHU की धरती से हिन्‍दुस्‍तान के और विश्‍व के युवकों को आह्वान करता हूं। आइए, आने वाली शताब्‍दी में मानव जाति जिन संकटों से जूझने वाली है, उसके समाधान के रास्‍ते खोजने का, innovation के लिए आज हम खप जाए। दोस्‍तों, सपने बहुत बड़े देखने चाहिए। अपने लिए तो बहुत जीते हैं, सपनों के लिए मरने वाले बहुत कम होते हैं और जो अपने लिए नहीं, सपनों के लिए जीते हैं वही तो दुनिया में कुछ कर दिखाते हैं।\nआपको एक बात का आश्‍चर्य हुआ होगा कि यहां पर आज मेरे अपने personal कुछ मेहमान मौजूद है, इस कार्यकम में। और आपको भी उनको देखकर के हैरानी हुई होगी, ये मेरे जो personal मेहमान है, जिनको मैंने विशेष रूप से आग्रह किया है, यूनिवर्सिटी को कि मेरे इस convocation का कार्यक्रम हो, ये सारे नौजवान आते हो तो उस कार्यक्रम में भाग लेने के लिए उनको बुलाइए। Government schools सामान्‍य है, उस स्‍कूल के कुछ बच्‍चे यहां बैठे हैं, ये मेरे खास मेहमान है। मैंने उनको इसलिए बुलाया है और मैं जहां-जहां भी अब यूनिवर्सिटी में convocation होते हैं। मेरा आग्रह रहता है कि उस स्‍थान के गरीब बच्‍चे जिन स्‍कूलों में पढ़ते हैं ऐसे 50-100 बच्‍चों को आकर के बैठाइए। वो देखे कि convocation क्‍या होता है, ये दीक्षांत समारोह क्‍या होता है? ये इस प्रकार की वेशभूषा पहनकर के क्‍यों आते हैं, ये हाथ में उनको क्‍या दिया जाता है, गले में क्‍या डाला जाता है? ये बच्‍चों के सपनों को संजोने का एक छोटा-सा काम आज यहां हो रहा है। आश्‍चर्य होगा, सारी व्‍यवस्‍था में एक छोटी-सी घटना है, लेकिन इस छोटी-सी घटना में भी एक बहुत बड़ा सपना पड़ा हुआ है। मेरे देश के गरीब से गरीब बच्‍चे जिनको ऐसी चीजें देखने का अवसर नहीं मिलता है। मेरा आग्रह रहता है कि आए देखे और मैं विश्‍वास से कहता हूं जो बच्‍चे आज ये देखते है न, वो अपने मन में बैठे-बैठे देखते होंगे कि कभी मैं भी यहां जाऊंगा, मुझे भी वहां जाने का मौका मिलेगा। कभी मेरे सिर पर भी पगड़ी होगी, कभी मेरे गले में भी पांच-सात गोल्‍ड मेडल होंगे। ये सपने आज ये बच्‍चे देख रहे हैं।\nमैं विश्‍वास करूंगा कि जिन बच्‍चों को आज गोल्‍ड मेडल मिला है, वो जरूर इन स्‍कूली बच्‍चों को मिले, उनसे बातें करे, उनमें एक नया विश्‍वास पैदा करे। यही तो है दीक्षांत समारोह, यही से आपका काम शुरू हो जाता है। मैं आज जो लोग जा रहे हैं, जो नौजवान आज समाज जीवन की अपनी जिम्‍मेवारियों के कदम रखते हैं। बहुत बड़ी जिम्‍मेवारियों की ओर जा रहे हैं। दीवारों से छूटकर के पूरे आसमान के नीचे, पूरे विश्‍व के पास जब पहुंच रहे है तब, यहां से जो मिला है, जो अच्‍छाइयां है, जो आपके अंदर सामर्थ्‍य जगाती है, उसको हमेशा चेतन मन रखते हुए, जिन्‍दगी के हर कदम पर आप सफलता प्राप्‍त करे, यही मेरी आप सब को शुभकामनाएं हैं, बहुत-बहुत धन्‍यवाद।"