"India's spiritual consciousness is the reason for the country's long-standing civilizational ethos: PM\nFor a huge country like India, 'Aadhyatama' is the country's strength: PM Modi\nRaja Rammohan Roy, Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar is the prime example of reform in the Indian society: PM\nGovernor of West Bengal Mr. Kesari Nathji Tripathi, Governor of Tripura, Mr. Tathagat Rai, my colleagues in the Council of Ministers at the center Mr. Babul Supriyo ji, Minister of West Bengal Mr. Hakim Ji, President of Gaudia Mission Shri Bharat Bhushan Shaurya Parraj Goswami Maharaj Ji, Mayapur From the Chaitanya monastery Acharya, Shrimant Bhakti Pragyanjyoti Maharaj ji, Bhajan Kitter Vrindavan's teacher, Srim Bhanbakti Gopenand bone Maharaj ji, Acharya Srimant Bhakti Vedant Pratak Maharaj Ji, Devanand Gaudia Mutt, Secretary of Goddess Mission, Bhakti Sundar Sannyasi Maharaj Ji, Acharya Shrimat Bhakti, Prasun Sadhu Maharaj of Gaudia Sangha, Bhakti Vishnu Samaj of Gaudia Math from Paharganj, New Delhi. Vishnu Maharaj ji, Shyamvedi Gaudia Math, Bhakti in charge of Vijaywada, Vidyabhaata Bhagwat Maharaj and in large numbers All the devotees of the Gaudiya Mutt by the devotees.\nSome time ago Maharaj had come to me His insistence was that there is a celebration of the centenary year, you should come in it. It is my great fortune that I have had the privilege of seeing all the representatives of this great tradition together. The people of the world have been wondering what is the reason why this country still stands after so many wounds and so many shocks. From where we do not know who we are all reading poems. What's the matter is that the celebrity does not fade away. In the time of tense strikes, he finds a tick, within which there is a ceiling spiritual power. The energized spiritual power of this vast India is his spirituality. Perhaps such a spiritual tradition will not be seen anywhere in the world, where people who accept this great idea, accept, fill so many variations. This society is so vast, wide, intense, deep that wherever the idol worshiper praises his pride and glorifies him, he too praises him.\nThe person who accepts the reality also runs on this path, which is dedicated to the formless, he is walking in the same way. The one who worships God, also recognizes it as shirodharya. The one who worships nature also recognizes it as shirodharya. And what is such power? That Shakti worship is not just text, it is not just a treatise, it is not just speech. That power lies in our spiritual consciousness. We are not people bound by sects. Communities come and go on time, go, cult and traditions develop. But we are people connected with an unwavering relationship of spirituality and have the same power, which inspires us towards the subculture. Chaitanya Mahaprabhu was a devotee of devotion. Bhakti was the leader of the era. Being a devotee is not easy. The garland is in hand. There is a chant of God in the mouth. So by the mere sight of the world, we become devotees. But to become a devotee, the devotee is the one who is not divided. Where there is no divider between me and me who makes me. I and the two are identical, then I become a devotee and Chaitanya Mahaprabhu was a devotee. Where no divider had no place, they were submerged in Krishna. Krishna had been absorbed in them and then this Bhakti movement arose. India has been characterized by a lot of shocks, incidents of Jay-defeating in government systems have dwindled. Torture, oppression continued. But in spite of this, the spiritual stream of the country did not even reach scratch.\nIf we look at the movement of India's freedom, the great men who fought for freedom have come before us. Their sacrifices, their sacrifice, and their penance can not be considered low. But we can not forget that if someone had prepared the posterity of India's freedom movement then this Bhakti movement had done. Whether Chaitanya is Mahaprabhu, whether Acharya Shankar Deo, whether Thiruvalluvar, He is Braeshveshwar. Many such saints, such as Bhakti, filled with devotional spiritual consciousness, such our Mahatma, who through the Bhakti movement has always kept that spiritual stream of India eternally alive. He did not come to the scratches and kept his integrity sustained. And only when the movement of independence took the form of Viraat by coming, then this power came in handy as a very large pedestal.\nSometimes we are discussing the Vaishnava movement here. But when we say 'Vaishnava jan te tane ray', when they sing or hear, none of us have come to the idea that 'Vaishnava jan tunne rayei' I am singing to whom I listen, I know looks like. Which language has it been written in Never question this question in anyone's mind. I say to the people sitting here in your mind, 'Vaishnav jan tunne ray ki'. After hearing this, I will never have question that which language has been written? To say this is that we have got so many merges with his expression, we have become so dissolved in that language has not been the reason for us. There are expressions which keep us motivated. And these 'Vaishnav jan tunne raye' are written in the same period when Chaitanya Mahapragya used to run the movement, Narasimha Mehta fought on the soil of Gujarat, fighting against untouchability. And he wrote the song and very dear to Mahatma Gandhi. But I had tried to tamper with something never I do not have to. The great men born hundreds of years ago, they did not have the right to say whatever they said, but it was easy for me to explain to the people. So I used to ever use it before. I used to say, 'Vaishnava jan tayne raye jaye ray ke ray ke ray, but to give relief to dukha, so do not be proud.' Then I said that people who are today's representative should write a representative word instead of Vaishnav Jan. 'Jan Pratinidhi Teane Ray, who is going to suffer pain, but if you give relief to dukha, then you should not feel proud.' Wach-kach Mann Nishchal Rakhe, But the money was nawazale hand ray 'ie four hundred years ago there was concern of corruption. But the money is new, the person is the representative, then say the ray. Talking of Vaishnav, why should Gandhiji be so dear to Narasimha Mehta, I see strength in his words in one word. And Krishna is such an immense form, and not much has been written. Do not know how much has been said. There is also a sense of scripture and a sense of weapon. A person whose personality likes every devotee and every person has a different devotee. There are some people who would love to take butter but Kanhaiya is sweet. So there are some people who do not like Krishna beneath Sudarshan. They need Sudarshan Chakradhar. And there are some people who play the flute, like Radha Krishna, who lied with the gopis. How many variations, how many forms and a section of everyone can give such inspiration of one life, we can guess, and the Gita created, maybe there is no such composition in the world, which was created in war land. Ho. What is unexpected life, what is going on in the neighborhood, beyond what is the height of a personality, where there is war, when you die, you see yourself die and a scripture is created at that time. The power will be that the war which was born in the land and hence and even during the war, in spite of the joys and defeats of defeat, the message of detachment has been said in the message. The message of the Gita gives strength to it. And in that sense, keeping the Vaishnava tradition alive by the mission of Gaudia and after all this tradition was telling Maharaj Ji just like this. Service of Dirda Narayana, 'Service Parmo Dharma:' This should be the purpose of our life. Who knows to live for others Who knows to call himself to others. Who knows how to use it for others. And look at all the goods of great great men of our country, that is the message in that garland. We sometimes listen to a contemplation Live and let live in the world and let it live. This country is one step ahead of them. He says, live and live and if he is not capable of living, then help him to live. There is a very good word in Gujarati: \"Jivo anne jiwado.\" Whatever else we can do to live the lives of others. Do not leave it alone on its luck. We are the people of this great idea and thinking, and Vaishnav talks about deploying the world in one way. 'Vasudhaiva katambakam' This mantra is an introduction to the fact that in which the entire universe is discussed in its own right. I salute such a great tradition. In the world, there are flaws such as flaws, flaws like in the system, in the society, faults also occur, many old things are time-consuming for the society. And sometimes it's going to be a burden for society to walk with it. There is a crisis for society. But fewer societies are such that while recognizing the diseases coming within them, dare to raise voice against the evils that come in them, and see the height in the society also that those who fight against the evils within the society, Accepts in the form, worship them. In every century of India, you must have seen that no reformer was born from any Hindu society against any evil of society. He told that society to stop it, to prevent evil, to stop it and to endure it initially. This is the land of Bengal. King Rammohan Roy fought such a big fight against Sati's custom. How much awareness did God Chand Vidyasagar brought to society? It has been our age-old tradition that in every period, when there was a defect in the society, evils came in the society. Some great person came out of this society and he tried to reform society, reprimand, and society accepted him as Mahatma, accepted as a great man. The power is seen on both sides. The society which does not accept reforms The society which does not have the power to get rid of the out-of-date burden, that society can never survive, can not live, or live in a life-threatening state. Like a dead person, he spends time like that.\nIn our society, in every period, there are chaitanya men who fight against evil in every terrain, we get them. And that's our strength. This is what has kept this society alive. And therefore the festival of centenary for the Gaudiya organization, Gaudiya Mission, is a way of a century of social reform movement. It is the centenary of the movement to awaken Bhakti consciousness in society. In the society, it is the centenary of the great work of continuing to preserve and preserve the sacrament of realization of service 'Parmo Dharma'. Such a great arrangement, to the great tradition, all these saints, the life of Mahanta, due to which this continuous tradition has gone, I respectfully bow down. I remember the virtue of Chaitanya Mahaprabhu. I salute all Yogi men of this great tradition. Thank you all so very much."