"\nNarendra Modi launches National Rurban Mission in Chhattisgarh\nIndia's economic progress can not only depend on some cities. Our villages should also be contributed in country's growth: PM\nNational Rurban Mission makes us villages centers of growth: PM\nWe are committed to provide proper healthcare facilities and good education to children in our villages: PM\nOur crop insurance scheme seeks to solve a lot of problems: PM Modi\nMy dear brothers and sisters, I was in New Raipur in the morning today. Whenever I come to New Raipur, many new things are seen. It seems as much as the new raipur increases in the day more than it grows overnight. Today I laid a foundation stone for the housing of those poor who are poor in cities in New Raipur. And now I have come between you. The program is in the midst of these my tribal siblings, which is far from Delhi. Rajnand is in a small place in the village. But the program is very big and it is for the whole of India.\nEarlier, the government used to admit that whatever is to be done, it has to be done in Delhi itself. Two hundred and four hundred people come to Vigyan Bhavan, burn the lamp, the media friends come to work, 24 hours on TV to know that such a big work has happened. I have brought the government out of Delhi and brought it in the middle of the masses. I have brought amongst the tribals, I have brought among the farmers, I have brought it in the middle of the village. The army of government officials has started going in the middle of the village and a new direction of development has started. And so today in this small place, the masses of such millions of people, I am amazed that such a large number of people, wherever my eyes have reached, people are visible to people. I am looking at the hill in the mountains as well as in the hills, people are not seen in stone. What am I seeing amazing scene My beloved brothers and sisters will bring this nation to new heights. This is my belief that every day gets stronger. Every day new faith is born. The love you are giving to me gives me the strength to run more, strength to work harder, motivation to sweat.\nToday, I got the privilege of receiving the blessings of mother Kunwarbai, who was 104 years old. Those who consider themselves as young people, just decide whether their thinking is young? I am saying that 104-year-old mother Kunwarbhai does not see TV or reads a newspaper, she is a well-educated mother, she lives in a remote village, and she realizes that the Prime Minister of the country says that make the toilets. Just in the ears of this mother, she sold her goats and made toilets. Thoughts in the mind of the 104-year-old mother, this is indicating the change in India. The evidence is that the country is changing, a 104-year-old tribal woman, sitting in a remote village, when she resolves to make a toilet and not only do so, but also compels all the villagers to make toilets, not only that, Now anyone in the village will not go to the toilet in the open. Make sure you get it done, what can be a big trigger. I say to the countrymen today, I also pray to the media persons that if I do not show this speech, then it will run, but my mother must tell the story of Kuvarbai. These are the things that make up the power of the society. And today I had the opportunity to honor Mother Kunwarbai.\nI have had the opportunity to honor the beloved mothers, sisters and brothers of the two development blocks of tribal area here today. Ambbaad Chauki and Churiyya, these two blocks, with social awareness, these two blocks are open Defection free with the tireless efforts of these aware citizens. These two blocks were closed in the open and there were closed toilets and everyone made the toilet. Selfish, this is not a small issue. In the corner of India, toilets in the mind and heart of the people is to create nature, toilets, cleanliness, disease relief, healthy India, strong India to fulfill this dream, if any first important line, move Is cleanliness. Today I have had the opportunity to honor him. I especially congratulate the rural people of Ambagad Chowki Block. Sometimes the Prime Minister of the country is afraid of taxing too, he worries that what will happen if he does this. But I salute the citizens of Ambagadh Chauki that they have made any provision in the open to punish the punishment and punish them. It is a matter of great courage. It is a matter of great courage. The power to do even if the decision for the society is bitter. My tribal brothers in Ambgad Chowk have taught us today. He has liberated people from the open Defection free, centuries-old habit of getting rid of open defecation and when you turn off to open in the open, then it is the work of respecting mothers and sisters first of all. Today, forcing them to go for open defecation in the open, in the open. If we free our mothers and sisters from this trouble, then the blessing of the mothers and sisters of the country will make India a great power and this work has been done by our tribal brothers and sisters here, 104 The mother of the year has shown it. What could be the path to greater success? I salute all these people in public, bowing their heads, I praise them very much, I congratulate them with their heart.\nAnother scheme started here today, the public drug stores. The poor person, the family works hard, thinks it will do after 5 years, after 10 years they will do it. Ever wondered if you would bring a bicycle, you would think that there would be some good clothes for the children, but if one person comes to the sick in the family, then the poor plan goes to the pit for 10 years, becomes a financial burden, Becomes borrower The poor got cheaper medicines, the poor did not have the ability to die without medicines, so the campaign was started for the public drug stores across the country. Today I congratulate the Chief Minister of Chhattisgarh and his entire team that today he gave his opportunity to open the public drug store today with me, I am very thankful to him for this.\nToday we are starting this Rurban Mission. Some people say that Smart City is not Smart Village, this is Rurban Mission, that's the same Smart Village. Our Chaudhry Sahib, our minister is that department, he was just telling in detail. It is true that going towards our cities is growing very fast. People are sending their sons to cities, old parents live in the village, young people are going to cities, they have to live a good life, a quality of life, where there is good education, a good hospital, electricity comes Yes, if you walk in the internet, you have to go around the family in the evening, you have a good place to stay there, it remains in his heart and therefore he goes towards the city, but we are seeing the cities that there is a slum Frost Mechanical and increasingly so. Developing cities, people have come and have been increasing the city for many years. People sitting in the city or those who run the state government, these people will come, where will they live, where will they get water, where will they get electricity, what will happen to their drainage, they have to do daily life, then where will they think? No, people come. There will be one lakh population, will be 1.5 lakh in a short time, then two lakh will be, then there will be three lakh and the system will remain like that. The water tank will remain the same, which was for the first one lakh people. Now where will five lakh people reach the water and so by forecasting them for the past several years, by developing a map of development, if the city grows then this will increase this side, if the houses are to be new, then on this side, planning will do this, it will not be thought. . And thought has been done at a very small place and due to this, going to cities has become very difficult for the people. What is the remedy for this, whether people should be left to their fate, not to be forced to live in slums and should not think of the solution, and this government has thought it out and in the same way it has made Rurban Mission. Rurban has a direct meaning both Rural-Urban and Rurban combined both RURAL, rural and urban together, that is Rurban, which means that development should be such that the soul is of the village and the facility is of the city, such a village . If we see there is a village in between 5-7 villages, Ekad village. Where people come to buy something, they come to buy some small things but that is only a village. This government thought that there are such villages in the country, which have 5-7 villages in the vicinity and this village is gradually increasing. Is it progressing towards becoming a city, it is growing itself, People gradually started coming there. Come to read, come to the business, come to the job. The first was 10 thousand numbers, after seeing the number was 20 thousand, after seeing it got 25 thousand. From now on, those who are growing at a faster pace, by concentrating such villages, by adding 5-7 villages of the undergrowth, to facilitate a population of 25,30,40 thousand, it is from a Cluster Approach. Mission can be implemented. All the country has started working with such a desire to stand at 300 Rurban Center. This year's 100 such Rurban Cluster is imagined to stand. Whose development is going to be a city, it will be kept in mind, but the village inside it, the village which is in the heart, will have complete effort to keep it alive. A composition that joins the nature of India, joins with the nature of India.\nSecondly, India's economic development can not be run on the basis of 5 to 50 big cities. Country of 100 hundred crore, Kanyakumari from Kashmir, Kamrup from Kutch, such a huge country, if people have to give employment, to make economic progress, then we have to take the detail down. This is the imagination of Rurban who is making him a Growth Center. Imagine building a central point of activity of economic development. There will be small markets, if the business runs for 5-10 villages adjacent, then gradually they will become Rurban. If we had developed the Growth Center in Tribal Extensions in the tribal belt of our tribal belt, if we had developed a Growth Center in each block, then the years passed for the economic development of our tribal areas, Do not pass and therefore get facilities, get education, get modernity, and get economic activity together. By combining all these things, it is planned to Rurban. Today, doctors do not go to small villages, teachers do not go to the small village, but if Rurban is made then people will go there and go to medicines at 5,10,15 km distance or go for education, then relax Will come, and therefore there will be a huge change in the quality of life of many villages in the vicinity.\nWith this vision, Chhattisgarh is going to start four such projects. I congratulate the Government of Chhattisgarh that it is planning for an important work, which is sitting between the tribals and getting started for the country, its benefit will be available to every corner of India. And the pressure on the cities will be reduced. A good place will be available for those who go out of the villages, new cities will be built. These new cities will be organized, organized, connected with economic activity. By taking this imagination, they are starting the Rurban program today. I believe that together, when the plan will run in the country, millions of people are going to get the benefit.\nBrothers and sisters, here are my farmers, siblings in large quantities. I had written a journalist two days ago, I was reading the feature, he wrote that after many years, the plan to create trustworthy trust for the farmers has come for the first time, which will create a new confidence among the farmers. The scheme is the Prime Minister's Crop Insurance Scheme. Most of the farming in our country is subject to God. If rain rains, then there is no rain, if it is too dry then it gets drowned in water. If the nature goes wrong then the first loss comes to the farmer. In such a situation, the farmer must get protection. It is important to get a new faith. In view of this, for the first time in the country, the Prime Minister is bringing crop insurance scheme, which is completely different from earlier plans. At first the farmer was not ready to take the premium. He thought that if I would give premium in so many rupees, then where will I bring the seeds, where will I get the fertilizer, where will I drink from the farm, where will I feed the animal, he did not give it and if once given it would have been known. For two to two years, insurance money does not come, sometimes it came to know that insurance had taken 30 thousand rupees but only got 6 thousand rupees. And the insurance was found by the bank which had received a loan, then the banker went straight to the bank, the farmer did not have anything to do with it. All the diseases that we had, we eliminated all the diseases. The Prime Minister, with a new strength, brought the crop insurance plan, which now will not have to pay even more premium. He had one and a half percent, he had two percent Otherwise, in some areas, first 52-52% premium has been done in some areas. 8, 10, 14, 15 percent then the routine moves. We made sure that not more than two percent, not more than one and half percent. This made sure and hence the farmer will not have to pay more.\nThe second crop was prepared from the farm. Good rains, good crop, and harvesting of the crop is lying in the field. Waiting for the tractor to be found. If there was a sudden rain in that, then that poor person did not get a single penny. When the rain came, it was ruined, not a lot of work, such a heap of seeing. This government decided that if the crop was stacked after harvesting and within 14 days, if any objection arises and losses within, then he will also get crop insurance.\nये बहुत बड़ा निर्णय किया है। पहले बहुत बड़े इलाके में तय होता था कि यहां वर्षा हुई तो इसका हिसाब लगाया जाता था। इसके कारण क्‍या होता था, पांच गांव में अच्‍छी बारिश हुई हो, दस गांव बेचारे सूखे में पड़े हों, उनको मिलता नहीं था। हमने कह दिया, कि छोटी इकाई को भी अगर उसका नुकसान हुआ है, तो उसको भी भरपाई हो जाएगा, उसको फसल का बीमा मिल जाएगा। इतना ही नहीं, दो-दो साल तक इंतजार नहीं करना पड़ेगा। उसको technology के माध्‍यम से तत्‍काल पैसे मिल जाएं इसका प्रबंध किया जा रहा है। कभी-कभार किसान तय करता है कि जून महीने में बारिश आने वाली है, सब ready रखता है, लेकिन जब तक बारिश नहीं आती, वो बोवनी नहीं कर पाता है, जून महीना चला जाए वो बेचारा बारिश की इंतजार कर रहा है, जुलाई महीना चला जाए वो इंतजार कर रहा है, अगस्‍त महीना चला जाए वो इंतजार कर रहा है, बारिश आई नहीं। तो ऐसा किसान क्‍या करेगा? जिसको बेचारे को बारिश आई ही नहीं, बोवनी का ही मौका नहीं मिला। तो सरकार ने कहा है, इस फसल बीमा योजना के तहत अगर वो फसल बो भी नहीं पाया और उसका नुकसान हो गया, तो भी उसको 25 प्रतिशत उसका साल भर पेट भरने के लिए तुरंत पैसा दे दिया जाएगा।\nभाइयो, बहनों हिंदुस्‍तान के इतिहास में किसानों के लिए इतना बड़ा सुरक्षा कवच अगर किसी ने दिया है तो पहली बार दिल्‍ली में आपने हमें बिठाया और हमने आपकी सेवा में रखा है। भाइयो, बहनों ये सरकार गरीबों के लिए है। ये सरकार दलितों के लिए है। ये सरकार आदिवासियों के लिए है। ये सरकार पीडि़तों के लिए है। ये सरकार वंचितों के लिए है। समाज में आखिरी छोर पर जो बैठे हैं, उनके कल्‍याण के लिए एक संकल्‍प करके ये सरकार आई है, और इसलिए चाहे घर बनाने की योजना हो, चाहे जन औषधि भंडार करना हो, चाहे Rurban mission हो, चाहे फसल बीमा योजना हो, चाहे स्‍वच्‍छता का अभियान हो, चाहे खुले में शौच बंद कराने का प्रयास हो, ये सारी बातें सिर्फ और सिर्फ गरीब के लिए हैं। गरीब की जिंदगी में बदलाव लाने के लिए हैं।\nभाइयों, बहनों ये ही बातें हैं जो आने वाले दिनों में परिणाम लाने वाली हैं। और मेरा तो विश्‍वास जब 104 साल की मां कुंवरबाई आर्शीवाद दें तो मेरा विश्‍वास लाखों गुना बढ़ जाता है, लाखों गुना बढ़ जाता है। ये ही रास्‍ता है, इसी रास्‍ते से देश का कल्‍याण होने वाला है, और उस रास्‍ते पर हम चल पड़े हैं। फिर एक बार मैं आपका बहुत-बहुत आभार व्‍यक्‍त करता हूं, आप सबको नमन करता हूं, आप सबको धन्‍यवाद करता हूं। Long live Mother India."