"\nPradhan Mantri Awas Yojana will benefit people who can not afford a house: PM\nOnly talking about demographic dividends will not do Our youth must have skills and must be job creators: PM\nPradhan Mantri Awas Yojana will also generate a lot of economic activity: PM\nPradhan Mantri Awas Yojana is a step towards fulfillment of the vision of housing for all by 2022: PM Modi\nSkill development brings many opportunities for the youth: PM\n#MUDRA Yojana is making new entrepreneurs \u0026 helping current ones grow: PM Modi\nRespected senior dignitaries sat on the dais, brothers and sisters, Sai Ram.\nVenkaiah Ji has made my job easier; Now I do not have to He is ever worried; sometimes some names are left You heard the speech of Venkaiah Ji like super fast express\nA short while ago, Raman Singh was describing that Modi has started on Sunday which is a holiday. For me About holiday, I say its Holy day We should do that work When I go to bed at night I left Delhi, reached Chhattisgarh, then I will go to Odisha. From Odisha I will go to West Bengal and then I will go to Uttar Pradesh.\nWhen 'Janta Janardan' assigns you some responsibility And everybody should try Today, I had the opportunity to unveil the statue of Sai Baba The hospital provides free services to the poor, especially for children's heart surgery. Those who had gone to Puttaparthi must have seen the big hospital I would like to point out that less work was done due to social work done by Sai Baba The work he has done in the area of ​​water supply, education and health are indeed inspirational. Even if we do not talk to any miracle, these works are miracles in themselves I do not talk of any miracle Speaking of a miracle in itself is a huge miracle. I salute the great social works of Sai Baba Today the draft of a new policy was presented before you on innovation and Entrepreneurship. I congratulate Raman Singh and his government for his thinking in this direction. It has a blueprint of what government can do, what government will do, what people should do and what people do If we look toward the countries which has progressed in past 50 years then we will find that at the core of their progress lies the innovation. They brought about many new things They came out with several new ideas which were later accepted by the world. That innovation became beneficial for the society. If there is no innovation, the nation comes to a halt. It causes interruption The very nature of the life The tradition of innovation should be maintained. We should work for new innovations\nEntrepreneurship, 65 percent of our population is young The world is watching However, if we continue to recite the rhetoric of demographic division that our 65% population is below 35 years of age, then it is not going to work. This 65 percent of population should be skilled There should be financial management The Government policies should be encouraging the small entrepreneurs. Our young will become job creator from job seeker He should work with dreams for the job This could be the environment in the country. The scheme formulated by all these things Simply being a graduate and moving around looking for job certificates The environment of my country The Government has taken steps to complete their dreams and ambitions.\nSkill Development offers the youth of the country 'Mudra Yojna' is the financing scheme for new entrepreneurs and even the old ones who want to expand. Remember this does not require any guarantee for such banks Money lenders fleeced them. The interest was enormous Some time he had to flee from his village and at times. Mudra scheme has been formulated to save him from the clutches of money lenders. Small people like washer man, hairdresser, pot seller, cloth sellers, candle seller or common people, when they needed 5-10 thousand rupees, they used to pay money lenders and in a way themselves themselves to pledge Under the scheme, arrangements have been made to provide funds worth Rs.50,000 to 10 lakh without guarantee. So far, 20 million people have been granted funds and almost one million billion rupees have been canceled. The idea here is that they are expanding their businesses and provide employment to poor people. They provide employment to one, two, four people and this is going to create jobs opportunities. There is an ongoing belief in the world that for economic growth the push will come from the private sector and the public sector entities like government PSUs or corporate houses. For a country like India, yet another mode is required Private sector has its own relevance, public sector has its own importance but personal sector is the one where every person becomes an Entrepreneur The State has come today to give a boost to entrepreneurship. He should get finance from 'Mudra Yojna', get skill from Skill Development Program and then an environment of positive market should be created. I am glad that out of two billion people who received help, almost 70 percent are from SCs, STs or OBCs Women Entrepreneurs have also come in very large numbers. The force being created and the policies When the Central and State Governments have been united, the development comes very rapidly And I believe that the youth of Chhattisgarh will be benefited\n'Pradhan Mantri Aawas Yojna' is also being launched today. After so many years of independence Nearly 20 million are in the cities and 30 million live in the villages. These are the people for whom it is not possible to build a house on their own. Neither do they have land or money Systems The poorest of the poor He lives in the slums, goes out in the night There is no But if he has given a small house If government and banks extend help, this model of public private partnership will move forward.\nOnce he has the house If guests come here Then he saves 10 rupees and gets a doormat. The he thinks it was okay in the slum but now there should be carpet. He then saves some money and purchases the carpet next month. After some time Then he starts thinking for his education.\nOnce the roof over the head comes, the walls come there, it breathes in a new life to his dreams and he starts doing new things.\nSo I would like to point out that 'Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana' is not an Infrastructure. It is not meant to build walls It is a great program to complete Even for the poorest of the poor in India and every individual However, the desires of the poor are never fulfilled No poor wants to give birth He also wants to Government has a dream for such people\nIt will be 75 years of India's independence in 2022. Can every citizen of country, all the governments, all those who are in public or personal life, all of them should resolve that in 2022 when 75 years of India's independence how can we give back those all great men who laid down their lives for independence, spent their young days in prison, hanged, sacrificed themselves and helped us attain independence This should be done We should feel We should have a dream that 75 years of independence, even the poorest of the poor of India should have a home of their own.\nIt is quite a task since 50 million households are to be created by 2022. But it will also increase the employment opportunities Cement, iron, brick, clay all will be sold more There will be more work for the workers We will be a witness to a big economic trend. Life is going to change here States of the countries need to act fast and decide what the location of the housing units Center is ready to pursue this work State and Central Government will do this work together and provide shelter to the poor of the country. His dreams will get a new life with this shelter. And with those dreams the country will scale new heights in 2022. With this belief I once again convey my greetings to Raman Singh Ji and his team. Sriman Venkaiah is the Minister of the Department and is working day and night. I believe that this dream will come true."