"Share\n\nDigital India, apart from facilitating people, is also bringing in transparency in government working and curbing corruption: PM\nGovernment is committed to empowering MSMEs By making access to credit easier for MSMEs, ease of doing business is being done: PM\nBig efforts are underway to provide modern amenities and promote industry in eastern India: PM Modi\nAll the gentlemen and ladies present here\nProud of Purvanchal's great architect, Bhai Logan Congratulations to the brother-in-law who have played the role of the master of the world in the world. Kashi Nagar is established in the world market since the past. Silk saree or hand toy, Mary Kashi at the forefront.\nWhen Pachauri was speaking, he was saying that the Prime Minister came as our guest. No, I'm not a guest You have given me so much love, I have made myself. I am told that entrepreneurs from 11 districts belonging to Silk, Fabric, Yarn, Clothes and Carpet have come here. And in a few stalls I used to go here a long time ago, there has been one of the best products. Some people are also getting loan support and some handicrafts have been given a tool kit too. I would like to congratulate you and congratulate all of you.\nSathyo, a few years ago, hundreds of millions of projects related to Varanasi and the country have been opened and laid down. It also includes projects related to infrastructure of Varanasi, along with a plan to facilitate the pension holder siblings of the telecom department across the country. For all these projects, I congratulate all the beneficiaries including Varanasi.\nBrothers and Sisters, here today, whatever plans or projects have been made or depicted in the fundraiser, one thing is in the core of all of them, and that is the thing - life is easy, business is easy, ease of living and ease of doing Business, i.e., even simpler, easy to become, easy to trade and business. As much as the relationship between these two, all these projects of development are related to each other. The legitimate government is committed to strengthen the campaign of Make in India.\nOne district of the UPA Government, One Product, this experiment is a strong extension of Make in India. This scheme is capable of setting UP on the industrial map of the world. For this, I congratulate Yogiji and his whole team a lot. UP is a hub of small and small industries. After agriculture, MSME sector offers the highest employment. Here is part of the MSME sector tradition.\nMoradabad's brass art, Bhadoi's carpet, Banaras silk products, Sarees of Agra, Pehta of Agra, Sporting goods of Meerut, Chickenking of Lucknow, Terracotta period of Gorakhpur, Amla of Pratapgarh, Tharu art of Shravasti; There is something different in every district, it is special, unique; Which has linked people to employment here. To give an extension to this art, a district-a product scheme is going to be beneficial.\nThis entire Purvanchal, along with Varesi, Varanasi is the hub of handicrafts. Whether the artwork is in the clothes and the carpet or in the soil or metal utensils; Art is present in the particles of the particles. The 10 products associated with Varanasi's areas have also been found to be of GI tag i.e., geographical indication.\nThere are about 60 thousand handlooms, about 70,000 powerlooms, about 1.5 lakh weavers are enriching this art.On one district, through the One Product program the government is engaged in converting this art into a profitable business.\nEntrepreneurs, handicrafts, artists do not lack fund, they get good machines, good tools, their proper training, to get proper marketing of their product, get the right price; This scheme is being run for this purpose.\nThis art, these traditions remain, for this, the Center and the State Government are making every effort. I myself also are monitoring the 100 districts of the country on the regular basis, where small scale industries, MSMEs are part of our tradition.\nBrothers and Sisters, as has been said, a loan of about two thousand crore rupees has to be distributed during this conference. Now there are two thousand crore rupees in the hands of traders, how much speed they give themselves in economic development.\nApart from all the entrepreneurs, all the greats of banks are also present. Everything is being settled on the spot. I am happy that the goal of this Deendayal Handicraft Complex was created, that dream is being fulfilled in front of our eyes today. It will be the medium of business, business and dialog for all of you; Was thinking\nSageo, a district - a product plan aims to provide a complete solution from production to sales. I will give you examples of the weavers and craftsmen of Benaras here.\nThe government is providing loans from the banks on their easy terms, assistance is being provided for raw materials. Identity- This identification name given to weavers has been very helpful in removing intermediaries. Why did not the intermediary talk like? Will not you have any problem? But by taking the trouble, the country has to save the middlemen.\nApart from this, there are 9 common facility center-common service centers in Banaras. Weavers are being assisted by weavers for marketing through these centers. Apart from this, bunukars have been given modern loom in Bhadoi, Mirzapur, Megha Carpet Cluster.\nAlong with weavers, craftsmen associated with soil work have also been given 'modern' chakras, new machines are being provided. Right now, I was telling one of our craftsmen - the modern wheel was sitting on a small table, making a pot.\nHe said I got 10 lakh rupees from the money scheme. At first the business was shutting down gradually, now the family has come into this business again in a big way. See how the change comes. And I was watching the glow on his face. It seemed to me that my life changed. And when I give her face shine, my face shines too. Among all these efforts, the place where this program is happening today, we are constantly seeing the significance of that precious gift.\nWe are continuously expanding this work of connecting the youth of general family with the employment of common people. A few moments ago, some beneficiaries were also assisted here, who want to connect with the LPG gas transportation. The government is helping the entrepreneurs to buy the trucks and the oil companies are taking care of them.\nWhen the life of ordinary human beings is simple and easy, it is easier for business and business to do so. When infrastructure is good and government procedures are not confusing to the person, then life is also easy and business too. We have been working on this resolution for the past four years.\nI congratulate Manoj Sinha and his department. He has also removed a major bottleneck related to government processes in the telecom department today.\nAfter serving the entire life of the country, the pensioners were required to make rounds of the offices, which were the difficulties, efforts have been made to simplify the process. 'SAMPAN' means that the system for authority and management of pension scheme is launched today. .\nFriends, now the Department itself will do the job of accepting pension from the settlement to the settlement. This will save the crores of rupees every year to the government, pension holders will be of great benefit. With this, the payment of pension of about 11 thousand crore rupees will be possible on time. The pension holder will be able to track his pension states sitting at home-sitting from his mobile phone. The difficulties that were encountered before being associated with different agencies, will be reduced in a great deal. If there is a complaint, it will take less time to solve it. This will benefit lakhs of postal department employees across the country.\nWell, for the Varanasi and Purvanchal people this is a double congratulation because the control communication account i.e. the sub-office of CCA has now been opened in Varanasi. Now you do not need to go to Lucknow to collect documents related to pension and troubleshoot other complaints.\nFor the pensioners, the telecom department's scheme has been launched today, it is a fundamental part of the government's citizen centric approach, the minimum government-maximum governance. That is, how simple the processes of government are in the reach of the common man; The government is constantly pushing that effort forward.\nThis is part of the effort to make life of the people of the country through digital India. Today, from birth certificates to life certificates, hundreds of government services are expanding at a rapid pace.\nEPF- Its online or transfer or withdrawal facility has already been given. Now the arrangements like pension are also being simplified.\nThe work of issuing digital life certificate to the elderly and elderly people is going on at home only today. Nearly 2.5 million pensioners have benefited from the life certificate scheme.\nBrothers and Sisters, Government is engaged in delivering banking services to village-village, house-to-house through India post payment bank. The postman will do the transaction related to the bank at your house. On behalf of this arrangement the government has taken several steps and the work is going on.\nSo far 25,000 post offices have started these facilities in the country. Banking services will start very soon in the rest.\nSociologists, from banking to land related information, to harvesting their produce online, many facilities are available online today. These facilities are also reaching the village in the village through more than three lakh Common Service Center network spread across the country. This network has been prepared in the last four and a half years.\nYou must have read in the newspapers that in the last two-and-a-half years, internet connections in India have increased by 65 percent and more than 500 million internet connections are working in the country today. In cities, this increase has increased, the villages have also increased the scope of the Internet. Approximately 1.2 million Panchayats of the country have been connected to broadband. Out of which nearly 29,000 have reached Uttar Pradesh, in 29 thousand villages\nIn the coming times, when the fast Internet will reach the corners of the country, then Digital India will give new India new power, new identity.\nWith the digital India campaign, the convenience of ordinary citizens of the country has been increasing, as well, it is also becoming a means of reducing corruption and transparency in government transactions. How were the doubts and complaints about the purchase of government departments first? Now the Central Government has made a new transparent system of purchase for its departments. The central government has created a portal called \"Government E-market place\", and I would like you most to take advantage of it. Small businessmen of Uttar Pradesh can also take advantage of this.\nThrough this, any small businessman of the country can sell his product directly to the Central Government, State Governments. The major benefit of this is to the general households from our MSME entrepreneurs.\nThese excellent platforms are being proved for the small, small, mid-scale industries, that is MSME. Recently, for the MSME sector, the announcement of the 12 Diwali Gift was a big role in GEM. It is compulsory for the small companies to not get trapped in the money of small entrepreneurs and connecting the GEM to all the companies of the Central Government for cash flow.\nNot only that, MSMEs are not allowed to avail loans through the power of digital services, online loans are being approved for this. And you will be happy, many of you have taken advantage of it. In just 59 minutes, work is being done to sanction through a loan online portal up to Rs one crore in the remaining minutes, successfully running. Otherwise, if you have to take a loan of 10 million, then you do not know how many shoes will be lost. This work is done in fifty nine minutes today.\nFriends, government is committed to empower MSME in the country. The government's effort is as much as MSMEs are connected to GST, they do not have to make a lot of money to take loans from banks, they can go ahead by looking at it online. After seeing the GST and the documents of their returns or online records, the bank should contact the loan itself.\nThese efforts are ensuring ease of doing business in the country, making it easier for business and business, young people are getting employment opportunities.\nThe work of creating a better environment for modern facilities and industries in entire Eastern India, including Sathio, Kashi and Purvanchal, is going on a wide scale. A gas pipeline is being laid under the Prime Minister Energy Ganga Scheme. This has started getting gas from households to manure factories. In Varanasi, thousands of homes have also been added to this cheap LPG plan. The pipeline is being set up at a cost of about 13 thousand crore from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Orissa, West Bengal, Jagdishpur to Haldia. Its first phase is going to be completed very soon.\nWomen will get clean and cheap gas. If vehicles will run from CNG, pollution will be reduced and young colleagues will get new employment opportunities in the expansion of industries.\nSetho, I went to the International rice research institute campus before coming here. This center is the result of our policy of making agriculture profitable from science and technology. Here, research on exquisite varieties, seeds and other techniques related to paddy for India will be there, solutions will also be prepared here for Asia and other countries of the world.\nSaathiya, changes in Kashi now begin to appear. The appearance of divine Kashi is becoming more and more grand. आज भी बनारस के विकास से जुड़ी अनेक परियोजनाओं का शिलान्‍यास और लोकार्पण किया गया है। इनमें से अधिकतर प्रोजेक्‍ट रास्‍तों को चौड़ा करने से जुड़े हैं और यहां के ऐतिहासिक आस्‍था से जुड़े महत्‍वपूर्ण स्‍थानों के सौंदर्यीकरण से भी जुड़े हैं।\nये सारे कार्य काशी की सुन्‍दरता को और निखारने वाले हैं। काशीवासियों के, काशी आने-जाने वालों के जीवन को आसान करने वाले हैं।कई ऐसे कार्यों को भी किया जा रहा है, जिन पर स्‍वतंत्रता से पहले थोड़ा-बहुत काम हुआ था।\nभाइयो और बहनों, सरकार का प्रयास है कि काशी की आत्‍मा से छेड़छाड़़ किए बिना हमारा ये चिर-पुरातन शहर नई काया के साथ दुनिया के सामने आए।\nबाबा विश्‍वनाथ की असीम कृपा हम सभी पर रही है। हमारा ये कर्तव्‍य है कि जो काम माता अहिल्‍याबाई होलकर ने करीब दो सौ वर्ष पूर्व किया था, उसको आज आगे बढ़ाने का हमें सौभाग्‍य मिला है। अनेक दशकों की उदासीनता के बाद बनारस के घाटों, यहां के मंदिरों के संरक्षण और सौंदर्यीकरण के कार्यों का आप जिस तरह समर्थन कर रहे हैं, उसके लिए मैं आपका, काशीवासियों का हृदयपूर्वक आभार व्‍यक्‍त करता हूं।\nयहां का सांसद होने के नाते मैं काशीवासियों के इस समर्थन से कृतज्ञ हूं। बाबा के चिर पुरातन स्‍थान की दिव्‍यता को भव्‍यता से जोड़ना भी हमारा दायित्‍व है ताकि देश और दुनिया से आने वाला हर भक्‍त बिना किसी दिक्‍कत के अपने बाबा विश्‍वनाथ के दरबार में मत्‍था टेक सके।\nऐसी अनेक सुविधाओं का निर्माण हम सभी काशीवासी मिल करके कर रहे हैं और इस काम को हमें तेज गति से आगे बढ़ाना है।\nसाथियो, इसी तरह मां गंगा की पवित्रता और अविरलता के प्रति भी हमारी प्रतिबद्धता है। मुझे खुशी है कि हमारे प्रयासों के परिणाम भी धीरे-धीरे दिखने लगे हैं। आप सभी ने मीडिया में आई उन रिपोर्टों को देखा होगा कि कैसे मछलियां, मगरमच्‍छ समेत अनेक जीव-जंतु जीवनदायिनी मां गंगा में फिर से लौटने लगे हैं। हाल में देश के अनेक वैज्ञानिकों की टीम ने गंगा जल के परीक्षण के बाद एक रिपोर्ट भी दी है। इस रिपोर्ट के मुताबिक मां गंगा में प्रदूषण के स्‍तर में कमी आई है। नमामि गंगे का अभियान जैसे-जैसे आगे बढ़ रहा है, वैसे-वैसे निर्मल और अविरल गंगा का लक्ष्‍य नजदीक दिख रहा है। ये सब आप सभी काशीवासियों, गंगा के किनारे बसे हर व्‍यक्ति की इच्‍छाशक्ति और सहयोग से संभव हो पा रहा है।\nसा‍थियो, जब पूरी पारदर्शिता के साथ, प्रमाणिकता के साथ, जनभागीदारी से सरकार काम करती है तब सार्थक परिणाम अवश्‍य मिलते हैं। वरना, आप तो साक्षी रहे हैं कि कभी गंगा एक्‍शन प्‍लान से लेकर गंगा बेसिन अथॉरिटी तक की न जाने कैसी-कैसी योजनाएं बनाई गई। मां गंगा के नाम पर हजारों करोड़ रुपये बहा दिए गए।\nमां गंगा की निर्मलता के लिए धन की शक्ति ही काफी नहीं है, साफ नीयत भी चाहिए। नीयत साफ है तो गंगा भी साफ होना तय है।हम पूरी ईमानदारी के साथ, साफ नीयत के साथ गंगाजी को स्‍वच्‍छ करने के अभियान में जुटे हुए हैं।\nकाशी के भाइयो और बहनों, प्रवासी भारतीय दिवस के लिए अब दो-तीन हफ्ते ही बचे हैं। मैं खुद दुनियाभर के प्रवासी भारतीयों को काशी आने का न्‍यौता दे चुका हूं। आपकी तरफ से मैं ही बताता रहता हूं। आने वाले दिनों में हमें दुनिया के सामने पुरातन काशी का आधुनिक स्‍वरूप, दुनिया की आंखों में प्रभावित करने वाला दृश्‍य खड़ा करना हम काशीवासियों की जिम्‍मेदारी है। काशी उनको प्रभावित भी करे, काशी उनको प्रेरित भी करे; ये ऐसा अवसर काशी को जाने नहीं देना चाहिए।\nहम निश्चित रूप से एक भव्‍य और सफल आयोजन करेंगे और मुझे एक सांसद के रूप में, आपके प्रतिनिधि के रूप में विश्‍वभर से आए हुए मेहमानों को पलक-पांवड़े बिछा करके ऐसा स्‍वागत-सम्‍मान करना है, ऐसा गौरव करना है कि फिर एक बार दुनिया में काशी का डंका बजने लग जाए।\nअंत में फिर से आप सभी शिल्‍पकार साथियों को, सभी लाभार्थियों को मैं बहुत-बहुत बधाई देता हूं। अब दो दिन के बाद 2018 की विदाई हो जाएगी, 2019 दरवाजे पर दस्‍तक दे रहा है। मैं आप सबको नए साल की भी शुभकामनाएं देता हूं। काशी और यूपी के सभी स्‍वजनों को मेरी तरफ से मंगल-कामनाएं। बाबा विश्‍वनाथ के आशीर्वाद से हम सभी देश के नव-निर्माण के लिए, अपनी काशी के नव-निर्माण के‍ लिए, अपने उत्‍तर प्रदेश के नव-निर्माण के लिए दिन-रात एक करते रहें, अपने परिश्रम में कहीं कोई कमी न आने दें, इसी कामना के साथ मैं अपनी बात को समाप्‍त करता हूं।\nआप सभी का बहुत-बहुत धन्‍यवाद।\nहर-हर महादेव।"