"Share\n\nPradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana can provide a solution for the problems, in times of difficulty: PM\nShortcomings of previous crop insurance schemes have been eliminated: PM Modi\nWe want to make trust in farmers\nPrime Minister Narendra Modi will be the first Indian Prime Minister of India.\nWhen we talk about technology and a #DigitalIndia, we see the welfare of the farmers at the core: PM\nPrime Minister Modi says, 'Welfare of the farmers is at the core.'\nDigital Platform for National Agricultural Market to launch on Babasaheb Ambedkar's birth anniversary on April 14th: PM\nDigital Platform for National Agricultural Market\n#StartupIndia not restricted to IT There is also an immense scope for agriculture sector too: PM Modi\nPer drop, more crop is what we are giving importance to: PM Modi\nWe want to increase the soil health card scheme: PM\nMy beloved farmers, brothers and sisters in large numbers,\nWhen I was coming from the helicopter, I was watching that buses had been queued for miles, they wanted to reach here. I do not believe they will be able to reach. I bow to my farmers, who have been stuck at five kilometers and ten kilometers away from my farmer. I am trying to look at the front, people are watching people. This is also the case on this side, on this side it is the same situation. And this is a small town in Sehore, where such a big event is organized and the farmers come from such a large number of people from all over the state, bless us, I congratulate these farmers, my brothers and sisters. I have come here today to see the farmers of Madhya Pradesh in particular. I have come to congratulate the farmers of Madhya Pradesh, I have come to congratulate them.\nTen years ago, Madhya Pradesh was not marked on the map of agriculture of India. In the states contributing to the agriculture sector, the areas of Punjab, Haryana, the Ganges-Yamuna coast, or the Krishna-Godavari coast, were considered as areas of agricultural area in the same area. But the farmers of Madhya Pradesh, through their own diligence, with their new laboratories, and the government of Madhya Pradesh, Shivraj ji's government has many funding farmers, who live in the schemes of rural development, and the basic need of the farmer, Due to the emphasis on that water, the state government and the farmers have created a new history and together today, in the agricultural world of India, Madhya Pradesh has become a pillar And therefore I have come today to salute the farmers of Madhya Pradesh.\nFor four to four years continuously, the award of agriculture sector should win a state, this is not a small issue and see their growth too. It is easy to reach ten on zero, but it is very difficult to reach 20-22 or 24 from 15-17-18. Those who understand agriculture economics, they can well know how Madhya Pradesh has contributed to the agricultural world of Madhya Pradesh in the journey of economic development of India. That is why I have been giving 'Krish Karman Aankar' in the presence of lakhs of farmers coming here today. I gave this award in the hands of the Chief Minister, in the hands of the state's agriculture minister, but in reality, this' Krishi Karman Award 'is given to me by giving me lakhs of crores of rupees in Madhya Pradesh to my farmers' brothers. I praise you.\nYou have done wonderful work, but in spite of all these brothers and sisters, the conditions of the rain for the last two years have not been correct. Even if there was a drought, there was a flood, despite this the farmers of the country did not let the crop fall. Some quantities increased from the top. This is the result of the peasantry of the farmers that even today, in spite of the opposite weather in our country, our farmer does not have any shortage of food grains in the country even after battling the opposite conditions.\nToday, there is another reason for me to come here that the Prime Minister's Crop Insurance Scheme for the farmers of the entire country, its guidelines are being offered to the farmers of the entire country in the presence of farmers of Madhya Pradesh today. Its right is made of the farmers of Madhya Pradesh who have created a new history and therefore it is very appropriate for me to start the Prime Minister Crop Insurance Scheme from Madhya Pradesh and due to this the program was created today.\nWhen Atalji's government was in our country, the crop insurance scheme first came in and the government of Bharatiya Janata Party, NDA, Atal ji did a proven effort to do good to the farmers. Later the government changed. They made good changes and made changes in the government because it was good, but there was a fear in the farmer's mind. The result was that the farmer started running away from crop insurance schemes. Even so many farmers in this country suffer natural calamities, even then they are not ready to take the crop insurance. More than 20 percent of the farmers in the whole of India are not ready to take insurance. They know that after doing this, there is nothing to be found. The first challenge before us was to create trust inside the farmer of India. One such product of the insurance scheme should be given that due to which all the fears of the farmer should be solved and for the first time such crop insurance scheme, Prime Minister's crop insurance scheme has come in this country. Those people who use Modi to say anti-farmer in the morning and early evening, such people do not even dare criticize the Prime Minister's Crop Insurance Scheme, because such a plan has been created that there is a solution to all the problems of the farmer.\nThere was a time when farmer crop insurance in some areas had to go up to 14%. In some areas, 6% -8% went. Insurance companies used to take advantage of compulsion. This government decided that when we make insurance plans, more than one and a half percent of the farmer will not be charged for Rabi crop and no more than 2% of kharif will be taken. Where was looted up to 12-14% and where 2% of the cap was placed. What did they do? The cap was placed above the payment, a wall was placed that it would not be more than paid. We put a cap on the premium, but when the farmer comes to meet, there will be no cap on it. The more the insurance he will make, the more money will be his right and the work to give it will be. This is a big decision.\nAnd one thing too. Today the situation is such that if in a village there are 100 farmers. 80 farmers do not join the insurance scheme, only 20 farmers join and the loss of the crop was also accounted for 12-15-25 which is the situation between the villages. We have decided this time - the only one farmer will be in the village and assume that the same farm has trouble in his farm, the wet fall, the water has become filled, the landslide has happened, then what has happened in the side of the side will not be seen. The loss of the farmer, he will get the benefit of the insurance scheme even if he is alone. This made a big historical decision.\nIn the earlier scheme, if there was no rain in crop insurance, the farmer did not work hard, the seeds did not spoil, he did not go to the farm. Because I knew that there is nothing to be done, why should I go? What will the farmer do in this situation? After planting the seed, the crop could have been spoiled, then it could be insured. It is such an insurance plan that if the rain has not occurred and the farmer has not sown due to this, then the effort to give some amount of help to him will be from this insurance plan.\nAnother important decision under this insurance plan was that once the crop was cut off. By the time the weather was good, it was all good, there was a heap of crop inside the field and suddenly it rained, after harvesting it came raining. No insurance company in India is ready to look at the farmer's trouble for him. For the first time, a decision has been made in India that after harvesting, if there is a stack in the field and within 14 days, if the rain has come down, wet fall and if the crop is wasted then it will also be insured, also for that The farmer will be paid.\nIf the brothers used to take insurance first, then four-four seasons would have gone in to sanction the insurance, the decision was not made, the paper was kept between the insurance company, the government and the farmer. We have decided that technology should be used, technology will be used for immediate survey and 25 percent amount will be given to it immediately and later process will be given to the farmer in the shortest possible time.\nBrothers and sisters, this can be a big guarantee, never guarantee a risk. This is what farmers have shown. Brothers and sisters are my expectations. It has been so many years of independence, the farmer has not believed in insurance. I need your help. You trust the insurance plan, experiment once and today more than 20 percent of the people do not take insurance. Is 50% of the people of India willing to come forward to join the Kisan Bima Yojana? The more the farmers will join, the burden on the government's vault is going to increase. The more farmers will take insurance, the more money the government's safe will go through. Despite this, I urge the farmers to join you with this insurance plan. For the first time in India, a huge scheme has been launched for the betterment of the farmers and once the farmers join this scheme, the natural crisis will not be able to douse the farmers in the days to come, they will not be able to shake, they will not be scared, the government should shoulder with it From the side of the shoulder will stand.\nBrothers and sisters, there is no year in our country that when there is no natural disaster in some area of ​​the country and there is a great loss to the farmers. It happens in some area, but the first rules were such that if the area had to suffer more than 50 percent, then the government would start accounting there. Brothers and sisters, we changed this decision and we said that even if one-third of the damage is done, even if one-third of the damage is done, the farmer will be compensated for this loss. It has been a huge historic decision. The compensation given to the farmer first has been nearly tripled. This government has carried forward these works by giving priority to the things that should be done to change the lives of the brothers and sisters, the farmers' welfare, how to change the life of a farmer, how to change the economic condition of the village.\nThe government has taken another new job. We want to go towards modern agriculture in our country. We want to bring technology into agriculture. We want to mechanize our agricultural sector, but with the experience of our millennia, we can not forget the wisdom wisdom that our farmer has, which is traditional knowledge. The country's biggest loss is that we have not been able to bring it new and have left old and therefore I want to congratulate our Agriculture Minister Radha Mohan Singh in particular. It was his imagination that the traditional agriculture which is a progressive farmer, should also be taken advantage of their experiences and modern science and traditional agriculture, these two should be combined and our agriculture minister is contributing a lot for that work.\nBrothers and sisters, our farmers work hard, produce crops but they do not get the price. So big is the country. The same crop falls on one place and the price is higher in the other place, the price is high. But the farmer does not have a choice. To him, the poor have to sell the goods in the market next to their village. The technology we talk about, we talk about Digital India, they do it for my farmers, siblings. In the coming days, we are building a National Agricultural Market, its full virtual platform, Digital platform is standing. In any corner of India, my farmer will be able to see on his mobile phone that if there is wheat in it, then in today's India, in which corner wheat is being sold and he can decide. He can sit sitting here in Madhya Pradesh and decide that I do not want to sell wheat in Madhya Pradesh, I get more prices in Tamil Nadu, it is to sell in Tamil Nadu. They can sell. For the first time, connecting nearly five hundred mandis of the whole country with technology, the first benefit of Digital India was given to my farmer brothers and sisters. For this such markets have to be created by creating an online network and setting up a National Agricultural Market.\nBrothers and sisters, April 14 is the birth anniversary of Dr. Bhimrao Baba Saheb Ambedkar. In our mhow, our Chief Minister Shivraj ji has set up a holy place for Baba Saheb Ambedkar. On April 14, on the birth anniversary of Baba Saheb Ambedkar, we will start this National Agricultural Market online in India. Its auspicious start.\nBrothers and sisters, there is always anxiety about taking sugarcane farmers in our country. When we came to government, the payment of unpaid money to the farmers was the rest. Where the farmer used to produce sugarcane, the unpaid payment was the rest. Someone said 50 thousand crores was left, someone said 60 thousand crores was left, someone said 65 thousand crores left. There were new figures every day. The challenge before us was how to get money from these sugar cane farmers. One made a plan after one. In the world prices of sugar fell, there was a lot of sugar in India. The world was not ready to buy Chinese. The factories did not have money. There was no payment for the farmer's money. We have made plans one after the other and within 18 months, I say with great satisfaction that where 50 thousand crore, 60 thousand crore rupees were paid, I took account of today, till yesterday, one thousand crore Less payment is now left. It will be paid to my cane farmers.\nNot only this, brothers and sisters, we decide to make the farmer strong. The condition of alive sugar or sugarcane farmers, sugar factory workers, is not good. हमने एक नि‍यम बनाया कि‍ गन्‍ने से इथनॉल बनाया जाए, वो इथनॉल पेट्रोल में मि‍क्‍स कि‍या जाए। 10 प्रति‍शत इथनॉल बनाकर के पेट्रोल में मि‍क्‍स करने का नि‍र्णय कि‍या। देश को जो खाड़ी से तेल लाना पड़ता है, मेरे हि‍न्‍दुस्‍तान का गन्‍ना कि‍सान झाड़ी से तेल पैदा करेगा। खाड़ी के तेल के सामने, मेरा झाड़ी का तेल काम आएगा और वो पर्यावरण की दृष्‍टि‍ से उत्‍तम होगा, आर्थि‍क दृष्‍टि‍ से देश का भला करने वाला होगा और कि‍सान को गन्‍ना ज्‍यादा पैदा हो गया तो जो मुसीबत में फंसना पड़ता था, उससे वो बाहर आ जाएगा।\nचीनी के लि‍ए export के लि‍ए योजनाएं बनाई, import कम करने के लि‍ए योजना बनाई, brown चीनी जो होती है उसके लि‍ए योजना बनाई। भारतीय जनता पार्टी की सरकारें जब भी आती है, कि‍सानों का कल्‍याण यह उनकी प्राथमि‍कता रहती है और उसी का परि‍णाम है कि‍ मध्‍य प्रदेश ने एक नया वि‍क्रम कर दि‍या। गुजरात जो रेगि‍स्‍तान है, वहां के कि‍सानों ने कमाल करके दि‍खाया।\nभाइयो-बहनों, आज कृषि‍ क्षेत्र में अनेक नए प्रयास, नए प्रयोगों की आवश्‍यकता है, नए innovation होने चाहि‍ए। हमने एक ‘Start-up India, Stand-up India’ का अभि‍यान चलाया है, लेकि‍न यह ‘Start-up India, Stand-up India’ सि‍र्फ Information Technology के लि‍ए नहीं है। यह कोई औजार बनाने के लि‍ए ‘स्‍टार्ट-अप इंडि‍या, स्‍टैंड-अप इंडि‍या’ नहीं है। कृषि‍ क्षेत्र में भी ‘Start-up India, Stand-up India’ का काम हो सकता है। मैं नौजवानों से आग्रह करता हूं, एक बहुत बड़ा अवसर हमारे सामने है। हम कृषि‍ क्षेत्र में नए-नए आवि‍ष्‍कार करे, नए-नए साधनों को बनाए, नई-नई technology का innovation करे, कि‍सानों के लि‍ए करे, फसल के लि‍ए करे, पशुपालन के लि‍ए करे, मत्‍स्‍य उद्योग के लि‍ए करे, dairy farming के लि‍ए करे, Poultry farming के लि‍ए करे और ‘Start-up’ योजना का लाभ उठाए, यह हमारे कि‍सानों की नए ताकत बनेगी।\nआज अगर हमारा कि‍सान Organic Farming में जाता है तो दुनि‍या में उसको एक नया मार्कि‍ट मि‍लेगा। हि‍न्‍दुस्‍तान का सि‍क्‍कि‍म state देश का पहला Organic State बना है और पूरा नॉर्थ-ईस्‍ट, नागालैंड हो, मि‍जोरम हो, मेघालय हो, यह सारा इलाका वो दुनि‍या का Organic Capital बनने की ताकत रखता है। इस काम पर हमने बल दि‍या है।\nहमारी एक इच्‍छा है – प्रधानमंत्री कृषि‍ सिंचाई योजना। हि‍न्‍दुस्‍तान के कि‍सान को अगर पानी मि‍ल जाए तो मेरे कि‍सान में वो दम है, वो मि‍ट्टी में से सोना पैदा कर सकता है। और इसलि‍ए दि‍ल्‍ली में हमारी सरकार ने सर्वाधि‍क बजट कृषि‍ सिंचाई योजना पर लगाया है और उसमें जल संचय पर बल है, जल सींचन पर बल है, Micro irrigation पर बल है, per drop more crop, एक-एक बूंद से अधि‍कतम फसल पैदा करने का इरादा लेकर के हम आगे बढ़ रहे हैं और उसके लि‍ए मैं शि‍वराज जी का वि‍शेष अभि‍नंदन करता हूं। यह जो कृषि‍ क्रान्‍ति‍ मध्‍य प्रदेश में आई है उसका मूल कारण है, उन्‍होंने सिंचाई योजना पर बल दि‍या है, Irrigation पर बल दि‍या और कहां 12 लाख से 32 लाख पहुंचा दि‍या। मैं मध्‍य प्रदेश मुख्‍यमंत्री शि‍वराज जी और उनके नेतृत्‍व की टीम को बहुत-बहुत बधाई देता हूं कि‍ उन्‍होंने कि‍सानों की जरूरत को समझा। उन्‍होंने प्राथमि‍कता दी और यह परि‍णाम आया है। पूरे देश में इसी काम को आगे बढ़ाना है।\nमैं आपसे आग्रह करता हूं हम technology का भी उपयोग करते हैं। आज सेटेलाइट के द्वारा आपके गांव में पानी कहां से कहां जा सकता है, उसका Contour plan आसानी से बन सकता है। गांव का पानी गांव में, यह मंत्र लेकर के हमें चलना चाहि‍ए। बारि‍श में जि‍तना भी पानी गि‍रे उसको रोकने का प्रबंध होना चाहि‍ए। अगर आपको ज्‍यादा खर्चा नहीं करना है, तो मैं आपको एक सुझाव देता हूं। मेरे कि‍सान भाई-बहन उसको करे, फर्टि‍लाइजर के जो खाली बैग होते हैं, सीमेंट के जो खाली बैग होते हैं, बोरे होते हैं, उसमें पत्‍थर और मि‍ट्टी भर दो और जहां से पानी जाता है वहां पर पानी को रोक लो। 25-50 ठेले लगा दो, पानी रुक जाएगा। 10 दि‍न-15 दि‍न में वो पानी जमीन में उतर जाएगा। जमीन का पानी का स्‍तर ऊपर आ जाएगा, आपकी कृषि‍ को बहुत फायदा होगा। पूरे मध्‍य प्रदेश में, पूरे हि‍न्‍दुस्‍तान में, हमारे सामान्‍य प्रयोगों के द्वारा हम पानी को बचाने का काम अब उठाए।\nउसी प्रकार से, यह हम जो Flood Irrigation करते हैं, मैं कि‍सान भाइयों से आग्रह करता हूं Flood Irrigation की जरूरत नहीं है। यह हमारे दि‍माग में भर गया है कि‍ खेत अगर पानी से लबालब भरा हुआ है, तभी फसल पैदा होती है, ऐसा नहीं है। मैं आपको एक उदाहरण से समझाना चाहता हूं। अगर कि‍सी परि‍वार में कोई बच्‍चा, 5 साल-6 साल की उम्र हुई हो, लेकि‍न शरीर उसका एक या दो साल की उम्र जैसा दि‍खता है, वज़न बढ़ता नहीं है, चेहरे पर चेतना नहीं है। एकदम ढीला-ढाला है और मां को बड़ी इच्छा है कि‍ बेटा जरा हंसते-खेलने लगे, वज़न बढ़ने लगे, खून बढ़ने लगे और मां अगर यह सोचे कि‍ बाल्‍टी भर पि‍स्‍ता-बादाम वाला दूध तैयार करूंगी और बच्‍चे को केसर, पि‍स्‍ता, बादाम के दूध से दि‍न में चार-चार बार नहलाऊंगी, दूध की बाल्‍टी में उसको आधा दि‍न बैठाकर के रखूंगी, क्‍या वो बच्‍चे के शरीर में वज़न बढ़ेगा, खून बढ़ेगा, शरीर में बदलाव आएगा? नहीं आएगा। दूध हो, बादाम हो, पि‍स्‍ता हो, केसर हो, उसको नहलाया जाए, लेकि‍न बच्‍चे के शरीर में फर्क नहीं आएगा। लेकि‍न समझदार मां बच्‍चे को दि‍न में चम्‍मच से 10 चम्‍मच-15 चम्‍मच दूध पि‍लाती जाएगी तो शाम तक भले 200 ग्राम दूध ले ले, लेकि‍न वज़न बढ़ने लगेगा, शरीर बढ़ने लगेगा, खून बढ़ने लगेगा। दूध से नहलाने से बदन नहीं बदलता है, लेकि‍न दूध अगर दो-दो चम्‍मच पि‍ला दि‍या तो बदलाव आता है। यह फसल का भी वैसा ही स्‍वभाव है जैसा बालक का होता है। फसल को पानी में डुबोकर के रखोगे तो फसल ताकतवर बनेगी, यह सोचना गलत है। अगर बूंद-बूंद फसल को पानी पि‍लाओगे तो फसल तेजी से बढ़ेगी और इसलि‍ए एक-एक बूंद पानी से फसल कैसे बनाई जाए, उस पर ध्‍यान देना और इसलि‍ए per drop more crop, यह Irrigation पर हम बल दे रहे हैं।\nमेरे भाइयो-बहनों, मैं 2014 में प्रधानमंत्री बना, मुख्‍यमंत्रि‍यों की मुझे जो सबसे ज्‍यादा चि‍ट्ठि‍यां आई, सबसे ज्‍यादा चि‍ट्ठि‍यां क्‍या आई कि‍ प्रधानमंत्री जी हमारे राज्‍य में यूरि‍या की कमी है, तत्‍काल हमें यूरि‍या भेजि‍ए। हमें यूरि‍या की आवश्‍यकता है। भाइयों-बहनो, 2015 में हि‍न्‍दुस्‍तान के एक भी मुख्‍यमंत्री की तरफ से मुझे यूरि‍या की मांग को लेकर के चि‍ट्ठी नहीं आई, हि‍न्‍दुस्‍तान के कि‍सी कोने से नहीं आई। पहले के आप अख़बार नि‍कालकर के देख लीजि‍ए कि‍सी न राज्‍य में, कि‍सी न कि‍सी जि‍ले में, यूरि‍या लेने के लि‍ए कि‍सानों की कतार के फोटो आते थे। कि‍सान यूरि‍या को ब्‍लैक मार्कि‍ट में खरीदता था और कुछ स्‍थानों पर तो यूरि‍या लेने के लि‍ए आते थे, झगड़ा हो जाता था और पुलि‍स को लाठी चार्ज करना पड़ता था। यह बहुत दूर की बात नहीं बताता हूं, 2014 के पहले तक यह होता रहता था। पहली बार मेरे भाइयो-बहनों, हि‍न्‍दुस्‍तान के कि‍सान को यूरि‍या के लि‍ए इंतजार नहीं करना पडा, मुख्‍यमंत्री को चि‍ट्ठी नहीं लि‍खनी पड़ी। पुलि‍स को डंडा नहीं चलाना पडा, कि‍सान को कतार में खड़ा नहीं रहना पडा, यह काम इस सरकार ने करके दि‍खाया है भाइयो-बहनों। और इतना ही नहीं देश आजाद होने के बाद सबसे ज्‍यादा यूरिया की पैदावार, देश आजाद होने के बाद सबसे ज्‍यादा यरिया खाद की पैदावार अगर कभी हुई है तो 2015 में हुई है भाइयों और बहनों! कालाबाजारी बन्‍द हो गयी, बेईमानी का कारोबार बन्‍द हो गया, किसान के हक की चीज किसान को पहुँचे इसके लिए प्रबंध किया गया और उसके कारण यूरिया किसानों को पहुँच गया।\nभाइयो-बहनों! हम यहीं पर अटके नहीं हैं हमने आते ही यूरिया का उत्‍पादन बढ़ाने के लिए यूरिया के जो कारखाने बंद पड़े थे उसको चालू करने को फैसला किया है जहॉं नए कारखाने लगाने की आवश्‍यकता है उसको लगाने के लिए तैयार है सरकार लेकिन साथ-साथ हमने एक और काम किया है जिस काम के तहत यूरिया का नीम कोटिंग कर रहे हैं, नीम का जो पेड़ होता है उसमें से जो फल में से तेल निकलता है वो यूरिया पर चढ़ाया जाता है नीम का तेल उसके कारण यूरिया की ताकत बढ़ जाती है। किसान अगर पहले दस किलो उपयोग यूरिया लेता था तो नीम कोटिंग वाला 6 किलो 7 किलो से भी काम चल जाता है किसान का 3 - 4 किलो यूरिया का पैसा बच जाता है। दूसरा नीम कोटिंग वाला यूरिया डालने से फसल को अतिरिक्‍त फायदा होता है, जमीन को अतिरिक्‍त फायदा होता है, जमीन को जो नुकसान हुआ है उसमें मदद करने में नीम कोटिंग यूरिया काम आता है और तीसरा सबसे बड़ा फायदा, पहले जो यूरिया आता था वो किसानों के खेत में तो कम जाता था केमिकल के कारखानों में चोरी होकर के चला जाता था subsidy वाला यूरिया केमिकल कंपनियों को काम आता था, अब नीम कोटिंग होने के बाद एक ग्राम भी यूरिया खेती के सिवाय कहीं पर भी काम नहीं हा सकता सिर्फ किसानों को काम आ सकता है, इतना बड़ा काम इस सरकार ने कर दिया।\nभाइयों और बहनों! लेकिन मेरी किसानों से आग्रह है कि आप सिर्फ यूरिया के fertilizer से मत चलिए सरकार ने एक बहुत बड़ी योजना बनाइ है। ये जो शहरों का कूड़ा-कचरा है उसमें से fertilizer बनाना और वो भी किसानों को पहॅुंचाना और वो भी सस्‍ते में मिले इसके लिए कुछ concession देना ताकि मेरे किसान की जमीन बरबाद न हो जाए।\nभाइयो-बहनों, हमने soil health card निकाला है सारे देश के किसानों के पास soil health card पहॅुचाने का सपना है। अगर आप अपना Blood test करवाएं और डॉक्‍टर कहे कि आप को diabetes है, report लाएं लेकिन मिठाई खाना बन्‍द न करें, तो उस report का कोई उपयोग है क्‍या, कोई उपयोग नहीं है अगर आप Blood test करवाते हैं Urine Test करवाते हैं और report आता है तो उस report के अनुसार शरीर में खान-पान की आदत डालते हैं तो बीमारी control रहती है। जमीन का भी वैसा ही है। soil health card हमारे जमीन की तबीयत कैसी है कहीं हमारी ये भारत माता ये बीमार तो नहीं है ये जमीन, इसमें कोई नई बीमारी तो घुस नहीं गयी है ये soil health card से पता चलता है। मेरे खेत की जमीन किस पैदावार के लायक नहीं है, मेरे पिता जी जब जिन्‍दा थे तब हो सकता है वो गेहूँ के लिए अच्‍छी रही हो,गी लेकिन इतने सालों में बरबाद होते होते अब वो गेहूँ के लायक नहीं रही है, वो दलहन के लायक हो गयी है, वो तिलहन के लायक हो गयी है तो मुझे गेहॅूं से वहॉं shift करना होगा ये सलाह soil health card से मिलती है और इसलिए soil health card इसका भरपूर उपयोग मेरे किसान भाई, बहन करें। मेरे किसान कौन-सी फसल के लिए मेरी जमीन उपयुक्‍त है, इसके आधार पर अगर पैदावार करेंगे तो कभी किसान को रोने की नौबत नहीं आएगी। ये फसल बीमा के साथ-साथ soil health card ये आप को बहुत बड़ी सुरक्षा देता है।\nऔर इसलिए मेरे भाइयो-बहनों मैं आप से आग्रह करने आया हूँ कि आप इस बात को आगर कर करिए। मुझे खुशी हुई स्‍वच्‍छ भारत का जो अभियान चला है, उसमें यहीं नजदीक में जहॉं से हमारे मुख्‍यमंत्री चुनाव जीतते हैं वो Budhni Open-defecation free हो गया है और इसके लिए मैं बधाई देता हॅू और जिन्‍होंने इस काम को किया है उन सभी गॉंव वालों को सभी अधिकारियों को खुले में शौच नहीं जाने का जो निर्णय किया है इसके लिए मैं अभिनंन्‍दन देता हॅूं। इंदौर के इलाके में भी ये काम हुआ है ऐसा मुझे हमारे स्‍पीकर महोदया सुमित्रा जी बता रही थीं मैं उनको और इंदौर के इलाके के लोगों को भी अभिनंन्‍दन देता हॅूं कि खुले में शौच जाना बन्‍द हो रहा है। मैं मध्‍य प्रदेश के सभी मेरे गॉंव के लोग यहॉं आए हैं हम संकल्‍प करें कि हमारे गॉव में हमारी बहन, बेटियों को खुले में शौच नहीं जाना पड़ेगा। हम शौचालय बनाएंगे भी शौचालय का उपयोग भी करेंगे और ये Open-defecation free ये काम पूरा करने में मध्‍य प्रदेश के गॉंव उन्‍होंने बीड़ा उठाया है, जल्‍द से उसको पूरा करें ये मेरी अपेक्षा है।\nभाइयो-बहनों क्‍या हम एक संकल्‍प कर सकते हैं क्‍या ये संकल्‍प प्रधानमंत्री भी करे, ये संकल्‍प मुख्‍यमंत्री भी करे, ये संकल्‍प कृषि मंत्री भी करे, ये संकल्‍प देश के किसान भी करें, ये संकल्‍प देश के सवा सौ करोड़ नागरिक भी करें। 2022 भारत की आजादी के 75 साल होंगे। हमारे देश की आजादी के 75 साल होंगे, क्‍या हम सब मिल करके एक संकल्‍प कर सकते हैं कि 2022 में जब भारत की आजादी के 75 साल होंगे, 2022 में जब हम पहुँचेंगे, हमारे किसानों की जो आय है, हमारे किसानों की जो Income है वो 2022 तक हम दो-गुना करके छोड़ेंगे, दो-गुना करके छोड़ेंगे ये संकल्‍प कर सकते हैं। मेरे किसान भाई संकल्‍प कीजिए, राज्‍य सरकारें संकल्‍प करें, सारे मुख्‍यमंत्री, कृषि मंत्री संकल्‍प करें एक बीड़ा उठाएं कि 2022 जब आजादी के 75 साल होंगे मेरे देश के किसान की आय हम दो-गुना करके रहेंगे उसके लिए जो भी करना पड़ेगा हम करेंगे, ये आज का संदेश हम ले करके जाएं। ये संकल्‍प ले करके जाएं।\nमैं फिर एक बार आप सबका हृदय से बहुत-बहुत अभिनंन्‍दन करता हॅूं और मैं आशा करता हूँ कि आपने चार बार अवॉर्ड जीता है आने वाले वर्षों में भी ये अवॉर्ड किसी के हाथों जाने मत दीजिए। कुछ कमाल करके दिखाइए अभी थोड़े दिन पहले अबूधाबी से, UAE से जो हम यूएई अबूधाबी जानते हैं वहॉं के Crown Prince यहॉं आए थे। उनसे मैं बातें कर रहा था ये किसानों को समझने जैसी बात है Crown Prince यहॉं आए थे तो हम दोनों बैठे थे बातें कर रहे थे, उन्‍होंने मेरे सामने एक चिंता जताई उन्‍होंने कहा मोदी जी हमारे यूएई के पास बहुत बड़ी मात्रा में तेल के भंडार हैं, पैसे भी अपरंपार है लेकिन न हमारे नसीब में बारिश है और जमीन भी रेगीस्‍तान के सिवाय कुछ नहीं है। हमारी जनसंख्‍या बढ़ रही है दस पंद्रह साल के बाद हमें हमारे लोगों का पेट भरने के लिए अनाज भी बाहर से लाना पड़ेगा, सब्‍जी भी बाहर से लानी पड़ेगी, दलहन, तिलहन भी बाहर से लाने पड़ेंगे क्‍या भारत ने सोचा है कि Gulf Country की मांग को कैसे पूरा करने की तैयारी कर रहे हो, मैं हैरान था! UAE के Crown Prince दस साल पंद्रह साल के बाद वहॉं की जनता जनार्दन की जो आवश्‍यकताएं हैं उसकी पूर्ति के लिए भारत आज से तैयारी करे भारत अपना तो पेट भरे लेकिन भारत UAE का भी पेट भरे ये प्रस्‍ताव उन्‍होंने मेरे सामने रखा।\nमेरे कि‍सान भाइयो-बहनों, दुनि‍या आज हमसे अपेक्षा कर रही है। सारी दुनि‍या को भारत काम आ सकता है। हम अगर कोशि‍श करे, हम हमारे उत्‍पादन को बढ़ाए, हम दुनि‍या के बाजार को कब्‍जा कर सकते हैं। उस सपने को लेकर के आगे चले, इसी एक अपेक्षा के साथ मैं आप सबका हृदय से अभि‍नंदन करता हूं और ‘जय जवान, जय कि‍सान’, जि‍स मंत्र ने हि‍न्‍दुस्‍तान के कि‍सानों के भारत के अन्‍न के भंडार भर दि‍ए थे, वो मेरा कि‍सान हि‍न्‍दुस्‍तान को आर्थि‍क ऊंचाइयों पर ले जाने का भी एक बहुत बड़ी ताकत बनकर उभरेगा। बहुत-बहुत धन्‍यवाद, बहुत-बहुत शुभकामनाएं।\n"