"\nSwami Dayananda Saraswati ji's life continues to inspire even today: PM\nMaharshi Dayananda Saraswati was a revolutionary. He was not one to escape challenges He fought blind faith as well: PM\nDayanand Saraswati ji established Arya Samaj and it holds significance till date: PM Modi\nA clean Ganga makes India proud at the world stage: PM Narendra Modi\nGovernment has taken up several initiatives that will benefit the youth of India \u0026 this includes skill development: PM\nApart from having certificates in their hands, our youth must be skilled: PM\nOver 2 crore people have benefitted through MUDRA Yojana Financial support has been given to people: PM Modi\nOnly development can free our problems, from poverty, from lack of education: PM Modi\nOur government is committed to eradicate poverty, provide better education: PM\nHimachal Pradesh Governor Admiral Acharya Debabrata, D.A.V. Dr. Poonam Suri, the chairperson of the college management committee, and all the sons and sons of Aryan held in large numbers,\nI express my heartfelt thanks to this great tradition of Arya Samaj and all the greatness related to it. This huge power source, the stream of sacraments, I have had the privilege of taking the Aakman. Poonam Ji was telling me that two main streams in Arya Samaj were going on for the last 130 years and 130 years later this is the first time that both the streams are resolving to move forward together. This thing is so glorious for me, so enjoyable, I can not make words in words. When both these powers, both the Sanskar flows become one and take a new direction, a new resolution, then the welfare of the nation will be, I can guess the Bhalbhanti. And for this I thank all the great teachers associated with this decision process with heart and heart, thank me.\nPoonam Ji was telling that Swami Dayanand gave the land of Gujarat, but in this matter today he reached to me. In the series of names of such great men, the name of the common man like me is associated, and such a right does not make me. Those great men were so big that we could get some good, get their blessings, and when we all get the obligation we all get, we should fulfill that responsibility with the spirit of complete dedication, that power should continue to meet us, Welfare.\n1857 This country had demonstrated its spiritual power through freedom struggle. After the slavery of centuries, a consciousness had appeared and he was not even sporadic, not limited to the power of two-five-fifty divisions. In a way the whole country stood up, but the desired results were not received. Foreign powers once again repelled the country. Let us see that lateral land, remember those days after the independence struggle of 1857, see the pages of history. Then it comes to attention that why the Arya Samaj was established in 1875. His later lands are the 1857 independence struggle.\nSwami Dayanand ji was the prakruti of Gyan Marg. Having attained the truth in the light of the Vedas, Swami Dayanand ji tried to introduce the light of truth to the coming generations. He was revolutionary by nature and being a revolutionary, he was fighting against superstitions, challenging traditions and not even by running through circumstances, assuming that he was a soldier of great Hindu culture, Aryan tradition, living within him, Keeping this in mind, it seems very powerful to fight against the evils of the same society. It's a different matter to go out of the system, criticize yourself, tell yourself big. By staying within the system while glorifying the same traditions, the challenge of challenging the times that are external is to find a unique kind of power and the source of that power was the revered Swami Dayanand ji.\nAnd the thought of that great philosopher's philosophy, devotion to contemplation, contemplation of knowledge, contemplation, meditation, on its basis, constant purification in the life of the people, he stressed this and the result of that is the result of the visit of Maharishi Even after the same intensity, the same movement is still going on with dedication. And so that idea of ​​that seed is that power. That is the power of that idea seed that due to this, a huge tree in the form of Arya Samaj is shadowing the entire nation today. Our dream is giving the opportunity to grow. Strengthening the challenge with the challenges. And so I salute this great tradition, great organization, this great movement today and I also adore the feet of Pujya Maharshi Swami Dayanand ji.\nSuch a huge family, 2 million students, 60 thousand who are the Principal of the Acharya. And as Param ji was saying that we have a daily relationship with nearly two crore families. And the institution which has served for more than a century, its aluminaire will also be big. Here you have written 40 lakhs, but I do not believe that 40 lakhs. He will be a huge huge family. Together, make a theme every year and put the whole power on that subject. You see the results will appear. The world will come to attention, if D.A.V. Decide that when the Olympics will be held in 2020, then D.A.V. The student will bring gold medal, I can say.\nWhat are the new resolutions? New resolutions should be how to increase dignity in India's world. D.A.V. Why do not you just sing in India, why not in the world? And so when the Arya Samaj will be 150 years, in 2025 Arya Samaj, started in 1875, will be one hundred and fifty years in 2025. What should be the Gurukul tradition from now, be D.A.V., and the organization of the Arya Samaj. It can create a five-point, 10-point program that will celebrate the 150 years of Arya Samaj, till 2025, we have 8 to 9 years, which is 10 to 11 years, by utilizing these things to our results. Will remain. Can such a resolution be done? And then I believe it will be a true tribute to Swami Dayanand Saraswati.\nAnd so, from now on, become a road map. Arya Samaj does not have to say what to do, do not you? Their original stream is associated with the welfare of the nation. In which the good of the Arya Samaj is looked good in India. And therefore India's good and 21st century India, 18th century India, modern India, scientific India, India, which has the power to lead the world, we have to prepare ourselves to fulfill the dreams of that India. In the same way, Poonam Ji was telling me to give us a job, you and we want to show it to him. Usually in such a function, those who are called people are telling us so much that if you are a very big man, you come, our beauty will increase, ours will be, we will have it, we will have it. And when you go, the memorandum gets caught that do it for us, do it for us. It is often our experience and it is wrong that I do not say. It is natural too, but here my experience is different. I am not going to ask anything here. I am being told that Modiji should tell us any work. I do not consider this thing small, it is very big for me to go somewhere as a guest and the caller does not ask for anything. And tell from above that if you tell any work for us then I asked Poonam, what do you think, what can you do? So he said, what is your dream of cleaning Ganga, can we join it? We have our D.A.V. The students of Ganga will be involved in cleaning work. Add our teachers, add our parents. Many governments came and went, doing the campaign of cleaning the Ganga, did not complete. But today I feel that the Ganges will be cleansed if I get this together.\nWhen there is a blessing of publicity, there is no problem, no problem exists. That problem turns itself in opportunity and today I see that D.A.V. The power of the Arya Samaj, the power of Gurukulas, the power of all the saints and saints associated with the Arya Samaj, when all this becomes a part of the movement of the Ganges cleansing, then cleaning the Ganga, I do not believe that the dream will be incomplete And this is the new resolution. If the Ganga is cleansed, then it will not only be for those who visit them or those who live near them, it will be an event that will enhance the pride of the whole world.\nLet us start a work, we will not allow the Ganges to be filthy. Once we decide that if we do not allow the Ganges to be filthy, then the Ganga has its own strength, it will be cleaned by itself. Today, trouble is not that of Ganga, trouble is us who make him dirty. Once all those living on the Ganges coast, once you make a resolution. People coming to see the Ganga will make a resolution that if we do not allow the Ganges to be filthy, there will be no difficulty in the success of the Ganga cleaning. This is my world and D.A.V. If it is a family of two crore people, then I do not believe our Ganges can be unclean. When we celebrate 1.5 years of Arya Samaj, then how can we give a pure Ganga at the feet of this mother of India, how to give a clean Ganga? I request you to take this dream and walk.\nThe world says the 21st century is the century of Asia. Some say that the 21st century is India's century. It has been found for centuries that whenever the human race entered the age of knowledge, India has been embracing the world. 21st century is also a century of knowledge, and when 21st Century is a century of knowledge, Dayanand is a knowledge guide and 65% of India's population is under 35 years of age. India is the youngest in the world and the country is the youngest in the world, the dreams of that country are also young, the intentions are also young, the resolutions are also young and therefore the youth power of this country which I see in front of me today I have been This 65 percent population, it is not only the fate of India, but also the powerful to change the fate of the world. That's why our effort is to bring the priceless heritage of our country, this precious asset, how to bring it to the welfare of the nation? How to focus on youth power to pursue the nation? And so the government has taken many important decisions.\nSkill development, we know that we should become a graduate, bring good marks, get a good certificate from a good institution, but when we start studying inside the society, start doing the work. Goes somewhere to get a job, the job seeker asks - is there any experience? The first question asks, do you have any experience? And we can not answer him. Let us ask that you have a certificate but something else comes? Even then we tend to drop the head down. We do not want our country's youth to start treating us as useless in this way. It is not enough to have a certificate in his hand, it must be skillful in his hand. And so we have launched a skill development campaign. The youth of the country should have some talent and should be strong enough to stand on their feet and I am confident that if young people of our country get the right opportunity then they can get the result and get it. .\nHas launched a campaign of skill development across the country. After becoming our government, skill development was made a separate ministry, different budget was taken, an army of different officers was imposed so that lakhs of youth from India benefited from skill development. In the coming days, in 2030, the world's condition is going to be such that there will be many countries where the young will not be there. All old and old families will remain, such a situation is going to come. The whole world will need a work force and the work force that the world needs, if the power to supply work force will be in someone, then in India it will be. The youth of our Hindus, on their own, will change the fate of the world, such days are going to come.\nWe started a scheme - Money Planning There has always been discussion of two subjects in economic development of our country, either private sector or public sector. There are two ways to run financial business - Private Sector, Public Sector. We have a new idea. What has come here is the new direction We said, the private sector should do its work, the public sector do its job. The flora went a long way, but a third sector is needed to take the country forward, and we have told it - personal sector. Every person has that strength, stand on their own and not become a job-seeker, become a job-creator. To two, five, seven, to become an employer, and so we want to build those strengths.\nSmall people of the society who never got access to the bank. We have said that under the money scheme, the people who are the haircut, the hairdresser will be the Dhobi, the newspaper will be sellers, the seller will be the sellers, the tea seller will be, the people of the common people will be given money from the money scheme and Money will be given without any guarantee, so that it becomes free from the affair of the moneylenders and he needs 50 thousand, lakh, two lakh, five lakh rupees, he can increase his business. Is obtained. Today if he used to give employment to two people, then he could give five. If no one else can work then he can start a new one. No auto rickshaw Can carry your car by bringing the car. The family can stand on their feet and hence started the money scheme.\nI am glad we did not beat any drums, did not make large fairs, did not allow politicization. So far the people of the two crore people have been given the money for the money scheme and we have decided to give trust to the people of this country without any guarantee of about one lakh crores of rupees. They will run the economic condition of the country. The new direction of our government is that we rely on common manikki. Hindustan government should fear the citizens of Hindustan, these distances should be eradicated and we decided that we believe in citizens, we will trust them.\nYou must know, those teachers who sit here will remember them equally. Do you study, do hard work, do you study the night and night, do the exams, give you marks, get the position you have. लेकिन जब कहीं नौकरी चाहिए, सरकार में अर्जी करनी है तो आपका सर्टिफिकेट तब तक नहीं माना जाता है जब तक उस नगर का कोई राजनेता उस पर ठप्पा नहीं मारता, सर्टिफाई नहीं करता, तब तक आपका वो सर्टिफिकेट, सर्टिफिकेट नहीं माना जाता। नागरिकों के प्रति इससे बड़ा अविश्वाास क्या हो सकता है? हमने आकर के निर्णय कर दिया कि सर्टिफाई करने के लिए किसी के पास जाने की जरूरत नहीं है। आप अपना सर्टिफिकेट Xerox करके भेज दीजिए। जब final निर्णय करना होगा तब original लेकर के आना, देख लेंगे बात चल जाएगी। नागरिकों पर भरोसा करना चाहिए। वैसा ही भरोसा हमने मुद्रा योजना में किया। कोई गारंटी नहीं, ले जाओ भाई। और मेरा मत है, सामान्य मानविकी, गरीब आदमी ब्याज समेत पाई-पाई चुकता कर देता है और समय से पहले चुकता कर देता है, वो कभी पैसे डुबोता नहीं है। मैंने गरीबों की अमीरी को देखा है। अमीरों की गरीबी भी देखा है, लेकिन मैंने गरीबों की अमीरी को देखा है।\nजब हमने ‘प्रधानमंत्री जन-धन योजना’ की और लोगों को कहा था, zero balance से account खुलेगा। एक पैसा नहीं दोगे तो भी बैंक account खुलेगा क्यों कि मेरी इच्छा थी कि हिन्दुस्तान के गरीब से गरीब व्यक्ति का भी बैंक के ऊपर हक होना चाहिए। 60 प्रतिशत लोग उसके बाहर थे, उनको लाना था। Zero balance से बैंक account खुलने वाला था, लेकिन आज मैं गर्व से कह सकता हूं कि सरकार ने तो मुफ्त में खाता खोलना तय कर दिया था, लेकिन हमारे गरीबों की अमीरी देखिए। उन्होंने कहा, नहीं-नहीं हम मुफ्त में नहीं करेंगे, पांच रुपया-दस रुपया भी रखेंगे और 30 हजार करोड़ रुपया रखा लागों ने, 30 हजार करोड़ रुपया। अगर एक बार सामान्य मानविकी पर भरोसा करे तो वो कितनी ताकत का दर्शन करा देता है, उसका यह नमूना है।\nहमने नौजवानों के लिए ‘स्टार्ट-अप इंडिया, स्टैंड-अप इंडिया’ अभियान चलाया है। Skill development हो, मुद्रा योजना से पैसा मिले, ‘स्टार्ट-अप इंडिया, स्टैंड-अप इंडिया’ innovative चीजें करें। खासकर के हमारे दलित भाई-बहन, हमारे schedule tribe के भाई-बहन, आदिवासी भाई-बहन, वो भी अपने बलबूते पर, अपनी ताकत पर आगे आए, उसके लिए सरकार को मदद करनी चाहिए। मैंने कहा सवा लाख branches को, क्याप आप मुद्रा योजना से हर बैंक एक दलित को, एक आदिवासी को बैंक loan दे। हिन्दुस्तान में सवा लाख branches है, ढाई लाख नए उद्योगकार यहीं हमारे समाज में से आ सकते हैं। गरीब, दलित, पीड़ित, शोषित समाज में से आ सकते हैं और काम तेज गति से चल रहा है।\nहमने ‘स्टार्ट-अप इंडिया, स्टैंड-अप इंडिया’ के द्वारा देश के नौजवानों को आह्वान किया है कि नए तरीके से कुछ करने का माद्दा रखिए। आइए, सरकार आपके साथ खड़ी रहेगी और हम दुनिया के अंदर एक Start-up Capital के बलबूते पर आगे बढ़े, ताकि हमारे नौजवानों को अवसर मिले। एक के बाद एक इस प्रकार के कार्यकम जिसके कारण समाज सशक्त हो, परिवार अपने पैरों पर चल सके इतने ताकतवर हो। परिवार के सपने पूरे हो, उन बातों को लेकर के आगे बढ़ रहे हैं। आज सारी दुनिया ने माना है चाहे World Bank हो, IMF हो और भी कोई संगठन हो, हर किसी का कहना है कि दुनिया पूरी आर्थिक संकट से गुजर रही है। एक अकेला हिन्दुस्तान आज पूरे विश्व में आर्थिक रूप से तेज गति से आगे बढ़ रहा है। असामान्य स्थि‍ति है। सारी दुनिया डूब रही है, उस समय हिन्दुस्तान चमक रहा है। यह बात दुनिया के लोग कह रहे हैं। पिछले डेढ़ साल में एक के बाद एक जो कदम उठाए, आज उसका नतीजा है कि आज हिन्दु‍स्तान जो larger economies है, बड़ी economies है, उसमें सबसे ज्यादा तेज गति से आगे बढ़ने वाला देश बन गया है।\nहमारी सभी समस्याओं का समाधान एक ही बात में है। हमें मुसीबतों से मुक्ति एक ही बात से मिल सकती है। हमें गरीबी से मुक्ति एक ही बात से मिल सकती है। हमें अशिक्षा से मुक्ति एक ही बात से मिल सकती है। हमें बीमारी में दवाई एक ही बात से मिल सकती है। और वो एक बात है – विकास। विकास, यही एक मार्ग है जो भारत के गरीब मानविकी को संकटों से बाहर ला सकता है। मुसीबतों से बाहर ला सकता है और इसलिए हमारी सरकार ने ध्यान केन्द्रित किया है विकास के कामों पर। देश तेज गति से आगे बढ़ना चाहिए। कृषि में विकास हो, गांवों का विकास हो, शहरों का विकास हो, गरीब को रोजगार हो, इन बातों पर हम बल दे रहे हैं और आज उसके अच्छे नतीजे दिखाई देने लगे है।\nआज जब मैं आपके बीच आया हूं और आप वो लोग है जो समाज के लिए कुछ न कुछ करने के संस्कार से जुड़े हुए हैं। जो भी सात्विक शक्तियां हैं उन्हें आज प्रखरता से काम करने की आवश्यकता है। जितनी सात्विक शक्तियां एक बनकर के, प्रखर होकर के आगे आएगी, इस देश को रोकने के सपने देखने वालों के सपने चूर-चूर हो जाएंगे। इसी संकल्प को लेकर के आगे बढ़े। मैं फिर एक बार आचार्य जी का, पूनम जी का, आप सब का हृदय से आभार व्यक्त करता हूं कि मुझे आज आप सब के बीच आने का अवसर मिला और पूज्य स्वामी दयानंद जी को स्मरण करने का अवसर मिला। Thanks a lot."