"Art brings our history to life: PM\nArt can not be any restrictions or limits: PM\nArt is first in heart and mind of the artist, then on the paper or canvas, says PM Modi\nArt is Ageless, Race, or Religion less and Timeless: PM Modi\nArt lovers, brothers and sisters, some time ago, Vasudev ji came to my place of residence and went on to dictate me with great rights. You have to come and the result of that is that I am between you today.\nThere are very few such systems that affect the three centuries, your Bombay Art Society has influenced three centuries. Beginning in the 19th century and up to the 21st century and its main reason is that art has its own strength, art has its own message, history travels within art, expression of art sensations, and then goes back to three centuries Till it makes its place.\nPerhaps in India and especially in Maharashtra and Mumbai, there will not be any noble family whose art does not hang on the walls. There will be no noble family but see this, Drude, where art is the embryo, it has passed hundred hundred years in place.\nAnd so, in the society, it is necessary to think that artwork, it is the beauty of our walls that the power of our society is. If we only consider artwork as a medium of beautifying our walls, then perhaps we are centuries away from art, miles away, and to change this situation, an uninterrupted education, continuous rites are necessary.\nThis is the same country whose temple architecture is characterized by its specialty, where the place where God is located is essentially the place of art there. In each temple, you will see a dance pavilion, in every temple you will see history and traditions alive by artifacts. This inbuilt system is a duality of the importance of art travel in our cultural journey. Otherwise, there would have been no journey to art along with God. Even if there is no such face in the world, in which in many forms artists have practiced it. Probably, Ganesha is such that every artist who has put his hand on it will be planted in his own way, and perhaps Ganesh is that which is presented in billions of rupees in front of us, billions of rupees are in rupees.\nThat is how the artist finds sub-things, grows and develops that plant like a tree tree, and in that sense, Vasudev ji here is one thing, but I do not keep a little different from them. He said art should be state-specific, not art should never be state-specific. Art state should be cultivated\nArt should have no scope, art should not have any bonds and the responsibility of the state is to reward the art and I congratulate Sharad ji that he decided to give land when he was the chief minister. Art state should be rewarded and should be part of the power of art society. By then only art is effective.\nThose people who join the spiritual journey, they may think this thing in simple language that before the activity of the body, place in the spirit of mind and heart, and after that the form of an instrument of the body, in the form of manifestation of that body Uses in The body can be the medium of spirituality. By the way art is not in that stone, it is not in the soil, it is not in that pen, it is not in the canvas. Art is born like the first spirituality in the artist's heart and mind.\nWhen an artist carries a stone, we feel that it carries stones, we ask whether you carve the stone or not, it says I am carving the statue. There is such a big difference in view. It is the stone for us, the artist says I carve the statue, we say you're cutting stones?\nIt is our social thinking that we have to make a change and then by going, then by going, then the greatness of art life will increase. Our children will have to go and write poems like 'Twinkle-Twist Little Little', if you go to any house, then a little child will bring them. Mummy will keep the good son song and he will do 'Twinkle-Tweety Little Star'.\nThere is very little house where the mother will say, son, you told the painting yesterday, the unkal has come, the show is just a little less. This change is necessary. The development of the difference of the child of the child is not based on the words of the journey, in the words which are from within it, in the painting which is on top-down paper. And in the form of a person's development, art is a very important thing, that is, art is very essential in developing the entire personality.\nToday is the era of technology. All education is being affected on engineering and technology. Life is also linked to the maximum technology. But we must strive to be aware that how we will keep coming generations for human beings. Never be afraid that robots will ever be. Press this switch, then it will work. This will be done if you press this switch. And so, the person inside is to keep alive, then art is only a medium. Who can keep his life alive. The person within him can keep alive. And in that sense and when we say Art, neither A R T 'A' means Ageless 'R' is the race region religion less 'T' is timeless. This art is an expression of infinity. And in that sense, we accept the importance of it as its decoration. I would urge the schools to make their tour programs. Then create one program in the tour program for at least Art Gallery in the year. The rest will see, the art gallery will not be seen to see the middle. In the same way, I have asked the Railway Department that the busi is the railway platform and the train comes on both sides, its pillars are in the middle. I said that a great art gallery as a divider should not be on the railway platform. The artists of that city got the emerging artists there. How could that be? So that the person coming there will see him. If he is an artist of that city he will experience it. And he will get the opportunity that after 15 days, I will get a new opportunity to get there. So I work better Next month I can get the chance. I work better How we make our systems comfortable Right now I had said in my mind the last time that the artists themselves are changing the look of the railway stations on the railway stations of our country today. It was not a government plan. Nor does the government have any budget. They are doing this with their craziness. And this is causing such an impact. In a way, they are doing rituals. More than giving a speech on hygiene. An artist's painting is motivating him to keep clean.\nIn my mind, I do not know my artist friend will be sitting here somewhere. How to take it. Keeping in mind the coming ages. We are our artwork which is our artwork. Can he make a hybrid development of the digital world? How did the artist prepare the masterpiece before it came first? How did he grow on paper? Drowned in three months, six months. A three or four minute digital version of that process. Whenever a person sees his artwork, then see the digital version of this process simultaneously. And see with musical effects. Today, what is difficult is that there would be very few people or there should be some knowledge of art with the knowledge. He will explain to him that see Bhai means this. The red is applied, the yellow is applied for it, so he thinks so what kind of bardan do you do. Let's look good.\nHow to bring Digital World as its combination for this change? I would like to be interested in the software that is related to the IT world. And in the direction of how artists should put new strength in line with a new era, then once again, in the direction of Maharashtra, to the Government of Maharashtra, to Mr. Sharad Rao, I congratulate him very much. I congratulate Vasudev and his whole team too. And now these artifacts have got lot of place. Where art is present in the embryo is found. And the new consciousness will rise. many many congratulations."