"Share\n\nGood education and good teachers can make a difference: a PM\nChildren can bring about positive changes in society; They will be brand ambassadors of #SwachhBharat \u0026 energy conservation: PM Modi\nCleanliness must become a part of our 'Swabhav': PM\nThere is a need to imbibe in all aspects of education: PM Modi\nPrachararyas could become torch-bearers of positivity and positive energy: PM Modi\nWhen the brother had come back some time ago, he was urged that you had a program to talk to everyone. Negotiations were not made, speech became of As long as the Acharya lives, there is a deep connection with the students, but when the Principal becomes, then most of the time passes with Clerk and with the paper and with the file. In reality, these two systems are different, but for centuries our tradition has been that the senior most teacher, who becomes the principal, becomes the principal. Now whether he has his managerial capacity, whether he is interested in the managerial work or not, these things do not take much priority, but naturally there is a lot of responsibility and therefore, in front of the people, what about the students, what about the students? Probably more work remains. And it means that there is a big challenge in front of you that there are so many ways of knowledge of education available today, there are so many ways to get information and there are so many simple ways to attract people to Vidya Bharati. .\nVidya Bharati's school, what is her image, the image is not in the parents, students who study us here. If there are 100 schools inside a city, there is one in ours, where are we in 100 schools? We were a school, now it has two, there were 800 students, now it is 1600, what are the criteria, if this is the criterion, then anyone who has to try to change the society, who wants to meet both education and rituals, Let's go along with them, the responsibility for them increases greatly.\nToday, we ask any person in India, how big a rich man is, how poor he is, if you ask him what your desire is, what is a wish, then rich or rich, poor person. Will say that my children have good education. You should also ask the driver that Bhai has to teach good children, we have removed this life in the drive, he has to get out of it. There is an agenda of everyone's mind, then it is the education of their children. If it is in the minds of billions of people. Good education does not mean that the school is not available to him, good education does not mean that there is no good school getting due to paying fees. Good education means that in his mind it is clear that where good teachers are. Take any interest in bringing about the change in my child's life, where such a system is. We can give more than what we can not give to the family, where such a system is, it searches for it, keeps looking. Occasionally if money is forced, then what does the compulsion, then recruits somewhere in the school, but a teacher is able to hire a house at home. Whatever comes, teaches children, then whatever comes out of her career, she goes.\nWhen such a situation is there, there are 12 thousand schools for an institution, but for this country, such 12 thousand schools are very few. If there are millions of schools, then this is too much, so much is needed. The life of 32 million students is related to you. I know this system very closely, it has to go through it for years, understood, lived with it and so I know many things. We are not ready to accept the challenge that we will be at the top in all these systems. We are doing the expansions and some are happening ourselves, but Qualitatively if patriotism remains one of the major issues in the Vidya Bharati schools, whether it is patriotism to bring medal in the Olympics, if the medal in Olympics is to be patriotic So there are so many great sports running, you said that we are performing very well at the national level, can we get 2,000 out of 12 thousand schools, who can work on this work Let L and decided that it would be Olympic since 2020 so child Vidya Bharati will surely come to earn value for the country, will bring gold medal.\nWe need to change our goals, I think so. How can we give such a leadership to the country in such a way that pride that this tradition has made me, this rituals have decorated me and today I am serving the country here, how is the opportunity to glorify it? Returns.\nIn 77, Vidya Bharati emerged as an organization. This means 50 years is near. You will have to discuss 50 years of celebration, maybe you will be moving in your program. What if we are going to celebrate 50 years, we are going to celebrate the Golden Jubilee Year, then we can decide on such targets which have never been done before, which can never make such targets in Vidhya Bharti's scope. The principal is the responsibility of this type of work, if they have the opportunity to complete branding of their school in a way, then the principal has it. We are those people who believe that knowledge should come from all four directions, we have never stopped the doors of knowledge, we have never been scared of the flow of knowledge of anybody, have not been distracted. Do we ask ourselves today? Do we open our mind to listen to what is the best words from any corner of the world? Can we sharpen our point-of-co-ordination with him? Because since Vedas have we got this knowledge of knowledge that let the thoughts come from all around, give knowledge to come. From the Vedas we are saying. We are those people who say, \"Vasudeva family kam\" .. Saying from Vedal times. If this whole world is my family then who, what, where it lives, how it stays, what state it is, what color it does not mean for me, because the whole world is considered as a family. I can play a role in the development of his life in such a way, if I can play a role in the development of his life, then I have to create the environment of that premises in the same way.\nThese days there is a discussion going on in the country and in the world. Climate change, Global warming, Our children do we plant trees, planting these programs a year or so, but can we make 12000 schools a mission, Tell us that we want to adopt 100 trees in our school, give us the place, we will give 100 trees to this city, in 5 years, this will be our contribution. The advantage will be that all our children will get the education of environment themselves, and joining our society will be very natural. Whether our campus is bigger or not there, then we should ask for the system that we should give you our place, we want to give 100 trees to you. How we will bring change in society. Now there is a campaign going on by the government to save electricity, can our 32 lakh students become the biggest messengers of energy savings, those 32 lakh students should go to meet at least 10 families for energy saving, to meet, to explain, Talking about it continuously, it can become the leader of 10 families. In childhood, you can become a child of your school. We can give him such a task so that his values ​​are so that if you want to do good to this country, then you have to start somewhere to start doing good. The LED bulb, the big city of the country, if it lights up its streat lights, and if they have an LED bulb in their homes, then only twenty thousand megawatt electricity can escape in 100 cities. 20 thousand Mw power can be avoided, what can be a bigger patriotism? With the cost of millions of crores, 20 thousand MW electricity will be generated and it will take four years and six years and we produce 20 Haar Mw power, then electricity is given to the poor house, a great virtue is also done by our hands. Is there any LED bulb in 12 thousand schools of our Vidya Bharati? The LED bulb is not because it is the government's program, the LED bulb should therefore, that your own bill of electricity comes to 300 rupees then it may be that 200 rupees start coming. So to avoid Vidya Bharati, Rs 100 is to be avoided. I have never donated to Vidya Bharati, but I can give it to me.\nWhat I mean to say is that now as I saw, in the film you told that the children are being rendered, they are picking garbage and doing cleaning work. Cleanliness is required to create a nature. Health reports say that there are many countries, especially that 40 percent of the deaths of these developing countries, where children die, children die due to their habit of eating without washing their hands. Can our 32 million students become leaders in their neighborhood, in associates, in the neighborhood, that there will be no child who does not eat anything without washing their hands. They can become an agent in their own right. Change can become agent.\nAnd so, Vidya Bharati has created such a huge movement in which the rituals are paramount. In which patriotism is full. In whose voice, in practice, in preaching, simple simplicity in the principles. These are things that are not easily obtained today. Which you have earned from this long meditation of 50 years. But that capital is not yours, that capital is of country and that capital becomes the country when you start spreading it out of your realm.\nToday is the demand of the time, the atmosphere is also such that the common humanities of the country also expect us for this change and now Vidya Bharati decides that in every state of 12 thousand one state convert one of the top schools in that state. Can. 12 thousand rupees will not be 15 thousand, but in 12 thousand one school of every state becomes the state's top school. You see how much the strength of a person named this saccharava becomes.\nWhen I was in Gujarat, the officers who used to come, the IPS officers used to come, so new people seemed to see a big change in something. Methods of their conversation, ways of working So if there was something in my mind then I would have gently asked where he had read. And I used to experience that they came mostly from Vidya Bharati. He has created an IS, IPS is made but I have seen that his priority is the problem of general humanities. He had an attachment towards him, he was aware because he had heard it day and night in the school he had read and read. Now this is not a small service. It is a great service that you are preparing people who are so sensitive towards the poor. So sensitive to society. Do we ever feel proud of this?\nCan we collect Vidya Bharati Alumni when we celebrate 50 years? Wherever you have come across the whole world, many of your students will also be retired. All of them should create a digital record, I also think Vidya Bharti should have her own digital network. You should prepare a digital record of all the children studied in 50 years and this system is very important in today's era. If Brother Ji sent a message, why do not you send messages to your 1.5 lakh teacher mobile phone in the morning? No teacher who does not have a mobile phone.\nWe mean to say that technology I know Vidya Bharati had applied many years on this subject, but now we have accepted, what is the significance of technology. You can not escape from it. Now, what is it, how can we turn it into opportunity? Technology itself has a great power. It is not a conspiracy to end the human form. Distance from science and technology stops our development journey. We have to accept the change. The more we use technology, we should try to bring it. You would have described Vidya Bharati half an hour in front of me, what Vidya Bharati is doing and you told the movie in three minutes. There is a difference between the two that I immediately understand what Vidya Bharati is doing. Had not done half an hour speech, I do not understand.\nThis example is sahab, possible by this technology. It is very necessary that such organization like Vidya Bharati, her own strength, will be such a positive event happening every day in every school. Because of the student, due to the teacher, because of the parents of the students, the society which feels proud. Can not we do this through technology, in all your 12 thousand schools in one hour? Can deliver.\nThere is no better medium today than this technology to spread the positive environment. All the world has fallen for negativity, but there are some who give themselves up for the sake of positivity and this is possible by the people.\nEducation and culture, I do not believe that this is the subject of parents and my very simple definition of rites is - a tried and well developed, good habit developed. What is the sacrament and what is it? And so you have children of that age, in which such habits develop, which becomes a sacrament in itself. Because of the possible life, this is the nature of Vidya Bharati. Compassion is given importance. It is a great necessity in itself in today's era, otherwise everyone is going to become an island. What will happen if the person will become Island? Massivity is very important. In general, social life is becoming a habit of going away from communalism. Used to go in the bus, used to go to the metro, gradually used to go in the car, one of the main reasons for this is that there is no one in the crowd, some alone. Vidya Bharati's efforts have been such, stay in the crowd, walk with the crowd and see what is the joy of life. This is a great rite. इसको हम ताकत के रूप में कैसे उपयोग करेंगे?\nहमारे शिक्षा और संस्‍कार, संस्‍कार सिर्फ हम यह कहे कि हम यह गीत गाए तो संस्‍कार है, हम यह उदाहरण दे तो संस्‍कार है। जरूरी नहीं है, हम दुनिया के किसी भी कोने की बात कर करके भी संस्‍कारित कर सकते हैं और उसका अपना एक सामर्थ्‍य होता है। तब जाकर के हमारे लोगों की बोलचाल की परिभाषा की व्‍यापक बनेगी। हमारी बोलचाल की जो dictionary है वो हजार, 1200 वाली है। वो हमारी dictionary को हम एक लाख शब्‍दों वाली कैसे बना सकते हैं? हमारी बोलचाल की dictionary अगर बढ़ती चली जाती है, उसका विस्‍तार होता है तो समाज के अन्‍य लोग जो भाषा समझते है, उस भाषा में हम उनको convey कर सकते हैं। उसकी बात को हम समझ सकते हैं।\nएकल विद्यालय का अभियान, बहुत कम लोगों को अंदाजा होगा कि 50-52 हजार एकल विद्यालय कुल-मिलाकर के, विद्या भारती से अलग बाकी लोगों के द्वारा चल रहे हैं। दूर-सुदूर जहां शिक्षक जाने को तैयार नहीं, जहां सरकार पहुंचने को तैयार नहीं, वहां पर एकल विद्यालय जाकर के काम कर रहा है। समाज जीवन में बदलाव ला रहा है। बहुत लोग होते हैं जो जीवन में सिर्फ एक अवसर ढूंढते हैं, कुछ चाहते हैं। यह अवसर देने का काम और ज्‍यादातर विद्या भारती का काम गरीब बस्‍तियों में शुरू हुए, समाज के दबे-कुचले लोगों के बीच में शुरू हुए हैं। लेकिन शिक्षा के द्वारा उनके जीवन में परिवर्तन लाने का प्रयास हुआ है। और उस अर्थ में विद्या भारती ने बहुत बड़ी सेवा की है। आप सब के माध्‍यम से देश की अपेक्षाएं भी बहुत हैं। आप सभी प्राचार्य, आपके यहां जो शिक्षा उत्‍तम चलती होगी तो उसका तो एक बराबर mechanism बन गया होगा, लेकिन आपका अपना स्‍कूल, जिसको आप संभाल रहे है वो टॉप पर आए कैसे? उस पर आप लक्ष्‍य दे, यही मेरी अपेक्षा है।\nThanks a lot."