"\nParadip refinery is the Vikas Deep for Odisha and the youth of Odisha: PM Modi\nPeople dependent on firewood for fuel, will get access to LPG with the opening of Paradip refinery: PM Modi\n#MUDRA Yojana, #StartUpIndia has given opportunity to India's youth to stand on their own foot \u0026 become job creators: PM\nParadip refinery has established a record of sorts when it comes to #makeinindia: PM Modi\nJai Jagannath! Governor of Odisha, Shri Jamir ji, Chief Minister of the State, Shri Naveen Patnaik, my colleague in the Council of Ministers, my companions in the Parliament and my dear brothers and sisters in large numbers.\nWe have seen a lot of government programs, but such an environment has never been seen. Wherever I look, people are people. This is proof that every citizen of Odisha is public as to how much importance this paradip refinery has in his life, how important it is for Odisha's development. He knows every citizen of Odisha. I heartily thank you all that you have come to us in such a large number, to become a partner in this work of development.\nI bow to the souls of great noblemen like Odisha, Utkal Mani, Pandit Gokovand Das ji, Utkal Gaurav Madhusudan Das ji, Surendra ji and Krishna Chandra Gatapati of Maharashtra.\nFor thousands of years, Odiya trader, Sadhave, sea-way, various places of different countries like Java, Bali, Sumatra, Borneo, from different countries of South and South-East Asia-where the traders of Odisha traded. In its memory every year, boating is done in every corner of the state on the holy occasion of holy Kartik Purnima. Traditionally, the port used to be very vibrant for business from other parts of the world. Mahakavi Kalidas described Raghuvansham's poetry as King of Kalinga, the lord of the sea, in this form. I consider the soil of Paradip Jagatsinghpur district as a holy area. This is the land where Shudra Muni Sarladas composed the entire Mahabharata and it was the first Mahabharata written in any Indian language other than Sanskrit.\nWith utmost humility, I want to remember today, Utkal Kesari Hari Krishna Mehta and Mr. Biju Babu, the great son of Utkal. This was the great man who had played an important role in the establishment of the port to save Paradip. In the soil of this Jagatsinghpur district, former Chief Minister of Odisha Mr. Nabkrishna Chaudhary, freedom fighter Gokandhu ji, Malti Devi ji and renowned scientist Pran Krishna Parja, is such a great man, who I bow to bowing down, I bow to him.\nBrothers and sisters, it is a matter of special fortune for me that Sirmaur in India's refineries built at a cost of Rs 35,000 crore. I have the opportunity to inaugurate a refinery and it is a matter of happiness that its foundation stone was laid by our guide, our inspirational man, former Prime Minister of India, Mr. Atal Bihari Vajpayee. The work that Vajpayee ji started, was fortunate to fulfill that work, what can be the enjoyment of a greater life and what can be done.\nBrothers and sisters, this is such a plan that will give new employment opportunities to lakhs of youth here. And therefore this Paradip refinery is a development of Odisha. This paradip refinery is destined for the youth of Odisha. The poor women of Paradip refinery, India, who cook the food by burning a wooden stove, children become sick due to the smoke and themselves get sick. Paradip refinery is a new hope for such poor mothers from where the gas cylinders are going to reach the poor house.\nYou have seen an example of how fast the government can do when it works. Many projects in our country, 40-50 years came to somebody, come on paper after 10 years, and 5-10 years have passed, plans are made, then we get the shilanasaya and do it, generations can pass, but they The work is not completed. Nowadays I go to inaugurate some scheme, especially if our Congress friends are promptly presenting it - this was the beginning of our era. Brothers and sisters, if I have the opportunity to inaugurate a plan with my hands, I will be happy to be natural. But as the Prime Minister of the country I do not enjoy. I would have been happy that if this work had been completed 15 years ago, millions of people here would get employment.\nOur plans have to go through such troubles that obstacles, delays, and sometimes the court process, sometimes the tender process, the people's movement, the non-know, that our plans are very expensive. To make progress in the country, the countrymen, the bureaucracy, the industry, the common citizens, the policy makers need to give rise to such a culture that where the schemes start on time, Completed in so that the country gets its benefit, profit before time.\nBrothers sisters, we are trying to bring them to work culture so that there is no serious loss to the country due to delays. Brothers sisters, this refinery is going to produce 78 million kg of LPG. 500 million liters of petrol is going to be produced. 660 million liters of diesel is going to be produced. By combining kerosene and ATF two hundred and fifty million liters is going to be produced. 27 lakh quintals of sulfur are going to be produced. 120 lakh quintals of petroleum coke is going to be built. You can imagine how large the speed will be in the economic development of the country due to all these products.\nOn the eastern end of India, there was no time from the land of Odisha, the first sun ray of India came here, now India is going to get new energy from here. Paradeep has shown this strength. Brothers and sisters have created this because millions of new jobs are created. From that, the raw material will be ready, due to that raw material, many small industries of small plastic can take place. And the government is working on skill development for it. Money is giving money through plan. For the start-up India, Stand-up India, the government is giving comfort to young people to work innovately. The paradip refinery is going to complete a full length journey of development, which is going to work to change the fate of Odisha.\nBrothers and sisters, millions of poor families in our country, millions of poor families have to cook them, wood stoves have to be burned, and scientists say that if one lives in the stove smoke one hour then 400 cigarettes Smoke as much as smoking goes into their body. What will happen to the health of those poor parents, what will happen to their health? Our effort is to reach the gas cylinders of LPG with these poor mothers. Get rid of the smoke from the wooden stove. And it is going to produce such a large quantity of LPG gas in Paradip refinery that it will be possible.\nBrothers and sisters, our country's farmer needs urea. Need Urea for the fertilizer. Among the things that are needed for urea, one thing is needed of gas. If the gas is available in full volume then the production of urea increases. The farmers of our country can reach urea timely. And so, we want to start fertilizer factories for the development of East India in the coming days under this Paradip plan so that farmers of this area get urea in essential quantity. In the coming days in our country, we have given a plan on the one side for the betterment of the farmers in these areas of energy. It is true that refineries are needed, refineries need to be increased. We want to reduce the amount of oil import that we have to import from abroad. I have a one-day meeting of government officials I told them when the country will celebrate 75 years of independence, in 2022, 75 years of India's independence is taking place. I said that when we celebrate 75 years of independence, then you can reduce this by 10 per cent of the oil that we have to bring oil from abroad? I have challenged them in front. And I believe that our oil companies, our petroleum department will take a vital step towards making India self-reliant by putting full strength. Now that our oil arrives, it comes from most Gulf countries. But our dream is that the Gulf also has oil, the bush also has oil. We have to mix the Gulf oil and bush oil. And so, we have said that the farmers of our country who cultivate sugarcane can become ethanol from that sugarcane juice. Sugar is needed, sugar is needed, made of sugar and made of athena with the extra sugar cane. And mix this ethanol between our petroleum plantation, so that our vehicles can move faster and protect the environment, and in large quantities, this bush oil is made from the process of extracting oil from athenol sugar cane. The tribals of my Chhattisgarh cultivate huge quantities of Jatropha. Oil that is extracted from Odisha's Jatropha in our neighborhood, oil can also be added to the requirement of our petroleum fertilizers. We are also trying very hard on the bush oil. On the other hand, we are focusing on solar energy so that India can become self-reliant in the field of energy. India should stand on its own feet, do not have to depend on anyone in the world. This is a significant step taken by the Government to strengthen the work in the Paradip Refinery.\nBrothers and sisters will ask any farmer family in our country, there will be hundred acres of land. Even then if you ask the farmer that you have three sons, what are you thinking of moving forward to the sons, then the farmer father says that he will plant a son in the field, but two sons will send him to the city. You will earn many roti, you will earn many jobs there. That is, the farmer does not want his three sons to be involved in farming. The farmer also wants to cultivate one son and put two sons in another task. When will this second work get the son of a farmer? Is the son of the farmer unemployed, whether the son of the farmer becomes a debtor, if the farmer's son has to provide employment then in our country, we have to promote industries.\nIf this Paradip refinery is not made If this three thousand acres of land was not used for this work, then millions of people do not have employment opportunities. We can not get the land used to change the fate of Odisha. This is Paradip Refinery, which is causing the land to give employment to the son of the poor farmer of India today. And so brothers and sisters we increased employment prospects for the youth. Because Hindustan is young, the world's youngest country is Hindustan.\n65% of the population is under 35 years of age. The country that has so many young people, the dreams of that country are also young, the intentions of that country are also young. The determination of that country is also young and it takes strength to take that country forward, it is the young strength, which changes the fate of India. And so we have the opportunity to provide employment to the youth to stand on their feet through the money scheme. We do not want the young man of our country to become Job Seeker, wandering around to get a job, wandering around here, we want an environment that will be our youngest Job Seeker, Job Creator. Give employment to one, two, five, such a young man gets strength. And so, we have taken steps to give a large amount of money to the youth today under the monetary scheme.\nWe have given around one lakh crores rupees recently. In such a short time, it is not a small matter to meet the people of the ordinary family of one lakh crore rupee in the currency scheme. I was telling Dharmendra Ji that 26 lakh people got gas cylinders in the last 60 years in Odisha. 26 million in 60 years Within a year after becoming Dharmendra Pradhan ji minister, in 11 lakh poor families, the gas cylinder was delivered to Odisha alone. This is an example of how the work is done at a fast pace. 26 lakhs in 60 years, 11 lakhs in a year, this work is done, this government is doing this work and therefore our efforts are to create new opportunities for employment of young people of our country. So far, the pundits of the meaning of our country are discussing, then two things are always said. The big economists who write, they say a public sector, the second is called the private sector. I am focusing on the third sector. If the importance of the public sector is in the economy, the importance of private sector, then the third important area needs to be strengthened. That is the private sector. One person stood up on his own and moved ahead and so, moving forward one person, moving forward one family. With this kind of economic policies, this government is moving forward.\nBrothers and sisters, I have to congratulate our scientists today, especially on our young generation and congratulate them - established a new record of 'Make in India' in Paradip Refinery. Many countries of the world are ahead in this field, but Indian scientists had planned the process of indmax and processed from raw materials, made by Indian scientists, made in India, a project built by the technicians of India, today It is in Paradip.\nThe people of the world are wondering if such a large amount of results is available, giving such results at such a fast speed, so perfect processor, who is so closely dividing every element, this technology is used to develop the whole world technician, वैज्ञानिकों को भारत ने अचंभे में डाल दिया है और यह काम यह पारादीप रिफाइनरी में हो रहा है।\nपूरी तरह Indigenous technology का उपयोग करके और उसके कारण LPG के उत्‍पादन में बहुत बड़ी बढ़ोतरी होने वाली है। हमारी economy को कम खर्चे में ज्‍यादा बल देने का कारण बनने वाली है। और इसलिए भाइयों-बहनों, वे सभी वैज्ञानिक, वे सभी technician भी इस बात के लिए अभिनंदन के बहुत-बहुत अधिकारी हैं। मैं श्रीमान धर्मेन्‍द्र प्रधान जी को, उनकी पूरी टीम को इस काम को तेज गति से आगे बढ़ाकर के 18 महीने के भीतर-भीतर पूर्णता पर पहुंचाने के लिए हृदय से बहुत-बहुत बधाई देता हूं, बहुत-बहुत अभिनंदन करता हूं। उनका साधुवाद करता हूं।\nभाइयों-बहनों, यह पारादीप, ऐसा दीप प्रज्‍ज्‍वलित हुआ है जो विकास की नई संभावनाओं को लेकर के आया है। सदियों पहले, ओडिशा स्‍वर्णिम युग का कालखंड रहा है। यह पारादीप के बाद ओडिशा में फिर से एक बार उज्‍ज्‍वल भविष्‍य का कालखंड प्रारंभ हो रहा है और भारत सरकार इस काम के लिए जितना करना होगा, कभी पीछे नहीं हटेगी।\nभारत सरकार की पूरी मदद रहेगी क्‍योंकि ओडिशा के नौजवान हिन्‍दुस्‍तान का भाग्‍य बदलने के लिए है। उनको अवसर मिलना चाहिए और अवसर उपलब्‍ध कराने का काम यह सरकारी कर रही है।\nमेरी आप सब को बहुत-बहुत शुभकामनाएं है। फिर एक बार आप सब को,\nजय जगन्‍नाथ, जय जगन्‍नाथ , जय जगन्‍नाथ।"