"Oneness with people makes buildings of bricks and cement centers of inspiration: PM\nLet us make NISER campus India's greenest: PM Modi\nIndia's space mission has made a mark across the world: PM\nIt is important to develop a scientific temper among students: PM\nInnovation is the need of the hour, for every society and every era: PM\nJai Jagannath,\nGovernor of Odisha Dr. Jamirji, Chief Minister of Odisha Mr. Naveen Babu, my partner Mr. Zulal Oramji of the Council of Ministers at the Center, Mr. Dharmendra Pradhan, my young minister of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Agriculture Department and Dr. Jitendra Singh ji, working with me in the PMO, Parliamentary member Dr Prasnad Kumar Singh, Chairman of Atomic Commission Dr. Shekhar Basu, Professor Chandra Shekhar, Nayasir Ray all knower Excellencies all young friends in the region ...\nIt is my good fortune that I have had the opportunity to hand over a great heritage to the nation. Buildings are very much built, buildings also become very much. But buildings, buildings built of brick, stone limestone do not become the center of inspiration until the soul does not join them with the people associated with it. And hence, having the importance of the arrangements should have a life within the institutions. And I am happy that in the field of science and technology, our scientist, our professors, our students have been living in these days. It is intended for something new to happen in everyone's mind. Not everyone can be the Nobel Prize in luck. But no research, no innovation is to bring about a change in the life of a poor, there is no Nobel Prize greater than that, and therefore, the priority we should go in should be that we should develop such practices in the coming days, What kind of science, such people bring to the people who are affordable, are sustainable, and I always insist on Zero effect, Zero defect, Zero effect, I mean, the side effects Isi also not the type. Whether on the environment, whether it is the subject of climate. Whether it is the topic of global warming. Whether there is a person's life or natural wealth, there should be no side effects. And our product should also be Zero Defect, so that they are not only globally accepted in India and therefore we are just searching, new thought, not so much. It is also a very big challenge to reach us to the general public. I saw the grand campus. But I want to do two things with you and not specially from the treasury, not by the vault, not by budget, by the people's efforts, can a campus become the most greenest campus of Hindustan? I was seeing a small mound as soon as I came here I can not say a hill but trees are not visible. If that was the only one who would have been together at the time of construction. Now, we can decide that within two years-within it we will make it green completely. Every student goes to his family to come to know, yes it is a member of my family. This is my five sir. I am following it, my parents will come to meet me. So I'll take them to show. You have to make a resolve, if you make a resolution, then by making this educational complex of The Greenest Campus of India, you can give it a monumental place in Hindustan.\nIn the same way, the second topic is that you are a science student who has been linked to technology. It became completely Green in terms of Greenery. But also this whole building in relation to the environment. Solar Technology Zero discharge Can we develop through all these subjects in ours? We must accept these challenges instantly. And if we do this, then you will see the adoption with this campus. Its every brick, stone, wall, we will find it and unless we see it as a worshiping place, our soul does not join with it and therefore I said initially, there are no results from the buildings, the results come when the buildings Along with souls join Life becomes dedicated, then results come.\nOccasionally there is also a dispute that there will be Uttam laboratory, the best means, then there will be progress in science. There is a truth in it but this is also the aspect that India's Space Mission has created a place for itself, in today's world. In the Mars mission, the youngest of our country to succeed first in the world But very few people would know that when we started working here in Space Science, their equipment was taken on a bicycle and used to work in the garage of the motor and after going into it, today we have created space science. . There were no great buildings, there were no good arrangements, but people who worked at that time had a dream, there was a mission, dedication, due to which today the flag of India is flowing inside the space. She is waving due to the hard work and happiness of those people. And so we have to give something to me within. Some have to go, someone has to go to GK. When this feeling does not prevail, we can not give newness to the world. Humanity has been an idiom, it is constantly changing. In every age, he has brought changes in himself; himself has molded itself in change. If the innovation stops, life gets suspended. The arrangements become useless, if the systems are inexhaustible then life can never become pranab and therefore innovation requires every era of every society. We have to create an environment of innovation. And this is not your institute NISER and Yes Sir. Where yes sir came, science gets stuck, where NISER is, science goes ahead. In every case, no sir, it should be something else. This is the curiosity which is it. This new question continues to arise in the mind, the search emerges from there. Question Mark becomes the mother of discovery. Whereas conception does. And that's why our Yes is not an institute, an NISER is an institute that will say no sir. It has to create environment. If this environment is created then everything becomes new.\nWe have many challenges. And it is not that we do not have the solution to the challenges. Now we are the owner of Black Diamond in Odisha. We have got a lot of stock in store. But the change in the world is happening, so that Black Diamond becomes our burden. Because the world is discussing the climate. There is a big movement against the fossil fuel that we can develop such systems through the means of time-based technology through technology that how we go through the direction of clean energy, and that in the direction of cheap technology, our institution How to work. How do our young people work? We have work in front of us. Our coastal coast, ocean coast of Odisha, the sea coast of Hindustan. Blue Economy This is going to be a huge area in the coming time. And I always say that India is a Tricolor flag and there is a circle of blue color in it. This is the street viewer of the clever revolution. We want saffron revolution, we want white revolution, we need green revolution, we need blue revolution.\nWhen I say saffron revolution, energy color is saffron, I call white revolution then I talk about dairy farming, animal husbandry, farmer, milk product. I say green revolution, then I talk about the environment, also talk about agriculture revolution and when I talk of blue revolution then our sea property is ours and our blue sky is our attention towards both of us. How to make the sky blue And our maritime property is not able to find as much quantity as we can find. What is the reason that our ancestors called it Ratnakar? If he is Ratnakar then the gems of Ratna are lying. We have searched for those gems so we searched for them. How can we use our maritime property for nation? Our fisherman siblings get six months, eight months' employment in a year. But if on the same coastal coast, cultivate seaweed. And we work towards adding value to seaweed, how our bio technology works, how can be worked on the sea bead working in biology. Despite the abundance of nutrition value, we do not have any idea about it. Maybe our fisherman's income can be the reason.\nWhat are the things we can do to meet the requirements of our country? Energy has become an integral part of human life. Life without it is becoming impossible and the limitations of the Resource of Energy are. Now you see the energy coming out of the LED LED Bulb, the innovation was done. Energy Saving came along with it and instinctively and I was telling people in our department that in India, there is a huge movement of LED going on in these days. . Many cities have their LED street lights. 100 cities have an MOU, Government of India has LED lights of 100 cities and we deliver LEDs to homes in 100 cities, so I was told that 20,000 Mw power would be left. Now, in a poor country like India, to generate 20,000 Mw of electricity, millions of crores rupees should be required, but to save 20,000 Mw, one should take an awareness of bringing an LED bulb, change comes. That is how Affordable Sustainable Technology can bring changes. LED is a very big example in front of us. And so, we will urge the youth to take science into the form of innovation in which form of science, which we have to solve the problems of our energy. We are going towards 175 Giga Watt Renewal Energy. Climate Justice is our strength but to go to 175 Giga Watt Renewal Energy, then the method which today is so costly that it can be difficult for India.\nBut we have also decided to find the way and why I have confidence in these young people who will do new research in the field of solar energy in the coming days. Today, we have a challenge before how to preserve solar energy, how to keep it. It is a challenge in front of us in the sun during the day, by using that power and at the same time how chips are cheaper on that whole system. If we will get the mastery in the system of handling Solar Power once, I do not believe and no resources will be required. And so India and now we have done two very big things. Just when COP-21 happened in France. The whole world has praised India for its great role that India played a big role that India has made a big lead. But there are two more things that the world has not noticed. COP 21 is an NGO of Hindustan, USA, France and Bill Gates, all in the field of Solar, in the field of Renewal Energy, are going to start work on a lot of emphasis on innovation. The three countries and NGOs are quite a lot of capitalists. There is a lot of work going on in this direction for innovation.\nThe second task, which is fixed in Paris, in the COP-21, is 122 countries of the world, where more than 300 solar power is available. Sun power is available. Odisha is the land of the Sun God, Sun Temple of Konark is the inspiration for the world. 122 countries of the world have come together and have formed an organization called the International Solar Alliance, and whose capitol was based on its headquarter in India and also the president of France. It has also inaugurated its Secretariat. We mean to say that this work is going on in very large quantities. We have taken these mission clean India. But the success of Clean India depends on the fact that how to innovate how We can create Wealth from Waste.\nWe have our dream of giving a home to the poorest of the poorest of Hindustan in our country in 2022. In 2022, Hindustan has to give the poor to the poor, so what material can I find that can become Wealth from Waste today and work harder to build our buildings. How can we do such research, what can we use of science that we have our architecture in 2022, our engineering is Material Science. How can we make such a system by using these things that 2022 while the country will celebrate 75 years of independence. Then our great men who gave us freedom of the country. We give them such a Hindustan. In which every poor person has his own house. And our scientists have a big role in building the house.\nCreating Wealth from Waste Today if it is to build energy from solid waste, it is very costly. But can we develop this kind of innovation, we can develop technology, due to which we can create more facility in creating Wealth from Waste. So is the campaign of clean India. That campaign will get very fast. And in a way cleanliness, this will become an area of ​​entrepreneurship in itself. Will provide new employment opportunities. And therefore I urge the youngsters. We are going to live in the digital world in the coming days. And no one will be limited to Facebook, WattsUp. There is a big impact in life. We give our contribution in the world of Digital India, so that we can reach these systems till the normal humanity of India.\nThere is a lot of work on mathematics here. I got an opportunity to talk to Professor Manjul Bhargava once. In the world of mathematics, he has contributed a lot to the young age. Many awards have been received. When I saw one of his interviews, I was convinced that I had met him. He says that my father was a Sanskrit teacher. There was an atmosphere of Sanskrit in my house. So I was familiar with all the old literature of Sanskrit. And I saw that there was a lot of mathematically in it. So I used that ancient wisdom. Interface it with modern knowledge. And from it I got new things that became amazing for the world and today I was assumed as an authority in the world of mathematics. To say this is something that will happen in our ancient philosophy, I do not know I am not his master. But if we do, then we should work on the scales of science and the next generation can come to know that knowledge, then we should convert it into science and technology. And if we can work in that direction, then we can serve a great deal of mankind. और उस दिशा में हम लोगों ने प्रयास करना चाहिए।\nये भी सही है कि हम लोगों के लिए खासकर के Formative age में स्कूली बच्चों में Scientific Temper कैसे Develop हो ये हमारे लिए बहुत आवश्यक होता है। और इसलिये क्या हम ओड़िशा के जो साइंस टीचर है उनको 5 दिन का 7 दिन का 10 दिन का NISER में कोई कोर्सेस कर सकते हैं, ताकि गांव के स्कूल के साइंस के टीचर भी और उनको यहां के जो आपके 700-800 स्टूडेंट हैं उनके ग्रुप के साथ जोड़ना चाहिए, ताकि ये नये स्टूडेंट जो हैं, जो नया विज्ञान जानते हैं हम जो नई चीजें जानते हैं वो उनसे बातें करें। नहीं तो क्या होता है पुराने जो हमारे पिताजी पढ़े हुए हैं हमारे पिताजी के पिताजी जो पढ़े होंगे वो जो नोटबुक होती है उसी से प्रोफेसर अभी भी पढ़ाते हैं। देखिये बदलाव स्वीकार करना पड़ेगा। हमें नयापन लाना पड़ेगा। हर चीज में Innovation चाहिए। और इसलिये उस Innovation के लिए हम हमारे उसी प्रकार के साइंस फेयर होते हैं। हर राज्य में स्टूडेंट्स के साइंस फेयर लगते हैं। क्या कभी उन स्कूलों के साथ मेंटर के रूप में हमारे NISER के स्टूडेंट को अटैच किया जा सकता है। कि भई हमारे 10 स्टूडेंट फलाने जिले की सबसे टॉप स्कूल है उस साथ अटैच रहेंगे। वो साल में दो बार पांच बार सात बार वहां जाएंगे। स्कूल के टीचर स्टूडेंट के साथ बैठेंगे। और साइंस फेयर में द बेस्ट कोई इनोवेटिव चीज लेकर के जाएंगे, तो स्टूडेंट के दिमाग में विज्ञान के प्रति भाव जगेगा। और जो हमारे स्टूडेंट जो यहां काम कर रहे हैं उनको पढ़ते – पढ़ते सीखने का और सिखाने का स्वभाव बन जाएगा। उसकी वो ताकत बन जाएगा। हम एक ऐसी सहज व्यवस्थाएं कैसे विकसित करें ताकि हम NISER का सच्चे अर्थ में लोकोपयोगी तरीके से उपयोग कर सकें। आज मेरे लिये गर्व का विषय है। कि राष्ट्र को खास कर के देश की युवा पीढ़ी को, खास कर के भारत के ज्ञान और टैक्नॉलॉजी को ये भव्य संकुल समर्पित करने का मुझे अवसर मिला है। मैं राष्ट्र को ये भव्य संकुल समर्पित करता हूं और सभी नौजवानों को हृदय से बहुत – बहुत शुभकामनाएं देता हूं। Thanks a lot."