"PM Modi pays tribute to Sriman Sankaradeva\nSrimanta Sankaradeva \u0026 his thoughts are very relevant today: PM Modi in Assam\nOur society has the strength People from within our society have fought evils like अस्पृश्यता: PM\nStrength of Govt and society should combine so that we can create the Srimanta Sankaradeva envisioned: PM\nMy colleagues of the Council of Ministers sitting on the stage, all the senior noblemen and all the great teachers who came in large numbers,\nI salute all of you first. I salute all those addicts that on such a sacred occasion, I have the good fortune to come among you. Anyone can imagine that before a five century ago a person, while in those days, had no camera, neither was a newspaper, nor a TV, no telephone, in spite of having passed five centuries, we all remember that great man. We do. Try to walk on their stated path. What kind of talent would they have left such a profound impact on society for centuries? I salute at the feet of such a wealthy Shankardev Guru. See their specialty. Everyone here is sitting here, they know everything about them, try to live up to their every point. Centuries ago, they tried to bring their stories to life. And that's why I say something to them, more than you all know them well.\nWhen in other parts of India, when people get information about them, it is a big surprise. He painted spirituality with the color of life. Generally, our spirituality was such that sometimes it would have been neglecting a simple life. But Shrimant Shankardev became a new guide to filling spirituality in the colors of life. Someone can think of spirituality and drama related. Someone can think of spirituality and art related One can think of the relationship between spirituality and dance, someone can think of spirituality and song related. He painted art, dance, drama, music, which had the instinctive nature of society, painted it in the color of spiritualism, and due to this, Shrimant Shankardev is equally relevant to us today, as his life span Were in.\nThis saint, who lived in far-off Assam, said this spiritual great man five centuries ago that he became such a resident, becoming an Assamese that we were the best Indian. Message of nationalism, he gives away a great man to a number of centuries ago. They also say that we have to build a nation, but also to build a nation, it will be our path, and this will be our path, and that is why connecting people, adding to the fabrication of the society that society as a power Those who develop on their own will also wake up the spiritual consciousness and overcome the difficulties too. It was such a spiritual great man who was also devoted to the scriptures and was also devoted to the weapon. He prepared his own devotees to fight against the Muharram, prepared to sacrifice. Why? To protect the motherland, to protect spirituality, to protect the great bright traditions.\nEven today, the evils that are in our society have been reduced, but sometimes it is so painful that when those evils are seen. Hindu society has been a special feature. Thousands of years old is this society. From time to time there were some distortions in it, evils also came, but the characteristic of this society was that from among themselves he created such great men who themselves came to the field to fight against the evils of the society. This is not a small issue. Even today, speaking against untouchability, speaking against untouchability, sometimes people think what is needed now. In the time that Shrimant Shankardev visited the whole of India five centuries ago, against untouchability, where he went for social unity, against the distinction of high and low; How many hardships they had suffered and delivered this message that those distortions in society should be distorted. The evils that are in society should end the evils. According to the ages, evils sometimes change.\nIn today's time, you are a team of people on the path of Srimant Shankardev and so many dedicated servants. If the government has such a big program, I have to think 50 times and I am looking at it, I am looking at the helicopter. Where people were watching, people were seen in the number of millions. What kind of spiritual power is this, what kind of power is it? In order to take our nation forward, the 'Mantra of everyone, everyone's development', in it, this spiritual consciousness, spiritual power, sattvik power, is valued and by connecting its power the nation progresses at a faster pace.\nEven today, work of research, work of literature, education work, work of folk culture, work for the welfare of society, is being run by the Shrimant Shankardev Institute today.\nIt's been a matter of years that this is right. So sweet little sour comes. But the good thing is that all work together. If you work on the shoulder side, then this strength will come and come and become a new power of society. It is my belief. There is a sattvik tendency, the trend of education is going on and many things have been put before me by the prominent people of the institution. I will study all those things in depth and we will not be left behind in doing whatever we can, because you are doing this work. Now suppose I have to run Swachh Bharat campaign in Assam itself. If you settle in mind then So what will the government need? Will Assam ever get dirty? If you decide to go out of the name of Shrimant Shankar Dev, Jai Guru Shankar speaks out, I do not believe that there can be no mess in Assam. Clean India campaign can become a monkey in Assam. We have polio supplements for children, vaccine for children, this is a huge campaign for the government. A child can not live without a vaccine. Even a child could not live without the dose of polio. This is such a big task if we take the people of our institute with him. So I do not believe that if the government falls short but you will not fall short and the power of the society will be my belief.\nThe power of the government and society should join. The power of government and society should get together and move forward towards the desired goal. Then we can create India like Shri Shanti Shankar Dev ji. We can fulfill the dreams of Shankar Dev. And on this spiritual occasion I salute Gurudev, once you express gratitude to all and I assure you that you are doing such a great work, doing so much devotional work. Government of Delhi will never go back in standing with you. This I assure you\nThanks a lot\nJai Gurushankar\nToday we are remembering a great personality who lived centuries ago: PM pays tributes to Srimanta Sankaradeva https://t.co/Iy8hu3Nre5\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 5, 2016\nSrimanta Sankaradeva \u0026 His thoughts are very relevant today: PM @narendramodi in Assam\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 5, 2016\nOur society has a power-people from within our society has fought against the evils like untouchability in our society: PM @narendramodi\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 5, 2016\nThe strength of the government and the society has to combine. That is when we can create the Indian Srimaradeva envisioned: PM @narendramodi"