"Share\n\nGovernment is determined to protect the legacy of all those who have contributed to the cause of India's defense and security, and to its social life: PM\nIn just 100 days, over 6 lakh people have benefited from the Ayushman Bharat: PM Modi\n20 crore people have joined the JeevanJyoti or Suraksha Beema schemes: PM Modi\nBharat mata ki jai, Bharat mata jai, Bharat mata ki jai, I will call a slogan all you have to say to me - i will say maharaja suhaldev .. you will say all two hands up and say immortal immortal, Maharaja suhaldev Amar Remained immortal, Maharaja suhaldev immortal immortal, Maharaja suhaldev immortal immortal life, Maharaja suhaldev immortal immortal\nA large number of my beloved brothers and sisters\nThe warrior who gives brave warriors, the warriors for the protection of the country, the land where rishis, monkeys have stepped up. It is very pleasant for me to come again in such Ghazipur.\nThe enthusiasm and enthusiasm of you all have always been the source of my energy. Even today you have come here with such a huge number and have come to bless me in such a cold environment. I bow to all of you for this.\nDuring my migration to my peers today in Uttar Pradesh, several important steps will be taken to make Purvanchal a major medical hub in the country, to form an important center of research related to agriculture and to strengthen UP's small industries. A few months ago the foundation stone of the new medical college that was set up in Ghazipur was done.\nToday, another virtue has been done to enhance the pride of the Purvanchal and the whole of Uttar Pradesh. There are opportunities to enhance this dignity of the entire corner of the country. A virtuous act of recreating every Indian's country, its culture, its bravery and heroism has been done here today. Postal Stamp has been released in memory of Maharaja Suheldev's valorous saga for his country shortly before bowing to his contribution. This postal stamp of five rupees is going to reach the country's house through a post office across lakhs of lakhs. Maharaja Suheldev - a humble attempt to bring his great deeds to every corner of India, to every house, is going through this postal stamp.\nCompanions, Maharaja Suheldev lived in those heroes of the country. Who struggled for the honor of Mother Bharati. The heroes like Maharaja Suheldev, whom every deprived, every exploited motivation takes. Their remembrance also gives the mantra of 'Sabkaa Ke Sabka Vikas' and new power. It is said that when Maharaja Suheldev was in power, then people did not even consider locking in houses. In his regime, he has done many things to make people's lives easier, empower the poor. They built roads, planted gardens, opened schools, established temples and gave their state a very beautiful look. When the foreign figure lifted the eye on India's land, then Maharaja Suheldev was among the Mahavirs who fought and defeated the enemies. He created such organization power by adding other nearby kings, that the enemy could not stand before them. The life of Maharaja Suheldev is a great warrior, skilled strategist, and creator of organization power, he has been the idol of many such inspirations. They used to take them all together Maharaja Suheldev was all about.\nBrothers and Sisters, those heroic heroes of the country, which the previous governments have forgotten in a way, did not believe, to respect them, our government has understood their obligation. We have considered our responsibility.\nBrothers and sisters chittora in Bahraich district of Uttar Pradesh, whenever we remember Maharaja Suheldev, then never forget the dash of Bahraich district. It was the same land where the Maharaja had eliminated the figures, defeated them. The government of Yogi ji at the place where Maharaja Suheldev had won a grand victory and the great man who had been forgotten for thousand years. The Uttar Pradesh government has decided to make a grand memorial for generations to remember that victory in their memorial. I congratulate the Uttar Pradesh Government for the memorial of Maharaja Suheldev, for this imagination, to revive the history, and to get inspiration from Maharaja Suheldev, everyone will get inspiration in the corners of the country. Best wishes for\nThis is the firm determination of the central government led by the Bharatiya Janata Party that those who have contributed to the upliftment of India's security, security, India's social life will not be allowed to eradicate their memory. Due to its history, the golden pages of its ancient culture will not allow dust to freeze.\nAll the great heroes, Maharaja Suheldev, were as great and kind as they were. We are doing this very ritual of sensitization in the government, in order to bring it into the system. The Center and the UP Government are making sincere efforts to ensure that these sections of the society are empowered, empowered, and have their rights, through every type of poor, backward, dalit, educated and disadvantaged. We are working on taking this dream. Their voice system reached easily.\nBrothers and Sisters, today the Government is accessible to the general public and is trying for a permanent solution to many problems. Our government has completely changed the tradition of slogan slogans and lace bites for the vote. The government is getting a change in the culture and practice. This is the reason why the poor are also open to hearing from the poor today.\nThis campaign of giving dignity to the person standing at the last level of associates, society is in the early stages. The government has succeeded in creating a solid foundation right now. There is still work to build a strong building on this foundation. The extension of health services in the Purvanchal is the step taken in this direction. From the point of view of health, one of the least developed areas in the country is being constantly evolving towards creating a medical hub.\nThe medical college that the brothers and sisters had done a while ago, will get the modern medical facility in this area. New and brilliant doctors will also be ready in Ghazipur. The youths here will get the chance to become a doctor in their home. When these colleges become ready after the cost of two and a half crore, the district hospital of Ghazipur will be 300 beds. This hospital will also benefit people of Ghazipur as well as other adjoining districts. For a long time, it was demanding all of you and our dear Manoj Sinha, our dear friend of yours, continued to give voice to this. Very soon this hospital will be dedicated to serving you all. Apart from this, 100-bed Maternity Hospital facility has also been added in Ghajipur. Facility of modern ambulances has been given in the district hospital. These facilities will be expanded in the coming times.\nBrothers and sisters should be a new medical college in Ghazipur, AIIMS in Gorakhpur, many modern hospitals being built in Varanasi, extension of old hospitals, health facilities of thousands of crores are being created in Purvanchal.\nFor the first time in the history of independence, the health of peers, poor and middle class is given so much priority. Ayushman Bharat Scheme, PMJAY People call him ModiKareer. It is being tried to reach the maximum benefit of this PMJAY Ayushman scheme. This scheme has ensured free treatment up to five lakh rupees in the event of hundreds of serious diseases like cancer. Within just 100 days, around half a million poor sisters and brothers of the country have been treated for free or they are undergoing treatment in the hospital. In our Uttar Pradesh also more than 14 thousand siblings have got the benefit. And these people were waiting for death with serious illness from two to four, four, five or five years. If I was feeling scared, I would be immersed in debt. They did not do the medicine, they used to suffer trouble, Ayushman Bharat Scheme gave strength to such people, gave them a voice, now they have come to the hospital, their operations are going on and they are returning home to their laughs. Not only that, the government is also trying to connect every family of the country with schemes like Prime Minister Jeeo Jyoti and security insurance. These schemes are being run on just 90 paisa per day and a little over Rs 1 a month for the help of up to Rs 2 lakh in difficult times. These two schemes have added more than 200 million people across the country. In it, about two and a half million people are also from our Uttar Pradesh, under which the amount has reached the needs of more than Rs. 3000 crore, and of which about 4 hundred crore Rupee's claim has reached the homes of such families in Uttar Pradesh.\nCompanions reached these families with the insurance of 4 hundred crore rupees, 90 paise, how much power their families could get.\nCompanions, when governments work with transparency, when the public is kept above the interest of self, sensitivity is the nature of the instrument when such a large task is naturally occurring. When there is a permanent change in the goal system then such a big job happens. Then a permanent and honest effort is made with distant thinking.\nCompanions, Rice Research Institute of Kashi, Varanasi and Cargo Center in Ghazipur, become a food factory in Gorakhpur, Irrigation projects like Bansagar, many arrangements from center to market are being prepared all over the country. I have been told that the green chillies and green peas from the Perishable Cargo Center in Ghajipur ... Our Manoj Ji was telling us to sell in the Dubai market. Farmers are now getting better prices than before.\nWhatever work is being done today is being done to double the income of the farmers honestly with full credentials. Work is being done with utmost diligence in this direction to the farmers getting more benefits in lower cost.\nWhat is the delight of inspiring measures for gathering votes for the brothers and sisters is now visible in Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan. As the government changed now, for the food there, the queues started for the urea, the sticks began to run. Black marketers came to the ground. In Karnataka, a debt waiver of lakhs of farmers was promised.\nUnderstand the truth of the brothers and sisters In Karnataka, the Congress has just formed a government from the back door and promised the debt forgiveness to the farmers. Lollipop was caught. Lakhs of farmers had to forgive the debt and how much should I tell them ... tell me ... how much did ... how many farmers get the benefit ... you will be surprised. Tell me .... Debt waiver of millions of farmers was promised, votes were stolen. From the backdoor, the government was made to steal the way and given only to some .... just .... just .... just .... 800 people\nYou tell me how to play this futures ... Understand how it is cheating with the farmers. Understand this, brothers and sisters. Those who did not have a debt waiver but now the police have been left behind them. Go get money.\nThe decisions that are made for the colleagues, immediate political gains, can not be a permanent solution to the problems of the country.\nWhat happened before the 2009 election is that all of you have witnessed it, even before the 2009 elections, those who hold such lollipop promised for debt forgiveness. Promised debt waiver of farmers across the country. I am a farmer here, I would like to ask 10 years ago, in 2009, what was your debt forgiveness, was it forgiven, did you get money in your account, did you get any help? The futures had happened that did not happen. The government was formed that it was not made and you were forgotten or not was forgotten. Would you trust such people ... would you trust the lollipop company ... would you trust those lies ... What would you trust those who deceive the people?\nYou will be surprised by the brothers and sisters, then the loan of six lakh crores was on the farmers for all the six lakh crores of rupees in the whole country but it has been announced to forgive how much it has happened to you ... you had a loan of six lakh crores and to choose Later, what was done after the formation of the government, what drought has been done, the statistics of the farmers who have been dashed in the eyes of the people themselves speaks for themselves. How many rupees in debt have been forgiven in front of six lakh crores, you know I will tell you .... Remember ... You will remember these people come, catch lollipop, remember again, make sure ... Rs 6 lakh crores Lending to farmers and how many just .... just .... just ... 60 thousand crore, where six lakh crores and where 60 thousand crores ... not much ... given to whom he gave CAG Reports of it came to be found that 35 lakhs in the big At these 35 million went into the house and he was not in debt were not farmers, deserved not loan waiver. This rupee has not been yours or gone, whether it was stolen or not, even if the debt was waived, even millions of them were not certified. This led to the interest of the farmer, and later the poor farmer had to pay extra for interest including loan interest. These people have done these sins.\nBrothers and Sisters These people are not worth the money again. They had to go to alcohol, they had to take a loan in private. Had to take expensive loans.\nCompanions, at least the farmer did not have the benefit of this type of debt waiver. So I would have to insist that this lies of Congress and be careful about dishonesty. याद रखिए कि कांग्रेस की सरकार ने तो स्‍वामीनाथन आयोग की सिफारिश तक को लागू नहीं किया था। कांग्रेस के चलते ही किसानों को लागत का डेढ़ गुना मूल्‍य देने की सिफारिश वाली फाइल बरसों तक ये कांग्रेस वाले उस पर बैठ रहे थे, बैठे हुए थे। निकालते नहीं थे, अगर कांग्रेस ने अपने जमाने में आज से 11 साल पहले अगर स्‍वामीनाथन कमीशन को स्‍वीकार किया होता, लागू किया होता, लागत का डेढ गुना दाम किसानों को देना तय किया होता तो आज मेरा किसान कर्जदार होता ही नहीं, उसको कर्ज की जरूरत ही नहीं पड़ती। लेकिन आपका पाप, आपने उस फाइल को दबाकर के रखा, किसान को दाम नहीं दिया, एमएसपी नहीं दिया, किसान बर्बाद हो गया, कर्जदार हो गया। ये आपके पापों का परिणाम है। इस फाइल को भाजपा सरकार ने बाहर निकाला और दाम सहित 22 फसलों का एमएसपी लागत का डेढ़ गुना तय किया गया।\nभाईयो और बहनों ऐसे अनेक काम हैं जो बीते चार वर्षों से किए जा रहे हैं। जो छोटा किसान है उसको भी हमारी सरकार बैंकों से जोड़ रही है। मंडियों में नया Infrastructure नई सुविधाएं अब तैयार हो रही हैं।  तकनीक के माध्‍यम से मंडियों को अब तैयार किया जा रहा है। नए cold storage, mega food park उसकी भी चेन अब तैयार हो रही है।\nसाथियों, किसान की फसल से लेकर उद्योगों के लिए जरूरी आधुनिक Infrastructure भी यही सरकार तैयार कर रही है। पूर्वांचल की बेहतर  connectivity के लिए बीते साढ़े चार वर्ष में अनेक काम पूरे हो चुके हैं और अनेक प्रोजेक्‍टस आने वाले समय में पूरे होने वाले हैं। पूर्वांचल expressway पर काम तेज गति से चल रहा है।\nपिछली बार जब में गाजीपुर आया था तो ताड़ीघाट गाजीपुर रेल रोड पुल का शिलान्‍यास किया था। मुझे बताया गया है कि जल्‍द ही ये भी सेवा के लिए तैयार हो जाएगा। इससे पूर्वांचल के लोगों को दिल्‍ली और हावड़ा जाने के लिए एक वैकल्पिक रास्‍ता मिलेगा।  \nसाथियों, बीते साढ़े चार वर्षों में पूर्वी उत्‍तर प्रदेश में रेलवे के महत्‍वपूर्ण काम हुए हैं। स्‍टेशन आधुनिक हो रहे हैं, लाइनों का दोहरीकरण और विद्युतीकरण हो रहा है। कई नई ट्रेंने शुरु हुई हैं। गांवों की सड़कें हो, नेशनल हाईवे हो, या फिर पूर्वांचल एक्‍सप्रेस वे.... जब ये तमाम प्रोजेक्‍ट पूरे हो जाएगें तो इस क्षेत्र की तस्‍वीर ही बदलने वाली है। हाल में जो वाराणसी से लेकर कोलकत्‍ता तक नदी मार्ग की शुरुआत की गई है उसका भी लाभ गाजीपुर को मिलना तय है। यहां जेटी बनने वाली है जिसका शिलान्‍यास भी हो चुका है। इन तमाम सुविधाओं के बनने से ये पूरा क्षेत्र व्‍यापार और कारोबार का सेंटर बनेगा, यहां उद्योग धंधे लगेगे, युवाओं को रोजगार के नए अवसर मिलेंगे।\nसाथियों, स्‍वराज के इस संकल्‍प की तरफ हम निरंतर कदम उठा रहे हैं। प्रधानमंत्री आवास योजना हो, स्‍वच्‍छ भारत अभियान हो, उज्‍ज्‍वला योजना हो, आयुष्‍मान भारत योजना हो, मुद्रा योजना हो, सौभाग्‍य योजना हो, ये सिर्फ योजनाएं नहीं बल्कि सशक्तिकरण के माध्‍यम हैं। विकास की पंचधारा बच्‍चों को पढ़ाई, युवाओं को कमाई, बुर्जुगों को दवाई, किसान को सिंचाई और जन-जन की सुनवाई के लिए ये मजबूत कडि़या है।\nभाईयो और बहनों आना वाला समय आपका है, आपके बच्‍चों का है, युवा पीढ़ी का है। आपके भविष्‍य को संवारने के लिए आपके बच्‍चों का भविष्‍य बनाने के लिए आपका ये चौकीदार बहुत ईमानदारी से बहुत लगन के साथ दिन-रात एक कर रहा है। आप अपना विश्‍वास और आशीर्वाद इसी तरह बनाए रखिए क्‍योंकि चौकीदार की वजह से कुछ चोरों की रातों की नींद उड़ गई है। मुझपर आपका विश्‍वास और आशीर्वाद ही एक दिन.... एक दिन ऐसा आएगा इन चोरों को सही जगह तक ले जाएगा।\nएक बार फिर आपको नए मेडिकल कॉलेज के लिए बहुत-बहुत बधाई के साथ फिर एक बार महाराजा सु‍हेलदेव के महान पराक्रमों को प्रणाम करते हुए, मैं मेरी बात को समाप्‍त करता हूं। दो दिन बाद 2019 का वर्ष शुरू होगा इस नए वर्ष के लिए भी मैं आपको बहुत-बहुत शुभकामनाएं देता हूं।\nभारत माता की जय...... भारत माता की जय \n"