"Share\n\nAssam has made a special presence in the world with its hard working people: PM\nAssam needs a Govt that cares for its people: PM Modi\nOur main focus is to make opportunities available: PM Modi\nPradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana: A boon for farmers in the face of adversity\nPM Modi urges farmers to join Prime Minister Fasal Bima Yojana in large numbers\nBe it education or infrastructure, our government is focussed on all-round development of Assam: PM Modi\nAll seniors, sisters and sisters who have been camping on stage, and my brothers and sisters who have been camping in large numbers.\nToday, I am inaugurating a huge program involving petroleum in Dibrugarh and from here again, I will be blessed to be part of the festival which is going on in honor of Shrimad Shankardev, and in the meanwhile I will be able to join our tea plantation colleagues I have come to meet If there is a particular identity of Assam in the world today, then one of the reasons is the hard work and hard work of the people. In this gardan, for more than 100 years, four to five generations have been consumed and in this tea, the fragrance of the soil here and your hard work filled the color that Assam tea is famous all over the world today. Having come from different parts of India and working hard in this plantation, the name of Hindustan has been illuminated.\nYou gave the identity of Assam to the world but what did Assam's tea laborers get? I have to change this situation. In Assam, there should be a government who listens to the poor of Assam, went to the poor and brought about change in the life of the general humanities here. Have fun in your life and bring blessings in Assam. All the governments went through the promises, but one government did not fulfill the promises made to the poor of Assam. We want to fulfill those promises and give you opportunities. You have seen all kinds of governments and you know what is good, what is bad. Give an opportunity to the BJP, we will make Assam number 1. Give us a chance to serve you.\nThere is a law of the Government of India which we want to implement here and for this it should be a government in Assam who hear the central government of Delhi. The government here seeks help from the central government, but later it hurts the central government in front of the media. I believe that there should be any government, the central and the state government should work together. Politics should not be in the middle of the good of the people. What the Delhi government is giving is of the rights of Assam and we are trying to fulfill our commitment to honesty.\nThe pride of our citizens of Assam, their future, the protection of the mothers and sisters of Assam, this is our priority. We want to take Assam to new heights of development. We have made many new laws for the workers in the country. You will be surprised to hear that when I came, 27 thousand rupees of the country's workers were lying in the treasury of the government and when I asked why these money was lying, they said that their money is cut at the time of job but when they If they leave the job then they do not take back the money because their expenses and expenses are the same. Because of this, the money of the laborers (Rs. 27 thousand crores) is lying. I said that the Delhi government has no right to keep these money and therefore we came and decided that all such laborers should be searched and returned to their money. We removed a number for them. Workers of unorganized sectors are being given a number so that they work in any city, all their money will be with him with the help of that number.\nWe had a law of giving bonus to the laborers here 30 years ago. We brought legislation in Parliament that the workers should change the law of bonus and the poor laborers who do not receive the bonuses should get a bonus. You sent us a Lok Sabha by giving two-thirds majority but those who have lost the election and 40 out of 400, they think that Modi will not be allowed to work. The opposition parties are in this conspiracy to create trouble. There are many parties, there are many leaders who oppose the government, the BJP and Narendra Modi, but they also say that the Parliament should go, discussion should be there and whatever decision in the parliament should be on everyone's eyes. But a family is stunned that we will not let any work of the country happen because the people of the country have defeated us and we will take revenge for them.\nThe law of this bonus has passed in the Lok Sabha and has to move forward in the Rajya Sabha but they are not going to run the Rajya Sabha. For 60 years, there is democracy here but never for the poor and the laborers in the Parliament, but today the people are not allowed to work for the poor. Our government made the law of water transport and its biggest advantage is Assam and North-East. In the Brahmaputra river, the business name of the business is gone, we have come with the law for this. In the rivers of our country, there is a way to get cheap cheap goods. We want to speed it up and the law passed in the Lok Sabha but one family did not let the Rajya Sabha run and due to which the work which we wanted to do in the Brahmaputra, the work was stuck. Anyone who does politics, if such a negative opposition, is going to do good to them, neither is it going to be good for the country. The negativity, ego and obstacle politics have brought the catastrophe to the family. There are many people in the opposition who oppose but do not create a barrier to deciding for a countryman, but there is a family which also inhibits the decision.\nThere are so many people who are politicians on the farmer but who will protect the farmer, who will help him in times of crisis. When there was a natural calamity, the farmers did not get anything. His rules were such that the farmer used to stay outside of him like this, some days passed and the new season started and the farmer also used to work harder again. We changed this situation. We changed all the rules to help the farmers in the natural disaster. Many help in the past, helped to reduce the scope of the land so that the interest of the farmer is protected.\nWe have come with the Prime Minister's Crop Insurance Scheme for the farmers. Earlier there were crop insurance plans but they were not for the farmers. The loans that were used to take loans from the banks did not sink, the same amount got insurance. To say it was crop insurance for the farmers, but in reality it was a way to secure the bank's debt and that too from the farmers' money. After this, only 20 percent of the farmers had this insurance because they knew that money was going to go but they were not coming. Earlier 50% had to pay the insurance, we made it 2%. We added it to the technology so that the payment of insurance is immediate. I would like to take advantage of the small farmer's prime minister's crop insurance scheme in Assam.\nThis plan will cost a lot and if any natural calamity comes, you can get protection in it. If there was something after the first harvest, insurance did not get done but we changed it. Now if there is any objection for 15 days of harvesting, he will get insurance.\nThe young people of our country are about to make the future of our country. Employment opportunities are available, we are making new plans for this. Today, one person is coming to India from foreign countries to apply for capital. There are many reasons for this - firstly they trust the Indian government and secondly they are optimistic about the youth of India. They think that they will invest money and the young man here will work and their factory will run and sell their goods in the world, this belief is born. These strengths are also with the country as well as the youth of Assam. Empowering the youth of Assam, we are making efforts in that direction.\nWe have stressed infrastructure. Become new routes in Assam, set new rail lines, widen rail lines, and create an infrastructure in the whole of North-East that the people of India and their business can be easy to do and the farmers here Go to the market so that farmers here get money. We also want to stress on education here. We want to bring the best education system of India to the north-east. We are trying hard to get good education in this area. Whether it is health or education, whether it is a farmer or a young man, whether our mothers and sisters, we are trying to make a difference in everyone's life.\nI want to say to the workers of the tea plantation that the law of the government of India has not yet been implemented by the government here, the law is for the welfare of the workers here, in which they are allotted houses, water, education, medicine etc. There is a provision to provide things; When our government is formed we will implement all these things here. Our resolve is to bring about change in the life here. All of you came here in such a large number and gave me your blessings, I am very grateful to you and I bow to this huge crowd. I wish Assam's bright future and happiness.\nThanks a lot!"