"The projects inaugurated offer immense employment opportunities to the people of Assam: PM\nRapid industrial development of the country is necessary to create jobs for India's youth: PM\nWe have a PRAGATI initiative for quickening projects: PM Modi\nIt is important to think ahead of time when it comes to planning schemes and initiatives with chalking out the roadmap: PM\nEmployment opportunities are to be built in small cities: PM\nCentral Government Initiative including MUDRA and Start-up India aimed at creating new opportunities for the youth: PM\nWe believe in cooperative federalism Center and states have worked together for development: PM Modi\nMr. Tarun Gogoi Ji, my companions of the Council of Ministers at the Center and my dear brothers and sisters present in large numbers\nToday two important projects are being released in Dibrugarh. And this is important because it is a Value Addition of Natural Property and there are many opportunities for employment for the young people of Assam. Due to these two projects, there is a natural joy in entire India, then it is auspicious in Assam. Because it emphasizes the development journey of the nation. Now really, I should not have had the opportunity of opening the projects. If this unit had happened 25 years ago today, the prime minister of that time would have had this opportunity, so many newcomers would have come here, so many people would have got jobs here, and for the last 25 years there would be a Sarvanand atmosphere. .\nBut sometimes I feel that a lot of good work, fulfilling it, it is probably written in my own good luck. One of the biggest challenges in our country is that we can not think of plans ahead of time, if they are forced to think, then they can not make a roadmap to fulfill the plan, even if it is done, then announce it, after announcing the years -The wait is for the millstone, after completion of the foundation stones, it takes years to complete and afterwards people forget, then the inauguration comes. And due to which the cost of work should be 500 million, it reaches 1000-1100 crore. And due to such a delay, there is no account of the damage to the country's economists. If these projects were completed 25 years ago today and it had been inaugurated 25 years ago, then perhaps the people of the second generation would have started getting employment today, a whole generation went poor. And that is why our government is trying to get ideas that anyone has come, the dream has come to anyone, anyone has done the shilanas, but the goodness of the country is in it, that we fulfill all these things and fulfill the dreams of the people Please. And so I run a progress program in the Government of India nowadays. And I speak with myself in the video conference with the chief secretaries of the states, and such projects which have been stuck, have stopped for some reason, make a special effort to speed up such stalled projects.\nIn the past few newspapers had written that millions of stalled projects have now gone out of that prison, and are moving forward to be fast at full speed. There is also this project in it that today's inauguration is possible. In the coming days, I also believe that if India has to make progress, it is to progress faster, if it is to progress, it should be all-round development of India.\nIt can not be that the western end of Hindustan is to be developed, be it in Kerala, be in Karnataka, be in Goa, be in Maharashtra, in Rajasthan, be in Delhi, be in Haryana, be in Punjab, If Jammu is in Kashmir but the eastern edge of India, Orissa, be it Eastern Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Bihar, Assam, other states of North-East, will not be developed. Ustan development remain unfulfilled. And therefore, the development of the eastern end of India, giving the highest emphasis on this is the priority of our government. And then going to India's balanced development will be, the all-round development of India will be. And so we have created Act East Policy. And this Act East Policy is not only the eastern region of Hindustan but the adjoining areas of East India, with which our business relations can easily be expanded from here, whether it is Myanmar, Thailand, Singapore, Malaysia Yes, there are Indonesia, all these countries, with the development of our land, give them very strong connectivity. And therefore, continuously, India is strengthening these works with these countries, is strengthening the infrastructure, that is why this is the North-East region of India, the eastern region of India, in which the world of a new development We are standing and in the same direction we are trying.\nAfter India's independence, no thought has been given, it has not been given, so the railway budget is imposed for North-East. Because if the railway infrastructure is formed, then the entire North East easily connects with Hindustan. North East has immense possibilities, but due to lack of connectivity, its development journey stops. The young men here are promising. It is intelligent, wise, if they get an opportunity, then Assam has the power to make India the number one state.\nThe industry of these polymers is one way value addition. India needs to bring abroad, there will be little savings in it and due to the increase in it, small factories can be found. Today, the era of plastic is to be believed but in comparison to the world's per capita plastic consumption, India is very less. Per capita is barely ten kilos. If there is to be mixed with the general average of the world, then there are many possibilities for the plastic industry. Many needs of life are now being realized in plastic force. The raw material is available here, and the youth here will have the skill, start small business, a full industrial expansion will be created. Millions of young people will get employment here and for this we have also started the money scheme. Start-up India has started the stand-up scheme. Both of these schemes are such that the raw material that comes out of this industry, which will work for value addition, will also get money from the currency and start-up India, stand-up plan will also benefit its plans. There is considerable concession in it. There are so many incentives. And I would hope that the youth of Assam come forward to set up the industry associated with it. And I will also request the government, from the department that the raw material that will come here, the value addition will be given to the youth of Assam first, and if they do not use, then go now and take them to Hindustan and part Will go.\nYou can imagine such a big decision, how big your fortune could change. But our priority is Assam and North East, our priority here is development. Go to any farmer's family today and if there are three sons in that family, and ask the farmer to be 100 acres of land, ask him what the child has thought of for the children, the farmer says that he will plant one son in the field, but the two sons are somewhere Send them to the city and put them on the job so that they can live. That is, every farmer wants to employ two of his three sons in a factory or somewhere. When will these two sons of the farmer get employment? Will a son of a farmer earn, and two sons will be hungry? If the farmer has a farming for a son, it is necessary to employ the two children for employment, it is mandatory. And therefore, if the village has to be done, then the employment opportunities of the farmer's children will be provided. And if there are industries in big cities, it will not work. Even at small places in Dibrugarh, we have to lay a trap for industries.\nAnd our government has tried to provide employment opportunities in small places. Providing opportunities for industries. Value addition, value addition, so that the country's income increases. In that direction, we are endeavoring, as is the inevitability of the rise of natural wealth, the life of a person should also increase. Unskilled labor earns less, the skilled labor earns more and therefore we are focusing on skill development. Every young man should have the skill in hand. Skill should be and on the basis of skill, he can create employment opportunities for himself and his demand is also going to increase and we are making efforts in that direction.\nBrothers and Sisters, in the coming days, this journey of development has to be carried forward at a fast pace. The Government of India is going to pursue the country by taking center and state with cooperative federalism, taking this mantra, and developing all the efforts with it, taking this mantra and making constant efforts.\nI hope that you will meet the fruits of the coming days too. Once again I congratulate you very much and in the footsteps of the nation where the polymer is ready at one place, the other place will be the work of wax and both of us have to come out from outside and there will be a reduction in it and in fulfillment of the country's need. This will also give your contribution. My very best wishes Thank you very much."