"Share\n\nA new ray of hope has emerged and an atmosphere of trust has created: PM Modi\nWhenever someone watched TV two years back, there was news of scams, corruption and frauds but now it has changed: PM\nCongress is in the name of poor: PM\nParty that was reduced to only 40 seats Key bills are stuck in state session: PM\nEkta, Shanti and Sadbhavana would take the newer heights of progress: PM Modi\n#JanDhan Accounts, #MUDRA Yojana strengthening lives of poor at the grassroots: PM Modi\nGovt's decision on MSP on pulses has given them only six months: PM Modi\nIndia's real strength is in the private sector: PM Modi\nWe have initiated the #StartupIndia movement to power the dreams of millions of youngsters in the country: PM\n'Job seekers' and promote 'job creators': PM Modi\nAll of my senior brothers and sisters, who were all senior citizens,\nI can not imagine that such a huge masses! Where does my eyes reach, I only see head head. Coimbatore ho, erode ho, Tirpur ho, all these places have been visiting me for many years. Along with the people, with the people here, I have tried to understand the problems of sitting here together with people who have been actively involved in social life here. Even when I was not the Chief Minister in Gujarat, I used to come here and today I came here after being the Prime Minister in Tamil Nadu, I have many times but this is the first time I have spoken in the public meeting. Thank you, I have honored you, I am very grateful for the love you have given.\nWhen I came to Tamilnadu today, I want to pray to the countrymen from Coimbatore's land that for a moment, just remember those days of two years old that the condition of the country was made at that time. Turn on the TV in the morning, look at the newspaper, every day a new scam, a new corruption, scam, scandal, or unknowingly many such incidents were going on that the country had drowned in the pit of despair. The young people had lost their hopes and the common citizen of the country was thinking that things would get worse, problems would increase, nothing would be worth living in life. The atmosphere of such despair was in front of us two years ago. If not, then remove the old newspaper and you will see all the things.\nWithin a decade and a half, after the formation of government in Delhi, a new faith has been born in the whole country, new hope has been reached and people of every section of the society live in the village, live in the city, read it or Whether you are looking for a job, whether you work in a factory, whether you work in the field, mother-sisters, elderly in the house, everyone has got this belief that now this country will continue to grow and new heights To remain crossed.\nSome people are very upset. They are suffering a lot. First of all, it became a problem that how did it become the Prime Minister who sold tea and how did he make the government with the absolute majority? It has been 18 months but these people are not ready to accept the sentiments of democracy. The public is not ready to accept the order of Janardhan, can not make the mind of accepting their defeats and therefore, they gnaw the government day and night, and the government sticks to their well-wishers too.\nThose who are politicians in the name of the poor, those who are politicians in the name of the backward and who are politicians in the name of the deprived, are unable to bear the point that no poor mother's son, no backward, no disadvantage, This thing is not taking place in his neck because he has nothing to do except politics in the name of the poor.\nIn the last one-and-a-half years, there has not been a single scandal, there has not been a single scam, if there is no such allegation, then these people have trouble, should they do this? Inside the Lok Sabha, we are able to work, be able to do it between the attacks, do it between the oppositions, but in the Rajya Sabha, such an angry person is announcing such anger - Modi will show you, you become the Prime Minister, Now let's see what happens to you. Is this the way of any democracy? The decisions of the poor have been stuck in the Rajya Sabha. Is this negativity, these protests, your politics anyway, but at least think of the poor of the country.\nYou must be surprised when I was contesting the Lok Sabha elections, I had said that in this country, so much forest of laws has been created, so much of the law has created such a scandal that the common man, the illiterate man, the poor man, the village Man, the poor man is trapped in those laws that he can not even reach where he is to reach. Those who created problems for the poor, creating difficulties, creating difficulties, I discovered 1800 laws that have no need for them. Those laws are about to end me. Proposals to eliminate 700 such laws were passed in the Lok Sabha, but they are not allowed to end in the Rajya Sabha. The Rajya Sabha is not allowed to run, the sin is preventing the rights of the poor.\nThe fact that the worker who works here, in which bonuses he receives bonuses, the rules of giving bonuses are so old, its norms are so old that poor poor laborers today do not get any bonuses in the bonus. Children can not afford to buy sweets. We have decided that the laws will change and the workers get more bonuses, the standard of income will also be increased so that more laborers get the benefit. We passed the law in the Lok Sabha but this law giving bonus to the workers was stuck in the Rajya Sabha. It was such a terrible injustice to my labors\nSome people have decided, if possible, lie so, apply false allegations to this government. Lie down again, laugh loudly Where to go lie there, lie on everything. One such campaign has been launched to mislead different people of the country, to create scarcity in the society, to create a wall between the brothers and sisters in the society, under a very thoughtful move, the country's fragments Some people are doing the sin of doing so because they have been bringing people to power and here people are engaged in breaking the country. Earlier, an attempt was made to instigate farmers, but when the farmers saw that this government is making such a decision after one, this government is doing this which would be beneficial for the farmers.\nMy government was new in 2014. I used to get letters from many Chief Ministers. Some Chief Ministers used two-four, four-five, five letters and I made new prime minister and what was the letter used to be? The Chief Minister used to demand that the farmers of our state need urea, the Indian government should arrange for urea and the Chief Minister expressed his anger towards the Government of India. On the other hand, when urea came, it was sold in black money. If urea was there, farmers in many states had to queue and the police had to lathi charge. When I became prime minister, in the days of its beginning, this old legacy came in our destiny.\nMy farmer siblings, this year of 2015, did not have to write a letter to request any chief minister to buy urea from the Indian government. The sticks were not charged for the farmers who went to take urea anywhere in this country. No farmer in this country had to buy urea in black money, because the highest urea fertilizer production for the first time since Independence was done in 2015.\nSugarcane farmers, there is also a farmer of sugarcane, in the vicinity. Sugarcane cane does not give money to the farmer. The sugarcane farmer's money is outstanding throughout the country. Sugar production has increased much. Sugar is no taker in the world market. Sugar prices fall The factory is not paying the farmer money, the scene has been running for many years. The sugarcane growers crave for their money. To help these sugarcane farmers, the Indian government gave a package of Rs 6,000 crore, but we decided that we would not give these money to Chinese owners. We will make direct deposits in the account of the farmers in the Janhanan account and for the first time in this country we have arranged to give direct money to the farmers.\nNot only that, we made a change to the Export policy. We made new rules for raw sugar. We arranged to impose strict restrictions on import. The result of all these came that today we can help the farmer, in this situation.\nMaking the biggest decision made of bio fuel Decided to make ethanol and they went in the direction of mixing gasoline, diesel and today the ethanol is made from sugar factories, due to which the farmer who produces the poor sugarcane, the difficulties he had, he could get rid of it. , The government has taken such a decision for a long period of time.\nIn this country Pulses, Lentils etc were reducing its farming farmer. Much of the wheat and rice was used to get the money because in MSP it was decided to get the money. The country needed lentils, pulses were needed. The poor man needs pulses to eat. If he needs protein in his body then it is necessary for him to eat pulses. The government made a big decision, did it for the poor, for farmers, that now MSP will remain in the pulses, the minimum support price will remain, not only that the government has done the work of purchasing it and due to this the country's farmers for the first time now The cultivation of pulses is moving forward and in the coming days, the country needs the pulses of the pulses that are needed to fulfill the needs of the farmers of my country.\nHad there been a natural disaster before, then the farmers had difficulty in getting compensation. The rules were so old that the farmer did not feel anything. After our government came, all rules changed to help farmers in natural calamity and the farmers of entire India praised the government in Delhi that the government has given us the strength to deal with this natural calamity. Now we are ready to face the troubles.\nOur country's farmer never wanted to join Crop Insurance. So many governments came, so much that Crop Insurance plans came, more than 20 percent of the country's farmer did not have Crop Insurance because there was a mess in the rules of insurance. The farmer had to take a lot of money. We have made this so important decision this time that farmers can take their insurance in only one and a half percent. I want all those who listen to me, to help farmers, motivate the farmers to take insurance, if there is ever any crisis in their life, then the government will stand with it completely.\nThe farmers who did not get the land in 60 years got it within 16 months and the farmers got it and some people have lost their sleep due to them, they are feeling what this Modi should do, it has been done in the service of the farmers, Because of this, they do not sleep. Last week we celebrated 125th birth anniversary of Baba Saheb Dr. Ambedkar. Bharat Ratna Baba Saheb Dr. Ambedkar's We Glorified. In the honor of Dr. Baba Saheb Ambedkar for the first time, we collected coins, postal stamps, Parliament for two days and discussed the 125th birth anniversary of Baba Saheb Dr. Ambedkar. Where Babasaheb Ambedkar of London used to study, the house was taken by the government, made a memorial, Indu mill in Mumbai where Baba Saheb breathed his last, the last action was done, to make that Chaitya land, Indu mill we remembered Baba Saheb Ambedkar Gave in We took steps to build two grand monuments for Baba Saheb Ambedkar in Delhi. Baba Saheb Ambedkar, who was completely forgotten Baba Saheb Ambedkar whose ideas were deceived. For one of the Baba Saheb Ambedkar, one after another, when we started working for the work of dalit, suffering, exploited and disadvantaged, it became a flurry. They thought it was our contract, this is our vote. Now Modi has started worshiping Baba Saheb Ambedkar. Modi is celebrating 125 years of Baba Saheb Ambedkar. Modi is removing coins of Baba Saheb Ambedkar. Modi is running Parliament in the name of Baba Saheb Ambedkar, is discussing. Now the dalits will have to stop Modi from going to Dalits, the dalits will have to be withdrawn and hence the lie is being spread in the name of Dalits. People are being dashed in the eyes and it is a sin to incite my dalit, suffering, exploited and deprived brothers.\nThe lie is being spreading to provoke Dalits, victims, exploited and disadvantaged, that Modi is going to end the reservation. I want to say those who spread such lies. Try to understand our element knowledge. The body is so strong, the height is good, the weight is good, the money in the pocket is full, everything happens, the food eats good, everything happens, but if one hand is weak, then that body is never called healthy. If one eye is weak, then that body is not called healthy. The whole of Bharat Mata is healthy when my hundred and fifty million people are healthy. My dalits are strong, my victims are powerful, my deprived ones are powerful. If the suppressed class of society is waiting for development for 60 years, if it does not get opportunity, then the country will never go ahead and hence our priority is for the poor, the good of the dalits, the good of the deprived, the exploitation of the oppressed. We are working on this issue.\nThose who are spreading lies in the name of reservation, are spreading illusions. सरकार को कठघरे में खड़ा करने के लि‍ए समाज को बहका रहे है, मैं उन लोगों को कह रहा हूं कान खोलकर सुन लीजि‍ए। जब तक बाबा साहेब अम्‍बेडकर का नाम रहेगा, इस देश में कोई कि‍सी की अमानत नहीं हटा सकता, कोई reservation नहीं हटा सकता। बाबा साहेब अम्‍बेडकर की अमरता से जुड़ा हुआ है और इस पर कोई हाथ नहीं लगा पाएगा, ये मैं देशवासि‍यों को वि‍श्‍वास दि‍लाना चाहता हूं।\nभाइयों-बहनों देश को आगे बढ़ना है तो देश में एकता चाहि‍ए, सद्भावना चाहि‍ए, शांति‍ चाहि‍ए, यही राजमार्ग है जो वि‍कास की नई ऊंचाइयों को पार करने के लि‍ए इसकी पहली शर्त होती है। आज दुनि‍या की कोई भी रि‍पोर्ट देख लीजि‍ए, World bank रि‍पोर्ट हो, IMF की रि‍पोर्ट हो, credit agencies की रि‍पोर्ट हो, सारी दुनि‍या एक स्‍वर से कह रही है कि‍ दुनि‍या की जि‍तनी भी बड़ी economy है, उसमें कोई तेज गति‍ से आगे बढ़ने वाली economy है जि‍सकी GDP तेज गति‍ से आगे बढ़ रही है तो उस देश का नाम है हि‍न्‍दुस्‍तान मेरे प्‍यारों, हि‍न्‍दुस्‍तान।\nमेरे नौजवान मि‍त्रों, इस देश का सौभाग्‍य है कि‍ आज हमारे देश में 65 प्रति‍शत जनसंख्‍या 35 से कम आयु की है। हमारा देश जवान है, हमारे जवानों के सपने भी जवान है और इसलि‍ए देश की दौड़ने की ताकत भी जवानों जैसी है। हमने ‘मेक इन इंडि‍या’ का अभि‍यान चलाया है। ‘मेक इन इंडि‍या’ का अभि‍यान इसलि‍ए चलाया है ताकि‍ हि‍न्‍दुस्‍तान में पूंजी आए, कारखाने लगे और मेरे नौजवानों को रोजगार मि‍ले और उस दि‍शा में बहुत तेजी से काम आगे बढ़ रहा है। मुझे खुशी होती है कि‍ पि‍छले दि‍नों मेरे पास जानकारी आई कि‍ Foreign Direct Investment में 39% इजाफा हुआ, 39% increase हुआ है।\nदेश में जब भी economy की बात होती है, दो ही वि‍षयों की चर्चा होती है – प्राइवेट सेक्‍टर, पब्‍लि‍क सेक्‍टर। मैंने उसे एक कदम और आगे बढ़ा दि‍या है। यह देश प्राइवेट सेक्‍टर अपना काम करेंगे, पब्‍लि‍क सेक्‍टर अपना काम करेंगे, देश की ताकत तो पर्सनल सेक्‍टर में है और मेरी सरकार पर्सनल सेक्‍टर को बढ़ावा देना चाहती है। एक-एक व्‍यक्‍ति‍ को entrepreneur बनाना चाहती है। Job seeker नहीं Job-creator बने, ऐसे नौजवान करना चाहता हूं मैं तैयार।\nऔर इसलि‍ए सरकार ने मुद्रा योजना चालू की है। पहले हमने जन-धन account खोले। अब मुद्रा योजना चालू की है। उस मुद्रा योजना के तहत सामान्‍य आदमी – सब्‍जी बेचने वाला हो, कपड़ों की इस्‍त्री करने वाला धोबी हो, बाल काटने वाला नाई हो, अखबार बेचने वाला हो, दूध बेचने वाला हो, चाय बेचने वाला हो, पकौड़े बेचने वाला हो। सामान्‍य मानवि‍की, उनको पैसे चाहि‍ए पैसे मि‍लते नहीं है, साहूकार ब्‍याज लेता है और उनकी जि‍न्‍दगी में कभी अच्‍छे दि‍न नहीं आते हैं।\nभाइयों-बहनों मुद्रा योजना के तहत हमने ऐसे गरीबों को कि‍सी भी प्रकार की गारंटी के बि‍ना रुपए देना शुरू कर दि‍या और उसका परि‍णाम यह आया कि‍ दो करोड़ से ज्‍यादा परि‍वारों को पैसा मि‍ला। 95,000 करोड़ रुपए से ज्‍यादा पैसा मि‍ला और वे अपने पैरों पर खड़े हुए, खुद का तो पेट भरते हैं और भी दो-तीन लोगों को काम पर लगाकर के उनका भी पेट भरना शुरू कि‍या है।\nइतना ही नहीं, देश के नौजवानों को हुनर सि‍खाने के लि‍ए अलग skill department बनाया। Skill development के लि‍ए अभि‍यान चलाया। दुनि‍या के जि‍न देशों में Skill development में ताकत है उनको भी जोड़ने का प्रयास कि‍या। देश के करोड़ों-करोड़ों नौजवानों के हाथ में skill देना, हुनर देना, उसका एक बहुत बड़ा अभि‍यान चलाया है ताकि‍ कभी इस नौजवान को रोजगार के लि‍ए तड़पना न पड़े।\nउसी प्रकार से, सरकारी नौकरि‍यों में अगर पहचान नहीं है, रि‍श्‍तेदारी नहीं है, कोई जानकार नहीं है, कोई दलाल नहीं है, कोई corruption के पैसे नहीं है तो नौजवान इंटरव्‍यू में फेल हो जाते थे, उनको नौकरी नहीं मि‍लती थी। दि‍ल्‍ली में बैठी हुई सरकार ने महत्‍वपूर्ण नि‍र्णय कि‍या, तीसरे और चौथे वर्ग के कर्मचारि‍यों का कोई इंटरव्‍यू नहीं होगा। उसके exam के merit के आधार पर उसको नौकरी दे दी जाएगी। भारत सरकार ने बहुत बड़ा फैसला कि‍या। भ्रष्‍टाचार भी गया और हमारे नौजवानों को कि‍सी के पीछे-पीछे जो लगना पड़ता था और अपने रुपए जाते थे, सम्‍मान जाता था, उनको बचाने का एक बहुत बड़ा काम इस नि‍र्णय से हमने कर दि‍या।\nहमने एक अभि‍यान चलाया ‘स्‍टार्ट-अप इंडि‍या, स्‍टैंड-अप इंडि‍या’। हमारे देश के नौजवानों के पास बुद्धि‍ है, क्षमता है। वे अपने पैरों पर नई चीज करने को तैयार है और इन दि‍नों भारत में वो ताकत है, वो दुनि‍या का स्‍टार्ट-अप capital बन सकता है। हमारे नौजवान हि‍म्‍मत के साथ नए प्रयोग करने के लि‍ए तैयार है, innovation करने के लि‍ए तैयार है, नए तरीके ढूंढने के लि‍ए तैयार है और इन दि‍नों जीवन के हर क्षेत्र में innovation करके नौजवान नए-नए स्‍टार्ट अप्‍स शुरू कर रहे है और बड़े-बड़े सपने लेकर के सही दि‍शा में मजबूत कदम रख रहे हैं।\nमेरे प्‍यारे नौवान दोस्‍तों, भारत की जो युवा शक्‍ति‍ है उसके लि‍ए नए-नए अवसर पैदा करना, उनकी शक्‍ति‍ को लेकर के आगे बढ़ाना। चाहे देश का कि‍सान हो, चाहे दलि‍त, पीड़ि‍त, शोषि‍त, वंचि‍त समाज हो, हमारी माताएं-बहनें हो, हमारी खेती हो, हमारा पशुधन हो, हमारे नौजवान हो, सबको साथ लेकर के एक नई ताकत के साथ भारत आगे बढ़ना चाहता है, आपके सपनों को पूरा करना चाहता है और हमारी तरफ से मेहनत करने में कोई कमी नहीं रहती, दि‍न-रात लगे रहते हैं। इस देश को आगे ले जाने के लि‍ए मुझे आपका साथ और सहकार चाहि‍ए।\nमैंने तो बहुत थोड़ी चीजें बताई हैं, लेकि‍न पि‍छले डेढ़ साल में कभी एक दि‍न ऐसा नहीं गया कि‍ कोई न कोई अच्‍छा काम न कि‍या हो, कोई अच्‍छा initiative न लि‍या हो, सारी बातें मैं बताऊं तो मुझे महीनों तक कभी रोडों में रहकर के बताने के लि‍ए बैठे रहना पड़ेगा, इतने सारे काम करने का हमें सौभाग्‍य मि‍ला है। मैं फि‍र एक बार आपके समर्थन के लि‍ए, आपके आशीर्वाद के लि‍ए आपका बहुत-बहुत आभारी हूं। फि‍र एक बार इस वि‍राट जनसभा के लि‍ए आप लोगों को कोटि‍-कोटि‍ धन्‍यवाद। वणक्‍कम। दोनों मुट्ठी बंद करके मेरे साथ बोलि‍ए भारत माता की जय। ताकत इतनी चाहि‍ए कि‍ पूरे तमि‍लनाडु में सुनाई दे, बगल में केरल में भी सुनाई दे।\nभारत माता की जय, भारत माता की जय, भारत माता की जय। Thanks a lot. वणक्‍कम।"