"Share\n\nMy government is committed to the development of a generous and comprehensive social security net for all workers: PM\n'Swasth and Samridh Shramik Will Make a Samridh Rashtra': Prime Minister Modi\nWe have initiated major reforms of the EPFO ​​and ESIC for the benefit of organized sector employees: PM\nESI Scheme is based on the Gandhian principle of \"contributions as per the ability and benefits as per the requirement\": PM Modi\nMy government is committed to the welfare of our brothers and sisters who are our nation's leaders: PM Modi\nI strongly believe in the improvement of public service delivery standards: PM Narendra Modi\nHappy that ESIC proposes to expand coverage by offering its own services with Public Private Partnerships: PM\nGovernment has taken a number of path-breaking steps for the welfare of workforce of our country: PM Modi\nShram Suvidha Portal created for online services related to 16 labor laws\nWe have approved the scheme for up gradation of existing State \u0026 Central Government medical colleges to increase MBBS seats: PM\nWe are promoting the establishment of AIIMS like institutions across the country: Prime Minister\nPM Modi recalls contribution made by Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar to the Formulation of Our Labor Laws\nVanakkam\nI have great pleasure to be amidst all of you at Coimbatore, the textile capital of South India and the commercial hub of Tamil Nadu, to inaugurate the newly constructed building for the Medical College and Hospital. On this occasion, the Central Government has also handed over the existing hospital, the medical college, and related buildings to the Tamil Nadu. It reinforces my government's commitment to co-operative federalism. I hope that the Government of Tamil Nadu will act quickly\nThis project worth 580 crore rupees will be a boon to ESICbeneficiaries and their family members in and around Coimbatore.Of the 100 MBBS seats were proposed here, ESI scheme in insured people of children for 20 seats reserved. We must have this medical college and hospital for a high quality medical education and workers to the state.\nMy government is committed to the development of a generous and comprehensive social security net for all workers. For the over 45 crore unorganized sector workers, we have, in addition to the RSBY health insurance program, The Prime Minister, Jeevan Bima Yojna, Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana, and the Atal Pension Yojana provide life and accident insurance. This commitment to the builders of modern India comes from the firm belief that a 'Swasth and Samridh Shramikwill make a Samridh Rashtra'.\nWe have initiated major reforms of the EPFO ​​and ESIC for the benefit of organized sector employees. A Universal Account Number has so far been allotted to over 6 crore sector workers, enabling portability of their EPF accounts. Further, we propose to extend coverage and offer additional facilities and services through the ESIC\nThe ESI Scheme is based on the Gandhian principle of \"contributions as per the ability and benefits as per the requirement\". This principle entitles an insured person or his family members to a uniform benefit though only paying a contribution his or her wages to the proportionate.Apart from Medical Benefit, ESIC also provides insured persons to sickness, disablement, dependents, maternity, and unemployment allowance benefits. Its unique character, with no restrictions on the expenditure and instances where more than 30 to 40 lakh rupees have been spent on treatments, means that the ESIC health scheme has received millions of workers.\nFriends, from itsmodest start in 1952 with just two centers in Kanpur and Delhi, the ESI Scheme is implemented today in 8 States and Union Territories of 830 centers. It covers over 7 lakh factories and organizations across the country and 2 crore workers and about 8 crore beneficiaries. In Tamil Nadu, the scheme is over 85,000 participating employers and over 28 lakh insurance companies, with Coimbatore itself having nearly 27,000 employers. It is available in 31 districts of Tamil Nadu.\nThere are ten ESI Hospitals in Tamil Nadu. After handing over this hospital, there will be eight ESI Hospitals in the state run by the State Government. The ESIC Hospital Tirunelveliis proposed for upgradation from 50 to 100 beds. There were 210 ESI dispensaries in the state for out-patient Coimbatore itself has 50 dispensaries.\nMy government is committed to the welfare of our brothers and sisters. Sensing the need for expansion of ESIC, I had launched a Second Generation Reform Agenda named ESIC 2.0 in July last year in the Indian Labor Conference held in New Delhi.\nThe coverage of the ESI Scheme has been extended to the rest of North-East StatesArunachal Pradesh, Mizoram, Manipur and Andaman \u0026 Nicobar Island. It is proposed to expand the coverage from the industrial and commercial clusters within a district to the whole district by 31st March this year. Since 1st year last year, the scheme has been extended to construction workers.\nI have faith in the improvement of public service delivery standards. In keeping with this, many initiatives have been introduced to improve the quality of service delivery in ESI Hospitals. They includeonline availability of electronic health record of ESI beneficiaries, establishment of an emergency medical helpline, and creation of special out patient services for senior citizens and differently-abled people in ESIC hospitals.To improve the cleanliness, the Abhiyan Indradhanushchanges bedsheets, according to the rainbow pattern of each day of the week. And the preventive healthcare of cleanliness is a significant aspect. Studies show that it can lead to savings of almost 7,000 rupees per year for a poor family.\nAmong other initiatives, the ESIC has resolved to adopt two model hospitals in each state, apart from a mother and child care hospital. I am happy that ESIC proposes to extend its coverage through public private partnerships.Apart from cancer detection, cardiology treatment, and dialysis, the corporation also proposes to provide pharmacological and X-ray facilities in all its dispensaries Through PPPs.Besides allopathic treatment, ESIC hospitals will also provide AYUSH treatment in a phased manner.\nFriends, my government has taken a number of path-breaking steps for the welfare of workforce of our country.From September 2014, we have revised the Employee Provident Fund Organization (EPFO) pension to a minimum of 1000 rupees per month.The wage ceiling For EPF benefits has been raised from 6500 to 15000 rupees. An EPFO ​​Mobile App has been launched for easy access to its services for both workers and employers. The Bonus Act is amended to increase the eligibility for the ceilings and bonus to 21,000 and 7000 rupees per month respectively.\nKeeping in mind our commitment to \"minimum government, maximum governance\", the Ministry is simplifying central labor laws by consolidating the current 44 laws in four labour codes. Namely, on wages, industrial relations, safety and security, and health. This would significantly increase the ease of doing business and facilitate job creation, without compromising on the real protections and rights available for workers. We are progressing on the path of building by consensus on these reforms through comprehensive stakeholder consultations with employers, workers' representatives, and state governments\nA Shram Suvidha Portal has been created for online services related to 16 labor laws, including administering a process of transparent and random inspections of businesses. A LINUX number one million employers to be issued, making them single online filings to be processed aloneight Labor laws The services offered by ESIC and EPFO ​​has been integrated with the e-Biz portal of the Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion to promote ease of business and limited transaction costs. Further, it is proposed to be promulgatenew EPFO ​​and ESIC Acts providing more choice, more coverage among workers and employers, and better and expanded range of services.\nOur plans to expand ESIC facilities, indeed the establishment of this medical college itself, is part of a larger plan to upgrade the facilities for medical education and specialty tertiary care.\nWe have also approved a scheme for up gradation of existing State and Central Government medical colleges to increase MBBS seats. Through this, we hope to increase 10,000 MBBS seats and support the colleges. So far, 23 medical colleges have been approved to increase over 1,700 MBBS seats. I am happy to inform that four state government medical colleges in Tamil Nadu at Coimbatore, Kanyakumari, Tirunelveli and Madurai have been approved for upgradation by adding 345 more MBBS seats.\nWith similar purpose, we are also promoting the establishment of AIIMS like institutions across the country. One such institution has also been approved for Tamil Nadu and with the support of the State Government I hope this institution will start admissions quickly\nFriends, we all know that the Father of the Constitution is Bharat Ratna Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar I am so happy to inform that the Ministry of Labor and Employment, last month, in a conference in Delhi, Dr. Ambedkar of 125th Birth Anniversary Year commemorate. Dr. BR Ambedkar - Labor Welfare \u0026 Empowerment: Initiatives to make his vision a reality. Which is the occasion of the vision. We have a vision of vision to realize collective and collaborative work to resolve. Dr. Ambedkar for Labor Welfare\nFriends, industrial peace and harmony can be achieved only when the goals of employment and employmentability in tune with the industrial development and growth. It is our shared vision for an environment, which is the basis for inclusive growth and development of the country. I assure the state government all the cooperation from the government in all itsefforts in this direction.\nI am encouraged to work more for the welfare of the workforce of India and strive towards \"Making India a Better Work Place for All\".\nLet us all be able to make our country the best place to work and live in.\nJai hind!"