"Share\n\nThis year marks 125th birth anniversary of Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar He was a 'Mahapurush' who gave us the Constitution: PM Modi\nThere were many hurdles in Dr. Ambedkar's life but there was no feeling of revenge or ill-will within him: PM\nIt is our tricolor, the aspirations of 125 crore Indians and the Constitution that bind us together: PM Modi\nForums like the NCC connect people from across India \u0026 create an emotion of oneness: PM\nAll the NCC cadets coming from the corners of the country and a large number of guests,\nOn January 26, we celebrated the enthusiasm and enthusiasm of the Republic Day and we have once again resolved our faith and devotion towards democracy to our belief in the constitution of India.\nThis year is also the year of Baba Saheb Ambedkar's 125th birth anniversary. The great man who gave such a great constitution to the country. Even the great men who struggled with life-long crises, kept on torturing and being neglected, even though they never let themselves distract themselves from the path. Obstacles came, distress came and sometimes social neglect, he wounds so deep that the normal humanities throughout the life can not forget him. But Baba Saheb Ambedkar was not a normal life like us. Even after facing neglect all over the life, when there was an opportunity to give a constitution to the country, there is no malice to anyone in any corner of that constitution, there is no sense of change. The churning that was due to the life that had taken place over and over. From that churning, the Constitution was a nectar, which we have now, even after so many years of the Republic Day celebrations, even after years of independence, to join us on the shoulder side, to carry out our responsibilities for the country. Inspires, our guide is.\nYou have come from every corner of India, what is it that brings us by dragging, what is the matter which we have difficulty in language, the costumes are different, living life is different, despite it It also gives the strength to remain united, that is our Mother India, our Tricolor flag, this is our constitution. And dreams of 500 million people, their aspiration, desire gives us the motivation to do something.\nAn opportunity to join the parade as NCC cadets. By wearing a uniform in the NCC at your place, Sina Tanakaar got a chance to walk along. Ever got the chance to live camp life, and sometimes have the opportunity to see the arms. This age is such that there is thrill in all these things, there is a sense of adventure and patriotism continues to make energy for the new dreams by continuously becoming energy.\nWhen you were experiencing a group life for this parade for 26 January from one month. It will be difficult to wake up at three o'clock in the morning, it feels like taking a little sleep in such a big cold, but the thunderbolt rings, the whistle rings, it has to move. The five-ten minutes of the start goes like this, what will the day be? But as soon as the rhythm comes in, then it does not have to leave this path and it is the same, that is the power of life. Some moment may be confused, but in the moment, who takes care of himself, for the purpose, invites himself for the floor, he enjoys a different joy of living a life.\nAll cadets have experienced a group life. He found what he learned in the field. According to the order, the hand and foot should move. That is the world of discipline, but after that, with my new friends, I have spent months with newcomers. When you get to know them from small to small subjects They will ask for food, ask for life. Then you slowly assimilate Mother Bharati within yourself. When a child of Kashmir speaks with Kerala's child, then he connects Kashmir and Kerala with his heart. Realizes the feeling. It is your extension. The collective life leads to ego towards ego. Creates an opportunity to connect with the whole world. Collective life gives birth to a new energy. Those who experience alone, there is a new perception in collective life and through such programs there is an opportunity to live a collective life. More than what they teach in the field, they learn from collective life at other times and I know when you will be away from here, how will that moment be? How many will be tears in their eyes, everyone will think when they will meet again, where did they come from? When you went to come here from your village, for a month. Then no one should have left, nor should anyone tears or hurt your heart that I am going to Delhi from my village, but today I am going to my village from Delhi, going between my parents, But some are feeling lost or lost. This is the very strong power of the country, which is its identity. Keeping this power alive as a sacrament, the opportunity to die for the country is not in everyone's luck, but the opportunity to live for the country is in the life of every person.\nIf we try to awaken, we will live for the country even if we live. Even after doing some tax, even for the countrymen, by fulfilling their hardships with resolutions, life will achieve such a life which will serve the country of life. And then there will be some other satisfaction in life. And so today, when all the cadets are going to come back to the corner of the country, I wish them many good wishes and who have seen the environment here, how to get the same environment here. If we have seen hygiene here, how to deliver cleanliness in our village. If we have seen an atmosphere of patriotism here, then how to create a patriotic atmosphere in our village. Let us go through these resolutions, how we should extend the experience we have experienced here. I once again congratulate all the cadets on NCC, the heart of the NCC tradition and heartfelt greetings to all of you.\nBharat Mata Ki Jai, Bharat Mata Ki Jai Long live Mother India. Thanks a lot."