"India is now discussing global warming and ways to mitigate it: PM Modi\nTwo landmarks initiatives emerged in # COP21 India and France played key roles in those: PM\nInternational Solar Alliance will impact generations in a big way: PM Modi\nUS, India, France took initiative of innovation; Let's innovate and protect our environment: PM\nIndia expressed keenness on solar alliance France was very helpful, did everything possible\nSolar alliance to ensure that the world gets more energy: PM Modi\nHonorable President of France, Sir Holland, who came from France, Mr. Minister of Higher Ministers, Haryana, Shri, Chief Minister Shri, Mr. Piyush Goyal, Delegation of France and dear brothers and sisters who came in large number!\nFor the last one year, it was a discussion among all the world that what steps should the world take to resolve the issues in front of Global Warming? And which paths to follow? There was an eagerness in the whole world regarding the COP 21 in Paris, the concerned people were trying to create an impact on their own way, and for almost two weeks all countries of the world met together, Knowledgeable people of these subjects have gathered discussions all over the world, and go ahead and become more determined to protect mankind in front of this great crisis.\nThere has been good news in the world regarding the decisions of the COP 21 but when two discussions of the COP 21 were going on one side on Paris's ground, two important initiatives were taken. India and France have played a very important role in these two important initiatives. One is the initiative of global warming, on the one hand, to protect mankind from the crisis of the environment and on the other side to meet the needs of mankind. Developing countries are yet to overcome new heights of development and development is not possible without energy. In a way energy development has become an important part of the journey. But if the fossil produces energy from the fuel, then the worry of global warming is harassed and if the energy does not create, then not only the darkness is enveloped, life gets drowned in darkness. And what can be the way to save the world from such a dilemma? And then by going to America, France India has taken a initiative of the three together and it is the initiative of innovation. Get new discoveries, build new resources, our scientists, our technicians, our engineers, bring new things that do not affect the environment. Global Warming sees a way to save the world and develop the tools that are sustainable, sustainable and poor people are in the reach. In order to run a huge campaign for innovation, a major decision was taken by taking all such arrangements of America, France and India together and proceeded to launch it. President Obama, President Hollande and I and the UN General Secretary and Mr. Bill Gates, we were present at that ceremony and started a new initiative. The second important decision has been taken, which will have a major impact on human life for the coming decades.\nThere are many types of organizations running in the world. The organization of OPEC countries is G-20 is G-4, SAARC, European Union, ASEAN countries, many types of organizations have remained in the world. India has kept an idea in front of the world that if countries producing petroleum can be assembled, African countries can be one, European countries can be one, why not one country should be formed in countries where the countries have 300 days Sunlight is obtained in more than a year.\nThis sun is a source of great power, in the running of all life, the sun has an important role in running the universe. Why do not we accept the path of world welfare by accepting him as a force. More than 300 days, Sun benefits. There are approximately 122 countries in this world. And so the idea came, why not we build an organization of 122 countries that are affected by the Sun power. The President of France expressed my desire to see the wish of the President of France, we went on behalf of the shoulders to contact the countries of the world, and in November the conference was going on in Paris in November, on 30th November, the head of all the nations of the world The ceremony was present and an International Solar Alliance was born on this institution.\nIt was decided in this that its Global Secretariat will remain in India. This International Solar Alliance is headquartered in Gurgaon. This Haryana is the land of 'Kurukshetra', the message of the Gita from where, from that land we are reaching a new message of world welfare as the Solar Alliance.\nToo few people will guess that what this phenomenon is going to mean is going to affect the human race, the same people can understand this, who live on a small island, are small island countries and whose It is fearing that if the height of the water increases in the ocean, then it will not know when their country will be submerged, they do not know that they will end this world, these small countries are worried day and night. . The countries which have settled on the shores of the sea, the countries are worried that if the sea surface is increasing due to global warming, then what will happen to our Mumbai, what will happen to Chennai? And there will be many countries of the world, whose fate will be such a large space which is on the banks of the sea. The whole world is worried. And in the last one year, these island countries, which I met with many of their leaders, I have understood their pain. Can India not play this duty?\nLivelihood is considered a great virtue in our country. Today I can say that the International Solar Alliance is going to be a virtuous work of life, which is going to create its impact on the world after the coming decades. The whole world says that the temperature should be low, but the way to reduce the temperature is also the temperature of the sun. The crisis of energy from one energy to another can be eradicated. And that's why the world also needs the energy requirement, innovation is also done and work is done in the direction of solar effect by taking solar.\nIt is true that International Solar Alliance is headquartered in India, is happening in Gurgaon, but this institute is not an institution of Hindustan. It is a Global Institution, it is an Independent Institute. Like the United Nations in the United States, but it is from the whole world. Like WHO, it's the whole world. Similarly, the International Solar Alliance's Headquarter is the World Heritage Site and it will run Independent. People from different countries will lead it, people of different countries will take responsibility for it, a method will develop, but today its Secretariat is becoming, we want to move this thing through the Secretariat.\nIndia has pioneered the use of traditional natural resources in the field of energy. When India said that we want to go to 175Giga Watt, Renewable Energy, then there was great surprise for the world. The word Giga Watt in India is also new, when we could not even think beyond Mega Watt. We are thinking today on Giga Watt and we want to provide all the sources of energy from 175 Giga Watt Solar Energy, Wind Energy, Nuclear Energy, Biomass, and I am glad that today India is more than 5000 MW solar energy he installed. The work that has taken place in such a short time is the result of the commitment that in order to protect mankind for the welfare of mankind, to protect nature, to protect the whole creation of this whole creation, Can India make any contribution? It has taken the initiative to give that contribution.\nI am grateful to the President of the French President that the issue of global warming environment at the time of this concern is very similar to that of India's thinking, which is the way to resolve this issue, because the values ​​of France and India's values ​​are quite similar and hence When we met both of them in the month of April last year, we had decided that we will find a book at COP 21 and research on how these issues were traditionally seen inside the world. E And we both have written the preface of that book together and presented the basic thought of what they had before the world.\nThese things are why we are doing that the roads which are being searched for mankind to avoid this crisis, they should be a collective effort, innovative efforts, and the result will be the fulfillment of the human race's needs. But there is no harm to nature. We are the people whose ancestors have taught us to love this earth. We were never taught to exploit the nature, we are also divine in the plant. It has been taught since childhood. This is our tradition. If this is the tradition, then we should give the world its benefit and that we should do something in that direction and under this, we are launching a Secretariat of the international solar alliance today. And in the form of a grand house in the future, it will be constructed, an independent building is ready for it, and also for this work you are very grateful for this work.\nIt is a pleasure for me that the solar alliance is being built. Today we had to come here from Delhi. We could have come by road too, could also come from a helicopter, but we both decided that it would be good that we have metro Go away and today among us there was an opportunity to come from Metro.\nI am grateful to the President that he agreed to come to Metro today and we traveled through the Metro, because he is also a message because there is a way in the ways of fighting against global warming. I believe that these efforts will be very pleasant. Yesterday India is going to celebrate the Republic Day, on the eve of this celebration, I wish all the best wishes to the countrymen and balanced both the rights and the duty, we will move the country forward. This is my best wishes.\nThank you very much"