"PM Narendra Modi congratulates the children\nThe presence of the children is really commendable: PM\nThe bravery of some PM has given a part of Swabhav: PM Modi\nChildren should continue to develop their career, as well as their abilities: PM\nMy friend of the Council of Ministers, Mrs Maneka ji ... Geeta ji and today the heroes who are receiving the prizes and their family members and all the great privilege I congratulate all these children with heart very much. I also honor their parents. But I was watching that most awards are connected to water and some that are connected to electricity. Maybe there will be things which will come in the early meditation.\nThe incident does not have much significance as to how much time that child should have thought in the mind of that child how that step took action. We will also see that many incidents happen even in our lives, but at that time we do not notice that yes its probably it could be. And therefore the presence of mind and the act accordingly, is the result of that someone's courage gives new life to anyone.\nThis is a child who has done such things. But courage should be a nature in the person's life. If courage is not a nature. Courage is just one event, then the kind of people in society need to feel the lack of it. The children who have done these things. We have to think that the man will have done right now. But if you look at the relation between that event and that perspective, then it shows how it will be done. At that time if the wire remembered, he remembered the plastic slipper, if it seems normal, then it should be saved. The whole thing came in her mind together. This is a very big thing in itself. Otherwise it is okay to see if someone will try. Let me save a little. But after doing so many things together and successfully doing it, it means that someone or something moves on his mind.\nIn general, the person is brave so there is no assistant. It is not necessary. Be brave If you are in the battleground then you can defeat. But as long as there is no sense of inner intimacy, courage does not appear. The sense of doing something for someone is not easily part of the nature, then it does not happen and it happens when there is a sense of belongingness towards everybody.\nIf something falls into our eye, then no circular has to be removed that the hand will get up, go to the eye and fix the eye, so do not have to remove the circular. But there is nothing left in the eye that the hand does not reach there. The finger does not help leaving some of the eyes ... Why do we have an Anga? One part of the body is connected with another part so soulically that the other organ of the body acts easily.\nEven in society, when it comes to human beings, towards society, towards nature, it is an anga paap. There is a sense of belonging. I am a part of this ocean, then by going, there is a motivation for doing something for him and he gets transformed into courage and changes the conditions. I congratulate them for the work done by these children. But I would like to say that this is a picture, this is an incident, that should not be everything for her life, otherwise a glamor comes, it becomes wow. If guests come to the house then parents also keep talking about this for the first ten minutes. Those guests will come four times only when they keep telling the same thing. So that's natural too. But occasionally it becomes a barrier to the development journey.\nI would not want these awards in these children's lives, these honors, these glorified legends, these incidents stop there. To stop her life, her life should constantly cross new heights. And the book that has been released has been released. She has been collected with the fact that those children received the reward, what happened later. Those things have been searched and searched in this book. This is the biggest message that I think there was a moment in life that did something in the moment, but that moment is not life. Thousands of crores make life from those moments. The complete picture of that journey is in this book.\nI am sure that the child and his family members will also notice the children who did something in his childhood. But he continued to do something continuously. When it comes to some period of life, standing on his feet, what he did for society, all the things are in this book. I congratulate all those children with heart. Thank you."