"Share\n\nDr. Babasaheb Ambedkar did a lot for the nation but he was a subject about education: PM\nDr. Ambedkar felt that struggles could be overcome through education: PM Modi\nDr. Ambedkar faced many obstacles, even insults. But he had the power \u0026 faced these obstacles: PM\nIndia is a nation full of youthful energy, with youthful dreams and youthful resolve, says PM Modi\nYouth is India's source of strength: PM Narendra Modi\nLearning from One's failures is very important: PM\nThis century is India's century and it is India's century because of the youth of India: PM Modi\nAll the senior dignitaries and young people present,\nAmbedkar University has got the privilege of coming for the convocation. Baba Saheb Ambedkar gave this country a lot. But one thing that is mandatory for the future of this country and for whom Baba Saheb was dedicated, in a way he had lived for him, he used to struggle for him and that was the matter, education was there. They used to tell everyone the same thing that if there is any way to get rid of difficulties in life, then there is education. If there is an opportunity for struggle in life then there is also a path to victory in the struggle, even in the struggle. And his mantra was - Be educated, become organized, fight. These conflicts have to be done with oneself too. You have to do with yourself and also around you. But this is possible when we are educated and they said that the words of their mantra became educated.\nBaba Saheb Ambedkar was inspired by the tradition of Lord Buddha. Lord Buddha's message was Apapa Deepo Bhav. Educate yourself. But the published life comes with the light of darkness and the illuminated life comes with the guarantee of abolishing the darkness and therefore life should be self-published, it must be published itself. And its path also passes through education. But we rarely have to understand Baba Saheb Ambedkar. He was such a great personality, he was such a global personality. It was the personality of contact with era-era, which is beyond the scope of our ability to understand. But as much as we understand, the message is this - we imagine that there is some difficulty in our life, there is some shortage, and if there is an intention to get something out of it then how much do we scream. First of all, start by complaining or waiting to ask for something. See Baba Saheb Ambedkar's life. Every kind of hardship, every kind of neglect, every kind of insult. There was no family background in which education was possible, nor was there a state of social composition that a person born of this Koch would get education opportunity. The crisis was overwhelming, but within this great man, it was flame, that was agonizing, that was calamity, that was the power, that was the strength, that power was that. They did not have time to complain. I did not like to cry. He chose the path; Confronting all the obstacles, to overcome all obstacles, even in the midst of ignorance, in the midst of humiliation, even the fear of power within the fear of his inner strength did not let him get distracted and till then he showed it.\nVery few people will know, we mostly know that they were the creators of the Constitution, but in America they were the first Indians who had received PhD in Economics. And everywhere in the world, all possibilities existed for the happiness of the person's life, but they did not like to live for themselves, otherwise they could live. He was welcomed and respected in every country of the world. After getting everything he devoted all this to Bharat Mata. He came back and decided that in my lifetime, my life was spent for dalit, suffering, exploited and disadvantaged for them, I will spend and they kept doing this throughout the life.\nWe are students of Ambedkar University. Parents give birth to a child. At that time, more fun than he does, his child, son or daughter, becomes educated and enters into the social life. Today's moment is that the joy of your parents at the time of your birth will be more than that for them, while you are entering the second period of one life by completing a critical period of life.\nThe tradition of the convocation ceremony here shows us the first mention in the Tutoric Upanishad. Thousands of years ago, the first mention of the Convocation ceremony is in the Permanent Upanishad. When the disciples were initiated in Gurukul and since then there is a tradition of convergent ceremony in every society in the world and when you go from here, you are given lots of preaching, are given repeatedly. You have also been told in the classroom, this is to be done, this is not to be done. It is to do that, to do that. You may also think, too much has been done. Leave us on us and so if you have to explain to me what to do and what not to do, your education is incomplete.\nEducation should be that you should be well versed in the causation of the causation and the idle and that comes from the books, it is not so. Knowledge is obtained from books and nowadays all Google students are all students. The big master, Google, is in the class room who is his teacher. The answer to every question is that he asks Google Guru and he answers. There is an era of information in a way. The more information the person has, the more information will be considered to be more powerful, but the difficulty is that, sources of information have become so much, sorting through it. What information is important to me and what information is useful to me, through which I can work for the society or do something in my life, it is difficult to sort out and to sort out, To sort out the appropriate things, the mode which is required, gets read from the teachers in the class room of the University. You are going to a new direction in your life after receiving that mode.\nSometimes we will feel that I used to work hard day and night, so I am getting medal, so I am getting a degree. Someone would also feel that my parents did a lot for me, gave me the opportunity. I reached the place of reading and writing today, good feelings for parents would be awake. Someone would also think that today my teachers taught me because of that, everyone came here from the realm of their thinking, he would have thought that where I was reaching, there is somebody's contribution but what we see There is a huge world beyond that. Anyone who has helped me till I get this degree. Maybe I have never seen him, I never listened to him, but he also had some contribution. Ever wondered, the book I used to read, which I wrote in the note book, would be made in a factory. There will be a laborer who has not spent poor money for the education of his children, but made a paper for me, that paper would be in a factory. Someone would be a poor son, who would be working in the printer's job. For us, he would be typing on the computer, preparing our book, without any mistake, whether he was a graduate, or not, but there would be no mistake in typography, otherwise the coming generations will be uneducated, he will read mistakes. This worry, this person has to worry about that which has never been given the opportunity to see the doors of the college, then that book will have come in my hand, and then I have been able to read it. How much of society do we have on debt? If you live in this campus, you will have an exam, intent to break the record, you will be reading night and night and at night at 2 o'clock, you would have got tea and it would be better if you got out of the room, If someone who sells tea under the tree would have slept, then he would have awakened him. It is very early to read this morning, make a tea. It would be cold, old age, but he would have made tea for Jagga. You can become such a big baba by reading and writing, do not do anything for him, he knows that but you want to become something and his night is bad and if your tea comes to work, then he enjoys it. .\nWhat I mean to say is that wherever we are, whatever is happening, whatever is going to be made, are not created due to them, this is the whole society, whose smallest person has some contribution for us then go Our life is formed. I am going to this congressional ceremony, then the walls of this university, the walls of this class room, these teachers, these books, this lesson, these exams, the result, this gold medal, will my world be steeped there, will not I The world can not be resided by living there, I have come from Ambedkar University, the person who was the first Indian to get the degree of PHD from a good university of the world, but he did mind, I would go back to India and myself I will spend the poor for the country. If I am a student of that university, I too will do something for someone, I can go by taking this message of life. It is not a difficult task to take, drink, become, friends, there are lots of ways for this but it is difficult, do something. It's not difficult to take, get, wake. Doing something, intention to do something, to live that life is very difficult to cross that intent, and so today when we are going, we can get out of the intention of doing something, if something can come out of the intention of doing something So leave the worry of what you create, the satisfaction of doing that is so much that he will reach you somewhere, some will make something, and therefore life will live in that form, try to get it, fight life, C Friends should eat All the great men we saw in the world. Every great man has not got everything easily. There are very few people who are fortunate to have buttermilk, but they are those people whose fortune is written on the stone and therefore the beginning of life, is now there.\nUntil now you were protected, you were still expecting parents, you used to make your mind that the son now reads, did not put too much burden. You were also in the university, had some difficulty, used to ask friends and friends, used to talk to the teacher, the faculty would ask the member. There was a protected environment, there was a need for something, someone was about to give a hand, but after going out of here all of them would be finished. Now nobody will worry about you. Suddenly till yesterday you were a student, the whole world used to care for you. Today the students have completed, the new life has begun, the view of seeing the world towards you changes. Parents will also ask, what is the son next, did something, what some thought After 3 months you will say, why Bhai is not something, do you wander, take some work. This is to be, i.e. the life test starts now and the life test starts now, then every moment we miss those things when the teacher had said in the class room then it was a joke, then now the steps in the realm of life It seems that the teacher was saying that day, on that day, he made fun of that day, but today needs to be read, everything will be remembered and that is the biggest support of living life. Go with a belief, whatever I have found in life, its edge will be sharp in this criterion, I will not let it go anywhere, I will not let myself drown in the pit of despair. I will find a way of life struggling in front of the crisis, the belief is very important, the failures come in life, but sometimes if the man does the compost of success, then failure is only a fertilizer of success, the same fertilizer works. is. Do not be afraid of failures and should not feel embarrassed between friends and friends, but anxiety happens when someone is not ready to learn from failure, then success in his life does not knock on the door. And that's why the biggest lesson of life is that, it is how to learn from the failures, how to get energy from the failures, and when most of those people are successful, they also convert the failures into the stairs of their success.\nI believe that whatever you have spent here in 3 years, 4 years, 5 years, whatever you have achieved, give you stability in every stage of life, balance in full time, balance the whole time, I do not believe There will be an opportunity to be disappointed in life, balanced life is also very important. In the goodness which does not get distracted and which does not get discouraged in the difficulty, then life should be there and therefore due to that emotion, then there should be something made in life.\nI am standing among young people today, on one hand, there is such a great happiness in my life because I feel that 21st century is a century of Hindustan and the 21st century Hindustan is so because India is the youngest country in the world. 65 percent of young people are under 35 years of age. This country is young, dreams of this country are also young. The determination of this country is also young and the dead people are also young for this country. This young power is our great heritage, it is precious to us. But at the same time when it comes to the news that the young son of my country, Rohit, has been forced to commit suicide. What will happen to her family? Mother Bharti lost her red one. The reason will be in their place, politics will be in their place, but the truth is that mother lost a red. I feel well at its pain.\nBut we want to take this country in this direction, where there is a new embarrassment, a new resolution, a new self-confidence, a youth struggling with crisis and dreams of Baba Saheb Ambedkar, to fulfill those dreams There is unremitting effort. Taking that effort ahead is to move forward. It is true that in our country of development in two areas in life, more and more, in most of our development. एक Public sector, एक private sector...corporate world. एक तरफ सरकार की PSU’s है दूसरी तरफ corporate world है। बाबा साहेब अम्‍बेडकर के सपनों की जो अर्थव्‍यवस्‍था है, उस अर्थव्‍यवस्‍था के बि‍ना यह देश आर्थि‍क प्रगति‍ नहीं कर सकता है। बाबा साहेब अम्‍बेडकर ने जो आर्थि‍क वि‍कास के सपने देखे थे, उन सपनों की पूर्ति‍ करनी है तो नि‍जी क्षेत्र का अत्‍यंत महत्‍व है और मैं नि‍जी क्षेत्र कहता हूं मतलब। मेरी परि‍भाषा अलग है, हर individual अपने पैरों पर कैसे खड़ा रहे। मेरे देश का नौजवान job-seeker न बने, मेरे देश का नौजवान job-creator बने।\nअभी कुछ दि‍न पहले मुझे दलि‍त उद्योगकारों के सम्‍मेलन में जाने का अवसर मि‍ला और एक अलग chamber of commerce चलता है जि‍समें सारे दलि‍त उद्योगकार है और मुझे वो दृश्‍य देखकर के इतना आनन्‍द हुआ। मैंने देखा यहां ये बाबा साहेब अम्‍बेडकर का सपना मुझे यहां नज़र आता है। इस देश में स्‍वरोजगारी का सामर्थ्‍य कैसे बढ़े और इसके लि‍ए skill development, Start-Up इसको बल दे रहे हैं। हमने बैंकों को सूचना देकर के रखी है। देश में सवा लाख branch है बैंकों की, सवा लाख। हमने उनको कहा है कि‍ आप एक branch, एक दलि‍त या उस इलाके में tribal है तो एक tribal और एक महि‍ला। उनको Start-Up के लि‍ए पैसे दे। 20 लाख, 50 लाख दे और without guarantee दे। innovation करने के लि‍ए, नई चीज करने के लि‍ए उसको प्रेरि‍त करे और वो अपने पैरों पर खड़ा हो, बाद में दो-पांच-दस लागों को रोजगार देने वाली ताकत वाला बने। समस्‍याओं के समाधान के लि‍ए innovation लेकर के, नई चीज लेकर के आए। अगर सभी बैंक की branch इस काम को करे तो ढाई लाख-तीन लाख लोग एक साथ नए, नई पीढ़ी के नौजवान, व्‍यावसायि‍क जगत में, उद्योग जगत में, innovation की दुनि‍या में enter हो सकते हैं और इसलि‍ए मैंने ‘Start-up India, Stand-Up India’ का एक बड़ा अभियान चलाया है। मैं चाहता हूं नौजवानों को करने के लि‍ए बहुत कुछ है, सि‍र्फ इरादा चाहि‍ए। बाकी व्‍यवस्‍थाएं अपने आप जुड़ जाती है। आज आप यहां से नि‍कल रहे हैं, उसी इरादे के साथ नि‍कले। कुछ पाकर के नि‍कले और कुछ देने के लि‍ए नि‍कले और मैंने जैसे कहा, एक बहुत बड़ा जगत है जि‍सके कारण मैं कुछ बन रहा हूं, उस जगत के लि‍ए जीएं, उनके लि‍ए कुछ करे। यही मेरी आप सबको शुभकामनाएं हैं।\nआपके मां-बाप के सपनों को पूरा करने के लि‍ए आपको शक्‍ति‍ मि‍ले। आप अपने जीवन में संकल्‍पों को पूर्ण करने के लि‍ए ताकत प्राप्‍त करे, इसी एक अपेक्षा के साथ बहुत-बहुत शुभकमानाएं, बहुत-बहुत धन्‍यवाद।"