"\nHimachal Pradesh is the land of spiritualuality and bravery: PM Modi\nGovernment is focusing on next-generation infrastructure in Himachal Pradesh Projects related to highways, railways, power, solar energy and petroleum sector, are underway in the state: PM\nThose people who have lost money are now afraid of 'Chowkidar': PM Modi\nLong live Mother India\nLong live Mother India\nMy dear brothers and sisters in the huge number of Godboys found in large numbers\nWhenever you get an opportunity to come to Himachal and as soon as you come among the people it seems that I have come to my house; I have come among my friends. For a very long time, I had the privilege of working in the organization by going to the corner-corner, I had a lot to learn and I am happy that at that time at the tahsil level, at the district level, I have been supporting the organization. Were; Such people have become all the leaders of Himachal's first line within two decades now. And how much fun this scene would have given me, maybe no one can imagine it.\nThose partners who have seen at a small level may have experienced their abilities and they should bear fruits, flowers, blossoms, and bring the excitement of their work all away; Then there is so much satisfaction, it seems like the period of life has been blessed. And for this, I congratulate all those Himachal colleagues today with whom I got an opportunity to work for many years by joining the shoulder and today they are reaching new heights of progress and from our happiness, The beloved Himachal is also taking on new heights.\nThis is a holy land, it is the land of gods and goddesses, it is God's land. Mother Jwala ji, Chamunda ji, Chintuburnani Maa, Bhimakali Ho, Hidamba Devi Ho, How many memories, Kiss-Kiska Kya Kisi-Kiseka consciousness; Everything here is heritage. Every village- a village with a place of gods and goddesses, such a life where peace is a natural disposition.\nAnyone can imagine that here only the children of the valiant mothers stand on their shoulders in the defense of the country, then the enemy trembles after seeing him. Courage, valor, strength is in the veins of the heroes of this earth. But it is also very happy that these heroic sons and these heroic mothers, who have the power to kill and die on the border, every house in Himachal is the messenger of peace here. It's a big deal in itself. Such a peaceful life, so much brotherly love, so much love, I have experienced so much that I want to speak to him today and I feel like this. Peace prevails here from the womb of peace and that bravery is intact. This is probably the special identity of Himachal in itself.\nI once again - and this land, when I came from Helipad, Shantaji immediately rehearsed the old memories that Bhai now has his old Kangada. That's what Dhauladhar - is not visible today. And now this is our hospice; He has made his place in the sports world of India. It has become a center of attraction for the sports people of the country. And in such a short time, the development of this region has been created, and I congratulate you for this, congratulate you.\nThis time I will go away from here immediately because the program, parliament is also going on, will have to get out immediately. But even then, remembering sometimes also brings joy in mind. Come here and do not miss Kangri Dham. Often at the wedding ceremony, Kangri Dham - Who does not enjoy this? Gram and Masad Dal, Jagmeedand's vegetable, colorful rice and Madura are served. Let's go today.\nThe movie I was shown was really impressed. There is not much time in one state for a year, there is very little time. Initially, the new government should fix the office, clean old things; It takes time in the same. But in the film I saw that within a year-so much has done so much that you have taken so many initiatives, whatever efforts have been made to reach the masses, the government has tried to take the village to village, house-to-house ; I congratulate Jairamji on his whole team very much. This is a huge task in itself. Now all of you have worked but you will do one of my work. Will you do If you tell a little bit, you will know.\nwill do?\nsure?\nWell the people of Himachal do what they say and show them Never stay behind. Of course, do a job today The film that was shown here, you should try that the mobile of any of Himachal's mobile should not be such that the mobile which has not reached its connectivity, has not reached its clips, and it is seen on its mobile.\nWill you guys work?\nWill sure\nSee, then people will feel how big the work is here.\nSathiyo, Himachal and Atalji, remained an unbroken relationship and for them it used to be their second home. And always used to spend some time with Himachalic people. Atal Bihari Vajpayee ji has done the work of establishing a strong foundation for the development of industrial development in Himachal today. And catching the same door, the Bharatiya Janata Party government has taken charge of work for Himachal not only in tourism, but also cultivating it from industrial perspective, not only cultivating it.\nGenerally a proverb was said to be old- the government of Jairam ji of the Bharatiya Janata Party is doing the task of proving that saying completely wrong. Old people are familiar with the old saying - that the water of the mountain and the mountain of the mountain can never be used for the mountain - it is said. The water of the mountain goes away, the mountain's youth goes somewhere to earn roti-roti.\nBut today the Himachal government has proved that the mountain water is also used for the mountain and the mountain will also be used for the mountain, it will be useful for the bright future of Himachal. And for this, vocational training, skill development; Right now when I was watching the exhibition-human resources development has been given so much emphasis.\nIn order to create a future of a new generation, in particular the plans have been made, really are going to affect anyone, and not today, in the coming years, it will emerge like this power, such strength will emerge, Perhaps in hill states or in small states, no one will be able to compete in Himachal, I see it clearly with my eyes. And so for these plans also, for attempts to go in the direction of industrial development, I will literally go forward in the direction of such a big, such a huge, and so much and so prudent schemes within a year, how strong the fortune of Himachal will be. , Indicate this.\nNow when someone does more work, does a good job and does it well, then even ours also thinks, we too will do something for him. We also think - You see, when there was an old government in Delhi - do you know? Then Himachal got 21 thousand crore rupees, but the Bharatiya Janata Party's government formed, you gave me an opportunity to serve me, so today Himachal is giving Rs. 72 thousand crore to 21 thousand rupees now.\nThat is, 50 thousand crores more than the earlier government And this is possible because the Indian government is confident that there will be proper use of pie-pie here. Here the new Himachal will be made of Pi-Pi, the bright Himachal will become, the prosperous Himachal will become, Himachal will cross the new heights of progress- this confidence is on the Indian Government on Himachal Pradesh. It is also here on the people and the representatives you have put up are also trusted in those nominees. And so I see how well pie-pie is being used. Permanently for development is happening.\nI remember equally when I used to work here in the organization, I was always insistent to go to the power station and more than half the power centers were such that there was no road to reach; Had to reach the small hill climb. But the scope of the connectivity with Prime Minister Gram Sadak Yojana is being increased these days - the difficulties that have passed through the life here - all the arrangements to provide the facilities and infrastructure for them are very much needed.\nI remember equally in our la-spiti, potatoes in there, they themselves know anyone who is familiar with them - they know, but when I used to work here I always used to have such a rich yield here- But due to the absence of infrastructure, it gets spoiled before reaching the market and the farmers here who do not get what they should get, it used to be me at that time. And now the work is going on in the direction of value addition, it is being thought. That is how the life will change in the far-flung areas.\nIn the last few days, making a major decision, beneficial to the farmers and especially to the farmers of Himachal, is going to be very beneficial, as many Coca-Cola, Pepsi, Phanta; This bottle sells water- aerated water We call companies that brother is your test, you have quality, you run - a big market is yours. But a little agree to our point. Mix the fruit juice of 5 percent which is a natural fruit. So that my farmers get a huge market of fruits and those who drink this water of your bottle, they also get some body-beneficial elements.\nAnd I am glad that today such companies are coming forward gradually and they are using natural fruit juice in their water which are aerated water, are using it, some people are coming forward. It is my belief that in the coming days, farmers who cultivate fruit will create a huge market for our farmers.\nAs far as infrastructure is concerned, we are focusing on the next generation infrastructure. Today, there are highways, railway hoists, electricity, solar systems, and petroleum arrangements - projects worth Rs. 26 thousand crores in this area, from the Indian government's plans in this area today in different corners of this small state of Himachal. Are there. Project of 26 thousand crores - you can imagine when this work will be completed, then how will he take the life of Himachal to new heights?\nRailway talk- Now the Kalka-Shimla railway- whatever tourist arrives, it remains in his mind. Let's take a trip in this train and see if it was correct- what was the train used to do in that era. You must have seen now that it has changed. Those coaches are made entirely of transparency - plastic, so that the entire journey that travels through it can also be seen in nature, to enjoy nature. How can change can be brought about for tourism - there is a small effort, but intentions have a direct message in it. We tried to do this work.\nJoining the railway - this is also a big deal in itself. Four big rail lines - at the expense of around 15 thousand crore - are underway. Nangal Dam-Kalvara Project, Chandigarh-Bhaddi, Bhanupalli-Bilaspur Beri Route and Una-Hamirpur Route - Rail network for Rs.15, 000 crores - These also give a new movement in the direction of modern Himachal in the coming days. I can understand, today I have a dream in the ordinary human being that anyone who wears the sandalwood should also have an opportunity to go to the airplane. Air travel has a lot to do to increase tourism in Himachal. And the Indian government planned the name of the flight - bringing cheap passengers in very cheap. I also started with Shimla and I did it. Now it is going to expand in the coming days. The helicopter service has also started, and more services are also going to start. And this is going to get the direct benefits of Himachal Tourism.\nConnectivity is a new-that is, water, space, water, the way connectivity can be increased - we are working towards increasing it. And the bright future of Himachal, transformation If you want to do Himachal, then there are two tracks, one is the transport and the other is Tourism. These are two tracks that run the fastest movement at the highest speed. We are focusing on that.\nNow we are working forward to promote tourism. National highway projects- National highway projects with a cost of more than nine thousand crores, its work is also going on here. Many projects have now reached completion and its benefits will also be coming in the coming days.\nI already said that there is a great power of tourism in the bright future of Himachal. Tourism is the area where maximum people get employment at the least cost. And India's center of attraction of tourism in the world is now being built. The first people were not much more familiar than the Taj Mahal. Now there is a fascination in the world of knowing and understanding Hindustan.\nYou see, the number of foreign tourists who came to our country in 2013 was 70 lakhs- 2013 And in 2017 these numbers increased to 10 million. That is, now almost 45 percent increase in this. Now tourism comes from outside and even spends money, and thereby the possibility of livelihood is made. It is estimated that the tourists who arrived in 2013- spent about $ 18 billion dollars, while within four years they have the scope to spend on tourists- they increased from 18 billion to $ 27 billion - nearly 50 percent increase . That is, these money also reaches normal and middle class families and they have the benefit.\nIn 2013, approved hotels in India were 1200- within four years, the number of these approved hotels increased from 1200 to 1800. There has been such a big increase in just four years. This is the area of ​​tourism going forward in success. A world economy forum that performs a ranking of travel and tourism, ranks competitively.\nYou will be happy to know that before our government came, we were at number 65. चार साल के भीतर-भीतर टूरिस्‍ट के मानदंड की दृष्टि से जो सुधार करने चाहिए, infrastructure में जो सुधार करना चाहिए, connectivity में बदलाव करना चाहिए, होटलों की व्‍यवस्‍थाओं में बदलाव करना चाहिए, नागरिकों की सुरक्षा का विश्‍वास पैदा होना चाहिए- ये सारे मानदंड के आधार पर दुनिया मूल्‍यांकन करती है। हमारी सरकार आने के पहले जहां हम 65 नंबर पर खड़े थे, आज मुझे खुशी है कि अब हम 40वें स्‍थान पर पहुंच गए हैं और 25 के नीचे लाने की कोशिश है हमारी।\nऔर इसके दुनिया के टूरिस्‍टों को इन मानदंडों के आधार पर टूरिज्‍म के अंदर हमने ई-वीजा भी शुरू किया। ई-वीजा के कारण भी विदेशी पर्यटकों को वीजा की कठिनाइयों से मुक्‍त हो करके बड़ी सरलता से भारत में आने का अवसर प्राप्‍त हो रहा है और उसका लाभ मिल रहा है। टूरिज्‍म का जैसे यहां महात्‍मय है वैसा ही यहां हमारे फौजी भाई रहते हैं। कोई परिवार ऐसा नहीं होगा जहां मेरा फौज का कोई जवान न रहता हो। One rank-One pension- 40 साल से इस देश का सेना का जवान मांग रहा था। सरकार सुनने को तैयार नहीं थी। और जब चुनाव में दबाव पैदा हुआ 2013-14 में, तो जैसे इनकी आदत है- झूठमूठ आंख में धूल झोंको, और अपना उल्‍लू सीधा कर लो, यही चलता है।\nउस समय भी वन रैंक-वन पेंशन- आप हैरान हो जाएंगे ये वन रैंक-वन पेंशन क्‍या requirement है, इसकी क्‍या मांगे हैं, इसका solution क्‍या होगा, कितने लोग हैं लाभार्थी- कोई हिसाब-किताब नहीं, कोई कागजी काम नहीं- नारेबाजी चल रही थी और हमारे फौज के वीरों को मूर्ख बनाने का काम उस समय की सरकार ने किया। सिर्फ 500 करोड़ रुपया- वन रैंक-वन पेंशन के लिए बजट में 500 करोड़ दे करके उन्‍होंने चुनाव के पहले बड़़े गाजे-बाजे बजाए कि हमने वन रैंक-वन पेंशन दे दिया। अभी जैसा किसान के लिए झूठ बोल रहे हैं ना- उस समय जवान के लिए झूठ बोला था।\nजब हम आए तो हमें लगा चलो भाई ये 500 करोड़ तो इन्‍होंने रख करके गए हैं- हम वन रैंक-वन पेंशन लागू कर देंगे। मैंने कहा लाओ भाई फाइल लाओ-कागज लाओ। आप हैरान हो जाएंगे सारी सूची बना करके व्‍यवस्‍था करते-करते डिपार्टमेंट की आंखों दम आ गया- कुछ नहीं था। और जब पूरा हिसाब-किताब लगाया, सारी तैयारी कर ली और‍ हिसाब लगाया भई कितना रुपया लगेगा- 12 हजार करोड़ रुपया की जरूरत थी- वन रैंक-वन पेंशन के लिए।\nये 500 करोड़ के नाटक कर-करके हमारे देश के जवानों की आंखों में धूल झोंकने का पाप, ऐसी सरकार। न कह सकते थे- देश का जवान in-discipline कभी नहीं करता है। 40 साल तक उसने in-discipline नहीं किया। वो सिस्‍टम-मर्यादा में रहा। वो अपनी बात बता रहा था लेकिन आपने देश के लिए शहीद होने की तैयारी रखने वाला, मौत को मुट्ठी में लेकर, सिर्फ भारत मां की जय के‍ लिए जिंदा ये मेरा जवान- उसकी आंख में आंख मिलाकर आप बात नहीं कर पाए और झूठा काम किया। 500 करोड़ रुपया- मजाक उड़ाया उसका।\n\nहम आए- हमने काम को पूरा करना है। 12 हजार करोड़ रुपए का बोझ आया। अब सरकार के लिए एक साथ 12 हजार करोड़ निकालना मुश्किल होता है। मैंने सेना के लोगों को बुलाया। मैंने कहा भई देखो मेरी मदद करिए, मुझे करना है ये। एकमुश्‍त नहीं दे पाऊंगा, तीन-चार टुकड़ों में दूंगा। तो जवानों ने कहा साहब- आपके शब्‍द, ये हमारे लिए सब कुछ होता है, अगर आपको लगता है कि पांच साल के बाद देना है तो पांच साल के बाद देना, लेकिन आपने कह दिया- हमें भरोसा है। मैंने कहा- जी नहीं, मुझे अभी देना है, और आज मुझे खुशी है कि चार किश्‍त में वो पैसे दिए और हमने ये सारा भुगतान कर दिया, मेरे देश के जवानों के पास पैसा पहुंच गया। 12 हजार करोड़ रुपया लगा।\nभाइयो, बहनों- ये लोग किसानों के लिए भी यही कर रहे हैं। 2008 में- चुनाव के पहले सही-झूठ बोल करके किसानों के कर्ज माफी की बात कही थी। किसानों का कर्ज था 6 लाख करोड़ रुपया, माफ कितना किया- 60 हजार करोड़, दिया कितना- 52 हजार करोड़। 52 हजार करोड़ में से कहा गया- 35 लाख लोग ऐसे पैसे ले गए, जिनका कोई खेत नहीं था, न खेती में कोई फसल का पैसा था, कुछ नहीं था। 35 लाख- ऐसे ही चले गए पैसे।\nलेकिन उस समय अरबों-खरबों के घोटाले इतने तेज हवा में चलते थे कि किसानों से लूटी गई बात कभी अखबारों में छपी भी नहीं। सीएजी ने रिपोर्ट किया- देश का किसान, भोला-भाला किसान जो देश के लोगों का पेट भरने के लिए कड़ी मेहनत करता है- अगर आप उसको कुछ नहीं दे सकते हैं तो उसको कहिए- वो आपकी बात मानेगा, लेकिन कृपा करके झूठी बातें बता करके उसके जीवन के साथ खिलवाड़ मत कीजिए। उस सम‍य किया- 6 लाख करोड़ का कर्ज था, 60 हजार की बातें की और 52 हजार से ऊपर दिया नहीं। पंजाब- चुनाव के पहले पता नहीं कितने-कितने वादे किए थे कर्ज माफी के, अब तक पंजाब के किसानों को कुछ नहीं दिया गया। थोड़े दिन पहले कर्नाटक का चुनाव था, वहां कर्ज माफी का वादा कर दिया और अब सिर्फ 800 किसानों को टोकन रुपया दे करके हाथ ऊपर कर दिए।\nभाइयो-बहनों, जो काम कर नहीं सकते हो, आपको भी पता है- सिर्फ चुनाव जीतने के लिए देश के जवान की आंख में धूल झोंको, चुनाव जीतने के लिए देश के किसान की पीठ में छुरा घोंपो- ये खेल कब तक चलता रहेगा? और इसलिए भाइयो-बहनों सच्‍चाई के धरातल पर देश चलना चाहिए। जो कर सकते हैं उसको ईमानदारी से करने का प्रयास करना चाहिए। और मुझे जयराम जी का इस वर्ष को मनाने का जो नाम दिया है मुझे अच्‍छा लगा कि वो हमने ईमानदारी से प्रयास किया है। देश की जनता इस पर भरोसा करती है, हिमाचल की जनता भरोसा करती है कि भई हमने ईमानदारी से प्रयास किया है।\nहमने कभी ये नहीं कहा कि हम बस- अब तो एक स्‍वर्ण युग आ गया, हरेक के घर की छत सोने की बन जाएगी, हरेक के घर के बाहर गाड़ी खड़ी जो जाएगी। ऐसी बातें न हमने की हैं न हम ऐसे झूठे सपने दिखाते हैं। हम ईमानदारी से कोशिश करते हैं। हिमाचल ने करके दिखाया है और उसका लाभ आज हिमाचल को मिल रहा है।\nभाइयो-बहनों, मैंने देखा है कि हिमाचली लोगों का प्‍यार कैसा होता है। कभी-कभी अंदाज नहीं आता है‍ कि क्‍या होता है। एक ऐसी घटना घटी जिसने मेरे मन को छू लिया है। मैं इजरायल गया था- तो इजरायल में एक स्‍थान पर जाना होता है तो वहां पर एक परम्‍परा है‍ कि सिर को ढांकना पड़ता है, जैसे हमारे यहां गुरुद्वारे में जाते हैं तो सिर को ढांकना होता है, तो मुझे भी सिर ढांकना था। तो मैं मेरे साथ हिमाचल की कैप रखता हूं तो मैंने अपनी हिमाचली टोपी पहन ली और वो पहन करके इजरायल में मैं घूम रहा था।\nटीवी पर हिमाचल के लोगों ने इसको देखा, मुझे सैंकड़ों चिट्ठियां आई इस एक बात के लिए। हिमाचली टोपी पहनी मैंने इजरायल में, यानी मेरे हिमाचल का भाई कितना भावुक, कितना हृदय को आनंद देता है उसको, और जब- मुझे भी अंदाज नहीं था इसका ये असर होता है। मुझे तो सिर ढांकना था इसलिए टोपी पहननी थी और मेरे बैग में रहती है तो मैंने पहन ली। लेकिन उसको जब यहां के लोगों ने देखा, कोई व्‍यक्ति ऐसा नहीं होगा जो मुझे मिला हो और मेरे इजरायल में हिमाचली टोपी पहनने वाली बात का उसने जिक्र न‍ किया हो। ऐसे अपनापन, इतना प्‍यार, जिन भाई-बहनों ने मुझे दिया है- उनके प्रति मैं आज बड़े गर्व के साथ मैं काम कर रहा हूं।\nभाइयो-बहनों, मैं जब भी जाता हूं, हिमाचल-टूरिज्‍म- इसकी बात जहां भी मौका मिलता है करता रहता हूं। क्‍योंकि मैं यहां के चप्‍पे-चप्‍पे से परिचित हूं, यहां की प्रगति का मुझे एक विशेष आनंद होता है। तो मैं भी आपका एक सेवक बन करके इस काम को कर रहा हूं। टूरिज्‍म को बल देने में बहुत बड़ा काम होता है स्‍वच्‍छता और आज मैं हिमाचल वासियों को बधाई देता हूं। हिमाचल के नागरिकों को विशेष रूप से बधाई देता हूं कि उन्‍होंने स्‍वच्‍छता की बात को एक संस्‍कार में परिवर्तित करने का बीड़ा उठाया है। आज देशभर के टूरिस्‍ट हिमाचल आते हैं, यहां की स्‍वच्‍छता की चर्चा करते हैं।\nहिमाचल open defecation free बनाने का काम आप लोगों ने किया। प्‍लास्टिक पर प्रतिबंध लगा करके हिमाचल को साफ-सुथरा रखने का काम किया है। और ये सिर्फ स्‍वच्‍छता आरोग्‍य के लिए ही नहीं, हिमाचल के टूरिज्‍म की सबसे बड़ी ताकत है- स्‍वच्‍छता। उस काम को भी हिमाचल ने किया है और इसके लिए भी मैं हिमाचल के लोगों को हृदय से बहुत-बहुत बधाई देता हूं।\nटूरिज्‍म को बल देने में आपने जो home stay का अभियान चलाया है- जब धूमल जी थे तब उसका प्रारंभ हुआ। मैं भी कुछ ऐसे home stay में विशेष करके जाता था- देखने, रहने। कुछ तो हमारे कार्यकर्ता भी home stay चलाते थे। लेकिन आज हिमाचल में home stay एक बहुत बड़ा आकर्षण का केन्‍द्र बना है और दुनिया के टूरिस्‍ट भी बड़े-बड़े होटलों के बजाय home stay पसंद करते हैं। इतने छोटे से राज्‍य में 80 हजार से ज्‍यादा ऑनलाइन home stay की रजिस्‍ट्री मिले, ये अपने-आप में बहुत बड़ा काम आपने किया है, और ये नागरिकों ने किया है। हिमाचल के विकास में टूरिज्‍म को अपनत्‍व देने काम home stay से होता है और वो आपके द्वारा हुआ है। और इसके लिए भी मैं आपको बहुत-बहुत बधाई देता हूं और बहुत आपका साधुवाद करता हूं।"