"\nPM Modi distributes e-rickshaws in a function organized by Indian Micro Credit in Lucknow\nWhole world has recognized that India is the fastest growing major economy in the world today: PM\nPrimary objectives of the government are welfare of the poor, and employment for the youth: PM\nYouth should become job seekers instead of job seekers My government has taken a series of steps to fulfill these objectives: PM\nThrough Jan Dhan Yojana, our Govt has opened doors for banks which were closed for so many years: PM\nGovernor of Uttar Pradesh, Mr Ram Naik ji, Lucknow MP and Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh ji, MLA Ashutosh ji of Lucknow, Mr. Mayor Mr. Dinesh Ji, Chairman of the currency Dr. K. Shiva ji, and today the function The center point, my rickshaw driver brother bundhu and his family, and my dear brothers and sisters ..\nThe way this government is picking one step after the other, and in such a short time, the whole world has accepted this fact that if there is any economy going forward with the fastest pace in the world then it is Economy Hindustan. Today there is an atmosphere of recession in the whole world. Very well-known countries have also become victims of recession and at such a time, a single India is such a country or it has only strengthened its economic status but is moving forward at a faster pace. Whether it is the World Bank, the IMF, the world's Rating Agencies, all are acknowledging this with a single tone, not only that, all the economies of the world say that India is going to move forward very fast in the coming days.\nWhen these things are heard, the mind is very satisfied, but our goal is not just to become an economy that is moving ahead with the fastest pace in the world. Our goal is to bring about change in the life of the poor of our country, our goal is to provide jobs to the young man. Our goal is to keep our young generation standing on their feet, it is our endeavor that the youth of the country should not stumble over the rates to find a job. By coming out of this situation, he should stand on his feet and get the strength to give employment to others and therefore, the steps we are taking are those families who earn from their hard work in the life of common man in the country. Work is needed to meet the needs of life and therefore one step after the other. In our country, nationalization of banks was nationalized 40 years ago and therefore nationalization was done, at that time these things were told that the bank should work for the poor. Nationalization of banks is essential for poverty alleviation and the government has taken all the banks in their possession. Forty years have passed but the doors of the banks were not open for this country.\nAfter becoming our government, we took a lead, why not be the bank account of poor people of India, why the poor in the mainstream of the economy, and the campaign of Prime Minister Jan-Dhan Yojana, the banks enthusiastically Today, about 200 million new accounts were opened in the country which did not have bank accounts. The whole world is wondering how it was possible and had to open accounts, open accounts of the poor, then we made the rule that even if there is no money, the bank account will be opened, for which the expenditure is for that His bank will pay. There was not even a single new money but see the richness of the poor of our country, these poor people opened accounts in the bank and deposited a small amount of 30 thousand crore rupees, 30 thousand crore rupees, this is the strength of the poor of our country.\nHe won for values, won for the principles and therefore saving 100 rupees instead of opening the account for free, he has saved Rs. 200. We have brought a money scheme. Small people who are in our country, sellers, sellers of milk, sell biscuits, sell flowers, sell offerings outside the temple, washers, hairdressers, small people, they never live life Had not even thought that if there was a need for money to move forward in their business and the bank could pay the money, they had never seen the bank's door. We brought the Prime Minister's money scheme and decided that people of this general category, who have never got the chance to visit the bank, will lend them, guarantee a loan and today I am happy that the scheme has started, it has not taken much time, 5 -6 months have passed. So far, about two crore people have been provided these loans, without any guarantee.\nThere are some people who have paid up to 50 thousand rupees, there are some people who have taken up to 10 lakhs and some people have taken more than 10 lakhs and all this work has been done by trusting the demand for a loan, and the result has come. About 80 thousand crore rupees have been invested in this work. Its fruits will be visible in the coming days. Today we are seeing 2100 families who did not have autorickshaws, were rickshaws, they were sorted out and 2100 families are being given their rickshaws today. They are going to be its owner. The interest that had to be paid before, now the interest is free. He had to pay rent, to get rid of the rent and with that money, he is going to become the owner today. Money has been given to him from the money bank, he has been given insurance policy. Almost 40-42 new centers are being built for recharging the battery in Lucknow alone. The banks have given them money. About 10 major service centers are being created, in which 5-5, 10-10, 12-12 youth will get work in each center. Where repairing these rickshaws will be the work of service. That is how much bigger jobs can be stressed, this is an effort. The effort is to keep an ordinary person standing on his feet from our normal.\nI met some of those families who are going to get e-rickshaws. I asked them, how was the first, now what do you think, how will you do? Some things emerged Some people said, we will do the first thing that will save money for children's education. Now look at how life begins to change. We want our children to grow up by reading and writing. Some people said that we will save daily by depositing 40 rupees - 50 in bank so that we will be able to work in the future. With this e-rickshaw, they are getting the benefit of the insurance. Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Suraksha Yojana, Jeevan Jyoti Yojana, Atal Pension Yojana, the benefits of all these schemes are being given to them. That is, in a way, the protection of all our e-rickshaws is getting in full swing. The completion of their training has been completed. They have been trained, they are being given uniform and efforts are being made to create a new culture throughout the life of Lucknow.\nIndia is constantly trying to promote tourism in the days to come. More than 100 countries are being given an e-visa. Foreigners have started coming to India in large numbers compared to earlier. Any person in the world will come for the first time in India, who will be the first to meet whom? First come, he has to meet, with the driver. Any outside person comes, first meets the driver, and whatever the driver will do with him in the first 10-15 minutes, he will be the image of Hindustan in his mind. By taking the same image he will go If he speaks with them lovingly, behaves in sincerity. The person coming out came, tried to help him, that person coming from outside life would not forget about India. The Prime Minister of the country, who can not work, can do an auto rickshaw, a rickshaw driver can do it.\nWhat can not be advertised for billions of trillions of rupees can be due to the behavior of one of our drivers. And so these drivers are given a special training so that they can work as a brand ambassador of the best India, who are good for the tourism sector in future, are working in that direction.\nIt just went from the pedestrian rickshaw and went to e-rickshaw, there is no such change. This is a complete transformation happening. A new change is coming and due to this the world today is worried about global warming. The world is worried about the environment. All the countries of the world had met in Paris, all the people in Paris were closing their necks to see how the world should be protected from global warming. Everyone was worried about Smaller countries, which are connected to the coastline, are facing the threat of their existence and everyone has to protect the environment, protect the environment, this requirement has to be made. This e-rickshaw is an attempt to humankind, which is facing the crisis, of the environment, to give her freedom as a squirrel, and it is an attempt to make our auto-rickshaw.\nThat is, attempts are being made to bring about a change by connecting each subject with one another. Due to this, there will be a new change in the life of Lucknow. There will be a change in the life of these two thousand families. The economic activity here will be strengthened and we want the growth to be those who make changes in the life of the general humanities. Comes with new hope in every person's life Arrangements are such that where young people have the strength to stand on their feet. We are moving forward with all those things.\nI wish all those families who are getting e-rickshaw today, and I hope that this is the beginning of their life, the beginning of new life. Now they do not have to stop. In order to cross the new heights of progress, there is a change in our life too, and seeing their family, their children can live the life of happiness and peace, what can be the opportunity for us greater and therefore I would like all these families to wish their best wishes. I am\nI want to thank Lucknow in particular because this is my first opportunity to come between you after becoming Prime Minister. I want to congratulate the people of Lucknow that you have elected a MP from here, by choosing such MP, you have given the country a very good home minister. For this, I congratulate the people of Lucknow. I congratulate the people of Lucknow. Thanks a lot."