"\nPM Modi gifted electronic aids to differently abled people in Varanasi\nWhen I say let us use the word 'Divyang' it is a change in mindset: PM\nLet's not think about what is lacking in a person, let's see what is the extra ordinary quality\nPeople are sympathetic but things are lacking when it comes to facilities in trains, buses etc: PM\nWe will do everything possible, where rules and systems have to be changed, we will change them: PM on Accessible India\nMy colleague of the Council of Ministers Mr. Kalraj Mishra, the minister of this department, my partner, Mr. Thawarchand ji, Railway Minister and brother of this land, Mr. Manoj Sinha, Mr. Ms. Krishan Pal, Minister of this Department Mr. Vijay Sandalaji, in the State Government Minister Shri Balram Jee, Secretary to the Government of India Mr. Love Verma, UK House of Lords and members of the widows in India and the world. Atar working Lord Lumba-law, his mistress, and today I had the privilege of that philosophy is that all divyanga brothers and sisters present Kashi My dear brothers and sisters ....\nToday, I have come to Kashi, then I would like to commemorate the virtue of two great specials. One Mr. Jaiswal Ji, the second Mr. Harish ji, both of these greats had served this area throughout the life and are no longer in our midst. I remember their virtue, respectfully honor them.\nToday, some of our brightest beneficiaries from the government system were coming to the ceremony, their bus was over, some people got hurt, I came out of Delhi, at the same time I came to know and our minister immediately reached there, government officials reached. Many people had very slight injuries, some people would be arranged in the hospital for a few days. The government will do all these arrangements and I pray to God all these children get health benefits as soon as possible.\nAmong us today is Dr. Lumba Ji and his Mrs. Ji. Work for the welfare of widows in different parts of the country and abroad also. Some time ago I had met, then there was discussion in Kashi, for widows to do something and from then on they started work. That work is getting strengthened. With respect, these mothers, sisters, live the life, I congratulate them for their efforts in that direction.\nBoth husband and wife are engaged in this work, and they will meet you at any place, meet in the marriage, meet in the parliament, I went to Britain now, was meeting all the people in the parliament but our lumbas came Went and immediately started talking about widows. So I asked Lumba Ji, told me, Lumba ji let me do some other work. But in their minds like this, they have taken this task in memory of their mothers, they are doing very well. I congratulate him and specially in the service of my Kashi region, he is distributing these hands, therefore I express my gratitude as a representative of Kashi, congratulate you.\nA few days ago, the Japanese Prime Minister came to meet Kashi. Just two days ago Japan's Prime Minister had a speech inside Japan. The speech was under Buddhist Movement but I read the speech on the Internet and saw that in the speech that he described his journey of Kashi, what is the description of the mother Ganga, at the time of Aarti, the mood in their mind , What he described; To every Kashi, every Hindustani is proud to hear his words: how extensive and how vast our identity is. I am grateful to the Prime Minister of Japan, Abey, he went to Japan, praised our Kashi just two days ago, praised our Ganga, remembered Ganga Aarti, and I am very grateful for this too.\nRight now I was listening to Thavarchand ji. You will know people when the elections to the Lok Sabha were completed and the NDA members elected me as the leader in the Central Hall of Parliament, I loved the responsibility of the Prime Minister's post and in the speech I had a speech on that day. It was said that this government, this government is dedicated to the poor. For the sake of being oppressed, victimized, exploited, deprived, who have to suffer in life, this government will try to do something, I had declared it before taking oath of Prime Minister's post and you have to constantly see that In the center of all the programs of government, how the poor people of this country can benefit from development, how to change the lives of the poor, there is a continuous effort in that direction.\nToday, this is not a first camp, which is camping in Kashi, or else some people will feel that there is a field of Prime Minister, so here are a few of the fingers in ghee, so here camp looks. It's not like that, before 1800 camps have already taken place. Millions of people have been provided this facility, and this is not the last camp. In spite of this, by going to every corner of India, searching for our Divine Brothers and Sisters, what is the need for them, should they get any resources. Their belief of living will increase, the belief of doing something increases, This facility has been run today, it will continue to find happiness.\nGovernments were also before. This department is also running from 1992. The department was made in the nineteen ninety two in the government, the budget was also given, but I was told that from 1992 to 2014, it was difficult to have 50, 55, 100 camps.\nThis government is a running government for the poor, there is a few passing government that within a year- 1800 camps were installed ... eighteen hundred. Twenty-two twenty-two years, there were not even a hundred camps and in 1800 camps took place in a year and the whole government goes to search for the beneficiaries who try to reach those who have the right.\nWe know that sometimes there is no shortage of misuse of government schemes, middlemen come to the ground. They will approach poor people, they will talk to them, they will say, \"Brother, you get it here.\" So in the middle, between me will be mine. Let me have the tricycle, something will be mine. You should arrange the hearing aid, something happens to me. The result of these camps is that the world of middlemen is finished.\nSometimes, the storm of the whole world that runs on me, wake up in the morning and you keep on attacking from all sides, keeping on all four sides. They think that Modi should go out on his way, leaving his own way and reach another path, in the disputes. But my mantra is the misery of my country, to serve the poor and therefore I do not get distracted, but it has been so that the arrangements are changing such that the nut bolt is getting tight that middlemen shops are closed. That's why these problems are happening. Every kind of people are suffering a lot, but I do not have any problem with this problem. If I have problems then I am in pain due to the misery of the poor of my country. There is no problem with the troubles of middlemen.\nToday, more than nine thousand people are being provided some resources under this camp. But this does not mean that this work was also done in Kashi. Still the registration is in progress. Investigations are going on, collecting information. And as soon as things come in mind I may not come or come, but every work will continue, the work will continue. Even in adjacent districts, even if it will not be part of the Kashi Lok Sabha constituency, this work will also be done and these arrangements will be made available to the people.\nI was getting here from small children I was watching the glow on their parents' cheeks because they were not listening to the children and were not able to hear, then they did not speak. As soon as the hearing started, the talk started together and almost every child talked to me or something. One-two words, one-two words each said the child and his mother had so much joy in mind. Now these children were born, they got this state. In the past, I had publicly expressed a wish in my mind about why we should use this word by changing the word 'disabled'.\nIn every country of the world, in every language, new words have come for people of this type of state. Terminology has been changed and it is continuously improving. Everyone examines the subject in a new way. But in our country, this word had been going on for years. By the way, it is difficult to change these words suddenly. In my speech, I used to use the old words in five times, perhaps in five times. It will take time to get used to the habit. The government also has to make changes in the rules, there are quite a few processes. But can we start it slowly and it has a big effect.\nSuppose someone meets us and introduces someone that they are fruit-eating priests. Even after saying the priest, our eyes go to his guard immediately, Tilak watches etc. Our eyes are seen immediately. The priest said, means a garland, a tilak, etc. on the bridges are seen immediately. Someone introduces us. These are big knowledgeable people. So immediately we get thoughts in our mind-well which ones will be wise. He wishes to know their knowledge. Let us introduce that it is a wrestler that he is a wrestler. So immediately we see on his arm that what is a very strong man. In the same way, if someone says disability, then first, our eyes go towards that deficiency in his body. What part of the body is weak, it goes there. I want to change this thinking that if someone says it is Divyaang, then I will go to the point that God has given him some extra ordinary quality inside.\nWe see people with eyes, read from the eyes, but an intelligent teacher reads with finger. He rotates his finger on the Braille script and reads it, that means it is his Divine. This Divinity has given God Himself. That Divinity has developed it and so when I talk about Divya from a disabled person, whenever we meet people like this, we meet people, then we will not be able to see our weakness in that direction, on that side our We will not be wondering which extra ordinary quality will be there to look at that side.\nI found a child named Rahul here, retarded him, gave him the computer and I saw where he started the computer, how to move the program immediately, he started immediately. Now he has come with a new hope for his family. A new faith has come with us and therefore our endeavor is that through these arrangements, we have to worry about these families in the number of millions who live in our society.\nI also want to say this with my heart as a society, especially in families where mentally ill children are born. Very few people would imagine this. How is the life of parents in that family? The odds come out very little to the outsiders. If a child is born in a family, then that parent's age is 25 years, 30 years, 35 years. All the dreams of life are yet to be fulfilled. But at the age of two years, there is a lack of difficulty in the child. You must have seen that if the mother and father of that child and grandparents in the house, they all end all the dreams of their life. Kill all your wishes. Whatever your full potential, capacity, you spend in the service of that child. There will be two or three children in the family, the love they give him many times love this child. In their mind this feeling is that God has a criterion on us, we can complete the test which God has done on us. But as a society, we have to think that the family in which God has given birth to this kind of child is the responsibility of the same family. My soul says no, no. God has chosen this family because he is probably trusting in that family that he will handle this child. But as a society, we all have the obligation that the child may be born from his womb, but the child may be growing in that house, but there is a collective responsibility of the society to worry about such children and that is why our government has this mood From this, with this role, we are particularly concerned about these kind of children. You should be surprised at knowing that whenever international sports happens, our children are not so high in comparison to others physically, nor do they have so much weight, despite this they bring gold medals. These kind of children who are Olympic, bring all the gold medals. And every year I try my constant attempts to meet such kind of children. Inspires us, when they come by winning such a type, they know, what they have found for the country, say proudly and sometimes I have seen that they come by bringing trophies By winning the trophy, they come in my hands, and they think that you have to give them. I do not say, you have brought people you have to take. So they say, in their gestures that they have brought for you. When I was in Gujarat, the incidents of touching the mind were decreasing. This is the power which I see as Divyaang. This Bharatmata also has Divyaag. Every child whose spirit has come in life is also Divya for us. In that form we want to move forward.\nIn the coming days, just recently we have taken a big, important work, accessible India. दुनिया में इस विषय में बड़ी जागरूकता से काम हुआ है। हमारे यहां संवेदना होती है, sympathy होती है, रास्‍ते में कोई जाता है तो हम मदद करने के लिए सब कुछ करते हैं, लेकिन व्‍यवस्‍थाएं विकसित करने का लोगों का थोड़ा स्‍वभाव कम है। और इसलिए हमारे मकान हों, हमारे रेल हों, हमारे बस हों, उसमें ऐसे लोगों को जाना हो, तो उनको ऐसी सुविधा मिलती है जैसी हम जैसे शरीर से हर प्रकार से सक्षम लोगों को मिलती है। अब ये कठिनाई है और इसलिए हमने तय किया है कि एक माहौल बनाएंगे, नया बिल्डिंग बनेगा, भले शायद पूरे जीवन भर एक ही व्‍यक्ति आएगा जिसको tricycle में आना पड़ता है। लेकिन हम वहां व्‍यवस्‍था विकसित करेंगे उसको कोई दिक्‍कत न होगा ले जाने की विकसित करेंगे। धीरे-धीरे हमें आदत डालनी पड़ेगी। इतना बड़ा देश है, ये काम करने में समय लगता है, लेकिन अगर हम शुरूआत करें, जैसी अभी सरकार ने शुरू किया है। भई कम से कम सरकारी भवनों में तो तय करें। अब जितने सरकारी भवन बनेंगे, उसमें इस प्रकार के लोग जो होंगे, उनके लिए अलग Toilet होगा, अलग उनके पास Toilet का सीट होगा, उनको अंदर आने के लिए अलग ramp होगा। ये व्‍यवस्‍थाएं धीरे-धीरे हमें विकसित करनी हैं।\nपिछले दिनों एक अभियान के रूप में काम लिया है, हर department को sensitize कर दिया जा रहा है कि भई इतने दिन जो हुआ सो हुआ, अब हम कुछ करेंगे। आप देखिए हर जगह पर उनको विशेष हम priority देंगे और सब सरकारें भी इस पर ध्‍यान देंगी, जहां कानूनी बदलाव लाना होगा कानूनी बदलाव लाएंगे, जहां पर नियमों से व्‍यवस्‍थाएं बदली जा सकती हैं, नियमों को बदलेंगे, लेकिन ये चीजें करने का हम अवश्‍य प्रयास करेंगे, और हमने इस बात को धीरे-धीरे आगे बढ़ाना है। और आप देखिए जब उसको लगेगा कि हां मेरे लिए भी जाने के लिए अच्‍छा रास्‍ता बना हुआ है, उसको महसूस होगा कि हां इस समाज में मेरा भी एक विशेष स्‍थान हे। ये उसका confidence level बढ़ा देगा। वो रोता नहीं है, उसको तो हमसे भी तेज गति से ट्रेन चढ़ जाने की ताकत है उसकी। लेकिन अगर व्‍यवस्‍था विकसित होगी, उसको लगेगा एक समाज मेरे प्रति संवेदनशील है। ये भाव जगाने का प्रयास और व्‍यवस्‍थाएं विकसित करने का प्रयास सरकार की तरफ से चल रहा है।\nआने वाले दिनों में इन सारी चीजों का उपयोग मैं समझता हूं एक नई क्षमता पैदा करने के लिए, एक नया विश्‍वास पैदा करने के लिए, एक नया सामर्थ्‍य पैदा करने के लिए होती रहेगी। मैं फिर एक बार श्रीमान गहलोत जी को, कृष्‍णपाल जी को, सांपला जी को, क्‍योंकि तीनों हमारे मंत्री इस विभाग को देखते हैं, जिस लगन के साथ इस काम को वो भक्तिपूर्वक कर रहे हैं और आज मेरे काशी क्षेत्र के लिए जिन्‍होंने मुझे चुन करके भेजा है, उनके लिए आप लोगों ने इतनी मेहनत की, लगातार आप लोग यहां आए, और हमारे इन सारे भाई-बहनों को आपने जो ये व्‍यवस्‍था पहुंचाई है इसलिए मैं विशेष रूप से हमारे इन तीनों मंत्रियों का भी अभिनंदन करता हूं। उनके विभाग के अधिकारियों का भी अभिनंदन करता हूं कि उन्‍होंने इस ठंड के बावजूद भी इस काम को आगे बढ़ाया।\nजो मेरे दिव्‍यांग भाई-बहन यहां आए हैं, बहुत लौग हैं, जो शायद मुझे सुन पाते होंगे लेकिन देख नहीं पाते होंगे; बहुत ऐसे होंगे जो मुझे शायद देख पाते होंगे लेकिन सुन नहीं पाते होंगे, उसके बावजूद भी मेरे इस मनोभाव को उन तक पहुंचाने की आज व्‍यवस्‍था तो की है लेकिन मैं उनको विश्‍वास दिलाता हूं कि आप किसी से कम नहीं हैं और हम होगे कामयाब इस मंत्र को ले करके आगे बढ़ना है। मेरी आप सबको बहुत-बहुत शुभकामना है। Thanks a lot."