"21st century is the century of knowledge, says PM\nIndia has the potential to become the manufacturing hub for the world: PM Narendra Modi\nIn history, whenever knowledge has been the driving force of the world, India has provided leadership: PM Modi\nToday, India is demographically the youngest country in the world, with young dreams full of energy: PM\nThe current generation of young seekers The youth wants to be job creators: PM Modi\nGlobal agencies say India is the fastest growing economy in the world: PM\nAll the senior nobles, young colleagues sitting on stage, and many of the online North East students are also attending the ceremony. I also welcome them all.\nFirst of all I apologize to you because I was too late to come because I had to walk with Sikkim this morning. But the weather was not accompanying. It was repeatedly changing times. But it has reached the end. Sometimes it's late but I get it. There are two important programs here today. One IIIT, the foundation stone of the new building and the launch of the second ICT Academy. We have come to hear that 21st Century is a century of Hindutan, but 21st Century is the reason for the Hindustan. What is the reason? So the whole world believes that 21st century is a century of knowledge. It is a century of information and hence the leadership in the field of information, knowledge will lead the world. He will lead the leadership and the second important reason is that today India is the youngest country in the world. 65 percent of the population is under 35 years of age, many are below 35 percent. In a country where there has been a tradition for centuries, when mankind has passed a delicate period, always has led India and demographic dividend in our 21st century is our strength, so much so that the dreams of the country in which a young man There are young people and young dreams also have a sense of dedication, energy is also there. How India can take advantage of this situation, how can this opportunity be seen as a power in India on the face of the world's world? This is also the opportunity, there is a challenge and life is never successful without challenges. The one who crosses the challenges finds the opportunity and can convert that opportunity into accomplishment. Check out the report of the World Bank, whatever standards are discussed today in the whole world. Look at the IMF report. Say something like credit rating agency, global level, one thing comes out clearly and all comes from the same type and it is today that there is an economy growing at the fastest pace of the big nations today. That economy is the name of Hindustan.\nOn the day the news comes, it is happening in the world. That's happening. There is an economic slowdown in the world. The world is surrounded by a financial crisis. In the time of such a crisis, a single Hindustan is standing on its feet and is growing at a faster pace and the world also believes that in the coming days, India is going to move ahead with even greater speed. This is the opportunity which has come. If the advantage of this opportunity is to raise. So we have to focus on our young power and therefore the things the government has noticed are not scattered things. There is something in the government that has to be done Let's do something like this. After one step one is connected with each other, are interlinked. One step after the other is the opportunity to get the final result. For the first time skill development in this country was created a separate department. What was before Each department used to work as a skill department in its own way. But when the skill department was running in one corner of such a large department, it did not focus on it. Things went on, all looked at the paper. But the earth was not visible. We have created a separate skill department and what kind of man power should be prepared for the 21st century in the entire country, what kind of human resources should be developed and you can imagine not only in the global perspective, in the global context when the world is old enough , The world has money Industry factories are engaged. But what if you do not have a young man to run? After 2030, the whole world will need a large amount of human resources. If someone can do the job of bringing human power globally, then Hindustan can do it. In every corner of the country, the young man of India can make a big contribution to the life of that country. Those days are not far away. When considering the entire global requirement, it is our effort from today that the human resource development in India is ready to be man power that can meet the global requirement in the coming days.\nOn the other hand, India is just serving as a servant? This is not acceptable to us and therefore our country has started the campaign of Make in India. Today, the country has imported the highest amount after petroleum, which is the first three to four things in the country in which our highest amount of money goes abroad. There is an import of electronic goods. Whether it is a laptop, whether it is a mobile phone or electronic medical devices. Now in the country where there is such a strong IIT, which is recognized by IT for Guwahati, due to the IIT here in Guwahati. IIT here has given a new identity to Guwahati. But in that country we have to import electronic goods too. This is a good thing Thermometer is also brought out from the outside. BP reduction has not been corrected. It will also fix the foreign instrument.\nGuys have to change these things. I have come between you today, by taking the challenge, at least electronic goods, we can make it. We can not give it to the world. This country does not lack talent, there is no shortage of intentions. Every young man has an intention to do something, why not take the matter of Make in India ahead, keeping in mind the requirement of our country. And the world is considered to be the iron of the people of India. Go to the Silicon Fair today. Address is from USA. But face is Hindustani. The CEO of every third fourth company is Hindustani. 50 Percent 60 Percent Workers are Hindustani. This country also has a talent.\nIndia did the Mars Mission. We arrived at Orbitt. We are the first country in Dunia that has already succeeded in the trial in Mars Orbit Mission. Success in other countries of the world was found on trial 20-20-25 times. India got it for the first time And the expense, if you go to auto rickshaw in Guwahati for one kilometer, then it will cost ten rupees. We went to Mars Mission just seven rupees per kilometer. We spend on the mission of Mars in lesser costs than the cost of the Hollywood movie. How was this possible? Due to the talent of our youth, due to the experience. Due to the intent of doing some tax If the country has this power, then why not see the dream of the country's Prime Minister make in India. Our second area is Defense. Whether India is dependent on others even after 70 years of independence for its security There is tear gas or tears of gas, tear gas also for crying, that too has to be brought out from the outside. This situation is to change now friends. We have the necessities that we need to protect ourselves. Not only this, we also supply the world, we must have this power.\nWe can not live without mobile and many of you are there, are connected to me, on Facebook, on Twitter. Some people keep writing something on my Narendra Modi app from Guwahati. But the mobile phone has to be brought out and hence friends who are IITs. We have IIIT. Our technical institutions are There make me an environment of make in India. From now on the student should have an idea that I will give this sum to India in the world of arms so that the world can not do anything to us.\nWe are going in the field of ICT. ICT We are creating the power to create new software for business, but it is the biggest challenge facing the world and in front of the whole world. That's the challenge, cyber security's. Everyone is upset, some high-jack will not do it. My whole file will not run. I am doing research, no one will pick up. No one will stop the world. The airplane will fly and by cyber attack it can be stopped and then it will come down. This is a crisis, the world is scared. Wherever technology has been brought to us, there have also been challenges with us. Can not our students, our young people, lead the world to give cyber security? If anyone in the world needs cyber security, the young man of India will have to rely on him, then going to work will be his job. Can not do this?\nAnd so, from friends to skill development to make in India Two days ago many of you might have been involved in a video conference with me. When I started 'Start-Up' in Delhi two days ago. When I was saying 'start-up' before, some people do not even know what it is saying. 'Start-up India, Stand-up India' When we told Lalkile, then the same thing has come and gone. Did not know, it was not registered anywhere. But just when the 'start-up' program was done, millions of young people got registered. Make a new mood, in the country The young man is thinking that I will not apply for employment, I will find new things on my feet and bring it into the world market, I will bring it in a new way.\nThere is an atmosphere of 'start-up'. At present, the new generation does not want to become a job-seeker, she wants to become a job-creator and the government wants to emphasize the trust of 'Start-up India, stand-up India' and therefore you should have seen now, we have Many new plans have been announced, new initiatives have been made because India can become the 'start-up' capital of the world, which can be the world's capital, it can become the capital of the world and I saw it, These things Have seen the vehicle will not be seen so available many things these days on the Internet. The young people of 22-25-27-30 years have started trading in trillions of rupees and have started in two to three years and are giving employment to five thousand to ten thousand 25 thousand people just using their brain and technology. doing.\nAnd the application is of App, everything becomes an app and the world gets added. I too got involved now but the wisdom of our young people is the wisdom of doing something and hence, from skill development to journey start up to make in India. First, we want to move forward in order to make the need for Make for India and later Make for Global, and the technical force is a huge requirement. Must have talent in every hand. Sometimes we keep crying. Some of us in our country also have habit. Problems occur. Not everyone is fortunate to have butter on the butter in luck. The stone should have the power to rationalize and if we call ourselves young then its first condition is that they do not find the way to skim the butter, they think of the strength to paint stones. If we go with this intention, then we make our lives, but there are also reasons to change the way we live.\nSo there are our academic institutions, technical institutions in India, our universities have. Whether it is our IIT or our ITI, from the smallest technical entity, the top most technical venture, there should be unilateralism between the two and we will be able to fulfill the country's needs. Problems come automatically by finding their way too. There is no problem with which the solution does not even grow in the womb. Just need to recognize it. There is a solution in the womb of every problem, it is necessary to catch that solution, solution to the problem comes out.\nI would like to see my young ones, in the first place, I do not know why the man is so. The one who is asleep is asleep, if he does this, then he will not be. We can bring changes. We change our thinking process.\nIn the Rashtrapati Bhavan, some school children were called in the past. Our President has done many programs to encourage such people very much. So he said, Modi ji once come, take a look. Eighth, Ninth, Class X were children and I saw what the technology can do about 'Clean India', which innovative tools can be created, which is the next requirement for Clean India, which is complete Could I was amazed that the children of Class VIII-Ninth had made such things. This means that we have the power to solve every problem.\nIf India has a million problem, then India has a billion brain, and so friends will get a new house. In the eastern end of India, the sun of knowledge became such a fast that we publish the whole of India with knowledge, it is my best wishes to all of you. Thanks a lot."