"Share\n\nOur focus is all-round development of India \u0026 North east can not stay behind in this journey: PM\nWe want to ensure that youth here gets the opportunities for fulfilling their dreams: PM\nWe will set up Central Institute of Technology for better technical education, Kokrajhar to get deemed university status: PM\nAssam gave a PM for 10 years, Congress ruled here for 15 years, still the state faces problems\nWe want to Act East Be it rail, roads or waterways, we want to connect our north east with whole India: PM\nOur aim is for all by 2022 \u0026 24/7 electricity and water: PM Modi during rally in Assam\nI assure our government will leave no stone unturned in developing north east region: PM Modi\nSriman Agrama Mohilari, Chief of the BTC, who is sitting on the stage, is my partner and popular leader of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Sarvananda ji Sonamal, Dr. Jitendra Singh Ji, Minister of Myanmar and Donner of the Center at the Center; Mr. Khampa, BTC Deputy Chief, Mr. Hemant Vishwa Sharma ji, Member of Parliament Mr. Vishwajeet and my brothers and sisters in large number\nFirst of all, I apologize to you because I am late in coming. I was in Sikkim, I was late in leaving and you had to wait a long time but I assure you that I have not been delayed so that you have to wait for development, you have to fight for your rights. I have come together with you on the shoulders to bring goodness to the people here, your strength, strength, dreams, the youth here, get opportunity and they get new heights of development.\nI have come to you at a time when there is an atmosphere of unity and goodwill. The political faction here has also come forward for their well-being and their development by keeping their debates behind. I congratulate the leadership here for this and I wholeheartedly welcomed the people who are involved. Agamaji, Khampa who had come to my house, had a hearty conversation. Together with them, I had the opportunity to understand the problems here, he said that let me give whatever he has to give, because the things were also open. I assure you that you are in the heart.\nThe promises that you have been promised for 12-15 years have not been settled. I can assume that it may take some time but you make promises every time and then forget the promises, make new promises, anger like this is a manifestation of such resentment.\nI have come to say to you that I am connected to my life to fulfill what I am doing, I will be consumed. I am surprised that a party which ruled this country for 15 years, this Assam state who gave the country prime minister for 10 years; Congress has consistently ruled for 15 years; Seeing that he continued to run the government for 60 years, I was thinking that there can not be any problem now in Assam because 10 years have been the Prime Minister from here and for 15 years, a Chief Minister is running the government here. Those who should give an account of their work, they are asking questions, then what did they do? These are knocks of failures. He has to admit that he had his own Prime Minister, had sent Manmohan Singh from Assam but there is a long list of problems now.\nBrothers and sisters, they are unable to do anything in 15 years and expect me to do everything in 15 days. Tell me if this is justice with me? This is for misleading you but I believe you will not be misled. You have seen their 15 years and you have seen our 15 months too. Some things were kept in front of me and today I want to say with great satisfaction that the Karbi Mikir tribe of Assam is scheduled in the plains as Scheduled Tribes and Bodo Kachari tribe of Assam Scheduled Tribe Anglong and NC Hill Autonomous Council. The issue of being declared as a tribe is pending for a long time. Now both the registrars of the issues have been recommended by the National Commission for Central and India Scheduled Tribes. In the coming days, this matter will be approved in the cabinet and after that it will be passed in Parliament. Over the years your problem is being solved.\nWhen your leader told me about this problem, then I said that I will solve it first and I will come again. Central Institute of Technology, Kokrajhar will be given Deemed University status for a period of one year, to provide technical education opportunities for students of this region, to promote industrialization. The university will get more academic and administrative rights from this work.\nThere was an issue in front of me, an airport was working with the army long before the airport, then it was closed. Now the state government is not giving the land. I assure you that as soon as the issue of land is completed, Rupasi Airport will be developed jointly for the Indian Air Force and the general public.\nRoute of Kanchenjunga Express train will be expanded to Silchar in Barak Valley and I am going to start that train very soon in the coming days. I was told another difficulty that there is an allocation for us in the budget but I do not know where it goes. The public's pie-pie should go to the public; The people who have been looted so far and now there is no opportunity to rob them, so these people are upset with us. Delhi now asks for accounting\nIn Delhi during the time of Atal ji, there was a special ministry-donor for the development of North-East. What happens to the government after Atal ji's government is known, it is known to all of you. We have given the Donor Ministry a new job, which is why some of the leaders here are very upset. Earlier people had to go to Delhi, had to search the ministry, the general people could not go there, the complaint could not be reached, what was going on, the truth was not known to lie. The rupees came but there was no work on the ground.\nRajiv Gandhi used to say that a rupee comes from Delhi and goes to the village to get 15 paise. So we decided that the Donor Ministry, its officers will go to the states of North-East once a month, the entire secretariat will be from Delhi to Guwahati. Will sit there all day, ask the account of the money the government has given, where the money is going, questioning will be done and this work is being done by Dr. Jitendra Singh's team. Due to this, people are facing problems that Modi is seeking accounting and fashion has become fashionable nowadays, do not give an account of your work. When you ask for accounts, anybody starts charging others so that all the governments of North-East will have to give account of money because this is the public money and this should be done by the people and therefore I feel bad about these people.\nI do not waste my time in such a way that I feel good or bad; I spend my time so that my country is good. My three point program for changing the future of our country - development, development and only development The solution to all the problems is only in development. You may have seen in the past that when the police were recruited in Delhi, I insisted that the youth of North-East states should be admitted to the police in Delhi and today a large number of young people were taken to Delhi for protection. . Once you say whatever you say, keep on trying to implement it, do your best.\nIf we want to develop, then this area is the first of its kind - infrastructure, whether it is a road, a rail, or a waterway, and therefore our government has created an East East Policy. Through this policy, the North-East states have to be linked to the development of India, to create a network of paths. In the previous budget, you may have seen that as if allocation had been done, it would have never been done before, so many rupees we are putting in road and rail in North-East.\nSuch years of independence of the country had passed and I was thinking that till now the electricity in all the villages of the country would have reached, but I realized that there are still 18,000 villages where there is no power line. We took the lead, on August 15, from the Red Fort, we announced that my government will work for the better and will send electricity to 18,000 villages in 1,000 days. You can see the complete details on your mobile. For this, we have created a separate website where-where electricity has been reached and day-to-day is kept and electricity is reaching some village every day. After reaching power in the village, people will realize that freedom is what they call. I also tell the friends of the media that after reaching power, show the people who are excited about it in the village, show it to the people. This will also encourage the people of the country to work together.\nAccess to electricity will improve education and living conditions, and our dream is that in 2022, when 75 years of India's independence, people got 24 hours of electricity all over, which is not available today. I assure you that till 2022 we will be doing this work.\nAnother dream of ours is that the poor families of the country have their own home. We have decided that in 2022, the poorest of the poor people of the country should also have their own home and also the house where electricity, water comes, toilets and there is also a school near the children. When many such houses are built, the roads will be built, the rail work will be done, so many people will also get employment, the opportunities for work will increase.\nWe had decided that we will open a bank account of poor people; The Prime Minister started the Jan-Dhan Yojana. People thought that how did Modi do that in 70 years? Today, I'm happy to tell that under Jan-Dhan Yojana, we have opened accounts of 200 million people. We added them to the stream of economy, opened their way to the bank. I said that even if money will not open, the accounts will open, but I am happy that the poor also thought that they would not be free, some would deposit in the bank and the people deposited nearly 30 thousand crores. This strength is the common man of the country and we want to move forward with this strength.\nI have the same intention that as much development has happened in other places in India, there should be equally development here. I have to do this work and so I have come to bless you. Today, I am seeing this mass spectrum in millions of people. I have made a lot of visits in Assam. You have also given a lot of blessings in the election of the Lok Sabha but such a view I have never seen before, such an environment has never been seen before. With your own blessings, I get strength, I get inspiration to run day and night for you. I am glad that I have got the opportunity to work with new partners and I assure that there are many obstacles to the problems here, no solution will be left for their solution. I am grateful to all of you, thank you very much!\n"