"PM Modi addresses the National Conference on sustainable Agriculture and Farmers Welfare in Gangtok, Sikkim\nPM Narendra Modi lauds Sikkim for his progress in organic farming sector\nIt has been agreed by all our life. We can not exploit nature We have to live in harmony with nature: PM\nSikkim is a state where the environment is protected and at the same time it is scaling new heights of development: PM\nPradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana instills confidence in the farmers We should integrate as many farmers as possible with this scheme: PM\nIn India, the first Prime Minister of India, the Prime Minister of Sikkim. Sikkimka Manisharu Soha Here the atmosphere is beautiful, holy and peaceful. Here it is fascinated by a clean environment, diverse one-estate, biological and beautiful environments.\nHere you have heard about organic farming. Today, the beautiful, beautiful and colorful spectators are very happy and happy. Deshma Sikkim erupts in the state of Uttar Pradesh.\nToday, we commemorated the former Governor of Sikkim to Mr. Rama Rao. I have a very strong introduction to Rama Rao. As a fellow worker I had an opportunity to work with him. Severe dislike humor was in their nature. The Andhra Pradesh Legislative Council got his guidance for a long time. For a few days, his health was not well. Tomorrow, after the Makaras revolution, we have farewell. He lived for five years in Sikkim. He made Sikkim his own. I respectfully pay tribute to them.\nWhen I was praising Pawan Ji I was praising him. So I was also in dilemma that what is happening is happening. Unless my name was told, I was feeling that someone is asking for someone else. But when my name came suddenly, I went to Chowk. But later I understood why it was so appreciated. But you would have seen normally go to any ceremony, at some places where the hosts are present, they call themselves in free. But in the number of things Pawan Ji put in, the state did not pay any such amount, so much money. This is a big deal. He said what is the need for the tribes, what is the need for the farmers What is the right here for the tribes? This state is progressing, the root cause of this is Pavan Ji's thinking. Otherwise, the crisis we imagine, all those crises are here, natural difficulties are uncountable. If the people of Sikkim or Sikkim rulers have to complain, cry and wash, there are thousands of things, but this is Sukhmantan, there is no cry of weeping here.\nThere is a mountainous heart, a height like the Himalayas, and they want to do something. Pawan ji has said anything. The Government of India will see him with a deep respect, what can be done by investigating him. I am a guest of the government today, it is a pledge, I am a guest of Pawan ji. Indeed, today I am a guest of millions of Sikkim farmers. And I have not come here alone today. I have come with the hope of millions of farmers in the country. Here, when Pawanji told me to declare as an organic state, but you should come. I said I will come alone to declare, what will it matter? I said that I would call all the Agriculture Ministers of India. Call all the agricultural secretaries of the country For two days where such a large agricultural yagya has been done, such a sage-like farmer should get inspiration from all our people in this holy land, then in two days this has been churned in the Chintan Bhavan in a manner that has been contemplated, There is a deeper discussion of how change can be made in the world. The five presentations that came up. You must have seen what tradition was earlier, this is not the meeting of any agricultural ministers for the first time, every year, but coming to the Vigyan Bhavan, telling your story and going away. That was mostly. It may have happened for the first time that the Agriculture Minister and the Agriculture Secretary would be together for two days. Sit down and discuss, discuss, discuss and discuss certain topics. And from them he has taken some actionable things. Suggestions are removed.\nThere are some short term, some long term, some are linked to some legal system, some are financial resources, some are associated with new vision. That is, how to see agricultural life in a changed period. Country's village, country's farmer, country's agriculture, country's agricultural production. Seeing these topics in the pieces will not be good for the country, we have to see it in totality and with the intention of looking at it in totality, this churn has happened and many important suggestions have emerged from it. I am confident that in the coming days, it will reflect somewhere in the road map of the state government and in the vision of the Indian government's agriculture. With the efforts of the states which have come here, they will be reflected in the coming budget of the States and in the light of the things that happened here, small groups will meet in the state, do seminar, place the concerned people and this is what 5 presentations, all issues will not apply to every state, but what can that state do in it? 50 things will come, maybe they can do 20. Maybe someone thinks 10 years after this year, 10 next year, 10 and a year but any other program should come out of it, plan should be made and in a way, remember these things as a Sikkim declaration needed. There are many reasons for disappointment in the agricultural sector.\nIt is such a blessing of experience that to create a new faith in it, there is a challenge, even then accept that challenge. Sikkim is an example. The example is in the sense that when it was considered here in 2003, what would have not been the opposition of organic farming Will the farmers have not complained? When 10 farmers have gone towards biological and there may have been a slight loss in the beginning. Then put a lot of fertilizer in the neighborhood and double it by planting it to show that you are dying, I am living. Every farmer's mind must have been lost, who would have used it in three, he would have thought that the man is not going to come next time. The Chief Minister says, Where do they have to cultivate? We have to cultivate, then we have to do it. There may have been many such moments of disappointment, there have been many fears of fear, this way would have been the desire to return to the old path and also have to face the financial crisis, but in spite of this, I have given lakhs of farmers to Sikkim. I bow that I have not left my way, I have not given up, I do not leave the path, I do not want to leave, he keeps doing something in life. And today the world will clap for Sikkim.\nA long period is the result of penance. It is not a small task to be able to accept this thing without waiting for a decade, without being tired. Now in your own house, decide in the family that they will do two things. Decide the two things in general, sit down together and eat with the family every evening. Will not be able to play All the people of the family will sit together in the evening, they will decide, can not complete 10 years continuously. There will be obstacles somewhere. This is a farmer of Sikkim, who showed up Perhaps one of the reasons is that in the air of modernity we are trapped here but here you are getting inspiration from the organic wind. And this wind is no longer limited to Sikkim, this biological wind is going to spread across the country. Holistic health care Now all this man's mind is starting to think this house.\nAll the countries of the world had come together to worry about global warming in France. Were worried about the environment. The glaciers are melting, they were worrying. The whole environment is changing, worsening. It is a matter of concern, it was a matter of concern. Many things happened. But a paragraph in it is very important and the paragraph is back to basic. All the countries of the world have said that we have to change our life style. Which was not considered earlier, otherwise the man believed that we had the right to rob this nature. This is everything for us. For the first time in COP21, the world met and said that it should not be a love relationship with nature. You will have to learn to live with nature. Sikkim has shown that by example. There is such a discussion that there is a conflict of development and environment ever. The fear is created that if the development will happen then the environment will be destroyed. Sikkim is a model for the world in which there is complete protection of the environment and even new heights of development can be overcome.\nDo not forget me, Pawan ji has Malrod in Gangtok, not Man, Man Road .. Gandhi Marg, on which he had stopped the vehicle. The big storm was over, it was a long time ago They remained intact and finally people accepted this and today the Gandhi Rand has become the face of the whole gangtok. People have started to be proud. These days cleanliness campaign is going on, it is also connected to the environment, I congratulate the gangtok, Sikkim and the Chief Minister that the rating that is being done right now, the Indian government has been following him equally nowadays. The first 10 numbers that came in the country, the whole country, which has large cities Bangalore is Delhi, Jaipur is, Udaipur is all big, among the big cities, Gangtok received the tenth number. This is not a small situation and in the Himalayan States, Gangtok received number one in mountain states. I congratulate them for this work and congratulate the people here. Those who have made cleanliness in nature\nI heard that a prime minister had come here in the 20th century, who had stayed at night, I have come in the 21st century and I will stop at night. One of the attractions of organic farming is to develop our country's agricultural world. The farmer is also ready to experiment. But with sporadic experiments, they will also go on before, with no apparent experiments, changes are not realized. I am requesting from the representatives from the states that when there is a huge demand for organic production in the world, there is a huge market of agricultural production and in a way that some people run the campaign towards zero cost agriculture, It's also friendly. We strategically, holding strategically any district of the state. First decide that a district will be fully organic. If the strength of the district is not to hold a block, the talukas will speak, block will speak, who will speak. In which 100, 125, 150 villages, hold a whole area and once show that whole area The program runs a long time because it does not matter if it does not use fertilizer or prestige for a year, it has a long process and by doing its special arrangement, guiding farmers, giving them what they need and providing them Raising the system till their marketing. If a block or district succeeds, the other place will start automatically and the farmer has the nature, the farmer does not work with lecture. No matter how many scientists of the Agricultural University come and give him a speech, no matter, but if he sees himself with his eyes, he does not need any speech, he starts doing it. Seeing is believing is the nature of this farmer. He once saw, he will go into detail, understand and become his trust, then he goes and then he can not stop anybody.\nI would like to have some friends who have come from our states, decide on any direction, decide which direction we have to go in. The second thing is that you have greatly appreciated crop insurance but also have to believe that crop insurance has been in discussion for so many years, farmers also worry about it, but more than 20 percent of the farmers are not related to it, we have to change this situation. . We can decide now that we will go to at least 50 percent. At least half of the farmers in our state are involved in crop insurance, we can do this by resolving and due to this, the expenditure on India's vault is going to increase but due to increasing the expenditure, Insurance, Prime Minister's crop insurance scheme has come, he gives a belief to the farmer. Many new things have been added so that they had daily troubles, which were not counted first. There is also pressure on the insurance company that this is the way, you have to do this with the farmers in such a way. I hope that add it to the work of crop insurance. I want to connect sanitation with agriculture. How to make fertilizer from the bio waste we have here, how to become fertilizers widely and how to provide fertilizers to our farmers, be branding them, I would like Sikkim to produce organic things, He should branding a name. Today they had to give names to three flowers, they told two to give you, a chief minister said, I will give myself. I gave two names, given in the memory of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, a given Sardar, and given the second name given to Deendayal, Deendayal Upadhyay ji is a year of centenary, for him, Deendayal. But they gave the second name. I am grateful to Sikkim's government, you gave such a big respect, but let me not be as delicate as the flower. Have lived through thorns, have to live among thorns, but where there is need, flowers with softness are sad, with the help of wiping tears of the poor, this life can come, what can be a great privilege from this.\nIn the agricultural sector, we have to think about some things that farmers will need to change in the direction of change. One thing is right that after the production, the scientists will be able to benefit the farmer. There is a waste which is useless here, the farmer is going to benefit, and there is a lot of discussion in the market here, there has been a lot of discussion with regard to bank finance, there has been a lot of discussion with regard to technology. All these things are important and have to do it further, but the farmer also has to add to many things. Now, such as a soil health card, here it is in the soil health card - these are troubles. See soil health card should be converted into a mass movement. Today, 30 years ago, a Doctor used to tell you to give a blood test, did not say, urine was used for the test, did not say. आज कोई भी Doctor के पास जाओ पहले कहता है भई पहले ये report ले आओ। अच्छा उस Doctor के पास उस एक testing की laboratory है, नहीं है। गांव में कोई और है जो laboratory चलाता है। आप testing करवाते हैं, report लेकर जाते है और वो तय करता है क्या बीमारी है। soil health के लिए ऐसी laboratories का network क्यों खड़ा न हो, देश में नौजवान soil health laboratory के उद्योग में क्यों न आए, Entrepreneur क्यों न बने और ये कोई ऐसी technology नहीं है कि जो कोई कर न सके। skill development जो भारत सरकार है, उसमें हम इसको करने वाले हैं कि soil health के लिए skill develop हो, soil health परीक्षण करने वाले जो लोग हो और गांव-गांव ऐसी छोटी-छोटी laboratory क्यों न बनें। मैंने ये भी कहा जो हमारे school-colleges हैं, जिस school-college में laboratory है। विज्ञान का प्रवाह होगा तो laboratory होगी। मार्च महीने से जून महीने तक हमारे यहां करीब-करीब स्कूलें बंद रहती हैं, छुट्टियां रहती हैं, कुछ इलाकों में नहीं रहती हैं, जहां पर मौसम अलग होता है, कुछ जगह पर अलग समय होता है लेकिन ज्यादातर हिंदुस्तान में मार्च महीने से जून-जुलाई तक स्कूल बंद रहती हैं। क्या उस समय हम स्कूल को, स्कूल की उस लैब को soil testing lab में convert कर सकते हैं, उस स्कूल को भी कमाई होगी। जो 10वीं, 12वीं के विद्यार्थी हैं या college के student हैं, उनको भी vacation में कमाई होगी और किसान उसको पता होगी कि इस प्रकार से नमूना लेकर के जाना है, वहां जाऊंगा, 3 दिन में मुझे report मिल जाएगी। ये इस प्रकार से हमें model विकसित करना पड़ेगा। हम ये आज चाहें, कर रही है सरकार और इस वर्ष का जो लक्ष्य था, उसमें काफी काम हुआ है लेकिन इतने से बात अटकनी नहीं है क्योंकि हर दो साल में जमीन अपना स्वभाव बदलती है, गुण-दोष में परिवर्तन आता है, हर दो साल में जमीन की जो परत होती है, उसमें परिवर्तन आता है और इसलिए हर दो साल में soil testing अनिवार्य हो जाता है। भले point five percent फर्क आता होगा लेकिन फर्क तो आता ही है। इतना बड़ा काम करना है तो नए Entrepreneur चाहिए। मैं अभी ये Start-Up के लिए नौजवानों से मिला था, उसके पहले भी मैं कुछ Start-Up वालों से मिला था, छोटी meeting में एक बार मिला था। मैं उनको कहा कि आप किसान mobile phone क्यों नहीं बनाते हो। आजकल ऐसे मशीन आते हैं कि आप अपने घर में blood test कर सकते हो, blood थोड़ा रखा तो उस पर report आ जाती है, sugar level क्या है, क्या ऐसे mobile phone नहीं निकल सकते हैं कि जिसकी screen पर मिट्टी रखे तो तुरंत report आना शुरू हो जाए, ये सब संभव है, technology बदल रही है, ये Start-Up वाले कर सकते हैं। किसान mobile phone क्यों न हो, उसके अंदर सारे software किसान से जुड़ी हुई हर चीज उसके अंदर हो, उसको ये जो हम लोग आज ये mobile phone इस्तेमाल करते हैं, उसको उसकी कहां जरूरत है, बिल्कुल फालतू में जगह रोककर के बैठ जाता है, उसको वो चीजें देखनी नहीं है जी। उसको तो weather report देखना है, उसको तो बाजार भाव देखने हैं, उसको तो फसल की variety देखनी है, fertilizer की समझ पानी है, कौन सी चीज कहां मिलती है और कौन सी चीज कहां बिकती है, वो चीज चाहिए, समस्या है तो कहां पूछूं, क्या पूछूं, ये चाहिए और मैं मानता हूं कि अगर आज जो Start-Up की दुनिया में हमारे नौजवान आए हैं, वो इस दिशा में सोचें कि मेरे देश के गरीब से गरीब किसान, अनपढ़ किसान भी, उसके हाथ में mobile phone के द्वारा वो अपनी समस्याओ     का समाधान कर सकता है और जो technology की चर्चा यहां हुई, वो technology वहां से संभव है और ये जो मैं बातें कर रहा हूं, कोई कठिन काम नहीं कह रहा हूं, आज विज्ञान जिस गति से आगे बढ़ रहा है, ये सब संभव है और बहुत बड़ा मार्केट है।\nपूरे दुनिया में जितना उनका mobile का मार्केट होगा, उतना मार्केट उनको अकेला हिंदुस्तान में मिल जाएगा, किसानों में। हम technology को, सब कुछ करना है, लोगों को जोड़कर के कैसा किया जा सकता है। अगर लोगों को जोड़कर के हम करें, हम कर सकते हैं। अभी मैंने कुछ कंपनी के लोगों से बात की। मैंने कहा कि भई हमारे यहां जो फल की खेती करने वाले किसान हैं, फल की उम्र ज्यादा होती नहीं है और पहाड़ों में या खेतों में दूर बड़ी मेहनत से, पहाड़ों में तो ज्यादा फल होते हैं, उसको मार्केट आते-आते तक 20 percent, 30 percent तो खराब हो जाते हैं और हम लोग pepsi पीने की fashion हो गई, coca cola पीने की fashion हो गई, अरबों-खरबों रुपए की ये aerated water बिक रहे हैं। मैंने उन कंपनियों को बुलाया, मैंने कहा भई ये आप इतनी सारी चीजें करते हो क्या ये प्रयोग करो ना, 5 percent ज्यादा मैं नहीं कह रहा हूं, 5 percent natural fruit का juice उसमें mix क्यों नहीं करते हो। अगर ये हमारे aerated water बेचने वाले लोग 5 percent natural fruit juice mix कर दें, हिंदुस्तान के किसान का एक भी फल बेकार नहीं जाएगा, मार्केट तुरंत मिल जाएगा, मार्केट तुरंत मिल जाएगा। हमारे यहां इतने सारे फूल हो रहे हैं। यहां से मार्केट जाते-जाते कितने फूले हैं जो बहुत कम फूले हैं जो बचेंगे, ये अच्छा है सिक्किम में कुछ फूले ऐसे हैं जिसकी उम्र बहुत लंबी भी है और मैं आज जब देखा फूलों का प्रदर्शनी, कुछ फूल हैं जिनकी कीमत 3 हजार रुपए है। 3-3 हजार रुपए कीमत है इन फूलों की, अनेक प्रकार की fragrance है। आज दुनिया में fragrance का बहुत बड़ा market है और उनको भी organic चीजें चाहिए। अगर organic चाहिए तो raw material में फूल चाहिए और फूल मार्केट में पहुंचाना है तो quick व्यवस्था चाहिए और इसलिए सिक्किम में airport बनाना है। कुछ लोगों को लगता है सिक्किम में airport, tourism बढ़ेगा। सिक्किम में airport बनने से tourism तो बढ़ेगा लेकिन सबसे बड़ा फायदा होगा perishable good को यहाँ कार्गो से उठाकर के फटाफट दुनिया के बाजार में ले जाया जा सकता है, रोज यहां से विमान भर-भरकर के फल और फूल जा सकते हैं। आप कल्पना कर सकते हैं, सिक्किम जो सुखिस्तान है, सुखिस्तान कहां से कहां पहुंच सकता है। देश को सुखिस्तान में बदल सकता है और इसलिए हमने बदलाव जो लाने हैं infrastructure होगा तो किसान के market की जो requirement है, उसको ध्यान में रखकर के होगा।\nअटल बिहारी वाजपेयी जी ने जो प्रधानमंत्री ग्राम सड़क योजना दी वो सिर्फ गांव में गाड़ियां जाएं इसलिए नहीं है, गांव में जो पैदावार होती है वो तुरंत बाजार में पहुंचे इसके लिए है वो काम, उसको हम आगे बढ़ा रहे हैं। दूर-सुदूर interior में कैसे ये व्यवस्था बने उस दिशा में काम कर रहे हैं तो अगर एक तरफ airport बनाने की कल्पना है तो दूसरी तरफ गांव की वो सड़क बनाने की भी कल्पना है। मंडी को e-board पर लाने की कल्पना है। e-network क्यों न हो हमारी मंडी का और e market की व्यवस्था हो जाएगी, उसको proper platform मिलेगा तो जो नौजवान किसान मैदान में आया है इन दिनों और ये अच्छी बात है कि हमारे देश की young generation वापस कृषि में रुचि लेने लगी है। बीच में 20 साल का ऐसा समय गया कि किसान छोड़ रहा था चीजें, वो वापिस लौट रहा है, उसको हम ला सकते हैं। हम किसान को कुछ चीजों में guide कर सकते हैं क्या, कृषि को प्रमुखतया तीन हिस्सों में बांट सकते हैं एक वो जो रेगुलर खेती करता है, परपंरागत खेती करता है वो। दूसरा, वो पेड़ की खेती करें Tree वृक्ष की खेती करें। हमारा देश आज इतना टिम्‍बर import करता है , फर्नीचर के लिए इतना टिम्‍बर import करता है। अगर हमारे देश के किसान को खेत के किनारे पर, जहां उसकी जमीन पूरी होती है वहां अगर वो टिम्‍बर लगाता है और 20 साल के बाद उसका पेड़ बड़ा हो जाता है उसको काटने का अधिकार दिया जाए और बैचने का अधिकार दिया जाए। अगर उसके घर में बेटी पैदा हुई हो और टिम्‍बर के दो पेड़ लगा दे तो बेटी की शादी करनी होगी उस दो पेड़ में से शादी का खर्चा निकल जाएगा। क्‍यों न हम हमारे किसान को टिम्‍बर की खेती के लिए प्रेरित करें। तीसरी बात है, animal husbandry, one-third उसकी एक पूरी व्‍यवस्‍था का हिस्‍सा पशु पालन करें चाहे फिशरिज का करें चाहे poultry का रके। यह उसका हिस्‍सा है और सहज रूप से वो by product के रूप में मिल सकता है। यह तीन हिस्‍सों में one-third, one-third, one-third किसान के काम में फोकस करेगा तो एक-आध बार फसल खराब हो जाएगी तो animal husbandry से गुजारा चल जाएगा। कभी टिम्‍बर से गुजारा, विशेष अवसर आएं तो निकल जाएगा। कभी हमारे किसान को असहाय होने की नौबत नहीं आएगी। अब यह दो चीजें और करने जैसी नई निकली हैं, जिस पर सोचा जा सकता है कुछ किसानों ने प्रयोग किया है।\nएक तो हम लोग क्‍या करते हैं कि दो खेतों के बीच में जो division करते हैं। किसी न किसी कारण से यह खेत वाला भी एक मीटर जमीन खराब करता है और वो खेत वाला भी एक मीटर, दो मीटर जमीन करीब-करीब हर दो खेत में बीच में खराब हो रही है। हमारे देश में यह स्‍वभाव कैसे बना पता नहीं। आशंकाओं के कारण कहीं यह घुस जाएगा, वो घुस जाएगा उसके कारण हम लोग intervene करके किसानों को यह जो wastage है अपने खेत के चौड़ाई, किनारे पर उस wastage को कैसे वो fertilize बनाए, प्रेरित करना चाहिए। दूसरा इन दिनों कई किसानों ने अपने खेत की बॉर्डर पर सोलर पैनल लगा करके बिजली का कारखाना लगा दिया है और कुछ राज्‍यों ने किसानों के द्वारा यह बिजली पैदा हो रही है वो खरीदने की व्‍यवस्‍था भी की है। यह प्रयोग ऐसे हैं कि जो किसान अपने ही खेत में अपनी जो बिजली पैदा करेगा अपना पम्‍प भी चल जाएगा उसका और ज्‍यादा बिजली होगी तो सरकार खरीद लेगी। और छोटा सा वो यूनिट लगा सकता है अपने खेत के किनारे-किनारे पर। तो बॉर्डर की बॉर्डर हो जाएगी, बिजली की बिजली हो जाएगी। और 12 महीने पैदावर होगी। हमने यह नई-नई चीजें किसान को ध्‍यान में रख करके लाने की दिशा में प्रयास करना चाहिए।\nकिसान को हम value addition की ओर गांव को केंद्र बना सकते हैं। एक घटना मुझे बराबर स्‍मरण है, उस समय मैं गुजरात में मुख्‍यमंत्री था। किसान को एक समस्‍या यह होती है कि ज्‍यादा फसल हो तो दाम गिर जाते हैं, कम फसल हो तो खुद भूखा मरता है। दोनो तरफ से उसको मुसीबत होती है। हमारे यहां एक इलाका है, जहां मिर्ची की खेती होती थी। हरी मिर्ची। अब वो पूरे गांव की सबकी मिर्ची बैच दे। तो मुश्किल से तीन लाख रुपये आना था। अब तीन लाख रुपये में पूरे गांव का साल कैसे निकल सकता है तो गांव में कुछ पढ़े-लिखे लोग थे थेड़े से, उन्‍होंने कहा इस बार हम मिर्ची बेचेंगे नहीं। हरी मिर्ची नहीं बैचेंगे। उन्‍होंने क्‍या किया, उसको लाल मिर्ची होने दिया। लाल मिर्ची हो करके उन्‍होंने उसमें से पाउडर बनाया। पाउडर बना करके प्‍लास्टिक की बैग में पैंकिंग किया और लाल मिर्ची का पाउडर वो बेचने लगे। जिस गांव को तीन लाख की income होनी थी वो income 18 लाख हुई। value addition हम ग्रामीण लेवल पर value addition पर बल दे सकते हैं क्‍या। छोटे-छोटे प्रयोग decentralize राज्‍य interest ले करके उसका branding की व्‍यवस्‍था करे कि भई यह ब्‍लॉक है, यह ब्‍लॉक सरसों पर यह काम कर रहा है, तो उसका यह ब्रांड होगा, इस ब्रांड से माल बिकेगा, बाजार मिल जाएगा। हम इन व्‍यवस्‍थाओं को जोड़े। अगर इन व्‍यवस्‍थाओं को जोड़ते हैं तो हम अवश्‍य बदलाव ला सकते हैं।\nकृषि क्षेत्र में कई प्रगतिशील किसान है। agriculture universities जो काम करती हैं, उससे अद्भुत काम प्रगतिशील किसानों ने किया होगा। हमारे हर राज्‍य में progressive farmer का एक डिजिटल ऑनलाइन प्‍लेटफॉर्म हम खड़ा कर सकते हैं? जिसमें राज्‍य के जो प्रगतिशील किसान हैं, उनके जो प्रयोग हैं, उसकी detail उस पर हो। और देश में कोई भी किसान देखना चाहे तो देख सके, university के student देखना चाहे तो देख सके। हमारी agriculture universities इस काम को लीड कर सकते हैं? Agriculture universities अपना जो climate zone देखते होंगे, उस climate zone में प्रगतिशील जो चीजें हुई हैं, उसके experience और experiments, detail में हम रख सकते हैं क्‍या? आप देखिए हम एक बहुत तेजी से क्रांति ला सकते हैं। मैं तो चाहूंगा कि सिक्किम भी एक ऑन लाइन प्‍लेटफॉर्म तैयार करें। यह ऑर्गेनिक प्रोसेस क्‍या हुआ, कैसे हुआ हर किसान अपनी कथा बताए। पूरे देश के किसान यहां आएंगे, देखेंगे।\nमैंने आज उनके जो फूलों की प्रदर्शनी देखी, आजकल vertical garden की कल्‍पना है। अब vertical garden क्‍या होता है वो हमें किताब में या टीवी पर देखना पड़ता है। मैं पवन जी का अभिनंदन करता हूं उन्‍होंने vertical garden यहां पर खड़ा किया है। मैं चाहूंगा कि आप देखिए vertical garden क्‍या होता है और vertical garden को कैसे सजाया जा सकता है। और कैसे कम जगह में vertical garden को develop किया जा सकता है। अगर हम इन चीजों को प्रचारित करते हैं तो लोग उसको करने के लिए तैयार होते हैं। और इसलिए आज सिक्किम के लिए तो बड़ा महा उत्‍सव है यहां के किसानों की 12-13 साल की एक अखंड परिश्रम का आज सर्वोत्‍तम अवसर है। वो सारे किसान बधाई के पात्र हैं और देशभर से कृषि विभाग को संभालने वाले सरकारी अधिकारी और मंत्री महोदय यहां पधारे हैं। भारत सरकार के भी सारे अधिकारी मौजूद हैं यहां। एक नयी उमंग उत्‍साह के साथ, नई सोच के साथ, नये संकल्‍प के साथ यहां से हम प्रस्‍थान करें और यह सिक्किम की वादियों में जो पवन लहरा रहा है, वो पवन हमारे तक भी पहुंचे। हमारे खेतों में भी वो पवन पहुंचे। उसके लिए हम प्रयास करें।\nमैं सिक्किम सरकार का इस बात के लिए आभारी हूं कि उन्‍होंने भारत सरकार का इतना बड़ा कार्यक्रम यहां आयोजित किया। मेरा भी सौभाग्‍य है कि मुझे दो दिन सिक्किम में रहने का अवसर मिला है और आपने जो प्‍यार दिया, सम्‍मान दिया इसके लिए मैं आपका बहुत आभारी हूं। Thanks a lot.\nमुझे एक कविता कहने का मन हो रहा है | एक कविता है पुरानी ...देखिये हमारे देश में जैविक के सम्बन्ध में कैसा सोचा जाता है| हिंदी भाषी इलाके में एक कवि हुए घाघ ..उन्होंने बड़ा मजेदार लिखा है |\n“खाद पड़े तो खेत, नहीं तो कूड़ा रेत ,\nगोबर राखी पाती सड़े, फिर खेती में दाना पड़े |\nसन के डंठल खेत छितावै, तिनते लाभ चौगुना पावै ,\nगोबर मैला नीम की खली, या से खेती दूनी फली ,\nवही किसानों में है पूरा, जो छोड़े हड्डी के चूरा ।\"\nमैं मानता हूँ कि कवि घाघ की लिखी हुयी बात आप सिक्किम वालों ने जी करके दिखाया है और इसलिए मैं सिक्किम को बहुत बहुत बधाई देता हूँ और इस समारोह को आयोजित करने के लिए बधाई देता हूँ|मैं देश भर से आये हुए महानुभावों से आग्रह करूँगा कि वह यहाँ से अच्छी चीजें लेकर के जाएँ | अपने राज्य में इसको प्राथमिकता दें , अपने राज्य में टाइम टेबल बनायें और उसको लागू करके किसानों की बेहतरी के लिए भारत का जो सपना है उसे मिल करके पूरा करें | बहुत बहुत धन्यवाद |"