"Share\n\nSuccessful start-ups are created by those who are driven by the idea \u0026 urge to solve a problem that people face: PM\nStartupIndia: Youth of India must turn from job-seekers to job-creators, says PM\nSuccess of start ups It is also a risk taking and adventure too: PM Modi #StartupIndia\nThis start up movement is not only guided by money or name \u0026 fame. The purpose is beyond that: PM Modi #StartupIndia\nWhen we say #MakeinIndia we also say 'Make for India.' India is a great market: PM Modi\nStart Up Does Not Mean It is about employing even 5 people \u0026 developing India: PM\nWhen I say #StartupIndia, it is implicit that I say stand up India India is blessed to be a nation of youngsters: PM\nIndia's future is in innovation and creativity: PM Narendra Modi #StartupIndia\nToday is Saturday, the nature of the government is discharged and after 6 o'clock, the question does not arise. If someone asks you what the difference is, then the difference is that. I also think that I would have given me any strength like you. When I was listening to Riteish, I was wondering why a tea seller did not consider the Hotel Chain but in my luck, Narendra Modi could not do anything to sell tea or not, but millions of crores of people The young man can do something. This hope is so full of my heart. When I said to Redkit on August 15, Start-Up India, Stand-Up India, it was just like the wind blows and went away, even though there was no registry, but now maybe hundred hundred hundred days later it will be registered. What is Start-Up India\nSeeing is believing Now the young people are watching you in the country's IITs. This program, from young dawn to many places in the country, is also a partner with you. Most people think that if the government will do this then it will happen, if the government does this then it will happen. My thinking is a bit different. I think that if the government does not do this then it will be so much and therefore today you have gathered all of you so that you tell us what is not to do. We did a lot for 70 years and where we came and I say that once we decide to not do, then where can these people reach the country in 10 years? Every person in the heart of the country has a dream, with that dream, there are some thoughts in his heart, ideas are also there. Some people have ideas every day and in the evening the hair starts to die. But there are some people who get involved with ideas, they do not get out of it, and the whole family gets upset that it does not do anything, it just keeps on doing it, does not talk to anyone, man- Friends are not getting it, what has happened, it has not been so crazy, but one day it shows something amazing. Then the whole family does not seem to have it - no, sir, it was already there. There must have been one of your life experiences. Whatever apocalypse you heard, a mother has said or not, but at least the amount of experience has to be experienced because most of the first generation entrepreneur is full start-up and when you think of something son, your job is not your job . In the beginning, when friends will hear, they will be ridiculed, ridiculed, they will tell you by the same name, they are going to do something, this is something to do. Then there will come a moment. There must have been resistance all the way, all away People of the family have to protest, do not have to do this, go, earn, do the job, see their identity, they know Netaji, go get him. In spite of that protest, whoever will stand, today everyone will say, Man, he has done amazing, something I have to do too. This is the story of everybody's start-up. There is energy from within, there are dreams from within, intends to consume with it from within, then the circumstances of visiting do change and everybody in the world has done this. Ever since today we think that he was 1423, I think 1423, when Columbus had to come out what was going to get, but he would have thought that there is a new route for me to find, the world is about to connect me and he walked, he had a lot of things Have to be studied. Technology will be developed and new spice route will be given to the world. Today, the space in which we are working today, when it would have started, people would be joking, what are these people doing? Everything starts at the beginning, then whatever it does, it looks like what is going to happen and it looks only to the person that he is crazy and so who has achieved this success, he is not just an entrepreneur. In a way the adventure is part of their nature, then it happens. The success of start-up is not just the quality of entrepreneurship. The risk taking capacity, the intentions to do this, joins them and then we can give something to the world.\nStart-up, I was talking to Adam yesterday. That is interesting, it is like getting it. He has a great interest in the spiritual world of Hindu Stern, but he told me one thing well. He is saying that one who comes with the intention of earning money can never start a start-up. Whatever comes with the intention of doing something, the money is by product for it and all of you must have seen that when you have started, then you will never have thought about what will happen to bank balance, but whose life does change? It would have been thought, then it must have happened. Uber became a Kuber. We used to have Kuber Bhandari before, not before. I do not believe that he first thought. He must have thought this earlier that how should I solve the problem of Bhai people, how to do cheaply and one of them managed to develop.\nWhen start-up is discussed, it is usually thought around IT and now how far is everything away, just reached the App, it's done. App solving every problem Well I am very beneficial to him because I started the Narendra Modi App. I get so many new young ideas. I know from so many people and I urge you too. This type of start-up across the country and people from around the world, I tell you join my App and tell your success story, I will tell the world because this is going to be viral. The success story is going to be viral and the mind of the people, which is the one who is gripping the success. The atmosphere of despair has gone, the days have passed. Hope, faith, this time is intended to pass by and it changes the positions. He has the power to change the same principles and I am experiencing it and today as soon as I entered here, all of them reported me only, This Vigyan Bhavan is not full for the first time but the energy is the first time and it will be the energy in this hall. But this is the reflection of the minds of the youth of the entire Hindu city. Here, the echo of their aspirations is here. And in that sense it has its own importance.\nAn app that creates an apparatus or enters the world of start-up or innovates something new, is intended to do something new, adventurous nature happens. Everything has a sense of belonging to the depth of everything, but the biggest thing happens inside it is a sense of humor. Very few people will be able to experience this, there is a sense of humor inside them and when they see a bad situation, they see a problem, they do not sleep it. The problem is not his, someone else's but he does not sleep on it. He thinks I'll find a way, I'll do something for it.\nI was just watching out your virtual exhibition. Someone told me a simple thing there. One such pad was the build of the hardboard and. Now where in the world of such a great start-up he should have placed him, I asked. Say, there are many accidents in our country. After the accident, the bone which is injured, breaks the bone. If you want to take him, then do people of medical services do so? So he made a simple r cheese on a hardboard, put it under his feet, the bandage on the bandits, everything written on it. There is no expense. Now it means that there will be a fire in his heart. That would be an accident, poor how disturbed it is. The two bones break and move. From that he thought and he became an innovation. For those who suffer, those who give us the strength to give us the divine, they create a condition within us that becomes the reason to remove these millions of crores of pain and then start-up and So, this is your start-up campaign, this bank balance, and how much money is not connected with it, it is the mass general to get rid of problems, simplify the facilities, to carry out this important task. . And so if we look closely at us, then we will feel, God has given me intellect, I have read, I know technology. I think it's a solution, I find something else, and then it starts. Everyone, what the common humanities will do, the poor will suffer from it or the system will cough. He did not say, he did not. If the media is then, then it will report. The problem will remain the same. But in the mind of which this consciousness is lying will find its remedy and it becomes the cause of the start-up.\nNow there are so many young people here. I think in my mind that you guys think. The farmer of our country does so hard work, so much hard work and which is the production of grain, it is wasted in a lot of quantity, it is wasted. Now the old-fashioned infrastructure, money for these, these arrangements, can some of my youngsters develop brainstorming systems on them that are affordable and so big that our wastage is saved. Maybe, many poor countries of the world can fill their stomach, so wastage. Our fruit-flower, vegetable, fruit-bearing farmer lives in the hills, till the city comes, the poor material gets spoiled. What technology do we give, what, give us a new modern\nOne day I got some of these aerated water-making companies from companies. I said that you make such a great, great Pepsi and Cola and do not know what is n, even the name is not known to me. Why do you make 2%, 5% natural fruit juice, compulsory herbs, every farmer in Hindustan who sells will be sold automatically. If any thoughts on this. Now let's see the scientists of our own country work on vaccine by our own people through pharmaceuticals. Today, in the maximum number of countries in the world, the maximum poor people, cheapest children in cheap ak, which comes from vaccine, is done by the scientists of India.\nAnd all the people who meet me these days say, 'Sir, our demand is very much, its production and what to do.' People are ready to give their donation that we, the people of India, are living the life of hundreds of millions of children in the direction of vaccine. Who had done the work of sitting in the lab, who thought the concept would have not been identified at that time, but today it seems that he has served the humanity.\nWhat we do such things due to which our atomic energy here has developed a lot of arrangements to save the onion for a long time, because the price of onions sometimes goes up or down, the government's breath too -Let's down. Why, because he does not last long, it gets worse. Even if the production is high, the farmer dies, the production is reduced, but when the arrangements for preserving it are developed. Those atomic energy are working a lot but they are so expensive.\nWhat \u003cyoung people of our start-up world go to such things Out of the scope of IT, we and such small parts, now Jugaad in India. I think maybe such an innovative India will not be seen anywhere in the world. Today every person has some innovation. I have seen such people that if there is no electricity then they run pumps with their motorcycles and draw water and bring water to the farm. He is looking for his own way. There is no shortage of people who make such gimmicks. But he gambles, takes care of his own business. But if we have that type of vision, then we have a vision. If you see us spark, I will make it scalable, I will make such a arrangement.\nWhen we say 'Make in India' then 'Make for India' is also why there is a country of 100 million, that is such a big market. But we want him to be a complete proof, how easy he is and how to be easily accessible to the common humanities. If we are successful in giving this system and I believe that the young man of our country, our own problems, our own problems Someone here said that if I understand the problems of that country, Tiwari probably said. I will understand my problems, then by going back, I will find ways to find ways and the more we will grow, there is a lot of potential for the development of the country. Ranging from small necessities to those possibilities, to bigger than big\nAnd start-up does not mean that everybody has a billion dollar work and two thousand people work, not necessarily. Even if I give employment to five people, my start-up is pushing my country forward. To bring a psychological change is to bring him out of the mind of the job seeker in the mind of the youth. He became a job creator And once he came to his mind that I have to handle the lives of two people, he will do it.\nIn our country, education, infrastructure is emphasized, teacher's appointment is emphasized, that work is also being done. But time is demand of quality education. A person living in poor, remote and remote jungles, is a person living in the mountains. How can I find out such things that the education of the same quality which children of rich households get, how can I reach poor people through that technology? And the country will change so that we give the last person of the society a chance to change their lives by benefiting from these facilities. We will not need to feed him. If he gets quality education then there will be such sparks that will rise up and turn the world.\nHealth sector, today the health sector is dependent on most doctors, dependent on technology. Doctor is also dependent on technology itself. The machine decides that you have trouble, then the doctor says okay, by looking at the book, take it. This means technology is increasing in the health sector, the possibilities of innovation are increasing but it is a challenge before us in a country like India. सस्ते में सस्ता व्यवस्था कैसे बने, इस पर हम सोचे, नयेपन से सोचे। और इसलिए Start-up कहने के बाद कुछ लोगों की सोच होती है, ये तो बड़ा हाई-फाई होगा, लैपटॉप के बाहर दुनिया कुछ नहीं होगी, मोबाइल से जुड़े होंगे। It's not like this. ये लोग है जिन्होंने कोई न कोई कमाल किए हैं। यहां हर प्रकार के लोग हैं।\nआप देखिए handicraft. भारत का handicraft दुनिया में अपना डंका बजाए, ऐसी आप App बनाकर के दुनिया में प्लेटफॉर्म क्यों न खड़ा करे। सिर्फ ई-कॉमर्स नहीं, हम उससे दो कदम आगे कैसे जाए और उसमें जैसी global requirement हो वैसी designing भी provide करे ताकि हमारा जो गरीब आदमी गांव में बैठकर के छोटी चीजें बनाता है उसको भी idea मिले कि नहीं ऐसा नहीं, ऐसा करो। यहां stitch मत करो, यहां करो, लकड़ी ऐसे मत रखो, लकड़ी ऐसे रखो। वो अपने आप बदलता रहेगा और आपकी requirement को पूरा करेगा। इसके लिए connectivity चाहिए, ये बड़ी requirement है और ये, ये काम आप नौजवानों के दिमाग से हो सकता है और इसलिए मैं जब कहता हूं Start-up तो मैं ये मानकर चलता हूं कि Stand up India. इसके लिए मुझे अलग सोच करने की जरूरत नहीं है। जिस देश के पास 800 मिलियन 35 से कम आयु के नौजवान हो, जिस देश के नौजवानों के पास talent हो, हाथ में हुनर हो, अपरमपार सपने हो और पूरी दुनिया में अवकाश ही अवकाश हो, क्याह नहीं हो सकता।\nआज मैं IT professionals से कहना चाहूंगा। विश्वप के दुनिया के किसी भी देश के नेताओं से मैं मिलता हूं, दुनिया का कोई भी delegation आता है, उनकी जो बातें होती हैं उसमें एक चिन्ताम हर एक को सता रही है और वो है cyber security. हर कोई परेशान है cyber security को लेकर के। क्याह भारत cyber security provider के रूप में authority बन सकता है। एक बार हिन्दुस्तान का brand का cyber security का software मिल गया तो दुनिया की कोई ताकत उसको हिला नहीं सकती है, कर सकते हैं क्या? मानव जाति के लिए चुनौतियां आवश्यक हैं क्यों कि सिरफिरे लोग तो है जो तबाही करने पर तुले हुए हैं लेकिन हम मानवता को बचा भी तो सकते हैं। हमारे पास इस प्रकार के लोग हैं और ये भी सही है भारत के पास millions of millions problem है, कोई इंकार नहीं कर सकता है। लेकिन at the same time मुझे इस बात का भरोसा भी है कि billions of billions mind भी है। अगर million problem है तो billion mind भी तो हमारे देश में है। हर Start-up के पीछे कोई न कोई समस्या के समाधान का इरादा रहना चाहिए और जब किसी Start-up के पास समस्या के समाधान का इरादा होगा तो उसके संतोष का level भी कहीं कुछ और होगा। जब किसी की जिन्दगी में बदलाव लाता है तो उसको एक satisfaction मिलता है और इसलिए मैं वो कुछ करके दिखाऊं जिसमें मैं job creator बनूं, मैं वो कुछ करके दिखाऊं जिसके कारण किसी की जिन्दइगी में मैं काम आऊं, मैं वो कुछ करके दिखाऊं कि मेरे देश को एक कदम आगे ले जाने में मेरा भी कोई योगदान हो। इतना भी अगर सपना लेकर के हम चलते, हम बहुत कुछ कर सकते हैं।\nआज यहां हमारे सामने एक action plan प्रस्तुत हुआ है। उस action plan की कुछ विशेषताएं हैं जो मैं आपके सामने प्रस्तुत करना चाहूंगा ताकि आप सुबह से सारी बातें सुन रहे हैं लेकिन आखिरकार ये भी तो हो कि क्या होने वाला है। सबसे पहला मेरा घोष वाक्य है कि सरकार बीच में न आए बस, बहुत कुछ हो जाएगा और उसी विचार के आस-पास जो भी चीजें बनाई हैं एक तो हमने महत्वपूर्ण निर्णय किया है वो है, self-certification आधारित compliance की व्यवस्था। Start-ups के लिए नौ श्रम और पर्यावरण कानून जो आपको प्रभावित करते हैं के संबंध में self-certification को हमने introduce किया है और एक बात 3 साल तक कोई inspection नहीं होगा और आप समझ सकते हैं कि जब Inspector नहीं आएगा तो कितनी सुविधा रहती है। दूसरी बात है Start-Up India hub, single point up contact, ये हम व्यवस्था खड़ी करने जा रहे हैं और hand holding की व्यवस्था है। Start-Up में जैसे इन नौजवानों में मैंने एक व्यवस्था देखी है, उनसे मैं कल से बातें कर रहा हूं, काफी कुछ मैं इनसे सीख रहा हूं। हर एक के दिमाग में एक चीज रही है कि वो अपना तो कर रहे हैं लेकिन Guardian के नाते, mentor के नाते बहुत अच्छा काम करे है, हर कोई कुछ न कुछ कर रहा है, ये अपना social contribution के रूप में कर रहे हैं, mentor के रूप में वो औरों को प्रोत्साहित कर रहे हैं और इसलिए Hand holding की व्यवस्था, उस पर हम बल देना चाहते हैं, एक मित्र के रूप में, एक सलाहकार के रूप में, एक साथी के रूप में सरकार कैसे आपके साथ काम करे। Mobile App और Portal इस वर्ष की पहली अप्रैल से Start-Up के लिए Online Portal और एक Mobile आधारित App के जरिए संचारित होने वाला एक छोटा सा form शुरू किया जाएगा। वरना हमारे यहां तो address भी लिखते हैं तो 10 line का होता है। फलां गांव, फलां गली के सामने, फलां मौहल्ले से गुजरते हुए, पिछली खिड़की में, मूलतः लोगों का स्वभाव हर चीज को बड़ा करना, लंबा करना है तो इसको एक Mobile Phone पर छोटा सा एक Form बन जाए, उस दिशा में हम काम कर रहे हैं और इसको Registration की व्यवस्था भी उसी प्रकार से होगी।\nएक और problem रहता है Start-Up के लोगों के लिए.... patent का Intellectual property right सबके लिए ये एक बात रहती है आखिरकर वो ही तो पूंजी है Start-Up वालों की, अगर उसको protection नहीं मिला लेकिन कभी-कभी हमारे यहां patent के लिए महीनों लग जाते हैं process में, ये चिंताजनक व्यवस्था को बदलना है और patent registration का शीघ्र पता लगाना एवं कानूनी सहायता। हम नए प्रयोगों को protect, कानूनी सहायता देने का आवश्यकता समझते हैं। हम Start-Up के IPR Services की Scheme ला रहे हैं। जिसमें Start-Up के आवेदन की File शीघ्र करने की सहायता मिलेगी और ये भी सही है कि Intellectual property की दुनिया में, विश्व में जितने registration हुए हैं, उसमें काफी पीछे हैं हम लोग। IP में नहीं है लेकिन YP में है। हमारे पास Youth Property है YP और वो मुझे YP और IP को मिलाना है ताकि हमें कुछ ज्यादा परिणाम मिलें। हम ये भी एक सोच रहे हैं कि भारत के प्रमुख शहरों में एक इस काम के लिए facilitation की व्यवस्था हो, स्थानीय Chamber of Commerce हो और लोगों के साथ मिलकर के, इस विषय के वकीलों का एक समूह हो। इन सबको जोड़कर के कैसे निशुल्क व्यवस्था हो ताकि इस field में काम करने वाले वकीलों की संख्या बहुत कम है और Fee भी बहुत ज्यादा है और उसको लगता है कि भई इस काम के लिए मैं इतने रूपए दूं और करता रहूं, करता रहूं और उतनी, उसकी property चोरी हो जाती है, बेचारा कहीं का रहता नहीं है तो इसलिए बिना पैसे उसको ये व्यवस्था मिले। उसी प्रकार से Fees में भी, आज जो Fees है patent के लिए उसमें हम 80 percent reduction करेंगे क्योंकि देखिए भारत का भविष्य भी Innovation और creativity में है और Innovation और creativity को जितना हम बल देंगे, उतना ही हमें परिणाम मिलेगा। हम Start-Up के लिए सार्वजानिक खरीद की शर्तों में भी छूट देने का निर्णय कर रहे हैं। सरकारी खरीद में Start-Up को बढ़ावा देने के लिए हम Experience Turn over के आधार पर भी छूट देंगे। हमारे देश में क्या problem है, कोई भी काम है तो पूछते हैं कितना Turn over है, वो कहता है मौका दोगे तभी तो Turn over शुरू होगा या कोई काम देते हैं तो पूछते है कि भई कितना experience है तो वो कहता है कि भई experience की शुरूआत तो करो कहीं से और इसलिए नए के लिए दरवाजे बंद करने की व्यवस्था है, हम उसमें छूट देने की व्यवस्था में आगे बढ़ने चाहते हैं ताकि quality को, हां उसमें compromise नहीं होना चाहिए लेकिन नया है इसलिए उसको मौका न मिले ये स्थिति तो बदलनी है तभी नौजवानों को अवसर मिलेगा लेकिन मेरा आग्रह है Zero defect and Zero effect तो इस पर हम जरूर बल देंगे।\nएक और चिंता का विषय है हमारे देश में exit के लिए कोई व्यवस्था ही नहीं है। एक बार pipe में आ गए और इसलिए Start-Up के लिए सबसे पहले हम exit की व्यवस्था कर रहे हैं। हम ये भलीभांति समझते हैं कि एक विशाल और सफल कारोबार का निर्माण करने के लिए असफलताओं से बचा नहीं जा सकता है। असफलताएं होंगी और मैं सबसे ज्यादा असफलताओं के लिए हिम्मत करने वालों को promote करना चाहता हूं। जो पानी से भागता है, वो कभी तैरना नहीं सीख सकता है। एक बार तो डूबना ही पड़ता है तब जाकर के तैरना शुरू होता है और इसलिए इस बात को ध्यान में रखते हुए 90 दिन के भीतर Start-Up exit कर पाए, हम ऐसी व्यवस्था करने के लिए संसद में Bankruptcy Bill, 2015 हम लाए हैं और बाकी मुसीबत तो आप जानते हैं। अब आम नौजवान, अपनी twitter, Facebook की दुनिया में message दीजिए, काम अटका पड़ा है Parliament में, हो सकता है अब समझेंगे कुछ लोग। Fund of Funds, Start-Up की आवश्यकताओं को पूरा करने के लिए अगले 4 वर्षों में 2500 crore रुपए की प्रतिवर्ष आवंटन के साथ 10,000 crore रुपए का dedicated फंड बनाया जाएगा। वैसे आपने देखा होगा, पिछले दिनों इस काम को शुरू किया है। Start-Up के लिए credit guarantee एक फंड आपके फंड संबंधी आवश्यकताओं में सहायता करने के लिए हम अगले 4 वर्षों में प्रतिवर्ष 500 crore रुपए की निधि के साथ आपके लिए credit guarantee scheme लाएंगे और इसके कारण मैं समझता हूं काफी सुविधाएं आपकी बढ़ जाएंगी। उसी प्रकार से Tax incentive, Start-Up के लिए वित्तीय संसाधनों को बढ़ाने के लिए हम सरकार द्वारा मान्यता प्राप्त Funds के लिए निवेश किए जाने वाले Capital gain tax की छूट देना चाहते हैं, अब बाकी बात तो Finance Minister करेंगे लेकिन मैंने उनकी हाजिरी में बोल दिया है तो गाड़ी आगे चलेगी। कोई व्यक्ति अपनी संपत्ति को बेचने से आए हुए धन को, अपने ही Start-Up में लगाए तो Capital gain से उसको मुक्ति दी जाएगी। Start-Up से profit को 3 साल के लिए Income Tax से मुक्ति दे दी जाएगी। Women entrepreneur की संख्या बढ़ रही है Women Start-Up की, मैं सरकार से कहूंगा कोई विशेष योजना उनके लिए बना सकते हैं क्या, हम Fair market value के ऊपर investment पर लगने वाले tax से संबंधित आपकी समस्याओं का समाधान भी करेंगे। Incubation and Industry Academia ये एक बहुत महत्वपूर्ण व्यवस्था है क्योंकि इसके बिना इस विषय को develop नहीं किया जा सकता है और उसके लिए Atal Innovation Mission (AIM) विश्वस्तरीय Innovation hub को बढ़ावा देने, technology आधारित Start-Up को competitive बनाना और उसके लिए एक Atal Innovation Mission प्लेटफोर्म की शुरुआत कर रहे हैं। इसका उद्देश्य प्रतिभा, उपयोग की उद्यमियता को बढ़ावा देना तथा Incubators के Network को सुधार करना। इसके तहत sector specific Incubators को निर्माण करना है। 500 incurring labs तैयार होंगे, pre Incubation की अलग व्यवस्था की जाएगी, मौजूदा जो Incubation center हैं, उनको और बलवान बनाया जाएगा और Start-Up को seed capital भी दिया जाएगा।\nInnovation को एक राष्ट्रीय स्तर पर award देने की दिशा में भी सोचा जाएगा, जिसके कारण इस बात को प्रोत्साहन मिले, उसके लिए अलग से व्यवस्था की जाएगी। वर्तमान में already 35 नए Incubation center तैयार करने का काम तो चल ही रहा है। Public Private Partnership का भी model इसमें लिया है और करीब 35 Public Private Partnership नए Incubation center बन रहे हैं। राष्ट्रीय जो संस्थाएं हैं उसमें 31 center of Innovation, 13 Start-Up centers और 18 Technology business Incubators की स्थापना का भी काम चल रहा है। अभी आपने IIT मद्रास का देखा, उन्होंने research park में जिस प्रकार से काम खड़ा किए, 100 से ज्यादा कंपनियां उस पर काम कर रही हैं। इसी प्रकार से हम 7 और center खड़े करना चाहते हैं देश में और उसके लिए करीब 100 crore rupees भारत सरकार देगी ताकि ये काम आगे बढ़े।\nBio technology भी एक बहुत बड़ा क्षेत्र है जिसमें हम जितना बल दें, उतना कम है और bio technology में entrepreneurship को बढ़ाने के लिए 5 नए bio clusters, 50 नए bio Incubators, 150 technology transfer offices और 20 bio connect offices बनाने का निर्णय किया है। विद्यार्थियों में भी एक talent रहती है इस विषय में even स्कूल के बच्चों में भी कुछ न कुछ स्वभाव innovation का रहता है, इसको बढ़ावा देना है क्योंकि भारत ने innovation में कुछ न कुछ कर दिखाना होगा तो छात्रों के लिए innovation आधारित कार्यक्रम शुरू किया जाएगा क्योंकि उनके अंदर ये जो spark पड़ा हुआ है, उसको अगर channelize करे तो देश को बहुत कछ मिल सकता है। स्कूली छात्रों के लिए Innovation के core programme शुरू किए जाएंगे और 5 लाख स्कूलों में 10 लाख बच्चों पर focus करके इस काम को बढ़ावा दिया जाएगा। Incubator grant challenges, सरकार 10 ऐसे Incubator center की पहचान करेगी जो World class बनने की क्षमता रखते हैं, इनमें से प्रत्येक को सरकार की तरफ से 10 करोड़ रुपए की सहायता दी जाएगी।\nStart-Up के लिए कोई न कोई event करने रहेंगे ताकि क्या हो रहा है इसका भी परिचय होना जरूरी है और इसलिए Start-Up fest इसकी एक परंपरा हमारे देश में बननी चाहिए। मैं जब 10 September में US गया, हमारे शुक्ल जी यहां बैठे हैं तो, काफी मित्र थे उस समय वहां US में Start-Up की दिशा में भारतीय लोगों ने बहुत कुछ काम किया है तो मैं हिंदुस्तान से 40 ऐसे Start-Up के लोगों को लेकर गया था और वहां पर एक joint event किया था। इतना inspiring था मैं काफी देर हर चीज को देखा था, भारत में भी हम Start-Up fest को परंपरागत रूप से खड़ा करना चाहते हैं, सरकार उसमें जितना भी मदद कर सकती है, वो करेगी ताकि हमारे नई पीढ़ी के लोगों को देखने को भी मिले और जैसा आपने कहा सर्व विनाश के सामने, उन्होंने कहा आज इस event से मुझे नए सपने देखने की ताकत मिली है। अब ये अपने-आप में एक बहुत बड़ा संदेश है। अगर हम लगातार इस बात को करते रहते हैं तो हमारे नए लोगों को भी, जो उनके मन में कुछ पड़ा होगा तो उसको वो एक अवसर मिल सकता है और उसका एक networking भी अच्छा कर सकता है तो जो योजना को आज मैंने आपके सामने प्रस्तुत किया है, इसके कुछ पहलू मैंने आपके सामने रखे हैं। मुझे विश्वास है कि ये event आने वाले दिनों में भारत की युवा पीढ़ी को, भारत के talent को, भारत के लिए, मानवता के लिए कुछ न कुछ नया करने की ताकत देगी, प्रेरणा देगी। मेरी सभी नौजवानों को हृदय से बहुत बहुत शुभकामनाएं हैं। विश्व के अनेक भागों से जो लोग आए हैं, मैं उनका हृदय से आभार व्यक्त करता हूं क्योंकि उन्होंने आकर के सबका हौंसला बुलंद किया है और भारत बहुत तेजी से आगे बढ़ रहा है, आगे बढ़ने वाला है और उसमें आप लोगों की अहम भूमिका रहने वाली है। बहुत-बहुत शुभकामनाएं, बहुत-बहुत धन्यवाद।"