"PM Modi felicitates the Amazing Indians, lauds efforts of the common man\nSmall people have a major contribution to society and can not be forgotten: PM Modi\nJourney of awardees have been like diamond; It is going to be the first time in the world.\nPrime Minister Modi says people who are considered inferior have a major contribution to society\nWorld over, most of the great achievers have been those, who overcame personal hardships: PM\nAll the guests present\nAmazing India and Amazing Indians ... I congratulate Times Now for trying to test those diamonds of society which never shine for themselves. These are diamonds, as the nature of the diamond remains, from the quarry to a person's body, his journey is very painful, it is very painful. He has to undergo many troubles and after that he shines on someone's body. These are the diamonds where they get to the society, world glow, for which they suffer them, they struggle and they get satisfaction by doing some work.\nThe misfortune of our country has been that whatever is written in ours will be seen in the last two hundred and two hundred and three hundred years, mostly the words of the royal family, the words of the rulers, the words of the royal family, his habits, his routine, the same things Used to come to the front of society. It was also a part of this thought-provoking strategy to keep the country slaves, and due to this the meditation remained close to the glow. Ozal is also a world in darkness, there is a tradition of people who are struggling for values ​​even between troubles and very little attention goes towards that side.\nReaders like Premchand, then it comes to mind that in what way people used to accumulate life, they did not live life only, they used to tinker life. And therefore, if we have to feel our own strength, we also have to recognize ourselves, then by seeing those who are in darkness, we can recognize our position. Some people think that if there are facilities, there are arrangements, there is a customizable environment that can only be done. Such thinking is a very big class and I always tell them that if you do not sleep, you should get a better room for a better room in the 5 star hotel, you want as much temperature as you want, if you like it, you like it, you like it. Even so, there is no guarantee of sleep, even then.\nOpportunities, facilities, arrangements always give solutions, it is not so. If there is any fire within you, there is no spark in it, it has the power to defeat those situations and those who have done something in the world, if they look at them, then there are many people who struggle with life in life. Have to pay and after that have given something And look at the sequence of any saga of any history of the world, in every thing somewhere in the society, which small people consider, the small people who are in the eyes of the big people, how big is their contribution. The entire Ramayana, we can see, Ram, Lakshman, Sita read everything, but we can never forget that squirrel without which, whose work was also appreciated by Ram, who is trying to make Ram-Setu was. Forget the entire Ramayana but can not forget the Shabari. Many forms of Krishna will be remembered but can not forget Sudama. You can not forget those Guavas Chattrapati Shivaji is not such a big world, but the small cargo that never used to spend life to win Sinhagad, can never forget it. Pag-dear, remember the guru tradition, who were the paws, the common people. They gave birth to a great tradition. Small people change history, change society's thinking.\nThe misfortune of our country has been that even after Independence, our eyes are restored to the princely states, rests on politicians and sometimes it seems that they are given preference over the need. Give as much as you can to them, but we can see that more than necessary. A teacher who has given two hundred good citizens in his lifetime, in which he is a doctor, an engineer, a litterateur, that teacher does not have a name at any crossroads, there is no way in his name. But if you become a corporater, then seeing it becomes the path of his name too, his road is made, the intersection becomes, sometimes the effigy is also made.\nPeople living for the society who are far away from political temples, their number is in crores. We look at the whole of our agriculture. More than the strengths of the agricultural world, whether it is from laboratory or received by scientists, more and more of the village is derived from the continuous experiments of the common farmer. But that does not go unnoticed on that side. Recognizing the power of the society, the power of the society, the effort to highlight the power of the nation on the basis of the power of the society emerges as the ultimate power. And so who has done something or not. Have been shown living in adverse conditions or even after adverse conditions taught to live for others. Whose life itself became an example in itself. Deep lamp burning from a lamp Such gems have been fortunate to see me today. And there are countless people, there are countless people in every corner of India. How do we recognize their power?\nThe basic thought of India is that it is the basic thought, it is its original thinking. Renunciation is part of his fundamental reflection. And the same kind of life is produced from within. This life inspires others. They all have their own story, their own character. And today after this program many will pay attention to them. They will be encouraged to do something else. A lack of always seems that people who live like this type of life are very satisfied in their life, because they do swatantry. Someone asked Tulsi Das ji why did you do all this? Tulsidas's direct answer was that brother enjoys it, so I am doing it. Even after doing this, perhaps the world will accept it, will see it is not my subject. I do my selfishness, my satisfaction. It is those people who can not live without doing this for satisfaction for their happiness. Then the pain of their mind will be removed, they achieve this height, then do it and go. And so how do we expose these great values, how to highlight, how do we save these values? And how to motivate the common man to the general. No such power emerges from such opportunities. I once again congratulate all the gems, congratulate them and they have set such an example which will be the reason for listening and reading, perhaps to inspire. I am also very grateful to Times Now that I had the opportunity to see their works, their dreams, their lives, their visions with such gems. Thanks a lot."