"Share\n\nSwami Vivekananda an inspiration for all youth and a bright example of how much can be accomplished in a short time-span: PM\nEarlier people were inspired to die Today it is about living for the nation \u0026 doing something for India: PM\nThe 125 crore people are united in an objective of taking the nation to new highs: PM Narendra Modi\nIndia is a land of opportunities: PM Modi\nA youth is one who works towards his future, unmindful of the past: Prime Minister Modi\nWithout peace, unity and harmony, development can not be any meaning: PM\nIndia has shown the world, that a land of such diversity, has a unique spirit to stay together: PM\nIndia's goal is to give youth the opportunities to make this century: PM\nIf India can be a manufacturing hub, it is not because we have a market or raw materials ... it is because we have skilled youngsters: PM\n\"Dignity of labor\" should be inculcated among people: PM\nDevelopment is about transforming the lives of the poor: PM Modi\nIndia's crows - who came from my young colleagues\nToday, 12 January, we celebrate the birth anniversary of Swami Vivekanand ji as Youth Day. In this country, two great men have been especially young in this country. If someone takes the name of Bhagat Singh in front of us or someone reminds us of Swami Vivekananda, at that moment our forehead leaned in the feet of those great men. What can anyone do at a very young age? If life has the power of determination, there is a devotion to the resolution, and there is an indomitable desire to bring life, then the age does not matter for the person. There are thousands of youth sitting in front of me in the country, they have come from the Kaun-Kaun of Hindustan. Their upbringing has varied. Their eating habits are different, their dialect differs, their style is different, but in spite of this, all these young people are associated with this one thing. A mantra in their mind temple is constantly resonating. And that is the motivation of all of us. And what is that mantra? During the freedom movement, the Vande Mataram echo has thrown the entire Indian movement into the freedom movement of Cuttack by stopping Kanya Kumari from Kashmir. There is a mantra which becomes an inspiration to show some tax in life. Today the same mantra, whether it is called as India's mother of Jai, even though Vande Mataram is said to be in the form of it. It had become our strength to free Mother Bharti from the chains of slavery first. And today to bring India to new heights in Azad Hindustan, to prove the new heights of development, to get rid of problems, Hindustan villages, poor farmers, laborers to bring about change in their lives. Inspiration is formed. The first was the inspiration to die for the country. Today the same mantra inspires us to live for the country. And all of you young men are bound by some determination to do something for the country, not for themselves. you want to do something. And this country progresses when hundred and fifty million people are bound by some resolution. Trying to move some steps to fulfill that resolution. If you try uninterrupted to get the floor, then the country automatically crosses those floors.\nToday, the whole world is watching the whole world is looking at India with a big hope. Why? That's because Hindustan is a country of possibilities. Opportunity where you are waiting. The world is looking towards Hindustan because today India is the youngest country in the world. 65 percent of the population should be under 35 years of age, how fortunate is the country that has a majority of young people. And where there is a youth, there are no limitations of resolutions, no limitations. Occasionally, we get to hear things differently about the definition of youth in our country. Till now, the definition of youth has been very high since the rulers. Everyone has their own views. For some people the age range is considered as the identity of the young. I sometimes think that the youth is not the name of this situation. Youth This is the name of the mood of the situation. There is a mood, which is the introduction of the youth. When a person repeatedly recollects his past moments, repeats it, then I get this straightforward meaning that he has lost his youthful speech. That old age has gone. But, instead of repeating the past yesterday, instead of repeating the dreams of tomorrow, he always tells me that he is young in true sense. If you consider yourself as a youth, then the youth is one who does not ruin his time by repeating the things of yesterday, but who is trying to save the coming dreams, and to fulfill every dream Pays for yourself.\nThe youth coming from all over the country is the capsule of those dreams. We are sitting here among people across the country, what is the reason. What is the reason that is adding to us? Goodwill It is a very big power in itself. Do we have no respect for each other, no harmony between us? If there was no relationship of belonging, can we join ourselves so much? India wants to grow and this time your subject of this Youth Council is also very important. On one hand, one has come to bring the subject related to its strengths and youth, one aspect is that of skill, second is what is said of India, then development is said. And the third thing you have said, how are you? What, why, how? Taking this thing, you are starting today to discuss this festival for four days. If there is no unity in our country, there will be no harmony towards the people, will not be respected, the traditions of the other, the views of others, if there is no respect for him, then perhaps India will be obstructing progress, in development Obstacles will come and hence there is a demand of time and the behavior of every young man's life is that we are guaranteed progress for peace, unity, goodwill, which is filled with diversity like India. India has everything, wealth, wealth, money, money, every young person should be employed, every family has happiness and prosperity, but if there is no peace, unity and goodwill in the country, then all the property will be Will not work. Neither will he glorify the country, nor will there be a future path for future generations. And so, how much we do development, how many heights cross, but peace, unity and goodwill, this is India's first requirement.\nAnd India has shown to the world that the country which has hundreds of dialects, there are many languages, there are many traditions, there are countless diversities, yet there is a nature of living and living, these are our great heritage which our ancestors have given us The great men like Swami Vivekananda have given, and we have to keep it as a treasure.\nFrom Vedas to Vivekanand and from Upanishad to Satyam, we have grown up in this tradition. Remembering those traditions repeatedly, times, times, times, to keep India in the form of unity, bridge the goodwill to give it as much as we would like to give it.\nIn the same way if there is no power in the life of a person, then where will the power of the nation come from? 21st Century is the century of Asia, how can 21st Century become a century of Hindustan? When we will recognize the supremacy of youth power of our country. Feed him in the development journey and we have to become his partner to cross the heights of development. Then by going, then we can fulfill the dreams of the nation. There are many paths, there is an important path in it, skill, skill development, in the hands of the young man of our country, there will be only paper and pen, so the country can not move forward. There must be a store of immense knowledge, the power of paper and pen should be there, but the country needs skill to move forward, in the era of technology where technology is playing a vital role, one of India's manufacturing There is a possibility of becoming a hub. If India can become a manufacturing hub of the world then its first reason is not that we have raw material, the first reason is not that we have a market, the first reason is not that we need it, the first reason is that With our country, young people have the talent if they have the greatest strength. And so our government has given great importance to skill, skill.\nFor the first time since independence, a separate ministry was created, skill development was made, a separate policy was created for skill development, a separate budget was set up for skill development, and it is an attempt to lay a trap in India that poor people from poor, illiterate and illiterate If a person wishes to do something in his life, then he should get an opportunity to learn, he should have some talent in his hands and the government is trying hard to achieve that skill. It is.\nIn our Chhattisgarh, Raman Singhji has developed skill as an authority. They have tried the legal system. When I came to Chhattisgarh for the last time, skill development, what kind of work they composed of work, I saw them with their eyes. Where Naxalism strives to misguide the youth, in the same area, on their chest, efforts are being made in Chhattisgarh to save dreams by skill development. These are eligible for congratulations. And when you are in Chhattisgarh, you will get many things to hear about what is happening there for the development of young people.\nI would like to tell you this that we also want to take this matter forward and emphasize the importance of skill development in the country. I want to tell you one thing from skill development, unfortunately, in our country, we have created a mood that works from the brain, it is big and the one who works with hands is small. This mood will have to change. We respect our mother so much, respect mother, our mother has said. There will be very few people whose mother has the opportunity to work from the brain. We are all of us, whose mother works by hand, clothe, cooks, cooks broom, and we honor that mother, proud of mother. But in the society, we feel small by working with our hands, wearing a fine dress and sitting on a table chair, we feel big, but we have a driver of auto-rickshaw, we feel small. No plumber, no mechanic, no turner, no fitter, no wireman, no bouquet of flowers, we look small, we have to change this mentality. We also have to create goodwill towards them and harmony will happen when the beginning will be from equality. There is no difference between me and there, there is a similarity between us and him. When there is a likelihood, the harmony will start automatically and hence white caller job and blue caller job, these words are going on here. Who is standing on his feet. Who is standing on his feet. Who makes his life with the power of his hand. Whose finger is new to the fingers What could be done to glorify him? And so we want to focus on skill development. We want to bring a psychological change in society. No work is small and therefore we have launched a movement. Labor and Jayate dignity of labor We are giving emphasis on what and sometimes it seems. There is a psychological impact in his mind that, unless the son is a graduate, parents are also hesitant about what to introduce to relatives. And so he feels that being a graduate is very essential. But did the seventh class pass, the 10th class pass in the son ITI? And technically they are very strong, they are hesitant, to introduce them. It is to change the psychology. It is not necessary that we have a certificate of graduation and a life of unemployment. Why should we not pass the seventh, why we should not have 10th, we must have the talent in our hands and the strength to generate money with our sweat. There should be a state of such a society and hence we are trying to strengthen the youth. We want to go towards development. And development is my direct meaning. Changes in the lives of the poor in the country, the changes in the lives of the villages of India. There is good education in the village, a hospital in the village, a good teacher for the children to read. If the elderly are sick then you are a good doctor. Cheap medicines, have a good home to live There are good ways to come to the village, there is pure water for drinking. Even after so many years of independence we have not been able to fulfill it and we have a responsibility to fulfill it. And development, this is development. Development does not mean that how many big buildings we make And how many babies do they prepare. And so our model of development is to bring about change in the life of the common man. And to bring about change in the life of the common man, we have given importance to skill development.\nIn the coming days, on the 16th day after four days, we are launching a program - Startup India Standup India The young people of our country are rich in imagination, they have many new things to think about, to solve problems Find those paths. We have seen here in the village that the person working in the farm also automatically develops technology and takes up his work with that technology. It will be a single motorcycle, the man from the village takes ten kinds of work from that motorcycle. It means that we have innovative thinking, innovation with India. But how to get prestige, how to get rewards, how to get encouragement, how to get ahead in the way. In that direction, the government is implementing that plan with a serious thought. When it is a big event on 16th, you too should try to be a part when you are participating in this program through video conferencing anywhere in their respective areas. And the next stage of skill development is the Startup India, in the same way the government has declared the money scheme. Prime Minister's Money Scheme\nThere are many people in our country who have a desire to do something. But in the absence of money, they can not tax. She is unfunded. बैंकों के दरवाजे उनके लिए खुले नहीं थे। हमने बदलाव लाया और बैंकों के दरवाजों को खोल दिया।\nबैंकों को, दरवाजों को खोल करके मुद्रा योजना के तहत उन नौजवानों को पैसे देने का प्रयास शुरू किया है और मुझ खुशी है कि बहुत ही कम समय में ये जो योजना बनाई गई, प्रधानमंत्री मुद्रा योजना, करीब-करीब दो करोड़ लोगों को बैंक से बिना कोई गारंटी, पैसे दिए गए। इतने कम समय में बैंकों के द्वारा दो करोड़ लोगों को पैसे मिल रहा है और करीब-करीब 80 हजार करोड़ रुपये नौजवानों के हाथ में रख दिए हैं। नौजवानों पर मेरा भरोसा है। देश की युवा शक्ति पर भरोसा है। देश के सपने अगर कहीं पर निवास करते हैं तो देश के युवा दिलों में रहते हैं। और इसलिए उस पर हमने ध्‍यान केंद्रित किया है। मैं चाहता हूं कि जो लोग कुछ कर गुजरना चाहते हैं, वे नौकरी की तलाश क्‍यों करें, अपने पैरों पर खड़े क्‍यों न हों। मैं नहीं चाहता हूं मेरे देश का नौजवान job seeker बने, मैं चाहता हूं मेरे देश का नौजवान job creator बने। मैं ऐसी जिंदगी जिऊंगा कि दो-चार और पांच लोगों को मैं कोई न कोई रोजगार दूंगा, ये भी हमारा सपना होना चाहिए। मैं रोजगार के लिए तड़पने वाला नौजवान नहीं हो सकता हूं, मैं रोजगार देने वाला एक साहसिक नौजवान हो सकता हूं। और ये ही तो जिंदगी का लक्ष्‍य होना चाहिए कि मैं ओरों के लिए कुछ कर सकता हूं। और एक बार ये सपना ले करके चलोगे तो कर भी पाओगे। और इसलिए आप अगर उस बात को ले करके चलते हैं तो मेरा आपसे अनुरोध है, मैं आपको विश्‍वास दिलाना चाहता हूं, मैं आपके साथ हूं। ये सरकार आपके साथ है, ये पूरा हिन्‍दुस्‍तान आपके साथ है। आप उस लिए सपने संजो करके ले करके निकलिए। और इसीलिए skill development का अपना एक महत्‍व है, start-up India, stand up India का महत्‍व है, प्रधानमंत्री मुद्रा योजना का महत्‍व है।\nमैंने अभी एक स्‍वच्‍छता का अभियान चलाया है। 15 अगस्‍त को मैंने लालकिले से कहा था, लेकिन मैं आज गर्व से कह सकता हूं कि वो स्‍वच्‍छता अभियान किसी प्रधानमंत्री का अभियान नहीं है, वो नरेंद्र मोदी का अभियान नहीं है। देश के हर नागरिक ने इसको अपना बना लिया है। हर कोई उसमें कुछ न कुछ करना चाहता है। अभी मैंने कहा 26 जनवरी को हमारे महापुरुषों के जितने statue हैं, उसकी सफाई एक नागरिक के नाते हम क्‍यों न करें? और मेरे पास खबरें हैं कि देश भर में इतने नौजवान आगे आए हैं, इतने स्‍कूल कॉलेज आगे आए हैं, इतने संगठन आगे आए हैं, even मुझे बताया गया नेहरू युवा केंद्र हो, NCC हो, NSS हो, ये सब लोग मैदान में आए हैं। सबने तय कर लिया है कि अब हमारे गांव में महापुरुषों के statue और वो परिसर हम गंदा नहीं रहने देंगे। कुछ लोगों ने तो 26 जनवरी का भी इंतजार नहीं किया है और already काम शुरू कर दिया है। यही तो देश की ताकत होती है। लेकिन पहला एक समय था, हम सब देखते थे हां ये महापुरुष की प्रतिमा है, फिर बात भी करते देखो यार कितना गंदा है, कोई संभालता नहीं है। आज, आज हर कोई चर्चा करता है, यार ये हमारे गांव के अंदर ये छह महापुरुषों के पुतले हैं उसकी सफाई हम करेंगे। एक नया माहौल बना है। नेहरू युवा केंद्र के और NSS के नौजवानों ने इसका बीड़ा उठाया है। मुझे विश्‍वास है बहुत बड़ी सफलता मिलेगी।\nइस बार आप पिछले करीब 20 साल से ये समागम करते आए हैं, मेरी आपसे आग्रह है, मेरा आपसे अनुरोध है, इस बार जाने से पहले आप 2019 का कोई संकल्‍प ले करके जा सकते हैं क्‍या और 2019 तक हम इतना करेंगे। मैं 2019 इसलिए कह रहा हूं कि 2019 महात्‍मा गांधी की 150वीं जयंती है। महात्‍मा गांधी को स्‍वच्‍छता बहुत पसंद थी। 2019 तक का हमारा कोई time table बना करके हम जा सकते हैं क्‍या। और हम हर महीने उसका लेखा-जोखा लें, हिसाबा-किताब करें, संकल्‍प तय करें, योजना बनाएं, रोडमैप बनाएं और आंखों को दिखने वाला परिवर्तन ला करके रहें और दूसरा सपना 2022 का हम लें।\nएक 2019 का हमारा रोडमैप और दूसरा 2022 का रोडमैप हम लें। 2022 इसलिए कि भारत की आजादी के 75 साल हो रहे हैं। हिंदुस्‍तान की आजादी के 75 साल हम कैसे मनाएंगे। अभी से हम कैसी तैयारियां करेंगे। हम अपने आप को उसके लिए उसको कैसे तैयार करेंगे। हमारी अपनी संस्था हो, हमारा परिवार हो, हम व्‍यक्ति हो, हम खुद क्‍या कर सकते हैं। इस पर हम सोचते हैं। और इसलिए रायपुर से आप जब निकले तब 2019 और 2022 कोई न कोई लक्ष्‍य निर्धारित करके उसका रोडमैप तय करके निकलिए । उसके लिए कौन समय देगा, कितने घंटे देगा। यह संकल्‍प ले करके चलिए। उसी प्रकार से मैं विशेष रूप से नौजवानों का एक बात के लिए आभार व्‍यक्‍त करना चाहता हूं कि आज के इस युवा समारोह के लिए मैंने देश के नौजवानों को आग्रह किया था कि आप मुझे नरेंद्र मोदी एप आप मोबाइल पर उसको download कर सकते हैं। नरेंद्र मोदी एप पर अपने सुझाव भेजिए। मुझे इस बात का गर्व है कि देश के हर कौने से हजारों नौजवानों ने मुझे हजारो सुझाव भेजे। देश का नौजवान कितना जागरूक है और नरेंद्र मोदी एप मेरे लिए एक सरल माध्‍यम बन गया है कि मैं सीधे आपसे जुड़ जाता हूं। मैं उन सभी नौजवानों का अभिनंदन करना चाहता हूं, जिन्‍होंने समय निकाल करके, सोच करके देश के काम आने के लिए अपने विचारों से मुझे लाभान्वित कराया। हजारों नौजवानों ने मुझे सुझाव भेजे, मैं उन सबका आभारी हूं।\n26 जनवरी मैंने देश के सामने, देश के नौजवानों के सामने एक विषय रखा है और आग्रह किया है कि हमारे यहां एक चर्चा होनी चाहिए। अधिकार और कर्तव्‍य। भारत के संविधान ने हमें दोनों जिम्‍मेदारियां दी हैं। लेकिन आजादी के बाद ज्‍यादातर हम लोगों की प्राथमिकता अधिकार पर रही है। कर्तव्‍य ज्‍यादातर व्‍यक्तिगत स्‍वभाव से जुड़ गया, समाज स्‍वभाव से छूट गया। कर्तव्‍य सामाजिक स्‍वभाव बनाना है। कुछ लोगों को कर्तव्‍य में रूचि हो, कर्तव्‍य करते रहे इससे देश नहीं चल सकता। सवा सौ करोड़ देशवासियों का कर्तव्‍य का भी स्‍वभाव बनना चाहिए। और अगर एक बार कर्तव्‍य की हवा बन जाती है तो अधिकारों की रक्षा अपने आप हो जाती है। मैं चाहूंगा कि 26 जनवरी को मैंने पिछली मन की बात में इस बार तो कहा, कईयों ने इस बात को आगे बढ़ाया है। आप भी इस बात को आगे बढ़ाएं ऐसी मैं अपेक्षा करता हूं। छत्‍तीसगढ़ का प्‍यार छत्‍तीसगढ़ की मेहमाननवाजी, आप सबको बहुत याद रहेगी। मेरा सौभाग्‍य रहा मुझे छत्‍तीसगढ़ में बहुत लम्‍बे अर्से तक रहने का अवसर मिला है, इसलिए मैं उनके प्‍यार को भली-भांति समझता हूं। उनके स्‍वागत करने की परंपरा को भली-भांति समझता हूं। लेकिन मैं इस बार इसका आनंद नहीं ले पा रहा हूं। क्‍योंकि कुछ जिम्‍मेदारियां यहां भी मेरे सिर पर रहती हैं। लेकिन मैं मन से आपके साथ हूं। इस समारोह की मैं सफलता के लिए शुभकामनाएं देता हूं और देख सकते हैं कि संकटों के बीच में भी कैसी जिंदगी गुजारी जा सकती है। छत्‍तीसगढ़ कुछ वर्षों से नक्‍सलवाद के कारण परेशान है। माओवाद के कारण परेशान है। और मैं नौजवानों को कहता हूं। हमारे हाथ में हुनर होना चाहिए, हत्‍या करने के लिए हमारा हाथ कभी काम नहीं आना चाहिए। यह हाथ हुनर से नए सपनों को संजोने के लिए काम आना चाहिए। यह हाथ किसी के सपनों को समाप्‍त करने के लिए हत्‍या का कारण नहीं बनना चाहिए। छत्‍तीसगढ़ के नौजवानों ने माओवाद की इस भयानकता के बीच भी छत्‍तीसगढ़ को भरपूर बढ़ाने का प्रसास किया है। छत्‍तसीगढ़ को नई ऊंचाईयों पर ले जाने की कोशिश की है। संकटों के बीच भी समाधान के रास्‍ते निकाले जा सकते हैं। संकटों के बीच में भी विकास की यात्रा की जा सकती है। संकटों के बीच भी संकल्‍पों को पूरा किया जा सकता है। यह छत्‍तीसगढ़ से हम अनुभव कर सकते हैं। आज उस धरती में हैं, रायपुर में हैं। आपको प्रेरणा मिलेगी। मेरी आप सबको बहुत-बहुत शुभकामनाएं। और हमारे खेल मंत्री श्रीमान सोनेवाल जी, वो आपके बीच में हैं। बड़े उत्‍साही हैं। जरूर उनका लाभ मिलेगा आपको। आप सबको बहुत-बहुत शुभकामनाएं, बहुत बहुत धन्‍यवाद।"