"Share\n\nFor the last four and a half years, The Union Government has pursued the objective of good governance: PM Modi\nThe Bogibeel Bridge will greatly increase \"ease of living\" in the North East: PM Modi\nA strong and progressive East India, is the key to a strong and progressive India: PM Modi\nProfessor Jagdish Mukhi, present on the stage, Chief Minister Bhai Sabarananda Sonowal, Chief Minister of Arunachal Pradesh, Mr. Prema Khandu, brother Hemant Vishwasharma ji, my colleague brother Rajan Gauhai ji, all other greatities present on the forum and my dear brothers and sisters.\nI am very grateful to you for such a large number of blessings. Today North East is a very historic day for Eastern India. Congratulations to all of you on the longest road rail bridge in the country.\nI have reached you only through the bridge. The mind is very cheerful.\nThe colleagues today celebrate Christmas all over the world. The whole North East, including Assam, also very good luck to the whole country. All the people, I bow to Swargodeu Soulung Su-ka-fa devoted to Assamese society. In addition to this, we pay homage to heroes and heroines including the heroes of sacrifice and sacrifice, Lasith Borfukon, Bir Shillarai, Sworgodeu Sarbananda Singh, Birag, Hoti Saadini, Bodosa, Bir Raghav Moran, Manik Raza, Hoti Jyomoti and Hati Radhika.\nFrom the fight of independence to the country and Assam, many people have contributed. From politics to social service, to knowledge and sports, to every person who honors the country, Assam is dedicated to my work.\nI also pay tribute to the voice of Assam's Kokila Padam Shri Deepali Bose Thakur ji. A voice that has led the Assamese to the numerous districts of the country and abroad has gone.\nThe companions today are also the birthday of the co-heart of Atal Bihari Vajpayee Ji, one of us, among the greatest people dedicated to good governance. The country is celebrating the birth anniversary of Atal ji as good governance day. Brothers and sisters good governance means people's concern. There is a ritual to improve the life of ordinary human beings. When you rise above your self-love, your country, decisions are taken for the better future of society. Arrangements and resources that make life easier are created, then good governance grows towards Swaraj. When everyone, with the mission of all development, has the mission with the mantra. There is an emphasis on balanced development of the country, then good governance grows towards the self-government. This effort by colleagues for the last four and a half years and now the government of Assam, is being done by the government of Arunachal. I am glad that on the holy day of today, we have all been created with the inauguration of a big symbol of good governance, the historical Boggiil rail road beach. It is the longest rail-cum-road bridge in the country. This is the first fully bridge made of steel in the country. This bridge, built at a height of more than 30 meters of water, is also an example of our engineering and technical strength. The speed and speed of the train and train along with the ability to bear the country's strategic power is also multiplied.\nBrothers and Sisters This is not just a bridge but a lifeline linking the lives of millions of people in this area. This has reduced the distance between Assam and Arunachal. Dibrugarh's rail journey from Intanagar is now less than 700 kilometers below 200 km. The journey that used to take about 24 hours before the train, now it is only 5-6 hours. The distance between the Tinsukia of Assam and the Nahar implementation of Arunachal Pradesh has not been reduced by this bridge of about 5 kilometers. People have got rid of many problems too. Their life has been easy too.\nI have been told that the people of Dhemaji Lakhimpur and Arunachal districts had to cross the Brahmaputra first through the boat. Or had to travel long or near a long way through the road or rail. Many trains had to be changed. Today, the train has been flagged off by brothers and sisters. This direct train of 14 coaches is going to bring unprecedented change in this area. The dream passed, the dream passed, now that dream is complete. Now, for going to Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Bangalore, people do not need to go through Guwahati. Dibrugarh is a very large center of the North East, having health facilities, teaching, employment, business, business. Millions of people need to come here. In particular, in the event of a serious illness, how long a day's journey became heavy on life, you all know well.\nFacilities such as associates, Dibrugarh Medical College, Hospital and Dibrughad University are now ensuring distance of minutes for young colleagues for the people settled in the North Bank. For this very big feature, you all greeted the people of the whole North East, people of the whole country once again very much.\nI also applaud all those engineers and workers associates related to the construction of the pool, who have worked day and night for the bridge under difficult circumstances. Congratulations to all of you\nThis is a double congratulatory day for brothers and sisters, Assam and the North East, because the country's largest Road Bridge and Rail Road Bridge are both on the land of Assam. This is the privilege of the Central Government under the leadership of my Bharatiya Janata Party that we have got the opportunity to fulfill these two important projects of the country's infrastructure.\nIn May last year, in Sadia, Bhupen came to launch the Hazarika Bridge. So today in Bogibeil, you are among all. Brothers and Sisters, this is the third bridge made on Brahmaputra in the last four and a half years. In the 60-70 years of independence, three bridges were built on Brahmaputra. Three bridges in 60-70 years And in the last four and a half years we have built three bridges and also. The process of construction of five new pools has also been started. When all these bridges are ready, the connectivity between Brahmaputra's north and south edges will be intensified. A new chapter will also be written in the diet industry and business.\nCompanions, this is good governance. This is our stepping towards the sunshine. Today, we can say with the claim that this pace of development is going to change the picture of the entire North East as well as Assam.\nBrothers and Sisters May be some people here who will be here today even if Atal ji reached here 16 years ago. Since then, a whole generation has changed since. You've really waited too long, have patience. After the demands of your peers, the process related to this pool started two decades ago, but the truth is that its construction started with Atal Ji's unwavering efforts. But it was unfortunate that in 2004, the government of Atal ji went on and, like all the projects started by them, this important project of North East also got delayed, stuck.\nBrothers and sisters, you all are witnesses that in 2014 no one else could see just a few half-orchards. The situation was that when our government came in 2014, half of the bridge was halfway incomplete, and it was left. There is no doubt that if the government of Atal ji again gets the opportunity, then the bridge will be inaugurated by 2007-2008. But after which the government which came in the center has not given attention to your needs.\nAfter the formation of the government in 2014, we removed all obstacles coming in the way of this project and gave speed and the BogiBill bridge, which was built at a cost of nearly Rs 6,000 crore, is dedicated today for the service of the general public. By completing a dream of Atal ji on his birthday, the nation has given him a great tribute today. Many people of the northeast see these gifts today and they will be happy wherever their soul will be wherever they are, seeing the happiness that is appearing on your face, Atal ji's soul will be very happy after seeing it.\nIf the identities of the previous government were identified, then our government identified the transformation from transport and the next generation infrastructure to get the country. We have searched hundreds of projects worth more than Rs. 12 lakh crores which have been for many years. Had stopped, or was slow at work. If they had the old speed of work, then the next decade would have passed. Today, on Good Governance Day, I can proudly say that we have completely changed the old work culture that has been dangling, wandering. Because of this, infrastructure has got new momentum in the country.\nLast year, the similarly hanging Dwiral hydro power project project of Mizoram which has been made a few months ago, Sikkim Airport has also been released. Many such schemes have been completed, but work is being done at a very fast pace.\nCompanions, at the appointed time, the emphasis is on completion of the project in fixed costs. Now the time limit is not just about writing in the paper but it is a sacrament of government work. I congratulate the entire team of Assam government of Gonawal that they have embraced this sacrament.\nMany such projects in Assam which were incomplete for years, either in full or in a state of complete fulfillment. The National Highway of about 7 hundred kilometers has been completed in four and a half years at a cost of more than Rs. 3000 crores. Work on more than a dozen national highway projects of about 6 thousand crores is going on fast. There should be new airport terminal, electrification and widening of railway lines, Gohatatin Sukhiya gas pipeline, AIIMS in Gohati, Indian Agricultural Research Institute in Dhemaji, either on completion of many projects or completed soon is. The International Submarin cable, which ensures fast Internet service has reached Tripura and is expected to reach Assam soon enough. Digital services will also be strong in this.\nCompanions, I have a clear view that when East India grows, then India will grow. When East India becomes strong then the whole of India will be strong. Integral part of Eastern India is our North-East and hence infrastructure is expanding along Assam as well as in entire North East. Work is going on in the entire north-east to build a national highway of about five thousand five thousand kilometers of about Rs. 70 thousand crore. Of these, approximately 2.5 billion kilometers of national highways have been completed. Over 1 thousand kilometers of roads are being prepared keeping in mind the International Connectivity Act East Policy. Of which about 8 hundred kilometers away, work is being done at some level. As far as rail connectivity is concerned, the goal of adding broadguage line to every capital of the North-East states has been targeted for the next two to three years. 15 new rail lines are being prepared at a cost of about 47 thousand crore rupees. Approximately 1 thousand kilometers of railway lines i.e. almost all the lines of north-east have been converted into broadguage. Earlier, in the North-East, about 100 km of railway lines were made or widened every year, whereas in the last four and a half years 350 kilometers of lines are being made every year or are being converted into broadguage. Not only this, 19 waterways are being constructed on river routes. In Assam, inland waterways are being constructed in Assam through the Brahmaputra and the Barg rivers, to Chittagong and Mangla Port.\nIn addition to the infrastructure of the brothers and sisters, apart from infrastructure, the Government of Assam is speeding up the schemes which are being run by the central government to raise the standard of living of the common man. The result of this is that children are being educated in education, youth earning, medicines to the elderly, hearing of the masses in Assam. Under the Ujjwala scheme, the connection of about 24 lakhs of gas has been given to the Assam poor sisters, which is the result of the fact that up to four and a half years ago in Assam, where about 40 percent of the households had gas calendar, the scope of this period has now doubled to 80 percent. . Under clean campaign, about 32 lakh toilets have been built in Assam. Within four and a half years, the scope of sanitation has ranged from 38 percent to 98 percent. Under the Sadbhavna Yojana, more than 1.2 million households of Assam have got free electricity connections in the last one year. By which, the scope of power generation in Assam has increased from about 50 percent to about 90 percent. Remember also the situation when there were no bank accounts of brothers and sisters in T-Garden. His name was not known to the bank name. Under the Jan-Dhan Yojna, bank accounts of 7 lakh workers have been opened. If I talk about Assam, then about 1.5 crore people's funds have been opened in our state. These plans are moving forward towards success with the rites and support and blessings of all of you.\nIf the majority of the peers, the poor, the oppressed, the deprived person does any harm, then it is corruption, if one puts the maximum burden on middle-class families, then it is corruption. When the country breaks the journey of development, it is corruption, corruption takes away its right from the poor, makes it difficult, makes it difficult. That's why for the past four to four years our government is giving rights to the poor on the one side, while fighting with full power against black money and corruption.\nBrothers and Sisters, on one hand, our government has given more than 1.25 million poor people home under the Prime Minister's Housing Scheme, while the bungalows and vehicles of Rs 5000 crore rupees of corruption have been seized under the Anonymous Property Act. एक तरफ हमारी सरकार नौजवानों को सिर्फ एक दिन में नई कंपनी के रजिस्‍टर की सुविधा दे रही है तो दूसरी तरफ भ्रष्‍टाचार की बहुत बड़ी जड़ मानी जाने वाली सवा तीन लाख से ज्‍यादा संदिग्‍ध कंपनियों का रद्द करने का भी हमने काम किया है। एक तरफ हमारी सरकार ने महिलाओं को, नौजवानों को स्‍वरोजगार के लिए मुद्रा योजना के तहत बिना बैंक गारंटी सात लाख करोड़ रुपये का कर्ज दिया है, तो वहीं दूसरी तरफ पहले की सरकारों ने बैंकों के जो लाखों करोड़ों रुपये फंसाये थे, उसमें से तीन लाख करोड़ रुपये हमारी सरकार वापस ला चुकी है। एक तरफ हमारी सरकार आयुष्‍मान भारत योजना के तहत गरीबों को पांच लाख रुपये तक के मुफ्त इलाज की सुविधा दे रही है, तो वहीं दूसरी तरफ मेडिकल सेक्‍टर में भ्रष्‍टाचार खत्‍म करने के लिए भी सख्‍त कदम उठा रही है।\nसाथियों, चार साल पहले कोई नहीं सोच सकता था कि हेलीकॉप्‍टर घोटाले का सबसे बड़ा राजदार भारत की जेलों तक पहुंच जाएगा, यह किसी ने सोचा नहीं था। लेकिन इस राजदार को भारत लाने का काम और कानून के हवाले करने का काम भी हमारी सरकार ने हिम्‍मत के साथ किया है। यह हमारी सरकार के काम करने का तरीका है, हमारी कार्य संस्‍कृति है।\nभाईयों-बहनों, जब व्‍यवस्‍था में पारदर्शिता आती है, भ्रष्‍टाचार खत्‍म होता है, सुविधाएं मिलती है, जिंदगी आसान बनती है, तो उसका प्रभाव हर क्षेत्र में दिखता है। हमारे खेलों में भी इसका असर देखने को मिल रहा है। आज असम समेत देश के दूर-दराज के गांव, कस्‍बों और छोटे शहरों से सामान्‍य परिवारों से निकले युवा देश का नाम रोशन कर रहे हैं। हीमा दास जैसे हमारी अनेक बेटियां, अनेक युवा साथी नये भारत के नये आत्‍मविश्‍वास का आज प्रतीक बनी है।\nसाथियों, हम सभी व्‍यवस्‍था परिवर्तन, व्‍यवहार परिवर्तन और बेहतर infrastructure के माध्‍यम से देश को सशक्‍त करने का काम कर रहे हैं। आज देश में भविष्‍य की जरूरतों के मुताबिक सड़कों, स्‍कूलों, शहरों, गांवों, सिंचाईऔर बिजली परियोजनाओं पर तेज गति से काम चल रहा है। आने वाले वर्षों में जब यह तमाम व्‍यवस्‍थाएं खड़ी हो जाएंगी तो New Indiaकी भव्‍य तस्‍वीर दुनिया के सामने होगी।\nसाथियों, अटल जी ने अगर 21वीं सदी की शुरूआत में देश की नींव को मजबूत किया, हम उसी नींव पर एक दिव्‍य भव्‍य, नये भारत निर्माण का प्रयास कर रहे हैं। भाईयों और बहनों असम के लोगों ने देश के लोगों ने हमें जो सेवा का सौभाग्‍य दिया है, उसे हमारी सरकार पूरी निष्‍ठा से पूरा करने का प्रयास कर रही है। हम रिश्‍ते नातों के लिए नहीं देश और समाज के लिए खप रहे हैं। मुझे पूरा विश्‍वास है कि आपके आशीर्वाद से हम सभी मिलकर आई अखोमीऔर भारत माता को नई ऊंचाई पर ले जाएंगे। एक बार फिर आप सभी को बोगीबील पुल  जैसी अद्भूत सुविधा के लिए बहुत-बहुत बधाई देता हूं। आप यहां इतनी बड़ी तादाद में पधारे, आशीर्वाद दिए इसके लिए मैं सिर झुका करके नमन करता हूं।\nThanks a lot.\nदोनों हाथ ऊपर मेरे साथ पूरी ताकत से कहिए -\nLong live Mother India.\nLong live Mother India.\nLong live Mother India.\nLong live Mother India.\nThanks a lot."