"\nPM congratulates HAL for completing 75 years\nHAL manufacturing unit in Tumkur would not be a common one, but one that will make full world take notice: PM\nIn last 50 years, a lot of progress has been made in agriculture and the country is now self-sufficient in food grains: PM\nIt is now time to ensure that the weapons and equipment of Indian Armed Forces are the best in the world: PM\nIndia needs to end dependence on imported weaponry: PM Modi\nHelicopters manufactured in Tumkur will serve soldiers stationed in remote locations: PM Modi\nUnion Govt laying stress on domestic manufacturing of defense equipment: PM Modi\nAround 4000 families will directly or indirectly get livelihood due to the HAL factories: PM Modi\nDr. Babasaheb Ambedkar wanted to empower the poor and downtrodden: PM Modi\nDr. Babasaheb Ambedkar always laid stress on industrialization of the country: PM Modi\nAll my great brothers and sisters, who have great respect and great number of seats sitting on the platform,\nToday, after becoming my Prime Minister, this is the second time in Tumakuru district. Today you will feel that a shilanyas have happened, people would think that there is a factory to be found here, but this is not just a normal factory. This is going to be done on this earth which is going to work to protect India. On seeing this small village, this Tumakuru district is going to make its identity on the map of the world. If a normal factory is made, then the country's attention will go, not the world's attention, but here the work is going to be done, on which side of the world is very natural.\nToday, there is another possibility. Hindustan Aeronautics Limited is familiar with the name of HAL, he is celebrating 75th anniversary of his journey. HAL's journey of 75 years is filled with many variations. Today, many of his former chairmen have also come to enhance the beauty of this occasion. Those who worked for HAL in the last 75 years, have taken small responsibilities, whether they were workers or chairmen, I remember all those companions of this journey during today's 75 years of journey. I congratulate him.\nThere was a time, we had to bring the grain out to eat in our country. We had to fill the countryside by inventing grains from abroad but when Lal Bahadur Shastri gave the mantra of 'Jai Jawan Jai Kisan', the farmers of India encouraged the country to fill the stomach, farmers of Hindustan did the last 50 years The hard work, new inventions, innovation in the agriculture sector, the result was that today the country has become self-reliant on food. Our farmers demonstrated the 'Jai Kisan' mantra, and showed them and made the country self sufficient in food sector. But the second work 'Jai Jawan', in which our country became self-sufficient in defense, became self-reliant, India has to remain dependent on anyone in the world to protect itself, this work is yet to be done in the country.\nEven today, to protect the borders of our country, to protect the citizens of our country, our young men are ready to sacrifice their lives, are ready to sacrifice but whatever weapon we need to fight to fight our soldiers In order to go to a difficult place, there are arrangements for going to the place. In it we have to complete a big journey right now. India's army should not be weak from any army in the world. India's army should not have less powerful weapons than any other country in the world.\nToday the armed forces of the country need to bring us from foreign countries. Billions of trillions of rupees go abroad. The arms that we get from the outside get a little less power than the latest. On one hand, the things that will be moving in 2005, moving in 2010 will give us 2015. 2015 should be equals, then speaks in 2020 and so if India is to be self-sufficient in the field of security within the world, then India will have to make its own self-defense according to its own needs. And so our government has started to build defence manufacturing, manufacture of weapons in India itself, by the engineers of India, by the scientists of India, the armed forces with the latest collapse, to build it.\nEarlier, we used to take arms from the countries of the world, even today, until our own production begins. But nowadays when we compromise with the countries of the world to buy arms, we say that we will take whatever you are making but the rest of the order will have to be made in India only, it should be 'Make in India' Then we will take it. And so, my brothers and sisters, on the banks of this small village of this little village, in a district like Tumakuru, which seems to be a project to make helicopters, these helicopters will be primarily going to work for the army. If in the remote areas where our army will be deployed, if any of our youth becomes ill and to provide medicines to that difficult place, then the helicopter which will be built here will work for the delivery of medicines.\nIn order to become self-sufficient in the field of defense in a way, a new effort is being started today in the first week of January 2016. According to one calculation, this has become an opportunity to celebrate 2016 in a new way. This is a priceless gift from the Government of India to Karnataka, especially to Tumakuru district of India in 2016. Work is to be done so fast that the first helicopter should fly here in 2018. We expect the Indian helicopter built entirely in 2018 to fly from this land in 2018.\nAnd within a span of 15 years, within a span of 15 years, 600 helicopters should be here and reach the army and should be used by the government, the country should work, such a huge amount of work should be done. And I believe that HAL's 75 years of journey, with their very capable kind of capable human force and their desire to move by step by step with the dreams of the country, is the dream of making 600 helicopters in 15 years. Give it to me, I believe it will be done. Due to this project, capital investment of around Rs 5,000 crores is going to happen on this earth. It is going to be the largest capital factory of Tumakuru district. Due to this project, some 4,000 families will get employment directly and indirectly.\nToday if there are three children in a farmer's family and go and tell the farmer what is the plan ahead for the sons? How much land is owned by the farmer, why the good facilities of irrigation are not good, why the land is also going to give good crop, but when the farmers ask that what you have thought of sons, good From a good farmer, a farmer with good land, a well-equipped farmer, immediately replies that one son will be planted in a grocery but the two sons I will send it to the factory in the city to earn livelihood. And so every farmer wants to take out two-thirds of his family from the farmer and go to some other work-seeking employment industry. If the farmer also has to help, to help the future generations of the farmer, then the farmer's son will not be expected to get employment without planting the industry.\nBaba Saheb Ambedkar, the creator of our Constitution, always urged that there should be industrialization at the earliest, industrialization should be done and he used to say that Dalits do not have land, what will the Dalits do? If the industry looks like then the Dalit's son will get some work. And so Baba Saheb Ambedkar was a party to industrialization for India's economic development and to give power to India's social fabric. In a way, the task of building these helicopters is also the work of nation-building, but it is also a task to provide employment to farming families. These projects are also for empowering India and this project is also to fulfill Baba Saheb Ambedkar's dreams. I will continue to be supported by the Government of Karnataka, the entire government of India will be fully cooperative and the HAL's friends who have taken the lead in the first helicopter will fly here in 2018, give them very good wishes from me.\nWhen my migration to Karnataka was going on, a few days ago I had come to Tumakuru district, then our administrators had thought that they would come here, 15 minutes to lay foundation stones, and say two to five minutes to say something then they will come out again. But I had never imagined that even in this sunlight I see millions of people in front of me. People are watching people where I see them. I am very grateful for your love for this. Then once again greet you all."