"Share\n\nPM pays tributes to Guru Basaveshwara, says he has seen the path of social reform centuries ago\nIndian society is unique because social reformers arose from time to time, to reform society, and fight social evils: PM Modi\nRishis, Saints, Seers, Mutts ... they have done great service for society: PM\nSaints, seers ... they overcame so much the opposition and the protected evils were removed from society: PM\nThe 21st Century The one with more knowledge and information will influence the world: PM\nIt is the saints who have understood what the 21st century is about and that is why this knowledge center is starting: PM\nProud of our Jawans and security forces: PM Narendra Modi\nEnemies of humanity who can not see India progress, attacked in Pithankot, but our security forces did not let them succeed: PM\nI was asking that if I speak in Hindi then what needs to be translated here? Swamiji himself told that there is no need, here all understand Hindi. It is my good fortune that I have had the opportunity to become acquainted in this sacred undertaking. Such a large number of saints attend, so many senior saints, at this age, to be present in this ceremony, where such good luck is available.\nA few days ago I went to London. Talks of democracy, talk of humanism, discussions of women empowerment, the countries of the world think that all these thoughts started at the same time, were born on the same and met the world. Where there is this kind of thinking, I found the privilege of unveiling the statue of that great person. How are they, Baseshwar ji, social reformers, women empowerment, what is the strength of grass root level democracy, centuries ago, great ruler of this earth, Baseshwar ji showed the world. Speakers of Sweden's Parliament were present on that occasion and when I told them about the great work of social reform, he was surprised that for centuries there was such a thought of great man in India and that he was not only considered as a behavior It was also conduct and was shown and done. Today, I had the privilege of joining with a link to the same tradition. I consider myself very lucky.\nIn the whole world, there is very little information about this and sometimes the world is left in our country too there is a very large class which considers itself as a very intelligent, big elite class. They are not aware that in India, sages, monks, saints, how many great things have worked for the interests of the society. They do not care for that and therefore, it is the habit of some people to remain critical of our great tradition. The characteristic of this country is that some evils have entered into this society life from time to time. There was a distortion in the society, the wrong things got entangled, the wrong traditions entered, which also demolished the soul of this society, but after that the power of this society is seen that the saint was born in this society, the social reformer was born, the sage -Munis were born and despite the opposition of the society, they also took up the task of reforming society and made unremitting efforts to free society from the evils of the society.\nThese countries, these traditions have survived for thousands of years, that culture has survived in every age, when the crisis came, when the evils came in our midst, a new energy was created from within us, new leadership was born, new power was born Happened, the new tradition was created and the work of social reform continued and so today when I came to the centenary celebrations of Jagatguru Shri Shivaratri Rajendra Mahaswamy Ji in His Holiness, come to bow down to that great tradition. Class I, the great tradition of the interests of society, the welfare of society, never a lack of concern.\nWe see the movement of freedom, our people's attention goes a lot on this side. But if we look at the movement of freedom, in the 19th century and in the 18th century, when we look at these two centuries, we will come to our attention that the freedom of the freedom movement which arose in the 20th century, in the 19th century and our 18th century The saints, the mahants, whom we call the devotion era, the consciousness that was awakened in the devotional era, an attempt was made to awaken the soul of India and everybody of India In Setr, area, east, West, North, South, each speaking by someone born a saint saints, monastery-turned out of temples, campaigned for a collective awakening. Once again in our country, the work of awakening the soul of society was done by our saints for two centuries, our great men did and they got consciousness. Of the consciousness which saw the light of the freedom struggle of 1857. In the same way in 1947, the country could achieve independence. Such great men formed the pedestal of the freedom struggle The one who later led Mahatma Gandhi and the country had never seen Mahatma Gandhi as a politician. The same saint had seen him as a link to the tradition, only then he called him Mahatma. What was said for saints and mahants was that it was said for Mahatma Gandhi. Found the leadership of the same tradition and then the country attained independence and hence India has done the work of liberating all the tribes of society, tribal and tribes from our people, by our saints.\nSimilarly, today we see this back. I have been fortunate to come here even before. What great work has been done in the field of education. The life of nearly one lakh students is changing here. In a way the government's work is doing saint. The government's burden is also slowing down and increasing the power of society.\nToday, the Knowledge Resource Center is being started in this centennial celebration. It is true that in the past centuries, the basis for measuring the power of the nation was either money power either by military force power. Based on how much money power this country has and how much money is power, the strength of that country in the world was measured. On the basis of that, how powerful is that country and on the basis of which it was accepted in the world. But the time has changed, today there are money force or military force, so the car does not move. 21st Century is a century of knowledge, a century of knowledge. Those who have more information, will have more knowledge, time-based innovations will be there, the world is going to run in the same country. And hence the power of the 21st century has been recognized by the saints and today the Knowledge Resource Center is being started to give that strength a scientific way.\nIn the last several centuries, mankind has progressed on the basis of knowledge, on the basis of science, on the basis of technology, every hour, every day, every month, new inventions of science every year, the best impact of knowledge, technology Dominance, society is changing lives so fast, which has never happened in the past centuries. At the speed at which the world is changing, sometimes the imagination of the human is diminished to cope up with technology science and knowledge. If people move on to one place, we keep thinking that Bhai will reach there. The world is changing rapidly with the help of science and technology. Will India continue to wait? Will India continue to think that the blessings of Maha Purus, Saint, Mahatma will be found and the country will be great. Even the saints do not believe that, the saint also believes that the knowledge should be made at the Resource Center.\nShould have new innovations. In the past, you would know that people from all parts of the world gathered in Paris. The Kumbh Mela of a big world was engaged and they were all engaged in discussing the universe, for global warming, how to save human beings from global warming, save the world, save the earth, it was worried. But there were two things there. One was the initiative of India, America, France, their initiative, to develop innovation and to face this crisis, then new research has to be done, innovations have to be done and there is a need to make a collective effort and secondly The decision has been made Such countries will come together in such a country where more than 300 days of sunlight is available. There are about 122 countries in the world where Solar Radiation is in great quantity and with India's efforts, in 122 countries of the world, where there is more than 300 days of sunlight, come together in the leadership of India and how the use of sun power in human beings Yes, he has created an organization on it.\nThese things are going to have an effect for the coming ages. His origin is knowledge, science, technology is, innovation, and that same change has come and it is a great step towards bringing change. And I believe that till the centenary celebrations, Pujya Swamiji is given the best tribute, this is a great step, and for this you are all eligible for congratulations, are eligible for congratulations.\nFor the best efforts from the Government of India, the Government, sitting in Delhi and Delhi, will always be with you for the better and new innovations come to work for social life, the knowledge store, the cause of the welfare of mankind. Be, we keep trying in that direction.\nToday, when I have come to this sacred event, I want to take pride in the soldiers of the country, I want to be proud of the security forces of the country, I want to congratulate them. When the war is over, the enemy country tries to assassinate the military power of the country in front of it. Today, the enemies of humanity are having problems facing the Indian progress, such elements have tried to give such forces the airbase of India's military power in Pathankot. I congratulate the security forces of the country that they merged the intentions of enemies. I do not allow them to succeed and I bow to the martyrdom of the soldiers who have given martyrdom and I assure the countrymen that the strength of our security forces is that the power to eliminate any impotent intentions of the enemies Keep and provide security to the country. I congratulate those jawans, congratulate those forces and at that time the nation's self-confidence, the nation's patience and national integration, when the nation speaks in a voice, the house of the enemy is destroyed. Continue with that resolution. Thank you very much with this one expectation. I pray in the revered Swami Ji's Shri Phase and this Knowledge Resource Center should give us new strength in the 21st Century, thanks very much with this expectation."