"PM Modi visits Avadhoota Ditta Peetham in Mysuru, Karnataka\nGurudev Dutt has a tremendous influence in the entire Narmada region: PM\nHappy to know that Guruji returned from a visit to Gujarat and he visited Kutch: PM\nAt Avadhoota Datta Peetham, Social Work has given a big boost: PM Modi\nAt Avadhoota Datta Peetham, the work of saints, seers, Rishis has always been the welfare of society: PM\nGurudev Dutt! I have come for the first time in Datta Bench, but I have been associated with this tradition for many years. Those who spend their time on the Narmada coast, if someone gets an opportunity to do sadhana on the banks of the river, then the sadhana starts without Gurudev Dutt, that is the accomplishment of sadhana. Whether you go to Nareshwar, even if you go to Gurdeshwar, by Datta grace, that whole area is affected and the sadhana of the whole Narmada is that which is. Those who are Narmada seekers, who revolve around Narmada, speak two chants in the morning and in the evening, Narmada Hare and Gurudev Dutt. These are the two spells that are part of complete spiritual practice. I was happy, last week that Guru ji came to Gujarat, came in the desert of Kutch. See 'Rana festival' but the biggest thing is. There, on the Kalo Dungar, the birthplace of Gurudev is the pilgrimage and on the birth anniversary of Gurudev Dutt, there is a huge ceremony there, that is the last place of Hindustan. After that there is Pakistan across the desert and desert. At that place, there is the place of Guru Dutt and just recently Datta Jayanti, Gurudev went there to celebrate Datta Jayanti and was very happy expressing me too. I also have a good fortune, today I got an opportunity to get back to Datta Bench.\nThe social work that has been done by this tradition, but by our sages in our country, by the sages, whatever happens through the Munis only happens in the interest of the society, it is for the society, are devoted to society But he is not identified because he feels that he is a part of my duty, so he never drops drums and because of this there is an image in the world that the saints of Mahatma, Sadhus-Mahatma or Bharat Context and their worship and express it in the same way, but if we look at all the rishis traditions and saint tradition in our country, it is engaged in social service, it is engaged in social service. The worship of Lord Swaminarayan is considered as unimaginable as the thoughts of Lord Swaminarayan, whether it is to protect the environment or to understand the consciousness of the birds or to worship the Brahma. Our traditions have accepted the power of Nad Brahma and therefore there are very few people who can worship the Nad Brahma. This form of Brahma can be felt which can not be felt in the rest of Brahma. Nad is Brahman, which can feel the form of Brahman, we can feel and through his meditation, the medium of sound for reaching the common man to Brahman, this Swami Ji has shown and on the very large plane of the world Our great tradition from known to unknown, because common human songs and music also knows, but to know the spiritual form and to link it with Brahma, an uninterrupted work was done by the revered Swami ji Land, has many places of the world. I have had the opportunity to visit some such places but for the first time in my life, I have had the opportunity for the first time, so it is a privilege for me.\nI bow down to the master who has done the work for their social service, the work that is going on, the blessings of Goddess Datta, and this power work is in the service of the poor, the common man from the poor. This is my prayer, Gurudev Dutt!"