"\nPM Narendra Modi attends Foundation Stone Laying ceremony for Delhi-Dasna-Meerut Expressway\nVajpayee ji works to connect India through Golden Quadrilateral project \u0026 Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana: PM Modi\nWe are not constructing a road; Modi is a highway to development: PM\nDelhi-Dasna-Meerut Expressway will spur development in western Uttar Pradesh: PM Narendra Modi\nGood roads are one of the first pre-requisites for development: PM Modi\nWith expansion of roadsways and infrastructure, prospects for employment also rise: PM Modi\nThrough Pradhanmantri Krishi Sinchai Yojana, we are reviewing all our agricultural schemes: PM\nOur government is dedicated for uplifting the poor: PM\nI urge all political parties that the people of India have elected us to discuss, discuss, deliberate in Parliament. It is our duty: PM\nDear brothers and sisters,\nIn 1857, Meerut is specially remembered. In 1857, Meerut showed the path of liberation from slavery and today the Express Highway of Meerut from Delhi is showing the path of liberation from pollution. Speed ​​is not going to stop during the changing times and the pace of speed is also not going to stop. When it is certain that speed is going to be fast, it is necessary to make the infrastructure also adapt to the same speed. 20 years ago, 30 years ago if there was talk to a farmer in the village then what did the people of the village say? He used to say, Sir, this time if there is a work of drought, then start work on us. And at least let us do the soil work here so that it can be used as a way to come and go.\n25-30 years ago, the person of our country village demanded to get soil work between only two villages so that work could be done if the facility of arrival and soil becomes soils. But today within 25-30 years, the person of the village also comes in. Then he says, Saheb is not saying a pakka road, he is saying, put Pebble Road here, apply Pebble Road. He is not satisfied with the paved road. He is not satisfied with the Single Line road. He wants double lane, needs four lane, Swer Road. The man of the village also well understands that if I want to connect with the development tour then first of all I have to link my village with the road, connecting with the good road. The fastest way to run fast is to me. Whatever the common man of the village also understands, the dream of the village of the village also sees the person, in the direction of completing that dream, Atal Bihari Vajpayee started two important things.\nWhen Mr. Atal Bihari Vajpayee was the Prime Minister of the country, he took two important things to take India to new heights in the world of infrastructure. One, started a scheme to bring India on a global level and bring the connectivity to the villages to change the lives of the other Hindustan villages. And both the schemes were one, the Golden Quadrilateral Express Highway campaigned to create a fast moving path of the same quality, with the same strength from east to west, from north to south India and today India can proudly say that before India The task of connecting the West from the west, connecting from north to south is due to Vajpayee's Golden Quadrilateral plan. Put by bringing equal Riddh countries.\nOn the other hand, on one side, Vajpayee wanted to see Hindustan globally, on the other hand, the village of Hindustan wanted to worry too. And so they made another big plan. The second big plan was the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana. With that Prime Minister's Gram Sadak Yojana, those villages of India should be linked with the paved road so that the village can also move faster and get the ability to equalize the world due to the Golden Quadrilateral.\nIn the world of Infrastructure, Vajpayee ji's government put these two ego things in front of us, today the interval of 10 years has gone, what happened, what happened, how happened, I did not come to discuss it, but The moment Vajpayeeji had given the momentum to take that momentum, to take the country to new heights of Infrastructure, this government has raised a huge campaign in that direction. On one side, the Express Highway increased the series in different parts of India, when a city is connected with other small towns in the radius of 100 kilometers then the only roads are not created but they are small in the radius of 100 km -Mota village, every small town receives new heights of development with the same strength.\nThe entire campaign that we have undertaken to build this road network by connecting with Delhi, is going to be one of the major reasons for the development of all areas of radius of 100-150 km of Delhi. Satellite township is going to grow. When Meerut and Delhi are connected at a faster pace, Meerut moves faster than Delhi. Dehradun rises and hence this is not just the path, it is becoming a highway of development.\nThese plans are emerging as a major force in the development of western Uttar Pradesh. Right now Nitish ji was saying that there was a terrible objection in Kedarnath, the passengers of the country and abroad died untimely, the crisis was very big, but can the crisis be reversed even in opportunity? The nature of my government is to turn every crisis into opportunity. And that is why we have to move forward in order to develop such a system which will not bring any crisis in the future, for people who travel to the four dhams of Hindustan and from the world in the days to which Kedarnath was killed. And therefore, Haridwar Ho, Rishikesh Ho, Gangotri-Yamunotri Ho, Badrinath-Kedarnath ho, we have taken the lead in the direction of preparing it according to the modern road and all weather road, due to which the development of Uttarakhand was also due to the birth of Uttarakhand. It is going to grow faster than it does and it is going to be the cause of a new facility for the passengers all over the country.\nToday, in our country, citizens of middle class and upper middle class, weekend programs are created in those families. Weekend is a program for outing or a vacant program to invite friend friends at home. Gradually going into the middle of the upper middle class and the high middle class in the weekend for two days to go somewhere with the family, it is gradually becoming part of a family life. But they can not go far away. If once a good network is available to go 100-150 km out of Delhi, if there are good ways, then there are millions of middle and upper middle class citizens from Delhi, who want to go out Does it These small towns are their citizens, they want to go out of them. This system will work for them and due to this the weekend tourism will develop a new business in this area. Will provide a new opportunity for the employment of young people. For one night, go out for two nights, get good facilities, family members would like to go and these facilities are used when these paths are made.\nIn the coming days, nowadays, roadways is formed, employment opportunities increase. Now this project will be about Rs 6,000 crore, 8,000 crore, 7,500 crore. Now, this project of 7,500 crore takes place, how many thousands of people get jobs in it. There will be a tea shop for those thousands of people, a food contract will run. How many people get employment When this road is formed, the maximum money out of 7,500 crores goes to employment, which provides employment to poor people of Uttar Pradesh. There is no rupee in the machine or in the material as it is in wages and therefore when infrastructure works, they create jobs. When the employment opportunities are created, the purchasing power of the village encourages its purchasing power, and when the purchasing power grows in the village, the purchasing power of the poor increases, then the economy of India will be set to new heights. Crosses new power and therefore, whatever plans our government is taking, finally, the poor poor person's work has come, Give it, focus on it.\nOn one hand, we have carried out the work on the network of these paths at a fast pace, the second major task we have taken is the Prime Minister Krishi Irrigation Scheme. All our agricultural plans are reviewed once. How to use 100% potential, how many kilometers water was planned in the plan, if it does not reach, how to get it delivered. How many quantum water should be available to the last farm, how he got it and new plans is the dream of creating a network of water in the whole country by connecting the rivers so that the farmers of our country should never have to wait for rain and do not rain. Then we will work in that direction not to be compelled to commit suicide.\nBrothers and sisters, our Western Uttar Pradesh sugarcane is the state of farmers. The sugarcane farmers of my northwestern state do their job to sweeten Hindustan's mouth. But we have seen when the price of sugar in the world market is broken, then the waist of farmers of my cane breaks down and then what governments do? Let's take this time so take the man and work out and the rest of the rest of the money of sugarcane farmers. Can not find its way, if the price of sugar falls, what will my farmer's condition also fall? We have taken a big initiative. We said, even if the price of sugar falls in the world market, even then the farmer can be kept and therefore we have done one thing. Now as sugar is made from sugarcane, along with it, if sugar becomes more then you should reduce the production of sugar. Keep the price of sugar, but make ethanol in between, let the sugar be formed. Now Ethanol will do, but what will happen if the market is not there, and therefore the government made the law that our bus runs, there are petrol-driven vehicles, and 5 percent ethanol should be mixed in it. This will also free the pollution and the farmers of our sugarcane, which produce sugarcane, will run our trains, the Express Highway will also be built and vehicles will also run from Ethanol, then the farmer who produces my cane will also run fast, The models are underway and so my brothers and sisters bring this development tour to the masses.\nThis is the last day of December 31, 2015. Starting tomorrow 01 January 2016. From my side you are very happy about the New Year. We are going to give a wonderful gift to the youth of this country in the new year. Are going to give a wonderful gift. He is in such a way that he gives relief to my young man from corruption. He is in such a situation that gives freedom to the young man of my country to force someone to become dependent.\nThe government has made a decision, which will be implemented tomorrow. That is the decision that government jobs are interviewed in the third and fourth categories and we know that the meaning of the interview is the recommendation. Interview means that it is concluded that the reach of a bigger person by holding the kurta and the one who deserves it is deprived of the poor right. And so the government decides - January 01, 2016, you have a new year that you will not be interviewed in Class 3 and 4. Technology will be the son of the widowed mother on the basis of merit, if her right is made, a job order will come in her house. We have taken a very important step in fighting the fight against corruption. It is our effort to give salvation to young people who are facing problems in employment. I urge all the Chief Ministers of the country, urging all the State Governments of the country that the Government of India has ended the interview for class three and four for government jobs, you too, all the State Governments, eliminate the tradition of this interview and Give employment to the youth on the basis of merit\nMy dear brothers and sisters of Noida, sometimes noida, do not remember that they are citizens of Uttar Pradesh. They sometimes feel that they are Delhiese. They forget I do not forget the brothers and sisters. You should be aware that I am an MP from Uttar Pradesh, I am also from Uttar Pradesh and the love that this state has given me gives me the motivation to work. Gives a new energy, gives new strength, and even as a UP MP, I urge the Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh that you also have the tradition of interviews in class three and four, finish it in Uttar Pradesh. Make arrangements to provide employment opportunities to the youth of Uttar Pradesh on the basis of merit.\nBrothers and sisters, our government is trying to take a number of steps after the other for the poor. There are some old laws that have become very old for the betterment of the poor, for the economic development of the country. In many respects it has become necessary to make new laws. But it is the misfortune of the country that the Parliament of India, where the laws are formed, is not allowed to run that Parliament. Those people who have turned down, have now taken the Parliament into consideration. They do not let Parliament run. I especially urge all the political parties, we do not have the opportunity to speak in the Lok Sabha but I am urging the people in the public that the people of the country have sent us to discuss in parliament, to discuss Sent to the debate, sent to the decision-making by dividing it. हमारी जिम्‍मेवारी है जनता ने हमें जिस काम के‍िलिए भेजा है, उसको प्राथमिकता देना, उसको पूरा करना। विशेष करके उनकी जिम्‍मेवारी ज्‍यादा है, जिन्‍होंने 50-60 साल तक इस देश पर राज किया है। सरकार क्‍या होती है, संसद क्‍या होती है, संसद में काम होना कितना जरूरी होता है, ये हमसे भी ज्‍यादा उनको पता है, जिन्‍होंने 50-60 साल तक देश में सरकारें चलाई हैं, दर्जनों प्रधानमंत्री दिए हैं, उनकी विशेष जिम्‍मेवारी है कि अपने राजनीतिक कारणों को देश को आगे बढ़ने में बीच में न लाएं। संसद को चलने की जिम्‍मेवारी उनकी भी उतनी ही ज्‍यादा है क्‍योंकि 60 साल तक इस देश ने उनको सरकार बनाने का अवसर दिया है। जिनको अभी तक अवसर नहीं मिला है उसका गुस्‍सा हम समझ सकते हैं। जिनको मौका नहीं मिला है उसकी नाराजगी हम समझ सकते हैं। लेकिन जिन्‍होंने 60 साल तक देश में हर प्रकार की सत्‍ता का उपभोग किया है उनको संसद को बर्बाद करने का अधिकार नहीं है, संसद को रोकने का अधिकार नहीं है।\nआज 2015 समाप्‍त हो रही है, मैं विशेषकर उनसे आग्रह करता हूं कि कल 1 जनवरी नई साल है, आज जब नया वर्ष मना रहे हों तो एक संकल्‍प ये भी कर लो कि आज 2016 से अब ससंद में रुकावटें नहीं डालोगे, संसद को चलने दोगे। देश को आगे बढ़ने दोगे। देश के गरीबों की भलाई के निर्णय करने दोगे। देश के नौजवानों को रोजगार के अवसर के लिए काम करने दोगे। ये अगर हम संकल्‍प करेंगे तो देश नई उंचाइयों को प्राप्‍त करेगा। मैं फिर एक बार आप सबका दृदय से अभिनंदन करता हूं और ये road पश्चिम उत्‍तर प्रदेश के विकास की एक नई गाथा को आरंभ कर रहा है, मैं उत्‍तर प्रदेश के नागरिकों को भी शुभकामनाएं देता हूं। Thanks a lot."