"Share\n\nDr. Ambedkar is widely hailed as the architect of our Constitution but he is a great economist too: PM Modi\nFinancial inclusion is our government's prime focus: PM Narendra Modi\nOur Government's aim is to create job creators without job seekers: PM Modi\nOur Government is focussing on Skill Development through various schemes: PM Modi\nGovernment is working for benefit of Dalit Entrepreneurs, says PM Modi\nBabasaheb rightly said that industrialization will give maximum benefit to our Dalit sisters and brothers: PM Modi\nMy fellow council members ... and all the greatness\nAll of you honored me by standing up. But I believe that if any person is an officer of this respect, then he is just Dr. Baba Saheb Ambedkar and therefore the respect which you have given the honor, he deserves the respect, he dedicates in the Mr. Phase of Baba Saheb.\nJust a few days back I mentioned a topic in my mind. I had said that Baba Saheb Ambedkar gave us the Constitution. But in 60 years of independence, we have been discussing most of the rights. Wherever rights are discussed in the country wherever look is done. Why not discuss this duty on 26th January, I had kept such a thing in mind. But today I must accept, bowing down and accepting that this hall and people present here are those who have not only discussed the duty but have shown duty. They could discuss the rights, but by rising above them, they have chosen the path of duty and today they are present here today by sitting self-reliant with self-respect. Most of the occasion would have been happy if Baba Saheb Ambedkar's soul would have to.\nIf this house was filled with all the Scheduled Caste Scheduled tribe, it would have been filled up by the politicians, even if it was in the same way as me, even then Baba Saheb may not be as happy as it is today. Because what did Baba Saheb teach us? You have chosen the path of Baba Saheb which taught you this. In this hall, there are people who pay hundreds of crores rupees in every and every year of the government's safe. These are those people who fill the government's safe and they are those people who employ millions of lakhs of young people. These are those people who fill the government's vault and also fill the stomach of the poor.\nI believe that I have met the good fortune of visiting you and meeting you here, I congratulate Milind and all his comrades on the heart. I told that the delegates who have come here have come from their pocket with a delegation fee of 1500 rupees. And these delegates are staying here in the hotels with their own expenses. We know how the age of the country is, what does he ask for coming? And that's the thing that will cause us to be forced to change the old thinking because you have done something that is going to be the reason to think about it again.\nThis visit has taken 10 years and it is a pleasant coincidence that we are celebrating 125th birth anniversary of Baba Saheb Ambedkar. We know Baba Saheb as a constitutional creator, but not much is known as an economist. If you look inside Baba Saheb then all the ways of solving India's economic problems come out of there.\nSometimes I think the Reserve Bank's imagination has been done by Baba Saheb and due to which the Reserve Bank has been created, but it is a sad fact that if a dalit needs a loan in the bank, then he has to chew iron grams. These positions have to be reversed. This is the great class of this country and this class is filled with these criteria. There is a section of society which is cool, what is heat, how does pebbles by running open legs do not even know. She has been walking in a built-in state. But these are the people who have suffered all the hardships of life, have suffered every disgrace, have faced the troubles, and in a way tested by the criterion, the tightness, the tightness of their life has been emerging, the strength of their power will come Style me well Iron is of value but steel is more because it is out of the process.\nYou are self-dependent and self-respecting. More than three thousand Dalit Entrepreneurs are subscribing to it. But I was telling Milind, if I say Milind then do not mind, I know this from student time. So there have been more than three thousand in society. How did we reach them? How to add them to this flow?\nUnder the leadership of Sister Kalpana, a unit of 300 Women Entrepreneur has been created. Women Entrepreneur also, you see, I have honored Karnataka's daughter right now. Those who talk about the environment, there are very big ceremonies in Paris, the way a dalit girl in Karnataka searches. Unless we do not expose, we do not know the people, I am very familiar with my own brother, I am from Bhavnagar, how in the way they have extended life, I know well. It has power in society.\nSome people would think that this is just a matter of discussion of an economic and commercial world. I want to talk a little away from it. Its a social column is the whole event. And I would like to look at this side of the country. I was told that this hall fell short and everybody sat in the second hall. Nearly four hundred young people are sitting there, I salute them.\nOccasionally when we hear the news, that happens in life, disappointment comes, human beings think that live is useless. Now there is no one to do with me. Walks on the path of suicide Even good young people sometimes go on that path. In today's auditorium, in whose mind there is a thought of suicide at any time, I urge them to call Kalpana Saroj once before considering the idea of ​​suicide. Call fantasy once. Very few people will know where the imagination has taken their life from. How many calamities have you taken? To decide between life and death, he decided to live life and sitting in front of us today. That is, if someone can give the power to awaken to live in the environment of despair, then it can give complete society. And to recognize this power, to recognize that power and to try to push the nation forward, sometimes the social aspects are very powerful than the economic aspects. The social aspects which took us on the path of waste for centuries, can be transformed today into Opportunity and also the power to bring society out of the centuries-old crises. And so, we should look at such powers.\nNow the government has created a first time venture capital fund for the first generation entrepreneur. This is basically for Scheduled Caste, Schedule tribe people. Where can she find her inherited entrepreneurship poorly? She never lived in heritage, her father, mother, spent her life doing her wages. Just generation entrepreneur I also tell the banks that you are very interested in loaning brown field project, I have to give green field. New strength emerges from him, new people come from him.\nNow the government's Prime Minister's money scheme - PMY Under this scheme, the people of this type of society have carried forward this scheme in the last seven-eight months. Nearly eight million people were given loan from banks without guarantee of one rupee. More than Rs 50 thousand crore rupees was given and who is it to take? The maximum is Dalits in it, OBC, ST and some women and they do small things. But they think I'm going to get some more. Beyond taking alcohol, I give money to the outside and I will open my own work. And these are those people, employ one, employ two, employ three. In this country, such people employ about 14 million people, 14 million people. But they were not within the purview of the bank, they were not in the account of the bank. Who gives employment to 300 people but builds the increased hi-fi factory, the bank is ready to go home. But ten people of a village employ 50 people by doing small work, they are not looked at. Our best efforts are this.\nInclusion, financial inclusion Sometimes there is a debate in our country that the temptation of financial inclusion becomes a burden on the economy of the country. My different thinking is that I believe that the pyramid's fold is as strong as the pyramid will be strong and therefore people who are on the surface of the pyramid. The whole of our creation is the people on the surface in it, which is a great deal of people. If their strength increases, those parts of India's economy are created and like Milind said that we do not want to be a job seeker, want to be a job creator. We want to partner in India's GDP. We want to move ahead with the shoulder in the development journey of India. These strengths, these strengths take the country forward.\nThe government has stressed on skill development. India has 65 percent of the population under 35 years of age. How do we give them the strength to stand on their feet? He should build up the courage that he should grow himself, let the other people go ahead, and when this situation is created then the country then grows forward itself. There is no need for any new efforts to increase it, it increases itself. And so, what I have found from this ten-year journey, can we decide that in the coming two years, we can double these ten years forward and even beyond it and it is possible. It is possible that today there is such a government in Delhi that it is your government. Whose hearts are filled with the same things.\nI do not have to explain to anyone because I live life. I know what is insulting. We know from old age. If we had a procession from the people here and were sitting on a horse, then we would forget death. Wearing good clothes can not accept the feudal mindset and it is still today. Do you wear good clothes It is still today. Moving forward with self-respecting self-respect in such a situation is also the responsibility of this government and you all have the courage that gives me new strength and therefore you should consider that one of your friends is sitting in Delhi, who is going ahead I want to force more authority than I am because it is my choice because Baba Saheb Ambedkar taught us this path.\nBabasaheb Ambedkar used to say, he used to say that Bhai Dalit has no land, where will he be? For Dalit, the opportunity of livelihood is only industrialization. If there is industrialization in the country then Dalit will get employment and Dalit will get the job. Farming is not there, will it pass, where? And in this country, the biggest benefit of industrialization, the people of the lower classes who get employment, change their lives. We have to fulfill those dreams of Baba Saheb Ambedkar.\nBaba Saheb said, Be educated. We are saying 'Beti Bachao Beti Teacho' Who is this daughter who is still to read? Are the daughters of the rich to read? We have daughters of our own, whose studies have remained the same and therefore the dreams which Baba Saheb had seen were the dreams that we all have to meet and they can be fulfilled. Seeing this view of today, the articles that are written on the country's economy, they will have to write a new thought. If this, I can not say that I will write, but I will have to write. This is the change. In this country, a section which was never available to honor, it says today that I should go ahead so that I give someone the chance to live by respect, I should give him employment. This thinking is not the same power and you are moving on the strength of that power. I once again convey my best wishes to you and once again assure me. Let's go with the shoulder to the shoulder and walk along with step by step and I am also happy, now our Milind Ji has described that there was a memorial in Baba Saheb Ambedkar's house in London. But if his credit goes to someone first, then Kalpana goes on because the first voice was raised by Kalpana. He raised the voice that the house was sold and we were awake and we used to wake up our ears were heard and today the house will become a center of inspiration. When this young generation of the country goes to London, they will see where, Baba Saheb Ambedkar took education at this place and tried to give a new life to India. But once again I say that you have chosen the path of duty, continue to inspire the nation, and inspire all of us. Once again thank you so much."