"PM Narendra Modi addresses 15th edition of #MannKiBaat on radio\nPM extends Christmas and New Year greetings during #MannKiBaat\nIndia's diversity is our strength: PM Modi #MannKiBaat\nPM during #MannKiBaat\nWe must ensure that our tourist places are clean: PM Modi #MyCleanIndia\nWe're electrifying the villages, we're seeing enthusiasm in villages being electrified: PM #MannKiBaat\nThrough 'Narendra Modi Mobile App', I urge people to share positive thoughts directly with me: PM\n'Start up India, Stand up India' is a big opportunity for our youth: PM during #MannKiBaat\n'Start up India, Stand up India' should be limited to few cities only: PM Modi during #MannKiBaat\nGovt will reveal 'Start up India, Stand up India' action plan on January 16th: PM #MannKiBaat\nNational Youth Festival to be organized on Swami Vivekananda's birthday: Modi during #MannKiBaat\nShare your ideas for 'National Narendra Modi Mobile App': PM #MannKiBaat\nWe are focussing on physical and virtual infrastructure as a part of our Accessible India campaign: PM during #MannKiBaat\nFellow citizens, Namaskar to all. This will be the last edition of Mann Ki Baat in 2015. The next edition of Mann Ki Baat will be 2016. We celebrate Christmas and preparations are now on in the New Year.\nIndia is the land of diversities .. We celebrate a whole lot of festivals. One is not done with one festival In a way At times it feels India is one such country which has a 'festival driven economy'. It is a source of economic activities. Greetings from my end for a Merry Christmas to all Indians and I also wish you all a Happy New Year. May 2016 Uses in lots of joys I hope that new zeal, new excitement and new pledges May the world be free of crises, be it from terrorism, from global warming or natural calamities or manmade tragedies. There is no greater happiness than the humanity having a peaceful existence.\nYou are aware that I use a lot of information. I keep a watchful eye on my portal \"My Gov\".\nMr. Ganesh V. Savleshwarkar has written from Pune to this season is a tourist season. A large number of foreign and domestic tourists travel across the country People also travel to celebrate Christmas vacations. He says most of the facilities related to tourism are catered to but special emphasis should be laid on cleanliness at all places which are tourist places or famed tourist places, religious destinations or stay over's. India's image will be enhanced I appreciate the views of Ganesh ji and convey this message We say, \"Atithi devo Bhava\" and just imagine how we strive to keep our homes neat and clean. In a similar way, the onus is on us to maintain our tourist destinations and pilgrim tourism sites neat and clean. I am very happy From day one, I have been thanked before the people. I have come in a nice story in the newspaper and I would like to narrate it with fellow citizens.\nDileep Singh Malviya is a elderly artisan from Bhojpura village in Sehore district of Madhya Pradesh. He is a Mason by profession to earn his livelihood. He did something And when it came to my notice, I wanted to share it with you. Hailing from a small village, Dileep Singh Malviya decided that if anyone supplies material for toilet in the village, he will render his labour services free of cost. And heats off to him, he has constructed 100 toilets in Bhojpura village so far he is taking it as a divine cause and providing his services without charge. My heartfelt congratulations to Dileep Singh Malviya for his earnest efforts Sometimes we hear disappointing news about our nation. But there are thousands of people like Dileep Singh who are doing their own This is the power of the nation This is the hope of the nation and these are the things which carry the nation forward and it is natural that we applaud Dileep Singh and his efforts in Man Ki Baat.\nDue to tireless efforts of many people 125 crores Indians are not only marching together but also Better education, best talent and new opportunities Be it providing insurance cover to citizens or providing them banking facilities, be it the 'Easy Of Doing Business' in the world horizon or new businesses for the convenience of making available, we have done it all. People from the general backgrounds who could not step inside banks now can avail loan facilities from the \"Mudra Yojana.\"\nEvery Indian is proud to know how the world is accepting and getting attracted towards Yoga. When the world celebrated \"International Yoga Diwas\" and the whole world got associated with it, we became proud of our country Such feelings arise when we see the enormity of our nation No one can forget the story of Krishna and Yashoda where he opened his mouth and the mother was able to see the whole universe, and then only his power was realized. The Yoga event was a similar reminder.\nThe concept of cleanliness is being echoed in every household. The participation of citizens is also increasing. Many villages receive an electricity pole after so many years of Independence They are the people who live in cities and are so inducted to the electricity that we do not realize the extent of happiness and excitement. The power department of the state and Indian government was functional earlier as well but from the day 1000 days to daily electricity to electricity, we get news daily that power supply is available in some or other village and the happiness of the residents' know no bounds. The media has not discussed this topic But I am sure that media will definitely reach such villages and will\nThe biggest achievement of this task is that the government officials involved in this task will have immense satisfaction that they have done something that will bring about such people as a big change in the life of the village itself. Be it the farmers, poor, young or women, should such things reach them or not? Such news should reach out to their rights. They should not People should get their rights We should all make efforts that the right information, good information and information useful to the common man should reach as many people as possible. This is a kind of service. I too have tried it from my end. I can not do everything alone. But if i am saying Even a common man can download the Narendra Modi App and get connected to me. And I can share these small things with you And it is a matter of happiness for me that people You are able to reach 125 crore Indians How do I reach without your help? Come, let us collectively do such things of interest for the common man in their language and inspire them.\nMy dear young friends, I had some preliminary discussions about \"Start-up India, Stand-up India\" in my speech on 15th August from the Red Fort. After that all government departments started discussing it. Can India be a \"Start-Up Capital\"? Can our states work together for new start-ups, and encourage innovations with start-ups, be it in the manufacturing sector, service sector or agriculture Everything should be new, new ways and new thinking - after all \"Start-up India, Stand-up India\" brings a great opportunity for the younger generation. My dear young friends, the government will launch the entire action plan for \"Start-up India, Stand-up India on 16th January. What it will be, how it will be? You will be presented with a structure In this program all the IITs, IIM's, Central Universities, NIT's, wherever there is a young generation, they will be brought together via live connectivity.\nThere is an established thinking about the start-ups that they are meant only for the digital world or the IT profession. This is not true at all; According to the needs of India For example, when a poor person works somewhere as a laborer and there is a lot of physical effort involved but if a young man innovates something that can reduce the physical effort and help the labourer- I will call it as a Start-up. I will ask him to move ahead with courage. You will get the Market Similar is the intellectual wealth This thinking is wrong. The Indian youth has all the country's talents, all they need is opportunities This \"Start-up India, Stand-up India\" should not be limited to some cities only It should spread to every corner of India And I will request the state to take this forward I will definitely interact with you on 16th January and will discuss this in detail. Your suggestions are always welcome\nDear young friends, 12th January is the birth anniversary of Swami Vivekananda. There are thousands of me who like inspiration from him. Since 1995, 12th January, the birth anniversary of Vivekananda is celebrated as the National Youth Festival. This year it will be organized from 12-16th January in Raipur district of Chhattisgarh. This is a theme based event and I have got the information that this time they have a very good theme and that is \"Indian Youth on Development Skill and Harmony\". I have been told that 10,000 young people will gather from all over India A mini-India will be created there They will share dreams together A feeling of determination will be experienced. Can you give me suggestions about this young festival? I would request the youth to send their suggestions directly on the \"Narendra Modi App\". I want to understand And that is why it gets reflected in the Youth Festival So I will wait dear friends for your suggestions on the festival \"नरेंद्र मोदी ऐप\".\nDilip Chauhan, from Ahmedabad, Gujarat, who is a visually challenged teacher, celebrated 'Accessible India Day' in his school. He is going to express his feelings:\n\"Sir, we celebrated Accessible India Campaign in our school. I am a visually challenged teacher and I addressed 2000 children on the issue of disability and differently-abled people. And the students' response was fantastic, we enjoyed in the school and the students were encouraged. I think it was a great initiative. \"\nDilip ji, thank you very much You are working in this field. You have to face a lot of difficulties too Sometimes when we meet someone with different ability in the mind We express our perception of our thinking There are some people who lose a limb or body part in an accident. Some people are born And for these people different terms are used All the time people feel that this kind of identification does not sound nice and respectable. At some point we were disabled, then it was disabled and somewhere it is specially-abled, so many terms have used. It is true that words have their own significance. This year when the government of India started the 'Sugamya India' program, I was supposed to attend it, but could not make it, because of severe floods in Chennai and other areas of Tamil Nadu. However, since I had to attend that program some thoughts kept coming in my mind. That time, I think that we call or know those people as disabled because they are some ways in their body structure or whose organs do not function properly However, at times when we interact with them, we realize that we see only the deficits. God has bestowed upon them some different power which we can not see with our eyes, but it is only when we see them working. We think O Great! Look how he works So I thought that on our eyes we feel that they are handicapped, but experiences tell us that they have some extra power So I thought why not use the term 'Divyang' instead of 'viklang' in our country They are those people who have one or more such organs which have divinity, where divine power flows which we normal bodied people do not have I like this term. My dear countrymen can we make it a habit to use the word 'Divyang' and make it popular. I hope you will take this forward.\nThat day we started the 'Sugamya Bharat' campaign. Under this campaign we will improve both the physical and virtual infrastructure and make it accessible for the 'Divyang' people Be it schools, hospitals, government offices, bus depots, railway stations, everywhere ramps, accessible parking, accessible lifts, Braille, many amenities will be made available. To make things Sugamya - we need innovation, we need technology, we need systems and we too need empathy from people We have taken the initiative We are getting public participation too People like it You can also join in the way.\nMy dear countrymen, the government plans will continue to exist and run, but it is necessary The schemes should become operational from the last They should not have a dead existence in government files After all, these people are the people In the past few days the government has made a effort to ensure that the rightful owners In our country, we will provide subsidy for the gas cylinders. Crores of rupees were spent on it but we did not know if it reached the people or not, if this subsidy reached people on time or not? The Government has made some changes in the scheme. The government 'undertook the biggest' Direct Benefit Transfer Scheme 'to provide subsidy directly in the bank accounts of the beneficiaries with the help of' Jan Dhan Account 'or' Aadhar Card 'etc. I am happy to share with the countrymen that this scheme has earned a place in Guinness Book of World Records as the largest Direct Benefit Transfer Scheme. This scheme is known as 'Pahal' and this experiment is very successful. Till November end, around 15 crore LPG customers have become its beneficiaries. The government money is directly transferred to the accounts of 15 crore beneficiaries. No middlemen nor any recommendation, nor any possibility of corruption On one hand was the Aadhar Card Scheme, and the other was the Jan Dhan Account. Thirdly the state and Indian government compiled the lists of beneficiaries That was connected to account and Aadhar This work is still in progress. Nowadays, even the MNREGA scheme, which provides employment opportunities in villages, is being connected to it. There were lots of complaints about this scheme. In many places, the wages of the labors are now being transferred directly into their accounts. There were complaints about student scholarships too; They too are transferred into their accounts This has been done and will be gradually taken forward. Till now around 40,000 crore rupees are directly benefiting from various schemes. According to my rough estimate, around 35-40 schemes is now under 'Direct Benefit Transfer.'\nMy dear countrymen, 26th January is the golden moment in Indian democracy This is a beautiful co-incidence that Baba Saheb Ambedkar, the maker of the Indian Constitution, his 125th birth anniversary will be celebrated this year. We organized a two-day special discussion on the Constitution and it was a very good experience. All the parties and all the members deliberated on the sanctity of the constitution, its importance to understand the true interpretation of the constitution. It was a excellent discussion We should take this thing forward. Can Republic Day be a festival to the people? Our constitution grants us many rights and there are many discussions on it and it is equally important. But constitution equally emphasizes on duty also. But it is seen that the duties are hardly discussed. At the most, whenever there are elections, they see advertisements all around us, they write on the wall and hoardings are said to vote is our sacred duty. There is a lot of talk about duties during elections, but why not discuss our duties in general life too This year when we are celebrating the 125th birth anniversary of Babasaheb Ambedkar then can we make 26th January a medium to organize debates, poetry, slogan competition regarding our own schools, colleges, villages, cities and various organizations and societies in duties. If 125 crore Indians take action after one, they can make history But at least let's start with discussions. I have an idea - Send me a essay or poem before 26th January about duty in Hindi or English or your native language. Can you send me? I want to know your views Send them on my portal 'My Gov' I would like to know what my young generation thinks about their duties.\nI want to give a small suggestion. On 26th January we celebrate Republic Day. Can we be the best of cleanliness and best of decoration on the 26th January of the year. And I am not saying this on government lines We become so emotional about getting the statues of great men erected but be equal to them. As a society, as a nation can we make it a natural tendency to respect the statues of our great men? On this 26th January let us make a effort that we will respect But this should be done by the citizens knowingly\nDear Countrymen, greetings to you for a Happy New Year 2016. Thank You Very Much!"