"Proud that people in Russia have so much warmth toward India: PM\nPM Modi congratulates the Russian artistes who performed at the 'Friends of India' event\nIndia-Russia ties are very deep. Our ties go beyond political \u0026 trade relations: PM\nI greet everyone on Eid-e-Milad I wish you all on Christmas: PM at 'Friends of India' event\nRussia has always stood with India This is friendship, it is not just about give and take: PM Modi\nRussia is standing by India It helps us when we face war: PM\nThose who saw India only as a market are now seeing India as a manufacturing hub: PM\nHello\nIt will be a great surprise for those who are watching this program on TV in India. Half of the people in this hall have come from India and half of the people who have not even seen India but love India a lot. Such a large amount of Russian citizens express their love for India. It is a matter of pride for every Indian and the biggest surprise is by the Russian artists, the way Russian citizens, the art of India, the culture of India, the cultural heritage of India Presented here, highlighted, I really congratulate them and in the way they felt like this in the whole program they Such were loaded. They were joined with one word. They were not just shaking their hands and feet, they had mixed their minds with India.\nAt the beginning of the program, I heard Satiq Kajanova and he was pronouncing Vedic Mantras, Ganesh was singing and doing it completely with emotion and I was told that he is Russia's biggest pop singer, who Pop Singer is singing these mantras in this manner and not even taking any paper in his hand, it means he has accepted it as a penance. He is a Russian citizen, he works very hard to live up to Hindu mantras, Hindu tradition and I was told that he was born in a Muslim family. Speaking of Muslim family, Russian citizen, pop singer and Vedic mantras, and when I was coming here, I was introduced to some people when the introduction came from them and they expressed the desire that I want to build a grand Hindu temple in Russia. I am\nI have organized all the Russian artists, which they have done and have taken India together in itself. I congratulate all those artists again a lot from the heart and congratulate me very much. Singer Satiq Kazanova, the passion that Ganesh is worshiping, I believe that your dream will be fulfilled. Today Eid-e-Milad is being celebrated all over the world. I congratulate everyone on Eid-e-Milad. Tomorrow is the holy festival of Christmas. I wish all the people connected to the holy festival of Christmas all over the world and tomorrow is the birth anniversary of Bharat Ratna Atal Bihari Vajpayee ji and today is the song \"I sing new songs\" written by Atal ji .... This Russian The artists presented and expressed their confidence in the new song that I sing. He remembered Atal ji in this way, respected him, I congratulate all of them especially, and I can not forget this also because I was born in Gujarat. Gujarati Garba can also be made vibrant, that is why I came to Russia and seen it. Those people, who gave their presentation, will see Gujarat, they will feel that the next time Navratri festival should learn from these Russian people, how Garba is.\nThe relationship between India and Russia is very deep. Having political relation, trade-employment with each other It has been running for centuries but in Russia, in India, the culture of India, the history of India, knowing the tradition of India, the strenuous effort to understand the cultural relations of India and Russia is an unprecedented force. gives. I was told that more than 150 Indian music and arts schools run in Russia and they run Russian citizens. I met some scholars who have studied in India, studied in Indology, and all the people studying in Indology were talking to me in Hindi and they told me that we teach the history of India here, the heroic men of India Sathas teach, the stories of the heroes of India give inspiration to the people here and with so much enthusiasm, they were telling their stories about their attachment to India, in what form of India They understood Every Indian should be proud, that view was visible to me.\nIn the last days, the whole world celebrated International Yoga Day on June 21. Today there is an attachment to Yoga in the whole world and now a Russian daughter has written a book on Yoga, Gift, I worked as an ambassador of Yoga last year and she is trying very hard to promote Yoga . I asked him, when did you go to Hindustan, where did you learn, how did you teach me that I have not gone to India now? I started learning from the internet and gradually I got involved in yoga and yoga became my life. Yoga Day was celebrated in Russia on June 21 in more than 200 places and I was told that except for the public Yoga, except those which were separate, but which are publicly said that about 45 to 50 thousand people are public Yoga program in form. I've come to Russia earlier too. I had the opportunity to go to Ashtarkan, a province of Russia and had an agreement with him as the Sister State of Gujarat, when Atal ji was in government I came here. Even after that I went to Ashtarkan and I saw there still is a India House and 400 years old is that India House. In the era of 1640-50, people from India who came to trade, stayed in this India House by keeping their jahaj there and had to wait for two to four, four, six-six months. At that time, this business relationship with Russia was formed. At that time, Diamond's business was India's move with Russia. Russia's Scholar used to go to India 300 years ago, 400 years ago, it is our cultural heritage and you must have seen that the Sanskrit words have a big influence in the Russian language. In a way, the twin languages ​​of Sanskrit language seem to be closer to Russia. The Russian language seems to be familiar. There are too many words. When we call the door, the question arises in their minds, if they say the door then they come to know what I am saying. If we speak tea, they say tea, they think they are right, and so I remember that once I met Ashtarkan's governor then watermelon was being discussed so watermelon did not understand I watched the melon If they say yes, watermelon is fine, they understand melon, that is, so many words are associated with them in our instinctive, so closely related to us, and today in the global environment see if the eye is closed Rke one can say stood in this world without a period regardless of crisis every second or one country period feature hesitation that India is the country of Russia.\nWhen we were going through a crisis at the time of war, this was the only country that helped us and our jawans returned after winning the battlefield. Russia has always stood as a power with India and this power is the power of friendship, the power of friendship. In which the transaction business is low but standing for each other has been shown by Russia. When the world was dominated by super powers. The world could move around on the desire of the super powers, even at that time, India, which was a poor country, with Russia, maintained its relationship and maintained it even today. At the international forums, when India needed someone, Russia always stood with a firmness on India's table, and with the help of Russia's help in building the voice of India within the world, it always came to work. Today, students of India are coming to study in large quantities in Russia, they are beginning to be recognized here, but in the amount of Russian citizens in India should be as tourist, there is still more to be done. Russians are the best tourist, they make their own year-long program that 10 go do not go, 15 days go or not. I will urge all the Indians to come here that you should definitely do a job that at least five of your Russian families should go for tourism as a tourist every time. You see, millions of Russian citizens will go as tourists in India. His attraction towards India is that it is our job that once we open the doors and take them, take a finger and take it and once the cycle is running, then 10 years, 20 years, it keeps moving and the tourist comes and the tourist comes If you are not there then you are not coming to see them come with our memories of India, which are sown here and there are trees of relationship where we are always getting the shadow of peace and friendship. It is therefore our endeavor that we should keep on trying to reach out to Russia as the maximum number of people in India come as a tourist, we should try the people. It is a collective duty of all of us, which is the collective duty of the nation's citizens to show India to India, to attract them to India, to see India, and especially to my Indian brothers living in Russia. I especially urge the youngsters to do this work.\nToday, the economic development of India is being discussed all over the world. Whether it is the World Bank, the IMF, the world's rating agencies, everybody says in a voice that there is an economy in the fastest movement in the big economies in the world today, then its name is Hindustan. It was discussed at the end of the 20th century that the 21st century will form a century of Asia. The world had assumed that 21st Century would be a century of Asia but the world could not decide who would be the people who led the 21st century. Today, in the second decade of the 21st century, the way the world looks towards India, the gesture is clear that Hindustan will play a very big role in the 21st century. India has made its place financially and India is moving forward at a fast pace. A few years ago, in the eyes of the world, India was a market. The world thought that we would go to Hindustan, we would sell goods, we would earn because buyers in India are very much but today the situation is changing due to the second decade of 21st century. Those who had the Indian market till yesterday, today people can become India a manufacturing hub, India can meet the needs of the world, such a strength can emerge, people have looked at this and we have also tried to make India manufacturing hub How to move forward and when we talk about manufacturing hubs, do not do it in the air. India has this power and it was centuries ago, Hindustan should have been said to be a little like that of gold, something will happen to us but in the era of slavery, everything has plummeted. Now our responsibility is to make the country stand again by becoming stronger and the possibility is complete.\nIndia is a country of possibilities. A country that has a young age of 800 million below 35 years. In such a large number, about 65% of the population is under 35 years of age, the country is so young, its dreams are also young, its intentions are also young and they have the power to achieve these things. India's dreams have woken up, India's young man has awakened, India has taken a resolve to move ahead and the power of hundreds of millions of people, who once thought that if one Hindustani steps one step, then Hindustan would have walked one hundred million steps. And that's why India has run on a new path of development and it is not that India does not have problems. The prosperous country rich in the world also have problems, but there are some people who cry during the evening in the evening, and there are some people who search for solutions to problems and move forward. Today, Hindustan is searching through the problems, it is going to be moving forward today and its result is also seen.\nWithin the last one year, the countries of the world, the world's industry has increased 40 percent growth in foreign direct investment. 40 percent increase in a year is not a small event and if there is no breath in the world then no one will pay a rupee, we will also put it, what you are living in my people here, if you are not sure, then you will put five rupees. what. When it is believed that whatever you put in it, the return is going to get, the assurance is sure, the security of the rupee is seen, then people try to put money. Today people are putting money in India, because of their belief that they have come to believe that this is the only place where we are going to move forward. With world capital investment, we want to create a modern infrastructure in India. We have opened up railway for 100 percent foreign direct investment. The railway of India should now be modern or not, should speed or not, should change the color of the train whether it should or should not, should our rail should be far and away or not. We only say that our train is so old, it has been going on for so long, this song does not go singing, the country moves forward by moving ahead with the resolution, and hence, the people of the world go to the railway investment Are coming for There was an agreement with Japan now in India, Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train. Japan will invest 0.1 percent of the money with very little interest and will spend about one lakh crore rupees and if one lakh crores rupees will be charged then people will be given the same roti and people are available to people, the country can change, the country can also change.\nRussia is working on molecule power here and in the coming days, we have reached an agreement on Nuclear Energy. The world which is fighting with global warming, Nuclear Energy is trying to find the problem of global warming together with India and Russia, which is going to be the welfare of human being in the coming days, we have a development towards modernism. ले जाना चाहते हैं, विकास को नई ऊंचाइयों की पर ले जाना चाहते हैं और विकास का लाभ भारत के गरीब से गरीब व्यक्ति को कैसे मिले ये हम सुनिश्चित करना चाहते हैं और इसलिए एक तरफ आर्थिक विकास हो और   ूसरी तरफ सामाजिक शक्ति में बढ़ावा हो ताकि एक-एक गरीब से गरीब परिवार भी आर्थिक रूप से सामर्थ्यवान बने तभी जाकर के देश की जड़ें मजबूत होंगी और इसलिए इन दोनों दिशाओँ में आज भारत को आगे बढ़ाने के लिए प्रयत्नरत हैं और उसके नतीजे भी दिखाई दे रहे हैं, उसके परिणाम भी नजर आ रहे हैं। आज विश्व में कोई भी निर्णय होता है, उस निर्णय में भारत की भी कोई न कोई भूमिका होती है वरना हमारी क्या भूमिका रहती थी, हम एक मूकदर्शक रहते थे और देखते हैं दुनिया इधर जा रही है कि उधर जा रही है, इधर गई तो ठीक है, उधर गई तो ठीक है, हम देखते रहते थे। आज ऐसा नहीं है, आज दुनिया देखती है, ये कर रहे हैं लेकिन पहले देखो तो सही भारत क्या सोच रहा है, क्या भारत साथ चलेगा क्या।\nभारत ने विश्व में अपनी एक जगह बनाई है और उस जगह को लेकर के, आतंकवाद के खिलाफ पूरे विश्व में अब नजरिया बदल रहा है। 30 साल से दुनिया को डंके की चोट पर हिंदुस्तान कहता रहा कि आतंकवाद मानवता का दुश्मन है और जो-जो मानवता में विश्वास करते हैं उन सबने एक आना चाहिए और एक मन करके आतंकवाद के खिलाफ लड़ाई लड़नी चाहिए तब दुनिया को हमारी बात गले नहीं उतरती थी, उनको लगता था कि ये तो आपके देश का problem है। हम दुनिया को समझा-समझा कर थक गए कि आतंकवाद की न कोई सीमाएं होती है न कोई समय होता है न ही उसका कोई target तय होता है। वो कहीं पर भी धमक सकता है, वो निर्दोषों को मारने पर तुला हुआ है, 30 साल तक जो हमारी बात मानी नहीं, आज आतंकवादियों की करतूतों ने, उनकी बेहरहमी ने निर्दोषों पर हो रहे उनके जुल्‍म के तरकत और तरीके ने पूरे विश्‍व को झकझोर दिया है और पूरी दुनिया आज हिन्‍दुस्‍तान की उस बात को मानने के लिए मजबूर हुई है कि आतंकवाद ये मानवता का दुश्‍मन है और मानवता में विश्‍वास करने वालों को एक आना अनिवार्य हो गया is.\nये बात आज दुनिया के गले में उतारने में हिन्‍दुस्‍तान सफल हुआ है। हर कोई, हर कोई आतंकवाद से बाहर निकलने के लिए झटपटा रहा है और समय की मांग है कि मानवतावादी शक्तियां एक आए, आतंकवाद को समाप्‍त करने का संकल्‍प करें, आतंकवाद को समाप्‍त करने के लिए सहयोग करें कंधे-से-कंधा मिला करके मानवतावादी शक्तियां अगर खड़ी हो जाएगी तो आतंकवाद को खत्‍म करना कोई मुश्किल काम नहीं है और उस रास्‍ते पर भारत और Russia मिल करके काम कर रहे हैं ।\nRussia की हमारी दोस्‍ती एक समान सोच पर आगे बढ़ रही है और जिसका विश्‍व को लाभ होने वाला है। भाईयों-बहनों भारत और Russia के संबंध, अब एक Central Asia की एक नयी ताकत के रूप में उभर रहे है और Central Asia की ताकत अनेक क्षेत्रों में, अनेक भू-भाग में आर्थिक संपन्‍नता का एक नया कारण बन सकती है।\nकिसी जमाने में यूरोपीय यूनियन की चर्चा होती थी, किसी जमाने में ASEAN countries की चर्चा होती थी। वो दिन दूर नहीं होगा जब दुनिया में Eurasia की चर्चा होना शुरू हो जाएगी। एक ऐसी, एक ऐसी, एक ऐसी ताकतवर इकाई खड़ी होगी जो आने वाले दिनों में एक बहुत बड़े भू-भाग में संतुलन का कारण बनेगी, आर्थिक विकास के लिए catalyst agent बनेगी और सुख और शांति की खोज में मिल-बैठ करके जगह के लिए एक नय मजबूत platform तैयार करेगी। ये मैं नजर देख रहा हूं।\nआज President पुतिन के साथ Eurasia के भविष्‍य के संबंध में मेरी काफी विस्‍तार से बाते हुई है। अपार संभावनाओं को हमने तलाशा है और आगे आने वाले दिनों में मिल-बैठ करके Eurasia किस रूप से शक्ति रूप बने, विकास के अवसरों को प्रदान करने का कारण कैसे बने, परिस्थिति पलटने के लिए साथ मिल करके कैसा परिणाम लाया जा सकता है। उस दिशा में हमने विस्‍तार से बातें की है, योजनाएं सोची है। जिसका परिणाम आने वाले दिनों में नजर आने वाला है।\nमेरी ये यात्रा बहुत कम समय की थी कल रात को आया और अभी चला जाऊंगा। लेकिन मैं कहता हूं इतने कम समय में बहुत ही सफल, बहुत ही फलदायी, बहुत ही परिणामकारी ये यात्रा रही है।\nमैं Russia का, Russian सरकार का गर्मजोशी से हम लोगों का स्‍वागत-सम्‍मान करने के लिए बहुत आभार व्‍यक्‍त करता हूं। और आपने जिस प्‍यार से, Russian कलाकारों ने भारत भक्ति के दर्शन किए, दर्शन कराए उसके लिए आपका भी बहुत-बहुत आभार व्‍यक्‍त करता हूं।\nThank you"