"\nUnion Government aims to develop east India as the gateway to South-East Asia: PM Modi\nIIT Bhubaneswar will promote the industrial development of Odisha and work towards improving the lives of the people: PM\nCentral Government is devoted towards ensuring all-round development of Odisha: PM Modi\nHere are the brothers and sisters present here.\nOur resolve to work with dedicated devotion for Odisha's development has reached another important study today. A long time ago, many projects worth more than Rs. 14 thousand crore have been launched. These schemes have many projects of higher education, health, gas, roads and cultural importance. All these projects are going to play an important role in making Odisha's development easier and easier for people's lives here. Congratulations to all of you for all these development projects, everyone in Odisha.\nThis is the first time in the history of the comrades, in the history of the country, when much central attention has been given by any central government to the development of eastern India including Odisha. By giving priority to the balanced development of the country, many projects connected with infrastructure, facilities related to essential facilities have been expanded for the last four years. The Central Government is moving forward to develop eastern India as a gateway to East Asia and South Asia. Going on the mantra of development of everyone, the people of Odisha, the development of the prowl of Odisha, the central government is moving forward with this resolution.\nToday, I have had the privilege of dedicating IIT Bhuvaneshwar to the youth, for the effect of Odisha. 1260 crore has been spent in this construction. This grand campus will be the dream of the youth of Odisha, in the coming days. A new medium of employment for the youth is also proven. In this campus of IIT, the local industries of Odisha will have a research related to property in the forests. To improve the lives of the tribal sister-brothers here, research will be done on new technology. This institute will create high level engineers and entrepreneurs for the nation and the world, will also play a key role in taking Odisha forward on the path of high-tech industrial development. Apart from this, the work of Indian Institute of Science Education \u0026 Research is going to commence at Burahampur in the coming days at a cost of around Rs 1600 crore.\nCompanions! Many such institutions related to education, science and technology have been sanctioned across the country in the last four and a half years. It only goes forward to that vision of the government. Under which New India New India is trying to create a modern technology and startup hub for the world. I hope this new institution of Odisha will further strengthen its ancient identity of knowledge and innovation of Odisha. The Central Government is paying close attention to peers, education as well as public health. With this spirit, the work of expansion in the Kharada Bhavaneshwar, ESIC hospital has also been completed.\nToday, this hospital with modern facilities has also been dedicated to the public, its capacity in the old hospital has now doubled. Now it has become a big hospital of hundred beds. The goal of the Central Government is that my tribal families living in the forests in remote villages do not have to wander for treatment. Keeping this goal in mind, the work of making Health and Wellness Center under the Ayushman Bharat Scheme is fast running. About eleven hundred health and wellness centers have been approved in Odisha. In the coming two years, when all these centers become ready, there will be a revolutionary change in health facilities in Odisha and the country.\nAlong with enhancing the health facilities in associates, Odisha, the work of strengthening road connectivity is also being done by the Central Government. Schemes are being speeded up to connect all the inaccessible areas of the state with roads. In the villages and cities, the network of roads is being laid. In the Odisha, the central government is moving forward towards the length of 10 thousand kilometers of National Highway. Under this goal, the foundation stone of four projects connected with highways, highways has been done today. The six-laning of the Chanchikhole-Bhadrak section and the Tangi-Poitola section, the widening of the Cuttack-Angul section, and the construction of the Khandagiri flyover, all these projects worth Rs.44000 crores are going to play an important role in the development of Odisha. These facilities will be easy for people to travel. Business and business will be easy too.\nAs the extension is expanding in the infrastructure of Peer, Odisha, new ways, new opportunities are also open for business enterprises. Odisha's future is particularly bright in oil and gas fields. Paradip Hyderabad pipeline is going to give new identity to Odisha. There are new opportunities for employment opportunities for the youth here. About 1200 kilometers of this pipeline will also meet the needs of Odisha and Andhra Pradesh and Telangana petroleum products. Fuel from petrol, diesel, kerosene and airplane from Paradip refinery will cater to the needs of many cities and villages. Under the project, which is being constructed at a cost of about four thousand crores, after the formation of the delivery of pumping station in Bahrampur, Visakhapatnam, Rajamundri and Vijayawada, Odisha is going to become East India's Petroleum Hub in a way.\nThe government is fully devoted to giving clean smoke-free fuel to comrades, the poor and the poor families of the country. We are very close to success in reaching the LPG to every household in the country. Now the government has started a comprehensive campaign to give gas to Rice Gas from pipes. In particular, the Prime Minister Energy Ganga Yojna is in a fast pace towards pushing the gas from the pipe to eastern India. Thousands of crores of rupees are being spent to lay the line of PNG from UP to Odisha. Under this, the foundation stone of Bokaro-Angul section of Jagadishpur, Haldia, Bokaro, Dhamra pipeline project has been done today. When this project, which will be completed at a cost of about three and a half thousand crores, will be completed in five districts of Odisha along with six districts of Jharkhand will also be connected to pipe gas.\nThe development of associates, resources and resources is incomplete till the dimension of cultural development joins it. A special postal stamp and coin has also been released today, after 200 years of pilgrimage, which plays an important role in the country's first independence struggle. . Apart from this, a Chairperson of the Government of Peeka Revolution has started the name of Bakshi Jagbandhu in Utkal University. It will be the center of research on topics related to the research of all nationalist movement including Chair, Payka and Tribal Movement. Together, it will also play an important role in understanding the socio-economic changes in the tribal society of Odisha.\nIn addition to honoring the comrades, the heroes of Payka, the attention of bringing the rich spiritual heritage of Odisha to the world is also being given. Inauguration of the archeology museum in Lalitagiri in Cuttack district also got the opportunity to do today. In it there are significant remains associated with the early period of Buddhist period. This museum will attract research scholar to Buddhist people from all over the world, and it will be the center of attraction for tourists for others too. It is getting more power from Odisha's tourism industry. This will create new employment opportunities for the youngsters here.\nCompanions, the central government is dedicated to the overall development of Odisha. From Odisha's infrastructure to the development of the masses, all the steps are being taken. I assure you that this work will continue continuously. Become an important engine of development of Odisha, New India. For this we all have to move forward together, go ahead, try together. With this desire, once again congratulations to the people of Odisha for all these development projects. And thank you all for remembering Jai Jagannath."