"\nEnvironment is a matter of concern and challenge for humankind today, says the Prime Minister\nIn Paris during # COP21, leaders of the world came together and focused on innovation (in energy): PM\nCreation of the International Solar Alliance of countries blessed with abundant sunlight a significant initiative: PM Modi # COP21\n'Start-up India, Stand-up India': PM\nHonorable Speaker Madam,\nEnvironment was discussed in the world for a long time, but for the last few years it has been feeling Impact in normal humanities life. Negative impact is being felt and due to this, environment is a cause of concern all over and challenge before mankind is how we find ways to solve this problem.\nAt the time of COP 21 in Paris, leaders of the world met and resolved to resolve it, but there have been two important initiatives. Working in the direction of an innovation so that we can be free from fossil fuels and how to proceed in energy. The US, France, India have taken the initiative together by innovations. The Bill Gates Foundation is also associated with it. One positive result will be seen in the future.\nAnother important decision was that there are about 122 countries in the world where the sun rises more than 300 days, the benefits of Sunlight get more than 300 days to these countries. From India's initiative, there has been an organization of those countries and the head quarter of that organization is going to stay in India; These countries are going to work together on how to use sun energy in the future.\nIn today's initiative of Make in India, a new perspective ... This world is also coming in handy as to how the new type of battery is composed, how much battery life and how battery cost can be effective. It has been researched and its result is that after spending a little bit on the old bus, you should have seen that the bus was moving but the sound was not coming anywhere. if ! If you start the bus, you will know that ... it is just now, then there is no sound of it, and there is no opportunity for pollution.\nRight now, MPs will get the benefit of this. But if people of the new generation will be in the work of making this battery in Start-up India, Stand-up India, then we will be able to bring this new creation into our public transportation system. Can.\nOur Nitin ji is also interested in these subjects, he keeps reading and keeps searching for something, so I congratulate him about how he should use technology in terms of environment and emphasizing Make in India. How to move forward, has made a successful effort. I congratulate him and the respected Sumitra, he has tried to give some newness to Parliament's activities only in the tenure of the House of Parliament, there is a new glimpse into it, congratulating them also.\nThanks!"