"Share\n\nOur definition of democracy can not be restricted to elections \u0026 government only Democracy is strengthened by 'Jan Bhagidari': PM\nIt is public participation that strengthens democracy: PM Modi\nMahatma Gandhi brought sea change in the freedom struggle He made it a 'Jan Andolan': PM\nI want to make India's development journey a 'Jan Andolan'; everyone wants to feel India's progress: PM Modi\n#SwachhBharat has turned into a people's movement: PM Narendra Modi\nDemocracy faces danger of 'Mantantra' and 'Moneytantra': Prime Minister\nRestricting ourselves to private \u0026 public sectors will limit our development. The personal sector is a source of great strength: PM\nSmall scale industries are growing \u0026 providing jobs to many people across the country: PM\nOur Government has launched 'Mudra Bank Yojana' to boost the small scale industries: PM Modi\nMr. Sanjay Gupta ji, Mr. Prashant Mishra ji, all the dignitaries attending the Mahanubhav Jagaran Parivar's family ...\nIt is said here that the nationalization of Jainism is eternal: the vigilance is the price of liberty and you are doing daily jagran. Sometimes it also seems that, if people sleep in 24 hours, then they have to wake up after 24 hours. But the first essential requirement of democracy is that awareness is necessary and every kind of effort is necessary for that awareness. Now as the amount of awareness increases, the way in which solutions are more clear and clear, the people's participation becomes intact and where the element of public participation increases, the same democratic arrangements are strong, the pace of development travels It comes and determines the goal completion.\nThis first requirement of democracy in that sense is continuous Jagaran. It may be unknowingly, but democracy has a limited meaning in our country and it is, elections, elections and government choice. It seems that if the electorate has come to the polls, then for the next five years, someone has to give contract, which will solve our problems and if in five years they fail in the contract then they will bring the other. This is the biggest challenge before us and also the shortfall. If democracy is limited to voting, the government is limited to the selection, then that democracy gets paralyzed.\nDemocracy becomes strong, when public participation increases and so we increase public participation. There may be different ways. If we look at the freedom movement of our country - it is not that there is no shortage of people who died in this country for independence. Since the country has been a slave, no decade has been such that when the dead people for the country have not made their name in history. But what happens, they used to come, they used to have a jabbar and they would have died. Then after a few years stability came and no one was born. Then came out Then he used to get used to it. The death of those who died for the freedom movement was continuous, it was continuous. But the great change Gandhiji made was that he changed the urge of this freedom into a mass movement. He made ordinary humanities a soldier of freedom movement.\nAn infant hero martyr was ready, then dealing with the British was very simple. But it was also difficult for the British to understand that this strong, resentment of a public sentiment was difficult. It was also difficult for Mahatma Gandhi to handle it, and Mahatma Gandhi made it so simple that the country should not have freedom, should you do so, by taking a pillow, taking cotton, start making yarn, the country will get freedom. Someone used to say that you have to become a freedom fighter, then if you are illiterate in your village do the job of giving them education, freedom will come. Someone used to say that you broom, freedom will come.\nHe made every social work separate from himself with the need of the nation and converted it into a mass movement. Only Satyagraha was not a mass movement. Any work of social reform was thus made a part of the freedom movement and its result came that nothing was going on in every corner of the country at all times. Can anyone imagine? If there will be a huge management expert today, a very big movement will be knowledgeable in the scriptures. It should be said that brother can go to any sultan from lifting a handful of salt, make it thesis, let me, I can not believe that someone can imagine that a handful of salt is a cause of falling down a sultanate Can become. Why this happened, it was because they made the movement of freedom a mass movement.\nIf after independence, the country has taken inspiration from Gandhi's model of development tour, then people's developmental journey, people's movement development tour, if he had given it, then whatever government has become, everything will be done today. Occasionally, the experience comes that the pothole can be filled in a village, on the road and at the expense of five hundred rupees, but the village's Panchayat chief will buy two four more chiefs of the village to buy jeep, seven Hundred rupees will pay for the jeep and go to the state headquarter and memorendum that there is a pothole in our village, do something to fill that pit. This situation has happened. Everything will be done by the government.\nGandhiji's model was - all the people will do all this. If after independence, the model of Vikas Yatra would have been made if we had walked in the trust of the government, if the people's trust would have been driven, then its speed would be thousands of times faster. Its depth, its depth was unimaginable, and therefore today's demand is that we should develop development of India, develop a mass movement and create a mass movement.\nEvery person in the society should think that if I am a teacher in school. When I teach full time in class, I teach well, that means I am working to take my country to new heights. If I am a railway employee and I have a duty to run on rail time. I do this work properly. Rail runs on time. I mean, I am doing a great service to the country. I am playing the responsibility of taking the country forward. We are duty bound to carry out our duty to our work, the nation. In this way, if we add, then you see everything is your satisfaction.\nThese days, the Swachh Bharat campaign is taking the form of mass movement. Well, it is such a thing that touching it for any government and politician means that the biggest crisis is the subject of the issue, because after doing so, the picture on the front page of Dainik Jagran can be printed that Modi makes things bigger, But there is a lot of garbage dump. It is possible, but there is no need to create an environment in this country. And the experience came that today the common class of the country, who are sitting here if you have a grandson in your family, the grandson would also tell you that grandfather do not do it, Modi ji has forbidden. This is the form of mass movement which causes conditions to change.\nIn our country there was a time when Lal Bahadur Shastri said something, the country would have stood up and believed. But gradually the situation is not nearly as close. Okay you guys are enjoying it. You have become a leader, what you have lost, this situation has come. But if the consciousness of society is clarified then the change comes. If we say that Bhai, you leave your gas subsidy for the poor, it is very difficult to quit. But this country today, I say with great satisfaction, 52 lakh people came, who surrendered their gas subsidy by the front.\nThis is an example of how people are changing. And from the front the government also said that if you leave the subsidy of the gas cylinder, we will give it to the poor family whose house burns a wooden stove, there is smoke and the children are sick, the mother is ill, And so far 52 lakh people left. 46 lakh people, 46 lakhs poor have already been allocated. Not only this who left it, he was told that he left this in Mumbai but in the village of Jodhpur in Rajasthan, the person has been given it. With so much transparency Who left ... .... is not a matter of money.\nHow does the attempt to create a sense of belongingness towards society bring results? We grew up with the law that was made in the British era. It is true that we were slaves, why the British would trust us. There was no reason and at that time the legislation that made the people become disbelieved with the public. Disbelief in public was the first baseline in everything. Should not that change be made in our laws after independence, in which we have the greatest confidence in the public.\nThere is no reason why the government has reached ... I am not saying elected representatives, on all the system, Mulshim will be clerk. Those who came into this arrangement - they are honest, but those who are out of the system are ambitious. This trench can not be approved in democracy There should not be a ditch in democracy. Now, I say this small example - we have to make an application to the government, then the certificates that we used to have had to be associated with it, had to be attested. What was our law, that you will have to go to a gazetted officer and stamp it. It will have to be certified, then it will go. Now those who are Gazetted officers who verify, look good ... Your face is fine, who does it, nobody does it. He also stops in the absence of time. The guy who sits outside his house gives it. We came and said that trust the people or not, on the people, we said that this is not a requirement, there is a time of xerox, you can put it xerox and when the final verification is needed, the original will be taken. And today he went. Things are small, but it reflects on what direction our thinking is in. Our first thought is to rely on the public. Believe them, accept their power. If we accept the interest of the public, then it is converted into democracy in the true sense.\nDemocracy in our country also has two dangers. There is a danger of democracy, the second threat is that of the government of Manipur. You must have seen these days a lot to see, my wish, I think, I will do this. What country does this move? The country does not run from democracy, the country runs from democracy. Whatever you think in your mind, there is no arrangement for it. If a wire is drawn more in the sitar, then even if it gets loose, even if one wire is loose, it does not even come to mind. All the stars of the sitar are pulled by him in the same way, then comes and goes and therefore democracy does not run ... democracy does not run. The first condition of democracy is that whatever is in my mind, I have to add it to the people's system. I have to assimilate, if I have to dilute myself, then it has to be diluted. And if I am in control, then by convincing my thoughts, people have to take and carry them together. We can not walk in this way.\nThe concern of the second is the subject - the monastery. In a poorer country like India, democracy can make a big deal on democracy. How do we save democracy from him? How much will our strength be upon him? I understand that on the basis of that we try.\nWe see that in journalism, if we look at journalism in India, then in a mission mode, we went to journalism. Journalism, Newspaper All Magazines was a period where the original role of the journal paper was reformed by the society. They attacked those evils in society. Made a full use of your pen. Now look at King Rammohun Roy or see Veer Narmad towards Gujarat. How many years ago, centuries ago, he used his power to do evil on the society.\nDasura came in an era wherein our journalism gave a huge force to the freedom movement. Lokmanya Tilak, Mahatma Gandhi, Aurobindo Ghosh, Subhash Chandra Bose, Lala Lajpat Rai, all, he picked up the pen. Remove the newspaper And he gave consciousness to the movement of freedom through the newspaper and if we sometimes think, in our country there was a Swaraj newspaper in Allahabad. It was the newspaper of the freedom movement. And after every newspaper when the editorial was out, the editorial was printed and editorial writing editor used to go to jail. How much was oppression So Swaraj Newspaper one day got the advertisement. She said, we need editors. Residence in the jail after two dry roti, a glass of cold water and editorial appearances in paycheck. Look at this strength. See this strength The Swaraj newspaper, which had left Allahabad, did not give up its fight. All of his editors were imprisoned, used to go to jail, write property and fight. Dwelling with the people of India's distinguished people\nThe amount of third work which has been run in the mission mode, and that is to raise voice against injustice. Whether it is talk of social reform, whether there is a freedom movement, it is a matter of raising voice against injustice, our country's journals have played some positive role in our era at all times. This mission mode, it is a huge herb for our democracy. There was no injury to him, no harm would come to him. Not even from outside, not even from inside. We must be so conscious.\nI think - Now in the movement of freedom, see Ghadar newspaper from Canada, by Lala Hardayal ji and in three languages ​​it came out - Urdu, Gurumukhi and Gujarati. From Canada they used to fight for the war of independence. Madam Cama, Shyam Jee Krishna Verma .. These people who kept waking up the consciousness of India's freedom through journalism from London. Used to try for it. And at the time Bhim ji was doing Khairaj Verma ... he was sentenced to hang for journalism in Singapore. He was fighting for India's independence. I mean to say that it is a shoulder-to-shoulder arrangement. दैनिक जागरण के माध्‍यम से इसमें जो भी योगदान दिया जा रहा है, वो योगदान राष्ट्रयाम जाग्रयाम वयम: उस मंत्र को साकार करने के लिए अविरत रूप से काम आएगा।\nमैं कभी कभी कहता हूं minimum government maximum governance ...हमारे देश में एक कालखंड ऐसा था कि सरकारों को इस बात पर गर्व होता था कि हमने कितने कानून बनाए हैं। मैंने दूसरी दिशा में सोचा है | मेरा इरादा यह है कि जब मैं पांच साल मेरा कार्यकाल पूरा होगा यह, तब तक मैं रोज एक कानून खत्‍म कर सकता हूं क्या , यह इरादा है मेरा। अभी मैने काफी identify किए हैं। सैकड़ों की तादाद में already कर दिए हैं। राज्‍यों को भी मैंने आग्रह किया है। लोकतंत्र की ताकत इसमें है कि उसको कानूनों के चंगुल में जनसामान्‍य को सरकार पर dependent नहीं बनाना चाहिए।\nMinimum government का मेरा मतलब यही है कि सामान्‍य मानव को डगर-डगर सरकार के भरोसे जो रहना पड़ता है, वो कम होते जाना चाहिए। और हमारे यहां तो महाभारत के अंदर से चर्चा है| अब उस ऊंचाईयों को हम पार कर पाएंगे मैं नहीं सकता इस वक्‍त, लेकिन महाभारत में शांति पर्व में इसकी चर्चा है | इसमें कहा गया है - न राजा न च राज्यवासी न च दण्डो न दंडिका सर्वे प्रजा धर्मानेव् रक्षन्ति स्मः परस्पर:... न राज्‍य होगा न राजा होगा, न दंड होगा, न दंडिका होगी अगर जनसामान्‍य अपने कर्तव्‍यों का पालन करेगा तो अपने आप कानून की व्‍यवस्‍था बनी रहेगी, यह सोच महाभारत में उस जमाने में थी ।\nऔर हमारे यहां मूलत: लोकतंत्र के सिद्धांतों में माना गया है ‘वादे-वादे जायते तत्‍व गोधा’ यह हमारे यहां माना गया है कि जितने भिन्‍न-भिन्‍न विचारों का मंथन होता रहता है उतनी लोकतांत्रिक ताकत मजबूत होती है। यह हमारे यहां मूलभूत चिंतन रहा है। इसलिए जब हम लोकतंत्र की बात करते हैं तो हम उन मूलभूत बातों को ले करके कैसे चलें उस पर हमारा बल रहना चाहिए।\nआर्थिक विकास की दृष्‍टि से हमारे देश में दो क्षेत्रों की चर्चा हमेशा चली है और सारी आर्थिक नींव उन्‍हीं दो चीजों के आस-पास चलाई गई है। एक private sector, दूसरा public sector अगर हमें विकास को जन आंदोलन बनाना है तो private sector public sector की सीमा में रहना हमारी गति को कम करता है और इसलिए मैंने एक विषय जोड़ा है उसमें - public sector, private sector and personal sector .\nयह जो personal sector है यह अपने आप में एक बहुत बड़ी ताकत है। हम में से बहुत कम लोगों को मालूम होगा कि हमारे देश की economy को कौन drive करता है। कभी-कभी लगता है कि यह जो 12-15 बहुत बड़े-बड़े कोरपोरेट हाऊस हैं, अरबों-खरबों रुपये की बातें आती हैं। जी नहीं, देश की economy को या देश में सबसे ज्‍यादा रोजगार देने का काम यदि कहीं हुआ है तो हमारे छोटे-छोटे लोगों का है। कोई कपड़े का व्‍यापार करता होगा छोटा-मोटा, कोई पान की दुकान पर ठेका ले करके बैठा होगा। कोई भेलपुरी-पानीपुरी का ठेका चलाता होगा, कोई धोबी होगा, कोई नाई होगा, कोई साइकिल किराये पर देने वाला होगा, कोई ऑटो रिक्‍शा वाला, यह छोटे-छोटे लोगों का कारोबार का नेटवर्क हिंदुस्तान में बहुत बड़ा है। यह जो bulk है वो एक प्रकार के middle class लेवल पर नहीं आया है। लेकिन गरीबी में नहीं है | अभी उसका मीडिल क्‍लास में जाना बाकी है, लेकिन है अपने पैरों पर खड़ा । personal sector को बहुत ताकत देता है। क्‍या ऐसी हमारी व्‍यवस्‍था न हो जो हमारे इस personal sector को हम empower करे। कानूनी दिक्‍कतों से उसको मुक्ति दिलाए। आर्थिक प्रबंधन में उसकी मदद करें। ज्‍यादातर यह लोग वह हैं बेचारों को साहूकारों के पास पैसे ले करके काम करना पड़ता है, तो अपनी income का काफी पैसा फिर सरकार के पास चला जाता है, उसी चंगुल में वो फंस जाता है।\nआज वे लोग ऐसे हैं जो ज्‍यादातर करीब 70% लोग इसमें से scheduled caste, scheduled tribe और OBC हैं। गरीब हैं, पिछड़े तबके से हैं। अब वे लोग देश में करीब-करीब 12-14 करोड़ लोगों को रोजगार देते हैं। इतनी ताकत हैं इन लोगों में । हर कोई एक को रोजगार देता है, कोई दो को देता है, कोई part-time देता हैं। लेकिन 12 से 14 करोड़ लोगों को रोजगार देते हैं। अगर उनको थोड़ा बल दिया जाए, थोड़ी मदद दी जाए उनको थोड़ा आधुनिक करने का प्रयास किया जाए तो इनकी ताकत हैं कि 15-20 करोड़ लोगों को रोजगार देने का सामर्थ्‍य है। और इसके लिए हमने एक प्रधानमंत्री मुद्रा योजना को बल दिया है।\nप्रधानमंत्री मुद्रा योजना को ऐसे आगे बढ़ाया है कि कोई गारंटी की जरूरत नहीं लोगों से। वह बैंक में जायें और बैंक की जिम्‍मेदारी रहेगी उनकी मदद करना। 10 हजार, 15 हजार, 25 हजार, 50 हजार, ज्‍यादा रकम उनको चाहिए नहीं...बहुत कम रकम से वह काम कर लेते हैं अपना| अभी तो इस योजना का हो -हल्‍ला इतना शुरू नहीं हुआ है, ऐसे ही silently काम हो रहा है। लेकिन अब तक करीब 62 लाख परिवारों को करीब-करीब 42000 करोड़ रूपये उन तक पहुंचा दिए गए। और यह वो लोग हैं जो साहस भी करने को तैयार हैं और अनुभव आया है कि 99% लोग समय से पहले अपने पैसे वापस दे रहे हैं। कोई नोटिस नहीं देना पड़ रहा|\nयानी हम personal sector को कितना बल दे। personal sector का एक और आज हमने पहलू उठाया है जिस प्रकार से समाज का यह तबका है जो अभी मध्‍यम वर्ग में पहुंचा नहीं है, गरीबी में रहता नहीं है ऐसी अवस्‍था है उसकी कि वो सबसे ज्‍यादा कठिन होती है | लेकिन एक और वर्ग है जो highly intellectual है -जो भारत का youth power है । उसके पास कल्‍पकता है, नया करने की ताकत है और वो देश को आधुनिक बनाने में बहुत बड़ा contribute कर सकता है। वो globally कम्‍पीट कर सकता है।\nजैसे एक तबके को हमें मजबूत करना है वैसा दूसरा तबका है यह हमारी युवा शक्ति जिसमें यह विशेषताएं हैं। और इसके लिए हमने मिशन मोड पर काम लिया है। start-up India stand-up India. जब मैं start-up India की बात करता हूं तो उसमें भी मैंने दो पहलू पकड़े हैं।\nहमने बैंकों को कहा कि समाज के अति सामाजिक दृष्टि से जो पीछे वर्ग के लोग हैं क्‍या एक बैंक एक की उंगली पकड़ सकती है क्‍या। एक बैंक की ब्रांच एक व्‍यक्ति को और एक महिला को बल दे सकती है | एक देश में सवा लाख ब्रांच। एक महिला को और एक गरीब को उनका अगर हाथ पकड़ ले उसको नये सिरे से ताकत दे तो ढाई लाख नये Entrepreneurs खड़े करने की हमारी ताकत है । वो छोटा काम दिया है लेकिन cumulative effect बहुत बड़ा होगा और दूसरी तरफ जो innovation करते हैं जो ग्‍लोबल competition में अपने आप को खड़ा कर सकते हैं और आज जब ग्‍लोबल मार्केट है तो प्रगति का सबसे बड़ा आधार है innovation. जो देश innovation में पीछे रह जाएगा वो आने वाले दिनों में इस दौड़ से बाहर निकल जाएगा और इसलिए innovation को अगर बल देना है तो start-up India stand-up India का मोड चलाया है। ऐसे लोगों को आर्थिक मदद मिले। उनको एक नई पॉलिसी ले करके हम आ रहे हैं। और मुझे विश्‍वास है कि भारत के नौजवानों की जो ताकत है, तो वो ताकत एक बहुत बड़ा बदलाव है।\nइन सारी चीजों में आपने देखा होगा कि हम empowerment पर बल दे रहे हैं। कानूनी सरलीकरण भी हो, इससे भी empowerment होता है, आर्थिक व्‍यवस्‍थाएं सुविधाएं हो, उससे भी empowerment होता है।\nGlobal economy के सम्बन्ध में कहां टिक सकता है? उसके लिए क्‍या सपोर्ट सिस्‍टम होना चाहिए, उस पर बल देना। यह चीजें हैं जिसके कारण आज हमारे देश में हमने काम को सुविधाजनक बनाया। जैसा मैंने शुरू में कहा था, आपको हैरानी होगी।\nपार्लियामेंट चलती है कि नहीं चलती। अब डिबेट आप लोगों की कठिनाई है, आपके विषय, आपका व्यापार तो है ही है लेकिन इस बार पार्लियामेंट नहीं चलने से एक बात की तरफ ध्‍यान नहीं जा रहा| एक ऐसा कानून लटका पड़ा है और आज सुनने में आपको भी लगेगा कि भाई यह काम नहीं होना चाहिए क्‍या। हम एक कानून लाए हैं, जिसमें गरीब व्‍यक्ति जो नौकरी करता है उसके बोनस के सम्बन्ध में | अभी अगर उसकी monthly सात हजार रुपया से कम income है तो बोनस का हकदार होता है और 3500 रुपये तक उसको बोनस मिलता है। हम कानून में बदलाव लाए minimum 7000 की बजाए 21000 कर दिया जाए। monthly अगर उसकी income 21000 minimum है तो वो बोनस का हकदार बनना चाहिए जो अभी 7000 है और तीसरा 3500 बोनस की बात है उसे 7000 कर दिया जाए। यह सीधा सीधा गरीब के हित का काम है कि नहीं है ? लेकिन आज मुझे दुख के साथ कहना पड़ रहा है कि पार्लियामेंट चल नहीं रही है, गरीब का हक रूका पड़ा है।\nलेकिन चर्चा क्‍या होती है GST और parliament. अरे भई GST का जो होगा, सब मिलकरके जो भारत का भाग्‍य तय होगा वो होगा। लेकिन गरीबों का क्‍या? सामान्‍य मानविकी का क्‍या? और इसलिए हम संसद चलाने के लिए, इनके लिए , कह रहे हैं। लोकतंत्र में संसद से बड़ी कौन सी जगह होती है जहां पर वाद-विवाद, संवाद, विरोध सब हो सकता है। लेकिन हम उस institution को ही नकार देंगे तो फिर तो लोकतंत्र पर सवालिया निशान होगा और इसलिए मैं आज जब दैनिक जागरण में जिन विषयों का मूल ले करके आप चले हैं उस पर बात कर रहा हूं तो लोकतंत्र का मंदिर हमारी संसद है, उसकी गरिमा और सामान्‍य मानव के हितों के काम को फटाफट निर्णय करते हुए आगे बढ़ाना। यह देश के लिए बहुत आवश्यक है। उसको हम कैसे गति दें, केसे बल दें और उसको हम कैसे परिणामकारी बनायें ? बाकी तो मैं सरकार की विकास यात्रा के कई मुद्दे कह सकता हूं लेकिन मैं आज उसको छोड़ रहा हूं यही काफी हो गया ।\nThanks a lot."