"\nPM Modi releases commemorative coins on Dr. B R Ambedkar\nOnly 60 years after his death: PM\nThe more we recall Dr. Ambedkar, the more we come to honor his vision and his inclusiveness: PM Modi\nEven after 60 years, Dr. Ambedkar is still alive \u0026 that is his greatness: PM Modi\nDr. Babasaheb Ambedkar was a visionary and profound thinker, says PM Modi\nDr. Ambedkar's rich thoughts on social justice is very well known\nBe it a Finance Commission or RBI Ambedkar envisioned all of this. Such was his greatness: PM\nDr. Ambedkar and the Constitution of India should be discussed and talked about in this country: PM Modi\nDr. Ambedkar's vision for women empowerment, India's federal structure, finance \u0026 education are really appreciable: PM Modi\nAll Senior Excellence coming from different corners of the country today is the episode of Mahaparinirvana of Pujya Baba Saheb Ambedkar on December 6. I do not believe that anyone has ever thought that India's coin, which is a picture of Baba Saheb Ambedkar, can also be the day in this country.\nGenerally, most people in public life become prejudiced before death, become convinced with the death of some people, but there are probably few people who are alive after sixty years of death, and Baba Saheb Ambedkar He is a wise man Perhaps in their own tenure, many have not been taken into account of them. As seen in the form of a student, it may have been seen as an economist, but as Arun ji said, when looking at Baba Saheb in the context of today's problems of India, how much a person can be enlightened, How intensive thinking is, and how many inclusive ideas it holds.\nSo in general this is done in our country that a person becomes identified with something else for the general public. Versatile talents come very little in front of everyone, and this is not because there is a lack of talent, the lack is among the people that we can not see all the versatile things, we can not understand. Sometimes it takes 60 years to understand it. Now, in relation to social thought, the views of Baba Saheb, especially the social justice have been down to the bottom and everyone seems to be, but there is no deeply discussed in terms of Baba Saheb's economic thought.\nAt the time of 125 years, it would have been good to get acquainted with this generation of Baba Saheb for the new generation. Inside Parliament, the two houses discussed deeply, discussed well. All honorable members also evaluated the present situation in their own way and tried to add the attitude of Baba Saheb. Some people also got the question that Modiji we can understand that what is August 15, we can also understand what is the 26th of January, but where have you brought it from the 26th of November? The questions asked me in the house I do not believe who would have understood Baba Saheb Ambedkar, would probably have asked such a question.\nEven when we talk about the 26th of January, Baba Saheb Ambedkar does not appear before the country by exposing him, he will have to accept this. On August 15, we remember Mahatma Gandhi, Bhagat Singh come in front but do not come in the time of 26th January, and we can not deny such a big contribution. And also to commemorate the coming generations, and also for the unity of the nation, the contribution of such great men, remembering him becomes a force for us which gives us the opportunity to connect society. And in that sense inside Parliament and this is my intention that Baba Saheb Ambedkar and Constitution in the country should be discussed continuously, our new generation should be added, there should be such competitions, competitions should be, online competition should be, Speech Competition should be, it should be continuous. I have said in the government that do a little bit of workout. In the coming days, it will be done from November 26 to January 26. All prizes will be announced on January 26. Such a system should be set up so that the new generation can come to know.\nBaba Saheb Ambedkar, see his diversity, specialty, I look at different perspectives. He was suffering from the society, he was also unhappy with the society and he had resentment towards the society and there was also a hint of change in this situation, he was in a form. But despite this condition, when they saw the world and they wrote that I had forgotten what untouchability is, what untouchability is, I forgot when I lived for five years outside India. I did not remember, because, when there is such a humiliated state on one side, on the other hand the experience of respect has come, yet how will the person's emotions be, leaving the status of respect and leaving the life of humiliation for good but I will go Back and back, this is not a small issue. It is an attitude of identifying one's personality, that is the attitude of one person, or else one should be mindful of it, man will go there now, first was born in the village, there was no electricity, no way, no, let's settle down here. This insane person suffers so much torture, has suffered so much humiliation and even after that he says okay here I got respect, got respect, un-touchablility is not a sign, but whatever is there, I will go there. But there is an inner strength, there is no inner strength.\nSee the second feature, this resentment towards society, pain and suffering, despite all this, their Bharat Bhakti is reflected every moment, every moment shows. But Bharat Bhakti, as a country, was proud of her cultural heritage, not in the form of one who was bound in the border. Whose distortions created such a great deal of trouble, it is very difficult to reach the truth even in such a state and therefore when he did his PhD, one of his subjects was Ancient Indian Commerce, now it is his mind going to the Ancient Indian Commerce. There is evidence of the fact that he considered India's dignity and pride of India as his unbreakable brother. Otherwise the other aspect emerges. I believe that today the policy makers, who run the think tank, have a symmetry of what Baba Saheb Ambedkar's economic think-tank has in terms of economic global economy, or what is the thinking that still the world is going to Baba Saheb It is taking time to reach, there should be special research essay, it will be known. In a country like India, his mantra of economic thought was very simple \"Bahujan Hitsay, Bahujan Sukhaan.\"\nThis is the fundamental element which is called \"Bahujan Hitraya, Bahujan Sudhaya\". I think financially, there is no reason for any government to go beyond this scope, there is no reason for it.\nToday we imagine the Reserve Bank. When the country was not free, then Baba Saheb Ambedkar had envisioned the Reserve Bank in India in his thesis. Today we talk of the federal sector, the demand for the finance commission is the state, who will pay so much money, who will pay so much money, who will run in the state. Prior to the country's independence, Babasaheb Ambedkar had given the idea that the Finance Commission and the share of property were divided between the center and the state, in the depth of which he had expressed contemplation and in the light of the same ideas, today the Finance Commission, whether RBI Such, there are many institutions.\nToday, we run a campaign to join the river, talk about river grid. Today is an important issue in the country. Two days ago, I was sitting on the food with Chief Justice Sahib, who was also asking what was happening to river grid. Baba Saheb Ambedkar took the water in that era and imagined the construction of the commission. That is, how a person can think forward.\nHe highlighted the importance of women in development, his contribution. Even for men there were no honors on the day. At that time the Dalit, the victim, the exploited society had become a victim of insult, even in such a state, this great man comes to the idea that he had imagined the equal partnership with the shoulder in development journey. And for that he used to say - 'education' and see sir! They ... Baba Saheb Ambedkar has given the highest priority to education in the center of everything. After all, read it first, read it even in difficulty. If you read, the world is one thing that can not be robbed by you.\nThis was his urge to read, which was the urge to teach and this is what gave the society a new force. And today when we are taking this idea on the one hand 125th anniversary and on the other side.\nI was discussing Baba Saheb Ambedkar's relationship with the original life of India. In the last days, the physical condition was very bad i.e. in a way the house of diseases had become their body and in childhood, when there was a stage of strengthening the body, then they did not have the opportunity, because even the stomach food was also present. When there were some possibilities in life, he himself exposed himself to society and country. And those who used to do it with insanity, that is, they were completely submerged in a way and therefore a situation came and the body stopped giving up.\nAfter getting the heights in such a simple life, anyone could have felt that let the Bhai do not work in the body now, go to God's refuge, leave it all, leave it all. Which will happen, will happen\nHe did not give up, his last book completed four days before the death. After four days, he died. See also the section of the last book: Chitnan, that is, the first thesis that started identifying him in the world - 'Indian-Ancient Commerce', the last book is - 'Buddha and Kalmarks'.\nNow look at the air timer was running at that time. Socialist thinking and nearly half of its air was going on in India too. At that time, these great men have not written 'Buddha and Kalmarks' by creating the basis of Lord Buddha's philosophy. 'Buddha and Kalmarks' have been written and they are urging that all-inclusive, multi-generational interest, multinational sukayana\nIf economic thinking is to be considered then it connects with the basic soil of India. In which Buddha was also a major major stream which was the contribution of Babasaheb Ambedkar. And so, I think that such a valuable thing is that any nation gets its rage from its own history, its ancestors, its history, and then it becomes futile. The attempt to forget history and forgetting our great men never gives us strength.\nBaba Saheb Ambedkar was a Manishi, he was the force who gave us such a big social vision today, given economic vision, given a legal perspective, and in a way the fundamental methods of governing the society and the nation, in the foundation of those fundamental disciplines, he added his strength Had given\nToday, such a great man has had an opportunity to remember his virtue and it is a matter of pride that the Indian government today is the coin and I know, perhaps, this is the first coin of the Indian government that would have received standing ovation.\nCoin would have gone a lot and every dalit, afflicted, exploited and deprived of society who will not have the power of hundred rupees, will be seen as a virtuous propaganda gem for them in their own pocket. This will become its form and therefore there is satisfaction of performing an obligation while offering this.\nIt is an auspicious blessing that all these things work to give direction to future generations. Once again I congratulate the Finance Minister that all things are happening over time. For this, I congratulate the Finance Ministry with heartfelt gratitude. Thanks a lot!"