"India is heading towards a bright future, says PM\nAmong the world economies, India is seen as one of the fastest growing: PM\nHaving a stable Government Fractured mandates always have uncertainty: PM\nBusiness environment in India is improving at great pace: PM Modi\nIndia is not going to progress from Delhi States have the most important role in India's progress States \u0026 Center should work together: PM\nWorld should know about the strengths of our states: PM\nHappy to cite that over 40 lakh people have given up the subsidized LPG. This is our country is changing: PM Modi\nFor first time, Rupee bond has accepted for railways at London Exchange: PM Narendra Modi\nDevelopment of India's eastern part can not be ignored. They are areas with great potential: PM\nThere are 18,000 villages in India, which do not have electricity We are commited to electrify them: PM\nAll the great attendees present and all the senior citizens in this summit\nHave you decided that we are in the direction of a bright India or not?\nI believe that these two days of churning will go to the side-many ideas will emerge in the Opposition, new suggestions will come, situations will be evaluated, the situation will be assessed and some things arise from that which emerges for the country It comes in handy.\nI congratulate the Hindustan Times and Shobhana ji for the last 12 years that this ritual is going on continuously, in which all people of the thoughts of the Opposition come, meet, meet, communicate. In today's global situation, by and large it is acknowledged that India is the fastest growing country in the world's largest economies. And when India is considered to be the most progressive country, look at the other side, the situation of the world is completely slowdown. Many things in China have been exposed in the past. 1.5 percent of GDP has been stuck inside the Euro zone and in such a way the world bank is saying that India's GDP 7.5 percent and already the previous three months have come to 7.4. If, according to the data, it is assumed that India is moving very successfully in the direction of bright future. It does not happen suddenly and to understand today's Indian situation, then to see in a global context.\nSecondly, it is necessary to look at our past in the context of yesterday. If we ignore our last two years, whatever we decide for five years, and if we ignore it and then sit down with the scales, then it will not be right. But I know this is a very difficult task. Because it requires an open mind, a courage should be where we were, in what situation. Now how difficult it was to get out of it. There was an atmosphere of disappointment everywhere. Those who are sitting here, they had already put out one leg and others were preparing to move. If this form is taken in the first consideration and then seen, then it will be known that yes, to understand this, Modi is not needed, it automatically understands that there has been a lot of change. And so I will hope that we have these two major things, a global environment, one has passed our tomorrow. And whatever has resulted in it being a stable government, it has a huge contribution in itself. No one can deny it. There are good parties, there are good people, but if factual mandate is there, the fear of fear remains. Will not do, will not be able to find them. So the first change that has taken place in the direction of the bright future, if the first credit goes to the first and the first successful step, then the people of India gave the mandate to the majority. Credit goes to fifty million Hindustani. This great work has been done by the people of the country.\nWhen the government brings changes, it does not come suddenly, it has to be a long time to work hard. Now we know that the world bank keeps rating the ease of doing business. For many years we are either stable or sloppy. It was not our destiny to go ahead. And we too had become addicted to such that we have done so. We had accepted that condition with the heart. In such a short time, suddenly 12 point bounce forward. All the people of the world are saying that Bhai is such a big jump. And the ease of doing business occurs when state governments, together with the Central Governments, run a correction campaign in certain direction. Do simplification. Minimum government realizes the maximum governance. 20 forms let him 2 The procedure runs for three years, it takes them in six months. One such thing, and for this I first called all the officers of the states Gave a chart of 100 points. Did a two-day workshop. requested.\nBut what is the most interesting thing to understand in this form is that, it is a good thing to jump in 12 points, it is a good direction. But the most important thing in it is that those states have shown the amazing thing. On whose side the meditators of Hindustan never went to meditate. In Orissa, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, ease of doing business, this rank profile has increased. This means that in the mainstream of India, the states which were never counted in the economic development journey, they are doing a lead role today. It means that there is a new force, new energy, new faith in the states. If India has to move forward, then the country can not move forward from Delhi. Only the strongest pillars of the states can be seen in the country. And if we go by this psyche that Delhi is going to give and the state is going to take over. So the country will not move forward. Together with the shoulders of the state and Delhi, let's move on in one direction, try to make the speed equal. The results will come out automatically.\nThe constitution which has been formed by the Commission. His basic effort is to work together with the state and the Center. How to allocate the central and state money for the first time 14 The Finance Commission asked 42 percent of rupees to the states. The situation is that the whole treasure of the country today, about 65 percent of the treasury is in the pockets of the states, only 35 percent is with Delhi. It was never before. Was the first reverse. 35 percent of the states had 65 percent near Delhi. These changes came. After that, I made a committee of Chief Ministers of the States and told them, \"Look, brother, this is a work to do. What was going on till now Delhi decided that they would not do this. It was for the first time that the states decided that the Chief Ministers jointly decided to do so. And I congratulate the Chief Ministers of the States that they also laid generosity towards Delhi and also worried about it and by creating such an inclusive system which we have implemented, which we have implemented. How do we take the states together? In our country, we want to be exported but states do not have the agenda itself. And therefore quality production, quality packaging, quality branding is any initiative of these states, whether the states have its incentive, no scheme. What does the state do for the exporters? For the first time we urged the States to create Export Promotion Council. And told the states that you encourage people who work for you in this state, encourage them, understand them as their difficulties and how they can go to the global market.\nIn the same way we have such a big country. We say India, India says, then the world does not understand what we are saying. More than that, he knows of Mumbai, Delhi knows, Calcutta knows. After the IT revolution, Bangalore is known to Hyderabad. The world does not know the strength of the whole of India. It is very important for our states to recognize the world. Our states have their own strengths. For the first time, we have made an active effort to connect states within the foreign system. A separate department has been created in the State Department for special states. And the leaders of the world grow up to meet the states, recognize the strengths of the states. India is such a huge country, we can not show the world to Delhi from India alone. If the strengths of states show up, there will be a change. It is the direction that direction changes.\nOccasionally we are people of that thinking, financially. Let's say that, blame in it, in total, what we've heard over the years have made our thinking, we see things in the same area. If the Delhi government says that we will plant 20 thousand MW of electricity plants in a year. Investments worth 1.5 lakh crore rupees It will be written in the financial world, Wow, the government is doing something. Is doing great work. The government is moving forward very fast. Did Modi take the decision? Why 21 thousand MW power in a year, but Modi did little work. Changing the LED bulb in the LED bulb, street light in the MOU with 100 cities of India, changing the LED bulb in the houses so far completed twenty cities. The work of 83 cities is underway. On the day that these 100 cities will be completed, the LED will have 21500 megawatt of electricity in that country. 21500 MW power if Modi planted the factory then I can not say in the Hindustan Times. But in some newspapers, the headline becomes. Modi planted a 21500 MW power plant Because we thought that. 21500 MW power factory availed of investment of 50 lakh crore rupees, save the country's fifty lakh crore rupees With the introduction of LED bulb, these 100 cities and the citizens of those hundred cities will save 45,000 crores every year. 45000 crores you can imagine how the change comes.\nRight now I worked as a small pilot project. In Chandigarh, we said that using a little bit of technology, see a little closer, make Chandigarh a kerosene free. If Vinod Sharma is here, he will be listened to some side. I am saying kerosene free. Every year 30 lakh liters of kerosene goes to Chandigarh. There is subsidy in it about three and a half million rupees. Now Chandigarh is a city where people have gas cylinders and then going to kerosene. That means something is wrong. I used technology I said look Bhai and you would be surprised to know that 80 percent of kerosene did not go to those houses. Yet the government used to go. And used to go to the money. had to import, had to be spent. Used to go somewhere. We decided that Bhai, where there is a gas cylinder, electricity in the house, no need for kerosene. 80 percent of kerosene left. But, while investigating this, it was noticed that there were 3200 poor families in which kerosene was used. We decided to transport them to the gas cylinders. And free kerosene to Chandigarh. Freeing of kerosene to Chandigarh meant that a large amount of subsidy was stolen in the government's safe deposit. The damage to the environment was closed. 30 million liters of kerosene, which was mixed in diesel, which caused the total pollution problem, stopped. 30 lakh liters of kerosene which we used to import from abroad, the country's foreign exchange exited, it stopped. The crude oil used to refine was used.\nIn the context of the country, I only tell these directions what is the direction. It shows that you see gas cylinders, our gas cylinders, we joined with Direct Benefit Transfer, started giving direct subsidy to the banks. Whenever the gas cylinders used to go and when the direct benefit started coming into the direct bank account, then there was no one who took the gas cylinder in the number of millions. It meant that crores of gas cylinders were saved ie the subsidy of crores of gas cylinder was saved. I.e. targeted subsidy In today's country, if Modi decides that we will cut such a subsidy. So, those who consider themselves to be reformists, they have played Modi's applause throughout the week that Modi subsidy has been derived. The man has breath. But the Modi reform that does not save the country's wealth by blocking the leakages of the Targeted Subsidy tax. And therefore, those who think it will have to follow the direction that the work we used to consider. That is not the work which we wanted to get results, the result could come from any other way. The country can also be good and our way does not go as a welfare state. And so how do we create things\nWhat is the nature of people in our country? Let us assume you are going to the plane because all the seats are sitting here. Some reading books put some seat beside the seat empty. We are sitting in our seat. The adjacent seat is not ours. But we have kept some things, put a small bag, pouch, book. And before the plane went before the last person came and sat in that seat. So what do we think took my seat. This is our Psychology that is not my seat, only I have kept a book, even if its original owner has come, I feel like I have taken my seat. We work in that psychological arrangement, we can not deny it, and in such a state of mood if Modi says. When you have given God so much, why do you take this gas cylinder 400-500 subsidy? And I'm glad I did not campaign much. More than 4 million people in this country left the gas cylinder subsidy. The country which is not ready to leave the seat of the adjacent people, let alone four million people of their own gas cylinders. What is the change in the direction of the people's mind and development of the country. This is an example of this. And so how do the changes come? These changes come to us. We also decided that those who left 40 million gas subsidy have left. I will not take this money in the government's safe. If he has given such generosity, then the government also has the responsibility to convert him into the power of the society. So what we did find forty lakhs poor families Instead of gas subsidy, gas cylinders were given to them. subsidy transferred them and those who used to burn a wooden stove in the house, used to spoil their own health, children were crying, there was a loss of environment, the work was done to take out those four lakh families. Not so much is the effort, We have told him that your subsidy has reached the village of Rajasthan. How does change come? All this is possible.\nRailway, have anybody thought that even after being able to forgive such a huge amount of money in the world market, many still did not understand that some work has happened. पहली बार London Stock Exchange में रेलवे के लिए रुपये बॉन्ड को स्वीकृति मिलना, वरना गोल्ड चलता है, डॉलर चलता है, पॉउन्ड चलता है, रुपया दुनिया के बाजार में नहीं चलता है। पहली बार लंदन एक्सचैंज ने रुपये बॉन्ड को हमने मंजूरी दे दी रुपया बॉन्ड निकला। अब दुनिया का कोई भी व्यक्ति निवेश करेगा रुपये में करेगा और उसको वापस भी रुपया मिलेगा। ये रुपये की प्रतिष्ठा विश्व में बनना। अब धीरे-धीरे मैं एनटीपीसी को भी उसमें ले जाने वाला हूं। हो सकता है हम सिंगापुर जाएं, लंदन जाएं कहीं और जाएं लेकिन विश्व के बाजार में हमारी ये साख पैदा होना ये अपने आप में आर्थिक विकास के लिए एक साख, साख बहुत बड़ी बात होती है जी। साख बहुत बड़ी बात होती है।\nहमारे देश में आपको हैरानी होगी जानकर के और कभी आप जाओगे तो देखना, रेल जाती है ऊपर ब्रिज बना है। एक तरफ यहां बना है एक तरफ यहां से बना है। बीच में खाली है। तो रेलवे वाले permission नहीं देते। अब बन चुका है वो तोड़ने वाला तो है नहीं। permission लेकिन दो-दो साल चार-चार साल हमने एक फॉर्मूला बनाया कि महीने में जिने लोग होंगे एक बार exchange करेंगे बातों को और फॉर्मूला के तहत clear कर देंगे। आज इस प्रकार का कोई project pending नहीं पड़ा है। जो दो-दो, तीन-तीन साल पड़ा रहता था। चीजों को गति कैसे दी जाती है।\nहमारे देश में मेरी ये सोच है कि आज हमारे देश का विकास कितना ही क्यों न हो ...मान लीजिए साइकल में हम हवा भरते हैं। तो नापते हैं कि 40 डिग्री हवा गई कि 30 डिग्री गई। मीटर ठीक बताता है लेकिन मान लीजिए कि साइकल की ट्यूब में एक कोने में फुग्गा हो जाए गुबारा हो जाए और हवा वहां चली जाए तो मीटर तो ठीक बताएगा, लेकिन साइकल चलेगी क्या। मैं समझा पा रहा हूं। साइकल की पूरी ट्यूब में समान रूप से हवा पहुंचनी चाहिए तब साइकल चलेगी। अगर उसी ट्यूब में उतने ही point वाली हवा गुब्बारा हो जाए तो साइकल नहीं चल सकती। उसी प्रकार से देश की इकोनोमी भी अगर पश्चिम भारत में ही चलती रहे और पूर्वी भारत में विकास न हो तो ये देश कभी आगे नहीं बढ़ सकता है। ये बात हमें समझनी होगी पूर्वी उत्तर प्रदेश हो, बिहार हो, असाम हो, बंगाल हो, नॉर्थ ईस्ट हो, ओड़िशा हो, ये ऐसे potential क्षेत्र हैं हिन्दुस्तान के second green revolution की ताकत eastern India में पड़ी हुई है। हमारी पूरी योजना का केन्द्र बिन्दु वो होना चाहिए देश की economy को नई ताकत मिलेगी।\nउसी प्रकार से अभी चार दिन पहले एक महत्वपूर्ण काम हुआ, अच्छा होता देश के मीडिया जगत का उस पर ध्यान गया होता। भारत में Railway Engine बनेंगे। कई वर्षों से फाइलें चल रही थीं। फैसला नहीं हो रहा था। Foreign Direct Investment, चालीस हजार करोड़ रुपया। दो railway engine बनाने के उद्योग के लिए already agreement हो गया। काम शुरू हो गया। पिछले हफ्ते की बात है और दोनों major policy है Eastern India को develop करना है। ये दोनों कारखाने बिहार में लगेंगे। और निर्णय अभी किया है मैंने चुनाव के पहले नहीं किया है। कहने का तात्पर्य आपने देखा होगा बजट को बारीकी से हमनें infrastructure में बहुत बड़ी राशि Eastern India में लगाई है। पहली बार हम Eastern India को gas grid से जोड़ रहे हैं।\nदेश में fertilizer आप 80 हजार करोड़ रुपये यूरिया fertilizer subsidy जाती है। जितने अर्थशास्त्री हैं वो कहते हैं ये पैसे बरबाद कर रहे हो। reform लाओ, subsidy रद्द करो। क्या उसके कोई उपाय है कि नहीं है। हमने एक निर्णय किया। कुछ लोग कहेंगे हमारे समय में हुआ अब मैं उस विवाद में जाना नहीं चाहता हूं। लेकिन कोई भी चीज का परिणाम जब तक उस चीज को 100 percent नहीं करते नहीं आता है। टोकन करने से नहीं आता है। हमें मालूम है हमारे देश में यूरिया में बहुत subsidy दी जाती है करीब 80 हजार करोड़ रुपया। लेकिन कोई देखता नहीं कि ये यूरिया किसान के पास जाता है कि नहीं जाता। यह subsidized यूरिया Chemical Industries के लिए raw material है।\nइसलिए क्या होता है कि subsidized यूरिया की चोरी होती है, Chemical Industry वाले मार लेते हें। वो processing करके अपना product बाजार में बेच देते हैं। नाम आता है किसान का, इसको कैसे रोका जाए। हमने तय किया यूरिया को 100 percent Neem Coating किया जाएगा। एक बार यूरिया को Neem Coating किया तो वो खेती के सिवा किसी और काम में आ ही नहीं सकता है। हिंदुस्तान में जितना यूरिया produce होता है, उसका काम पूरा हो गया है। Imported जो यूरिया है, उसका within a month पूरा हो जाएगा। उसका मतलब हुआ कि यूरिया की चोरी गई, चोरी मतलब subsidy बची, मतलब अगर reformist को ठीक लगे तो इसको reform कहना चाहिए।\nकामों में efficiency, कामों में target, कामों को कैसे चलाना अगर उस दिशा में हम चलते हैं, हम कैसे परिणाम ला सकते हैं। इसका मैं उत्तर, नमूना दे रहा हूं। At the same time हमने क्या होता था पहला मालूम है कि जो fertilizer कारखाना होता है उसकी inefficiency एक प्रकार से incremental beneficiary रहती थी, ऐसी scheme थी कि भई आपका अगर उत्पादन खर्च 50 रुपया हुआ तो आपको उस प्रकार की subsidy मिलेगी। अगर production cost 100 हो गया, उस प्रकार से मिलेगी मतलब जितना बुरा करोगे उतना ही ज्यादा सब्सिडी मिलेगी। ये चलता था। हमने आकर तय किया सबकी input cost की जो कीमत है वो common कर दी। गैस को वो हमने common कर दिया सारी चीजें। अब हमने कह दिया सबका rate fix होगा। बाजार में जाएगा सब्सिडी fix होगी। अब उनका efficiency level बढ़ाने की नौबत आ गई है। चीजों को अगर थोड़ा involve होकर के बदलते हैं तो चीजें बदलती हैं।\nहमारे देश में, मैं हिसाब लगा रहा था करीब 85 major projects, installed projects, शिलान्यास पता नहीं किस प्रधानमंत्री ने किया होगा, वो तो पत्थर शायद गुम हो गया होगा और अरबों-खरबों रुपयों के project, मैंने review शुरू किया। आज मैं संतोष के साथ कह सकता हूं करीब 60-65 project उसमें से already काम आगे बढ़ने लग गया। अभी आपने देखा होगा डाभोल का power generation , Maharashtra में दो साल से बंद पड़ा था अभी पिछले महीने चालू हो गया|हमारे देश में बिजली के कारखाने, कोयला उत्पादन बंद था, बिजली के कारखाने बंद थे। बिजली नहीं थी, उद्योग बंद थे, उद्योग बंद थे, रोजगार नहीं था। रोजगार नहीं था, Economy ठप पड़ी थी। कैसा विष चक्र चल रहा था। कोयले पर हमने ध्यान केंद्रित किया और highest coal उत्पादन record break कर दिया हमने। बिजली को पहुंचाया और भारत आजाद होने के बाद सबसे ज्यादा बिजली पैदा करने का record हमने तोड़ दिया। अब ये बिजली पैदा होने का record टूटने का काम है कि नहीं मैं नहीं जानता हूं लेकिन हुआ है। बिजली का झटका लगे, बिजली बंद हो, तब तो हमारा ध्यान जाए लेकिन बिजली इतनी तेज गति से सुधार हो आज करीब साढ़े 8 प्रतिशत growth है उसका, छोटी बात नहीं है।\nInfrastructure विकास के लिए ये सबसे अहम चीज है, वो बदलाव ला रही है तो ये चीजें हैं परिवर्तन कैसे आता है उसका देखते हैं। एक दिन मैं देख रहा था, आजादी के 60 साल हो गए, बिजली पहुंचनी चाहिए। मैं फिर कहता हूं, मैं किसी की आलोचना करने नहीं आया हूं। आजादी के 70 साल होने आए हैं, 18 हजार गांव, जहां आज बिजली का खंभा भी नहीं है। मैंने अफसरों को पूछा, ऐसा तो नहीं है कोई पुरानी सरकारों ने तय नहीं किया होगा, उन्होंने भी किया होगा। कोई ऐसा थोड़ा चाहेगा कि काम न हो लेकिन किया होगा। मैंने कहा नहीं जी मुझे ऐसा नहीं करना है, मुझे परिणाम चाहिए और मैंने 15 अगस्त को लाल किले से कह दिया 1000 दिन में मैं 18 हजार गांव में बिजली पहुचाऊंगा। अब जो काम 70 साल में नहीं हुआ वो अगर मैं हजार दिन में करना चाहता हूं तो आप जानते हैं कि कितनी तकलीफ होती है लेकिन मुझे 1000 दिन में 18 हजार गांव करने हैं तो per day मुझे करीब-करीब मुझे 19 गांव Per day मुझे बिजली पहुंचानी चाहिए per day तब जाकर के...... आप सबसे मेरा आग्रह है कि आप Mobile Phone पर एक App ले लीजिए, download कीजिए ग्रामीण विद्युतीकरण यहां से बाहर जाकर के, यहां तो शायद जैमर होगा लेकिन आप कीजिये और उसमें आप देख सकते हैं कि per day किस गांव में क्या काम हो रहा है, इतनी transparency और आज 100 दिन हुए हैं। मैंने घोषणा की करीब-करीब 100 दिन हुए हैं अब तक मुझे 1900 गांवों में बिजली का काम पूरा करना चाहिए था। कल रात को मैंने देखा जरा यहां आने से पहले App पर तो 3004 गांव पूरे हो चुके हैं और आप अपने mobile phone पर देख सकते हैं कि किस गांव में क्या चल रहा है। खंभे पहुंचे हैं, तार पहुंचा, लोग पहुंचे उसमें जो engineer काम कर रहा है उसका mobile number और e-mail address भी रखा है। कहने का तात्पर्य ये है कि challenge रूप में काम स्वीकार किया है। आजादी के 70 साल बाद जब वो अपने गांव में बिजली देखेगा। मुझे बताइए वो बिजली गरीब के काम आयेगी कि नहीं आयेगी। देश गरीब के काम आ रहा है कि नहीं आ रहा है। अगर हम तय करें, चीजें बदल सकते हैं।\nहमने सागरमाला, भारतमाला, भारतनेट कुछ ऐसे initiative लिए हैं। आज global economy में Port sector बहुत ही important है। अगर हम उस पर ध्यान नहीं देते हैं लेकिन हमारा देश क्या था रेलवे अलग, Port अलग, रेलवे वाला train कहां लगाता है, जहां political MP का pressure आता है वहां 2 kilometer डाल देता है और Parliament में भी पूरे रेलवे बजट पर ताली नहीं बजती उसके गांव में रेल आई या नहीं उस पर बजती है....हमने कहा कि चलिए, हम Port Sector का अपना रेल department बनाएं और Port Rail Department बनाया इधर से ये रेल जाएगी औऱ वो Port से इधर दोनों रेल जुड़ेंगी और जब तक हम Port को Rail Connectivity से नहीं जोड़ते हैं, हमारे goods transportation को global level का नहीं बनाते हैं। हम Globally competitive बन ही नहीं सकते हैं। ये Infrastructure का एक ऐसा क्षेत्र हमने चुना है और आने वाले दिनों में जाएंगे। हमारे देश में जो reformist लोग हैं वो कहेंगे आप disinvestment करो, ये सरकार है यार देखो। Strike होती है उसको कोई पूछने वाला नहीं, पहले page पर Photo आती है मोदी मुर्दाबाद-मोदी मुर्दाबाद यानि देश कैसे चल रहा है।\nहमने Shipping company सब लोग कहते हैं घाटे में कई चल रही थी, कई सालों से घाटे में चल रही थी। आज मैं गर्व के साथ कह सकता हूं, घाटे में से तो बाहर निकाला इस वर्ष भारत की Shipping company profit में जा रही है। यानि हमारे पास दो ही रास्ते हैं क्या, एक या तो disinvestment करो या बंद कर दो। तीसरा रास्ता भी है उसको corporatize करो, उसको culture बदलो, work culture बदलो और apolitical कर दो, efficiency लाओ, आप स्थितियों को बदल सकते हो। ऐसे अनेक initiative हैं। जिसके कारण मुझे मालूम नहीं समय का क्या हाल है तो मुझे parliament जाना है। खुशखबरी है कि parliament चल रही है और इसकी credit मोदी को नहीं जाती है, सभी दलों को जाती है, सभी दलों को जाती है। मेरा कहने का तात्पर्य ये है कि आप कोई भी sector ले लीजिए, मैं अनगिनत गिना सकता हूं, एक सप्ताह भर मैं भाषण कर सकता हूं। देश तेज गति से आगे बढ़ रहा है। हमेशा कार्यक्रमों के आधार पर हम सोचते हैं तो एक सीमा आ जाती है। सबसे पहली बात होती है नीयत और मैं मानता हूं सफलता का मूल आधार नीयत होती है और नीयत के प्रकाश में कौन-सी नीति बनती है और उस नीति को लागू करने के लिए कौन सी राणनीति लाते हो और उस रणनीति को सफल करने के लिए कौन सा आपका time table है, road map है, implementation speed है।\nआज देश में विचारों की, सुझावों की कमी नहीं है। आवश्यकता है उत्तम बातों को लागू करना, धरती पर उतारना। मेरा प्रयास है चीजों को धरती पर कैसे उतारूं और आज मैं कह सकता हूं कि जितनी चीजें देखते हैं आप अचानक नहीं हुई हैं एक बहुत ही सजग प्रयास का परिणाम हैं कि जिसके कारण ये संभव हुआ है और ये प्रयास निरंतर चलते रहेंगे, ये देश आगे बढ़कर रहेगा, आप विश्वास कीजिए।\nसारी दुनिया इस बात को मान रही है और हमारा problem क्या है जी, विवेकानंद जी ने सालों तक यहां काम किया लेकिन जब तक शिकागो से चिल्लाए नहीं देश को पता नहीं चला, लेकिन अब दुनिया कह रही है कि देश आगे बढ़ रहा है तो यहां के लोग भी मान लेंगे मुझे विश्वास है और जिधर भी देखोगे देश आगे बढ़ रहा है।\nमैं फिर एक बार इस समारोह में मुझे आने के लिए निमंत्रण दिया, मैं आपका आभारी हूं।\nमेरी कोशिश रही है कि जिस विषय पर आप चाहते थे उस विषय पर मैंने बोलने का प्रयास किया है क्योंकि मुझे आदत नहीं है इधर-उधर जाने की चुनाव है तो उस mood में होता हूँ। यहां हूं तो उस mood में होता हूं।\nThanks a lot"