"\nIndian Constitution is the greatest political venture: PM Narendra Modi\nIf there is something we turn to, then it is the Constitution: PM Modi\nEvery person has made a positive contribution to the nation and that is how the nation was made: PM\nThis debate is special because we mark the 125th birth anniversary of Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar: PM\nOur nation can not forget or forget about the exemplary contribution of Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar: PM Modi\nConstitution should be a future celebration: PM\nOur Constitution is not only about laws only. It is a social document We are the pioneers of our Constitution: PM Modi\nDr. Babasaheb Ambedkar wanted India to industrialize: PM Narendra Modi\nThe reason behind celebrating our constitution was made to make our young people the past of our great leaders: PM\nNation will progress if we work together: PM Narendra Modi in Rajya Sabha\nRespectfully respect the House About 50 honorable members in detail expand their views on this important topic. A good undertaking on 125th birth anniversary of Baba Saheb Ambedkar Ji and when all the leaders of the parties were sitting before the beginning of the session, everyone had welcomed it, he approved it. Although we do not claim that this original idea was someone else, there may be something other than my information, but in 2008, the Congress government in Maharashtra started it as the Constitution Day on November 26. And he did a good job that he used to teach his preamble children in schools. When I was in Gujarat, I enjoyed this experiment because we celebrate August 15, celebrate 26th of January. On 15th August, we also remember freedom fighters, freedom folks, discussions in TV and so on, also live in newspapers. It does not happen on 26th January, focuses only on parades. And in a democratic country like India, one thing is certain that now there is a place for guidance for us to walk, then our constitution is. If there is a way to move forward then the Constitution is there. It is our constitution to join together with the difficulties, to join together. Let us introduce our future generations to the Constitution and not just what the streams of this Constitution were, what was the constitution created in the later lands, how-how the great men contributed and how they were far and wide There was an attempt to enlighten so many diversity in this country, and in the era of slavery, new problems started in that new era. By eliminating all these, which is the original soul of India, the basic thought of India, the challenges facing India in its light, was to develop a system to overcome those challenges. How great was this work, it is not possible to name all the great men of the house, then we respect them. These programs have made themselves to bow down to all the sages who were sitting in the Constituent Assembly. Made to respect them, and nobody had made it before, then he committed a crime, I do not believe. We have thought of what we have done but we intend to do that, if the great generation has worked for giving direction to this nation for the coming centuries, then we would have understood the next generation, and therefore only there would be a member of my party. I remember, such a country does not run. We were not able to decide on the basis of which thoughts were from which crew? These countries are the result of some positive contribution to each and everybody's positive contribution is being associated with us, only then is the nation's sovereignty, and therefore, behind November 26, there is an imagination in mind that only countries in streams Not to be confined, there were people who were sitting in the Constituent Assembly who also joined the country with their feelings. And we have no doubt that the ideology of the people sitting in it, there were a lot of people associated with the Congress, but we have the courage to be proud of their We have the courage, our values ​​are that they can respect them, congratulate them, they are our sacraments.\nWe should take it in positive form and suggest that even though this discussion has not come much, but apart from it, because it is more than expected from the House that we here and the opposition, parties and opposition, Should also be fair, even if it is fair. And how do we continue to make our future generations aware of the basic sentiments of our Constitution, how their faith towards the Constitution would have been firm and should be done even in the days of despair. Yes, some people have come here, there is a mess, but This is a place that will sometimes light up the sun. Filling in these expressions in our next generations is essential, and therefore, it has been an attempt to communicate and if it happens here then then down the percolate can be done too quickly.\nWe do not intend to sit in the government that there is such a debate every time, nor did we say so. 125 years, Baba Saheb Ambedkar and his contribution can not be underestimated. We also looked at neglected, we saw their ridicule too and we have also seen their acceptance of force. And in the words here we do, I do not speak the language of you and me. There has been pressure from below, that today this country will not be able to deny the great deeds of Baba Saheb Ambedkar. We have to accept this fact and therefore the discussion of 125th birth anniversary of the constitution should be of Baba Saheb Ambedkar but we bow to all the great men of the Constituent Assembly, respect, bow to everyone including Babasaheb Ambedkar. We respect everyone, and we want to move forward with this role.\nOne thing is right here in our families, this story is told, society is also told in life, it is said in folklore, good things should be remembered repeatedly. Should also be done in good condition and also in bad condition. Society is mandatory for life. Why is the son so big, but when he goes to the city from his village, he would have gone ten times, even then the mother would say, 'Go, son, do not climb into the current train, do not look outside the window. The son has grown up, has gone ten times before, even though he has listened but the mother feels that the son simply remembers the son so much to handle. This is our tradition and for this, Dr. Karan Singh ji is sitting here, putting lots of Sanskrit verses in front of us because we have been told here. But we were called here\nThe practice of doing and doing is swollen\nNissan falling on the cobbled roasting ..\nIn the well, the water that is tied with the rope, does not have such power in the rope that it can fight against the stone, but the result of continuous practice is that even on that stone new shapes become inconsequential and that is why for us The constitution should be a jubilee, the Constitution should be a festival, every respect of the Constitution should be kept in our respect for generations. These rituals are heritage, it is our responsibility. It does not just leave this country by you, you-I do, and the country runs together by walking together and therefore the Constitution is a power that can take us out of the language of you and me. The Constitution is a feeling that gives us the power to add, and this is such a thing that even where a mass of fairness above the Opposition and Opposition holds the strength to go to India and therefore I respect the House very much.\nWe have to respect the values, we have to try. We can see the height of our constitution, the world's largest democracy, and the newspaper of the time when the Constituent Assembly went on. There was a lot of apprehension that Bhai would drive this car, what would this people do, and the British also had interest in it, giving a slight force to this point. And therefore people did not think so, but we have spent so many years among the many obstacles that our great men have given us a guided constitution, which gives us strength, keeps on giving constant power. And so we sing his praises.\nAmerica was a famous writer, in relation to the Constitution of India, said Granville Austin ..... what was said by Granville Austin (Granville Austin), - \"Perhaps the greatest political venture since that is originated at Philadelphia in 1787. \"\nThe political venture originated in Philadelphia in 1787, probably after that, there is a great political venture, then there is a constitution of India, that was said at that time. That is, we can say that we now have our main task here, sometimes we are here. For this, people have sent us and we are experienced, knowledgeable but we see how big a shortage will be between us and soul. And if we look at the extent and power of the people of the Constituent Assembly, by remembering it, we will realize how much we need to get up now.\nIf the people sitting in the Constituent Assembly have such a situation after 50 years, 60 years, 70 years, then what is the concern of the safetyguard? We make laws today, and we must have seen their faults and their faults in it, this is not the issue. Our overall condition is that we make laws and in the second session we have to make that Man's last time, but these two words remain, we will have to make an amendment once. How many limitations are ours, and the root cause of the limitations is not that God has not given us the mode, its root cause is that we do not constantly think things in light of the constitution. Ever since political conditions dominate us, sometimes the intention to take advantage of the time gets over and because of that we politically analyze problems and then we can not close the basic arrangements, which have been working for centuries. And so we think the height of the people sitting in the Constituent Assembly, we inspire them, take inspiration from them how much they thought. Whether the pressure should not have come, should not it have been requested, should not the opposite ideas have been kept, everything has happened. But with the consent created a document that still inspires us and therefore, whatever streams we make, we are responsible for the people that we will do this work. And in this too I give special importance to the Rajya Sabha, which give importance to the upper house as it has been said in our scriptures,\nNeither meeting nor old age,\nOld age no yo na vadanti religionm\nDharma: No knowledge or true mood,\nThe truth is not so good, but it is a good thing.\nIn the Constituent Assembly, when we can not discuss such that there is no old age, there is no religion in the elderly, religion is not where there is no truth, that is the meeting. And so I think the Rajya Sabha has its own importance. He has a special role, and in the debate of the Constituent Assembly, Gopalaswamy Iyengar said what I had said, \"Wherever there is any significant federal system anywhere in the world, the practical need of the second house is felt. . Overall, we are considering to find out if everyone is a useful worker or not? Our expectation from the second house is probably only to make a dignified debate on important subjects, and possibly keep the law that is coming out as a result of transient impairment until it becomes calm, and on the measures coming before the legislature Should not be thought peacefully and while making this provision in the Constitution, we have to keep in mind that whenever there is a special And there is a dispute between the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha on matters relating to finance will not be valid in general. Therefore, in the presence of this second house, we get only the means by which we delay the proceeding which may have been started in haste, and perhaps we want to give an opportunity to the experienced person who may be in deep political controversy , But who wants to take part in that debate with that knowledge and importance. Which we normally do not associate with the Lok Sabha. All these things are proposed related to the other house. I think that after considering the whole thing, most people are in favor of making such a house and it is careful not to obstruct the path of law or administration, \"Gopalaswamy Iyengar said in the Constituent Assembly. I think, we can not be a guiding principle greater than this for the people of this House.\nAnd Pandit Nehru had a very important point keeping his thoughts. He said that the successful implementation of our constitution depends on mutual cooperation between the two Houses, like any democratic structure, and therefore it becomes necessary for us to meet this matter in conjunction with the way and I like Earlier in the scripture it was said that there is no meeting in which experienced people are not involved and that is not senior who does not talk about religion and that religion is not Not to be told the truth and it is not true that there is deception and fraud. I think it is very important for us.\nIn the same way the country looks at us. It is alright that we know the condition of our people in the chronology, what is the condition of our community, we know it well. But it is true that there are still some responsibilities for us, and to carry out those responsibilities as a member, in our constitution, we have been told a lot, but what our scriptures have said is equally important to us,\nBest of luck: Tatta Devesar Jana:\nCertainly follow the standard of poor people.\nAll others behave like they do. Whatever criteria they place, people follow those standards.\nअंबेडकर जी ने 1946 में Edmund Burke को उद्धृत करते हुए कहा था, \"It is easy to give power, it is difficult to give wisdom. और पूरा मैं अनुवाद पढ़ देता हूं। शक्‍ति हाथ में लेना जितना आसान है, बुद्धि, विवेक धरोहर में पाना उतना ही कठिन है। आइए हम अपने आचरण से प्रमाणित करें कि यदि इस सभा ने अपने आपको कुछ सार्वभौमिक शक्‍तियां दी हैं तो उन शक्‍तियों का उचित प्रयोग भी बुद्धि, विवेक से ही होगा। हम केवल इसी मार्ग से सभी को साथ लेकर आगे बढ़ सकेंगे। एकता की दिशा पर चलने के लिए यही मात्र रास्‍ता है।“\nआदरणीय सभापति जी, हमारे संविधान निर्माताओं ने इतना सारा सोचा, लेकिन एक बात उनको सोचने की जरूरत नहीं लगी और ऐसा क्‍या हुआ कि हमें उस रास्‍ते पर चलना पड़ा। दोष उनका नहीं था। उनका हम पर भरोसा था और इसलिए उन्‍होंने इस दिशा में नहीं सोचा और तब जाकर के इसी सदन को चाहे ऊपरी सदन हो, चाहे लोकसभा हो हम लोगों को Ethics Committe का निर्माण करना पड़ा। संविधान सभा के सदस्‍यों को यह जरूरी नहीं लगा होगा कि कभी Ethics Committe का निर्माण करना पड़े। इस सदन को Ethics Committe का निर्माण करना पड़ा। और ये Ethics Committe के पीछे मैं समझता हूं मैं किसी की आलोचना नहीं कर रहा हूं किसी तरह। हम राजनीति में जो लोग हैं, हमारी एक जिम्‍मेवारी का संदेश भी देते हैं। जब हमारे यहां कुछ सदस्‍यों के द्वारा छोटी-मोटी हरकतें हुई तो यही सदन की हिम्‍मत है कि उन्‍होंने सदन की मर्यादा, लेकिन यह आवश्‍यक है। सभापति जी, मैं आग्रह करूंगा, यह आवश्‍यक है कि हमारे सभी सदस्‍यों को बार-बार Ethics Committe के जो उसूल है, जो निर्माण हुआ है बार-बार उनको कहते रहना पड़ेगा, उनको बताते रहना पड़ेगा क्‍योंकि हम सब कोई गलती न कर बैठे और ये तो हमारा दायित्‍व बनता है। लेकिन इसके संबंध में मैं कहना चाहूंगा\n14 अगस्‍त, 1947, डॉ. राधाकृष्‍णन् जी ने जो कहा है। उन्‍होंने जो कहा है वो मैं समझता हूं हम लोगों की जिम्‍मेवारी है। डॉ. राधाकृष्‍णन् जी ने कहा, 14 अगस्‍त को “अगली सुबह से आज रात के बाद हम Britishers को दोष नहीं दे सकते, हम जो कुछ भी करेंगे उसके लिए हम स्‍वयं जिम्‍मेदार होंगे। स्‍वतंत्र भारत को उस तरीके से आंका जाएगा जिस तरीके से भोजन, कपड़े, घर और सामाजिक सेवाओं से जुड़े मुद्दों पर आम आदमी के हितों की पूर्ति की जाएगी। जब तक हम ऊंचे पदों पर मौजूदा भ्रष्‍टाचार को खत्‍म नहीं करेंगे, भाई-भतीजावाद, सत्‍ता की चाह, मुनाफाखोरी और कालाबाजारी को जड़ से नहीं उखाड़ेंगे जिसने हार के समय में इस महान देश की छवि को खराब किया है, तब तक हम प्रशासन, उत्‍पादन और जीवन से जुड़ी वस्‍तुओं के वितरण में कार्यकुशलता नहीं बढ़ा पाएंगे।“ ये 2015, 01 दिसम्‍बर का भाषण नहीं है, ये 1947, 14 अगस्‍त को डॉ. राधाकृष्‍णन् जी देख रहे थे कि कैसे-कैसे संकटों से हमें गुजरना है और इसलिए इन महापुरुषों का स्‍मरण करना हमारे लिए आवश्‍यक होता है कि क्‍या हुआ ये बातें छूट गई। दुबारा हम पुन: स्‍मरण करे, फिर संकल्‍प करे, फिर चल पड़े, अभी-भी देर नहीं हुई है। सवा सौ करोड़ का देश, 800 मिलियन 65 से कम आयु की जनसंख्‍या हो, उस देश को निराश होने का कोई कारण नहीं है। हमारे पास ऐसे महान पुरुषों की विरासत भी है और हमारे पास उन नौजवानों के सामर्थ्‍य के अवसर भी है। उन दोनों को मिलाकर के हम कैसे करे, उसकी ओर हमने आगे देखना है।\nकभी-कभार हम डॉ. बाबा साहेब आम्‍बेडकर को जब याद करते हैं, तो मैं कुछ बातें ये कहना चाहता हूं संविधान के द्वारा, और ये बात सही है कि हमारा संविधान एक सिर्फ कानूनी मार्गदर्शन की व्‍यवस्‍था तक ही सीमित नहीं है। वो एक सामाजिक दस्‍तावेज भी है और जितने उसकी कानूनी सामर्थ्‍य की हम सराहना करते हैं उतनी ही उसके सामाजिक दस्‍तावेज की ताकत की भी सराहना और उसको जी करके दिखाना, ये हम लोगों का दायित्‍व बनता है।\nबाबा साहेब ने जो हमें संविधान दिया उस संविधान में कानूनी एक व्‍यवस्‍था तो है जो समता के सिद्धांत का पालन कराता है, social justice की वकालत करता है, सामाजिक न्‍याय की चर्चा करता है। लेकिन अगर हम संविधान के दायरे में अटक जाएंगे तो हो सकता है समता तो आ जाएगी, लेकिन अगर समाज अपने आप को बदलने के लिए तैयार नहीं होगा, सैंकड़ों वर्षों की बुराइयों से मुक्‍ति पाने का अगर समाज संकल्‍प नहीं करता है। जो पाप हमारे पूर्वजों के द्वारा हुए हैं, उन पापों का प्रक्षालन करने के लिए हम और हमारी आने वाली पीढ़ियां तैयारी नहीं करती है तो बाबा साहेब आंबेडकर का social justice की ताकत हो, समता की ताकत हो, वो पूर्ण करने का दायित्‍व एक समाज के नाते भी हमको उठाना पड़ेगा।\nऔर इसलिए बंधारण हमें अगर समता की ताकत देता है तो समाज की संस्‍कार सरिता हमें ममता की ताकत देता है। अगर समता हमें बंधारण के निहित ताकतों से प्राप्‍त होती है तो समाज को भी तैयार करना पड़ेगा कि जैसे समभाव जरूरी है, वैसी ही समाज में ममभाव भी जरूरी है और देश तब चलेगा जहां समता भी हो, ममता भी हो; समभाव भी हो, ममभाव भी हो। ये सवा सौ करोड़ देशवासी दलित माता की कोख से पैदा हुआ बेटा भी मेरा भाई है। ईश्‍वर ने मुझे जितनी शक्‍ति दी है, परमात्‍मा ने उसको भी उतनी ही शक्‍ति दी है। मुझे तो अवसर मिला, लेकिन उसको अवसर नहीं मिला। उसको अवसर मिले ये हमारा दायित्‍व बनता है और इसलिए सिर्फ बंधारण की सीमाओं में नहीं है, समाज जागरूण भी उतना ही अनिवार्य है। न हिन्‍दू पतितो भवेत, इस संकल्‍प को लेकर के आगे बढ़ने की आवश्‍यकता है और ये बात इस सदन से उठनी चाहिए, ये बात सदन से पहुंचनी चाहिए। आज भी समाज में किसी के साथ इस प्रकार का अत्‍याचार होता है तो ये हमारे लिए कलंक है, एक समाज के नाते कलंक है, एक देश के नाते कलंक है। इस दर्द को हमें अनुभव करना चाहिए और इस दर्द को हमें नीचे तक समाज की संवेदना जगाने के लिए प्रयास करते रहना चाहिए।\nबाबा साहेब आंबेडकर ने, यह बात सही है कि जब हम सरदार पटेल को याद करते हैं तो भारत की एकता के साथ जुड़ा हुआ है। लेकिन हम सरदार साहब ने देश एक किया, सरदार साहब ने देश एक किया.. इस पर अटक जाएंगे तो बात बनेगी नहीं। एकता का मंत्र भारत जैसे देश में केन्‍द्रस्‍थ होना चाहिए। बिखरने के लिए तो बहुत बहाने मिल सकते हैं, जुड़ने के अवसर खोजना हमारा दायित्‍व होता है और इसलिए बिखरने के बहाने तो मिल जाएंगे, सवा सौ करोड़ का देश है कहीं किसी कोने से मिल सकता है। लेकिन कुछ लोग है जिनका दायित्‍व है कि बिखरने के बहानों के बीच भी जुड़ने के अवसर खोजे, लोगों को प्रेरित करे और जोड़ने की ताकत दे, ये हम लोगों का दायित्‍व है। देश की एकता और अखंडता के लिए, और यही तो हमारे पूर्वजों ने कहा है, राष्‍ट्रीयम जागरीयम व्‍यम। Eternal vigilance is the price of liberty. ये बात हमारी रगों में भरी पड़ी हुई है और इसलिए देश की एकता और अखंडता के मंत्र को हमने निरंतर मंत्र को आगे बढ़ाना पड़ेगा।\nमेरे मन में एक कार्यक्रम चल रहा है। मैं आशा करूंगा कि आप में जो सोच लेते हैं, समय हैं वे भी कुछ नए ideas देंगे तो उसको और अच्‍छा बनाने का प्रयास करेंगे। “एक भारत, श्रेष्‍ठ भारत”, कल्‍पना मेरे मन में ये चल रही है। मैं ऐसे ही विचार छोड़ रहा हूं, अभी तो मैंने कोई डिजाइन बनाई नहीं है। हमारे देश में हमने बहुत लड़ लिया। दक्षिण के लोगों को लगता है हिन्‍दी हम पर थोपते रहो तुम। और मैंने देखा है यहां भाषण में कहीं-कहीं आता है। लेकिन एक और भी तरीका है देश को समझने का, जानने का, आगे बढ़ने का और मैंने 31 अक्‍तूबर को सरदार साहब की जन्‍म जयंती के दिन इस पर थोड़ा सा उल्‍लेख किया था। क्‍या हम राज्‍यों को प्रेरित कर सकते हैं कि नहीं? जिसमें आग्रह किया जाएगा कि भई मान लीजिए छत्‍तीसगढ़ राज्‍य है। वो तय करे कि 2016 में हम केरल महोत्‍सव मनाएंगे और छत्‍तीसगढ़ राज्‍य में मलयालम भाषा के alphabets बच्‍चों को परिचित करवाए जाए। 100 वाक्‍य, ज्‍यादा नहीं 100 sentences. स्‍कूलों में बच्‍चों को सहज कैसे हो, चाय पिया कर.. वो मजाक-मजाक में चलता रहेगा, वो सीख जाएंगे। कभी मलयालम फिल्‍म फेस्‍टिवल छत्‍तीसगढ़ में क्‍यों न हो, क्‍यों न वहां का खान-पान, वहां के लोग, वहां के नाट्य यहां आएं, लोग देखें। उसी प्रकार से, कोई और राज्‍य किसी और.. एक राज्‍य एक साल के लिए दूसरे राज्‍य के साथ अपने आप को जोड़े। यहां से उस साल जितने बच्‍चे टूरिस्‍ट के नाते जाएंगे, तो उसी राज्‍य में जाएंगे। हम धीरे-धीरे करके अगर हिन्‍दुस्‍तान के सभी राज्‍य हर वर्ष एक राज्‍य मनाना शुरू कर दे और ज्‍यादा नहीं एक-पांच गीत। अब देखिए, हम सब लोग वैष्‍णव जन से परिचित है। ‘वैष्‍णव जन तो तेने रे कहिए’ सब परिचित है। हम ‘वैष्‍णव जन तो तेने रे कहिए’ जब सुनते हैं, गाते हैं हमें पराया नहीं लगता है। कभी याद नहीं आता है कि किस भाषा में लिखा गया है। वो इतना हमारे साथ जुड़ गया है। क्‍यों न हम हमारे देश की सब भाषा के चार-पांच अच्‍छे गीत हमारे देश की नई पीढ़ी को गाने की आदत डाले। हमें संस्‍कार बढ़ाने होंगे और मुझे लगता है कि संविधान की जो भावना है उस भावना को आदर करते हुए हमें इस बात को करना चाहिए।\nबाबा साहेब आम्‍बेडकर जी का जो आर्थिक चिंतन था। अपने आर्थिक चिंतन की उनकी विशेषताएं रही थी और वे औद्योगीकरण के पक्ष में थे और सबसे बड़ी बात वो कहते थे, मैं चाहूंगा कि सदन, मैं लंबा नहीं कहूंगा लेकिन भाव मेरा सदन समझ जाएगा। बाबा साहेब आम्‍बेडकर कहा करते थे कि हिन्दुस्‍तान में औद्योगीकरण होना जरूरी है और वो कहते थे कि दलितों के पास जमीन नहीं है, वो जमीन के मालिक नहीं है। उनको अगर रोजगार दिलाना है तो जिसके पास जमीन नहीं है वो कहां जाएगा। औद्योगीकरण इसलिए भी होना चाहिए कि समाज के दलित, पीड़ित, शोषित, वंचितों के रोजगार के अवसर पैदा हो और इसलिए बाबा साहेब आंबेडकर के विचार, आज कुछ लोगों को बड़ा आश्‍चर्य होगा वो क्‍या कहा था। उन्‍होंने आर्थिक चिंतन करके और मैं मानता हूं आज जो हम विवाद करते हैं, उस समय क्‍या सोच बाबा साहेब की थी वो हमारे लिए एक दिशा दर्शक रहेगी। डॉ. बाबा साहेब आम्‍बेडकर ने कहा था, “राज्‍य का दायित्‍व है कि वह लोगों के आर्थिक जीवन की ऐसी योजना बनाए जो उच्‍च उत्‍पादकता की ओर ले जाए, लेकिन ऐसा करते समय दूसरे अवसर बंद नहीं होने चाहिए। इसके अलावा, वह उद्यम उपलब्‍ध कराए तथा जो कुछ लाभ हासिल हो, उसका सबको बराबर वितरण करे।“\nडॉ. बाबा साहेब ने कहा था कि “कृषि क्षेत्र में उत्‍पादकता बढ़ाई जा सकती है लेकिन इसके लिए पूंजी और मशीनरी में बढ़ोतरी के साथ-साथ कृषि के क्षेत्र में श्रम में कटौती करनी पड़ेगी, ताकि भूमि और श्रम की उत्‍पादकता बढ़ाई जा सके। अतिरिक्‍त श्रमिकों को गैर-कृषि उत्‍पादक क्षेत्रों में लगाने से कृषि क्षेत्र पर पड़ने वाला दबाव एकदम से कम हो जाएगा और भारत में उपलब्‍ध भूमि पर अत्‍यधिक presure भी खत्‍म हो जाएगा। इसके अलावा, जब इन श्रमिकों को कृषि तथा औद्योगिक क्षेत्र में उत्‍पादक कार्यों में लगाया जाएगा तो वे न केवल अपनी आजीविका कमा लेंगे बल्‍कि अधिक उत्‍पादन करेंगे और अधिक उत्‍पादन का अर्थ है, अधिक पूंजी। संक्षेप में, हालांकि यह चाहे जितना विचित्र लगे परन्‍तु भारत का औद्योगीकरण ही भारत की कृषि समस्‍याओं का सबसे कारगर उपचार है।“ बाबा साहेब आम्‍बेडकर ने एक और जगह पर कहा था कि “भारत चिमटी की दो फलकों के बीच फंसा हुआ है। जिसका एक फलक आबादी का बढ़ता हुआ दबाव और दूसरा फलक है, उसकी जरूरतों की तुलना में भूमि की सीमित उपलब्‍धता। इसका परिणाम यह होता है कि हर दशक के अंत में हमारे सामने आबादी और उत्‍पादन का नकारात्‍मक संतुलन पैदा हो जाता है और जीवन स्‍तर गिर जाता है और गरीबी बढ़ जाती है। बढ़ती जनसंख्‍या के कारण भूमिहीन और बिखरे परिवारों की संख्‍या भी विशाल होती जा रही है। औद्योगीकरण के पक्ष में एक गंभीर अभियान चलाने के अलावा कृषि को लाभकारी बनाने की संभावनाएं न के बराबर है।“ बाबा साहेब आम्‍बेडकर ने 60 साल पहले हम किन समस्‍याओं को झेलेंगे, हमें कैसी समस्‍याओं को जूझना पड़ेगा, हमारा आर्थिक चिंतन क्‍या होना चाहिए। उस समय बाबा साहेब आम्‍बेडकर ने हमारे सामने रखा था।\nयह बात सही है कि हम में से किसी की देशभक्‍ति में, सवा सौ करोड़ देशवासियों की भक्‍ति में न कोई शक कर सकता है, न शक करने का कोई कारण हो सकता है और न ही किसी को किसी की देशभक्‍ति के लिए सुबह-शाम अपने सबूत देने पड़ेंगे। समाज, हम सब भारत के संविधान से बंधे हुए लोग हैं। भारत के महान संस्‍कार और परंपराओं से बंधे हुए लोग हैं। दुनिया हमें कैसी देखती थी और दुनिया भारत का किस प्रकार से गौरवगान करती थी आज जब हम उन महापुरुषों ने संविधान निर्माण किया वो कौन सा माहौल होगा, जिनसे उनको इस प्रकार से लिए गए होंगे। मैं आज आखिरी शब्‍द कुछ कह करके अपनी बात को समाप्‍त करूंगा।\nआदरणीय सभापति जी, मैं Max Muller को आज quote करना चाहता हूं, उन्‍होंने क्‍या कहा था। Max Mueller कहते हैं, “अगर मैं ऐसा देश ढूंढने के लिए पूरी दुनिया को देखूं जहां प्रकृति ने धन, शक्‍त‍ि और सौंदर्य की सबसे ज्‍यादा छटा बखेरी हो तो – पृथ्‍वी पर असल में स्‍वर्ग है – तो मैं भारत की ओर इशारा करूंगा। अगर मुझसे पूछा जाए कि‍ किस आसमान के नीचे मानव मस्‍तिष्‍क ने अपने पसंदीदा उपहारों में से कुछ को सबसे ज्‍यादा पूरी तरह विकसित किया है, जीवन की बड़ी से बड़ी समस्‍याओं पर गहराई से विचार किया है, और उनमें से कुछ का समाधान भी निकाला है, जो उनका भी ध्‍यान आर्कषित करेगी जिन्‍होंने प्‍लूटो और कांट को पढ़ा है तो – मेरा इशारा भारत की ओर होगा। अगर मैं अपने आप से पूंछू कि हम किस साहित्‍य से, यहां यूरोप में, वे जिनका पालन-पोषण लगभग पूरी तरह से ग्रीक और रोमंस तथा एक यहूदी जाति, ज्‍यूस के विचारों पर हुआ है, सही की पहचान कर सकते हैं जो कि अपने आंतरिक जीवन को और उत्‍तम, और विस्‍तृत तथा और अधिक विश्‍वव्‍यापी और वास्‍तव में एक सच्‍चा इंसान बनने के लिए जरूरी है, केवल इसी जीवन के लिए ही नहीं अपितु इस रूपान्‍तरित और अविनाशी जीवन के लिए – तो फिर से मेरा इशारा भारत की ओर ही होगा।”\nये बात मैं Max Mueller ने कही है। इस महान विरासत के हम धनी हैं। और उसी धन विरासत सर्वासव हम सबकी ताकत है। आइए हम उसका गौरवगान करें और हम संकल्‍प करें कि संविधान के प्रकाश में हमारे महापुरुषों के त्‍याग और तपस्‍या के प्रकाश में जो उत्‍तम है, उसको ले करके हम चलें। जो काल वाहय हैं उसको तो काल भी स्‍वीकार नहीं करता है, जो नित्‍य नूतन होता है उसी को स्‍वीकार करता है। उस नित्‍य नूतन को ले करके महान राष्‍ट्र के निर्माण में हम सभी सदस्‍य अपना योगदान करेंगे।\nमैं फिर एक बार सभी आदरणीय सदस्‍यों का हृदय से आभार व्‍यक्‍त करता हूं। सभापति जी मैं आपका भी आभार व्‍यक्‍त करता हूं और संविधान की इस चर्चा के जो उत्‍तम बिन्‍दु निकले हैं, उन उत्‍तम बिन्‍दुओं के प्रकाश में हम कानूनों का निर्माण करें तब भी, संसद में आचरण करें तब भी, समाज का नेतृत्‍व करें तब भी, समाज को आगे ले जाने का प्रयास करें तब भी उसी बातों को ले करके चलेंगे, उस विश्‍वास के साथ मैं फिर एक बार इस सदन को उत्‍तम प्रवचनों से लाभान्वित कराने वाले सभी आदरणीय सद स्‍यों का हृदय से अभिनंदन करता हूं। बाबा साहब अम्‍बेडकर और उस महापुरुष के साथ काम करने वाले उन सभी महानुभावों को नमन करता हूं। Thanks a lot."