"\nAtal Ji was a stalwart loved and respected all sections of society: PM\nAs a speaker, Atal Ji was unparalleled. Modi is among the best orators of our nation: PM\nA long part of Atal Ji's career was spent in opposition benches but he spoke about national interest and never compromised on the ideology of the party: PM\nAtal Ji wanted democracy to be supreme: PM\nAtal ji is not among us. This thing is not ready to accept our mind. There is hardly any such incident that no person can be seen on political platform for eight or nine years, due to illness, all activity ended public life, but after so many years after that, after such a large gap In a way, a generation changes in public life, but the manner in which the country gave due respect to their farewell, the countrymen felt their departure, that is the biggest of their lives. We can experience the form of penance of light. Those who are the world's political analysts, they will certainly, at times, discuss this matter in detail that a political party standing on the basis of the principles, trusting the small people of the general organization of the workers, struggling on one side and the organization on the other side. Doing so, attracting the public on the third side with their thoughts, influencing, mobilizing the masses, doing all these things-by creating brick by brick building such a large organization And perhaps this big country in the world, such a big democratized system, on one hand, established a political party for 100 hundred years and a new political party on the other side and in such a short time to create so much dominance in the country, In view of that, in its origin, in the era of the Jan Sangh, in the era of the Bharatiya Janata Party, in its early years a complete team like Atal ji He got leadership.\nWorked on the shoulders from the shoulders, with small workers working in remote areas, tried to communicate directly to the public. And in a way the voice of Atal ji did not become the voice of the Bharatiya Janata Party. A three-four decade of this country happened that the voice of Atal ji has become the voice of hope and aspirations of the common man of India. Atal ji is speaking, the country is speaking. Atal ji is speaking the country is listening. Atal ji is speaking, not by his feelings, he is giving expression to the feelings of the people of the country. And he just attracted people, impressed them, not so much, the belief in people's mind was born. And this belief was not from the word group, behind it was the sadhana of a five-six-decade long life. Today, the political party map is such, even if for two to five years, if anyone has to be out of power, then it becomes so bitter, it becomes so disturbed, that such a hand-foot picks up, what do I do? I Whether he is the leader of the Tehsil area, be a leader of the district area, be a state level leader, be a national leader. Anyone can imagine that like a ascetic for so many years, sitting in the opposition like a seeker, making the voice of the common man every moment and staying alive for life is an abnormal phenomenon, or else there is such a thing in the life of Atal ji Moment should not have happened that when someone has said at the time of political instability, come with us. Who is yours except, let us make you a leader, let's give it to you.\nThere must have been a lot. I guess, I do not have the information, but as I see the political picture, everything has happened in it. But the inside was that metal. He linked his life with ideas. And because of that, they did not take refuge in such a greed, greed, and temptation. And when there was a need of patriotism. Increasing democracy increased my organization, increased democracy, increased my party, increased democracy, and increased my leadership. When the time for the criterion came, it was the long-standing leadership's strength that it preferred democracy, summoned the party. The Jana Sangh which was seized by their blood and sweat, dissolved such masses without any expectation in the Janata Party. The only purpose democracy is immortal. Whether we were or not, it showed and when it came to the name of the principles in the Janata Party, it seemed like a conspiracy to destroy the utility for the country for democracy. Then he added his hand and greeted him and said, 'Your way is good, we can not solve the values, we can die for the country, but we are not the people who solve the value for themselves and have left. Once again, sowed the seeds of lotus and today we are experiencing lotus in the neck of every Hindustan. And how long life was dark, the sun will rise, the sun will come out, the lotus will flow. Now a team is being born, even now the birth has not been done for a few hours. But how big a confidence will it be on the Jan Sangh of India, how much faith will be on your thoughts, on your sadhana, your penance, how much will be the reverence of the fasts of your workers that the person comes out of the mouth - the darkness will start, the sun will come out , Lotus will happen and they will say their predictions or say a message from within. Today we experience. Diversity within the nation's life, I think it is a great deal to increase the dignity of our pride but it is our responsibility to maintain it. Political views and diversity of political leadership also for India, there is some value addition in India's strength.\nThe same type of leader, the same type of thinking, the same type of colloquiality does not fit well for India's diversity. And that's why we all get together with all the thoughts and ideas which have given us for the country, wherever we have led, fundamentalism will have to be dispersed, we will be standing face to face. To defeat each other, there will be endangered life. Yet they are living for the country. All this, the strength of this leadership is added to the diversity of India, Atal ji is one of them. There is a diverse personality enhancing that diversity. He should also be available in the national life of India, in the social life of India, in the political life of India and there should be available to many such people and enrich the country there. Inspires future generations. Let the generations go through this path or go through that path to get an opportunity to account for it. And I believe that the life of Atal ji will always be inspired by the coming generations for public life, for personal life, for the dedication of the nation's life, how one life one mission can be done. . Tomorrow is the first birth anniversary of Atal ji after his departure. And one day before that today, the Government of India got an opportunity to give a memento coin of 100 rupees among you, today in the form of a memorial among the countrymen. I do not believe that this coin is a coin of 100 rupees, because Atal ji's coin has been spent on the hearts of our people for more than fifty years and whose coin is going to take place even further. And so, whose life has also been running our life by becoming a coin, we have been giving inspiration to the people, today we are making a little effort to make it a lifetime even under the metal. This is also a small effort to show respect to Atal ji and for this we all feel a satisfaction.\nTomorrow is the birth anniversary of Atal ji, December 25th. Atal, there is a place of memory at the same place, and only near Rajghat, we all have to cut a moment without Atal ji. At that time, this place of memory will always keep us steadfast and as strong as staying firm in the life of a person, the same will be our resolve in the same way as the nation's life and society. This is our resolve. We will again go back to this resolution tomorrow and dedicate ourselves to you, and by taking that same Atal Vichar, by taking the same Atal Vishwas, taking the same self-realization, while taking the mantra of Atal Charaviti Charayvati, You will have to take a resolution to do something or not. With this feeling, I express my gratitude to everyone today that you have taken the time to come and come. All of us, Atal ji, who have placed Atal Ji in our heart, but we do not keep any deficiency in fulfilling whatever we have desired. With respect to this one, I respectfully admit Atal ji. Thanks a lot."