"People should get more information about our Constitution: PM #ConstitutionDay\nPM Modi recalls the contribution of Dr. B R Ambedkar in drafting Constitution\nConstitution is a ray of HOPE H for Harmony, O for Opportunity, P for People's Participation, E for Equality: PM Modi\nHello colleagues! On 26th November, 1949, today the Constitution of India was approved. The Government of India has decided to celebrate it every year as Constitution Day. Increasing awareness of the Constitution across the country, among the students, is the preamble of the Constitution, and it becomes a part of our nature gradually, this is our endeavor. It is also good luck that the great man who played a key role in the constitution building is the year of 125th birth anniversary of Baba Saheb Ambedkar and therefore the coincidence is very inspirational and for this reason you must have seen, this premises of the Parliament building is shining very much. These days and I believe that even during the season, with the best ideas, from the best discussion, the new house will be as bright as the new innovative ideas.\nYesterday I met with all the great leaders of the parties. Good things happened, talked in good environment, and did not take the voice of everyone in the voice that the House should be run in the best manner. There can be no center of communication larger than the House. There is a dispute, there is a dispute, the dialogue is the soul of Parliament. For the rest of the work, the whole country is available and I am glad that all the parties have presented a positive attitude for debate and dialogue and I hope that all the MPs are expected to meet the Parliament. There is no shortage of completing those expectations.\nToday is 26th November, the day of the Constitution. Our Constitution It's a ray of hope, is the ray of hope, the path is the viewer. Our path continues to be published and when I say hope, I mean hope, H for Harmony, O for Opportunity, P for People's participation, E for Equality Buddha-Many thanks guys."