"• secure the poor\n• and increase the income level of all\nMoney must reach the Marginalized. With this purpose, we opened 190 million new bank accounts. Through them, we are trying to direct This targeting is also bringing into discipline in Government expenditure. We have also launched new insurance and pension schemes. Through a new bank, called MUDRA, we are funding the small traders and businessmen. We have set time bound goals for providing access to housing, water, electricity and sanitation for all. Thus, India is now the frontier of economic revolution. Our changing paradigm has created new opportunities for global investor community.\nThese opportunities range from building 50 million affordable homes to setting up 100 smart cities; modernization of railway network and re-development of our railway stations to setting up new railway corridors; generation of 175 GW of renewable energy to transmission and distribution networks Construction of National Highways, Bridges, and Metro rail networks\nSuch a huge potential for infrastructure and production of goods will not be available in any other country. More importantly, no one is on the earth.\nWe are trying to harness this development The campaigns like Digital India and Skill India are designed to make the process in the process. We have witnessed massive growth in the number of start-ups in the recent past. Some of them have begun to challenge established global players. To tap this energy fully, we have recently launched the Start up India Campaign. Start up India, Stand up India\nFriends! In the past few months, the interest of foreign investors in India has gone up tremendously However, there were a number of regulatory and taxation issues which were adversely affecting on their feelings. We have taken too many decisions\nTo give some examples:\n• We have expedited regulatory clearances including security and environmental clearance;\n• We have greatly liberalized the licensing regime;\n• We have increased the validity period of defense licenses up to 18 years from three years;\n• We have taken almost 60% of the protection items out of the licensing process and liberalised a number of restrictions like end-use certificate for the exports\n• We have clearly articulated that we will not resort to retrospective taxation\n• and we demonstrated this position in a number of ways\n• We have introduced the concept of composite sector caps for the FPIs and other foreign investors.\n• We have notified the regulations for the Alternative Investment Funds and\n• We have rationalized the capital gains tax regime for Real Estate Investment Trusts\n• We have modified the Permanent Establishment norms;\n• We have also decided to defer the implementation of the General Anti-Avoidance Rules for two years;\n• We have introduced the GST Bill in parliament; We are hopeful to roll it out in 2016;\n• A new bankruptcy code and a new IPR policy is being drafted • The Company Law Tribunal is going to be formed soon.\n• Our system for transparent auction and allocation of key natural resources like coal, spectrum, and iron ore has become stable\nThese are just a few examples. We are working hard to make sure our tax regime is transparent and predictable. We are also looking at those issues as genuine investors and honest tax payers. We have already made a number of corrections.\nAs a result of our initiatives:\n• The sentiments of inflows of foreign investments are turning into commitments;\n• FDI inflows have gone up 40% compared with previous year's corresponding period.\n• Perceptions are turning into positive outcome-\n• We have jumped 12 ranks in the latest ranking by the World Bank\n• India climbs to become the world's 7th most valued nation brand with a 32% sprint in brand value\n• India has consistently been ranked as the most attractive investment destination by many agencies and institutions.\n• India has also improved its UNCTAD rankings of investment attractiveness. We were 15th place so far Now we are at 9th place\n• India has also jumped 16 places on the World Economic Forum\n• Moody's has upgraded the rating of India as positive\nThus, just in eighteen months, we have successfully restored the credibility of the eyes of global players. As soon as our government took over, we started liberalizing the FDI regime alongwith other reforms. We allowed 100% FDI in railways and enhanced the FDI limit to 49% in Defense and Insurance Operational issues in such policies In that spirit, we are finetuning the procedures also. Early this month, we have taken the following steps\nWith this last round of reforms:\n• India is among the most open economies for FDI\n• Some new sectors have been fully opened for FDI\n• For most of the sectors, FDI clearances are now on automatic route\n• In addition to Greenfield areas, many sectors can freely absorb FDI in Brownfield projects. This includes Roads, construction and medical devices.\n• Entry and exit conditions have been very relaxed for FDI\nFriends! We are going to scale up investments in next generation infrastructure including digital networks and clean energy. In addition to the core infrastructure, we are going to invest in our social, industrial and agricultural infrastructure.\nWith tight control over expenditure, we have greatly increased capital investment by the public sector. To leverage this, we are setting up National Investment and Infrastructure Fund We are also coming up with Tax Free Infrastructure Bonds with a view to broaden the corporate bond market. This will also provide long term finance for infrastructure For infrastructure, we have also decided to launch Rupee Bonds in some countries. Singapore may be among them We are very interested in Singapore\nFriends! About 800 million people in India are below the age of 35 years. Their aspirations, energy, enterprise and skills will be the force for India's economic transformation. But the immediate challenge is to productively employ the youth. For meeting this challenge, we need to provide a huge push to manufacturing which has stagnated at around 16% of the GDP for many decades. This share must reach around 25% in the short and medium term. With this in view, we have launched the \"Make in India\" initiative. We are working on all the fronts to make India a global manufacturing hub. We are making the global skill pool for a modern economy with a world class manufacturing sector.\nTo achieve these objectives, we have been fast tracked approvals and clearances for industry and infrastructure. The hallmark of our strategy is good governance.\nThrough PPP, we are encouraging private investment in areas We are also selling our public sector enterprises, to instill market discipline. We are continuously working with the rest of the world. I hope to further dedicate the following three months to addressing the issue of free flow of capital and business to India.\nFriends! Whatever we are doing; It is driven by two basic commitments: One is our people should be in the center It is for those who we want investments Our rapid growth will transform into life\nThe second commitment, our planet, our Nature Our commitment to the dangers of climate change do not arise from Economics or Politics. They also do not arise from Fear or Favor They arise from our fundamental belief that Nature is Our Mother Nature provides and sustains our life; hence we should nurture it It is an article of faith I assure the global community that we do more than required We will stretch ourselves to do more than what we can usually do\nBoth these commitments generate a wave of economic opportunities and activities which can not be matched by any other country. They also open up opportunities for investors\nTo sum up; I would like to say that in the last eighteen months,\n• Reforms are a big way They are now reaching the last mile;\n• Reform is to transform the systems so that they Perform;\n• Simply put, they aim at enabling the people to realize their potentials and dreams;\n• Putting even more simply, it means more charm on the faces and less forms in offices;\n• In addition, new frontiers and deeper foundations for financial markets have been laid;\n• All together, Runways for take-off\nRecently, the IMF chief said that India is a bright spot in the global economy. I did not want to wait for that.\nSo, I'm here.\nI am here to invite you to a big way.\nI have been too sure of your hands\nThank you! Very much, thank you"