"PM Modi's unveils the statue of Swami Vivekananda in Kuala Lumpur\nIt was Swami Vivekananda who first given the concept of One Asia: PM\nSouth East Asia Summit speaking of One Asia; a concept given by Swami Vivekananda: PM\nFrom the Vedas to Vivekananda, India's culture is rich: PM\nSwami Vivekananda neither a person nor a system, it is the identity of the soul of ancient India: PM\nVivekananda is not just a name He personifies the thousand years old Indian culture and civilization: PM\nIt is a great fortune for me to dedicate the statue of Swami Vivekananda on Malaysian soil: PM\nPursuit of truth got Ramakrishna Paramhans \u0026 Swami Vivekananda together They were not looking for a teacher or a disciple: PM\nSwami Vivekananda was pursuing the truth: PM\nBrothers and sisters\nNow Supriya ji was saying that we had installed the statue of Vivekanand ji in this premises, but in our mind-temple, we should recite Vivekananda ji in our heart and I will tell you this and you will do it.\nI do not believe that by saying my Vivekananda can enter within us and neither Vivekananda can enter within us by anybody's discourse. Vivekananda, this is not the name of any person, Vivekananda is the identity of any system, in a way Vivekananda Sahastra year is the identity of the soul of old India.\nWe have a cultural long legacy from Ved Vivekananda and from the Upanishad to the satellite, we have also given the strength to our economic, social, scientific development journey.\nWe must have started from the Upanishad, we must have reached the satellite but our original Pin is our soul and if we maintain that which is our identity in the true meaning then it means that I live under Swami Vivekanand ji in my life. I am trying to keep\nRamkrishna Paramahansa and Narendra If we understand the world between these two, then perhaps Vivekananda becomes a facilitator in understanding.\nNarendra never went in search of a guru, nor was he looking for a guru, Narendra was searching for the truth. God is not that! There was a fear in his mind that there can not be anything about the divine name. There can be no person named Ishwar and he was struggling to know that truth.\nNor was Ramkrishna Paramahansa looking for a disciple. If I have a tradition of Guru tradition, my hair is the tradition of some disciples. And in the ashram of which I would replace and continue to run it, even in the mind of Ramkrishna Dev, there was no such wish for such a disciple.\nA teacher who was not a disciple of a disciple, was not a disciple who did not have the discovery of a Guru, but look amazing, was devoted to one truth and wanted to search for the truth and put both together in search of the same truth.\nAnd if we understand this then what can be the search for truth, how hard it can be to walk on the path of truth, and how can achieve achievement in it, we can know from the life of Vivekananda ji.\nWe consider the period of Vivekanand ji where the effect of religion, the effect of the method of worship, the Mahatma of the rituals. The glory of the religious leaders, the glory of the religious leaders. It was on the extreme border. At that time a young man can talk about running away from all those traditions, no one can imagine it today.\nA very large section believed that God was sitting for hours, worshiping, doing aarti-sun-raising, offering flowers and offering new offerings, the sins of life get stained and moksha is attained. She goes. There is an opportunity to enjoy an extreme limit. This thinking was made and Vivekananda used to say that at the time of Dange, the public service would serve the Lord. Serve the common man who is alive before you, who is suffering from pain and suffering, God will automatically get it.\nWhen he asked the youths on the land of Calcutta, what is the path to God, what should we do, then they said, leave all this, go football, play football with fun, give yourself a whim, maybe you Will find the way. At that time we were living in the period of slavery, no one could imagine that India could never be free, but Swami Vivekananda was a long time and he used to say, in the time of his life that I had seen in front of my eyes I am seeing in front of my eyes that my mother of India has stood up, she is sitting in the place of Jagat Guru, I see, I see a day-long Bharat mata and those days are very close Ga. This quote world was seen by Swami Vivekananda ji in his lifetime and he used to try to inspire Hindustan.\nIt was a period when spirituality was the main life and it was not only in India but in all the countries of Asia, and on the other side it was the idea of ​​the West, where the meaning was central. There was a century of conflict between spiritual principal life and meaningful life. Meaningful life has shaken spiritual life. The meaning of life has become the focal point of hope, aspiration of the common man, and in such a period Swami Vivekananda courageously and in the world of 30-32 years of age, going to the world of the world, Did a powerful job to give. The great man who identified the world as the spiritual power of Asia, and for the first time, the world is a different thinker of Asia's own earth, the sacraments here are different and he has a lot to give to the world. This thing was said by Swami Vivekananda, the courage to say on the injury to Danes. Yesterday I was in ASEAN Summit here I was in the South East Asia Summit here today and one thing was there to emerge and one would have come to that One Asia.\nThe idea of ​​One Asia, but the voice which is echoing today, is a financial system, political system, contemplation of the arrangement of governments, but very few people would know that the concept of One Asia was first propagated by Swami Vivekananda on the spiritual level. Was there. I want to present an old event to you. ..\nAfter Swami Vivekananda introduced the East and Asia to the West, Scholars and philosophers like Okakura, Karinzo from Japan, Rabindranath Tagore, Mahrishi Aurbindo, Anand Kumar Swami and Vinoy Sarkar were inspired by Swami Vivekananda. OkaKura invited Swami Vivekananda to Japan and also sent him a check of Rs 300. He came to Calcutta and met Swami Vivekananda on 1st February 1902 and both went to Bodh Gaya together. OkaKura is the symbol of Asianism In his book, 'Ideals of the East' by Okakura, the manuscripts were edited by Sister Nivedita, Swami Vivekananda of the foremost western disciple. The very first sentence, I want to tell you. The very first sentence is \"Asia is one.\" The idea of ​​Asian unity is clearly Swami Vivekananda's concept. In his next book, Okakura started by saying \"Brothers and sisters of Asia\", echoing Swami Vivekananda's speech at Parliament of Religions\nI was just saying that those who were under the influence of this type of Philosopher Vivekanand ji at that time, who had spell from Jain Vivekanand ji, had found this mantra Asia is One. Today, after one hundred years, One Asia is being discussed for economic, political reasons, but on the basis of spiritual unity at that time, Vivekananda could see that this is the land which can bring the world out of crisis and today the two world woes If anyone can give way to the solution of those two problems, then it can emerge from Asia's land.\nAnd so today the world is saying about climate change and global warming, today the world is talking about the issue of terrorism, that is the earth where Lord Buddha's message is received, that is where the message of Hindutva is received and these things from this earth It has emerged, where it was said, Ekam Sata, Vipra, most often, Vidya, truth is One, Wise call it in different ways. This is the original mantra that gives all the strength to add one, and so when it comes to terrorism So its solution in it is holier than thou It is not only imagination, every truth is accepted and when every truth is accepted then there is no break for conflict and when there is no break for conflict then there is no possibility of conflict and where there is no conflict There is no reason to go on the path of terrorism.\nToday the world discusses Global Warming. We are those people who saw God in the plant, whatever god we have imagined has some natural life associated with every god. They have done sadhana with some tree, they have followed some other animals or birds. This intuitive message is in our tradition. We are not part of the exploitation of nature, we are people who have taken lessons to be friendly with nature. The same culture that can save mankind from global warming.\nI think Swami Vivekanand ji has shown us these roads. If we fulfill those paths, then we do not need to replace any new Vivekananda within us. Even after taking one of their sayings, we are able to walk. I think we can make some contribution to serve human beings for the coming centuries.\nToday I have had the opportunity to make a book of Yoga here too, and that too with our government, Mr. Shahu has composed the book of Yoga in the language here. He is a government official himself, but he surrenders towards yoga. I was happy to give him his book. Today, the world is attracted to yoga. Everyone is searching for a way of stress free life and he feels his window opens with yoga and therefore everyone tries to peep in that window.\nUnited Nations accepted International Yoga Day on June 21. 177 countries of the world co-sponsored him and all countries of the world celebrated Yoga Day on June 21. Humanity, which is looking for a way out of its mental solutions. Moving towards Holistic Health Care Then he thinks that yoga is such a simple lane which if we take half an hour or even a day, we can run our mind, intellect and body in one direction. It is not a challenge for us today that we should explain to the world what yoga is, the challenge before us is that the whole world is demanding good yoga teachers. The biggest challenge for us is how do we give perfect yoga teacher so that the correct pattern of this Vidyadhi reaches generations to come, and whoever avails of it, in reality it is his purpose, work in fulfilling the purpose and therefore In more modern languages, we propagate yoga, as many yoga as possible in the modern language and present itself in the life of yoga in front of the world of living and the teacher of maximum yoga Ayar, then dressed as hobby can not prepare as good profession. In the day we do 50 work, we will teach whatever one will come to learn yoga for one hour.\nIf we bring this into the atmosphere of Asia, then we can give the best yoga teacher to the world to fulfill the expectations of the world. I am very grateful to Swami Suparananda ji that I had the opportunity to come to this holy place today, had the opportunity to make Vivekanand's statue public and I believe that all the people of this world coming to this earth will get inspiration from here Will remain. Thank you very much with this auspicious."