"Share\n\nTransportation is the key for development and any country. India is one of the world's countries where urbanization is taking place at a fast pace: PM Modi\nPM Modi reiterates the government's vision of 'Housing for All' by 2022 when India celebrates its 75th year of independence\nAfter 2014, we decided that the speed of laying the metro line would also increase and scale would also increase: PM\nOur government is continuously making efforts to improve lives of middle class people: PM\nThe central government is moving forward No corner of the country, no village or city should be untouched by development: PM Modi\nThrough our initiatives, we are strengthening the hands of the poor, bringing a qualitative change in their lives: Prime Minister\nIn the last 4 years, several new projects have been initiated for the Metro network in Mumbai: Prime Minister Modi\nMy dear brothers and sisters who have gathered here in large numbers!\nMumbai and Thane are those parts of the country that have helped in the dreams of the nation. Many common people have found fame and prosperity here. Those who are born here and live here are generous and benevolent. The people here have offered their hearts for everyone. This is the reason why the whole spectrum of India can be seen here Whoever comes here is immersed in the color of Mumbai and becomes a part of the Marathi culture.\nBrothers and sisters,\nToday Mumbai is expanding and going undergoing all-round development. However, it is a pressure on the resources at the same time. Its impact can be especially on its transport system, roads and railways. Keeping this in mind, in the last four or four and a half years, sustained efforts have been made to improve the transport system of several adjacent areas including Mumbai and Thane.\nFoundation-stones of the projects worth more than Rs.33 thousand crores laid today also include 2 projects of metro lines. Apart from projects related to the construction of houses for 90000 poor and middle class families today started in Thane.\nFriends,\nTransportation is a important dimension of any city or country. India is among those countries that are undergoing rapid urbanization.\nAs a recent research study, in the coming decades, all the top 10 cities with the fastest rate of development will be from India. That is, a strong factor of rapid development of our cities\nMumbai, any case, has always been the center of economic activities in our country And in the future, this is going to expand Therefore, after the BJP-led NDA government was formed at the center, we started focusing on the infrastructure of this place.\nSeveral local trains were canceled. The old railway bridges were modernized. Apart from Mumbai local, other modes of transport were also expanded, of which the metro rail system became one influential medium.\nAfter the expansion of metro in Thane, it will provide a better connectivity to Mumbai, Thane and other nearby regions.\nFriends,\nThe first project of the Mumbai metro came up in 2006. However, it is difficult to state as the project has stuck-up for eight years.\nThe first line could be started in 2014 and that too for just 11 kilometer. Only 11 kilometres in 8 years!\nAfter 2014 we decided that both the speed as well as the scale of laying metro lines would increase.\nIn the last four years, various new projects were started in a network of metro in Mumbai.\nIn keeping with this idea, the foundation-stones of two more metro lines were laid today. That is, in the next three years, 35 kilometres long has been added to the existing network.\nBesides, between 2022 and 2024, the people of Mumbai will get 275-km long metro line.\nThane, Bhavandi, Kalyan, Dahisar and Mira Bhavandar, but also Mumbai in the traffic jams issue of the end is also a matter of concern for the projects whose foundation-stones have been laid today.\nFriends,\nThese facilities are only in accordance with today's requirements, but also the needs of the year 2035.\nBrothers and sisters,\nWe are trying to ensure that your life is better and easier, the poor and middle class people too get homes to live in.\nThe central government has decided that by 2022 when India will be celebrating 75 years of independence, every family of the country should have its own house with cemented roof Moving toward the same goal, today the construction work for 90 thousand new homes has begun.\nFriends,\nOur work culture, attitude and speed are different from that of the previous government. The previous government had built only 25.5 lakh houses in the last four years of their tenure i.e. 25 lakh 50 thousand in the last four years our government has built more than 1 crore 25 lakh houses for the people This is more than 5 times. This means that if they had made such a progress, it would have probably taken 2 generations to complete the work.\nUnder Prime Minister Shahri Awas Yojana, 8 lakh houses are being constructed in the whole of Maharashtra. Friends, Under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana, good, social flats are being built for the homeless. And this will not be the ideal society that was in news during the tenure of the previous government. In fact, Adarsh ​​or an ideal society is being created in true terms where the dreams of ordinary men and women are nurtured and self-confidence for a better future develops.\nUnder Prime Minister's Awas Yojana, financial assistance of up to Rs.2.5 lakh is being deposited in the bank accounts by our government. That is the loan amount of Rs.2.5 lakhs immediately gets reduced which means the poor and middle class is getting help even in home loan.\nBesides, the interest rates on home loans also have been significantly reduced compared to earlier. Under this scheme, interest subsidy of 6.5% is being provided to the people from Economically Weaker Sections and Low Income Groups by the Government.\nPeople from Middle Income Group were given a interest subsidy of 3-4%. This means if someone has taken a home loan of 20 lakh rupees for 20 years, then he will get an aid of about Rs.6 lakh from the government during this period.\nFriends,\nAs a result of these honest efforts of the government, lakhs of people have booked, bought their first house in the last 1-1.5 year.\nAs per a report, the rate of buying a new house in the last 7-8 months has been doubled compared to the previous year.\nI am told that the scheme More than 85 thousand people in Maharashtra have received an assistance of Rs. 2000 crore under the Prime Minister Awas Yojana.\nFriends,\nWe are aiding the middle class not only for getting involved but also addressing all the related issues.\nTill four years back, you are aware of the kind of problems that you have to face while getting the house booked.\nYou were unable to get hold of your home because of arbitrariness and pernicious intensions of certain people There were also cases. Our government has made a great effort to curb this trend.\nToday Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA) has been notified in most states of the country. The Tribunal too is in operation in 21 states.\nI congratulate Fadnavis ji because Maharashtra is one of the states in the country which has implemented RERA first. Nearly 35,000 real estate projects and 27,000 real estate agents have been registered. And in Maharashtra the highest number of projects in it\nFriends,\nJust imagine, the real estate sector was in operation without any definite law for the past 70 years. Had the previous governments created similar laws before, then the home buyers did not have the court and the real estate sector transparently flourished.\nBrothers and sisters,\nThe government is relentlessly making efforts to help reduce their electricity bills. More than 30 crore LED bulbs have been distributed under the UJALA scheme. Out of these, 2.25 crore bulbs have been distributed in Maharashtra and lakhs of bulbs have also been distributed in Thane. The work done by a 60 Watt bulb is not being done by bulbs of 7-8 Watt. This means that electricity is getting reduced.\nWith the help of just this scheme, many families of this country are now able to save around Rs.16 thousand crores annually. Maharashtra alone has saved electricity bill of Rs.1100 Crore per year.\nThis was possible because we work on LED bulbs on Mission mode encouraged the companies to increase their production, promoted competition and removed the middlemen. Consequently, the LED bulbs that used to cost around Rs.250-300 till four years ago, now cost Rs.50.\nFriends,\nThe central government is moving forward on the path of 'Sabka Sath Sabka Vikas'. Efforts are made so that no village, city or class of the country remains untouched by development. Schemes are being formulated and implemented so as to uplift the standard of living.\nUnder the Ujjwala scheme, free gas connections are being provided throughout the country to make the lives of the poor sisters smoke-free and also to save their time.\nSo far, about 6 crore connections have been given across the country of which more than 34 lakh sisters belong to Maharashtra including Thane.\nFriends,\nThe doors of the banks are always open for those sisters who want to start their small businesses - like salon, tailoring, weaving, handicraft etc.\nUnder the MUDRA scheme, loans between Rs. 50 thousand and Rs.10 lakh. About 1.25 crore such loans have been given in Maharashtra, of which 1 crore are in the name of sisters.\nBrothers and sisters,\nOur aim is to provide a dignified life to the poor and the women.\nOur government is dedicated to five streams of development - education for children, income for the youth, medicines for the elderly, irrigation for the farmers and hearing for the masses.\nIn the end, once again, I congratulate you I am really grateful to you all here for such big numbers and showering your blessings.\nI will go to Pune from here I'll be launching and laying the foundation-stones of projects worth thousands of crores even there. I congratulate you for showing this great strength!\nThanks a lot!"