"Share\n\nWe must build new global solutions and new strategies for combating terrorism, without balancing it against political considerations: PM\nI welcome the commitment to delink religion from terrorism and the efforts to promote human values ​​that define every faith: PM\nThe East Asia Summit is the key forum for shaping the future of the region: PM Modi\nEAS should continue to support the development of inclusive, balanced, transparent \u0026 open regional architecture for security \u0026 cooperation: PM\nOceans remain the pathway to our prosperity and security (in the region): PM Modi\nIndia and Bangladesh recently settled their maritime boundary using the mechanism of UNCLOS: PM\nWe need strong commitment and closer cooperation on cyber security: PM Modi\nIndia will continue to deepen bilateral security partnerships in Asia and other EAS partners: PM Modi\nYour Excellency Prime Minister Dato 'Mr. Mohammad Najib,\nYour Majesty,\nExcellencies,\nPrime Minister Najib and the people of Malaysia deserve our deepest appreciation for outstanding arrangements for the Summits in this beautiful city of Kuala Lumpur.\nAnd, I congratulate you for your excellent review of the East Asia Summit.\nThis is a historical summit. We applaud the ASEAN members for realizing the vision of the ASEAN Community and charting the path to 2025.\nWe expect ASEAN to continue to play a leading and central role in realizing the vision of broader regional integration and cooperation.\nExcellencies,\nIn this forum, we are often considered as a region of peripheral problem. The barbaric terrorist strikes in Paris, Ankara, Beirut, Mali and on the Russian aircraft is a stark reminder that its shadow stretches across our societies and our world, both recruitment and targets of choice.\nWe must build new global solutions and new strategies for combating terrorism, without balancing it against political considerations. No country should use or support terrorism There is no distinction between groups There are no sanctuaries There are no funds. There is no access to arms But, we also have to work within our societies and with our youth. I welcome the commitment to delink religion from terrorism and the efforts to promote human values ​​that define every faith.\nWe are also going away from the summit on climate change There, we should not only come together on a climate change. But we must also stand together in a clear message.\nExcellencies,\nSince 18 months ago, no region has seen greater engagement from India Pacific and the Indian Ocean Region. This reflects a long standing national consensus in India and the world.\nThe world still looks to the region Yet, our region is also navigating its status through a stable, peaceful and prosperous future.\nThe East Asia Summit\nFirst, East Asia Summit must continue to support the evolution of an integrated, balanced, transparent and open regional architecture for security and cooperation. We must deepen our collective commitment to strengthen and abide by international rules and norms.\nSecond, the oceans remain the pathway to our prosperity and security India shares with ASEAN a commitment to freedom of navigation, over flight and unimpeded commerce, in accordance with accepted principles of international law, including the 1982 UN Convention on the Law of the Sea Territorial disputes should be settled through peaceful means.\nIndia and Bangladesh recently settled their maritime boundary using the mechanism of UNCLOS. India hopes that all parties to the disputes in the South China Sea will abide by the Declaration on the Conduct on South China Sea and the guidelines on the implementation. Parties should also want to submit a code of conduct on a code of conduct.\nThird, we need strong commitment and closer cooperation on cyber security. We will also have work on certain areas of behavior Outer space is also a concern We should also continue to improve on cooperation on non-proliferation\nIndia shares both land and maritime boundaries with ASEAN India will continue to deepen bilateral security partnerships in Asia and other EAS partners. We will stay active participants in the ASEAN-led security dialogue and cooperation forums.\nFour, We must also work toward early settlement of a balanced and broad-based Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership. Trans Pacific Partnership is also a major development. These, I hope, will eventually not become competing regimes, but the foundations of an integrated economic community in the region.\nFinally, development cooperation is the heart of the East Asia Summit. India will continue to support the efforts of our partner countries. And, we are taking the lead in establishing EAS Virtual Knowledge Portals on Disaster Management and Trauma Care \u0026 Nursing. The Nalanda University is shaping up as a world class center of knowledge and learning.\nI share the vision of East Asia Summit on strategic political, economic and security concerns in the region. Thank you."