"India and ASEAN are natural partners. Our ties date back to ancient times: PM\nASEAN has emerged as one of the largest economic zones in the world: PM Modi\nWe must reform to transform: PM Narendra Modi\nReform for me is just a way to travel The destination is the transformation of India: PM Modi\nWe have to take the fruits of development to the margins of our demography: PM Modi\nBy almost every major economic indicator, India is doing better than when we took office 18 months ago: PM\nIndia is in healthier shape than any other big emerging economy: The Economist\nWe have launched a campaign called 'Make in India' and aggressively worked on the front of the ease of doing business: PM Modi\nWe are working in all ways to make India a global manufacturing hub: PM Modi\nIndia has been constantly ranked as the most attractive investment destination by many global agencies and institutions: PM Modi\nThe sentiment for private investment and inflow of foreign investment has turned positive Foreign investment is up 40%: PM Modi\nWe have allowed and enhanced FDI levels in key sectors including insurance, defense and railways: PM\nWe have end retrospective taxation: PM Narendra Modi\nWe are specializing in making India the easiest place to do business: PM Modi\nTan Sri Dato Dr Mohd Munir Abdul Majid, Chairman of the ASEAN Business Advisory Council,\nDato Ramesh Koddamal, Co-Chair of the ASEAN-India Business Council,\nBusiness Leaders of ASEAN,\nMembers of the ASEAN Business Community,\nDistinguished Guests,\nLadies and Gentlemen\nI am very happy to be here I feel honored to address this privileged gathering of the leaders who have transformed South East Asia into one of the most dynamic areas of the world. I congratulate you for this achievement I also congratulate you on the creation of One ASEAN Community which is going to sign off tomorrow.\nIndia and ASEAN are natural partners. Our ties date back to ancient times They continue to serve as a bridge between our countries and regions.\nFriends! I have been saying that the 21st century belongs to Asia. I say this because of the track record of the ASEAN countries Together, ASEAN's ten member countries Asian has emerged as one of the biggest economies in the world. Last fifteen years have seen your rapid and yet stable growth. Your Macro-economic stability has been the main reason for growth and stability in South East Asia. With good governance, futuristic infrastructure and new age technologies, you have created excellence\nIn simple things like tourism, you have done miracles Once again, I compliment the leadership and people of ASEAN countries for what they have achieved.\nWhen I analyze the Asian miracle, I find that small countries of Asia and a big country like China, both have done well. This shows that growth depends on the size of population. I have had personal connections I have also visited a number of times Even as Prime Minister, my engagement with the Asian leadership started as soon as I took over. I met a number of people in the Summit too.\nMy government took office about 18 months ago. The Indian economy faces serious challenges A high fiscal deficit, a high current account deficit, a large number of stalled infrastructure projects and persistent inflation in them.\nIt was obvious that reforms were needed Reforms for what? What is the aim of reform? Is it just the measured rate of GDP growth? Or is it a change in society? My answer is clear: we must REFORM TO TRANSFORM\nIn short, reform is not an end in itself. Reform for me is just a way to travel The destination is the Transformation of India We have to take the fruits of our geography and to the bottom of our demography. We have been touching life, while reaching the sky\nBy almost every major economic indicator, India is doing better than when we took office 18 months ago.\n• GDP growth is up and inflation down\n• Foreign investment is up and the current account deficit is down.\n• Tax revenues are up and down\n• The fiscal deficit is down and the rupee is stable.\nObviously, this did not happen by accident. And the world economy is not doing The success of a series of concerted policies We have embarked on a course of fiscal consolidation. We have entered, for the first time, in a monetary framework agreement with the RBI\nEven while cutting the fiscal deficit, we have been substantially increased productive public investment This is possible in two ways Firstly, we have imposed carbon taxes on fossil fuels We have taken the bold step of de-controlling diesel prices and thereby eliminated energy subsidies, and have in fact fossil fuels on taxes imposed. We have increased the cess on coal by 300%. Globally, there is much talk of carbon taxes. We have actually acted Secondly, we have reduced wasteful expenditure through innovative methods including targeting subsidies to the deserving through technology\nOverall, there is increased confidence within and outside the country The IMF and World Bank have expressed their expectations for this year and after The Economist magazine this week said that \"India is in healthier shape than any other big emerging economy.\"\nHowever, as I said, our aim is not only reform, but \"reform to transform\". Macro-financial stability is good But to transform India, much more needs to be done We have started a series of concerted steps. These include structural and institutional reforms\nAgriculture remains India's mainstay in terms of providing livelihood. We have introduced a series of simple but powerful structural reforms. There was a tendency to divert subsidized fertilizers. We have found a simple but very effective solution: by neem-coating the fertilizer, it becomes unsuitable for diversion. We are now moving toward universal neem-coating. This has already saved billions of rupees of diverted farm subsidies.\nWe have also introduced Soil Health Card This tells every farmer the condition of his or her soil and then enables him to choose the right crop, best quantity and mix of inputs.\nWe have launched a program for all programs. It involves building 20 million urban homes and 29.5 million rural homes, totalling about 50 million. While the program will make sure no Indian is houseless, it will also generate a large amount of employment - that too, mainly for the unskilled, semi-skilled and the poor.\nWe have undertaken major improvements in the transport sector. Our major ports witnessed a 4.65% growth in traffic and an 11.2% increase in operating income, in 2014-15 despite a global decline in trade volume.\nThe pace of award of new highway works has increased from 9 km / day in 2013-14 to 23 km / day These will have large multiplier effects throughout the economy\nWe have committed to restore credibility My government has intervened with legislative and administrative measures to improve the supply of critical inputs and raw materials. They include Coal, other minerals and spectrum. The hallmark of this intervention is possible through transparent auction.\nWe started the Jan Dhan Yojana In less than a year, we opened 190 million new bank accounts. On Social Security front, we have launched innovative and attractive schemes for insurance and pension. We have also set up MUDRA Bank to fund the small traders who are unfunded so far. More than six million small traders have already availed the loans.\nWhile expanding the banking services, we are also taking steps to strengthen the banking system. Credible and capable bankers have been appointed to head banks. 46 years ago, private sector professionals have been appointed in key positions. We have initiated action to revive stalled infrastructure projects These measures will also benefit our banks\nLet me now turn to issues of investment, which may be more directly relevance to you\nIn a break with over 65 years of tradition, we have been involved in India's foreign policy. The Ministry of External Affairs has been asked to work with the States. When I visited China, a state-to-state summit was also held. And states Making the States think global\nOur goal is to get jobs To provide this, the share of manufacturing must reach around 25% in our GDP We have launched a campaign called 'Make in India' and aggressively working on the front. Reducing complicated procedures, making them available on a platform-preferably online, simplifying the forms and formats. That is how we have jumped up by 12 ranks in the World Bank's Easy to Doing Business Report of 2016. Industry is realizing the benefits of these changes. Index of Industrial Production in the current year shows a distinct improvement over the previous year. We are working in all ways to make India a global manufacturing hub.\nWorld Class Infrastructure has a dream for India Therefore, our maximum focus is on building futuristic infrastructure. By exercising tight control over unproductive expenditure, we have greatly increased capital investment by the public sector. To further enhance the investment, we are encouraging the PPP model. We are also setting up National Investment and Infrastructure Fund. We are also coming up with Tax Free Infrastructure Bonds with a view to broaden the corporate bond market and to provide long term finance for infrastructure. We are working in Malaysia, Singapore and other countries in this regard.\nAs a result of our initiatives,\n• The sentiments for private investment and inflow of foreign investments have turned positive. Foreign investment is up 40%.\n• India has been constantly ranked as the most attractive investment destination by many global agencies and institutions.\n• India has also improved its UNCTAD rankings of investment attractiveness. Against 15th so far, now we are at 9th place.\n• India has also jumped 16 places on the World Economic Forum.\n• Moody's have upgraded the outlook for India\nCampaigns like Digital India and Skill India are designed to make the process. We have witnessed exponential growth in the number of start-ups in the recent past. To tap this energy fully, we have launched the Start up India Campaign.\nWe are aware of the interest of the global investor community in the potential that India has. In recent months, this interest has gone up. Therefore, to re-vitalize the flow of investments, we have launched the second wave of structural and financial reforms. We are trying to open the economy and introduce an element of predictionability and stability in taxation system.\nTo give some examples:\n• We have allowed and enhanced FDI levels in key sectors including Insurance, Defense and Railways.\n• Now, most of these FDI sectors have been put on automatic approval route.\n• We have also rationalised FDI policies in many sectors, including construction, plantation and medical devices.\n• We have now allowed composite caps for foreign portfolio investors in all sectors where FDI is allowed. Earlier, portfolio investments had a different cap\n• We have greatly liberalized the licensing regime; to give you one example - We have taken out about 60% of the protection items out of the licensing process.\n• We have ended retrospective taxation\n• We have notified the regulations for the Alternative Investment Funds\n• We have rationalized capital gains tax for Real Estate Investment Trusts\n• We have also decided to defer the implementation of General Anti Avoidance Rules.\n• We have introduced the Goods \u0026 Services Tax Bill in Parliament. We hopeful of rolling it out in 2016. This will create a unified system of taxation across the country.\n• We have drafted a new bankruptcy code. Formation of the Company Law Tribunal to expedite cases\nThese are just a few examples. Almost on a daily basis, we are trying to remove the bottlenecks that were affecting our growth process. Even early this month, we have taken a lot of steps in the future. With this round of reforms, we are among the most open economies in the world.\nGoing forward, I want to assure you that India is committed to protecting बौद्धिक संपदा अधिकारों के सभी नवाचारकर्ता We have taken several initiatives for transparency and online processing in IP administration. A comprehensive national IPR policy is expected by the end of the year. We are moving fast to make sure our tax regime is transparent and predictable. We are also looking at those issues as genuine investors and honest tax payers.\nFriends, India is a land of immense opportunities. To give some examples: 50 million affordable homes The requirement of road, rail and waterways is enormous. We have decided to go renewable energy in a big way - 175 GW. We have a short span of time Our democratic values ​​and an alert judicial system We have set the tone of governance with a long term vision and an open mind. We are the most successful place to do business.\nFriends, Most of the Asian countries have done their bit for Asia's resurgence. Now, it is India's turn. And we know that our time has come We are at a take-off stage. I invite you to come and see the winds of change in India. Winds do take time to cross the borders. That is why; I am going to invite you When you come, you will get a new business environment. And once you are there, I assure you of my full co-operation.\nThank You"