"\nMake the most of the first 10 years of service: PM to IAS Officers\nThe way to move forward is to work hard, and taking people along: PM to IAS officers\nPM to IAS officers\nOur actions should be tune with our vision PM to IAS officers of 2013 batch\nJust like people need development, the administration too needs evolution: PM Modi\nYou are the people The positive change you bring will be beneficial for the nation: PM\nAll the greatness and companions present,\nIf the lively arrangement does not accept timely reflexes, then its vibrancy ends. And that which is not in vogue in the system, the system becomes a burden in itself. And, therefore, it is very necessary - as the person needs development, the development of the systems is also required, requiring a timely change. It takes great courage to get rid of periods. But if you use it, you accurately observe it, then we also make the mindset of some things we accept.\nThere are two types of people here today. There are those who are sensual, others are preparing to go. They will be waiting to go to 16 now and then what to do, what to do if you have to go to 17 And you people would think that after going from here, what will I do before posting and then what will I do, how will I do it. That is, this is the opportunity between today's two types of groups.\nWhen you have come out of Mussoorie, then there will be absolutely no such mood that now wow now everything is in our grasp and then suddenly it will be known whether or not it does not go here some days ... and you do not know What will happen? And what will happen here, time will tell. But these thoughts came to my mind and then there was an idea - we used to first hear one thing in my childhood that some people were working on carving stones, and someone asked, \"What is the brother?\" What are you doing? \"Then someone said,\" What should brothers do, they are born in the poor house, they keep burning stones, they pass away. \"When asked to another, he said,\" Now look Bhai first And used to work, but there was a proper assay I did not. Now I have come here, see, I will try to make my future streaks on the stone. \"\nIf he went to the third, he also said, \"I have found work now, I have learned work like this.\" When he went to one, he was working with great enthusiasm, he was the one. He used to do the same, which used to be the first three people. So he said, \"No, I am a big fortune of our life, a huge grand temple is going to be built and I am creating this part inside the temple, by carving these stones in it.\"\nBecause he had a sense of mind that I am a part of the work of a huge gorgeous temple and I am caring, then I am carving a corner stone. But my last result is part of the construction of that magnificent temple. And the imagination of that magnificent temple would give her tiredness away, she did not feel burdened, stone cutting\nOccasionally we also go to the field. If a farmer comes with something, then do his work. We feel that I have done farm work. If you go to a village, there is a problem of electricity, then if the problem of electricity is removed then we feel that I have drawn a path in the problem of electricity. But here after three months of being in this situation, you will feel that I had spent three months in Delhi, and that which is the work of changing the face of India, by becoming a part of it, the land on which I am , I'm contributing there. And so the person who has gone out of Mussoorie has done a lot of work, satisfaction he has met, and sitting in Delhi, looking at the future map of India, and going to work in his field, there is a huge difference between the two . There is a huge difference. If this experience has come in three months then your thinking of working there will change.\nIf you go to the area where you will go and there will be two villages in such areas where there is no pill of power. But now when you go, you will feel good. It is 18 thousand villages of Hindustan which are not equipped with power pillars, they have to complete two villages. I will not delay, I will finish first. That is, in tune with vision, we will have action. And so a totality is not done by books, not by lecture, not by academic discussion, but by working in direct everyday work, can be learned differently. Now this experiment is new, so it is also evolving. So you must have seen that a briefing would have been given if it had come first. Suddenly another task may have come in between that hey Bhai look, do it also, because it is to develop an arrangement, then the suggestions came like they were added.\nMy very own request is also about how a three-month experiment can be, how long it should be, how to change it and how to make good or not, it can also happen. It did not, it has no advantage. What to do, this is the first batch that has the opportunity to connect with this type. If you give that kind of suggestion to the department. I was telling the department that they regularly interacted with you, used to ask your experiences, used to say. But even if you feel that if you want to make this system more effective, make a living, then you will be encouraged if you give suggestions on how to make a living.\nNow you are heading towards a new responsibility. There can be two types of things in your mind. One would be so curiosity - \"Man, well, going first. Never before in the government system. Where are you going, how will the place be, what will be the work? \"And the other will remain in mind that\" Man has to show something. \"And it will be in the mind of each one, it is not that every person It seems that every person has the desire to succeed in whatever work he gets in life. But the crisis starts when someone thinks that I will go and do something, the start of career of most people becomes entangled in the struggle. He does not know that Bhai, you are 22, 28, 25, 30 years old, but sitting there has been sitting there for 35 years. He has been sitting there for more than your age.\nYou feel that \"I have come to become a big IAS officer\" but he must have thought that \"15 like you have been in my tenure.\" And this starts with ego clash. You have been dreaming, and he is living by tradition. Conflicts between your dreams and their tradition begin. And one moment comes like this - either in the struggle, the time passes, or on your own, you make a different thing. And you think that I did not show it. All those who have been here will have experienced the experience, if you talk to them then you will know. Is not it necessary that we go there, because in your life there is no more than 10 years of work to do. Let's consider this Not more than 10 years. Whatever you can learn new, whatever you can learn new, whatever you use, you have only 10 years old. You are the other then you are, file and nothing is there. But these 10 years is not it, do not file your 10 years, life joins. And so whoever uses this maximum of 10 years, the foundation will be so strong that for the rest 20-25 years he will be able to contribute a lot.\nIf he does not come with rubbing the earth, because he has come into this pipeline as time passes, then he must reach the station, he himself becomes a burden once. Then think, \"Now what is the 20-year-old officer to do, then where will you keep it, let us enter that department, now know the luck of the department.\" But if we have come, we have come to learn, You have got ready, you will see that your strength will be to know, to understand things, to handle it, because you have done it yourself. Occasionally these experiences have great power.\nA Chief Minister had told me an incident, he had come out of his usual career, he also used to do a small job in the police department. There was a lot of personality, became the chief minister. In his Chief Minister's time, the kidnapping of a son of a legendary leader was raised. And a big tension was born because the son whose kidnapping was due was the other party. This was the chief minister who belonged to the third party. Now the media was so bai lounge. But they mobilize this heavy machinery. They gave a notice. That was big interesting. He told his intellectuals that \"Bhai, look at you, meet the sellers of milk.\" And see where suddenly the demand for milk is huge. We used to take 500 grams, now we are taking 2 liters, where is just look. They identified some where the milk was being taken more suddenly. He said that to monitor him slightly, and surprisingly, the people who were staying by kidnaping it, the place where they were staying, the milk was purchased at the same time, two to three liters suddenly suddenly. By taking that one thing, he used to complete his whole childhood, the police who had experienced the police, after being chief minister. And who was not sitting in the entire department's mind, came to his mind, and all the kidneys were caught, and brought the child away. And came out of a great crisis. Why did this happen? Then the experience of the work done during the early years of his life.\nIn your life you are in that state, in that state. So much sweat should be excused, so much sweat should be excited that the comrades should feel that this big officer is such a big task, so many others do not have to say anything. Everyone runs If you board the board, you should come to office on time. He is not so strong that you reach the first five minutes before the time, his strength is. You should tell the officers that they should visit one day a week, stay in the village at night, stay for two days. Not so much strength that until we stop and stay\nOur systems that have been developed by our ancestors are not empty-headed. There will be no logic behind it, there will be some reason. The basic things have their own strengths. Can we follow him religiously? Religiously follow us, but by adding his intellectual knowledge, we try to get out of it. And if we do this we will feel that we are really bringing results. Now you are the people who are close to the one-five districts of India in the next 10 years of coming to KIRB here. Next Ten year is the destiny of one-fifth district of India! You can imagine that if this team changes the country's one-fifth district, then I do not believe there can be any obstruction in changing India. You have a system, you have the right to make decisions, you have a team, resources ... what is not? Everything is there.\nSecond, at least the conflict, at least I can not say that no one can be there. There may be a little too many. But effort towards team formation. Ask older veterans. In which district you will be installed, there may be some people sitting here who have come to work in that district, at the beginning of their career. Find out why not Bhai has visited you in the past 25 years, before whom the officers have come before. Write a letter to them, try to contact when you came, what was the specialty, how did it happen. You will complete all 25 years of history, you can do it very easily. You will be involved in a continuity. And there will be a lot of people.\nA person's life is also a great feature, it can be taken advantage of. When a person is retired, and when a pension comes, then the pension is like a intellectual form. With full knowledge emerges, it comes with a pension. And they suggest so many suggestions-it would have been nice to do this, it would have been nice to do this. Now it was doing wrong, I do not vote. He could not do it in his own time, but he knew that it was like doing this. There will be some reasons why not. If it happens through you then he wants you to do it, that you do it, that you do this. Therefore, the complete knowledge of them is available to us. If the area where you worked, eight ten officers would have gone out in the last 20-22 years, wherever today, by taking the time, writing a letter on the phone, \"I need your guidance. I am going there, you had worked for so many years, just tell me. \"He will tell you the names of the people. \"Look at that village in which they were two people were very good people. Can work at any time. Maybe today their age has grown, they will come in handy. \"You have this good qualitative legacy. It does not matter in the official file, nor will there be someone in your office who can take hold of your finger. It comes with people who have left the experience. Should we try this, do we add something in it? We assume that the power of the society is very much in the power of the government. If the society has to chew the iron gram in doing the work, the society gets together once, then the work becomes such that it does not even exist. Our country has nature, natural calamity comes. Now, in the official arrest, the food packet is to be delivered, then how much will it be to manage - spend the budget, two thousand, five thousand, but will tell the society that see Bhai, food packet, people have come water, it is upset. You see, so many people send us less power to distribute the food packet. It is the power of society.\nThe gap between the government and the society - it can not just fill the politician. And we have to change our nature. It is not necessary that we belong to the society only through elected body. Our system should be directly communicated with the society. The second reduction comes ever, some parts are formed, through which we go, it does not benefit much. Since they have been established, their scope is also fixed. We communicate directly straight away, communicate directly with the citizens, you see so much strength will increase. It will be so helpful that you can not imagine.\nThey do all your work. अगर आपको शिक्षा में काम लेना है तो आप आपने सरकारी अधिकारियों के माध्‍यम से जाएंगे, या टीचर के साथ बैठ लेंगे एक बार? अब देखिए वो अपने आप में एक शक्ति में बदलाव आना शुरू हो जाएगा। मेरा कहने का तात्‍पर्य है कि हम अपने आप को हमारे दफ्तर से अगर बाहर निकाल सकते हैं, हम हमारी व्‍यवस्‍थाओं को दफ्तरों से बाहर निकाल करके जोड़ सकते हैं। अब यह अनुभवी अफसरों ने जो योजना बनाई थी और आप लोगों को जो मैंने सुझाव दिया था, सिन्‍हा जी को जरा इनको एक देखिए वो बराबर इसका discussion करे और क्‍या कमियां है इनको ढूंढकर लाइये, अब आपकी presentation में वो सारी बातें उजागर की है। और आपका जितना अनुभव था जिस circumstances में आपने काम किया, अपने सुझाव भी दिए। मैं चाहूंगा कि department के लोग जरा इसको एक बार seriously proper forum में देखें कि क्‍या हो सकता है। हो सकता है कि दस में से दो होगा लेकिन होगा तो सही।\nयह प्रक्रिया, क्‍या आप यही प्रक्रिया, क्‍या आप यही परंपरा आप जहां जाए एक अलग-अलग layer के जो एकदम fresh जो हो, कोई पांच साल के अनुभवी, कोई सात साल के, उनको एक-आध दो समस्‍या अगर उस इलाके की नजर आती है – major दो समस्‍या। और अगर आपको लगता है कि मुझे दो-ढाई साल यहां रहना है यह दो समस्‍या को मुझे address करना है। उनको बिठाइये, बोलिये “अरे, देखो भाई जरा study करके बताइये। हम बातचीत पहुंचा क्‍यों नहीं पा रहे? क्‍या उपाय करे, कैसे सुधार करे, तुम मुझे सुझाव दो।“ आप देखिए वो आपकी टीम के ऐसे हिस्‍से बन जाएंगे, जो आपको शायद खुद जा करके छह महीने study में लगेगा, वो आपको एक सप्‍ताहभर के अंदर दे देंगे। हम हमारी टीम को अलग-अलग layer कैसे तैयार करे, expansion कैसे करे। यह अगर हमारी administration में लचीलापन हम लाते हैं, आप देखिए आप बहुत बड़ा परिवर्तन ला सकते हैं। आपके जिम्‍मे हैं... मैं आज उन बातों को करना नहीं चाहता हूं कि भारत सरकार की यह योजना है उसको यह लागू करो, फलाना लागू करो। वो सरकारी अफसर का स्‍वभाव होता है कि अगर ऊपर से कागज़ आए तो उसके लिए वो बाइबल हो जाता है। लेकिन कभी-कभार उसमें ताकत भरने की जिम्‍मेारी व्‍यक्ति-व्‍यक्ति पर होती है। और हम उस बात को करे, तो आप अच्‍छा परिणाम दे सकते हैं।\nकभी-कभार हम देखते हैं कि भई दो-चार लोग बीमार मिल जाते हैं तो प‍ता चल जाता है कि क्‍या है, “वायरल चल रहा है।“ वायरल है इसके कारण बीमार है। लेकिन at the same time हम देखते हैं कि वायरल होने के बाद भी बहुत लोग हैं जो बीमार नहीं है। बीमार इसलिए नहीं है कि इनकी immunity है, उनकी inherent ताकत है जिसके कारण वायरल उनको effect नहीं करता। क्‍या हम जहां जाएं वहां, वायरल चाहे जो भी हो - आलस का हो सकता है वायरल, उदासीनता का हो सकता है वायरल, corruption का हो सकता है वायरल – होंगे। लेकिन अगर मैं एक ऐसी ताकत ले करके जाता हूं। अपने आप वायरल होने के बाद भी, एक दवाई की गोली वायरल के होने के बाद भी टिका सकती है। तो जीता-जाता इंसान उस वायरल वाली अवस्‍था में भी स्थिति को बदल सकता है। अगर एक टिकिया इतना परिवर्तन ला सकती है, तो मैं तो इंसान हूं। मैं क्‍यों नहीं ला सकता? रोने बैठने से होता नहीं है।\nलेकिन तनाव और संघर्ष के साथ स्थितियां बदली नहीं जा सकती है। आप लोगों को कितना जोड़ते है, उतनी आपकी ताकत ज्‍यादा बढ़ती है। आप कितने शक्तिशाली अनुभव कराते हैं, उससे उतना परिणाम नहीं मिलता है कि जितना कि लोगों को जोड़ने से मिलता है। और इसलिए आप इस क्षेत्र में जा रहे हैं जो जिम्‍मेवारियां निभाने जा रहे हैं... राष्‍ट्र के जीवन में कभी-कभी ऐसे अवसर आते हैं, जो हमें कहां से कहां पहुंचा देते हैं। आज वैश्विक परिवेश में मैं अनुभव करता हूं कि इस कालखंड का ऐसी golden opportunity को भारत को खोने का कोई अधिकार नहीं है। न सवा सौ करोड़ देशवासियों को ऐसी golden opportunity को भारत को खोने का कोई अधिकार है, न व्‍यवस्‍था में जुड़े हुए हम सबको इस golden opportunity को खोने का अवसर है। ऐसे अवसर वैश्विक परिवेश में बहुत कम आते हैं, जो मैं आज अनुभव कर रहा हूं। जो आया है, यह हाथ से निकल न जाए। यह मौके का उपयोग भारत को नई ऊंचाईयों पर ले जाने के लिए कैसे हम करें? स्थितियों का हम फायदा कैसे उठाए? और हम जो जहां है वहां, जितनी उसकी जिम्‍मेवारी है, जितनी उसकी ताकत है, हम उसका अगर पूरा भरपूर उपयोग करेंगे और तय करेंगे, नहीं नहीं मुझे आगे ले जाना है। आप देखिए देश चल पड़ेगा। मेरी आप सबको बहुत शुभकामनाएं हैं, बहुत-बहुत धन्‍यवाद।"