"Share\n\nGovernments across the world work to transform the lives of the poor and marginalized: PM Modi\nOur mission is to build a prosperous India. To achieve this objective, it is necessary to fight relentlessly against corruption: PM\nWe want to build an India where our farmers are able, our workers are satisfied, our women empowered and our youth self-dependent: PM\nOur government has taken steps to check corruption and the black money in a short span of time: PM\nOur Government has signed the Inter Government Agreement with the United States to implement the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act: PM\nPartnership between Stolen Asset Recovery Initiative and Interpol will help in confiscation and recovery of stolen assets: PM\nAuction of Coal Blocks \u0026 FM Radio Licenses have eliminated the element of discretion in resources of resources: PM Modi\nWe are focused on providing system based and policy driven governance structure that is sensitive, transparent and accountable: PM\nGovernment has taken several steps to make the bureaucracy more efficient performance-oriented and accountable: PM Modi\nGovernment is unsparing when it comes to punishing the corrupt: PM\nSecretary General, INTERPOL, Mr. Jurgen Stock\nMy ministerial colleague Dr. Jitendra Singh\nOther dignitaries on the dais\nLadies and Gentlemen\nI am happy to be here today to address the delegates of the sixth Global Focal Point Conference on Asset Recovery, and the Annual Conference of the CBI and State Anti-Corruption Bureau. I also extend a warm welcome to the delegates from overseas who are attending this Conference. I hope that your visit to India is pleasant and memorable.\nI also congratulate the officers of CBI who have received medals for distinguished service today.\nLadies and Gentlemen,\nGovernments across the world work to change the lives of the poor and the marginalized Corruption is one of the major challenges to that purpose.\nWe are currently in a crucial phase of nation building. Our mission is to build a prosperous India. An India where\n• our farmers are able;\n• our women empowered;\n• and our youth self-reliant;\nThis is not an impossible mission However, to achieve this objective, it is necessary to fight relentlessly against corruption. India stands against its fight against corruption\nMy government has taken steps to check corruption and the black money in a short span of time. The very day that we assumed office, we constituted a Special Investigation Team under the supervision of the Supreme Court. We have entered into deals with many countries for exchanging real time information on black money. The Government has signed the Inter Government Agreement with the United States to implement the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act. This agreement enables Indian tax authorities to receive financial account information from Indians.\nA comprehensive and preventive law, the Black Money Undisclosed Foreign Income and Assets and Imposition of Tax Act enacted. It provides for stringent penalties and prosecution.\nWe have also introduced a provision under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act for restitution of assets. This will enable millions of poor investors who have lost money in ponzi schemes for their hard earned money.\nI hope that the partnership between Stolen Asset Recovery Initiative (STAR) and Interpol will help in confiscation and recovery of stolen assets. I am sure this conference will go a long way towards elimination of safe havens for the proceeds of corruption and help build secure exchange platforms for recovery of criminal assets\nOur recent initiatives to curb systemic corruption such as auction of coal blocks and FM radio spectrum have eliminated the element of discretion in the national resources of the allocation. This has brought about transparency in the system and restored faith in the citizens in Government. It has also generated substantial revenue for the government\nLadies and Gentlemen,\nWe are focused on providing system based and policy driven governance. A governance structure that is sensitive, transparent and accountable. Let me share an example to illustrate how corruption can be eliminated silently and efficiently by simple technology and policy based initiative.\nWhen we assumed office, I was informed that cooking gas cylinders were being subsidized to the tune of approximately four hundred rupees per cylinder. This subsidy was given to rich and poor alike. We decided that the subsidy should be credited directly into bank accounts of the customers with each account being linked to a unique support card. This single intervention has reduced the number of registered consumers claiming gas subsidy by about fifty million. Subsequently, we also launched a campaign for the \"well off\" The response has been very encouraging. As on date, more than 4.5 million people have given up their gas subsidy.\nFriends\nOne of the challenges that we should address is Government Deficit. This includes:\n• Inadequate capacity to deliver public services effective and efficiently\n• Lack of appropriate responses\n• and delays in project implementation\nMy government has taken several steps to make the bureaucracy more efficient performance-oriented and accountable. The government is committed to be able to protect against public servants and to protect them from frivolous allegations. Equally, the government is unsparing when it comes to punishment. We have so far removed and ensured pension cuts of 45 senior officers of different services for unsatisfactory performance and delivery in public service.\nLadies and Gentlemen,\nGlobalization of organized crime poses a major risk to economies throughout the world. It is a well-known fact that 'dirty money' drives out 'good money.' Organized crime can hamper investment and economic growth It can also infiltrate or acquire Illicit funding promotes organized criminal activities like drug trafficking, arms trafficking, human trafficking, and terrorism.\nThe dastardly acts committed in Paris a few days ago are a grim reminder that terrorists have shown remarkable flexibility and adaptability in meeting their funding requirements. They derive funding from a variety of criminal activities which include smuggling of narcotics, bank robbery, vehicle theft, fake currency, or from state sponsors and activities in failed states.\nDisrupting fund flows constrains the capabilities of terrorists and reduces their ability to execute attacks. This involves putting both systemic safeguards, and targeted economic sanctions based on credible counter-terrorism intelligence.\nTargeting proceeds of crime Therefore, there is an imperative need to focus our efforts in the international cooperation in the field of asset recovery for fighting crime, corruption and terrorism.\nConfiscation of property of offenders not only serves as punishment but also discourages commission of crime. In fact, Kautilya in his 'Artha Shastra,' had suggested the confiscation of illegitimate income as corrupt public servants.\nI am also pleased to note that the head of State Anti-Corruption Bureau and the CBI will deliberate on the related issues of tracking proceeds of corruption. This two decade old forum should not only focus on the prosecution of offenders involved in corruption but also their standard operating procedures.\nLadies and Gentlemen,\nEconomic liberalism and globalization have drastically increased the ability to park profits of crime anywhere in the world Today's earnings of crime can be routed through dozens of countries within seconds. By a process of layering the money-trail can be concealed. Investigation agencies are limited by national boundaries. Our Government is committed to implementing a uniform global standard on Automatic Exchange of Information, on a fully reciprocal basis. This will facilitate the exchange of information related people who have hidden their money in offshore financial centers and tax havens.\nINTERPOL is an increasingly active role in asset recovery Since 2009, Global Focal Point Forum is actively promoting the exchange of corruption enforcement agencies and global anti-corruption entities. In this context, mention must be made of INTERPOL's initiatives such as I-SECOM, a secure web-based encrypted channel for the exchange of sensitive data among the special anti-corruption community. The new INTERPOL notice could add value to asset-tracing investigations and facilitate real time information sharing in complex cases. I appreciate the efforts of INTERPOL and its partners - World Bank and UNODC - in the conceiving the idea and giving leadership to this forum that has the potential to put an end to safe havens for the corrupt.\nI am told that the excellent and proactive cooperation between INTERPOL and Indian investigative agencies have resulted in many fugitive criminals and their subsequent deportation or extradition. I like this cooperation to deepen CBI has been effectively assisting the Indian law enforcement agencies and their foreign counterparts in overcoming the barriers that complicate the exchange of investigative information. I am also informed that CBI has been using the INTERPOL tools and database for security enforcement agencies worldwide. It has also been successfully participating in INTERPOL Capacity Building Programs.\nWe are in the process of establishing an International Center of Excellence in Investigation at Ghaziabad. This Center will render world class Certified Courses on Investigation and Prosecution in specialized and emerging domains of crime including cybercrime, to the law enforcement community of India and abroad. A Centralized Technology Vertical to focus on combating new age crimes like cybercrime, is also being planned.\nThere are many cases in the annals of Indian judicial history in which conviction is solely based on forensic expert opinion. India must, therefore, have adequate facilities to be able to clear the huge backlog of forensic opinion.\nThe proceeds of crime and corruption are stolen assets. They are stashed. They are rightfully the citizens of the country from which they have been plundered. I am aware of the legal and procedural obstacles and differences in evidentiary standards that hinder Asset Recovery To overcome these challenges, Police and Law Enforcement Agencies should forge formal and informal relationships I hope this conference provides you I also hope that the delegates will be seriously misinterpreted and devised proper procedures and protocols to quicken the process of tracing, identifying, restraining, confiscating, and repatriating the stolen assets.\nThank you."