"Share\n\nFour years ago no one had thought that the middlemen of the helicopter scam, Christian Michel will be in custody: PM\nWe have a psychology here, when it is believed that the government is wrong and the accuser is right. But every charge of corruption has been proved wrong: PM\nPM Modi's bottlenecks gone through policy driven governance and predictable transparent policies: PM Modi\nMy vision is clear- the country with the world's youngest young population can not see small dreams: PM Modi\nOur focus is on proper education for children, employment for the youth, medical facilities for the elderly, irrigation facilities for the farmer and we are sure that people's voice is heard: PM\nFrom just two mobile manufacturing factories in 2014, we have crossed 120 manufacturing units: Prime Minister Modi\nFirst of all I express my condolences on the accident in Mumbai's hospital here. My chief minister has talked about this. The State Government is doing every possible help to the families of the victims. My condolences for those families who lost their lives in this accident.\nColleagues,\nDriven by a journalist, a journalist, committed to pure journalism, Replikik TV is a one-powerful experiment. Your channel has made its mark in a very short time. You are playing an important role in delivering the right information to the people of all the countries. I congratulate the entire management of Republic TV, every journalist working here, the Reporters and Stringers working in different parts of the country. To consider the country's condition and direction, by organizing this type of event, you are also motivating people for new ideas, new solutions. Congratulations to all of you for this too.\nColleagues,\nBefore independence, the fiendish of independence used to journalism. Letters-journals used to play the vocals of freedom. In Azad India, there is a great need for positive news for a happy and prosperous country too. The desire of the countrymen to do something, to awaken the country, it is very necessary. Like the Swaraj movement's spirit, the same should be the energy of the movement of the Surajya. India has emerged as a force in the world, in many areas we have to achieve global height.\nWhether it is science, technology, innovation, sports, in the same way, to build the voice of India in the world, our media also makes global reach, global identity, this is the time demand. Today, Media World of India should accept this challenge.\nColleagues,\nSurging India, these two words are a manifestation of the feelings of 130 million Indians. These are those Feelings, they are Vibrations, which are experiencing the whole world today. In every aspect of society, he is moving forward towards his true place on the global stage. India's economy, India's talent, social order of India, cultural values ​​of India or India's strategic strength, India's identity at every level is getting stronger.\nColleagues,\nToday I am on the stage of the media, the questions are very dear to you, so I will start my talk with a few questions. It is said that I have a habit of being in the same color as if I have some moment with you. As you hide a lot in your questions, in my questions you will find many answers from Surging India.\nColleagues,\nDid four years ago somebody thought that India would soon step up to join the Five Trillion Dollar Dollars Economies Club? Did four years ago somebody thought that the ranking of the easiest of Doing business would come from 142 to 77, India is stepping at the top speed in the top 50. Was it four years ago that someone thought that more people would travel in the AC train in India? Will you be sitting in the plane? Did four years ago somebody thought that the rickshaw driver,\nVegetable and tea maker will also be using the BHIM App, will increase your confidence by placing a debit card in your pocket?\nDid anyone four think that the Aviation Sector of India would move so fast that the companies would have to order a thousand new airplanes? And you will be surprised to know that in our country, a total of 450 airplanes have been operational since independence, private, public, government, and so on. In one year, the order of one thousand new airplanes shows this. Did four years ago someone thought that National Waterways would become a reality in India, a ship from Kolkata would run on the Ganges and bring the goods to Benaras? Did four years ago somebody thought that we would have been in India, testing a train without an engine which would run at 180 kmph?\nDid four years ago somebody thought that India would make a record of leaving a hundred satellites at one go, and not only that, he is moving forward on the target of Gaganaya. Did four years ago somebody thought that India's prestige would increase so much from the world of start-up to the world of sports?\nColleagues,\nFour years ago nobody even thought that one day such a big ruler of the helicopter scandal, Christian Michel will be in India, adding all the episodes. Four years ago no one had even thought that the Congress leaders, convicted of 1984 Sikh massacre, would be punished, people will get justice. After all, why did these changes come? The country is the same, the people are there, the bureaucracy is the same, our resources are the same, the resources are the same, then what is the reason for this change?\nColleagues,\nWe have a psychology here that whenever a person goes to a court accusing the government, it is believed that the government will be wrong and the accusator will be right. It is generally our belief that we are scams, there are allegations of corruption, this mentality has become home in our mind, because we have seen it first. But this too has happened for the first time when some went to the highest court in the country accusing the government of corruption and the court got a quick answer that what has happened has been done with transparency, it has been done honestly. There will be such a thing in our country, even four years ago no one thought it too.\nBrothers and sisters, I often see that during the broadcast, you show the difference between the first two and the two windows, i.e. two situations. I also have a very interesting picture of earlier and now that makes Surging India more effective.\nColleagues,\nToday, there is a picture before the country 2014, when the scope of sanitation was less than 40 percent. Now at the end of 2018, the same scope has increased to 97 percent. Today there is a picture of the country before 2014, when 50 percent of the country's people did not have bank accounts. Now at the end of 2018, every family has joined the banking system. Today there is another picture before the country in 2014, where the number of taxpayers was 3 million 80 lakhs. Now this number has increased to about 7 crore this year.\nToday there is a picture before 2014 in front of the country where only 65 lakh entrepreneurs were registered to pay tax. Now the situation is now that in just one and a half years 55 lakh new entrepreneurs have come forward for registration. Today there is a picture before 2014 in front of the country where there were only 2 companies making mobile. Today the number of those mobile manufacturing companies has increased to 120. 2 to 120\nColleagues,\nThis change of earlier and now, puts the very strong picture of Surging India. All this is happening because our government is moving forward by making policy driven governance and predictable Transparent Policies in the country today. The result of this is that today there are two highways in India, doubling of railway lines at double speed, electricity is being started, more than 100 new airport and heliport are being worked, 30-30, 40 -The schemes stuck for 40 years are being met.\nToday you go anywhere in India, you will definitely find a signboard - 'Work in Progress'.\nColleagues,\nThese signboards truly show 'India in Progress'. There is work to build a new India, not just roads, flyovers, and metro. I am in that city today, for which 'The city that never stops' I stand here and tell you that today, 'India is a country that never stops' Do not stop, do not slow down, do not wait: This India has decided!\nColleagues,\nHere too, 22 kilometer long Mumbai Trans Harbor link building in Mumbai, work of Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train, work of double line sub-urban corridor, work of hundreds of kilometers of Metro corridor, started only after becoming BJP government at the Center in 2014. Has happened. I am told that new trains are also being given in the busy section of Andheri-Virar which will increase the capacity of this railway line by 33 percent.\nColleagues,\nThese requirements of the country were also before, these requirements of Mumbai, these needs were also before, for many decades. But the work is happening now. Imagine why? I also want to give you the answer and will try to respond to the behavior of the TV people.\nWhenever I get the time, I look at Arnab, I hear more than seeing how he sat down with so many guests, and question-answer. Two windows and multiple windows have complete tam-jams.\nColleagues,\nA similar one Window is made every month in the Prime Minister's Office in Delhi. This meeting is progressing and accounting is done, the project is held for decades. In the last four years, I have removed projects that have been known to be in the files since then. I would like to inform you that so far over 12 lakh crores old projects have been reviewed in this meeting. One - What is the importance of a project, how hard it is, I also tell you the example of Mumbai.\nColleagues,\nI remember, the topic of Navi Mumbai International Airport came in the 'Pragati' meeting about three years ago, so I was surprised. The committee was formed for the first time in November 1997 for the second airport in Mumbai. Since then, only about 20 years of time, the files ran just as far away, I would say it kept flying. How many governments have come in the meantime, how much went, files flying, ships never fly. But the files of Navi Mumbai Airport did not go forward.\nBy making multiple windows in the progress meeting, bringing all the officers, all the departments together, face-to-face, our government removed all the bottoms coming in front of this project, and now the Navi Mumbai airport is working fast.\nImagine, this is just a story about a project. And let me tell you again, we have carried forward such projects of 12 lakh crores ahead of speed. This is his living example behind Surging India, which has changed the culture of work culture.\nColleagues,\nA few years ago, on one stage I had a story of 2 friends. Once these two friends went for a walk in the jungle. But the big dense forest was a terrible animal, so there were also security items with you, the quality of the pistol, the gun was with you. And then they would not be able to see them, then stopped and got off the car, took a stroll around and started to go for a walk and when they came out for a walk, suddenly a lion came. And the baggage was lying in the car, the gun was lying in the car, left there and it was strolling, the lion came. But how to combat this situation now? Run away, run away where? But one of those who showed the lion of getting the license of the revolver from his pocket, I have seen that I have.\nColleagues,\nThis is what has happened in our country. Companions, this was our first government approach. There was no place for action to give anything to act. When I told this story, then I was not even the Prime Minister. Then I said that we need to move beyond the act and take action with firmness. After coming to the government, I tell you how I did this.\nColleagues,\nThe previous government came with the Food Security Act, played a lot of songs, singing their songs, used to sing a lot of shouting. There was a lot of criticism, a lot of applause, but when we came to power in 2014 only 11 states took advantage of it. Imagine, even after collecting such applause, a large population of India could not take advantage of it.\nAfter we arrived, we ensured that all 36 states and Union Territories should reach its advantage. Similarly, there was a big discussion in 2013-14 that 10 cylinders of gas or 12 cylinders would be given and elections were being fought in its name. But by 2014, only 55 percent of the households in India had gas connections.\nYou thought the 10 cylinder-12 cylinders were contested and half the country's people had no connection to gas.\nColleagues,\nOur government is working for a permanent solution to the problems, the challenges facing the country are increasing towards their Permanent Solutions. We are breaking out of such systems, which have stopped the development of the country for decades. I want to give you an example of Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code\nColleagues,\nThere was a strange tradition about debt in our country that if a poor or lower middle class person took a loan of one lakh rupees and he could not return it would have been difficult to avoid. But besides this you have been well-acquainted with another picture. There were thousands of big companies in the country who did not get 5-10 lakhs from the bank, 5-10 crore, but took loans of five hundred thousand crore rupees.\nBut for these different reasons when these companies fell ill, used to go to the deficit and could not return the money to the banks, then these companies and the owners of these companies had nothing to do.\nColleagues,\nFor 70 years since independence this system was coming in the country. You know, why was this? This was because these companies got a special type of protective shield. This is a protective cover, in which specific people, some special family directives. It was a security cover which prevented the banks from acting, which encouraged companies too, why return the money to the banks, who is coming to ask you for money?\nBrothers and sisters, I know how many problems were encountered, what kind of pressure had to face, but in 2016 I broke this security cycle by creating the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code. आज मैं गर्व से कह सकता हूं कि बैंकों से कर्ज लेकर बैठ जाने वाले, बीमार कंपनी के बहाने देश का हजारों करोड़ रुपए लेकर बैठे ऐसे लोग, ऐसी कंपनियां खुद अपना पैसा लौटाने लगी हैं।\nbrothers and sisters,\nसिर्फ दो साल में अब तक सवा लाख करोड़ रुपए खुद चलकर ऐसी कंपनियों ने बैंकों को और अपने देनदारों को लौटाए हैं। इसमें से बहुत सारी राशि छोटे सप्लायर्स की थी, छोटे उद्यमियों की थी, MSMEसेक्टर की थी। जिन कंपनियों पर इस कानून का डंडा चला है, ऐसी कंपनियों से अब तक पौने दो लाख करोड़ रुपए का कर्ज वापस लिया जा चुका है। यानि एक तरह से देखें तो 2016 में जो नया कानून बनाया, उसके बाद करीब-करीब तीन लाख करोड़ रुपए का कर्ज इन करोड़पतियों ने, इनकी कंपनियों ने अपने बैंकों को, अपने देनदारों को चुकाने के लिए मज़बूर होना पड़ा है । और ये प्रक्रिया आज भी जारी है।\nColleagues,\nइसी तरह बैंकों को लूटकर जो भगोड़े हो जाते हैं, उनके लिए भी सख्त कानून अपना काम कर रहा है। अब देश में ही नहीं विदेशों में भी ऐसे अपराधियों की संपत्ति कुर्क हो रही है। ऐसे तमाम अपराधियों को दुनिया के किसी भी कोने में छुपने की जगह नहीं मिले, इसके लिए ये सरकार प्रतिबद्ध है।\nColleagues,\nभ्रष्टाचार को भारत में न्यू नॉर्मल मान लिया गया था। भारत में ये तो चलता ही है, इतना तो चलता ही है। अगर कोई सामने से आवाज़ उठाता था, नियम-कायदों की याद दिलाता था, तो सामने से तुरंत जवाब मिलता था कि, ये भारत है, यहां ऐसा ही चलता है। ऐसा ही क्यों चलना चाहिए ? कब तक चलना चाहिए ? स्थिति को वैसा ही क्यों रहना चाहिए ? ऐसी स्थिति को बदलना क्यों नहीं चाहिए ?\nColleagues,\nपिछले 4 साढ़े चार साल में, मैं इसी स्थिति को बदलने का प्रयास कर रहा हूं, देश को पीछे ले जाने वाली बंदिशों को तोड़ने का काम कर रहा हूं। कुछ लोग देश को भ्रमित करने में जुटे हुए हैं। लेकिन मुझे सत्य की शक्ति पर भरोसा है, और सत्यनिष्ठ देशवासियों पर मेरा भरपूर भरोसा है।\nभाइयों और बहनों, आज भारत की विदेश नीति घरेलू मामलों, तुष्टिकरण के दबाव के तहत हम नहीं चल रहे हैं, बल्कि हमारी सारी नीतियां, सारी योजनाएँ सर्वजन हिताय सर्वजन सुखाय राष्ट्रहित से तय होती है। हमें कहां जाना है, किस देश के साथ संबंध रखने हैं, वो दोनों देशों के आपसी हितों से तय होते हैं।\nयही कारण है कि भारत के पासपोर्ट की ताकत आज बढ़ी है। आज पूरी दुनिया में भारत की आवाज़ गंभीरता से सुनी जा रही है। दुनिया की ताकतवर संस्थाओं में भारत को प्रतिनिधित्व मिल रहा है। भारत की चिंताओं के प्रति संवेदनशीलता के साथ विचार होता है और भारत के लिए विशेष प्रावधान किए जाते हैं। OPEC जैसी संस्थाओं में प्रतिनिधित्व ना होने के बावजूद भारत की बात सुनी जाती है।\nColleagues,\nये दुनिया में भारत के प्रति बढ़े विश्वास और हमारे मजबूत संबंधों का ही परिणाम है, कि भारत को धोखा देने वाले, हमारी व्यवस्थाओं से खेलने वालों को कानून के कठघरे में खड़ा किया जा रहा है। उनको भारत को सौंपा जा रहा है।\nColleagues,\nजब सार्वजनिक जीवन में सुचिता, पारदर्शिता हो और लोगों के लिए काम करने के प्रति, Conviction हो, कमिटमेंट हो तो बड़े और कड़े फैसले लेने का हौसला अपने आप आ जाता है । हमारे देश में दशकों से जीएसटी की मांग थी। आज हम संतोष के साथ कह सकते हैं कि जीएसटी लागू होने के बाद बाजार की विसंगतियां दूर हो रही हैं और सिस्टम की कार्य क्षमता बढ़ रही है। अर्थव्यवस्था में पारदर्शिता की तरफ हम बढ़ रहे हैं।\nसमाज के मेहनती औऱ उद्यमी लोग, जो बाजार से जुड़े हैं, उन्हें एक साफ-सुथरी, सरल, इंस्पेक्टर राज से मुक्त व्यवस्था मिल रही है। पूरे भारत ने एक-मन होकर, इतने बड़े टैक्स रीफॉर्म को लागू करने के लिए प्रयास किया। हर किसी ने अपना योगदान दिया है। हमारे कारोबारियों और लोगों के इसी जज्बे का परिणाम है कि भारत इतना बड़ा बदलाव करने में सफल हो सका। विकसित देशों में भी छोटे-छोटे टैक्स रीफॉर्म लागू करना आसान नहीं होता है।\nजैसा मैंने पहले कहा-जीएसटी लागू से पहले रजिस्टर्ड इंटरप्राइजेज की संख्या मात्र 66 लाख थी। जो अब बढ़कर 1 करोड़ 20 लाख हो गई है। शुरुआती दिनों में जीएसटी अलग-अलग राज्यों में वैट और एक्साइज की जो व्यवस्था थी, उसी की छाया में आगे बढ़ रहा था। जैसे-जैसे विचार-विमर्श हुआ, stakeholders से बात हुई, राज्य सरकारों से बात हुई, economists से बात हुई, टैक्स practitioners से बात हुई, धीरे-धीरे इसमें भी बदलाव आते रहे।\nColleagues,\nआज जीएसटी का सिस्टम काफी हद तक स्थापित हो गया है। और हम अभी भी आवश्यकता के अनुसार जन सामान्य के अनुकूलता के हिसाब से उसको ढालने के लिए प्रतिबद्ध हैं । यह बहुत महत्वपूर्ण बात आपको बताना चाहता हूँ आज हम उस स्थिति की तरफ पहुंच रहे हैं, जहां 99 प्रतिशत चीजें, 18 प्रतिशत या उससे कम टैक्स के दायरे में लाई जा सकती हैं। और हम उस दिशा में आगे बढ़ रहे हैं। इसके बाद जो एक आध-प्रतिशत लक्जरी आइटम्स होंगे, वे ही शायद 18 प्रतिशत के बहार रह जायेंगे, जिसमें कोई हवाई जहाज खरीद करके लाता है, कोई बहुत बड़ी मेहेंगी गाडी खरीद करके लाता है,शराब है, सिगरेट है ऐसी कुछ चीजे, मुश्किल से एक परसेंट भी नहीं । हमारा ये मत है कि GST को जितना सरल और सुविधा जनक किया जा सकता है, उसे किया जाना चाहिए। और यह स्पष्ट है, और मैं तो अभी जो GST council की मीटिंग होगी उसके लिए भी मैंने अपने सुझाव दे दियें हैं, क्यूंकि वह सभी राज्य मिल करके तय करते हैं, 99 परसेंट चीजें 18 परसेंट से नीचे हो जाएँगी आधा पौना या एक परसेंट, हवाई जाहज हो, बड़ी गाडी हो, शराब हो, सिगरेट हो, ऐसी चीजों को छोड़कर, सामान्य मानव से जुडी हुई सारी चीजे 99 परसेंट, 18 परसेंट से नीचे हो जाएँगी । और यह काम हम लगातार करते करते लक्ष्य को पार करने के दिशा में पहुंच रहे हैं।\nColleagues,\nमेरा और मेरी सरकार की सोच और विजन स्पष्ट है। दुनिया का सबसे बड़ी युवा आबादी वाला देश छोटे सपने नहीं देख सकता। सपने, आकांक्षाएं और लक्ष्य तो ऊंचे ही होने चाहिए। हम बड़े लक्ष्य की तरफ ईमानदारी से प्रयास करेंगे, तो उसे प्राप्त भी करेंगे। लेकिन लक्ष्य ही छोटा रखोगे तो सफलता भी छोटी ही नजर आएगी।\nColleagues,\nसरकार का पूरा सिस्टम, पूरी मशीनरी 70 वर्ष के सतत विकास से बनी है। 4 साढ़े 4 वर्ष पहले भी यही सिस्टम था, यही मशीनरी थी। लेकिन आज काम करने की स्पीड और स्केल दोनों कई गुणा बढ़ गए हैं। आज अनेक लक्ष्य ऐसे हैं जिनकी तरफ हम तेज़ी से आगे बढ़ रहे हैं। सबके पास अपना घर हो, हर घर में 24 घंटे रोशनी हो, साफ पानी और साफ ईंधन सबको सुलभ हो, इन लक्ष्यों के बहुत नज़दीक आज भारत पहुंच रहा है। बच्चों को पढ़ाई, युवा को कमाई, बुज़ुर्गों को दवाई, किसान को सिंचाई और जन-जन की सुनवाई, इन लक्ष्यों की प्राप्ति के लिए एक-एक पल हमारा समर्पित है।\nColleagues,\nएक नया विश्वास लिए, न्यू इंडिया, विश्व पटल पर अपनी भूमिका तय कर रहा है। नए ग्लोबल ऑर्डर में अपने रोल को Redefine कर रहा है। आने वाले दो दिनों में इस रोल पर देश विदेश से जुटे मेहमान यहां गंभीर चर्चा करेंगे, इसके लिए मेरी तरफ से आपको बहुत बहुत शुभकामनाएं हैं । नई ऊर्जा पर सवार New India के बारे में बताने का आपने अवसर दिया, इसके लिए आप सभी का बहुत-बहुत धन्यवाद करता हूं । और मुझे विश्वास है की जिस सपने को लेकर के पत्रकारिता से जुड़े हुए कुछ नौजवानो ने रिपब्लिक टी.वी. का प्रयोग किया है और अब तो हिंदी में भी जा रहे हैं, देश की अन्य भाषाओं में भी जाने का सोचेंगे लेकिन विश्व में भी अपनी जगह बनाने का सपना लेकर के चलेंगे इसी शुभकामना के साथ बहुत बहुत धन्यवाद ।"