"India's relations with the UK is touching new heights: PM Narendra Modi\nThere is no place for intolerance in India: PM Narendra Modi\nIndia and the UK are committed to counter terrorism collectively: PM Modi\nBritain is our gateway to the European Union: PM Narendra Modi\nWe want our trade ties to grow, economic ties to strengthen: PM\nWe want latest technologies from the UK to enter India: PM Modi\nIndo-UK relations, UK PM's visit to India and Government's commitment towards its citizens\nIt is true that there was a ten-year gap, but only during my tenure, in the last one year, 11 ministers came from India and 11 ministers went to India from here. And that is the collective effort that is going on for the new height of development, which is the relationship between India and the UK. It is going on continuously. I have had an opportunity to discuss with the Prime Minister twice in detail. And we have been very successful in deepening our relations.\nYou have asked the question on one topic, India, ... this is the land of Buddha.India ... it is the land of Gandhi. And so in our rituals, one thing is in our rugs that India does not accept anything against the fundamental values ​​of society. And so, in any corner of India, any event decreases, that event is one for India, two or three, the importance of one event in the country of 100 million people is not that it does not matter to us. Every event is serious for us. We do not tolerate this in any condition. The law will act rigorously and will. And India is a vibrant democracy, which is committed to protecting, protecting, and protecting every kind of life from general to normal citizen's life. And we are committed to this work.\nIndo-UK co-operation against terrorism\nThanks! The worry that you expressed on the last word, is concerned about everyone who believes in humanism. And today I want to say with great satisfaction that India and Britain have taken initiative together with shoulders in all the initiatives taken for terrorism issues in the United Nations. In Britain, many British soldiers have given their lives, while India has lost many of its best officers there. We are both countries which are troubled by terrorism. And so fighting against terrorism is not the subject of one or two or three countries. This humanitarian is the responsibility of everyone. Today terrorism is spread like this, there is no limit to it, it has no land area. Every day is born by the name of new organization. Every day new equipment come in their hands. Now the terrorists do not even manufacture any equipment. First of all, Mahatma Gandhi used to say that justice comes when you know what injustice is saying to you. We say terrorists, who is the helper to help? In the United Nations there is a proposal in relation to it, to define it. He has not been settled so far .. He has been hanging like this. And it is both us and Britain that it should be interpreted.\nAnd so humanistic forces should be one. Those terrorists who help the terrorists should beolate those powers. And to protect humanism we must all work together.\nInvitation to visit UK, Future of India-UK ties and if UK move out of European Union.\nI will give you an information for this one. I came here in 2003 and at that time I found very reception here and participated in the programs. The UK has never stopped me from coming here, I have never banned anybody. I could not come because of my lack of time, that is different. So this is a wrong perception, correct it.\nThe second thing is that after two years there will be referendum, I understand that the citizens here are very sensible, I do not need to give them any tip. But even so, India's question is, if we have any entrance to the European Union, then Britain is. And if most of our economic business is with anyone then it is with the UK. We are going to the other countries of Europe from this gateway. So it is ours, and we would like to move ahead with the UK as the entrance gate\nIndia's expectation from UK in enhancing trade and economic co-operation\nNow, the direction in which India is making progress, wants to progress, like our ... give a small example. We have plenty of tele-density here. There are around 27-28 thousand towers. They use diesel, and diesel has to import. Causes shortcomings for climate. The UK has the technology of Hydrogen Fuel Cells. We want this technology to be available to India. So this is our 27-28 thousand towers, which are likely to be 40 thousand in the near future. So we have to import diesel, we have to import diesel, we will have to get rid of it. We will be able to help the environment and this technology will be available to us.\nWe have coal mining here. Now how do we mining coal with grid technology? How to Coal Gasification? How do we go towards the direction of clean energy?\nSkill Development ... UK has worked a lot towards Comprehensive Skill Development. Health sector has worked a lot in the UK in the direction of good hospitals. All these topics have been discussed. And in all these things how the poor people of India can come into the global relationship, global capital investment can come in handy, in our efforts towards that direction, today in my UK trip, I can say that all these things We will be able to move forward successfully."