"\nIndia and the UK have known each other very well since many centuries: PM Modi\nThe UK is among the major trading partners, India has the 3rd largest source of the FDI for the UK: PM\nOur government has worked very aggressively to make India a easy and easy place to do business: PM Modi\nIMF Chief has recently said that India is among the few bright spots in global economy: PM Modi\nWorld Bank has very recently projected our growth rate at 7.5% for this fiscal\nWe have launched the \"Make in India\" initiative, we want to make a global manufacturing hub: PM Modi\nWe have fast tracked approvals and clearances for industry and infrastructure: PM Modi\nWe have liberalized the FDI regime allowing 100% FDI in railways: PM Modi\nFDI rule in 15 sectors: PM Modi\nIndia is among the most open countries for foreign investments: PM\nWe are setting up an India Investment and Infrastructure Fund: PM\nWe have come up with the mechanism of Tax Free Infrastructure Bonds for projects in rail, road and other sectors: PM\nWe will work together with British Govt, industry \u0026 financial markets to deepen our relationship, harness their interest in India's infrastructure: PM\nIndia has improved its UNCTAD rankings of investment attractiveness from 15th to 9th: PM\nIndia has also jumped 16 places on the World\nNew technology and renewable energy is our new Mantra: PM Narendra Modi\nAt this point of time, it is wiser to be in India: PM Modi\nBelieve me, we are making it even better to 'Make in India': PM Modi\nYour Excellency Mr. David Cameron!\nHon. Mr. Alan Yarrow, the Lord Mayor of London!\nLadies and Gentlemen!\nIt is a great pleasure for me this evening. I must confess that there is a delay in my greatness. But, the good news is that myself and his Excellency Cameron have been in constant touch.\nWe have been meeting at various places and exchanging views. I remember our last meeting in New York where he rightly said that India and UK should work closely on the economic front.\nFriends!\nUK and India have known from Our system of governance is also based largely on the Westminster model.\n• Our organizations know to interact with each other;\n• Our people know to work with each other;\n• Our businesses\nThat is the reason that UK's major trading partners UK is the third largest foreign investor in India And I want add-on India has emerged as the third largest source of FDI for UK However, there is significant potential for India and UK to further strengthen their economic ties.\nWe have effectively leverage the mutual understanding We are particularly interested in the sectors where UK is strong. We are working hard to create these conditions. A strong Indian community here keeps pushing us for better and better integration with UK.\nFriends! Since my government took over, we have been working relentlessly on the economy. Particularly, we have worked very aggressively to make an easy and easy place to do business. We believe that this is necessary for improving the lives of ordinary citizens in India.\nThe results of our hard work are now visible. IMF Chief has recently said that India is among the few bright spots in global economy today. Our growth rate in the last year is 7.3%.\nThe World Bank has very recently projected our growth rate at 7.5% for this fiscal and even better in the coming years. Thus, we are fortunate to have the right direction. In the World Bank Report of 2016 on the ease of doing business, India has moved up by 12 ranks at one go. No other country has made such a big improvement\nWe are also committed to take these corrections at the state, district and city level. States are moving in the hands of the federal government in the work of the spirit of cooperative and competitive federalism.\nRecently, we did a ranking of our state governments on the ease of doing business with the help of the World Bank Group. This has prompted the state governments in a healthy competition among themselves to ensure a business friendly eco-system.\nThis was the first time that the World Bank engaged itself in a sub-national exercise.\nFriends!\nOne of the biggest challenges in India today is productively employ the youth. For meeting this challenge, we need to provide a huge push to manufacturing which has stagnated at around 16% of the GDP for many decades. This share must reach around 25% in the short and medium term. With this in view, we have launched the \"Make in India\" initiative. We are working on all the fronts to make India a global manufacturing hub.\nTo achieve this objective, we have been fast tracked approvals and clearances for industry and infrastructure. The Hallmark Measures like transparent auction and allocation of key natural resources like coal, spectrum, iron ore has created a level playing field for investors.\nTo increase the foreign investments, we have liberalized the FDI regime allowing 100% FDI in railways. We increased the FDI limits to 49% in Defense and Insurance Operational issues in such policies In that spirit, early this week, we have carried out substantial changes in the FDI regime across 15 sectors.\nTo give an example: Now there are just no restrictions in the FDI policy for construction sector. Similarly, very radical liberalization has been done in sectors like plantation, e-commerce and single brand retail. Moreover, we have now brought most of the FDI proposals under the automatic route.\nWith this round of reforms, I can say that India is among the most open countries for Foreign Investments.\nInfrastructure is another big challenge for India We are interested in futuristic physical and social infrastructure. Through Self-imposed discipline in financial management, we have been able to allocate more resources for infrastructure sectors. In addition, we are setting up an India Investment and Infrastructure Fund We have targeted a yearly contribution of 3.5 billion US Dollars in our fund. We are putting a professional team for asset management.\nWe have also come up with the mechanism of Tax Free Infrastructure Bonds for projects in rail, road and other sectors. We will work together with the British Government, Industry and the financial markets to deepen our relationship Very soon, these bonds will become strong devices for our financial markets.\nFriends!\nThere were a number of regulatory and taxation issues which were adversely affecting the sentiments of foreign investors. We have taken a lot of difficulties\nTo give some examples:\n• We have expedited regulatory clearances including security and environmental clearance;\n• We have increased the validity period of defense licenses up to eighteen years from three years ago;\n• We have taken almost 60% of the protection items out of the licensing process and liberalised a number of restrictions like end-use certificate for the exports\n• We have clearly articulated that we will not resort to retrospective taxation and demonstrate this position in a number of ways\n• This includes not going on imposition of Minimum Alternate Tax on FPIs;\n• We have introduced the concept of composite sector caps for the FPIs and other foreign investors.\n• We have notified the regulations for the Alternative Investment Funds;\n• We have rationalized the capital gains tax regime for Real Estate Investment Trusts\n• We have modified the Permanent Establishment norms;\n• We have also decided to defer the implementation of the General Anti-Avoidance Rules for two years;\n• We have introduced the GST Bill in parliament; We are hopeful to roll it out in 2016;\n• We are working on a new bankruptcy code; The Company Law Tribunal is going to be formed\nFriends!\nWe want to make sure that our tax regime is transparent and predictable. We are also looking at those issues as genuine investors and honest tax payers.\nAs a result of our initiatives,\n• The sentiments for private investment and inflow of foreign investment have turned positive.\n• FDI inflows have gone up 40% compared with previous year's corresponding period.\n• India has been recently ranked as the most attractive investment destinations by Ernst \u0026 Young • In a ranking of the top greenfield investment destinations 2015 of the first half, India is number one.\n• Foreign Policy magazine of USA has rated India as number one FDI destination.\n• In a study of 100 countries on Growth, Innovation and Leadership, India has ranked No.1 by Frost \u0026 Sullivan.\n• India has improved its UNCTAD ranking of investment attractiveness from 15th to 9th.\n• India has also jumped 16 places on the World Economic Forum\n• Moody's has upgraded the rating of India as positive\nThus, just in eighteen months, we have successfully restored the credibility of the eyes of global players. Through PPP, we are encouraging private investment in areas We are also selling our public sector enterprises, to instill market discipline. We are going to learn from your experience in structuring and implementing PPP projects.\nI am personally convinced and want to assure you that India is committed to protecting बौद्धिक संपदा अधिकारों के सभी नवाचारकों और उद्यमियों We have taken several initiatives for transparency and online processing in IP administration. A comprehensive national IPR policy is being finalized.\nFriends!\nWe want to get into your dreams in reality Our commitment and aggressiveness to achieve the goal in a faster and effective way. These opportunities range from building 50 million homes to setting up 100 smart cities; modernization of railway network and re-development of stations to new railway corridors; generation of 175 GW of renewable energy to transmission and distribution networks, from National Highways and Bridges, to Metro rail networks Such a huge potential for infrastructure and production of goods will not be available in any other country. More importantly, no one is on the earth.\nWe are trying to harness this potential through our policies and people The campaigns like Digital India and Skill India are designed to make the process in the process. To Tap their energy fully, we have also launched the Start up India Campaign. We have witnessed massive growth in the number of start-ups in the recent past. Some of them have already begun\nFriends!\nIndia is the threshold of a big IT revolution. We are promoting it in our 1.25 billion people New Technology and renewable energy is our new Mantra Whatever we do, we will do in a cleaner and greener way Energy efficiency, water recycling, waste to energy, clean India and river cleaning are among those initiatives. These initiatives are available in modern technologies and human resources.\nOurs is the country There is a huge domestic market in India I have been saying that the three Ds of Democracy, Demography and Demand is our basic strength. Moreover, the talented young minds in India have begun taking risks. They are preferring to become Entrepreneurs Thus, we have moved forward from D to E which is the Entrepreneurship.\nFriends!\nNecessary conditions for take-offs Never before, India was able to absorb talent, technology and investment from outside. I can assure you that it will get better and better in the coming days. We will be able to welcome your ideas, innovations and enterprises. We are going to carry out necessary corrections in our policies and procedures. Given the visionary and dynamic leadership of Prime Minister Cameron and his interest in India, I am personally willing to work with the British Government and companies.\nWith these words, I welcome you to India I assure you of a dream Many of you belong to India; Many of you are in India already But for those who are not there, I must say that:\n• At this point of time, it is wiser to be in India;\n• Further, we are making it easy to invest in India\nAnd\n• Believe me, we are making it even better to 'Make in India'\nThank you. Thank you very much"