"Share\n\nOur momentum comes only from growth to pursue, but from the transformation that we seek in the quality of life for every citizen: PM\nThe UK is a favorite destination for Indian students: PM\nEven in this globalized world, London is still the standard for our times: PM\nStrong as our partnership is a relationship, such as ours, we must set higher ambitions: PM\nMany freedom fighters of India found their institutions in Britain: PM\nIndia, the UK fortunate enough to have touched by Mahatma Gandhi's life and mission: PM\nIndia \u0026 UK's smart enough to use power\nWembley will be a celebration of 15 million threads of life that bind India, UK: PM\nWembley event will be a recognition of our vibrant partnerships and a shared future: PM Modi\nIndia is the third largest source of foreign direct investment projects in the UK: PM\nIndia \u0026 the UK are now working in the advanced areas of science and technology: PM\nIndia \u0026 the UK are finding solutions to the enduring human problems of food \u0026 health security and climate change: PM\nBritain's resurgence is impressive Its influence on the future of the global economy remains strong: PM\nIndia is new bright spot of hope and opportunity for the world: PM\nOur momentum comes only from growth to pursue, but from the transformation that we seek in life for every citizen: PM\nIn a nation connected by cell phones, Digital India is transforming the interface between Government and people: PM Modi\nIn India, you will experience the wind of change: PM Narendra Modi\nMotto of Sab Ka Saath, Sab Ka Vikas, is our vision of a nation, in which every citizen belongs, participates and prospers: PM\nThe world should speak in one voice and act in unison to combat the challenge of terrorism: PM Modi\nWe need a social movement against extremism in countries where it is most prevalent: PM Modi\nReligion and terrorism: PM Modi\nLord Speaker,\nMr. Speaker,\nMr. Prime Minister\nI am happy to be in London. Even in this globalized world, London is still the standard for our times. The city has embraced the world's diversity and represents the finest in human achievements. And, I am truly honored to speak in British Parliament\nMr. Speaker, thank you for opening the doors to us, here in this magnificent setting of the Royal Court. I know that the parliament is not in session. Prime Minister Cameron looks relaxed and relieved\nBut, I want to remind you, Mr. Prime Minister, that you owe me royalty for an election slogan I know that you are hosting me at the Chequers this evening. But, I also know that you will understand if I am fair Especially since British MPs of Indian Origin are also balanced between the Treasury and the Opposition benches. So, I also extend my good wishes to the labour. Indeed, because of the members of the House And, greetings to the eminent leaders of Britain and the great friends of India present here today.\nSo much of the modern history of this building So much history looms across our relationship There are others who have spoken on their debts and dues of history I will only say that many freedom fighters of India found their institutions in Britain. And, many makers of modern India, including many of my distinguished predecessors, from Jawaharlal Nehru to Dr. Manmohan Singh, passed through their doors\nThere are many things on which it is hard to tell anymore if they are British or Indian: The Jaguar or the Scotland Yard, for example The Brooke Bond tea or my friend And, our strongest debates are whether the Lord's pitch swings wrong or the wicket at Eden Gardens cracks too early. And, we love the Bhangra rap from London just as you like the English novel from India.\nOn the way to this event, Prime Minister Cameron and I paid homage to Mahatma Gandhi outside the Parliament. I was reminded of a question How is it that the statue of Gandhi stands out British Parliament? To that question, my answer is: The British are wise enough to recognize his greatness; Indians are generous enough to share him; We are both fortunate enough to have lost his life and mission; And, we are both able to handle the future\nSo, I stand here today, not as a visiting head of government, given the honor of the temple of democracy. I am here as a representative of a fellow institution and a shared tradition.\nAnd, tomorrow, Prime Minister and I will be at the Wembley. Even in India, every young footballer wants to like it Beckham Wembley will be a celebration of one-half-million threads of life that bind us; one and half million people - proud of their heritage in India; proud of their home in Britain\nIt will be an expression of joy for all that we share: values, institutions, political system, sports, culture and art And, it will be a recognition of our vibrant partnerships and a shared future.\nThe United Kingdom is the third largest investor in India behind Singapore and Mauritius. India is the third largest source of foreign direct investment projects in the United Kingdom. Indians invest in more than European Union combined It is not worth it because of the interpretation costs, but because they are finding an environment that is welcoming and familiar.\nIt takes an Indian icon, Tata, to run a British icon and become your nation's largest private sector employer.\nThe UK is a favorite destination for Indian students. And, I am happy that an Indian company is taking a thousand British students to India.\nWe are working in science and technology. We are finding solutions to the enduring human problems of food and health, and seeking answers to emerging challenges like climate change.\nOur security agencies work together so that our children return home safe and our increasingly networked lives are not safe.\nOur Armed Forces exercise with each other, so that they can stand more strongly for the values ​​we represent. This year alone, we had three exercises together.\nAnd, in the international arena, your support has made it possible for India to take its rightful place in global institutions and regimes. And, it has helped us both advance our common interests\nMr. Speaker,\nStrong as our partnership is, for a relationship, such as ours, we must set higher ambitions We are two democracies; two strong economies; and, two innovative societies.\nWe have the comfort of a long partnership. Britain's resurgence is impressive Its influence on the global economy remains strong.\nAnd, Mr. Speaker, India is the new bright spot of hope and opportunity for the world. It is not just the universal judgment of international institutions It is not just the logic of numbers: a nation of 1.25 billion people with 800 million under the age of 35 years.\nThis optimism comes from the energy and enterprise of our youth; eager for change and confident of achieving it It is the result of bold and sustained measures to improve our laws, policies, institutions and processes.\nWe are igniting the engines of our manufacturing sector; making our farms more productive and more resilient; making our services more innovative and efficient; moving with urgency on our global skills for our youth; creating a revolution in Startup enterprises; And, building the next generation infrastructure that has a light footprint on the Earth.\nOur momentum is not just the growth we pursue, but from the transformation that we seek in the quality of life for every citizen.\nMuch of India that we dream of still lies ahead of us: housing, power, water and sanitation for all; bank accounts and insurance for every citizen; connected and prosperous villages; and, smart and sustainable cities These are goals with a definite date, not just a mirage of hope.\nAnd, inspired by Gandhiji, the change has begun with us - the way the government works There is transparency and accountability in governance There is boldness and speed in decisions.\nFederalism is no longer the fault line of center-state relations, but the new partnership of Team India Citizens now have the ease of trust, not the burden of proof and process. Businesses are an environment that is open and easy to work in.\nIn a nation connected by cell phones, Digital India is transforming the interface between Government and people.\nSo, Mr. Speaker, with apologies to poet T.S. Eliot, we will not let the fall fall in the idea and reality.\nIf you visit India, you will experience the wind of change.\nIt is reflected in the surge of investments from around the world; in enhanced stability of our economy; in 190 million new bank accounts of hope and inclusion; in the increase in our growth to almost 7.5% per year; And, in the sharp rise in our ranking.\nAnd, the motto of Sab Ka Saath, Sab Ka Vikas, is our vision of a nation, in which every citizen belongs, participates and prospers.\nIt is not just a call for economic inclusion It is also a celebration of our diversity; the creed for social harmony; And, a commitment to individual liberties and rights\nThis is the timeless ethos of our culture; this is the basis of our constitution; And, this is the foundation of our future\nMr. Speaker,\nMembers and Friends,\nThe progress of India And, it will also mean a world more confident of its prosperity; And, more secure about its future\nIt is also natural and inevitable that our economic relations will grow by leaps and bounds. We will form unbeatable partnerships, if we combine our unique strengths and the size and scale of opportunities in India\nWe will see more investment and trade We will open new doors in the services sector. We will collaborate more - here and in India - in defense equipment and technology We will work on renewable and nuclear energy.\nWe will explore the mysteries of science and harness the power of technology and innovation. We will realize the opportunities of the digital world. Our youth will learn more from - and with - each other\nBut, a relationship as rich as this, with so much promise as ours, can not be measured only in terms of our mutual prosperity\nMr. Speaker,\nOurs is an age of multiple transitions in the world. We are yet to fully understand the future As in the past ages, it will be different from the world we know.\nSo, in the uncharted waters of our uncertain times, we should be helping steer a steady course for the world in the direction that mirrors the ideals we share.\nFor, in that lies not just the success of our countries. We have the strength of our partnership and the membership of the United Nations, the Commonwealth and the G-20.\nWe live in an awkward position We see the challenges of radicalization and refugees.\nThe fault lines are shifting from the boundaries of nations in our societies and the streets of our cities And, terrorism and extremism are a global force that are big to change their names, groups, territories and targets.\nThe world must speak in voice and act in our times We must adopt a comprehensive Convention on International Terrorism in UN without delay. There should be no distinction There should be a solution to isolate those who harbor terrorists and willingness to stand with nations. And, we need a social movement against extremism in countries where it is most prevalent and, every effort to delink religion and terrorism.\nOceans remain vital for our prosperity Now, we have also been able to secure our cyber and outer space. Our interests are aligned across many regions. We have a shared interest in stable, prosperous and integrated South Asia, drawn together in a shared march to prosperity.\nWe want an Afghanistan that is shaped by the dreams of the great Afghan people, not by irrational fears and overreaching ambitions of others.\nA peaceful, stable Indian Ocean region is important for global commerce and prosperity. And, the future of Asia Pacific region will have a profound impact on all of us. We both have huge stakes in West Asia and the Gulf.\nAnd, in Africa, where, amidst many challenges, we see so many promising signs of courage, wisdom, leadership and enterprise India has just held an Africa Summit, in which all 55 countries, and 42 leaders participated.\nWe must also cooperate with our planet for a sustainable future. This is a global responsibility that we should assume in Paris later this month.\nThe world has crafted a beautiful balance of collective action - common but differentiated responsibility and related capabilities.\nThose who have the means and the know-how must help meet the universal aspiration of humanity for clean energy and a healthy environment. And, when we speak of restraint, we should not only think of curbing fossil fuels, but also moderating our lifestyles.\nWe should all do our part For India, a target of 175 GW of additional capacity in renewable energy by 2022 and reduction in emission intensity of 33-35% by 2030 are just two of the steps of a comprehensive strategy.\nI have also proposed to launch during the COP 21 meeting an International Solar Alliance to make solar energy an integral part of our lives, even in the most unconnected villages.\nIn Britain, you are more likely to use an unhealthy rain than the sun. But, my team has defined the membership of the Solar Alliance in more precise terms: you have to be located in the Tropics.\nAnd, we are happy that the United Kingdom qualifies! So, we look forward to an innovative brand in this endeavor. Prime Minister Cameron and I are, indeed, very pleased that the cooperation on the affordable and accessible clean energy is a important pillar of our relations.\nMr. Speaker,\nThis is a great moment for our two great nations So, we must seize our opportunities, remove the obstacles in cooperation, instill full confidence in our relations and remain sensitive to each other's interests.\nIn doing so, we will transform our strategic partnership, and we will make this relationship count as one of the leading global partnerships. Ever so often, in the call of Britain's most famous Bard that we must seize the tide in the affairs of men, the world has sought inspiration to act. And, so should we\nBut, in defining the purpose of our partnership, we must turn to a great son of India, whose house in London I will dedicate to the cause of social justice on Saturday. Dr. B. R. Ambedkar, whose 125th birth anniversary is us now, was not just an architect of India's Constitution and our parliamentary democracy. He also stands for the upliftment of the weak, the oppressed and the excluded. And, he lifted us into a higher cause in the service of humanity; to build a future of justice, equality, opportunity and dignity for all humans; and, peace among people\nThat is the reason why India and the United Kingdom have dedicated themselves today.\nThank you very much, thanks a lot"