"Share\n\nI applaud our vibrant \u0026 growing partnership in Trade \u0026 investment, defense, S \u0026 T, education, clean energy, health, innovation, and culture: PM\nWe have agreed to intensify our political dialogue and hold regular bilateral summits: PM\nThe conclusion of the civil nuclear agreement is a symbol of our mutual trust and our resolve to combat climate change: PM\nDefense and security cooperation with the UK is a critical plank of bilateral engagements: PM\nIndia and UK will deepen their financial sector collaboration with the Railways Rupee Bonds: PM\nOur bilateral cooperation in clean energy will complement India's comprehensive and ambitious national plan on climate change: PM\nI thank PM David Cameron for British support for India's permanent membership of UNSC: PM\nPrime Minister Mr. Cameron,\nAll the friends of the media,\nPrime Minister Cameron, I express my gratitude to you for the feeling and vision that you have shown towards relations. You have made a big contribution in empowering India's relations with Britain.\nI thank you for your warm reception and your contribution to empower India's relations.\nFor your invitation, I am grateful for the way you have given me time for your warm hospitality.\nI am very happy to visit the UK. This relation is important to India. Historically, we are familiar with each other's well-being. The relations between our people are incomparable. Our prices are the same. And our relationship has got a special shape. Our partnership is vibrant in every field. And our relationship is constantly expanding - such as trade and investment, defense and security, education and science, clean energy and health, technology and innovation, art and culture.\nAt international level, we have shared interests, which are important to both countries.\nToday, we have decided that we will make our political dialogue more intimate and regularly the Bilateral Summit. On the basis of our shared values, we will start a partnership for development in other areas of the world. As well as deepen their bilateral cooperation in every sphere.\nToday, we have signed the Civil Nuclear Agreement. This is a symbol of mutual trust. And we have also introduced our determination to face the climate change. Agreement on cooperation in India's Global Center for Clean Energy Partnerships has been reached. This will strengthen and strengthen security and security in the global nuclear industry.\nWe consider defense and security cooperation with the UK very valuable, including defense trade and regular joint exercises. This partnership will continue to grow.\nI am very happy that the UK will also join the Internal Fleet Review in February 2016. India is focusing on modernization of defense. And for this we are giving priority to the mission of 'Make in India' in Defense production. I believe that the UK will be an important partner in it.\nEconomic Partnership Our relationship is an important and strong pillar. I believe that this relationship will move forward in the near future because I have potential possibilities in India and the UK has economic potential and power. UK is the third largest investor in India. The amount invested by India in the UK is more than the investment in the other EU countries. For the UK's investment proposal in India, we have decided to create a fast track mechanism system in India. We welcome the reorganization of India UK CEO form.\nWe will use more of London's financial market to raise funds. It is a matter of happiness for me that we are going to issue railways rupee bonds in London for Indian Railways. It is natural in a way that the journey of Indian Railways started here.\nI am eagerly waiting for the engagement of our business sector in the next two days. And we expect many important announcements from the business sector.\nI am happy that our clean energy and climate cooperation have progressed between our government and the private sector. This area is also important and it has potential possibilities. A comprehensive ambitious national plan, which India has made on Climate Change, will benefit from our bilateral cooperation. We hope that conferences in Paris will result in concrete results under the framework of the UN Convention on Climate Change and the world will set a decisive path for a sustainable and low carbon future.\nToday, we have yielded strong results in many areas which are concerned with India's national priority. These include smart cities, health, river cleaning, skill and education. We agree that our partnership in all areas will provide a strong foundation in technology, research and innovation.\nWe will create new opportunities for the people and increase their prosperity by this partnership with our two countries. Together they will be able to get shared interests and face their challenges properly. Such as peace and stability in Asia, especially in South and West Asia; Marine safety, cyber security and terrorism and extremism.\nOn all these topics, I and Prime Minister Cameron will continue their talk in the Checkers today and tomorrow.\nIn the end, I want to express the hope of Prime Minister Cameron Ji's support for Britain's important support for India's membership in permanent membership of the UN Security Council and international export control regimes.\nToday, the Parliament has got the honor to address. After that I will address the India UK Business Summit. On both of these occasions, India and India-UK relations will expand their views in more detail.\nToday for our strategic partnership, we have outlined a bold and ambitious vision. And the decisions we have taken today reflect our conviction and commitment to attaining this vision. Today's results make it clear that our relations have reached new and heights today.\nThank You"