"\nPM Narendra Modi attends a conference on Legal Services Day\nI believe in 'Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas' and that there must be' Sabka Nyay ': PM Modi'\nUnion Government committed to working towards Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Nyaya: PM\nLok Adalats have become a means for people to access justice that is timely and satisfactory: PM\nWe have given the laborers a unique ID card number. This will help the labourers immensely in several ways: PM Modi\nThrough Jan Dhan we have banked the unbanked: PM Modi\nAll the senior executives present,\nThakur Saheb was saying that for the first time a prime minister has come in the program. I am very fortunate that the old people, I am very fortunate that the old people have left me a very good job for me. And I do not even leave the opportunity for good work.\nUsually the judge, the court, the general human think that he will hang him on the gallows, he will be sent to jail, I do not know what will happen, but if today's TV shows or listen to the TV, they will know that here How many sensations are there How many brains are consuming for the sake of the poor? How much concern is being raised for justice to the poor. These aspects are not unknowingly exposed in our country. Maybe I do not even know things so closely if I do not even come here, and leave it to others.\nAnd in this sense I see this effort as a vocal form of a social sensation. If a doctor serves the patient for one day free of charge in a month, then 29 days of that doctor is so much applauded, he is very fond of, not taking a lot of money, from the poor, doing one day a month. Here the poor are worried about the night, but it is not feeling like this is a security. It is necessary to understand that this is what we think is going to change. And that's why I also need to be aware of the fact that along with legal awareness, the organization also has to be aware. People know that such a system is there. And I will worry about it for the work which is responsible for the government. I have had a mantra 'With everyone, everyone's development' but joins all the justice, then everyone, together with everyone, development of justice, justice of all.\nThere are two types of topics, sometimes expert people here, our law universities, should do one thing, give a special assignment to their students that research on public-courts in different areas of the country, its project Submit and they also give some suggestions. Because I think it is necessary to read our law students as well as know that there are Lok-Adalats? Because when he goes to study, he will look closely, and he himself will become a big opportunity to sensitize him. And if he analyzes it with a modern mind-set from a neutral mind, take a university one state, study, take the second state next time, every time students get an opportunity, then how big a task will be.\nWhat is the biggest difference between a public court and a court? The ordinary person also thinks Bhai is not going to be in the court round. And that does not mean that the court's affair does not mean that the lawyer is not going to be in the grip, and I do not know when I will be out. So he thinks Bhai will suffer injustice but leave him Bhai I do not know now, there is such a big class which knows that I am entitled, I should be justice, but he does not dare. The Lok Adalat has filled this shortage. Because of which he thinks that we may be once.\nThe Lok Adalat has achieved such a reputation in such a short time that the citizen is confident in the process and the result is also trust. And this is where a hundred percent satisfaction occurs. One gets justice in the judiciary, the other goes home with resentment. If he was here he is only but both get satisfaction. Let's be happy, it has been a lot of days, it has been discharged. This is the prestige of the Lok Adalat and therefore, how do we divert people to the civil courts and how to divert them, go to more people, do small things.\nI did not know much about Thakur Sahib, but for this one event I got an opportunity to interact with him, I was surprised, his involvement on this subject which I saw, i.e. the attachment, that is, in one type of mission-mode They were doing all these things. Even today, I was listening, that was moody. If such a leadership is found at the center and at the state level then I think that the problems will be resolved automatically. Institution gets strength. Occasionally there are institutes rule from any frame work and sometimes there is a one-way parking point in which the organization is conception. This Lok Adalat is born from that parking point. Somebody did not develop the Lok Adalat by writing four people sitting on the paper and they were very successful.\nAnil ji was referring to Gujarat, I got an opportunity to become the Chief Minister there. When I was there, the justice that was received in Lok Adalat was found in 35 paise, 35 paise, 35 paisa only, i.e. any poor poor person believes that no cost was spent, my work was done. Now, I do not know much, Jain brothers can tell, maybe 35 paise is saved, that is more, it has not reached yet for a rupee. But this achievement is not small and the reason everyone has left something for himself. Give time, leave the rest of the privileges that you have, leave it and go to the alley and sit there. Many public courts are such a place where there is no fan, it is the Lok Adalat, why? Commitment is. These things have not been exposed and therefore, such large institutions, in such a short time, more than 15 lakh people will be court of justice. More than eight crore and eight million people got justice, and eight eight million were in a way 17 crore because the two parties came. This is a very big number and therefore this system has its own strength.\nToday, some new initiatives are going on, but if the government is also dedicated to justice, it is possible to open the path even if it is awake to justice. I can not say an example. When I became Chief Minister in Gujarat, I had to become Chief Minister immediately after the earthquake. Now millions of people were destroyed, the government declared the package. But the question remains that the government has said that if it breaks, it will get it, if it dies, it will be found, if it is broken, then all this broke, then wrote it, it came in paper. But what if people are complaining? Then at that time I requested the High Court. I said I need a flexible arrangement if you can help me then So what did they say? I said that for our earthquake victims, there should be an Ombudsman system for them and the government's plans remain with them, if they want the government to come and briefly tell them that this is our package and any citizen who deserves it and thinks it If the government did not do justice with me, then give me an arrangement for that. And by my side there is a guarantee that whenever the complainant comes to you, this Ombudsman will not do any muscle on behalf of the government. You listen to them and tell us who you think we will follow. You would be surprised that the issues of 30,000 people were completed and there was no case of earthquake victims. If the same system had gone into the channels of justice-injustice, then the people of the earthquake were not even aware and the case would have continued. But the High Court took the initiative, helped us, the judges gave time to take the responsibility, went to the earthquake-affected area and people got the system. Occasionally out of box If we develop things then how much results can be found. There are many examples, many examples are available.\nI was looking at Thakur Sahab, when he was giving example of Karnataka and speaking again and again he had had 3,000 crores rupees, and un-organized area was worth Rs. 3,000 crores. I saw that great pain. I came here sir, on the new job and in my attention, the poor laborers got Rs 27,000 crore in the government's safe. I got disturbed, 27,000 crores of poor people. Why? The reason is that he makes a job at one place, his PF is cut, and so on. Goes somewhere after 6-8 months, goes somewhere else after two years. That amount is so much that if you go from here, you do not have to go back and take it. He also thinks that I will go for 200 rupees. 27,000 crore doing this, and they were not the contractor of these constructions. He had his own sweat money. The government was unresponsive. I am sorry To say. We came and said that Bhai should get the money of his rights. What will we improve if we punish justice, whether we will change the conditions of the judges by taking the time? We created a system and I believe that it will do a lot for the country for a long time. We have given a unique identity card number for all labourers. Wherever he will go, his bank account will go with him, transfer will be done and therefore, to take the money of his right .. and I have to pay Rs 27,000 crore. People are not getting bhai Now money came, where were, nothing It was like this, I am trying to get them. But in the days to come, whatever money is deposited in them, jobs will change, where will they go, cities will change, the state will change, this amount will go along with them. When needed, he can withdraw himself.\nAnd so, we, those who have our experience, are from the Lok-Adalat, are of legal aid, I want that our law-universities also found some objective suggestions from him that Bhai is fine, these thousand types of people are of the same work Come for it. Do not change the rules, change the rules. How many will be judged So, we can reduce our judiciary burden, and we can emphasize in our intentions of quality justice and that's why we need to compile this between the government and this system. When these things come to mind then it should be used.\nRight now I was asking Thakur Sahib, I was asking for fear. I said, Saheb, those new judges, who are recruited, we can think of whether they should be asked how much time you have done in free legal aid, how much work has been done, how many poor people have done good. Once these criteria have been made, even if 10 marks will be in the entire interview. But everyone will feel that if Bhai is going to be judiciary now, then my responsibility, social responsibility is my priority. If there is recruitment from time to time, then in our 5-10 year, our prime sector will become judiciary, in which justice for poor, poor-poor will be subject to the central level. Changes can be brought. And so, I have been sitting here sitting and sitting, I am speaking but I do not know his nit-grity. But I think we can do such things.\nIn the same way, no institute can live in the same way. It is compulsory to make changes in a timely manner. Changing the way of thinking requires changing. The old thing is good, so we will not touch it, it does not matter. Lok Adalat, so successful experiment; legal aid is such a successful experiment, but if we say that the bus has been completely done, then this suspension will come.\nI congratulate Thakur Sahab, I congratulate the people who have helped you like Sikri Sahib, that you go to Ranchi, sit with the tribal. You worry about who are the people of Bhai society whom we take in priority. I think this is not a small job that you did. You have tried to make the institute alive. Have tried to give a new force. Every system should continually increase its scope, change its appearance, its strength should continue, and this work will be done today with a certain road-map, what will you do for the new tribal people, what are those who are inside the jail What are the people who live in the mountains, who want opinions, what will they do for them? Gradually it will develop. And that's right, leave the point of justice, Sir.\nOur country is like this. I know opening a bank account, this is not a difficult task. The bank's responsibility is to open the bank account. There is facility for citizens to open bank account. Nationalization of banks has more than 40 years But 40% of the citizens of this country did not have their bank account. That is, 40% of people were out of this country from the system of financial mainstream. Such injustice, came to the city, does not know that I can get justice too, that can be found. Even if I do not have the money, I am authorized to get justice, he does not know. 40% of the people of this country did not know that they could go to the door of the bank even among torn garments. What could be worse than that?\nWe campaigned the Pradhan Mantri Jan-Dhan Yojana and today I proudly say that if I go somewhere around 100% of this country, I do not want to, because the media will get the job that Modi was saying, but this Two families left But I say that almost hundred percent of the people have got bank accounts and sometimes we will have to change our thinking about poor people. When I was working with the Prime Minister Jan-Dhan Yojana and the banks also worked hard, they took full strength. They used to go themselves, used to go to the slums. Asked him that your bank account is open, let's open because the work started by giving a target. But there was a facility in it that Ziro will open a bank account from balance, because once it starts, if it comes in the mainstream then I have also seen the poverty of the rich and I have also seen the richness of the poor under the Prime Minister Jan-Dhan Yojna. The poverty of the rich is known to us again and again. But the poor's wealth is rarely known. The government had said that a bank account will be opened from zero balance, but these poor people have deposited Rs 24 thousand crore in the Prime Minister Jan-Dhan Yojana, 24 thousand crore rupees. You see how big a change was made and it all happened in the time-limit. What we mean to say is that justice does not have the courage to open up to one account, to be poor. We have to break this somewhere that has created our social life. We all have to assimilate, all have to add. हर एक के लिए कुछ करना पड़ेगा और उसमें जब आप इस प्रकार का initiative लेते हैं। मैं मानता हूं बहुत बड़ा फायदा है।\nTransgender, आप कल्‍पना कर सकते हैं कि इनके प्रति कितनी उदासीनता है। परमात्‍मा ने उसके जीवन में जो दिया है, सो दिया है। हम कौन होते हैं उसको अन्‍याय करने वाले। हमें व्‍यवस्‍था विकसित करनी पड़ेगी। कानूनी व्‍यवस्‍थाओं में बदलाव लाना पड़ेगा। नियमों में बदलाव पड़ेगा। सरकार को अपने नजरिए में बदलाव लाना पड़ेगा। ऐसे समाज में कितने लोग होंगे कि जिनके लिए हम सबको मिलकर कुछ करना होगा। मैं आज ठाकुर साहब को, उनकी इस पूरी टीम को और विशेषकर के जिन्‍होंने आज अवार्ड प्राप्‍त किए हैं, उनको हृदय से बहुत-बहुत बधाई देता हूं, अभिनंदन करता हूं क्‍योंकि आपने जब काम किया होगा तब आपको भी पता नहीं होगा कि आपको कभी किसी मंच पर जाने का या senior judges से हाथ मिलाने का मौका मिलेगा, आपक दिमाग में तो वो गरीब रहा होगा और आज उस गरीब के दुख ने आपको बैचेन बनाया होगा और इसलिए आपने court जाना भी छोड़ दिया होगा, उस गरीब के घर जाना पसंद किया होगा। तब जाकर के आपको अवार्ड मिला होगा और इसलिए आपके इस काम को मैं हृदय से अभिनंदन करता हूं, आपकी बहुत-बहुत बधाई करता हूं।\nJudiciary में भी मैंने देखा है, मेरा गुजरात का अनुभव रहा है। जिनके पास एक जिम्‍मेवारी होती है। मेरा अनुभव रहा है, उनका ऐसा commitment होता है। उसको काम को वो अपने यानी जैसे family matter होते हैं उस रूप में देखते हैं। लोक अदालत हुई कि नहीं हुई legal aid का काम हुआ कि नहीं हुआ। मैंने देखा है कि ये जो Judiciary का involvement है, यही इसकी सबसे बड़ी ताकत है, बहुत बड़ी ताकत है और इसलिए पूरे देश में इस कार्य को जिन्‍होंने अब तक संभाला है, जो आज संभाल रहे हैं, जो भविष्‍य में संभालने वाले हैं उन सबको मेरी तरफ से बहुत-बहुत शुभकामनाएं देता हूं, बहुत-बहुत धन्‍यवाद।"