"PM Modi inaugurates hydro power project, four laning of highway in Jammu and Kashmir\nPower, water, roads pre-requisite for development: PM Modi\nThe world is the subject of global warming and climate change: PM\nWe have a target to generate 175 gigawatt of solar energy, wind energy: PM Modi\nWe want to provide 24/7 electricity to every household by 2022 when India celebrates 75th independence: PM\nGovt of India has decided to allot a package of Rs 80,000 crore for welfare of J \u0026 K: PM Modi\nWe are distributing LED bulbs at subsidized rates: PM Modi\nIndia Reserve Battalion will be created in Jammu and Kashmir: PM Modi\nPM Modi talks about MUDRA Bank, 'Start up India, Stand up India' initiative\nMy dear brothers and sisters,\nToday I went to Srinagar for a program and for the second program you got the privilege of coming in between. We have been listening to one thing for years, that if we want to develop then priority has to be given on three things - electricity, water and roads. If these three basic systems are developed then the society has its own strength, it crosses the new heights of development. Today, the entire global global warming, climate change, is in bigger concern. The whole world is discussing these issues these days, how to reduce the temperature that is rising, how to save our glacier, how to protect those rivers from the glacier that gets water, protect nature How to do And one thing that comes to mind is that by changing the way of power generation, there is the path to protecting the simplest environment - electricity that is produced by water, power produced by sun power, electricity generated by air And so, putting a windmill, installing solar panel, hydro project, it is a social obligation to save the future generation for the welfare of human beings.\nToday, the electricity project which is being released today is going to get electricity, it is going to get the power to travel from power to development. But at the same time, we are going to do a great job of protecting the environment for the welfare of the coming generations. India has set a very big target - 175 gigawatt renewal energy In our country only we thought to megawatt. Thousand megawatt, five thousand megawatt, 10 thousand megawatt But gigawatt, these words are not heard in our country. Today this government is going towards 175 gigawatt, solar energy, wind energy so that we can also protect the environment and open new doors of development through electricity.\nWe have a dream that when India celebrates 75 years of independence in 2022, every village of India should have 24 hours electricity available. To speed up this work, I do regular monitoring myself. A few days ago I asked in a meeting how many villages are there in our country where there is not even a pillar of electricity. And it came to mind that nearly 75 years of independence is going on, 18 thousand villages are in this country where there is no pill of power. What can be worse than this now? And so we have taken the initiative - in 1,000 days - the work that did not happen in 70 years - in 1,000 days I have 18 thousand villages where electricity is to be given. Government machinery has been given the target of time limit and regular monitoring is done on how many places should be reached, where to place potholes, where the pillars stood, where did the wire reach?\nThe second dream is 365 days 24 hours electricity. Life is not possible without electricity today Our era is technology-driven era. Some villages are like this, there is a mobile phone but the mobile phone is charging, then the other village has to go. This is to change the situation and therefore 24 hours to get electricity. And so if electricity is to be given 24 hours, then the country should produce electricity in a big way. Electricity is getting from coal, electricity is getting from the gas.\nBut now we are concentrating - today I have announced a package of Rs. 80 thousand crore for the all round development of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh in Srinagar. In these 80 thousand crore package, Leh-Ladakh is very likely to have solar energy. On the other hand, electricity is generated from solar energy. And in Leh Ladakh and Kargil area, electricity is available from there, it is also arranged inside this package.\nWe have run a campaign throughout the country, \"save power\" Like the importance of electricity generation, such as the importance of delivering electricity, it is important to save more electricity than it is today and today technology is so changeable that you can also save electricity and save money too. The LED bulb is being given by the government. Being given inexpensively. The municipalities are urged to use the LED bulb which you use in the light of the light bulbs and due to which electricity bills are also reduced, electricity is saved. If you use tube light and old ones bulb in your family today, but if you put an LED bulb, then a family will lose the bill of Rs. 50, 100 rupees and 200 rupees. Your money will be saved. And if electricity remains, we will be able to give electricity to the poor house. So the power generation, the effort to get electricity, renewable energy\nWe are working on Clean India Mission. Waste from wealth - How to generate electricity from the garbage in the city, so that there is cleanliness and electricity also? There is also a plan on that. And so to bring the industries to enter new areas of development, the power of electricity has become mandatory for technology.\nToday another project is going on - Road's We know that there was a time when people used to live in cities near the river, they used to spend life. Where the river passed, life was developed. But later the period came from where the highway passes. People start settling around in the same place. Because connectivity became mandatory in today's era. And just gave black color, like the wire road, now people do not do it. Nowadays if we also send a memorandum, then it does not say that to build a Sahab road. He says sir must be lane, paver road. We say that to go to the village is the brother No, no sir has changed the paver road. The general human thinking and expectations are changing. And hence the Road became modern, Road is a new homework structure. We are giving emphasis on the construction of the new technology and the new material.\nRight now Nitinji was telling you that your time will be saved. Now it is said here that if time is saved, then how much money can be saved. If I have to go to Srinagar from Jammu And if I arrive within two-four hours instead of 10, 12 hours, then my whole day is saved. And hence, the roads which are made now make these things in mind. Firstly the cost of road construction increased, because quality has improved, material has changed. Technology has changed. This road between Jammu and Srinagar is going to be a tourism for the people who come here as a tourist, seeing this tunnel. People will say not to go by plane. If you see this tunnel of nine kilometers, then how is it right? India's big, tall tunnel will meet once, it will become the center of tourism, you see.\nAnd therefore, taking development to such heights is our endeavor in that direction. In the coming days, there are railways, roads, water and electricity - how can it get people in modern terms? We are working on this. Today gave a package of 80 thousand crores. The floods last year in the package of 80 thousand crore rupees, there were raw houses on the side of Jammu, the village village collapsed. I came here at that time There were pucca houses inside Srinagar. In the package we have provided, there is an attempt to give power to those who have suffered loss due to flood in Jammu, who have suffered loss due to floods in Srinagar. Those who have lost their business, try to stand them. Many hospitals, many schools, many roads, many culverts have suffered due to which they have to do their work again - they also have arrangements in it.\nBut Jammu Kashmir should also get a new strength. And Jammu Kashmir will get new strength, by getting employment from youths How do job opportunities arise? How to increase employment prospects? What should be done for him? Keeping this in mind, it has given a package of 80 thousand crore rupees. Now it has been decided to make India Reserve Battalion in Jammu Kashmir. This means to become a five IR, employment of four thousand young people of this state. That is, the financial system in four thousand families, such a number of topics - Skill Development, IIT, IIM Hospital, AIIMS for education develops all these systems. So when it is constructed, then people get jobs. But even after the construction, new opportunities are created for development, new employment opportunities arise.\nProbably, the trouble that Jammu and Kashmir has suffered in India has not suffered and the states have not been able to withstand it. The problem is that since 1947, the group of displaced people in the number of millions is on this terrain. Approximately 15-20 percent of the state's population is displaced. This is not a small pain, it is a matter of great pain. It is the demand of the time that '47 should be displaced or a learned scholar escaped from Kashmir - for the rehabilitation of all these, it is necessary to make arrangements to live a respectable life. In this package of 80 thousand crore, there are provisions in rehabilitation of all displaced families, from '47 till now.\nTo say this is the effort of addressing all the problems of Jammu and Kashmir, which are facing problems, this is an attempt to package the 80 thousand crore rupees. At the same time, Jammu Kashmir should stand on its feet with equal strength of other states of India, how the youth of Jammu and Kashmir deserves employment, how the new erosion of development can be seen in Jammu Kashmir, how the tourism reaches again - Keeping all these subjects in mind, this package of 80 thousand crore is the largest package in the history of Jammu and Kashmir, the largest package. And I said today in Srinagar, the faster you spend, the more perfect progress you will make, the more you send the account of the pie-pie, then write down that you write down 80 thousand package, this full stop will not be complete, this auspicious start If this work gets better then it will be better. And so this is 80 thousand crore samples. How do you apply, how fast you can apply, how well the public can be, how much the public becomes a partner in it, then Delhi's treasure and the heart of Delhi are both devoted to Jammu and Kashmir.\nThese days I want to tell especially to young people. There are some plans in the plans of the Government of India, which you have to take advantage of. A prime minister has launched a money scheme and the money scheme is such that those who are the general business people of our country, are small business people. No newspaper will be sold, no milk will be sold, no fruit will be sold, no mother will sell offerings of Vaishno Devi, no small dhaba will be run, no grains will be sold, no clothes will be sold, no villages will go to village Pots will sell, small people These people also want a thousand rupees to get their goods, then go to the moneylender and have to earn money from a very high interest and they earn, more than half of them goes into the pocket of the moneylender, goes into interest is. A poor man, general merchant, small businessman. If he ever wants five thousand rupees, ten thousand rupees, then he does not feel anything, and the bank was not ready to look at these people. The big people came in front of the banks, they were interested in it. Under the Prime Minister's Money Scheme, the work of bank loan is being given to such people. And its specialty is that you will not have to give a guarantee. You can get these rupees up to 50 thousand rupees and you can start your business. You will then employ yourself, and if you keep one or two persons together then they also get employment. So far, six million people have been given money in this manner in whole of India. I tell the youth of Jammu and Kashmir that you should contact the banks, understand the Prime Minister's Mudra Yojana, go through the scheme and you also stand on your feet, these banks are standing for you.\nIn the same way, we have made another plan for young people, \"Start up India, Stand up India\". Those who have some kind of technology, there is a nature to do new things, there is the nature of innovation, if they want to go to any production in it, then the government wants to help him in every way. The young man should come in the field, use his intelligence talent, the government wants to give him money. And I told the banks that every branch should give loan to start-up of at least two people - a dalit or tribal and a woman. It is different from the money scheme, it will take more than 10 lakh rupees, 20 lakhs. I have made a plan for him. I urge the youth to take advantage of the government's plan, you stand on your feet, cross the new heights of development in your life. Today there is a government in Delhi who only wins for you, wants to do something for you. Come forward, you get the most of it.\nBrothers and sisters, today all the brothers and sisters in Jammu and Kashmir have honored me, I have respected you, I am very grateful for this and our Nitin ji, engaged in running the country with great speed Are. The road is being constructed around the road. Earlier, I used to tell me that there was two kilometers in one day. Before our government was formed in our country, we used to calculate Hindustan, then average one kilometer road was built in a day. If you used to calculate the amount that was made anywhere in the country, then it was two kilometers in a day. Our Nitin ji has worked hard in the last 17 months and has given 18 kms in one day.\nHow does work कुछ लोगों को तो यही समझ नहीं है कि इसको काम कहा जाए या नहीं कहा जाए। उनको तो समझ ही नहीं आता है। अब मुझे बताइए कि 15 अगस्‍त से 26 जनवरी के बीच में 10 करोड़ बैंक के खाते खुल जाए। जिस गरीब को कभी बैंक के दरवाजे पर जाने का सौभाग्‍य नहीं मिला था - इसको काम कहा जाए या नहीं कहा जाए? हिन्‍दुस्‍तान में एक साल के भीतर-भीतर सभी girl child स्‍कूलों में टॉयलेट बनाने का काम पूरा हो जाए, चार लाख से ज्‍यादा स्‍कूलों में टॉयलेट बन जाए - इसको काम कहा जाए या नहीं कहा जाए? लेकिन जो आपको समझ में आता है, उनको नहीं आता है। ऐसे तो मैं सैंकड़ों चीजें आपको गिना सकता हूं... बहुत-बहुत धन्‍यवाद आप सबका। Thank you."