"Share\n\nI have got the privilege to visit Jammu and Kashmir so often. This land draws me here: PM\nOur Mantra is Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas. All parts of India must develop: PM Modi\nMy mother donated ₹ 5000 when there was flood in Kashmir: PM Modi\nWe want to develop Kashmir once again as a tourist hub\nIndia is the fastest growing economy in the world: PM Modi\nCorruption has reduced in India, transparency is growing: PM Modi\nAtal ji used to give the message of Kashmiriyat, Jamhoiriyat, Insaniyat: PM Modi\nIndia is not complete without Kashmiriyat: PM\nTop Indian cricketers used bats made in Jammu and Kashmir: PM\nTourism I see a lot of scope to boost eco-tourism in J \u0026 K: PM\nWe need highways We also need i-ways: PM Modi\nGovt of India has decided to give 80,000 crore package for welfare of Jammu and Kashmir: PM\nMy dear brothers and sisters in large numbers,\nIt is my good fortune that perhaps a Prime Minister has the privilege of being the most visited Kashmir, then my name has been added to it. And Kashmir brings me to pull. I have experienced the love of Kashmiris. When I used to see the function of the Bharatiya Janata Party's organization, there were many times here. I had a good fortune to go to remote areas. And I've experienced love here. And this is the love, when last year, due to the flood, whether Jammu should be Kashmir, when the generation felt, I was feeling the same generation in Delhi as you were doing. And for the same reason I came away immediately. At that time the government had tried to divide your pain by mixing it with shoulders.\nWhen the festival of Diwali came, it was very easy for me to celebrate Diwali among friends and friends in Delhi. But I was convinced that people who have just passed through the disaster in the earth, I would rather be better at Diwali than I would go to Srinagar and I came here. When there was a disaster, at that time the President of China came to visit India. And he also chose the date that he wanted to come to my hometown Gujarat on September 17. And on 17th September he had a wish that he was my birthday. And the Chinese President came with great enthusiasm to plan my birthday. But at that time I had declared that due to flood in Kashmir my brother is a generation, I can not celebrate birthdays. And I welcomed them, respected, but refused to celebrate a birthday. I went to touch my mother's feet, went to take blessings. My social background, the moment I was born, grew up, my mother, whenever she used to give birth, whenever she used to give birth, she would give me fifty rupees in blessings, sometimes 5 rupees. Gave more than 11 rupees. My mother did not give me more than Rs 11 rupees. But in those days when I went I was surprised. And this is a sacrament, this is the feeling that is full of my veins. My mother gave me 5000 rupees for my birthday - and on my birthday - and mother said, \"Son, take this money for the flood victims of Kashmir.\" This is the power of the rites which can give me the pain It also gives inspiration and gives strength.\nYour love keeps my courage strong And the mantra that we have taken to govern the system of governance is the mantra - \"All together, everyone's development\". If India does not have any angle, then my dream remains incomplete. And if any corner of India is deprived of development, my dream is not fulfilled. And so, every corner of India, every terrain of India, the people of India - they want us together and every people of every corner needs development. And to fulfill this dream, I too have to bring back the day in Jammu Kashmir where Hindustan used to be crazy to come to this Sir-ground. He used to be very lazy to apply this soil on his forehead. If a little money was saved, then the family had a dream that these holidays would go to Kashmir. Whether it is Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Assam, Nagaland, Maharashtra, Gujarat and Gujarat. Every family used to have a dream that save money, the next year will make a program to go to Kashmir. That day is to bring me back to return.\nAgain in the hundred and fifty million people, I have to create that kind of love, that is to create the desire so that they come to the plight of Kashmir, experience your love, experience your service and win the jannat that nature has created. I feel like I live by taking this dream of mine. Who says that with the crisis, can not even emerge? I am a living person with that faith, and I have seen in my life how deep the crisis is, but there is an emotion that is to defeat the santo and create the desire to live.\nIn 2001, when a terrible earthquake occurred in Gujarat, we slept with a sheet of death. The whole world believed that now Gujarat can not stand. Thousands of people had died, millions of homes were destroyed, the entire economy was devastated, and the biggest thing was that the dreams were shattered. There was no one to wipe the tear. I had seen those days, but had decided in my heart that this situation has to take me out of Gujarat. And the brothers, sisters say the world, the World Bank says that after the horrific earthquake incident, if the state gets help from all four sides, it does not take less than 7 years to get out. But brothers and sisters, the way we went one by one, and after moving in one of the plans, within 3 years, the earthquake-area started running and crossing new heights of development. He who had suffered from Bhuj, Bhuj, who had been suffering from Bhuj, had registered his name in the districts running at the fastest pace in India today. And so I say - Kashmir has suffered a lot, many have gone through the crisis. The dreams of those young people have become shattered, two or two generations. Even knowing these things, I came out with the belief that my Kashmir is once again the same as the Jannah, that same emotion, that happiness, that day I am looking in front of my eyes. And I just dream, not like that, by taking one step after making one and the other, to realize those dreams, to achieve those things, I am trying to successfully move ahead with the people.\nTake any newspaper from India 17 months ago, take away any TV channel debate on YouTube and see if there are any agencies in the world, listen to their voice, there was only one voice that India is now ruined, India can not survive. India has reached the verge of catastrophe Economic conditions, corruption, mismanagement, nepotism, non-knowledgeable diseases have ruined India. That was the echo of our ear every 17 months ago. But today within 17 months, India has registered its name in the economy which is fast moving forward in big countries all over the world.\nNever compared India to China, nobody dares to do it. Because China had gone far ahead of us Today there is a discussion of India's development, economic development is discussed, then every time China is compared, and it comes repeatedly these days. Now India goes beyond China, it is in 17 months. Could.\nI was reading this report right now, coming out a regular report every year - Transparency International What are the countries in the countries of the world, where is the situation of corruption? Is corruption growing, is it decreasing? All of these calculate. I read these reports today - India for the first time in the last 50 years - and they have compared that China was always well respected and considered ahead of India - in relation to transparency for the first time, in the direction of getting rid of corruption In order to eliminate corruption, India has successfully surpassed China on ten pedrians successfully. Our number was first in the world at 95, the report that came just now, due to bringing transparency, we have reached 95 to 85 because of the important steps towards eliminating corruption. In 17 months, such a big fight against corruption is seen by boys, it shows by doing Hindustan. Once Hindustan decides, it does.\nBrothers, sisters who are Hindus, can not be separated from Kashmir. He, too, and just like Mufti Saheb was saying, the people here have strength in strength. If there is a little system, then you have the power to take Kashmir to new heights. I believe in Mufti Saheb's case, I trust you, or else after 20 years of constant torture, this atmosphere could never be seen, this is proof of this. This is proof of what is that emotions within you, which power is there and what are you uplifting for Kashmir?\nBrothers and sisters, we have to follow Atal ji's footsteps. For Kashmir I do not need to advise anyone in the world, I do not need anyone's analysis. On this earth, no such message can be heard from AB Vajpayee Ji on the same forum that Atal Bihari Vajpayee Ji had said. He had given three chants - he had said \"Kashmiri, Jamurity and Indyanita\" I still believe that the path of Kashmir's development is to stand on these three pillars. This is to be strengthened.\nWhen Vajpayee used to speak of \"Jamuriyat\", was anyone ever thought, in such a short time, the people of Kashmir should give such force to Jamurity and how much was cast in the election of the Lok Sabha, the assembly elections? And today when Mufti Saheb is saying I want to give authority to the panchayats, this is only the Atal ji's samuraiyat. That is just the samuraiyat. Each village will have a punch, the punch will have the right. He will be able to make his decisions and the government will continue to help him by holding his hand. How powerful each one of our villages will be. The dreams that Vajpayee Ji had dreamed of on the basis of this Jamuriyat have been fulfilled by the people of Kashmir. And therefore I bow to my millions of sisters and brothers of Kashmir today for the words of those great men. I congratulate him, he has given this strength to Jammu.\nWithout the \"brothers\" and \"Kashmiri\", India is incomplete not only Kashmir. And that Kashmiri, which is the pride of India, if anyone has a true Binasamyampatikata, then it was only from the earth. Where did the Sufi tradition come from? It came from the same earth, who taught to add. Taught to be a relationship. And that tradition, that is our Kashmir.\nAnd why not change the world so many people make the power to build a house in the sky, but nothing can move forward without \"humanity\". And so why does not life go too far, where does technology reach us, how can the economic sovereignty take us to new heights, but humanity, the soul within us is to live only, to live for others For, everyone gives inspiration to live, gives strength and therefore \"Kashmiri, Jammu and North and humanity\" - we want to move forward with this radius.\nBrothers and sisters, I got a chance to talk a lot with Mufti Saheb. Our Nirmal Singh Ji has many opportunities to talk. Our dagas come with frequent recruitment of many ministers, keep acquainting me with many topics and doing one of those things, one of the developments that are made in mind, is to complete it in the time limit. The first requirement for me is that the farmers who suffered problems in the last flood, the damage to the homes, losses to the homes, the primary facilities which harmed the system - to fulfill it as soon as possible and to bring every family out of the crisis . And for that before we, I had come and declared a thousand crores on the first day. Later on, as the need arises, and still to fulfill that work, with the Jammu and Kashmir government, Delhi shoulder shoulder to shoulder, I assure my brothers and sisters of J \u0026 K. But just wipe the tears, fix his house, now the shop will be fine - so much so that Kashmir does not talk. He was a crisis, he has to do it for himself, but there is no talk of stopping there. I have to go a long way, take a lot forward.\nAnd so, the biggest thing that I think is in front of us - employment to the youth of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh. Our solution to all our problems is in the employment of our young people. They should get an opportunity of work and today I want to congratulate the young people of Kashmir and the whole India should be proud - today whoever hears me in India, this news probably will not have helped to reach you, I want to reach I am\nIn the past, you, the youth of Kashmir, will be the IAS examination, the IPS examination, the IIT, the IIM, for which people of India and the locality do not know what to do in order to get admission. But for the past few years every year Kashmir's youngsters perform best and IAS, IPS cadre are coming in, appearing in IIT, looking at IIMs. This strength is in the young man of Kashmir, which I know well, friends And for whom I recognize, I am ready to do everything. How promising the young man is!\nEven when I came to this stadium in the past, the idea came to my mind. 30 years ago the match was played at this stadium. Why should not an international match be there in the state where Parvez Rasool is present? Our Parvez is making a name in cricket, the boy is moving forward, proud we are, why do not we see that dream in this stadium once again that international cricket match starts again and the country can see it? दुनिया में हमारे सचिन तेंदुलकर हो, युवराज हो, सहवाग हो, धोनी हो, कोई भी नाम ले लीजिए। अगर उन्‍होंने छक्‍के मारे हैं न तो बैट तो मेरी कश्‍मीर की धरती से बना हुआ था। यहां की तो लकड़ी है जो उत्‍तम से उत्‍तम बैट बनाती है। ये ताकत है यहां और उस ताकत को बल देना.. और इसलिए भाइयों-बहनों मैं जिस विकास के चित्र को लेकर के चर्चा करता रहा, पिछले लंबे समय से। उसमें मेरी प्राथमिकता यह है कि यहां पर विकास का वो मॉडल बने जो हमारे नौजवान को रोजगार दे, जैसे Tourism, यहां का मुख्‍य क्षेत्र है।\nअब Tourism में आज जो हमारी व्‍यवस्‍था है, इसको अगर हम आधुनिक नहीं बनाते, हमारा infrastructure ठीक नहीं करते तो Tourism बढ़ नहीं सकता है। आज हिन्‍दुस्‍तान से करीब पौने दो करोड़ लोग - और वो कोई अमीर घराने के नहीं है, मध्‍यम वर्ग, उच्‍च मध्‍यम वर्ग के हैं - वे vacation में पांच दिन, सात दिन के लिए विदेश चले जाते हैं भ्रमण करने के लिए। भले ही दुबई जाते होगे, लेकिन जाते हैं विदेश। क्‍या हम कोशिश नहीं कर सकते हैं कि हिन्‍दुस्‍तान के पौने दो करोड़ लोग जो बाहर जाते हैं कम से कम पांच percent, ये तो तत्‍काल मेरे कश्‍मीर में लौट आए? आप देखिए, यहां का Tourism कितना बढ़ जाएगा। आज विदेश के टूरिस्‍ट 40-50 हजार के आसपास रहते हैं। विदेश के टूरिस्‍ट पांच लाख कैसे बनेंगे? 12 महीने यहां पर Adventure-Tourism के लिए स्‍कोप है, यहां Eco-Tourism के लिए स्‍कोप है। यहां पर सैर करने के लिए शौक से आने वाले लोगों के लिए Tourism का अवकाश है। हमारा डल lake, हमारी सारी boat पहले कैसे-कैसे अवसर होते थे, टूरिस्‍टों को engage करने के लिए, उनको बढ़ावा देने के लिए। उन सबको फिर से कैसे चालू किया जाए? हमारे ही प्रदेश में और कई तीन-चार ऐसे इलाके तो मेरे ध्‍यान में है कि जहां पर हम नए tourist destination develop कर सकते हैं। बहुत बड़ी मात्रा में infrastructure के द्वारा उसको हम विकास करा सकते हैं। और इसलिए मैं उन विकास के मॉडल की ओर जाना चाहता हूं जो हमारी परंपरागत ताकत है उसको बल देना चाहता हूं।\nहमने पश्‍मीना, केसर, हमारे Apple उसको विशेष प्राधान्‍य दिया है। पश्‍मीना को बल मिले, ग्‍लोबल मार्किट मिले। हमारा केसर, उसको ग्‍लोबल मार्किट मिले, उसके लिए हम व्‍यवस्‍थाएं करें। उसका ट्रेडमार्क develop हो, उसका पैकेजिंग दुनिया को लुभाने वाला बने। हमारे लोकल नौजवानों को, हमारे किसान को, गांव में रोजगार के अवसर उपलब्‍ध कराएगा। और इसलिए एग्रीकल्‍चर सेक्‍टर जिसमें बहुत बड़ा potential, जो अन्‍य प्रदेशों को सौभाग्‍य नहीं है, वो कश्‍मीर को है। हम उसको बल देना चाहते है।\nहम infrastructure को बल देना चाहते हैं। अगर आज जम्‍मू से श्रीनगर आना है और 9 घंटे, 10 घंटे, 11 घंटे लग जाते हैं तो tourist भी 50 बार सोचेगा कि यार क्‍या जाउंगा, बात नहीं बनती है। हमारे नितिन जी के नेतृत्‍व में जम्‍मू से श्रीनगर का रास्‍ता और हमारी कोशिश है कि आने वाले ढाई साल के भीतर-भीतर हम ये काम पूरा कर दे। 34,000 करोड़ रुपया जम्‍मू-श्रीनगर का एक नया हम जो मार्ग दे रहे हैं उस पर लगा रहे हैं और उसके कारण जम्‍मू से श्रीनगर आने में आज 9 घंटे, 10 घंटे, 12 घंटे लग जाते हैं वो साढ़े तीन-चार घंटे में पहुंच पाएगा व्‍यक्‍ति और Tunnel बनाने के कारण करीब 65-70 किलोमीटर रास्‍ता कम हो जाएगा।\nआप कल्‍पना कर सकते हैं कि विकास को कितनी नई ऊंचाइयां मिल सकती है। हम रेल ट्रेक और बलवान बनाना चाहते हैं। मुफ्ती साहब ने कहा, China में बन सकता है, यहां क्‍यों नहीं। बन सकता है, कश्‍मीर की धरती पर भी बन सकता है। और इसलिए मेरे भाईयों बहनों बिजली हो, पानी हो, सड़क हो, साथ-साथ अब सिर्फ हाईवे से चलने वाला नहीं है। हाईवे की एक जरूरत है उसके बिना चलना नहीं है, लेकिन सिर्फ हाईवे से भी नहीं चलना है। और इसलिए i-ways की भी जरूरत है। और इसलिए हमारा लक्ष्‍य highways का भी है, i-ways का भी है। Information ways - Optical Fiber Network, Digital Network विश्‍व के साथ जुड़ने के लिए हमारे मोबाइल फोन पर दुनिया हो, वो नेटवर्क कश्‍मीर की धरती पर मिलना चाहिए। और जो नोटिस आप कॉलसेंटर की बात करते थे जिसके कारण नौजवान को रोजगार मिले। यहां का नौजवान बड़ी आसानी से अंग्रेजी बोल लेता है थोड़ी सी पढ़ाई करे वो अंग्रेजी में तैयार हो जाता है। अगर हम कॉल सेंटर का नेटवर्क खड़ा करते हैं, हमारे नौजवान को यहीं पर रोजगार मिल सकता है और उसको हम बल देना चाहते हैं।\nउसी प्रकार से बुर्जगों के लिए, बीमारी हो, अच्‍छे दवाखानों का नेटवर्क हो, दवाईयां उपलब्‍ध हो, हमारे अस्‍पताल बनें, छोटी जरूरत हो छोटा, बड़े की जरूरत हो बड़ा बने। चाहे जम्‍मू हो, चाहे लद्दाख हो, चाहे श्रीनगर हो – हमने आधुनिक एम्‍स अस्‍पताल उसको बनाने की दिशा में आगे बढ़ रहे हैं, जिसका लाभ जम्‍मू को भी मिलेगा, श्रीनगर को भी मिलेगा। हम IIT शुरू करना चाहते हैं, IIM शुरू करना चाहते हैं, ताकि हमारे नौजवान को उत्‍तम से उत्‍तम शिक्षा मिले और सस्‍ते से सस्‍ती शिक्षा मिले। यह उत्‍तम से उत्‍तम शिक्षा और सस्‍ते से सस्‍ती शिक्षा और वो भी ग्‍लोबल लेवल की। अब हरेक के नसीब में इसे ऊंचाईयों तक जाना तो संभव नहीं होता। छोटे परिवार के छोटे लोग भी होते हैं। उनको क्‍या किया जाए?\nSkill Development का हम अभियान चलाए, यहां का जो handicraft उसको नए सिरे से डिजाइनिंग मिले, नये Talent ग्‍लोबल मार्केट में कौन से डिजाइन चाहिए, उस डिजाइन से उसकोकाम मिले। उस पर हम बल देना चाहते हैं। Skill Development भी हमारा जो Handicraft है उसमें Technology की involvement से speed कैसे बढ़ा सकते हैं, Quality कैसे improve कर सकते हैं, wastage कैसे बचा सकते हैं, packaging कैसे बदल सकते हैं, ब्रांडिग कैसे कर सकते है, ग्‍लोबल मार्किट कैसे एक्‍वायर कर सकते है - उसकी पूरी चेन बना करके। हम हमारे जो handicraft है, उसको बल देना चाहते है।\nऔर इसलिए भाईयों-बहनों अच्‍छी शिक्षा, ह्यूमेन रिर्सास डेवलपमेंट के लिए बल, बुर्जुगों के लिए स्‍वास्‍थ्‍य के लिए व्‍यवस्‍थाएं ताकि उनकी आवश्‍यकताएं पूरी हो। गांव और किसान के लिए यहां की जो पैदावर है उसको बल, नौजवान को रोजगार के लिए अवसर इन बातों को ले करके हम चल रहें है। और उस सपने को पूरा करने के लिए भारत सरकार ने जम्‍मू कश्‍मीर के लिए 80 हजार करोड़ रुपये का पैकेज देने का घोषित किया है।\n80 हजार करोड़ रुपये का पैकेज मेरे नौजवानों मेरी दिली इच्‍छा है मेरे नौजवानों मेरी दिली इच्‍छा है ये 80 हजार करोड़ रुपया आपके भाग्‍य को बदलने के लिए काम आना चाहिए। कश्‍मीर के नौजवान को ताकत देने के लिए पैसा काम आना चाहिए। एक नया कश्‍मीर, एक आधुनिक कश्‍मीर, एक प्रगतिशील कश्‍मीर बनाने के लिए ये 80 हजार करोड़ रुपया लगना चाहिए। ये सपना ले करके मैं आपके पास आया हूं और मेरे भाईयों-बहनों इसे आप, इसे आप पूर्ण विराम मत समझना - ये 80 हजार करोड़ को पूर्ण विराम मत समझना, ये तो सिर्फ शुरुआत है। जो बातें मैंने बताई उसको करके दिखाइए। ये दिल्‍ली का खजाना आपके लिए है। ये दिल्‍ली का खजाना आपका है और दिल्‍ली का खजाना नहीं ये दिल भी आपके लिए है मेरे भाईयों-बहनों।\nमैं लद्दाख के भाईयों का विशेष रूप से आभार व्‍यक्‍त करना चाहता हूं कि पिछले दिनों जो चुनाव हुआ हिल काउंसिल में हमारे एमपी साहब और उनकी पूरी टीम को जम्‍मूरियत का जो बल मिला और पूर्ण बहुमत के साथ जो बॉडी बनाया उसके लिए लद्दाख के भाईयों को भी, मैं आज कश्‍मीर की धरती पर आया हूं, हृदय से अभिनंदन और आभार व्‍यक्‍त करना चाहता हूं। भाईयों-बहनों ये विकास जम्‍मू हो, कश्‍मीर वेली हो, या लद्दाख हो। हर एक की आवश्‍यकता के अनुसार विकास को प्राथमिकता दे करके आगे बढ़ाने की मेरी चर्चा मुख्‍यमंत्री जी और वित्‍त मंत्री के साथ हुई है। और उसी की तरह उसको आगे बढ़ाया जाएगा। मैं फिर एक बार कश्‍मीर की धरती को नमन करता हूं, आप सबको शुभकामनाएं देता हूं और नौजवानों के भरोसे से एक नया कश्‍मीर, एक नया ताकतवर कश्‍मीर उसे बनाने के लिए आगे बढ़े। I am very grateful to you."