"PM Narendra Modi addresses 6th Delhi Economics Conclave\nJAM vision will serve as bedrock of many initiatives to come: PM Modi\nJAM is about Just Achieving Maximum: PM Narendra Modi\nIndia is doing better - GDP growth up, inflation down; FDI up, Current Account Deficit down; revenues up, interest rates down: PM Modi\nWe have embarked on a course of fiscal consolidation. We have entered a monetary framework agreement with the RBI.\nWe must reform to transform It helps citizens, especially the poor, achieve a better life. It is a common issue, says Modi\nWe have brought 190 million people in the banking system in the last 17 months: PM Narendra Modi\nPrime Minister Modi says our financial inclusion reform has transformed\nJan Dhan Yojana has transformed the ability of the poor to make the payments: PM Modi\nIndia has tremendous entrepreneurial energy that must be harnessed for becoming a job seekers, rather than job seekers: PM\nPradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana has provided more than 6 million loans to small businesses for a total value of approximately 38,000 crores: PM\nWe are making an environment that fosters innovation \u0026 start-ups through Atal Innovation Mission: PM Modi\nAgriculture is India's mainstay in terms of providing livelihood. We have introduced a series of reforms in this sector: PM\nWe have introduced Universal Account Number which will remain with employees: PM Modi\nWe have started empowering unorganized sector employees by giving them a universal identity number: PM Modi\nSwacch Bharat will influence not only health \u0026 sanitation but also uplift status \u0026 security of women: PM\nWe have undertaken major managerial reforms in the transport sector: PM Modi\nPace of award of new highway works increased from 5.2 km per day in 2012-13 and 8.7 km per day in 2013-14 to 23.4 km per day now: PM Modi\nOur work on 'Make in India' and 'Easy of Doing Business' is of course well known: PM Modi\nThe growth rate of trade exceeded GDP growth from 1983 to 2008: PM Narendra Modi\nWe should not limit our idea of ​​reforms to some standard notions. Our ideas of reforms should be inclusive and broad-based: PM\nMy colleagues in government,\nFriends and Distinguished Guests from India and abroad,\nI am happy, to be here today, to address the Sixth Delhi Economics Conclave This is a good platform for bringing together economists, policy-makers, and think-leaders, from India and abroad. I compliment the Ministry of Finance for organising it.\nYour topic of discussion is JAM, that is, Jan Dhan Yojana, Aadhar and Mobile. This JAM vision, will serve as the bedrock of many initiatives to come. For me, JAM is about Just Achieving Maximum\nMaximum value for every rupee spent\nMaximum empowerment for our poor\nMaximum technology penetration among the masses\nBut let me start by taking a look at the Indian economy. By almost every major economic indicator, India is doing better, than when we took office 17 months ago.\n• GDP growth is up and inflation is down\n• Foreign investment is up and the current account deficit is down.\n• Revenues are up and down\n• The fiscal deficit is down and the rupee is stable.\nObviously, this did not happen by accident. And the world economy is not doing This success is the result of a series of well thought out policies. Many of the purely macro economic reforms have been undertaken. We have embarked on a course of fiscal consolidation. We have entered the first time in a monetary framework agreement, with the Reserve Bank to curb inflation. Even while cutting the fiscal deficit This is possible in two ways Firstly, we have imposed, carbon taxes on fossil fuels. We took the bold step of de-controlling diesel prices and thereby eliminated energy subsidies. We have replaced them with taxes The coal cess has been increased by four times from Rs 50 per ton to Rs 200 per ton. Globally, there is much talk of carbon taxes but much of it is just that - TALK. We have actually acted Secondly, we have reduced wasteful cost through innovative methods Some of the methods, are part of your agenda, such as using subsidies to the deserving. These are the reforms that you are aware of. But our reforms are far broader, and far deeper, than is generally recognised.\nBefore I elaborate on this issue, I would like to raise two issues. The first is, REFORM FOR WHAT? What is the aim of reform? Is it just the measured rate of GDP growth? Or is it a change in society? My answer is clear We must REFORM TO TRANSFORM\nThe second question is, REFORM FOR WHOM? Who is the target audience? Is our aim to impress groups of experts and score points in intellectual discussions? Or the ranks in some international league table? Again, my answer is clear. Reform is that which helps all citizens, and especially the poor, achieve a better life. It is a perfect solution, Sabka Vikas.\nIn short, reform is not an end in itself. Reform for me, is the only railway station The destination is transformation of India Therefore, REFORM TO TRANSFORM And reforming to transform, is a marathon, not a sprint\nThe reforms we have taken, are of many types For simplicity, I will classify them as financial, structural and institutional. It will not be possible But I will definitely mention some of the most important.\nLet me start with the financial reforms. We talk about interest rates and credit policy. Changes in interest rates are debated for months Tons of newsprint and hours of television Interest rates are no doubt very important. Are they going to get out of the banking system? To a person who has no prospect of ever loaning or borrowing from a bank? And if large sections of a country are in this position then how important are interest rates? It has been advocated for financial inclusion. We have done the last 17 months in one hundred and nine billion people in the banking system. This is more than the population in the world Now these millions are part of our banking system, and words like 'interest rate' have a meaning for them.\nNot only did this people have been brought into the system but they have shown that there is great power at the bottom of the pyramid. Believe it or not, accounts opened under Jan Dhan Yojana today has a total balance of approximately Rs. 26,000 crores or about four billion dollars Clearly our financial inclusion reform has been transformational. And yet this quiet revolution has hardly been noticed.\nThe Jan Dhan Yojana has also transformed the ability of the poor to make and receive electronic payments. Every Jan Dhan account holder is eligible for a debit card. India's banks are also being encouraged to operate 'mobile ATMs'. A mobile ATM is one where cash can be used. Thanks to Jan Dhan Yojana and the RuPay debit card, we have also introduced healthy competition in the debit-credit card space. This has traditionally been dominated by some international players. Even one year ago, there were hardly any indigenous card brands in the market. Today, 36% of debit cards in India are Ru-Pay cards.\nFinancial inclusion is not just about opening accounts or enabling electronic payments. I firmly believe, that India has tremendous entrepreneurial energy This needs to be harnessed so that we become a nation of job-creators, rather than job seekers. When we took office, we found that 58 million non-corporate enterprises provided one 128 million jobs. 60% of them were rural areas Over 40% of people owned by the Backward Classes and 15% by Scheduled Castes and Tribes. But bank credit accounted for their financing Most of them never get any bank credit In other words the most employment-intensive sector While Jan Dhan Yojana was brought to banking, the unbanked the second reform was due to funding to the unfunded. We are making a new financing and regulatory architecture under the Micro-Units Development and Refinance Agency scheme popularly known as MUDRA. Already under the Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana banks have provided more than six million loans to small businesses for a total value of about 38,000 crores or six billion dollars. If one conservatively estimates that every loan creates 2 jobs we have laid the foundation for 12 million new jobs Even Rs Two Hundred Thousand Crores Invested in the Corporate Sector did not produce this many jobs. We have now launched a program where every branch of every bank is a total of 125,000 bank branches will assist a Dalit or a Scheduled Tribe person. We are also developing an environment that fosters innovation and start-ups through the Atal Innovation Mission and the Self Employment and Talent Utilization Program.\nAnother financial reform is the provision of a social security schemes. We have introduced three non-subsidized but low cost schemes. Because of their massive coverage the premia is low. There are now over 120 million subscribers\nFor many of these reforms to be successful We inherited a system where cronyism and corruption were believed to be in rampant in public sector banks. After the first ever retreat of Prime Minister with bankers, known as the Sangan Sangam, we have moved decisively to change this. Major steps have been taken to improve efficiency, including clear performance measures and accountability mechanisms. We have made a commitment to ensure adequate capital.\nBut more than that has been very powerful non-financial steps. Interference in banking decisions has ended. A new process is appointments under the Bank Boards Bureau. Credible and capable bankers have been appointed to head banks. For the first time since banks were nationalized 46 years ago private sector professionals have been appointed in key positions. This is a major reform.\nThere is a whole eco-system focus on alleviating poverty. Perhaps this can be called the 'poverty alleviation industry'. Obviously the intentions are good Well designed schemes and subsidies do have an important place. But empowering the poor is far more effective than empowering the poverty alleviation industry Our financial reforms I can take the analogy of a house. The foundation and basic structure Then come the fixtures, fittings and furniture If the foundation and structure are weak in any investment in nice fittings or attractive floor tiles or beautiful curtains is unlikely to last long So also, empowering the poor through financial inclusion and social security will provide a more stable and lasting solution.\nLet me now turn to structural reforms in various sectors\nAgriculture remains India's mainstay in terms of providing livelihood. We have introduced a series of reforms There was a tendency to divert subsidized fertilizers. A simple but very effective solution is a neem-coating of fertilizer which makes it unsuitable for diversion. This has been done on a small scale before. We are now moving toward universal neem-coating of urea. This has already saved crores of rupees of diverted farm subsidies. It is an example of how simple reforms can be very effective.\nWe have introduced a Soil Health Card nationally, which tells every farmer the condition of his or her soil. It enables the farmer to choose the right quantity and mix of inputs. This greatly reduces wastage of inputs and increased crop yield besides protecting the soil. By reducing unnecessary chemical inputs, it is also good for consumers It enables farmers to choose the best crop for their soil. Many farmers have been unaware that their land is actually more suitable for a different crop. In economic terms, it is a win-win-win-win. It reduces costs, increases yields, improves the environment and protects the health of consumers. 140 million soil health cards will be issued, requiring a collection of over twenty-five million soil samples. They will be tested through a nationwide network of approximately 1500 laboratories. About four million samples have already been collected. This too is a reform to transform\nWe have launched a housing for all program. It involves building twenty million urban homes and thirty million rural homes, totalling about fifty million. The program will make no Indian is houseless It will also generate a large amount of employment for the unskilled the semi-skilled and the poor. This multi-pronged program is also a transformative reform.\nMuch has been spoken and written about India's labour markets. We have already taken some important steps Many workers in the organized sector have suffered when changing jobs by being unable to access Provident fund and other benefits The benefits accrued under an employer We have introduced a Universal Account Number which will remain as an employee This greatly improves the labor force and makes life easier for employers and employees.\nWe have gone a step further We have started empowering the unorganized sector employees by giving them a Universal Identity Number and providing certain minimum social security benefits to them. Over a period of years, this is a major impact on the quality of employment in India.\nBefore becoming Prime Minister, I received many inputs about the reforms needed in India from many economic experts. However, none of them are allowed on the issue of cleanliness and sanitation. Sanitation has languished for years as a poor cousin of health or drinking water supply. It has been viewed as a question of budgets and projects and expenditure. Yet, you will agree that poor sanitation and lack of cleanliness It touches on all well It is of particular importance to women Our Swacch Bharat or Clean India campaign will influence not only health and sanitation but also uplift the status and security of women and above all the well-being of a strong sense. If this reform succeeds, as I am confident it will, India would have transformed.\nWe have undertaken major managerial improvements in the transport sector. Our major ports have seen a 5% growth in traffic and an 11% increase in operating income in 2014 despite the global volume of trade volume. The Shipping Corporation of India had been making losses continuously for several years and had a loss of Rs. 275 crores in 2013-14. In 2014-15, it earned a profit of Rs 201 crores a turnaround of around Rs 500 crore in one year. The pace of award of new highway works has increased from 5.2 km per day in 2012-13 and 8.7 km per day in 2013-14 to 23.4 km per day These managerial reforms in the workplace of the public sector\nAnother measure we have taken to identify what can be called 'dead money' and use it productively The best example is gold India is well known for its cultural affinity for gold As economists you will probably understand that this so-called cultural affinity has a strong economic logic. India has often witnessed high inflation. Gold is a great hedge against inflation Its portability and usability, also make it a source of empowerment of women who traditionally are the main jewelers of gold jewelery. However, this micro-economic virtue, can become a macro-economic vice It is a high level of gold import We have just launched a series of gold-related schemes. This will provide Indians with the inflation protection of gold as well. If the scheme reaches its potential, it will help meet the rational expectations of the public while moderating imports. Surely, this is a significant reform with potential for transform.\nLet me now turn to institutional and governance reforms.\nFor years, the Planning Commission was widely criticized. It was generally seen as a cumbersome centralizing force which imposed central will on the states. It is another matter that some of its strongest critics suddenly developed a nostalgic admiration for the institution. After coming to power we created a new institution, the National Institute for Transforming India, or NITI. My vision of NITI is very different from the Planning Commission. It is a collaborative forum for ideas and action where States are full partners and where Center and States meet in a spirit of co-operative federalism. Perhaps some people thought it was really a slogan But we already have concrete examples of its transformative power Let me explain.\nAs you all know, the 14th Finance Commission recommends that as an enhanced share of central revenue as automatic devolution. I decided to accept the recommendation. Centered Sponsored Schemes Ever since the First Five Year Plan in 1952, such decisions were taken unilaterally by the Center. We did something very different The task of fixing the sharing pattern of Central schemes was not entrusted to a group of ministers but to a sub-group of Chief Ministers in NITI. And I am happy to say, that in a fine example of co-operative federalism at its best, the Chief Ministers have consensus recommendations on a consensus. This is is the fact that this is a very complex issue, and that they come from many different political parties I received their report, on 27th October. The main recommendation on the sharing pattern was accepted by the very same day. On many other issues too, the Chief Minister is taking the lead in setting the national agenda. By reforming the institution, we have transformed the relationship\nOur work on 'Make in India' and 'Easy of Doing Business' is of course well known. Our push to 'Make in India' must be seen in the context of the world trade. The growth rate of trade exceeded GDP growth from 1983 to 2008. Since then, trade has been growing more slowly than GDP Therefore, the product for domestic consumption is important for growth.\nYou are all aware, that India has substantially improved its ranking in the World Bank's Doing Business survey. But a new feature, is the very healthy and constructive competition among states. You will be surprised to know, that among the top few states are Jharkhand, Chattisgarh and Odisha. This is an example of constructive competitive federalism.\nIn a break with over sixty-five years of tradition. The Ministry of External Affairs has been asked to work with the States. When I visited China, a state-to-state summit was also held. And states Making the States think global\nI firmly believe that India's people are far more mature and far more public-spirited than arm-chair critics and experts give them credit for. An important governance issue is the mutual trust between citizens and the state. We made a start in trusting the citizens by abolishing many requirements for 'attestation' of signatures. For example, the Department of Higher Education, has been granted self certification by students of the documents used for admission in various academic courses. We also end the requirement for visits to government offices for life certification for pensioners by introducing online biometric identification. Economists have traditionally believed that people act in their self interest. But India has a long tradition of voluntarism We introduced the give-it-up campaign seeking the cooperation of the public. We have been given a connection. This will enable us to liberate many poor women from the health hazards of using firewood including respiratory illness. The response has been tremendous. Within a few months, over four million Indians have given up their cooking gas subsidies. Most of them are not rich families If any of you are in this room still having a subsidized connection.\nThis brings me to an achievement that I think also our worst critics do not dispute. This is the change in levels of corruption For many years, economists and other experts have held corruption from one of the main constraints on the growth of any developing economy. We have taken steps I have already referred to Another major reform is well known This is the removal of discretion Our auctions of coal spectrum and FM radio licenses have produced major additional revenue In the case of the major beneficiaries are some of India's poorest states, who will now have much more resources for development. Interviews for lower-level government jobs have been widely discussed, as a source of corruption. We have recently abolished the system of interviews. We will rely on transparent written examination results. Our campaign against tax evasion and money laundering is also well known. Rs. 6500 crores has been assessed before the new Black Money Act was implemented. Additionally, over $ 4,000 crore has been declared under the new Act. Thus over 10,500 crores of black money has been detected and assessed. If we can maintain this improvement in integrity and transparency, what can be a more transformative reform?\nWe are also taking several steps to serve the honest taxpayer Electronic filing of returns now covers 85% of all tax returns Previously, electronic returns had been followed by a paper verification which used to take weeks to be processed. This year, we have introduced e-verification using Aadhaar and over four million taxpayers made use of this facility. For them, the whole process was simple, electronic and completed instantly with no paper at all. This year, 91% of electronic returns were processed within ninety days as compared to 46% last year. About 90% of refunds were issued within 90 days. I have asked the Income Tax Department to move to a system where not only returns but also the scrutiny is done. Queries could be raised and answered online or by email There should be a visible electronic trail of what is pending with whom, where, and for how long This is being piloted in five big cities I have also instructed that the performance appraisal system, for Income Tax Officers be changed. The appraisal should reflect, whether or not the officer's orders and assessments are upheld on appeal. These will affect the officials When fully implemented, these changes, namely online scrutiny, and changes in performance appraisal have transformative potential.\nThis is a distinguished gathering You have many interesting and thought provoking sessions ahead. My appeal to all of you, is to think beyond conventional remedies We should not limit our idea of ​​reforms to some standard notions. Our ideas of reforms should be inclusive and broad-based. The goal of reforms is not the headlines in the pink papers I am sure you will get your ideas I look forward to hearing from you of more 'reforms to transform' which will make life better for the whole of India. Then only we will\nThank you."