"PM Modi lays foundation of NHAI Projects in Sonipat, Haryana\nIf Infrastructure improves, quality of life also enhances: PM Modi\nGood infrastructure has the ability to transform nations: PM\nThese roads will not only carry the vehicles, these roads will lead lead towards development: PM\nThere are so many districts not connected with a national highway. Bharat Mala project will change that: PM\nWe have made efforts to transform the railways- increase speed, extension, expansion, better stations. Lot of initiatives are happening: PM\nWe are able to provide 24/7 power supply to the 18,000 villages that do not have electrification: PM Modi\nSometimes people come to the idea that there are money when money happens, but the reality is that if the paths are created then the money starts becoming automatically. In today's era, the first primary requirement for development is Infrastructure whether it is power, water, road, and where the infrastructure reaches, the pace of development is faster. There is also a huge change in quality of life, when these types of facilities are ready. But most of the governments in our country are in dilemma, they feel that if a voter gets any benefit, then the election will get benefit but if the road is built then people think what is there in it, it is the government's work, my what happened. And this dilemma has been going on in our country for many years. And perhaps this dilemma is the biggest obstacle to development in our country. Those who are dalit in society, suffer, are exploited, disadvantaged, worrying them, reaching them to the fruits of development, their equal participation in the development journey, making sure that there is a priority of the state, there must be. But together with all-round development, it is very necessary that for a long time people have to move towards making themselves self-reliant, it is very necessary that the infrastructure should be emphasized.\nHaryana is a small state, but nearly Rs 32 thousand crore plans come only for roads, this is not a small thing. If it costs 32 thousand crore rupees then the employment of young people of the area is also available, those who work for wages also get work, but when the system is standing then the speed of development is very fast.\nIf one of you is to study, then Korea is a great example of where Korea reached from where and where the beginning of it, the rulers of that region used to say that a very large modern highway passing through the center of Korea. . There was a big controversy in that country. The controversy is that the country is poor, putting a lot of money for a road, not a school, no hospital, no poverty, and now it is being planted for billions of trillions of roads. There was a big controversy, but the rulers of that time decided to make a perfect path between all the allegations and contradictions, and made a perfect path between the whole of Korea. And that one way changed the life of whole Korea. Today the name of Korea has come in the world's rich countries.\nThis is the strength of the infrastructure and hence, in the area of ​​the road, perhaps under the leadership of our Nitin Gadkari, perhaps in the last 60 years, the work of constructing such a large scale has not been imagined. On one hand is Bharatmala Yojana, on the other hand, Sethu is the Bharat Ratna. Atal Bihari Vajpayee Ji pioneered the creation of a golden quadrangle to connect India from north to south, from east to west, and in such a way that the work that was completed in his tenure was completed even today, A key role is being played in this form, it is believed to have been played in this form.\nThese are the paths to be made, those paths are not the only way to carry our vehicles. The construction of this route is a speeding project for Haryana, the construction of this road is a campaign to make Haryana move faster on the new heights of development.\nUnder the Sagarmala scheme, the Infrastructure should be added along the coastline of India, along the coastline so that wherever there is to be known for every trade in maritime trade, get good connectivity with good speed so that trade can be encouraged in the country. If there is good infrastructure and the apple of Himachal, it is to reach them in the sea by the sea, if it is delivered at a faster pace, then the farmers are happy, and wherever good it reaches good goods. That is, in a way, these facilities can also be encouraged by the poor poor farmers, who can generate hard work, reach the right time in good market and travel to their economic development. And so with our monkeys, with sea monkeys, there is a campaign to provide road connectivity under Sagarmala.\nSethubhartam, you must have seen the road on both sides in our country, the rail is going from the middle, the bridges above are not becoming, the road is getting worse. It was going on for years, sometimes the rail is not giving permission, never do road work. Nitin ji took the initiative, built a harmony between the rail and the road, and make a formula that if so many parameters are complete, permission will be given to you, now the rail below goes down, the work of making the bridge up Do it\nThe work is moving at such a fast pace, you will be surprised. Rail is going on in our country and the village has evolved. One end of the village is on this side of the railway, the other is towards that side. If the water pipe line is to be entered, then the railway department does not allow two-two, four-four years. And because of that the same village, going from the middle to the rail, the water is not reaching there. We have made some rules such that the difficulties in the infrastructure should be implemented immediately under certain parameters in the time-bound and due to this they got the speed due to the many things that were stuck.\nI sit with the chief secretaries of the States once a month, video conference and the number of projects I have been stuck with, why they are stuck, whom they are stuck in, I have a little bit inquiries. You have to wonder, this campaign is running from the last 5-6 months. Till now, the project has been stuck with a trick of lakh crores. There is a need to build around 400 such bridges in this country by Setu Bharat which have become bottle neck for development, blockage remains. If it becomes 400 bridges, then a speed will get a new dimension across the country.\nUnder Sethu Bharat, by investing billions of trillions of rupees, as a focus that is to stress the work of building a bridge, to widen, to create a new parallel bridge, to create a new bridge somewhere. Together with the survey, he has taken up the mission to do his work, has set up an Bharatmala plan. You must be surprised that after 60 years, there are 123 districts in this country, that is, about 20%, 20% districts are such that there is no connectivity with the National Highway and therefore there is a campaign under Bharatmala Project that As soon as the 123 districts of India are not linked to the National Highway, they have launched the Bharatmala Project and in the coming years we are moving forward towards doing this work with a focus target scheme.\nIf the person of Haryana goes to Rajasthan, or the person of Haryana has to go to the other end of Uttar Pradesh, then all the problems of Delhi The solution will be resolved, at the speed of speed it will move out of the outside and the construction of this road is such that in future there will be urban development. When the road comes, the development itself happens, many colonies begin to form, but the construction of this road is such that even if new cities are developed, new locality will also be developed, even between the two There will be no contradiction, no problem. These billions of trillions of rupees are being spent on making such a safe route.\nI congratulate the Haryana Government on behalf of Mr. Nitin ji and the entire team of his department, heartily that this work is going on very fast and a very important role in speeding up India, Railway Initiative has started efforts to make radical changes in railway, efforts have been made to bring changes in railway stations, speed up of rail, rail expansion, new extension of railway, where rail is going on with diesel With the help of various types of initiatives, how to get electricity, there has been an attempt at making a change in the modern era of India's railroad era at a very fast pace. Electricity, 2022 When India celebrates 75 years of Independence, we have a dream that every village of India should get power in seven days, 24 hours, all year round. This work is not easy, I know how much strength will be seen in the production of electricity, I know how much power will be used to deliver electricity, I know but anybody has to take hard work too and we have taken the initiative 2022 When India will celebrate 75 years of independence, wherever there is power to be reached within Hindustan, there will be 24-hour power available, we are working towards this direction.\nThe era has changed, in the changed era, the work is not just from the highway. Highways also need information wave, the dream of Digital India, to fulfill the dream of Digital India, the 21st Century important infrastructure that is, along with the highways, the eyes are all the way to the world. And hence its infrastructure will also have to be emphasized. Modern India has become the first condition, having eye ways and therefore the work of Optical Fiber Network through Digital India is going on fast in India. When I review these things, I came to my attention, there are millions of such villages where there is no digital connectivity in today's era, it is also a difficult task, we have taken its lead, the work is going on fast, the work is going on fast. When I was asking for electricity, I was amazed that 15 years of 21st century have passed, 70 years of independence, but 18,000 villages in this country are like this, where there is no power line, a wire It has not reached. We have taken the initiative, I had announced to the Red Fort that in 18000 villages, where there is no electricity, in a thousand days, it will be inaccessible terrain, on the top of the mountain or in the desert, we will provide electricity there, It has run a campaign.\nWe are working on the speed with which the need of Infrastructure is needed to build a modern India, Haryana can make a lot of progress in it, the maximum benefit can be taken by Haryana and Manohar ji, by emphasizing this Are moving forward I once again convey my best wishes to Haryana, thank you very much. Speak with me, Mother of Mother India, Mother of Mother"