"PM launches three gold schemes\nPM Narendra Modi launches first ever gold coin\nIndia does not have a poor country; It has 20,000 tons of gold: PM Modi\nSays Modi is a source of women's empowerment in Indian society\nPM Narendra Modi launches three gold schemes\nAll the greatness present\nWe had come to hear from childhood as 'gold pe suhaga'. But till now did not understand what was 'good on gold'. Today our Finance Minister explains to us what is 'good on gold'. The scheme for the country, in true sense, 'gold pe suhaga' carries this feeling. And we are poor countries with 20 thousand tonnes of gold. And perhaps the reason for our poverty is that 20 thousand tonnes of gold is lying. And so there is no reason why India should be poor, there is no reason. No logic can explain why we should be poor. If we try a little bit, try in the right direction, then we can get rid of that Tag which is tagged on us. And that's an important, important step in that way today that they have different plans related to Gold.\nNow I have come to hear from childhood that people come to work at midnight. Keep gold, it works in midnight. If you ever need it, it will come; But I asked hundreds of people that Bhai has come to such a place in your life? I have not met anyone yet, who has used it for the midnight but psychologically fit in his mind that Bhai will keep it, it will come in the middle of the night. And this is something that has become our home, and it is not easy to bring the society out of it. By explaining to you how many educated people will say that quitting is not easy. Even if your wife asks for even the Governor of the Reserve Bank, then you will have to bring gold. While their economics will be different in terms of gold, but homology will be different, then in that state, there will be some innovative, creative systems that we have to develop. The second thought is that there is such a perception in our country that women in India do not have anything to do. If there is a house then in the name of the husband, in the name of the father, the car is in the name of husband or son, then the farm is with the woman's name? But if you look closely, then the gold is one which is the subject of women's strength. It is not such a arrangement. Someone has been a very powerful part of a social system, which is a very big aspect of women empowerment. His house will not be named, but he has this property from his master. And the family also does not question him, the daughter also does not question, it is the mother's. This is also an excellent aspect of our rites. Who has developed a system for women empowerment in such a social life and if this is our structure, then it has to be sustained. Our mothers and sisters should have a sense of security inside them, they should remain intact. If we deliver these beliefs in this scheme, then perhaps the reason for its greatest success will be women. Secondly, we have seen that families of our families have family doctors. Even the middle class family also has family doctors. But the middle class is not family doctor of poor class family. But every family in our country is a family goldsmith. How big is faith? Three-three, four-four-year-old goldsmith, that is, he must have lived in the United States, but he is a goldsmith of his village, he will find him, look at Bhai, I send it, do it. This reliability is made of a very big one, which means centuries of penance. We must recognize that power too. And so when I was talking about the plan, I was telling Mr. Das that the small goldsmith of the village, how can they become our agents? At one time it was the 1968 goldsmith became the biggest enemy of the government. I spent some time in my childhood in a city called Parton of Gujarat. The street I lived in was the gold lane. There he was a gentleman, he had a program. When the newspaper came in the morning, the cigarette was burnt, and whenever there was a photo of Mauaraji brother in the newspaper, he used to burn him. They were so angry, they used to get angry because they thought that Bhai had gone all the roti. We develop such a system through this scheme so that it can empower once again. How did he become our agent of this profession, because he believes that I am not doing evil for anybody but more than the bank he has more trust in his village's goldsmith. He will go to the showroom in a big jewelry store, after getting it, take a look at your goldsmith here. How big is the showroom. Our Mehul brothers are sitting here, but they will go. I'll take a look at your goldsmith, I'll take it. This one can become a very big link to our system. And this structure is already available. How we can motivate them for gold bond, how can they trust them. How can we develop a decent line mechanism and I would like the people of the department to think about it, if we can do it, it will probably grow at all. In the government, no plan came into the budget and in such a short time it will be implemented and the target has been fixed before Dhanteras, because in India, there is more money for Dhanteras than the importance of gold in marriage in India. And the biggest import would have happened in those days. Because people will think that a huge market is going to open, then we ... Now see this, we import a thousand tonnes of gold every year and it is such a big power. If any of us used without any use made a huge reservoir Ho dam has been spent, billions of trillions of rupees have been spent. But if there is no canal network and it will reach farmers, otherwise what is to be done. This is our 20 thousand tons of gold. We have to transform this into the power of the nation and make it stronger in social security. One aspect of it is not possible. It is the aspect of social security that we have to strengthen and strengthen. He can play a huge role in the development journey of the nation, that kind of we have to believe, make mechanism. Today, there is a concern that people live where 15 days go out, where should they keep all this? Keep the relative here too, what to do, how to worry about him .. mind. This is the biggest tension of security, it is eradicated from this plan. He becomes the believer that my money is safe here. Occasionally, the person does so in gold, where will he keep the bucks of silver? Gold will come in such a small space, then with such a big bag rupee .. then we know what it is all about. But if he came to her today, then keep your four papers. A thief will also come, then he will not take the hand. He will say what to take this paper, do not take it, it is useless. That is, there is a guarantee of safety and it can also sell it. Gold is sold at midnight, I do not know. But I believe that Gold Bond can sell at midnight if needed, wherever you have to go to the hospital, you have to undergo surgery, the doctor says, first bring the money, Gold Bond will give an operation. This is not so much of gold in these possibilities. That means there is plus point in it. How do we spread these things to people by articulate them? In the same way, the deposit which we deposited is such that gold is lying down. If the bank comes and comes for a long time, then he will go for jewellry.\nJewellry will go on, I believe people in the jewellry area will get gold in such a way, there will be no question in front of them. According to the direct requirement from the bank for the business of jewellry, to get gold locally, it will be very convenient for promoting our jewellry in itself and that is why people associated with the world of jewellry because we are the people of the world The biggest today is the Gold consumer. Now I was telling a report yesterday that we left China behind. Maybe four-five hundred sixty two tons so far in nine months we have probably bought gold. And stands at five hundred forty eight from China. If we are doing so fast, then we can bring changes to this system. By monthly monitoring, we can decide that the gold of this month will come into the bank and the amount of such quantity will come from outside. If we could have developed the online monitoring system, then perhaps we could add this whole new system to a truly national interest, in the work of development of the nation. It is also a topic of national self respect. What is the reason that we still sleep with foreign marches .. and even today we ask that the good is the mark. I do not remember the name, because I do not have to do such a thing but I have come to hear. Now she will say with confidence that Bhoi is Ashok Chakra My country is trusting it This should make us brand popular Now we should decide that we will not give ourselves to the foreign mark market now. We will be in the jewelry, we will be Gold Batchers, we will not. It is fine that this Dhanteras will probably only get hundred hundred hundred at the center, but he will grow slowly. So those who have to buy gold on Dhanteras will be found in some places but they will have to move forward but should join a national self respect and we should give them strength. And in such a short time, the finance minister and his whole team workout the whole scheme, launched him. Technology is also there and manufacturing is also there. All the arrangements have to be renewed. But of all the arrangements and when I saw this coin, I have seen a very good picture of Gandhiji, who I have seen on my rupees and so on. I congratulate Gandhiji, whoever has done his artwork. That means that feeling comes. If you see, you will be in meditation. I have a very good artwork, that is, it is my nature, because of my interest in these things, I keep looking at a little differently. But I congratulate the whole team, special greetings to Arun ji. Good luck to all the countrymen, from this holy festival of Dhanteras and with the good wishes of Diwali, India has advanced for the golden age and your 20,000 ton of gold is enough to go towards India's Golden Age. It is my belief that let's make India a golden age for which they have to sleep, they do not leave this golden opportunity and will sleep on gold. This is my expectations and good wishes.\nThank you."