"2\nPM Narendra Modi attends the Visitors' Conference at Rashtrapati Bhawan\nSociety is becoming technology driven It is necessary to understand the importance of this technology: PM\nOur focus should be now on innovation. It is the key to achieve one's dreams: PM Modi\nInstitutions of higher education should give priority to innovation in learning: PM\nFinding solutions to challenges like global warming and converting waste to wealth are India's: PM Modi\nScience is universal\nThe biggest strength of #MakeInIndia is human capital. Skill development is extremely vital: PM\nOur President is a walking talking university He is an ocean of knowledge: PM Narendra Modi\nThe Supreme Honorary President, my colleague of the Council of Ministers, all the senior dignitaries present present. I am very grateful to the Honorable President that you have made this system alive. Otherwise, come somewhere from here and then bye bye. This ritual has been taken out by trying to fill the system in it and according to the demand of the time it has been given more emphasis on involvement, involvement, coordination. This system which has evolved and its nectar from its churning will prepare the road map of the nation's development journey in the future. Add to it the power of knowledge and experience and will strengthen efforts to bring changes in the time limit. I always think primary education plays a big role in the life of a person. Primary education connects the human being with the roots but higher education raises the aroma of the skyrocketing and hence the importance of preparing life through primary education, linking roots through primary education, as much as touching the sky through higher education Wala Arman how to wake up If the primary education person gives more emphasis on home, higher education becomes the basis of home.\nA road map of how the nation will become powerful, its blue print is prepared in this period and in that sense you are contributing people, contributing to your institutions, the journey of nation's development, The requirement comes in the work of adding it. Perhaps no earlier century will be such that technology has had such an impact. In a way, the entire society has become technology driven and then it is necessary for us also to accept this greatness of technology, keeping in view the future, how do we move forward towards affordable technology? How we emphasize sustainable technology and to do this, we have to focus on innovation. Millions of million challenges are there But as it is said now, Billions minds are also there But as long as he does not associate with mind innovation, if only the consumer remains, then I do not believe that we will be able to give dose to so many minds, he can not even give the brain dose that he wants and therefore we are lucky That we have Billions of Billion mind But as long as we do not give any suitable environment for innovation, mechanism does not grow. If the resources do not mobilise, then sometimes the thoughts are lost and therefore there is a way of realizing dreams, innovation. How successful are our institutions in giving priority to innovation.\nToday, global warming, Environment, all these issues are being discussed in the world. Global Warming is a matter of concern for some people, so for some people Global Warming is the cause of a market. They have thought of converting it into a market opportunity. They want us to innovate in technology and will capture the world market in the name of Global Warming. This need becomes necessary for a country like India that we can bring innovation to the world to protect the future generations. Those who are good and cheaper, and easily adoptable with the normal humanities life. If these systems are developed then then these Billions of Billion people can also find ways to solve such a huge problem of climate change by moving one step.\nToday, a culture developed in the world - throw away culture. But due to the crisis that has arisen in the world, now throw away culture has caused concern and how to reuse it, how to recycle, churning on it. Such a big country as India, we can innovate to create waste in wealth. Suppose we have to build 50 million houses. Today, on the basis of the material, the houses are being built, can we provide material for the construction of many houses. We know these days the sand of sand is sand smuggling. One state smuggling in another state because the sand is not available for construction. There are also reasons for the environment that it is becoming difficult to take sand too. Then the biggest challenge for our innovation is that we will provide the material in the construction of houses. Which we would have had was waste. That will be the reason for good creation. How do we bring innovation? We occasionally adopt external and borrowed things immediately. The place where hardly one day sees sun during the day will be the composition of the house which will apply the glass all around so that there is a ray from somewhere to get somewhere. But if we also do Vesa, then what we have to do is put a curtain, apply two curtain, apply five curtain, that is, we need to develop our architecture according to our requirement. Unless we develop our architecture according to our requirement and we will accept the borrowed system. So maybe we will become more favorable to increase the crisis and therefore we do not apply until we apply it. Now, to get water in Assam or to water, I would think 50 times that Is there a need for a pipe and my answer is that water can be transported by bamboo in the pipes without steel pipes and the life is more than steel. The meaning of this is to say that if I work there from the bamboo then why do I need to take the steel and hence the natural requirements of society? How do we use it in that way. What we can do is create a virtual platform, a web site these print has come to us. We create a virtual platform that is being globally used like this. We will invite them. Let us discuss the seminar on it and in it there may be some things become a sparking point for us. Let us inspire us to do something. Can we use it If we combine people in such a way then we get more results if we try more. Our institutions today we know who come to the students here, how come they are. It is a matter of concern that most students who are now reaching us. They have mastery of how they cross the entrance exam. They attend classes of that type. Those who show you the way to take the exam and because of that we remain unaware of their real talent and capability. He takes admission and he knows that our base is such that after entering this period of pipeline, it has to come out on the other side. There is no other way. An IS officer here has been studying 24 hours a day and passed the examination and he will come out as a secretary. This is the situation and therefore we can constantly change the method of ranking us here. Otherwise, we are going to invest, the society is I am not talking about the government. Let us invest, but the ultimate product is not our work, let us live it. But he also makes himself a living and becomes a teacher. Today our country imposes a large amount of defense equipment. The country's big budget is in the defense sector. Can the technical institutions of my country not lead in research and innovation, which is the most powerful force in resource mobilization for defense equipment manufacturing, talent of human resources. The capability of that human resource should be so carefully that people with any defense manufacturing in the world should first come to the attention of the best talent is here. I will do the same in manufacturing and if I get a cheap talent then I will stand in the affordable market in the global market. I will be standing in the market and this means that if I have enough import for my country's defence requirement then if I decide so many of the institutions together, then by reducing the import of defense equipment within ten years of India, we reduce it by 50%. Will give I think the government of India will have such a budget that there will be no harm in promoting this education system. How big would be the advantage. We will become self-sufficient and therefore we do not think of what our needs are, as long as we are people.\nToday the attention has been taken to all the solar energy. 175 Gigawatt is a very big ambitious plan. With a person of any country in the world, when India speaks of 175 Gigawatt renewal energy, then five minutes can not understand that I'm saying Megawatt that Gigawatt is speaking. They are wondering. Can a country take such a big initiative? But if we do innovation in technology. In solar manufacturing, we can do solar innovation in new manufacturing and how can we go towards maximum power generation, how can we make it more cost effective, how big can we serve?\nRight now I was watching a science magazine. I do not find the reader more then one thing has come into my mind. Regarding the use of wind energy in an experiment. So the wind turbines are now capturing the humidity in the air. Now they generate power due to the wind, but by the same system they capture the humidity and convert it into water and a wind mill can give 10,000 liters of sweet water in the 24 hours. Imagine that there are villages in desert areas, if there is a wind mill where there is wind velocity and if I give 10,000 liters of sweet water, I mean solve all the problems of health, in the quality of life. Bring changes Do I have multiple technology with multiple activity, one of the many benefits of this, we can do something in this direction and we have our youth. If you go to any country of the world then you can do such a thing. Can we give those opportunities in India? How do all our institutions, how to develop their own in house incubation center, and how to share their corporate world? So what is the need of corporate world which will go commercial, if incubation center will be education institution, and if all these three will be organized, then I think we can make a quick decision to go to the commercial field for new research. And can give strength to one another.\nWe talk about 'Make in India'. What is the biggest strength of Make in India? We can not claim that raw materials are ours. But we have human capital so strong our base is that we can make a claim in the world for 'Make in India' and it requires skill development. Let's suppose that we work on the subject of my petroleum university. The country is moving forward in the direction of gas base economy. If my country is moving towards gas base economy, then I will need small people for this technology, repairing, piping repairing, safety majors related to gas in small villages. What kind of human resource development should we have on our institutions, at the end, we will prepare the syllabus and skillfully link them to the skill development institution, then my university professional will prepare people, my university expert will prepare scientist, prepare technicians. But the types of human resources I need to back up will also be ready simultaneous. How big a change can come, but our work happens in pieces. Unless we do holistic approaches, we do not have an integrated approach, then our difficulty increases when these pieces are arranged and therefore it is also necessary for us. In the same way no country in isolation can run, in the same way no institution in isolation can run. We need to know where the whole world is going, where we can go in that world, what are our wages and means to reach that place, what are our resources, what is our capability? And in this, we will focus on these things by making a five year plan, making a ten year plan, we will reach so much, then it will be by going. Otherwise, I remember when I was a new Gujarat Chief Minister, my focus was ITIs, a type of technology word's baby temple. Say bal temple I focused on that, so I was surprised. There were auto-mobile courses in there, they were running courses that did not make the vehicles. Now the car is not available, but your student reads those things for a year after taking a poor admission. That is, what can happen to you from where you are here to bring this change, you can make a huge contribution.\nThis is what you can make a huge contribution through Imprint. And so how do we do these things with a long vision with a new vision and we are lucky that our Ratrapati ji is a moving university in itself. Someone asked me what is your biggest advantage to be Prime Minister, then I would say the biggest benefit to me is to go to the President's side. Whenever I get it, there is a stock of knowledge. I tell you the truth They tell so many things closely that they They have experience with him. You are the direct guidance of the people to you. Under his guidance, you have to do the work of the people. I do not believe that anyone can stop us now. Sky is the limit, now you will do things according to the wishes of the President, according to the wishes, I believe the numbers will be beneficial. I wish you all the best. I am so grateful to the President that I have given you the opportunity to come among all. Thanks a lot."