"Share\n\nNDA's 6 sutras for development of Bihar-people: Education, Employment, Medical facilities; for state: Power, Water, Roads: PM\nIf hitting out on Modi develops Bihar, then I'm ready to take all allegations: PM Modi\nFor NDA's biggest of the grounds, 'Mahaswarthbandhan' even a small pandal becomes huge: PM Modi\nPeople of Bihar do not spare the one's betrays the state Nitish Kumar will be wiped off in the elections: PM\nLies spread by Nitish and Lalu are unveiling the truth of reservation: PM Modi\nPeople of Bihar They will vote for the NDA: PM\nThe term 'Darbhanga Module' was used after blasts in Mumbai \u0026 Pune, innocent policewoman had to face consequences: PM\nAll the senior leaders here sit on the stage. In the election, LJP candidate Dhananjay Kumar, LJP candidate Vinod Sahni, BJP candidate from Benipur, Gopal Ji Thakur, BJP candidate from Alinagar, Lal G Yadav from Darinbhanga village, we have nominated party nominee Noshad Alam, BJP from Darbhanga Nagar Sanjay ji, candidate of Lajpat Rai from Heygarh. Of Chaudhary ji, BJP candidate from Bahadurpur, Harish Sahni, and BJP's Ashok Yadav from Kevati, BJP candidate Dwish Kumar Kumar Mishra, my brothers and sisters in large number\nThe eerie mithila of Darbhanga has bowed down to the land. I feel proud of Baba Kusheshwar's e-Pavan Earth. The identity of Darbhanga - Pag-Pag Pokhar Pan Makhan, Saras Bol Musky Smile; Education, glory, peace symbol, fine city mithila fine Congratulations to everyone with your heart\nToday I want to complain first against my dear friend Kirti Azad. My complaint is that when Kirti himself was contesting elections, I was contesting the Lok Sabha election, then there was not even half a rush and you have done what you have done today. Wherever I see, people are visible to me. Darbhanga's ground is also small, the election is such that for the NDAs the ground falls short and Pandal gets bigger for the people of the state.\nBrothers and sisters, this is my last event of this election campaign. The last time I came to Darbhanga, I was able to speak for 12-15 minutes due to time limit, I also had in my mind that the land of Mithila was so loved that Atal ji loved so much but it was so late but today I live with you I have come to meet I got an opportunity to go to every corner of Bihar and to address one rallies more than one. Tell me what to say, the election gathering, the public meeting, the rally, the rally, I think that it is fair, it is a fair of change.\nPolitical scholars calculate sitting in Delhi that if 2% goes here then it will happen, 2% will be there, then it will happen. Pandit, shut down your old accounts, Bihar is going to write a new history. These old equations and new calculations will no longer run. The people of Bihar have served the country, through this election, have served the nation a lot. The poison of casteism and sectarianism is creating a scam in our democracy, but in this election Bihar's young leader is fighting on the issue of development. After this election, all the political parties of India will have to compel the fight on the issue of development and its credit goes to the people of Bihar. In this election, Bihar's atmosphere is very important for the future of the country.\nI today congratulate the citizens of Bihar by bowing their heads in public as the Chief Devak. Wherever I went, where the NDA people went, the people of Bihar welcomed all of us by wearing our eyelids, so I thank you by bowing down to you all. Secondly, all records of the previous voting broke out of Bihar's four phases, voted heavily, despite the threat of Maoists' bomb-guns, they made unprecedented voting. For this, the faith which has increased in democracy, I bow to the people of Bihar. Thirdly, whenever elections were held earlier in Bihar, it was reported that so many polling booths were looted, so much firing, so many murders took place but congratulating the heart of Bihar's voters for this peaceful election.\nBrothers and sisters, in this election, we started from the first day with the issue of development, our issue was also in the election of Lok Sabha, but we were hoping those who ruled 60 years, Madam Soniaji ruled for 35 years, 15 years Till Lalu Ji and Nitish ji ruled for 10 years; They talk about development issues with us, due to the ruin of Bihar and answer the migration of the youth from Bihar but they are still living in the 1990s. They do not know that these 21st Century is going on and the child born in 1990 is now busy reducing the fate of Bihar.\nElection campaign for two months is going on but Lalu Ji or Nitish ji or Madam Soniaji, they do not speak anything about Bihar's development. Do not talk about any future plans of Bihar. He has run the government for 25 years, it does not have any time Even after 25 years, in a child, the strength to fill your parents' stomach comes. Do you tell me, anyone of the 25 years of their government got any good? My government has not been 25 months now and these people are demanding my account. Not ready to give us 25 years of accounting; And we are demanding account from us.\nElection is a festival of democracy and this festival makes democracy a strong force. All political parties have to speak their talk and their policies and those who are in government have to give their account. When I come to ask you for a Lok Sabha election in 2019, it is my duty that I give you 5 years of accounting and you have the right to ask me to account for me. But look at these people, they do not have any other work than molesting Modi. Everyday new charges and abuses are done, will it be good for Bihar? Lalu ji, Nitish ji, if Bihar is good for blaming Modi or mud, then I am present, say whatever you have to say. If Bihar is good, then I am ready to face it.\nMy life has come to work from Bihar, what can be the big fortune of mine. Lalu ji, Nitish ji, open the ears and listen, the ego has tied a bandage on your eyes that you will not be able to see, the more mud you bounce, the more amazing the more you will bloom. From the first phase to the fourth phase, the number of people who have been continuously voting has increased and one thing that has not come out, I was also surprised that after every phase there were 12-15 polling booths where after Laloo ji and Nitish ji Fights between the workers, there was scuffle, threats happened; If they start fighting immediately after voting is complete, you can understand what will happen next.\nElection campaign is running in the last two months but did you see Lalu, Nitish and Rahulji together on stage, saw in the press conference, saw the meeting of workers? You ask them questions, their court will not ask. The three people who did not come together in the election campaign, what would they come up with and walk together? Those who do not believe in themselves, they can not do good to you.\nI came to know from my trusted sources, the senior leader of his party asked him if he can not become our Chief Minister, can not you become a son, Lalu ji's mouth came in water, he started to rejoice, yes, possibility Looks; The other asked that if the election is lost then who will become the leader of the opposition; On this, Lalu ji replied that I had made a statement of support to Nitish Kumar on becoming Chief Minister and not the promise of becoming a leader of the Opposition. Lalu said that after losing the election, the leader of the opposition will become our son. I publicly want to ask Laloo ji that you tell the people of Bihar who will be the leader of the Opposition, the son of Lalu will be the son or Nitish Babu, because it is decided to lose your election. This is my demand from you\nI want to remind you of an old event. When bomb blasts in Mumbai, in our country there was a word for terrorist terrorists - Darbhanga module, and the reasons were that some people are planning to create a conspiracy to spread terrorism in India. Here was a Jabonj police officer woman, a Dalit girl, she tried to find the car of people who carried out terrorist activities to protect the innocent citizens of India. Terrorism was started till the house of the leader near this alumni, then the people sitting in the government did not step on the leaders of terrorism but forced the police officer to leave from here and leave Bihar. Will you sit in the government in Patna, who will compromise with the protection of the country and please those who have mercy on the terrorists?\nTo change the fate of Bihar, BJP, NDA support you, for that I have come to demand a vote for you. Brothers and sisters, I do not have an information, right or wrong address because I could not verify due to lack of time; in 1990, Laloo ji's government had removed the mathili language from the Public Service Commission of Bihar, Laloo ji He insulted the methili language but Atal Bihari Vajpayee was immediately placed in the 8th list of the constitution in 2002 after the formation of the NDA government in Delhi. We know not to humiliate but to honor.\nWe had a package of 1 lakh 25 thousand crores and 40 thousand crores old on paper which had no files, no budget, no budget but I have this love for Bihar, we have to do something for Bihar, we decided to give it Of Together we gave a package of 1 lakh 65 thousand crores which has the power to change the fate of Bihar and change the lives of people here. Without development, the problems of Bihar will not be solved. Bihar was once India's head, but in 25 years, Jangaraj and Jantar-Mantar ruined Bihar. Jugalbandi of these two will also ruin whatever is left in Bihar now.\nIf a scooter gets stuck in a small patch, then remove 3-4 people, then it goes out, but if the scooter is dropped in the well then the tractor is needed to remove it. Their 25-year government has put Bihar in such a pothole, which requires two or two engines to be removed. Patna and Delhi will have two engines, then it will come out of Bihar pits. One engine that will form a new government in Bihar and another engine that you have created in my government in Delhi.\nBrothers and sisters, we came up with the issue of development in the field of elections. Lalu ji and Nitish ji have no place to speak of 'development' and therefore they pretend to color the elections in color of casteism. He continued to scream throughout the month of reservation for his reservation, his court in Delhi also extended the same thing. He created a hypothetical fear and created a scourge in the name of reservation. There was simply reservation in all of their cases. When one day I felt that their balloon became very big, I made a small needle and their entire balloon came down. All his pole has opened.\nThis is what Lalu ji and Nitish ji demanded to reconsider the reservation. He worried about his chair and when I removed his video, forgot to take the name of the reservation for the last one week. He does not talk about electricity because he fears that if he speaks then people will ask him for accounting because in 2010, Nitish ji said that if we do not bring home electricity, then I will not come to vote for the next election in 2015. Do not vote if there was no electricity, did not they? They have broken their promise, have deceived you. Those who can deceive the public, the public never accept them.\nWhen the people of Bihar give it, then they tear the roof; The Congress has given up for 35 years and when it takes it, it chooses and clears it. When Lalu Ji gave it to him, but when he got angry at Lalu Ji, he did not let anyone escape. Now the turn came of ego, Bihar can not tolerate ego and now it is the turn of the ego's farewell. Nitish Babu had said that if anyone's corruption was caught then his ownership would be seized and his school would be opened in his house. Nitish ji used to beat this drum every day. Why are people fooling? JDU ministers were caught taking bribes in front of the camera. If they are doing this from now on, what will they do after the election? Advance is being taken to sell Bihar. Now tell Nitish Babu what he did in his house, opened his school in his house?\nBrothers-sisters, you have three point-of-action programs for people in Bihar - study, earning and medicine. The poor child of Bihar should get good and affordable education. Every mother wants to teach her children, but the condition of education in Bihar is so bad that parents have to mortgage their land for the education of children. Does this suit us? That is why I am resolute, Bihar's children are inexpensive and good education. My second dream is earning; Employment for the youngman In Bihar, the young man has to leave his state and his parents. The youth of Bihar should get an employment opportunity right here and these migrations should be stopped. That's why I have a second resolution, earning for the youth of Bihar. My third dream is medicine; The elderly should be inexpensive medicine, hospital and doctor.\nThere are three programs for the state of Bihar - electricity, water and roads. If the electricity comes, the factory will start, and this will get jobs. I have allocated 400 million pounds for power alone, for Darbhanga. The good fortune that Bihar has received, has not met any other state; Bihar has two strengths - Bihar's water and Bihar's youth. Both of these can change the fate of the whole of India. If the farmer gets water, then he can produce gold from the soil. Our second resolution is to provide water to the fields, water and drinking water to the industries. Third is my resolve - the road; There is a network of roads in Bihar. गाँव ज़िले से, ज़िला राज्य से, राज्य दिल्ली से जुड़ जाए, ऐसा नेटवर्क बनाना है ताकि बिहार का सीधा मार्ग विकास की ओर चल पड़े, इन कामों को लेकर मैं आगे बढ़ना चाहता हूँ।\nविकास ही एक मंत्र है, विकास के लिए मैं आपका आशीर्वाद लेने आया हूँ। मैं आपसे वोट विकास के लिए मांगता हूँ। पहले चरण से लेकर चौथे चरण तक लगातार मतदान करने वालों की संख्या बढ़ी है और अब पांचवे चरण में आप सारे रिकॉर्ड तोड़ दोगे न? आप सब दस-दस परिवारों से वोट कराओ, भाजपा, एनडीए को वोट कराओ।  मेरे साथ बोलिये –\nLong live Mother India! Long live Mother India! Long live Mother India!\nThanks a lot!"