"1\nCentral Govt's package of Rs. 1.65 lakh crore will transform into Bihar: PM Modi\nTwo days after former PM Smt. Indira Gandhi's assassination, Sikhs killed in Delhi and Congress now talks of tolerance: PM\nNitish Kumar promises 24/7 electricity in Bihar but failed to deliver: PM Modi\n'Mahaswarthbandhan' has ruined Bihar There is corruption \u0026 'Jungle Raj' Bihar needs NDA's growth engine: PM\nNDA's 6 sutras for developing Bihar- for people: education, employment, medical facilities; for state: electricity, water, roads: PM\nNitish Kumar promised 24/7 power supply. But, nowadays, he does not even talk about electrification in the state: PM\nBihar has lost its faith in Nitish Kumar and JD (U): PM Modi\nOnly BJP can protect the interests of women and children in Bihar: PM Modi\nThe holy land of Purnia bowed down. Congratulations to everyone's heart. All senior leaders of the BJP and NDA who are sitting on the platform. The ground also fell short, there is no bigger area in Purnea. Your love on my sir eyes People who are far away can not even see me, but despite this I came to bless, what can be the good fortune of life.\nBJP candidate from Kaswa, Mr. Pradeep Das, BJP candidate from Manmankhi, Krishna Kumar from Manmankhi, Vijay Khemka from BJP candidate from Purnea, BJP candidate from Amor Saba Jafar, BJP candidate from Rupauli Parmanand Mandal, Roleshwa candidate from Bosei, Azizur Rahman , Damdaha's candidate Shivshankar Thakur, Kishanganj candidate Smt. Sveti Singh, and a large number of my brothers Dialectical sisters.\nI also came in the Lok Sabha election, but this time it seems that you have decided to complete the work that was done in the Lok Sabha elections. I salute them in such a large number that mothers and sisters have come. People are wondering how such a large number of mothers and sisters started coming to Bihar's election rallies. If anyone has any anger against Jangaraj, then it is for the mothers and sisters, because the problems and hooliganism that comes because of Jangrajraj, all the troubles have to be overcome by the mothers and sisters. This anger has appeared in this election. For peace, security and better life for the children, mothers and sisters want to create a good government who changes their children's future, children can worry about their old age, want to create such a situation. I assure the mothers and sisters that I will fulfill their dreams.\nThe responsibility of the people sitting in the government is to account for their actions in the elections. Laloo ji for 15 years and younger brother ruled for 10 years; He has run the government for 25 years, it does not have any time My government has not been 25 months now and these people are demanding my account. Not ready to give us 25 years of accounting; What to do in Bihar, what to do for the youth, mothers and sisters here, do not say anything in the whole election. He does not talk about electricity because he fears that if he speaks then people will ask him for accounting because in 2010, Nitish ji said that if we do not bring home electricity, then I will not come to vote for the next election in 2015. Do not vote if there was no electricity, did not they? They have broken their promise, have deceived you. Can anyone believe in the person who can cheat them? The public is good, trusts once but Nitish ji has gone that day. Now Bihar can not trust you\nAfter the Jangaraj, people wanted to live up to the trust, whatever they got, they got your finger when you got it. People were searching for the way to escape from Jangaraj. Nitish ji was fortunate that Atal Bihari Vajpayee had put his shoulders on his shoulders because people believed in Vajpayee ji. Now the blessings of Atal ji are not on you, now Bihar will never accept you. That is what they say day and night why Modi comes to Bihar. Is there sin in Bihar? Why do they feel so scared? They are afraid because their raw papers will be opened. Every child in Bihar, every young man and mother and sister is demanding accounting for them. Despite all their games, the people of Bihar have embraced us. I am sitting in Delhi today, this is the blessing of the people of Bihar.\nThe situation in Bihar is bad, electricity, road water, employment, education, doctors, security, life of peace, none of these. This is the result of 25 years and therefore they are not giving account of their work. Madam Soniaji, you ruled for 35 years and today is November 2, remember the day of 2 November 1984. A few days after Indira Gandhi's assassination, Sikhs were being killed in Delhi and the whole country. The Congress party and its leaders were facing serious charges. Today the same Congress Party is giving speeches on intolerance, die, drown, it does not suit you. Still the tears of the families of those Sikhs have not been wiped out.\nWhat was the compulsion of Nitish Babu and Lalu in Bihar, who once used to fight against Congress, gave him 40 seats. Whatever the compulsions of Nitish Babu and Lalu Ji, for one thing, I publicly thank them that we gave them 40 seats without any challenge. The Congress which is not marked in the name, in Bihar, we have got 40 seats in the gold plate and thanks to our brothers and sisters of Bihar for the remaining seats which will give us a two-third majority. Someone had ever thought that where Naxalism and bullet-pistol were spoken, people came to cast such a huge number. From the first phase to the fourth phase, the number of people who are continuously voting has increased and now you will not break all records in the fifth phase.\nI am requesting you that Purnia is the most voted on 5th of the day. The result will come on 8th and the country is celebrating Diwali and Bihar is celebrating Diwali for two or two. We had a package of 1 lakh 25 thousand crores and 40 thousand crores old which was lying on the paper, we had no responsibility but I love this for Bihar, we have to do something for Bihar, we decided to give it. In this election we are seeking votes for development. Together we gave a package of 1 lakh 65 thousand crores which has the power to change the fate of Bihar. If a car is trapped in a small patch, then 3-4 people will be taken out, but if a car falls into the well, then a tractor is needed to remove it. Bihar is trapped in such a pit, which requires two or two engines to be removed. One engine that will form a new government in Bihar and another engine that you have created in my government in Delhi. Patna and Delhi will have two engines, then it will come out of Bihar pits.\nThe hard work of my alone will not work, Patna's hard work will not work alone, both Patna and Delhi will feel the power of Bihar, then Bihar will come out of the pits. In your Purnea, I have promised, our government will supply 24 × 7 power to all households. For this we have given close to two billion rupees. In the coming days, Rs. 1000 crore will be imposed for double lane on NH-107, Maheshghat, Saharsa, Purnia East section; Crores of rupees are being applied for the upgradation of LPG plant in Purnia; 150 crore rupees for the Civil Enclave Development of Purnia Airport; The list is very long, I have not been reading all over here.\nI have only one job, development I have three point-of-action programs for you in Bihar - study, earning and medicines. The poor child from Bihar should get cheap and good education. Every mother wants to teach her children, but the condition of education in Bihar is so bad that parents have to mortgage their land for the education of children. That is why I am resolute, Bihar's children are inexpensive and good education. My second dream is earning; Employment for the youngman In Bihar, the young man has to leave his state and his parents. These migrations should be stopped and the youth of Bihar should get employment opportunities right here. That's why I have a second resolution, earning for the youth of Bihar. My third dream is medicine; The elderly should be inexpensive medicine, hospital and doctor.\nTherefore, for you - studies, earnings and medicines and three works for Bihar state - electricity, water and roads. If the electricity comes, the factory will start, and this will get jobs. My government wants to give you electricity. The good fortune that Bihar has received, has not met any other state; Bihar has two strengths - Bihar's water and Bihar's youth. Both of these can change the fate of the whole of India. If the farmer gets water, then he can produce gold from the soil. Our second resolution is to provide water to the fields, water and drinking water to the industries. Third is my resolve - the road; There is a network of roads in Bihar. From the village district, from the district state, to the state of Delhi, to create such a network so that the direct route of Bihar goes towards development, I want to proceed with these works.\nSo, my brothers and sisters, I want your blessings. The publicity will be completed by tomorrow evening, the election is on 5th day. Vote for all ten-ten families, vote for BJP, NDA. Everyone with me speak loudly -\nLong live Mother India! Long live Mother India! Long live Mother India!\nThanks a lot!"