"\n1\nNDA's 6 sutras for development of Bihar-for people: Education, employment, Medical facilities \u0026 for state: Electricity, Water, Roads\nNDA is dedicated to welfare of the poor; Our only minister is development of Bihar: PM Modi #ParivartanRally\nDo not vote for 'Jungle Raj' \u0026 'Jantar Mantar Raj' They will ruin Bihar: Narendra Modi #ParivartanRally\nPeople of Bihar are fed up of Nitish Govt; Now they want development: PM Modi\nNitish-Lalu-Sonia responsible for Bihar's plight: PM Narendra Modi #ParivartanRally\nThose who do not have faith in democracy and have lost people's faith are now turning towards 'Jantar Mantar': PM\nI assure the people of Bihar that the NDA will fulfill all aspirations of the people: PM Modi #ParivartanRally\nThe youth of Bihar has immense talent and can do wonders: PM Modi #ParivartanRally\nThe leader of the social justice, the poor, the backward and the Goddess of Bihar, and the pride of Bihar, bowed down to the earth of Prasad Mandal. Seeing the holy affection of all of you Former Chief Minister of Bihar and Jihan Ram Manjhi, the Messiah of the dalits, senior leaders of all the NDA constituents, and a large number of my brothers and sisters of Madhepura who were present at the stage.\nBJP candidate from Saharsa, Alok Ranjan ji, BJP candidate from Madhepura Vijay Kumar Vimal, BJP candidate from Bihari Ganj Ravindra Charan Yadav, BJP candidate Kishore Kumar from Supaul, BJP candidate from Peepada Vishwa Mohan Kumar, Nirmali from BJP Candidates Ram Kumar Rai, BJP candidate from Chhatrapur Neeraj Kumar Singh, Mahasingh from Rolospa candidate Chandan Kumar ji, Sowerso LJP candidate Smt. Sarita Devi, LJP candidate from Sindri, Yusuf Alauddin ji, LJP candidate from Alamnagar, Mr. Chandan Singh from Sarman, We are the candidate of the party, Mrs Manju Devi, LJP candidate from Teweniganj, Vijay Paswan Ji and a large number of people My brothers and sisters have been\nI used to come for the campaign many times but every time I can not come to Bihar, I can not see you, I can not take your blessings, for this I tried to make different kinds of sticks. Once I had to come, Lalu Ji, Nitish ji reached the Election Commission and complained that the first phase of polling is going on in Bihar and if Modi comes here then ours will eat too much, so let Modi not let Bihar vote. The Election Commission observed all the rules and regulations and said that if elections are being held in one area and not in the other then you can not stop anyone from preaching; Modi will come and address the gathering. Even today, voting is going on in some places in Bihar and I have the privilege of getting your blessings.\nLalu ji, who has given blessings to Nitish ji in all the meetings in the last 60 days, has given me more blessings in Madhepura than me. It is calculated that this election and the people of Bihar understand the politics well. People of Bihar believe not half-incomplete but They believe in themselves and therefore they believe in others, but when someone breaks their faith, they choose and choose to pay their account. This is the people of Bihar, for 35 years, people trusted the Congress by blindfolding, they kept their promises, but when they saw accounting for 35 years, after 35 years of Congress, the Congress had torn to pieces for 35 years. He cleared that the Congress could not be seen. He has got him in 40 seat gifts. They are fighting at 40 and in a way our 40 seats without counting has come to us in the same way. The candidate reached home by taking money. They are not spending the money that children will come to work. The pouch that comes from Delhi is not spending it because they know that there is no survivor.\nAfter cleansing the Congress, people thought that Lalu would go and say good things, he himself is a good person, sit down on a buffalo, gives hair to children. The people of Bihar have so much confidence that those who have done all these things Had enjoyed it, gave him the chance to run the government and the result was that nothing left in Bihar was left to waste. In spite of this, people trusted them for 15 years, they were charged with serious charges, they were punished, and when the woman was placed on the throne, the people also trusted them. Even after Bihar did not help, the third eye of the people of Bihar was opened. The people of Bihar, who used to lath Laloo ji on the lamps, made a farewell to Lalu ji forever.\nThe third who trusted, whose ego had eaten them, they had no connection with the public, stabbed George Fernandis in the back, left JP, the Lohia ji fought against Congress, the Lohia ji The disciples themselves sat down in the lap of the Congress. The people of Bihar have seen the fraud and therefore the anger of the people of Bihar has got even more fierce. The people of Bihar took the Congress after 35 years, took Laloo ji after 15 years, and after 10 years he will be farewell forever.\nBrothers and sisters, Bihar has water, youth, young people have dreams, people of Bihar are ready to work, but Bihar is still behind. You will be delighted to know that 150 years ago the English people took some people here and took them to Mauritius for wages. The poor, dalit, backward, backward, people of this society were those. Then the persecution of the Britishers was going on in ships and took them to Mauritius by sea. If you go to Mauritius today, the people of Bihar made a paradise in Mauritius. Mauritius has made that cena gets strained by seeing the heroic power of the people of Bihar. People of Bihar can make Mauritius, they can also make Bihar and Madhepura. Jharkhand was part of Bihar and Jharkhand was different, leaders came new, BJP got a chance to serve and today Jharkhand stood in the first 10 states of India but Bihar is at the last number and the reason is 25 years. Laloo ji Nitish ji's government, big brother and younger brother jugalbandi\nBihar has been devastated by the Jangaraj, corruption and arrogance and these three have gathered and will be more wasted than before. You tell us that today the whole world is playing a dancer or not? Is not India, Germany, Canada, China, Japan getting cheered all over India? This is not happening due to Modi but it is happening due to hundred and fifty million people. Today, if you had not given us a complete majority in Delhi, then India could not stop the dancer in the world. These dunkers are triggered because the countrymen have formed a complete majority government in Delhi after 30 years. No matter how great and powerful the world is in the world, but if its leader joins hands with Modi, then he does not see Modi but fifty-three hundred Hindustan people, and hence the world views India as iron.\nLikewise, in all the states, if Bihar's dancers are auspicious and Jay-Cheer, then Bihar will have to form NDA government with a two-third majority. The election of the fourth phase is going on right now and from this morning I am getting information, there is lot of enthusiasm in the people and long queues have been started and heavy voting is going on. Madhepura will break the record of all Bihar and I believe that this time Madhepura is going to create a new history.\nBrothers and sisters, our Rail Locomotive Factory in Madhepura ... which is passing through slowly for years, does not make any progress in it, does not make any development or creates opportunities for employment. We have decided that We will innovate railway locomotives, expand it, bring new technology, create new jobs for employment in Bihar. The tender has passed, as soon as the Code of Conduct will be completed, the tender will be opened, and at this speed the locals will start moving forward.\nIf the intention is to work and love for Bihar, then this work can never stop. I want to say that I have to do the same thing - development. There are three things in my mind for you to grow - studies, earning and medicines to the elderly. The poor children of Bihar need to get affordable and good education and should be received here because then the poor parents will not be able to pledge their land and keep the mortgage of their daughter-in-law offspring. Have good education, get affordable education, education from poor to poor person, I have to do this work, I want your blessings. Second, earnings; Employment for the youngman Escape in Bihar should stop. Due to migrations, old parents have to wander for a job while leaving their service age. These migrations should stop and the youth of Bihar should get an employment opportunity right over here. If you do not get the industry then how will you get employment?\nThe World Bank has just released a report that in which state people want to invest, where is it's business? You will be sad to know that Jharkhand, which was once part of Bihar, is now at number four and it stands at Bihar 21st - 22nd. Tell me if someone will come in such a situation? See the result, when the BJP people were in the government in Bihar, capital investment of about 17,500 rupees came and as soon as the BJP got out, the figure came to 6000. Whether it was Bihar's loss or not, it was stuck in the factory in Bihar whether or not the young man got employment. If there is no electricity then how will the factory look? Even today, in the 21st century, 4000 villages of Bihar are such that there is no pillar of electricity. it's such a shame. I have decided to give electricity to these 4000 villages. There should be electricity in homes, schools. Nitish Babu says that we will give the computer. You tell me how the computer without electricity will run. They are making fools. Nitish ji, bring electricity first.\nIn 2010, Nitish Kumar had said that I will build my government, I will be sending electricity to the house and if I do not do electricity then I will not come to demand votes. The electricity did not come, but they came to demand the votes. They betrayed you, broke your promise, now you will break away from them? Those who can not promise their electricity, they will not do anything in the coming days. They will say that Jantar-Mantar will come, electricity will come, water will come, employment will come. Jantar-Mantar was born I am afraid that 15 years went to Jangaraj, the ten years of Jantar-Mantar ruled and this Jantar-Mantar and Jangaraj came together, no one else could save Bihar.\nWe need neither Jantar-Mantar nor Jangrajraj, so it is time to give them a farewell. The third is - medicine; For the elderly, there should be affordable medicine, doctor and dispensary. Where the person is sick, then where will he go? That's why I have three spells for you - studies, earning and medicines to the elderly. There are three sources for the good of the state of Bihar, electricity, water and roads. Electricity will come, industry will take place. Due to the devastation of Kosi, there is so much trouble for the farmers here. Drain one cough and dry on the other side. Water should be administered by Bihar Bihar has two strengths which can change the future of Bihar - Bihar's water and Bihar's youth. I am surprised that there is so much water here, so poor people but the government did not even do the job of fishing. If these fish were prepared in the water, then Bihar did not have to take out the fish worth 400 crores to eat it, and in 400 crores, millions of young people would get jobs here. They do not have to do it, the water is flowing and the fish is coming from outside. The only problem is that the youth is going out and the water is going into the ocean. To move Bihar forward, I want to do this with full strength and therefore I have come to demand blessings from you.\nBrothers and sisters, we want to take Bihar to new heights of development. The package of 1 lakh 25 thousand crores and 40 thousand crores of old was lying on the paper, but whoever did not take the name of the person, we said that there is anyone who wrote but Bihar is mine, the government will have to go to any other side but Bihar Paraya Is not there. That's why we gave a package of 1 lakh 65 thousand crores, which has the power to change the fate of Bihar. For development, vote for change of fate of Bihar.\nI have gone all over Bihar and have taken the blessings of public and I am very clear that with a two-third majority the NDA government is going to be formed. Bihar will celebrate Diwali on 8th and the whole of India will celebrate Diwali on 8th. Two-two Diwali Manani is the brother. Every person who came here will vote for at least ten families? If this is love and blessings, then can anyone stop it from becoming a government? Voting is huge, and in the fifth phase, the maximum voting is shown, that is my best wishes. Speak with me aloud -\nLong live Mother India! Long live Mother India! Long live Mother India!\nThanks a lot!"