"Share\n\nNDA is dedicated to welfare of poor; Our Mantra is all round development of Bihar: PM #ParivatanRally\nDo not let 'Jungle Raj' and 'Jantar Mantar Raj' come in power, they will ruin Bihar: PM\nBihar's youth is extremely talented They do wonders: PM Modi #ParivatanRally\nBIHAR stands for: Brilliant, Innovative, Hardworking, Action-oriented \u0026 Resourceful: PM Modi\nBihar needs NDA's engine to develop to drive out of the state\nElection NDA Govt with 2 / 3rd majority for Bihar's uninterrupted progress: PM Modi\nLack of proper educational institutions and other facilities a proof that 'Mahaswarthbandhan' has done nothing for Bihar: PM Modi\nBihar will touch the development of its hardworking people: PM\nPavan Mithila bowed down to the ground. Mithila's e-soil Kaviraj Vidyapati, Sun scholar, Land Chhaye, here's a mithila painting worldwide. Seeing the great affection of all of us, the mind was moved. Congratulations to everyone's heart. All Senior Nationals and Candidates of NDA sitting on stage.\nBJP candidate Vinod Narayan Jha from Benipati, BJP candidate Arjun Shankar Prasad from Khajauli, BJP candidate Ramdev Mahato from Madhubani, Rampreet Paswan from Rajnagar, BJP candidate from Janjarpur, Nitish Mitra, BJP candidate from Bulpara Mr Ram Sundar Yadav, BJP candidate from Lokhava, Mr. Pramod Kumar Priyadarshi, Babu Barhy from LJP Candidate Mr. Vinod Kumar Singh, BSP candidate from Rolospa Manoj Kumar Yadav, Ralospa's candidate Vasan Kumar from Harlakhii, who are the addressees of Bihar to change the fate of Bihar.\nIn this meeting, some sisters of Karpuri village sent me to the memorandum. Now, look at Bihar's situation, poor people of the village are not ready to listen to the Bihar government, they had to reach the Prime Minister, what could be a big misfortune. His complaint is that the government is bent on removing them from their land, someone has given us a place to live, they have come here to say. I assure you that on 8th of December, the BJP will form the NDA government and here you will listen to your complaint and resolve your problem. I am sad that the people who have shown their pain in this memorandum are 21st century Hindustan, Bihar in which women of 20-30 years are sitting, but they have not taught anyone to sign. Told them to thumb. Lalu ji, Nitish Babu, this blog is proof of your misdeeds. I was glad that my mothers and sisters wrote poorly to me and wrote letters to me. They have to reveal their pain through the thumb impression, there can be no worse than this.\nBrothers and sisters, the land that Nalanda used to emerge from, on the land on which the people of the world used to study, our mothers and sisters who were born in the country of Azad Hindusthan, on earth for their thorns to reveal their pain Are forced. Madam Soniaji, you ran the government for 35 years and you gave it to Bihar. Lalu ji, Nitish ji, you ran the government for 25 years and you gave it to Bihar. This document is proof of your failure, your government's government and criminal negligence towards the poor.\nIn this election we have come up with the issue of development. I am surprised that people will not be able to see me miles away, despite this, millions of people have come to bless such sunlight. What could be bigger than this? I bow to you and I can never forget this love. I assure you that if you are doing penance in this heat, I will never allow it to become useless. I also came in the Lok Sabha election and at that time my meeting was held here but there was not so much crowd. Your love continues to grow. There were 5-50 women in my rallies for the Lok Sabha elections, but this time we see thousands of women in all the rallies, on which side the wind is on the road.\nToday, the fourth phase of voting is going on in Bihar. Those who are shaking with defeat, they need two engines. Two engines will take place then it will come out of Bihar pits, an engine of NDA government in Patna and another engine in Delhi, my government. I want you to have installed an engine in Delhi, you should put an engine here too, so that NDA in Bihar, the BJP government will be able to get Bihar out of the pits.\nBrothers and sisters, I wholeheartedly respect Bihar because when I was in Gujarat or used to work in the corner of India, even then, where the people of Bihar have reached, that land has become a paradise . You see Mauritius, where it has reached, 150 years ago, people of Bihar went to Mauritius for wages and today there is due to the people of Anan-Ban-Shan in Bihar. Jharkhand is also the identity of the Biharis and like it became the BJP government, Jharkhand is at number four today and Bihar is the same as that because the leaders here are sitting in such a horoscope that Bihar is not giving up. These leaders have become a burden on Bihar and they have ruined Bihar. My trust is on the farmers of Bihar, the mother is on the poor, the workers are working hard on development, and all the brothers and sisters who have been persecuted for the development that Bihar is going ahead with their help.\nFor me, Bihar means expanding the spelling in English, then from B; Brilliant from 'B', 'I' with innovative, 'H' hard work, 'A' with action oriented and 'R' Resourceful. It is the strength of Bihar and on the strength of this strength, I dream of reaching new heights in Bihar and bring it to the new heights of India and have brought the mantra of development to fulfill those dreams.\nWhen I was not the prime minister, once during the air travel, a gentleman was sitting near me, he was looking at me and he asked me if you do not wear any ring or talisman. I said that I do not believe in Jantar-Mantar. I trust democracy, not on any Jantar-mantar. There are only a few hundred million people living in my country, I do not need anything else. For those who do not have faith in democracy, who do not have faith in public life, there is no choice except for Jantar Mantar. Even in your family, one should get sick, you should take all types of medicines, go to a big doctor or a good hospital in Delhi, get treatment, but when the disease is not okay, how many families can be educated? They also get tired and go to someone with a Jantar-Mantar. This Nitish ji is also tired, has lost such a mind, now it is difficult to escape, then he goes to Baba. Has made fun of democracy.\nIf you do not have electricity in your house then you will get electricity from Jantar Mantar? If there is no water, then will Jantar-Mantar get water? If there is no employment, will Jantar Mantar get employment? If there is no master in the school, then will Jantar Mantar come to the Master? First of all, Bihar has fought against Jangrajraj and what has happened, you know it well. The women here could not go out wearing jewelry because they were robbed. It was always kidnapped, looted The first was Jangaraj and now Jantar-Mantar's reign, these two twin brothers got together. Do not let these two be collected, otherwise nothing will happen in your luck except in Bihar's ruin.\nOne thing is clear that this Madhubani district is our beloved district of Atal Bihari Vajpayee. They had so much love on this earth that we can not imagine. They are themselves kavirajas This is the land of Mishan Mishra, where he communicated with Shankaracharya. What is the power of dialogue in democracy?\nWhat is the condition of Bihar today ... According to the per capita income, Bihar has been ranked at 29th in India; Bihar is ranked 29th in terms of education; In the consumption of electricity per person, Bihar is ranked 29th in India; With the view of providing pure drinking water, Bihar has been ranked at 32nd in India; From the level of tele-density in rural areas, Bihar has been ranked 28th in India; In terms of employment generation Bihar has been ranked 20th in India; What should I count, Jharkhand was a part of you and after the separation, it was further removed. The World Bank has just released a report that in which state people want to invest, where is it's business? You will be sad to know that Jharkhand, which was once part of Bihar, is now at number four and it stands at Bihar 21st - 22nd. This is the government doing this wastage.\nI talk of development because I have to change the life of Bihar. The development of Ganga Ghat, I could never forget Kosi, when there was a severe crisis, I wanted to serve the people here but their ego stopped me. In Bihar, we started the project to develop 20 ghats, work on 16 ghats are in progress and 4 ghats, when you go to worship Chhath, their work will also be completed. 262 crores for this, it is not a small amount. About 300 million rupees, we have started to rebuild the Ganga Ghats.\nBihar's fortunes can change - Bihar's water and Bihar's youth. Kosi water comes and goes away after destroying Bihar and there is no work of the farmer. Along with this the other side is dry in the same area. NREGA gives 100 percent money to the center and if they had cured the drains and had given the water to the fields, then my farmer could produce gold from the soil. 80 percent of India's makhana is made here, and the people of the country are not able to complete the vow until the good luck to eat the makhana, but they have nothing to do with the development.\nThere are so many opportunities for tourism in Bihar, we want to promote tourism so that the poor can get jobs. Tourism is so strong that it is capable of providing employment to the poorest of the poor. Fruits and flowers sellers, sellers of toys, everyone can earn and no more capital is required. Mahatma Gandhi Circuit, Patna Sahib, Ramayan Circuit, Pavapuri for Buddha, and other such examples are in the field of tourism. For the development of tourism sector, we have decided to give 600 crores to the poor so that the poor people get jobs.\nFor the development of Bihar, the package of 1 lakh 25 thousand crores and 40 thousand crores old was lying on the paper, but whoever did not name the giving, we decided to give it. Together we gave a package of 1 lakh 65 thousand crores which has the power to change the fate of Bihar. 700 crores for 180 km of upgradation of NH-104, Shivar, Sitamarhi, Jaynagar, Narayya section, NH-106, Rs 600 crore for 105 km of Veerpur section, existing lane on Ganga Setu to 5,000 lanes for 5,000 Million rupees, can say countless.\nMy aim is, three point program - studies, earning and medicines to the elderly to change the fate of families. If young people of Bihar get cheap and good education, will they have to wander for employment? My first resolution is, studies for young people of Bihar. Second, earnings; Employment for the youngman Escape in Bihar should stop. These migrations should stop and the youth of Bihar should get an employment opportunity right over here. The third program is medicine; For the elderly, there should be affordable medicine, doctor and dispensary. Where the person is sick, then where will he go? That's why I have three spells for you - studies, earning and medicines to the elderly. There are three sources for the good of the state of Bihar, electricity, water and roads.\nOnce I have done these six things, then the youth of Bihar will never get out of the mood. Bihar will go a lot on the map of India and I want your blessing for this. Fourth phase of voting is going on in record breaks, queues are on, the percentage of voters is also rising in the morning. This is a storm, with a two-third majority, the BJP, the NDA government will be formed, I see your blessings. I thank you all very much. Close both fists and speak with me loudly -\nLong live Mother India! Long live Mother India! Long live Mother India!\nThanks a lot!"