"PM Modi pays tributes to Sardar Patel on his birth anniversary\nPM Modi pays homage to Smt Indira Gandhi on her death anniversary\nLife of such 'Mahapurush' will continue to inspire people: PM\nSardar Patel gave us 'Ek Bharat', let's make it 'Shreshtha Bharat': PM Modi\nSardar Patel's contribution to the country is immense, he unified India: PM Modi\nSardar Patel took the cleanliness drive for 222 days: PM Narendra Modi\nSardar Patel was focussed on women empowerment: PM\nSardar Patel proposed for 50% reservation of women in Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation during the British Raj: PM\nUnity, Peace \u0026 Sadbhavna key to India's progress: PM Narendra Modi\nGovt of India will soon come up with a new scheme 'Ek Bharat, Shreshtha Bharat': PM\nAll the guests present\nToday, on October 31 we are celebrating 140th birth anniversary of Sardar Sahab. Today's Day can not be forgotten even for the fact that the former Prime Minister of India, Smt. Indira ji sacrificed. Today, when we are celebrating the birth anniversary of Sardar Saheb. Every time the life of the great men, the lifestyle of the great men gives a new energy to the coming generations, gives inspiration, gives strength. No one in the country has the right to forget our great heritage. It is not our obligation to assess the living and living of the country for their ideology. It is the obligation of every generation to remember their great deeds, try to get something out of it and try to live by taking those great resolutions. Sardar Saheb, the unbreakable brotherhood associated with the unity of India, he was the Sardar Sahab. They did not know in the form of Iron Man that someone gave him a name in the column of the newspaper as a Iron Man. Someone gave the certificate, they were considered iron men and today even after hearing the Iron Men, the portrait of Sardar Sahib comes in front of our eyes. Because of his decision of every decision of his life, whenever he came to make decisions with them, he did that with power, with that sense of wisdom and then by going in the name of Iron Man he became immortal within India.\nPerhaps there are very few people in the world who are more than one and a lot of people are all approved. They also came to be known by the name of Sardar Saheb, also known as Iron Man and both things continued with equal equality. It is very rare.\nSardar Saheb's contributions to India's unity can not be underestimated. The British dreamed that the country would be split after leaving the country. They wanted that there would be a conflict between the King and Rajwado, and India would never be tied in the form of unity and for this they should be encouraged by whatever divisive divisions during their reign, whatever seeds of sowing would be done, try every effort . But despite so many attempts, it was Sardar Saheb who tied India in the form of unity. Tie in a very short time and introduced political skills in it. He introduced his iron marrow. He introduced skills. King Maharaja, his height which was his place in the society. It was hard work to adore him, but all these things were done by Sardar Sahib in a limited time frame. Look at the history of Hindustan, Chanakya had tried Bhagiratha to unite the country four hundred years ago and achieved a great deal of success. If a great person did some important work to build India in the form of unity after Chanakya, then Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel did it, and due to this, today we remember that Bharat Mata from Kashmir to Kanyakumari. Bharat Mata Ki Jai speaks. Sardar Saheb had played a big role in the refinement of that mother. And so, the great man, who gave an India, made him the best India, it is our responsibility. We all have a duty and therefore, a Bharat becomes a better India, it is essential that the collective fervor of 1.2 billion people is necessary. It is necessary to walk by step by step towards the desired goal. Our speed needs to be accelerated according to the demand of time and that inspiration gives us Sardar sahib.\nSardar Saheb After Mahatma Gandhi returned to India, Sardar came in public life. In December 1915, Sardar Sahib started public life. The year of the centenary of Sardar Saheb's public life journey started in December this year. And in this sense, how this life inspires us. We must continue our efforts.\nSardar Sahib had many features. He was elected as city mayor in the municipal corporation in Ahmedabad in the early years and after choosing the City Mayor, many people will be surprised, after selecting the City Mayor, Sardar Sahib has 222 days before his rule Two hundred and twenty two days launched a big hygiene campaign in Ahmedabad city. The country used to monitor the country every day, and the work of cleaning was done in the period of 1920, 22, 24, Sardar Sahib, for 222 days, a campaign for cleanliness as a mayor of Ahmedabad is not a small matter. The importance of cleanliness was also at that time, we see it with the behavior of Sardar Sahib and Mahatma Gandhi had a special significance in telling him the most accurate things. For this campaign of Sardar Saheb, because Mahatma Gandhi too was very dear to cleanliness. So Mahatma Gandhi said good by looking at this 222-day unbroken continuous hygiene campaign of Sardar Saheb. He said - If Vallabhbhai Patel also becomes a Sardar of garbage trash, now I will need to worry about cleaning. There is correctness in Gandhi's sayings.\nSee Sardar Saheb's second specialty, in honor of Queen Victoria, there is a Queen Victoria Garden in Ahmedabad. When Sardar Sahib became Mayor, how was his specialty of running things. He decides the Queen Victoria Garden, but the statue in it will look like Lokmanya Tilak. And in the mayor, he installed a statue of Lokmanya Tilak there. British rule was. The Queen was Victoria Garden. But it was the experience of the iron power of Sardar Sahib. They put the statue of Lokmanya Tilak. He installed the statue and requested Mahatma Gandhi to release this statue and unveil the statue of Lokmanya Tilak ji, who went to Mahatma Gandhi Victoria Garden. And on that day Mahatma Gandhi wrote a great sentence. He wrote that after coming to Sardar Sahab Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation, a new courage has also been entered. That is how Gandhiji used to see Sardar Saheb, he comes to us in meditation.\nToday, we talk about women empowerment. Who brought the women reservation, who took his credit There are debates about it. But very few people would know, that period was the British government. Then Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel brought a proposal of 50 percent reservation for women in Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation. 50 percent reservation I am talking before the 1930s. We are looking at how timely the Sardar was for women empowerment. In the politics of India, familyism, nepotism is the way it has polluted our politics. A Sardar is the life of Sardar, who inspires us that the name of any person from his family can not be seen far and wide on the political map of India today, how much greater restraint must be followed. He must have made a thoughtful effort to keep the family away from all these political life, we are seeing it.\nSardar Saheb's life has been for the unity of the country. Even today, I believe that if the country has to move forward, the country has to overcome the new heights of development, its first guarantee is that from Kashmir to Kanyakumari language, no language, any kind of environment, nobody is associated with any inspiration. Though ideas are linked to any system, but the goal of all of us will be to bring our Bharatmata to the new heights of the world, its first condition is unity, peace, goodwill. If a citizen of India goes one step further, Hindustan hundred hundred steps go forward together, by stepping on the shoulder of hundreds of millions of nationwide people with the mantra of unity, peace and goodwill. One hundred million steps goes forward, and therefore a nation of this mantra of unity, the nation associated with unity, the nation carrying the mantra of unity, the nation that gives everything to unity, this is our biggest power. And the unity of Sardar Sahib for us, this is the message.\nIn the coming days, with the support of the Government of India and cooperation with the states, we are thinking of making a plan. I have set up a small committee, that committee is preparing its format and the name of that plan is - an India, the best India. Imagine it is, every year, add every state to every state with one state. Suppose Haryana decides that 2016 we will be joining Tamil Nadu if we teach at least 100 sentences in Tamil language in schools in Haryana in 2016. Every child should be taught song in Tamil. The Tamil film festival, Tamil theatrical experiment, Tamil food program, and people of Haryana go to Tamil to travel, people from Tamil Nadu come to Haryana. Tamilnadu continued to run in Haryana for a year and Haryana continued to run in Tamil Nadu. Connecting the unity of the country, identifying other states of the country, will become an intuitive venture to know other languages.\nIn 2017 Haryana took another state, in 2018 Haryana took another state. In the coming days every year, one India best India, one state after another state, we will recognize our diversity of India, recognize the power of India.\na. P. J. Abdul Kalam Sahib had a great talk, he said, \"When I first came to Delhi with Rameshwaram and I was traveling from a train box. After a few hours a new language would have come, new food came, he used to listen to the new dialect. I was amazed that my country is full of such variations. What I did not understand from the books was that when traveling from Rameswaram to Delhi, while traveling in the train all the way came in meditation, it is the specialty of India. To glorify the specialty of this India, to take pride of the specialty of this India, to try to live the life of that India, it will give new power to our unity. Today, the birth anniversary of Sardar Saheb will become the cause of inspiration for us and therefore I honor the Sardar Sahib with honor, bow down and bless his blessings for India, blessings of Lakshaydhi great men, we all unite the country For integrity, for the development of India, give a new force to take India to new heights. This is my wish to respectfully bless these great men with respect.\nI will repeat a resolution here You are my most urged that all of us will repeat this resolution with me today. I pray for everyone to stand in their place and remember us in the memory of Bharat Mata, remember these great men of India and especially today is the birth anniversary of Sardar Saheb, remember Sardar Sahib and with me Speak up\nI swear by truth that I will dedicate myself to maintain national unity, integrity and security, I will also do my best to spread this message among my countrymen. I am taking this oath in the spirit of the unity of our country which could be made possible by the vision and work of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel. I also sincerely oppose my contribution to ensure the internal security of my country.\nJai of Bharat Mata, Jai of Bharat Mata, Jai of Bharat Mata\nThanks a lot."