"\nOnly development is rid of all of it's problems: PM Modi #ParivartanRally\nHow can a Prime Minister who has the mandate of people of this state be 'Bahri': PM Modi #ParivartanRally\nI promise to eliminate corruption and nepotism if NDA wins in Bihar: PM\nNDA's 6 sutras for Bihar-for people education, employment, medical facilities \u0026 for state electrification, safe water, proper roads\nIt is shameful that a minister of 'Mahaswarthbandhan' has been caught taking bribes in front of TV camera: PM Modi\nNitish ji used to say that he will end up corruption, seize property of corruption and open schools. What happened to his promise?\n'Mahaswarthbandhan' is misleading the people of Bihar. People of Bihar will not spare them: PM\nBy asking for old days, does Nitish Kumar want days of kidnappings, crimes against Dalits \u0026 women back? - PM Modi\nNitish Kumar wants old days back just for his seat but Bihar does not need those old days of 'Jungle Raj': PM Modi\n'Mahaswarthbandhan' has not been able to find a single instance of corruption against us: PM\nBJP's candidate Mr. Ram Entrance Roy from Barauli, Mrs. Mithilesh Tiwari, BJP candidate from Baruoli and Mr. Indradhe Manjhi, BJP candidate, BJP candidate Mr. Kali Prasad Pandey Ji, and my brothers and sisters in large numbers\nI had also visited Gopalganj in the last Lok Sabha election and today I have come between you again. Brothers and sisters, nowadays, you hear the rhetoric of the leaders of the Mahasvantrabhan, the language is being spoken. The dictionary is empty but everyday new ones are being spoken. I used to think that for the last 25 years, the people who are running the government here, for 35 years, the Congress which has run the government here, ran the government for 60 years; In the government, there is a lot of humility, they have got a job sometime in these periods, from one way to the top to the bottom, they have their own game, despite this why they have been forced to act like this in the election, the whole limit Why have they broken down on a low level language? The reason for this is not that Modi has made a mistake, the reason is that he is not able to digest this love. As your love grows, the number of their lanes increases. NDA, BJP's election campaign is going down, how big the rallies are getting, they are not aware of rallies, but after the end of the rally, the way they come to abuse, it shows how many rallies Has been awesome.\nBrothers and sisters, you tell me that if someone tells poor people to poor that you are selling, then no one will tolerate it? If someone is asking for a beggar on the sidewalk, then will he accept it? Nitish ji, the defeat in the elections continues, what is the anger? Now tired of giving Modi abuses, he started abusing the Biharis; Tired of accusing Modi, he started charging Biharis. Nitish Babu, insult of Biharis will cost you dearly, you will have to give it.\nThey have alleged that those who come in Modi's rally are brought from the money. You tell me whether this is a lie or not; Is this an insult to you and all the Biharis? It would be costly for the Biharis to say that they sold them. Nitish Babu, do as much oppression as you do on Modi but do not hurt Biharis' self-esteem, they do not adorn you. No one can imagine that what the mood of Bihar has changed. Bihar is angry because Bihar has been asking you for 25 years of accounting and you are not ready to give accounting.\nThis is Gopalganj's home district of Lalu ji, what does the people here get? He made it 'mini-chamble' at the time of Jangaraj, where open-air pills ran at the railway station. Was not the kidnapping industry here? The only business was there - kidnapping business. Gopalganj young man who wanted to live with respect, wanted to earn money by sweating, he had to be forced to leave Gopalganj. Most migratory youth have gone anywhere in Bihar, either from Siwan or from Gopalganj.\nI had gone to Abu Dhabi, Dubai in the past, I have prayed to the rulers of the place where there is a Labor colony, that my people of India are working in the Labor colony, I want to know their situation, I want to meet their poor brothers. . I am grateful to the rulers there that they let me go. There I met all the laborers. I met most people there in Bihar. Why are they forced to do the wages? Our simple point is that we have to give Bihar such a development so that people of Bihar get their food here, this is our motive. These people are not concerned about anyone outside their family. They do not trust any of their leaders. If you go to jail, you are given a wife. Now, if you want to live in jail, then say that the son should be ready and take all this so that I can spend the rest in prison; Such a game is going on.\nToday, if all these problems are to be resolved, then the only way - the development of Bihar Bihar's development can save Bihar from waste. That is why I came to say the same thing to the voters of Bihar that trust me. I have trusted in the Lok Sabha, now trust me in the assembly too, I assure you that I will finish corruption and nepotism and I will show it. Delhi was infamous because of corruption every day. Everyday scams of millions of crores of rupees were seen coming out of the coal, 2g, the money was looted, you tell us that we have even blamed one? They give me so many abuses, but so far I have not been accused of corruption. This saved money will come to the public only. It is the service of the country, if Bihar's loot survives, it will be good for Bihar.\nBrothers and sisters, so give me a chance to serve Bihar; I have to stop this looting, I have to stop the game to fill this house and rob the safe. Look at their condition in our country: Nitish Babu's partner and his ministerial council are caught taking money in front of the camera on camera, what is the crime, but they are not ashamed. Nitish Babu had said that if anyone's corruption was caught then his ownership would be seized and his school would be opened in his house. Laloo jailed in corruption and I did not do it but the court did it. Now tell Nitish Babu what he did in his house, opened his school in his house? Why are people fooling? JDU ministers were caught taking bribes in front of the camera. If they are doing this from now on, what will they do after the election? Advance is being taken to sell Bihar. Brothers and sisters, will we allow Bihar to sell, will they fill their house?\nI want to ask Nitish Babu that the JDU ministers were caught taking bribes in front of the camera, did they seize their house? Now your government is running, who is stopping you from punishing your colleagues for corruption? I was surprised to see the list of what he did in 25 years. I want to tell you what the mausoleum who told me to work honestly for myself. Remember, the Salka scam, drug purchase scam, Transformer Purchase scam, Estimate scam, Engineering college nomination scam, Fertilizer subsidy scam, Ration-rent scam, liquor scam, Lecturer appointment scam, Sepoy appointment scam, Nalakup scam, Indira Housing scam, MNREGA Scam, toilet scam, Kosi channel building scam, mid-day mill scam, Anganwadi scam, Megha scam, VC Draft scam, Path Creation scam, bridge construction scam, education campaign scam, tax book printing scam, blanket purchase scam, transport scam, wireless scam, Disha land scam, Buddha memory park construction scam, rice scam, roll and double pay scam, railway In the scam and the scam in which your monsieur has been convicted, I do not even talk about that fodder.\nBrothers and sisters, those scams should be punished or not? In this way, the looters of Bihar should be sacked from Bihar or not? These elections are not just for the formation of the government, but the election to sack Biharis who are looting Bihar. Nitish ji is saying with courage that we should return the old days. There were kidnappings in the days, oppressed on Dalits, murders were done, the situation of destruction had remained, what should they want back in the old days? Nitish ji, you are granted old days for the chair but Bihar is not approved. Wins are lost but stop playing with the people of Bihar.\nWhat happened in Bihar except criminalization? The life of this crime can not change the life of Bihar and can not give roti-roti. My three sources for the families of Bihar - studies, earning and medicines to the elderly. The poor children of Bihar need to get affordable and good education because then the poor parents will not be able to pledge their land and mortgage their daughter-in-law's daughters. Second, earnings; The young man of Bihar wants to be able to stand on his feet by earning his money. The young man of 20-25 years demanded 5 rupees from his parents, whether he would be sad or not. To live self-respect, Bihar's young man should get an opportunity. The young man is exploring opportunities for his earnings but the government is not giving him the opportunity. If the industry does not work, then how to get employment and electricity is required to set up the industry. Last time he had said that he would build my government, I will be sending electricity to the house and if I do not do electricity then I will not come to demand votes. The electricity did not come, but they came to demand the votes. They betrayed you, would you break them off now?\nBihar needs 24 hours of electricity so that the industry is engaged here and the young people get jobs so I am studying, earning and seeking votes for the medicines to the elderly. For the elderly, there should be affordable medicine, doctor and dispensary. There are three sources for the good of the state of Bihar, electricity, water and roads. The farmer gets water, he will produce gold from the soil; Electricity will get electricity in Bihar; And Bihar meets roads, Bihar will move forward towards progress. For the development of my brothers and sisters, Bihar, choose a government whose only agenda is development.\nIn the past, there was nothing to say in the name of development, there was no development in the rule of 25 years, when we were just talking about emphasis on development, he was chanting of reservation and when I had a few days ago If the sins of their sins are opened, then they are screwed. Now I openly say that on August 24, 2005, Mr Nitish Babu had cleared his intentions within the Parliament. I had alleged that they want to steal Dalits, Adivasis, 5% reservation of backward castes. The Constitutionalist of India had forbidden that no reservation should be made on the basis of sect, but these people stolen the reservation of the backward and want to distribute reservation on the basis of sect. I said so, but I got the document that I gave the speech in Parliament on August 24, 2005. They had to say that reservation of Dalits, tribals, backward, backward castes and reservation on the basis of sect. I challenge them that they have courage, then answer it. They lie so and get out of talking lightly; This game is not going to run long.\nBrothers and sisters, I have seen poverty. These days they are saying that Modi ji changed his profile. Modi was talking about development and now he is saying that I sell tea, I am the son of poor mother, I am backward. I want to ask Nitish Babu whether the country's backward does not have the right to talk about development. If I am backward, can not I talk about development, can not discuss it? Do you have the contract to talk about development? Their ego calls them all this and they are so frustrated that now they do not have the courage to come to you and now they go to the Tantric. You scold you that you come here from the money and go to the tantric steps and pile up the rupees. Now they bring 100 Tantric but they are no longer going to survive.\nOur trust is in public and public, you are on. We need change for development; We should government for development. That's why I urge you to vote in more and a large number. Keep giving your blessings and with the two-thirds majority, the BJP, form the government of NDA. Everyone speaks with full power -\nLong live Mother India! Long live Mother India! Long live Mother India!\nThanks a lot!"