"These elections in Bihar will change the fortune of the state: PM Modi #ParivartanRally\nBihar will lead the world in second green revolution: PM Modi #ParivartanRally\nNDA's vision - electricity, water \u0026 roads for people, medicine for elderly, education \u0026 jobs for youth: PM #ParivartanRally\nThe 'Mahaswarthbandhan' is arrogant and deceitful: PM Narendra Modi #ParivartanRally\nThe 'Mahaswarthbandhan' has four players, one is Lalu yadav, second is Nitish Kumar, third is Sonia Ganghi \u0026 fourth 'Tantrik': PM\nThe more mud you spread, more the lotus will bloom: PM Modi #ParivartanRally\nLoktantrik Nitish Kumar and Tantrik Lalu Yadav must answer that who made migrants of the youth of Bihar: PM #ParivartanRally\nMy partner of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Giriraj Singh ji, MP Mr. Lalon Paswan, Mr. Vishwanath Bhagatji, Mr. Satyanand Sharma, Mr. Rajiv Ranjan ji, Mr. Shree Vishwajeet Paswan, Mr. Ravi Shankar Prasadji, Mr. P C student ji, Mr. Raju Paswan ji, Mr. Chhila Lal Rajwanshi ji, Mr. Prem Ranjan Patel, Mr. Bhupendra Sahni Ji and this was chosen And, with your blessings, who are pushing this Vijay Yatra, LJP candidate Mr. Arun Kumar, LJP candidate Smt. Deepika Kumari, Mr. Laxaji candidate from Mokame, Mr. Kanhaiya Kumar Singh, BJP nominee from Nalanda, Mr Kaushalendra Kumar from Islampur BJP candidate Shri Virendra Gup, BJP candidate from Bakhtiyarpur, Mr. Randivijay Singh, BJP from Rajgir Candidate Mr. Dev Narayan Arya, BJP candidate from Sharif Mr. Sunil Kumar, LJP candidate from Afsawa Mr. Lal Yadav, speak up with me - Bharat Mata Ki Jai\nI do not understand that there is a meeting that has four meetings. Today Nalanda has done amazing in this heat. The result of the election will come on 8th and after that what will happen to them, they all know, but what will happen to democratic Nitish ji after hearing the news of this meeting today? Brothers and sisters, this is the people's understanding of Bihar, it is the politi- cal nobility of the voters that they can easily water milk and water. In a way, the thinking of the citizens of Bihar is like a flamingo, which is powerful to test true pearls. The atmosphere which I am seeing now is not just a victory of the victory of the election, democracy Nitish ji or Lalu ji, this is not a mirror of Soniaji's mirror, but this environment is to punish those who have Ruined Bihar for 60 years.\nThe people of Bihar are not fighting to defeat anybody but to change the fate of Bihar and they have decided to change the fate of Bihar. This is such an area, wherever it is, it is known to Nalanda that it has a glorious history. No child of Hindustan will be like this, who has never heard of Nalanda. You can imagine how great a legacy you are rich in Bihar, which has a legacy like Nalanda, and because of the heritage that the entire Hindustan has been sewed by centuries, it should have been worrying after Nalanda but after independence The immersed people did not remember Nalanda.\nThe whole world came to quench thirst for knowledge on the land of Nalanda. People traveled from far and near Nalanda for years and till the last day they were submerged for knowledge pipasa but what has happened is that this land of Nalanda gave knowledge to the world, to go somewhere else to read the young man of Bihar Does matter. For education, he has to leave his Nalanda, leaving his village, farm-barn, friends and his old parents. Democratic Nitish ji thinks that now only the Tantric can save Bihar. Bihar does not need tantriks, it can save the power of democracy. Bihar's young man has that strength and therefore there is no need for any Jantar Mantar to save Bihar.\nYou tell us what should be the issue of Bihar elections? But look at his speech, say, we will cut the white pigeon, cut black doves, is it the issue of choice? People ask that Modiji, because of Navratri, you did not go to Bihar for the last 10 days, still Nitishji, Lalu ji, why are you boggling on you day and night, why have you gone behind you? The reason for this is that for the last 20 years, they kept on playing politics of backward and backward, they became the messiah of the backward, kept raising the caste of casteism and dreaming that we have come out with these poison, sometimes we become prime minister Will go Now, the problem is that for 30 years they kept doing all these things and suddenly how backward and a tea-haired son became the Prime Minister. This poison is about how the son of a poor family became the Prime Minister, and so all of them humiliated me, but I have to say that you oppress and see, the people are with us and we will look after the service.\nNowadays, the name of the reservation is being lied. I have been Chief Minister of Gujarat for 14 years, we have been ruling in Madhya Pradesh for 15 years; we are ruling in Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Goa, Haryana, no reservation has come to nothing. We have always tried to take the community along with Dalit, suffering, exploited and deprived, whom Baba Ambedkar has rightfully given, we have been taking them along with us. We have seen poverty and backwardness, how to survive in this situation, I have lived this pain and therefore, Baba Ambedkar has not given any help to protect him.\nAtal ji's government has been so long, we have not taken such a thing, but they are doing false propaganda because they do not have development issues. In this election, they have to make things like this. This is the first election in which the elder brother-in-law has outsourced 80 percent of the elections and it has been outsourced in Delhi. In Delhi's air-conditioned room, every day has given a contract to create new stories, illusions and deceit. Only 20 percent of the elections are left in Bihar, 80 percent have outsourced. They are confusing themselves by trying to mislead the people. I am roaming drinking water of Bihar, I see that this mass rally is playing a belligerent of the BJP and NDA's victory.\nYou tell us that today the whole world is playing a dancer or not? Is America, Germany, Canada, China, all around India's jai or cheer? This is not happening due to Modi but it is happening due to hundred and fifty million people. Today, if you had not given us a complete majority in Delhi, then India could not stop the dancer in the world. These dunkers are triggered because the countrymen have formed a complete majority government in Delhi after 30 years. No matter how great and powerful the country is in the world, but if its leader joins hands with Modi, then they see Modi, but not hundreds of hundred crore Hindus.\nIf you want to play Bihar's dunk, then form NDA government with two-thirds majority. You see that the world will have to believe in Bihar, it is my belief. In this election we have brought development politics together and on the other side, Jangaraj's politics is being rebelled. You have to choose which politics you want. The elder brother and the younger brother ran the government for 25 years, should they give account of their work or not? They have only one thing - just to blame Modi, does democracy do so?\nAs far as the matter was concerned, I was thinking that there are three people in it, one Laloo ji, another democratic Nitish Kumar, third Soniaji but now it is known that these three people are not alliances, these are the coalition of four people, one Is RJD, the second is JDU, the third is Congress, and the fourth is Tantric. Thinking of 18th century can be made of 21st century Bihar? Will Jantar-Mantar become Bihar? Bihar has to get rid of this 18th century thinking, going in the modern direction. We need a computer rather than a Jantar Mantar; Our youth should have a laptop in hand and not the talisman. That is why I have come to say that we want to make Bihar backward. These backward Bihar's stigmas have to be eradicated by us and I stand with you for the fight of the forward Bihar.\nWe gave the development package of 1 lakh 25 thousand crores. The lunar youth should be asked to write 1 lakh 25 thousand crores, how many zeroes are there in them, they do not even know this. Those who do not have to write 1 lakh 25 thousand crore rupees, will they be able to do development work with so many money? We put together a development package of 1 lakh 65 thousand crores, would it change Bihar's fate or not?\nOur democratic Nitish Kumar says that this coalition is very sacred. Nitish Kumar wrote a letter to Lalu. Nitish Kumar had made serious allegations of corruption on casteism, communalism, mischief on Lalu ji. Do you need any more proof to recognize these two? There is three identities of the Mahasvandrabhan - this is their identities of conceit, dama and oppression. The phase of suppression politics in Bihar ended. Today I have come to request to young people and citizens of Bihar that you will vote for development.\nMy six-point program of development for Bihar- There are three sources for the betterment of Bihar state, electricity, water and roads; There are three sources for Bihar's families, studies, earning and medicines to the elderly. My brothers and sisters, I have come to you with this six-point program of development. Democratic Nitish Kumar says that Modi is an outsider. I want to ask them, who pushed the youth of Bihar out of Bihar, who forced them? You have made my Bihar youth outward. We do not want to make Bihar's youth outer, they become the destiny of Bihar, we want to work in this direction. There should be industry, employment opportunities and therefore, my youths, vote with full power, be punished with fierce punishment from the Kushasakars sitting for 25 years.\nWhen there is snowfall in the Himalayas, there is instant cold in Bihar. Whatever happens in the Himalayas, its effect happens immediately on Bihar. Just a few days ago, all the political parties cleared in the elections in Jammu and Kashmir, Leh-Ladakh became the only BJP left. The Congress which had 22 seats, got it on 5. These winds of wind are flowing, which have also reached Bihar. Ladakh is celebrating Diwali and this time Bihar will celebrate Diwali two or two on this date. Lalu ji and Nitish ji understand that the more you muddle, the lotus is more blooming. Close my fists with me and speak with full force -\nLong live Mother India! Long live Mother India! Long live Mother India!\nThanks a lot!"