"Government is making every effort to ensure good connectivity to Prayagraj: PM Modi\nKumbh unites us and gives a glimpse of Ek Bharat, Shreshtha Bharat: PM Modi\nThe actions of the Congress party are proving that it will be above country, democracy, judiciary and public: PM\nOn stage, Governor of Uttar Pradesh Shri Ram Naik ji, the popular Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh Yogi Adityanath ji, Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya, Member of the Council of Uttar Pradesh cabinet and my colleague in Parliament Mr. Shyamacharan Gupta ji, Vinod Kumar Sonakar ji and Virendra ji, Mayor of Prayagraj Abhilasha Gupta Ji, and my brothers and sisters who have gathered here in large numbers.\nI bow to the people of Prayag, which is the land of penance, culture and values. Whenever one gets the opportunity to visit Prayagraj, the mind gets filled with an altogether different energy Every bit of this place reflects the divinity of saints and sages which has been experienced by time immemorial.\nIt has been said about Prayag- Kalush Punj Kunjar Mrigaru ..\nIt means that it is difficult to describe the influence and the greatness of Prayag that has been compared to a lion, in order to kill the elephant of sins. This is a holy pilgrimage center that has provided eternal bliss even to Lord Rama, who is himself a ocean of happiness.\nBrothers and sisters,\nAs I have come here before the Ardh-Kumbh, I would like to give you good news. This time all the devotees will be able to see the Akshayath in Ardha-Kumbh. For many generations, Akshayavat was locked inside the fort but now every devotee who comes here will be able to see Akshayavat after bathing in Triavni of Prayagraj.\nBesides, now people can see Saraswati Kumbh along with Akshayavat. I just got to see the Akshayavat. This tree inspires us to adopt a vibrant attitude towards life by blossoming again and again due to its deep roots.\nFriends,\nJust moments ago, several projects worth approximately Rs.4500 crore were launched and foundation stone laid for making such a divine and vibrant Prayagraj even more attractive and modern. It includes various projects like that of roads, railways, smart city and cleanliness of mother Ganga.\nI congratulate the people of Prayagraj for all the facilities. These projects will benefit not only kumbh but also the Kalpvasis\nFriends,\nThe BJP government has focussed on aspects ranging from connectivity to infrastructure during Kumbh. Prayagraj, whether it is a rail road, or for airport connectivity or just upgrading the roads The ministry of railways is going to start many new trains this time specially for kumbh All the projects that I have launched like the big flyovers, the railway over-bridge and underpasses, and of electricity and drinking water will improve this area of ​​both the infrastructure and connectivity.\nAfter this event, I will get the inauguration of the new terminal of your Prayagraj airport. This new terminal has been completed in a record time of one year. This terminal will be highly beneficial to the passengers and at the same time will improve the connectivity of Prayagraj with the other cities. I congratulate the people of Prayagraj in advance for this.\nFriends,\nArdha-Kumbh, the impact will not be limited to this In the future, there will be positive impacts at all stage of the people of Prayagraj. One specialty is that unlike before, this time all the facilities are permanent. It's a temporary work The Integrated Command Control Center set up with more than Rs.100 crores is a symbol of a blend between Prayagraj's antiquity and modernity. It is a important center of smart Prayagraj Everything from roads, electricity to water supply is going to be operated from this center.\nBrothers and sisters,\nThe government is trying to get people from around the world They should be able to experience both spirituality and technology\nAll efforts are being made to ensure that the people with the feeling of peace, religion, and modernity can become so grand and unmatched!\nThe selfie-point being created here is also a spot of attraction. Just a short while ago, I clicked selfies with special guests at Divya Kumbh, Bhavya Kumbh selfie point.\nFriends,\nThe merger of Ardha-Kumbh and selfie will remain incomplete unless the confluence, Triveni, becomes magnificent Mother Ganga is a great source of power Mother Ganga should be clean, clear and its flow uninterrupted. The government is working on a rapid pace to achieve the same.\nOut of all projects worth thousands of crores rupees that have been launched today, there is one project pertaining to the cleanliness of mother Ganga and beautification of its ghats. The sewage treatment plant built at a cost of Rs.1700 crore will prevent about a dozen of drains from the city from the river in Gangaji. At the same time, around 150 ghats are being beautified in Namami Gange project. Out of these, about 50 ghats have been completed. 6 of those ghats have been inaugurated today\nBrothers and sisters,\nSimilar facilities are being created in every state located on the banks of river Ganga including Prayagraj, Kashi, Kanpur and other cities of UP So far, projects worth more than Rs. 24,500 crores have been approved under the Namami Gange Mission. 75 projects worth Rs 5 thousand corrupted The work on 150 projects worth thousands of crores of rupees is going on at a rapid pace.\nFriends,\nApart from the role of the government in ensuring clean and uninterrupted flow of mother Ganga, the role of crores of Swachhaghis and the servants of mother Ganga is crucial. The people who have been associated with this campaign Public participation and responsibilities towards Gangaji Now almost all the villages on the banks of river Ganga have been declared as Open Defection Free.\nBrothers and sisters,\nCleanliness has been linked to godliness in our shastras. Gods reside during Kumbh This time no stone will be left unturned in making arrangements for Kumbh, be it through the cleaning up of mother Ganga or through having a clean kumbh.\nBefore coming here, I attended an exhibition on 'Swachh Kumbh' or 'Clean Kumbh' We have also started the plans of using equipment such as portable compactor and other modern techniques to ensure cleanliness during Kumbh.\nFriends,\nThe central government along with the government of Uttar Pradesh is trying to ensure that the arrangements are spectacular, magnificent and divine. The government is making all the effort to show a glimpse of India's glorious past and a wonderful future to the world.\nI am glad that every resident of Prayagraj is associated with the efforts of the government. You are too young! You are the most important person in the world. In the exhibition I saw that attractive paintings were used to decorate the city. This wonderful attempt to showcase Prasagraj and India through paintings is commendable and this experience will be unique to every traveler coming here.\nFriends,\nGrasping these feelings of the people of Prayagraj and considering your love, I have invited people from around the world to come and attend Ardha-Kumbh. In the last 1-1.5 years, whichever place I had visited, I have made the invitations to the Indians living there for our foreign friends to Prayagraj and to connect with the cultural heritage.\nYou must have seen that the flags of 70 countries were flown in Sangam. The representatives and the diplomats from 70 countries were appointed in the whole kumbh area and enjoyed the wonderful atmosphere.\nSuch efforts will help in enhancing the popularity of Kumbh internationally.\nFriends,\nThis time two important events will take place simultaneously in the world's two most ancient cultural towns: Prayagraj and Kashi. When people from around the world will gather here for Ardha-Kumbh, the Indians from across the globe will gather in Kashi for Pravasi Indian Diwas. It is quite clear\n\nBrothers and sisters,\nArdha-Kumbh is not only a festival where the people of the people who have gathered but also provide a direction in developing contact and conversations. With crores of people visiting Kumbh, the flow of crores of ideas also makes India more prosperous and empowered\nThe festival of Kumbh is the greatest evidence of India and Indian-ness. This festival will be an inspiration for us in the future. This festival unites us as well as the villages and cities. One can see the actual picture of 'Ek Bharat Sreshtha Bharat' here. In such scenario, it's our responsibility to take special care of our guests coming here. This event is not just for devotion but also is a question of India's prestige. We need to ensure that the people take a new image of India along with them.\nDuring this period, thousands of students will come here The world's largest management university has been teaching the students the tricks on the vastness, diversity and success of this event.\nFriends,\nIndia is known for its cultural heritage and its storehouse of knowledge. Several saints including Swami Vivekananda had dedicated his life to the world. For the last four to four and a half years, the central government has been striving relentlessly to improve the cultural and spiritual heritage of the country along with its resources.\nFriends,\nToday on this holy land of Prayagraj, I wish to talk about you Prayagraj is that place in Uttar Pradesh which can also be called as the temple of justice. The way pressure has been created on the judiciary for quiet sometime now, in such a scenario, it is pertinent to make the people of India and the country's youth is cautious about it.\nFriends,\nThe party with the longest ruling period has always considered itself every law, judiciary, institution and even the country. This party had destroyed every institution, even the constitutional bodies that did not work according to its rules and directions.\nBrothers and sisters,\nWith this arbitrariness, attempts were made to weaken our country's judicial system There was only one reason that the judiciary was among those institutions that stood against this party's corrupt and authoritarian methods Who knows it better than the people of Prayagraj and UP as to why the Congress dislikes the judiciary? The people of UP should recall those days when the top leaders of the party tried to disarm the public opinion. Was not that a disregard of democracy?\nFriends,\nThe nation can never forget that day when the Prayagraj High Court, upholding truth and standing by the Constitution, had ousted them from the position in Parliament; They tried to end democracy itself They declared emergency on the nation. In fact, they Attempts were also made to snatch away the rights of the judiciary.\nFriends,\nThis is the trend of Congress leaders As per the trend, the constitutional bodies of the country had their hands tied up before that party. They tried to destroy anyone who did not oblige It was their feudal and monarchical mentality that kept them motivated to ruin the neutral institutions. In order to uproot the dignity of the judiciary, this party not only used In order to make their ploy successful, they cross all limits of deception, exploitation and slyness. The work culture of this party in terms of judiciary has been - while in power, they used to be in limbo and while in opposition, they tried to bully\nFriends,\nI wish to remit the country of the crucial Keshavanand Bharti case When the Judges who were to deliver the judgment, they were overturned the age-old judicial tradition / convention.\nInstead of appointing the senior-most judge as Chief Justice, they chose a judge. This was their work culture That was the pressure on the judiciary. When Justice Khanna disapproved of his decision, the same thing was done to him. His seniority was disregarded\nBrothers and sisters,\nThey care not for the welfare of the people or just for their self-interests They do not have any regard for the law or for the traditions. One statement delivered via news headlines He has said - we will only allow him to be the Chief Justice who deals with our ideology, our views and works according to our directions.\nFriends,\nThe judiciary in our country works by holding the Constitution\nBut the country has also been a witness to the process how political party uses lreed, hate, power, and everything to bend the judiciary to its will This party has many ways of blocking, misleading and bullying the Judiciary.\nRecently, we have seen how they tried to bring an impeachment motion against the court. Trying to scare and threaten the judges\nI still remember the statement During the trial of one of their leaders, the judge was asked whether he should not celebrate Karwa Chauth. Was not that a threat?\nBrothers and sisters,\nThese people are now crying for democracy after ruining every institution. But their behavior and conspiracy are time and again proving the fact that they consider themselves higher than the country, democracy, judiciary and even the people Just two days ago So, I want to be careful and cautious of these people and parties\nBrothers and sisters,\nThe present of the Congress is as tarnished as its past Immersed in their desire for power and self-interests, these people care not for the countrymen nor the country nor not even for its economic and cultural progress. They think about the country's culture only on special occasions while for us the nation, its prosperity, glory and the spiritual growth are part of our thinking.\nIn line with the same values, under the Prasad Yojana, many places including UP, associated with devotion and spiritualuality are the whole country. Facilitate being developed in those places Many such centers of religious significance like Prayagraj, Kashi, Ayodhya-Vrindavan, Kedarnath, Kamakhya and Sabarimala etc.are being turned into something spectacular and magnificent.\nBrothers and sisters,\nYou will get a glimpse of how India is changing and how the New India is blending ancientity with modernity in Ardha-Kumbh.\nI urge the people of Prayag to make a successful event by merging modernity with spirituality, development with faith and comfort with trust.\nThe government is fulfilling its responsibility but such a great event can not be successful with the government's efforts alone I, yogi ji, and all our colleagues will make the ardha-kumbh a success this time by working hand-in-hand.\nWith this expectation, once again, I would like to congratulate you all and Prayagraj for the various development projects.\nJai Ganga Maiya - Jai!"