"PM Narendra Modi addresses his 13th #MannKiBaat on All India Radio\nCricket Connect: PM Modi talks about Gandhi-Mandela series between India and South Africa #MannKiBaat\nOrgan donation is a critical issue Need for kidneys, heart and liver are high but less number of transplants happen: PM #MannKiBaat\nPM Modi appreciates Tamil Nadu for taking lead in organ donation #MannKiBaat\nPM Modi talks about 'India-Africa Forum Summit' to be organized from Oct 26th-29th #ManKiBaat\nIndia \u0026 Africa have many similarities Many people have been staying in Africa: PM #MannKiBaat\nA mobile exhibition named 'Memories of Mahatma' is covering many states \u0026 will reach New Delhi on Oct 29th: PM\nPM Narendra Modi praises various MPs for his active participation in Sansad Gram Yojana during #MannKiBaat\nPM Narendra Modi talks about #SwachhBharat during his #MannKiBaat\nPM Narendra Modi lauds media hubs for their efforts towards a clean India: PM #MyCleanIndia\nGovt has completed full interviews for low rank jobs; it will come in effect from Jan 1st, 2016: PM #MannKiBaat\nPM Modi recalls Sardar Patel's contribution during his #MannKiBaat\nIndia is a global nation and this is our pride. 'Shanti', 'Sadbhavana' and 'Ekta' are key to progress: PM #MannKiBaat\nNamaskar to all my fellow citizens!\nOnce again I have the opportunity of connecting with you Today the fifth \"one day\" cricket match is being played between India and South Africa in Mumbai. This series has been named as 'Gandhi-Mandela' series. This is a interesting point with both teams having won 2 matches each. So the last game is significant My best wishes\nToday I would like to congratulate the friends at the Kannur center of Akashwani. I started the Mann Ki Baat and people started connecting with it. One of them was Shraddha Thamban from Kerala a grade 12 student. Kannur Center invited her for a ceremony and a lot of feedback was received. It created an environment of belonging Kannur center appreciated the awareness of Shraddha and she was rewarded. The development at Kannur center inspired me I wish all the students to pay attention to raise the level of awareness among the members and make them active in their region so that the public participation with our aim is to boost. My heartfelt greetings and congratulations to the team at Kannur station in Akashwani center for their efforts.\nI want to talk again The girls students from Saint Mary Upper Primary School from Chittoor in Kerala have sent me a letter. This letter is special in many ways Firstly, these girls have created an image of Mother India by thumb prints on a huge piece of cloth. They have sent me the image of mother India. Initially I was wondering why we created thumb prints. But when I read their letter, I realized how beautifully a symbolic message was given. It is not as if the girls have just tried to become prime minister They are trying to create awareness among their people and their mission is to Donate They are organizing a public awareness campaign for organ donation. They have organized plays for making an understanding about organ donation. Organ donation should become a habit as well as an instinct. They have asked me in their letter to people about Organ Donation in Man Ba ​​Ba. The octogenarian Vasantrao Sudke from Guru ji has been running a movement from a long time. He says that organ donation should be a celebrated as a festival. These days I get a lot of messages on phone calls too. Devesh from Delhi also sent me a similar message. 'I am very happy with the government's initiative on the organ donation and steps towards making a policy. The country really needs support in these things where people need to go out and help each other and the ambition of a target is one of the most productive steps taken by government.\nI feel that this topic is very important The country needs more than 2.5 lakhs of kidneys, heart and livers for donation per year. However in a country with 125 crore people; only 5000 transplants could take place Every year about one lakh And we are able to reach upto only 25,000 people who need it .It implies that we need to provide eye transplant services to just one out of four needy persons We should also know that if someone is killed in a road accident, then also the organs can be donated. There are some legal hassles involved And the efforts were made in this direction.\nBy reducing the paper work, some of the states have made a good effort in speeding up the donation. Today, I can say that today in Tamilnadu Many social organizations and NGOs are doing business in this direction. National Organ and Tissue Transplant Organization (NOTO) has been established to encourage organ transplant. A 24x7 helpline facility is also available. Its number is 1800 114 770. And there is a saying 'Tain Tyakten Bhunjhita' (\"What is given by Him, allotted to you, you enjoy that\"). The joy of sacrifice is beautifully described in this ministry 'Tain Tyakten Bhunjhita'. In the past few days, we saw on television that the book of a poor hawker in Delhi received a transplant in Delhi's G.B. Pant Hospital This liver was brought from Lucknow by making special arrangements. The transplant was successful A life was saved Organ donation is the largest donation Let us all realize the Mantra of 'Tain Tyakten Bhunjhita'.\nDear countrymen, we recently celebrated the festival of Navratri and Vijayadashmi. And after some days we will celebrate Diwali too We celebrated Eid and Ganesh Chaturthi too. But among all the other big festival is being organized which our countrymen should be proud of. In the National Capital of Delhi an 'India Africa Foreign Summit' is being organized from 26th to 29th October. For the first time a program of this scale is being organized on Indian soil. Leaders of 54 African countries and organizations have been invited. This is the largest conference of African countries outside Africa. India-Africa ties are deep The African countries have a population equal to that of India. If both are combined with the world population And it is said that lakhs of years ago it was all a landmass. Later from the Indian Ocean two parts got separated. There are a lot of similarities among us The bio diversity of both countries Our natural resources are similar And about 27 lakh Indians have settled in these countries from a long time. India shares a lot of economic, cultural and political ties with the African Nations. But India plays the largest role in the country. More than 25,000 African youths have studied human resources development and capacity building in India And many leaders from Africa have studied in India. So you can understand the depth of our relationship. And from that perspective Generally when there is a summit, leaders of different countries meet Similarly, in this summit the leaders will be meeting We are making efforts\nAnd this time, the Government of India, specially the HRD Ministry has done something really commendable. An essay competition was organized among all the CBSE affiliated schools. A poetry competition was organized to increase their participation. Almost 1600 schools participated in the event. It included schools inside and outside India And thousands of children wrote on topics about strengthening the Indo Africa ties. On the other hand, a mobile exhibition called \"Memories of Mahatma\" started from his birth place Porbandar and travelling through North is about to reach Delhi on 29th October. Lakhs Of School Children Enjoy This exhibition The villagers also had a glimpse People realized the importance of the role of Mahatma Gandhi in developing the ties of both India and Africa and also on the influence of his personality. Some excellent creations were received in this competition. One of the creations drew my attention and I want to share it with you It reflects the talent, the broad vision and students of small towns. Garima Gupta from Muzzafarnagar, UP writes beautifully and says-\nThe river in Africa is Nile and the name of the sea is Red,\nThe Continent is Huge and the Indian Diaspora Happy\n\nLike the Indus Valley is recognized for Indian civilization\nRiver Nile and Carthage are synonymous with African civilization\n\nGandhi ji started his revolution in Africa\nHe wove a spell and won everyone's heart\n\nBe it Johannesburg or Kingston, Zimbabwe or Chad\nIn each African country, we can find our Aloo chat\n\nTo write, a thousand lines\nBut I want to mention that I love African forests\n\nThe poem is very long, but I have read a few lines to you. Though it is an Indo - Africa summit but how can this be too? I heartily congratulate Garima, the students and more than 1600 schools who participated and HRD Ministry for this initiative.\nLast time on 15th August I had proposed the Sansad Adarsh ​​Gram Yojana. Since then, many parliamentarians have adopted it. They were deeply involved Last month a workshop was organized in Bhopal. All the pradhans, collectors, parliamentarians of villages adopted under Adarsh ​​Gram, the representatives of Indian government and state government, all had an in-depth discussion on this program. Many new and exciting things came to our attention I would like to bring some things Jharkhand, a large state is primarily tribal Whenever one talks about Jharkhand what comes in mind is Maoism, violence, guns and blood soaked land. Many regions in the state have been attacked by these communist terrorists. But the MP from that place, a senior member who has also been our Deputy Speaker, Mr. Karia Munda has dedicated his life for the tribals. He chose Parsi Gram Panchayat from Khunti district to adopt Adarsh ​​Gram. It is difficult for government officials to go to places ruled by the Maoists. Even the doctors can not visit those places He started his journey to this village, to instill faith and give a new lease of life to governmental organizations. He encouraged the officers to visit. He tried to change the mood of despondency and create a mood to achieve something A successful effort has been made in Parsi village to create awareness along with infrastructure and organizational development. I would like to congratulate our Honorable Parliamentarian Mr. Karia Munda ji for the same.\nI got similar information from Andhra too. The MP from Andhra Sri Ashok Gajapati Raju became involved in this plan and chose Dwarapudi Gram Panchayat from Vijaynagram district for the same. Other arrangements are in progress, but he did something really innovative He gave a work to the students in the village school. The new generation in the village is fortunate to be educated So he asked the students of a higher age group So in the morning they become students And so, almost 550 adults were taught by these children and made literate. Just look, no budget, no circular, no special arrangements but just will bring about such a big change This is amply demonstrated by the Dwarapudi Gram Panchayat.\nSimilarly, another respectable parliamentarian Sri C. L. Ruwala ji, he is an MP from Mizoram, our North East He chose Khwalahilung village for Adarsh ​​Gram and ran a special initiative. This village is famous for sugar production and a kurtayi jaggery. Sri Ruwala ji started a Sugarcane Festival on 11th March. All the people Senior members from social public life, retired government officials from the region also participated. They are going to show an exhibition on growing sugarcane production. They discussed how the village could become the center of economic activities and how it will market for its produce. I congratulate Ruwala for his efforts to make this village not only an ideal village but self dependent village too.\nMy dear brothers and sisters, it is possible that there is an episode of Mann Ki Baat and we do not discuss cleanliness. Savita Rai from Mumbai has sent me a telephonic message - \"Every year on Diwali we clean our homes. This Diwali let us clean our environment along with our homes and maintain that even after the cleanliness of Diwali \". She has drawn attention to this issue I want to remind you my dear countrymen that last year in our country, the media ran a special campaign and showed all the places where crackers lying and said that it is not right thing. This was a awareness campaign As a result of it, soon after Diwali a cleanliness drive got initiated all by itself. So what you are saying is true that our festival before and after the festival should be the same. And we should express this concern on every public platform. And today, I would like to thank all the members of the Indian media fraternity\nThis 2nd October, on Gandhi ji's anniversary and also on the completion of one year of 'Clean India Campaign', I had the fortune of participating in the 'Safaigiri Campaign' of India today group. They gave away the Clean India Awards and I could see many initiatives being carried out. Different people were working as 'One Like, One Mission'. There are so many places in our country All these things were brought to light and I offered my heartfelt appreciation to India Today group for their commendable efforts. Since the beginning of the cleanliness drive I have seen that from Andhra and Telangana, ETV, Eanadu have participated in whole heartedly and specially Sri Ramoji Rao who is very old but their enthusiasm in any youth beat He has made cleanliness of his personal program, his mission He has been promoting the cleanliness program through ETV for the past one year. The newspapers carry news about them and he has been on the positive news about cleanliness. He has been successful in bringing together around 51 lakh children from 55-56 thousand schools of Andhra and Telangana to this mission. Be it public places, stations, religious places, hospitals, parks or other places, he ran a cleanliness drive. All these news shows are due to the Clean India\nABP has started a program called 'Ye Bharat Desh Hai Mera'. In this program they have been shown. NDTV has started a campaign called 'Banega Swachh India'. Dainik Jagaran has also encouraged this campaign, so has Zee TV and India TV also started 'Mission Clean India'. Thousands of channels and newspapers in our country, I am unable to name them all due to constraints, but they all have run this campaign. This is why, Savita Rai ji, the suggestion that you have given us; The whole nation has taken it on us and it takes forward it. The Governor of Meghalaya, Mr. Shanmuganthan, wrote me a letter and talked about a village in Meghalaya called Mavalyannong. He has written that from last many years, this village has set out on a mission for cleanliness and more or less He has also mentioned that some years ago they also got the 'cleanest village' of Asia. The idea of ​​a far-flung village located in the north-eastern region in Meghalaya, which has been special about cleanliness since years, makes me extremely happy. This has become the habit and the culture of the village. This is what reinforces our belief that our nation will be clean one day, for sure. This will be possible because of the efforts of the people, and by the time we celebrate the 150th anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, the 125 crore people of the country should be proudly proclaim that we have made India clean.\nMy dear countrymen, I said this from the Red Fort on the 15th of August. When a poor man goes for an ordinary job, he faces so many problems to get a decent reference and he has got a team of agents who take money from him. He loses money We keep listening things like this and this is when I was an idea, why do we need to work for ordinary jobs. I have never heard of any psychologist in the world who can analyze a person completely in a 1-2 minute long interview With this thought I decided to do away with the traditions of small positions.\nMy dear young friends, I feel very proud to tell you all that the government has done all the formalities and now there will not be any interview for non-gazetted posts group 'D', group 'C', and group 'B' 'in the Central Government This will come in effect from January 1st 2016. We will not interrupt the ongoing procedures but from January 1st, 2016, this will come into play So, let me congratulate all my young friends for the same.\nWe had, anyways, declared a budget In our country, gold has become a part of our social life. Financial security Gold is considered to be difficult This is an age old tradition I do not believe that anyone can reduce this love for gold that has developed but keeping gold as dead-money does not suit today's generation. Gold can become our strength It can become our financial strength Gold can become the financial property of the nation and every Indian should be contributed to this. I am happy that the promise that we have made introducing important plans, we will do so around Diwali and Dhanteras when people buy specially buy gold. We have introduced a 'Gold Monetization Scheme' Under this scheme, you can deposit your gold in the bank and the bank will give you interest, same as you deposit your bank.\nEarlier, we used to keep our customers in the lockers and paid for the lockers themselves. Now, when you keep your gold in the bank, the bank will give you money as interest. Now, tell me countrymen, can gold be a property or not?\nCan gold be converted from dead-money? This is exactly what we have to do and you must stand with me Do not Avail dual benefits, its security and interest on the gold You must avail this opportunity Another thing is, in gold, you do not really get a gold in your hands. You get a sheet of paper and the value of that paper is equal to that amount of gold and the day you return that paper, you will get the amount that is the exact day of gold of value. Let us assume, you can buy a gold bond worth Rs. 1000 and five years later you go to return that bond and at that time the rate of gold is Rs. 2500, you will receive an amount of Rs. 2500 in exchange of that bond So, we are introducing this scheme now. Due to this scheme, we will not We will not We will not have to worry about In the coming week, I will certainly put forward this scheme that guarantees security to the people. I feel very glad to tell you that, Gold coin with Ashok Chakra It has been around 70 years of independence but we are still using a foreign gold coin only or the Gold Bullion Bars, these are also used by the foreigners. Why should not it be the national emblem of our country? This is why we are introducing it in the market and it will be available for the citizens in the coming week, before Dhanteras - 5gm and 10gm of gold coins with Ashok Chakra introduced. Along with it a 20 gm Gold Gunion will also be available for the people. I have full faith that this new scheme will bring a new change in the financial development of the country and I will get your support in this.\nMy dear countrymen, 31st October is the birth anniversary of the Iron-Man of India, Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel. \"Ek Bharat, Shreshtha Bharat.\" A complete layout of India unfolds in front of us when we talk about Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel. This great man has contributed a lot in building the unity of India. He has proven his capabilities as the Iron-Man of India We will certainly pay tributes to Sardar Sahab but with that his dream of seeing India integrated, he made it possible geographically. But this Mantra of unity should be a continuous present in our thoughts in our minds, behaviors and our expressions. India is full of diversities Many sects, communities, languages, castes, attires, and it is this diversity that adds to its charm. If it was not for this diversity, This is why diversity is the mantra of unity. Peace, social harmony, unity, unity Since last many years, 'Run for Unity' programs have been organized in various parts of the country on the 31st of October. 'Ekta ki Daud' - I too had a chance to run in this earlier. I have heard this year too, People are getting ready for this race. In the true sense 'Ekta ki Daud' is the true race for development. In other words, the guarantee for the race of development lies in the race of unity. Come ... let us pay tribute to Sardar Sahab Let us take a look at the mantra of unity.\nDear brothers and sisters, you must be busy in the preparations for Diwali, houses must be cleaned. You must be shopping for new things The festival of Diwali is celebrated in various ways all over the country I extend my best wishes to you We also get to hear the news about Diwali. Fire breaks out due to firecrackers or lamps Especially children are suffering from a lot of fire crackers. I will suggest all the parents to be careful with enjoying Diwali and see to it that the children should not get hurt or any untoward incident should happen and we lose our child due to accidents I will be careful about this\nMy dear countrymen, I have had a trip to Britain on the next day of Diwali. I am very excited about my trip to this time. There is a reason behind my excitement A few weeks back, I went to Mumbai to inaugurate a magnificent memorial of Dr. Baba Bhimrao Ambedkar close his 'Chaitya Bhoomi'. Now, I am going to London to formally inaugurate the house where Babasaheb used to stay, which has now become the property of India, a inspiration for 125 crore countrymen. Be it a dalit, an underprivileged, a victim, a bereaved, or any Indian who is leading a difficult life. This house inspires us to believe in the fact that if one has a strong will power, we can overcome the difficulties to tread on the path of success, one can get educated and this is the very place where Babasaheb Ambedkar used to meditate. The Indian government and the government of different Indian states give scholarships to such promising students who go abroad to study and who belong to the dalit community, the tribal community or any other under privileged community. I believe that when these children go to Britain to study, this memorial of Babasaheb will become a pilgrimage for them, it will become a source of inspiration. Whatever you learn in life, you should use it for the nation and live for your nation, Babasaheb gave this message and even lived it yourself.\nThis is why I am saying that I am very excited about my trip this time. This issue has been lying entangled since many years, now it has become the property of 125 crore countrymen and if the name of Babasaheb Ambedkar is attached, you can imagine how happy it makes me\nI am going to get another opportunity in London, the unveiling of the statue of Lord Vishweshwara. Many years ago, what Lord Vishweshwara had done for democracy and empowerment of women can make a very good subject. The unveiling of the statue of Lord Vishweshwara on the land of London is itself a perfect example of the fact that the great men of India were very far sighted. Now you see, when such incidents are connected, how excited we get\nMy dear countrymen, you are connected with us through \"Mann Ki Baat.\" I keep getting your suggestions through telephone and mygov.in. Your letters are also discussed on Akashvani Government officials are held in and discussions Some people write down their complaints as well. We should learn more than one language in India I am fortunate enough to have learned some languages, but still there are many languages ​​that I could not learn. I am indebted to Akashvani because they broadcast this program of \"Mann Ki Baat\" by 8 o'clock in every state in their regional languages. Even though a different voice\nI will try it in your language We have formed a beautiful bond between us Last time I got a year in power. This year we are entering a new year. A heartfelt congratulations to all my countrymen once again!\nJai hind"