"PM Modi interacts with African journalists at Editors Forum for 3rd India-Africa Forum Summit\nIndia-Africa Forum Summit is very important from many points of view: PM\nIndia-Africa Forum is the first summit where all 54 countries of Africa have been invited \u0026 all 54 countries are participating: PM\nIndia-Africa Forum Summit is the biggest event of its kind and partnership at this scale: PM\nWe want economic relations between India and Africa should be strengthened: PM\nIndia-Africa Forum Summit is going to bring new freshness in our relations: PM\n400 journalists from Africa covering the event indicates the importance that has been attached to this summit: PM\nIndia \u0026 African countries share very rich cultural tradition: PM\nThe west coast of India and the east coast of Africa are the ones linked by the sea: PM\nEven today there are 27 lakhs Indians who live in Africa: PM Modi\nA very warm welcome Some of you have probably had the opportunity of visiting India before and for some maybe it is the first time that you are visiting India I hope you have been good after here I know that there is an official program but if you have any suggestion of what you would like to do in addition to that program, that can be accommodated. I also want that our visit here is not only important in the context of the India-Africa Forum Summit but the very fact that it is a visit to India, it is important and my government of full efforts was there.\nI feel that this India-Africa Forum is very important from many points of view. Of course for India it is very important given that we are the host country, but this is the first summit where all 54 countries of Africa have been invited and all 54 countries are participating. In that sense the India-Africa Forum Summit is the biggest event of its sort and partnership at this scale.\nTill now as per the information that we have received, 40 countries will be represented in the Head of State, Head of Government level, the rest is being represented by Senior Ministers. This time, in association with the India-Africa Forum Summit there is also the Conference of Trade Ministers, because we want to be in the days and months and years in the economic relations between India and Africa further strengthened.\nThe India-Africa Forum Summits have had two summits earlier, in 2008 and 2011, and now this is the 3rd India-Africa Forum Summit taking place. Earlier the two summits were organized on the basis of the Banjul Formula, and in that sense very limited countries had come and participated. But this time, we decided to come out of this formula and ensure that all countries of Africa\nThis is what we are going to take in relations between India and Africa to new heights. I think it is this partnership and this equality This is an initiative on our part and I think this is different from the two earlier versions. There are going to be meetings at various levels. I think it is this partnership with all of which is going to bring a new freshness in every corner of Africa. This new freshness is not just for Africa but also for India that this summit is going to bring newness in our relations.\nI have been told that of course you have come to India and you are going to have a week-long program during which you will be taken to different parts of the country and you will be seen for yourself the progress and development. But in addition to you there are 400 journalists who are coming to this event from Africa and they are coming on their own with their own means. I think this itself indicates the importance that is being attached to this summit. From the discussions that I have been having with everyone, this summit is really attracting the focus of the whole world and people are in fact looking at it with great importance and I see this as a very good sign.\nThe relations between India and the countries of Africa, these relations and these bonds that we have, are not just political and economic but we also have a very rich cultural tradition. It is said that millions of years ago in fact the two parts of the earth were one piece and it was just too later that they became two separate pieces of land, one was Asia and the other was Africa; and we have a Ocean which divides us The west coast of India and the east coast of Africa in fact is linked by the sea.\nI hail from the west coast of India from the state of Gujarat. It was in fact the Gujaratiis who started trade and commerce with Africa and maritime relations before on Even today there are 270,000 Indians who live in Africa and many of them are Gujaratiis. In fact, I too had my links with Africa not only when I was the Chief Minister of Gujarat but even before that. I have always had relations with the African continent and we always came here I have always loved you So, from a personal point of view I have always wanted\nIn fact there are many similarities between India and Africa and together India and Africa we represent one third of the world's population. The population of India is equal to the population of the whole African continent. Africa in fact represents the youngest region in the world and India too is the youngest country Maybe when we look at the world today these are the only two places where 65 percent of the population is below 35 years of age and I feel that this is a matter of great fortune for both Africa and for India.\nThe bilateral trade between India and Africa has been growing very rapidly and in the past few years it has grown by eight to nine times. I feel that after this summit it is going to see another major jump. India is also a major investor in Africa today and this is especially so in the oil sector and this is a new dynamism to the African economy.\nFollowing the two previous India-Africa Forum Summits, India has given the tune of 7.4 billion dollars of concessional credit and this is to be used in infrastructure, agriculture, industry, energy and water in the fields. In more than 40 countries today there are more than 100 projects which are under implementation.\nIn the same way, India has invested 1.2 billion dollars in more than 100 institutes and this is a great way to human resources development. For me, I think the point which makes me the happiest is that there is this partnership between India and Africa that is human resource development, the capacity building. And in the last few years we have had good fortune of learning and training to around 25,000 African students and I think this is a good fortune for India. Today in Africa many of the leaders who are now in power and in top positions have had their education and training in India.\nI think between India and Africa is there another aspect that links us with many countries in Africa and that is the solar power from which many African countries are benefiting. I think this is going to become a very strong community of nations and in the times to the problem of climate change that the world is trying to counter and fight, we are going to be a major role in mitigation and lessening effects of climate change\nI think both India and Africa can feel proud of the fact that today is the world facing the problem of climate change, the concerns related global warming, I think both India and Africa have a tradition and their culture in it is not polluted or not to damage the environment I think this is also a common factor between India and Africa.\nI am convinced that during this summit and following the summit we are going to have very important decisions, which will give both new opportunities of self confidence, our relations are going closer and deep, and together I think we can lay down the foundations of the world\nOnce again I will also have the opportunity of greeting you Thank you.\nText of Prime Minister's written interview with African journalists at the Editors Forum for 3rd India-Africa Forum Summit\nQuestion: What is the strategic importance of Africa to India in socio-economic and political terms? Is India's engagement with Africa a catch-up process with China in the scramble for resources?\nAnswer: The participation of all African countries, including over 40 of the level of Heads of State or Government, in the Summit is a testimony to deep bonds of friendship and mutual faith between India and Africa.\nThis is a relationship that is beyond strategic considerations It is a relationship with a strong emotional link. It has been done by our intersecting history; our centuries-old ties of kinship, commerce and culture; our common struggle against colonialism; our quest for equality, dignity and justice among all people; And, our shared aspirations for our progress and a voice in the world We are blessed with vast reservoir of mutual goodwill and confidence.\nIndia and Africa constitute one-third of the world's population A large majority of them are young Indeed, India and Africa have a significant part of the global youth population in this century. Their future will shape the great extent.\nIndia and Africa are now the brightest spots of the global economy. India is the fastest growing major economy today. Africa is experiencing rapid growth, too While India and Africa will both do much on their own to prosperity and peace for their people, our partnership can be a source of great strength for each other, both to reinforce and accelerate each other's economic development and to build a more just, inclusive , equitable and sustainable world We have complementary resources and markets; And, the power of our human capital We have shared global vision\nOur approach to partnership with Africa is driven by the aim of empowerment, capacity building, human resource development, access to Indian market, and support for Indian investments in Africa, so that the people of Africa have the ability to make their own free choices. The ability to deal with their responsibility Our relationship with Africa is unique and does not need any point of reference.\nQuestion: How and how to reach the African continent? How is it a win-win situation for both?\nAnswer: Africa's development in recent years has been impressive. First and foremost, it is the result of African vision, leadership and efforts to strengthen and promote economic development in the continent. There are many inspiring models and examples of African success stories in sustainable development and empowerment of people, especially young and women.\nIndia is privileged to be a developer partner for Africa. From the time African nations started gaining independence, we have been supporting human resources development in African countries. Our cooperation now takes many forms and is expanding rapidly in scale and range.\n34 African countries now enjoy duty free access to the Indian market of 1.25 billion people. Over the last two IAFS, we have committed USD 7.4 billion in concessional lines of credit, which is contributing toward infrastructure of infrastructure, light manufacturing, public services and clean energy in Africa. We have received grant assistance of USD 1.2 billion that is helping finance human resources development and establishment of over 100 capacity building organizations in Africa. In the past three years alone, 25,000 Africans have been trained or educated in India. The Africa Africa, which is now connects 48 African countries, is becoming the new highway of regional connectivity and human development.- Africa is a major and fast growing source of foreign direct investment in Africa. Indian tourist flow to Africa is also growing\nAfrica's development is a huge opportunity for India, just as Africa's resources, including oil, power India's economic growth and create wealth and jobs in Africa. The continent's progress will add great stability and momentum to the global economy and benefit India as well.\nQuestion: Some analysts say that the effects of colonialism and neo-colonialism are acting as an impediment to peace, stability and development of Africa. India too underwent such an historical legacy, but has been able to break free of this cycle of strife and fragmentation, and to concentrate on governance, development and growth. What is the study of India?\nAnswer: India's independence had a strong positive impact on anti-colonialism and freedom movement in Africa. We are also proud to have stood firmly in the cause of independence of African countries and to end apartheid.\nDoes not need any lessons from us Colonial legacy left a long and deep impact on all of us Africa, too, has passed through difficult times However, Africa is making impressive progress now. The continent is more settled and stable African countries are coming together to take responsibility for their development, peace and security. Africans are exercising their franchise in increasingly large numbers We see growing efforts at economic reforms and regional economic cooperation and integration. Economic growth has accelerated. Around 95% of African phones are now available. There are laudable initiatives on education, innovation, empowerment of women, skill development and conservation of Nature.\nOf course, Africa continues to face many familiar development challenges There are also new security problems, including from terrorism and extremism, which also affect other parts of the world.\nAfrica has a rich history of accomplishments; abundant natural resources; And, a large and talented youth population. I have full confidence in the African leadership and the African people to realise the vision of \"Agenda 2063: The Africa We Want\".\nIndia will always be there, as a friend and partner, to share our experiences, expertise and resources to support African nations. Since many of our challenges are similar to Africa faces, our solutions may be relevant in the African context.\nQuestion: What do both India and Africa do to benefit from greater bilateral trade and investments? What are the achievements in this sphere since the first India-Africa Forum Summit (IAFS-I) in 2008?\nAnswer: I see enormous opportunities for trade and investment ties between India and Africa. India will be the most populous country and Africa the most populous continent in this century. We both have young population Africa is also blessed with huge resources Both India and Africa will grow, modernize and urbanize at a rapid rate.\nOur Economic Partnership is collecting momentum India's trade with Africa, which was about US $ 30 billion in fiscal year 2007-08 more than doubled to about US $ 72 billion in fiscal 2014-15. Apart from economic growth in India and Africa, trade has also benefited from India's decision in 2008 to offer duty free access to Indian markets to all Least Developed Countries, in the context of the first India-Africa Forum Summit. 34 African countries are the beneficiaries of the scheme.\nIndia has emerged as a major investor from the developing world in Africa, surpassing even China.\nOur Lines of Credit to Africa, which is cumulatively USD 7.4 billion from the first two IAFS is making infrastructure in Africa and boosting bilateral trade. Similarly, Africa's vast resources and availability of arable land can not only power Africa's prosperity, but also India's fastest growing demand for meeting a major source.\nIndia has developed development partnership in human resources development and establishment of institutions in Africa, which are, in turn, creating the skills and capacities in Africa, including areas like agriculture, food processing, textiles, small industries, etc., to expand exports to India and other countries.\nI should also add that Africa's laudable efforts at integrating Africa's markets would also stimulate the bilateral trade and investment.\nAs both of India and Africa emerge as the new frontiers of opportunities in the 21st century, I am looking forward to the Third India-Africa Forum Summit to explore with African leaders how to further economic partnership, and further favourable global economic environment and institutional framework\nQuestion: In what ways can the new Development Bank established by BRICS countries in July 2015 benefit African countries?\nAnswer: The New Development is a significant initiative that has a deep impact on the global financial order. For one, it is, perhaps, the first major initiative on a multilateral financial institution with the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank in recent times. It has brought together the BRICS countries as equal partners in the establishment of the Bank, which reflects a completely new paradigm of financial structure of such institutions. The loaning practices will be designed keeping the interests and experiences of the mind in mind. It has opened a new avenue for financing infrastructure investment in developing countries. I think Africa will be a major area of ​​focus and we will also, hopefully, have an African window or regional presence of the bank in the future.\nQuestion: Agricultural and related activities are the people of the African continent? It also sustains a majority of the people of India. How can India help Africa sustainable agricultural practices and development in adoption and maintenance?\nAnswer: Africa has 60% of the agricultural land in the world, but produces 10% of the global food output. Africa's economic development, employment and food security, it could also be the world for the food bowl in Africa. African achievements in recent times give us confidence in the future of agriculture in Africa.\nIndia has made considerable progress in agriculture and dairy sectors over the last few decades. We are the leading global producers in these sectors. Indian success has taken place in the context of low capital intensity farming and varied biodiversity conditions, which can be great relevance to Africa. Indeed, agricultural experts from India have been deployed in various African countries since the 1960s. Scholarships for Agriculture-related courses in India are very popular in Africa. Agriculture is an area of ​​priority in our development partnership with Africa. It takes many forms: human resource development, creation of agriculture-related institution in Africa, irrigation projects, technology transfer and modern agricultural practices. As we now look to the future, we will continue to work with Africa in these areas, but also address emerging challenges: climate resilient agriculture and adaptation to climate change. We will also focus on post-harvest processing and supply chain. African priorityities in this regard\nQuestion: The Economic Partnership between India and Africa extends beyond trade and investment to technology transfer, knowledge sharing and capacity building. What more can be expected from India in the next few years?\nAnswer: India-Africa economic partnership is not transactional. It rests in the belief of our shared destiny and the power of South-South\nIndia will always work in accordance with the requirements and priorities of our friends in Africa. We will also work together to harness opportunities and prospects created by new technologies and address emerging challenges like climate change. The roadmap for the future will reflect our shared vision and goals, and our related strengths and capabilities.\nOur areas of focus will continue to be human resources development, institution building, infrastructure, clean energy, agriculture, health, education and skill development. We will also work together on climate change and sustainable development of blue economy.\nWe will certainly raise our partnership to a much higher level in the years ahead. We will also make our partnership more effective, based on a comprehensive review of our Development Partnership Program with Africa, specially in terms of capacity building, infrastructure support and technology sharing, and discussions with our African partners.\nQuestion: Does India's commitment to reform the global political and economic order, dovetail with its aspirations to become a member of the UN Security Council?\nAnswer: The world is going through political, economic and technological transition on a scale. We have four times as many member countries in the United Nations as we know it at its beginning. Awareness of rights and aspirations Global power is more distributed We live in a digitally networked world, which is the global economy Threats to peace and security have become more complex, unpredictable and undefined In many ways, our lives are becoming globalized, but fault-lines around our identities are growing. Terrorism, cyber and space are completely new frontiers of threats, opportunities and challenges Climate change is a pressing global challenge The developing world is dealing with a new wave of urbanization.\nYet the global order, its institutions and our mindsets continue to reflect the circumstances of the last World War. These institutions have served well, but they must be reformed in order to remain effective and relevant in the new era. If global institutions and systems do not adapt, they will risk irrelevance We may have a more fragmented world and our collective ability to deal with the challenges and our era will also be weakened.\nThat is why India advocates reforms in global political, economic and security institutions They should become more democratic, inclusive and representative of our world. No institution will have that character today, if it does not give voice to Africa or the world's largest democracy, constituting one-sixth of humanity That is why we ask for reforms of the United Nations Security Council and global financial institutions. India and Africa, constituting one-third of the global population, must\nQuestion: What will the summit (IAFS-III) produce as a tangible result in cooperation between India and Africa?\nAnswer: Our objective is to deepen the spirit of partnership, strengthen our international solidarity and expand our cooperation. When I look at the Africa's vision for self, captured so eloquently in Agenda 2063 document, I believe that our development goals and international aspirations are closely aligned. This will be the foundation of our partnership in the years ahead.\nAt the third India-Africa Forum Summit in Delhi, we hope to set substantially higher and ambitious targets for our development partnership We also aim to make it more effective. As the past, our primary goal is to support our efforts in the field of development. We will address key challenges of our times, including food, health and environmental security. We will make conditions that stimulate trade and investment flows between our countries. We will work together We will explore new areas like a sustainable Blue Economy. Our initiatives will aim to use the power of science and technology, Space Science and the networked world to transform lives. This is not a one-way street. We hope to learn a great deal from many African success stories in all walks of life.\nWe will also reinforce our partnership on the global platform and deepen our security cooperation, including on maritime security, countering terrorism.\nThe Third Summit, which will see the participation of all the African nations for the first time, will launch a new era of India-Africa partnership."