"Share\n\nAmravati is on the way to becoming people's capital. I congratulate people \u0026 Govt Of Andhra Pradesh: PM\nAppreciate Chandrababu Naidu for his efforts in forming the new capital \u0026 integrating whatever is best across the world: PM\nUrban development should be taken as a challenge: PM Modi\nGovt. Of India has taken a step to create 100 smart cities: PM\nIn the coming times, Amravati will lead the nation in urban development: PM\nBe it Andhra Pradesh or Telangana, the soul is Telegu; Both the states must progress: PM\nIn coming times, Andhra Pradesh will be a innovation \u0026 start-up hub: PM\nI have got the temple of democracy, the Parliament and water from the Yamuna river: PM\nToday, Andhra Pradesh is taking an important step in this holy festival of Vijaya-Dashami and after worshiping Navratri power. Today the capital of Andhra Pradesh, which is taking a cultural heritage from the capital for centuries, is living on its historical heritage, connecting with that culture, connecting with that historical heritage, connecting with Amravati, the new color With the new modern decoration, Andhra's hopes are going to be the focal point of hope and in one sense it is going to become the people's capital. I congratulate the government here, congratulate the citizens here with heart, congratulate.\nIn such a short time after the formation of government, Chandrababu took the task at hand and attempted to absorb what is best in the world, so I congratulate Chandrababu Ji for his heart.\nAfter our country's independence, there are fewer new cities and due to this, making new cities in India, this subject is not prevalent in the amount of people in the amount that should have been in the present age. Unfortunately in the last few decades our country has made such a thought that urbanization is a problem and because of that we have ignored this growth center. Today's demand is that urban development should not be considered as a problem, it should be considered a chance. And that is why the Government of India, the way the world has been changing, the way technology is being used, we have to go towards the creation of a modern city and the Government of India has taken an important step towards 100 smart cities. is. And this city is also the center of the economy activity, the economic growth can also be the engine, our efforts are in the direction of making a new type of cities, and then by going into this new modern city, from modern to modern technology Yes, from modern to modern transport, walk to work, become a city with green waste, no wastage.\nI hope that in the new initiatives taken in the direction of urban development within the country, I am confident that Amravati, Andhra Pradesh will work as a boundary mark, as a guide.\nNow the Minister of Japan was telling Mr. how hard it is to make a new city, Japan has a lot of experience. There was an opportunity in my life too, when there was a tremendous earthquake in Gujarat in 2001, after that I had the responsibility of the Chief Minister of Gujarat, the entire town of Kutch and our other districts were destroyed in a way, we had a big challenge Raising all those villages, cities But when there is a political wheel, there is a public support, a clear vision, the achievements are being received, and today, it is making its place in the district that is moving ahead from the fastest pace of the district.\nWhen this Amravati invited me, I told Babu that I would definitely come, but when I read in the newspaper that Chandrababu went to the Chief Minister of Telangana, he invited them, when my news came to me, my happiness was not complete. And so I congratulate them, for this purpose.\nAndhra and Telangana divisions are in haste, in the rush without completing the consultation process due to the political selfishness of some people. But in this process, the innocent people lost their lives, the property suffered untimely damage, I still have the pain of him. The British left some such things that due to this, there are occasionally some tension in our country. The previous government has also done something like that, due to which there are some tension left between Andhra and Telangana at all times. But now is the demand of the time that we are Andhra and Telangana, whether Andhra, whether Telangana, our spirit is Telugu. And this Telugu soul has two arms, one Telangana, one Anand and both grow so much, both of them complement each other so that our strength remains in enhancing the glory of India.\nI believe that the government of India has run the campaign of a startup, the power of anyone to take the most benefit of that startup, then this is the earth. Millions of Andhra soldiers have made their best place as professionals in many countries of the world. Having such talented young men in Andhra Pradesh, they can stand on the land of Andhra Pradesh for innovation, for a startup, a whole new empire. I believe that Andhra will lead a new economic revolution in the coming days. This will be the young centric economic revolution. The country which has eight hundred million young people under the age of 65 years can become a new economic power, a new economic revolution can take place.\nI believe that though Andhra and Telangana are separated, but both have the power to move forward and both will try to move forward by becoming complementary to each other, the same will benefit both the states.\nWhen Atal Bihari Vajpayeeji was the Prime Minister of this country, then there were three new states in this country, three states were divided, but there was no bitterness, no struggle, there was no clash, and there was no crisis later. . I have to try to bring the same situation between Andhra and Telangana.\nThe previous government has done a lot of things, which is going strong enough to cure us, a lot of time is going on, but I want to convince these two people that the Indian government will be with you in every way and every possible Will continue to help.\nThe frequency between the Government of India and Chandrababu is so matched, there is such a facility to understand each other in the work and due to this, the first attention given after the formation of the government has been given on Human Resource Development. How to become a Capital of Human Resource Development within Andhra, we have focused on that direction. With the priorization of Human Resource Development under the Reorganization Act, the work of 11 educational institutions has been carried forward so far - Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Indian Institute of Information Technology, Indian Institute of Management, All India Institute of Medical Science, NIT, Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Central University, Petroleum University. Important steps have been taken in setting up these units in such a short time.\nWhen this is the capital of the people, then you have brought holy clay and water from your village and you have made a successful arrangement towards making it a people's township in true sense. When I came to know of this plan and today I was coming, I also came to the idea and I came with bringing salty and water together. I have brought the clay, the temple of India's democracy - brought the soil from the Parliament premises and the water brought from the Yamuna ji river and Yamuna ji, there is no river in our country, only river is a culture in our country it occurs. And when I gave it to Chandrababu, they were surprised and he was telling me that there is a big emotional touch to my mind. But I want to tell the Andhraites that this is just the message of the soil of the Parliament premises or the water of the river Yamuna, that is not the same. It is a message that the country's capital has now reached Amravati. These symbols have come with a message of this, that is the strength in the symbol, they believe that Delhi will be run by the shoulder in the journey of Andhra's development, will be together all the time and will be crossing new heights.\nThose people who have been intending to sow seeds of an ever-present problem with the splitting of Andhra and Telangana, they are still fertilizing it to produce poison. Trying to spread confusion, trying to provoke the feelings of the youth, but today I want to assure the people of Andhra Pradesh this Amravati cultural city that whatever has been said under the Reorganization Act, with Letter and Spirit The Government of India will stay together and implement it, I have come to give confidence.\nYou believe that the pair of Chandrababu and Narendra Modi will continue to fulfill the things that have been decided, will be able to fulfill the time limit and will fulfill the dreams of Andhra. Talk to me Bharat Mata Ki Jai, Bharat Mata Ki Jai, Bharat Mata Ki Jai, thank you very much."