"Narendra Modi launches IDFC Bank\nPM Modi praises IDFC for its successful journey of 18 years\nThe main objective of this bank is to venture out to the villages: PM\nOur villages have the ability to become great growth centers: PM Modi\nFrom helping to build infrastructure, IDFC is now progressing to building lives: PM\nFuture of banking would not just be the premises-less \u0026 paper-less, but also, eventually, currency-less: PM\nGovt will bring improvements in appointments This improves efficiency: PM\nAll the senior executives present,\nI congratulate the IDFC Bank that the 18 year journey is not very big, but in 18 years of this small trip, we have made a place on the map of India. But till now those who made the place were created by brick, limestone, clay, stone, wire. Never build a road, ever build a building, and sometimes it builds a port, but now he is stepping in the direction of life building. And I believe that the challenges you have received in 18 years, now maybe more challenges are in front of you. Because he is a limited clientele and you have to move your car ahead. And some things are assured in it, we already know that what will happen to this project, what will be the refund, what will the revenue, the status of the bank will be. This is not that area. And hence the work of an engineer is simple, but the work of a teacher is huge because the teacher has to make life, the engineer has to build the building. The work that IDFC would have done so far, now she has to pay a teacher's roll too, and so I feel that despite these challenges in the coming days, there will be a move in the right direction.\nThe basic purpose of this bank is to go to the village and I believe it is the misfortune of the country that the country had to make rules that 25% of the time you do not open the village in the bank, you will not get permission. I believe that these rules should not have been needed to be made, but it seems. Because we have never understood the potential of our rural life and urban life, governments, government machinery, there is a lot of opportunity for them to run these businesses and therefore running the bank in one way, continue to grow the bank. There is no more challenging work and this has not been noticed. But in the last few years it has come into meditation and everyone has noticed that rural life in India is also a huge growth center. You will know when the telecom industry came and whenever they were given spectrum and used to talk about the village then there were back and forth, back and forth. Either they would give a sub-contract and drive their car. But when he went to the village, he was surprised that the percentage of rural population growth of telecom was much higher than the rural percentage. Spread was too high, speed was too fast. And in that sense for them .. good! The communication of the person in the village is mostly from other cities, so the level of income was also high. The village of the city used to do the same in the city itself, but its income level .... But these things came to him, afterwards after going. I think this experience is also going to come for banking sector too. Very fast the rural economy is giving a power to India's life. The big change is coming.\nThere is one more thing, as Arun ji explained in a big detail that now, banking life has changed, now he is going to run mobile banking. premises-less, paper-less, this is the identity of the bank. Not in which there will be no premises nor any paper. After that, the bank will run, the people will get the money, the people will go to Karebar. And gradually in our country, the situation is going to come in that currency too, which is probably the cost to print today, will also gradually decrease as these businesses are going to grow this way. And we also have to take the country in that direction. And as we will be banking with technology, when we arrange a paper-less bank, run the currency-less business, then the chances of black money will gradually shift towards Zero. And that's why all this system is going to be used in a radius that is going to address the fundamental things of the country. IDFC is launching it. They are getting started from Madhya Pradesh, they are also associated with the area, which are connected to the tribal area in a way, along the coast of Narmada, from there, this work is being started. This is also necessary.\nToday, the whole world is looking at India with a great satisfaction in terms of economic prosperity, not only by the eyes of hope but by a satisfaction note. And he feels that there is such a tragedy all over the world but there is an India that has remained steady and in the global economy also to handle a nation's stable economy, it too is too big to balance the world in itself. Plays the role. And that role India has paid during this entire global crisis. India has found itself among such a big storm. And if you have found it, then the possibility of moving forward is also very much in it.\nIn relation to the world India, it estimates that India's potential is so immense, so far you have not been able to tap. People do not do that, how will you go ahead, you will not be able to find anything, you will not survive, it is not discussed, it is not discussed. The discussion is this, hey brother has such a chance, you, why are you cool? These questions are being asked. That is, the whole world is feeling that if there is any potential area in the economic life of the world today, where there is growth story then it is in Hindustan. And we have also seen the World Bank, the IMF, the rest of the rating Agencies, all have said that India is the fastest growing company in the world, with the fastest pace in the world. If we have this power, then our job is to strengthen the foundation and also to the vertical. Horizontal and vertical, we have to move on both sides and how do we enter this rural life to go horizontal? How to increase our coverage? How do we choose new areas in the same way? If we see priority sector, paying money to priority sector, these are some rules of government, but assume that brother has to pay the agriculture sector, but given a fertilizer factory, it will be considered as agriculture sector and accounting properly Will then be given to the agricultural sector. It has to come out from us. How do we become cold storage in the middle of two, four, ten villages, by keeping in mind a common agriculturist or village? How are the arrangements for the Warehousing? How about banking in it? How can we help in the value addition? Today, I understand that there are so many possibilities that the farmer of India is trying to synergize with the world today. You must have seen, that a woman was telling her number in English, the Mobile Number was telling in English. Now it is not necessary that they have to go to a school and read it. But now gradually all things are becoming a natural part of society, life. It's the biggest strength to recognize this power. If we consider this as a force, then this change is because I have this experience.\nI had once described somewhere, when there was a Chief Minister in Gujarat, then there is a very backward tehsil in our area, near Dharmapur, in Balasad district, there is tribal belt. Now as my chief minister, there was no program at that time, so I requested, I said that I have to go there. If there is no program on one day, then I will come back and come back from there by planting a tree. Then again became the program for the opening of a chilling center. Now what is the chilling center of 50 lakhs, what happens a little bit, the people who come to give milk, handle it till the truck arrives. That's all. I said I'll go for it. Then there was no place, because there was no place if there was a forest, then there was a school away, two-two and a half kilometers, there was a function in school. But for this program he called 50 Adivasi women. The women who used to fill the milk were called 50. Where the chilling center was, there. Everything was different then there was the atmosphere I was surprised when the inauguration took place in the chilling center, these women used to take photos from all the mobile. Tribal women used to take photographs from the phone. I was just surprised I approached him. I said what would you do by removing this photo? The answer he gave was amazing and amazing. They said, we will get it downloaded. Now these words were known to them. How to download, where is it, it was known. It means that where we reach. How do we make this part of our growth story in the coming days and how do we work in that direction?\nIn the same way our youngsters Why not arrange bank loan for them to study? I think these women are getting self-help groups .... Women self-help group gets money, if they have to deposit money on Wednesday, then Rs 100 is given to Mars and take that Sahib, my money is not known tomorrow And will be spent. This is our sensitivity, in our lives, in rural life. We should not take any of its benefits, and the moneylenders have caught it on it and it has also damaged our economy too. So we have to create a trust, to create a guarantee. I understand that those efforts, those efforts, will surely result in those results.\nIn our Banking sector, our efforts have been to nationalize the bank. Then it was told that Bhai was done for the poor, but we saw that he was very limited. Just like middle-class families, there is a family doctor, although higher families have a banker. High houses will be sick and also sick, but if the banker has lunch somewhere, they will definitely go because they know how important Bhai is his business. This is good, bad but it is. I think that now call us Neo-Middle Class or say middle class, this is a huge force. By focusing on them, how to develop such systems. Suppose you have two proposals in front of you. One is to build a government, to have a government office and the second proposal is that it has said in private that I want to set up a college here, want to start a high-secondary school, I need money from the bank. If I am in the bank, then I will give first priority to that schoolmate. Because I know that there is a school there, then the power to make such 50 offices will be coming automatically from them. So what is the priority of our investment? What is the priority of giving money? This is if we start chain which has many benefits to us. If it does, then I believe that there will be a lot of benefits.\nThe mission which we have taken for financial inclusion. Now, as Arun Ji was telling us that we planned for the prime minister in which we are middle class, poor, dhobi, hairdresser, seller of milk, how to finance a newspaper, how can he finance under the money scheme. There are about 60 million people in this country, in this type of work and their average loan is 17 thousand rupees. There is no more, but they take this money from the moneylender, give very much interest and they can not expand their growth. Under the money scheme, it is our endeavor to liberate such people from the dilemma of this interest and to help financially liberalize them. We made 50,000, 5 lakhs, 10 lakhs, made its arrangements, up to 50 lakhs. Right now, I think it would have been difficult for 100 days to launch this scheme. So far 61 lakh clients and about 35 thousand crore rupees, they have been there. The 35 thousand crore rupees going down in the market means the power given to the economy. By putting 35 thousand crore in any one city, there is no change as much as thousands of villages go into 35 thousand crore rupees, then a vibrancy in the economy starts coming down, and it starts in the coming days. And our effort is to see that we want to move forward.\nIn our country there are fifty kinds of question marks on the banking sector. There are more than fifty types of question marks in relation to payment of money, from appointment to government, from governance. After we arrived, one day round-table conference, discussions of the camp, discussed with the people of all the banks in detail. What are their problems, what are the expectations from the government, what are the legal troubles? All things discussed in detail. RBI was also present, I was also, Arun ji was discussing in a lot of detail and we have tried to implement the things that came from it. We have set up a Saptashutri scheme, the plan I understand that such things are rarely discussed in our country. But this is a very big decision and A B C D E F G, this is a mysterious program. This satyututri program is going to make a big difference in the lives of the banks.\nOne is our A - Appointments. We have decided to improve the recruitment of senior positions in the banks and therefore, after 1969, we have taken the private sector people in the nationalized bank, otherwise the people from nationalized bank used to go to private. For the first time, this reverse trend has started, in which we have given importance to the efficiency.\nB - B for Bank, Board, Bureau This is the first time B3 that we have brought in this country that the appointments made in the banks will be selected for the top rank, they will board. Politically, I liked it, let me make a director and he should sit there and then later when we have to pay the loan, it will come by way of the proposal and then you know that the PM's man is speaking, will have to give. The reason behind this drowning is this and therefore we have said that we will not do this, we will put all the professional people in this work.\nC - Capitalization. The loans given in the past few years have bad loans. The crisis has come because of it. Now there is no point in crying, so we are planning to bring out 70,000 crores of rupees in the coming years in the bank due to the bad credit due to these bad loans.\nD - De-stress of assets In some areas where this problem is serious, we have supported domestic producer to increase import duties. You must have seen that we did it in steel now. So that steel which got the steel industry money with the bank, got a strength. So we have worked towards taking several steps for De-stress.\n6th - new debt recovery tribunal In which we have said bad credit recovery all these things like Power sector We are going to decision on a very fast pace. Power sector जो NPA की समस्‍या से जुड़ा हुआ है उसको कैसे handle करना है।\nE – Empower. Empower का मेरा सीधा-सीधा मतलब था, जब मैं पुणे में गया था इस मीटिंग में तब मैंने कहा था, Zero interferes. आपको political leadership और establishment से कभी फोन नहीं आएगा कि इसके loan का क्‍या करना है लेना, देना और आज तक इतने महीने हो गए, एक भी जगह से खबर नहीं आई है कि ऐसा कोई pressure है। purely, professionally चलाइए और बाहर लाइए। तो इस प्रकार से बैंकों को Empower करने की दिशा में हमने काम किया है।\nF – Framework for accountability. बैंकों का performance monitor करने के लिए key performance indicator हमने set किए हैं ताकि हमें regularly पता चले कि भई कहां जा रहे हैं, किस दिशा में जा रहे हैं। कितना जा रहे हैं, वो नहीं। कितना तो संतोष कभी-कभी दे देता है, लेकिन कहां और कैसे और कितने समय में। उस दिशा में indicators को हमने बल दिया है।\nऔर last है G – Governance. हमारे banking sectorमें governance को बल देना है। हमने technology पर जाना है, transparency को लाना है। cyber crime की सबसे ज्‍यादा संभावनाएं banking sector, financial world में हैं या तो data चोरी करने की। ये दो ही सबसे बड़े क्षेत्र हैं और इसलिए हमको assure करना होगा हमारे governance को।\nतो ऐसी सप्‍तसूत्री हमारी योजना के द्वारा इन seven pillars पर पूरा banking sector को ताकत कैसे मिले। सरकार ने इतने महत्‍वपूर्ण initiative लिए हैं। मुझे विश्‍वास है कि आने वाले दिनों में भारत जिस तेज गति से आगे बढ़ रहा है बैंक कंधे से कंधा मिलाकर के उसके साथ चलेगा। कुछ क्षेत्रों में बैंक दो कदम आगे होगा और मैं समझता हूं कि ये ताकत ultimately भारत के जो निर्धारित लक्ष्‍य हैं और जिन माध्‍यमों से हैं, उन सबको मिलकर के हम पूरा कर सकते हैं।\nआने वाले दिनों में IDFC को मेरी बहुत-बहुत शुभकामनाएं हैं वो इस क्षेत्र में बहुत-बहुत प्रगति करें। Thanks a lot."