"\nPM Modi speaks at 10th Annual Convention of the Central Information Commission\nRTI is not just about This will increase faith in democracy: PM\nGovt's 'Digital India' is complimentary to RTI, putting information online brings transparency, which in turn, builds trust: PM\nMore openness in government In this day and age there is no need for secrecy: PM\nAim of RTI should be brought to a positive change in governance: PM\nThe voice of people is supreme in a democracy: PM\nAll the greatness present,\nToday, we are completing 10 years of right to information today. I thank all those people who contributed to this system and to give a lot of good wishes to build trust in this system.\nIt is true that the first thing with the right to information is the right to know the general person, but not limited to it. He also has the right to question power And this is the foundation of democracy. And the faster we work in that direction, the confidence of people towards such democracy will increase. People's awareness, in a sense, gives power to the ruling and not only governs the government but also becomes a very big nation, it is a conscious society. There is a system that grows, regulates, encourages and leads to these arrangements.\nAccording to the information it receives, it is said that it first started in Sweden in 1766. Started in writing. So informally it probably will run in many arrangements. But this arrangement went to the US in 1966. It took two hundred years. Some countries passed laws. But between the implementation of passage kept a gap of two years, so that people can educate. The government could know the system. And the system develops in a mature way. The experience of our country is different. We made the decision and did the work-doing, corrected it, made it right and empowered. And this process will continue to run continuously, then the institution is more strengthened by going and continuing efforts are made for it in the coming days.\nOne thing is certain that the dream of Digital India is supplemented with the spirit of RTI in a way. Because when things start getting online, it comes automatically transparency. And there should be trust between governance and public and there is trust through transparency. If there is transparency then trust comes only. And so, the dream of Digital India will diminish the question mark as much as they will be able to go online. Now the coal was auctioned recently.\nNow we know how big a storm has happened with taking coal first. How many big questions were raised? The Supreme Court had to be involved in it. People associated with the RTI also worked hard on it. Now the subject has come to this government, then we have seen all the things online, not just online, on a large screen, at a public place where anyone can see the distraction, the whole process was watching. Where every evening the access was detected. The people of the media used to come and sit. Now in this arrangement, I do not believe that anyone will ever need an RTI, because I believe that the person who was supposed to meet the RTI was in front of him. Right now we did auctioned FM Radio, they did the same way online. The spectrum was done in the same way. And when the auction was going on, everybody came online. Weeks lasted ten days. Media people also used to sit Even more people used to sit Nobody could do it.\nWhy not we proactively why not transparency. Someone has to try to know that anyone can easily get information. He should be tried in a democracy that he should get information easily. There were some things in our house that had been such an old house. Gradually it takes time to change. Now as you have to apply and give Xerox of your certificate, it is not approved. There is no recognition from a gestated officer or a political leader as long as he does not die. Now it was running for years. We came and decided that we trust Bhai citizen. If he says once, accept the truth and when the final will be his, then he will come by taking the original certificate, see it. And today the system has been implemented. To say it means that we trust the citizens and run the systems. If we suspect citizens, we will run things, then we will also keep trying to hide ourselves somewhere. The more openness that comes in an openness, governance, the result also makes the general citizen stronger.\nThe government has also become more temperamental. Working in silo and not only that, four officers are sitting in the same room, they try very hard not to see the file next to them. Now that this secrecy mentality has been in some time, there will be some reasons for that time, but today I do not believe that such a condition will remain. If openness is open, Bhai has to do four things, to discuss it. So I understand that due to this there is also a simplicity and also comes speed. If there is a lack of one-half thing, then your partner tells you that hey you see this aspect just look a bit. So at work absolutely no .. It does not necessarily mean that he writes on the file and says in such things that look Bhai will have to look at this aspect. Then it improves on its own. Then there was also rule in our fundamental nature to improve. It is very much expected that this change should be made in it and we are endeavoring in that direction. I believe this effort will be effective.\nToday I think there is a limit of RTI. The limit is that the information that needs information, gets information. Some things come to the media. Some things remain confined to justice. The process is revealed. But still the product is not known. I am saying in this form that a bridge is given a contract, then if you ask for an RTI, then he will know how the file started, how it was done, what was noting, how the site was selected, all these things will be found. But how did that bridge become, make it properly or not? There are drawbacks that have happened, that happened on time or not. Now the time has come to pay attention to these things. So, as much attention as we give on the process, by RTI one should also at the same time that when the same product brings transparency, then change comes. Otherwise those information is only for one satisfaction. After all, the use of RTI should be the first to change the governance.\nAnd so when Vijay Ji met me, then I told him in the talk that those who asked us questions, have we analyzed how many questions arise regarding Bhai Railway? How many questions are there regarding Home How many questions do you face in the subject? Analysis is the department where thousands of questions arise. This department does not come in more than a hundred. Then we should analyze it, the questions which come in, there is no policy paralyses in its origin. We can identify If we limit this RTI to just giving a reply, then the governance does not benefit the system. The citizen has asked the question that there is something in the governance system somewhere that needs to be asked. If the system is so sensitive And if we analyze the questions that arise, then we will know that due to the policy matter, this problem is rising and people are asking questions. So the Government should think at the high level what difference should there be in policy matter. An RTI question can also force you to change the policy and at times it asks for such a precise thing that comes to meditation that it does not go unnoticed on this side. Therefore, how RTI can be used for good governance, just by giving an answer, RTI can not bring good governance. They can only work for disputes. It can not work to change the situation.\nThe second I suggested that the part is that because of Bhai policy, the second is due to the person, that Bhai is in the nature of the person who is sitting there. That is why such a situation arises, he does not answer, it loses, it goes like this. Then the question of thinking about the person will come. Why are there so many issues related to the same person, then there will be some deficiency, how to correct it? Should think about that. It will happen somewhere that it will know that Bhai people have asked questions but due to the resource crunch of finance they are not able to do so. Or any work will be done so that there will be no local system, which is putting obstacles. When we make perfect analysis of these questions and find the drawbacks of the government, the drawbacks of the government can only be highlighted by the questions of the citizens, the shortcomings of the system can be highlighted, the weaknesses of the process can be highlighted. And we can get a way out of it to fix it. And, therefore, I would like to see how you can use the RTI as a means of going towards a good governance when you are going to debate it? And it can happen.\nI do a program these days after coming to the Government of India - Pragati. Together all the chief secretaries and all the secretaries of the Government of India and I take 12-15 issues. And he comes to meditation. The question is, I take it on the basis of a citizen's letter. Someone wrote to me that Bhai soldiers have problem in the pension. So I raised that topic. Everyone is invited, placed, all the videos are on the meeting. I sit in a small room. But it causes the situation, the situation comes immediately to the notice that Bhai will have to handle this topic. Someone wrote to me that 15 days have passed in post office, 20 days passed post office did not come. I took it in progress, it immediately came to know what was the cause of his. Where this slow process was going on.\nTo say this is to say that if we value the voices of the citizens we will. When I was in Gujarat then I made a system. Those MLAs who ask questions, I have experience that MLAs should not have any party, but should give their attention to everything, everything should be given importance. Why should not any team. Because he tells something in relation to his field, that means he only tells for the public, he should walk as he should. But when you answer inside the house, by and large media centric process runs. In a way, in the house, what will be printed in the media tomorrow, what will appear on the TV, it has started to dominate. And so everyone in the house then answers their settlement answer. Now what has become compulsion is politics that Bhai did not spoil the news in the media on the second day. Then he takes his own ... and he also takes it and he wins. That thing is different. But I had started a process. Whatever questions were asked after the completion of the assembly session Tell every department to analyze every question and give me the action taken report. Regardless of anyone's question, whatever you answered in the house is fine. If he said that Bhai has not made a road there, I should get the result. And because of this, there was a sensitivity towards the electives in governance. I believe such a sensitivity combines us with the questions of the RTI. If this can do a lot in progress in the government system throughout the country. And in that direction we are trying.\nOne thing is also that when we talk of RTI, it is not that it is all the communication which is the process of accessing information. They should be transparent, timely and Trouble fee. It is as much as we .. Because if we give information after the passage of time, it does not improve the governance and makes the government accountable. Then, what is the situation now, Bhai, the house was built, how can now break the building. What to do Bhai there people came to live. How to remove them. If timely information is given, then wrong decision can be stopped, we will be in meditation immediately. And therefore, there should also be transparency, even timely, even trunch free. If we strengthen this, then we have made this law but can use that law more fairly. Can bring much better results.\nToday I have seen that inside the village .. it is okay, in some cases, some doubt would have been the cause of the uneasiness but in the big interest it is very helpful, very useful. I ruled the state, so I know how poor people use the RTI. If someone inside the village has done wrong encroachment and he is a big man, then the government can not do anything. And a poor man asks the RTI to ask a question, then the government has to be forced to remove the encroachment. And the land of public or governance has to be opened. I have seen many such examples Even a small man of the village ..\nWe used an experiment when we were in Gujarat. And it was known as the Gujarat model for the tribal. We used to pay the tribal directly. And to the tribal you used to make a committee plan according to your need and it would be your job, because the government plans to sit in Gandhi Nagar. They want that the well will dig. The villager says that I do not want well, I want a school and we give money for the well, he wants the school instead we gave to the villagers. But in the village they had to give all the details inside the Gram Sabha and have to write on the board that we have put so much money for this work. The general person of the village also asked that the head of the punch, that Bhai is saying you put two hundred rupees here, that thing does not look, do not tell. And Transparency used to come. The more openness we bring, the transparency is guaranteed. And hence the RTI is one way to go towards Transparency, but at the same time by learning from RTI, we need to bring Transparency into the governance system. And I believe that if there is no work done with wrong intention, then there is no problem, there is no problem. The right thing also gives correct results. And like I said just not the process. We will also have to pay attention to product quality in the coming days. How did we think of him? So that everything has to be accounted for. Because the public money runs from the government All construction works are done by public money. And the public is everywhere in democracy. उसके हितों की चिंता और उस व्‍यवस्‍था को मजबूत करने की दिशा में हम प्रयास करते रहेंगे। तो मैं समझता हूं कि बहुत ही उपकारक होगा।\nआज पूरा दिनभर आप लोग बैठने वाले हैं। मुझे विश्‍वास है कि इस बंधन में राज्‍य के भी सभी अधिकारी यहां पर आए हुए हैं। तो उस मंथन में से जो भी अच्‍छे सुझाव आएंगे वो सरकार के ध्‍यान में आएंगे। उसमें से कितना अच्‍छा कर सकते हैं प्रयास जरूर रहेगा, लेकिन हम चाहेंगे कि जनता जितनी ताकतवर बनती है, नागरिक जितना ताकतवर बनता है वो ताकत सचमुच में देश की ही ताकत होती है। उसी को हम बल दें। इसी एक अपेक्षा के साथ बहुत-बहुत शुभकामनाएं। Thank you."