"PM Modi pays tribute to former President APJ Abdul Kalam\nDr. APJ Abdul Kalam was a \"Rashtra-Ratna\" before a \"Rashtrapati\": PM Modi\nGoI to build a memorial for Dr. Kalam at Rameswaram, Tamil Nadu: PM\nDr. Kalam always sought fresh challenges in life, says PM Modi\nDr. Kalam always wanted to be remembered as a teacher: PM\nDr. Kalam worked for the welfare of poor and farmers: PM Modi\nOn the birth anniversary of Dr. Kalam, we must explore how innovation in India: PM\nDr. Kalam's life continues to be a inspiration for all: PM\nPM Narendra Modi unveils a statue of Dr. APJ Abdul Kalam at DRDO Bhavan in New Delhi\nPrime Minister Modi releases commemorative postal stamp on Dr. Kalam\n\nToday, on October 15, you are all gathered at the birth anniversary of Mr. Abdul Kalam ji. Today, I got a chance to unveil one of their statues in the DRDO campus. It is true that Kalam's life has been so vast, vast and deep that he is proud to remember them, but there is also one who lives together. If he was with us then So, this lack of feeling, how to fill it, this is a challenge for all of us and I believe that with the blessings of Abdul Kalam ji, we must fulfill the education that we have given to the nation. He will try hard and he will be the biggest Anjali.\nHe became the President, I think before that he was a nation gem. It is so rare that one person became the first nation gem and later accepted the presidency and was linked to the heights of his life. The Government of India has decided that a memorial will be built on where he was born and where his funeral took place, give inspiration to the coming generations in that village. The government has already acquired that land. I have also created a committee of ministers who, in the days to come, decide its last form, such a monument that inspires future generations and the life of Kalam Sahib has always been a guide for all of us.\nTwo things which are natural in the eyes of Kalam - one is their hair From far away, anyone realizes that Abdul Kalam is going to live. If nothing is made, only someone will paint their hair and then they will say that yes, the rest of the face will be of the Kalam sahib. But there was one more thing together. Like their hair, they had a child within them. So their hair and their inner child, both of them, I think always-always remember those who have gone near them. So much simplicity, so simplicity.\nGenerally, there is a thinking about scientists that such a serious face, nostalgic, who are immersed in the lab, often smile in the year, they have to calculate. But Kalam sahib, every moment a very vibrant person came to see. Keep on smiling, running and There are two types of people, one is who searches for Opportunity, the ones who are searching for the challenge. Kalam Saha lived in search of Challenges. What's New Challenge? How to lift that challenge and cross that challenge and live in his every moment of life. till the end!\nWhenever I had a close connection, even when I was the Chief Minister, my Gujarat would have come again and again. His special attachment to Ahmedabad was because he started his career in Ahmedabad and started work with Vikram Sarabhai. So his attachment to him was very much with Gujarat. So I too had a lot of relationship with him at that time. If there is such a big earthquake of Kutch or an objection, then they should come, guide in small things, and then how to resort to science and technology in the work of reconstruction of earthquake situation so that relief is at a fast pace, rehabilitation fast At the speed, the reconstruction would be faster, they used to help in every such thing, they used to help.\nHe has been a special feature throughout his life and someone had asked him how to remember and he replied in the answer that I should be remembered as a teacher. This teacher is respected but what was conviction of his life together, what was commitment, it was also familiar. They think that Bhai must be able to do some group of 5-50 people. But, like a country like India, to move forward for generations, to move on fast to create influence, then the next generation will have to be prepared and they can prepare a teacher and this was not his only words, in his whole life It is only visible.\nOn the second day of release from the president ... this is not a small issue. What should I do tomorrow after staying in such a big position, how will tomorrow be, what will happen tomorrow? You all know what happens when the officer is retired. Where is it today, and on the second day, where he feels himself, he feels himself an emptiness. He seems to be absolutely right, now the end of life has begun, and it is like that. Retirement is filled in the brain. See the specialty of Kalam Sahib that the Presidential rank, such a great height and retirement, also with ideal and pride. On the second day, go to Chennai to catch the ship, start teaching in classrooms in Chennai. It is not possible without inner commitment. A person has made him inherent in his life, then it happens and also see the end of life. Where Rameswaram, Where Delhi, Where in the world Jay-Chekar and Where North East Someone should be told to go to the North East and say, 'Sir, send somebody else. Do this so next time I will go to someone else. Go there at this age and spend your last moments with the student. This was one of those, which was a continuation, a commitment, reflects it.\nIndia is powerful, but it is not Kalam Sahib's thinking that only being powerful with weapons. The power of arms is necessary and should not be used in any of them and given as much as they could contribute to it. But he used to believe that the country is not from the border areas, but the country is recognized by the people of the country. The identity of the country is not fixed on the basis of boundaries. The power of the nation is powerful on how it is, and therefore Kalam Sahib used to take along both those streams that on one side there should be innovation, research, India should be standing on its feet in the field of defense and the Third World Countries, Poor countries are also beneficiaries, India should be in its place and human society on the other hand.\nThey were great advocates of education. They used to always say, explain the importance of yoga and with that commitment was also theirs. Religion should convert into spiritualism. The importance of spiritualism should be preferred. This was their conviction. That is, in one way, what values ​​are needed in society, they emphasized those values. Perhaps this is a great job of courage, but they used to do it. They used to go to any ceremony and found a student there and then they were blooming. They thought that yes, I have come to the garden in such a way that these flowers are blossoming. They used to feel immediately, they used to have natural connections, and at such an event, they used to make a resolution later. One-sentence was a call from the children. This is so difficult because in today's age, because of this type of talk, the other day it is not known how many disputes arise. But they have never been in these concerns. Every time he repeated that resolution Whenever we remember Kalam, whenever the talk of Kalam Sahib will be discussed, how about those resolutions, how many times people have brought him publicly? His resolve was that which was told to us, to make it work, it becomes our obligation. How do we prepare our new generation to fulfill that obligation? Let us repeat the resolve that these traditions continue and the effort to awaken consciousness continues, how we try.\nToday, India is making a special place in the world. The world at one time saw India as a big market. Today the world has started looking at India as a hitchhiker. The world's view of looking towards India has changed. But economic prosperity or just the market will drive us?\nIn the coming days, we have many possibilities for innovation. Eight hundred million, below the thirty five population, where 65 percent of the population is below 35. Today, due to IT, we made our place in the world. The reason for this was innovation. How do we force innovation Can we organize such a seminar in DRDO on every birth anniversary of Kalam Sahab? Whatever the young scientist may be in one day, two days, three days, people who are innovation or who have a spark of scientific temper, are such children. Sometimes school kids have one-half-day stint, sometimes younger than 35 engaged in innovation, young scientist By calling them these seminars on these subjects always, remembering the Kalam sahab means promoting innovation. This can make us a tradition. So, in the form of their birth anniversary we will go on taking a society towards a new responsibility and it can be the biggest satisfaction for them, I think.\nNow in the world, India needs to think about what we can give to the world. What can we become? What can happen Or what can anyone do for us? Going up a bit above that, what kind of heritage we can give to the world by going a little apart. And the world which will accept it easily and which will work for the welfare of the world. We should prepare ourselves gradually on those aspects.\nToday the whole world is worried by taking cyber crime. Do our young people innovate, in which the initiative of India to guarantee cyber security? India is a place where there is full potential for cyber security. The extent to which security is made of importance, the same is the security of cyber security. Even then the world goes on changing, how can we contribute in it? Our discovery, our science, can bring about a change in our resources, the common man's life. Can bring any change in quality of life. India has been a poor country. All of our resources, modifications can be done to bring about a change in the poor quality of life. Now we have decided to give home to every poor by 2022. Now we will have to introduce new technology, new things in it. What materials from which they can become good houses, they will have to do a new search. Which is the technique that can make the fastest houses. Which technique would be that we could build low cost houses? Why not to happen? Kalam Sahab wanted to welfare the country's farmer. If the poor of the country is in the welfare, then connecting our rivers. It is not possible to connect the rivers only to the traditional engineering work. We need innovation, should expertise, help with space science. By doing all these things, can we change people's life? This is our everyday life, in which we have to bring change.\nEven today, we have very little in comparison to the crop per hectare in the world. Today we have lesser milk compared to the amount of milk we get in the world. What are those scientific methods, which scientific temper that reached the farmers' house, reached the livestock house? So that there is a change in his life. And so why should we bring that applied science to the science of change in the life of ordinary human beings? How do we innovate that technology? It is fine that the people who are sitting in the DRDO are different. But in spite of this, it is a community, whose innovation, science, discovery are part of its intuitive nature. While we gradually expanding him, remembering Abdul Kalam, what can we give the country? And this power can be the strength to give to the world.\nAnd sometimes we read, when we hear that Bhai, our farmer produces food, but it is ruined in a lot of quantity. What measures can be taken? There can be all kinds of measures. What can be the arrangement for its maintenance even if it is temporary? There are many such things in which we take inspiration from the old methods of our tradition, to innovate and to create new equipment from it, to create arrangements, which can become a cause of social change through science, become a Sahara Can.\nIn the way the world is changing, collective protection is becoming a big topic. The world is moving towards Blue Economy. Now, when growing towards Blue Economy, there is also a connection to the business linked to it in the sea life, the marine search has a huge area incomplete. The unpaid property of the property is lying in the maritime property. But at the same time the challenge before mankind is Blue Sky, Environment, Climate is a topic of concern and discussion today in the world. And so also worry about the Blue Economy which also worry about the maritime power and Blue Sky is saving. How is our innovation of that type of technology? Our manufacturing when we say zero defect-zero effect We want to go globally to see how our innovation becomes a situation that there is no defect in our manufacturing and there is no effect on environment due to this. When we carry these things, I think that our young scientists have challenges before. And the country's young scientist Abdul Kalam Sahab, who showed us the way, the journey of Abdul Kalam Sahib's own life, came out of the normal poor family, but there was a similar situation in the area where he went. Right now we saw the rocket carrying a Part cycling. That is, the institute was too poor to join this poverty institute and build such a huge institution. Only the life of his entire life was taken from the poor cottage to the Rashtrapati Bhavan, not so much where he went, where he had made a very successful effort to make him better and bigger. It is a huge contribution in itself. And in that sense, how can we create a state that crosses new altars, wherever we are. What else can we contribute for him?\nLife of Kalam will always inspire us. And we will all live together to fulfill our resolutions. इसी एक अपेक्षा के साथ कलाम साहब को शत-शत वंदन करता हूं और उनका जीवन सदा-सर्वदा हमें प्रेरणा देता रहे इसी एक आशा-अपेक्षा के साथ बहुत-बहुत शुभकामनाएं। Thanks a lot."