"PM Modi holds #ParivartanRally in Jehanabad, Bihar\nCongratulate the Election Commission for their arrangements on polling day: PM #ParivartanRally\nOnce the followers of JP, now caught in corruption on his birth anniversary ... Can not be anything worse than this: PM\nBJP was a part of government in Bihar, was was not corruption: PM\nOur leaders talk about developing Bihar, other parties are busy attacking Modi: PM #ParivartanRally\nI urge people of Bihar to vote for BJP led NDA\nJai of Bharat Mata, Jai of Bharat Mata, Jai of Bharat Mata\nTohni bowing down to everyone Former Chief Minister of Bihar and senior leader of Bihar Jiten Ram Manjhi, the popular MP and his friend Dr. Arun Kumar, BJP's national spokesman Mr. Shahnawaz Hussain Ji, Legislative councilor Mr. Krishna Kumar, Mr. Anil Sharma, Mr. Sanjeev Shyam Singh, Mr. Ashish Sood, We, General Secretary of the party Mr. Virendra Kumar Singh, Mr. Radha Mohan Sharma, Mr. Naresh Kumar, District President Mrs. Poonam Sharma ji, brother Shivraj Singh, and BJP candidate Mr. Prem Kumar ji, Chittaranjan Kumar ji, we are the candidate of the party Nutan Paswan, BJP candidate from Wazirganj Virendra Singh ji, our candidate Mr. Arvind Kumar Singh G, from Kosi, we are the candidate of the party Mr. Rahul Kumar, from Belanganj, we are candidate of Shyamalji, Jahanabad candidate from Rolospa Rvin Kumar, Ralospa candidate Ashok Kumar Verma; All the senior nobles and those who came in large numbers, and my brothers and sisters\nThis season is such that during the season there is a very scorching heat. There is such a fierce heat, rubbing the skin too. There is also the heat of the election and in such an environment there is such a huge mass meeting ... friends of Jehanabad, my complaint and my complaint is also from my friend Arun. I also came here in the Lok Sabha election; I was contesting elections in the Lok Sabha election, Arun was contesting but half of the people did not come and today I see such a mass rally What is the attitude of the wind, its complete address. At that time there were half of the people, still won, and at this time so big crowd has come to support us.\nBrothers and Sisters, voting is going on in one part today. I got the information that the voters are voting in a very peaceful manner and with a lot of enthusiasm and huge number of voting. Today, where voting is going on, I congratulate the heart of all the voters there. They are going to use their rights today. I also congratulate the Election Commission because when I left Delhi, I saw a polling booth on the TV where the voters standing in the line were able to sit and drink water for them. I really believe that the Election Commission should make such arrangements on our day of voting in our country, it is a proud subject in itself. The power of India's democracy, the strength of its neutrality, and the prestige of the Election Commission, there is such a reputation in the world that we can be proud of. I congratulate everyone on the heart and congratulate a lot.\nTomorrow was the birth anniversary of Jayaprakash Narayan Ji. Everywhere in India, his birth date was celebrated. 113th birth anniversary was. Two things have emerged prominently from everywhere. One- Jayaprakash Ji's devotion to democracy and his struggle against corruption. There was a single voice everywhere that democracy was killed in 1975, Jayaprakash Babu was jailed and the only crime of Jayaprakash Babu was that he came to the ground to eradicate corruption in the country and against corruption The country was preparing. The whole of India celebrated Jayaprakash ji against the corruption of Jayaprakash ji, but who are called as his disciples and came in politics by holding their fingers and used to keep politics by talking JP-JP day and night, how did they celebrate Jai Prakash ji's birthday tomorrow? Celebrated? I saw on TV after coming out of Mumbai at night, 4 lakh rupees ... On his birthday on Jayprakash ji's birthday, he would never have been humiliated like this on his birthday.\nBrothers and sisters, till the BJP was part of the government here, no sting operation was done nor any corruption happened. But as soon as the monsieur finds a new partner, whose history is famous in these works and on which The court has also stoned, all the spoils began to spoil, people began to deteriorate, their misdeeds began to worsen. If this happens then what will be left in Bihar? If these games will continue to play then where will you get the money? If you want a job, will you get 4 lakh rupees? If you have to get some work, then can you get 4 lakh rupees? If a bid of 4 lakhs is made, the accounting is done in this way and it is in the government ... If you want to pay a true tribute to Jai Prakash ji, then the political party that is associated with this sin, the coalition of which Have a relation, choose and clear such people.\nWhen I came to Jehanabad today, Naturally I miss the martyr Jagdev Babu. Jagdev Babu, who lives in Bihar's politics, who fought for the deprived; At what time did he get killed, whose government was, some people sitting in the government were charged? Then Jagdev Babu himself was a minister in the government but he was killed despite this. They were the voices of the disadvantaged, the victims, the oppressed, that voice was suppressed and till now Bihar did not let it know that how Jagdev Babu was killed.\nToday, I ask the Chief Minister of Bihar on the land of Jehanabad, how can you sit with a Congress party who suppressed the voice which was being lifted for the disadvantaged, Jagdev Babu was sentenced to death. How can you compromise with such people? These selfish interests have been identified for power, they need to be identified. You must have seen two things come up prominently in this election. One thing that we all say is that for the development of Bihar give us a chance. We are seeking votes for the development of Bihar. We have the same agenda - Bihar's development. Hear their speech, what do they speak? Ask journalists questions or do a conference press conference - we will keep on destroying Modi. Brothers and sisters, you have to decide whether to vote for Bihar's development in this election or not to give it? Bihar needs development or not?\nModi's destruction - can this issue be the issue? Elections are fought on such issues? One day the leader of the same thing says that even once Bihar will be settled, then Modi will end in Delhi too. Democracy is not meant to end a person but democracy is meant to fulfill the aspirations of the public. Political parties have to take an agenda of development and then the aspirations of the general humanities are fulfilled.\nWe gave a package of 1 lakh 65 thousand crores to Bihar. Package of 1 lakh 25 thousand crores for new development and a package of 40 thousand crores, whose paper was planned but not given. Tell me that if so much money seems to be in the development of Bihar then will the fate of Bihar change or not? Will the young man of Bihar get employment or not? Will Bihar be cheerful all around or not? I have come here with you in this dream. I want Bihar to become the biggest force of India; Bihar becomes financially prosperous; The young man found employment here; Bihar has achieved new heights of development and hence I have come to demand your public support.\nThere is a difficulty in Bihar for a long time. I have come to pray for the last 30 years in Bihar, whose government is there, always has a quarrel with him in Delhi or whose government is in Delhi, there is always a fight with Bihar. Staying in Bihar and Delhi, both are afraid, what is the situation? Due to this our 30 years were wasted For the first time such an opportunity has come, in which the government in Delhi has decided to make its friend government in Bihar. Earlier, the strength of the Bihar government went to fight Delhi. If nothing happens, they used to abuse Delhi and they would have survived here. Now Bihar should have a government whose answer has to be given to the Bihar government and also to Delhi Government.\nI urge you to create such a government this time with whom I have the opportunity to work on the shoulder joint. I have to work for Bihar but if there is a government blocking there, I will do lakhs of effort from Delhi, they will continue to do politics and Bihar will be wasted and the country will never go forward. Bihar requires a friendly government. The BJP-led NDA government should, so that the struggle that is going on between 30 and 30 years between Delhi and Bihar will end and reach new heights of Bihar's development.\nI was seeing some figures today and I was surprised that what is the situation; How the Bihar government is working Look at the money given by the Indian government, how many of these money is there. If such a government comes to Bihar then what will happen to the package of 1 lakh 65 thousand? What is the current government, what is the amount of money sent by the Indian government in the field of education, the Bihar government has not given the account of 1000 crore rupees? What will the government run such? Not only was the figure of Rs.1000 crore in education. The Bihar government has not yet given the details of Rs 500 crore in the health sector. Of the money sent for the poor, backward class students, no amount of Rs.300 crores has been given to Delhi Government till date. Now tell me that if money comes from Delhi and the government is not ready to give accountability and there is no such amount of money, then tell that what money will it be?\nLast year, for the development of Bihar, 9100 crore rupees were sent for different schemes and you would be surprised to know that Rs. 5000 crores of rupees were lying in the bank. Such a sleazy government will be, if there is a government submerged in politics, then what will happen if there is no plan to take these as there is no plan. It is such a government that the money in the bank keeps on rotating, keep on doing politics, their business is going on. Therefore, I request that such a government, which is unable to make the plan despite the money and is not working, give any amount to the government such that you will not be able to do anything. My dream is to change the fate of Bihar and give me a government to support it so that I can do the welfare of Bihar and give you the account.\nWe gave such a big package and did not talk just. There should be good roads here and for this 54,000 crore rupees were given to make roads for Bihar. We have decided to construct a network of rural roads in 22 thousand km in Bihar, with the estimated cost of Rs. 13,800 crore. Just as there is vein and artery in the body, in the same way, for the economic progress of Bihar, we have to run the highway and rural road on one hand, such a big campaign. Therefore, I request you to form the government of the BJP, form the government of NDA; Change the injustice that has happened with Jeetan Ram Manjhi. 25 years have passed, they have ruined Bihar, have done the work of punishing them.\nThese people of self-interest, 25 years, they used to run the government and how they used to abuse each other, in which language did you speak, you all know. Have met today because they are worried about the chair, Bihar is not worried. The government should make her, which is worried about Bihar. Here's what the farmers have done; You see, on rice cultivation - an average of 2,400 kg of rice per hectare is produced in India and in Bihar only 1700 kg per hectare is produced. Now see how much damage to our farmer here is. If the country's average rice produces, then 75 lakh tonnes of rice will be produced but now it produces 2 million tonnes of rice, which means that the farmer has a loss of about Rs 4,000 crore. Do not do anything else, but in the situation of the farmers of other states, can farmers bring Bihar farmers? If brought, then the farmer's income will increase by Rs 4000 crore more. Farmers will have to go to the government, they will have to ask the government of Delhi and the development will happen by themselves but they do not have to do it.\nI always say that Bihar's water and its youth here have such a great power of Bihar which nobody has paid attention to. You see that there are five major rivers in Punjab and there are so many rivers in Bihar that if you count then you will forget. Despite having five rivers in Punjab, Punjab has managed to fill the whole of India, then there are so many rivers in Bihar. The water goes into the ocean, this water is sometimes dipped in the fields, it destroys the fields; if this water was used properly, then Bihar's water would be the strength of the farmer here and Bihar's youth became the power of India. Emerging\nI urge you to vote in large numbers in this election. 16 is voting. Make more and more voting and my slogan - 'First voting, then refreshment'. Voting is our sacred duty. Make a vote and form a strong government, create two-thirds majority government. You see, Bihar will also go very fast. I am very grateful to you All people talk together -\nLong live Mother India! Long live Mother India! Long live Mother India!\nThanks a lot."