"Share\n\nGlad to be present at the Bhoomi Poojan of Baba Saheb Ambedkar's memorial in Mumbai on birth anniversary of JP: PM\nA vibrant port sector is very important for a nation blessed with long coastlines: PM Modi\nCoastal Sector and Space are crucial in this century. Be it space \u0026 sea, we need to be moving at a faster pace: PM\nBabasaheb Ambedkar is a inspiration not just for a community but for the whole world: PM Modi\nDr. Babasaheb Ambedkar is a Maha Purush. He faced so much challenges\n26th November will be marked as Constitution Day People should know about our constitution, how it was made: PM\nAll of my senior brothers and sisters, who were all senior citizens,\nToday is the birth anniversary of Jayaprakash Narayan ji on 11th October, and it is possible that on the birth anniversary of Jayprakash ji, I have had the privilege of worshiping the land here in Mumbai today, especially the Baba Saheb Ambedkar's magnificent monument building. This is the reason that when the country's constitution, Baba Saheb Ambedkar and misuse of the Constitution of India, the danger of creating a threat to the democracy of India, when it happened in this country, to protect the spirit of the Constitution, save the sentiments of the Constitution For the sake of Baba Saheb Ambedkar who gave us the rights of democracy, Jayprakash Narayan had fought against the Emergency to bring it back and the country would be free from the Emergency. And in that sense I consider this facility very important.\nToday I am getting the opportunity to launch many schemes here. Any rich country in the world, then one thing is very noticeable, that the Port sector of that country is so vibrant. Become a land of coastal and port sector is vibrant. You must have seen that the country's economy and the vibrancy of the port move along side. India also needs to strengthen its port sector to make its position in a global economic environment, it needs to be expanded, it needs to be developed, it needs to be modernized and today I say with pride I have given new strength to the whole port sector with new initiatives, with the introduction of such many new initiatives, that our Nitin ji did not work in the last ten years of fifteen months, and given new energy E-motion is granted.\nForeign Direct Investment is discussed. Today, I see that with capital investment of eight thousand crore rupees with Singapore, Mumbai and Hindustan are getting such a dilapidation of the port sector that only employs people here, it is not so. Our credibility in the world trade will increase. When I talk about Make in India, those who come to manufacturing in this country will need a good port sector to sell their goods all over the world, good ports are required. Due to the speed that we are working under Make in India, when the tradition of production in the country will run and the manufactured goods will catch the global market, then our development of this port should not be left behind and hence, make in India and others On the other hand, to make our place within the world trade, our port sector is to be vibrant.\nThe development of ports in our country is being thought of in a big way. But today, port development alone is not going to work. Today, Port-based development is needed, and on port based development, connectivity of maximum infrastructure with our port, rail, road, airport, cold storage network, and network of warehousing. We are moving forward in a Sagarmala project which connects the entire coastline of India. Atal Bihari Vajpayee ji started this Sagarmala project. But the government went away, the government which came later, its agenda was something else and because of that the idea remained the same there. After the formation of our government, we have tried to give the idea of ​​Atal ji an embodiment that is coastal states, because of their participation, because we are focusing on cooperative, competitive federalism. The states of the coastal cooperate, compete among the seashore states, who make good port, who proceeded in good port. How to develop the port sector of the Indian government and the state together, we are moving forward towards that work and the work that has been done today. Our strength will grow in a very large number of places and due to which the wear and tear expenses are reduced, the level of profit increases, opportunity for expansion is also available. Facilities can be made available to the workers to live respectfully. We are reaching the leadership of Nitin ji in the direction of this path of development for the welfare of the poor, we are making our place in the world.\nIndia is participating in the development of Chabahar port in Iran. Because we believe that in the coming days two areas are going to be influenced - a marine and another space technology. In the 21st century, these two fields are going to create very much effect. And therefore, space or sea be India wants to move forward with a fast pace over time.\nOur Nitin ji also has a road. Maharashtra has seen his work before. They believe in speed. At the time of the previous government, how many kilometers roads were made per day in the previous government, today I do not want to discuss it. Those who are interested in this topic, are knowledgeable people, and certainly find out how many kilometers of road we are building. But today I say with great pride and contentment that the way Nitin ji has accelerated, the average daily road is more than 15 kms. And if there is an attempt to increase it further, it is very important to focus on infrastructure. And when the paths are created, it is not so that money is made so the paths are made. When the paths are formed, money begins to build, these are the strengths of the paths.\nI want to congratulate Mr. Devendra ji. In our country there are at least one metro rail type DPR to be constructed, then one-and-a-half years go for two-two years. But within four months he prepared his DPR and those who know this field know that in 4 months, making such a big work on paper, it is not in the nature of our country, it is not in our system. . And he does not mind any harm to them. Everyone thinks yes, so it takes time. But by reducing all those habits, Devendra ji has stressed the work of the metro at that speed, it has become the necessity of life of changing cities. If we consider environmentally friendly development, mass transportation, this is a very big aspect of it. The way cities are growing up, those growing cities were once considered to be a crisis. I consider rising cities as opportunities. Urban growth, these are not burdens, these are the opportunities and therefore our plans should be kept in mind by keeping that opportunity in mind.\nToday we are moving forward in the 50 cities in the country to create a metro network. We have opened doors for 100% foreign direct investment in the railways, and the result has been that today from across the country, people from all over the world are getting ready to invest their capital within the Indian Railways. Nearly 400 railway stations which are the heart of the city, there is a large amount of land but there is nothing but the platform. The ticket window is the rest room, the platform is. Can not this be a multi storey railway station? Can not be the modern 100-storey railway station from modern? Heart of the city is a valuable land, but no one is using it. We have taken the direction of 400 railway stations in the heart of the city, there are many types of development. The train will continue moving downwards, it will grow on it, we are working in that direction.\nThis is the Metro work, thousands of crores of rupees but the facility is made. Now technology is getting quite new, day by day, modern technology. Because of this, the likelihood of getting speed is also increasing and I congratulate Mr. Devendra for this work.\nOur Suresh Prabhu ji has shown true work in the railway too. First expansion of railway, gaze conversion, go from diesel engine to electric engine. There was a apathy in all these things. Today's speed has come and its results have also started to appear. In the coming days, and when I talk about railways, I also remember Baba Saheb Ambedkar. Baba Saheb Ambedkar social evaluation of the railway network and he said that the untouchability of the society, the price of the low and low, the nature of the distance to be made, the railways will do the job of breaking it, Baba Saheb Ambedkar Had an analysis of\nI believe that public transport system Baba Saheb Ambedkar, which saw the opportunity of social unity, can also be a cause of doing charithar. I especially congratulate Devendra on this matter too.\nIn our country, the irrigation system which is not needed for farmers, it is not rainy, it is rain-dependent life, if the rain does not happen then the farmer becomes poorly devastated and the famine comes to him for a time that he will live gives. To express condolences for the famine, expressing condolences to the farmer, either going to Delhi or keeping the demands of the Government of India or playing political games, Devendra ji has made a very sincere effort to find a solution to the problem by going out of it. Today he was telling me that in more than 6200 villages, more than one lakh small projects of water conservation have been done and water has been collected due to it. The water level has gone up somewhere and farmers of that area can take rabi peak today, the situation has arisen, and the expenditure is not high. I was told that such a huge work was done in about Rs.1400 crores, and now the fun is that 300 crore rupees are given in public participation. I congratulate millions of people for those people, those people of the village, you showed the country direction.\nWater accumulation is the biggest weapon to deal with the crisis. I used to work in Gujarat, there is a desert, rain is very short, but we started campaign for water harvesting, we ran for ten years continuously, built millions of small check dams, and our farmers became powerful in avoiding crisis situations. But I would like to give two more suggestions to think of Devendra ji, to think of something new. One is our marginal farmer, big farmers are not small farmers, but between two farms, a very large fence for division for bifurcation. One meter is bad for him, one meter is bad for this person, and such infinitely millions of acres of land goes into making our fences. In these areas where there is a fence, it can be emphasized on timber cultivation by planting trees, and after 15 years, 20 years when the trees grow up, if they give a chance to cut a tree every year Even if he does, he will get two-five lakh Rupees similar to Timber. He will never have to look around. Just at the edge, on your border pay The second one is also that if two neighboring farmers come together and put solar panels in place, electricity will also be created, the government will buy electricity, the farmer's farm will also run, there will be electricity in the farm, the farmer's work will come. And there is a work on which I need to pay attention in our Maharashtra, especially in Vidarbha, and they should train the farmers in Honey Bee, Honey Bee, honey. Today, the huge global market is Honey's, and it does not get worse, how many years it is not bad. We should inspire him for his extra income. Similarly Organic Farming In the vicinity of the cities, Earth Worm, making women's circles, doing small pits, put the waste into the city, put Earth Worm, earthworms, clean the dirt, prepare Organic Fertilizer , The land of the farmer is ruined due to chemical, fertilizer and medicines, it will be the task of saving, we can help our farmers through multiple activity, and I see that Devendra ji is doing an innovative and continuous work I am taking this initiative as a person, I will believe that in the coming days, by giving a radical change in the agriculture sector of Maharashtra, the whole nation will give a new direction, and for these things, Congratulations on\nToday, the privilege of doing an important work, in a way, I feel that this work is such that the good fortune we might have met, and in some cases the sacred work is not written. Did this land of Indu Mill become the Prime Minister after that? The first was, but the good fortune of doing any sacred work is written in our own hands and hence, today it is going to become a inspirational place for Baba Saheb Ambedkar on the land of Indu Mill. This Chaitya land is one of the reasons for awakening new consciousness in India. And you see the construction of Panch-Tirtha, the construction of the Panch-Tirtha. In the coming days, these Pancha-tirtha, who have faith in democracy, who have faith in social justice, have faith in the country's integrity and unity, they People are going to become a pilgrimage to this pilgrimage. This Panch-shrirth, we got good fortune. You see, Mhow in Madhya Pradesh, there were so many governments, but nobody's attention went towards him. When the Bharatiya Janata Party government was formed in Madhya Pradesh, after going to that place, there was a memorial of Baba Saheb, a live memorial and today it remains a pilgrimage center for those who are revered for Baba Saheb. Similarly, in Delhi, where Baba Saheb used to live in Delhi, Alipore Road was lying in this file for 25 years. People who respected Baba Saheb Ambedkar, kept trying for it. Atal ji's government moved him. But the government added it was suppressed again. We came in that matter, and a few months ago, I had the fortune to build a grand foundation of the foundation stone of Baba Saheb Ambedkar in Alipur Road, a grand memorial at the cost of around 300 crore rupees. Is becoming. दिल्‍ली में जो भी लोग आएंगे, और स्‍थानों पर जाते हैं, अब इस स्‍थान पर भी जाएंगे और बाबा साहेब आंबेडकर ने कितना बड़ा योगदान किया था ये उनके ध्‍यान में आएगा।\nबाबा साहेब आंबेडकर के माता-पिता रत्‍नागिरी जिले के Ambavade गांव में रहते थे, हमारे एक सांसद ने उस आदर्श गांव के लिए strike किया और महाराष्‍ट्र सरकार भी उसमें मदद कर रही है, जहां बाबा साहेब आंबेडकर के माता-पिता रहे, वो भी एक तीर्थ क्षेत्र के रूप में विकसित हो रहा है। और आज ये इंदु मिल में एक नए स्‍मारक का निर्माण और पांचवां लंदन में, जहां बाबा साहेब आंबेडकर रहते थे, वो भवन, अब हिंदुस्‍तान से कोई लंदन जाएगा, तो प्रेरणा का केंद्र बिंदु बनेगा, विश्‍व के लोग भारत के आर्थिक चिंतन को समझने के लिए लंदन में जो बाबा साहेब रहते थे, उस मकान के अंदर आ करके, अध्‍ययन करके, विश्‍व को, भारत के संबंध में समझ ले करके, अपनी बात बताने का उनको अवसर मिलेगा।\nये पंच-तीर्थ, ये पंच-तीर्थ निर्माण सिर्फ और सिर्फ हम भारतीय जनता पार्टी के समय में ही हुआ है और हम सब जानते हैं, मुझे राजनीति नहीं करनी है, लेकिन मेरे मन की पीड़ा मैं कहे बिना रह नहीं सकता हूं, क्‍या कारण है कि बाबा साहेब आंबेडकर की पार्लियामेंट में, जिस महापुरुष ने संविधान दिया, उस महापुरुष का तैल चित्र पार्लियामेंट में रखने के लिए वो सरकारें सहमत नहीं थीं। 90 में जब गैर-कांग्रेसी सरकार बनी, भारतीय जनता पार्टी के समर्थन से बनी, तब जा करके बाबा साहेब आंबेडकर का तैल चित्र हिन्‍दुस्‍तान की पार्लियामेंट में लगा।\nभारत रत्‍न, हम जानते हैं औरों को कब मिला, लेकिन बाबा साहेब आंबेडकर को भारत रत्‍न दिलाने के लिए नाकों दम आ गया और वो भी उन लोगों के द्वारा नहीं मिला। और इसलिए मैं कहता हूं कि देश में जिस प्रकार के एक सामंतशाही मानसिकता वाले लोग हैं, एक दलित के बेटे को स्‍वीकार करने के लिए कभी तैयार नहीं, और मैं, आज कई लोग यहां बैठे हैं, जिन्‍होंने अपना जीवन बाबा साहेब आंबेडकर के विचारों के पीछे खपा दिया है, मैं उनको भी आज कहना चाहता हूं, मेरी बात शायद कड़वी लगेगी, लेकिन ये बात करने का मैं साहस करता हूं, अगर हम दीर्घ दृष्‍टि के अभाव में बाबा साहेब को, अगर सिर्फ दलितों का बाबा साहेब बना देंगे तो उससे बड़ा बाबा साहेब को कोई अपमान नहीं होगा, कोई अन्‍याय नहीं होगा। बाबा साहेब न सिर्फ भारत के, विश्‍व के दलित, पीड़ित, शोषित, वंचितों की प्रेरणा का नाम बाबा साहेब आंबेडकर है। दुनिया मार्टिन लूथर किंग को तो जानती है, लेकिन दुनिया बाबा साहेब आंबेडकर को नहीं जानती है, ये हमारा दुर्भाग्‍य है और इसके लिए हम लोगों का दायित्‍व है, के विश्‍व बाबा साहेब आंबेडकर किस परिस्‍थिति में पैदा हुए, कैसे पले-बढ़े, और इतना जुल्‍म सहने के बाद, इतना अपमान सहने के बाद किसी भी व्‍यक्‍ति के मन में लबालब जहर भरा रहना, शायद कोई बुरा नहीं मानता। इतना अपमान झेलने के बाद कटुता होना, कोई बुरा नहीं मानता लेकिन ये बाबा साहेब आंबेडकर थे, जिंदगी के हर पल अपमान झेला, हर पल बाबा साहेब को संकटों से गुजरना पड़ा, लेकिन जब खुद को निर्णय करने के अवसर आए, कटुता का नामो-निशान नहीं था, बदले की भावना का नामो-निशान नहीं था, किसी को मैं बता दूंगा ये भाव नहीं था, इससे बड़ा महापुरुष कौन हो सकता है और इसलिए भाइयो-बहनों, मेरे जैसे लोग बाबा साहेब आंबेडकर के प्रति वो श्रद्धा भाव से देखते हैं।\nमैं तो खुद के लिए कभी सोचता था, कभी-कभी मेरे मन में विचार आता था के बाबा साहेब आंबेडकर न होते तो मोदी कहां होता? हम जैसे सामान्‍य लोगों को कौन पूछता? ये बाबा साहेब आंबेडकर हैं, जिसके कारण ये बातें संभव हुई हैं और इसलिए मैं कहता हूं हम जो कर रहे हैं, वो तो सिर्फ कर्ज चुकाने का एक प्रामाणिक प्रयास कर रहे हैं। इस महापुरुष ने जो किया है.. और इसलिए हम सबका दायित्‍व बनता है लेकिन बाबा साहेब ने जो हमें कहा है उससे हम अगर हटेंगे तो बाबा साहेब के साथ घोर अन्‍याय होगा। बाबा साहेब ने हमें कहा, शिक्षित बनो। दलित हो, शोषित हो, वंचित हो, गरीब हो, शिक्षा उसके जीवन का सबसे प्रमुख धर्म बनना चाहिए, जो बाबा साहेब ने हमें सिखाया। बाबा साहेब ने हमें सिखाया संगठित बनो।\nआज मुझे खुशी है नितिन जी कह रहे थे कि दलित समाज के सभी, अलग-अलग दिशा में काम करने वाले आज सब लोग इकट्ठे हुए हैं। बाबा साहेब की इसलिए सबसे बड़ी श्रद्धांजलि यही है कि हम संगठित बने, हम एक बने और अन्‍याय के खिलाफ जब संघर्ष की बात आए तो उसके लिए भी हम तैयार रहे। यही हम लोगों को बाबा साहेब ने संदेश दिया है और इसलिए मेरे भाइयों-बहनों आज Indu mill में बाबा साहेब का जो स्‍मारक बन रहा है। मेरे मन में एक इच्‍छा है, मैंने अध्‍ययन तो नहीं किया है लेकिन जिस दिन मैंने जमीन दी थी उस दिन भी मैंने कहा था। आज architecture मिले तब भी मैंने कहा। मैंने कहा मुंबई या महाराष्‍ट्र में आया हुआ व्‍यक्‍ति जिन्‍दगी से तंग आया हो, परेशान हुआ हो तो यहां ऐसी जंद जगह बननी चाहिए कि वो घंटे भर वहां बैठे, एक शांति का अहसास लेकर के जाए, ऐसी जगह बननी चाहिए और इसलिए मैंने कहा जहां स्‍मारक बने वहां साथ-साथ, ये विशाल भूमि है, वहां एक घना जंगल बनाना चाहिए। इतने पेड़ लगाने चाहिए, इतनी हरियाली कर देनी चाहिए कि एक शांति की भूमि 60 फुट में बन जाए और ये बन सकता है। और मैं देवेन्‍द्र जी से आग्रह करूंगा कि ये स्‍मारक सिर्फ ईंट-माटी-पत्‍थर-चूने तक सीमित न रहे। वो तो भव्‍य होना ही चाहिए, दुनिया के लोगों के लिए अजूबा होना चाहिए। लेकिन इसको जन भागीदारी से जोड़ा जा सकता है क्‍या? महाराष्‍ट्र में 40 हजार गांव है। हर गांव से लोग आए और उनको जो बताया गया हो वो पौधा लेकर के आए और वहां पर हर गांव का एक पौधा लगे और वो गांव भी उसके लालन-पालन के लिए गांव समस्‍त की तरफ से एक रूपया, दो रुपया, पांच रुपया collect करके एक पेड़ लगाए और 11 हजार रुपया दान दे। आप देखिए कितनी बड़ी जन भागीदारी से काम हो सकता है। हर गांव को लगेगा कि चैत्‍य भूमि में, Indu mill के मैदान में जो स्‍मारक बना है, बाबा साहेब आंबेडकर के प्रति हमारे गांव की भी श्रद्धा है, हमारा भी एक पेड़ उस गांव में लगा है।\nदूसरा, हिन्‍दुस्‍तान के सभी राज्‍यों से एक पेड़ मंगाया जाए, वो पेड़ भी लगाया जाए और दुनिया के सभी देशों से हर देश से एक पेड़ मंगवाया जाए और ये विश्‍व महापुरुष थे, उनका भी एक पेड़ लगाया जाए दुनिया का और वहां लिखा जाए। सारा विश्‍व Indu mill के इस हरियाली के साथ कैसे जोड़ा जाए। अगर हम नई कल्पना के साथ, जन सामान्‍य को जोड़ने के विचार के साथ स्‍मारक को बनाएंगे, हिन्‍दुस्‍तान में शायद कभी किसी महापुरुष का ऐसा स्‍मारक नहीं बना हो जहां पर 40 हजार गांव सीधे-सीधे जुड़े हों। ऐसा कभी नहीं हुआ होगा। ये हो सकता है और महीने भर हर सप्‍ताह गांव के लोग आते चले, वहां रहे, चैत्‍य भूमि जाए, देखे Indu mill जाए, जहां डिजाइन हो वही पर पौधा लगाए। जो पौधे का sample तय किया हो, वही लगाए। आप देखिए क्‍या से क्‍या हो सकता है और इसलिए ये अपने आप में प्रेरणा स्‍थल बनना चाहिए और इसलिए मैंने कहा, हम पंचतीर्थ निर्माण कर रहे हैं। ये पंचतीर्थ लोकतंत्र पर आस्‍था रखने वालों के लिए, संविधान को स्‍वीकार करने वाले लोगों के लिए, सामाजिक एकता के लिए जीने वालों के लिए वे तीर्थ क्षेत्र बनेंगे।\nभाइयों-बहनों कभी-कभी हम लोगों के खिलाफ झूठ फैलाना, अफवाहें फैलाना, लोगों में भ्रम पैदा करना इसके लिए टोली लगातार लगी रहती है, क्‍योंकि वो सहन नहीं कर पाते हैं कि ऐसे लोग कैसे आए गए। उन लोगों को मैं कहना चाहता हूं। आज हिन्‍दुस्‍तान में जिन राज्‍यों में सर्वाधिक दलित जनसंख्‍या है, जिन राज्‍यों में सर्वाधिक आदिवासी जनसंख्‍या है, जिन राज्‍यों में सर्वाधिक OBC जनसंख्‍या है, उनमें से अधिकतर राज्‍य ऐसे हैं, जहां के नागरिकों ने भारतीय जनता पार्टी की सरकार को चुना है। महाराष्‍ट्र हो, हरियाणा हो, पंजाब हो, सबसे ज्‍यादा आदिवासी जनसंख्‍या महाराष्‍ट्र हो, गुजरात हो, राजस्‍थान हो, छत्‍तीसगढ़ हो, उड़ीसा हो, उड़ीसा हमारा NDA का partner है, हमारा झारखंड हो। अधिकतम! इसका मतलब हुआ कि बाबा साहेब आंबेडकर के साथ तत्‍वत: जुडकर के काम करने वाले कोई लोग है, तो हम लोग हैं और समाज के ये दलित पीड़ित शोषित आज हमें स्‍वीकार करते हैं। इसका ये जीता-जागता सबूत है।\nदूसरा, जब भी हम सत्‍ता में आते हैं, जब भी चुनाव आता है, जब भी सरकार बननी होती है एक झूठ प्रचारित किया जाता है – भाजपा वाले आएंगे आरक्षण खत्‍म कर देंगे। अटल बिहारी वाजपेयी की जब सरकार बनी थी ऐसा ही बवंडर खड़ा कर दिया गया था। अटल जी की सरकार में बैठे लोग कह कहकर के थक गए, लेकिन ये झूठ फैलाने वाली टोली मुंह बंद करने को तैयार ही नहीं थी। फिर एक बार जब हम राज्‍यों में चुनकर के आते हैं, तो राज्‍यों में चालू कर देते हैं - आरक्षण हटा देंगे, आरक्षण हटा देंगे, आरक्षण हटा देंगे। फिर हमारी दिल्‍ली में सरकार बनी, फिर तूफान खड़ा कर दिया। बाबा साहेब आंबेडकर ने जो हमें दिया है, उसी ने देश को एक ताकत दी है और उस ताकत को कोई रोक नहीं सकता है, मेरे भाइयों-बहनों कोई रोक नहीं सकता है। और इसलिए मैं ऐसा भ्रम फैलाने वाले लोग, आज तक कोई राजनीतिक फायदा ले नहीं पाए हैं लेकिन समाज में वही वैमनस्‍य पैदा करते हैं, झूठ फैलाते हैं, समाज को भ्रमित करते हैं। मैंने, मैंने गरीबी देखी है, मैं उस दर्द को जी चुका हूं और मुझे मालूम है समाज की इस अवस्‍था में जीने वालों के लिए अभी भी बहुत कुछ करना बाकी है, बहुत कुछ करना बाकी है और ये देश दलित, पीड़ित, शोषित, वंचित, गरीब, इनको छोड़ करके आगे नहीं निकल सकता है। और मेरी सरकार, मुझे जब संसद के अंदर नेता के रूप में चुना गया, संसद के अंदर नेता के रूप में चुना गया, अभी प्रधानमंत्री बना नहीं था, उस दिन मेरा भाषण है कि मेरी सरकार गरीबों को समर्पित है, गरीबों के कल्‍याण के लिए हम जीएंगे। देश में गरीबी को, गरीबी से मुक्‍ति चाहिए, गरीबी से मुक्‍ति के मार्ग अलग-अलग हो सकते हैं, हमारा मार्ग है, वो देश पूरी तरह जानता है और इसलिए भाइयो-बहनों ये अप्रचार बंद होना चाहिए, ये झूठ बंद होना चाहिए, समाज को आशंकित, भयभीत करने का खेल बंद होना चाहिए, इससे राजनीति नहीं होती। आइए, मिल-बैठ करके चलें। दलित, पीड़ित, शोषित, वंचित, गरीब, गांव का हो, उनको आगे बढ़ाए बिना देश कभी आगे बढ़ नहीं सकता। और इसलिए मेरे भाइयो-बहनों, इस मूलमंत्र को ले करके, समाज के सभी लोगों को साथ ले करके चलने का इरादा ले करके देश चल रहा है। राज्‍यों में जहां हमें सेवा करने का मौका मिला है, हम पूरे मनोयोग से काम कर रहे हैं। दिल्‍ली में हमें सेवा करने का मौका मिला है, जी-जान से जुटे हुए हैं और बदलाव ला करके रहेंगे, ये विश्‍वास में प्रकट करता हूं।\nमेरे साथ बोलेंगे, मैं बोलूंगा, बाबा साहेब आंबेडकर, आप बोलेंगे अमर रहे, अमर रहे\nबाबा साहेब आंबेडकर, अमर रहे, अमर रहे\nबाबा साहेब आंबेडकर, अमर रहे, अमर रहे\nबाबा साहेब आंबेडकर, अमर रहे, अमर रहे\n26 नवम्‍बर भारत के संविधान का महत्‍वपूर्ण दिवस है। बाबा साहेब के जीवन का महत्‍वपूर्ण दिवस है और इसलिए भारत सरकार ने 26 नवम्‍बर को पूरे देश में संविधान दिवस के रूप में मनाना तय किया और हिन्‍दुस्‍तान के बच्‍चे-बच्‍चे को स्‍कूल-कॉलेज में ही संविधान क्‍या है? कैसे बना? क्‍यों बना? ये बात बताने का ये Regular व्‍यवस्‍था होनी चाहिए और इसलिए हमारी सरकार ने 26 नवम्‍बर को संविधान दिवस के रूप में मनाने का तय किया है।\nमैं फिर एक बार आप सबका बहुत-बहुत आभार व्‍यक्‍त करता हूं। Thanks a lot."