"The youth of Bihar has the ability to transform the state: PM #ParivartanRally\nBihar has decided to fight against those who ruled and ruined the state: PM #ParivartanRally\nIndia will prosper only when Bihar develops: PM #ParivartanRally\nIf Bihar elects NDA Govt, our first priority will be provided 24/7 electricity all villages: PM #ParivartanRally\nWe have come up with Mudra Bank, Jan Dhan Yojana, Social Security Schemes for the welfare of people: PM #ParivartanRally\nElections for 2 / 3rd majority for Bihar: PM #ParivartanRally\nJai of Bharat Mata, Jai of Bharat Mata, Jai of Bharat Mata\nOur senior leader Dr CP Thakur ji, Aurangabad MP, Mr. Sushil ji, Dr. Arun ji, Co-President of Ralospa, and Vidhan Parishad Rajendra Kumar Singh from Aurangabad, BJP, Aurangabad Chairman Purushottam ji, LJP Shri Anoop Thakur, Mr. Ashok Mehta of Ralospa, Shri Ajay Singh of the party, and in this election Shri Ramadhar Singh, BJP candidate from Aurangabad, Umm of Navinagar Party candidate from Gopal Narayan Singh, Kutumba, we are the candidate from the party Santosh Kumar Suman ji, from Obara, LJP candidate Chandrabhan Verma ji, BJP candidate Mr. Manoj Sharma ji, LJP candidate from Raviganj, Mr. Pramod Kumar Singh, BJP candidate from Guruvaye Rajiv Dangi We, Mr Mukesh Kumar, the party's candidate from Sherghati; All the senior nobles and the large number of brothers and sisters sitting on the platform\nI have got this first privilege to come to Aurangabad and in this bright sunshine you bow to me, despite the fact that despite having so much heat, who has given me blessings and love. Your blessings are my biggest capital. I see people far away, as far as I can see it. I do not believe that my voice should be reaching to where people are standing. There are many rallies in the election but there is a storm in here. This election will be in place of Bihar in the 21st Century, and not on the map of India but on the map of the world, Bihar will be where it is the election.\nWho did not become a legislator, did not make, whose government was formed, who did not make it, who won the party, who did not win, this election is not for this matter but for the sake of what the future of Bihar will be. This election is about who will change the fortunes of young people, who will take Bihar to new heights of development. So when you vote in this election, then you should know the history of this 'Mahasvandrabhan' first; Why have these people come together? These three people who have made the almighty convergence have ruled in Bihar sometime. Congress ruled for 45 years; Laloo ji and Nitish ji, elder brother, younger brother ruled for 25 years and all three together ruled for Bihar for 60 years. Tell me what is 60 years less time? Some countries in the world which were born of 30-40 years ago, they reached number-1 in the world today and they did the government for 60 years but did not give employment to the youth of Bihar.\nBihar gave two-two railway ministers. Both Lalu and Nitish were both railway ministers, now tell me that if you have to go to Kolkata, then do you get the ticket? What is the place in the train? Can those people who have run such government have more confidence in such people? 16 is voting. Make a huge number of voting in order to open the path of Bihar's fate. Your mood is only going to change, this time my youngsters have raised the responsibility of changing fate in Bihar. All the Bihar jawans have come together that now Bihar is not allowed to be wasted.\nYou tell me that all those people who are contesting elections, Lalu Ji, Nitish Ji, Madam Soniaji, should these people be accounted for 60 years of work? What did they do all in Bihar, should they not tell? But look at the whole election, so far do not even speak a word on what all these three did for Bihar. They have the same work - abusing Modi. Early in the morning, the dictionary will sit down, what new abuse will they give to Modi today. Now the dictionary has become empty and they have opened the factory, the factory to create new ones, and carry out daily goods from that factory, and give them abuses every day. Is this the choice? Should the account work or not? They have nothing left to say to them. Whenever any government goes to elections, it is the responsibility of the people to give their account of their work but they are not giving their account.\n60 years have worked to bring waste. If you do not get business then will the youngsters get jobs? Young people need employment and their migration should be stopped. Just a few days ago I went to the Faridabad metro station for the inauguration. When the passengers used to greet the passengers during the trip, I would ask all the passengers about them and you would be surprised to know that the young people I met, if there were any other, then all the other youth were from Bihar. I asked what he was doing, so he said that I have come for the job and there is an interview in the factory, so I am going. All the people were looking for a job and most were young men. They were telling me that they are coming for the job but they are going to go to the polls and they are going to take away the government. It is the mood of Biharis in the whole country.\nEven in America, I had met some people of Bihar. He was so proud of meeting with the people of my country that he came to America and made himself so much ahead. They were all from Bihar. If the people of Bihar can go to any part of the US and India and do wonders, why can not they do it in Bihar? The reason for this is that they are not getting the opportunity in Bihar. Bihar's youth has become a civilian for changing Bihar and with this the departure of those who have ruined Bihar has also been decided. You tell me that the Chief Minister of Bihar had said this, would not he send electricity to every household for 24 hours? He had also said that till the election of 2015, if every household does not get electricity, then I will not come to demand votes. Did that say? Now you tell me what happened? Did not come electricity or came to ask for votes? Do not be deceived; Neglected by the promise? Can such people be trusted?\nThat is why I say that now Bihar can not afford such a government which is meant to ruin Bihar. I'm surprised. When we remember Jangaraj, Lalu does not bother but Nitish ji becomes disturbed. You only said Laloo Raj as Jangaraj and sat down with Laloo ji. So now you are afraid to speak Jangaraj and if someone else says, you become upset. Which industry runs in Jangaraj - The hijacking industry. At the time of the festival, people were afraid to get out of the house in the evening; After buying a new car they were afraid that someone would not lift them and if they went to ask for fear of killing. Now you tell us to take Bihar back to that position?\nIt looks like this. From January to July, 4000 incidents have been abducted in Bihar. Now you tell me if you have to give it again on the day of abduction? Take the incident last night, a police officer was frozen with bullets. His crime was so much that he wanted to stop some people and ask where they are and where they are going. The bullets were pitted on such a thing only and that too in Patna, on the government's chest and a police officer. Where a police officer is not safe, will the common people be safe? Now this is the situation of sitting with them, the election results have come and if you make a mistake, then imagine what will happen to Bihar.\nI have come to say that you saved Bihar from being ruined. That power in Bihar is that if Bihar goes ahead all the Hindustan will go forward but this strength of Bihar has been sidelined for 60 years. In the field of electricity we have taken the initiative to provide electricity 24 hours a day. I have said that in 2022 when India's independence will be 75 years, then we will complete the work of giving electricity 24 hours in India. Alone, your Aurangabad district has decided to give Rs 300 crore for electricity. 6000 crores of rupees have been decided for the whole of Bihar. When I was guessing the whole of India, I called the officers and asked how many villages are there where there is no electricity. He calculated that there are 18,000 villages where electricity has not yet reached. Then when I asked what state most villages belong to, you would be surprised to know that 4000 villages of Bihar are still in darkness today.\nFirst of all, if I become a government, my work will be done - to give electricity to these 4000 villages. It's not that there are no money but their intentions are not right. Running a government is not a subject of his interest and therefore he keeps on playing politics for 24 hours. In the past, under the five-year plan, the Government of India decided to give about 8000 crore rupees for electricity to Bihar, but this government was such that it could not get more than 1200-1300 crores. If you do not have the power to work by raising money, will you be able to do it? But now I have come to you for the purpose of changing the fate of Bihar and bringing change in life.\nToday, I calculate any account, like where most of the toilets are made, then the name comes from Bihar's. These toilets are not made in rich households but are built in the homes of the poor so that our poor parents do not have to go for open defecation. Now you see why those who talk of the poor do not make the toilet? After forming our government in Delhi, we started the construction of toilets and completed 95 lakh toilets in the last one year and the work is still going on fast.\nTell me that there is a rich account, but the poor never knew in the bank. We started such a campaign through public money that a bank account of every poor family of this country was opened and for the first time the poor started feeling that they could go to the bank instead of going to the moneylenders. Rather than die due to interest they can live with respect.\nWe brought the money scheme under which those who are small business people, sell milk, sell vegetables, do animal farming, do the work of dhobi, work as barber, sell clothes, sell newspapers, etc. People need a lot of money; If someone gets sick in the house or if guests come, then they have to ask for money from others; Money was made available to them. They do not get money from banks. With the monetary scheme alone, he completed the work of paying 3 lakh people in Bihar alone. We have been working to provide these poor people with around 26 thousand crore rupees in entire India. To make the poor strong, they have to increase their economic power.\nWe started the insurance scheme now; Just one rupee every month, ie 12 rupees in 12 months yesterday when I was in Nawada that a Muslim family had taken a scheme of Rs. 12 and there suddenly something happened in his family; Month was full and he got a check of Rs 2 lakh. How the poor work is done, this is done by our government.\nI have another dream, which requires a government in Bihar that wants to do good to Bihar. I want everyone in 2022 to have their own home. The poor have got the house, we have picked up this great work, there are water taps in the house, water in the tap, electricity, toilets and near education, there is a good education system for poor children. To do this work, if the state government will be such that we will not talk to the center, we will not allow him to enter, will this be possible?\nI urge you that you make our BJP and NDA allies, Ram Vilas Paswan, Jeetan Ram Manjhi, Upendra Kushwaha victorious in this election and decide to change the fate of Bihar. Three or three generations have been wasted in Bihar but now it is not going to ruin it. This is the election, on one side, Jangrajraj and Vikramraj on the other side. The solution to all the problems has been kept in development so I say that vote for development should be dalit, suffer, suffer, exploited, deprived, poor, all these development will be from development only. If the jawans get employment then the situation of the families will change automatically. In order to fulfill this work, the NDA government formed with a two-third majority in Bihar.\nToday, the whole world is playing a stinger in India. Is not India praising India in America, Bhutan, Russia, China? This is not being done due to Modi but it is being triggered due to hundreds of hundred crore Hindus. You have done such a thing because the work of India is playing a dancer in the world. You have elected a government with full majority after 30 years. Because of this, I meet any leader of the world, shake hands with him, and embrace him, he does not see Modi but hundred and fifty million Hindustani. Today, they all started to believe in India's iron. To play Bihar's dancers in India, to cheer Bihar, you will have to form a government with a two-third majority in Bihar. These whole world will accept the power of Bihar and will be opened for development and Bihar will change. A person coming here will explain 50 to 50 people and motivate them to vote and make the NDA government. Close my fist with me -\nLong live Mother India! Long live Mother India! Long live Mother India!\nThanks a lot."