"Share\n\nOn one hand, The Government is trying to make the Armed Forces strong; And on the other hand, there are those who do not want our Armed Forces to be strong: PM\nWhen it comes to the country's security and the requirements of the Armed Forces, our government only maintains the nation in mind: PM\nThose who deal only in lies are casting aspersions on the defense ministry, on the air force, and even on a foreign government: PM\nBharat Mata Ki Jai, Bharat Mata Ki Jai, Bharat Mata Ki Jai, Uttar Pradesh Governor Mr. Ram Nayak, Successful and popular Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh, Yogi Adityanath, my colleague, Railway Minister Mr. Piyush Goyal, President of State BJP And my colleague in the Parliament Mr. Mahendra Pandey ji, Hon'ble Minister of the Council of Ministers of Uttar Pradesh, MLA present here Ikr Sir, my dear brothers and sisters arrived in Rae Bareli in large numbers.\nToday I am on the land which has shown the direction of movement from spirituality to freedom struggle and from literature to politics to every region of the country. It is the land of asceticism of many sages and monks, including the Mahasraishi Jamdagni, then the land of Veera Passee, Rana Benni Madhav Baksh Singh's sacrifice. This land is synonymous with the vestiges of the world, in this land, the compositions of Mahavir Prasad Dwivedi have been shaped. On this land, Pandit Amol Sharma, the progenitor of the Kisan movement, blessed the Rajarayanji. I respect this great and virtuous land of Rae Bareli, respectfully the people here.\nCenter for the development of this region associated with the history of glorious history, and the BJP government of Uttar Pradesh is fully devoted. Under this spirit, a thousand crores worth of projects have been laid down and auctioned here. All the projects like Road, Home, Medical College, which have been released shortly before, have been started and will help you to make life's life simple and easy. I congratulate you all for all these facilities.\nCompanions, before coming here I was in a nearby modern coach factory. I had the opportunity to showcase the 900 th box made in this factory this year. The speed at which the work is being done there is really very appreciable. What has been the culture of previous governments, how injustice has been done to the resources and resources of the country, its testimony is also the Rail Coach Factory of Rae Bareli. If you think this factory was approved in the year 2007. The aim was to make 1000 new coaches in the year. This factory became ready in 2010. But after four years, this work was done in the factories by taking a box from Kapurthala and painting and painting was done. The factory which was to build a new box was never allowed to work at all. The condition was that by the year 2014, only 3 percent of the machines were working, 3 percent of the machines were working.\nWe changed this situation, within three months of coming to our government, a coach came out from here which was completely built in Rae Bareli factory. With the efforts of the BJP government, all the machines are now working with full potential. The task of applying new and modern machines is also being done at a fast pace. The result of this is that last year from this coach factory ... Bhaiya love your eyes on my eyes, your enthusiasm is also on my head, but I pray to you that let me hear a little more. People have come in such a large number. Your enthusiasm, your passion, your love, all this on my head eyes, now allow you, then start speaking further, start speaking further, say, I do not do any work without your permission. See so much love, so many blessings this is my good fortune and I am thankful to you. But I have come to such a large number of people, they have to listen to some things too. So will you keep your enthusiasm for some time, to keep this passion a little handy? Pucca ... promise ... will play ... well done .... The young people of Rae Bareli are very good. The result of this is that last year 711 new coaches came out of this coach factory. Now I would like to increase this number by March of next year to 1400.\nThe work of modernization of coaches, this coach factory is continuing and in the next two-three years it will reach its capacity of 3,000 for new coaches and I tell you, our effort is to take 5000 coaches per year . Now the work that is being done for this coach factory is not only in India, it will make Rae Bareli's coach manufacturing factory the world's largest rail coach factory. And brothers and sisters do not have a habit of thinking short. Very soon this factory will have Metro cans all over the country. Semi High Speed ​​trains can be made. Modern and weight aluminum, light and strong cans will also be made here.\nBrothers and sisters, these extensions are not just the number of coaches that are made here and the coach factory. In this extension, there has been a new expansion in the lives of the people here. If the capacity of the coach factory increases, then every kind of employment will increase for the youth here. Think about that day when there will be ten to twelve new coaches every day. The expansion of the capacity of this factory will also bring new employment opportunities for workers, engineers, technicians, diploma holders. Not only that, small and medium enterprises of Rae Bareli will also get the benefit.\nBrothers and Sisters, Prior to 2014, less than one crore rupees from local merchants were purchased from the local markets of Rae Bareli for this train coach factory. These amazing surprising information are giving to you. Tell me to tell you .... The stuff that this factory had before becoming our government. The local people used to buy goods worth only 1 crore rupees. Just listen, at the same time, after getting the government of BJP, this year, till now, the goods worth Rs. 100 crores have been purchased from the local traders for the Rail Coach Factory.\nNow when the factory is expanding, the figure of the purchase will increase further. I am told that now the Ministry of Railways and the UP Government are going to make a Rail Industrial Park here. The goods will be supplied to the rail factory through this industrial park and its direct and small scale industries will be available here.\nCompanions, today I want to put another fact in front of the people of Rae Bareli. When the previous government had constructed the Rail Coach factory here, it was decided that 5 thousand employees would be appointed. This last government had decided and had announced that we had worn garlands, slogans of Zindabad had also taken place. But you will be surprised to know that acceptance was given to half of its posts. Announcement of 5000 and acceptance of half of it, not only in coming to our government in 2014, we also saw that there was no new appointment in the coach factory here. What you were told and how you even cheered. One was not even found. The employees who were working here were brought from Kapurthala.\nNow the situation is that our government has appointed about 2,000 new employees. Not only that, the number of temporary employees was just 200 in 2014, now it has increased to around 1500 today. Today I am proud to say this, proud is realizing that in the coming time, Rae Bareli is going to be a global hub for rail coach construction.\nIn order to strengthen the connectivity, strengthen the facilities of the people of the country, apart from the railways, highways, airways, waterways and ivo are being worked on every area at a fast pace. In UP, waterways being built on the rivers, modern expressways, or the roads of the village are being worked day and night to make life easier. Under the same mission, work in every field is also moving fast in Rae Bareli. A long time ago, the National Highway built at a cost of 5.5 billion rupees, Rae Bareli will be connected to Lalgang to Fatehpur, directly to Banda. There will also be facility of reaching Chitrakoot Dham from this highway of about 100 km.\nBesides improving the health of the infrastructures, the health of government citizens is also committed to giving you all the cheap and best health services to the people of the country. The Rae Bareli itself is healthy and keeps the entire area healthy, for this, the work of AIIMS, which is being built here, has been given more speed.\nToday, the opening of the medical colleges, hospitals and hostels for the construction of a cost of more than Rs. 400 crores has been made. This medical college and hospital built in Munshiganj is part of AIIMS here. The benefit will be to the entire Rae Bareli and adjacent districts. The government is also concerned about providing health along with giving home. The Central Government is trying to give a permanent roof to every poor family in the country till 2022. For this, under the Prime Minister's housing scheme, more than two crore houses have been completed in the country so far. The keys to those who are supposed to get home are given to them. And those who went to Diwali have also celebrated Diwali in their new home.\nEven in Rae Bareli, as Yogiji ji said, so far, the keys of more than 23 thousand households have been given to my poor families, to the siblings. A little earlier already, 500 new houses have been started. These are the houses that are being built. It is not just wall-like as before, it is our endeavor that we build a house, tap in it and also water in tap, there is a connection to electricity, there is also a gas connection, and there is definitely a toilet in the house.\nThis day of the brothers and sisters, in the history of the country, is also very special for another reason. In 1971, on this day, the brave army of India had dusted the symbols of terror, tyranny and chaos. I salute all the soldiers from all over the country who are part of this war. The soldiers who joined the war, were martyred, in which there were many heroic figures of Uttar Pradesh, I also pay tribute to 130 crore people on behalf of the countrymen.\nIn order to honor the bravery and dedication of the army, in order to glorify your guardians on the outskirts of this cold weather of December, you should lift your hand and take a handful of fists and talk to those brave soldiers, Bharat Mata Ki Jai, Bharat Mata Ki Jai, Long live Mother India.\nBrothers and sisters, think, you are proud of the slogan of Bharat Mata's Jai. Some people have also been seen as embarrassed. What kind of people are these people who have trouble with Bharat Mata's hail, who do not care about the country?\nCompanions, Modi has to abuse them, I know. They want to put a stain in any way on Modi, I also know this. But I want to know why the country has been kept for it? Why is the security of the country being fluttered?\nBrothers and sisters, today there are two sides in front of the country. One side is of truth, it is of security, it belongs to the government, which is trying on every side to increase the strength of our army. The other side is of those forces who want to weaken the country at any cost. You tell me, brothers, our army of the country should not be strong or not? Should the country's army be strong or not? Should there be modern weapons in the hands of the army or not?\nToday the country is watching that the Congress is standing with those forces, our opponents are standing with those forces that do not want to strengthen our armies. Which countries are getting support from the efforts of such people? This is also watching the country. What is the reason that some such leaders are speaking such language here in Tamils ​​are being played in Pakistan? Why is this happening?\nThere is a quadruple in the companions, Ramcharitra manas. Goswami Tulsidas ji has written that Lord Ram explains the personality of somebody: \"Lying, lying, lying food, false cheating\". That is, some people accept lies, give lies to others, eat food only and cheat lies.\nSome people have made these lines the prime minister of their life. And so for the people of this country, the Ministry of Defense is also false, the country's Defense Minister is also false, the officials of Indian Air Force are also liars, the French government is also false, now they have started to feel the highest court of the country too. But companions, truth does not need to be rigid. The truth does not need to be rigid and no matter how many words it lied, there is no life in it. But we have been told a very big thing - \"Jyet satyen chanatam\" i.e. the tendency to lie is won by truthfulness only.\nI want to make it clear to the countrymen that the history of Congress governments, what was the attitude of the Congress towards the armies? These countries will never forgive them, the country will never forget it.\nAfter the Kargil war, our Air Force had told the need for modern planes. After the battle of Kargil, after Atal ji's government, Congress ruled the country for ten years but the air force did not allow it to be strong. After all, under whose pressure?\nIn matters of defense deals, brothers and sisters, the history of the Congress has been the Quattrocchi Mama of the Bofors scandal. Another Uncle Christian Mitchell, accused of the helicopter scam in the Congress government, has been captured and brought to India a few days ago. And we all have also seen how to save the accused, the Congress immediately sent its lawyer to the court. मैं कांग्रेस से जानना चाहता हूं कि क्‍या वो इसलिए भड़की हुई है, झूठ पर झूठ बोल रही है, क्‍योंकि भाजपा सरकार जो रक्षा सौदे कर रही है, उसमें कोई क्वात्रोकी मामा नहीं है, क्रिश्चियन मिशेल अंकल नहीं है? क्‍या इसलिए वो अब न्‍यायपालिका पर अविश्‍वास का माहौल पैदा करने में जुट गई है? न्‍यायपालिका को ही कटघरे में खड़ा करने में वो बराबर लगे हुए हैं।\nभाइयों और बहनों, हमारे लिए हमेशा दल से बड़ा देश है। और जीवन पर्यंत आने वाली पीढि़यों तक हमारा यही मंत्र रहेगा। दल से बड़ा देश है। आज मैं देश को कहना चाहता हूं कि जब देश की सुरक्षा की बात हो, सेना की जरूरतों की बात हो, सैनिकों के सम्‍मान की बात हो, केंद्र की भाजपा एनडीए सरकार सिर्फ एक ही बात का ध्‍यान रखती है- राष्‍ट्रहित, देशहित, जनहित। यही हमारी परवरिश है, यही हमारी सरकार के संस्‍कार हैं।\nहम पूरा प्रयास कर रहे हैं कि भारत की सेनाएं किसी से कम न हों, हमारे लिए जान की बाजी लगाने वाले सैनिकों को कभी दिक्‍कत न हो। आखिर मैं उस मां के प्रति भी तो जवाबदेही हूं जो अपना बेटा सीमा पर भेजती है। मैं उस बहन के प्रति भी तो जवाबदेही हूं जिसने अपना भाई बार्डर पर भेजा है। जो परिवार, जो बच्‍चे अपने पापा का इंतजार कर रहे हैं उनके प्रति भी तो मेरी जवाबदेही है। जब तक हमारी सरकार है, जब तक मैं हूं, सरकार ऐसे लाखो, करोड़ों परिवारों के प्रति जवाबदेह होगी, एक परिवार के प्रति नहीं। इसके लिए कड़े से कड़े फैसले लेना हो, हमारे कदम कभी पीछे नहीं हटेगें।\nभाइयों और बहनों, हमारे जवानों के सुरक्षा के प्रति कांग्रेस का रवैया क्‍या रहा, ये मैं देश को फिर याद दिलाना चाहता हूं। साल 2009 में भारत की सेना ने 1 लाख 86 हजार बुलेट प्रूफ जैकेट की मांग की थी। 2009 से लेकर के 2014 तक, पांच साल बीत गए, लेकिन सेना के लिए बुलेट प्रूफ जैकेट नहीं खरीदी गई। केंद्र में हमारी सरकार बनने के बाद, 2016 में हमनें सेना के लिए 50 हजार बुलेट प्रूफ जैकेट खरीद करके उनको स्वीकृत किया। मैं देश को ये भी जानकारी देना चाहता हूं कि इस साल अप्रैल में पूरी 1 लाख 86 हजार बुलेट प्रूफ जैकेट का आर्डर दिया जा चुका है। ये जैकेट भारत की ही एक कंपनी बना रही है।\nभाइयों और बहनों, कांग्रेस के पापों के बारे में बताने के लिए इतना कुछ है कि बोलते-बोलते शायद सप्‍ताह के सप्‍ताह निकल जाए। आज मैं देश को ये भी जानकारी देना चाहता हूं, अगर 2014 के बाद भी देश में कांग्रेस की सरकार बनती तो हमारा गौरव, देश का गौरव, तेजस लड़ाकू विमान हमेशा-हमेशा के लिए डिब्‍बे में बंद कर दिया जाता। कोई पूछने वाला नहीं होता। कांग्रेस सरकार के समय तेजस के निर्माण से जुड़ी हर चीज को कमजोर करने का प्रयास यूपीए सरकार में हुआ। ये प्रोजेक्‍ट पहले ही बरसों से अटका हुआ था, लेकिन कांग्रेस सरकारों के दौरान इसे तेज करने की कोई कोशिश नहीं हुई।\nभाजपा और एनडीए की सरकार आने के बाद हमने जुलाई 2016 में ये फैसला लिया कि तेजस को 45 स्कवाड्रन में शामिल किया जाएगा। हमारी सरकार ने 83 नए तेजस विमान खरीदे जाने का प्रस्‍ताव को स्‍वीकृति दे दी। इतना ही नहीं, तेजस विमान बनाने के HAL की क्षमता को दो गुना करने के लिए पिछले साल 1400 करोड़ रुपये की भी मंजूरी दी गई है।\nभाइयों और बहनों, स्‍वतंत्रता के बाद से ही कांग्रेस का ये तरीका रहा है, कांग्रेस सरकार के द्वारा किए गए हर रक्षा सौदे में कोई ना कोई विदेशी मामा, कोई विदेशी अंकल, कोई चाचा, कोई भतीजा, कोई ना कोई तो निकल आता है। और इसलिए जब पारदर्शिता और इमानदारी से सौदे होते हैं तो कांग्रेस बौखला जाती है। एक तय रणनीति के तहत सेना पर ही धावा बोल देती है, सेना को कमजोर करने का प्रयास करने लगती है।\nसाथियों, सेनाओं की मान-मर्यादा वैसे भी कांग्रेस और उनके चेले-चपाटो की कल्‍पना से परे है। जिस पार्टी के लोग हमारे सेना अध्‍यक्ष को गुंडा कहते हों और गुंडा कहने वाले को जहां पार्टी में ऊंचे पद पर बिठाया जाता हो, ऐसे लोगों से और क्‍या उम्‍मीद रखी जा सकती है। जिस पार्टी के लोग सर्जिकल स्‍ट्राइक पर सवाल उठाते हों, अपनी सेना से ज्‍यादा दुश्‍मनों के दावों पर ज्‍यादा भरोसा रखते हों, उससे क्‍या उम्‍मीद की जा सकती है?\nजिस पार्टी के लोग मामूली रकम सिर्फ पांच सौ करोड़ रुपया रखकर के फौज की आंख में धूल झोंकने का ही प्रयास करते हों। और पांच सौ करोड़ रुपये में वन रैंक वन पेंशन का झूठा दिलासा देकर के फूलमाला पहनने लग जाते हों, ऐसे लोगों से क्‍या उम्‍मीद की जा सकती है? वन रैंक वन पेंशन का विषय भी तो चालीस साल से लटका हुआ था, इसे भी हमारी सरकार ने पूरा किया। 11 हजार करोड़ रुपये से ज्‍यादा की राशि एरियर के तौर पर पूर्व सैनिकों, फौजियों को मिल भी चुकी है।\nसाथियों, कांग्रेस के राज में न जवान की परवाह की जाती है, न किसान की परवाह की जाती है। जवानों के बाद अब मैं विस्‍तार से किसानों की भी बात करूंगा।\n70 साल में पहली बार देश की किसी सरकार ने किसानों की आय बढ़ाने के बारे में सोचा है, तो वो हमारी सरकार है, एनडीए की सरकार है। किसानों की एक-एक परेशानी समझकर, भविष्‍य की जरूरतों को समझकर, बीज से लेकर के बाजार तक हमारी सरकार ने नीतियां बनाई हैं, और उन्‍हें लागू करवाई है। हम बहुत ईमानदारी से, बहुत परिश्रम से किसानों को खेती से जुड़े संकटों से बाहर निकालने का प्रयास कर रहे हैं, लेकिन देश के किसानों को कांग्रेस का इतिहास, उसकी नीतियां, उसकी सच्‍चाई, उसकी धोखाधड़ी कभी भी नहीं भूलनी चाहिए। कांग्रेस के पास इस बात का क्‍या जवाब है कि जब वो दस साल तक सत्‍ता में रही तो क्‍या उसने स्‍वामीनाथन कमेटी की रिपोर्ट को लागू क्‍यों नहीं किया? आखिर किसका दबाव था? क्‍यों उसने एमएसपी जैसे अहम विषय को जमीन के भीतर ही गाड़ दिया था। इस बात का जवाब कांग्रेस कभी नहीं देगी और न ही कभी उसका बनाया इकोसिस्टम उससे कभी जवाब मांगेगा।\nलेकिन भाइयों-बहनों, केंद्र की एनडीए सरकार ने किसानों की आय बढ़ाने के लिए एमएसपी पर स्‍वामीनाथन कमेटी की रिपोर्ट को लागू किया। खरीफ और रबी की बाइस फसलों पर आज एमएसपी को सुनिश्चित किया गया है। कांग्रेस का इकोसिस्टम आपको कभी ये नहीं बताएगा कि सिर्फ एक फैसले से और ये बहुत महत्‍वपूर्ण बात है, सिर्फ इस एक फैसले से हमारे देश के किसानों को 60 हजार करोड़ रुपये से ज्‍यादा मिलना तय हुआ है। 60 हजार करोड़ रुपये का फायदा।\nभाइयों-बहनों, मैं कांग्रेस से ये भी जानना चाहता हूं कि आखिर वो किसका दबाव था जब वो यूरिया की शत-प्रतिशत नीम कोटिंग के फैसले से भागती रही। हमारे देश का किसान यूरिया के अभाव में लाठियां खाता था। कांग्रेस की सरकार उसका तमाशा देखती रही।\nसाथियों, मैं देश को फिर याद दिलाना चाहता हूं कि यही कांग्रेस सरकार थी जब किसानों से फसल बीमा के लिए 15 प्रतिशत से ज्‍यादा प्रीमियम लिया जाता था। बीमा की राशि में भी कैपिंग होती थी। तीस प्रतिशत की फसल का नुकसान हुआ है या चालीस प्रतिशत का, किसी में भी बड़े-बड़ें घोटाले के खेल खेले जाते थे। प्रधानमंत्री फसल बीमा योजना लाकर हमारी सरकार ने किसानों की इन सारी समस्‍याओं को दूर किया। आज अलग-अलग फसलों पर सिर्फ डेढ़ प्रतिशत से लेकर पांच प्रतिशत तक का प्रीमियम किसानों से लिया जाता है। सौ रुपये में सिर्फ डेढ़ रुपया ज्‍यादा से ज्‍यादा पांच रुपया। अगर मैं पिछले दो वर्ष का आंकड़ा दूं तो किसानों से प्रीमियम के रूप में आठ हजार करोड़ रुपया लिए गया पूरे देश में। पूरे देश में आठ हजार करोड़ लेकिन आपदा के बाद, फसल खराब होने के बाद किसानों को 33 हजार करोड़ रुपये से ज्‍यादा की मदद उससे मिली। आठ हजार के सामने 33 हजार करोड़ किसान के पास गया। यानी जितना किसानों से लिया उससे चार गुना से ज्‍यादा वापिस किया गया।\nसाथियों, बीते कुछ समय से कर्जमाफी को लेकर भी कांग्रेस बड़ी-बड़ी बाते कर रही है। लेकिन ये भी सिर्फ धोखा है, झूठ है, कर्नाटक में कांग्रेस ने किसानों से कर्जमाफी का वायदा किया था। सिर्फ दस दिन की बात कही गई थी लेकिन आज छह महीनें बाद सच्‍चाई कुछ और है। अभी दो-तीन दिन पहले ही अखबारों ने विस्‍तार से रिपोर्ट छापी है कि कर्नाटक में छह महीनें में एक हजार किसानों को भी कर्जमाफ नहीं हुआ है। सोचिए, एक हजार को भी नहीं। सैंकड़ों किसानों के खिलाफ अदालतों ने कार्रवाई शुरू कर दी है, उनके खिलाफ गिरफ्तारी का वारंट निकल रहा है। कांग्रेस पूरी ताकत लगा रही है ये सच्‍चाई दब जाए, छिप जाए, देश के किसानों के सामने न आए। लेकिन किसानों से की जा रही ये धोखाधड़ी उन्‍हें हमेशा-हमेशा के लिए बर्बाद कर देने वाली है। कांग्रेस की साजिश को बीजेपी सरकार घर-घर जाकर के पहुंचाएगी।\nसाथियों, याद करिये 2008 में भी कांग्रेस ने देश भर के किसानों को ऐसी ही कर्जमाफी का वायदा किया था, तब देश के किसानों पर छह लाख करोड़ रुपये से ज्‍यादा का कर्ज था। लेकिन कांग्रेस सरकार ने कर्जमाफी की, छह लाख करोड़ कर्ज और किया कितना सिर्फ 60 हजार करोड़। कहां छह लाख करोड़ और कहां 60 हजार करोड़, इतना बड़ा धोखा। इतना ही नहीं, कर्जमाफी की आड़ में ऐसे 35 लाख लोग करीब-करीब वो निकल आए जो कर्ज माफ कर दिया गया लेकिन वे कर्जमाफी के हकदार ही नहीं थे, पिछले दरवाजे से रुपये मांग रहे थे।\nभाइयों और बहनों, खेती, किसानी से जुड़ा कोई भी सेक्‍टर हो, कांग्रेस ने उसे मजबूत करने की ओर कभी भी ध्‍यान नहीं दिया। फूड प्रोसेंसिंग हो, बीज की क्‍वालिटी में सुधार हो, Agriculture research हो, खेती से आय बढ़ाने वाले अन्‍य साधन हों, सिंचाई की व्‍यवस्‍था हो, जितना प्रोत्‍साहन इन्‍हें सरकार से मिलना चाहिए था वो कांग्रेस ने कभी नहीं दिया।\nआज सैंकड़ों नए विज्ञान केंद्र खोलकर 17 करोड़ से ज्यादा सॉयल हेल्थ कार्ड देकर, फूड प्रोसेसिंग में 100 प्रतिशत FDI करके, देशभर में सैंकड़ों नए store houses खोलकर, पूरी सप्‍लाई चेन को मजबूत करके किसानों का खर्च कम करने और फसल की ऊंची कीमत दिलाने का प्रयास किया जा रहा है।\nसाथियों, सरकार चाहे केंद्र की हो, या फिर योगी जी की अगुवाई वाली यूपी की सरकार हमारा एक ही मंत्र है सबका साथ सबका विकास, इसको सुनिश्चित करने के लिए दिन-रात हम लगे हुए हैं। यहां रायबरेली में भी आठ लाख लोगों के बैंक खाते खोले गए हैं, पौने 2 लाख महिलाओं को मुफ्त गैस कनेक्‍शन दिया गया है, लगभग 55 हजार घरों को मुफ्त बिजली कनेक्‍शन देकर रोशन किया गया है।\nआप सभी का अभूतपूर्व सहयोग सरकार के प्रयासों को शक्ति दे रहा है। आपके सहयोग की ये शक्ति है कि सामान्‍य से सामान्‍य मानवी जीवन में सकारात्‍मक परिवर्तन लाने में हम सफल हो पा रहे हैं। आने वाले समय में सरोकार और सहयोग की इस भावना को हमें और मजबूत करना है, मिलकर के करना है। रायबरेली समेत पूरे उत्‍तर प्रदेश के तेज विकास के लिए हर स्‍तर पर हमें मिलकर आगे बढ़ना है। इसी विश्‍वास के साथ एक बार फिर तमाम विकास परियोजनाओं के लिए आप सभी को बहुत-बहुत बधाई देता हूं। आप यहां भारी संख्‍या में हमें आशीर्वाद देने पहुंचे इसके लिए भी मैं आप सबका ह़दय से धन्‍यवाद करता हूं।\nमेरे साथ जोर से बोलिए भारत माता की जय...., भारत माता की जय...., भारत माता की जय....\nThanks a lot."