"JDU, RJD and congress alliance is an alliance of greed, a 'Mahaswarthbandhan': PM\nThis election is a battle between Vikasraaj vs Junglraaj: PM\nToday the world looks at India PM\nThere is a lot of potential in the youth in Bihar; They are just waiting for the opportunity: PM\nWe have to save Bihar and we have to make Bihar: PM Modi\nPeace, Unity and Brotherhood are most important for our country: PM\nVote bank politics and casteism are the main reason behind the bad condition of Bihar: PM\nLong live Mother India. We bow to all of us. Members of the Parliament and its minister in government Mr. Giriraj Singh, in charge of the party Mr. Patil Patil, the leader of the National Lok Samata Party, Dr. Arun Kumar, MLA and former minister Mr. Prem Kumar ji, Nawada assembly of National Lok Samata Party Candidate of Mr. Inder Kumar ji, BJP candidate from Govindpur constituency, Mrs. Fulaadevi ji, inherited from BJP Mrs Aruna Devi G, candidate from Singhganj assembly, Mr. Anil Singh, candidate of the Isua assembly from BJP, Mr. Arjun Ram from Rajouri assembly from BJP, Shri Arvind Sharma, Shri Vishnunnath Bhagat, Shri Kedar Singh, Mr. Vijay Kumar Singh, Shri. Narendra Singh, Shri Rajendra Singh and my dear brothers and sisters who came in large numbers\nNow I have to complain with Nawada today. I do not think so bad. Please complain. Will not believe in the worst See, I came in April last year. It came in this field. I myself was contesting the Lok Sabha from the Lok Sabha. I came to take your blessings to form a government, but in that gathering, a quarter of it also did not come. And today I see that no roof is empty where people are not. I have always worried that this three-storey, five-story meeting is going on. If Nawada came last time four times big assembly is in front of me today, it is clearly showing what the wind's attitude is. Why is the brothers' sisters so angry about the people of Bihar? In every corner of Bihar, in every class, in every society, people of all ages, men, women, young people, elderly, why all this is anger. Brothers sisters now Bihar can not wait much. For 60 years less time for the beggar sisters development. And these are those who have become the Chief Ministers in Bihar, they share all stakeholders in the General Assembly. This is not a great coalition, the cosmopolitanism is. There are three players in this supercontinent. One is Congress, who ruled Bihar for 35 years. The second is the elder brother, he ruled for fifteen years. The third is the younger brother, he ruled for 10 years. That is, these three people, who have come today, have ruled Bihar for 60 years. You have sent and selected them for 60 years. Tell you what you got. Bihar got good, roads became, children got education, elderly got medicines, young people got employment\nPeople who have ruled this for 60 years have come today to ask for votes from you. But the votes are demanding as many words in the dictionary, as dirty words, they sit open everyday in the dictionary, what is the abuse of Modi today. How to defame Modi today. Hey Mahasvantrabhan's leaders, you at least let the people of Bihar account for 60 years of business. What did, why did, how did, when done, who did it, whom to hand over? Answer. All three people should answer or not. The Chief Ministers who are today should answer them. They should give an account of their work or should not be given. Those 15 years ago who was the chief minister of the state, whose government is it, should answer whether Lalu ji should answer or not. Madam Sonia Gandhi should give you the answer or not to whom Congress has ruled for 35 years. Are you answering? Tell me what are you giving me? Tell me what worked. Not because you have not done anything, so why not tell? What will you tell And I want to ask if Laloo ji is speaking so much, then tell the people of Bihar why you are out of this election. What is the law that you have been stopped from contesting elections? What did you do that the Constitution of this country, the law of this country is also refusing to serve you the people of Bihar, what kind of work you have done, just tell the people of Bihar.\nBrothers sisters, they feel that through 90s, the eyes of innocent people were dashed in the eyes of the people. Lalu ji is not 1990, 2015. The time has changed. Now your Dramaabai will not run. The dream of the young man is to work.\nWhat is left of Bihar's? And I tell you, brothers and sisters, there is so much power to move forward in our country. Now no force in the world can stop this country from moving forward. Whether or not the world's dancer is ringing all over the world today. You tell me India's Dunka in Japan is not played or not. In Bhutan, India's dancer is not played or not. Brothers sisters are not getting the praise of Hindustan in America or not. That's not happening in China. Is not happening in rasia that is happening. Why is it happening What is the reason that the applause of Hindustan is happening in the world. Modi is not being due to my friends. In this world, the dancer in India is ringing because of the hundred and fifty million people. The reason is ringing you. And so it is ringing because you have elected a full government after 30 years in Delhi and therefore have made a belief in the whole world that now can go on the shoulders side with Hindustan. If the Brothers sisters choose a full majority government in Delhi then the whole world accepts the power of India. Likewise, with the two-thirds majority in Patna, the government of NDA will sit, all India will accept Bihar. These Delhi will also have to run in Bihar. Now Biharis will never have to go to Delhi. Delhi people will have to be forced to come to Bihar.\nThis is the power of democracy and therefore in the elections, with the two-thirds majority in Bihar, the Bharatiya Janata Party should form the NDA government and you see that India does not seem to believe that the iron of Bihar seems to be. In the country and the world, Bihar's dancer plays or does not ring, I assure you that this is going to be happening.\nBrothers sisters, you tell me, a state like Bihar, where there are so many rugged people, today's history and tradition should be glorified for every Hindustan, who is the waste of this Bihar? Who killed this Bihar? And in this election there is an election to punish such people. To punish by pressing the button. So they could not think of destroying Bihar in future even in the future. There is a result in such an election. The power of the public is to introduce.\nYou tell me, it is not necessary that our Bihar needs development or not. Development is essential. The young man needs employment. The village needs a road. Increased people should get medicine if they need medication. Mothers should be respected. The poor should get home to live. Children of poor should get education. Whether the village should have electricity or not. Your Chief Minister promised in 2010 In the 2010 assembly elections, your chief minister went to village village and said, vote for me. If I vote, then I will give electricity to your home within five years. That was such a promise. Was promised to deliver electricity. And he also said that if I can not reach the electricity by 2015 then I will not come to demand votes. That was said so. I will not ask for votes This was promised. Tell me that the promise was fulfilled. The electricity reached the poor's house in the village. Then they came to demand a vote. Will you trust them?\nThese three people are like this: Congress, Lalu ji, Nitish ji, take a look at the history of the last 60 years, when all these three have got the chance, they have done the work of cutting each other's feet and fighting each other. What happened to the brother that these three enemies became united? What is the reason. Bihar never got involved Never came together to Delhi for some demands for Bihar But such a person has come to get a chair, brothers can trust such self-reliance.\nHe had never imagined that the Modi Government in Delhi was sure to fulfill the promise. In the Lok Sabha election, I had said that Bihar is giving me the love I will return with development including interest. And today you got a package of development worth Rs 1 lakh 65 thousand crore that you did not get. The paths will become or will not become. The railways will come or not. The schools will not be found in the village. Hospitals will become or will not become. Whether the industry will come or not. Will the youngster get employment or not?\nBrothers sisters Bihar's youth have such strength, Bihar youth have such a strong power that if they get an opportunity, then they should put Bihar in line with such strength in Bihar and therefore we have focused our entire focus on development and Election of Bihar, talk of Jangrajraj on one side, development on the other side I have come to you with Vikram Raj. Jangaraj should never come back to Bihar's land. Three three generations have been wasted. Now Bihar can not afford much damage. There is also a need to save Bihar, make Bihar and also to increase Bihar. And Bihar will grow only then India will grow. Varna will not grow even further.\nBrothers sisters I'm surprised how now games are played by taking advantage of the election. Brothers sisters I was born in that state where Lord Krishna himself came and settled. That tradition is still leading all the white communities of the Gopalka community. Milk Dairy Amul is being discussed in the entire country and the world. These people who have created these traditions, my neighboring community, my Yaduvanshi community, have shown them by doing this work.\nBut here Lalu ji insulted the Yaduvansis. Tell me that Laloo ji is saying that these are the accounts, they eat, that is not an insult to Yaduvanshi people. This is not an insult to Bihar or it is not. It is not that the country is insulted or not. And when the words were so crappy, the storm broke. All the leaders of Yaduvanshi reached. He said that Lalu Ji for so many years we stayed with you and you abused us like this. For the cow, we have cut our heads and you are giving us such abuse.\nLalu ji was scared. He got scared and went in front of the TV and made a statement that a devil entered me. Satan has reached. My Nawada's brothers sisters have a population of billions of news in the world; Hindustan has a population of billions, Bihar has a population of about seventy-five people. Did the devil get the same address in so many people? What is the location found What these bodies liked him These demons went to him And the brothers and sisters in whose body the devil enters, can such people be given Bihar? Bihar can not be given in the hands of such people. And so brothers and sisters, I have come to pray to you that vote for development. The young man will get employment, making such a development outline of Bihar will have to go ahead. This package of one lakh 65 thousand crore rupees is going to open a new direction for development. I have come to convey this faith to you.\nBrothers sisters, I came in Gandhi in October month two years ago in Gandhi. Bhartiya Janta Party's huge rally was. October 27, I can never forget, no BJP worker can forget or any citizen of Bihar can forget. No citizen of Hindustan can forget It was the public meeting that everyone has the right to tell their message in a democracy. You do not want to hear it. I had come to Bihar, I had to address the public meeting in Patna's Gandhi Maidan. But in Patna, it was only on the airport that a news came to light after another. Bombing started to happen. Innocent people are being killed. People leave the house and leave. People should be killed under the feet of people, it is such a destruction that Modi is never worthy of mouth. Such a conspiracy happened. One person died after one And in that public meeting I spoke to the citizens in detail. And I did not let them feel like I did not know that their anger spread and my Bihar was destroyed and my Bihar was devastated. In the entire speech, I was seeing that Bihar's Lal is dying, the bangs are happening, the earth is being blood-patching, but we have not lost patience. We can fulfill as much effort as possible to maintain peace. And in such an environment when we knew that death games were being played, we did not allow politics to happen. Bihar and the country did not allow the destruction of the country. And I said in that meeting, I want to remind the country today, I had said that we should decide whether the Hindus have to fight against Muslims or fight against poverty. Muslims decide whether it is fighting against Hindus or fighting against poverty. And between the bomb blasts, I had said in the blood-stained Gandhi Maidan that our country's good will be when Hindus and Muslims are fighting together against poverty. We defeat poverty. We are people who have come out with these ideas and rites. And after the meeting, I had prayed and joined hands with all people that you peacefully reached our village home and without any reaction, we had saved Bihar, and then the arrogant leaders of this place left from Patna and sat somewhere else and after the meeting was complete Was making a mockery of speech, he was not worried about the people. He was the Chief Minister of Bihar, there was no concern for law and order. His Patna was not worried, he was joking. Politics is not like this, how ego has reached the seventh heaven. The country has to stay one. Unity, brotherhood, harmony, peace will take this country forward. और इसलिए मेरे भाईयों बहनों में देशवासियों को कहना चाहता हूं कि ये राजनीतिक स्वार्थ सिद्ध करने के लिए उट-पटांग बयानबाजी में लगे रहते हैं। मैं देशवासियों को कहता हूं कि इन राजनेताओं की बयानबाजी पर ध्यान न दीजिए। खुद नरेंद्र मोदी कहता है अगर, तो उसकी बात भी न सुनिये। अगर सुनना है तो कल हमारे देश के राष्ट्रपति श्रद्धेय प्रणव मुखर्जी दादा ने जो भाषण किया है और देश को जो संदेश दिया है, उससे बड़ा कोई मार्गदर्शन नहीं हो सकता है। हम सभी देशवासी सवा सौ करोड़ देशवासी, भारत का सबसे बड़ा मुखिया, भारत के राष्ट्रपति ने जो कहा है उससे बड़ा कोई विचार नहीं हो सकता, उससे बड़ी कोई दिशा नहीं हो सकती, उससे बड़ी कोई प्रेरणा नहीं हो सकती। मैं देशवासियों से यही कहना चाहता हूं कि राजनीति का स्वार्थसिद्ध करने के रास्ते बंद होने चाहिए। राष्ट्रपति महोदय ने हमें रास्ता दिखाया है, हम सबको मिलकर उस रास्ते पर चलना होगा और तभी जाकर विश्व हिन्दुस्तान से जो अपेक्षाएं कर रहा है, हम उन्हें पूरा कर पाएंगे।\nइसलिए भाईयों बहनों आज नवादा की धरती पर मैं जो जनसैलाब देख रहा हूं, ये जनसैलाब बिहार को बदलने की एक आंधी है। और मैं रहा हूं कि बिहार बदलेगा। सरकार भी बदलेगी। बिहार भी बदलेगा, यहां का भाग्य भी बदलेगा। और यहां का भाग्य कौन बदलेगा। मैं कभी कभी सोचता हूं कि बिहार के पास और कुछ कोई कर सके या न कर सके, बिहार का पानी और बिहार की जवानी, ये बिहार की ऐसा ताकत है, जिसकी तरफ किसी ने देखा नहीं। पानी का विपुल भंडार कभी गांवों को तबाह करके चला जाता है और समुंद्र में बह जाता है। यहां की जवानी बूढ़े मां-बाप को छोडकर रोजी-रोटी कमाने के लिए हिंदुस्तान के किसी दूसरी भाग में चली जाती है। भाईयों बहनों अगर ये जवानी और ये पानी बिहार के काम लाया जाए तो हिंदुस्तान को बदलने के लिए बिहार से बड़ी कोई ताकत नहीं होगी।\nमैं बिहार की शक्ति को भलीभांती समझ पार रहा हूं और इसलिए मैं आज बिहार से विशेष अनुरोध करने आया हूं कि आप इस बार भाजपा और एनडीए के गठबंधन को दो-तिहाई से ज्यादा सीटें देकर विजयी बनाइए। आपके सपने पूरे करने की जिम्मेदारी मैं लेता हूं। हर वादा निभाए। भाईयों बहनों पिछले 30 साल में कोई ऐसी सरकार दिल्ली में नहीं बनी तो खुद बिहार के पास आए। अब आपने बिहार में एक ऐसी सरकार बिठाई है जो खुद बिहार के पास आती है, अब बिहार को दिल्ली जाने की जरूरत नहीं। और इसलिए ये जातिवाद हो, ये जहर घोलने की बातें, गुमराह करने के तरीके हो, इन चीजों ने बिहार का भला नहीं किया है। अगर बिहार का भला करना है तो वो विकासवाद से होगा। हमारे सब दुखों की एक दवाई है और वो दवाई है विकास। एक मात्र जड़ीबूटी है- विकास। विकास का राह ही हमें प्रगति की नई ऊचाइयों पर ले जाएगा। हमारे दुखों को दूर करेगा। हमारी आने वाली पीढ़ी का भविष्य निर्धारित करेगा। और इसलिए भाईयों-बहनों मैं आज नवादा के नागरिकों का आभारी हूं। विशेषकर नौजवानों का आभारी हूं। मैं भूल नहीं सकता हूं इस सभा को। क्या प्यार दिखाया आपने। और मैं आपको विश्वास दिलाता हूं कि इस प्यार को ब्याज समेत विकास करके लौटाऊंगा। बिहार की शक्लो-सूरत बदलेगी। बिहार चमकेगा, इसी एक विश्वास के साथ मेरे साथ मुट्ठी बंद करके बोलिए भारत माता की जय। Long live Mother India.\nबहुत बहुत धन्यवाद मेरे भाईयों और बहनों बहुत बहुत धन्यवाद।\n"