"India will prosper only when development reaches every corner of the country: PM Modi #ParivartanRally\nBihar needs 'Vikas-Raj' not 'Jungle-Raj': PM Modi #ParivartanRally\nYouth of Bihar They are extremely talented: PM #ParivartanRally\nThose who practice casteism \u0026 do vote bank politics can never think of developing Bihar: PM #ParivartanRally\nI have a dream that by 2022, every Indian must have their homes, 24/7 electricity \u0026 water: PM #ParivartanRally\n'Mahaswarthbandhan' has ruined Bihar NDA is dedicated to development of Bihar: PM Modi #ParivartanRally\nBihar has no place for 'Shaitan': PM #ParivartanRally\nAccording to police, there were over 4000 kidnapping cases. This proves the situation of Bihar under 'Jungle-Raj': PM\nBharat Mata Ki Jai, Bharat Mata Ki Jai\nMithila Pavan honored the earth. Mr. Ravi Shankar Prasad, my partner of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Nityanand Rai, the leader of the BJP, Mr. Ramchandra Paswan, the leader of the LJP, Mr. Kirti Azad, BJP MP, Bhai Mukesh Sahni Ji and those whom we have been a saint As seen in the work, five-five generations have been inspired by politics, by the way Captain Nishad Ji will come to bless us today. I am very grateful to him that I am his loyal candidate from Kalyanpur, Prince Raj, LJP candidate from Warsisnagar, Chandrasekhar Yadav, BJP candidate from Samastipur, Smt. Renu Kushwaha ji, Ralospa's candidate Kumar Anand, BJP candidate from Morva Suresh Rai, Saraiyanjan BJP candidate Shri Ranjit Nirgunji ji, BJP candidate from Moyuddin Nagar Satyendra Singh ji, Lozap from Vaibhipur Candidate Ramesh Kumar Rai, BJP candidate from Rosdha Manju Hazari G, Ralospa candidate Hasanpur Mr. Vinod Chaudhary G and senior dignitaries seated on stage.\nWherever I get to see all around, people are being seen by me. In such a horrible heat you are doing penance from the hours. Nobody wants any of you, but you are taking so much trouble. You are stressed in such a terrible heat as you are troubled by Bihar's Behali and want to save Bihar. My dear brothers and sisters, I assure you that I will never allow your penance to become useless. Whatever sacrifice you have made to change the fate of Bihar, I will also sacrifice something in this yagna.\nThe earth of Samastipur, the motivator of all of us, and whose life has been inspired by the downtrodden, afflicted, exploited and disadvantaged people, I salute this Janmabhoomi of the late Karpari Thakur. I pray to them that they are where they are, bless us with the same so that we can fulfill your dreams.\nToday is the death anniversary of Loknayak Jayaprakash Narayan on October 8. Look at the color of this politics, see the people who have changed colors in the politics for the sake of power, see their exploits; These are the people who used to talk of Kripuri Thakur and talk about the welfare of the poor, used to talk about fighting the Congress against the Congress; These people used to run their political programs in the shadow of the name of Jayprakash Narayan. Jayaprakash Narayan waged a war against the mischief and corruption of Congress, inspired the youth of the country. The people who used to sing the songs of the people till yesterday, they used to tell Karpari Thakur, today they sit in the lap of Congress. I can imagine that wherever the soul of Loknayak Jayaprakash Narayan, Karpuri Thakur, Ram Manohar Lohia ji, their soul will be most unhappy due to the conduct of these people.\nThis is the right time to pay tribute to Karpuri Thakur. To uproot such people, throwing them out will be a true tribute to Kripuri Thakur. My Biharites, you tell us that progress in Bihar should be developed here or not? Should the youth get employment or not? Be the leader of the Congress, Lalu Ji, here is the Chief Minister, it is important to know these three people. Congress run the government for 35 years in Bihar but did it even after 35 years of rule? Who can not do anything for 35 years, will they do something in 5 years? Lalu ji and here is the chief minister, big brother and younger brother, big brother is such that the younger brother is ever a murderer and sometimes a parrot says; He ruled Bihar for 25 years but if he can not do anything in 25 years, will he do something in 5 years? Together these three have ruled 60 years in Bihar. Did something good in 60 years?\nYou see that these three people used to fight each other against each other, they used to defame each other, but today these three have met for the benefit of Bihar. They have just gathered for power. You tell me that all these rumors of the Mahasvandrabhan should be accounted for when you come to vote for them. What promises were made to Bihar, and what promises have been fulfilled, should they tell them or not? Tell me that there have been so many days of election, they are giving account of their work? Those who are not accounting for 60 years of work, should give them a chance for 5 years again?\nFor the first time in Delhi, there has been such a government which is dedicated to Bihar, dedicated to change the fate of Bihar and I am not saying this today. In September 2013, the BJP was held in September. Take out one of my speeches of that session and see, in that I had said that if we want to change the fate of Hindustan then every corner of India, every state needs to be developed. If only the western end of India is in development and not of the Northeast then India can never become great. Kerala, Karnataka, Gujarat, Goa, Rajasthan, Haryana, Punjab etc. and further if Orissa, Bihar, Bengal, Assam and North-Eastern region remain behind, then will my country ever go ahead? I believe that if Hindustan has to take forward, Eastern Hindustan will have to give more speed and strength.\nThe package of development of 1 lakh 65 thousand declared for Bihar will do well only for Bihar, it is not so, when these packages come in work on the soil of Bihar, they will help change the face of the whole of India. Once Bihar went ahead, Hindustan could never stand behind. This power is Bihar's. That is why I am doing my best to get opportunity for Bihar's youth, how to get strength in Bihar. Bihar's power is unprecedented. Right now I went to America where I got a team of Bihar citizens from me. When I got acquainted with them, one more promising people from my country are doing so much work in the US and especially in Bihar, so much pleasure is seen. When he talked to them, he said that Sahib, we are hoping that after the election Bihar will start functioning. I also saw the people of Bihar who were worried about Bihar in America. I felt that the state that has such a strong, powerful young man, the state can never be left behind.\nWe are focusing on all the requirements of Bihar. In elections and politics, we know well those politicians who have created the poison of casteism and communism. Those who spread politics of casteism and communalism will never be able to do well in Bihar. And that is why Bihar has to face the challenge of Jangrajraj, after that I want to ask whether we have to bring this Jangrajraj back again? Brothers and sisters, if Bihar is to take it then Bihar needs - Vikasraj Chase the Jangaraj and follow the path of Vikasraj and I have come to you with the promise of development.\nI am amazed that since the past, the people of the Mahasvantrabhan are angry that they have humiliated the people of Bihar's Yaduvans and what they eat, it is said that I can not speak from my mouth. I can not do this sin. When the people and the media of Yaduvans surrounded him, he said that the devil came in me, so I said that. Now I have a question that there are billions of people in the whole world, there are millions of people in India, there are billions of people in Bihar but I am wondering if the devil got the place of this\nYou see if you have a heart attack and you go to the doctor, then the doctor says that this habit is wrong, it is bad because of this it has happened. If you have diabetes and you go to the doctor, the doctor says that this habit is wrong, this behavior of food is bad, this method of working is wrong and due to this you have diabetes. Laloo ji, Bihar wants to know that you have such a bad thing that the devil has entered in you. Why the devil found this place, it is a matter of great discovery. The people of Bihar discovered that why they possessed demons We have to choose those who have human and humanity. There is no place in Bihar for such people who have sat down. I have come here today to urge you to bless the NDA alliance, led by BJP, who wants to work for Bihar's development.\nYou tell me that Bihar should not be the way, the hospital, the teacher? Should the poor, the school, the house or the young man need employment? We have the same agenda that Bihar should grow and so much that the whole of India will go forward. I have come to you with this dream. The package announced for Bihar is the biggest event in Bihar's history and that is because I know the strength of Bihar well. I say that Bihar's water and Bihar's youth, if they are used properly, will not be just Bihar, the whole of India will change. There is so much water here but the same water ever destroys and then forces others to drought in another area, because 60 years here who ruled, they did not care about the water here. Wherever the young man goes to Hindustan or wherever in the world, the name of Hindustan is bright, but the youth has to flee. If they get opportunity in Bihar then will Bihar be changed or not? Therefore, the water of Bhai sahin, Bihar should also be used and Bihar youth should also work.\nI have come to you today with the mantra of development. Our dream is to give home to the poor, they have the dream of giving electricity to those homes. The people who talked to the poor had ever thought that our poor mothers had to go to the open and they felt humiliated. People who talked to the poor ever thought that they should make at least the toilets for them. None of these have the right to talk about the poor, who have not been able to give the poor to the toilet after running the government for 60 years, they have come to teach us poverty.\nIndira Gandhi nationalized the banks and said that the poor should have to open bank accounts, the poor should get the money from the banks. Did you tell me that the poor got the opportunity to go to the bank? Did the poor door of the bank ever see? Stay away from poor banks for 60 years. Within a year, we opened an account in all the citizens of the country in the banks. This is an example of how it works for the poor. In the coming days, I have to give the poor home to live. In 2022 when the country's independence is 75 years then every family in the country should have their own house, I want your blessings to fulfill this dream.\nBrothers and sisters, did your Chief Minister promise to give you power in the 2010 election? Got electricity? They said that if we do not give electricity, then we will not come to demand votes in 2015, was it said? Do not come again to ask for votes again? What is electricity? Their point of view can not be trusted. Look at this language of ego, despite not having electricity in the house, they have come here again to ask for votes. These false and hollow promises are playing games to make Jungleraj again.\nTell me that the biggest industry in Jangaraj was run - kidnapping industry, kidnapping, and then ask for revenge. What is the rule of kidnapping again? From January to July, according to the Bihar Government police statistics, 4000 kidnapping incidents have come down. Durgapuja will come in the coming days. When Jangrajraj was there, people could not go to Ramlila in the evening because they were afraid that somebody would not have troubled anybody. No one could buy a new car because it was afraid that if a leader came to know then he would go to the car, money would go and demand would be beaten, he would have been different. This business was not running? I have come to you for salvation. We do not have to come back to the jangaraj again.\nI have come to ask you to vote for development. I am convinced that the massacre I am seeing, I am very clear that the people of Bihar who are in the Lok Sabha election, the people of Bihar will be worse than them. The ego of the Congress was on the seventh sky. There was a time when the people had given him 440 members in the Lok Sabha, but the ego reached such a limit that this Janata Janardhan brought them to 40. Those who are living in ego, understand that these people know everything. People forgive mistakes but deceit never forgives.\nFor the first time to change the fate of Bihar and take it on the path of development, the government has come to run with the shoulders from the shoulder for the first time. Bless us and make all our candidates victorious. All say fist off with me -\nBharat Mata Ki Jai, Bharat Mata Ki Jai, Bharat Mata Ki Jai!\nThanks a lot"