"Share\n\nThe rich do not need the government Government is the poor, for their welfare as they have no support apart from the government: PM\nCitizens of India have some expectation from the Govt, we must fulfill their expectations: PM\nMany polls were fought in the name of poor but nothing was done: PM Modi\nJDU, RJD and Congress alliance is a 'Mahaswarthbandhan': PM\n'Sinhasan Khali Karo Ki Janata Aati Hai' -These powerful lines from the poem of Rashtrakavi has given the power to the youth of Bihar: PM\nThis election is a war between Vikasraaj vs Junglraaj: PM\nGreat personalities like JP Narayan, Rashtrakavi Dinkar, Shri Babu are the inspiration for the nation: PM\nBegusarai has tremendous scope for growth in Industrial development: PM Modi\nCaste politics and the politics of vote bank is the main reason behind the plight of Bihar: PM\nThe day Bihar becomes a developed state; India will be No. 1 country in the world: PM\nBharat Mata Ki Jai, Bharat Mata Ki Jai, Bharat Mata Ki Jai,\nMr. Ram Vilas Paswan, my senior colleague of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Rajnish Singh, the leader of the Bihar Legislative Assembly, Mr. Nand Kishore Yadav, leader of the Bihar Legislative Assembly, Dr. C.P. Thakur, the senior leader of Begusarai Dr. Dr. Bhola Singh ji, National Lok Samata Party MP Mr. Ram Kumar Sharma, Begusarai BJP's District President Mr. Jairam Das ji, Lozap Begusarai District President Sanjay Paswan G, we are the District President of the party Mr. Mohammad Hasan Hassan, the District President of Ralospa Mr Rajiv Kumar ji, Mr. Anil Kumar Chaudhary, the candidate of LJP's Chariya Bariyarpur, Mr. Arvind Kumar Singh, candidate of Bachwada of LJP, Taghara from BJP Assembly candidate Ram Lakhan Singh, Mathehani assembly candidate from BJP, Sarvesh Kumar, LJP candidate Sah Mohammad Aslam ji from Bapur Kamal, BJP candidate from Begusarai Surendra Mehta, Bikrami Assembly candidate from BJP, Ramanand Ram ji, LJP candidate Mithlesh G Nishant, all of you with my colleagues, speak loudly - Bharat Mata Ki Jai , Bharat Mata Ki Jai, Bharat Mata Ki Jai!\nBrothers and sisters, there is a state-level rally in any state, people have been called from the entire state, and if such a rally is held, people will believe that there is a historic rally. Such a huge gathering in a district, where I see the forehead itself is coming; This rally is not Rala. These three people who have been destroying Bihar for 60 years, they will throw them out and throw them away. I did not come here in the Lok Sabha election and our Bhola babu was complaining, today I removed his complaint and it is our responsibility that even smallest citizens of India can expect us and those expectations We must try to fulfill We have also seen electoral politics. I have also seen the raising question marks in the heart of the public in the election, but since I have started coming to Bihar for campaigning, I have never seen such an election as I am seeing in Bihar today. I am experiencing that there will be no question mark on the outcome of elections in the minds of the people of Bihar today, how it will happen. The people of Bihar have accepted and have decided that the NDA Government will continue to be under the leadership of BJP and Bihar will go on the path of development, I am clearly watching.\nYou tell, who is the government for whom? Do the rich ever need a government? The rich do not ever need the government. If the rich becomes sick, the doctor will be queued outside his house, but if a poor person becomes ill, there is no support other than the government for that sick. If you want to read the son of a rich person, he will get good teachers from the world, get good schools, but if a poor child is to be read, then he has to trust the government teacher and the government school. . If a rich person has to go somewhere then the airplane waits for him, but if a poor person has to go to another village to sell his own vegetable, milk, then he has to wait for the government bus. If it does not come, then its stay will stop.\nGovernment is meant for the poor, for the change of life of the poor and for their welfare, but elections in our country were fought in the name of the poor but the government did not run for the poor. In our country, votes were asked in the name of the poor but the government did not run for the welfare of the poor. Had there been something for the poor in this country; If all governments came after so many years of independence, if all those governments had done some work by keeping the poor in mind, the number of poor people in my country would not increase, poverty and hunger in the country, and no increase in disease and illiteracy in my country.\nIn this election, I urge all those people that before you all vote, put your hand on your heart and ask once again that this is what is called 'Mahasvandrabhan'; This is not a major coalition, but is the 'Mahasvandrabhan'. There are three partners of this 'Mahasvandrabhan' who want to merge Bihar once again. These three are the people, these three who are the parties, remember the people of Bihar.\nThere is a Congress party which has ruled for 35 years in Bihar. Tell me, the Congress which has ruled for 35 years, has done something good in so many years? Bihar has developed? Bihar's young man has done good? Have them employed? Have you falsified from Bihar? Who can not do anything in 35 years, will they do something today? Can you trust them? Can anyone hope from them? The second is - the symbol of Jangaraj. Sitting on the throne of Bihar for 15 years, singing songs of poor people by the name of Loknayak Jayprakash Narayan and Ram Manohar Lohia. What is eaten in 15 years, the people of Bihar know well. Someone told me that in 15 years, the road remained in the street? Did the schools run? Teachers recruited? Doctors run away from Bihar or not? Did the youngsters have to flee? Mother and daughters were respected? Can you rely on those who gave you such a government for 15 years? Can he do your best? After this, the next 10 years which came with the name of the removal of Jangaraj, he is talking to you again to bring the Jangrajraj, his things can be trusted? 35 years Congress and 25 years old brothers and younger brothers continue their business.\nLook at this big brother - little brother's relationship; The elder brother sometimes calls the younger brother the killer, and then the parrot says. Those who have run the government in Bihar for 60 years, have politics in the name of the poor, but they have done the work of destroying Bihar day and night. Brothers and sisters, should such governments ever come again?\nToday is 8th October and today was the death of Loknayak Jayaprakash Narayan. Today, on the occasion of his death, you are most urged to recall the great man, the son of Bihar and the pride of India for the moment, and bring Dinkar's message to the corner of India. \"Empty the throne that the masses come\" - This mantra of the children of this earth and the nation's Dinkar stood up for the youth of India. In the freedom movement, Vande Mataram gave a new force to the country like the echo of Mataram, for the liberation of corruption in the country, this poem of Nankrishna Dinakar for emancipation of the country, 'Empty the throne that the people come' inspiration to many young people Gives.\nThis land belongs to those great men who gave a new force in the movement of freedom. Gandhiji's Dandi Yatra in 1930 is considered to be important for the freedom of India but when it comes to salt Satyagraha, then the great man of this earth remembers Mr. Babu. The great man suffered the pain. Iya, today we remember all the great men like Jyaprakash Narayan, Lokayayak, Jai Prakash Narayan, Nation, and we remember Shri Babu, the living and dead people for the people and vowed to bring Vikasraj in Bihar.\nTrying to bring the Jangaraj on one side and try to bring developmental on the other side; This election is a battle between Jangaraj and Vikasraj. You tell me that Bihar needs development or not? Bihar needs road, rail, industry or not? Should not the youth want to employ? Should their escape stop or not? If this is to be done, then now Jangaraj will not have to give chance in Bihar. Now Bihar needs only development rate. The path of development will solve our problems, so today I have brought you a message of development.\nI'm surprised. Take out the dialogue of the Lalu ji and take the 2015 dialogue; The same thing is neither new idea, nor new thinking, it is so necessary that instead of sons themselves have come, but there has not been any difference. I am from Gujarat's land. My birth has been there and it is the land of Dwarkadhishtha. Shri Krishna's Dwarka Nagaris ... He taught cow-love and today even the people of Gujarat are so absorbed in cow-worship that there was a white revolution, the milk business increased so much that today Amul is being recognized all over the world. The true Yaduvanshi takes a pledge to fulfill the tradition of Shri Krishna and how the leader is insulting the Yaduvansis here.\nI'm so surprised. What kind of abuses are being given to you? Lalu Ji, whatever you made, were made from the blessings of the Yaduvanshi and today you are giving them such a horrible slogan; What are they eating, such serious allegations? I am ashamed, never my countrymen, do not insult me ​​of my Yaduvans. I have come from the land of Krishna, I am getting a lot of pain from these things. And what are you talking about, when the media people got caught, what did the people of Yaduvanshi society come forward to say? He says - Satan entered into me. I am very surprised whether Satan also found the same place, did he feel like entering the body, he got no one else in Bihar, he found no other in India, no one else in the world found , Found only the body of Lalu Ji. See, how are they doing the satanic hospitality, as if they had some old companions, they are making a solemn promise.\nBrothers and sisters, we have to save this Bihar from the Jangaraj, have to emphasize for employment and so I have come to you today. These terrains can become a major center for industrial development. The youth here will find employment, not just this, but the power of Begusarai is so much that it can become a center for employment to the youth of Bihar, but no one dares to come here because he says that as much money He will put it, more money than it will have to pay in the reward. Jangaraj, the industry of hijacking - the only industry here. Kidnap, take the rituals and enjoy yourself, if the business keeps going, then who will be the Begusarai.\nYou see, the factory of Barauni Fertilizer, should it be turned on or not? Should he develop or not? Is this your right or not? If you have the right then I should fulfill that right? That's why my government decided that by investing 1500 crores for the fertilizer, again employ and develop the youth here.\nPeople living on the Ganges coast are disturbed that the sand thieves have kept their lives alive, their land is not being saved, their cultivation is not being saved. The reason for those who play such games is that Bihar's governments have ignored two Bihar powers; One is Shakti, the water and the other here's youth. There is so much water in some areas of Bihar but due to that water there is a devastation and there is so much youth in Bihar that they have to go out for roti-roti. Both of us will change the fate of Bihar, it is our belief, that's why my youngsters, we have to walk on the path of development.\nWhere does the ego reach from, you have seen that the ego of the Congress Party remained on the seventh heaven and the result was that it used to sit with 440 MPs, but today it got reduced to 40. Public-forgiveness can forgive mistakes, not ego. For an egoistic leader here, he has put Bihar's fate on the wager. It is the responsibility of every Bihar lover to smash such an ego in this election.\nThis is the terrain where traders cultivate pulses traditionally For the first time, the sitting government in Delhi increased the minimum support price of pulses and the result was that the people who cultivate pulses in the country got encouragement. This time our farmers' brothers came forward to cultivate more number of pulses than ever before. India needs pulses. I am here to give more incentives to the farmers who cultivate paddy so that the country does not have to buy pulses from abroad, the country is growing ahead of this country due to the pulse produced by our farmers.\nWe gave a package of 1 lakh 25 thousand crores and 40 thousand crores and, overall, the package of 1.65 lakh crores is for the welfare of Bihar. Now you tell me that this package should reach village-village or not? Should not new ways become? Should electricity come or not? Should the claim be made? Should not be a school for the poor? But those who say that they will not pay 1.65 lakh crore rupees, if such people will be formed then what will come? What will be good for Bihar? Those who are stuck in this way, should they be removed or not? This election is an election to stop people who stop the development path.\nThis is the 'Mahasvandrabhan' ... In this election, should all these three should give account of their work or not? Whether Nitishji, Lalu are alive, Soniaji should have accounted for 60 years of her government? What are they giving? Why was Bihar ruined, why did not develop, answer? What are they supposed to do, what are they doing? I urge the people of Bihar to ask for their accountability from the leaders who have formed this 'Mahasvandrabhan'. हर गाँव, गली, घर से जवाब मांगो आप उनसे जवाब मांगिये, आपको खुद पता लग जाएगा कि कौन सा बटन दबाना है, मुझे कुछ कहने की ज़रूरत नहीं।\nये जो 1.65 लाख करोड़ रुपये का पैकेज हमने दिया है और पूरा बारीकी से हिसाब दिया है। मैं उसमें बेगूसराय इलाक़े का बताना चाहता हूँ- एनएच – 82 पर 55 किमी, बिहारशरीफ, बरबीघा, मोकामा सेक्शन, एनएचबी फेज़ – 4 के निर्माण के लिए करीब-करीब 400 करोड़ रुपये का पैकेज; एनएच – 31 के बख्तियार-मोकामा सेक्शन को चार लेन का बनाने के लिए करीब-करीब 1000 करोड़ रुपये का पैकेज; एनएच – 31 पर पटना में गंगा नदी पर नया चार लेन के पुल का प्रावधान है जिसके लिए करीब-करीब 520 करोड़ रुपये; एनएच – 31 एनएचबी फेज़ – 3 सिमरिया-खगड़िया को चार लेन करने के लिए 1062 करोड़ रुपये; उसी प्रकार एनएच – 31 मोकामा-खगड़िया सेक्शन को को चार लेन करने के लिए 810 करोड़ रुपये राशि का प्रावधान है। बरौनी रिफाइनरी, उसमें 6 मिलियन क्षमता वाली 6 टंकियों को 9 मिलियन क्षमता वाली बनाने के लिए करीब 12,000 करोड़ रुपये लगाने का निर्णय किया गया है। बरौनी रिफाइनरी में बीएस4 फ्यूल के उत्पादन के कार्यान्वयन के लिए, मैंने 1500 करोड़ रुपये लगाना तय किया।\nबिहार की किसी सरकार ने 60 साल में कभी सोचा नहीं कि बिहार को कैसे बदला जा सकता है। किन बातों पर बल दिया जाना चाहिए, वो नहीं किया। जातिवाद, संप्रदायवाद, यही राजनीति करते रहे यही बिहार की बर्बादी का कारण रहा है। ये ‘महास्वार्थबंधन’ बिग बॉस का घर है जिसमें एक बिग बॉस है जो कहता है कि मैं जैसे कहूँगा, लोग वैसे नाचेंगे; मैं जो कहूँगा, वैसा ये लोग करेंगे। इस बिग बॉस के घर में जितने भी लोग हैं, वे एक-दूसरे के साये से भी डरते हैं, कतराते हैं; एक-दूसरे का खात्मा करने के लिए खेल खेलते रहते हैं और बिग बॉस रिंग लीडर की तरह उन्हें नचाने में लगे हुए हैं।\nभाईयों-बहनों, क्या बिहार में ये खेल चलने देना है क्या? बिहार को इस बिग बॉस से बचाना है कि नहीं? और इसलिए आज मैं बेगूसराय की धरती पर आपसे आशीर्वाद लेने आया हूँ। भाजपा हो, राम विलास जी की पार्टी हो, कुशवाहा जी की पार्टी हो, मांझी जी की पार्टी हो, हम सब मिलकर बिहार का भाग्य बदलना चाहते हैं, आपका जीवन बदलना चाहते हैं। मुझे आपका आशीर्वाद चाहिए। मेरे साथ बोलिये और पूरी ताकत से बताईये, सारे हिन्दुस्तान को पता चले कि बेगूसराय से कैसी आवाज उठती है। ऐसी भयंकर धूप में कोई कल्पना नहीं कर सकता है कि कितना बड़ा जन-सैलाब आया है।\nभाईयों-बहनों, मैं आपका ये प्रेम और विश्वास आपको ब्याज समेत लौटाउंगा। इस भयंकर ताप में आप जो तपस्या कर रहे हो, मैं उसे कभी बेकार नहीं जाने दूंगा। आपको एक अपना साथी मिला है जो कंधे से कंधा मिलाकर के आपके सुख-दुःख बांटना चाहता है। बिहार को बदलना मेरा स्वार्थ है, राजनीतिक स्वार्थ नहीं बल्कि मेरा स्वार्थ है कि जिस दिन बिहार बदलेगा, हिन्दुस्तान दुनिया में नंबर एक पर पहुँच जाएगा; ये ताकत है बिहार की। पूरा हिन्दुस्तान स्वार्थ से चाहता है कि मेरा बिहार आगे बढ़े; बिहार विकास की ऊंचाईयों पर पहुंचे; बिहार का नौजवान, उसकी ताकत देश का भाग्य बदलने के काम आए, इसलिए मैं आपसे वोट मांगने आया हूँ। मेरे साथ पूरी ताकत से बोलिये -  \nLong live Mother India! Long live Mother India! Long live Mother India!\nThanks a lot."