"Jungleraaj govt had built an industry of kidnapping and extortion in Bihar: PM\nThey were railway ministers so long but the demands of Munger got met: PM\nWe need to do lot of work for Bihar and we need your help, you need to remove this disruptive government: PM\nMahaswarthbandhan has looted Bihar for 60 years; We will not give them another chance: PM\nJungleraaj is its peak in Bihar, there was 4000 kidnappings between January to July this year: PM\nLong live Mother India\nMr. Sushil Kumar Modi, senior member of Bihar Legislative Council, Mr Kushwaha Ji, we are the Chairman of the party and Mr. Shakuni Choudhary, the candidate from Tarapur, Mr. Gajendra Singh, MP, Mr. Surjbhan Singh, MP, MP, former MP, National Lok Samata Party General Secretary Mr. Shivraj Singh ji, Munger MP Mrs Veena Devi, BJP District President Shivkumar Shri Randhir Singh, District President of Ralospa, Ms. Kumkum Devi, Mayor of Munger Municipal Corporation; Ms. Baby Chunky, Deputy Mayor of Munger Municipal Corporation; Shri Prem Ranjan ji, candidate from Suryagarh; Assembly candidate from Lakhisarai; Vijay Kumar Sinha; BJP from Munger; Candidate Mr. Pranav Yadav, Mr. Manusk Kunwar ji, candidate from Jamalpur from LJPA, Subhash Chandra Boseji, Thank you very much Issues.\nEveryone has got the blessings of this vast mass community and this is proof of what is going to happen in Bihar now. Let me tell you the truth, I have been Chief Minister for many years in Gujarat and for a long time in Gujarat, people have given an opportunity to BJP to form government, but we will not be able to do such a rally at 10-11 in the morning. We look forward to the evening time. I am surprised that you sleep or do not sleep. These scenes itself have evidence of what direction the wind is going on. This time Bihar has forced the political pundits of the country to change the basis of all their political reviews. For a long time, the politics of Bihar politics was either surrounded by some leaders or lived around some castes; For the first time Bihar elections have centered around youthful enthusiasm, for the first time the focus of the development is on the idea of ​​development. I understand that all the political pundits of India have come to the stamp of this matter.\nToday is 8 oct. I have got the good fortune of coming to Munger on the land where yoga has been modernized. Munger has attracted the whole world and it is the Yogpeeth like Munger that has inspired more than 190 countries of the world to celebrate Yoga. I remembered on 8th October because in 1979, on this day we lost our beloved leader Respected Jai Prakash Narayan. Jai Prakash Narayan ji had the power to compete with even death. He had stabbed the English noses. After independence, he fought for good governance, fought corruption, spent his whole life in order to make the future of the country bright, and filled the mind of the whole revolution with a new consciousness in the youth of the country, but Jayaprakash Babu, No one could imagine that they went away from us.\nThe Congress party had imposed emergency in this country. Hindustan had made a jail and had pushed Jayprakash Narayan ji behind the bars of the prison, and here his disease came and took him. Unfortunately, to sing a song of Jayprakash Narayan ji, these people are sitting with the Congress which the Congress had shut down Jayaprakash Babu inside the jail. If this is not politics of selfishness then what is; What is it if this is not cheated with Jayaprakash Narayan ji? Ram Manohar Lohia struggled for life-long non-Congress ideology. People who take the name of the same Ram Manohar Lohia bark at us by drinking the water that was used by Congress. That is why I have come to say that we have to change the fate of Bihar and I believe that the Bihar youth will change the fortunes of Bihar, the picture of Bihar will also change.\nI have come here today on Munger's land, it is natural that I should remember Nandlal Bose ji. Very few people here will have the opportunity to listen to them. Born in Tarapur, Nandlal Bose, as the Baba Ambedkar gave the constitution to India, the work of rediscovering that constitution was done by Lal Nandlal Bose of Munger. 22 pieces in different sections, which are still the basic elements of our constitution, were painted 22 pictures, decorations, and coloring of this Munger's land, by Nandlal Bose. I respectfully respect them today. Art, Culture, It is in the rage of Bihar and whenever it gets the chance, it has shown its true form, hence the whole country glorifies Bihar, respect and respect of Bihar.\nBrothers and sisters, when I remember Jaiprakash ji, it was natural ... old Munger district; Now he has become part of it. The nationalist Dinkar was born in Simaria and his poem which inspired the youth of the whole country, \"Empower the throne that the people come\", this was the history of the young man who had walked. This time, I have to take a resolution to change the fate of Bihar in this election.\nI have born on Gujarat's land. This is the earth where Charkha Bhadhi Mohan Mahatma Gandhi was born. This is the earth where the Chakradhar Dwarkadhishtha was Lord Sri Krishna. And see how the tradition of Dwarkadhish is going on this earth today. The shadow of the sacraments of Sri Krishna gives inspiration to that land. This is the reason that there are Yaduvanshi people here who gave a white revolution to the country and today many Dairies like Amul in the field of milk are famous for Gujarat. The center of white revolution in India became Gujarat. He followed the tradition of Krishna and followed it.\nBut what one of the leaders here has eaten and insulted the Yaduvansis. Lalu ji comes to the polls, but do not forget that this was the people of Yaduvans who were standing with you and then you had the opportunity to go to the throne of power. If Yaduvansh people ask you questions then what charges do you make against them? They have so severely charged that what Yaduvanshi eats? Is this an insult of Yaduvans or not? Is this an insult to Bihar or not? And when the anger of Yaduvansh fires, then they are saying that Satan entered within me. There is a question in my mind that Satan found this place, in entire India, no place was found in the whole world; Only then did Laloo ji found the place. Tell me, your house, your village, your neighborhood, can you dare to come in your body? As relatives come and we recognize; They also recognized the devil. Now tell me that where Satan can dare to live, where Satan can be good enough to live, can there be a place in Bihar for such people? Therefore, we will never see the address of the devil, we will never see it.\nNow, to save Bihar, it has to move forward. Until now, we used to think that our fight is with humans, for the first time it is revealed that the devil is in the midst of humans and he is behind us. Imagine, who did Raj after independence in Bihar? Congress ruled for 35 years, and ruled for 25 years, these elderly brothers ruled these young brothers. Those who have plundered Bihar for 60 years, now they are making self-reliance of coming and not small, 'Maha Swastrabhan'. Brothers and sisters, is Bihar going to be more ruined? Bihar is to be free from the devastation? For 60 years, who has trampled Bihar's future, should such a 'Mahasvandrabhan' now be given place in Bihar? Should there be freedom forever?\nWhen this Congress party has lost its strength to come out from the front then it has come back from the back door. Today the leaders of the Congress have lost the power to sing praises of any of their leaders. The country had never seen such a thing of Congress and its cause would be a small or big politician in any corner of India; Be of any town or ideology; The example of how the ego destroys in public life is the Congress Party. This is public, it keeps silent, but when the time comes, choose and do the calculations. What happened to the ego of the Congress in the Lok Sabha elections, they all know how the arrogance is going to be defeated in the elections of Bihar this time, they are going to showcase the youth of Bihar.\nSometimes I think that this election is directly on two things; You have to decide. On one side there is Jangaraj and Vikasraj is on one side. There is a fight between Jangaraj and Vikasraj. You tell me that Jangrajraj should come again? It has come to light. Figures from the Bihar government's own figures, January-July, are saying that the biggest industry in Jangaraj in Bihar was that - abduct it, take it back. According to the figures from January to July which the Bihar government has declared, 4000 incidents have been abducted. Now you tell me if you have to give it again on the day of abduction?\nYou remember the festive season in the coming days, Durgapuja will be in the smoke, the festival of Vijaya Dashmi will come, Ramlila will run; There will be many people among you who have not been born or will be on the very day of childhood; To be known in Durga Pavp and Mother stopped the evening and said that now the sun is going to be covered and can not go out; Bow down to the mother here; Were these days that were not? Ramlila used to be but used to be afraid of people in the evening. If someone bought a new car in the days of the festival, then there was concern that if a leader came here, his disciples would come and pick up the car from here. The car will also go, the money will go, and if you go to demand then the life will go away too. These days Bihar has seen or not? That is why I say that the elections in Bihar should be for development and not for the Jangaraj.\nBrothers and sisters, Bihar is a state where there is so much water in some areas, for which many areas of India crave for water and Bihar is a state where young people have filled. If no one comes here and focus only on the water and youth here, then the life of Bihar will change. Here the governments have come when Bihar's water was also ruined and the youth here also migrated. I believe in the water of Bihar and the youth here, both of which will change not only Bihar but to the whole of India. I came here with this belief.\nGet the right management of water and get the right opportunity for the youth; Where will the country be reached but the water went away and we know that there is another industry in Bihar, the worst of all the rivers to steal the sand. People living on the banks of the river are so troubled by the sand thieves, they know well. The water did not save, did not allow the sand to escape. These people and it caused the ruin of Bihar. It is necessary that we have to focus on the development of Bihar. I would like to ask all these leaders that Modi-Modi's garlands are kept alive. Your love is different; If you speak Modi-Modi then their sleep is bad.\nBrothers and sisters, were these two Mahasayas in Bihar whether they were railway ministers? Are not the railway minister for so many years? Someone told me that Munger's rail bridge was able to work? Should it be complete or not? Did they? He was from Bihar, was the railway minister but Munger's bridge was not made; Patna's bridge has hung. These are their intentions and therefore I have come to say that we have to drive the growth vehicle fast. I want to tell you one more thing. 11th, 12th Five Year Plan, what happened? Here the Chief Minister promised to give 24 hours of electricity. In the 2010 election did you promise to give electricity? If I do not give electricity, I will not come in 2015, I will not ask for votes; Was it said? They obeyed the promise? Did not cheat with you? Leave the power, what kind of government they have run; I am telling\nIn the 11th and 12th Five Year Plan, Bihar got Rs 8215 crore for electricity in the villages from Delhi, but these people are running such a government in Bihar, only able to spend about 1300 crore out of 8000 crore. There is no power to spend; There is neither power nor intent, and unless their division is not fixed, the matter does not move forward and hence the work has stopped further. I have dreamed that in 2022 when there will be 75 years of independence, I want to reach 24 villages of every village of Hindustan for 24 hours. Wherever I go, I am pushing the matter of light and once electricity comes, only the lamp burns, it is not so; The whole life gets illuminated, the generation becomes radiant; Get jobs; Education gets; The factories seem like; The farmer gets an opportunity to increase value in his product and hence, to increase the electricity, to improve electricity from life, we have taken up the task of a great work and the work is progressing fast. In the last 30 years, the amount of electricity that was not produced, we have produced the same amount of power in a year. If we are a working government then how does it work, we have shown it.\nI want to give an example of Jangaraj. I want to remind you January 2014, remember, the Sukarabad police station; An elderly 70-year old Devika was taken by the police as the bill came to be false (electricity did not come, but the bill came to power). In the Sukarabad police station, 70 year old elder Devika Chaudhary ji was killed so much that he died. Brothers and sisters, called in the police station, killed the innocent people, but there was no concern to these leaders. A government which is destroying the society and life here, is to save Bihar.\nOur government has given the package of 1 lakh 65 thousand crores for the development of Bihar. They got worse than them. अब वे यह कोशिश करने लग गए कि ये पैकेज बिहार को न मिले। अब बिहार की जनता उन्हें पैकेज रोकने का अवसर नहीं देने वाली क्योंकि बिहार को अब विकास चाहिए। और हमने जो पैकेज कहा है, उसमें एक-एक चीज़ लिख-लिख कर कहा है, ज़िम्मेवारी के साथ कहा है। मुंगेर में पुल बनाना, 2300 करोड़ रूपया; नेशनल हाईवे – 80 मुंगेर सेक्शन को चार लेन करना, 1200 करोड़ रूपया; क्यूल-गया रेलवे लाइन 123 किमी, 1300 करोड़ रूपया; क्यूल-तिलैया रेलवे लाइन का विद्युतीकरण, 87 किमी, 85 करोड़ रूपया; तीन पहाड़ राजमहल सहित अम्मापाली हाट, क्यूल रेलवे लाइन का विद्युतीकरण आदि, 247 किमी और करीब-करीब 280 करोड़ रूपया। पैकेज में मुंगेर को क्या मिलेगा, इसका पूरा खांका बनाकर घोषित किया है और दिल्ली सरकार इसे पूरा करने के लिए प्रतिबद्ध है।\nहमें मौका दीजिए। बिहार में मुझे रोड बनाना है, शिक्षा पर काम करना है, आरोग्य का काम करना है, बिजली का काम करना है, नदियों का काम करना है, किसानों के कल्याण का काम करना है। आप बस एक काम कर दीजिये, ये जो रूकावट करने वाली सरकार है, उसे हटा दीजिये और बिहार में यहाँ आकर शैतान बैठना नहीं चाहिए। अब शैतान को बिहार में नहीं बल्कि हिन्दुस्तान में कहीं पर भी ठिकाना नहीं मिलना चाहिए। इसलिए मैं आपसे आग्रह करता हूँ कि भारी संख्या में मतदान कीजिये, एनडीए के सभी साथी दलों के साथ भाजपा को विजयी बनाईये। मेरे साथ दोनों मुट्ठी बांधकर पूरी ताक़त से बोलिये-\nLong live Mother India! Long live Mother India! Long live Mother India!\nThanks a lot."