"There is a tremendous potential in India-Germany economic collaboration: PM Narendra Modi\nAt a time of global slowdown, India represents a bright spot for investments: PM\nIndia committed to making favorable conditions for business and industry: PM\nWe have fast tracked approvals and clearances for industry and infrastructure: PM\nWe have liberalized FDI regime allowing 100% FDI in railways, enhancing FDI limit to 49% in Defense and Insurance: PM\nWe have introduced the GST Bill in parliament; We hopeful to roll it out in 2016: PM\nWe want to make sure our tax regime is transparent and predictable: PM\nIn Fifteen Months, We have successfully restored the credibility of the eyes of global players: PM Modi\nGrowth rate of GDP is above 7%, FDI inflows have gone up by 40% compared with previous year's corresponding period: PM\nWorld Bank, IMF, OECD now predict faster growth in coming years, Moody's has upgraded rating of India as positive: PM\nIndia has improved its UNCTAD ranking of investment attractiveness, now we are at 9th place: PM\nGovernment has no business to do business: PM\nIndia committed to protecting Intellectual Property Rights of all innovators and entrepreneurs: PM\nIndia is the tipping point where technology is going to leveraged to meet aspirations of our 1.25 billion citizens: PM\nYour Excellency Dr. Angela Merkel!\nIt is a great pleasure for me to join you in Bengaluru. Welcome to this Indo German Summit I love the city of Hannover and Hannover Messe in April.\n15 States, a number of CEOs and hundreds of companies from India, had participated The exposure to Hannover Messe will go a long way in shaping our vision and strategy of manufacturing. This is especially important at a time when we are on the path of making India a global manufacturing hub.\nDr. Merkel and Friends!\nThere is a tremendous potential in India-Germany economic collaboration. Germany ranks 7th among overseas investors in India About 600 Indo-German joint ventures are already operating in India. However, as of now, our economic partnership remains below our full potential. We are specializing in the areas where Germany is strong. We are working hard to create the right conditions for the same.\nFriends! At a time of global slowdown, India represents a bright spot for investments. We are fortunate to have the right direction. The latest data on global economic activity reinforces this assertion. However, we can not afford to be complacent. We are committed to doing everything in the real world.\nWith a very open and global mindset, we have been successful in the last fifteen months. We are committed to making favorable conditions for business and industry as we believe that they are necessary for improving the lives of ordinary citizens in India. A recent study conducted with the help of the World Bank Group has come out of the urgency among our provincial governments. They are going to hand-in-hand with the federal government in this direction in a true spirit of cooperative and competitive federalism. In fact the provincial governments have now entered into a healthy competition themselves to ensure that a transparent, predictable and user friendly regulatory mechanism is fast put in place.\nFriends! One of the biggest challenges in India today is productive employment our young For meeting this challenge, we need to provide a huge push to manufacturing which has stagnated at around 16% of the GDP for many decades in India. This percentage should reach around 25 in the short and medium term. With this in view, we have launched the \"Make in India\" initiative.\nTo make it a success, apart from vigorous implementation of measures for ease of doing business, we have fast tracked approvals and clearances for industry and infrastructure. Transparent auction and allocation of spectrum and of natural resources like coal, iron ore and other minerals in the last 15 months have created a level playing field for investors.\nWe are aware that our domestic financial resources are not able to meet our needs Therefore, to increase the flow of foreign investments, we have liberalized the FDI regime allowing 100% FDI in railways and enhancing the FDI limit to 49% in Defense and Insurance We have also refined our FDI Policy for construction and medical devices. We have been rationalised a number of other FDI related policy issues including bringing into the concept of composite sector caps for the FPIs and other investors.\nWe are interested in futuristic physical and social infrastructure. Through Self-imposed discipline in the management of our financial resources, we have been able to more resources for infrastructure sectors. In addition, we are setting up an India Investment and Infrastructure Fund We have targeted an annual flow of Rs 20,000 Crore (which is approximately 2.7 billion euros) We are putting a professional team for asset management.\nWe have also come up with the mechanism of Tax Free Infrastructure Bonds for projects in rail, road and irrigation sectors.\nThere were a number of regulatory and taxation issues which were adversely affecting the sentiments of foreign investors. We have taken a lot of decisions\nTo give some examples:\n• We have expedited regulatory clearances including security and environmental clearance;\n• Across the board, we have increased the validity period of Industrial Licenses;\n• We have de-licensed a number of defense items and liberalised a number of restrictions like end-use certificate\n• We have increased the validity period of defense licenses up to 18 years from three years;\n• We have clearly articulated that we will not resort to retrospective taxation and reinforced this position by not going for imposition of Minimum Alternate Tax on FPIs;\n• We have notified the regulations for the Alternative Investment Funds in foreign investments in such funds;\n• We have rationalized the capital gains tax regime for Real Estate Investment Trusts • We have modified the Permanent Establishment norms;\n• We have also decided to defer the implementation of the General Anti-Avoidance Rules for two years;\n• We have introduced the GST Bill in parliament; We are hopeful to roll it out in 2016;\n• We are working on a new bankruptcy code; The Company Law Tribunal is going to be formed\nWe want to make sure that our tax regime is transparent and predictable. We are also looking at those issues as genuine investors and honest tax payers.\nAs a result of our initiatives, the sentiments for private investment and inflow of foreign investment have turned positive. The growth rate of our GDP is above 7%. FDI inflows have gone up 40% compared with previous year's corresponding period.\nMany international financial institutions including the World Bank, the IMF, the OECD and others are predicting even faster growth in the coming years. Moody's has upgraded the rating of India as positive.\nIndia has improved its UNCTAD ranking of investment attractiveness. Against 15th so far, now we are at 9th place. India has also jumped 16 places on the World Economic Forum. Similarly, in a ranking of the top global destinations for greenfield investment in the first half of 2015, India is at number one. Foreign Policy magazine of USA has rated India as number one FDI destination.\nThus, just in fifteen months, we have successfully restored the credibility of the eyes of global players.\nI have always said that government has no business to do business Therefore, through PPP or otherwise, we are encouraging private investment in areas where only government used to invest. We are also selling our public sector enterprises, to instill market discipline.\nFriends I want to assure you that India has committed to protecting Intellectual Property Rights of all innovators and entrepreneurs. We have taken several initiatives for transparency and online processing in IP administration. A comprehensive national IPR policy is being finalized. Last week I myself reviewed the situation I can say that this is a progressive, and forward looking policy.\nFriends! We want to get into your dreams in reality Our commitment and aggressiveness to achieve the goal in a faster and effective way. These opportunities range from building 50 million homes to setting up 100 smart cities; modernization of our railway network and stations to setting up new railway corridors; generation of 175 GW of renewable energy to construction of transmission and distribution networks, National Highways, Bridges, and Metro Rails Such a huge potential for creation and production will not be available in any one country More importantly, no one is allowed on earth.\nWe are trying to power this potential through our campaigns like Digital India and Skill India. To tap the energy fully, we have launched the Start up India Campaign.\nI thank NASSCOM for becoming our active partner in this journey Recently, we tried to ignite this energy through an interface of our eco-system of Silicon Valley. India, in fact, is the threshold of a big IT revolution. We are the tipping point where technology is going to be leveraged to meet the aspirations of our 1.25 billion citizens. These initiatives are available in modern technologies and human resources.\nFriends! Ours is a country of the young and it is going to remain so many more years. There is a huge domestic market in India Unlike a decade ago, talented young minds in India are no longer looking for higher paying jobs. Instead, they have begun taking risks and preferring to become entrepreneurs We have witnessed exponential growth in the number of start-ups in the recent past. Some of them have begun to challenge established global players.\nTo conclude, I will assure you that we will open your ideas, innovations and enterprises. I said in Hannover and I am saying it again, that we are also able to carry out the necessary improvements in our policies and procedures. I can say that, never before, India has been able to absorb talent, technology and investment from outside\nTo our understanding, the necessary conditions to propose the Indian economy to a high growth trajectory do exist today. I am looking forward to working with you\nWhile in Bengaluru, I must add that it is the software of India that will move the hardware across the world; It is the talent of India that will master the technology; It is the market of India that will motivate manufacturing.\nTherefore, it makes strong business sense to be in India It makes even better business sense to Make in India\nThank you very much!"