"\nPM Modi congratulates Germany on the 25th anniversary of German reunification\nChancellor Merkel, your leadership is a source of confidence and reassurance at a difficult moment for Europe and the world: PM\nIndia sees Germany as a natural partner in its vision of economic transformation: PM\nGerman strengths and India's priorities are aligned: PM\nIndia and Germany can be strong partners in advancing a more human, peaceful, just and sustainable future for the world: PM\nGerman cooperation and assistance in areas like smart cities, Clean Ganga and waste management have taken a concrete shape: PM Modi\nDefense, technology, intelligence, countering terrorism important security of our expanding relations: PM\nWelcome to Germany's strong support for India's membership of the international export control regimes: PM Modi\nIndia, Germany committed to pursue reforms of the United Nations Security Council: PM Modi\nChancellor Merkel,\nMy colleagues,\nMembers of the media,\nIt is a great pleasure to welcome Chancellor Angela Merkel and her eminent delegation to India.\nOn behalf of the people of India, I warmly congratulated Germany on the 25th anniversary of German reunification. At this important milestone, you can look at your home and abroad. Chancellor Merkel, your leadership is a source of confidence and reassurance at a difficult moment for Europe and the world.\nYou have chosen to visit India The strength of your delegation reflects the importance you attach to relations with India and the seriousness with which you are the Inter Governmental Consultations. Your relationship So, thank you very much!\nThe mechanism of Inter-Governmental Consultation is definitely unique. And, it has brought about all round growth in our relations. In addition, in the course of the past year, our two sides have deepened our engagement. We see Germany as a creative partner in achieving our vision of India's economic transformation. German strengths and India's priorities are aligned And, so is our mutual goodwill\nOur focus can be on economic ties. But, I believe that in a world of seamless challenges and opportunities, India and Germany can also be strong partners in advancing a more human, peaceful, just and sustainable future for the world. We have a rich history of engagement. We share values ​​and comfort in the world.\nToday, we have met here for three hours. We will continue our dialogue here and in Bengaluru tomorrow. I was very pleased with our discussions and the broad range of results.\nThe German response is very encouraging. We can look forward with confidence in increased investment, trade and technology partnerships, manufacturing and infrastructure. German engineering and Indian IT skills can create the next generation industry that will be more efficient, economical and environment friendly.\n1600 German companies in India, and growing in number, will be strong partners in a global work force in India.\nGerman cooperation and assistance in areas like smart cities, Clean Ganga and waste management have taken a concrete shape. So, has our cooperation in education, from engineering to humanities\nI admire German leadership in clean energy and commitment to combating climate change This is an area where we have convergence of views, and rapidly growing cooperation We have agreed on India Climate and Renewable Energy Alliance with a long term vision and a comprehensive agenda of combating climate change. I place great value on Germany's assistance of over one billion Euros for India's Green Energy Corridor and a new assistance package of over a billion Euros for solar projects in India We also intend to deepen research cooperation in clean and renewable energy, and energy efficiency. To contain the temperature rise\nWe look forward to a concrete outcome at COP21 in Paris that strengthens the commitment and the ability of the world, specifically of poor and vulnerable countries, to transition to a more sustainable growth path.\nOur partnership will also grow into areas like defence manufacturing, trade in advanced technology, intelligence, and countering terrorismand radicalism. These are important security dimensions of our expanding relationships.\nI welcome Germany's strong support for India's membership of the international export control regimes. As we discussed in the G4 Summit in New York, Chancellor and I have been committed to pursuing reforms of the United Nations, specifically the Security Council\nWe have a common perspective on this region; the turbulence in West Asia; Europe's challenges; And, shaping a peaceful and stable Asia Pacific and Indian Ocean Region. I particularly thanked him for Germany's invaluable support for peace, security and development in Afghanistan.\nFinally, a very special word of gratitude to the Chancellor Merkel and the people of Germany for the return of the 10th century statue of Durga in her Mahishasurmardini avatar from Jammu and Kashmir. She is a symbol of the victory of good over evil\nThis also suggests that in the age of transitions and turmoil, India-Germany partnership will be a force of good for the world.\nIt is a saying common to both our cultures that friendship is a plant that needs to be watered. I am confident that after this extraordinary session, the tree of our friendship will blossom\nThank you."