"PM Modi launches mega credit camp for Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana\nPM Modi distributes Mudra cards and loan documents to select beneficiaries at Dumka\nBP families\nPM launches project for conservation \u0026 development of Maluti temple complex\nPM Modi urges people to buy\nWe are empowering people We want to free poor from clutches of Sahukars: PM\nPM Modi's remarkable progress made by Jharkhand in \"ease of doing business\"\n42 lakh people given loans under Mudra Yojana, Rs. 26,000 crore disbursed: PM\nDear brothers and sisters!\nFrom here one and a half kilometers, all the foreheads are showing the forehead. Will there be heard there? I have also come in Dhumka earlier but this view is looking a little different. The atmosphere that I see is indicative of the fact that now Jharkhand has completely taken the path of development completely. The citizens of Jharkhand have also got their faith in development. I just came by another program. When I thought of that program, I was in my mind that there would be a program between 50-100 people in one-room room.But there was such a mass movement there. I express my gratitude to your heart for your love, I congratulate you.\nToday, I have the opportunity to take a lot of plans, to hand me over, to take blessings of public life. Today is October 2, the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi and Lal Bahadur Shastri ji is celebrated. For whom country should run, I think there can not be any big name from Mahatma Gandhi, who has not inspired us to serve the poor. And today, on the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, I have had the opportunity to participate in some of the schemes of poor, suffering, exploited, deprived, my tribal, my siblings, my poor brothers and sisters, their welfare. No one can imagine that in such a short time, Jharkhand can cross new heights of development, no one can imagine. Every Jharkhand resident will be proud that the World Bank has just praised Jharkhand. Otherwise, the World Bank may not even know that there is a state called Jharkhand and some people live there too. There was a time when Jharkhand stood at the last end in the ease of doing business. And Jharkhand has done such a jump, it was a jump that he came from number 29 and stood at number 3. I congratulate the Chief Minister of Jharkhand, all the members of his Council of Ministers, all the officials of his government, and the people of Jharkhand for the whole country, I congratulate him very much. You did amazing work.\nAny state government can make such a decision by taking one step after another and strengthening its position in such a way that no state can think of it, which Jharkhand has shown. And so you have all the congratulatory officers. Today, under the Prime Minister's Money Scheme, money is being given to those people of the society, who had never imagined that they could sometimes get rid of the moneylender's clutches. An auto-rickshaw that runs the autorickshaw. Paying 200 rupees daily, he would never have thought that there will be a government which will come and tell me to take your auto rickshaw, now there is no need to hire auto rickshaws.\nAnd today it has happened to you. We announced in the last budget election, the prime minister's money scheme. In this country small people would sell some vegetables, some barber shop would be run, no smoking shop would be run, no auto rickshaw would run, no work would be done, no clothes would be stitched, no poor widow's house Some of the goods will be made by selling and selling. Someone who earns his livelihood as a pay guest by feeding two or four guests in his house. Countless millions of people, small people, but if they needed them, the bank's doors were closed to take money. There was no thought of going to the bank's door. We first of all want to congratulate with the help of banks through the Prime Minister's Janhana Yojana. And I want to congratulate all the banks of all the banks of Hindustan today. I also want to express my gratitude that he looked towards the poor. He came forward for the poor. The accounts of Janananan were opened and millions of crores of people across the country who had never seen the bank's door opened their bank accounts. Now one step we went ahead, the accounts were opened. Now his business should grow from the bank and from this, it is the birth of Prime Minister Money Scheme.\nYou can get different types of loans from the bank to run your car, you can get the money. If you take money from the moneylender, you have to pay 24 percent, 30 percent interest and interest of Rs 100, then you pay 10 rupees to 10 rupees already, you pay 80 rupees to 20 rupees and after 80 rupees , And the ordinary person can never be free from that moneylender's interest. The debt goes on growing itself. Through this money bank scheme, people who want to increase their business by the Prime Minister's Money Bank Scheme, want to move forward. There is a shop at one place, the child has grown up and has to shop another. Sit down to sell vegetables at one place but it seems that the pragla will come, if Lori arrives, then sell ghee-ghamkar's vegetable. If the bicycle arrives then it will work, if auto rickshaw comes, then they will do the work. We have tried to fulfill these dreams of those who had dreams, and you will be happy to know that these people are ordinary people. Lives almost the poverty of life. If there is a disease in the house, there is such a family which can not get money to bring medicine, and about 42 lakh people have been benefited from this Prime Minister's money scheme in the past, about 26 thousand crore rupees.\nThose who call us anti-poor, they will not even have to write 26 billion rupees. How many zeroes do they apply after 26, then they have 26 thousand crores, they are not even aware and these people are given the money and what is the specialty? First, if you have to take money from the bank then you need a guarantee, someone wants a house, you want a car, he gets in return. We said that from poor Where will we get poor and will take it, then he will also demand half the money, will he do it? The government made new rules that no such guarantee would be taken from the poor. He will be paid once and I believe the poor pie-pi is paid. No poor will ever keep the money of the bank, and when he earns it will definitely return the money, it is my belief in the poor because I grew up among them because I grew up among them. I have seen him closely, I have seen the richness of the poor, I have seen the honesty of the poor and the faith of the same honesty has come with the prime minister's money scheme. In the coming days, this plan is going on and most of the happiness, these 42 lakh people have been given money, I can say proudly today that in these 42 lakh people, 20 lakhs, this figure is not small. Two million people who have received money are our mothers and sisters, women have met. More than this women can never be empowerment. If the financial condition of the woman is strengthened, she becomes a partner in the decision process itself. The son also starts asking the mother, the husband also starts asking his wife, his strength within the house stands, and the power of our mothers and sisters will be stronger than their participation in the development journey of the nation. This work has happened through the Prime Minister's Money Scheme.\nIf you used to borrow from the bank earlier, then the interest on which he used to borrow was turned on. Suppose you took 50 thousand rupees, but in the first month, you spent ten thousand rupees barely, even if you got 50 thousand rupees and no one would have liked it. It seems that brother, if you have taken 50 thousand rupees, then I have to give interest. This time we changed the plan, brought a new look in the scheme for the betterment of the poor. We said that this Prime Minister Money Scheme will be given a debit card to him. His loan sanctioned 50 thousand rupees If he wants to raise 50 thousand today he can raise it but thinks that 50 thousand is not needed only if he has to raise only five thousand, he will raise five thousand and interest will not be of 50 thousand, only that will be of interest of five thousand. . We have done this work. It is through the Prime Minister Money Scheme and I am concerned that the poor who are receiving this money will do this work, but to increase their work, any poor poor will be here Take it at work, keep your job. From the village, millions of poor youth from small towns will create jobs because of this, and their livelihood will start running. An economic system that will make the sub-section of the society strong and if once the lower class of India becomes powerful, it becomes economic prosperity, if the foundation is strengthened then the height of economic development of India is at high speed. It will move, it will move forward, it is my belief.\nToday I got an opportunity to give gas cylinders to poor mothers here Those who continue to do politics in the name of the poor, whenever they come, they sing songs of the poor. The poor and the poor keep up their beads. My brothers and sisters have not been thinking that how a poor mother cooks to feed her children for 60 years? Where will he bring the wood, how the fire will burn, how much smoke will be there in that small place and the poor mother's children will cry in smoke. Do not be conscious of eating. This is the stage I have seen in my childhood and I still look at hundreds of poor people. The mother who cooks bread from the hive of the woods also suffers from illness and on the other hand, people who talk about the names of the poor, who have carts, have a bungalow, have a treasure of happiness, these government houses in their house Taking money from the treasures of the poor kept on giving subsidies to them, and these people did not even consider taking a subsidy of gas cylinders. I prayed to him I said brother, now you earn, can you, do not leave the subsidy of your gas cylinder? What is it in 150-200-250, leave it? I requested a light request, because I was afraid that I do not know what my point of view would be. Because our country is like this, it is considered to be something big to say something to someone. Still I dared, I said that I pray to you that you leave the subsidy of your gas cylinder and I said that I do not say that I have to save money in the government treasury. I said that I say that I want to cylinder the gas to the poor mother whose eyes have gone from the wooden stove in the house. Children are crying, childhood is passing in their cry. I want to bring happiness to their home. I want to give these gas cylinders in the house of those poor people and I salute those millions of families of this country, I congratulate those millions of families. He embraced this little thing, planted it with heart and 31 lakhs of my country, this small figure is not there. There are 31 lakh people who came forward and they said we leave subsidy for our gas cylinder. You give this cylinder subsidy to some side. All are ready to be taken in our country, but we have to give up the strength of our country too. Someone said, I saw it by saying. At that time, the great man whose birth anniversary is today, Lal Bahadur Shastri is the birth anniversary of 02 October. At the time of the 1965 war, he told the countrymen, leave food in a time week and this country had accepted his point and had left the meal in a week. I know such elderly people that they are still playing the story of Lal Bahadur Shastri, such as I have seen older people. Lal Bahadur Shastri had said that the people of this country had left one time in the week. I prayed, remembered Lal Bahadur Shastri and prayed. Remembering Mahatma Gandhi and praying. And I am happy that 31 lakh people of my country gave up the gas subsidy cylinder so far, 18 lakh poor families have been given the exchange of gas cylinders to them. The rest of the work is going on. Not only this, who has left the gas subsidy, it is told that the poor family, which is in the village of Phalane, is going to cylinders your gas, he is also happy. He will be in Maharashtra and when he reaches a poor in Goa, he also enjoys it. And the whole system is computerized. In the coming days more 31 lakhs of poor families who have left the subsidy will be given in lieu of them.\nAnd today I want to express my gratitude to the Chief Minister of Jharkhand in particular. Government of India, a company of the Government of India and Jharkhand, both governments, because when the gas cylinders are installed, the house has to be brought in the house. Some have to bring small tools with him. The cost of that thing goes up to about two and a half to three thousand rupees. I am happy that the five thousand people who are being given the gas cylinders here today, the company's government and the state government are going to give the expense of their stove to the company, and therefore there will be no cost for this.\nThis country has a strength inside it. I have tried to recognize his power and that power has supported me. And this is the reason why this possibility has happened today and by reaching the gas cylinders to the millions of poor families of the country, the life that they are forced to live and the wood will be stove, due to which our forest will survive, the forest will survive and the environment will survive. जब पर्यावरण की रक्षा होगी,तो सबसे ज्‍यादा खुशी अगर किसी को होगी, तो वो महात्‍मा गांधी को होगी, क्‍योंकि पर्यावरण की रक्षा में वो कोई compromise नहीं करते थे। पूरा जीवन उन्‍होंने इस प्रकार से जीया था, जिसमें पल-पल पर्यावरण की रक्षा होती थी, महात्‍मा गांधी को सबसे ज्‍यादा खुशी होगी, जब यह जंगल बचेंगे यह लकड़ी जो कट करके चूल्‍हे में जलती थी, वह बचेगी उसके कारण महात्‍मा गांधी को खुशी होगी।\nआज एक और महत्‍वपूर्ण काम यहां हो रहा है और इसके लिए भी मैं सरकार को बधाई देना चाहता हूं, जिसमें यहां पर यह इलाके यह संथाल परगना इसकी अपनी एक विशेषताएं हैं। इन विशेषताओं को देश को पता होना चाहिए। मलुटी का मंदिर सदियों पहले टैरा कोटा का कैसा काम हुआ है। किस प्रकार की रचनाएं हुए थी। समय रहते सारा लुप्‍त हो गया, कुछ बच गया,कुछ खुदाई में निकलता है। आज उस योजना का आरंभ हो रहा है, जिसमें भारत सरकार का योगदान होगा, राज्‍य सरकार का योगदान होगा और एक ऐसा ऐतिहासिक स्‍थल फिर से पुनर्जीवित होगा, टूरिज्‍म का क्षेत्र बनेगा और इस इलाके के लिए नौजवानों को रोजी-रोटी का अवसर मिलेगा। यहां की कीर्ति प्रथा फिर से फैलनी लगेगी। पुराना इतिहास फिर से एक बार गौरव हमें दिलाता रहेगा। इस प्रकार के काम का प्रांरभ होगा।\nभाईयों-बहनों, मैं इन तीनों कामों के लिए सौभाग्‍यशाली हूं कि मुझे भी इसमें शरीक होने का अवसर मिला है। आज दो अक्‍तूबर है, महात्‍मा गांधी की जन्‍म जयंती मना रहे हैं। मैं हर किसी को आग्रह करता हूं कि आप कम से कम खादी खरीदिये। हर चीज खादी की रख लीजिए। खादी की बिक्री बढ़ेगी, गरीब के घर में सुख के दिन आएंगे। मैं विश्‍वास करता हूं कि आप उस काम को आगे बढ़ाएंगे। मेरे आपसे प्रार्थना है आज इस सभा मंडप से जब जाएंगे तो कोई कूड़ा-कचरा छोड़कर के नहीं जाएंगे। कोई बोतल, कोई प्‍लास्टिक, कोई कागज़, सब ले जाओगे न साथ में, ले जाओगे? जरा सब बताओगे तो पता चलेगा। यहां कोई गंदगी तो नहीं छोड़ करके जाओगे। देखिए हमने आदत डालनी पड़ेगी। अगर गांधी जी के सपनों को पूरा करना है, स्‍वच्‍छ भारत बनाना है, तो हमें पहले आदत बनानी पड़ेगी। मैं आशा करता हूं कि आप सब जब यहां से जाएंगे, यहां के व्‍यवस्‍थापकों से भी मैं आग्रह करूंगा कि यहां कोई कूड़ा-कचरा नहीं रहना चाहिए। एक ऐसा मिसाल दें, लोगों को लगना चाहिए कि हिंदुस्‍तान के नागरिक अब भारत को स्‍वच्‍छ बनाने का ठान लिए हैं। संकल्‍प कर लिया है। मैं इस बात के लिए आप सबको अनेक-अनेक शुभकामनाएं देता हूं, बहुत-बहुत बधाई देता हूं। मेरे साथ पूरी ताकत से बोलिए, दोनों मुट्ठी बंद करके पूरी ताकत से बोलिए भारत माता की जय, भारत माता की जय, भारत माता की जय। Thanks a lot."