"PM Modi inaugurates Rooftop Solar Power Plant for Khunti District Court in Jharkhand\nToday we pay homage to Mahatma Gandhi and Lal Bahadur Shastri ji: PM in Jharkhand\nOur culture never permits the exploitation of nature and natural resources: PM\nNarendra Modi in Jharkhand: Use LED bulbs, reduce your power bill\nMy dear brothers and sisters\nI am thinking that many new history is being created today. Perhaps there is a program associated with the court in the history of India and there has been such a population, probably it has never happened before in the country. There is an atmosphere of sitting in front of the chair wearing a black coat and the one which I see the scene, it is a unique one in itself. I congratulate Jharkhand. I congratulate everyone and I am doing special greetings for the fact that such a large number of mothers and sisters are seeing me. I heartily welcome and congratulate all of them.\nToday is October 2. Mahatma Gandhi, Lal Bahadur Shastri today is the birth anniversary of these great men. Some time ago I had the opportunity to go to Tashkent. Where did Lal Bahadur Shastri, who had breathed his last, lost his red soil on Tashkent's land? I went to Tashkent and there I had the privilege of unveiling the statue of Lal Bahadur Shastri Ji. In the past, India celebrated the Battle of 1965, with its great glory, celebrating its 50th anniversary, celebrating as the Victory Festival, celebrating the form of bravery and remembering the mighty Lal of the country whose Prime Minister was in India The army of the army showed its power and gave victory to the country.\nToday is the birth anniversary of Pujya Bapu. You would have wondered how the Prime Minister reached this program, in a way I have snatched this program from the front. One day Justice GN Patel Ji called us that we have done such a thing. What did they call, why did they not, I did not ask. I said straightforward and said that I am coming on October 2 and today is Gandhi Jayanti. Gandhi himself was very much of the environment. He has shown how he protected nature from simplicity throughout his life. I said I will come here to you They also felt like the bomb blasted. Suddenly, no Prime Minister will say that I will come. You would also be surprised and especially for the friends of the media, a big spice will be available today, the spice will be the reason that the Prime Minister of the country and he is also going to the District Court. What is this prime minister who dreams of 175 Giga Watt Renewal Energy and comes to peg for 185 kg. Anyone can be wondering where 175 Gig watt Renewal Energy dream and where 185 kg of Watt power, but I like to come here behind it is October 2 which is my inspiration. Mahatma Gandhi's birth anniversary is my inspiration and also for the whole world.\nI went to the United Nations Meeting now, all the time in the world, all the countries were discussing the same topic, what will happen to this environment. What will happen due to global warming, the rain is becoming uncertain, what will happen, the level of sea is rising, what will happen, the small country will be drowned What will happen? The whole world is worried around all. But today, I want to tell the whole world to the hundred and fifty million people, I am not a partner of the sin that has come. Our ancestors never showed us the way to destroy nature. But no one has committed sin, no matter how wrong it is to anyone, India must also contribute to protect humanity. And we have decided to give Another important thing is to come here today. Be Gujarat, be Rajasthan, those people go for solar energy, go for Solar Energy. He can embrace anyone, what will he do if he does not have coal, what will he do, solar energy. But when Jharkhand is full of coal reserves, when Jharkhand goes for solar energy, then produces a new example for the world, gives a new message. In that sense, not only the entire world of Hindustan understands that I am speaking from a small place in the state of Khuni, the state of which the majority of the population belongs to my tribal brothers and sisters. Who have protected forests for centuries. Where the coal deposits are stored, the people of that region are now resolving to go to solar power for the world's human welfare, therefore, I have come specifically to come, to come to congratulate Jharkhand.\nAnother reason is that when I was the Chief Minister of Gujarat, every year as a Chief Minister we were called a meeting by the judiciary of the Supreme Court. All the chief ministers used to come, all the High Court judges used to come and the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court used to sit. The Prime Minister used to go by giving his explanation and then our meetings went on throughout the day, all the questions were discussed in that why there is a Case Pendency in Bhai Courts, why the case is not complete. Our Pradeep Bhatt would be sitting here, he used to be the registrar at that time, he was also in that meeting. And there was a high court judge reporting it, he was a chowk. When they were asked why there is such a case pendency in your court, why the rest is so many, why are not it being removed? The answer I had given to him was that I had a great surprise for the state I came from. He said that we get electricity for one or two days in a week, electricity comes for two or three hours. And the house of our court is such that it remains completely dark. When we get electricity, we can run the courts, or else we can not go to court in the dark without electricity for three to four days and therefore there are no cases and therefore people are delayed in judging. I was shocked, after so many years of independence, in my country's court the lack of electricity was in the yearning for general human justice. One of the inspiration for me to come today is that I remembered that thing and today the justice sculptures of Jharkhand discovered its solution. And here the court will run from solar power. The environment will be protected but a new area will also be opened in giving justice.\nIn the past, I do not know in the newspaper that in Jharkhand newspapers, such good news comes or does not come, but in the past you may have heard or seen on TV, some people had shown that some people had written it, the world Kochi became the first airport in the airport which was fully run by solar energy and was run by the sun energy, it has just been two months. Last time I went to Faridabad to inaugurate Delhi Metro, went to Faridabad to inaugurate the Delhi Metro. All stations in all its metro are running from energy, solar power. He has done a great job in himself. If you go to Vaishno Devi and go to Vaishno Devi, you will go to the last railway station, then the entire railway station has started us with solar power and today the first court of the country is a district court fully equipped with solar energy It is, I believe, the country has a new perspective. And this is a great tribute to Mahatma Gandhi, because Gandhi was always insensitive to this issue. And in that sense I believe that this is an important initiative.\nMany things have been said in these scriptures thousands of years ago on these topics. In the Rig Veda five thousand years ago important message was said. It is said in Rig Veda - 'Surya Soul Jagatas Fateush:' means to say that the Lord is the soul of the moving and immovable. If you have one soul, then it is Lord Sun. Today, the world's attention has gone towards that sun power. India has dreamed of 175 GHz.What was the first time in India when electricity was discussed and did not move beyond Mewat. The account was of megaawat. For the first time the country has started to talk about Gigawat, for the first time and when I say to the world that 2022 when India's Independence will be 75 years, we will achieve success within 175 gigawatt renewal energy. The world is surprised to hear this figure. Congratulations to all the world, we get congratulations. Has raised such a big campaign, which will protect the environment in the coming days.\nOnce again I congratulate Jharkhand for this important scheme. I want to talk to the citizens of Jharkhand, one thing? Will you listen to me Tell everyone, then I will believe it. Mothers sisters tell me to obey? Will you believe You want the electricity bill of your home to be reduced Whose house has electricity, they want electricity bills in their home to be reduced. You want to save money, do you want children to be fed with the remaining money? So one way, science has discovered a new LED bulb. The new electric bulb has come in LED speaks. Initially it seems a bit costly but if you have a bill of Rs. 100. If you put it, then electricity will be more, light will get more but the bill will be less than half. Will the money survive or not? The LED bulb will be attached to that campaign, the need to save electricity in the same way as the country needs to go towards solar power. It is necessary to save electricity for human defense. If we eliminate all natural resources for ourselves, then what will happen to our future generation? No matter what we have today, it is not the capital of our sweat. The trees which we have today are trees, it is not our capital. Today if we have good water flowing in the rivers our capital is not. Our ancestors have left it for us. Our grandparents, Father-Fathers have left them, then we are meeting. If his virtue comes to our work, then our virtue should also be of use to our next generation. We should handle this responsibility. I believe that there will be an atmosphere of this awakening in the country.\nPujya Bapu's birth anniversary, and Pujya Bapu himself was a barrister. He also had a court relation from the court. And fought for justice for lifetime. Today, on the same birth anniversary, a court is fully dedicated to the country with solar energy. Many good luck, thank you very much"