"\nIt is only partnerships that will bring us goals: PM Modi\nThe health of mothers will determine the health and health of children.\nThe India story is one of hope: Narendra Modi at Partners' Forum\nWe are committed to growing India's health spending to 2.5 percent of GDP by 2025: PM\nDistinguished dignitaries on the dais,\nDelegates from India and abroad,\nLadies and Gentlemen,\nNamaste,\nA very warm welcome to all the delegates from across the world, the Partners' Forum, 2018\nIt is only partnerships that will get us goals in our goals. Partnerships between citizens, Partnerships between communities, Partnerships between countries. The sustainable development agenda is a reflection of this.\nCountries have moved beyond stand-alone efforts They are committed to empowering communities, improving health and education, ending poverty and spurring boosting economic growth and ultimately, leaving no one behind. The health of mothers will determine the health of our tomorrow .\nWe have gathered to discuss and deliberate ways to improve the health and well-being of mothers and children. The out-come of our discussions today will be a great impact on our tomorrow.\nThe Partners' Forum is the vision of India's ancient wisdom, \"VasudhaivaKutumbakam\", 'The World is one family'. It is also line with my government's philosophy of \"SabkaSaathSabkaVikas\", which means, inclusive growth for collective efforts and partnerships.\nThe Partnership for Maternal, New-born, and Child Health, is a unique and effective platform. We are not only making a case for better health. We are also making an argument for faster growth.\nAs the world develops rapid growth, it is the best way to do it. We have achieved a lot of progress in the last few years. A lot yet remains to be done From bigger budgets to better out-come, and from mind-set change to monitor, there is lots to be done.\nThe India story is one of hope.Hope that road-blocks can be over-come Hope that behavioural change can be ensured Hope that rapid progress can be achieved\nWhen the Millennium Development Goals were agreed on, India had one of the world's highest mortality rates for women and children. With sustained momentum, and last few years of decline in a faster rate, India is going to take care of mother's for SDG targets and child health, much ahead of the agreed date of 2030.\nIndia is one of the first countries, advocates focused on a comprehensive health promotion and prevention program for adolescents. Our efforts have ensured that they get their due recognition in the Global Strategy for Women's Children's and Adolescent's Health in 2015.\nI am happy to note that Latin America and the Caribbean region and India will be show-casing adaptations of the global strategy. I hope that these adaptations will encourage other countries and regions to develop similar strategies.\nFriends,\nAs our scriptures say: \"Where women are honored, divinity blossoms there\". I firmly believe that a nation prospers when its people and importantly the women, and childrenare educated; and are able to live independent, empowered and healthy lives\nI am happy to note that the last three years over 32.8 million children and 84 million pregnant women have reached. also increased the number of vaccines under the universal immunization program from 7 to 12.Our vaccines now cover life-threatening diseases like- Pneumonia and Diarrhea.\nFriends,\nWhen my government assumed office in 2014, we were losing 44,000 more mothers, yearly, during child-birth. We launched the Pradhan MantriSurakshitMatritvaAbhiyanto provide best possible care to mothers during pregnancy.We called on the doctors to pledge one day of service per month to this campaign.Among this campaign, 16 million Ante-Natal carecheck-ups have been performed.\nThe country has 25 million new-borns.Our robust facility based new-born care system, which provides care more than 1 million new-born babies through 794 state of the art Special New-born Care Units, has served as a successful model . As a result of our interventions, 840 additional lives of children under five are saved in India as compared to four years back.\nChildren's nutrition is being addressed through the POSHAN campaign. This brings together various schemes and interventions in a common goal ofmal-nutrition-free India. In order to improve the quality of life, we are implementing National BalSwasthyaKayakram. This has provided 800 million health screening check-ups, and free referral treatment to 20 million children, in the last four years.\nOne thing that has been worried about the high out-of-pocket expenditure incurred by families to avail medical care. We have launched the Ayushman Bharat Yojana. Ayushman has a two-fold strategy.\nThe first is the provision of comprehensive primary care at a facility near the community, including guidance on healthy lifestyle and Yoga through Health and Wellness Centers.The \"Fit India\" and \"Eat Right\" movements are also health and safety for our strategy. wellness The community will also be able to receive free screening and care for common diseases including hyper-tension, diabetes and three common cancers, of breast, cervix and oral. The patients receive free medicines and diagnostic support near to their homes. We plan to start 150 thousand such Health \u0026 Wellness Centers by 2022.\nThe other arm of Ayushman is the Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana. This provides cashless, health insurance cover up to 5 lakh rupees per family, covering 500 million citizens who are most poor and vulnerable. This number is almost equal to the population of Canada, Mexico and the US taken together. We have already provided free treatment worth 700 Crore rupees to 5 lakh families under this scheme within 10 weeks of its launch.\nToday, being Global Universal Health Coverage Day, I will state that we will continue to provide universal health coverage to all.\nWith one million registered Social Health Activists or ASHA workers and 2.32 lakhAnganwadi NurseMid-wives, we have a forceful force of women frontline health workers. They are the strength of our program.\nIndia is a huge country. Some states and districts have performed at par with developed countries. Others have their work cut out. I instructed my officers to identify 117 'Aspirational Districts' Each such district has been entrusted to a team that works across sectors like education, water and sanitation, health and nutrition.\nWe are working on women's centric schemes through other departments also. Until 2015, more than half of Indian women did not have access to clean fuel for cooking. We changed this with Ujjwala Yojana, which provided cleaner cooking options to 58 million women.\nWe have taken up \"Swachh Bharat Mission\" on war footing to make India open defecation free by the year 2019. In the last four years, sanitation coverage, in rural areas, increased from 39 percent to 95 percent.\nWe all know the saying: If you educate a man, you educate a person; but if you are educated an entire family We have translated into \"BetiBachaoBetiPadhao\" - a progamme that focuses on the girl child, and on giving her the best quality of life and education. In addition, we have also devised a small deposit savings scheme for girls called \"SukanyaSamriddhiYojana\". With more than 12.6 million accounts opened, this scheme is helping to secure the future of the girl child.\nWe have also introduced Pradhan MantriMatruVandanaYojana, that is expected to benefit more than 50 million pregnant women and lactating mothers. This scheme enables direct benefits transfer to their bank accounts.\nWe have also increased maternity leave to 26 weeks, from 12 weeks ago.We are committed to growing India's health spending to 2.5 percent of GDP by 2025, reaching more than 100 billion US-Dollars. This will mean an actual increase of 345 percent over the current share, in just eight years.We will continue to be the bestment of people Women, children and youth will continue to stay at the heart of every policy, programme or initiative.\nI would like to stress on the need for multi-stake-holder success. In all our endeavors, we are aware that effective healthcare, especially for women and children, is the best organized through convergent action\nFriends,\nI have been given to understand that the next two days will be discussed. This is indeed an opportunity for a dialogue between countries, to share what we learn from one another. India stands ready for its development goals through skill and training programs, provision of affordable medicines and vaccines, knowledge transfers and exchange programs.\n\nI would like to say the results of the ministerial conclave which has been designed to contribute to these discussions.This forum is a vibrant platform, offers us the right moment, which should invigorate our commitment to \"Survive-Thrive-Transform.\"\nWe have our work well laid out and we continue to work with utmost dedication and devotion to health for all. India will always stand together with all partners in a consensus\nI call on every one of you here, including those who have joined us virtually, to embrace this in true spirit, so that we are able to extend our support to the entire humanity.\nLet us join our hands together as an expression of this noble cause.\nThank you!\nIt is only partnerships, that will get us to our goals\nPartnerships between citizens"