"Share\n\nTen days ago, India lost her brave sons To protect the 125 crore Indians, the bravehearts made supreme sacrifice: PM during #MannKiBaat\nSalute to our brave soldiers, who laid their lives to protect out Motherland. Their martyrdom strengthens our resolve and inspires us to destroy terror: PM #MannKiBaat\nAfter the terrorist attack in Pulwama, in which our brave Jawans sacrificed their lives, people all over the country are deep in shock and anger: PM #ManKiBaat\nTime to forget any kind of casteism, communalism, regionalism and all other differences so that our counterterrorism measures are strong and decisive than ever before: PM #MannKiBaat\nThe Army has now taken the resolve to destroy terrorists and their patrons: PM Modi during #MannKiBaat\nThe concept of National War Memorial is centered on four concentric circles i.e. A journey from a soldier's birth to martyrdom: PM during #MannKiBaat\nIt is Bhagwaan Birsa Munda that our youth should take inspiration from: PM Modi #MannKiBaat\nJust with his traditional bows and arrows, Bhagwaan Birsa Munda had shaken the British rule with guns and cannons: PM #MannKiBaat\nBhagwaan Birsa Munda fought not only against the British for independence but also for social and economic rights to tribal communities: PM #MannKiBaat\nJamsetji Tata was a visionary, who not only envisioned India's future but also laid its strong foundation: Prime Minister #MannKiBaat\nMorarji Desai led India at a time when the country's democratic fabric was under threat, says PM during #MannKiBaat #MannKiBaat\nMorarji Bhai Desai opposed imposing Emergency to protect democracy, says PM Like previous years, people were also at this time the Padma Awards about: PM #ManKiBaat\nPadma Award winners are the true 'Karmayogis' of the country, who are selflessly engaged in public and, above all, serving the nation: PM #MannKiBaat\nAbout 12 lakh poor families have been benefited from Ayushman Bharat Yojana since its launch 5 months ago: PM #MannKiBaat\nDuring my Kashi visit, I had a chance to spend some time with my brother and sisters. Their confidence and determination was impressive and inspiring: PM #MannKiBaat\nMy dear countrymen, Namaskar I begin 'Mann Ki Baat' 10 days ago, Mother India had had to bear the loss of her valiant sons. These brave hearts made the supreme sacrifice in securing the lives of a hundred and twenty five crore Indians In order to ensure that their fellow countrymen were sleep peacefully, these brave sons were relentlessly, day or night. As a consequence of the Pulwama terror attack and the sacrifice of the brave jawans, people are the country's agonized and enraged All around, there is a deluge of strong feelings of sympathy for the martyrs and their family members. The outrage that singes your being and mine on account of the terrorizing violence replicates itself in the collective inner psyche 'of every citizen of the country; It also echoes in pro-humanity communities of the world, which sincerely believe in humanity. I respectfully bow to all the brave sons of the country, who laid down their lives, protecting the honor of their motherland, India. This shyryrdom will keep inspiring us from the uproot the very base of terrorism; it will fortify our resolve We have to take this challenge facing our country, forgetting all barriers of casteism, communalism, regionalism and other differences, so that our steps against terror are firm, strong and more decisive. Our armed forces have consistently displayed unparalleled courage and valour. On the one hand, they have demonstrated exemplary capabilities in restoring peace; On the other, they have retaliated in equal measure, in the language\nYou must have seen how within a hundred hours of attack, retributive action was accomplished. The Army has resolved to wipe out terrorists and their harbourers. The martyrdom of these brave soldiers brought them to the fore, through the media, touching, inspiring stories of their kin, which give hope and strength to the whole country. The fortitude displayed by Ram Niranjan ji, Father of Martyr Ratan Thakur of Bhagalpur, Bihar, in this moment of Tribulation is truly inspiring. He has expressed the desire to send his second son too, to take the enemy; if need be, he will go and fight The country salutes the indomitable courage of Meena ji, wife of martyr Prasanna Sahu of Jagatsinghpur, Odisha. She has vowed to send her only son to join the CRPF. When the mortal remains of Martyr Vijay Soren, draped in the tricolor reached Gumla, Jharkhand, his innocent son iterated that he too would join the armed forces. The mettle of this nation is a representative sample of each and every child of the nation today. Similar sentiments are coming to the fore in the homes of our brave heart martyrs. No martyr, no family is an exception to that.\nWhether it is the family of martyr Vijay Maurya of Devariya, the parents of Martyr Tilakraj of Kangra or the six year old son of martyr Hemraj of Kota - the story of every family of martyrs is full of inspiration. I urge the young generation to know and understand the fortitude and the sentiment displayed by these families. To understand the virtues of patriotism, sacrifice and perseverance, one does not need to revert to historical events These are but living examples before your eyes ... These very examples are a source of inspiration for the future.\nMy dear countrymen, the long wait after Independence for a war memorial is about to be over. It is natural for our countrymen to be curious about it. On the Narendra Modi App, Shri Onkar Shetty ji of Udupi, Karnataka has expressed his happiness on the National War Memorial. India is not having a National War Memorial used to surprise me, pain me ... a memorial that would be the value of our brave soldiers who laid their lives, safe guarding their nation's security. And I took a resolve that the country should have such a memorial\nWe decided to join the National War Memorial and I am happy to see it completing in so little a time. Tomorrow, that is the 25th of February, crores of we Indians will dedicate this National Soldiers' Memorial to our Armed Forces On part of the nation, this is a small step toward repaying a great debt.\nThis new memorial has been established in the heart of Delhi, in close vicinity of India Gate and Amar Jawan Jyoti. I do believe that for our countrymen a visit to the National War Memorial will be a holy place. The National Soldiers' Memorial is a symbol of the nation's gratitude to those men who made the supreme sacrifice after we gained Independence The Memorial of the Symbols The concept of the National Soldiers' Memorial is based on the notion of four concentric circles, which depicts the journey of a soldier from coming in, culminating in his martyrdom. The flame of the Amar Chakra symbolizes the immortality of the martyred soldier. The second circle, Veerta Chakra, depicts the courage and bravery of our soldiers. It is a gallery whose walls are inscribed with soldiers' tales of valour. This is followed by the Tyag Chakra. This circle stands for our soldiers\nThese bears are the names of soldiers who made the supreme sacrifice, in letters of gold Following that is the Rakshak Chakra which depicts the spirit of security. This circle houses a row of dense trees These trees represent soldiers and send a reassuring message to the country's citizens that our soldiers vigilantly guard boundaries round the clock and that, the citizens are safe. If you take a holistic view, the National Soldiers' Memorial is sure to turn out to be a sacred site, where people will throng, to get information on our great martyrs, to express their gratitude, to conduct further research on them. This place stands testimony to a series of sacrifices of men who laid their lives, so that we could live, so that the country could be safe and secure, paving the way for development. One falls short of words in assessing the great contribution of our Armed Forces, Police and Para Military Forces in the strides of progress achieved by the country\nIn the last year, I was blessed with the opportunity to dedicate the national police memorial to the nation. That too echoed the same sentiment, and we believe that we should be ever grateful to those policemen \u0026 police women, who relentlessly ensure our safety \u0026 security I do hope that you will pay a visit to the National Soldiers' Memorial and the National Police Memorial Whenever you are there, do capture images and share them on social media so that others get inspired from this site.\nMy dear countrymen, for 'Man Ki Ki Baat', I keep getting thousands of letters and comments from your side, on various platforms. Once when I was going through your comments, I got a interesting point by Atish Mukhopadhyay ji. He has written that 3rd of March, 1900, the British arrested Birsa Munda, when he was just 25 years old. Coincidentally, the 3rd of March is also the birth anniversary of Jamsetji Tata. He further states that despite both personalities hailing from diverse family backgrounds, he enriched the legacy and the history of Jharkhand. Paying tributes to Birsa Munda and Jamsetji are Tata in, a way, salutation to the glorious legacy and history of Jharkhand.\nThese two distinguished personalities brought glory \u0026 honour not just to Jharkhand, but the whole country The country is really grateful for their contribution. Today, if a inspiring personality is required for ably guiding our youth, it is definitely that God of Birsa Munda. The British tree treacherously arrested him when he was asleep, in a covert manner. Do you know why they have to resort to such a cowardly operation? Because even the British who raised a mighty empire used to be terrified of him Bhagwan Birsa Munda took over the might of the guns \u0026 canons of the British, using traditional bows and arrows, to shake them apart. The fact is, when people are blessed with exemplary leadership, the might of arms pales in comparison to the people. Bhagwan Birsa Munda not only waged a struggle against the British for political freedom; He also actively fought for the social and economic rights of the tribal folk. And he accomplished all his life.\nHe let sunshine peep in the darkened life of the deprived and the oppressed Bhagwan Birsa Munda sacrificed his life at the tender age of twenty five. Illustrious sons of Mother India, such as Birsa Munda have come in the country There must've been hardly any part of India, who did not like any of those people But it's a misfortune that these tales of valor and sacrifice did not reach the new generations. If the valourous Lord Braja Munda made us aware of our existence \u0026 identity, far-sighted Jamsetji Tata has created great institutions for the country. Jamsetji Tata was a true visionary, who not only foresaw India's future, but also duly laid strong foundations. He knew very well that making India a hub of science, technology and industry was imperative for his future. It was his vision that culminated in the establishment of Tata Institute of Science, which we know as Indian Institute of Science today. Not just that, he also established world renowned institutions and industries such as Tata Steel. On a voyage to America, Jamsetji Tata met Swami Vivekananda on the ship, and an important topic of their discussion was outreach and spread of Science and Technology in India. It is said ... this very discussion led to the founding of the Indian Institute of Science.\nMy dear countrymen, our former Prime Minister Morarji Desai was born on the 29th of February. You all know that this day comes just once in four years. A simple, peace loving personality, Morarji Bhai was one of the most disciplined leaders. In Independent India, the record of presenting the budget is Morarji Bhai Desai. Morarji Desai steered the course of the country through some difficult times, when the very democratic fabric of the country was under threat. To save the democracy, Morarji Desai flung himself in the movement against imposition of Emergency. For this, he had a heavy price in his old age. The government of that time arrested and incarcerated him But when the Janata Party won the general elections in 1977, he became the Prime Minister of the country. During his tenure, the 44th Constitutional Amendment was introduced. This was important because the 42nd amendment which was brought during the emergency, curtailed the powers of the Supreme Court and the enacted provisions which were to our country's democratic values. The 44th Amendment, made it mandatory that the proceedings of Parliament and Legislative Assemblies were made public through the newspapers. This amendment, restored certain powers of Supreme Court and declared that the fundamental rights granted under Article 20 and 21 of the Constitution could not be abrogated during the Emergency.\nFor the first time Constitutional safeguards guaranteed that the president could only announce the emergency on the written recommendation of the Cabinet, and that the period of emergency can not be extended more than six months at any stretch of time. In this way, Morarji Bhai ensured that the way democracy was assassinated in 1975 by imposition of emergency. The upcoming generations of our nation will always remember his priceless contribution in maintaining the sanctity of Indian democracy. Once again I pay my homage to him\nMy beloved countrymen, this year too, there was a great buzz about the Padma award. Today as we head toward a new India, in which we want to honor those people who are doing their work at the grass-root level. They, by their diligence, are powering positive changes in the lives of others in myriad ways. In reality they are true 'Karmyogis,' who are selflessly engaged in public service, social service and, above all, in the service to the nation. The Padma awards are announced when the awardees are announced, and people are inquisitive about the awardees. In a way, I think this is a great pat on the back, because the people who are not on the front page of a Magazine or Newspaper or on our TV screens. They are far removed from the world of glitter and glare, and are people who do not care about name or fame but simply believe in toiling at the proletarian level.\nThey believe in living in the way the preached by the shloka of Srimadbhagvad Gita 'Yoga: Karmasu Kaushalam', or excellence in action is yoga. I would like to say some of these people You have not heard about Odisha's Daitari Nayak, who is not the nicknamed the 'Canal Man of Odisha' for nothing, Daitari Nayak mountainous through his hands, and his village in a three-kilometer long canal carved, and for the rest forever problem of irrigation and water Take the case of Abdul Ghafoor Khatri of Gujarat, who has done a wonderful job of reviving the traditional Rogan painting form of Kutch. He is doing a great job of extending this rare painting art. I had gifted a Rogan painting titled 'Tree of Life' done by Abdul Gafoor, to the former President of USA, Mr. Barack Obama\nAmong the recipients of the Padma Award, Shabbir Sayyed of Marathwada is known as the servant of Gau-Mata. The way he has spent his entire life in the service of Gau-mata, is unique in itself. Madurai Chinna Pillai is the same person who first tried to empower the downtrodden and the exploited through the Kalanjiyam movement in Tamil Nadu and initiated community based micro finance. America's Taco Porchon-Lynch will leave you astounded, Lynch has become a living institution of yoga today. Even at the age of 100, she is training yoga to people from all over the world and till now has trained 1500 as yoga teachers. Jamuna Tudu, famous nicknamed 'Lady Tarzan' in Jharkhand, most valiantly took on the Timber Mafia and Naxalites, and not only saved the 50 hectares of forest but also inspired ten thousand women to unite and protect trees and wildlife. It is a tribute to Jamuna ji's diligence that today, on the birth of every child, the villagers plant 18 trees. Also, 10 trees are planted on the village in the village.\nThe story of Muktaben Pankajkumar Dagali of Gujarat will fill you with inspiration despite being a divyang herself, it is difficult to find an example than what is done by the upliftment of divyang women by the organization of the Chakshu woman Sevakunj, which is the medium of medium She has been engaged in a virtuous endeavor to make visually challenged children self-reliant. The story of 'Kisan Chachi', i.e. 'Farmer Aunty' of Muzaffarpur in Bihar, or Rajkumari Devi is very inspiring. She has established a role in women's empowerment and farming. Rajkumari Devi added 300 'women' in her area to help 'self help group' and motivated She not only trained the women of the village in pursuing other profitable means of employment, but most importantly she integrated technology with agriculture and my dear countrymen, it has probably happened for the first time, that in the roll of Padma awards bestowed this year, 12 farmers had been the recipients Generally, very few people associated with the agricultural world or those very few who are labeled as real farmers have never found their names in the list of Padmashree awards. This in itself presents the live and vibrant image of a changing India.\nMy dear countrymen, today I wish to narrate a heart rending experience with you At present, whenever I'm touring, it is my effort to meet people beneficiaries of 'PMJAY' scheme under Ayushman Bharat's tourism. 'PMJAY' means to some of the beneficiaries, like the single mother whose unable to set her small children treated due to the money or the head of the family, who has been cured of sweating by her family and an accident with met I was unable to work, he has benefited from this scheme, regained his health and is virtually living a new life!\nBrothers and Sisters, about 12 lakh poor families have benefitted from this scheme over a period of last five months. I have found that there is a change in the life of the has-nots. If you know a poor person who is unable to procure treatment due to lack of money. In fact this scheme is meant for the benefit of such underprivileged people.\nMy dear countrymen, in schools full time In the next few weeks, various education boards across the country will initiate the process for the board examinations of the tenth and twelfth standards. My best wishes to all students who are going to appear for their examinations.\nA few weeks ago, an immense event entitled 'Pariksha Pe Charcha' was organized in Delhi in the format of a Town Hall program. In this Town Hall program, I had the opportunity to talk to students from India and abroad, and also with their parents and teachers; a likely through the aegis of technology One of the focal points of 'Pariksha Pe Charcha' was that there were lively interactions on different subjects related to the entire process of examinations. There are many such aspects which emerge out of these discussions which are definitely going to be beneficial for the students. All the students, their teachers and parents can watch the recording of the whole event on YouTube, and I take this opportunity to wish to all my 'test warriors', for their upcoming examinations\nMy dear countrymen, no mention of India can be perfect without its festivals. It is just not possible that a day passes without any significance associated with it, or does not heald a festival! Our culture has a continuum spread over many millennia and it is a part of our heritage. In a few days from now, Mahashivrartri will be celebrated, and that too on a Monday, and when a Shivratri falls on a Monday, it gets all that special in our heart of our hearts! I extend felicitations on this pious occasion of Mahashivratri to you all.\nMy dear countrymen, some days ago I went to Kashi and there I got a chance to spend time with my brothers and sisters. Many topics were discussed in their company and their confidence was really striking - it was inspiring. During the conversation with one of them, a visually challenged young man, and he used to mention that he is a stage artist, and specializing in mimicry during entertainment programs. And he told me that he could not So I requested a demonstration and a pleasant surprise in store for me. 'Man Ki Ki Baat' I was very happy to hear that people not only listen to 'Man KI Baat' but also remember it many occasions. I was really impressed with the prowess of that divyang young man\nMy dear countrymen, connecting with all of you, courtesy the 'Man Ki Ki Baat' program has been a really wonderful experience for me. Through Radio I connect every month Many times while talking to you, I feel that you have been part of your family. This is a very sublime experience for me\nFriends, Elections are the biggest celebration of democracy In the next two months, we will be busy in the hurry-burly of the general elections. I myself will also be a candidate during the election In maintaining respect for healthy democratic traditions, the next episode of 'Man Ki Baat' will be broadcast on the last Sunday of May. This means I will take up our thoughts and ideas accumulated over the three months of March, April and the whole May after the elections, with confidence renewed. With the power of your blessings, once again I will begin this series of conversations through 'Man Ki Baat' ... and will keep doing 'Man Ki Baat' with you for years. Once again, I thank you\nIn the terrorist attack of Pulwama, after the martyrdom of the brave soldiers, there is a trauma and resentment in the minds of people and people throughout the country: PM #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/72l5s74OuO\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 24, 2019\nAfter the martyrdom of heroic soldiers, the inspirational things that have come out of their families have given more emphasis to the whole country. Raminiranjan ji, father of Shaheed Ratan Thakur of Bhagalpur in Bihar, who has been introduced in this hour of grief, inspires us all: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 24, 2019\nWhen the dead body of Vijay Sheareen, wrapped in a tricolor, reached Gumtala in Jharkhand, the innocent son said that I would also go to the army. This innocent person expresses the feelings of children and children of India today. Similar feelings, our heroes, mighty martyrs are being seen in the house-to-house: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 24, 2019\nOne of our brave martyrs is no exception, their family is not an exception. Whether he is a family of Shahid Vijay Maurya of Devaria, be the mother of Shahid Tilakraj of Kangra or a six year old son of Shaheed Hemraj of Kota - the story of every family of martyrs is filled with inspiration: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 24, 2019\nI will request the younger generation that they have shown the jealousy which these families have shown, try to understand the feeling which has been shown. What is patriotism, what is renunciation and penance - for that we will not need to go to the ancient events of history: PM\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 24, 2019\nI was surprised and even suffering that there was no National War Memorial in India. One such memorial, where the valorous heroes of the brave soldiers who chanted their lives to protect the nation can be preserved. I decided that there should be such a monument in the country: PM pic.twitter.com/03B3gs8iO8\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 24, 2019\nToday, if our young people need some inspirational personality for guidance then it is God 'Birsa Munda': PM #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/mDQPW1RUaq\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 24, 2019\nJamsetji Tata was truly a visionary, who not only saw the future of India but also laid its foundation: PM #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/Cmd0eAv8fY\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 24, 2019\nOur country's former Prime Minister Morarji Bhai Desai was born on February 29. Morarji Bhai was one of the most disciplined leaders in the country: PM, a wealthy, peaceful person, PM pic.twitter.com/9h7hMZOgbB\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 24, 2019\nDuring the tenure of Morarji Bhai Desai, the 44th Constitution Amendment was brought.\nThis is important because the 42nd amendment was brought during the emergency, in which the Supreme Court's strengths were reduced and other such provisions were returned: PM #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/UvbjjIRtBz\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 24, 2019\nLike every year, there was great curiosity about the Padma awards this time too. Today we are heading towards a new India. In this, we want to honor those who are doing their work at the grass-root level: PM #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/7rpJW0vngB\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 24, 2019\nI want to talk with you all about the experience of touching such a heart which I have been feeling for the past few days: PM #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/IuxZzz7MUl\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 24, 2019\nI was very happy to hear that people not only listen to 'mind' but also remember it on many occasions: PM #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/DOgBUtCM13\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 24, 2019\nIn the next two months, we will be busy in the gamma and gahabi of all the elections. I myself will also be a candidate for this election.\nRespecting the healthy democratic tradition, the next 'mind' will be on the last Sunday of the month: PM #MannKiBaat\n- PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 24, 2019\nMarch, April and May; ये तीन महीने की सारी हमारी जो भावनाएँ हैं उन सबको मैं चुनाव के बाद एक नए विश्वास के साथ आपके आशीर्वाद की ताकत के साथ फिर एक बार ‘मन की बात’ के माध्यम से हमारी बातचीत के सिलसिले का आरम्भ करूँगा और सालों तक आपसे ‘मन की बात’ करता रहूँगा: PM #MannKiBaat"