"\nPM Narendra Modi participates in Townhall Q \u0026 A with Mark Zuckerberg at #Facebook HQ\nPersonally impressed by example PM Narendra Modi has set in using social media: Mark Zuckerberg\nI am happy to visit #FacebookHQ I am here with you all, who are connected with the whole world: PM\nToday the world agrees that India is the fastest growing economy: PM Modi\nI dream of converting India into a $ 20 trillion economy: PM Modi\nWhen I joined social media, I never considered the PM ... It was about my curiosity towards technology: PM\nSocial media brings a big change in my thinking process: PM\nWe are bringing technology into a very big way. This is easy, effective, economical and transparent: PM\nI invite the world to 'Make in India': PM Modi\nI am reducing government Apart from demography, democracy and demand, I believe in a 4th D, that of de-regulation: PM\nA mother will never want to become something, she will think about that: PM\nMr. Mark Zuckerberg: Prime Minister Modi, it's an honor to welcome you to Facebook. And thank you to everybody here in Hacker Square, and in our community watching us live in India and around the world\nYou know, India is the very important to our company here. This is a story that I have not published publically and very few people, but early on in our history - before things were really going well and we had hit a hard patch and a lot of people wanted to buy Facebook and thought we should sell the company - I went and I saw one of my mentors, Steve Jobs. And he told me that in the order of reconnect with what I believe as the mission of the company, I should visit this temple that he had gone into India early on his evolution of thinking about what he wanted Apple and his vision of the future to be\nAnd so I went and I travelled for almost a month, and seeing the people, seeing how to feel the world could be better if everyone has a strong ability to connect, reinforced for me the importance of what we were doing And that is something that I have always wanted\nWe had a great conversation last year, in Delhi. And I am looking forward to having a conversation with you and our whole community about how you see the future of India and the world. When I think about the future, I am personally excited about\nFirst, one of the greatest opportunities we have in the world today The Internet provides access, not only to the entertainment and communication, but also important information about health, education, and jobs. In fact, for every 10 people who gain access to the internet, about one person gets lifted out of poverty, and about one new job gets created\nNow, there is still a billion people in India who we need to connect to the internet And connecting them So, I am deeply appreciative of Narendra Modi's commitment to Digital India, to make this great opportunity a reality for all Indians, and I am personally also impressed by the example Prime Minister Modi has set up using the internet and social media to communicate with directly Indian citizens Whether spreading messages of peace, or campaigning for women's rights, children's development, or digital India, it's fitting that the leader of the world's largest democracy is also setting the example for all world leaders for how they should be associated with the future of their citizens. .\nWhen everyone can make their voices heard online, that's when we have meaningful conversations about the future. And that's how society can come together\nSo, the last time that a Prime Minister of India visited California was in 1982. And a lot has changed since then. Today India is a global leader, the world of Indian businesses and culture are transforming people's lives, and India continues to progress, keeping India a leader online.\nAnd, Prime Minister Modi, you are a example of what looks like So I'm excited to hear today about how you see these goals, and why the world should be hopeful about the future of India\nThank you and welcome to Facebook.\nPrime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi: Mark, I am very grateful that today I have had the opportunity to join the Facebook headquarters and join the world with whom I have joined today.\nScience and spirituality can be like this, maybe Mark would not have told it today, then the world would not have known it, then the world could not know it. A young man dreams of doing something from America and who has succeeded in the world of science, his guru tells him to go to Hindustan before doing anything, go to a temple there. And go there and tell your story. You will find the way. This thing is unique in itself. Today, Mark, for the people of the world, would have been very surprised to hear about you. And I hope that the inspiration you have received, the inspiration that you have started this work ... will not be the only way to increase the company's bank account, it will be the voice of billions of people in the world. It will become the medium of expression of the aspiration of millions of people of the world, and this effort will keep them awake to fulfill the aspirations of the common man, and in that sense I congratulate your efforts, Thank you\nYou asked the question that people are looking at India with great hope. What do you think? When you came to India, you came to a temple with great hope, and see where you came from! Your experience tells that India has hopes and expectations, strength is in India, she is telling your own experience. It is the world's largest democracy. If seen from an economic perspective - whether it is the World Bank, the IMF, the world's all the ratings Agencies - everybody is saying in a voice that today the fastest growing economy of the world's largest countries, if any, then that is India.\nToday we have 8 trillion dollars of Economy. My dream is to convert 20 trillion dollars into the economy. And to do that work, I am focusing on three things: Agriculture sector, Services sector and Manufacturing sector. You are the people associated with the world, whose largest contribution is in the service sector. And I see the strength of the service sector is very big.\nIf alone, take tourism, singular tourism. India has so many possibilities in the field of tourism, there is so much potential for job creation and today's technology has brought the world so close, it has created so much belongingness. And if tourism grows then the service sector becomes a big force in job creation ... i.e. to bring about a change in quality of life. And in that sense, I see that in the last year-and-a-half years, the attitude towards India has changed, even today, when an Indian gets an opportunity to meet a foreigner, he sees it with great pride. In such a short time, this perception is changing, it is due to the foundation of that belief. If our government has done the biggest work in 15 months, then we have brought back the lost faith, brought an confidence level and I believe that changes the same things. Even the patient lying in the ICU, when he believes that yes, my doctor has come, now I will be fine, the patient with ICU also comes out.\nMr. Mark Zuckerberg: All right, so we have the first question from the thread. We've received about 40,00 comments and questions on our Facebook post about this town hall. That's pretty incredible engagement!\nAnd many people have flown in today But before we call them up You were one of the early adopters of the internet and social media and Facebook. Did you, at the point, think that social media and the internet will become an important tool for governing and citizen engagement and policy?\nPrime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi: When I adopted social media, I did not know that I would ever be the Chief Minister, I would ever be the Prime Minister. So I did not think that social media can also work in governance. When I was connected to social media, I had a curiosity towards a technology. I have seen that I am trying to understand the world through books, but the nature of man is that it is better to find a guide instead of a textbook, and if it gives any suggestions to the guide, it feels good is. For me, social media has done this. I was able to get the things I needed in a short time with two or four words.\nAnd the second advantage is that I have not read much-written. I did not have much luck that I could earn some more knowledge. But my lack of that social media filled up. My world would have gone from two to four words. And because of that there was a huge change in my thinking process. I used to think that from the world around that time, I got an opportunity to touch it till the whole world. I went to join. And as soon as I joined, the world also started to accept me as I am. And the greatest happiness for the human being is that if you are like you are the world, then when the world accepts you, then there is no opportunity for greater happiness. Otherwise, people say \"yes, you are good but it would have been nice, you are very good but a little bit ..\" That's not the problem in the social media! As you like, the world accepts you She does not have any questions. And this increases your scope very fast. Whatever I have experienced before, he experienced this magnification enhancing.\nWhen I came to government, all my doors were opened. I see ... the government has a problem. There is a huge gap between him and the public, there is a huge gap. And when it comes to know that the election comes five years, the result comes, then it shows that Bhai was such a big gap. Daily voting is due to Social Media. I am just talking now that voting will be going on right now that Modi is doing fine wrong doing.\nToday the power of social media is that any government - if it does wrong, then stops to do wrong, and the opportunity to improve the mistake was done once in the first five years, after elections, every 5 minutes would be there today is. I believe this has become a great force for democracy. And so, I am not going to have anything from all the politicians, all the world politicians - escaping from Social Media, you join them, try to know him. Good government moves when Information Channel is very much, and real time information.\nGovernments had earlier had mechanism too slow then it was too big. If something happened somewhere, then after 24 hours, when the newspaper came, knew that the man has happened somewhere. Today in 24 seconds it is found that this has happened in that corner of the world. And so this is the biggest source for Real Time Information. And if the government is aware, it is alert, conscious, then they can take Corrective measures from Real Time Information, create a policy framework and can speed up the work momentum. And in that sense I see Social Media has played a very big role in governance.\nYou asked me the question of diplomacy See Diplomacy, what happens first? Country, Capital used to connect with each other. Delhi was associated with Washington Delhi was connected to Tokyo Join the leaders. Due to Social Media, one country joins citizens of other countries. Today, in China, there is a separate Structure of Social Media in China, but I am also active there. And I communicate there in the Chinese language. You must be surprised I congratulated my Prime Minister's birthday on China's Vibo. For the citizens of China, his prime minister's birthday was a news and he was so viral that it was so viral all over China. Now this is the kind of diplomacy that anyone had ever thought. Never thought. I would like to have a festival of the Prime Minister of Israel that greeted the festival in Hebrew language. He became viral But the biggest reason came when he sent me the answer, Thanks, Hindi. Now look, this is a new form of diplomacy that connects directly to the public and perhaps the world is a family, in this formation, this Social Media is playing a very big role in the form of a Catalytic Agent.\nMr. Mark Zuckerberg: One of the reasons why so many of us here at Facebook is your leader so much, is that we deeply agree, in our mission, with so much of what you just said. So, thank you for that.\nOur next question is from Veer Kashyap Veer, why do not you tell us?\nMr. Veer Kashyap: Morning, Prime Minister Modi, and Mark. Thanks for having us here. I live in Bangalore right now, and I moved to India 8 years ago, and co-founded my company, because I saw great promise in the country of digital revolution, and enable millions of people internet I always felt that much like government's in the past, in this day and age, one of the main roles of the government the global society So, Prime Minister, my question to you is, what is your government going to make the next 800 million to one billion people in India to get connected?\nPrime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi: Veer, I am very grateful that you have come to India and have tried to try your luck. I welcome it and by taking inspiration from heroes, more young people here would definitely like to come to India. It is true that India will have to emphasize equally on two things. A physical infrastructure, which we can not refuse because it is the necessity of my country. And the second digital infrastructures, because I do this work first, then do the second, then do the third, if I do the third time, then it will be gone. So simultaneous I have to do all the things. And it is my conviction that the importance of highways in today's 21st century is of the same importance i-ways. The highway should also need information ways too. There are 600,000 villages in India. These numbers are so big that people are scared there. And there are about two and a half million panchayats. I am trying to add these villages to the Optical Fiber Network in the next five years. Those people who are familiar with India, and in the world also you see, the development of human culture - the first people used to sit there where the river used to be. The cities used to sit beside the river, the time changed, from where the highways passed, the city started settling there. In the coming days where the Optical Fibre Network will pass, the cities are going to settle down.\nWe must look at this changing world. And so our efforts are that, we are bringing technology in very large quantities in governance. She is very useful for Transparency. Effective governance is to do easy governance, even economical governance. So this technology is huge power. So for the benefit of the government, it is compulsion for me that I, my whole shifting digital world. So one should be Infrastructure world, as far as money is concerned I do not believe there is no shortage of money in the world today. There are many countries they do not know where to put money. I am giving them the address, here is the place.\nMr. Mark Zuckerberg: All right. Our next question is from TS Khurana, who actually works here at Facebook. So, TS, where are you from?\nMr. TS Khurana: Well, I was born in India but we immigrated to the US in 1971. I learnt my English on the streets of Kentucky Prime Minister, welcome to our campus and Mark, thank you for this fine Sunday morning. My question for the Prime Minister is, do you think it's easy, in the last 15 months, to do business in India or not? You introduced a program called \"Make in India\" to cut red tape. But there is a perception that the pace of reform is slow. Do you think that \"Make in India\" will ultimately be successful?\nPrime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi: Look, when a scooter has to turn, such a scooter is going, it takes half a second. And you came to know, Ya Ya scooter was going like this, came here. But if I have to bring a 40-coach train from here, then it takes a long time, so that the man came here again, came not yet, did not come, did not come, did not come, did not come.\nSo much bigger country - you have a change continuous, there are many, now when its cumulative effect comes after some time, then how does it happen? Now you see, the nationalization of banks in India 40 years ago. It was for this purpose that the bank should work for the poor. But in 40 years, 60% of the population was not his bank account. Now, now whether the work is going on or not, how will it calculate? In 180 years, 180 Million people - there was no bank account.\nThis government came, 100 days in 100 days - 180 million bank accounts. Now you see the speed, see the scale, the look of the brother how are you? What happened in 40 years, how did it happen in 100 days? So this is the speed of change, the speed of change is. The way I just ran a campaign and the World Bank took the initiative - Easy to Doing Business In the rating of Ease of Doing Business, India stands at number 140 in the world. And whoever thinks of seeing the report he will never think of coming to India. It is natural because when the company sits on the board, it sits on the paper, it comes only to see somebody, as it came to the Facebook-based temple. They see their board. Now, listening to Mark, people will think, not by paper, but once you go see it once.\nलेकिन हमने तय किया कि हमें Ease of Doing Business करना है। मैंने सभी states को On-Board लिया। We are a Federal Government, और ज्‍यादातार हमारे यहां states के पास सबसे ज्‍यादा Power है. उनको बुलाया, Ease of Doing Business के लिए क्‍या-क्‍या रुकावट है उसकी listing किया, और अभी World Bank ने rating किया मैं हैरान था, मैं खुद हैरान था, सभी राज्‍यों के बीच Ease of Doing Business का एक unprecedented competition शुरू हुआ है। एक से दूसरा राज्‍य आगे निकलना चाहता है। और Ease of Doing Business में unprecedented achievement in last six months India ने achieve कर लिया है। आने वाले दिनों में जब National Rating आएगा, मुझे विश्‍वास है हम 140 से काफी ऊपर चले जाएंगे।\nकहने का तात्‍पर्य है कि संभावना है। दूसरा, “Make In India” की सफलता का रहस्‍य क्‍या है? दुनिया का कोई भी व्‍यक्ति अपनी कम्‍पनी बंद करना नहीं चाहता है। Competitive World में वो खड़ा होना चाहता है। अगर Facebook के Headquarter को मान लीजिए 10 Million पगार देना पड़ता है, लोगों को हर महीना, और वही काम भारत में 1 Million पगार से होता है, तो आएगा कि नहीं आएगा? आएगा कि नहीं आएगा? तो low cost manufacturing, effective governance, skilled manpower, raw material and the biggest market in India, ये सारी संभावनाएं ऐसी हैं कि जो Make in India के लिए दुनिया के किसी भी Manufacturer के लिए ये स्‍वर्ग भूमि है।\nऔर उस अर्थ में मैं देखता हूं कि “Make in India” के लिए बहुत-बहुत संभावनाएं पड़ी हुई हैं और सफलता की ओर... आपने देखा होगा पिछले 15 महीने में अकेले अमेरिका से Foreign Direct Investment में 87% growth है 87% ! One can imagine! FII में बहुत तेजी से growth हो रहा है। और Average, हमारे देश का Foreign Direct Investment का growth 40 percent हो गया है। जो कि आज दुनिया में जो recession है, दुनिया के और देशों में 16 percent minus है, whereas India 40 percent plus है। ये बताता है कि “Make in India” की सफलताएं इसके साथ जुड़ी हुई हैं। और मैं देख रहा हूं कि make in India सफल होगा।\nदूसरी बात है भारत के इन दिनों जो सुविधाएं है उसके comparison में दुनिया के किसी के पास नहीं है। हमारे पास 3-D है, और 3-D हमारी unique strength है. Strength ऐसे नहीं - it is a unique strength - Demographic Dividend, Democracy and Demand. 800 million Population below 35 years है। जो जवान देश हो, vibrant democracy हो, vibrant judiciary हो vibrant media हो, Like-minded countries के लिए ये एक बहुत बड़ी opportunity होती है democracy. And demand - 1.25 billion people! कितनी बड़ी डिमांड है! और उसमें मैंने आ करके एक नया D जोड़ दिया है “deregulaisation”. मैं सारे सरकारी कब्जो को हटा रहा हूं। मैं सरकार को छोटी कर रहा हूं। और मेरी philosophy है “Government has no business to be in business”. ये हमारा काम नहीं होटल चलाना। लोग चलाए, और अच्‍छी तरह से चलाए। और ये चीजें जिसके कारण मैं देख रहा हूं कि, मि. खुराना, बहुत संभावना है।\nMr. Mark Zuckerberg:All right, our next question is from Dr. Ranjana Kumari, who has, I think, just flown in from Delhi. Doctor, will you tell us where you’re from, and your question?\nDr. Ranjana Kumari: जी हाँ, मैं भारत में, दिल्ली में, महिला सशक्तिकरण के लिए Centre for Social Research की निदेशिका हूँ. मेरा सवाल आपसे है, मोदी जी, दुनिया में, भारतीय महिलाओं को लेकर काफी कुछ कहा सुना गया है पिछले समय में, जिसकी वजह से सब लोग जानना चाहते हैं कि आपकी महिलाओं और बच्चियों के सशक्तिकरण के लिए क्या योजना है. और, ख़ास तौर से, “Progressive India” में महिलाओं की बराबरी के लिए आपकी क्या सोच है?\nPrime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi: दो पहलू है। मैं एक उन पहलूओं की जो ओर ले जाऊंगा, जो कई लोग पसंद नहीं करते है। लेकिन जब मार्क ने टेंपल की बात कह दी है तो मेरा मन करता है मैं भी कुछ ऐसा बता दूं। दुनिया में भगवान की कल्‍पना सभी समाजों में है। ईश्‍वर की कल्‍पना हर किसी समाज में हैं। लेकिन हर किसी समाज में भगवान पुरूष ही है। हर समाज में! अकेला हिन्‍दुस्‍तान है जहां स्‍त्री भगवान की कल्‍पना की गई है। दुर्गा, सरस्‍वती, अम्‍बा, काली, यानी मूलभूत हमारे चिंतन का जो अधिष्‍ठान है, उसमें नारी के इस रूप की कल्‍पना की गई है।\nये बात सही है कि हजारों साल से चलते-चलते कभी उसमें diversion आते है, deterioration आते है, वो बदलते हुए समाज की एक तासीर रहती है। जहां तक सरकार का सवाल है, भारत को अगर अपने आर्थिक विकास के लक्ष्‍य प्राप्‍त करने है तो 50% population को घर के अंदर बंद रख करके नहीं हो सकते है। इस 50% नारी शक्ति, उसकी भारत की विकास यात्रा में कंधे से कंधा मिला करके 100% partnership होनी चाहिए। सरकार की नीतियां proactive होनी चाहिए। और उस दिशा में हम प्रयास कर रहे है। आज हिन्‍दुस्‍तान में education ले लीजिए, health ले लीजिए, तो वहां स्थिति ऐसी है कि Male के लिए reservation करना पड़ेगा! अगर आप आज Education Field की meeting करें, 1000 लोगों को बुलाए, तो 800 महिलाएं होती है और 200 ही पुरूष होते है।\nइतनी बड़ी मात्रा में पूरी education activity आज हिन्‍दुस्‍तान में महिलाओं के हाथ में है। Health sector - आज अगर आप health sector की कोई conference कर लीजिए। आपको बहुत बड़ी मात्रा में health sector में - खास करके nursing में, paramedical staff में - पूरा control महिलाओं ने लिया है। पिछले दिनों हमने निर्णय किया Police Department में, जो Union Territories है, जहां भारत सरकार निर्णय करती है वहां 30% Reservation for the women police, हमने decide किया।\nभारत, आज भी दुनिया के कई देश है, आज भी दुनिया के देश है जहां किसी महिला को चुनाव जीतना आज भी मुश्किल है। बहुत ही पढ़े-लिखे देश में भी भारत में electoral process में है, अनेक राज्‍य ऐसे है कि जहां local self-government में 50% women reservation है। अगर 100 लोगों को body है तो compulsory 50 महिलाएं होगी, होगी, होगी। ये छोटा निर्णय नहीं है और Parliament assembly में भी उसके लिए बहस चल रही है कि वहां भी महिलाओं को… ताकि Decision Making Process में उनकी भागीदारी हो। और मैं मानता हूं कि Women Empowerment में एक बात हमको achieve करनी होगी कि Decision Making Process में Women का हिस्‍सा होना चाहिए।\nसिर्फ वो मकान बनाते है, तो दीवार का कलर कैसा हो, यहां तक उसका सीमित role नहीं होना चाहिए, मकान कैसा बने तब तक का उसका involvement होना चाहिए। परिवार में भी Empowerment होना चाहिए। और इस दिशा में, अब जैसे हमने एक अभियान चलाया “बेटी बचाओ, बेटी पढ़ाओं।“ मैं जब गुजरात में था मुख्‍यमंत्री, जून महीने में 45 डिग्री temperature गुजरात में होता है। मैं जून महीने में 12, 13, 14, 15 इन जून के चार दिनों में खुद गांव चला जाता था। गांव में रहता था, 45 डिग्री temperature हुआ करता है। हर घर जा करके कहता था बेटी को स्‍कूल भेजिए, मुझे आपकी बेटी को पढ़ाना है और मैं 100% Girl Child Education को achieve करके रहा था। आज मेरी कोशिश है Girl Child Education को “बेटी बचाओ, बेटी पढ़ाओ” एक बहुत बड़ा Movement Nation Wide चल रहा है और ऐसे अनेक काम है।\nजैसे, सरकार की कोई scheme है। सरकार की scheme में अगर हम गरीबों को मकान देते है। तो मेरे यहां compulsory है, वो मकान, सबसे पहले मालिक का नाम महिला का होगा second name उस घर के पुरूष का होगा। पहले भारत में बच्‍चों को स्‍कूल दाखिल करते थे, तो बच्‍चे के पीछे पिता का नाम लिखा जाता था। मैं जब गुजरात में था तो compulsory कर दिया था, बच्‍चे के साथ सिर्फ पिता का नाम नहीं माता का नाम compulsory रहेगा। आपको समाज के जीवन की जो पुरानी सोच है उसको बदलना होगा और एक के बाद एक चाहें वो सामाजिक स्‍तर हो, आर्थिक स्‍तर हो, सरकार की व्‍यवस्‍था का स्‍तर हो इन सारे विषयों में इसको जोड़ा जा रहा है और मैं मानता हूं कि उसके कारण एक बहुत बड़ा बदलाव आ रहा है।\nMr. Mark Zuckerberg: All right, so for our next one, I want to ask you a personal question. People may not realize this but there’s actually a number of things that we have in common. One them is that family is very important to both of us. In fact, both my parents are actually here today. In understand that your mother is very important in your life. So I’m hoping that you’ll tell us a bit about her.\nPrime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi: मैं उन मां-बाप को बहुत बधाई देता हूं और उनको यहां से मैं प्रणाम करता हूं कि उन्‍होंने मार्क जैसा बेटा एक ऐसे काम के लिए दिया जिसने दुनिया को जोड़ने का काम किया। I request you, will you please stand-up? We would like to see you. और मुझे लगता है शायद यह पहली घटना होगी कि मार्क ने आज आप दोनों को यहाँ बुलाया है।\nआप किसी भी व्यक्ति के जीवन में देखें, किसी की भी Biography देखें, autobiography देखें, हर किसी के जीवन में दो चीजें हमेशा आती है - कि मेरे जीवन में टीचर का क्‍या रोल रहा और मेरे जीवन में मेरी माता का क्‍या रोल रहा। हर एक के जीवन में आता है। मैं भी एक सामान्‍य परिवार से हूं। मेरे जीवन में मेरे मां-बाप का बहुत बड़ा रोल रहा है। I'm from a very poor family. आप जानते है मैं रेलवे स्‍टेशन पर चाय बेचता था। कोई कल्‍पना नहीं कर सकता कि दुनिया की इतनी बड़ी democracy ने एक चाय बेचने वाले को अपना नेता मान लिया। और इसलिए मैं सबसे पहले उन सवा सौ करोड़ भारतवासियों को नमन करता हूं कि जिन्‍होंने मुझ जैसे सामान्‍य व्‍यक्ति को अपना बना लिया।\nदूसरी बात है, बहुत सामान्‍य परिवार में से कैसे गुजारा करना। हमारे पिता जी तो रहे नहीं है। माता जी हैं 90 साल से भी ज्‍यादा उम्र है। आज भी अपने सारे काम खुद करती है, सब कुछ काम खुद करती है। पढ़ी-लिखी नहीं है, लेकिन टीवी के कारण उनको समाचारों का सब पता रहता है, दुनिया क्‍या चल रही है। वरना, कुछ पता नहीं होता था। जब हम छोटे थे तो हमारा गुजारा करने के लिए वे अड़ोस-पड़ोस के घरों में बर्तन साफ करना, पानी भरना, मजदूरी करना... आप कल्‍पना कर सकते हैं कि एक मां ने अपने बच्‍चों को बड़ा करने के लिए कितना कष्‍ट उठाया होगा। और ये सिर्फ नरेंद्र मोदी के case में नहीं है। भारत में ऐसी लाखों माताएं हैं, जिन्‍होंने अपने बच्‍चों के सपनों लिए अपना पूरा जीवन आहूत कर दिया है।\nऔर इसलिए मैं सभी माताओं को शत-शत वंदन करता हूं और उनकी प्रेरणा, उनके आर्शीवाद न सिर्फ हमें शक्ति दें; पर हमें सही रास्‍ते पर रखें। ओर वही मां की सबसे बड़ी ताकत होती है। मां कभी नहीं चाहती कि आप कुछ बन जाओ। लेकिन मां हमेशा चाहती है कि आप कैसे बनो। और यह मां का सपना होता है “कैसे बनो”। “कुछ भी बनो”, ये कभी मां का सपना नहीं होता है। ये फर्क होता है और इसलिए हर किसी के जीवन में मां का बहुत बड़ा योगदान होता है।\nThank you, Mark."