"\nFacebook, Twitter, Instagram are the new neighbourhoods of our new world: PM Modi\nThe status that is now is not is that you are awake or sleep, but whether you are online or offline: PM\nOur government has attacked poverty by using the power of networks and mobile phones: PM\nPace at which people are taking digital technology defies our stereotypes of age, education, language and income: PM\nIn this digital age, we have a chance to transform lives of people: PM\nI see technology as a means to empower and as a tool that bridges the distance between hope and opportunity: PM\nSocial media is reducing social barriers: PM Modi\nDigital India is an enterprise for India's transformation: PM Modi\nWe will transform, governance, making it more transparent, accountable, accessible and participative: PM Modi\nM-governance has the potential to make development a truly inclusive and comprehensive mass movement: PM\nMyGov.in, Narendra Modi mobile app help me stay in touch with people: PM\nWe are using technology to impart scale and speed to development: PM\nWe should ensure that technology is accessible, affordable, and adds value: PM\nThank you, Shantanu, John, Satya, Paul, Sunder, and Venkatesh\nA big thank you!\nI am sure this was not pre-arranged. But, here on stage you see a perfect picture of India-U.S. partnership in the digital economy\nGood Evening, everyone!\nIf there was ever a gathering under one roof, it is this. And, I am not talking about those public offices, here or in India! It's a great pleasure to be here in California. It is the one of the last But, that is the first light of the day.\nIt's a great honour that you have joined us tonight. I have met many of you in Delhi and New York, and on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.\nThese are the new neighborhoods of our new world.\nIf Facebook was a country, it would be the third most populous one and the most connected.\nGoogle has made the teachers less awe-inspiring and grandparents more idle. Twitter has turned into a reporter The traffic lights that need to work on the CISCO routers.\nThe status that is now is not is that you are awake or sleep, but whether you are online or offline. The most fundamental debate is for Android, iOS or Windows.\nFrom computing to communication, entertainment to education, from printing documents to printing products, and, now it is a long time in the world.\nFrom cleaner energy to better healthcare and safe transport, everything is converging around the work you do.\nIn Africa, it's helping people transfer money on phone It has made reaching small island states no longer a journey of a mouse.\nIn India, a mother in a remote hill village has a better chance to save her new born infant. A child in a remote village has better access to education.\nA small farmer is more confident about his land holding and getting better market price. A fisherman on the sea has a better catch And, a young professional in San Francisco cant her daily grandmother in India.\nAn initiative by a father in Haryana for \"Selfie with daughter\"\nAll this is Since last year, we have attacked poverty by using the power of networks and mobile phones to launch a new era of empowerment and inclusion: 180 million new bank accounts in a few months; direct transfer of benefits; funds for the unbanked; insurance within the reach of the poorest; and, the pension for the sunset years for all.\nBy using space technology and internet, we have been able to identify in the last few months 170 applications that will make governance better and development faster.\nWhen a small craftsman in a village in India brings a smile to a customer looking at his phone on a metro ride in New York; When a heart patient in a remote hospital in Kyrgyz Republic is treated by doctors sitting in Delhi, as I saw in Bishkek, we know that we are making something that has fundamentally changed our lives.\nThe pace at which people are taking into digital technology defies our stereotypes of age, education, language and income. I like recounting my meeting with a group of unlettered tribal women in a remote part of Gujarat. They were present at a local milk chilling plant I was inaugurating. They were using cell phones I asked them what they would do The answer was a surprise for me\nThey said, they will go back, have the images downloaded on to a computer and take printouts. Yes, they are familiar with our digital world.\nAnd, farmers in Maharashtra State has created a Whatsapp group to share information on farming practices.\nCustomers, more than creators, are defining the use of a product. The world may be driven by the same ancient impulses. We will continue to see human struggles and successes. We will witness human glory and tragedies\nBut, in this digital age, we have a chance to transform the lives of people in ways that were difficult to imagine just a couple of decades ago.\nThis is what sets us apart from the century. There are some who see the digital economy as the tool of the rich, educated and the privileged. But, ask the taxi driver or the corner seller in India what he has gained from his cell phone, and the debate gets settled. I see technology as a means to empower and as a tool that bridges the distance between hope and opportunity. Social media is reducing social barriers It connects people on the strength of human values, not identities.\nToday, technology is advancing citizen empowerment and democracy that constitutions Technology is forcing governments to deal with massive volumes of data and generate responses, not in 24 hours but in 24 minutes\nWhen you think of the exponential speed and scale of expansion of social media or a service, you have to believe that it is possible to rapidly transform the lives of those who have longed over the margins of hope. So, friends out of the conviction\nIt is an enterprise for India's transformation on a scale that is, probably, unmatched in human history. Not just to touch the lives of the weakest, farthest and the poorest citizen of India, but change the way our nation live and work.\nFor nothing else will do in a country with 800 million youth under the age of 35 years, impatient for change and eager to achieve it.\nWe will change governance, making it more transparent, accountable, accessible and participative. I spoke of E-Governance as a better governance - efficient, economical and effective.\nI now speak of M-Governance or mobile governance. That is the way to go in a country with one billion mobile phones and usage of smart phones. It has the potential to make development a truly integrated and comprehensive mass movement. It puts governance within everyone's reach.\nAfter MyGov.in, I have just launched the Narendra Modi Mobile App They are I learn a great deal from their suggestions and complaints.\nWe want to free our citizens from the burden of excessive paper documents in every office. We want paperless transactions. We will set up a digital locker for every citizen to store personal documents that can be shared across departments.\nWe have set up Ebiz portal to make approvals for businesses and citizen's easy and efficient so that they focus on their goals, not on government processes.\nWe are using technology for improving scale and speed to development.\nInformation, education, skills, healthcare, livelihood, financial inclusion, small and village enterprises, opportunities for women, conservation of natural resources, distributed clean energy - the development model to change completely to new possibilities.\nBut for all this, we must bridge the digital divide and promote digital literacy in the same way that we want to ensure general literacy.\nWe should ensure that technology is accessible, affordable, and adds value.\nWe want our 1.25 billion citizens to be digitally connected. We already have the broadband usage in India. We need to accelerate this further.\nWe have launched an aggressive expansion of the National Optical Fiber Network that will take broadband to our 600,000 villages. We will connect all schools and colleges with broadband Building I-ways are as important as highways\nWe are expanding our public Wi-Fi hotspots For example, we want to ensure that free Wi Fi is not only there in airport lounges, but also on our railway platforms. Teaming up Google, we will cover 500 railway stations in a short time.\nWe are also setting up the Common Service Centers in villages and towns. We will also use information technology to build smart cities.\nAnd, we want to turn our villages into smart economic hubs and connect our farmers better to markets and weather of whims to make them less vulnerable.\nFor me, access should also be used. In a country with 22 official languages, it is a formidable, but an important task.\nAffordability of products and services is critical for our success. There are many dimensions to this. We will promote manufacture of quality and affordable products in India. That's part of our vision of Make in India, Digital India and Design in India.\nAs our economy and our lives get more wired, we are also giving the highest importance to data privacy and security, intellectual property rights and cyber security.\nAnd, I want to get the vision of Digital India, the government should start thinking about a bit like you.\nSo, from making infrastructure to services, from manufacturing of products to human resources development, from government to enabling citizens and promoting digital literacy, Digital India is a vast cyber world of opportunities for you.\nThe task is huge; the challenges are many But, we also know that we will not reach new roads without taking new roads.\nMuch of India So, we have now\nAnd, we have the talent, enterprise and skills to succeed\nWe also have the strength of the partnership between India and the United States.\nIndians and Americans have worked together They have been aware of technology\nFrom large corporate to young professionals in this great center of innovation, everyone can become part of the Digital India story.\nThe sustainable development of one-sixth of humanity will be a major force of good for our world and our planet.\nToday, we speak of India-U.S. Partnership as a defining partnership of this century. It has two major reasons Both converge here in California.\nWe all know that the Pacific And, India and the United States, the world's two largest democracies, are located at the end of the region.\nWe have the responsibility to reside in this region.\nOur relationship is also defined by the power of youth, technology and innovation. These are ignite a partnership that will advance and sustain prosperity in our two countries.\nEven more, in this Digital Age, we can draw on the strength of our values ​​and partnership to a better and more sustainable future for the world.\nThank you."