"\nPM Modi attends G 4 Summit in New York\nReforms in the UNSC has been the focus of the global attention for decades - unfortunately, without progress so far: PM\nPM Modi, President Rousseff, Japanese PM Abe, Chancellor Merkel express views on UNSC reforms\nWe live in a fundamental world from the time of the birth: PM\nClimate change and terrorism are new concerns: PM Modi\nCyber ​​and Space are new frontiers of opportunities and challenges: PM\nSecurity Council must include the world's largest democracies, major locomotives of global economy: PM\nPM Modi appreciates the dynamic leadership of H.E. Mr. Sam Kutesa and Ambassador Courtney Rattray\nYour Excellency President Dilma Rousseff,\nYour Excellency Chancellor Angela Merkel,\nYour Excellency Prime Minister Shinzo Abe,\nDistinguished delegation members,\nI am happy to welcome you all Thank you for this meeting I want to listen to the Prime Minister Abe, who has just arrived in New York.\nThe subject of reforms in the United Nations Security Council has been the focus of the global attention for decades - unfortunately, without progress so far.\nOur Group of four countries, G-4, came together in 2004, bounded by our shared commitment to global peace and prosperity, our faith in multilateralism and our willingness to assume our global responsibilities that the world has to expect from us.\nI am happy that we are meeting again as Head of government after ten years.\nAs I had reflected in my letter on the 70th anniversary of the United Nations, we live in a fundamentally different world. The number of Member States has grown four-fold. Threats to peace and security have become more complex, unpredictable and undefined In many ways, our lives are becoming globalized, but fault-lines around our identities are growing.\nWe live in a digital age. The global economy is changing, with new engines of growth, more widely dispersed economic power and widening wealth gap\nTrends in demography, urbanization and migrations are posing new challenges Climate change and terrorism are new concerns Cyber ​​and Space are fully new frontiers of opportunities and challenges\nYet, our institutions, approaches, and often mindsets, reflect the wisdom of the century we have left behind, not the century we live in. The United Nations Security Council\nThe reform of the Security Council within a fixed time frame has become a major issue. The Security Council must include the world's largest democracies, major locomotives of the global economy, and voices from all major continents. It will carry more credibility and legitimacy and will be more representative and effective in addressing the challenges of the 21st century.\nAfter decades The 69th Session of the General Assembly has taken a significant step forward for commencement of text-based negotiations. This was not possible but for the dynamic leadership of H.E. Mr. Sam Kutesa and Ambassador Courtney Rattray\nHowever, this is just the first step. We should aim to take this process to its logical conclusion during the 70th session. I am confident that this direction in our efforts to our mission today will give a big impetus."