"PM Narendra Modi interacts with Indian Community in Dublin, Ireland\nHad a fruitful meeting with PM Kenny, discussed\nThere is growing optimism towards India on the world stage: PM Modi\nIndia is the youth and it is the youth that will take newer heights: PM\nHello all Indians settled in Ireland,\nFirst of all you have to apologize to all, forgiveness is required that I should give you more time. Many people complain that we did not get admission to come, admission was not found. It would have been nice that I would have taken a lot of time, so that the settled Indians could find a large number. But I would say that this is a good start. Many of you will be like this, maybe there will be very few who would remember that whenever the Prime Minister of India had come here. Because I was told that after some 60 years, no Prime Minister of India has come here. Well, from Delhi to New York, every time he has to go and he goes through the sky. So the people's love pulled me, so I came down from the top.\nToday my big story has been discussed with the Prime Minister here. There was a lot of time now, but the meeting was very good, so many topics have been discussed. There is an atmosphere of agreement on how many things. I think India's relations with Ireland should be deeper. Must be associated with many topics. And in 2016 Ireland is celebrating its centenary of independence, the centenary of freedom struggle is celebrating. India was also fighting for freedom at the same time and in a way India fought for freedom, Ireland also fought for freedom and in truth it is our common heritage. We are thinking that this is the 2016 war of independence of Ireland, India also became a partner in this century, India is also Ireland.\nSome of the characteristics of Ireland and India are associated with each other for some reason or another. Like living in truth for India For centuries we have come to hear from us. For an ideal, to be sacrificed for thought. Ending life by giving pain to yourself. We have been hearing this for centuries, but say the Hunger Strike took place in Ireland in 1920 and the citizens here had dedicated their lives. That is, how many of our values ​​are, you can guess. These things related to humanity have a power in them. And our effort is to emphasize those same things.\nNow Irish children are chanting chanting in Sanskrit, singing welcome songs. And I did not think that they were talking rhetorically. What was his expression in what word he was expressing, meaning that he had internalized this thing. I congratulate all his teachers who do this work. But it is a matter of pride that in Ireland we can do this, but if we do something in India, then there is no question mark on secularism.\nBut these days the changes are coming. You see Yoga, the world tells him Yoga. The whole world has started catching the nose. All countries of the world celebrated International Yoga Day. These thousands of years of science in India have spread to the whole world as a very acceptable, accepted method for preventive health care, for holistic health care today. And first, what we had imagined here, if there is no sickness, then you are healthy, now these thoughts are not of Indian thought. Health is not sick; This is not our thinking. We discuss two steps ahead wellness. Our imagination was wellness and that Yoga is linked to that wellness. It is not just disease free, so you are healthy. So India has begun to accept the basics of the world, but the world accepts only when there is breath in India. If India does not have breath, why would the world ask why?\nToday, the development of India is being discussed all over the world. 21st Century 'Century of Asia', this whole world has accepted. But 21st Century 'Century of Asia', then slowly see, then they think Man can be of Hindustan. It started to believe the world\nA BRICS concept came in 1980s Brazil, Russia, India, South Africa, China, BRICS. But a few years ago that B, R, C, S had their car on track. I (I) is what has rolled. There was such discussion and people used to say so, maybe I (i) in place of India, I (I) Indonesia will take it. This was the discussion. Today, the World Bank is IMF be Credit Rating Agencies, all are saying that if BRICS has any strength, then I (I) is there. Rating agencies across the world are saying that India is the fastest economy in the world with the fastest economy, fastest, in the whole world.\nIf this trend continues and does not exceed 30 years, 30 years if we keep on this height, poverty will not remain in India. The young man will get employment, but for 30 years it is a very big challenge to maintain this momentum. But we will be able to overcome this challenge, because we are in the era of such power, which we have never imagined. And that is 65% of the population of Hindustan, under 35 years of age. India is a young man, India belongs to young people and India is going to be built on the strength of young people. This strength can be achieved, it can fulfill the dream of the next 30 years.\nThe country is crossing the new heights of development. Efforts are made to make the country successful in all areas. And the Indian people spread all over the world, today they have started talking about India with the eyes by joining the eye. What could be a big pride for this. Now there is no day to bow to any Indian, it is the day of Sena Tanaka stand. And that's the big power, that's the big power.\nI got an opportunity for you all to meet me, I am your very own, and this time too because my schedule was created in a very short time. In such a large number of people you came and told me your ambassador that there is so much fighting that we would have stopped, whom to bring, would have been better if we had got more time, but still I have said before that it is auspicious. It is the beginning, this relationship and ... and the relationship will continue to join and the Prime Minister of India will not take 60 years to come here, I believe you.\nThanks a lot."