"Share\n\nIndia \u0026 Ireland share much in common Directive Principles of State Policy in the Indian Constitution is inspired by the Irish Constitution: PM\nIrish experts gave us institutions like Geological Survey of India \u0026 the first Linguistic Survey of India\nFrom Tagore to Yeats, Indian \u0026 Irish people have formed strong bonds of affinity: PM\nIndia, Ireland are among the fastest growing economies of Asia and Europe: PM Modi\nPleased that our trade and investment ties are growing: PM\nIndia, Ireland ideal to form productive partnerships to take advantage of opportunities in digital age: PM\nDirect air services between India, Ireland will boost tourism ties, says PM Modi\nPM Modi seeks reforms of the UN Security Council\nPM seeks Ireland's support for India's membership of the NSG and other international export control regimes\nIndia can be Ireland's anchor in Asia \u0026 Ireland can be India's vital gateway to Europe: PM\nYour Excellency, Taoiseach Enda Kenny,\nMembers of the media,\nIt is really a pleasure to be here in Ireland. Short is it, it is historic It has taken 59 years for an Indian Prime Minister to visit Ireland\nThank you for your warm reception and graceful hospitality. Words for friendship for India\nIndia and Ireland share much in common We can compare notes on our shared colonial history. Our Constituions have something sacred in common The Directive Principles of State Policy in the Constitution\nIrish experts gave us institutions like the Geological Survey of India and the First Linguistic Survey of India Today, sports manufacturers in India\nFrom the friendship between Rabindranath Tagore and W.B. Yeats to the spiritual contribution of Sister Nivedita in India, the Irish and Indian people have formed strong bonds of affinity.\nToday, 26,000 Indians constitute a vibrant part of the Irish community. And, the victims of the bombing of the air India, Kanishka aircraft find a resting place here. In the 30th anniversary year of the tragedy, we are thanking you for the memorial that honors them.\nIn the pain of their unfading memory, we are reminded of all that binds us today - our values ​​and our aspirations and the challenges that we all face today.\nIndia and Ireland should seek closer partnership and cooperation.\nIndia and Ireland are among the fastest growing economies of Asia and Europe\nWe are pleased that our global trade and investment ties are growing, despite global and regional uncertainties. Our economic partnership has a strong technology focus - information technology, biotechnology and pharmaceuticals, agriculture and clean energy.\nGreater sensitivity of the European Union to India's commercial interests and challenges will help us resume discussions on India-EU Broad-based Trade and Investment Agreement.\nIndia and Ireland are ideally placed to form productive partnerships to take advantage of the digital age I hope that our Joint Working Group on Information Technology will meet soon.\nI also hope that Ireland's visa policy will be sensitive to the requirements of India's Information Technology firms. I also concluded a social security agreement, which will be of great help to professionals from both countries.\nI am happy that we will soon have direct air services by airlines of both countries. This will not only promote our business links but also gives a strong boost to our tourism ties that are already growing at 14% per year.\nScience and Technology and Education are two other areas, where we have a good history of cooperation, and where we can do more Ireland's Science Center is one of the examples of that cooperation.\nI was pleased to exchange views on a broad range of international challenges, including terrorism, radicalization and the situation in Europe and Asia Our discussions underlined the importance of closer cooperation between countries like India and Ireland, which share democratic values ​​and are consistent advocates of international peace and stability.\nIn this context, we discussed the role of the United Nations and its Security Council in meeting these challenges in the 21st century. India and Ireland have been partners in peacekeeping operations.\nI love Ireland for its leadership in sustainable development goals\nI sought Ireland's support for the reforms of the UN Security Council within a fixed time frame - in particular, for successful conclusion of inter-governmental negotiations in the 70th year of the United Nations. I also demanded his support for India's permanent membership of the reformed Security Council.\nIndia and Ireland are peace-loving countries. We have both been at the forefront on non-proliferation We respect Ireland's strong and principled position on this issue India has also been a leading voice on universal nuclear disarmament since Independence. We are strongly committed to that goal. Our credentials and record on non-proliferation are second to none\nIreland's support was critical for India-specific exemption from the Nuclear Suppliers Group in 2008. With rapid growth in India's enormous energy demand, it has opened up a sustainable development path.\nI have now sought Ireland's support for the NSG and other international export control regimes. India's membership will deepen our bilateral cooperation and international non-proliferation efforts to strengthen\nMr. Prime Minister, I leave the convinced that India and Ireland must invest in the relationship. India was the first country with which you established diplomatic relations in Asia We can now be your anchor in Asia. Similarly, for India, I see Ireland as a vital gateway to Europe and a bridge across the Atlantic.\nThank you once again for your hospitality It has been a couple of decades since you last visited India. I look forward to watching you in India\nThank you."