"\nPM Narendra Modi addresses 12th edition of #MannKiBaat on radio\nOne year, a lot of conversation, learnt a lot from you Jan Shakti is very important in a democracy: PM #MannKiBaat\n#MannKiBaat has showcased the strength of people in society: PM\nHappy that sale of Khadi and handloom products have almost doubled up in a year: PM during #MannKiBaat\nPreviously it used to be 'Khadi for Nation', I urge you to buy 'Khadi for fashion': PM Modi in #MannKiBaat\nLakhs of families have given their LPG subsidies for the welfare of the poor. This is a silent revolution: PM during #MannKiBaat\nUrged people to share their suggestions via telephone and got over 55,000 calls: PM Narendra Modi #MannKiBaat\nPeople shared their constructive, consultative and creative insights for #MannKiBaat, says the Prime Minister\nVisit Shouryanjali and spend a lot of time with the staff: PM during #MannKiBaat\nHistory was recreated at Shauryanjali. We have always heard about the valor of our forces: PM #MannKiBaat\nWe should take the 'Swachhta Abhiyan' ahead. It will be fitting tribute to Mahatma Gandhi: PM during #MannKiBaat\nGandhiji considered 'Swachhta' to be more important than independence: PM Narendra Modi #MannKiBaat\nLight earthen lamps during Diwali Narendra Modi during #MannKiBaat\nIt is a matter of joy that I will host over 50 members of Netaji's family in October at 7RCR, says PM Narendra Modi in #ManKiBaat\nHar Matdata -Desk's Bhagya Vidhata: PM Narendra Modi during #MannKiBaat\nI urge you to register as voters and go out and vote when the time comes: PM in #MannKiBaat\nMy dear countrymen, greetings to you all This is the twelfth episode of \"Man Ki Ki Baat\" and in a way it means that we have completed one year. Last year on 3rd October I had a chance to conduct my first ever \"Man Ki Ki Baat\". \"Mann Ki Baat\" - one year, many ideas. I am not sure of what you got, but I can certainly say that I gained a lot.\nIn a democracy the people of great significance This thought has been fundamental to my thinking and that is why I have immense faith in the power of the people. But with Mann Ki Baat whatever I was taught, whatever I had explained, made me realize that the power of the people is limitless and it far our thinking is over. Our ancestors would say that My experience of \"Man Ki Ki Baat\" made me realize that the thinking of our ancestors was very powerful and had great authenticity in them as I have experienced them. I asked for suggestions for \"Mann Ki Baat\" and yet we could touch just 3-4 of them. But people are continuously contributing in lakhs. This is a great power I did not feel that anyone got disheartened thinking that I wrote a letter to PM or posted on mygov.in, yet my suggestions were not accepted even once.\nYes .... These Lakhs I became aware of the problem I would like to thank Akashwani for not treating these suggestions as mere bits of paper They made the programmes after that They called in different departments and put them in the issues They tried to get some problems resolved The various departments of the government analyzed these letters and segregated them as the issues related to policy matters, others to personal issues, some others as pointers. Many things arise from the grass root level and reached the government It is true, the basic theory of governance is that information should be applied to the top and to the bottom. Who had thought that the \"Man Ki Baat\" will be a source of information? But this has happened\nIn the same way \"Man Ki Baat\" becomes a platform to express the power of society I was just casually mentioned about selfie with daughter and what a movement it became The whole world was amazed Lakhs of people, probably from all countries of the world posted a selfie with their daughters What dignity did it lend to our daughters? Anyone who clicksed this selfie not only boosted their daughter's confidence but also made a commitment to them. Whosoever saw it realized This was a kind of a silent revolution.\nI have been casually mentioned to my fellow citizens, keeping in mind the tourism industry of India to send me the destinations of good pictures they travel to the lines of Incredible India so that I also see them. People sent pictures in India Neither the Government of India nor the state tourism departments were aware of such heritage All things were brought together on a platform and the government did not spend a single penny. The people themselves took the task forward.\nIn October last year, I did my first \"Man Ki Ki Baat\". In that edition I had mentioned about Gandhi Jayanti I asked people that we are celebrating Gandhiji's Birth Anniversary on 2nd October. Khadi for Nation? Is not it the need of the hour? I asked them to buy Today, I can say with great satisfaction that in the last one year the sales of Khadi have almost doubled. Now see, there was no government advertisement Nor were lakhs and crises A simple feeling and realization\nOnce I had mentioned in \"Man Ki Baat\" about the problem of poor families, how their children cry due to the pollution when the wooden stove lit. Should not they get gas cylinders? And I had requested the affluent to surrender their gas subsidy. Just think ... today I can say with great pride that 30 lakh families have given their gas subsidy and these are not rich people. I saw on T.V, a retired teacher, a widow woman standing in a queue to give up her subsidy. The common people in the middle of the middle class have difficulty in giving up subsidy. But then they did not give up their subsidy Is not it a silent revolution? Is not it a demonstration of the people's power?\nThe governments too need to learn a lesson that there is a powerful society which has tremendous capabilities, energy and determination beyond the realms of their administration. There is more likelihood of the government being a catalytic agent of change. \"Mann Ki Baat\" has turned into my faith in faith and reverence and once again I would like to salute this immense power. They took care of the welfare of the country. Can there be a big satisfaction than this?\nThis time I thought of conducting a new experiment through Man Ki Baat I had requested the citizens to call up telephonically and get their suggestions or queries recorded. I told them that I will take it in Mann Ki Baat I am happy that we received more than 55,000 calls from across the country - be it Siachen, Kutch or Kamrup, be it Kashmir or Kanyakumari There is no part of India from which I did not receive a phone call This is a pleasant experience in itself People of all ages I listened to some message and I liked them. My team is working on the others. You must have spent just a minute or two but your phone calls are very important. The entire government will work on your suggestions.\nBut there was something that surprised me and made me equally happy. It feels as if negativity all around us But my experience was different These 55,000 people express themselves in their own way It was frank interaction where they could say anything but I am wondering about the shadow of Man Ki Baat. They were totally positive, suggestion oriented and constructive Just see the citizens of the country. this is the nation's greatest wealth There were serious complaints in about 1-2% phone calls. But more than 90% things were energizing and pleasant.\nFor the specially-abled And among them were specially from the kin of visually impaired, they made quite a number of phone calls. The reason may be that they are not able to watch T.V, but they must definitely be listening to the radio. This made me realize how important the radio is I am seeing a new aspect and they put forth such good suggestions that they are able to make more sensitive.\nPawan Acharya form Alwar, Rajasthan has sent me a message. I believe that all of you should hear it and follow it. Please listen to what he wants to say-\n\"My name is Pawan Acharya and I belong to Alwar, Rajasthan. I want to give the message to Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi will request all the people of India through his program \"Man Ki Ki Baat\" to use as much earthen lamps (diya) as they can do this Diwali. This will not only help the environment Thank you.\nPawan, I believe that this sentiment will definitely reach every corner of India It is a good suggestion and the soil is priceless. So the timber lamps will be valuable too. It is important to look at the environmental point of view and it is a poor man's home. Poor people earn their living this way I request the citizens to follow Pawan's advice in the coming festivals. If we do so then the lamp may well be lit only in our homes but it will illuminate the house of the poor.\nMy dear countrymen, on the day of Ganesh Chaturthi, I had the privilege of spending 2-3 hours with the jawans of the armed forces. The jawans from our Army, Navy and Air Force guarding our land, waters and skies. We have completed 50 years of our war with Pakistan in 1965. To commemorate this event an exhibition named \"Shouryanjali\" had been organized near India Gate. I saw it with immense interest I went there for half an hour but when I came out it was more than 2.5 hours and I felt like seeing more. What was it was not there? The whole history has been brought to life From aesthetic perspective it was excellent, from historical perspective it was very educative and if we see it from inspirational point of view from the context of the motherland then there was no greater inspiration than this. At that time there was not much photography or videography but still those proud moments of war, those tales of valor and sacrifice of our great soldiers, which we had heard about this exhibition through here.\nWhether it is the Battle of Haji Pir, Chaminda or Asal Uttar and the visuals of our victory near Haji Pir, we feel thrilled and immensely proud of our soldiers I had the opportunity to meet the brave families, families of those who had sacrificed their lives and also those who had participated in the war. They too had come and when I was shaking hands If you want to create history, then it is necessary to understand History binds us to our roots If we are detached from our history then the possibilities of making history come to an end. This exhibition on valor and gallantry helps us past our past. It gives us knowledge about our history And this is a chance to inspire people to sow seeds. This exhibition will last a few days. I request you and your relatives living in Delhi and nearby areas to definitely visit it. And do not be in haste like me I came back in 2-2.5 hours but you will need 3-4 hours, do see it.\nLook at the power of democracy, a young kid has ordered the Prime Minister, although the kid forgot to tell his name in a hurry. I do not have his name with me but what he has said is not worth talking about him, but every Indian citizen should listen to this child's say:\n\"Prime Minister, Modi ji, I want to tell you that, for the cleaniness drive that you started, you should get dustbins installed in every street and every corner\".\nThis child is absolutely right We should adopt cleanliness as a habit and should make provisions for cleanliness. I got a great satisfaction from this child's message. On the 2nd of October, I declared this cleanliness drive and I think it is the first time after Independence. Our government is criticized as well I even have to listen to People say things like \"Modi ji used to talk big about cleanliness, but what really happened?\" I do not get offended by all this I look at the positive side of it, which is also the parliament of the country.\nLook at the other side, on one hand the parliament, and on the other hand, This ongoing movement of thoughts, the environment that's building against filth, there is a awareness towards cleanliness. This will also compel the government to work The self-governing regional bodies, be it panchayats, municipal corporations, municipalities, municipal corporations of metropolitan cities, central government or state government - everybody has done work on this. When we celebrate the 150th birthdate of Mahatma Gandhi, we should aspire to work in the direction of his dream.\nDo you know what the Mahatma Gandhi used to say? He once said, \"If I have to choose between freedom and cleanliness, I will choose cleanliness first and freedom later\". Cleanliness was more important for Gandhi Come let us all follow what Mahatma Gandhi said and take some steps towards fulfilling his wish. Mr. Gulshan Arora from Delhi has left a message on MyGov.\nHe has written that he wants to know about the birth centenary of Dindayal ji.\nMy dear fellow citizens, The lives of great men will always inspire us It is not our responsibility Everyone who lives and dies for us In the coming days, we will get a lot of these great men 25th September we will remember Pandit Deendayal Upadhaya, Mahatma Gandhi and Lal Bahadur Shastri on 2nd October, Jay Prakash Narayan on 11th October, Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel on 31st October and there were numerous names, country has an endless list of such gems\nYou pick any date; you will certainly find a name or a great personality from the kaleidoscope of history. We should try to learn more about them.\nI would like to request It's the birth anniversary of Honorable Bapu Mahatma Gandhi. I had told you last year as well that you are all kind of fashionable clothing, all kinds of fabric, a lot of things, but you should also eat Khadi I am saying it again, that Khadi starts a discounted sale from 2nd October forwards for one whole month. You must all avail this sale. Along with Khadi, handloom should also be given equal importance.\nOur weavers put in a lot of hard work. If we, 1.5 billion Indians buy a handloom product or Khadi for even Rs. 5, 10 or Rs. 50 then finally that money will reach the poor weaver. It will reach the poor widow who weaves Khadi and this is why we should all spare some place for Khadi at our homes and on our bodies this Diwali. I just have this small request, I do not insist that you only wear But have some collection .... This is my only request. Look, last year we almost doubled the Khadi sale. A lot of the poor have been benefitted Advertisement worth crores, by the government, can not achieve This is the power of the masses and this is why I request you to come again and help once again.\nDear countrymen, my heart is filled with joy I wish to share this joy with you as well I visited Kolkata in the month of May and the family members of Subhash Chandra Bose came to meet me. His nephew Chandra Bose had organized everything I got the opportunity to spend quality time with Subhash Babu's family members. That day I decided to invite his great family to the Prime Minister's residence. Mr. Chandra Bose and his family members were in the process of organizing this and last week I got the confirmation that the Bose family of around 50 members a meeting for Prime Minister's residence to come.\nYou can imagine how happy this news Netaji's family members, probably, must have been invited to the Prime Minister's residence for the first time. More than that, I feel honored to realize that I want to get an opportunity to become Prime Minister's residence to offer its hospitality. More than 50 family members of Subhash Babu's family who stay in different countries are specially coming down this meeting. It is going to be a joyous moment for me I am very excited to welcome them and feel extremely happy.\nI received a message from Bhargavi Kande and after listening to the way she speaks her voice\n\"My name is Bhargavi Kande. I want to request the Prime Minister to make the young generation aware of the voter's registration, which will increase the participation of young generation in the times and in the future. government Thank you \"\nBhargavi talked about registering the names in the voter's list and the voting process. In a democracy, every voter determines the destiny of a country and this awareness is spreading gradually. The voting percentage is also increasing and the I want to congratulate the Election Commission of India. Up until a few years back, we saw that our election commission worked only as a regulator but it has changed a lot in the last few years. Today, our election commission does not only work as a regulator but has become a facilitator, has become voter-friendly and the voter is at the center of its policies and its ideologies. It is a great change but we need more than what commission commission can do We must mobilize schools, colleges and societies - we must spread awareness, not only during the time of elections The voter's list must be updated; We will also keep a watch on it. This priceless right that I have, is it safe? Am I using it or not? We should all develop this habit I hope that all the youngsters who have not registered in the voters list yet, get themselves registered and must vote too. I publically say during elections that one should cast his vote before he eats his food. This is a holy act, everyone must do it\nI have returned from a visit to Kashi, day before yesterday. I met a lot of people and attended I met many people there but I do not want to share them. One of the boys, Kshitij, is a student of class 7. He studied in the Central University of Banaras Hindu University. He is a very smart kid At such a young age I saw that he was interested in research in the field of Physics. I think he should be reading a lot books, must be surfing internet, must be watching new experiments. He is talking about things like, how to stop, railway accidents, which technology to use, how to save money in production energy, how to develop feelings in robots and what not He was an amazing kid Although I could not follow what he was saying, very closely, but I liked his confidence and his interest in so many things. I want to be more and more interested in science Kids should be very inquisitive, why? How? When? A kid should always ask these questions\nSimilarly, I met a small girl named, Sonam Patel. She is 9 years old She is the daughter of Sadhrat Patel, a resident of Sundarpur, Varanasi. Her family is very poor I was wondering that the girl had memorized the Bhagvad Gayat fully but the most interesting thing was that she kept reciting the shlokas along with its English interpretation and its definition in English as well as Hindi. When I asked, her father told me that she started reading these shokas since she was only five years old. I asked They said, \"We do not know any idea.\" Her father then told me that if she picks up mathematics once, she has everything memorized by the evening. If she picks history, she knows everything by the evening. He told me that the whole family is surprised at this amazing talent the girl has. I was really impressed Sometimes, kids become obsessed with celebrities; Sonam did not like any such obsessions I felt this girl is God-gifted.\nMeeting this year was a very special experience So, I thought I would share it with you We do a lot of things, other than what you see on TV and read in the newspapers. Sometimes, we are doing the things as well. Similarly, I will always cherish the memories of this encounter with these children.\nI noticed that a few people get a lot of work for me in 'Man Ki Baat.'\nLook what Sandeep from Haryana has has to say, \"Sir, I want you to do 'man's ball' a weekly chore rather than a monthly program because we get very inspired by your words.\"\nSandeep ji, what all do you do me do? I have also struggled to make it to the monthly program, I have to make adjustments to my time-table. Sometimes, our friends at Akashwani have to wait for an hour or so. I still feel your feelings I am thankful to you for your suggestion. For now, we will stick to the one month program only.\n'Mann Ki Baat' is a way to complete a year. Do you know, how much did Subhash babu use the Radio? He started his show from Germany and he would constantly update the Indian citizens about the Independence movement through radio. He started the Azad Hind Radio through a weekly news bulletin. English, Hindi, Bengali, Marathi, Pashto, Urdu, he used to run in the radio.\nI have also completed a year since I started 'Man Ki Ki Baat.' My 'Man Ki Baat' has in the true sense become your 'Man Ki Baat.' I will listen to you, I think for you, I will suggest you That triggers a thought process in me. I speak, but the words are yours and this gives me immense satisfaction. We will meet next month again for 'Mann Ki Baat.' The government has benefited by your suggestions. It helps in initiate improvement Your contribution is priceless for me\nOnce again, many congratulations to all of you Thank you!"