"Narendra Modi launches various development projects in Varanasi\nNarendra Modi launches Integrated Power Development Schemes in Varanasi\nPM Narendra Modi launches foundation stone for Varanasi Ring Road Phase-I\nPM Narendra Modi launches foundation stone for development of NH-56 from Varanasi to Babatpur\nPM lays foundation stone for Chowk Sub-division of Varanasi under IPDS\nPM lays foundation stone for Kajjatpur Sub Division of Varanasi under IPDS\nPM Narendra Modi dedicates Trauma Center at Banaras Hindu University to the Nation\nPM Modi inaugurates passenger reservation facility at Ramnagar Post Office\nI had been urged to clean my house on cleanliness\nIt is necessary to give a tourism to Varanasi: PM\nThrough Jan Bhagidari, we have to take India forward: PM Modi\nApart from public and private sectors, 'personal' sector is an important engine of economic growth: PM\nA large number of my dear brothers and sisters of Benares,\nThese programs are being done on the land of Benaras but these programs are happening for the whole of India. This is the land of Banaras, which has given mankind the light of knowledge for centuries and giving the light of knowledge, is going to lead the energy of this city too and therefore I congratulate the countrymen, congratulate the people of Benaras I am\nWell, this ceremony is one but there are seven programs in this one event, seven One, you just watched the video that we are going to do all over the country to bring about change in electricity sector. Second, a problem in Varanasi has been long since, a demand for Varanasi has been for many years and that is the demand of the ring road of Varanasi. Today the foundation of this ring road program is also being held from this platform. Kashi is the pilgrimage of pilgrims, it is also the attraction of tourists of the world, but from the passenger's arrival till the arrival of Kashyap from the airport, the belief takes place that I am going to the right place elsewhere and the root cause of Kashi The road to Babappur airport is the plight of Even today, the foundation of the work is going to be widened in that the road will be widened, modernized and beautified, so that any traveler or visitor of Kashi, who came to Kashi, would guess what grand and ancient city I am entering into it will be estimated to him.\nToday, for the implementation of the IPDS scheme for the country which started the IPDS scheme, two new Substations ... in Chhattisgarh, Chowk Substation is being held today and the work of implementing the scheme is being started today. A Chowk Substation, the second Kazzakpura Substation, the foundation of these two substations is also happening from this platform today. A new perspective in healthcare facility in Banaras ... For some time the Trauma Center has started, its services are available to the citizens here, today its opening is also being done here. In the same way our Ramnagar settled on the Ganga Ghat, gradually increasing its population, the citizens of that side needed the facility that they had to come here for the Railway Reservation if their arrangement was there. Today, there is a function here to start the Railway Reservation facility through VSAT in Ramnagar town. In a way, a plan for the country from this platform and for the Kashi people, I am proud to release seven schemes including that plan.\nI used to visit Kashi very often. As a party worker, he came to work for the organization, there was a fascination for this earth also for him, but every time I looked upwards I was startled. Wherever the wire was used to watch the wire. The beauty of such an ancient city was spoiled by seeing the strings of those strings. So when I was elected MP and a citizen's greetings I said in it that brother has to remove it. And today I am happy that the total amount of 572 crore rupees will fill a new energy in Kashi. Sometimes the power is shut down, the wires get old, the transmission lines become deteriorated, the things of Baba Adam's time are hanging. There is no time to cure anyone, the car keeps moving, let's get it damaged. Take it, spoiled, fix it, patchwork is going on. And this trouble is not just for Benaras. There are many cities of India and due to which the line loss of electricity is very high, the citizens also have problems, and therefore the one who has the entire infrastructure of electricity, needs to be modernized, there is a need to make smart. And in a way, the idea of ​​making a Smart City in Benaras is the first thing that is being done through electricity. And this Benaras, which has been liked today, to implement the entire country's plan, people would have to think that the Prime Minister is being MP from here. I tell the secret. This reason comes later. The first reason is that our energy minister Piyush Goyal, his father became engineer in Benaras, in BHU. He used to read here and it was an engineer from here and he also came out for social service, so it is natural that Piyush Ji should have felt that this program should be started from your father's education-initiation land. That is why father will be satisfied also, and therefore today the whole country is receiving this nazarana from Benares. The entire country is going to be behind 45,000 crore rupees and due to which the rigors in the field of energy are being run, the problems faced by the urban areas are going to get great freedom. Work is huge, work is hard, but there is no fodder without doing it and because we have a dream that 2022, when the country will celebrate 75 years of independence. When we celebrate 75 years of independence, who gave us freedom, who climbed to the gallows for freedom, who for the sake of freedom spent in Jawani prisons, who gave us the answers to the British sultan Will give That will give you freedom, we have the freedom, we have fun. But we did not fulfill the dream you had seen, we can not approve it. Can any Hindustani get this thing approved? Should the freedom-bearer make or be a friendly country of his dreams or not? When 75 years of Independence celebrated, should the countrymen should be contributing or not? Should there be a change in the country or not? A good Hindustan, patriots should fulfill the dreams of India or should not? An important task is 24 hours, 365 days electricity. Today electricity gets four hours, six hours, eight hours. Our dream is to be a village, a forest area, a hut far and wide, 2022 when there is 75 years of independence, in the poor house of poor also 24 hours electricity should be arranged and such an important work should be done for it. This change of infrastructure, which today is 45 thousand crore rupees and Rs. 572 crore for Kashi alone, is going to start today.\nI want blessings of all of you. Baba needs Bholainath's blessing so that the task of delivering these energy to the country is to keep the stone of a very big foundation in order to make the country energetic, in that direction, we want to move forward. Benaras went on growing Any traffic that is from neighboring districts, has to go through the city. The city's traffic is also serious. If you count the problems then it increases. An important task to get rid of it was to make a ring road here so that the work that is going out from outside, without disturbing the city, continues the work. It is a huge job, work is about 600 crores rupees. Today it has a shilanasaha and in this area Kashi has all the districts which are in adjoining areas along with the roads connecting those districts so that all those villages will be benefitted. It has been decided to allocate around 11 thousand crore rupees for him. In the coming days, the number of neighboring districts, connected with Kashi, and then the whole of the area can become a growth center of economic development. One can become a big center and therefore in these three areas, we should spread the net on this type so that we can be free from the question marks in front of the development of eastern Uttar Pradesh. These things start well with the land of Benares, but in entire Uttar Pradesh, we have started the work to spread this trap in Eastern Uttar Pradesh, and seeing the results in the coming days, the results will be seen.\nNow you have seen, people also go to the pier and after the light of the LED, I was told that many people go to see. You must have seen how big a change has occurred. We want every household in my family, every household in my Kashi should have a low electricity bill or not. Do you want the electricity bill to be low? Do you want your money left? Really want to So will you accept one thing, sure? Promise, remember the innocent child and make promises. You have the bulb in your house, the tube light, put the LED. You see, your electricity bill will be less than that, your money will be saved and the light will increase. It is a double profit job and I have to create an agitation all over India, get rid of the old ones who are light bulbs. This is the new technology, which is good for our eyes, is good for light and also good for pocket. We run a movement in Kashi. If everybody moves that thing forward, we can also take advantage of it within Kashi and I have seen street light. The Street Light which is the street light of Kashi is also converted into LED, due to which the electricity bill of Kashi Municipal corporation will be reduced too and the money which will save the cash, if Kashi was put in for sanitation then Kashi will be shining. Will shine in the evening with light and will shine cleanly in the daytime and people of the world will come and see a new Kashi.\nI want to congratulate the Arabs today for one thing from heart, I want to express gratitude. When I came here to win the election and Ganga was sitting in the Aarti. I went from here with the blessings of mother Ganga, later sworn in as the Prime Minister's post. Earlier, today I came to bow to this earth and on that day I had said that on that day I had said that the citizens of Banaras should take the responsibility of cleaning Banaras. The citizens of Banaras should keep Banaras clean. That was what I said. This type of talk is not easy in the country today. But I saw that the people of Banaras took my eyes on this matter and many organizations of the citizens of Banaras got ready, many young men were ready. Women, girls, college girls, these people have raised a big campaign to keep Banaras clean, clean and work is going on to make Banaras more beautiful under that campaign.\nI see, I see that today Banaras has become a focal point for new heights of development. Whether it is the infrastructure of the road, whether it is the infrastructure of the railways, whether it is the power system, the skill development, whether it is the welfare of our weavers, a big campaign to take on these issues today on the new heights. Today we have started today and for this work, today I got an opportunity to come here.\nThrough the Prime Minister Jan-Dhan Yojana, the poor of this country are brought in by the bank account in the coming days to the core center of an economic system. There has been a great successful attempt. I believe that due to this there will be changes in the coming days.\nIn the last few days, there has been a situation of learning buddies in Uttar Pradesh. I asked the Uttar Pradesh government what is the matter, they told me that so far we do not have a court order. The court has given verbal notice, but the written order has not come. Today I had called some leaders of education friends. I tried to understand their problem and I told them that if you tell me something, they also had trouble that they did not have a court order. The court did not even know what to say. I have told them that send me to court as soon as the order comes. The Government of India will also study it and we will give suggestions to the Uttar Pradesh Government which will give us suggestions. But I want to make a request to teacher friends today. I had heard that one of our education friends from Uttar Pradesh committed suicide. I want to request you today, I The order of the court has not come and if we put our life in jeopardy, then the problem is not solved. Teacher friend, he will go away by suicide, but what will happen to that family later, what will happen to those children, and therefore my friends and my friends are requested to never lose the battle in life, should not lose heart. Suicide can not be our way Let the order of the court come once. What the Uttar Pradesh government wants to say, after listening to it, you just hear it. I will also try to understand and take responsibility for what I have to talk to the Uttar Pradesh government and I will make your statement to the Uttar Pradesh Government as your MP and I believe that my teachers friend Prepare the life, which encourages the students' excitement. Those who inspire the students to live, the way of suicide in their lives can never be justified. Uttar Pradesh's government also takes these sensitive matters very seriously, I believe and therefore order the court order. Give time to the Uttar Pradesh government. The Uttar Pradesh government does not believe that I would like to do injustice and I will also talk to the Uttar Pradesh government. The way to find solutions can be found. Mother of India\nIt is very important for the brothers and sisters to promote tourism in Kashi today. आज प्रात: मैंने tourism को बल मिले उस प्रकार की रिक्‍शाओं का भी लोकार्पण किया है। वो अपने आप में भविष्‍य में tourist सेंटरों के लिए एक मॉडल बनने वाला है। हम यहां के छोटे-छोटे लोगों को भी उस काम में जोड़ना चाहते हैं। आपने जब मैं बनारस आया तो बनारस के कुछ लोगों ने मुझे कहा था कि 7 अगस्‍त को Handloom Day घोषित करना चाहिए। बनारस के बुनकरों की मांग थी। आज मुझे गर्व से कहना है कि आज उसने हमें हैंडलूम दिवस घोषित कर दिया। चेन्‍नई के अंदर उसका बड़ा समारोह किया और मेरे काशी के बुनकर चेन्‍नई आए थे और उनका भी मान-सम्‍मान बढ़ाने का मुझे अवसर मिला था।\nकाशी की जो शक्‍ति है वो उसकी कलाकारी की विधि है। काशी की जो संस्‍कृति है वो उसकी कला विधि में है। काशी की जो शक्‍ति है वो उसकी संगीत की विरासत में है। काशी को आगे तो बढ़ना है, काशी को आधुनिक भी बनना है। लेकिन साथ-साथ काशी को अपनी इस विरासत को भी अपने साथ बचाए रखना है। इसको भी बचाए रखना है और उसको लेकर के हम काशी को आगे बढ़ाना चाहते हैं। अनेक क्षेत्रों में आपने देखा होगा हमारे केन्‍द्र के ढेर सारे मंत्री बारी-बारी से आए हैं। अनेक नई योजनाओं को उन्‍होंने बल दिया है। उन्‍होंने अनेक नई योजनाओं का एक cumulative effect होने वाला है कि काशी एक नई ऊंचाइयों को प्राप्‍त करेगा।\nऔर मैं काशीवासियों को विश्‍वास दिलाता हूं कि आपने मुझे MP बनाया है और आप ही के लोग हो, जिनके कारण आज मुझे प्रधानमंत्री पद पर बैठने का और देश की सेवा करने का सौभाग्‍य मिला है। देश चहुं और विकास कैसे करे, देश में नौजवानों को रोजगार कैसे मिले और हो सके तो अपने ही इलाके में रोजगार कैसे मिले, उसको लेकर के skill development का एक बहुत बड़ा अभियान जिसके कारण देश के कोटि-कोटि नौजवान, जिसके हाथ में डिग्री का कागज तो होता है, लेकिन हाथों में हुनर नहीं होता है और सिर्फ कागज से गाड़ी चलती नहीं है। उसके हाथ में हुनर होना चाहिए, कौशल्‍य होना चाहिए। दुनिया में हम सबसे युवा है। 65 प्रतिशत जनसंख्‍या 35 साल से कम उम्र की है। 65 प्रतिशत जनसंख्‍या 35 साल से कम उम्र की है उन भुजाओं में अगर कौशल्‍य हो, तो पूरी दुनिया को महारत करने की ताकत हिन्‍दुस्‍तान के नौजवान में आ जाती है और इसी बात को लेकर के skill development के द्वारा पूरे देश में एक विकास की नई ऊंचाई बनाने के लिए हमने प्रयास किया है।\nआपने देखा होगा मैंने 15 अगस्‍त को लाल किले पर से एक घोषणा की थी और मैंने कहा था ये जो interview नाम की चीज है। driver चाहिए तो भी interview, peon चाहिए तो भी interview, छोटा clerk चाहिए तो भी interview और उसके कारण लाखों नौजवान रोजगार के लिए किसी न किसी की सिफारिश ढूंढते हैं। कोई न कोई बिचौलिया उनके हाथ लग जाता है और नौकरी मिले या न मिले उसका जेब तो काट ही लेते हैं। और छोटी जगह पर बहुत बड़ी मात्रा में interview होते हैं। बहुत बड़ी मात्रा में लोग भर्ती करने पड़ते हैं। अगर एक-एक व्‍यक्‍ति से 5-5, 10-10 हजार रुपया भी लूटना शुरू करे तो गरीब आदमी के 10 हजार रुपया, वो जीवन भर का कर्जदार बन जाता है और इसलिए मेरी सरकार ने एक मैंने 15 अगस्‍त को सुझाव दिया था कि interview नाम की चीज बंद होनी चाहिए। और आज मैं नौजवानों को कहता हूं कि मेरी सरकार उस दिशा में बहुत तेजी से आगे बढ़ी है। कुछ department ने already काम चालू कर दिया है। अभी दो दिन पहले मुझे रेलवे वालों ने बता दिया कि उनकी एक level के नीचे की जो भर्ती है, बोले बिना interview लिए हम online exam लेकर के पूरा कर लेंगे। हमारे नौजवान को रोजगार के लिए इस प्रकार से परेशानियां भुगतनी पड़े और आने वाले दिनों में इस क्षेत्र में भी जो बुराईयां घुस गई हैं उसकी सफाई होके रहेगी ये मैं नौजवानों को विश्‍वास दिलाना चाहता हूं।\nहम सबने मिल करके जन-भागीदारी से देश को आगे कैसे बढ़ाया जा सकता है। आज पूरा दिन मैंने जो बिताया है, एक एक मिनट सिर्फ और सिर्फ विकास की बातों पर ही मैंने लगाया है। जब से मैं यहां Land किया हूं हर विषय जिनसे मिला जिनसे बातें कीं और आज मैं बनारस के सभी जीवन के क्षेत्र के लोगों से मुझे मिलने का सौभाग्‍य मिल गया है। बहुत बातें उनसे की मैंने। पूरे दिन भर उनकी बातें सुनता रहा। उनसे विषयों को समझता रहा और केंद्र बिंदु सिर्फ विकास था। और मेरा ये विश्‍वास है कि हमारी सारी समस्‍याओं का समाधान भी सिर्फ एक ही बात से होने वाला है, उस बात का नाम है विकास। अगर विकास होगा तो रोजगार मिलेंगे, रोजगार मिलेंगे तो गरीबी से लड़ाई लड़ पाएंगे, रोजगार मिलेंगे तो बच्‍चों को शिक्षा दे पाएंगे। रोजगार मिलेंगे विकास की नई ऊंचाईयां होंगी, व्‍यवस्‍थाएं विकसित होंगी और इसलिए सरकार व्‍यवस्‍थाओं को भी विकसित करना चाहती है और नागरिकों को सामर्थ्‍यवान भी बनाना चाहती है। आर्थिक सामर्थ्‍य देना चाहती है, शैक्षणिक सामर्थ्‍य देना चाहती है, आरोग्‍य की दृष्टि से अच्‍छे दिन आएं उसके जीवन में, उसके लिए लगातार प्रयास कर रही है।\nआज पूरे विश्‍व ने भारत की जय-जयकार करना शुरू किया है ये पहले नहीं था। पूरी दुनिया भारत के प्रति देखने को तैयार नहीं थी। अभी हमने जून महीने में अंतर्राष्‍ट्रीय योगा दिवस- इसका हमने विश्‍व के समाने प्रस्‍ताव रखा। हर हिंदुस्‍तानी को खुशी होगी और बनारस वालों को ज्‍यादा खुशी होगी क्‍योंकि वो चीजें हैं जो बनारस की धरती से पनपी हैं। अंतर्राष्‍ट्रीय योगा दिवस किया और अंतर्राष्‍ट्रीय योगा दिवस को दुनिया के hundred and ninety three countries, 193 देशों ने उसको समर्थन किया और विश्‍व के सभी देशों ने योगा दिवस को मनाया। ये सिर्फ योगा दिवस को मनाना मतलब हाथ-पैर हिलाने वाला मसला नहीं है भारत के साथ जुड़ने का मसला है। ये योग विश्‍व को भारत के साथ योग करता है जुड़वाता है। ये वो योग है जो हमें जोड़ रहा है, एक ही बात कितना बड़ा बदलाव ला सकती है इसके उदाहरण हैं। आज पूरा विश्‍व भारत के प्रति‍ आशा की नजर से, गर्व की नजर से देख रहा है। और इसी बातों से देश को नई ऊंचाईयों पर ले जाने में एक अवसर पैदा होता है और उस अवसर की पूर्ति के लिए हम दिन-रात कोशिश कर रहे हैं। मां गंगा की सफाई का अभियान पांचों राज्‍यों के मुख्‍यमंत्रियों को साथ ले करके जहां से गंगा गुजरती है, सभी पांचों राज्‍यों के मुख्‍यमंत्रियों को साथ ले करके उस योजनाओं को लागू कर रहा हो और मैंने एक ही आग्रह किया है कि बाकी कुछ आप कर पाओ के न कर पाओ कम से कम गंगा में अब गंदगी नहीं चाहिए, गंदगी जानी नहीं चाहिए, कोई भी शहर अपना गट्टर का पानी गंगा में जाने न दे इतना प्रबंध राज्‍य सरकारों ने करना चाहिए। उसके लिए दंड देना पड़ेगा दें, दंड देने के लिए तैयार है। अभी माता अमृतानंदमयी केरल में है, आश्रम केरल में है लेकिन मां गंगा के लिए 100 करोड़ रुपयों का दान दे दिया। सवा सौ करोड़ देशवासियों के दिल में मां गंगा के प्रति‍ इतना भक्ति है, सब देशवासी गंगा के लिए कुछ न कुछ करने के लिए तैयार हैं लेकिन शुरूआत हमें करनी पड़ेगी। जिम्‍मेवारी हमें लेनी पड़ेगी। राज्‍यों के पास जो दायित्‍व हैं उसको राज्‍यों को पूरा करना पड़ेगा। और भारत सरकार कंधे से कंधा मिला करके राज्‍यों के साथ काम करेगी और मां गंगा की सफाई का काम हमें समय-सीमा में पूरा करना है।\nमैं जानता हूं ये काम कठिन है ।1984 से nineteen eighty four से ये विषय चल पड़ा है। हजारों करोड़ रुपये खर्च हो चुके हैं और इसलिए योजना की सफलता के प्रति आशंकाओं का कारण भी है। उसके बावजूद भी हमने अपने प्रयास छोड़ने नहीं चाहिए। हमने इतने बड़े देश ने इस एक काम को करके दिखाना चाहिए। और गंगा शुद्ध हो, गंगा साफ हो, गंगा गंदगी से मुक्‍त हो इस गंगा के बेटे के नाते हम सबका दायित्‍व बन जाता है और उस दायित्‍व को हम सबने निभाना चाहिए।\nऔर मुझे विश्‍वास है भाइयो एक जागरूकता आई है। स्‍वच्‍छता का अभियान देख लीजिए, एक जागरूकता आई है, एक बदलाव आया है। घर में बच्‍चे भी कूड़ा-कचरा फेंकने वालों को टोकते हैं ये पहले कभी नहीं होता था। स्‍वच्‍छता एक दिन में आने वाली ऐसा कोई सोचता नहीं था। पहले भी कोई सोचता नहीं था। लेकिन पहली बार मैं नहीं मानता हिंदुस्‍तान की संसद ने स्‍वच्‍छता के ऊपर कभी debate की हो। लेकिन जबसे मैंने स्‍वच्‍छता अभियान चलाया है आज संसद भी स्‍वच्‍छता के विषय पर चर्चा करती है, विपक्ष में बैठे हुए हमारी आलोचना भी करते हैं, लेकिन कम से कम भारत की संसद को स्‍वच्‍छता के लिए बात करने के लिए फुरसत तो मिली। ये छोटी बात नहीं है और संसद, संसद स्‍वच्‍छता के लिए इतनी जागरूक हो जाए तो बात नीचे पहुंचेगी ये मेरा पूरा विश्‍वास है भाइयो।\nहमारे देश में विकास के लिए दो शब्‍द हम हमेशा देखें हैं आर्थिक विकास औद्योगिक विकास। एक शब्‍द प्रयोग चलता है private sector, दूसरा शब्‍द प्रयोग चलता है public sector. यानी government के जो PSUs हैं वो हैं, या तो कॉरपोरेट हाउस हैं बड़े-बड़े उद्योग कार हैं। ये हमने आर्थिक जो विकास की पटरी है वो इन दो पटरी पर आर्थिक गाड़ी चलाने का प्रयास किया है। मैं मानता हूं ये दो पटरी पर जितनी गाड़ी तेज जानी चाहिए जा नहीं सकती है। Public Sector, Private Sector इन्‍हीं दो पिलर पर अगर हम हिंदुस्‍तान को आगे बढ़ाना चाहते हैं तो उतनी ताकत नहीं मिलेगी। और इसलिए मैं तीसरे सेक्‍टर पर बल दे रहा हूं। एक तरफ है Public Sector, Private Sector और मैं एक विचार ले करके चल रहा हूं, Personal Sector, एक individual भी देश की बहुत बड़ी अमानत है। ये Personal Sector कैसे आगे बढ़े? Private Sector, Public Sector की बराबरी में Personal Sector दो कदम आगे कैसे चले उस योजना को ले करके मैं काम कर रहा हूं।\nऔर उस Personal Sector में आता है एक योजना हमने बनाई है मुद्रा बैंक की। हमारे देश में करीब 6-7 करोड़ लोग है जो छोटे और निम्‍न स्‍तर के व्‍यापारी है। छोटा-मोटा उद्योग चलाते हैं। एकाध-दो एकाध लोगों को रोजगार देते हैं। छोटा कारोबार चलाते हैं, लेकिन किसी के पास हाथ फैलाते नहीं, अपने बलबूते पर खड़े रहते हैं। इन लोगों की ताकत इतनी है कि करीब-करीब 15 करोड़ लोगों को रोजगार देते हैं, ये छोटे-छोटे लोग। दूध बेचने वाला भी एकाध बच्‍चे को इनको रोजगार देता है। अगर ये personal sector है। ये personal sector को अगर ताकत दी जाए। जो आज 15 करोड़ को नौकरी देता है वो कल 30 करोड़ को नौकरी दे सकता है, इतनी ताकत उसमें है। और इसलिए बाल काटने वाला हो, धोबी हो, चाय बेचने वाला हो, पकौड़े बेचने वाला हो, रिक्‍शा चलाने वाला हो, सब्‍जी बेचने वाला हो, फ्रूट बेचने वाला हो, छोटे-मोटे दुकान पर readymade कपड़े बेचता हो, प्रसाद बेचता हो छोटे-छोटे लोग। इस personal sector को ताकतवर बनाना है मुझे। उसको आर्थिक मदद करनी है और मुद्रा बैंक से किसी भी प्रकार की गारंटी के बिना 10 हजार से 50 हजार रुपए तक देना उस नागरिक को देना ताकि उसको साहूकार की ब्‍याज की चुंगल से बाहर निकले और वो अपने पैरों पर खड़ा हो जाए, उस दिशा में एक बहुत बड़ा अभियान चलाने वाले हैं। ये personal sector भारत के लिए बहुत बड़ी आर्थिक moment बन सकता है। हमने 50 साल तक private sector, public sector की बात की है, अब वक्‍त है हम personal sector पर बल दे और personal sector के द्वारा एक-एक व्‍यक्‍ति की उद्यमशीलता। उसको पैसे चाहिए पैसे दे, technology चाहिए technology दे, skill development करना है तो skill development दे, उसको नौजवान की जरूरत है, नौजवान दे, उसको उद्योग जगाने के लिए जगह चाहिए तो जगह दे, व्‍यापार करने के लिए अवसर चाहिए तो अवसर दे। पूरा खुला पल्ला दें, आप देखिए हिन्‍दुस्‍तान का ये सामान्‍य व्‍यक्‍ति, हिन्‍दुस्‍तान को नई ऊंचाइयों पर ले जा सकता है।\nऔर इसलिए आज मैं काशी की धरती पर पहली बार ये personal sector के विषय को मैं प्रकट कर रहा हूं और आने वाले दिनों में इस personal sector काशी की धरती से आशीर्वाद लेकर के सवा सौ करोड़ देशवासी, 65 प्रतिशत लोग, 35 से कम आयु के लोग वो personal sector है जिसको एक ताकत देकर के मुझे देश को आगे बढ़ाना है। आप मुझे आशीर्वाद दीजिए, मेरे साथ बोलिए भारत माता की जय, भारत माता की जय, भारत माता की जय, भारत माता की जय। बधुत-बहुत धन्‍यवाद।"