"\nPM speaks at the function organized by Rickshaw Sang in Varanasi\nPM launches financial inclusion initiative in Varanasi, call it a milestone event\nThere is a need to increase the pace and scale of outcomes of the poverty: PM\nEvery person wants his or her child to lead a life better than what they led. Every person wants his or her child to lead a life of dignity: PM\nUnion Government is putting emphasis on skill development to help the poor self-reliant: PM\nNarendra Modi is the best way to fight poverty: Narendra Modi\nPM Modi urges beneficiaries to ensure that their children receive proper education\nA large number of brothers and sisters,\nThe program that is going on here will change the lives of some poor families, it is not so. This program is an auspicious start, which will change the fate of Kashi. If we make some necessary changes in the life of the poor, enter the technology based on time-based life, then by earning hard earned money from the poor, the poor person can earn more by doing even less work. . Today, the facilities are being provided here, in which the support of the bank is supported by the American Foundation, the Government of India is promoting these things in a very large amount and the poor first is to make them self-reliant.\nWe have come to hear this thing about the last 40-50 years to remove poverty. In our country, the welfare of the poor is always heard in the elections. We do anything while doing politics, but in the morning and evening we have become a tradition. Need to come out of this tradition, and coming out means that if we can directly lead the poor, then we can run a campaign of liberation from poverty. The number of experiments that have been done so far, the amount of results that was needed from those experiments, the country was not found. The change in the life of the poor should change, we have not been able to bring that change. I do not want to blame any government, I do not want to blame any party, but focusing on the fundamental things for the welfare of the poor in a new way towards doing something good. What are the things that the poor who really is willing to work harder, is ready to get out of poverty's life. Ask any poor person, ask him, brother, do you want your children to live like this poor life, want to live a good life. The poorest of the poor will also say that I do not want to give such poverty to my children. I want to give him such a life that because of which he stands on his steps, start living with respect and tell his life gloriously, that is the wish of every poor parent. How to do that? Today, the condition is such that he wages, but if a little skill is developed, he should be taught a little skill, then if he earns a hundred rupees, he has taught a little skill, then he starts earning Rs 250-300 And once he learns skills, then he himself tries to do good by putting his mind and therefore the Indian government has launched a huge campaign of skill development, skill development. Whether the poor child from the poor reached the school door or did not arrive, or after reading the fifth, seventh, tenth, twelfth, have left, looking for roti-roti. If he teaches something, he also emphasizes the country's economy, also emphasizes economic activity and desires to do some tax in its own life and hence the direction of small things how to develop it Our efforts are in.\nToday I met all the brothers in the e-rickshaw. I asked them what will they do, can you? So he said, Saheb has already more confidence level. I said why? That's my skill development. He also came to terms with the skill. Speak up my skill development. Speak my training and I have more confidence than before. Previously I used to ride a pedal rickshaw. I said how much speed would you keep? I will follow the law and I should never do that so that my family also faces any problem and my family of passenger will also suffer, so that I will never let them, and Kashi's lanes are small, then anyway, to handle me Have to walk He has had this training. People from all over the world come to Kashi. How is Kashi's tourism, how is Kashi, how are people of Kashi? His first introduction is with whom the passenger is with, with the rickshaw. How does he behave with her, what kind of feeling she has for her, the image is created in her mind. Hey brother, this is a great city. Here the rickshaws also worry us with such love, starts from there and hence, there is a special rickshaw which has been beautified for the tourists here, some arrangements have been developed. I was asking them, I said you can tell me all things as a guide, I can say yes. I can tell everything Rickshaw runs and runs and I believe that whatever will sit in my rickshaw, it will be satisfying that Kashi will find it easy to see him. Things are small, but they make a big difference.\nHow to modernize pedal rickshaw today, how to shift from rickshaw to e-rickshaw, how to provide the facilities of passengers, how to use environment friendly technology in the changing age? All these things are embedded in it and the biggest thing is their family's The people who have been selected today are those people, who did not own a rickshaw. They used to pay wages all day long by taking rickshaw rent. 50 rupees and 60 rupees to that rickshaw owner had to pay them. The free man went home and took it. Children used to take double clothes for the children, the night would have been fulfilled. The biggest benefit of this experiment is to those poor rickshaws that now they had to pay the higher interest to them, now they are released. Now those who have the money will deposit money from the bank at a very low rate and within the year and within two years this will be the owner of this rickshaw. When he knows, it means that he is going to save this. This money is going to go in his pocket, not going to his pocket, so that he is going to become its owner after a year or two and I am sure that due to this kind of arrangement, They have family, they will not be able to live in the condition of poverty, they will go ahead.\nI asked them what to teach children? Bole sahab, so far, I used to live in my mind, how much to teach, where to borrow money, but this is the system that I have made, now I assure you, I will teach the children. I have talked with these five to six people but those people who are getting a rickshaw here today are the most urgent of me, no matter how much trouble, I have to express anger against them, so definitely, you have the right. But do not ever dismiss children from studies, give preference to children's education. One of the biggest tools to fight against poverty and cheap cheaper tools is to teach your children. If we give education to our children, there is no power in the world that forces us to remain poor. Seeing the situation will start changing. And so I will insist that these new facilities which the families are getting, do not compromise their children to teach, definitely teach their children.\nI met a family today She used to sell vegetables at the crossroads at the crossroads of the crossroads, today she has got a handkerchief. I asked him what would be the difference. Bole ji first, where I used to come, someone came and took the goods, now I will go to different areas, I will make my time sheet that this area has to go 9 in the morning, this area has to go to 10 in the morning. To go to the area at 11 o'clock, people will know that if I will take the goods there at that time, then they will surely take my wares at that time. Now look at the illiterate woman! But he knows that I will make a time-table that if I go to 9 o'clock in this area, I will reach there every day at 9 o'clock, in this area I reach at 12 o'clock, I will reach at 12 o'clock. That is, he knows the perfect management of business. Running a jamming can also change your life, its belief has come in. These are small things, through which we are trying to make a big difference.\nThe campaign which was inaugurated today by the Prime Minister, in our country, was said to have been nationalized for the poor, but even after 40-50 years of nationalization of banks, at any time at the bank's door He was not seen poor and never had a discussion in this country. Why this country? These questions did not ask any politician from any country in this country, did not ask any government, did not ask any government Not asked in 50 years. Taken was granted for granted. We came to the forefront that I would be poor at the doors of banks, I would be poor in the banks. These banks will be for the poor, raised the big campaign. I had announced on August 15, had decided to complete till 26th January and all the banks have joined me alive, have been on their shoulders and today more than 18 crore accounts of the banks in the country are open to the poor went.\nThere were almost all of whom were in the total families of Hindustan and we had said that we will not open any account of the poor by taking any kind of money. Without the money, the bank will spend the cost of the form, which will happen, once the poor will open an account. The habit will begin to slowly and open the accounts but see, look at the richness of the poor, the government has said that they will not give a rupee but the poor have deposited more than Rs 30 thousand crore. It means that now the desire to save money to the poor has started. If the poor have a desire to save money then it will be natural to change their economic life. Gradually, the habit of using bank accounts is also gradually being formed. I am amazed who did not open accounts, they are asking for my account that they have opened accounts, but the number of those who use it is not growing. Those who did not care about opening up the account, are now worried about whether the account is being operated or not. It would have been nice if you had done this work 40-50 years ago, then today I do not have to ask the question of operating all the poor accounts of the country. But the work you have not done in 50 years, I will be fulfilling it in 50 months, I have come to tell you.\nHow to do the poor, now a big campaign to make Rakshabandan under Kashi, and I expressly thank the mother and sisters of Kashi, that I have received so much rituals at this festival of Raksha Bandhan I have bowed down my head and bowed down to all the mothers and sisters. I have expressed my gratitude towards you who have expressed my goodwill towards me, and what I have said about the protection of security, I express my gratitude to all the mothers and sisters of Kashi for the heart. I also thank all these greats that in the plan with us, they have become partners and this work will be developed in the coming days as a model. Now you slowly see a new inside Kashi ... and due to this the speed is coming, due to these things the speed is coming, due to these things a new identity of the city will be created. Due to these things the facility of convenience in the life of ordinary human being is going to start.\nFor the purpose of such a scheme, today I am giving all these blessings to all those who are getting these resources today, very much from my side and in the economic progress of Kashi, the power of the poorest of the poor comes in handy, in the efforts of that direction, Thank you so much, that Bholanath blesses us on this, with so much expectation, thank you very much."