"PM Modi and PM Wickremesinghe jointly address the media\nPM Modi congratulates PM on his victory parliamentary elections\nIndia, Sri Lanka welcome significant developments in bilateral relations\nSri Lanka's progress is important for our two countries, South Asia and our maritime region: PM Modi\nIndia, Sri Lanka discuss ways to deepen trade, connectivity, human \u0026 economic links\nIndia, Sri Lanka to intensify cooperation in combating terrorism\nIndia and Sri Lanka have a huge stake in each other's success and in stability and development in our region: PM Modi\nThis is a relationship that touches the hearts of ordinary Indians and Sri Lankans: PM\nYour Excellency Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe,\nMembers of the media,\nI am happy to extend a warm welcome to you, and Prof. Maithree Wickremesinghe, and members of your delegation.\nLet me congratulate you once again for leading the United National Front for Good Governance.\nWe are deeply honored that you have chosen India as your first overseas destination. It is a happy coincidence that your last full term as Sri Lanka's Prime Minister coincided with the first NDA Government.\nWe thank you for your faith in and steadfast support for India-Sri Lanka relations. You are a deeply valued friend, whose vision for Sri Lanka's progress and commitment to its pursuit is greatly admired in India\nThis is an historical year for India-Sri Lanka relations, as it is for Sri Lanka. We had the honour of hosting President Sirisena on his first visit abroad in February. I had the privilege of a unique visit to Sri Lanka in March. Now, we have Prime Minister Wickremesinghe here.\nSri Lanka has voted twice this year for change, reforms, reconciliation and progress. There can be no strong statement of Sri Lanka's democratic tradition. There are no clearer sign of Sri Lanka's journey towards a peaceful, inclusive, and prosperous future.\nAs a close neighbor and friend, we wish Sri Lanka every success; joy in our progress; And, assure you of unwavering support.\nSo, we are happy that the government of Sri Lanka has taken a lot of time in recent times. The leadership has shown remarkable political unity, at a time of great hope.\nI am confident that with the wisdom and will of the leadership in Sri Lanka and the support of the people, Sri Lanka will achieve genuine reconciliation and development, so that all Sri Lankans, including the Sri Lankan Tamil community, can live a life of equality , justice, peace and dignity in a united Sri Lanka.\nYour progress is important for our two countries, South Asia and our maritime region\nPrime Minister and I had excellent discussions today\nWe welcomed some significant developments in bilateral relations since March, including the currency swap arrangement. We also expressed hope that the progress on key bilateral initiatives\nWe both want deeper economic engagement We would like to see our trade grow and become more balanced for Sri Lanka. We discussed how we can achieve these goals in a more open and competitive Indian market, including through bilateral arrangements for trade and investments.\nI also sought his support for Indian investors, who are participating in Sri Lanka's economic development, especially in infrastructure, energy and transport sectors.\nI offered India's full support to strengthen connectivity among our countries to deepen human and economic links that will benefit all sections of our societies.\nI assured Prime Minister Wickremesinghe of continuing commitment to our development partnership - in infrastructure, railways, energy, community development projects, agriculture, capacity building, science and technology, space and civil nuclear field.\nWe will continue to nurture people-to-people ties. We just finished a absorbing test series We will all miss the great Kumar Sangakkara on the cricket field.\nWe recognize our closely aligned security interests and the need to remain sensitive to each other's concerns. We both reaffirmed our commitment to safeguard and protect cooperation.\nWe will intensify cooperation in combat in terrorism and work together for security and stability in our marine neighborhood Sri Lanka is our biggest partner in defense training program and we will continue to expand our cooperation in this area.\nPrime Minister and I also discussed the fishermen issue. We agreed that the fishermen's associations on both sides should continue their efforts.\nI conveyed to him that this should be seen as a humanitarian issue. I informed him about the steps we are taking to encourage Indian fishing.\nIn conclusion, let me say that India and Sri Lanka have a great stake in each other's success, and in our area of ​​sustainability and development in our region.\nThis is a relationship that touches the hearts of ordinary Indians and Sri Lankans. It is also the great strategic significance of our two countries. With President Sirisena and Prime Minister Wickremesinghe, we can look forward to great optimism\nThank you."