"Share\n\nI thank the people of Rishikesh to join the program at such a short notice: PM\nOur sole agenda is-development, progress of the nation and welfare of people: PM\nCongress' anti-poor mind-set and negative politics is responsible for their fall: PM\nCongress has let down the spirit of democracy by not letting Parliament function: PM\nGovt at Center is committed to timely delivery of all schemes: PM Narendra Modi\nWe successfully implemented 'One Rank, One Pension' Dignity of our armed forces is our prime focus: PM\nAfter their defeat in polls, Congress has been putting roadblocks in development of the country: PM\n\nBharat Mata Ki Jai, Bharat Mata Ki Jai!\nAll the senior leaders of the BJP sitting on the stage and beloved brothers and sisters in large numbers\nIf there is a fever of election, if there is a poll of all around, and if the campaign in the opposition is fast, then at that time in the warm environment, someone will tell the gathering 24 hours before the people of the party will say that give some more days, next week Send it. Whatever you have done in these 24 hours ... wherever the eye is running, the forehead is looking like a forehead. When I came here from the helipad, there was a crowd on both sides of the road. My dear brothers and sisters of Godland, this is my first visit after becoming the Prime Minister and you have given the welcome, the love you gave; I can never forget that Meetings are held in elections but such a huge public woes in such a comfortable environment; I congratulate all the people and party workers and leaders on the heart.\nI assure you that there will be no correction in working for the development of the country. You must have seen in the twenty-year term ... I told the countrymen that I would accomplish hard work. Now believe me? Moment I am spending time for you? Am I trying to fulfill the responsibility? I had promised that I will not sit still. Today I have come to visit five states. The public believes in the government, I see today. Today, the people's mind has changed so much that if I make a wish then my countrymen complete their full strength.\nTo some extent it was a situation that the girls used to leave school after coming to the third or fourth grade and if our girls were uneducated then our future generations would be uneducated. Our daughters should read. We came to our attention that daughters leave school because they do not have separate toilets in schools. Is not that a shame? We got more than 65 years of independence, but schools do not have separate toilets for girls. We decided that we will complete this work in 1 year. People used to say that Modi did not happen in 60 years, how he would be in 1 year. I said that this will not fulfill me but my countrymen and today I proudly say that within a year, we have completed the construction of nearly four lakh toilets.\nWhen the nationalization of the banks was nationalized, it was said that nationalization of banks is done so that the bank works for the poor and can go to the door of the poor banks, but even after so many years of independence, there were half the population who had never seen the bank door Not seen. We decided that if the first person has the right to the banks' money, then the country's poor, farmers, young people and mothers of our country. We started the Prime Minister Jan-Dhan Yantra. Decided to complete the first work on 26th January and today I am proud to give you the account that within 100 days the agitation was going on in the whole country and about 17 crore people's funds opened.\nWhen I was Chief Minister in Gujarat; New was new; experience was also less; In the Assembly we announced that we will give 24 hours of electricity. There was no electricity in 24 hours at that time in Gujarat. When we announced, a senior Congress leader came to meet us. He said that Modiji has made a mistake with you. I asked him - which one? He said that you have come new; Someone has misled you or you have caught the wrong hand. I said - what? He said, which is not possible to give 24 hours of electricity; You will fail and it is your beginning now; Your politics will end; Someone has given you wrong advice. I said, I am so grateful to him that the leader gave me guidance. They did not come to politics. Sincerely coming to my room and telling me in the ear. I told them that yes, it is difficult to provide electricity 24 hours, but I feel that people have sent me here for the hard work.\nBrothers and sisters, I am dreaming for the country today that when we remember the freedom fighters in 2022 when the independence of 75 years of independence, we want to give them such a Hindustan where homes get 24 hours of electricity. Brothers and sisters, we have decided that in 2022, we will provide 24 hours of electricity to those living in remote areas. When I am meeting for doing this work, I came to know that there are still 18,000 villages in our country where there is no power line and neither electricity has reached the wire nor the number is low. Everyone said that he will feel, he will feel; I said, nothing, which is to be, to be; Do that, do it; I understand the same language that in 1000 days I have to get electricity in 18 thousand villages. Today I am monitoring this entire work that the work has started; Whether the stars reached or not. The government is carrying out a time bound program behind everything and we are preparing to take that work forward.\nWhen I came to the election, the land of Uttarakhand where God protects us and the young men here protect us; Upon Baba Kedarnath, Baba Badrinath we get blessings and below ... There will hardly be a house in which there are no youth and who are not engaged in the service of the country.\nWhen I came to Electoral Meetings in Uttarakhand, I used to talk of 'One Rank, One Pension'. The Congress had set a budget of 500 crores for which they looted great applause. Some of our young men also began to cheer him that there was such a budget for 'One Rank, One Pension'. I thought it would cost a little more, 1000 crores or 1500 crores. Then the committee said that 265 crores will take, I said okay, but when it comes to accounting, the matter has reached 10 thousand crores. For a country like India, there is no nominal amount of 10 thousand crore rupees. This is a huge amount but the respect of our soldiers is bigger than that. That's why we decided that the soldiers of our country would get the benefit but still people who thought that this was never going to happen and knew that they would be spent so much, they still enjoy running the agitation, they Are still running the movement.\nNegative politics in the country can never run This is the Congress formula and therefore, the Congress of 400 MPs has been reduced to 40 today and this is happening because they are bent on negative politics and oppose everything. The work of the opposition party in democracy is to oppose - there is a huge difference in negative politics and opposition. Parliament did not let go; There should be discussion of the topics of Uttarakhand which they have not given. You sent so many MPs but did not get the opportunity to speak to them within the Parliament. Will this negative politics help democracy? Parliament should not move or should it? Believed, help, be respected, this is the religion of democracy, but see the misfortune of the country, it is not possible to sit in opposition, protest against those who remain in power for so many years. They were like, just like they were. They think that this is their family property, they should get them from generation to generation; Who can snatch them, he is also Modi, tea seller, son of a poor. Their anti-poor and feudal mindset will not work.\nThere is a government with full majority in the country; People come from the blessing of Janardanad. We have not come here by snatching someone's rights. Our obligation is to be done - to fulfill the aspirations of the people and to give good governance to the nation by using the power and strength that God has given us, but the Congress thinks what is the result of negative politics. The Congress party which did not bend the flag from Panchayat to Parliament till now, they are not seen today. So much storm in Parliament; Parliament did not let go; The kind of abuse they could give me, gave them all. Every day I sit with the daily dictionary and what abuse I will do today. Despite all this, the elections of local bodies were held in Madhya Pradesh; What happened in it Elections in local body of Rajasthan were held; What happened to the Congress, the people did not finish it In the same way, this is the situation in Bangalore too.\nCongress learn something from their senior leaders Jai-losers are always there in the election. We were also; We were only two people in Parliament; All were lost including Atal ji, but we worked hard to win public confidence. We continued to follow the public questions and never did negative politics, and this is the public-information which has put us on our eyes.\nMy brothers and sisters, we have the same motive - development. Whether it is for the welfare of the country or to provide employment to youth, it is not possible without development. These people are walking in every way of development and their intention is to stop the progress of the country. If the BJP can not stop then now the country is stopping. If the public defeated them in elections, now they are bent on taking revenge, punishing them, and stopping their work from the public. I believe that the people of the country will recognize those who have negative politics, they will not leave any chance to teach them lesson in the coming days. You people have so much welcome and respect, I am very grateful to you.\nBharat Mata Ki Jai, Bharat Mata Ki Jai, Bharat Mata Ki Jai!\nThanks a lot!"