"Share\n\nI thank all the people of Sarsawa for having joined the program at such a short notice: PM\nUttar Pradesh has the potential to change the fortune of India: PM Modi\nGovt of India is committed to the welfare of sugarcane farmers: PM\nCongress' anti-poor mind-set and negative politics is responsible for their fall: PM\nCongress has let down the spirit of democracy by not letting Parliament function: PM\nThe more dirt is thrown at us, the more the lotus would bloom: PM\nGovt at Center is dedicated to development and welfare of whole nation: PM\nBharat Mata Ki Jai, Bharat Mata Ki Jai\nOn the stage, my colleague of the Council of Ministers Dr. Sanjeev Bialan Ji, BJP's Regional President Mr. Bhupinder Singh ji, our senior MP Mr. Hukum Singh Ji, MP Mr. Raghav Lakhan Pal, and my dear brothers and sisters who came in large number\nWhen I was campaigning in 2014, I had to visit the airport again and again. Today I was going to Rishikesh and decided just 24 hours ago that I will be able to come here and go back and within 24 hours, I have seen the greatness that you have been doing ... elections, 15 days work hard Yes, even then such a big rally can never happen. You've done a great job When I was asked, I said that, okay, 5 minutes would go out of the airport, but I did not even imagine this scene; After coming here I see. In this summer, you have done penance which you have taken for suffering; I bow my head and bow down.\nUttar Pradesh has given me immense love and I believe that the future of Hindustan in Uttar Pradesh is going to change. There is a land full of immense possibilities; This is the state with the strength to reach new heights of development. You must have seen that the government is going to make a decision after one and the other for the good of the village, the poor, the farmers and the people. In Delhi this government is such that it does not just announce plans, but it implements plans. Our sugarcane farmer in our area, whatever passes on them ... We made a decision that is causing trouble to mill owners. We said that we will give a package of Rs.6000 crores and the government gave a package of Rs.6000 crores, but we said that they will be able to reach the sugarcane farmers directly by 6000 crores of public money account, and only if the millers keep them. Brothers and sisters of my sugarcane farmer, I assure you that I have felt equally worth the money to reach the sugarcane farmer; Only the people of Sugar Mill are lying with money, this old business will not run anymore.\nWe have made an important decision and it is a crucial decision - we will provide help to export sugar and help it so that money can be received and money can be distributed to sugarcane farmers. Another important decision we have made is that the petrol lobby used to do for years did not allow it to be done. Now we have decided that 10% ethanol will be added inside the petrol. This ethanol emerges from Sugar cane (sugarcane) and after every two years the mills are closed, no one takes the sugarcane of the farmer; Now this 10% sugarcane purchase will be done, work on sugarcane and farmers will get benefit. We have done a very big decision. The first gasoline lobby did not allow it to work.\nBrothers and Sisters, Political Parties of India, All State Governments ... When our government was formed then they came and said that if our state is to be developed, then those mistakes of land acquisition bill should be corrected, Just fix the mistakes. The Indian government can not think in political ways, the Indian government can not weigh everything from political scales. Now when all the states said, urged and pressed it, then we said that it is okay, those mistakes are, we will fix them. We went to the Parliament and suddenly, whose governments said that they do this, their leaders turned their backs. The more compensation the farmer should get, the case has been pending since December.\nMy farmer brothers and sisters, 15 days ago, we decided that the 13 laws in which the farmer was not fully compensated, the government has now decided to pay full compensation. This time we have increased the minimum support price (MSP) in pulses. The result is that today the country has to bring pulses from abroad ... we decided to give more money by declaring MSP. Today, I want to bow to the farmers of the country today, want to bow down that in the first 110% they have increased the pulses and poor people from the poor get pulses, so our farmers have done 110% work in the crop this time; I want to congratulate the farmers.\nBrothers and sisters, you know that there is a government working in Delhi, a fast-working government. After one verdict, there is an implementing government. But those who have come from 400 to 40, they are not able to digest their defeat. They think that the people of this country have given their name in the name of Delhi's car. The same family will run the same family from generation to generation, that is what they accepted. He believes that he has the right to Delhi's throne. They are not ready to follow democracy. They have not been able to know yet and their mind is so angry that the people of the country defeated them; Why did the people of the country bring them to 400 to 40?\nAnger comes to the mother so that the son remains and the son is getting angry because we are so educated people, people who speak English, people from all over the world, and these tea habits; This tea tea sat down. They are not able to dig it that if the poor's son comes to Delhi's cushion on Delhi's throne, then they are not ready to see them. This is a result of those poor anti-mentality. Even today, the decision taken by the people of the country is not ready to accept the decision made in the elections.\nI used to think that Mrs Indira Gandhi's seat went away in 1975, she had come out of the post of Prime Minister and when you declared her disqualified, she declared an emergency after coming in anger; I think so. An aggression-sized emergency will be brought to save the chair, people have to be locked in jail, but now I feel that there is a feud in their veins and their nature and hence they are not ready to accept anyone, democracy Are not ready to accept, are not ready to accept public order.\nRespected Mulayam Singh is also in politics, Mulayam Singh ji is against us, but in spite of this, he respect democracy. Mulayam Singh ji kept working hard for night and night, but Parliament did not allow Parliament to run. Mulayam Singh Ji opposes us; The criticisms of Modi can be done, but when it comes to parliament and democracy, Mulayam Singh ji also stands for Parliament's rules, its traditions and its values ​​within the Parliament. This is the power of democracy but they are not that they do not believe. They do not believe in democracy, they do not believe in their defeats, they do not believe in anybody's victory.\nBrothers and sisters, 125 years old today, there is a threat to the country's democracy. It is not ready to allow democracy to be obeyed and run. I want to warn the Congress leaders that why the people of the country refused you, let them reflect on you; How did 400 to 40 become, sit in the house and make a calculation, can not increase by 40 to abuse Modi. Congress party's negative and politics of abolishing opponents ... This is going to be costly to the Congress today. They did not allow Parliament to go, did not let a work, wasted money, humiliated the elected government and democracy and found out after doing all this? The election was held in Madhya Pradesh, a few months ago the election took place and the Congress party was cleared in it. There was a elections in Rajasthan today and the Congress party was cleared even there. Local bodies lost the elections and there was a elections in Benguluru, where they also got badly injured. And so, conspiracy to seize Bengaluru was to conspiracy to capture Bengaluru.\nBrothers and sisters, now the country has changed, the young man is awake. Now the youth of India does not accept negative politics. If the Congress Party wants to make a place in the hearts of the people, then do positive politics, extend its line, do four good works for the people; This is democracy, the public can forgive you, but if you do negative politics, the more you do ... I told the family in the election that there was a lot ... \"the more mud, the more lotus will be generated\" So come, we will reach the people; Emphasize positive politics; Work for the welfare of the poor; Provide the benefits of the schemes of the Government of India, whether it is the work of insurance, whether there is an Atal Pension Scheme, whether there is public funding, whether there are gas cylinders given to the poor; Our workers should be involved in the work of every poor and change the lives of ordinary people of the country, put full strength for this. I once again express gratitude to you all with heart. In the less than 24 hours, the power that you introduced, the vision of this mass movement has made me, coming in such a large number, the blessings you have given me, once again I salute Uttar Pradesh and the people here.\nJai of Bharat Mata, Jai of Bharat Mata, Jai of Bharat Mata\nThanks a lot!"