"PM Narendra Modi inaugurates new housing scheme in Chandigarh\nToday Haryana, Chandigarh \u0026 Punjab are collectively discussing development opportunities: PM\nPM Narendra Modi inaugurates new civil airport\nPM Modi attends 34th Convocation Ceremony of PGIMER, Chandigarh\nEverybody must come together for the dream for a digital India: PM\nTechnology empowers the common man The power of technology is immense: PM\nThe poorest of the poor should have their own homes to stay, says PM Modi\nPrevious government allocated Rs. 500 crore for OROP but when we saw in the matter, we realized the amount is Rs. 10,000 crore: PM\nCredit for implementation of OROP goes to the poor of the nation: PM Modi\nMy dear brothers and sisters, there was a time when I used to sit in front of you in Chandigarh, listen to the talk of big leaders, come to the program and you were able to meet all of them easily. But there are some difficulties with time. People who handle security in a way only make decisions that we should go left or right. Now people sitting in front of me because of that, many faces are visible to me, among whom I had won. I am unable to meet them today. Sometimes these things cause great pain but what to do is the reason for the system has been banned, but the visions of my dear ones are getting away from me. After assuming charge of the Prime Minister, I am getting the first opportunity to meet people in public and Badal Saheb has given a good statement that the above people are met, whether it is Haryana, Punjab or Chandigarh. But public meeting is rarely found. Today, I see that opportunity and therefore I believe that the biggest success of today's program is that today Haryana, Punjab and Chandigarh are together and discussing development, planning for development .\nThis morning I arrived here and firstly I got the privilege of inaugurating the airport's new terminal. I have been a lot of Chandigarh, I've come a lot, but I could never have imagined that such a magnificent airport can be built in Chandigarh. I saw all its arrangements today, I was very impressed. I congratulate the department's minister, all the officers of the department, that this airport, which is the festive look of Chandigarh, has been built, the terminal has been built and not so much in Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Ho, Chandigarh Ho and Jammu For Kashmir, this air service facility will play an important role for economic development. I have told the people of the department that this airport is not only for transporting the passenger but also how the airport used for the farmers who produce them, so that the items produced by them from the airplane to the Hindustan Access to the corner-corner and our farmers get proper compensation, they get higher income, this facility can also be done in this important work, for that I have Have told them They will study it and move forward.\nBrothers and sisters, today I got an opportunity to go to PGI in Chandigarh and here today digital services in Chandigarh, online services have been released for many apps. We have a dream of Digital India. To fulfill this dream of Digital India, every city has to come forward, every department has to come forward, every government will have to come forward and you see that Information Technology has created many challenges for the governance system and these governance It is the responsibility of how to improve the technology-friendly governance system, how to provide its rights through technology to the common man, its complaints are limited through technology. How to reach the right place, how it can be resolved in a time-bound manner, these responsibilities are governed by the system.\nDue to building an app I know that this is not just a technology. One way is the empowerment of the general citizen. From his mobile phone, he can ask for the accounting of the government, demand the government's work and if the government delays in the work, can demand an answer, so much power is being received by the citizens here today by a Digital App. I congratulate the administrators here for this, they have taken a good initiative. Housing Scheme was launched today. Thousands of families will get their home to live. Every person has a dream of his own life that he has his own home. Every person has a dream. Even poor, poor, sitting on the sidewalk would repair boots, even if he has a desire to have his own house. Many years of independence have come, should our country, whether poor should get home to live or not, should not be found. The poor family should not have a house that should be provided.\nThe government that you have set up in Delhi, your government has made your dream your dream. We have taken the lead in fulfilling that desire, which is your heart's desire. I know work is hard. As much as 60 years have happened, more work needs to be done in seven years. Thinking that we have raised this initiative.\nIn 2022, seven years from now, India's independence will be 75 years. The great men who sacrificed for the country's independence - Bhagat Singh, Sukhdev, Rajguru If you go to Andaman Nicobar, you will see the list of those who have suffered the punishment of black water in Andaman, you have given me a lot of life for the freedom of mother of my Punjab, mother Bharti. How many people sacrificed, how many people spent in youth prisons, how many people saved the crime of police, how many people suffered atrocities of the British sultanate and then we got freedom When 75 years of independence, then, how do we want to give Hindus to those freedom fighters, those heroic martyrs, those freedom fighters? From today onwards should every Indian should not have a resolve to save a dream that I am 75 years of freedom in my life, these five things, six things, seven things, two things I will follow in my life, It will be good, the good of the country, the good of the village and the poor. Can we not give a tribute to freedom fighters and pay tribute to them? The demand of time is that every Indian should have started the 75th year of independence, its preparations should be started and by development, through solutions of problems and there is a dream in it. That is the dream, when in India in 2022, when 75 years of India's sickness, then the poorest of the poor of India should get their home to live, I have taken this work on my head. I want your support, you need cooperation and in the same way today I have had the privilege of distributing houses under the housing scheme to thousands of Chandigarh people.\nIn the coming days, there is a need to build crores of crores of houses and when crores of houses will be built, it will have to build such a large number of houses in such a way that due to which the new country of Europe in the form of a new country, we have to save it here, You have to build so many houses. The poor will have to make and I have said from the first day when all NDA allies in the central hall of Parliament chose me as leader and by selecting them as leader, on the day I had spoken, I had said that This is my government dedicated to the poor. For the welfare of the poor All our schemes will be for the betterment of the poor and one important work is to make the house for the poor, to bring the poor from the poor home, we are working on it.\nBrothers and sisters, in this way, every family here is a protector of Mother Bharti. Whether every family here is Himachal, whether it is Uttarakhand, Haryana or even Punjab, all these lands are from where people living in the life force will be found in almost all the families. No one will meet today's generation, they will meet for an old generation, but this is the land of the fighters who have taken care of mother Bharati. In such a way, Maa Bharti's protecting armor, such a Naxalite family is sitting here. In Chandigarh, I said that we will take serious steps for forest rank, forest pension.\nBrothers and sisters we started working as soon as we came. Talking to the people of the army, keeping discussions, and as the understood problem became deeper and I am sad about it, the old government has given one rank, one pension; What steps are there to take, what steps will have to be taken, what the government is going to do, and the government has never thought in this direction. If that was the thought, then the old government does not come with an OROP of 500 million rupees and when we heard that the old government has declared an OROP of 500 crores, we thought that maybe there will be a bit more because 500 crore rupees will not be in it. But when we sit for accounting, the case has gone to reach Rs 10 thousand crore, 10 thousand crore rupees.\nFor a country like India, this amount is not small. But the lives of those who have a life-time to protect the country are more valuable and therefore the poor people from the poor of India have also taken such a big step for the army personnel. Do not credit it to a government. Do not credit Narendra Modi for this OROP. I tell the soldiers of the country that such a huge amount of ten thousand crores is going to be spent for this noble cause, then thanks to those poor people of my country, the poor who give up their things and give something for your honor Has decided and hence the credit of One Rank One Pension goes to the poor of my country, if anyone goes, the ordinary people of my country who leave their rights We are giving the people the army. There can be no greater pride than this and therefore we have fulfilled the promise.\nIn the coming days ... but still I see some people do not have the disease of agitation. Still, the flutter still continues. They felt that the matter was so serious that their car would go for five to seven years. They did not think that Modi would do it, now if he is doing then he is thinking how to drive our car. I am going to give you confidence in the brothers' sisters, any decision that will be made in the interest of the government, which will be the arrangement of the government, will be our best efforts. It will be our endeavor because we are running the government to carry forward this country, to run on the new heights of development, the government is running.\nYou gave us such an overwhelming majority, after 30 years, there was a full majority government in Delhi. But my brothers sisters, the people of the country who have seen the Lok Sabha in the last days, will never forgive the country's political parties for their conduct. You have sent it by choosing, go to the house, sit down, discuss the differences, do not one day, do two days, do five days, do seven days, but do not accept democracy's limits, do not accept the rules of democracy and 400 Parliament Do not care about the number of members but 40 people continue to plot against the future of the country, it is messing with India's democracy, it is an insult to the democracy of India. Sector brothers, sisters. And this has led to the need to create awareness for democracy in the country today. There is a need to raise this pressure on every MP that you help the parliament run, you discuss in parliament, discuss the questions in our area, you should put the government in the courtroom, Ask for accounting but go to parliament and work. This is the time the public Janardan has put pressure on MPs. Some people started distributing the Parliament of the country due to their arrogance, do not let the Parliament of the country run, brothers and sisters, no big misfortune will be greater than this. And so I have decided that if the Lok Sabha was stopped from talking to us, our voice in the Lok Sabha is stopped, then there is a public meeting ahead of the Lok Sabha and the Jan Sabhana is not less than anybody and hence today my Lok Sabha I am presenting the case to you in the public meeting.\nThe Government has taken several important steps to overcome the new heights of the brothers, sisters, development. Whether there is a fight against corruption, whether we have to bring black money back from the books, whether it is an attempt to control inflation, even if the poor person is given an opportunity to bring forward in the development journey, whether the public money account Whether the plan is brought, whether the Insurance Scheme is brought, whether the Atal Pension scheme is brought, brought the poor for the good of the poor. Farmers of our country, they had to face natural calamities, but they would have used to give compensation to the farmers. We made your decision. For many important decisions. First, it was calculated after the loss of 50 percent, we made 35 percent. We increased their scope. We increased the compensation When the hail falls, the government has been sitting in Delhi for the first time to pay the money to our farmers. We decided the insurance. I was sitting with some scientists just yesterday. How can I make ethanol from corn and process the processing process, how to make it in less expenditure so that my farmer of Punjab who is now cultivating maize, if he gets Ethanal, then he will get more money and also the environment in the country. Will be protected. To work on this, I have asked the scientists to develop such a simple technology so that the small farmers also benefit even more.\nWe are going to do one of the decisions after one, as long as the village of Hindustan will not be able, will not be strong, this country can not be strong. The strength of the village should be increased, and in that direction we are planning one after the other. We bring Smart City's plan. मैं चंडीगढ़ वासियों से विशेष आग्रह कर रहा हूं चंडीगढ़ के अंदर Smart City एक जन आंदोलन बनना चाहिए। हर परिवार ने Smart City में अपने योगदान की जिम्‍मेदारी लेनी है। यहां के युवकों में Smart City पर Competition होनी चाहिए। Online Essay Competition होनी चाहिए। हम Smart City कैसा चाहते हैं और उमसें हमारा योगदान क्‍या होगा, एक नागरिक के नाते हम क्‍या कर्तव्‍य निभाएंगे, पहली बार देश में challenge के रूप में स्मार्ट सिटी तय होने वाले हैं। जो नगर आगे बढ़ेंगे, जो नगर महत्वपूर्ण निर्णय करेंगे, जो नगर अपने पैरों पर खड़े होने की ताकत रखेंगे, वो Smart City की Competition आगे आएंगे और तब जा करके भारत सरकार उनको अतिरिक्‍त धनराशि दे करके आज जहां है वहां से 21वीं सदी के शहर बनाने की ओर ले जाएगी। और इसलिए मैं चंडीगढ़ को निमंत्रण देता हूं कि आपको जो अवसर मिला है, पहले नामों में चंडीगढ़ को entry मिल चुकी है लेकि न आगे की स्‍पर्धा कठिन है तो आगे की स्‍पर्धा के लिए चंडीगढ़ को अपने आपको तैयार करना पड़ेगा। सिर्फ लाल डोरा लाल डोरा (red tape) करके बैठे रहने से बात बनने वाली नहीं है। और इसलिए इसलिए मैं चंडीगढ़ के लोगों से आग्रह करुंगा और यहां के प्रशासन में बैठे हुए लोगों से भी आग्रह करुंगा कि Smart City के लिए जनता का प्रशिक्षित करें। एक जनांदोलन बनाएं और जनता स्‍वयं Smart City बनाने के लिए आगे आए तो सरकार की भी मदद उसे Smart City बनाने में देर नहीं होने देगी। आने वाले दिनों में विकास ये भी विकास का मुद्दा ले करके हम कर रहे हैं, विकास को ही आगे बढ़ाने का मुद्दा ले करके हम कर रहे हैं और मुझे विश्‍वास है कि विकास के इस मंत्र के अंदर चाहे पंजाब हो, हरियाणा हो, चंडीगढ़ हो, हिमाचल हो, जम्‍मू-कश्‍मीर हो, ये पूरा क्षेत्र विकास की नई ऊंचाइयों को पार करे ताकि हमारे नौजवानों को रोजागार मिले। जितनी बड़ी मात्रा में हम नौजवानों को रोजगार देंगे उतनी देश की आर्थिक स्थिति में ताकत आने वाली है। उन बातों को ले करके हम संकल्प करें। मैं फिर एक बार यहां इस समारोह के लिए आदरणीय मुख्‍यमंत्री जी का, हमारे गर्वनर साहब का, यहां के सभी सांसदों का, हृदय से अभिनंदन करता हूं, बहुत-बहुत धन्‍यवाद।"