"\nPM Narendra Modi attends 34th Convocation of PGIMER in Chandigarh\nPM Narendra Modi pays tribute to the innocent people who lost their lives in 9/11 attacks\nPrime Minister recalls Swami Vivekananda's address to the World Parliament of Religions in Chicago\nChildren from Government schools are here Being here is a great influence on their minds. It will inspire them: PM\nA convocation does not mean end of education: PM\nNarendra Modi\nToday, medical science has become technology driven medical science, says PM\nWhatever is achieved in life is not because of 'Government' but because of 'society.' Society plays a vital role in our achievements: PM\nThe whole world is now looking toward preventive and holistic healthcare: PM\nThose who are going to start a new life today, all such medal winners and associates who receive the degree, all the great teachers,\nToday is September 11. After 11 September, very little attention comes, but after 9/11, it comes to attention immediately. In the history of 9/11, the date is marked in the form. That is 9/11, on which day an inferior effort to demolish humanity. Thousands of people were killed and 9/11 is the same day that the young man from PGI is stepping into the society, who are grappling to save the lives of others.\nKilling is very simple. But keep anyone alive? All life has to be spent. And in that sense even in your life, today 9/11 has a special significance. 9/11 has another significance in history's history - 1893 - Around 120 years ago, a great man of this country went to America's land. And 9/11 that Swami Vivekananda had envisioned at the Dharma Council of Chicago. And that was the beginning of the exhortation, \"Sister and Brothers of America\". And that one word, that single sentence forced the entire auditorium to resonate with the applause for a long time. That moment had made a feeling of adding full humanity to brotherhood. What kind of heights can each human life achieve, with the message of humanity from a Ghosh sentence, its message was. But 9/11, 1893, if the world had accepted the message of Swami Vivekananda, the world would have accepted it, perhaps it would not have happened to the second 9/11.\nAnd in that respect today, on 9/11, in Chandigarh PGI, I got an opportunity to attend the convocation. I am well versed with PGI Used to come here often. If someone or someone we knew was ill then I had to come visit. Because I stayed in Chandigarh for a long time and remained in my workplaces. And so I'm well-acquainted with PGI.\nToday you must have seen in the ceremony, which has never been seen before, some under privileged students of the government school are sitting here. I have kept an urgency that whenever I get an opportunity to go to the convocation, I urge the students of the poor colony of the city to be the witness of this program by bringing children there. When these scenes are seen, an aspiration awakens within them, a belief is born within them, \"sometimes we can be here\".\nSo there are two things in this convocation. One who has to take education and move to a new area of ​​life is one. And the others are those who, by taking a resolution to follow these steps today, will probably be able to see this scene and go from here. One can not teach as much as a teacher has more than one scene in the mind and can cause a change in one's life. And in that sense my insistence is how children of our poor families also witness in such a ceremony. And under that I am grateful to PGI that they accepted my suggestion and gave these small children the opportunity to witness this ceremony today. In a sense, these are the main guests of today's celebrations. They are our real Chief Guest\nWhen the Convocation is going on, I would like to mention two more words, that when this convocation happens, then in our mind, there is no sense that there is a teaching ceremony? Is it not a feeling that Vidya Vitta is the festival? If this feeling arises in our minds that there is a function of ceremonial function or science then it is not a convocation function in the right sense.\nThis is not a festival of education, education does not end there. These vidhitas are not functional, it is not the end of the worship of this Vidya. This is the convocation. Looking at our human history, it comes to mind that the first convocation ceremony is about 2500 thousand years ago, a written mention is obtained. This is the tradition of 2500 years old. The first convocation ceremony in the Taittiriya Upanishad is discussed. That is, the incident has been going on for 2500 years. And from this very earth, this process of rites has started.\nWhen there is a convocation, then it takes a few moments, \"Yes, man, it was enough, how many days were put in postmortem room! How is that day, let's leave now! I do not know how much time was going in the laboratory and I do not know how much our sahab used to harass. They used to call on duty night and night. Patient was not coughing, but used to raise, let's see what happened. \"\nYou would have felt that all the troubles got rid of. In reality, what you have learned, understood, found, experienced, now starts the real time of tightening on the criterion. The test done by any teacher and the marks obtained by him, the certificate that is due to him, and the reason for this, is to open the way for life, the talk does not end there, the matter begins in a way that now every The moment the criterion starts. If you used to see the patient first, as a student, the patient was less noticed, the syllabus was more remembered that in the book it was written that if there is such pulse rate, then we could not even remember that patient; The pulse also did not remain in meditation, but the teacher was told that \"What is it like this?\" Then look at the book, whatever its pulse, but we see the book, what happened. \"\nThat is, we have spent our time with his type. But now when we catch the patient's pulse, the book does not come into meditation. A dead person is sitting in front of you, if your pulse rate falls downwards then your heartbeat also goes up and down. Such an integration becomes possible, an opportunity to join the life of the book starts from today.\nAnd, you are the doctor you are not the mechanic. A mechanic also happens with business spares. Nowadays, the doctor also does business with spares. He knows all the spare part. Technology has also told what is the work of every spare part, but despite this, we do not do business with a machine, do it with a dead person and therefore only knowledge is not enough. In relation to every part of the body, only knowledge about the difficulty arising in relation to its work is not enough, it is necessary for us to add a bridge of human sensibilities. You see, see the history of successful doctors, doctors who focus on the disease are very less successful. But doctors who focus on sick are more successful. The disease which is more afflicted in the disease, which addresses only the disease, he can not cure the patient nor make his life successful. But who addresses the sick, addresses his psychological state, thinks of his condition, poor poor patient has come to know, he can not pay. But if the doctor saw a sick person, if you saw the disease later, then after 20 years, the poor patient will also be able to pay the wages after returning to the doctor's house and repay his debt. Why? Because you did not have the disease, you made the sick yourself. And once we make the sick our own, then the reason for knowing his illness becomes very much.\nNowadays medical science is overpowered by technology in a way. Technology-driven medical science. Today, when a doctor comes to a sick person, he does not give medicines by looking at four questions. He says go first in the laboratory, get blood test, get urine test Tear off all the technology, leave things, put it on paper, then you do that, \"do good, give it a red-colored medicine, give it, give it two\", tell your cappander Are. That is, the doctor has become such a facilitator of decision making, so many things are available to him. And even a little bit of experience gives him great power to move towards expertise. And when I hear that PGI is an institute with a digital initiative, it means you are the familiar doctor associated with most modern technology. And if you are a doctor associated with most modern technology, then for now you understand that patient, understanding his illness, technology to help you fix that illness, technology helps you.\nThe change that has changed, how the change has changed in the entire medical science. And I believe that you have got the education initiation here ... We also understand that we became a doctor, who made us the doctor? That's why our brain was very fast, had brought very good marks in the entrance exam, at that time was our coaching very good? So we became a doctor? We became a doctor so that he spent 5 years, 7 years, whatever he had spent, so he became a doctor? If we think that we are incomplete thinking, our thoughts are incomplete.\nWe had a role of a ward boy in making us a doctor. We will go to the seller who sells late tea at the time of the examination in making the doctor, \"Look, you have to read the night long, get up and make tea.\" He would have said \"Sir, cold is very much gold\". You must have said \"no-no man, make tea, tomorrow is exam\". And that poor man, the person who was sleeping under the tree would have got up and tea would be made, tea would be given. And you must have studied for two hours in the night and then given the exams on the second day and you have to get some marks, is there any contribution of that tea person?\nAnd so, whatever we create, we do not have our own support. People of every type of society have some contribution. Everyone has had the role to make changes in our lives. It means, that we have not become a doctor due to the government, we are made up of society. And it is our duty to repay the debt of society.\nMany of you will be ready whose passport is ready. There will be many people who have come to apply for a visa. But this country is ours. Whatever we are today, some things of some poor person have been given to us by taking it. Only then have we arrived here. And so make any decision in life, Mahatma Gandhi always used to say, \"The decision of my life or any decision of my government - right or wrong - if I am confused, then once for a moment, Just remember the last person, just remember his face, and decide what I am doing, whether he is in good health or not. \" Your decision will be right. I will also urge you today that in the Convocation ceremony you are going to take on a great responsibility of life. But you are connected to such a system, you are connected to such an area, where after today you do not make a decision of your life, you are also deciding to take responsibility for the society. And that's why there are times in confusion in life, sometimes there are opportunities to make a decision that they should do it. For the moment, some poor people have played role in making your life. Someone has worried you because someone has done some work for you. Take a moment to remember him and correct him or doing wrong will be his own decision. And if this is the process of decision, then India will never have the opportunity to undergo difficulties.\nIn our country we have a time of transitional holistic healthcare. There has been a major change in the world today, holistic healthcare, preventive healthcare - people are becoming aware of it. You see, we just celebrated International Yoga Day. Anyone can imagine that all the 193 countries in the history of the United Nations, which support 193 countries, become the world's co-sponsor, and within 100 days - within the UN, the decision of the International Yoga Day - this is the history of the whole UN The biggest event is that. Why did this happen? That is why the whole world is also demanding something more than medical science. Rather than passing on medicines, he started worrying about good health. People's mind is changing.\nThe time has come to address illness, it is time to address the wellness. Will we address the Illness that will address the wellness? Now we have to move forward with a comprehensive thinking, in which only address illness for wellness, we will be doing well. And when we understand this difference, then why people have got the attraction towards Yoga, we will introduce ourselves that we will guess. And in that sense, Yoga is going on toward world preventive healthcare, holistic healthcare, wellness - it is moving forward.\nSometimes I think our physiotherapist ... I think it is very important to be a good yoga teacher to be a successful physiotherapist. You must have seen your physiotherapy and yoga activity - so perfect similarity is that if those who conduct physiotherapy, along with that, they also become a yoga expert, then they can probably become the best physiotherapist.\nTo say that there is a huge change in society life. He wants freedom from medicines. He does not want to fall into the dizziness of the side effect. He wants to go in the direction of wellness by escaping from the affliction of illness. And so, keeping in mind these things in our entire health sector, we have to make policies and strategies ahead. I believe this is possible by enlightened citizens like you.\nI hope that today I congratulate all those great dignitaries who have received the Gold Medal from this convocation. Some people may have lived through this process. I tell them that there is no reason to be disappointed. Sometimes the failure also becomes a good teacher for success. And so those who have thought that they have to get it, they have to be made, some are left, they do not need to be frustrated, they should move forward with that faith. And those who have failed, and who have the opportunity to get new heights of life, they all have very good wishes from me. आप उस पद पर हैं, जहां से आपको सिर्फ patient की नहीं, आने वाले दिनों में विद्यार्थियों को भी तैयार करने का मौका मिले, उस स्थान पर आप प्राप्त हुए हैं। मैं चाहूंगा कि आपके द्वारा एक संवेदनशील डॉक्टर तैयार हो, आपके द्वारा ये पूरा health sector... क्योंकि सामान्य मानवी के लिए भगवान का दृश्य रूप जो है न, वो डॉक्टर होता है, सामान्य मानवी डॉक्टर को भगवान मानता है। क्योंकि उसने भगवान को देखा नहीं लेकिन किसी ने जिंदगी बचा ली तो मानता है कि यही मेरा भगवान है।\nआप कल्पना कीजिए कि आप उस क्षेत्र में हैं जहां सामान्य मानवी आपको भगवान के रूप में देखता है और वो ही आपकी प्रेरणा है, वो ही आपके जीवन को दौड़ाने के लिए सबसे बड़ी ऊर्जा है, उस ऊर्जा की ओर ध्यान देकर के हम आगे की ओर बढ़े, ये ही मेरी आप सबको बहुत-बहुत शुभकामना है। Thanks a lot."