"Today, Modi is touching skies of development and strengthening India's economy: PM\nEvery state has something to learn from Madhya Pradesh: PM\nThe 'Hawalabaaz' is now worried about tough decisions being taken by Govt\nPM Modi urges other parties to support\nGovt at Center is dedicated to the nation: PM\nMudra Bank, Jan Dhan Yojana, DBT transforming lives of the poor, says PM Modi\nPM Modi urges BJP to organize nationwide Swachha campaign from Sept 25-Oct 2\nThe successful and popular Chief Minister of Madhya Pradesh and my friend Mr. Shivraj ji, President of Madhya Pradesh BJP Shri Nand Kumar Singh ji, National Vice President of the Party Dr. Vinay Ji, General Secretary of the Organization Mr. Menon Ji and dear workers who were seen in large numbers, brothers and sisters\nAfter being the Prime Minister, it has come to Madhya Pradesh and every time Madhya Pradesh has done a very welcome reception, but for the first time I have had the opportunity to come to Radhadhi and I see that your pandal has fallen short. There are more people than those who have come; Those who are outside, neither I can see them or they are seeing me but I am experiencing their love. I am very grateful to all of you and the people of Madhya Pradesh because of the heavy support given by Madhya Pradesh in the last election and in entire India, every state has been trying to learn something from Madhya Pradesh.\nWhen I was new to the BJP in Gujarat and I had the responsibility of the organization's work, every time I used to remember the honorable Kushababu Thakre. How did Kushababu Thackeray work in Madhya Pradesh ... how he decorated one worker; All these things we used to hear and learn. Today, whatever many things like Madhya Pradesh, Kushababu Thakre, Rajmata Vijayrajaje Scindia, many activists, such as two-two, three-three generations have spent in it, and then the tree's tree is ready. This is the party of true workers. The leadership of Madhya Pradesh is also the leadership of the workers' tradition, the leadership out of that criterion, and this is our biggest money and capital. Therefore, I glorify and congratulate all the great traditions and heritage of Madhya Pradesh BJP organization and its workers and from Kushababu Thakre.\nThe criterion of the political party joins the election victory and defeat and it is also natural because it is considered a criterion of democracy. I am glad that the confidence of the people of Madhya Pradesh is going on increasing every bit of the BJP towards the BJP and continuing to win one election consecutively. I bow to the people of Madhya Pradesh for this faith. Whatever belief you have put on us, whether we are in Panchayat or in Parliament, we will not leave any stone unturned to fulfill the faith of public. We will strive for hard work and will continue to take the country towards new heights.\nJai and defeat in a brotherhood, democracy is an easy thing. At times, the BJP was just a party of two MPs. Everyone, including Atal ji, lost the election and then the then Prime Minister, Mr. Rajiv Gandhi used to make fun of the BJP inside the Parliament - 'two or three buses'. We had to listen to him joking about his joke. There was a time in which the party was seated with more than 400 seats, the party has now been reduced to 40. The defeat we lost in 1984, we tried to learn from him; We studied our mistakes; Our direction was not right, we churned on it; Everyone from top to bottom; Also asked the public and journalists; Throughout the year, churning was such a terrible loss. Well that election was seen in our country as a tribute to Mrs. Indira Gandhi. But despite this we did not blame others; Do not criticize others. We tried to overcome our shortcomings by peeping inside ourselves and today the situation is such that after 30 years the people of the country have formed a full majority government.\nIt is the duty of every political party in a democracy that if Jai has attained then it will have to be consumed for the public's public jubilee and if defeated, then it must be tried, how to reinforce ourselves for democracy by strengthening itself and making it self-reliant. But today I have to say to the people of the country that the session of Parliament ... which we did not do, and did not anticipate that the opposition parties will understand the hope and aspirations of the country; The public-janardan will make the decision that he has made; If the public has defeated and won the victory for five years, he will respect and felicitate it. Later, we hoped that after some days the atmosphere will be peaceful and Parliament will go; Those decisions that have come to the fore for the common people of the country, those decisions will be decided.\nThe senior ministers of the Council of Ministers consistently talked with the opposition parties last time. Almost all the parties agreed that Parliament should also go, the decision should move forward but there is one that does not believe. I can not understand whether our ego will be confronted with democracy. Those who have been defeated and rejected by the public, I publicly urge them that for the glory of democracy ... when the world is trapped in the economic crisis, Hindustan lonely remains stable even today. . India has got an unprecedented opportunity to move forward, this opportunity should not be allowed to go hand in hand. Come, let us make decisions in the parliament to move ahead but our point is not being considered. After all, we had to move ahead in the direction of the great sorrow of the Parliament. We used to anticipate that maybe we would be able to call the Parliament again, make some decisions but they did not let it happen. I know their problems.\nThe one who has made a decision after the other in the Parliament and also has made a tough law against black money, because of what is 'hawala', he is upset. The handicapped people seem to be moving down the feet under the feet and hence these hawala collectors are trying to create obstacles in democracy. I assure the countrymen that we will not let any shortcomings in fulfilling the expectations and expectations of public by following democracy. If there is any obstruction then you will be searching for a way to cross it.\nWe have taken several steps for development. This government is such that the schemes which are announced, also work to implement them. Just change the law, cut the opening lace, burn the lamps; There is no government to stop there, this is a government trying to implement it from home. How good is the poor and the poor from the country ... We talked about the currency bank in the last budget.\nThe people of low-middle class in our country are people who are living with poverty; There is no smoke, no cobbler, no newspaper sells, no milk sells, all these people have to take a small task in their family, then they have to borrow from the moneylenders; To run a business or to visit a guest in the house, even a 50-100 loan has to be borrowed and heavy interest has to be paid. These are those people who make huge contributions to the financial system. We have decided through the currency bank that these are the common people; Run the jamming, sell pakodas, do small work, have been created separately for them and these people are given loans up to Rs 10,000 to Rs 50,000 and they will be saved from the moneylenders and the buyers. These banks will give them the strength to increase their business and the power of these people - their business will grow a bit and more people will get employment. The biggest strength of employment is in the hands of these small traders. This big thing to give them strength - the money bank, we have taken in our hands. Currency bank public money accounts\nOpposition parties wondered what would happen if only opening bank accounts. What happens, I tell you ... In our country, big economists say that there should be huge things; Explode, such things should happen; There is such a class in our country but I do not have that nature. What makes a difference to the things I do ... I'll tell you\nThe gas cylinders that we have in our homes here, we have paired the gas cylinders with public money accounts and base. Now we have done that the gas cylinders subsidy will not be deposited in the public money account of the gas cylinders directly by not going to intermediaries, brokers and contractors. You guess what happened? Firstly, the people who used to subsidize the gas cylinders, when the system was formed, almost 50 million numbers were reduced, no takers were found. Rupees were played in the name of 50 million people for so many years. These hawala tourists played the game. Now 50 million people do not get what we want to give Due to this, the government's safe will save Rs 19,000 crore every year. Was this 19,000 million rupees stolen that did not happen? Was corruption that did not happen? Did the hawks go to the pocket that did not go? These hawks are asking for our account?\nMy brothers and sisters, now corruption will also see that there is no attack, there is no headline in the news headlines, even then work is going on. Governments are going to be free from those evils, which are evil in the country. We are going to make a decision after one. BJP workers in the coming days ... September 25 is the birth anniversary of Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay; October 2 is the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi. Can all the BJP workers run a cleaning campaign from 25th September to 2nd October, village-village and street-street throughout the week? Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay, who spoke of Antyodaya, through this Sanitation Campaign; Can they also send cleanliness messages to those poor settlements? Our schools, colleges, hospitals, railway stations, can remember the Mahatma Gandhi and Deendayal Upadhyay all around and run a campaign of cleanliness.\nI will urge you to come here that my BJP brothers and sisters of BJP, not only in Madhya Pradesh but in BJP and BJP in the states of India and also take the initiative and take the campaign of cleanliness forward. I once again thank you for your reception. Madhya Pradesh has reached new heights of development and this state is giving power to the country's economy. The revolution that Madhya Pradesh has made in the field of agriculture is coming to fill the poor from the poor of the country. I congratulate the farmers of Madhya Pradesh, Mr. Shivraj and the government here.\nThanks a lot!"