"Efforts should be made to promote Hindi language: PM Modi\nThe world is acknowledging the power of Hindi language today: PM\nFilm industry has a major role in making Hindi popular in the world, says PM\nWhichever country has visited, people try to speak 'Sabka Sath, Sabka Vikas': PM Modi\nThree languages ​​will be influential in digital world- English, Chinese and Hindi: PM\nLanguage is the medium to express our thoughts and feelings: PM\nAll Hindi-loving brothers and sisters coming from every corner of the world,\nRepresentatives from around 39 countries are present here. This is a kind of Mahakumbh of this Hindi language. Right now, you are in the preparation of Simhastha, but before the preparation of Simhastha we got the chance to see this Mahakumbh of Hindi in Bhopal's land.\nSushma ji correctly said that this session is an attempt to emphasize Hindi language. When there is a language, we do not know what its strength is. But when the language vanishes and after centuries, those things go up in the hands of someone, then everybody is worried that what is there in it? What is the script, what language is, what is content, what is the subject? Today, there is something written on the stones, then for years, the archaeological department is engaged in searching that what has been written? And then we go to see how big a crisis arises after the disappearance of the language.\nOccasionally we discuss this that if Bhai is not a dinosaur in the world, then a big movie is formed, how was the dinosaur, what did dinosaur do? Biologists see how that was done, some artificial dinosaurs are kept by making the new generation know that such a dinosaur used to be. In order to know this, we have to use these types of routes today.\nEven today, we all get to hear far away that our Sanskrit language has filled the stores of knowledge, but due to the lack of people who know the Sanskrit language, the benefits of the reserves of those knowledge, we are not able to take, because what ? We did not know how we separated from this great heritage gradually, we became so involved in more things that our own disappeared ... and therefore this generation of every generation becomes that which has Legacy is to keep that heritage safe, if possible, be preserved and infected in future generations. Our ancestors had created a tradition in the Vedas that used to be Vedas-backed to take knowledge of Vedas from generation to generation and when there was no facility for writing and reading, when the paper was not discovered then that knowledge Was infected with memory in the second generation and for generations, these traditions continued. And seeing this history, it is our responsibility to all that our kind of ... that we know today that there is a bird, its caste has disappeared -to 100-150, then agencies around the world To save, billions of rupees cost rupees. One of the plants, if it is known that Bhai is a plant in that area and very few specimens remain, then the world spends billions of trillions to save it. These things show how much of these things are worth. Like the value of these things, the same language is also worth it. And so until we see him in that form, we will not understand his glory.\nEvery generation has the obligation, enriching the language. My mother tongue is not Hindi, my mother tongue is Gujarati but I think that if I do not understand Hindi language, I do not understand, what would have happened to me, how do I reach people, how do I understand people's talk and me personally Also, in the form of the strength of this language, I have a good sense and see one thing, in our country, I am not discussing Hindi literature, I am talking about Hindi language Received'm. In our country, who launched the Hindi language movement, most of the Hindi language has been organized by those people whose mother tongue was not Hindi. If you have been a long time for the Hindi language, for the protection and promotion of Hindi language, it should be Mahatma Gandhi, Kaka Saheb Kalelkar, Rajagopalacharya, everyone, ie, whose mother tongue was not Hindi, This gives us the love. And Acharya Vinoba Bhave, Dada Dharmadhikari, people who came out of Gandhian philosophy, he even recognized the different strengths of both language and script. And that is why such a way was inspired by the thoughts inspired by Vinoba ji that we should gradually admit that all the languages ​​of India that are languages, that languages ​​should retain their script, make them prosperous but also in the urban script Put a habit of writing your language. These thoughts of Shayad Vinoba ji, this idea of ​​Dada Dharmadhikari ji, these thoughts related to Gandhian values, if it had been effected, then also the script, to understand the various languages ​​of India and to the national unity of India, a very large Was coming out as a strength.\nIn the same way, language, every generation, see language ... it can not be rooted, as there is consciousness in life, in the same language there is also consciousness. The sensation of that consciousness may not be known by the stethoscope, that the sensation of that consciousness is not measured by the thermometer, but its development, its prosperity, the feeling of that consciousness. It can not be rooted like a stone, the language is flowing through the air, the way it flows through, where it passes through, it takes the aroma of it with you, it connects and goes. If the wind blows through the garden then it comes with the fragrance and goes anywhere near the drainage, it comes with the smell, it keeps on bending in itself, even in the language it is the power, the generation passed through which Passed through the terrain, the circumstances under which he goes in, he is self-reliant, he is rewarding himself, he is aroused, this power is of the language and hence the language is consciousness and the sensation of that consciousness is necessary Is.\nIn the past, when the Pravasi Bharatiya Sammelan took place, our Foreign Ministry had kept a great program that in other countries of the world, the books written by Indian writers were to be performed and I was also surprised and I was happy that with 1515 alone Mauritius The books written by the authors and the books written in Hindi were also being performed there. That is, in many countries far and away, we also experience the love of Hindi language. What are the ways for everyone to join themselves, if no one can come to this part of the land, if there is no circumstance, at least by speaking two or four sentences of Hindi, he expresses his commitment gives.\nOur continuous efforts should be to keep our Hindi language prosperous. There is an idea in my mind that the linguist will discuss it. Can we ever do a Hindi and Tamil language workshop and what are the amazing words in Tamil language can we make it a part of Hindi language? We should never do a workshop between Bengali language and Hindi language and Bengali, which are amazing words, can be wonderful words, which can not be with Hindi, we can take from them that Bhai should give us, enrich our Hindi For these words we need to. Whether in Jammu Kashmir, two or four such words can be found in Dogri language, two such words can be found, two or four such sentences are found, if they are fit in my Hindi language. We should try to make all the bids of India, all the languages ​​of Hindustan, the best things in which we should try to make the part of the Hindi language prosperity from time to time. And this continuous process should continue.\nThe language is so proud. I work in public life. Let me go to Tamil Nadu and say Vaasakkam, Vyksakkam and I see that there is electrifying effect in whole of Tamil Nadu. This is the strength of language. Some people got to Bengal and Bhalo asked Aasi, she is admired, no one can get the person of Maharashtra, what is the matter, what is going on, is absolutely happy, language has its own strength. And so our country has so much prosperity, so specialty is that every state has such a precious treasure in the form of mother tongue, how can we add and add Hindi language to it as a facilitator, if we force it, Our language will become stronger and we can try that direction.\nWhen I came into political life, for the first time, there was an opportunity to work outside of Gujarat. We know how our Gujarati people speak Hindi. People also make jokes, but when I used to speak, people used to believe me and asked me where did you learn Hindi, how do you speak Hindi so well? Now we have read the same, which is generally read, some are taught in school, not much more than that. But I got an opportunity to learn to sell and sell tea. Because in my village the traders of Uttar Pradesh, who used to trade milk in Mumbai, used to be agents of their own and mostly people of Uttar Pradesh. They used to come to farmers from the village to take buffalo and they used to take milk-bearing buffaloes to Mumbai in the train box and sell milk in Mumbai and when buffalos stopped giving milk and then they came to the village and left Used to get the money for the contract. So, in most of the railway stations, there was always the business of carrying buffaloes in this goods train, the people doing most of that business used to be from Uttar Pradesh and I used to go to sell them tea. They did not come in Gujarati, I was not a fan without knowing Hindi, then tea taught me Hindi.\nThe language can be easily learned. Try a little bit, there are drawbacks, there are drawbacks to the end of life, but do not lose confidence. Confidence should be, there will be drawbacks, people will laugh for a few days but then they will improve. And we had the nature of Gujarat here that if two people have a quarrel, there are people of the village, they can not quarrel in Gujarati, they feel Gujrati, in the quarrel, the effect does not arise, do not enjoy it. Comes. As soon as the fights begin, they start their own in Hindi. Both are Gujarati, both know the Gujarati language, but if there is a fight with autorickshaws, money, then you-I start in Hindi. He feels that if he speak Hindi, he will feel like he is a madman.\nI have seen these days abroad where I went, I have seen how foreign countries are affecting the country and how people are understanding our point of view abroad, accepting. I was, Mauritius. There the Secretariat of World Hindi Literature has started now. She has laid the foundation of her house and a center of world Hindi literature there, we are starting out there. In the same way I went to Uzbekistan, in Central Asia, I got an opportunity to publicize a dictionary in Uzbekistan and that was the dictionary, Uzbek to Hindi, Hindi to Uzbek, now let's see the attraction of the people of the world. I went to Fudan University in China, there was a separate meeting of people who knew Hindi language and that was so good that people in Hindi language were talking to me, that is, they also thought about how great it is. Go to Mongolia, now where is Mongolia, but also in Mongolia, the language of Hindi language, people who speak Hindi, we see them there and one of my speech which took place in Hindi, it was being translated but I was watching That I used to speak in Hindi, where to play rhythm, they used to bribe, where they used to laugh, they used to laugh. That is, our language has reached such a large extent in different countries of the world and people are proud of it. I went to Russia, so much work in Russia is happening on the Hindi language, in the Russian language, you are so much attendant by the government, keep a Hindi-speaking Russian citizen.\nThat is, in such a large quantity, the Hindi language and our cinematography, the film industry has almost done the work of sending Hindi through films in these countries. In Central Asia, perhaps even today, children sing songs from Hindi movies. The meaning of this is to say that the language of Hindi language is going to increase in the coming days. He is a language scholar who believes that there are some 6000 languages ​​in the world and the way the world is changing rapidly, it is estimated that by the end of the 21st century, 90% of these 6000 languages The possibilities of extinction are visible, the language scientists worry that the languages ​​of the small classes of people and the effect and effect of languages ​​varies, the effect of technology increases. Is going. There are 6000 languages ​​in the world, out of which there are chances of the disappearance of 90 percent of languages ​​by the 21st century. If we do not understand this warning and we do not conserve and protect our language then we also have to keep crying. Yes, brother dinosaur used to be like this, thing used to be like cheeses, the lessons of Vedas used to be like this, for us it will become the subject of archaeology, that will lose our strength and therefore our responsibility becomes how we enrich our language Make and add things, doors of language can not be closed, and whenever-if it is reconciled inside a wall then language is not left, and India will not become language-rich. There should be strength in language that should reconcile all things in one's own self and keep trying to crimp it and it happens in that direction.\nWhat is the effect of these things in the world? Some time ago, like Israel, we have a festival of Navaratri or festival of Deepawali. वैसे उनका एक बड़ा महत्‍वपूर्ण festival होता है, Hanukkah। तो मैंने इजराइल के प्रधानमंत्री को social media के द्वारा twitter पर हिब्रू भाषा में Hanukkah की बधाई दी। तीन-चार घंटे के भीतर-भीतर इजराइल के प्रधानमंत्री ने इसको acknowledge किया और जवाब दिया और मेरे लिए खुशी की बात थी कि मैंने हिब्रू भाषा में लिखा था, उन्‍होंने हिंदी भाषा में धन्‍यवाद का जवाब दिया।\nइन दिनों दुनिया के जिन भी देशों से मुझे मिलने का होता है, वो एक बात अवश्‍य बोलते हैं सबका साथ, सबका विकास। उनकी टूटी-फूटी भाषा उनके उच्‍चार करने का तरीका कुछ भी हो, लेकिन सबका साथ, सबका विकास। ओबामा मिलेंगे तो वो भी बोलेंगे, पुतिन मिलेंगे तो वो भी बोलेंगे। कोशिश करते हैं हम अगर हमारी बातों को लेकर के जाते हैं, तो दुनिया इसको स्‍वीकार करने के लिए तैयार होती है।\nऔर इसलिए हमारी कोशिश होनी चाहिए कि हमारी भाषा को समृद्धि मिले, हमारी भाषा को ताकत मिले और भाषा के साथ ज्ञान का और अनुभव का भंडार भी होता है। अगर हम हिन्‍दी भी भूल जाते और रामचरितमानस को भी भूल जाते हैं तो हम, जैसे बिना जड़ के एक पेड़ की तरह खड़े होते। हमारी हालत क्‍या हो गई होती। हमारे जो साहित्‍य के महापुरुष हैं, अगर आप बिहार के फणीश्‍वरनाथ रेणु, उनको न पढ़े तो पता नहीं चलता कि उन्‍होंने बिहार में गरीबी को किस रूप में देखा था और उस गरीबी के संबंध में उनकी क्‍या सोच थी। हम प्रेमचंद को न पढ़े, तो पता तक नहीं चलता कि हम यू सोंचे कि हमारे ग्रामीण जीवन के aspirations क्‍या थी और values के लिए अपनी आशा-आकांक्षाओं को बलि चढ़ाने का कैसा सार्वजनिक जीवन का स्‍वभाव था। जयशंकर प्रसाद हो, मैथिलीशरण गुप्‍त हो, इसी धरती के संतान, क्‍या कुछ नहीं देकर गए हैं। लेकिन उन महापुरुषों ने तो हमारे लिए बहुत कुछ किया। साहित्‍य सृजनों ने जीवन में एक कोने में बैठकर के मिट्टी का दीया, तेल का दीया जला-जला करके, अपनी आंखों को भी खो दिया और हमारे लिए कुछ न कुछ छोड़कर गए। लेकिन अगर वो भाषा ही नहीं बची तो इतना बड़ा साहित्‍य कहां बचेगा, इतना बड़ा अनुभव का भंडार कहां बचेगा? और इसलिए भाषा के प्रति लगाव भाषा को समृद्ध बनाने के लिए होना चाहिए। भाषा को बंद दायरे में सिमटकर रह जाए, इसलिए नहीं होना चाहिए।\nआने वाले दिनों में Digital world हम सबके जीवन में एक सबसे बड़ा role पैदा कर रहा है और करने वाला है। बाप-बेटा भी आजकल, पति-पत्‍नी भी Whatsapp पर message convey करते हैं। Twitter पर लिखते हैं कि शाम को क्‍या खाना खाना है। इतने हद तक उसने अपना प्रवेश कर लिया है। जो technology का जानकार है, उनका कहना है कि आने वाले दिनों में Digital world में तीन भाषाओं का दबदबा रहने वाला है – अंग्रेजी, चाइनीज़, हिन्‍दी। और जो भी technology से जुड़े हुए हैं उन सबका दायित्‍व बनता है कि हम भारतीय भाषाओं को भी और हिन्‍दी भाषा को भी technology के लिए किस प्रकार से परिवर्तित करे। जितना तेजी से इस क्षेत्र में काम करने वाले experts हमारी स्‍थानीय भाषाओं से लेकर के हिन्‍दी भाषा तक नए software तैयार करके, नए Apps तैयार करके जितनी बड़ी मात्रा में लाएंगे। आप देखिए, ये अपने आप में भाषा एक बहुत बड़ा market बनने वाली है। किसी ने सोचा नहीं होगा कि भाषा एक बहुत बड़ा बाजार भी बन सकती है। आज बदली हुई technology की दुनिया में भाषा अपने आप में एक बहुत बड़ा बाजार बनने वाली है। हिन्‍दी भाषा का उसमें एक माहात्म्य रहने वाला है और जब मुझे हमारे अशोक चक्रधर मिले अभी किताब लेकर के उनकी, तो उन्‍होंने मुझे खास आग्रह से कहा कि मैंने most modern technology Unicode में इसको तैयार किया है। मुझे खुशी हुई कि हम जितना हमारी इस रचनाओं को और हमारे Digital World को, इंटरनेट को हमारी इन भाषाओं से परिचित करवाएंगे और भाषा के रूप में लाएंगे, हमारा प्रसार भी बहुत तेजी से होगा, हमारी ताकत भी बहुत तेजी से बढ़ेगी और इसलिए भाषा का उस रूप में उपयोग होना चाहिए।\nभाषा अभिव्‍यक्‍ति का साधन होती है। हम क्‍या संदेश देना चाहते हैं, हम क्‍या बात पहुंचाना चाहते हैं, भाषा एक अभिव्‍यक्‍ति का माध्‍यम होती है। हमारी भावनाओं को जब शब्‍द-देह मिलता है, तो हमारी भावनाएं चिरंजीव बन जाती है। और इसलिए भाषा उस शब्‍द-देह का आधार होता है। उन शब्‍द-विश्‍व की जितनी हम आराधना करे, उतनी कम है।\nऔर आज का ये हिन्‍दी का महाकुंभ विश्‍व के 39 देशों की हाजिरी में और भोपाल की धरती पर जिसने हिन्‍दी भाषा को समृद्ध बनाने में बहुत बड़ा योगदान किया है और अन्‍य भाषाएं जहां शुरू होती हैं, इसके किनारे पर हम बैठे हैं, उस प्रकार से भी ये स्‍थान का बड़ा महत्‍व है। हम किस प्रकार से सबको समेटने की दिशा में सोंचे। हमारी भाषा की भक्‍ति ऐसी भी न हो कि जो exclusive हो। हमारी भाषा की भक्‍ति भी inclusive होनी चाहिए, हर किसी को जोड़ने वाली होनी चाहिए। तभी जाकर के, तभी जाकर के वो समृद्धि की ओर बढ़ेगी, वरना हर चीज नाकाम हो जाती है। जब तक... जब तक ये मोबाइल फोन नहीं आए थे और मोबाइल फोन में जब तक कि contact list की, directory की व्‍यवस्‍था नहीं थी तब तक हम सबको, किसी को 20 टेलीफोन नंबर याद रहते थे, कभी किसी को 50 टेलीफोन नंबर याद रहते थे, किसी को 200 टेलीफोन नंबर याद रहते थे। आज technology आने के बाद, हमें अपने घर का टेलीफोन नंबर भी याद नहीं है। तो चीजों के लुप्‍त होने में देर नहीं होती है और जब ये इतनी बड़ी technology आ रही है तब चीजों को लुप्‍त होने से बचाने के लिए हमें बहुत consciously practice करनी होगी। ...इसलिए उन्हें अपने पास लाए, उससे सीखे, उसके समझे और समृद्धि की दिशा में बढ़ करके, उसको और ताकतवर बनाकर के हम दुनिया के पास ले जाएं, तो बहुत बड़ी सेवा होगी।\nमैं फिर एक बार इस समारोह को मरे हृदय से शुभकामनाएं देता हूं और जैसा सुषमा जी ने विश्‍वास दिलाया है कि हम एक निश्‍चित outcome लेकर के निकलेंगे और अगला जब विश्‍व हिन्‍दी सम्‍मेलन होगा तब हम धरातल पर कुछ परिवर्तन लाकर के रहेंगे, ये विश्‍वास एक बहुत बड़ी ताकत देगा।\nइसी एक अपेक्षा के साथ मेरी इस समारोह को बहुत-बहुत शुभकामनाएं, बहुत-बहुत धन्‍यवाद।"