"Prime Minister addresses special session of National Meet on Promoting Space Technology\nTechnology is the driving force of current generation: PM\nSpace science has an important role in achieving good governance: PM\nTechnology: Most powerful medium for good governance: PM\nPM Modi urges scientists to simplify life\nThere should not be \"space\" between the common man and space, says PM Modi\nMy colleagues, I went to Sriharikota right after the formation of government in June, because I was also a minister of this department, as a minister, I had to understand the work of this department, then all the scientists had presented me before the presentation and at that time I had a topic that how can the use of Space technology be used for the common man? What can all our departments do with that vision? And it was decided in the same way that an accounting should be taken in what is going on in the department, and the information in which states have taken some initiative in this direction. And in my mind it was from the very beginning that most of the government's nature is not of courage. Doing new things, adopting new things, it takes a lot of time, and mostly innovations or initiatives are then on the basis of a single enthusiast officer. Under the arrangement, changes are made under the new initiative. Until we do not set up the structure, we make ourselves irrelevant in the changing age, and we have to admit that technology is a driving force on us in this generation, there is a huge impact on technology and Technology is also a cause of great quantity of solutions and therefore it is necessary for us to understand these things and, according to our requirement, we use it.\nToday, in the field of space all over the world India has made its proud place. Our scientists, every Hindustani can take pride in such achievements, but since India has taken space science, there has been a dispute since then and the controversy has come that poor countries like India should fall in this round If we do not go into space today, then what difference does it make, if we do not spend money behind the satellite, then what will it matter? These questions are raised today Dr. Vikram Sarabhai initially told one thing very well for this. He said that it is very natural to get the question that why poor countries like India should go to this competition and they said that we are not going to contest. But to meet the needs of the common man of our country, in our efforts we should not be less, our efforts should not be reduced. Whatever the modalities, whatever the medium the system is, the more innovations, what can all be used in the changes of normal human life of India? And should not we stay behind in it? What Vikram Sarabhai did at that time, we are seeing today that through space, through our science, through our ISRO, whatever has been achieved, today we are nowhere in the development of the country Successful effort has been made to add this, more and more quantity.\nWhen I was watching this presentation, I was so happy that all the departments are now involved in this, some departments are running, some departments are moving in the running and many departments are planning to introduce these new things. How to use I went to Banaras Loko-shed a few days ago for the Lok Palan of a high power engine, then inside, who was watching all his new arrangements, I asked him a question, I asked him In the airplane we see, then a monitor is in front of the pilot and he knows that the cloud will come after so many minutes, this will be the density of the cloud, due to which the ship can come in the jar, it also gives a warning in the passenger To. I said, this is technology, can we give this kind of monitor system, in our engine, which is an engine driver? There is a satellite connectivity and wherever there are unmanned crossing, it can be started with a special type of light on the monitor alert already, and can start from 2-4 Kms before the horn. There was an idea in my mind like this. I had a subject in front of them, the engineer was there. Then we got our scientist, so I kept in front of him that see Bhai, what can I do on this and I am happy. In these 3-4 months period they prepared that work and were telling me that in the near future we will roll-out this. There can be many ways to solve the problem of unmanned crossing, but can the satellite also be used for security in unmanned crossing? Our scientists were given jobs and I see within 3-4 months they have come out with results.\nFriends of my department have requested that you also create a small cell in your department, who thinks that which has the nature of technology, what use can it be, how can it be used? If they understand this and they talk again, look at what is the ground reality, and then tell the ISRO that we have this puzzle in front of us, we think that it should find some way, these-these systems needed. You see their team will look. The extent to which technology can work, the task of data collection is yours, the work of conversion is yours and how its results can be brought. We can take many new initiatives.\nWhen I went to ISRO in June 2014, I spoke in Mr. Harikota, just as Kiran ji said that 20 departments were being worked out in less quantity. Today, proactive activity is taking place on the use of space technology in 60 departments. A little bit of effort happened, the small meeting took place, I believe, perhaps in the history of India and in the history of the government, this would be the first major event that about 1600 officers from the Center and the state do brainstorming on the same topic throughout the day, do the workshop And whoever has the information, giving it to the other, who has the curiosity, he is asking. Perhaps in the history of the government of India, this would have been the first program to solve such a large number of such topics. But this one-day workshop is not a one-day workshop, with every department continuously with its previous 6-8 months, with every state, meeting with scientists, talking, catching topics, finding problems, solving It has been consistently run and the result of that is that today we have gathered here with a belief that we can find solutions to problems.\nThe most advantage of technology is at least in expenditure, how easy it can be to reach the poorest of the poor? This is our biggest challenge and you must have seen such an incident in Haryana that it is the I-card of the election that he has created by using satellite technology, with his document of land, he added Have given. Now all these things were lying, lying somewhere, but if someone tried to add it and tried to add, then a new system was created.\nDo nothing new in front of us. Let us decide that nothing is going to happen in this regard, but there are some available information, there is available technology, how to convert it according to our needs, but if we apply the mind then we will have a large amount of Can provide new solutions and develop an easy delivery system.\nOur postal department is such a big network. Where can we use that network with the Satellite system? The country does not join or join the general citizen and the system, but it definitely connects to the post office. Sometimes the year comes to relate to his post office. This means that the government has such a unit, which is conveniently connected to the last bench and post office is such a system that even today the common man has great faith in it. Whose habit is there, when the postman will come, he keeps watching, the postman came, the postman went away. Even though the mail comes once in the month, but the son is waiting outside for the postman. The belief that this is the belief, connecting this technology with confidence, adding new things, giving a big result.\nWhen I was working in the state, then this ray was also there, we had a good friendship, so I used to know a lot from them, what is happening, what are we doing, what are we going to give to the world? For the fishermen who made our program, we gave information on the mobile to the fishermen that on such a longitude there is catch on the latitude and there is a nature of the fish that the crowd is there for about 24 hours. And he used to go fishing for the first time, he used to take the boat for hours, he used to watch, throwing the trap, then got it, then went ahead, had to process them for hours. After giving this arrangement, he reaches the targeted place, reaches in a short time, diesel-electricity costs are reduced and there is a lot of cash in hand, fishing comes back, time and energy survive. Technology was the same, how it is used for the poor person.\nToday just like today. Madhya Pradesh used it to give land to tribals, land lease. Further one step ahead we can work. Many people, many tribals claim that Bhai used to farm here, it is our land, we should get it. The people of the village say that they are not lying, they do not cultivate, they want to grab land, they have their ancestral place, they used to be there, now the children have become separated in the waste, all the fights continued. . But now on the basis of the old photographs from the satellite, they can tell him from the photographic system on the basis of comparison, that there was the first forest or farming or there was some work, by removing all the things, we can provide the proof, one We can establish tribal hub, just like the help of satellite The time the scientist has worked for the satellite, he may not even know that the fight of the rights of any tribal who is sitting in remote forests, he is fighting through the satellite and giving it the right, these strengths Technology is about. When the scientist has done that work, when he will know, hey wah I did it for this work, for the sake of the tribal I succeed, his life becomes blessed. Our job is to keep these things in mind. We should involve a large number of people, can every department invite young generation for ideas, that we have these issues in front of us, how can we find out the way for technology, satellite or space system, you Leave it to the student. You see they will exercise, they will join you online and give new ideas. Create a cell in the department and the young generation is a big techno-savvy nowadays, make it out of it, say to him, you see, brother, you will get a new mind, you will definitely get new ideas and you will get the result too.\nIn our country poor people also have the ability to apply some brains. If India is working on innovative India, then I do not believe that we will look back somewhere. In every type, you must have seen that in many newspapers, a farmer operates a pump of water from his farm from home. Operates with Mobile Phone, she herself uses technology and uses mobile technology and she will know from her home, there is electricity, then she starts the pump from her house and starts working on water After that, then the farm goes after that.\nOnce someone told me, how the brain works, the person who had installed a unit of bio-gas in his home, the person who was in the village, the farmer and his cow had cattle, etc., his house The work that was done in Kitchen used to be dung and used to produce gas. There was more gas than required in my stove. How did he use intelligence, he is in the tube of the tractor, how big is the tube of the tractor, we have the idea, the gas filled it in it and lifting it on the scooter, now takes a tractor tube on the scooter So afraid of seeing what would happen, transporting the gas tractor to the tube in his field, and by his raw-wisdom, he used to run his diesel engine, which he had modified, used to remove the water from that gas. Was there. Now let's look at the methods of science, that is, the common man also has these basic principles, he searches for his way out of it and applies the things. How do we think about these things, then all these knowledge-based stores will grow, but what does our department do for the needs of normal human beings?\nToday, our education quality is to be corrected, it is okay, someone will say that if so many villages do not have electricity then how will we do it? So how many villages do not have broadband connectivity? There is no optical fiber network in Goa, so where do you? Those who have to think about this, they will think, but also think that Bhai is in so many villages, there are so many cities. At least there, by long distance education, teach the children in the best quality of the teachers and studio sitting in the big city of India, I think that the teacher will also be trained on quality education, he will also be trained and long distance Education will do it and in remote and remote forests, we can improve good education in our villages.\nI was just telling Kiran ji, our health secretary said that she had any problems with broadband capacity, I was asking her that we have access capability. We have access capability. If we think of using it, the soldiers of our army are on the border, how do they use it, how do we add this technology to their needs? We can do a great job of protecting the border, through this technology.\nOccasionally, like we have gone through a big program, Prime Minister Krishi Irrigation Scheme, this is the first step taken by the Prime Minister for the success of the agricultural irrigation scheme, then using our space technology. We can prepare a great contour, prepare a contour of the village and prepare it on the basis of which the flow of water is on which side, how much water can be quantum, rain fall, and depending on it We can create the complete design of the future based on technology. In a way, this science can create an important role for good governance. First we used to plan, then on the basis of our usual experience. Today, through satellite we can plan that due to which our expenses can also be saved, time can also be saved and today is to create a road network. आज आप देखिए दशरथ मांझी इतना बड़ा popular हो गया है, लेकिन कारण क्या था, सरकार ने road ऐसा बनाया कि एक गांव से दूसरे गांव जाना था तो पहाड़ के किनारे-किनारे जाता था और 50-60 किलोमीटर extra जाता था। दशरथ मांझी का raw-vision कहता था, जन्‍म से लाया होगा GIS system वो, उसको लगता था यहां सीधा चला जाउं तो दो किलोमीटर में पहुंच जाउंगा। और अपने हथोड़े से उसने वो रास्‍ता बना दिया। आज technology इतनी available है कि कोई दशरथ मांझी को अपनी जिन्‍दगी खपानी नहीं पड़ेगी। आप shortest way में अपना रास्‍ता खोज सकते हो, बना सकते हो।\nहम इस technology का कैसे उपयोग करें? और उपयोग कर-करके हम इसे। देखिए हमारे यहां canal भी बनती है। ऐसे-ऐसे-ऐसे जब हेलीकॉप्‍टर या हवाई जहाज से जाते हैं तो बड़ी पीड़ा होती है कि ये canal भी इतने-इतने सांप की तरह क्‍यों जा रही है। तो एक तो बनाते समय देखा होगा कि चलो यहां से चले जाएं, या तो कोई decision making पर कोई pressure आया होगा कि यार इसका खेत बचाना है, जरा उधर ले जाओ तो सांप की तरह हम लेते चले गए लेकिन हमने अगर technology का प्रयोग करते, उस समय technology करने का अवसर मिला हो तो perfect alignment के साथ हम काम कर सकते थे।\nहमारे जितने भी, अब देखिए encroachment का highways पर बड़े encroachment की चिंता होती है, satellite के द्वारा हम regular monitor कर सकते हैं कि हमारे highway पर encroachment हो रहा है, क्या हो रहा है, क्या गतिविधि हो रही है, हम आराम से कर सकते हैं, हम निकाल सकते हैं रास्ता।\nहमारी wild life, हमारी wildlife क्यों गिनती करना का, पांच साल में एक बार करते हैं और wildlife की गिनती के लिए भी पचासों प्रकार के सवाल आते हैं, Camera लगते हैं, कोई उसके पैर का नाप ले लेता है, मैं मानता हूं हम satellite system से महीने भर observe करें तो हम चीजों को खोज सकते हैं कि इस प्रकार के जो हमारे wildlife हैं, इस प्रकार यहां रहता है, इनकी movement का ये area है, आप आराम से इन चीजों को गिन सकते हैं।\nTechnology का उपयोग इतनी सहजता से, सरलता से हो सकता है और मैं चाहता हूं कि हमारे सारे departments इस पर कैसे काम करें। हमारे पास बंजर भूमि बहुत बड़ी मात्रा में है। एक-एक इंच जमीन का सदुपयोग कैसे हो, इस पर हम कैसे काम कर सकते हैं।\nहमारे जंगल कभी कट गए, इसकी खबर आती है। Red चंदन जहां, वहां कहते हैं कि कटाई बहुत होती है। क्या हमारा permanent high resolution वाले camera, regular हमें update नहीं दे सकते क्या कि भई Red चंदन वाला इलाका है, यहां कोई भी movement होगी तो हमें तुरंत पता चलेगा।\nMining..mining की विशेषता क्या होती है कि वो सारे system तो perfect होते हैं कागज पे, उसको mining का मिल जाता है contract मिल जाता है लेकिन जो उसको two square kilometer by two square kilometer area, मिला होगा, वो वहां शुरू नहीं करता है, उसके बगल में खुदाई करता है। अब कोई जाएगा तो उसको भी लगता है कि यार उसको तो contract मिला हुआ है, वो थोड़ा नापता है कि कितने फुट कहां है? लेकिन उसको अगर satellite system से watch किया जाए तो एक इंच इधर-उधर नहीं जा सकता, जो जगह उसको तय हुई है, वहीं पर ही mining कर सकता है और हम उसके vehicles को track कर सकते हैं कि दिन में कितने vehicle निकले, कितना गया और taxation system के साथ उसको जोड़ा जा सकता है, ये आराम से काम हो सकता है।\nहमारे यहां road tax लेते हैं। कभी-कभार road tax में, हम technology का उपयोग करके, बहुत मात्रा में leakages बचा सकते हैं, just with the help of technology और हम बहुत व्यवस्थाओं को विकसित कर सकते हैं।\nमेरा कहने का तात्पर्य ये है कि हमारे पास एक ऐसी व्यवस्था उपलब्ध है और एक लंबे अर्से तक हमारे scientists ने पुरुषार्थ करके इसको पाया है, हमारा दायित्व बनता है कि हम इसको सहज रूप से कैसे अपने यहां लागू करें और जो भी विभाग इसका आदि होगा, जिसको जरा स्वभाव होगा। आपने देखा होगा कि उसको लगता है कि इसने तो मेरे पूरे काम को बड़ा easy बना दिया है, बड़ा सरल कर दिया है. तो वो उसमें फिर involve होता चला जाएगा। जिसको ये पता नहीं कि भई इसका क्या है, अब दो साल के बाद retire होना है, तो मेरा क्या, छोड़ो यार, तुम कर लेना। जो ऊर्जा खो देते हैं जी, वो retire होने के बाद भी जिंदगी का मजा नहीं ले सकते हैं और इसलिए हम हर पल, हर पल भले ही हम senior most हैं, जिंदगी के आखिरी पड़ाव आता है, तो भी हम ऐसी कोई foot-print छौड़कर के जाएं ताकि हमारे बाद की नई पीढियों को सालों तक काम करने का अवसर मिले।\nये जो आज प्रयास किया उसमें मैने एक प्रकार से तीन पीढ़ी को इकट्ठा किया है। जो fresh अभी-अभी मसूरी से निकले हैं, वो नौजवान भी यहां बैठे हैं और जो सोचते होंगे कि भई 30 तारीख को retire होना है, अगली 30 तारीख को होना है, वो भी बैठे हैं, यानि एक प्रकार से तीन पीढ़ी यहां बैठी हैं, मैंने सबको इकट्ठा करने का प्रयास यही था कि junior लोगों को ज्यादा यहां बिठाए, उसका कारण ये है कि मैं चाहता हूं कि ये legacy आगे बढ़े, ऐसा न हो फिर नई team आए, उनको चिंता न हो कि क्या करें यार, पुराने वाले तो चले गए या पुरान वाले सोचें कि अब आखिर क्या करें कि अब एक बार चला लें।\nहमारे लिए सबसे बड़ी आवश्यकता है, हर department एक-एक छोटा काम सोचें कि हम 2015 में, अभी भी हमारे पास तीन-चार महीने है। एक चीज identify करें। हमें लगता है कि सैटेलाइट सिस्‍टम से हम इसको उपयोग कर सकते हैं और फिर उसके लिए outsource करना पड़े, कुछ नौजवानों की मदद लेनी पड़े तो हम ले लेकिन कुछ करके दिखाएं। उसी प्रकार से, जैसा ये एक पूरे देश का workshop हुआ है। राज्‍यों से भी मेरा आग्रह है कि राज्‍य भी अपने राज्‍य की इसी प्रकार की दो-तीन पीढ़ियों को इकट्ठी करके एक पूरे दिन का brainstorming करें, भारत सरकार के कोई न कोई अधिकारी वहां जाएं और वे भी अपने लिए plan workout करें।\nतीसरा मुझे आवश्‍यक लगता है कि ये सब होने के बाद भी decision making करने वालों को अगर हम sensitize नहीं करेंगे। उनको अगर परिचित नहीं करवाया कि ये चीजे क्‍या है। गांव का जो प्रधान है, वहां से ले करके MLA तक जितने भी elected लोग है, उनको कभी न कभी ऐसे institutions दिखाने का कार्यक्रम करना चाहिए। उनको बताना चाहिए कि देखिए भई आपके गांव की इतनी चीजों को satellite से हम organize कर सकते हैं। उसका विश्‍वास बढ़ जाएगा और वो इन चीजों को करेगा। एक बार हम और गांव के प्रधान को बुलाएंगे, तो वहां के पटवारी को भी आप जरूर बुलवाएंगे। तो एक गांव की पांच-सात प्रमुख लोगों की team होती है, जो सरकार को represent करती है, वे sensitize हो जाएगी। हमें इस चीज को नीचे तक percolate करना है। अगर हमें नीचे तक percolate करना है, तो मैं चाहूंगा कि इसके कारण हम कर सकते हैं। हम ये मानकर चले कि Good Governance के लिए, transparency के लिए, efficiency के लिए, accountability के लिए, real time delivery के लिए, real time monitoring के लिए technology हमारे पास सबसे ताकतवर माध्‍यम होता है। अगर हम Good Governance की बात करते हैं तो उसकी शुरूआत होती है perfect planning. perfect planning के अंदर आपको इतना बढ़िया database मिले, आपको maps मिले, आपको 3 D resolutions मिले, मैं नहीं मानता हूं कि planning में कोई कमी आ सकती है। अगर perfect planning है और proper road-map है implementation का और time frame में आपका goal set किए हैं, मैं मानता हूं कि हम जो चाहे वो परिणामों को technology के माध्‍यम से हमारा समय का span कम करते हुए, qualitative improvement करके हम परिणाम ला सकते हैं।\nपिछले दिनों आपने देखा होगा कि दो ऐसी घटनाएं हुईं जो हमारे यहां बहुत ज्‍यादा notice में नहीं आईं है। लेकिन उसने हजारों लोगों की जिन्‍दगी को बचाया है, लाखों करोड़ो रुपयों का नुकसान बचाया है। पिछले वर्ष, नेपाल में, पहाड़ों में बर्फ की शिलाएं गिरी और बर्फ की शिलाएं गिरने के कारण जो पानी का प्रवाह बह रहा था वो सारा chock हो गया। अब बर्फ थे तो वो जम गए और उधर पानी जो रुकता गया वो भी जमता गया। अब हमारे सामने challenge ये आई कि जब गर्मी शुरू होगी और मान लीजिए ये पहाड़ जो बर्फ के पड़े हैं, वो एकदम से टूट गए और ये पूरा flow चल पड़ा तो नीचे कुछ नहीं बचेगा। बड़े-बड़े बर्फ के पहाड़ फिसलकर के नीचे आएंगे और गांव के गांव तबाह कर देंगे। हमारे यहां से NDRF की टीम गई, सेना के लोग गए, नेपाल सरकार को मदद की और bombarding करना पड़ा। हेलीकॉप्‍टर... कठिन था इलाका, गए हमारे जवान, bombarding करना पड़ा और उन पहाड़ों को शिलाओं को, बर्फ की शिलाओं को तोड़ा और पानी का प्रवाह शुरू किया। ये सारा संभव इसलिए हुआ कि satellite के द्वारा image मिली कि ये एक नया blockage शुरू हो रहा है। Do\nसरी समस्‍या आई कोसी नदी पर। नेपाल में कोसी का जो हिस्‍सा है, landslide हुआ, पानी का प्रवाह बंद हो गया। उधर पानी जमता गया। मानते हैं, कल्‍पना कर सकते हैं मिट्टी का Dam बन जाए और पानी भर जाए और जिस दिन खुलेगा तो क्‍या होगा। सबसे पहले NDRF की टीमों को यहां से बिहार भेजा और कोसी के रास्‍ते पर जितने गांव थे सारे के सारे गांव खाली करवाए। लोग गुस्‍सा भी कर रहे थे, भई पानी तो है नहीं बारिश तो हो नहीं रही, आप क्‍यों खाली करवा रहे हो? उनको बड़ी मुश्‍किल से समझाया, दबाव भी डाला, उनको हटाया और उधर की तरफ उस पानी के प्रवाह को चालू करने के लिए रास्‍ते खोजते रहे, किस प्रकार से क्‍या समस्‍या का समाधान किया जाए। सदनसीब से रास्‍ते निकले और धीरे-धीरे-धीरे पानी का बहाव शुरू हुआ और हम एक बहुत बड़े संकट से बच गए और ये भी तब संभव हुआ, satellite का regular imaginary monitoring हो रहा था उससे पता चला कि इतना बड़ा संकट आने वाला है।\nपिछले दिनों आपने देखा होगा, Vizag में जो हुदहुद आया और हमारे विभाग के लोग, राठौड़ यहां बैठे हैं। इतना perfect information दिया उन्‍होंने कि cyclone कितना दूर है, कितनी intensity है, किस angle से जा रहा है और कब वो आकर के Vizag को परेशान करेगा। मैं मानता हूं इतना perfect information था और just with the help of satellite technology और उसका परिणाम हुआ कि इतना बड़ा हुदहुद Vizag में आया, कम से कम नुकसान हुआ। हम disaster management की दृष्‍टि से, early warning की दृष्‍टि से, preparedness की दृष्‍टि से मानव जाति के कल्‍याण का एक बहुत बड़ा काम कर सकते हैं और इसलिए हम इन विषयों में जितने हम sensitize होते हैं, हमारे सारे department उस दिशा में सोचने लगते हैं कि हां भाई हमारे यहां ये young team है, दो-चार लोगों को हम लगाएंगे।\nमैं यह भी चाहता हूं कि ISRO भी जिस प्रकार से हमारे यहां अलग-अलग कार्यक्रम चलते हैं। हमारी space technology आखिर है क्या, हम students को तैयार करें, students को नीचे lecture देने के लिए भेजें, slideshow करें, एक अच्छी video बनाएं, लोगों को समझाएं कि भई क्या चीज है, कैसे काम आ सकती हैं, एक mass-education का कार्यक्रम ISRO ने initiate करना चाहिए, HRD ministry और बाकी ministry और state government इनकी मदद लेनी चाहिए, इनके लिए एक programming तैयार करना चाहिए और students, हमारे students को तैयार करना चाहिए, उनसे 1-2 week मांगने चाहिए कि भई आप 1 week, 2 week दीजिए, 10 स्कूल-कॉलेज में आपको जाना है, ये lecture देकर के आ जाइए, तो हमारी एक generation भी तैयार होगी इस चीजों से और जो सुनेंगे, उनको थोड़ा-थोड़ा परिचय होगा कि भई ये-ये चीजें हैं, ये करने वाला काम मुझे लगता है।\nअभी 15 अगस्त को मैंने लालकिले पर से कहा था Start-up India-Stand up India, अभी जो बताया गया slide में करीब 3 हजार छोटे-मोटे private unit हैं जो हमारी इस गतिविधि के साथ जुड़े हुए हैं। मुझे लगता है कि, मैं कोई scientist तो नहीं हूं लेकिन इस क्षेत्र में विकास के लिए sky is the limit, हम इस प्रकार के हमारे जो scientific temper के जो नौजवान हैं, उनको Start-up के लिए प्रेरित कर सकते हैं क्या? हम उनको blue print दे सकते हैं क्या? कि भई ये 400 प्रकार के काम ऐसे हैं कि नौजवान आगे आए और वो कुछ उसमें innovation करे, कुछ manufacturing करे, कुछ चीजें बनाए, हमारे space science के लिए बहुत काम आने वाली हैं, या हमारे space science की utility के लिए नीचे काम आने वाली है या तो हम upgrade जाने के लिए करें या downgrade जाने के लिए करें लेकिन हम दोनों रास्ते पर कैसे काम करें हम इस पर सोच सकते हैं क्या? अगर हम इस व्यवस्था को विकसित कर सकते हैं तो Start-up India-Stand up India ये जो एक dream है उसमें innovation technology का भरपूर हम उपयोगक कर-करके और financial institution भी, वे भी इस दिशा में सोचें कि इस प्रकार से Start-up के लोग आते हैं जो science में कुछ न कुछ contribute करने वाले हैं तो उनके लिए विशेष व्यवस्था की जाए, ISRO के साथ मिलकर के की जाए, आप देखिए हमको एक बहुत बड़ा लाभ मिल सकता है।\nहर एक department की चिंता था कि capacity building की, ये बात सही है कि हम स्वभाव से इन चीजों को स्वीकार करने के आदि न होने के कारण इस तरफ हमने ध्यान नहीं दिया है। हम जब recruitment करें, हमारे नए लोगों को तो recruitment करने पर इस प्रकार के विज्ञान से जुड़े हुए लोगों को ज्यादा लें, ताकि हमें capacity building के लिए सुविधा रहे। हमारे यहां पूछा जाए department में कि भई हमारे यहां department में कितने लोगों कि इस-इस चीज में रुचि है। तो फिर इनको 7 दिन, 10 दिन का एक course करवाया जा सकता है। अगर हम इस व्यवस्था का, human resource development अगर हो गया तो institutional capital building अपना आप आना शुरू हो जाएगा। सिर्फ financial resources से institutional capacity नहीं आती है, institutional capability का आधार structure नहीं होता है, building कैसा है, वो नहीं होता है, equipment कैसे होते हैं, वो नहीं होता है, financial arrangement कैसे हैं, वो नहीं होता है, उसका मूल आधार होता है, human resource कैसा है। अगर आपके पास उत्तम प्रकार का human resource होता है, तो आप में से कभी, मैं तो चाहता था कि यहां एक slide दिखानी चाहिए थी। भारत Space Science में गया और जिसका आज इतना बड़ा नाम होता है। पहला जो हमारा space का जो छोड़ने का था, उसकी पहली फोटो है तो साईकिल पर एक मजदूर उठाकर के ले जा रहा है। भारत का पहला जो space प्रयोग हुआ, वो एक गैराज के अंदर trial हुआ था। यानि उसकी गतिविधि गैराज में हुई थी और साईकिल पर उसका shifting होता था ले जाने का यानि वहां से अगर, इसका मतलब ये हुआ कि और व्यवस्थाओं की ताकत कम होती है, human resource की ताकत ज्यादा होती है, जिसने हमें आसमान की ऊंचाइयों को सैर करने के लिए ले गए, जबकि जमीन पर उसको साईकिल पर उठाकर ले जाया गया। ये दो चीजें हैं, ये जो चीजें हैं हमारे लिए इससे बड़ा कोई उदाहरण नहीं हो सकता है, इससे बड़ा कोई उदाहरण नहीं हो सकता है कि हमारे science में, हमारे भीतर की जो ताकत है, वो कितना बड़ा contribution कर सकती है, ये संभावनाएं हमारे पास पड़ी हुई हैं।\nअच्छे planning के लिए, समय सीमा में implementation के लिए, हम इसका भरपूर उपयोग करें और मुझे विश्वास है कि आज पूरे दिनभर ये जो exercise हुई है, करीब 1600 अधिकारी और बहुत महत्वपूर्ण दायित्व संभालने वाले अधिकारियों के ये मंथन आने वाले दिनों में ऐसा न हो कि space technology in common man के बीच space रह जाए और इसलिए हमारा काम है common man और space technology के बीच में space नहीं रहना चाहिए। ये सपना पूरा करें, बहुत-बहुत शुभकामनाएं। Thank you."