"PM Modi inaugurates Faridabad metro line, takes Metro ride, addresses rally\nNDA govt fulfills promise of delivering One-rank, one-pension for the armed forces\nCenter \u0026 states should work together; Infrastructure is essential for progress: PM\nIndia will not progress through politics, but through nationalist policies: PM\nIt has become a fashion to politicians\nPeople are being misplaced about the government position on OROP and VRS: PM\nPM Modi reiterates government's resolve for housing for all by 2022\nA large number of brothers and sisters,\nOur Chief Minister was just telling that Modiji has come to Haryana many times and will also be coming to the 11th day, the 18th will also be coming. You all know Haryana is my second home. After leaving Gujarat, I spent my life in Haryana for years. If you are familiar with every village, street, mohalla here, will I want to come to Haryana or will not? Can I ever forget your love? So your love is that which brings me repeatedly and I told Haryana, from the very first day that I have given the love you have given me, I will bring development with interest, this is what I am saying.\nBrothers and sisters come to elections, they go. Politics keeps moving in its place. It is a natural part of democracy but the country does not just run with politics, the country runs with nationalism, the country does not grow by the disputes, the country grows through the dialogue. If there is one solution for our problems, if one of its herbs is there, then the name of that herb is evolution, development. If the development will happen, the young will get employment, the development will be the farmer will get the full cost of his crop, the poor child will get good education, the poor will get good education, the poor of the village, the elderly and the affluent people, The facility will be available, the poor will get home to live and so my brothers and sisters are working on the same point. Since you have given us the responsibility, we have the same mantra, the only purpose, the only path, the only destination is and the name is Vikas.\nDo you want me to tell you whether you want development? Want good ways or not? Want good school or not? Need a good hospital or not? This country needs this and hence the government is putting its strength at these points. It would have been better if this work had been completed in the past 60 years. The country would have crossed the heights. But a lot of work is incomplete and incomplete, it is not right to criticize the old governments and comment by commenting on their comments. It is the responsibility of this Government that we find solutions to problems, discover new innovations of innovation - discover new measures and take the country to new heights.\nIn the past you may have seen an economic crisis arose in the whole world, the countries standing on a strong economic foundation shook. And the storm was so fierce that it was very difficult to stand in front of him, such a huge storm got swept. But the economic pundits of the entire world say that between such a terrible economic downturn, between one and all such fierce economic turbans, one country is standing equal and standing, the name of that country is Hindustan.\nMy brothers and sisters only tell us that in the last 15 months, the way the government has adopted, the policies which have been implemented, today the result is seen that despite the huge storm, Hindustan hinges on the economic realm. But brothers and sisters are just standing, accepting satisfaction from them, this is not acceptable to us. It is a good thing to stay in the storm in such a big storm, but where we have stayed, there is no stop there. We have to move forward. The path to move forward is to co-operate with hundreds of millions of crores, and the way to move forward is to go all the way with the State Governments and the Central Government on their shoulders. The way to move forward is a democratic path and if we want to develop, we will have to give priority to the infrastructure. There will be arrangements for railways, roads, railways, general civil facilities, when we will not build, the fruits of development will not reach the bottom ... and this is the motive of the government that 2022 when 75% of India's independence Years will be celebrated, how can it be 75 years of independence, can we not dream of celebrating 75 years of independence, when the Anjali will give freedom to the freedom freedoms, remember the virtue of the great men martyred for freedom? , Then at least make a work so full, there are no poor in this country which is not your home. Every poor person also gets his home, work is huge, even more people will have to build houses than some of the world's population, but the brothers and sisters are also taking hard work in our hands and are moving forward towards fulfilling it.\nAs a Minister of Urban Development, our Vengaiah Naidu, he has set up such a scheme in front of the country, due to which the houses are available for the urban poor, become new houses, become poor for the poor, become cheap and the house is also there. , Whose tap has water, electricity, near school, a family can live happily with such a house. Our Chaudhary Virendra Singh ji is busy, with a rural development ministry, the poor who are in the village, get their homes to live for the poor and continue their plans. On the one hand, urban development on one hand, rural development, poor city or poor village, we have got a lot of work for everyone to get home to live.\nBrothers sisters are being deprived of the Metro Rail today. Now Haryana will also proudly say in the world that we have a metro railway. If Haryana is one of the biggest strengths to attract tourists to Delhi, then it is in Haryana. Weekend is the strength to attract the tourists, if it is in Haryana and if Metro is available, then in a large number of people from Delhi will go to Haryana to celebrate the weekend and Haryana youth will get the arrangement of roti. This metro is not just the business of commuting, it is not so, now the metro just had to go first, had to go by car, traffic was jammed, now it is quickly reached, not only is it the whole economy drive, the whole economic life gets a speed and hence the name of this rally is also named as speed-progress rally. There is also speed, progress and progress on fast, efforts are being made to fulfill those dreams. At a cost of about two and a half million rupees, this project has been completed here.\nBut today I want to give another helpless to my Haryana brothers and sisters, this metro will not return from here, we will go to Ballabhgarh. In the coming days, a work will start for Ballabhgarh. The cost of 600-700 crores will be incurred but the work of linking one important part of Haryana will be done.\nFaridabad is not new to me. I used to come here on a scooter here I have seen Faridabad flourishing. Faridabad is the city with the largest industrial estate at number 9 in Asia. Now Faridabad has become a miniature Hindustan. No state of India will be like this, whose people do not live in Faridabad, has become a kind of small India. This development of Faridabad should also be the same. From the very beginning of this metro train, the path of a new development opens up and I want to congratulate Mr. Venkaiah ji for one thing, his department looks at this work, giving a message to the entire world that this Metro The line of which is environment friendly. At the stations there are solar panels and about two MW of electricity is generated from the sun power and in the whole system the same electricity is used. A metro track is full of solar panels, it is also a cause of attraction for the world. How to become Green Railway Station in the coming days, a successful campaign is being run on behalf of the Metro in that direction, and today when the whole world is worried about Global Warming, is concerned due to the Climate Change, Our smallest unit, Metro is also contributing to the Green Movement to help the world and therefore I extend my heart to Venkaiah ji and to his whole team with heart and his saint I do.\nBrothers sisters, the land of Haryana is like this, yesterday we celebrated the birth anniversary of Shri Krishna and when we remember Shri Krishna, only the city of Dwarka can not be missed, Kurukshetra also immediately remembers. In a way, the whole Haryana grew up in the shadow of these great men. Cultural heritage is rich. It is here that the village is the birthplace of Siddhi Surdas ji. It is our specialty that is our strength and by taking blessings of great men from them, we are trying to take Haryana to new heights.\nI congratulate the Haryana government. I congratulate Mr. Manohar Lal Ji in particular and his whole team. Haryana, who was recognized for killing daughters of fetus, has been recognized today to save daughter daughter. This small decision is not a change, it is not a small movement, I do not know how difficult it is, but the state government of Haryana has taken an important step here, and the campaign to save the daughter and the whole of India The campaign to save the daughter's daughter also came from the land of Haryana.\nI know, Manohar Lal Ji is our big diligent leader, no one can compete with him in hard work, I've worked with him for years and he will be successful in taking Haryana towards new heights, hopes of Haryana- I hope they will fulfill the aspirations, they believe me.\nIn the coming days, in our country, we want to change the look of our cities, change the face, change the lungs to new strengths. Today the lungs of our cities have also become sick, greenery is not left, it has increased due to its own intention. Faridabad is also the name of the smart city under the leadership of Venkaiah ji, a smart city campaign. But some people would have thought that now the government has called smart city then it became a smart city. Brothers and sisters should know you and I want this house-house discussion to be discussed, every time it should be discussed that Faridabad has just entered it. It has won the first match within the competition, winning the first match. He has got an entry, but to move forward, all the citizens here have to decide that we have to make Faridabad smart city. These changes have to be made in the law, then it has to be done. We have to bring this discipline, then we have to bring it. We have to keep cleanliness then keep it. Until we do not do this, you will not win this Smart City contest. Some of its norms are some parameters, I want to create an atmosphere of awareness that, in the entire country, these 100 cities have come together in the whole of India, winning the first match. Because the competition has been decided, they have won in the first round, but as soon as the future goes, the competition is going to be tough. But I believe that both the cities of Haryana will win these championships and Haryana will get the fame to make a smart city in the country.\nI invite you. I challenge you also accept this challenge. Embrace those parameters which have been set by the government. One should take a resolution to make a one-in-one citizen smart city in Faridabad, then go ahead and create a smart city and hence I am inviting you.\nBrothers sisters These lands of Haryana are the land of heroes. This is the land of earth's inhabitants of Haryana. This land of Haryana is the land of the dead for the country. Before becoming the Prime Minister, my first program when my party declared me as a prime ministerial candidate, I came to Rewari on 13th September. And the first was my program. I had come in a huge gathering of ex-soldiers and at that time I had talked of forest rank one pension, remember that there was a word of OROP. Brothers sisters, this case was hanging for 42 years, for 42 years, so many governments have come, but the solution to this problem was not handled by anyone. lip sympathy was all expressed by all governments far away. Everyone used to say that the youth die for the country, the government has the obligation, everybody used to say. But everyone had difficulty in doing so and today I feel as well. This is not a simple job. The soldiers of my country have prepared your life for the country, your honor can not be greater than this in our lifetime. But this case is very difficult. It can not know where its impact. What can happen in the coming days, but the soldiers of my country, we had promised and we are making promises. You know, what was the OROP for the previous government? The program of 500 crores was 500 crores, we also felt that it is 500 then it will be 700, 800 will be done, what is it? But when we sat to count, new things started coming every day, new things started coming everyday. We have seen the Koshyari Committee, which our young men often mention, what he said, he has said so less than 300 million. He said that less than Rs 300 crore rupees will also be made, then it will happen. The whole government was confused, the seated officers were confused, the words of the soldiers of the army, everybody was confused, for the last several days, I constantly opened one wire, fixing things and counting the brothers and sisters. OROP is not a game in 500 million. This OROP is not a work to be completed in 300 crores, when calculation is made, then accounting is about 8 to 10 thousand crores rupees 8 to 10 thousand crores.\nMy government was formed on May 26, 2014, and my responsibility is on May 26, 2014. These are the people who are preaching, they have been committing to mislead the people of the country and especially our soldiers. 26 मई को इस सरकार का जन्म हुआ उसी दिन से हमनें काम चालू किया और कल हमनें घोषणा की तो भी सरकार बनने के तुरंत बाद एक जुलाई गिनने के लिये उचित रहती है, तो हमनें एक जुलाई से लागू करने का निर्णय कर दिया भाइयो बहनों।\nमैं जानता हूं देश के फौज में 80-90% लोग कौन होते हैं हमारी फौज में 80-90% वो जवान होते हैं, जो छोटे-छोटे पद पर होते हैं, कंधे पर बंदूक उठाकर के जो दुश्मनों से मुकाबला करते हैं। सबसे पहले जान की बाजी वो लगा देते हैं, लेकिन सेना की आयु कम हो इसलिये उनको 15 साल के बाद नौकरी छोड़नी पड़ती है, 17 साल के बाद छोड़नी पड़ती है, 20 साल के बाद छोड़नी पड़ती है, इसके लिए अलग-अलग शब्द प्रयोग सेना वाले करते होंगे। कुछ लोगों को लगता है कि जो 15 साल 17 साल नौकरी छोड़कर गए उनको OROP नहीं मिलेगा। मेरे जवान भाइयो बहनों चाहे वो हवल्दार हो, सिपाही हो नायक हो अरे आप ही तो देश की रक्षा करते हो अगर ये OROP सबसे पहले मिलेगा, तो आप को मिलेगा। ये VRS के नाम से आपको भ्रमित करने का जो प्रयास कर रहे हैं वो गलत कर रहे हैं ये सरकार जिन लोगों ने युद्ध में सेना में काम करते करते अपना शरीर गंवाया है, कोई अंग गंवाया है ऐसे भी सेना के जवान जिनको मजबूरन सेना छोड़नी पड़ती है। शरीर की देश के लिये शरीर का एक-एक अंग बली चढ़ा दिया है उसको सेना छोड़नी पड़ती है। क्या OROP से वंचित हो जाएंगे? सेना को प्यार करने वाला प्रधानमंत्री ऐसा कभी सोच भी नहीं सकता है। मेरे भाइयो बहनों ऐसे सबको OROP मिलेगा और इसलिये 80-90% ये जो 8 हजार 10 हजार करोड़ का खर्च है ना उसका सबसे ज्यादा धन ये 15-17 साल की उम्र में जो सेना छोड़ कर घर आते हैं उन जवानों में जाने वाला है। और इसलिये ये भ्रम फैलाने की कोशिश करने की आवश्यकता नहीं है। ये सरकार बहुत ही स्पष्ट है। कि देश के लिये जीने मरने वाले जवानों को लिये OROP लागू करने का हमनें वादा किया है और कल हमनें घोषणा कर दी है।\nकुछ लोग कहते हैं Commission बनाया, ये कोई Pay-Commission नहीं बनाया। ये सिर्फ ये जो हमनें निर्णय किये हैं, क्योंकि पहले 500 करोड़ वालों की भी समझ में कुछ कुछ न गड़बड़ रही बाद में Koshyari Committee ने जो रिपोर्ट किया, उसमें भी गड़बड़ रही, हमें लगा कि 10 हजार करोड़ रुपया देने के बाद भी हो सकता है कहीं कोई कमी रह गई हो, कहीं कोई समझदारी में अंतर रहा हो, कोई हिस्सा सेना का छूट गया हो तो ऐसे समय एक व्यवस्था होनी चाहिए ताकि सेना के जवान उनके साथ मिलकरके, अगर कोई कमी रह गई हो, कोई छोटा-मोटा बदलाव जरूरी हो तो उसके साथ कर सके OROP के संबंध में इसलिए ये कमेटी बनाई गई है, ये कोई Pay-Commission नहीं है और इसलिए इसमें भी जो भ्रम फैलाए जा रहे हैं वो भ्रमों का भी निराकरण होना चाहिए।\nआज देश के सेना में 10 में से 1 जवान हरियाणा का होता है, 10 जवान हैं तो उसमें से एक हरियाणा का होगा ही होगा और इसलिए ये जब 8-10 हजार करोड़ का पैकेज आएगा तो बहुत बड़ी मात्रा में धन हरियाणा के निवृत्त जवानों के पास आने वाला है, मतलब कि हरियाणा के अंदर हजारों-करोड़ रुपए आने वाले हैं। जब हरियाणा में हजारों-करोड़ रुपए आते हैं तो हरियाणा की economy अचानक drive करने लग जाती है। हरियाणा की आर्थिक गतिविधि को एक बहुत बड़ी ताकत, सेना के निवृत्त जवानों को पैसे मिलने के कारण मिलने वाली है। बहुत बड़ा निर्णय इस सरकार ने किया है, देशभक्ति से प्रेरित होकर के किया है। देश की आर्थिक व्यवस्था में बहुत सारे काम है, कुछ कामों में कटौती करके भी करना पड़ेगा तो करने का फैसला कर करके किया है और इसलिए मैं, मेरे सेना के जावनों को कहता हूं कि ये सरकार आपकी है, ये सरकार आपका हौंसला बुलंद देखना चाहती है, ये सरकार आपके सुखों की चिंता करने वाली सरकार है और आने वाले दिनों में भी जहां जो जरूरत पड़ेगी, ये सरकार आपके साथ खड़ो होगी, ये मैं देश के जवानों को विश्वास दिलाना चाहता हूं।\nभाईयों-बहनों जो लोग बयानबाजी करके, राजनीतिक उल्लू सीधा करने की कोशिश कर रहे हैं, देशवासियों जिन्होंने 40-42 साल तक जो काम नहीं किया, उनको एक भी सवाल पूछने का अधिकार है क्या? जरा पूरी ताकत से जवाब दो मुझे, जिन्होंने खुद नहीं किया उनको सवाल पूछने का हक है क्या? देश को गुमराह करने का हक है क्या? जवानों के नाम पर बोलने का हक है क्या? अरे आप लोगों का पाप था कि आप लोगों ने 40-42 साल तक काम नहीं किया, आज हमारा हिसाब मांग रहे हो। भाईयों-बहनों एक fashion चल पड़ी है, एक fashion चल पड़ी है कि जब सरकार कोई भी अच्छे निर्णय करे, देश को नई ऊंचाइयों पर ले जाने के लिए हिम्मत के साथ आगे बढ़े तो जो लोग, जिनकों देश की जनता ने reject कर दिया है वो इस देश को आगे बढ़ना नहीं देना चाहते हैं, इससे बड़ा लोकतंत्र का अपमान नहीं हो सकता है और इसलिए मेरे भाइयों-बहनों, मैं देशवासियों को हरियाणा की वो धरती से बोल रहा हूं, जहां कृष्ण ने गीता का संदेश दिया था और युद्ध का विजय प्राप्त करने का संकेत दिया था, ये वो भूमि है जहां हर परिवार से कोई न कोई जवान सीमा पर देश की सेवा कर रहा है, ऐसी धरती से मैं कह रहा हूं कि हमारे लिए, हमारे सेना के जवान किसी के कम प्यारे नहीं हैं और इसलिए ये One-upmanship जो चल रही है, इसके खेल देश का भला नहीं करेंगे।\nभाईयों-बहनों हम विकास के मार्ग पर चलना चाहते हैं, सवा सौ करोड़ देशवासियों को लेकर चलना चाहते हैं और उसको लेकर के हम आगे बढ़ रहे हैं और आज मेट्रो का एक नजराना हरियाणा के जीवन को नई ताकत देगा। आधुनिक हरियाणा बनाने में ये सौगात काम आएगी। इसी एक विश्वास के साथ मैं फिर एक बार यहां के मुख्यमंत्री को, सरकार की पूरी टीम को हरियाणा को लगातार आगे बढ़ाने के लिए, नई ऊंचाईयों पर ले जाने के प्रयासों के लिए अभिनंदन करता हूं, बधाई देता हूं और श्रीमान वेंकैया जी नायडू के नेतृत्व में हमारा शहरी विकास तेज गति से हो, हरियाणा में बहुत बड़ी मात्रा में शहरी विकास हो रहा है, वो भी नई ऊंचाइयों को प्राप्त करे यही शुभकामना के साथ आप सबका बहुत-बहुत धन्यवाद।\nमेरे साथ दोनों मुठी बंद करके बोलिए\n“जय जवान, जय किसान”\n“जय जवान, जय किसान”\n“जय जवान, जय किसान”\n\"भारत माता की जय\"\n\"भारत माता की जय\"\nThanks a lot."