"Share\n\n'Minimum Government, Maximum Governance' and 'Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas' form the basis of New India: PM Modi\nOur government is keen to fulfill the aspirations of the people: PM Modi\nA combination of technology and human sensitivities is sure to improve 'ease of living': PM Modi\nAll the senior nobility, ladies and gentlemen present here.\nFirst of all, I congratulate every reader of Dainik Jagran, the newspaper publication and the news of connecting the newspaper to the house-to-house, especially the Hawker brothers, on behalf of your editorial team, on the diamond culture, Best wishes.\nFor the past 75 years, you have consistently been associated with information and concerns of millions of people in the country. Dainik Jagran has played an important role in the reconstruction of the country. You have been playing a vital role in making the country aware. The work that you started in the background of the Quit India Movement, is today cooperating with the new India's new hope, new resolutions and new rites. I am one of those who read Dainik Jagran. Perhaps the beginning is from the same. On the basis of my experience, I can say that in the last decade, Dainik Jagran has given the power to change the country and society.\nIn the last four years, your group and all the country's media institutions have done their best to discharge their responsibility as a strong pillar of nation building. Whether it is a daughter save-daughter training campaign, whether it is a clean India campaign. If this is the Jana-Adalan. So the media has also had a positive role in it. Dainik Jagran has always been ahead to contribute effectively in this. Recently, through video conferencing, I had the opportunity to communicate with all of you. Then I was told how all of you are working with dedication to cleanliness.\nThis role of the media in associates, society is going to be even more important in the coming time. Today the digital revolution has given the media more detail to the newspapers and I believe the new media will give more power to the foundation of new India.\nWhenever we talk to colleagues, new India. So, with the minimum government maximum governance and everyone's development, in its origin, we talk about the same mantra. We talk of an arrangement that is also planned for the public participation and it is implemented only by the public. We have made this thought beyond the past four years. The public has been following the various schemes of the central government as its responsibility. This spirit of government, concern and cooperation has strengthened in the country.\nThe country's youth is beginning to consider themselves as a stakeholder in development. Government schemes have started to be seen with the sense of belonging. He started feeling that his voice was being heard and that is why the belief in the government and the system is at an unprecedented level today. This belief then wakes up when the government appears to achieve the goal. Working with transparency seems to be working.\nIn associates, Jagaran Forum, you will discuss many topics. Many questions will be raised, many answers will be searched. I am also raising a question on your forum. The question is mine but the feelings of the whole country are associated with it. You may also think often, wondering why our country is backward. After so many decades of independence .. this person will also be in your mind why we have left behind. We have huge fertile land, our young people are very talented and hardworking, we have never lacked natural resources. Despite the fact that despite all this, our country could not move forward. What is the reason that even small countries whose numbers are very low, who have natural resources also are almost non-existent? Such countries have gone beyond us in a very short time.\nIt is the capability of our countrymen that our moonlight reached the moon. We completed the greatness like the Mars Mission at very low cost. But what is the reason that the roads of this country have not reached the roads of millions of people.\nThe world is obscuring the comrades, the innovation of the Indians. But what has been the reason that millions of Indians could not get electricity, why did the people of our country still crave for infrastructure for more than six decades? Large people came to power, people of great gold came to power and went away. But for decades people who were struggling with small problems, their problems could not be solved.\nThere was no lack of companions, floors, lack of funds, lack of money, there was lack of passion, there was no lack of solution, there was lack of sense, lack of strength, lack of work culture. Very few people make fun by spoiling the goal of Kabirdas ji. Now, do it today, but if you think that if these values ​​had come in our work culture decades ago, then what will be the picture of the country today.\nCompanions, recently, I was getting viral enough to transfer power through under water cables to Elephanta. I also looked up, hopefully you have also seen. Imagine how people settled in a little distance from Mumbai, when they would spend night and day in the dark, see the glare of Mumbai, imagine giving 70 years of passing in that darkness. Just a few days ago, a person thanked me by writing a letter, she wrote the letter because Meghalaya has been connected to the train for the first time. Can you imagine that before coming to power, Meghalaya, Mizoram and Tripura were not in the rail map of India. Imagine how the people of these states have influenced the lives of the people of these states.\nPeers, the direction in which direction the country was going on, and in which direction and with which speed it is going ahead with speed. This can be a subject of study and churn for the companions of my media. When will we do not know Think, why 67 years of independence, only 38 percent of rural households have toilets and how .... The answer to the question begins here, how, in only four years, 95 percent of households have been provided toilets in rural households. . Think ... why only 55 percent of the settlements reached the village till Tola and the village till 67 years of independence and how ... in only four years ... increased road connectivity to more than 90 percent of settlements, villages, tolls Has been transported. After all, why 67 years after Independence, only 55 percent of the households had gas connection and how now, in just four years, the scope of gas connections has been increased to 90 percent of the households. Think ... why only 70 percent of rural households had access to electricity after 67 years of Independence. And now how ... In the past four years, electricity has reached 95 percent of rural households. Colleagues can get hours to ask such questions, increasing the incompetence in the system, towards completeness, the progress made by our country in the last four or four and four years is unprecedented.\nGuys, think ... why only fifty percent of the households of the country had bank accounts for 67 years of independence. How did it happen that almost every family of the country has joined the banking service today. Think ... why it was so that barely four crore citizens were paying income tax returns for 67 years of independence. Country of fifty hundred crore ... Four million, in just four years, three crore new citizens have joined the income tax network. Think ... why it was so that till GST was not implemented in our country, there were 66 lakh sub-registrations from the Indirect Tax System in our country. And now after registering GST 54 lakh new people have registered.\nCompanions, after all, the previous governments could not do such a thing and now what is happening is how it is happening. People are the same, the bureaucracy is the same, the institutions also are the same, the way to go to file is the same, the table chair pen is all that, but why this change came? This is proof that the country can change. And I want to tell you that whatever changes have taken place, whatever change is coming, the speed has come, it does not come until the decisions are made on the ground level, they are not implemented.\nImagine if ... if the nation's citizens had been provided basic needs only decades ago, then where would our country have reached from? It is a privilege to do all this for nation's citizens. But it is equally unfortunate that the country has got crazy for this for so many years.\nCompanions, when our country's poor, exploited and disadvantaged, all basic amenities will be available. They will be free from the concerns of things like toilets, electricity, bank accounts, gas connections, education and allergies, then the poor of my country themselves Will defeat your poverty. This is my faith. They will come out of poverty and the country will come out of poverty. In the last four years, you are seeing this change as well. Statistics are giving evidence of this, but all this has not happened before. And earlier, because poverty would be reduced, how can poverty slogan be given? Earlier it was not because, when fundamental facilities would be available to everyone, how would the vote bank's policy be? How to be appealing.\nBrothers and Sisters, Today, when we are closer to providing nearly all basic amenities to 100% of the people of India, then India is ready to leap into another era. We look forward to the aspirations of millions of Indians to fulfill their ambitions. Today, we are moving towards the journey of fulfillment with the determination of New India. The way in which India is using technology in this journey. It is also becoming a model for the world's developing and backward nations.\nWith the connectivity in India, from connectivity to communication to competition, from competition to every aspect of life, effort is being made to connect with technology. Ease of drinking is being ensured by the power of technology and human sensibilities. Our systems are fast becoming ready for the needs of the new world. Modern systems are being prepared on solar power, biofuels.\nLooking at the needs of the 21st century in the country today, the next generation infrastructure is getting ready. Highway Ho, Railway Ho, Airway Ho, Waterway is being done all over. Recently, you saw how the new waterway facility has been employed between Varanasi and Kolkata. Similarly train without engine driver ... Train 18 and its trial has been in the headline in your newspapers. It is now the case of air travel that more people are now flying in the airplane than passengers running AC coaches. This is happening because the government is connecting small towns with Tier-2 cites, Tier-3 cites to the flying plan. Developing new airports and air routes. It is very important to understand how change is happening in the system. For the LPG calendar refeil it took many days and now it has started getting in just a couple of days. It took months to get an Income Tax Refund first. This has also started happening in a few weeks now. The passport building was also the first month's work now the same work is done in a couple of weeks. Connection of electricity, water is now easier to meet. Most of the government services are online now, are on mobile phones. The feeling behind this is that the common man does not have to deal with the arrangements, do not struggle, do not take the queue, reduce the chances of corruption and get rid of everyday problems.\nThe colleagues, the government is not only committed to reaching the door to the door, but also the government is making serious efforts for the benefits of the schemes to reach the needy. There should be homes available under the Prime Minister's housing scheme, there should be connections of the gas found under the Ujjwala scheme, there should be electricity connection under the good fortune scheme and toilet facilities. To the beneficiaries of such schemes, the government is going to itself, identifying them, encouraging them to take these facilities. PMJAY i.e. the Ayushman Bharat Scheme, a prime example of protecting the health of more than 50 crore poor people in the country, is a great example of welfare and fairplay.\nDigital technology automation and human sensitivity can be used for the benefit of the public. This Ayushmann is seen in India. The beneficiaries of this scheme were identified first. His information was then linked to the data through technology and then the Golden Cards are being issued. Golden card and Ayushman Mitra, that is, the benefits of health of the poor are getting absolutely free from the poorest of the people with the help of technology and human sensitivity.\nCompanions, this scheme has not been done for 100 days, it has only been less than three months and so far the country's four and a half lakh have benefitted from the poor, or are currently treating in the hospital. The treatment of pregnant women from serious diseases such as cancer to cancer has been possible due to the cause of Ayushmann Bharat.\nThink of many people far away from this dazzle ... who are these people, they are workers, they are workers, farmers, farmers and factories are people who are wage workers, junk drivers, rickshaws There are people running There are people who work in cloths. There are people who wear clothes and live life. The people of the village and the cities who used to avoid the treatment of serious illness only because there was always a big question in front of them ... spend on your medicine or spend two-time roti for the family. अपनी दवा पर खर्च करें या बच्‍चों की पढ़ाई पर खर्च करें। गरीबों को इस सवाल का जवाब आयुष्‍मान भारत योजना के तौर पर मिल चुका है।\nसाथियों, गरीब के सशक्तिकरण का माध्‍यम बनाने का ये काम सिर्फ यहीं तक सीमित नहीं रहने वाला है। इसको आने वाले समय में विस्‍तार दिया जाना है। हमारा प्रयास है कि बिचौलियों को तकनीक के माध्‍यम से हटाया जाए। उत्‍पादक और उपभोक्‍ता को जितना संभव हो उतना पास लाया जाए। भ्रष्‍टाचार चाहे किसी भी स्‍तर पर हो हमारी नीति स्‍पष्‍ट भी है और सख्‍त भी है। इस सेक्‍टर में किए जा रहे हमारे इन प्रयासों को दुनिया भी देख रही है। और इसलिए भारत को संभावनाओं का देश बताया जा रहा है।\nसाथियों, जैसा कि आप सभी जानते हैं पिछले दिनों अर्जेंटीना में जी-20 का सम्‍मेलन हुआ उस सम्‍मेलन में आए नेताओं से मेरी बातचीत हुई। हमनें अपनी बाते भी दुनिया की ताकतवर अर्थव्‍यस्‍थाओं के बीच रखी। जो आर्थिक अपराध करने वाले हैं, भगोड़े हैं उनको दुनिया में कहीं भी सुरक्षित पनाहगाह न मिले इसके लिए भारत ने कुछ सुझाव अंतरर्राज्‍य समुदाय के बीच रखे। मुझे ये विश्‍वास है कि हमारी ये मुहिम आज नहीं तो कल कभी न कभी रंग लाएगी।\nसाथियों, इस विश्‍वास के पीछे एक बड़ा कारण ये है कि आज भारत की बात को दुनिया सुन रही है, समझने का प्रयास कर रही है, हमारे दुनिया के तमाम देशों से रिश्‍तें बहुत मधुर हुए हैं। उसके परिणाम आप सभी और पूरा देश देख भी रहा है, अनुभव भी कर रहा है। अभी तीन-चार दिन पहले ही इसका एक और उदाहरण आपने देखा है, ये सब संभव हो रहा है हमारे आत्‍मविश्‍वास के कारण, हमारे देश के आत्‍मविश्‍वास के कारण।\nसाथियों, आज बड़े लक्ष्‍यों, कड़े और बड़े फैसलों का अगर साहस सरकार कर पाती है तो उसके पीछे एक मजबूत सरकार है। पूर्ण बहुमत से चुनी हुई सरकार है। न्‍यू इंडिया के लिए सरकार का फोकस- सामर्थ्‍य, संसाधन, संस्‍कार, परंपरा, संस्‍कृति और सुरक्षा पर है। विकास की पंच धारा, जो विकास की गंगा को आगे बढ़ाएगी। ये विकास की पंच धारा- बच्‍चों की पढ़ाई, युवा को कमाई, बुजुर्गों को दवाई, किसानों को सिंचाई, जन-जन की सुनवाई। ये पांच धाराएं इसी को केंद्र में रखते हुए सरकार विकास की गंगा को आगे बढ़ा रही है।\nनए भारत के नए सपनों को साकार करने में दैनिक जागरण की, पूरे मीडिया जगत की भी एक महत्‍वपूर्ण भूमिका रहने वाली है। सिस्‍टम से सवाल करना ये आपकी जिम्‍मेवारी है और आपका अधिकार भी है। मीडिया के सुझावों और आपकी आलोचनाओं का तो मैं हमेशा स्‍वागत करता रहा हूं। अपनी स्‍वतंत्रता को बनाए रखते हुए, अपनी निष्‍पक्षता को बनाए रखते हुए दैनिक जागरण समूह राष्‍ट्र निर्माण के प्रहरी के तौर पर निरंतर कार्य करता रहेगा। इसी उम्‍मीद इसी विश्‍वास के साथ मैं अपनी बात समाप्‍त करता हूं। आप सभी को 75 वर्ष पूरे करने के लिए फिर से बधाई और उज्‍ज्‍वल भविष्‍य के लिए अनेक-अनेक शुभकामनाएं देते हुए मेरी वाणी को विराम देता हूं। Thanks a lot."