"Gautama Buddha is one of the most influential teachers in world history: PM\nGautama Buddha's teachings have inspired millions of people over centuries, says PM\nGautama Buddha gave eight-fold path and the Panchsheel while Shri Krishna gave valuable lessons of life: PM\nBODH Gaya is the land of enlightenment: Narendra Modi\nGreat privilege to have participated in the inaugural function of the International Hindu Buddhist Initiative: PM\nHindu philosophy was one of the greatest beneficiaries of advent and teachings of Buddha: PM\nBuddha never bowed down to anything, neither Veda, nor caste, nor priest, nor custom: PM Modi\nBuddha was the first human being to give a complete system of morality: PM\nBuddha was a great preacher of equality, says PM Modi\nEnlightenment which Buddha attained in Bodh Gaya was the light of enlightenment in Hinduism: PM\nShri Ramnath Kovind, Governor of Bihar,\nVenerable KHAMBA LAMA CH. DEMBEREL from Mongolia,\nVenerable MING KUANG SHI from Taiwan,\nVenerable THICH THIEN TAM from Vietnam,\nVenerable TELO TULKU RINPOCHE from Russia,\nVenerable Banagala Upatissa from Sri Lanka,\nVenerable LAMA LOBZANG,\nMy ministerial colleague Mr. Kiren Rijiju,\nMinister Lyonpo Namgay Dorji of Bhutan,\nMinister Bayarsaikhan of Mongolia\nVenerable members of the Maha Sanga, visiting ministers and diplomats from foreign countries,\nI am very happy to be in the midst of all I feel very blessed to be here at Bodh Gaya. After Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru and Atal Bihari Vajpayee, I have the opportunity to visit this sacred place.\nI am meeting you all on a very special day. Today, we in India are observing teachers' day, to commemorate the birth anniversary of our 2nd President, a great scholar and teacher, Dr. Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan.\nIn this symposium we have been talking about one of the most impactful teachers in world history, Gautama Buddha. His teachings have reached millions\nToday, we are also celebrating Janmashtami, the day Lord Krishna was born The world has so much to learn from Lord Krishna When we talk about Lord Krishna we say, Shri Krishna Vande Jagatguru - Shri Krishna, the teacher of all teachers; The Guru of all Gurus\nBoth, Gautama Buddha and Lord Krishna have taught The themes of this conference, in a way are inspired by the values ​​and ideals given by these two greats.\nShri Krishna gave his message before the beginning of the Great War in the Mahabharata and Lord Buddha. The message by both of them was about establishing Dharma.\nBoth of them gave great prominence to principles and processes Gautama Buddha gave the eight-fold path and the Panchsheel. While Mr. Krishna gave us valuable lessons in the form of Karma Yoga These two divine souls had the power to bring people together, rising above differences. Their teachings are most practical, eternal and are more relevant in this day and age than ever before.\nThe place where we are We are meeting in Bodh Gaya, a land that has a unique place in the history of humankind.\nThis is the land of enlightenment Years ago, what has been found in Siddhartha but what has been given to God Buddha, the epitome of knowledge, peace and compassion.\nThis is the ideal place for a dialogue and meeting here on the auspicious day of Janmashtami and the special day of Teachers' Day makes this unique.\nIt was my great privilege to have participated in the inaugural function of the First International Hindu Buddhist Initiative on \"Conflict Avoidance and Environmental Consciousness\" hosted by Vivekananda International Foundation and Tokyo Foundation with the support of the International Buddhist Confederation at Delhi Day before yesterday.\nThe Conference was conceptualized on the change from the paradigm to conflict resolution to avoidance and environmental regulation to environmental consciousness.\nI shared some of my thoughts on the two critical themes which are threatening humanity as no other challenge before. I recalled how the context of both issues and for changing the global paradigm of thinking the world is looking at the Buddha today as conflict resolution mechanisms and environmental regulations - both of them were instrumental in nation states on dependent - increasingly measuring to challenges\nSpiritual and religious leaders and also intellectuals, largely from Buddhist societies participated in the two day conference and deliberated on the two issues. At the end of the two day conference, and after a churning in which spiritual, religious and intellectual leaders participated, the Tokyo Foundation has announced that they have decided to hold a similar conference in January 2016. And other Buddhist nations also offered to hold Similar Conferences in their countries\nThis is a unique development which coincides with the rise of Asia as an economic and civilisational phenomenon. The themes of the conference, informed and shaped by the Hindu-Buddhist civilisational and cultural perspectives, to the point of view of conflict avoidance philosophy and environmental consciousness in Asia and beyond.\nThe two day conference seems to have arrived at a wide consensus on both issues. On the issue of conflicts - Most of which are being driven by religious intolerance - The participants in the conference seem to have agreed that while there is no problem about the freedom to practice a religion, it is when the radical elements try to force their own Ideologies on others, that the potential for conflict arises. On the issue of the conference, the conference seems to have agreed that the philosophic underpinning of the religion, which stresses the protection of natural heritage, is critical for sustainable development. I may add that the United Nations too has arrived at the view that sustainable development is achievable only through aligning.\nThis, in my view, is a positive turn in the development I could add that the turn in thinking at the global level has created the eco-system for the Hindu-Buddhist societies to carry forward their consensual ideas to the global. I personally consider the Hindu Buddhist Conference on Conflict Avoidance and Environmental Consciousness as an important development in a world that seems to be short on durable ideas on both issues.\nHindu philosophy was one of the greatest beneficiaries of the advent and the teachings of the Lord Buddha.\nMany scholars have analyzed the impact of Buddha on Hinduism. In fact, Adi Sankara was also critiqued for the way he was influenced by the Buddha and Sankara was called as \"Prachanna Boudha\" - meaning Sankara was Buddha in disguised form. That was the influence of the Buddha on Adi Sankara, by regarded by Many as the tallest Hindu philosopher. At the mass level Buddha was so venerated that Jayadeva in his Geeta Govinda also praised him as Mahavishnu or God himself who is Ahimsa preaching. are today an inseparable amalgam\nThis is how Swami Vivekananda praised Buddha\nI quote:\nAt the time Buddha was born, India was a great spiritual leader, a prophet.\nBuddha never bowed down to anything, neither Veda, nor caste, nor priest, nor custom. He fearlessly reasoned Such a fearless search for truth and such love for every living thing\nBuddha was more brave and sincere any teacher.\nBuddha was the first human being to give a complete system of morality. He is a good person, he loves\nBuddha was the great preacher of equality Every man and woman has the right to attain spiritualism\nI would personally call India Buddhist India as it has imbibed all the values ​​and virtues of the teachings of Buddha by their religious scholars incorporating them in their literature.\nWhen this highest tribute is paid by one of the great Hindu philosophers will it be wrong to call today's Hinduism in Buddhist Hinduism?\nBuddha is the crown jewel of the Indian nation This quality of Hinduism in India was a product of many great spiritual masters chief among them. And this is what sustains the secular character of India\nThe Enlightenment which also has attained Buddha in Bodh Gaya also in the light of enlightenment in Hinduism.\nAs the first servant of this ancient nation, I was revered as a reformer of not only Hinduism but also the world, who has given all of us a new world view and vision which is critical for the survival of all and the whole world.\nI recognize how Buddhists all over the world are worshiped as a place of pilgrimage. We in India would like to develop Bodh Gaya so that it becomes the spiritual capital and civilisational bond between India and the Buddhist world. The government of India would like to provide all possible support of its Buddhist cousin nations for the satisfaction of their spiritual needs.\nI am happy to read the Declaration of Buddhist Religions and Spiritual Leaders. This declaration is the result of hardwork and wide dialogue, which is why it is a pioneer document. I also echo Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan, who is the highlight of the importance of tolerance, appreciation of diversity, and spirit of compassion and brotherhood. His message to this august gathering and his continuous support for furthering this initiative is\nOnce again, my congratulations and best wishes to you all. This conference has raised a hope and urge to go beyond clash and create a dialogue framework for civilizational harmony and world peace. I wish you well in your constant and determined efforts to ensure that our wisdom reaches the future generations and that too in a manner in which they can practically relate to. This is not necessary for us or them but for the progress of the whole human race and the beautiful surroundings which we have got from Mother Nature.\nThank you very much Thanks a lot"