"PM Narendra Modi's candid interaction with school students\nPM Narendra Modi shares his students as a student\nPM releases commemorative coins of Rs. 125 \u0026 Rs. 10 to mark birth anniversary Radhakrishnan\nA teacher is known by the achievements of his students: PM Narendra Modi\nA mother gives birth to a child, the teacher provides life: PM\nA teacher can never retire, says PM\nDr. Radhakrishnan was always a teacher, even after becoming the President: PM Modi\nDr. APJ Abdul Kalam always wanted to be remembered as a teacher throughout his life: PM\nI bow to all the teachers It is the teachers who make generations: PM\nAll my fellow students, friends and all the teachers of the council of ministers on stage,\nSeptember 5 is celebrated as the birthday of Dr. Radhakrishnan, the former President of India, as a birthday day. But yesterday Krishna's birthday also came and Radhakrishna's birthday came and this has given me a chance to meet the students today. Sometimes people think that why spend time with students on teacher day And my experience is that the student identifies the teacher. The candidate exercises his master's name with his own power. And hardly there will be someone in the world who does not accept that his mother and his teacher do not contribute in making his life. In every person's life, there is a mention of how much you read biography-autobiography - the mother gives birth and the guru gives life. Gives the sense of living a life. And we also have the teacher's influence on the minds of the people, if we study in the 8th standard and our teacher has told us to keep a pillow while sleeping at night, we would never have asked him where to bring it, read it. Where did he read, what science is in, which doctor says, but in our mind it is registered, whenever we go to sleep then the teacher remembers, she remembers pillow. We can not forget about life all the time.\nIn every person's life, our teacher said that his teacher has become a part of our life, but almost all of us will be such that the teacher has told us the difficult thing that we have Without forgetting all, will have forgotten. And therefore, what is the importance of the teacher in the life of the student and what is the importance of the student in the teacher's life. Until one mutual understanding develops, a gap remains.\nAt times I think that teachers who have a habit of writing to friends should write something on the life of memorable students of their lifetime. When I was a teacher then there was such a child in the fifth grade, used to do this, then it will come to know that how much teacher was involved in the life of the teacher. Only the results come and the students who bring good marks are visible and if the rest of the students are not visible then I believe that the teacher is incomplete. Do not forget that those living with him and do not forget that after the age of most students, the child spends the highest time with someone, then spends with his teacher, spend less with the family, and at such times the teacher's great responsibility Is formed.\nDoctor Radhakrishnan, who, despite reaching the highest position of his life, had kept his inner teacher immortal. He never gave up. Teacher is never tied to age, teacher can never retire, if he is a true teacher, then he is a true teacher. You must have seen that in the village, grandfather would be 80-90 years old, and at the age of 90, he would also teach the grandson's grandchildren. The grandson would say that now the syllabus has changed, even then Dada will not be called. Read this. This person who has been a teacher in his rugs, inspires him to do this work.\nWe are people, many of us, student friends are all who did not get the chance to live in the time of Dr Radhakrishnan ji. But just recently, we have seen Dr. Abdul Kalam ji with us. He was also the President of India and used to love children very much. And that is, literally, he had asked them somebody once, what would you like if you remember how people should remember you, then Dr. APG Abdul Kalam said that people should remember me as a teacher then remember them as a teacher. For me, now they were not just words, they went to Chennai on the second day of getting rid of the President. And going to Chennai, started teaching children in the class room. And in the end of life also discussing his thoughts with the students - he left his body. That is, in the inner self, devoted devotion towards the teacher, how good it will be, due to which they did not separate from the student in one moment, and did not separate from the path of Vidya and kept looking for new talents every moment.\nIn our country, we have to accept this fact and teacher days are celebrated in our country only in our country, it is not so, it is celebrated in many countries of the world. There are different inspirations but are celebrated. And the reason for this is that the system which is the system should continue to be primal. Respect for the teacher of the student, devotion to the teacher's education and the spirit of one's relationship between the student and the teacher, this is a pair, which not only teaches knowledge but also teaches the art of living and the habit of restoring dreams Also makes. And that's why we should have the effort of the people and it is not necessary that these big people are the best teachers, it does not happen.\nI had once told someone the experience. There was a woman working in Anganwadi, a worker working in Anganwadi was a woman. He himself must have read up to class five. Much will not be read. Fifth seventh grade and Anganwadi come, they have to sing, play and play such small children in Anganwadi. But in this woman there was so much affection for children in Anganwadi worker that despite her poor she started work. See how the teacher is a sari, the sari is old in the poor family, so long as he can pull, draw and think later when the seller will come and then buy some utensils in return. Someone will try to buy something. This Anganwadi worker who made a small handkerchief by doing that poor, what he did was fix his barrier by hand by doing small small pieces of his old saree. The market brought security pin from the pocket money from her pocket and her anganwadi used to come in 20-22 children when she used to come to school, put a handkerchief in her pins and explain to her children how to scrub, how to nose Is, how to use handkerchief. He learned regular And when the children used to go back, then they used to remove them and take away the house and wash it the other day. Please tell me how much a teacher has given to the life of those children, how big a ransom will be given. This is the involvement which happens when the teacher is devoted to the student. By going then, it instinctively becomes a trend and the kind of life we ​​want from that tendency. Life becomes. Like a potter takes care of it by taking a clay tree and keeping it in shape. Handles with one hand and keeps on giving shape.\nThe teacher also adjusts the life of each child. Today, on Teacher's Day, in the student's mind it is necessary for the teacher and also for the teacher. It's not like business and it's not like business. This is some plus 1 of it. If a doctor makes an operation by making someone's life, save it. By performing hard-to-hard operations, his story spreads across newspapers across the country. But if a teacher makes hundred doctors in such a lifetime, then that teacher does not pay attention. Today is the time to remember the penance that if we had got good doctors, we would have got good engineers, good scientist would have got, there would be some teacher behind him, who would have made him and who would have been engaged in making the country .\nAnd so for all of us there was another time for our teachers, when I was a small, teacher in the village was so much the center of respect. If there were any goodness in the family, then the children were the first to call the children, see Bhai, come here with your teacher, come and give it. Put these offerings here in the teacher. That is, this kind of a respectable arrangement of the entire village. We have to develop these systems again. Now every rupee money does not happen with money. It happens through rituals, it comes from one's ownself, through its glory. Through these types of programs, efforts are made to grow those things, in a broad form.\nTeacher's Day was celebrated even before, but what was it? If some school was in school then one day the teacher was very enthusiastic, then he took the initiative, then in the morning, he used to tell something about Dr. Radhakrishnan's life. Either they were saying that Bhai is going to be a teacher today, so did the students even think about how to become a teacher, that means changing clothes. If we used to come to the uniform of the school, then today we have to wear some teachers like clothes. Have children, then wear saris. Then go to the classroom and teach one-half thing and make you happy. It did not go beyond this. It is our endeavor to bring this inspiring festival to life in our systems. How to make the system a living? How to increase its glory and trying for it.\nIt is a pleasure for me that I get an opportunity to chat with the students. Because the child can not teach as much as the child can teach us. The child's observation that is correct is correct. That is, if there is a right mirror of events in a way, then how does the child look at that phenomenon, it is its right mirror and I got the chance to talk to the children of that country today. I am grateful to the department.\nThere are two more jobs here today. A coin of 125 rupees by a Dr. Radhakrishnan ji, a coin of Rs. 10, coined by the Finance Ministry of the Government of India has placed it in front of the country today. And another website of \"Art Festival\" has also been launched. For our college students in our country, there is a youth festival, but now the time has changed. Even our small children are so talent. They should get the opportunity and the country does not want to prepare the robot. How much we have not been educated, how much we know about engineering, technology, but we have to avoid becoming a robot. We have sensations within us and this art comes from sadhana. Art comes from interview. Art comes smoothly with art and life without art becomes a bit robot in a way. Through this art festival, the children of our school get opportunities, their talents get refined. But this is not just a program of theatrical dance, there is a fantasy inside that there are some themes. Let's assume that once we decide the theme that save the daughter, teach the daughter. So all the dramas that come in that art festival should come on the same topic, if the songs come, then they should come on the same topic, if the dance moves, then they should come on the same topic. So, there will be a social obligation environment along with art festivities throughout the country and therefore, it is kept on the website. I would like that people from all schools across the country will be able to add themselves and prepare the festival of art as a festival. I expect\nI once again bow down to Dr. Radhakrishnan, bow down to all the teachers of the country and expect from all the teachers that our work is to make generations, to increase generations and to increase the country. We all do that work together, thanks so much with this expectation."