"Most Venerable Sayadaw Dr. Asin Nyanissara, Founder Chancellor, Sitagu International Buddhist Academy, Myanmar;\nHer Excellency Mrs Chandrika Bandaranaike Kumaratunga, former President of Sri Lanka;\nMr. Minoru Kiuchi, State Minister for Foreign Affairs of Japan\nPujya Sri Sri Ravi Shankar ji;\nMy ministerial colleague Dr Mahesh Sharma and Kiren Rijiju ji;\nGeneral N.C. Vij, Director Vivekananda International Foundation;\nMr.Masahiro Akiyama President, The Tokyo Foundation, Japan;\nLama Lobzang;\nDistinguished religious and spiritual leaders, Venerables from the Maha Sangha, Dharma Gurus,\nI am happy to be here, at the inauguration of Samvad, the Global Hindu-Buddhist Initiative on Conflict Avoidance and Environment Consciousness.\nThis is truly an esteemed gathering of spiritual leaders, scholars and leaders from many countries of the world where Buddhism is a prevalent way of life.\nIt is a matter of great happiness that this conference is being held in India, including in Bodh Gaya. India is the ideal destination for tourists. We in India are proud of the fact that it was the land that Gautama Buddha gave the world of the tenets of Buddhism.\nThe life of Gautama Buddha illustrates the power of service, compassion and, most importantly, renunciation. He was born into privilege The hardships he faced were relatively fewer. Yet, with age, a different consciousness about human suffering, about sickness, about old age and about death\nHe was convinced Human conflicts repulsed him And then, he set out, on the path to create a peaceful and compassionate society. In those days, he had the courage and conviction to hold a mirror to the society, and sought to break free from practices and systems.\nGautam Buddha was a revolutionary. He nurtured a faith where a human being is at the core, nothing else. The innermost being of man manifests godliness In a way, he created a faith without God, and a faith where the divinity is not about looking anywhere, but about looking inside. In three words, Appa Deepo Bhavah (Appoint Deepo Bhav) or your own light, Gautam Buddha gave humanity the greatest management lesson. Nothing pained him more than mindless conflict that caused human suffering. Non-violence is integral to his worldview\nThe message and teachings of Gautama Buddha resonate loudly and clearly with the symposium- the themes of avoiding conflicts, moving toward environmental consciousness and a concept of free and frank dialogue.\nThe three themes can appear independently Infact, they are mutually dependent and supportive.\nThe conflict in the first theme is among humans, religions, communities and nation-states, also between non-state actors and states, and even the world. Intolerant non-state actors now control large territories where they are unleashing\nThe second conflict is between nature and man, between nature and development, and also between nature and science. These types of conflicts call for dialogue to bring about conflict avoidance - not just 'give and take' conflict resolutions\nEthical values ​​of personal restraint in consumption and environmental consciousness are deeply rooted in Asian philosophical traditions, especially in Hinduism and Buddhism.\nBuddhism, along with other faiths, such as Confucianism, Taoism and Shintoism, has undertaken greater responsibility to protect the environment. Hinduism and Buddhism with their well-defined treatises on Mother Earth can help help the changes in approach that need to be made.\nClimate change is a pressing global challenge It calls for a collective human action and a comprehensive response. In India, Faith and Nature had had a deep link since ancient times. Buddhism and environment are deeply co-related\nThe Buddhist tradition, in all of its historical and cultural manifestations, encourages greater identification with the natural world, from a Buddhist perspective. The impurities in the environment affect the mind, and the impurities of mind also pollute the environment. In order to purify the environment\nThe eco crisis, in fact, is a reflection of imbalance of mind Lord Buddha, therefore, accorded importance to the need for preserving natural resources, and created tools related to water conservation and forbid the monks from polluting water resources. The nature, forests, trees and the well-being of all beings play a great role in the teachings of Lord Buddha.\nI wrote a book 'Convenient Action' which was released by the President of India, Dr. APJ Abdul Kalam In my book, I have shared my experiences of dealing with climate change as the Chief Minister.\nPersonally, it is my reading of Vedic literature that educated me about the strong bond between humans and Mother Nature. We are all aware of Mahatma Gandhi's Doctrine of Trusteeship.\nIn this context, I want to say that we, the present generation, have the responsibility of the future for generations. The issue is not only about climate change; it is about climate justice Again I repeat is not the issue of climate change\nIn my view, the most adversely affected by climate change are the poor and downtrodden. When a natural disaster strikes, they are hit the hardest When there are floods, they are rendered homeless; during a quake, their homes are destroyed; during droughts, they are affected; and during extreme cold too, the homeless suffer the most\nWe can not change Which is why I believe the discourse must shift from climate change to climate\nThe third theme - promotion of dialogue - calls for a shift from ideology to a philosophic one. Without appropriate dialogue\nThe severe limitations in our conflict resolution mechanisms are becoming more and more obvious. We need significant, collective and strategic efforts to prevent bloodshed and violence. It is, thus, no wonder that Buddhism This is also a recognition of the historical Asian traditions and values, which can be used to change the paradigm to conflict avoidance, to move from the path of ideology to philosophy.\nThe essence of the concept - including the first two themes: conflict avoidance and environmental consciousness - is contained in the dialogue part of which \"them vs us\" from shift for philosophic approach to ideological approach. It is necessary to inform the world about the need to shift from ideology - whether religious or secular - to philosophy. When I spoke at the United Nations last year, I briefly mentioned that the world needs to change from ideological approach to philosophic approach. A day later when I addressed the Council for Foreign Relations, I expanded on this concept a little more. The essence of philosophy is that it is not a closed thought, while the ideology is a closed one. So philosophy is not only dialogue but it is perpetual search of truth through dialogue. The whole subject is a compilation of dialogues. Ideology only believes in unabated truth So ideologies that close the gates for dialogue have the propensity for violence while philosophical seeks to avoid it though dialogue.\nThus, the Hindu and Buddhist religions are in that sense more philosophies and not just belief systems.\nIt is my firm belief that the solution to all problems lies in dialogue. Previously, it was believed that force indicates power Now, power must come from the effect of ideas and the effective dialogue. We have seen the adverse effects of war The first half of the 20th century was witness to two horrors of the horrors.\nNow, nature of warfare is changing. What took a hundred thousand men or a prolonged battle can now happen through a button, in a span of minutes.\nAll of us here have a cardinal duty to ensure that our future generations lead a life of peace, dignity and mutual respect. We need to sow the seeds of a conflict-free world and, in this endeavor, faiths of Buddhism and Hinduism have a great contribution.\nWhen we talk about dialogue, what kind of dialogue should we be? It is the dialogue which produces no anger or retribution. One of the greatest examples of such dialogue was the one between Adi Sankara and Mandana Mishra.\nIt's worth recalling and describing Adi Sankara, a vedantic who did not give high marks for rituals, was a young man, while Mandana Mishra was a elderly scholar and high ritualist who also believed in animal sacrifices.\nAdi Sankara wanted to establish through dialogue and debate with the highest authority on ritualism and that rituals were not required for Mukti, while Mandana Mishra wanted to prove that Shankara was wrong in dismissing rituals.\nThis was how, in ancient India, debates on sensitive issues. Adi Sankara and Mandana Mishra held a debate and Sankara won But the more important point is not the debate itself. It is a fascinating story that will remain one of the highest forms of humanity.\nIt was agreed that if Mandana Mishra lost, he would end up with a domesticer (gruhasta) and accept sanyasa. If Adi Sankara lost, he would give up his sanyasa and marry and settle down as the domesticer or in gruhasta life. Mandana Mishra, a high scholar, offered to Adi Sankara, who was young and therefore Mishra considered unequal, to choose a referee of his choice. Adi Sankara chose Mandana Mishra's wife, as a scholar, as the referee! If Mandana Mishra lost, she will lose her husband! But see what she did! She asked both Sankar and Mishra to wear fresh garlands and then begin the debate, and said that whose whose garland is lost its freshness will be declared as the loser! Why? Because if one gets angry, and, as a result, the garland flowers will lose their freshness in that heat. Anger is a sign of defeat. On this logic, Mandana Mishra was declared as lost the debate! And he accepted sanyas and became a disciple of Sankara This demonstrates the vitality of dialogue and that too dialogue without anger or conflict.\nToday, in this august gathering, we are people of different nationalities, with different life styles, but what the binds us is the fact that our civilizations are in our shared philosophies, history and heritage. Buddhism and Buddhist heritage have been a uniting and binding factor.\nThey say that this century is going to be a Asian century. I am very clear that without embracing the path and ideals by showing Gautam Buddha, this century can not be a Asian century!\nI see Lord Buddha doing to our collective spiritual well-being what global trade did to our collective economic well-being and the digital internet did our collective intellectual well-being.\nI see Lord Buddha in the 21st Century across national borders, across religious systems, across political ideologies, playing the role of a bridge to promote peace and to enlighten us with tolerance and empathy\nYou are visiting a country that is extremely proud of its Buddhist heritage. My hometown of Vadnagar in Gujarat is one of the many sites where Buddhist relics were found and visited by the Chinese traveler and chronicler, Xuanzang.\nThe SAARC Region is Buddhist; Lumbini, Bodh Gaya, Sarnath, Kushinagar. These sites draw pilgrims from ASEAN nations, as also from China, Korea, Japan, Mongolia and Russia.\nMy Government is doing everything possible to give an impetus to this Buddhist heritage across India, and India is taking the lead in boosting the Buddhist heritage across Asia. This three-day meet is such a effort\nI hope the next three days are full of vibrant and rich discussions, and we are able to sit together and think about peace, conflict resolution and a clean and green world.\nI look forward to watching you in Bodh Gaya the day after.\nThank You"