"Share\n\nPeople of Bihar have decided to vote for the state: PM Modi\n14th Finance Commission has said Bihar will get a Rs. 3.74 crore package from Center's reserves: PM Modi\nPeople of Bihar can not be misled by spreading lies: Narendra Modi #PrivartanRally\nStates should compete in themeselves and with the Center for development: PM Narendra Modi #PrivartanRally\nBihar with its energetic youth and historic tradition will prove to be the growth engine of India: PM Modi\nBharat Mata Ki Jai, Bharat Mata Ki Jai!\nAll the senior leaders of the NDA who were sitting on the stage and my dear brothers and sisters of Bhagalpur who came in large number\nWe all pray to you! You want everybody's blessing\nBrothers, these Karna is the state land. This is the fourth rally of my NDA, but I can say that one more than one ... and today Bhagalpur broke all records. Not only has the NDA rallies broken, you have broken records of those rallies that have been organized in the last several years in Bihar. Those who are political pundits, they will recognize the attitude of air. These people will recognize what the mood of the public is. I am clearly watching that for the first time since 25 years, the people of Janardan has decided to vote for development in the assembly and have decided to form a government for development.\nBrothers and sisters, now no one can stop this development trip. How many parties should be gathered, how many leaders should be assembled, how many confusions should be spread, how many lies should be done, how many deceptions should be given, but now for the development of Bihar, the people of Bihar, for making a progressive Bihar, To make Bihar, to make Bihar the welfare of the farmers, Bihar to protect the mothers and sisters, the people of Bihar are going to vote. You tell me, is this election that the assembly is not? Is this election to choose the government of Bihar or not? Will the legislator going to choose from here will make the government of Bihar or will not? Which will form the government in Bihar, is it to do good to Bihar or not to make it? Tell me, if the election is from the Bihar Assembly ... those who have ruled in Bihar for 25 years, should they give their account of 25 years of work or should not? What worked, should not it tell? How did he do that, should not he? Should you give account of your work in public or not?\nBrothers and sisters, I promise you that in the year 2019 when the Lok Sabha elections come, I will come again to ask you for a vote and when I come in 2019, what my government has done in Delhi, I'll calculate the pie, calculate the moment. In the government which is sitting in democracy, the responsibility of the government is that they should account for their work after being in government for 25 years. But you must have seen that they are not even giving their account. What happened to Bihar? Why did not the development come? Why not make the way? Why does not electricity come? They are not answering and the answers are demanding Modi. Tell me that the answer should not be asked by me in the Lok Sabha election? Should I give a response in the Lok Sabha election or not? I am a public servant, it is my responsibility that when you come to the Lok Sabha election, I should give you account and ask for votes on my work, but those people sitting in government are ready to give account of their work and exploits. Are not there.\nI urge the people of Bihar that if they are sitting in the government, they will ask you for votes, then you should ask them that you had promised that if I do not give electricity in 2015 then I will not come to demand votes. Was it said? They promised to give electricity? Came power? Got electricity? Did they come or not? Did not break the promise or break it? Did you promise or not? Hey, what do you talk about today, they do not know what to do next, and therefore 25 years of their account should be given to the young man of Bihar ... who would have been born 25 years ago today, he is asking me to read Why do you have to go to Kolkata from here, why do you have to go to Delhi? He is asking - Why should I be forced to leave Bihar to earn a living? These questions are standing in front of you but they are not responding.\nJust two days ago in Patna, there was a meeting organized in Gandhi Maidan. Ram Manohar Lohia ji was abdicated in that meeting; Jai Prakash Narayan ji was abducted in that meeting; In that meeting, Karpuri Thakur was abandoned. Ram Manohar Lohia and all his disciples and all his followers fought against the Congress all the time. Satyagraha continued to be saved in the jails for saving the country but his followers were for the power and self-interest, except for Ram Manohar Lohia ji, the other day of Gandhi's life was sitting in the ground with Ram Manohar Lohia ji Had opposed. Which are your principles? What are these policies?\nBrothers and sisters, Jai Prakash Narayan played the trumpet of the whole revolution in the field of Gandhi. Jai Prakash Narayan ji fought against corruption and the Congress party and Congress government had closed Jai Prakash Narayan ji in jail. Jail Prakash ji had made a whole house and Jai Prakash ji was imprisoned in such condition that he got sick and again Jai Prakash ji's health was not well and we had to lose Jai Prakash ji. I want to ask these people that those who had come to the school of politics of holding the finger of Jai Prakash ji and had been doing their politics by singing Jay Prakash ji's songs till now, they will also ignore Jai Prakash Narayan ji Given He sat with those who kept Jai Prakash Narayan ji in jail, causing them serious health problems. And, therefore, I say that their meeting of the Prabhu was in a way like Jai Prakash Narayan, Ram Manohar Lohia, Karpuri Thakur, to rally these great men. Who gave the light of Jai Prakash Narayan, who resigned Ram Manohar Lohia, who resided Karpuri Thakur, will you do her own? Will you confirm Now it's time to stop them by pressing the button in the election.\nI was thinking that one person was sitting above the other in the Gandhi Maidan (what was 'increased' in what was the thing, I would not do it, I will not do it) but all were more than one and I thought that the elections in Bihar They have such an important rally, they will tell about the future of Bihar; Will tell about the future of youth of Bihar; Will tell Gundaraj for liberation in Bihar; But brothers and sisters, not only Bihar was disappointed, but the whole of India became disappointed that what happened in Bihar in that meeting, how to take Bihar forward; There were no discussions about this, no plans were made. Why voters should vote, no issues were presented for it, what has been done instead? Everyone had the same program - Modi - Modi - Modi - Modi - Modi - Modi I was thinking that Modi is doing Modi meetings at NDA meetings or abroad, but I was surprised that Modi is also doing Modi. Brothers and Sisters, the election of the Bihar Legislative Assembly in which 25 years in Bihar had ruled, had to give account, but they were not ready to give account of their 25 years of work, were not ready to give account of their business.\nBrothers and sisters, I am happy about one thing and I would like to keep my happiness in the coming elections. My point of happiness is that when I announced a package of Rs 1.25 lakh crore in ARA and Rs 40,000 crore, which has been planned for further work, it has also decided to go ahead. Overall, we announced a package of 1.65 lakh crore rupees from the central government treasury. For two or three days, they kept joking about our package, but the people of Bihar did not get the throats of the people. They thought that Modi has declared a package of 1.65 lakh crores, speaking against him, the people of Bihar will not even see our mouth. For 3-4 days, rhetoric, spreading lies, spreading a long-standing press conference, like the figures, but the people of Bihar, perhaps the fastest and most intelligent people in the world, are nowhere on the soil of Bihar and they They understood the game and so they felt that something else would have to be done. What did they do; On the issues I was giving to abuse, I had to come up with a package of 2 lakh 70 crore rupees. Did not have to come? How to reach Modi now, why did not I have to do it?\nI am glad that the issue of development elections in Bihar should be the issue. I am happy that even if there are people of the UPA, whether it is people of NDA, how will they do Bihar good on their own, bring those issues. This is necessary in the elections and I am glad that for 25 years who spread the poison of casteism and communalism, they have to come with a compulsory package. Tell me, will it benefit from Bihar or not? Modi will bring the package, whether Bihar will benefit or not? Even Bihar government will bring the package, will it not be the benefit of Bihar? Now the election came in the right direction or did not come? Should the fight on the issue of development or should not fight? Should a young man fight for election or should not fight? Should fight for the end of Gundaraj or should not fight? Should the fight to make the path or should not fight? Should you not contest the election to open the school or should not fight? They had to come on the path of development, and therefore I want that there should be competition between the Central Government and the states, the development between the state and the states should be a competition but still people do not have the temperament to deceive the public People do not get used to the dust of the public eye.\nI want to tell the figures that you will bring me this message from home, explain to everyone. Today, the budget for development in Bihar every year is 50-55 thousand crore which is one year, let me tell you now how much the total of 5 years will be? Will not be 2.5 lakh crore? If 55 thousand crores will reach 2 million 70 thousand million or will not reach? It means that your annual budget, which is already going on, was also last year, its last year was also; By doing 5 times of that, you have worked to smash the eyes of the people of Bihar.\nNow let me tell the second point. You will be shocked, how the funds allocated between the Government of India and the states, a finance commission is made for it, how much money the Indian government will pay to the state government, the finance commission decides. According to the 14th Finance Commission, according to what he has said, Bihar is going to get 3 lakh 74 thousand crore rupees from the vault of the Government of India in 5 years; nearly four lakh crore rupees will be available in five years from Delhi. And this is my package of 1.65 lakh crore, apart from that, the package of 1.65 lakh crore is different, 3 lakh 74 thousand crore rupees are coming from the finance commission. In the vault of Bihar,\nNow tell me, just listen carefully, from the treasury of the central government, 3 lakh 74 thousand crore rupees are coming from there and you are giving the package 2 lakh 70 thousand crores meaning that your own nothing is not from the people of Bihar Nothing comes from the tax that comes in. 3 lakh 74 thousand crore which will come from Delhi, of which 2 lakh 70 thousand crore; Now tell me where will this 1 lakh 4 thousand crore? Brothers and sisters, all you have to ask is that 3 lakh 74 thousand crore of Indian government is going to come, if you are saying 2 lakh 70 thousand crore, then this 1 lakh 4 thousand crores will be applied for fodder ... will it be fodder? What will be credited to the lender? Tell me, is this a betrayal with Bihar or not? It was dust in the eyes of Bihar or did not sleep? Was the people of Bihar fooled or not made? People in power drunk, understand that you will never be able to fool the wise people of Bihar.\nBrothers and sisters, I have to say one thing today that I want to discuss the issue of development. On the basis of more development in the country ... What is the condition of Bihar regarding health, what is the condition of Bihar in the health sector, I want to put his cocks in front of you. Community Health Centers (CHCs) are there for poor people to help in the disease. We know every year every state attempts to increase the CHC so that the poor can get medicine in the disease, get the doctor, get help, but just look at the picture of Bihar.\nThe number of CHCs in our country has increased from 3300 to 5300. About 2000 CHCs have increased in the country. In Rajasthan, there were 326 CHCs, they became 567 ie more than 200; Madhya Pradesh has increased from 229 to 334; Chhattisgarh has increased from 116 to 157; But you will be shocked to know that there is a CHC for the poor, the poor state of India also increased its number but Bihar had 101 CHCs in 2005, which went up to 70 in 2014. Tell me, is this the service of the poor? Do they worry about the disease of the poor? And not only that, there is no shortage of money. The Government of India has not spent Rs 521 crores for the health department, which was given to the Bihar government for health. Now tell me, money should not be done despite this, should such a government be removed or not? Should such a government be removed forever or not? Should the poor get medicine or not?\nNowadays we are being taunted that Modiji has remembered Bihar after 14 months. I do not think it is necessary for the brothers and sisters who are not used to speaking the truth, but I must give the account of my people to the people of Bihar. कहते हैं कि हमें बिहार की याद नहीं आई। भाईयों-बहनों, जब नेपाल में भूकंप आया और मुझे लगा कि इस भूकंप का असर बिहार में भी हुआ होगा तो मैं पहला व्यक्ति था जिसने बिहार के मुख्यमंत्री को फ़ोन किया कि भूकंप की स्थिति में आपकी क्या सहायता करूँ। उन्होंने कहा, मोदीजी मैं तो दिल्ली में हूँ, मुझे अभी तो कोई जानकारी नहीं है। मैंने बिहार के हर जिले में फ़ोन किया, एनडीए के हर नेता को फ़ोन किया; सबको दौड़ाया। मैंने कहा कि ये भूकंप का असर बिहार के नेपाल से सटे हुए जिलों में हो सकता है, तुरंत पहुँचिये। इतना ही नहीं मेरी सरकार के मंत्रियों को बिहार के हर जिले में भेजा जबकि बिहार की सरकार ने क्या किया, वो आप जानते हैं। भूकंप के कारण जिनको मुसीबत आई है, उनकी चिंता करने का काम सिर्फ़ केंद्र सरकार ने नहीं, प्रधानमंत्री ने खुद किया था।\nइतना ही नहीं, पिछले वर्ष हमारी सरकार नई-नई बनी थी। नेपाल में कोसी नदी के ऊपर एक पहाड़ ढह आया, नदी बंद हो गई और लगा कि वहां पानी भरता जाएगा और जिस दिन ये पहाड़ खिसकेगा, पूरा पानी कोसी की ओर बढ़ेगा और ये पूरा इलाका फिर से एक बार तबाह हो जाएगा। केंद्र सरकार पहली थी या प्रधानमंत्री पहला था जिसने सबसे पहले एनडीएमसी के कार्यकर्ता, जो disaster management का काम करते हैं, उन्हें तुरंत भेजा। नदी के किनारे के गाँव खाली करवाये; लोग मानने को तैयार नहीं थे, उन्हें समझाया; नेपाल सरकार को समझाने के लिए दिल्ली से अफसर भेजे ताकि वो पानी तुरंत निकाल जाए, वो पहाड़ जो गिरा है, वो निकल जाए और कोसी के गांवों को बर्बाद होने से बचा लिया जाए। आज मैं नतमस्तक होकर कहता हूँ कि ये समय से पहले जागने के कारण, बिहार के प्रति प्रेम होने के कारण मेरे कोसी इलाके को दुबारा डूबने से बचा लिया।\nऔर इतना ही नहीं, जब मांझी जी मुख्यमंत्री थे और गाँधी मैदान में भगदड़ हो गई; कुछ लोग मारे गए मैं पहला व्यक्ति था जिसने तुरंत बिहार के मुख्यमंत्री जी को फ़ोन किया था। और तब वो हमारे साथ नहीं थे मैंने उनसे पूछा कि कैसा हादसा हुआ है; आपको क्या मदद चाहिए, मुझे तुरंत बता दीजिए मैं आपको मदद पहुंचाता हूँ। बिहार को जो भूले ही नहीं हैं तो याद आने का सवाल कहाँ उठता है। याद तो उनको आती है जो भूल जाते हैं, सत्ता के नशे में खो जाते हैं, सिर्फ़ कुर्सी याद रहती है, उन्हें बिहार की कभी याद नहीं आती है।\nहमें कहते हैं कि बिहार की याद नहीं आती। हमने बजट में आर्थिक पैकेज, इनकम टैक्स में रियायत की घोषणा की थी ताकि ये स्पेशल arranangement के तहत बिहार में उद्योग लगे, आर्थिक विकास हो, बिहार के नौजवान को रोजगार मिले। बजट में घोषित किया था और यह बिहार सरकार की जिम्मेदारी थी कि वो अपने राज्य में कौन से backward district हैं, उनकी सूची बनाकर के केंद्र सरकार को दें। मार्च महीने में बजट आया और मई महीने तक बिहार सरकार ने किसी जिले का नाम हमें नहीं दिया। देना चाहिए था कि नहीं देना चाहिए था? दिल्ली से योजना बनी है तो फ़ायदा लेना चाहिए कि नहीं लेना चाहिए? आपके लिए जो स्पेशल arranangement हुआ है, उसका फ़ायदा लेना चाहिए कि नहीं लेना चाहिए? ये बिहार सरकार सोई पड़ी है। आखिर में मई महीने में मेरी सरकार ने दिल्ली से चिट्ठी लिखी कि बजट में हमने प्रावधान किया है, बिहार में हमें backward district को फ़ायदा देना है, उद्योग लगाने के लिए इनकम टैक्स में मदद करनी है, आप नाम तो दो। आपको जानकर दुःख होगा, मई महीने में चिट्ठी लिखी लेकिन 21 जिलों का नाम देते-देते अगस्त का आखिरी दिन आ गया। अगस्त के आखिरी सप्ताह में इन्होंने जिले के नाम दिये। मुझे बताईये, बिहार के लिए मांग कर रहे हो, जो देते हैं उसका तो उपयोग नहीं कर पाते हो, कैसे बिहार के लोगों को रोजगार दोगे।\nऔर इसलिए मेरे भाईयों-बहनों, आज मैं आपसे आग्रह करने आया हूँ कि विकास की ऊंचाईयों पर जाने की ताकत वाला बिहार, तेजस्वी नौजवानों से भरा हुआ बिहार, महान ऐतिहासिक परंपराओं से सुसंस्कृत हुआ बिहार... आज देश आपसे कुछ मांग रहा है। सारे देश को लगता है कि बिहार एक बार आगे निकाल गया तो हिन्दुस्तान दुनिया में आगे निकाल जाएगा। इसलिए मैं आपसे आग्रह करने आया हूँ कि भाजपा और हमारे एनडीए के साथियों को इस चुनाव में भारी बहुमत से विजयी बनाईए, विकास के लिए वोट दीजिए, बिहार का भाग्य बदलने के लिए वोट दीजिए और आप जैसा चाहते हो, वैसा बिहार बनाने के लिए वोट दीजिए। इसी एक अपेक्षा के साथ मेरे साथ बोलिये...\nLong live Mother India! Long live Mother India! Long live Mother India!"