"2\nPM Narendra Modi launches digitized version of Ramcharitmanas in New Delhi\nPrime Minister Modi appreciates All India Radio's role in uniting the people and spreading awareness and information in India\nRamcharitmanas is a great epic It contains the essence of India: PM Narendra Modi\nThe digital version of Ramcharitmanas will help people across the world: PM Modi\nThe place where this program is going is named Panchavati and when Vajpayee was the Prime Minister, Panchavati was built in this place of residence and the name was Panchavati, and I believe that today's opportunity will be in Panchavati for its own reasons One of his record increases, because Ramcharitmanas are not talked about and Panchavati is not there, then the Ramcharitmanas seem incomplete and hence it is a good combination in itself.\nToday, I experience this opportunity in different ways. Occasionally people work in the government, the life becomes like this, a mechanical activity is formed, and that morning, coming in the evening, the same files, the same boss, the same assistant, the big important 30-35 years of one life is the same And most of the mind becomes in mind that let's move into this pipeline now, after 30-35 years, they will emerge. In the form that will emerge, we will go .. But seeing this opportunity comes to mind that a government's masjim, which is a yearning for something, has an indomitable desire to do something, how much he left his legacy and so firstly I will go to Akashwani's A general official whose family members can become motivator for others. Our life is not being wasted. The files we sign on are not useless, sometimes they give a new twist to history. This is the event of today's living proof of that matter.\nSecondly, it has been recording for almost 20-22 years. Keeping that team for 22 years, maintaining that rhythm and keeping it equally alive, or else it became enough. Now how many episodes has happened, now people have become habituated, let's get away. No. Artists associated with this will probably not be his name in the number of big artists of India today, but as a seeker of music. For nearly 22 years this sadhana is not less, 14 people have worked as a team, 7 people are not staying among us, today's opportunity to honor everyone today and it is not just music. This is also the sadhana of music, culture is also sadhana and it is also the practice of sanskar. And this work, there are many ups and downs in our country, the ideological grounds have also fluctuated. Today if a person speaks Om, a dispute arises over the week, how Om can be spoken. Country :::: is communal. Nobody has questioned Ramcharitmanas in such a country, it is still going on. Maybe today after seeing someone's attention and creating a storm, I do not know. But sometimes we see that we have been listening for many years, what is the matter is that the celebrity does not fade away from ours. There is no need to work hard to find answers. That is the reason that the celebrity is not destroyed, ours is Ramcharitmanas, this is the tradition, that is the Sanskar.\nFor thousands of years our biggest feature in the world, for which any society in the world can be jealous of us, that is our family system and we have survived one reason. As long as our family system is alive , We have been strong and if someone has played a very big role in making that family system alive, then Ramcharitmanas and Ram Ji's family life. Amadha Purushottam Ram .. How to live in the family, how to live in the family. We see how to follow the limits, behave, and conduct the best of conduct. See the power of Ramcharitmanas for thousands of years, the generations have passed, but the same sense, the same tradition, the same Samskar, the same message is still alive today. Let us say one thing today, but in the seven days of reaching the message, its meaning becomes different. What will be the strength in which even though there are still many explanations still the root element has not been scratched anywhere. Such a work is such a big task to connect humans with this earth.\nEven today, if we go to Mauritius, in many countries of the world, those who were taken as laborers in the period of slavery, were nothing, they were poor. But did not forget to take Tulsidi Ramayana, Hanuman did not forget to take Chalisa, and for one and a half hundred years, different life, forgetting the language, the dress changed, the name changed, but an amnesty survived from that which is still associated with India. Has been and how it joins me. I remember the events of many years ago. A cricket team from West Indies came to play in India. I have been talking about years ago and the manager of my manager got me here. Now 30-35 years ago, 40 years ago no one knew me, no name or no life. His telephone call came as a surprise to me that the cricketer's manager of the said West Indies Cricket Board wants to meet you. So someone would have given the name, that would have been the introduction. I said to the West Indies team that I am not a player from the game of cricket anyway. If I came to know, then I have said that he has come with my wife. The original is Indian, so when I went to meet him, he used to work in the HRD ministry and came in the form of a team manager. So I said that the word of the sage came from the said word, then it would have come from the sage Rishi, then asked his wife's name if he said Sita. That India came for the first time. But when I went to my own and I went, specially they sat wearing the Indian environment. That is, in a way, one book keeps adding to one's self after one and a half hundred years] This is a great experience .. And in this sense, Ramcharitman is going in front of everyone in digital form today.\nThe power of Akashwani is very big, why do not many things change, but there are some basic things that do not lose its power. This is a huge force of Akashwani in the life of Hindustan. People would not have realized well, maybe I have a feeling. We all understand the power of Akashwani. This is one of my experiences that I can never forget. I used to work in the organization of Bhartiya Janta Party in Himachal. Atal Bihari Vajpayeeji was the Prime Minister And I used to work in Himachal, then one day I was going on a tour, then in such mountains, on a dhaba stopped thinking of drinking tea and then stopped the car. When I landed down, who was a dhaba, the tea man fed me laddus. I said that I have to drink tea. Hey bole sahab laddu eat first, have fun I said what's the matter. I said, Atal ji broke the bomb, I said, Atal ji broke the bomb. Hey Bole just heard on the rodeo that India has boiled the bomb. Nuclear Test was done. The first news to me was through a radio channel, a tea-haired, dhababhee gave me.\nThat is, the things we sometimes do not understand, how big they are and not just news, is not just news. In the hills of Himachal, a remote tea stall, he is feeling very proud of this news that even though he is poor, he is distributing the sweets of his shop for free. See what the power of the message is, and the time may not have happened much, it would have been announced at 5 o'clock in the evening and I am going from around 6 am to 6 pm. To say that our communication is so essential in such a big country in itself, it is very necessary and in the era of today's competition, AIR does not have to be trapped in competition. It is his job to keep his basic streams linked to the hearts of the people and to keep the country together and to keep him excited with the future. And how we play that work.\nBy changing the era, the change is necessary, rejuvenation is necessary and when talking about rejuvenation, then the soul remains the same, there is a time of change. This digital form is a right move. We, people, now told me that the Radio material has 9 lakh hours of recording material available, 9 lakh hours. Perhaps no one in the world will have such a treasure, and at that time the face of Akashwani was later, which is a different environment, which is different from ours, I certainly believe that All India has the original voice of Akashwani, India The original contemplation of this, undiluted origin of India, will be available in it. When these 9 million hours of digital version is ready, then languages ​​can be used in that how big a service will be, how big a treasure or in such a way can be the biggest resource material of digital history. Those who want to do PhD in the coming days will be a great opportunity. And the work of Doordarshan of India is such that in all universities of India, Ekadha Ekad Vidyarthi should only do a PhD on Aakashani's contribution, should be researched. We do not have the nature of people. One does research on the story of Premchand, but such a huge treasure. People of the Human Resource Department, People of the Culture Department should think about what the world can give to the world by researching this treasure. What we look forward to. The people of the world have also proved by the International Yoga Day that the world is eager to know India, is ready. The International Yoga Day has given this message that India has something that we need to know, it is a fool, then our duty becomes that how we deliver it and if we can do it then how much we can serve is.\nAll these days, All India Radio has also done a good job. Not Radio, due to the radio, which is the FM channel, all the world which runs today. What do people say for corruption? The FM channel here gave us 80 crores rupees in the first official treasury. Now the action is going on, the transparency from the action, the result has come to know, so far the speaker has spoken about 11 and a half hundred rupees, the bid is still going on and according to the rules and regulations of which the government's treasures In which 80 hundred crore rupees would come and a situation would come 27 hundred and twenty-two hundred crore rupees. By transparent arrangements, how can we get rid of corruption by connecting the systems with modern technology? One of the best specimens of how money can be made available in the development of the country without any new financial burden. This is the result of this in relation to Akashwani and Radio which is done by the Government of India in the leadership of Arun ji.\nSo in every direction, we are moving forward in this direction and I hope that due to this digital version the people of the world who want to know what they want to know will be helpful for them. People of Bhopal Center have done glorious work; A World Hindi Conference is going on in Bhopal in the coming days. If the delegate who is coming to Bhopal in Aakashwani Sokeh Vishwa Hindu Sammelan is coming in Bhopal, then it should be given to him as a gift so that a souvenir .. a true souvenir will be made, which is coming from the poor, large number of people from all over the world So it will be a huge opportunity.\nOnce again I congratulate the department, Prasar Bharati, to keep Aakashani handling these valuable things. And I feel proud to give this salutations to the countrymen. I am grateful to Dr. Karan Singhji and I have seen that our Karan Singh ji has been associated with these things, he thinks so much of it that he has never been influenced by any political ideology and always such things that he is blessed with Keep giving up, keep on encouraging. Today comes specially, so I express my gratitude.\nThanks a lot!"