"1\nPM Modi attends inauguration of birth centenary celebrations of Rani Gaidinliu in New Delhi\nWe are celebrating the birth centenary of Rani Maa I bow to Rani Gaidinliu and remember her contribution: PM\nRani Maa's life is a inspiration for us. She showed the way of attaining newer heights of development while maintaining unity in the Nation: PM\nIndia has not been made by kings or rulers, Shri Narendra Modi\nRani Maa worshiped nature and devoted herself to her whole life: PM\nMahatma Gandhi's thoughts were spread across the Northeast by Rani Gaidinliu, says PM Modi\nAll the greatness present,\nWe are going to celebrate the centenary of Queen Mother. I bow my head to the mother with respect, and the life of the queen mother inspires us all, keeping the integrity of the country, keeping us integrating the new heights of development - one of those dreams that we have The queen was also a mother\nIt was a great misfortune of our country that even after so many years of independence many freedom fighters in many corners of India, they still disappear from the window of history. It is the obligation of any life society that should keep the wealth of great history, the history of great history, and its transition from generation to generation should continue. Goths should be added And only then, it is the inspiration to live for the society, to die.\nAnd sometimes it is also thinking that history continues to be painted around rulers, around the rulers. India is a flourishing country with a different kind of tradition. Here, the common man's feats are given more importance. This country has never been thinking that this country has been made by the kings-the kings, these rulers have created this country. The basic idea of ​​this country is that this country has been created by ordinary people. From their favors, with their mighty power, the country has been filling with the excitement of their sweat. And so long as we do not come out of the realm of these rulers, do not come out of the realm of the rulers, our camera does not move out there, we do not realize the power of public.\nAnd when the mother of the mother is celebrating the centenary, in Delhi too many people would ask questions, who is Bhai? What is it? What are you doing this? The faults did not belong to those who asked questions. The defect in our systems is the deformation that has occurred. And because of that, such a number of great men who can give us inspiration momentarily - either we have forgotten them or deliberately forgotten them. And forgetting any such society does not give strength to ignore such things, does not inspire. I believe that if in the last 60 years there are many great men in the North East like the Queen Mother, there are many great men in addition to the Queen Mother. I am talking about North East. Whose life is so inspiring If we had an opportunity to know all of our generations in the past 60 years- two generations, three generations, four generations of whom even if they had received their education, then I would not believe that there was ever a separatism in that land The idea could also arise. Because these people who lived for the unity of the country would die.\nSomeone can imagine that a tradition and head of this tradition, Jadonang - would hang them in the yuvani because they became the voice of freedom. And in such a case, the entire organization can disintegrate. People may feel that Bhai got hanged at such a young age, what can we do now? Scarcity is possible even after having a strong desire in mind. We imagine what organization skills in the Queen Mother were that she did not bend the flag after hanging her Guru in the middle of the age of 12-15, not to disintegrate the organization, Did you give up?\nAccording to the wishes of the guru, the disciple lays life. And their dialogue is also discussed. I do not believe that there can be no greater example of Guru-Shishya Parampara, that your Guru should climb onto the hanging fray and a 13 year old maiden should take that flag in hand, and as a disciple, to follow the teachings of the Guru Let's spend your life, it is very rare. Spend the crucial year of Jawani in prison. And this personality will not be short enough that Pandit Nehru would go to jail to meet them - this would be unusual personality, only then would it have been possible. When Subhash Babu became the president of the Congress, for the first time in the life of Congress at the Haripura Congress convention in Gujarat ... otherwise, for those who believed in the armed revolution, there was a class that did not dare to say anything. But the queen mother was an exception that when Subhash Babu became the president of Haripura Congress in Gujarat, there was a proposal for the liberation of Queen Mother. This was a very important decision of the Congress party in that time.\nBut even after the country's independence, it took three to four months for the queen mother to get out of jail. Even after independence, the queen mother was in jail for three-four months. And worse than that - Unfortunately, it was more unfortunate that after the independence of the queen mother for political reasons ... and the politics that has deformed us here, the philosophy of those distortions is that after the independence, The village was not entered.\nThe queen mother who had never bowed herself to the British, who had never bowed herself to the British, had been living in the geography of her own independent India for ten years. And the reason? There was communal intolerance. They worshiped in nature, they considered nature to be divine. And today, due to global warming, the world is in crisis, if they are taught by the Queen Mother, which is the teaching of nature love, if they understand, then today the problems of environment, the answer is also found in the philosophy of the Queen Mother. .\nThey were the wreath of worship of nature. And the whole tradition of all those who remained a sect of green is a cult of nature worship. But those who rejected him had vitiated his life. And in Hindusthan, he had to spend life in the womb for 10 years. And after going back, the conditions are quite handy. She was spending life in her service. From time to time, due to honor, he used to come to the news. But he did not leave his own way of social service till the end of life.\nMaintaining that path even in the nature pooja environment, to keep people motivated. And not by following the path of struggle, he was a hero, but by adopting the path of co-ordination, he had put his whole life in the time of independence for the betterment of society. And in that sense, I believe that especially in our in-these areas - there are many corners of the North-East, not Hindustan - where the great men of the world, if we offer our motivation as our inspirational personality in the form of men Then our new generations ... Mahatma Gandhi's queen mother had gone to jail due to armed revolution. His Gurudev was hanged. But Queen Mother herself used to glorify Mahatma Gandhi during the period of 1932-35, in the whole of North-East. Queen Ma had done a great job to introduce Mahatma Gandhi to the whole of the North East in a way.\nAnd she always dreamed, she used to say that Naga culture, Naga tradition, all this should be done. I am proud to be a Naga. But all this should be for the unity and integrity of the country. This queen mother used to say at that time He used to talk about the whole of India's freedom. And he used to say in his language that Gandhi would one day become king, Mahatma Gandhi would become king one day. Because, according to the definition of democracy that he was there, but the fundamental thing was that India would be independent. And Mahatma Gandhi will lead his prosperous society. These dreams were used by the queen mother constantly He used to train his people.\nThose who gave this kind of life, we all have the responsibility that we have as many unknown great leaders as such ... today we will go to Andaman-Nicobar cellular jail, and see the list of dead people on the country's independence, It does not even know which corner of history will be there. There he is printed on his name on a stone. But perhaps in the other corner of the country, perhaps in the village where they were born, the children of that village will not even know that there was a person from our village who went to Andaman and Nicobar Jail 100 years ago, India mother Will be fighting for freedom - will not know.\nThis is what we are very big ... our society has been losing the life, there is a shortage. We all have to complete this. Our universities research researchers research. Why not one university, or one or two students in every batch in our universities, also do research on such people of the society, Ph.D. Do you? If these greats of North-East, social revolutionaries, national revolutionists, do research on these universities - and not the other end of the area - from South, from the west, to the north, they will feel \" Well, such people were here? \"\nIt also works too big for integration. And I believe what the Chief Minister of Manipur said in the coming days, the Chief Minister of Nagaland has said. His spirit, respecting him, how do we raise these things? This is the responsibility of the whole country. Which we must fulfill.\nIn the same way, why did the queen mother spend her life in her jail? Personally did not have to get something. The dream was that our country crossed the new heights, progressed. And the country can not progress till the eastern India does not progress, when the north-east does not progress, unless our Ashta Lakshmi progresses.\nAnd so, because of this development, you must have seen that this government has imposed the highest amount of money for infrastructure for North-East. Because once infrastructure is built then there ... I am in that area. I know what is the blessings of God, the other part of the country does not even know whether God's blessings are on this land. Become a matter of little connectivity, you see, I told students at the University these days that as a tourist, you get a habit of going there.\nA lot of students went past last year. They were surprised by seeing the life there. They kept telling people that they came here, they saw them, they saw it. We have to constantly add. Like Arun ji said, the end of the Bangladesh border dispute, which is the most important aspect of what is in the interest of India, is that now we had the difficulties in connecting with our North-East, the difficulties got rid of them. is. In a way Geographically, North-East has come very close to us. Otherwise, due to being in Bangladesh, our connectivity was no longer, it has become simpler now. As soon as the infrastructure will be created, it will benefit.\nWork is going on very fast to connect the North-East State Capitals to the railway. North-East can become an organic capital of Hindustan, has the power to do so. You will be conducting pineapple tests around the world, once you go to North East and test the pineapple there, you will know what God has given, what has given it!\nI mention one thing .... see, our Jailiang Ji says that why do you just mention Pineapple? Why do not you mention our pepper? Very few people will know, the most hot chili is anywhere in the world, so it is from Nagaland. These are the countries filled with variations. These areas can play a very big role in economic development. It is not that Hindustan will develop them. Their development will become a new cause for the development of India - I see this.\nAnd therefore, we are moving forward by giving priority to development of North-East. Nagaland, here already before independence, extremism, extremism, separatism - these voices got joined with arms. Every government has tried some or no effort. Something has improved, sometimes the obstruction came, improved, then the obstacle came - the order continued. Everyone has their own cooperation. No one is going to credit its government, and should not take it. Everyone has contributed something good to everyone. And the result of that is that today there has been successful talks with those people in Nagaland. By combining the mainstream with shoulder-to-shoulder, not only the development of Nagaland, but also the development of North-East - has seen the dream of the development of entire India.\nI believe that the journey that has started, the journey to walk together has started, they will continue to give excellent results. And the country will achieve new heights. Today, in the memory of the Queen Mother, this coin ... people sitting here will not have an idea, what will be the value of this coin in North-East houses, which we can not guess.\nFor them it will be seen as such a holy event. So big is this inspiring personality. It is heartening to the Government that we are being successful in connecting the present with the life of this great image, and for the future, those persons will always get inspiration from us, we will continue to get strength, with this goodwill I once again greet the feet of Queen Mother. Their blessings are going on, and we all meet the queen mother's \"the country is prosperous, the country is one, the country is unbroken\" - there should be no shortage to fulfill those dreams, with this one imagination, many auspicious wishes ."