"\nNow the country can run only on 'Vikasvaad': PM Modi\nWe have made efforts to increase the sale of Khadi products, this has helped people work in the sector immensely: PM Modi\nWhen we say \"Bharat Mata Ki Jai\", we feel proud of our Motherland, our Jawans who guard our nation: PM Modi\nModi is the caste, class, and community of people based on the divides people: PM\nFor the Congress Party, only one family is everything; For us, the people of India are our family: PM\nBharat Mata Ki Jai ... Bharat Mata Ki Jai!\nYou have no objection to speaking Bharat Mata's jai, no ... no, no, because the nominee of the Congress is in trouble!\nOur Pali District has been the center of human civilization for thousands of years. The great power of Veer Jaita ji and Kumpa ji, the valor of the country's first freedom struggle, the valor of Thakur Kishan Singh Champa, and the mother who gave birth to the warrior like Maharana Pratap, I bow to such a clay. This is the land where a handful of millet too has suffered heavy atrocities and invaders. Here the society is nurtured, which has been standing again and again after the ruination. This is the earth, which gave birth to the heroic Brig Hari Singh Deora who had flown the tricolor in Lahore. The green color of Sojat's Mehndi is a symbol of sacrifice, sacrificial sacrifice and sacrifice of Marwar warriors. The colorful clothes of this world are known throughout the world, and the sweetness of Gulab Halve is also reflected in the popularity of the people here.\nBrothers and sisters, when the election was held in 2013, the last event of the last day of the campaign was held in Pali, it was here. This time also it started with Alwar as before and today the last day's gathering is also happening in Pali. If we go to the people of Gujarat, the air of Pali, we immediately feel in Gujarat that the wind of shifts has come.\nBrothers and sisters, the National Vice President of the Bharatiya Janata Party, who was sitting on the stage and remained close to me for years, and whose parents were raised, on the same ground, the brother Om Ji Mathur, my partner of the Council of Ministers Mr. P.P. Chaudhary Ji , My brother in the Parliament, Devji Patel, Vice President of the State Pushp Jain, Former MLA, Achal Ram Meghwal, Gulab Singh Rajpurohit Ji, Mr. Karan Singh Rajpurohit , Mr. Parmaram Sevgi ji, Mr. Ravindra Singh Balawat Ji, Mr. Banne Singh Goel Ji, Mr. Lumbaram Chaudhary Ji, Ms. Payal Parasarampuria ji, Mr. Pratap Singh Bithia ji and the worker of Bharatiya Janata Party in this election, our candidate dedicated to Janseva, our candidate, Sumerpur From Mr. Jororam Kumawat ji, Mr. Pushpendra Singh Ranavat ji from Bali, Mr. Yogeshwar Garg, Siroh from Jhalor Mr. Ottaman Devasi Ji from Pindwara, Kesaram Chowdhary from Marwar Junction, Jagarsir Koli from Revdar, Narayan Singh Deewal from Raniwara, Danaram Chowdhary from Sanchaur, Azhar from Chagan Singh Rajpurohit, Poonaram Chaudhary from Bhainwal. Bless all these my friends by calling you the glory of Bharat Mata and all these hands.\nLong live Mother India! Long live Mother India! Thanks a lot.\nBrothers and sisters in Rajasthan, where I have the opportunity to go, today I am convinced that the people of Rajasthan have decided to make the Bharatiya Janata Party victorious. Wherever I went, wherever-I got the opportunity to meet people, people have clearly decided to form a BJP government once again in favor of the Bharatiya Janata Party. Now the people of Rajasthan have decided ... Now our work is to win one polling booth. I just do not have to win Rajasthan, every polling booth of Rajasthan is to win. And our mantra should be my polling booth, the strongest booth. And so after this gathering we will reach all the members engaged in collecting all the Bharatiya Janata Party, meet one voter, get the maximum votes and play the victory of Danka in Rajasthan in this election. This is my faith.\nBrothers and sisters, when the election was not bad, then the Congress party, which is a playground company, was in the round-the-clock that it was clear that in Rajasthan, BJP is not going to save, it will be clear. The Delhi airconditioners sat in the rooms, spreading the winds of the air, spreading pollution in the air. Those who were looking for Modi's defeat in 2014, wanted to enjoy the loss of Modi's defeat; they became disheartened after the group, the people of the country disappointed them. Then they thought, maybe to put emphasis in Rajasthan, the mail will settle, but the people of Rajasthan have also shattered the air of those who spread the lies there. Now he has just started to tell the reason that we are losing due to the internal battle of Congress, losing due to the mess of Congress ticket distribution. Congress is losing due to rebel candidates. Now he has been engaged in discussing the arguments given by him for the defeat of the right-hand man, who is not blamed for his name. The elections have been defeated.\nBrothers and sisters, please tell me these questions are asked by the Congress people, well asked, badly asked, here in the election, like someone tried to spread the poison of caste, also asked who was the caste of Modi C is Did not ask Do you tell me who has done the sin of spreading the caste of casteism to win elections after Independence in our country .... Who has done the task of spreading the poison of casteism as described in the whole world ..... Who distinguished the low and low, who distinguished the village and the city ..., who divided the rich and the poor ... The Congress that did so many sins can do good to you ..... Express your heart, the Congress which ruined all 70 years, can you do good? Can you do ..... You tell me when there were Congress governments, Pandit Nehru was the Prime Minister, Indira Gandhi was the Prime Minister, Rajiv Gandhi was the Prime Minister, Madam Soniaji was the prime minister from the remote control, so many people continued to run the country, whether the farmer's house had ever been before. Whether the farmer's house was of silver, was there two or two quarters of the farmer's house, whether two or two Maruti cars were standing outside the farmer's house . Did the children of the farmers study in the best universities abroad? If the farmer's animal becomes ill, then he got treatment in a good hospital. What was the right price for selling the goods in the farmer's market? All these troubles were in four or four generations or not. What you did not do, you are asking for Modi's answer.\nBrothers and sisters are spreading such lies, they are spreading lies. Answer the four generations first and ask for a four-year answer. Once mistakenly Namdar has said that Modi has stopped speaking on corruption. Brothers and sisters, they are having trouble because every step that Modi has taken has taken such a strong step. You should have seen the news that the news should be suppressed, the news should be closed after one or two days, the reports which are not discussed, then the namesake are trapped in big trouble. These Modi Government brothers and sisters, I have come out of your way. I have not been born with gold spoons, I have seen poverty and after coming into government I believe that there was no reason why India remained backward for so many years, why India was poor for so many years If there is any responsible for this then our country's old ruler. A family ruled by four or four generations is responsible for the brothers. You also rob me too, loot me, you help me, I too will help you. My throne is safe, this game continues to be the brother-in-law\nNow look, you have read in the newspapers today, the Supreme Court has given a decision, headline news should have been made but lying in the corner. You tell me the law that applies to you should be applied to Modi or should not be ... should it should not be ..... The law which seems to be on the common citizen of India, should be done on the same Prime Minister of the country that should not be treated ...., should not happen or should not be .... Should there be any discrimination ... If Modi becomes the Prime Minister, then he should have a special right ... should he have special rights .... These families are enjoying special rights from four to four generations. I removed the red light, red light, even then they had trouble. Tell me how to remove the red light. Did someone commit suicide, someone died? They all used to roam around like this, they were rubbing all over. He can not live like normal human I am able to do this because I have come among you. I grew up among you. Brothers, today you have seen the news in the newspaper in the corner, the scam of crores rupees, the scam of fictitious companies in income tax and all the files were closed during the time of their government. The mother-son files were closed, the parents wrote the letters written by the mother and son. We came, people were asking me what Modi did to tell you about corruption in 2014. You do not have the right or not .... I should or should not do that. It is not that the work is of the countryman ... it is not intended to do injustice to anyone, nor is it ...... You do not believe ...... I told the officers that brother would not do this. If Modi also messes up, then fix it too and if the Named family makes a mess, then fix it too. All the old cases were opened. They went to court that the government has become obsolete, can not handle it, can not see it, what we did was the final. Why brother. They also did the finals, the final of the theft, they looted, they also got the final.\nBrothers and sisters, the Government of India won the Supreme Court yesterday. And the Supreme Court said that the Government of India has the right to open all their old things. Now let me see, now I see how much escapes escape. Brothers and sisters, did anyone ever have thought that these Namdhari families who ruled the country of four or four generations, there is an army of such chorus guards in this country, there is an army of Ragas Darbaris in every corner of India. Those who have eaten two-two, three-three generations, four-four generations, have eaten the merchandise. They have eaten their salt, they are still engaged in serving them. Did anyone ever think that people who run the country from such a four-four generation have a tea-colored ..., look at his courage, a tea-tea maker took them to the court door and you brothers and sisters, this is the victory of honesty, the country The success of the working people is the victory of the people who live and die for the country and those who persevere in sweating, that people who ruled the country from four generations had to go to the court door and in the racket of crores rupees, Out, but bail.\nBrothers and sisters, in your neighborhood, the government has sue on anyone in your village, and if he comes on bail then he is respected in the area ... Is she ready to give her a sister-daughter ..... Does her house have any relationship to eat and drink ... Relationship breaks or does not break ..... What can the Rajasthan give to those who have come on bail? Can you have a relationship with those who have come on bail? Can I trust people who are left out on bail? These secured people .... One of the big names of the other player named Namdhari and they believe that the wisdom God has given them only. Home Minister of the country, who was the Finance Minister of the country, what happened and what happened, brothers and sisters, see the strength of this teawala, who used to advocate in the Supreme Court itself, who used to be a dancer in the Supreme Court, The work of advocacy that used to be in the Supreme Court. Modi played such a game, that such a move was followed by Modi, finding such truth ... pulled out the pages and emerged, his own son went to jail ... the jail went away. In prison case went to jail And now, this monsieur has also come out in court to take advantage of all those who have their own world as a lawyer of the Supreme Court ... Give the next date ... Give the next date ... Give the next date. And the court tells the government that they can not arrest them till the end date. Then they go again, and then the court says that can not be arrested till the end date. He will continue to seek help from the court for a long time, one day justice is going to come and you will also be behind the bars.\nBrothers and sisters, you must have heard in my election meetings in 2014. I had said that the helicopter scandal had not happened ... Thousands of crores were screwed or did not happen ... VVIP helicopter and that letter will be known in the country ... Madam Sonia's letter is ... VVIP helicopter ... VVIP helicopter. Brothers and sisters, we began to think .. where after the government came in, all the files, papers did not know where-where? Keep looking for ... keep on looking for ... looking for ... and a politician from within. It used to be a commission of brokerage. He used to take care of the Namdhars of Hindus who used to bribe them. Ran away, was a citizen of England, lived in Dubai ... was a dealer of arms, used to work as a brokerage in the purchase and sale of helicopters, to serve politicians. Brothers, today you must have read in the newspapers, the Indian government has brought him up from Dubai yesterday. Now this Rajendra Raj will open, I do not know where it will reach, how far will it reach. Now tell me how a tea maker is able to do all this. Why did these corrupt people have to go on bail? How did the corrupt's son go to jail? How did they get the corrupt helicopter carrying the royalties? Brothers and sisters, who did this work, who did this job ... who did this job ... who did the job of hiding corrupt people ..... Who has done the job of catching a corrupt person ..... मोदी ने नहीं किया ये आप गलती कर रहे हैं...ये काम आपने किया है, आपके एक वोट ने किया। ये आपके वोट की ताकत है कि आपने मोदी को वोट दिया और एक गरीब मां का बेटा...चायवाला इनकी सल्तनत के सामने खड़ा हो पाया...ये आपके वोट की ताकत है...ये आपके वोट की ताकत है। और इसलिए भाइयो-बहनो, इस वोट को सिर्फ एमएलए कौन बने, कौन ना बने, इस सीमा में मत सोचिए, कौन दल जीते, कौन दल हारे, इस सीमा में मत सोचिए, किसकी सरकार बने, किसकी सरकार ना बने, इस सीमा में नहीं सोचिए।\nभाइयो-बहनो, आप अपनी संतानों को कैसा राजस्थान देना चाहते हैं, इसके लिए वोट दीजिए भाइयो। आप अपनी जिंदगी कैसे बिताना चाहते हो, इसके लिए वोट दीजिए। आप राजस्थान को कैसा देखना चाहते हो, इसके लिए वोट दीजिए भाइयो। और इसलिए आपके वोट की ताकत है, अभी हमने बैंकों के घपले का मामला...आपने अखबारों में पढ़ा होगा। चुनाव की आपाधापी में शायद न पढ़ पाए हों। ये नामदार के परिवार के मेहरबान...ये नामदार के रिश्तेदार ने, ये किसानों के नाम पर घड़ियाली आंसू बहाने वाले लोग, किसानों के साथ कैसा धोखा करते हैं, किसानों के साथ कैसी बेईमानी करते हैं, ये भी मैं आपके राजस्थान की धरती की बात बताता हूं। और बाड़मेर में उनको पता था कि भारत सरकार के बड़े-बड़े प्रोजेक्ट आने वाले हैं, वहां की जमीन की कीमतें बढ़ जाने वाली हैं, वहां के किसानों को फायदा होने वाला है। ये नामदार के रिश्तेदार उन्होंने मुफ्त के भाव से किसानों से जमीन हड़प ली और अशोक गहलोत जी की सरकार के सारे अफसर उनकी सेवा में लग गए। और भाइयो-बहनो, जमीन ले ली, मामूली पैसों से। दूसरी तरफ क्या हुआ, एक फर्जी कंपनी बनाई और ये फर्जी कंपनी उनसे जमीन ले लेगी, ऐसा तय हुआ। फर्जी कंपनी पैसे कहां से लाएगी तो एक स्टील कंपनी से सौदा हुआ। उसको सरकार में जो पैसा देना था, बैंक में जो पैसा देना था, इसमें उसको मदद की गई। और उस बैंक के पैसे स्टील की कंपनी के पास गए, स्टील की कंपनी के पैसे फर्जी कंपनी के पास गए, फर्जी कंपनी ने वो जमीन खरीदी और नामदार के रिश्तेदार को सातगुना पैसा दे दिया। घर बैठे कमाई, एक भी रुपये का इन्वेस्टमेंट नहीं, एक रुपये का पसीना नहीं। पैसा बैंक का, घुमा-फिरा के लूट लिया। आप मुझे बताइए राजस्थान में जिन्होंने ये कांड किया है, किसानों को लूटा है, उनको सजा होनी चाहिए कि नहीं होनी चाहिए...। सजा होनी चाहिए कि नहीं होनी चाहिए...। क्या राजस्थान में कांग्रेस की सरकार बनी तो उनको सजा मिलेगी....। ये कागजों की लीपापोती होगी कि नहीं होगी....। ये सब बचके निकल जाएंगे कि नहीं निकल जाएंगे.....। आप चाहते हैं कि देश को लूटने वाले बचने चाहिए....। पूरी ताकत से बताइए आप चाहते हैं....। ये देश को लूटने वाले बचने चाहिए....। उनको सजा होनी चाहिए....। अगर राजस्थान में बीजेपी की सरकार बनेगी तो सजा पक्की।\nभाइयो-बहनो, ऊपर के भ्रष्टाचार को तो ठीक करने में लगा हूं मैं। और इसीलिए तो लोग मुझसे जरा परेशान रहते हैं...गाली दे देते हैं। ये किसानों के नाम पर घड़ियाली आंसू बहाने वाले, ये कांग्रेस के ऐसे अध्यक्ष हैं, ये नामदार कि उनको कांग्रेस के नेताओं का नाम मालूम नहीं है। उनको युग का पता नहीं है, किस युग में कौन हुआ किस समय कुछ मालूम नहीं है। कांग्रेस सरकार के मंत्री, बहुत माने हुए जाट नेता उनका राम था कुंभाराम। ये नामदार ने कल क्या  कह दिया....क्या कह दिया...। अब जिस पार्टी के अध्यक्ष को अपनी पार्टी के किसान नेता कुंभाराम में भी यदि कुंभकरण दिखाई देता है, उस सरकार में कुंभकरण दिखाई देता है और जो कुंभकरण के गीत गाते हैं वो आकर के सोए रहेंगे कि जागेंगे....। सोते रहेंगे कि जागेंगे....। ऐसे सोते रहने वालों को राजस्थान दे सकते हैं क्या....। अरे जिसको कुंभाराम और कुंभकरण का भेद पता नहीं है, जिसको अपनी पार्टी के नेता का नाम मालूम नहीं है। भाइयो- बहनो, मैं चुनौती देता हूं...अगर दम हो तो ये नामदार हाथ में कागज लिए बिना कांग्रेस पार्टी के अध्यक्षों के नाम क्रम से बोल दे जरा। कितने लोगों ने आकर के कांग्रेस पार्टी का नेतृत्व किया नाम बोल दें। भाइयो-बहनो, इतना बड़ा देश ऐसे लोगों के हवाले करोगे क्या। ये राजस्थान ऐसे लोगों के हवाले करोगे क्या...। भाइयो-बहनो, मेरा राजस्थानी वीर, मेरा राजस्थानी किसान, मेरी राजस्थानी मां-बहन सम्मान के लिए जिंदगी दे देती हैं, लेकिन किसी की शरण नहीं जाती हैं।\nभाइयो-बहनो, हमने ये ऊपर तो सफाई की और आपने देखा होगा चार साल, पांच साल पहले 2013, 2012 जरा अखबार निकाल कर देखिए कि खबरें क्या आती थीं। खबरों में मुख्य क्या रहता था। कोयला घोटाला, टू-जी घोटाला, पनडुब्बी घोटाला, हेलिकॉप्टर घोटाला, एक लाख करोड़ का घोटाला, डेढ़ लाख करोड़ का घोटाला, अस्सी हजार करोड़ का घोटाला, घोटाले ही घोटाले आते थे कि नहीं आते थे....। इस सरकार पर आरोप क्या आता है, ज्यादा से ज्यादा क्या आरोप लगता है। मोदी की मां की उमर, मोदी के पिता का नाम, मोदी की जाति इससे आगे नहीं बढ़ पाए। भाइयो-बहनो, आप मुझे बताइए ईमानदारी से सरकार चलाई है कि नहीं चलाई है....। अगर जीया हूं तो आपके लिए जीया हूं कि नहीं.....। मेहनत करता हूं तो आपके लिए नहीं करता हूं क्या....। दिन-रात दौड़ता हूं तो आपके लिए दौड़ता हूं कि नहीं....। मैं तो कभी वैकेशन के लिए नहीं चला जाता। भाइयो-बहनो, ऊपर के लिए तो किया है, लेकिन चार पीढ़ी ने भ्रष्टाचार को ही अपनी शिष्टाचार बना दिया था। उनको ये भ्रष्टाचार राजनीति का हिस्सा ही है ऐसा चरित्र निर्माण कर दिया था। भाइयो-बहनो, इस देश की सारी कठिनाइयों की जड़ में भ्रष्टाचार है कि नहीं है.....। भ्रष्टाचार हमारी सारी मुसीबतों का कारण है कि नहीं है...। ये जड़ मूल से भ्रष्टाचार जाना चाहिए कि नहीं जाना चाहिए....। ये दीमक थोड़ी सी भी रह जाए तो फिर से फैलती है कि नहीं फैलती है....। जरा भी देर लगती है क्या...। जिसको मालूम है कि दीमक को खत्म करना है तो पूरी खत्म करना पड़ता है। ये भ्रष्टाचार भी एक ऐसी ही दीमक है, इसको आधा अधूरा खत्म करने से नहीं चलेगा उसको जड़ से ही मारना पड़ेगा। जिस कांग्रेस ने भ्रष्टाचार को शिष्टाचार बना दिया वह भ्रष्टाचार से लड़ सकती है, जड़ से उखाड़ सकती है, राजस्थान का या देश का भला कर सकती है? भाइयो-बहनो, हमने इस काम को भी उठाया है। नीचे के स्तर पर भी भ्रष्टाचार जाना चाहिए। इन्होंने कैसे खेल खेले हैं मैं बताऊं आपको...बताऊं...., आपको जल्दी नहीं है ना...परसों वोट देना है। आप मुझे बताइए जो बेटी पैदा नहीं हुई हो वो विधवा होती है क्या....। जिस बेटी का जन्म भी नहीं हुआ वो विधवा हो सकती है क्या....। कांग्रेस के राज में होती है। ये नामदार का खेल देखो, इस देश में कांग्रेस सरकार के कागजों पर जिस बेटी ने जन्म नहीं लिया, कागज पर बेटी पैदा होती है....कागज पर बेटी की शादी होती है...कागज पर बेटी विधवा होती है और फिर जिंदगीभर सरकारी खजाने से पेंशन जाता है। भाइयो-बहनो, बताइए मैंने आकर के ये बंद कर दिया। मैंने खोजा कि बताए ये बेटी है कहां...ये विधवा है कहां। आप हैरान हो जाएंगे जो बच्चा पैदा नहीं हुआ वो बच्चा स्कूल में स्कॉलरशिप ले रहा है। जिस आदमी ने नौकरी नहीं की पेंशन ले रहा है। जिसके घर में गैस का सिलेंडर नहीं है, गैस की सब्सिडी जा रही है।\nइस देश में साढ़े छह करोड़ लोग मुझे ऐसे मिले हैं कि जो हैं ही नहीं, लेकिन उनके नाम पर करोड़ों-करोड़ों रुपये निकल कर के चले जाते थे। ये किसके पास जाते थे भाई, ये लेने वाले कौन थे। ये बिचौलिए थे कि नहीं थे...। इसके लिए जिम्मेवार कौन....। इसके लिए जिम्मेवार कौन....। ये पैसा किसका था....। ये पैसा आपका था कि नहीं....। ये आपकी मालिकी का था कि नहीं.....। ये आपकी मेहनत का था कि नहीं....। इसे लूटने देने का अधिकार दिया जा सकता है क्या....। ये गरीब के हक का लूटा था कि नहीं लूटा था.....। मैंने सारी सफाई शुरू की। अब तक मुझे साढ़े छह करोड़ लोग हाथ लगे हैं कि जो पैदा ही नहीं हुए और पिछले तीस-चालीस सालों से अरबों-खरबों रुपये उनके नाम निकले हैं। अब मैंने नाम निकाल दिए, खत्म  कर दिए। भाइयो-बहनो और इसके कारण देश के खजाने से जो 90 हजार करोड़ रुपये जाता था वो 90 हजार करोड़ रुपया बच गया। बताइए 90 हजार करोड़ रुपया आपके काम आएगा, जो पहले चोर, लुटेरे, बिचौलिए ले जाते थे। ये चायवाला कर पाया कि नहीं कर पाया....। आपके लिए करता है कि नहीं करता है....। अब मुझे बताइए आप, आप जरा सोचिए, जिसकी जेब में ये 90 हजार करोड़ रुपया जाते थे अगर वो बंद हो गया तो वो मोदी का दुश्मन बन जाएगा कि नहीं बन जाएगा...। मोदी को गाली देगा कि नहीं देगा.....। मोदी को जीने नहीं देने के लिए रास्ते खोजेगा कि नहीं खोजेगा....। मोदी की राजनीति खत्म करने के लिए काम करेगा कि नहीं करेगा....। तब मेरी रक्षा कौन करेगा....। तब मेरी रक्षा कौन करेगा....। माताएं- बहनें तब मेरी रक्षा कौन करेगा....। तीन दिन तक ऐसी ताकत लगा दो, ऐसी ताकत लगा दो...घर-घर जाओ मेरी माताओं-बहनों, आप भारतीय जनता पार्टी को राजस्थान में फिर से लेकर आ जाओ भाइयो-बहनो।\nमैं  हमारे पीपी चौधरी जी को बधाई देता हूं, उन्होंने अपने इलाके में दो लाख से अधिक बहनों को बीमा योजना की मदद पहुंचाई, उसके परिवार में कुछ होगा तो उस परिवार को दो लाख रुपया मिलेगा भाइयो, दो लाख रुपया मिलेगा। ये काम हम करते हैं। एक तरफ आपने वो लोग देखे हैं जो आपका कैसे लूट लें और दूसरी तरफ आप ऐसे लोग देख रहे हैं जो अपनी जेब से आपको दे दें। भाइयो-बहनो, और इसलिए मैं आज आपसे आग्रह करने आया हूं, आप मुझे बताइए आजादी के इतने साल हो गए, हिंदुस्तान के हर व्यक्ति को, हिंदुस्तान के हर परिवार के पास अपना खुद का पक्का घर होना चाहिए कि नहीं होना चाहिए...। आपका खुद का होगा लेकिन आपके गांव में पांच लोगों का नहीं होगा। क्या आप चाहते हैं कि उन पांच लोगों का घर भी पक्का बने....। आजादी के 70 साल बाद भी अगर वो कच्चे घर में रहता, झोपड़ी में रहता है, फुटपाथ पर जिंदगी गुजारता है तो हम सबका काम है कि नहीं है कि मेरे देश का मेरा कोई भाई, मेरी कोई बहन उसको भी पक्का मकान मिले। होना चाहिए कि नहीं होना चाहिए....। आप मुझे आशीर्वाद दीजिए, मेरा सपना है 2022 तक जब आजादी के 75 साल होंगे, मैं हिंदुस्तान के हर परिवार को अपना पक्का घर मिले ये पक्का करना चाहता हूं। प्रधानमंत्री आवास योजना अब तक एक करोड़ पच्चीस लाख, ये छोटा आंकड़ा नहीं है, अभी तो मुझे चार साल मौका मिला है काम करने का। चार साल में एक करोड़ पच्चीस लाख पक्के मकान बनाकर कर के दिवाली पर चाबी दे दी और इन लोगों ने नए घर में अपनी दिवाली मना ली। भाइयो-बहनो, हमारे देश की परंपरा क्या रही, घर है पति के नाम, गाड़ी है पति ने नाम, दुकान है पति के नाम, खेती है पति के नाम, पति नहीं रहा तो सब कुछ बेटे के नाम, मां के नाम कुछ नहीं। महिला के नाम न घर है, महिला के नाम न गाड़ी है, महिला के नाम ना जमीन है, महिला के नाम कुछ नहीं। मोदी ने निर्णय कर लिया कि ये घर जो सरकार देगी वो घर की जो मुखिया महिला है उसके नाम देंगे। और घर भी सिर्फ चारदीवारी नहीं, घर पक्का होगा, घर महिला के नाम होगा, घर में नल होगा, नल में जल होगा, घर में गैस का चूल्हा होगा, घर में बिजली होगी, बच्चों की पढ़ाई की चिंता होगी, ऐसा घर एक करोड़ पच्चीस लाख दे चुका हूं और बाकी भी 2022 तक कोई नहीं रह जाएगा,  मैं वादा करता हूं।\nभाइयो-बहनो, राजस्थान में भी 7 लाख परिवारों को घर की चाबी मिल चुकी है और मेरे पाली में भी 18 हजार परिवारों को चाबी मिल चुकी है। जाकर के देख सकते हो। और इसलिए भाइयो-बहनो, हमारा मंत्र सिर्फ और सिर्फ विकास है, देश की समस्याओं का समाधान सिर्फ विकास है। जातिवाद बहुत हो चुका, भाई-भतीजावाद बहुत हो चुका, वंशवाद बहुत हो चुका, परिवारवाद बहुत हो चुका, संप्रदायवाद बहुत हो चुका। अब देश सिर्फ और सिर्फ विकासवाद पर ही चल सकता है। देश के नौजवानों का भविष्य सिर्फ विकासवाद से बन सकता है। और इसलिए हमारा मंत्र है ‘सबका साथ सबका विकास’। भाइयो-बहनो, विकास की ये गंगा ये हमारे विकास की गंगा उसकी पांच मुख्य धाराएं हैं। वो पांच मुख्य धाराएं विकास को सच्चे अर्थों में सामान्य मानवी तक पहंचाती हैं। ये विकास की गंगा की पांच मुख्य धाराएं, पहली धारा है बेटे-बेटी की पढ़ाई, विकास की हमारी पहली धारा है बेटे-बेटी की पढ़ाई। दूसरी धारा है युवा को कमाई, तीसरी धारा है किसान को सिंचाई। चौथी धारा है बुजुर्गों को दवाई और पांचवी धारा है जन-जन की सुनवाई। भाइयो-बहनो, इन पांच धाराओं से विकास की गंगा मुझे बढ़ानी, विकास की गंगा बहानी है, विकास की गंगा पहुंचानी है और इसके लिए मैं आज आपसे आग्रह करने आया हूं। पिछली बार भी आखिरी बार मुझे आपका आशीर्वाद मांगने का मौका मिला था, आज भी मुझे मौका मिला है। पिछली बार एक सीट कम आई थी, इस बार सौ प्रतिशत चाहिए। और सभी जिलों में चाहिए, पक्का, पक्की जीत....। हर बूथ की जीत....। घर-घर में भाजपा.....।\nमेरे साथ बोलिए भारत माता की...जय! भारत माता की…जय! Thanks a lot."