"PM Narendra Modi announces various development projects in Arrah, Bihar\nPM Narendra Modi announces a package of Rs. 1.25 lakh crore for Bihar\nThe development projects in Bihar would change the face of the state: PM\nIndia's East must develop for entire nation: PM\nIf Bihar needs industrial then Bihar also requires power We have taken the power to provide electricity: PM\nWelfare of farmers is important for agriculture to develop: PM\nAfter holding on to the post of Governor of Bihar, the new Governor of Bihar, Shri Ramanath Kovind, after Rajnath, this is the first public event outside Patna in honor of Ramnathji. Shriman Ramnath Kovind Jeev has spent his life for the welfare of Dalits, oppressed, oppressed, deprived, neglected, backward and backward. Whole life .. Society how many people who have sacrificed their lives for the exploited, Mr. Ramnath Kovind, today has become available to us as a Rajpal for the service of the Bihar people. I publicly welcome your heart, congratulate you.\nMy colleague of the Council of Ministers who sit on the platform and who has decided to make the best paths in India's Kanau-Kauni and Nitin Gadkari is the person when he was sitting as minister in the Government of Maharashtra, his identity became a flyover. minister In entire Maharashtra, he had laid a trap for the roads. The idea of ​​modern flyover brought Mr. Niran ji. Today, he has come to take the plans of the people to connect the Kau-Kauni of Bihar to every cow in India.\nMy colleague of the Council of Ministers, Sir Ram Vilas Paswan, Mr. Ravi Shankar Ji, Mr. Radha Mohan Singh Ji, Mr. Rajiv Pratap Rudri Ji, Mr. Dharmendra Pradhanji, Mr. Rajiv Ranjan Singh, Minister of Bihar Government, Mr. Ram Kripal Yadav Yes, Mr. Giriraj Singh Ji, Mr. Upendra Kushwaha Ji, Mr. Nand Kishore Yadav Ji, Mr. Sushil Kumar Modi Ji, Mr. Ashwani K Kill Chaubey G and wake Jigsaw MPs My friend Mr. RK After the Lok Sabha election, we received a lot of congratulations on the land of Bhojpur AL Bani, Babu Veer Kunwar Singh and Raura Lokan on the land of Babu Veer Kunwar Singh.\nBrothers and Sisters, today very early in the morning I came from Dubai, and now you have reached The programs I make, they were convincing me that sir! How quickly will it go? You will come all night long and you will come again. Our officers were worried, but you called and we went and we went. Brothers sisters, this is a government program and many important schemes are being held today. Many schemes are being released.\nIt is a matter of skill development for the brothers sisters, the training center for women, or the work of laying a network of roads in the village of Kanau-Koun in the village of Kau-Kauen; Today, the foundation of such works is going on in the coming days Bihar's face-change will change, will change the fate of Bihar, give Abhishek's youth an amazing ability to make a new Bihar, give amazing power.\nMy friend, Mr. Rajiv Pratap Rudri Ji, took the generation of skillful teachers to teach talented women of the country and read the walk. I congratulate him today, he has made a blueprint for the whole country. But today, in Bihar, in which a young man in such a large number is taught how to be skillful, skill development, how to be able to prepare for the bread and bread, the whole template has been prepared by making a book in front of you.\nBrothers sisters, in the coming days, skill development is going to change the country's fortunes and in Delhi the government does not think it in pieces or by tearing apart the pieces, the country can be taken to new heights of development. As long as we do not make a comprehensive plan, the result is not obtained. Even in the home if we say to the children one day eat low rice, say it on the second day, take that salt and pepper, say it on the third day, eat this pulse, say the fourth day, eat this chapati, everything in a week Even after going into the stomach, there is no satisfaction of eating, nor is there a possibility of becoming a body. All of Sarah goes waste. But not a little bit, but if served in the same plate, how much love does the child takes, how much awaits eating, the body starts to become blood, the flesh starts to grow, the bones begin to become strong and So we do not want to work in pieces. We said before, Make in India We told the world that let's put capital in India, plant factories, create new things, try to explain to people all over the world and today I am happy that people from all over the world will be able to plant factories Are ready to come to India, are eager to sit.\nYesterday I went to the Emirates. You must have seen the statement from Abu Dhabi. I have not been able to see the newspaper today. I have not seen TV, but you must have seen that the government of Abu Dhabi has declared the decision to impose a capital of Rs 4.5 lakh crore in India. Brothers sisters may seem to be factory, but if my young man's skill has not developed, then where will this factory come from his work? And so, on one side, Make In India, on the other hand, has run the skill development program. In order to get a factory, on the other hand, the young man got employment. A factory will come to be installed but if there is no electricity then will the factory look? Will the factory run? What will stop? If we want to bring industry in Bihar then we do not want electricity in Bihar or should we want electricity factory to be installed, we have taken up the campaign, install electric factories and generate electricity, so that when the factory is ready, get electricity, If you get electricity then get a young man with skill and move forward towards development.\nBrothers sisters, on August 15, we had told from the Fort of the Red Fort: Start-up India, Stand-up India Right now in our country, the word is familiar to the above surface. Not familiar with the bottom. Brothers sisters are 5-10 in each of our villages, so there are young people who have the power to do whatever they want to do, but they do not get the opportunity. They also think that why should not I even have a small factory, why should not I even use a small factory, even if 10 people, 15 people, 50 people in my factory, do not work, but I want to start work. . It is called start-up, every person can employ two to four people, build new things and fulfill the utility of their locality. In the coming days, we have decided to introduce a big scheme for the start-up of the whole country. But I have said this to help financially help banks, financial institutions, Hindustan youth start-up, but simultaneously I have said a special thing that you should give 50 nuances of every bank Give 100 youngsters to 25 young people who can do whatever they can. But at least every bank will pay for a start-up to a dalit victim from one of your bank's money. He made him industrialist and son of my dalit mother, son of my aboriginal mother if small even a factory. If I give employment to one or two people, then my lagged brothers will never have to go to see anyone else again. And so brothers and sisters, not just skill development, we are working by taking a complete cycle.\nYou have seen more than 60 years of independence, 70 years of age, we are going to knock on the door. We talked about agriculture development, how to get more food, how to get more food, but there is a lot of discussion on this subject but I have no idea what my farmer's situation is. Agriculture worried, the farmers were missed. Tell me, can the welfare of agriculture be done without the welfare of the brothers and sisters? Without the welfare of agriculture can the welfare of the farmer be? Should both be or should not be? For the first time since independence, our government has decided, and this is under the leadership of Mr. Radha Mohan ji, in the presence of Bihar, we are going to start a new campaign in which the welfare of agriculture and welfare of the farmer also , And hence agriculture and farmer welfare, now this new department will work. I believe that such a good news has never come before before independence for farmers across the country.\nBrothers and sisters, I had come to Bihar in the last days and I had said that Bihar is counted in BIMARU state, we have to take it out, our chief minister here became very angry, he got very angry, what does Modi do? Those who call Bihar the BIMARU state and said on the strike of Danes that now Bihar is not BIMARU state. Valid Chief Minister, Ghee Sugar in your mouth, I accept your request and if Bihar has come out of BIMARU then I would be happier, the whole of India will be brother, and so I say once again Honorable Chief Minister Jai has said that Bihar is not BIMARU state, now he is not BIMARU, I welcome this fact.\nMy brothers and sisters in Bihar, whom you call sharp intellect, say the brightness, as many people in Bihar are in, and have to search for them at the place. God has given you this power. Chanakya was born here only if you are unique. You are stunning\nBrothers, sisters, I want to ask you, who has eaten enough stomach, every kind of sweets or all kinds of things have been found, every meal has been eaten, stomach filled, then asking for some food Will you? Just tell me, no one will go? If your stomach is full then will you ask for food? Someone is healthy, there is no sign of illness, very good sleep, very good food, a lot of work can be done. Who is fit, will he ever go to the doctor? What will happen to the disease? Will he go to the doctor who will be sick? He who is not sick will never go to the doctor, will he? Will not you?\nBrothers and sisters, I am surprised, on one side, we say that we are not BIMARU, on the other hand, we say that, this is it, let us give it, we need it, we need it. The people of Bihar decide, the people of Bihar decide.\nBrothers, I have been saying from the very first day that if India is to move forward, then only the country can not move forward with the development of western states of India. If the country has to move forward, then the eastern regions of India must move forward. Whether it is eastern Uttar Pradesh or Bihar, whether it is West Bengal or Assam, whether it is in the North-East, Orissa, unless these states will not be good, the country will never be able to prosper.\nBrothers and sisters, so far Bihar has got two packages. When Bihar and Jharkhand split, then Atal Bihari Vajpayee ji gave a package of ten thousand crores in 2003, keeping in mind the requirements which were due to that partition, but brothers and sisters, later in Delhi The government changed, the situation changed and this is telling me such a truth, it is a bitter truth that people of Bihar know it is important to know. Atal Bihari Vajpayee ji declared a package of ten thousand crores, till 2013, even the expenditure of ten thousand crores was not made to Bihar. One thousand crore rupees was saved in that, only nine thousand rupees was spent on the expenditure. After that some time before a political storm came in Bihar, I do not want to say about what happened. At that time the Chief Minister of Delhi reached Delhi after this political storm, what was the government in Delhi, you know, Bihar's self-respect was put on the stake. To take political shelter, leave Bihar's self-respect and went to the Delhi court, give a gift, give something for the sake of respect, and give two brothers. I want to tell what the Delhi government did with Bihar at that time, my brothers and sisters. What is Bihar's self-esteem, what is Bihar's self-esteem, what is the pride of Bihar? Brothers and sisters, the Delhi government, to keep them happy, they cry too much in their home, give chocolates, give biscuits and they also go and say, come. No, no, I got chocolate, I got chocolate Delhi government played with the pride of such a big Bihar and what gave it, only 12 thousand crore rupees How much? 12 thousand crore rupees He also added a thousand crores rupees, which were hanging at the time of Atal ji, he also added. Meaning only 11 thousand crores And he did not even give it, that the paper was caught, take that.\nBrothers and sisters, this account is the program of this government, it is my duty to give publicity to the people. Should I say that should not say? Should you tell me the point of your right? Should the truth be kept in front of people or not? 1 thousand Atal ji 11, his 12 thousand crore was announced and I have to say sadly that only 4 thousand crore has been spent so far. How much of 12 thousand? How much? Brothers and sisters, these 4 thousand in 2013, in 2014, there was a nominal expenditure. The cost of these 11 thousand crores was also given to you in Delhi, after which the excess was spent, even before that it had not happened. And at that time also 8 thousand crore rupees still lying in the tin, have been closed Tell me, what kind of government is this? 8 thousand crore rupees have not been able to spend even now, so brothers and sisters, so far, two packages have been received, one thousand thousand thousand rupees, one billion rupees, and do not spend even on it. Have been found.\nBut today, today I have come to play you my futures. जब मैं लोकसभा के चुनाव में आया था, तब मैंने वायदा किया था कि बिहार को 50 हजार करोड़ रुपये का पैकेज दिया जाएगा। मैं पिछले दिनों बिहार आया, लेकिन मैं अपनी बात बता नहीं पाया था क्‍योंकि पार्लियामेंट चल रही थी। संसद की एक गरिमा होती है। हर सरकार के लिए संसद की गरिमा को बरकरार रखना उसका दायित्‍व होता है और मैंने अपनी वो संवैधानिक जिम्‍मेदारी निभाते हुए चुप रहना पंसद किया था। आया, कुछ बताए बिना चला गया। इसके लिए भी मेरे बाल नोच लिए गए, मेरे बाल नोच लिए गए। यहां तक कह दिया के ये कारण झूठा है, ये जनता की आंख में धूल झोंकने वाली बात है। भाईयों-बहनों, अभी तो चार दिन पहले संसद का सत्र समाप्‍त हुआ है, और आज मैं आरा की धरती से बिहार की जनता को मैं अपना वो वायदा पूरा करने आया हूं।\nभाईयों-बहनों, जब मैंने जिम्‍मेवारी ली थी, उसके पहले मैं चुनाव में आया था, दिल्‍ली के कारोबार का मुझे पता नहीं था, बारीकियां मुझे मालूम नहीं थीं, लेकिन मैंने आ करके बारीकियों को देखा। मेरे बिहार का भला करने के लिए क्‍या करना चाहिए, एक-एक चीज को छान मारा और मुझे लगा 50 हजार करोड़ से कुछ नहीं होगा। और आज मेरे बिहार के भाईयों-बहनों, आज मैं आरा की धरती सेभाईयों-बहनों, आज मैं बाबू वीर कुंवर सिंह की पवित्र धरती से, जयप्रकाश नारायण जी के आशीर्वाद से राजनीतिक जीवन के हमने संस्‍कार पाए हैं। उस परिप्रेक्ष्‍य में जब आज में खड़ा हूं तब मैं आज बिहार के पैकेज की घोषणा यही से करना चाहता हूं। करूं, करूं, 50 हजार करूं कि ज्‍यादा करूं, 60 हजार करूं कि ज्‍यादा करूं, 70 हजार करूं कि ज्‍यादा करूं, 75 हजार करूं कि ज्‍यादा करूं 80 हजार करूं कि ज्‍यादा करूं, 90 हजार करूं कि ज्‍यादा करूं। मैरे भाईयों-बहनों मैं आज वादा करता हूं दिल्‍ली सरकार.. कान बराबर ठीक रख करके सुन लीजिए, दिल्‍ली सरकार सवा लाख करोड़ रुपये का पैकेज देगी। सवा लाख करोड़ रुपया बिहार का भाग्‍य बदलने के लिए, सवा लाख करोड़ रुपये मेरे भाईयों-बहनों मैं आपका मिज़ाज देख रहा हूं। हर कोई  खड़ा हो गया है। आप मुझे आशीर्वाद दीजिए, आप मुझे आशीर्वाद दीजिए मेरे भाईयों-बहनों। सवा लाख करोड़ रुपया, बिहार का भाग्‍य बदलने के लिए।\nभाईयों-बहनों बात यहीं पर रूकेगी नहीं। मेरे भाईयों-बहनों यह सवा लाख करोड़ का तो पैकेज दिया जाएगा, लेकिन जो कुछ काम चल रहे हैं, जो काम शुरू हो चुके हैं लेकिन जिसमें अभी खर्चा नहीं हुआ है, हुआ है तो बहुत कम हुआ है। जैसे मैंने कहा था पुरानी सरकार का 12 हजार करोड़ का पैकेज था। उसमें 8,282 करोड़ रुपया, करीब-करीब 8000 करोड़ रुपये से भी ज्‍यादा वो अभी बाकी पड़ा है। राष्‍ट्रीय राजमार्गों में बनाने में 12 हजार करोड़  रुपये  के काम चल रहे हैं। बाका में public private बिजली का कारखाना  लगने वाला है। 20,000 करोड़  रुपया  से अगर मैं इनको  जोंडू, तो वो रकम बनती है 40,657 करोड़  रुपया और इसलिए सवा लाख करोड़  के अतिरिक्‍त, सवा लाख करोड़  के उपरांत यह 40,000 करोड़ रुपया भी बिहार के विकास के लिए जोड़ा  जाएगा। सवा लाख plus 40,000 करोड़ और हो गया total 1,65,000 करोड़ रुपया मेरे भाईयों-बहनों। 1,65,000 करोड़ रुपया। अब मुझे बताइये न दिल्‍ली की सरकार पहले थी, उनमें धरती पर काम करने की ताकत थी, न बिहार को मिला पैसा उपयोग कर पाएं। मैं आपको वादा करता हूं मैं इसको लागू करके रहूंगा मेरे भाईयों बहनों, लागू करके रहूंगा।\nभाईयों-बहनों हमारे देश को अगर समस्‍याओं से मुक्‍त करना है, तो विकास के रास्‍ते से ही किया जा सकता है। नौजवान को रोजगार देना है तो विकास से ही मिलेगा, किसान का भला करना है तो विकास से होगा, गांव का भला  करना है तो विकास से होगा, हमारे देश से गरीबी से मुक्ति करनी है तो विकास से ही होगा और इसलिए मेरे भाइयों-बहनों विकास के लिए बिहार को एक नई ताकत मिले, बिहार विकास की नई ऊंचाईयों को पार करें। पूर्वी हिंदुस्‍तान को आगे बढ़ाने में बिहार एक अहम भूमिका निभाएं इसलिए पुरानों में से 40,000 करोड़ और नये में से सवा लाख करोड़, 1 लाख 65 हजार करोड़ आज आपके चरणों में घोषित करते हुए मुझे आनंद होता है। Thanks a lot.\n पूरी मुट्ठी से बंद करके बोलिए भारत माता की जय। आज तो ताकत जोरों में होनी चाहिए। होनी चाहिए कि नहीं होनी चाहिए?\nLong live Mother India. Long live Mother India. Long live Mother India.\nThanks a lot."