"\nPM Modi lists out achievements of Govt in Bihar #ParivartanRally\nWe are committed to finding permanent solutions of all problems that are faces faces today: PM #ParivartanRally\nA special package of Rs. 1.65 lakh crores for the development of Bihar, for transforming future of the state #ParivartanRally\nWelfare of farmers is important for agriculture to develop: PM Modi #ParivartanRally\nWe are committed to bringing back glory to Bihar; We will transform the lives of people of Bihar: PM Modi #ParivartanRally\nMr. Mangal Pandey, State President, BJP State that is on the stage, Mr. Ram Vilas Paswan, my colleague of the Council of Ministers at the Center, Mr. Sushil Kumar Modi, leader of the Legislature, Mr. Jitan Ram Manjhi, former Chief Minister of the State, Mr. Leader of the Opposition in the State Legislative Assembly Nand Kishore Yadav, my colleague of the Cabinet Shri Upendra Kushwaha, our senior leader Dr. C. P. Thakur, Former State President Mr. Gopal Narayan Ji, We are the President of the party Mr. Shakunji Choudhary, National President of our party Mr. Shahnawaz Ji, our former MP Mr. Uday Singh Ji, State President of Ralospa Dr. Arun ji, Member of Bihar Legislative Council Dr. Dilip Kumar Jaiswal, Our MP Mr. Kirti Azad, Our MP Hukumdev Narayan Ji, Former MP Let Nikhil Chaudhary G, Mr. Pradeep Singh, Mr. Nityananda opinion Yes, sir Vishwa Mohan Chowdhury Yes Sir M.. Mr. Ram Naresh Singh ji, Mr. Virendra Chaudhary Ji, Mr. Devendra Yadav Ji, Mr. Mahboob Ali Ji, Mr. Alok Ranjan ji, Mr. Madan Mohan Chowdhary ji, Mrs. Nutan Singh ji, all the senior dignitaries who are standing on stage.\nIn Ain Puyaya Land Mithila, we are very proud, we all have a lot of respect. I am coming from Aara's program right now. Earlier, I had the opportunity to address two rallies in Bihar. The air is clearly visible. What is the atmosphere in this election, how is the weather, it is well known. And for the formation of the government of NDA, a strong thunderstorm has occurred, there is strong wind, rain can not soothe it. When I was in Aara, I was told that there is a heavy rain here but they are people of Kosi zone, if you decide once, then why the storm is not strong, why the rain is not so fast, they stop. They are tired, they do not bend; I repeatedly bow down to the people of such a zone.\nBrothers and Sisters, 7 years ago on August 18, there was a fierce flood in Kosi and in that flood, 3.5 lakh families of 7-8 districts near here were devastated. The fields here were filled with sand. The villages had stood on the brink of destruction. Neither earth was left nor the sky was ready to stop, and the people here were struggling with problems. At that time I used to work as Chief Minister in Gujarat. Many families of this Kosi zone have settled here in Gujarat and because of this, I used to get all the information from them and then we had thought that how far Gujarat should be far away, but with the help of the shoulder, Should stand together, help them to get rid of problems.\nAll of you, my brothers and sisters, people from all over the country have stood with you in the hour of that crisis, but sometimes the pain of public, pain of the common man ... The arrogance of the politicians happens on the seventh heaven that ego Causes are not understood by senses, they experience no pain, no pain is detected and they remain immersed in their ego. Today, when I came into this Kosi zone, by taking the oath of Kosi river, I want to say how deeply the ego of a person hurts ... If I personally humiliate someone, give a drool, the use of chanting language By doing this, I have never publicly said anything about this kind of antics; I prepare myself to bear it, but when due to ego, the common man's Be messing with D and suffering to the people-Janardan pain and suffering I could not stop myself.\nToday, when I came into a zone, I want to say that the day was August 18 and today is also the day of August 18, that was the day. Today I want to say that the people of Gujarat had sent a check of Rs. 5 crore to help the people of Kosi region by earning their sweat. In those 5 crore rupees, the people of this Kosi region who live in Gujarat and who have made Gujarat their own workplace, were also 5-10 lakh rupees. They also wanted to give some contribution for the victims of their own families. But their ego was on the seventh sky; It was such an ego that you should continue to suffer pain, you continue to suffer and they sent the check of Rs 5 crore to the people of Gujarat.\nYou tell me, my brothers and sisters, is this conduct appropriate in public life? Tell the full strength, what is right? Is such a behavior acceptable? People of Kosi Zone die if they die, but I will not leave my ego, can it run? Who can not leave their ego, should we leave them or not? Should such people be farewell or not? Brothers and sisters, such an ego has trampled the dreams of Bihar, shattered Bihar's dreams. I also drank that humiliation, and then I sent my brother, who was there in Bihar, to give him some goods, that the brother would come somewhere in my name, the storm would rise, you go quietly and divide among the poor families here. Let's come People came, served the people here and did not allow anybody to make any noise.\nThere are some traditions in public life, there are some policies, there are some rules, but what should I expect from such people? Do you tell me that my brothers and sisters, Jayprakash Narayan, are the pride of our country or not? Answer with full force, is Jayprakash Narayan ji the pride of our country or not? Our pride is not that? Did Jayaprakash ji give glory to Bihar or not? Did not increase the honor or prestige of Bihar? Do you remember who stopped Jai Prakash Narayan ji in jail? When the reign of Mrs. Indira Gandhi ran during the Emergency, who stopped Jai Prakash Narayan ji in jail? Congress Party, Mrs. Indira Gandhi had jailed Jai Prakash Narayan ji and it was their sin that they used to fight against corruption. Under the leadership of Bihar jaiprakash ji, and after the whole of Hindustan Jayaprakash ji came to the field to fight against corruption ... Brothers and sisters, now there is no place, where will come, now it is filled! There is no place in this field, there is a lot of place for you in my heart.\nJai Prakash ji got out of jail and got out of this country and could not save Laloo Prakash Narayan ji of Sai Pruth and mother Bharti of this country, they went away from us. Who is responsible for the death of Jayaprakash Narayan ji? This is what the Congressmen who played with Jayprakash Narayan ji. I want to ask the brothers of Bihar ... people of Bihar have decided in my mind that with Jai Prakash Narayan ji, this type of tyrannical person was overthrown by overthrowing the politics of Bihar, but today people who live in the life of Jayaprakash ji With the people playing the game, they are making an electoral compromise, sharing seats with the Congress, tell me it will hurt Jayaprakash Narayan Ji's soul. Bring In? Is that not cheating and betrayal with Jayaprakash Narayan? Can you trust with such people who ruined Jayaprakash Narayan's life? To get power you are sitting in his lap and therefore the business which is going on. Now Bihar's politics has shifted to change.\nNow this government is not going to be living here, the people here are not going to accept them, nor will they be able to accompany them. Brothers and sisters, you gave me the opportunity to serve as the Prime Minister. You tell me, I am giving account of my work by coming to the public and not giving it to me? It takes a courage to go among the public, encourages it, feels faith in the public, believes faith, but when the relationship breaks down with the public, the ego is on the seventh sky, instead of going into the public, the air conditioner room There is no work left except by calling five to five journalists in and out of the poison of poison. Brothers and sisters, we are of the people, go among the people, come in the public and give us their account.\nBrothers and sisters, Bihar is afraid of wildlife. Her signals have begun. I want to present the data of the Bihar government in front of the people of Bihar who have put their own information about their own department of Bihar government on their website today, I want to put you in front of you. Doubts have begun to come and the days of confrontation have begun. You see, Bihar government statistics tell: January 2015, the number of crimes in Bihar was - 13,808 the number of serious types of crimes - 13,808; This figure has reached 13 thousand to 18,500 in June 2015, 34 percent increase in serious types of crimes. Tell me, this is the excitement of the Jangaraj that you will not have your life difficult or not? Innocent sister-daughters will be in danger or will not they? In January, 217 murders took place, in June, this figure reached 316 in such a short time and I have not taken any account of the last fortnight. 46 percent has increased and now you tell me that if this period of killings goes on, then what will be the normal life of Bihar's normal life?\nBrothers and sisters, I want to focus more on one thing. These figures are from the Bihar government, I am speaking to them. The number of riots in January was 866, the number of riots occurred in the month of June - nearly 1500; Exact figure is - 1497 i.e. 1500 three remaining. In January, about eight and eight hundred and 1500 riots in June increased by 72 percent. Look at every parameter, Bihar's normal human life is not safe. The alarm ring is ringing. I have come to request you to kill the killings in this election, to stop these riots, to save lives of these innocent people, you do not need to go home and make a guard, you just have a strong in Patna Give the government, give us our support, we will solve your problems.\nThe discussion was going on for several days ... I forgot to say one more thing, I want to say it a little bit. I mentioned Kosi but the people here would remember that after a few days of forming our government in Delhi in August 2014, once again there was a crisis on Kosi. Landslide was on the Kosi river near Dupal Chowk in Nepal. The arrival of the river was closed and the water started accumulating there. From satellites, we came to know that if this water gets accumulated and in the flood, if the soil collapses, there are hundreds of villages in Bihar on the banks of Kosi, which have been destroyed seven years ago, even more than 100 times more catastrophe will come, No one will escape How is the government working, how is the government that understands the pain and suffering of public, how is the Government trying to identify the problems first and find ways ...\nMy cousin's brothers and sisters, you remember that we immediately sent the army. To reopen that river in Nepal; In such large landslides, the water came out of small grooves and launched its campaign. Even then, we did not trust. The experiment was not successful at all and the water was accumulated and if the soil collapsed together then no family of my Kosi zone will survive. I sent our soldiers here, urged the Bihar government, mobilized my workers, sat in Delhi to monitor it constantly, to get the villages out of the village. The farmers here got angry with me that the water does not look like there is no rain, and Modi is evacuating the village, the animals are also asked to carry it and that too 50-50 km distance ... everyone was resentful . After that I said, no compromise. They do not know how big a possibility is. We are trying to get the blight but if we come then the loss should be at least. We are managing for him and today I am proud to give account to the brothers and sisters of Kosi Zone that we have succeeded in doing that work. Kosi region was saved from trouble. Not only that, when there was an earthquake in Nepal now, the government here was surprised at this and he publicly said that within a few minutes of the earthquake, the phone of the Prime Minister of India came, the phones reached those districts. I talked to MPs from this area on the phone. We said, brother, this earthquake can do huge damage.\nIf Kosi had such concern ... First of all, the Government of India had the responsibility to fix our relations with Nepal. It is sad to say with great sadness that due to Kosi no year does not happen that the farmers here have not faced any trouble facing the people here. The solution to this problem is in Nepal. As long as sitting with Nepal does not make proper plans regarding the flow of water, farmers of this Koti sept can not be saved. And therefore, it is necessary to have a deep connection with Nepal, it is necessary to become a partner of Nepal's happiness and misery. 17 years, if you go from Patna to Nepal, it does not take 70 minutes, but the Prime Minister took 17 years to visit Nepal. No Prime Minister of the country has gone for 17 years, did not talk to Kosi from Nepal, did not talk about saving Kisai Patel's brother-in-law brothers. We went, went after 17 years and started discussions with the Nepal government about what we can do for Kosi.\nरास्ते खोजने पड़ते हैं, समस्याओं का समाधान निकालना पड़ता है तब जाकर के हमारे देश के गरीब किसान को हम बचा सकते हैं और उस काम को 2014 के अगस्त में हमने करके दिखाया, नेपाल जाकर करके दिखाया। भूकंप के बाद नेपाल के साथ हम खड़े रहे। आज एक भाई की तरह कंधे से कंधा मिलाकर के हम उसकी सेवा में लगे हुए हैं और इसलिए मैं कहता हूँ कि हमें समस्याओं का दीर्घकालीन दृष्टि से भी समाधान खोजना होगा। हमने वो प्रयास प्रारंभ किया। हमारे यहाँ कृषि मंत्रालय तो है, कृषि की चिंता करने के लिए तो समय है लेकिन किसान की चिंता कौन करेगा। अगर हम किसान के कल्याण की चिंता नहीं करेंगे तो कृषि का भी कल्याण नहीं होगा और अगर हम कृषि का कल्याण नहीं करेंगे तो किसान का भी कल्याण नहीं होगा। इसलिए मैंने 15 अगस्त को लालकिले की प्राचीर से हमने कहा कि जो मंत्रालय का नया नाम होगा – कृषि विकास और किसान कल्याण मंत्रालय। अब सरकार के डिपार्टमेंट में सिर्फ़ कृषि की नहीं किसान की भी चिंता करने की योजना बनेगी। ये बहुत बड़ा और महत्वपूर्ण हमने निर्णय किया है।\nभाईयों-बहनों, मैं अभी-अभी आरा से आ रहा हूँ। आरा में सरकार का कार्यक्रम था और उस सरकार के कार्यक्रम में विकास की योजनाओं का प्रारंभ करना था। स्किल डेवलपमेंट हो, रास्तों का जाल गूंथना हो, अनेक योजनाओं को प्रारंभ किया और चुनाव के पहले जब मैं आया था, तब मैंने कहा था कि दिल्ली में हमारी सरकार बनेगी तो हम 50,000 करोड़ रुपये का पैकेज देंगे। बिहार को कहा था ना? और कुछ लोगों ने कहना शुरू कर दिया था कि मोदी बोलते हैं, करते नहीं हैं कुछ; मोदी ने चुनाव के पहले वादा किया था और जब पिछली बार आये तो फिर से टोने मारने शुरू कर दिये कि मोदी बोले क्यों नहीं। मैंने कहा था कि पार्लियामेंट चल रही है, पार्लियामेंट की कुछ गरिमा, उसके कुछ rules and regulations होते हैं, सरकार उस मर्यादा को तोड़ नहीं सकती और ये मैंने कहा था कि जबतक संसद चालू है, मैं बोल नहीं पाऊंगा। अभी चार दिन पहले संसद का सत्र पूर्ण हुआ है और आज आरा में मैंने घोषणा की है, बिहार का भाग्य बदलने के लिए, नया बिहार बनाने के लिए। और मैंने पैकेज की घोषणा की है – सवा लाख करोड़ रूपया (1,25,000 करोड़)।\nमैं बिहार की शक्ल सूरत बदल करके रख दूंगा। ये मैं आपको विश्वास दिलाने आया हूँ और जब मैं ये कहूँगा तो मुझे मालूम है कि पत्रकारों को बुलाकर के कान में कहा जाएगा, ये तो पुराने वाला है, ये पहले वाला है। भाईयों-बहनों, मैं सच बता देना चाहता हूँ जब अटल जी की सरकार थी तब 10,000 करोड़ का पैकेज घोषित हुआ था और न दिल्ली की सरकार न राज्य की सरकार। पूरे के पूरे 10,000 करोड़ रूपया खर्च नहीं कर पाई थी। उसका 1,000 करोड़ रूपया अभी खर्च करना बाकी बचा हुआ है। फिर जब बिहार में जब दो साल पहले राजनीतिक तूफ़ान खड़ा हुआ, भाजपा के साथ धोखा किया गया, बिहार की जनता के साथ धोखा किया गया और बिहार के स्वाभिमान के साथ भी खिलवाड़ किया गया... और दिल्ली वाले पैकेज दो, हम आपका साथ देंगे, साथ तो देना ही था, उनका कुर्ता पकड़ करके बचने की कोशिश करनी ही थी और इसलिए पहुंचे और वहां से घोषणा की कि अब बिहार को 12,000 करोड़ का पैकेज मिलेगा और ये नाचने लगे। ये बिहार के स्वाभिमान के साथ खिलवाड़ था। 2013-14 में 12,000 करोड़ के पैकेज में से कुछ भी खर्च कर पाए। इतना ही नहीं, 2014 में हमारी सरकार बनने के बाद उन 12,000 करोड़ में से करीब-करीब 4,000 करोड़ रुपये खर्च हमने आकर के किया और अभी भी 8,000 करोड़ उसका भी बाकी है। 1,000 करोड़ अटल जी वाला और 8,000 करोड़ मनमोहन सिंह की सरकार वाला।\nभाईयों-बहनों, हम बिजली का एक कारखाना पब्लिक प्राइवेट पार्टनरशिप में लगाने वाले हैं। वो 20,000 करोड़ रूपया और रोड के लिए और थोड़ा खर्चा, जिसकी रकम होती है करीब-करीब 12,000 करोड़ रूपया। ये रकम बनती है - 40,000 करोड़ और इसलिए मैं आपको कहना चाहता हूँ कि जो मैं सवा लाख करोड़ कह रहा हूँ, ये चालीस हजार करोड़ उसमें नहीं है। चालीस हजार करोड़ अलग तो कुल पैकेज बन जाता है - 1,65,000 करोड़ रूपया का पैकेज; बिहार के विकास के लिए, बिहार की जनता के भलाई के लिए। इन पैसों से रास्ते बनेंगे; बिजली आएगी; किसान को खेतों में मदद मिलेगी; नौजवान के लिए रोजगार के अवसर उपलब्ध कराए जाएंगे; बिहार के घर-घर में 24 घंटे बिजली मिले; बिहार के गाँव में जहाँ बिजली अभी पहुंची नहीं है, वहां बिजली पहुंचे; जिन घरों में पीने का पानी नहीं है, शौचालय नहीं है, उन घरों को पीने का पानी मिले, शौचालय मिले; फ़र्टिलाइज़र के कारखाने लगे; किसानों को यूरिया मिले; एक के बाद एक विकास की अनगिनत योजनाओं के द्वारा बिहार के जीवन को बदलना है।\nभाईयों-बहनों, ये बातें करने वाले लोग... आज बिहार के लोगों को पढ़ने के लिए बाहर जाना क्यों पड़ता है? मां-बाप को लाखों रुपये का खर्चा क्यों करना पड़ता है? ये स्थिति मुझे बदलनी है और इसके लिए इतना बड़ा विशाल जनसमूह। मैं लोकसभा चुनाव में भी यहाँ आया था लेकिन ऐसा जनसागर मैंने देखा नहीं था। मैं यहाँ भी देख रहा हूँ, मंच के पीछे देख रहा हूँ, क्या जनसैलाब है! चुनाव के डेट जब भी आ जाएं, बिहार की जनता ने भारतीय जनता पार्टी के नेतृत्व में एनडीए को जिताने का फैसला कर लिया है। और हमने वादा किया है कि हम आपकी भलाई के लिए, आपके कल्याण के लिए बिहार के उस सामर्थ्य को फिर से वापस लाने के लिए जी-जान से जुटे रहेंगे। नया बिहार बना के रहेंगे, बिहार का भाग्य बदल कर रहेंगे, बिहार की जनता का भाग्य बदल कर रहेंगे। इसी शुभकामना के साथ मेरे साथ पूरी ताकत से बोलिये – भारत माता की जय – आवाज कोसी के कोने-कोने में पहुंचनी चाहिए।\nBharat Mata Ki Jai, Bharat Mata Ki Jai, Bharat Mata Ki Jai!\nThanks a lot!"