"\nToday I am witnessing 'mini-India' in Dubai: PM\nPeople from all over the world have come here to Dubai Magnetic power of this place has drawn the world here: PM\nThere are around 700 flights between India and the UAE but it took 34 years for a PM to visit this Nation: PM\nPM Narendra Modi urges audience to give a standing ovation to the crown Prince of Abu Dhabi\nIndia has been a victim of terrorism for 40 years. Innocent people have lost their lives: PM\nGood Taliban, Bad Taliban ... Good Terror, Bad Terror ... this will not work. A decision has to be taken against you terrorism or with humanity: PM\nOur efforts have been to take India's new heights of progress and maintain a strong friendship with our neighboring countries: PM\nOn the land of Dubai I am seeing small India in front of me today. I bow to my beloved nationals coming from the corners of India. You are those people, who have done hard work for some ten years, from fifteen years, from twenty years to some thirty years, for some thirty years, but also to increase the pride of India together. Are not behind Due to your behavior, India has always been proud because of your conduct. If there is more rain in India, then my Hindustan umbrella is seated in Dubai. If there is a natural disaster somewhere in India, my countrymen sitting in Dubai can not sleep peacefully.\nWhen Atal Bihari was the Prime Minister of the country, India had conducted a nuclear test, the world was shocked, some people were angry and sanction was imposed on India overnight. India was pushed into economic troubles ... and then Vajpayee had called upon the Indians spread all over the world, to help the country. Today I can say proudly that on the call of Vajpayeeji, the wages of the people who worked in the Gulf countries in filling the vault of India were the biggest contribution of my people. In this sense, every Indian settled here is associated with every corner of India. The last time the country was busy for the Lok Sabha election, the results were coming, not only Hindustan, but also the whole of Dubai was dancing. This love is for the welfare of Bharat Mata..Mam Bharati once again became strong, strong, prosperous, prosperous, you have been sitting in front of me every day doing this dream.\nBrothers and sisters, today .. my brothers and sisters have come from every corner of India and Dubai, it is only a small India. It is not so, now Dubai has become a miniature world too. People from all countries of the world are living in Dubai in lesser amounts. People from cold-cold regions also prefer to live in this 40-45 degree temperature. What strength will this country show, will the magnetic power be created through the development that the whole world is attracted here.\nAll the people from every corner of India have just celebrated the festival of independence of India on August 15, two days ago. I also give you all-many good wishes of the holy festival of Independence.\nThe community which came here from Kerala also is very large. I am mentioning Kerala specifically because it is today's New Year in Kerala. Sister-in-law Rowdyam Nirvania Nawawalsa Asham succeeded. Namaskaram\nMore than 700 flights come here every week from Hindustan. If there is such a large amount of air traffic with any one country in the world, then it is from this area. Every week there are more than 700 flights, but the Prime Minister of India has taken 34 years to come here. Sometimes I feel that there are so many good things that the people of the past have left the rest for me and so I have got the fortune to do a lot of good work. Important good work from those good things come to my house in Abu Dhabi, I have come to Dubai. The way ... .. this is my first meeting. Never before did I come to this terrain of earth. ..And come in the form of Prime Minister in 34 years, anyone has the right to express heartburn to anyone. Does the claim that it is not made? Does that not make? But His Highness Crown Prince in Abu Dhabi, His Highness Al Maktoum in Dubai did not show heartburn, so much love of rain, rain so much love, I will never forget his love. Who was welcomed, who honored .. His Highness Crown Prince came with his five brothers to take the airport. My dear countrymen, these love, these respect is not to any person. These hundred and fifty million people are respected. This is a respected picture of India's changed picture. The way in which India is making its place in the world, respect for that changed situation. I express my heartfelt gratitude to his Highness Crown Prince, the Emirate, the Rulers of Dubai heartily.\nOn one hand, terrorism games are played in the name of a community. The innocent are fished out of death. Absolutely: An atmosphere of anxiety, at such times Abu Dhabi's His Highness Crown Prince decides to give place to build a temple for the Indian community. Those who are familiar with Abu Buddha, they know how big the decision is, how big is this senseu. You tell me, all the countrymen should specifically congratulate them or not. I urge all of you to congratulate Crown Prince on the echo of applause. Give Standing Ovation to Crown Prince Congratulate him I congratulate him with heart.\nBrothers and sisters, the kind of confidence that was in my journey for two days, finally the basis of international relations ... what your language is, how articulate you are, how well you combine in diplomatic relations .. It is of utmost importance, reliance on each other. These trusts in international relations, this belief is a huge capital .. And today, after my meeting with a few hours, I can say that India, Abu Dhabi, Dubai, Emirate .. who have made the trust, it is unprecedented And the foundation has been prepared for future generations.\nToday, I was glad that knowing that Joint Statement between India and the emirate has come today, knowing you will be happy .. Crown Prince has repeatedly pledged to invest Rs 4.5 lakh crores in India. Four and a half million rupees! How much? How much? How much? Brothers and sisters, if you do not believe in anyone, then any 10 rupees will be ready for you? This is the credibility of India. Today, the changed form of India is going forward to its acceptance in front of the world.\nToday, by the emirate and India, against terrorism, in two words, without any casualties, and without regard to anybody, it has been clearly indicated in the words. Today the tone of unity against terrorism has lifted from this earth. I believe it is very important and not so much. The understanders will understand, the good of the gesture is a signal. People who are involved in terrorism should be punished, the clear words in this clear word come out from here. I am also grateful to the rulers of today that they are going to celebrate their 70 years, when the United Nations is going to celebrate its 70 years, and India has been openly open to the point that India has been called the United Nations Security Council Must get Permanent Membership I am grateful to them\nEven more important than this, today .. India has a long standing position of India. His Today His Highness Crown Prince declared open support. Brothers and sisters, for many years a resolution has been resolved in the United Nations. You too will be surprised ... and not for two or five years, have been hanging for many years. what.. ? The United Nations, which is responsible for the first and second World War wounding the human community, will not be able to face such a crisis ahead of the human race, to take precaution for it, to develop the systems 70 years ago, the United Nations was borned. But he could not yet define the United Nations terrorism. Who tell the terrorists, who to call terrorism, who should be considered for supporting terrorism, which country should be considered as a supporter of terrorism, which country should not be considered a supporter. Therefore, the resolution of this decision has long been pending in the United Nations. India has taken position, a proposal made for years should be discussed, the decision should be made and it is being avoided. Today I am happy that His Highness Crown Prince has supported India's position, has supported India's position and has given you clear indications of fighting against terrorism. Not just .. 4.5 billion crores of capital investment is not it. This is a kind of sign of walking in a certain direction with shoulder-side, in this joint statement. I consider it very important.\nBrothers and sisters are you out of years Today, when you hear the name of India, the person standing in front of you shines in the eyes or does not come? Your forehead is proud that it does not happen, your chest gets stabbed or does it strain? Do not feel proud or do? Brothers sisters today the world's view of the world has changed completely and one of its causes ... what is the reason? .. What is the reason, this change has come? Not because of Modi, these changes have come in the way, due to the power of the hundred crore people of the country has come. In the month of May 2014, the 125 million nationals elected a full majority government after 30 years. Today no great leader of the world, whenever any politician of the world joins hands with Modi, then he does not see Modi. It appears to be 100 million Hindustani. The world's fastest growing economy is showing.\nBrothers and sisters, the last days, the IMF, the World Bank, the Moody Ho, the number of rating institutes on the economic scale of the world, everyone has said in one voice that today the fastest pace in major countries in the world if economic reform It is happening, it is growing at a fast pace, then the name of that country .. (slogans from India-India slogans from the gallery) Tell me, will you not be stabbed? That will not be that the forehead will be elevated. Within a year, these changes have come within. Brothers sisters, we started this campaign a few months ago. I am telling the world - make in India Come, India is a country that is full of possibilities, Opportunities are only Opportunities. This is a lucky country with 65 percent of the population under 35 years of age. India is a young country. Today it is full of youthfulness and the world has come here, mobilize the strength of our youth, produce and sell the world market. And today .. this is a matter of few months .. Foreign Direct Investment..FDI has increased 48%, 48% To move brothers and sisters to new heights, it is the easiest of doing business. The skill development of the youth in the country is a campaign of skill development. To make the dream of Digital India for the development of a modern India, it is going on for a long time. So the world's coming is very natural, my brothers and sisters, very natural.\nBrothers and sisters, today the world is shocked to hear the name of terrorism, and a hatred arises. I tell the world that we have been victims of terrorism for 40-40 years from the people of India. Our innocent people have been frozen with the bullets of terrorists, fatalities have been eradicated and whenever I had the opportunity to talk to people of the world 25-30 years ago from now on, they should understand terrorism. There was no capacity. Sometimes I used to talk of terrorism, they used to tell me that this is your problem of policing, the problem of law and order. Now they have understood that there is a terrible form of terrorism. There is no limit to terrorism, he will not know when he will go to the border. Today I was just coming here, I heard a bomb blast inside Bangkok today, innocent people were killed. India has consistently been subjected to these acts and the countries of the world who believe in terrorism-mindedness, terrorism, those who support it on one side, and on the other side of humanity, and humanism, the countries of the world The time has come to fight against terrorism by being one.\nGood Taliban-Bad Taliban, Good Terrorism- Bad Terrorism It's not going to run anymore. Everyone will have to decide whether to decide whether you are with terrorism or with humanity, make a decision. Even today, India has to be a victim of these impractical movements. We are constantly trying to find solutions to problems. Very few people would know that before the independence of India, extremism, insurgency in Nagaland battled Nagaland with this problem, and due to this, this eastern part of India, in the North-East, was a victim of violence and the day gradually The disease spread so much that in other states, different names, separate extremists, became terrorist groups. Even before independence was going on.\nToday, I am very satisfied with my countrymen, I want to tell you that a month ago, with these groups of Nagaland, who once believed in violence, used to carry out activities related to weapons. The conversation that was going on with them, went ahead successfully, the decision was made, the decision to arrive in mainstream was decided. This is possible after 60-70 years. I would like to mention this incident of Nagaland that I want to tell the youth of India and the youth of the world as an example, on the path of violence, no matter how serious the problem is, then by the conversation itself The way turns out. After 10 years of fighting, talk about 20 years after fighting the battle, after 40 years of fighting, talk, but in the end it is only matter and decisions are made on the table and hence the world People walking on the wrong path, depending on the bomb-gun, people on the road to realizing their dreams This path will never do good to you. This path will never do any good to anyone. This path will never do good to humanity. This path will not let history be spotless. This will tarnish the whole history, will make the whole history stain and hence leaving the path of violence to go to the mainstream, this is the demand of time today.\nमेरे प्‍यारे भाइयों-बहनों, बांग्‍लादेश 1947 में भारत का विभाजन हुआ, 1947 में। तब से पूर्व पाकिस्‍तान, पश्‍चिम पाकिस्‍तान थे उस समय। पूर्वी पाकिस्‍तान जो आज बांग्‍लादेश बना, भारत और उनके बीच सीमा का विवाद चल रहा था। तनाव का कारण बना हुआ था। आशंकाओं का कारण बना हुआ था। घुसपैठ के लिए एक सुविधाजनक स्‍थिति बनी हुई थी। आप सब के आशीर्वाद से हिन्‍दुस्‍तान ने बीड़ा उठाया, सबने मिलकर के बीड़ा उठाया। इस समस्‍या का समाधान करना है, बातचीत से करना है। मैं पिछले सितंबर में बांग्‍लादेश की प्रधानमंत्री शेख हसीना जी से मिला था और मैंने उनको वादा किया था कि मुझ पर भरोसा कीजिए और मुझे थोड़ा समय दीजिए। उन्‍होंने कहा कि मेरे पास भरोसा रखने के सिवाए है भी क्‍या! लेकिन आज, आज मैं मेरे प्‍यारे देशवासियों आपके सामने सर झुकाकर के कहना चाहता हूं कि आजादी से लटका हुआ ये सवाल 1 अगस्‍त को समाप्‍त कर दिया गया है। सीमा निर्धारित हो गई। जिनको बांग्‍लादेश जाना था, बांग्‍लादेश चले गए, जिनको भारत आना था भारत आ गए। हम लोग तो 15 अगस्‍त, 1947 को आजाद हो गए थे। भारत के नागरिक के नाते गौरवगान करने लगे थे। लेकिन ये हमारे भाई-बहन अभी 1 अगस्‍त, 2015 को भारत की भूमि पर आजादी का स्‍वाद लेने का उन्‍हें सौभाग्‍यमान मिला है। भारत की संसद में सर्वसम्‍मति से सभी राजनैतिक दलों ने साथ दिया और सर्वसम्‍मति से फैसला हुआ, बातचीत के माध्‍यम से फैसला हुआ।\nये छोटी-मोटी उपलब्‍धि नहीं है मेरे भाइयों-बहनों। और मैं, औरों को भी हमेशा कहता हूं, अड़ोस-पड़ोस के देशों को भी कहता रहता हूं। जैसे हिंसा के रास्‍ते पर गए हुए लोगों को भी कभी न कभार बातचीत के रास्‍ते पर आना पड़ता है। वैसे अड़ोस-पड़ोस में भी समस्‍याओं का समाधान बातचीत से ही निकलता है।\nअंतर्राष्‍ट्रीय संबंधों में आज भारत एक महत्‍वपूर्ण भूमिका अदा कर रहा है। मानवता के अधिष्‍ठान पर कर रहा है। जब नेपाल में भूकंप आया चंद घंटों में, ऐसा नहीं है कि भई ज़रा पूछो तो क्‍या हुआ है? जरा जानकारी लो क्‍या हुआ है? ऐसा करो अफसरों का delegation भेजो, देखो ज़रा क्‍या मुसीबत आई है? ऐसा करो भई कोई अपने रिश्‍तेदार वहां हो तो पूछो भई हुआ क्‍या है? ऐसा इंतजार नहीं किया? आज दिल्‍ली में ऐसी सरकार है, जो हर पल नज़र आती है, हर जगह पर नज़र आती है और चंद घंटों में, चंद घंटों में, भारत से जो भी हो सकता था, ये मानवता का काम था। नेपाल के चरणों में जाकर के हमारे लोग बैठ गए और उनकी सेवा में लग गए और आज भी सेवा चालू है। नेपाल हमारा पड़ोसी है। वो दुखी हो और हम सुखी हों, ये कभी संभव नहीं होता है। उसके सुख में भी हमारा सुख समा हुआ है।\nश्रीलंका, आपको हैरानी होगी। जब मैं नेपाल गया, प्रधानमंत्री बनने के बाद। नेपाल जाना है, तो 70 मिनट नहीं लगते। दिल्‍ली से नेपाल जाना हो, तो 70 मिनट नहीं लगते। लेकिन भारत के प्रधानमंत्री को नेपाल पहुंचने में 17 साल लग गए। फिर से हम गए, संबंधों को फिर से जोड़ा। अपनापन। आज नेपाल भारत पर भरोसा कर रहा है। भारत नेपाल का सुख-दु:ख का साथी बन रहा है। श्रीलंका, राजीव गांधी जब प्रधानमंत्री थे, उसके बाद कोई प्रधानमंत्री की stand alone visit नहीं हुई थी। कितने साल बीत गए। हमारा पड़ोसी है, आए दिन हमारे तमिलनाडु, केरल के मछुआरे और उनके मछुआरे आपस में भिड़ जाते हैं। लेकिन उधर कोई जाता नहीं था। हम गए, इतना ही नहीं। जाफना जहां 20-20 साल तक बम और बंदूक का ही कारोबार चलता था, उस जाफना में जाकर के उन दुखियारों के आंसू पोंछने का काम करने का सौभाग्‍य मुझे मिला। एक प्रधानमंत्री के रूप में जाफना जाने का सौभाग्‍य मुझे मिला।\nहमारे पड़ोस में मालदीव, आइलैंड पर बसा हुआ देश, tourism की दृष्‍टि से काफी आगे बढ़ा है। अचानक एक दिन उनके यहां पानी के सारे संयंत्र खराब हो गए। पूरे देश के पास पीने का पानी नहीं था। आप कल्‍पना कर सकते हो, कोई देश के पास पीने का पानी न हो। कितना बड़ा गहरा संकट आया। मालदीव से हमें message आया कि ऐसी मुसीबत आई है। एक पल का इंतज़ार नहीं किया, भाइयों और बहनों। हवाई जहाज से पीने का पानी पहुंचाया मालदीव में। दूसरे दिन स्‍टीमर से पानी पहुंचाना शुरू कर दिया और जब तक उनकी वो मशीन चालू नहीं हुई, पानी की व्‍यवस्‍था दुबारा पुनर्जीवित नहीं हुई, हमने मालदीव को प्‍यासा नहीं रहने दिया।\nअफगानिस्‍तान हमारा पड़ोसी है। अफगानिस्‍तान संकटों से गुजर रहा है। लंबे अरसे से आए दिन वो घाव झेलता चला जा रहा है। हर पल अफगानिस्‍तान को मरहम लगाने का काम हिन्‍दुस्‍तान करता आया है। अफगानिस्‍तान फिर से एक बार खड़ा हो जाए, क्‍योंकि हम सब बचपन से काबुलीवाला से तो बहुत परिचित हैं। जब काबुली वाले की बात करते हैं, तो हमें कितना अपनापन महसूस होता है। भाइयों-बहनों हमारी कोशिश रही है भारत को विकास की नई ऊचाइयों पर ले जाना। भारत में निरंतर विकास को आगे बढ़ाना और अपने अड़ोस-पड़ोस के देशों से दोस्‍ती बनाकर करके साथ और सहयोग लेकर करके आगे चल पड़ना।\nSAARC देशों का समूह उसमें एक नया प्राण पूरने का प्रयास किया है, सफलतापूर्वक प्रयास किया है। वरना पहले SAARC देशों के मंच का उपयोग तू-तू मैं मैं के लिए होता था, कभी भारत को घेरने के लिए होता था। आज SAARC देशों के लोग, जितने साथ चल सकते हैं, उनको ले करके इन SAARC की इकाई का विकास की ऊंचाइयों पर ले जाने का सपना हमने देखा था। हमने घोषित किया है कि 2016 में हम आकाश में एक SAARC Satellite छोड़ेंगे जिसकी सेवाएं SAARC देशों में मुफ्त में देंगे, जो शिक्षा के काम आए , जो आरोग्‍य के लिए काम आये, जो किसानों को काम आये, जो मछुआरों के काम आये, सामान्‍य जन को काम आये। अभी हम बीच में सोच रहे थे कि SAARC देश Connectivity के लिए गंभीरता से सोचे और हम जानते हैं, आज विकास में Connectivity का महत्‍व बहुत है। आप समुद्री मार्ग से जुडि़ए या रेल मार्ग से जुडि़ए, या रोड मार्ग से जुडि़ए, जुड़ना जरूरी है। यूरोप के देशों को ये लाभ मिला हुआ है। एक देश से दूसरे देश चले जाओ पता तक नहीं चलता कि देश कब बदल गया। क्‍या ये SAARC देशों के बीच नहीं हो सकता है? हमने मिल करके सामूहिक निर्णय करने का प्रयास किया नेपाल में। लेकिन आप जानते हैं, कुछ लोगों को जरा तकलीफ होती है, लेकिन कुछ लोगों की तकलीफ के लिए क्‍या रुकना चाहिए? हमारे काम को क्‍या हमें रोक देना चाहिए? हमें अटक जाना चाहिए क्‍या? ठीक है आपकी मर्जी, आप वहां रह जाइये, हम तो चल पड़े भाई और हमने क्‍या किया। एक बहुत बड़ा अहम फैसला लिया है भाइयों और बहनों, इसका प्रभाव आने वाले दिनों में क्‍या होने वाला है, वो तो वक्‍त बताएगा। नेपाल, भूटान, भारत, बांग्‍लादेश, इन चार देशों ने एक नया इन्‍फ्रास्‍ट्रक्‍चर बना करके Connectivity का एक पूरा काम तय कर लिया, Agreement हो गया, ये आगे चल करके नॉर्थ-ईस्‍ट से जुड़ेगा। वहां से ये म्‍यांमार मार्ग से जुड़ेगा। वो इंडोनेशिया, थाइलैंड, पूरब, हिन्‍दुस्‍तान, पूरब की बीच की तरफ भारत को Connectivity की ताकत देगा एक नया भारत का बदला हुआ, संबंधों का नया विश्‍व खड़ा हो जाएगा।\nभाइयों-बहनों, एक निश्चत समय के साथ भारत अपनी भूमिका भी अदा करें, भारत बड़े होने के अहंकार से नहीं, हर किसी के साथ कंधे से कंधा मिलाकर चलना चाहता । विकास की नई ऊंचाईयों को पार करना चाहता। भारत में नौजवानों को रोजगार मिले, हमारे कृषि में Second Green Revolution हो, हमारा पूर्वी हिन्‍दुस्‍तान, चाहे पूर्वी उत्‍तर प्रदेश हो, चाहे बिहार हो, चाहे पश्चिम बंगाल हो, चाहे असम हो, चाहे नॉर्थ-ईस्‍ट हो, चाहे ओडि़शा हो, ये हमारा जो इलाका है, ये मानना पड़ेगा कि वहां विकास की ज्‍यादा जरूरत है। अगर वहां पर विकास हो गया और हिन्‍दुस्‍तान का पश्चिमी छोर और पूरब का छोर बराबर हो गये, तो भारत बहुत तेज गति से दौड़ने लग जाएगा और इसलिए भारत के इस पूर्वी छोर पर आर्थिक विकास का एक नया अभियान हमने चलाया है। Infrastructure खड़ा करने का एक नया अभियान चलाया है। Fertiliser के नये कारखाने शुरू कर रहे हैं। गैस की पाइप लाइन लगानी है। बिजली पहुंचानी है। आप मुझे बताइए आजादी के इतने सालों के बाद बिजली होनी चाहिए कि नहीं होनी चाहिए? बिजली मिलनी चाहिए या नहीं मिलनी चाहिए? क्‍या आज के युग में बिजली के बिना गुजारा संभव है? भाइयों-बहनों हमने सपना संजोया है। पांच साल के भीतर-भीतर हम देश के कोने-कोने में 24 घंटे बिजली मैंने देने के लिए फैसला किया। ये हम करके रहेंगे।\nदुबई में रहने वाले मेरे प्‍यारे भाइयो-बहनों, हमने एक महत्‍वपूर्ण योजना घोषित की है । हमारे देश में लोगों को पहले Bank Accounts नहीं थे, हमने हर हिन्‍दुस्‍तानी का Bank Account खोल दिया, एक काम किया। भारत में हमारे देश के नागरिकों को इंश्‍योरंस नहीं है, बीमा नहीं है। उसके परिवार में कोई आपत्ति आ जाए, पीछे वालों को देखने की कोई व्‍यवस्‍था नहीं। हमने तीन योजनाएं लगाई हैं, एक प्रधानमंत्री बीमा सुरक्षा योजना, प्रधानमंत्री जीवन ज्‍योति योजना और इंश्‍योरेंस के लिए कितना पैसा देना है? एक स्‍कीम ऐसी है कि जिसमें एक महीने में सिर्फ एक रुपया देना है, 12 महीने में 12 रुपया। हमारे देश का गरीब से गरीब व्‍यक्ति भी दे सकता है या नहीं दे सकता है? मुझे बताइए दे सकता है या नहीं दे सकता है? गरीब से गरीब व्‍यक्ति एक रुपया महीने में दे सकता है या नहीं दे सकता है? महीने का 12 रुपया,.. साल भर का 12 रुपया, साल भर का 12 रुपया देगा, दो लाख रुपयों का सुरक्षा का बीमा मिलेगा। दूसरी योजना है जिसमें उसे और भी मददें मिलेंगी, वो है एक दिन का नब्‍बे पैसा, एक रुपया भी नहीं, एक दिन का एक रुपया भी नहीं, आज तो चाय भी एक रुपये में मिलती नहीं है। मैं जब चाय बेचता था तो एक रुपया भी नहीं मिलता था। लेकिन आज एक रुपये में चाय नहीं मिलती है। एक दिन का नब्‍बे पैसा, साल भर के 330 रुपये, और उसे भी ये सुरक्षा कवच मिलेगा। Natural मृत्‍यु होगा Natural अकस्‍मात नहीं हुआ है, सहज, तो भी उसके परिवार को दो लाख रुपया मिलेगा। हमने लोगों से आग्रह किया है कि रक्षाबन्‍धन के पर्व पर हमारे देश की परम्‍परा है, हम अपनी बहनों को Best सौगात देते हैं। कोई न कोई Gift देते हैं। मैं मेरे, Gulf Countries में रहने वाले मेरे प्‍यारे भाइयों बहनों का आग्रह करता हूं, इस बार रखी के त्‍यौहार पर आप अपनी बहन को ये जीवन सुरक्षा योजना दे दीजिए। अगर आप 600 रुपया बैंक में Fixed Deposit करा दोगे, तो हर साल उसको 12 रुपये से ज्‍यादा Interest मिलेगा, कटता जाएगा और आपकी बहन को दो लाख रुपये का सुरक्षा का कवच मिल जाएगा, और दोनों योजना लें लेगे, उतने पैसे जमा करा दिये, तो चार लाख रुपया उसके चरणों में आपकी तरफ से पहुंच जाएगा। भाइयो-बहनों, हमनें समाज-जीवन को एक सुरक्षित बनाना है, हमारी नई पीढ़ी को शिक्षित बनाना है, देश को आधुनिक बनाना है, और आज जब विश्‍व का भारत की तरफ आकर्षण बढ़ा है, उस परि‍स्थिति का हमने लाभ उठाना है और देश को विकास की नई ऊंचाइयों पर ले जाना है।\nमेरे प्‍यारे भाइयो, बहनों, आपने जो मुझे सम्‍मान दिया, प्‍यार दिया, पूरा हिन्‍दुस्‍तान आपको देख रहा होगा। ये बदले हुए माहौल का असर हर भारतवासी के दिल पर भी होता है। और मुझे लगता है कि विश्‍व भर में जो हमारा भारतीय समुदाय पहुंचा है, उस भारतीय समुदाय को भी आज एक नई ऊर्जा, नई शक्ति मिली है। आज जब मैं अबुधाबी आया, दुबई आया, तो कुछ बातें मेरे ध्‍यान में आई हैं, उसके विषय में भी आज आपको मैं कह करके जाना चाहता हूं, Embassy के संबंध में, Counsel के संबंध में, आपकी शिकायतें रहती हैं, नहीं रहती हैं? नहीं रहती हैं तो अच्‍छी बात है। लेकिन अगर रहती हैं तो भारत सरकार ने ‘MADAD’ नाम का एक Online Platform बनाया है, इस ‘MADAD’ नाम के Online Platform का उपयोग दुनिया भर में फैले हुए हमारे भारतीय भाई, बहन उसका उपयोग कर सकते हैं, ताकि आपकी बात आगे पहुंच सकती है। मोबाइल फोन के द्वारा भी आप उनका सम्‍पर्क कर सकते हैं। एक, दूसरा काम किया है, E-migrate portal शुरू किया गया है। जिसके द्वारा इस प्रकार सके हमारे प्रवासी भारतीयों को कोई शिकायत हो, कोई कठिनाई हो, तो उनको Emigration Office के चक्‍कर काटने नहीं पड़ेंगे ये E-migrate portal पर अपनी बात रख करके वो मदद ले सकता है, इसकी एक व्‍यवस्‍था की गई है, क्‍यों यहां दूर-दूर से आपका वहां जाना, बहुत तकलीफ होती है। मुझे ये भी बताया गया कि कही- कहीं पर E-migrate Portal का उपयेाग करने में नागरिकों को दिक्‍कत होती है इसके लिए मैंने हमारे Embassy को आदेश किया है कि वे ये जो Technical Problem है इसका 30 दिन के भीतर-भीतर Solution दें। आज 17 अगस्‍त है, 17 सितम्‍बर तक Solution दें, ऐसा मैंने उनसे कहा है और मुझे विश्‍वास है कि हमारे Embassy के भाई, ये जो Technical Problem कहीं-कहीं आता है, उसका रास्‍ता निकालेंगे।\nएक और काम मैंने कहा है, यहां भारतीय समुदाय ज्‍यादातर workers हैं। उनके पास इतने पैसे नहीं कि एक जगह से दूसरी जगह पर वो भागते रहें और इसलिए हमने कहा है, कि हम समय-समय पर जहां हमारे भारतीय भाई समुदाय रहते हैं, वहां जा करके, Counselor Camp लगाएं। महीने में एक बार, दो महीने में एक बार, और वहीं जा करके उनसे बैठें, बातचीत करें, और उनकी समस्‍या के समाधान के लिए योग्‍य व्‍यवस्‍था करें। मैं यहां ये बातें इसलिए कह रहा हूं कि ये भू-भाग ऐसा है, के जहां मेरे गरीब तबके के भाई-बहन रहते हैं, मजदूरी करने के लिए यहां आए हुए हैं। अमेरिका के लिए कुछ कर पाऊं, या न कर पाऊं लेकिन अगर आपके लिए नहीं कुछ करता तो मैं बेचैन हो जाता हूं। और इसलिए हमने एक और काम किया है, इन दिनों विदेशों में कभी-कभी जाते हैं तो हमारे भारतीय भाई कभी-कभी संकट में जैसे अचानक बीमारी आ गई, कुछ हो गया, कभी कोई कानूनी पचड़े में फंस गए, बेचारे जेल चले गए। तो दुनिया के बाहर कौन उनको देखने वाला है? परिवार तो है नहीं, और इन हमारे कभी-कभी मुसीबत में कोई परिवार आ जाए तो उनकी मदद करने के लिए Indian Community Welfare Fund (ICWF) स्‍थापित किया गया है। सब दूतावासों को ये Welfare Fund दिया गया है, और इसलिए ऐसी मुसीबत में कोई फंस गया हो तो उनको कानून की मर्यादा में रह करके जो मदद हो सकती है, कोई अगर जेल में बंद हुआ है, तो कम से कम उसको खाना-पीना मिल जाए मानवता की दृष्‍टि से कोई व्‍यवस्‍था हो जाए, इन सारे कामों के लिए एक Fund की हमने व्‍यवस्‍था की है। हमने ये भी निर्णय किया है, इस Fund के द्वारा दूतावास, Counsel में Counselor सुविधाएं और अच्‍छी कैसे बनें, जो नागरिकों की भलाई के लिए हों, उनके लिए भी इसका उपयोग किया जाएगा। जिनको कानूनी सलाह की जरूरत पड़ेगी और अगर वो खुद इसको करने के लिए स्थिति नहीं है, कभी-कभार तो एक हजार-दो हजार का दंड बेचारा नहीं भर पाता, उसके कारण जेलों में सड़ता रहता है। ऐसे लोगों को मदद करके, भारतीय नागरिक होने के नाते उनको मदद करना इसके लिए Welfare Fund का उपयोग हो, ताकि वो संकटों से बाहर आ सकें, ये भी हमने व्‍यवस्‍था करने के लिए कहा है। मैं जानता हूं यहां पर स्‍कूलों में Admission में कितनी दिक्‍कत होती है, आपके बच्‍चों को स्‍कूलों में पढ़ाई की कितनी दिक्‍कत होती है? मैंने यहां के संबंधित लोगों से ये बात कही है और मैंने कहा है कि अधिक स्‍कूल कैसे बनें, उसकी चिन्‍ता मैंने की है, देखते हैं, मुझे विश्‍वास है कि आने वाले दिनों में उसका भी लाभ आप लोगों को मिलेगा।\nमुझे विश्‍वास है मेरे भाइयो, बहनों, कि जो आपकी छोटी-मोटी बातें मेरे ध्‍यान में आई थीं, इसको पूरा करने का मैंने प्रयास किया है। मैं फिर एक बार आप सबको दृदय से बहुत-बहुत शुभकामनाएं देता हूं और दुनिया में कहीं पर भी मेरा भारतवासी है, तो हम पासपोर्ट का रंग नहीं देखते हैं। हमारा खून का रंग काफी है, वो धरती का नाता काफी है, और इसलिए आइए मेरे साथियो हम सब मिल करके जहां भी हों, मां भारती का माथा ऊंचा करने के लिए, गौरव से जीवन जीने के लिए एक माहौल बनाने में सक्रिय शरीक हों और आपका योगदान आपकी शक्ति सामर्थ्‍यवान आपके परिवार को भी भला करने में काम आए, देश का भी भला करने के लिए काम आए।\nइसी शुभ कामनाओं के साथ आप सबका बहुत-बहुत धन्‍यवाद।\nमेरे साथ दोनों मुट्ठी बंद करके बोलिए, भारत माता की जय। दोनों मुट्ठी पूरी बंद करके पूरी ताकत से बोलिए, भारत के कोने-कोने में, आपके अपने गांव में आवाज पहुंचनी चाहिए भारत माता की जय, भारत माता की जय, भारत माता की जय, भारत माता की जय।\nThanks a lot."