"PM Modi attends roundtable meeting with business leaders at Masdar city\nIndia is a land of many opportunities. PM Narendra Modi\nIndia is one of the fastest growing economies There are many opportunities of development in India: PM\n(World Institutions) who are rating, all agree on one thing that today India is the fastest growing economy of the major countries of the world. Now I believe that there are many possibilities for development. The world also says that 21st Century is Asia's century.\nOn one hand, India is fast developing, on the other hand the world's eyes are on Asia. But what is the U.A.E. Is Asia not incomplete without that? And so, we want to see Asia's bright future, then I am clearly watching that the UAE Its main economic stream should be in the center point. India's possibilities and the U.A.E. The power of that - the twin engagement of these two, the 21st century is the century of Asia, that dream can be fulfilled. And in that sense I think that we have to move ahead on our thinking, plan ahead.\nHere are some of the difficulties I have come to know about. Even yesterday, in my expansion, many greats talked extensively, there have been some topics in it too. Now these difficulties are that, they have inherited me. But I have inherited, so I can not run away. Because I take those good things, and take away those evils, that can not be the rule of a world. But today I assure you so much that because of the inconvenience of the government, due to indecisiveness due to lethargy, things which are stuck due to wrong perception - I will try to solve them first.\nThere are some things that are very complicated, they have become a matter of court-court and some of my compulsions will also be there. How to solve it, and I will do one thing first, I will send our Commerce Minister here. And I would urge them to listen to their concerns directly to the concerned people, understand their problems, and find their way. And very close to that direction, my very first job will be this and I think a lot of things will start to sort out.\nYou see, today there is a lot of development in India. First, after thirty years, for the first time in India, there is a complete majority government. And having a full majority government in democracy is a decisive factor, with the vision to have the facility of taking action for implementation, which has been received by this new government. And because of that we made very important decisions.\nFor the first time in the country, we have opened 100% Foreign Direct Investment in Railway Infrastructure. Defence Manufacturing is a huge area. Global Market is also. Third World Countries is a huge market. If we go ahead in the field of Defence Manufacturing, I think \"Sky is the Limit\". And for this, we have opened up 49% FDI in general. But if hi-tech industry is in defense, then we can go up to 100% in it - it is very big in itself.\nWe have opened 49% of the insurance sector. Real Estate - And I believe Infrastructure Development and Real Estate in India - there are many possibilities. One, the government has its own program: 2022, while India will celebrate 75 years of its independence, we want to make 50 million affordable homes, low cost Making 50 million houses means making many small new countries within India. There are many countries of the world that do not have total 50 million homes. I have to do such a big job in seven years. And like Faisal said, new technology. I will definitely come to you, I will see.\nI want we also need technology, we also need speed and also for quality construction. And low cost housing is a huge job in my brain. To pursue India, I have to increase infrastructure and upgrade infrastructure too.\nWhere the old infrastructure is ... Now if the railway is old, now I have to speed up. Railway station, I have more than 500 railway stations here, which I want to convert in a very big business hubs. Today in Hindustan you know, heart of the city are railway stations but above all is empty. Why do not I build 20 floors, 50 storey big buildings over the railway station 200-200-400 rooms of hotels, make big malls? 500 Railway Stations! How big will be the development! So, we want to work on these things.\nAgriculture sector Cold storage network in agriculture sector, warehousing network ... Today 30% of the agro product in India is cured due to lack of maintenance. And I believe the waste of agro product is a type of crime. If we can not keep, then the poor should give, he should fill his stomach. I want to save this 30%. Whatever I need for my country, is fulfilled, but whatever extra will work for the poor countries of the world. I want to build a large network of warehousing, cold storage.\nYour point is right that there are many possibilities of Port Sector in the era of globalization today. And we are far behind in countries, but in the past we have increased a lot of speed. We have promoted the Public Private Partnership model. We have taken a lot of new policy decisions these days for the development of Port Sector. And I believe its profit is U.A.E. So you can take the most because your experience is and you are associated with the world's largest companies. In collaboration with India, along with the port development, Port-led Development is in my mind. And when I say Port-LED Development, Port Infrastructure, Port in Modern Technology, at the same time, Connectivity with Cold Storage, Warehousing, Port, Road, Rail, and Hinterland Access - By adding all of these things, I have Port-led I want to move forward the concept of development. And the huge potential is lying.\nIndia has not taped tourism. Today tourism in the world is 3 trillion dollars business. India's contribution is very little. There are many possibilities in India for Hospitality Industry. It is strange for the world what India can do. I want to move forward. And I understand that the level on which you have increased the work, today you can force the world to see the desert here. You have seen these strengths. So India has so much to do. If you add a little bit of your expertise, then we can attract the whole world. So there are many possibilities for tourism.\nSo I say, pick up any area today, India is full of possibilities. Like you said solar energy, wind energy, renewable energy 188 GigaWatt - 100 Solar Energy, 75 Wind Energy, and 13 Renewable Energy from \"Waste to Wealth\". I think this is a huge opportunity. We also want solar energy equipment manufacturing, we also want solar energy installation, we want to go in the direction of Power Generation, and Global Warming is worried about the world, we are one-sixth population of the world! If we take a step, one step improvement, then solve the one-sixth problem of the world. There is such a great power. How we can positively influence the global environment! I understand that with the cooperation of all of you, we can go ahead with this institute, who are rating institutions, all agree on one thing that today India is the fastest growing economy of the major countries of India. Now I believe that there are many possibilities for development. The world also says that 21st Century is Asia's century.\nOur friends who are sitting here - if you get a proper environment, then how successful are they - their story is one of the things about success in itself. I would like you to do all that - whether on this side, whether on the other side - I have come here to invite you.\nAnd I believe there are possibilities of immediate investment of 1 trillion dollars in India today. Now I speak 1 trillion so it is not that I do not understand why I am speaking. I am convinced that after 1 billion and 1 trillion, what is the difference, I say with responsibility that the probability of 1 trillion dollars is immediate. And I would like that India has very dynamic, progressive policies, there is a stable government, decisive government, and I have come from front of your house today.\nI see, what I feel from yesterday, I feel embarrassed myself, why have we lost 34 years? I am feeling myself. And so today I want to go through all the shortcomings of 34 years.\nSo I'm very grateful to you all. And I invite you to join me and India and how we became 21st Century Asia century, how can we take the heights of that economic development so that we can work for the well-being of the common man in the world? I am an invitation to all of you and I am grateful to His Excellency that he himself came, and you gave me the opportunity to meet most.\nThanks a lot."