"People of Bihar want change and be part of the state's development: PM Modi #ParivartanInBihar\nNDA Government is committed to the development and welfare of Bihar: PM #ParivartanInBihar\nNDA's sole focus is Bihar's progress. We want to improve education, employment \u0026 skill development among youth: PM #ParivartanInBihar\nLong live Mother India\nWhoever is above this, if any of you fall down then what will happen to me I was seeing that there was a complaint from those who had gathered in the streets all the way from the airport. Do not complain, you will not mind Do not believe it I went to the Lok Sabha elections too, came to the same ground and had almost come to this time and the elections were on the peak then came. I was fighting myself, the election of the Lok Sabha was to decide to make the prime minister, but in that gathering, half of the people did not even come and today I see more than double. I know the way of the wind. But my complaint is love, not resentment. This complaint is to congratulate you, to congratulate you. Have been the ones who have gone today This is our karmabhoomi of jivan ram ji\nMr. Amit Bhai Shah, the National President of BJP, who is on the stage, Mr. Mangal Pandey, President of State BJP, Mr. Ram Vilas Paswan, my senior colleague of the Council of Ministers at the Center, Founder of the party and former Chief Minister of Bihar Mr. Jitan Ram Manjhi, Union Minister And National President of Ralpha Mr. Upendra Kushwaha Ji, leader of Bihar Legislature Mr. Sushi Kumar Modi ji, leader of opposition in the Bihar assembly, Mr. Nand Kishore Yadav, my colleague of the Council of Ministers Mr. Ananth Kumar, National General Secretary of BJP Mr. Bhupendra Yadav, Former Minister and all of us guide Mr. Dr CP Thakur, Center In my fellow minister Mr. Radha Mohan Singh ji, Mr. Ravi Shankar Prasad ji, Mr. Rajiv Pratap Rudy Ji, Mr. Giriraj ji, Mr. Ram Krup L. Yadav, we are the state president of the party Mr. Shakuni Choudhary ji, the state president of Ralospa and my friend Dr. Arun ji, National Spokesperson Mr. Shahnawaz Hussain Ji, all the senior officials who were present on the stage and have been camped in huge numbers, my dear brothers And sisters.\nElections are coming soon and I am clearly watching the public has made two decisions. The people of Bihar have made two decisions - a decision has been made in Bihar's life, in Bihar's development, to transform Bihar's fortune into a modern strong new Bihar, and the second decision has been taken by the people of Bihar, Changes in Bihar Those who have suffered for 25 years, who have survived every victim, whose ego has survived, whose fraud has survived, these are the festivals. And this election is going to be a festival of liberation from Bihar to Jangaraj. This election is going to be a festival of emancipation in Bihar.\nBrothers and sisters, for 25 years, these people have ruled Bihar. You told me, like today, 25 years have passed, if it is 5 years for the next, then will the youngster be wasted or will not it? Your future will be ruined, you have to leave Bihar and go to Rosi for Roti, you have to leave old parents, do you want such a Bihar? Is there a change in Bihar? Need a good government in Bihar? Should a Government believe in democracy? Want an ego-free government? Jangaraj's dreams should be crushed? So, brothers and sisters, today I have come to the people of Bihar. I have come to take your blessings. What did Bihar do? Even today, if someone discusses the cultural history of India, then that discussion begins with the grand past of Bihar. Even today, if someone discusses the message of non-violence in the world, then Lord remembers Buddha, then the matter begins with Bihar. After the struggle for power, it is also a matter of great discussion to give up the truth for the betterment of the people, then it is discussed in Bihar. Whether it is science, culture, history, bravery, feat, there is no such thing, whenever India discusses it, discussion begins with Bihar.\nSuch great land, such a holy land, the people in the power of their dreams were crushed and crushed. In modern India, Bihar has given the country as much as it can hardly claim any state of India as Bihar has given to the country. When Bihar can give good human resources to the country today, no state of India will be like this in which the young generation of Bihar is not sitting in the state of Bihar, there will be no state. In the corner of India, the young man of Bihar shows the position of the successor who is sitting on the new heights of development. It is the strength of the youth of Bihar, it is the strength of the people of Bihar but what is the reason that Bihar is not able to move forward. What is the reason? Who ruined Bihar? Who smashed Bihar's dreams? Who brought Jangaraj in Bihar? Who is trying to bring the Jangaraj in Bihar? What is to take Bihar towards the 25 years of the waste? Again, do you have to go to that dosakh? What is to save Bihar? What is to make a new Bihar? Is Bihar going ahead? So brothers and sisters, we are ready to move shoulder to shoulders. Now Delhi is with Bihar. Now Delhi is stationed in your service to change the fate of Bihar and hence, I have come to you today, brothers and sisters, have come to you to change the life of Bihar, to pray for you to choose a good government. The people of Bihar used to love me so much love in the last Lok Sabha election that I wanted to return that love with interest, return it by development but return to development but whatever development is committed, such a government must be here.\nBrothers and sisters, Gangaji flows, but if we take the opposite, we will not get a drop of water. Ganges of development from Delhi are flowing, but the arrogance of the rulers here is holding the opposite lot so that the Ganga of Delhi's development did not reach the village-gali of Bihar. In the last days when I came to Bihar, laid the foundation for several schemes. Was stopped for 10-10 years, no one was ready to see. These people used to run the government of Delhi and today they are ready to join the people of Bihar once again to drag them towards Jangaraj, ready for their personal selfishness. Do you tell me, this coalition has taken place to take advantage of the political benefits, will the coalition be run after the elections? The poison that has been consumed right now, after the election, the poison will explode or not. After poisoning the poison after election, when the poison sparks, the poison of which will go to the plate? Will not the public fall in the plate? Will the public die or will not die? Will the public be ruined or not? Those who have taken poison, should give them a chance to get poisoned? What is the need of those poisoners? What is the need of the poisoners? I do not know, who is Bhujang Prasad in Bihar and who is Chandan Kumar? New Bhujang Prasad, new Chandan Kumar, do not know who is drinking poison, who is drinking poison, but I know that after the election is over, these poisons will start to sprout. Now there is a poisonous environment along with Jangaraj in ruining Bihar and therefore there is a demand for time to save Bihar.\nNow look, why should the BJP government be formed, why should the NDA government be formed? Jeetan Ram Manjhi, Ram Vilas Paswan, Upendra Kushwaha, Sushil Modi, all these experienced people, why should they create a new government in Bihar under their leadership. I tell the experience, this discussion has been going on for many years in our country, Bimaru is the state. The use of the term bimaru state was used. The economic development went on the basis of scale and the name of Bihar, the name of Uttar Pradesh, the name of Madhya Pradesh and the name of Rajasthan, are also counted in the Bimaru state. But when the people of Madhya Pradesh formed the government of the BJP, the time to serve 15 years was not complete yet, it has been 10-12 years, but within 10-12 years, under the leadership of Shivraj Singh Chauhan BJP has thrown Madhya Pradesh out of Bimaru state. Brothers and sisters, is Bihar to get out of the sick? Sure to remove BJP to remove Madhya Pradesh, who will get Bihar? Rajasthan was called Bimaru state. Under the leadership of Vasundhara Raje, the BJP government was formed and crossed the new heights of development. Today the Rajasthan Bimaru is thrown out of the state, so brothers and sisters, can Bihar Biharis come out of the state? What can we bring? Will you help? Will you bless I promise you that within 5 years- within, we will get Bihar out of Bimaru state.\nI was fortunate to be known in many countries in the world, I had the privilege of going to many countries of Asia and there was a big politician to meet there, meet the industrialists there, meet the writers there, and there Meet the small traders, meet the government officials there, everyone said one thing to me The countries which have the influence of Buddhism, are influenced by the Buddhist tradition, the head of all those countries said that there is a desire to go to Bodh Gaya at one time. Every person of the world who is associated with the Buddhist tradition also meets the leaders of communist ideology, he also tells me that once the Bodh Gaya will go for the philosophy. As many travelers come to see the Taj Mahal, more passengers are ready to take a forehead in Bodhgaya. Tell me, should we make the Bodh Gaya like this or not? Such a development from Bodh Gaya should be an area of ​​tourism so that people who believe in Buddha in the world get the arrangements for the Bodh Gaya and if there is such a large number of travelers, then there will be poverty in this area.\nTourism is such an industry, tourism is an area where more and more people get employment from the least amount of money. Once in Bodh Gaya, the arrival of travelers from all over the world will start and if a large number of people are present, then a young man from this area will not be able to remain unemployed. It is so powerful that the poor man earns the poor and the auto-rickshaw will also earn, the bakutu will also earn, the seller of gram flour will also earn, the seller of toys will earn, the seller will earn money, he will also earn money. But brothers and sisters, their politics is vote-bank politics so much that they did not make any effort to develop Bodh Gaya. Not only this, when there was a bomb blast here, there was a great shock to the whole world. The people of all countries who played the Buddhist tradition around the world were shocked, but the people immersed in vote bank politics did not care about it. Such incidents occur for them, it goes. Brothers, I have to change this situation.\nI have to convert Bodh Gaya into a pilgrimage zone throughout Asia and I have to move forward. This is the place of father-in-law. Every young man, every son and daughter of India, when it comes to patriotism, then he has a dream that his father's sacrifice should be done by visiting him. Is not that the dream of people all over Hindustan? Do they come for the sake of father's sacrifice? Every year hundreds of millions of people, hundreds of millions of people of the ages, ascend the heaven, their children want to come to the Father in the form of a sacrifice. Crores of people are sitting ready to come but listen to the news here and do not come for it, the father is also angry and the people here also have a loss of livelihood. Tell me, the dream of fatherhood of every Hindustani is complete, should this system be good or not? Should the people here get employment or should not get?\nYou tell me, if you want to move forward in order to grow. Brothers and sisters, but if Jangaraj Part-2, if it has come then all will be ruined. If a person goes to jail, then what does he learn by becoming a brother? Does any good things come from learning? Does it come from learning bad things and not all the bad things that come with it that do not come? There was no jail experience in Jangaraj Part-1, in the Jangaraj Part-2, now the experience of prison has been added and therefore the probability of waste has increased much. Therefore, the last time I came, I said that RJD has a direct meaning - the fear of the Jangrajraj everyday and the people who have joined them; You may have noticed that in the morning, the BJP workers were roasted with bullets in the morning, the fatal slaughter was lifted, in Patna and under their nose. Brothers and sisters, this is not the beginning of the Jangaraj? And this Jangaraj Part 2 is coming, the experience of the Jangaraj and the Jail is being added, the opportunity to open the jungleraj and the poison is being raised, then on the one hand daily the fear of the jungleraj and the oppression and oppression of the people on the other side. JDU - Repression and Harassment of the People, Public - J., Daman - D and Harassment - U. You can tell, Bihar can be handed over to such people, 25 years who have been wasted, can they be given a chance?\nBrothers and sisters, you have to wonder, those lanterns in entire India have kept you in the dark. Does electricity come? Does electricity get? Time for the exam, if you want to read, then what is the power? Have to live in the darkness? Have to live on kerosene oil. In the last election, the leader here promised you that you will be given power. Was promised to give electricity, if there is no electricity, then I would not ask for a vote like this? Got electricity? धोखा किया? फिर से वोट मांगने आए, दूसरा धोखा किया। ये बार-बार धोखा हो रहा है। आप इनके झांसे में आ जाएंगे क्या? आज हिन्दुस्तान में प्रति व्यक्ति कम से कम बिजली की खपत कहीं पर है तो दुर्भाग्यशाली मेरे बिहार के भाई-बहन हैं। उनके भाग्य को इन्होंने अंधकारमय बना दिया है। हिन्दुस्तान में औसत प्रति व्यक्ति करीब-करीब एक हजार किलोवाट बिजली की खपत है जबकि बिहार में 150 किलोवाट भी नहीं है। कहाँ हजार और कहाँ ढेढ़ सौ, छठवां हिस्सा है आपका! इतना ही नहीं, बिहार से भी छोटा राज्य सिक्किम के लोगों की छह गुना ज्यादा खपत है। बिहार से निकला हुआ झारखंड, 10 साल के अंदर-अंदर झारखंड का नागरिक बिहार से 5 गुना ज्यादा बिजली का खपत करता है। आपको अँधेरे में रखने वाला पाप किसने किया है? 25 साल की दो सरकारों ने किया है कि नहीं किया है? 25 साल के दो मुख्यमंत्रियों ने किया है कि नहीं किया है? और इसलिए जिन्होंने आपको बर्बाद किया है, उनको दोबारा भार नहीं दिया जा सकता है।\nशिक्षा के क्षेत्र में आज हिन्दुस्तान में कोई भी टीवी चैनल उठा लीजिए, आपको दो-चार बिहार के तेजस्वी नौजवान उस टीवी चैनल के माध्यम से देश को संबोधित करते नजर आएंगे। ऐसे तेजस्वी लोगों की यह भूमि है लेकिन यहाँ के नौजवानों को अवसर नहीं दिया जाता है। टेक्निकल एजुकेशन में आज बिहार का क्या हाल है। अगर हमें नौजवानों को रोजगार देना है तो उनको टेक्निकल एजुकेशन देना होगा, स्किल डेवलपमेंट कराना होगा, इंजीनियरिंग कॉलेज में शिक्षा दिलाना होगा डिग्री इंजीनियरिंग, डिप्लोमा इंजीनियरिंग करानी पड़ेगी, सर्टिफिकेट कोर्स करना पड़ेगा। बिहार के अन्दर नौजवानों को शिक्षा मिलनी चाहिए। आज मुझे दुःख के साथ कहना पड़ता है, आज बिहार का हाल क्या है शिक्षा में।\n17-20 साल उम्र के 80 लाख से ज्यादा नौजवान बिहार में हैं। इन 80 लाख बच्चों के मां-बाप के सपने हैं कि उनके बच्चों को डिप्लोमा करने का मौका मिले, डिग्री करने का मौका मिले, सर्टिफिकेट कोर्स करने का मौका मिले लेकिन बिहार में ये सारा होने के बावजूद भी बिहार में इंजीनियरिंग की सीटें कितनी हैं। आपको जानकर हैरानी होगी कि बिहार में सिर्फ़ 25,000 सीट है। 80 लाख नौजवान पढ़ना चाहते हैं उसमें से 5-10 लाख तो इंजीनियरिंग में जाना चाहते होंगे कि नहीं लेकिन सिर्फ़ 25,000 सीट है और ये जिम्मेवारी बिहार सरकार की है। 25 साल हो गए और सिर्फ़ 25,000 सीट।\nइतना बड़ा बिहार और दूसरी तरफ देखिये हिन्दुस्तान के और राज्यों का हाल। मैं बताना चाहता हूँ जो बिहार से बहुत छोटे हैं... हिमाचल प्रदेश, पूरे पटना की जितनी जनसंख्या है, पूरे हिमाचल की जनसंख्या उतनी ही है लेकिन हिमाचल प्रदेश में इंजीनियरिंग में पढने के लिए सीटों की संख्या है - 24,000। इतने छोटे हिमाचल में 24,000 और इतने बड़े बिहार में 25,000। क्या होगा यहाँ के नौजवानों का! उड़ीसा, हमारे बगल में है, पिछड़ा राज्य माना गया लेकिन उस उड़ीसा में इंजीनियरिंग की सीटें कितनी हैं, आप कल्पना नहीं कर सकते कि उड़ीसा जैसा बिहार से भी छोटा प्रदेश, वहां इंजीनियरिंग की सीटें हैं -  1 लाख 13 हजार से भी ज्यादा। इस स्थिति के लिए कौन जिम्मेवार है? पंजाब बहुत ही छोटा राज्य है और पंजाब में सीटें हैं - 1 लाख 4 हजार। पंजाब बिहार का एक-चौथाई भी नहीं है और वहां 1 लाख सीटें हैं और बिहार में 25 हजार है। कौन जिम्मेवार है? जंगलराज जिम्मेवार है कि नहीं है? ये दोबारा जंगलराज लाना है? उत्तराखंड बहुत छोटा राज्य है, पटना की जितनी जनसंख्या है, उत्तराखंड की उससे ज्यादा नहीं है, पटना से भी कम जनसंख्या और उसके बावजूद भी उत्तराखंड में इंजीनियरिंग की सीटें हैं – 40,000 से ज्यादा। अब मुझे बताईये कि बिहार के नौजवानों के साथ अन्याय है कि नहीं? बिहार के नौजवानों का भाग्य बर्बाद किया जा रहा है कि नहीं किया जा रहा है? क्या बिहार के नौजवानों को इंजीनियरिंग में पढने का हक होना चाहिए कि नहीं होना चाहिए? उनको ये सुविधा मिलनी चाहिए कि नहीं मिलनी चाहिए? जिन्होंने यह सुविधा नहीं दी है, उन्हें जाना चाहिए कि नहीं जाना चाहिए? उनको भगाना चाहिये कि नहीं चाहिए?\nइसलिए मैं आज यह कहने आया हूँ कि अगर बिहार के नौजवानों का भाग्य बदलना है तो शिक्षा में बदलाव लाने की जरुरत है और शिक्षा में बदलाव एनडीए की सरकार ला सकती है, बिहार का भाग्य बदल सकती है। हर वर्ष, बिहार के जिन मां-बाप के पास कुछ पैसे हैं वे अपने बच्चों को पढ़ाने के लिए बिहार से बाहर भेजते हैं। करीब 4-5 लाख नौजवान बिहार छोड़कर के, अपने मां-बाप को छोड़कर के, यार-दोस्तों को छोड़कर के कहीं न कहीं पढने के लिए जाते हैं और हर साल एक-एक युवक के पढने के पीछे खर्चा करीब-करीब एक लाख रूपया आता है। मुझे बताईये, चार लाख लोग बिहार से बाहर जाएं, हर वर्ष एक लाख रूपया साथ-साथ चला जाए तो बिहार का चार हजार करोड़ का नुकसान होता है कि नहीं होता है? ये बिहार का चार हजार करोड़ रूपया बचना चाहिए कि नहीं चाहिए? अगर बिहार का चार हजार करोड़ रूपया बचाना है तो बिहार के नौजवान को यहाँ पढने के लिए सुविधा मिलनी चाहिए। ये बिहार सरकार भाजपा की सरकार बनाईए, एनडीए की बनाईए और हम बना कर रहेंगे। इसलिए मैं आपसे आग्रह करने आया हूँ कि हमें विकास के लिए वोट चाहिए, बिहार को जंगलराज से मुक्त कराने के लिए वोट चाहिए, धोखेबाजी से बिहार को मुक्त कराने के लिए वोट चाहिए। मैं आपको भरोसा दिलाने आया हूँ कि मैं बिहार की विकास यात्रा में कंधा से कंधा मिलाकर चलूँगा। अगर आप एक कदम चलेंगे तो मैं सवा कदम चलूँगा, मैं ये विश्वास दिलाने आया हूँ। चुनाव के समय भारी मतदान करके परिवर्तन लाकर के रहिये, बिहार का भाग्य बदल के रहिये। \nThanks a lot!"