"Share\n\nWe need to make our handloom tradition the centrifice of fashion for India and the world: PM\nWe should enlarge the scope of e-commerce for sale of handloom products: PM Modi\nGovernment is committed to extend robust social security cover to weaver families: PM\nThe handloom sector has inherent strengths that we need to market: PM\nHandloom can be our weapon against poverty, says PM Modi\nInnovative design backed by good marketing is essential for promotion of handlooms: PM\nVanakkam,\nWeaver brothers and sisters Awardees Ladies and Gentlemen\nTamil Nattakkadu Vandil Mecc Magilchi\nNeshwali Anbargalay .. Kandishil .. Melum Magilchi\nFirst of all, Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu revered Doctor J. Congratulations to Jayalalitha ji, Tamil Nadu Government and citizens of Tamil Nadu, heartily that you celebrated an important program in Tamilnadu as a host. Today the National Handloom Day is being started and Tamilnadu is going to be normal, in general, the Government has the habit of doing all things in Delhi, but my efforts are that the government has come out of Delhi and today the entire Delhi government is present in Tamil Nadu.\nI congratulate you and extend my best wishes on the first National Handloom Day.\nThe Swadeshi movement was launched on 7th August, 1905. It is remembered as one of the major events of our freedom struggle. It was on this day that Indians started importing textiles. So this day has a special significance for handlooms. So we have been selected as the National Handlooms day.\nWhen the war of independence was going on, handloom was a weapon for liberation from slavery at the time. In today's freedom India, handloom can become a weapon for liberation.\nIndia is home to many world famous handloom products. To name a few we have Kanchivaram (Kanjiwaram) of Tamil Nadu, Baluchari and Jamdani (Baluchari and Jamdani) of West Bengal, Chanderi and Maheswari (Chanderi and Maheshwari) of Madhya Pradesh, Muga (Muga) of Assam, Patola (Patola) of Gujarat, Kani and Shehtoosh (Kani and Shatuts) of Jammu and Kashmir and Pochampally (Pochampalli) of Andhra Pradesh. The handloom sector has the ability to market\nHandloom mainly uses natural fiber like cotton, silk, wool, jute etc. So it is Eco-friendly We can make it even more Eco-friendly by using vegetable dyes and other organic products.\nToday's people are very conscious of the environment and holistic healthcare. We need to exploit this in marketing handloom products both domestically and for exports. On 2nd October last year, I had asked people to use one item of Khadi to brighten the lives of artisans. I am informed that since then the sale of Khadi has gone up 60% as compared to the same period last year. Last time, before Diwali, I had prayed to people in my mind that you keep twenty-five types of fabric in the house. If a relative comes, they tell me that I have this, that is, it is, but there is no khadi. Keep at least one part of the house in khadi. So much so that the countrymen accepted my request and 60 percent of sales went up, burn the lamp in the poor house.\nWe now need to give a similar call for handlooms. Can we not use the handlooms in our daily lives? We have many options, such as clothes curtains, bed sheets, table covers, door mats and rugs, just to name a few This will not only support handlooms but will we support our weavers\nI am told that handlooms form 15% of total cloth consumption. If we raise this to just 20%, from 15% to 20%, it will give a huge boost to handlooms. Handloom turnover will increase by 33%\nPeople, especially women, wear handloom clothes on social occasions like marriages and major festivals. We need to This will give the much-needed boost to the handloom sector\nI sometimes find that we ate in a five star hotel, ate in the Seven Star Hotel, but when the mother's hand in the house is available, she enjoys something else, there is a different satisfaction, why? Because when mother feeds, then she does not feed only, there is a lot of love in it, and due to this we get satisfaction too. Whenever I think of Khadi or handloom, sometimes I feel that no matter how many varieties of the world we can wear, but when it comes to handloom or khadi, it seems like it is served like mother, love Served from, made with love. The difference, the difference that we will feel, then we will know that I have borne such a body made of love, on my body.\nWhen we go to a weavers family, we will see that 80% of the place in the house, 80% place for that loom, and 20% lives in the whole family, and when a sari is made of loom, five months- Six months, the work of one or the other thing is done, the whole family makes such a sari as if a mother is making her daughter bigger, like her daughter is rearing, in that form, the whole family inside the family , Wears that sari and Children's sari is that a bride's body after parting ways, is the family to enjoy as much and as soon as you exit the sari, as parents tend to leave their beloved. So much love that weaver becomes weaving them.\n..And the weaver family who makes saris have so much attachment that after 15-20 years, someone can find out and know that he has worn that sari, seeing what he has made, comes to mind as much as he does. The family of the family is found, so the attachment happens with weaving and weaving.\nWe need to take several initiatives to make handlooms fashionable. This can be done by bringing new designs and color schemes, constantly evolving and innovating, ensuring quality Fashion and design education in India also needs to be re-oriented. We need to make our handloom tradition the centerpiece of fashion for India and the world.\nWe are committed to delivering our famous traditional handloom products. India Handloom Brand has been launched with the sole objective of winning the trust and confidence of customers.\nSomeone gave me a book now. In that book, different types of handlooms in the world, different types of handicraft, what work is done in which century. In different countries of the world .. They have made a very large tree. There were 1500 years old things in it, it was 1400 years, there was no 1000 years, it was 200 years. I was surprised that small countries also had names in it, but in that whole tree there was no mention of Hindustan in the world of handicraft and handloom. I was shocked, one on their ignorance and secondly we never branded our things. The world did not know that there was a time that things made from weavers and artisans of our country, whether in the five regions of the world, Africa, Europe, whether it is Arab nation or China, all of our things were sold and take it The world used to be attractive. But those who write books today do not even know that we have such a glorious history because we should global marketing of our things, global marketing should be done in such a way that we have lost somewhere.\nSometimes we think how to get this work done. Small efforts also give us a big change. Like The Film Industry has a major role in popularizing fashion in India. And of course I know that Chennai is a big center of the film industry. Can our film makers decide that at least one out of five films only handlooms, handicrafts and khadi use?\nIn order to popularize our film industry, our film industry says in some scenes that it is a scene of this, it is a shot of a shot, then automatic ones find them. If they decide that Bhai will make such a film from five films, in which every handloom will be used, all the clothes will be of handloom, handicraft will be used, all things will be such. I assure them, millions of weavers of the country, millions of artisans will definitely go to see their film, they will get their market themselves.\nToday's management gurus talk about industrial development when talking about the cluster concept, then talk about promoting the cluster. If our ancestors saw centuries ago only if we look at handloom and handicraft, then we will know how the cluster used to work with us here. Now go to Uttar Pradesh then Banaras is a huge cluster of handloom. If you go to Kanchipuram here, you will be seen to be a huge cluster of handloom, go to Devagiri, you will see a huge handloom cluster in Maharashtra i.e. even at that time whether it is talk of supply chain, whether it is talk of marketing Regardless of the cluster development, whether it is the matter of raw material supply. What many of today's management gurus say have been developed by our ancestors in the world of handloom-handicraft for centuries.\nRecently, we have launched the \"Digital India Movement\". which will soon connect all Indians through the internet Young consumers are now available through e-commerce platforms. Therefore we should enlarge the scope of e-commerce for sale of handloom products.\nAs we develop markets for handlooms, we also need to extend support to our side in the production side. I am happy to learn that National Handloom Development Corporation supplied 27% more yarn during 2014-15 as compared to the previous year.\nAssistance to individual weavers for building work sheds and purchasing loom and accessories will now be directly transferred to their bank accounts. We have taken a big step for developing handloom clusters at the block level. Earlier, aid of only about 60 lakhs rupees was given for one handloom cluster. This is now increased up to 2 crore rupees.\nFirst the world of middlemen and brokers ran. Now the money will reach the weaver in the direct bank account. Second, for the first shed you were given seven lakh rupees, now two million rupees will be given.\nThe main objective of all our efforts is to increase the wages of our weavers. Weaving is a very laborious job In some cases, a weaver takes a single saree We need to put in place systems that will ensure their legitimate wages. Productivity and reduce laboratory in the pre-loom activity\nThis will help enhance income levels Weaver families for robust social security cover extended to our government.\nWe have launched a national drive for financial inclusion through Jan Dhan Yojana. Recently, we have also launched three new social security schemes for the purpose of unorganized sectors.\nThe Pradhan Mantri Jeeoti Jeeoti Beema Yojana will provide life insurance. The Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Beema Yojana will give you accident insurance cover. The Atal Pension Scheme will give you a pension from the age of 60. You can protect your future by paying a small amount every month.\nI call on you all to join these schemes and also to ask.\nTo address financing problems of Micro, Small \u0026 Medium Industries The Government has announced the creation of a MUDRA Bank. This bank has a corpus of Rs. 20,000 crores and a credit guarantee corpus of Rs. 3,000 crores Mudra Bank will ensure that at least 60% of the credit flows to loans of less than Rs. 50,000\nI am sure this initiative will benefit handloom weavers in a big way.\nI congratulate all those people who are being awarded today. Their expertise should be utilized for skill development programs, as well.\nInnovative design backed by good marketing is essential for promotion of handlooms. In this context, I would like to share the textile industry for consideration.\nNational Handloom Day celebrations should not end We have to make this a continuous movement. A movement to popularize handlooms and to improve the lives of our weavers.\nIn a way, people associated with weavers are associated with their complete book-making. The whole game is made of warp and bana.\nNow the demand of the time is that we move ahead with this new thing. How do we combine the traditional art that we have with modern art?\nMost women in handloom are Handloom is in the village. How is the demand of time connected with the creation of the village's globalization, and how we meet the war of the village and globalization?\nIt is time demanding that by combating both the poverty and the richness of the rich, we can carry forward the handloom towards economic prosperity. Tana of North-South and Bana of East-West acquaint the art in the corner of India and how to create handloom as a superpower?\nWith the un-skill of the village, with the high skill of the world, on one side untrained un-skill, and on the other hand the creation of high skill. How can we take the handloom industry to new heights with the help of this warp and coinage?\nWar of Zero defect, create Zero effect and we do our product which will be the world's favorite and which is helpful for the environment, be helpful, environment friendly.\nOnce again, I respect all our artisan brothers and sisters who receive honor today, congratulate and congratulate the Government of Tamil Nadu, the citizens of the heart. Thanks a lot."