"\nMozambique \u0026 India have centuries-old trade ties, says PM Modi\nAfrica and the Indian Ocean are among the highest priorities for our foreign policy. Mozambique is crucial for both: PM Modi\nPM Narendra Modi appreciates Mozambique's support for India's candidature for permanent membership of an extended UN Security Council\nExcellency President Filipe Nyusi,\nMembers of the Media,\nI am delighted to welcome President Nyusi and his delegation to India\nPresident Nyusi assumed office earlier this year. We are happy that India is the first destination in Asia\nThe visit is special because this is the 40th anniversary year of independence of Mozambique and the 40th anniversary year of the establishment of our diplomatic relations.\nAfrica and the Indian Ocean are among the highest priorities for our foreign policy. Mozambique is crucial for both\nMozambique and India have centuries-old trade ties 20,000 people of Indian origin in Mozambique Our colonial experiences and developments have shaped a shared vision and a strong partnership.\nMozambique can be a large and a proximate source of natural gas, coal and other minerals that are so important to drive our growth. It also offers huge opportunities in agriculture sector\nI am happy that Indian investments in these sectors have grown significantly in recent years. Mozambique hosts about 25% of Indian investments in Africa. Our business has multiplied five times in the last five years.\nWe are delighted to be a development partner for Mozambique in several areas, including agriculture, healthcare, energy, infrastructure and human resources development.\nSo, as we seek to deepen our relations with Mozambique and enhance our engagement in the Indian Ocean Region and Africa, we are pleased that President Nyusi is visiting us now.\nIn my discussions today, I have conveyed the importance that we are to Mozambique as our regional partner. I have also stressed our development partnership, in accordance with Mozambique's priorities.\nWe talk about our economic synergies and cooperation. I expressed hope that Mozambique will continue to provide an encouraging environment for investments from India, including the areas of hydrocarbons, minerals and infrastructure. We are satisfied with the implementation of the power supply project in Maputo, being funded by Indian line of credit.\nI have assured him of India's full assistance and collaboration in agriculture and food security. In turn, India could also benefit from the Mozambique's agricultural sector.\nWe have today finalized a MoU on Cooperation in the field of Renewable Energy. This is a significant area in our related efforts towards sustainable development. This assumes the special significance of this year as the international community moves to finalize a climate change agreement in Paris later this year. India has already partnered Mozambique in setting up a solar panel assembly plant.\nIndia and Mozambique have large coastlines and are linked by Indian Ocean. I have discussed ways in which we can increase cooperation in maritime security and ocean economy.\nIn recent years, our cooperation has included ship visits and hydrography surveys for Mozambique.\nToday, we have discussed other areas of cooperation in defense, building on his last visit to India as Defense Minister in 2011. We agree that our joint Working Group on Defense Cooperation of the next meeting is scheduled soon.\nWe also discussed a range of regional and global issues of mutual interest. We highly appreciate Mozambique's support for India's candidature for permanent membership of an extended UN Security Council.\nIn the 70th year of the United Nations, I sought his support for the reforms of the United Nations, specifically the Security Council.\nWe also welcome the finalisation of the sustainable Development Goals with focus on elimination of poverty by 2030, and the future of the adoption of the post-2015 Development Agenda in September.\nWe underlined the need for an effective climate change accord in Paris later this year, which also provides the means and technology to developing countries to transition to clean energy sources.\nI briefed President Nyusi about the Third India-Africa Forum Summit to be held in October in New Delhi. There are remarkable similarities in the development goals and priorities of India and Africa.\nFor the first time, we have invited leaders of 54 African countries to participate in the India-Africa Forum Summit. We look forward to President Nyusi's participation in the Summit.\nFinally, let me extend our sincere appreciation for your government's strong support that made the International Day of Yoga a big success in Mozambique.\nExcellency, your visit has renewed the focus on this very important relationship, not just for our two countries, but as a bridge across the Indian Ocean between Africa and India I am confident that your experience and wisdom will be a source of strength in taking a new level.\nThank you very much, President\n"