"Share\n\nWhy did the Congress fail to keep Kartarpur Corridor in India at the time of partition in 1947: PM Modi\nSuccessful opening of the Kartarpur Corridor in recent days has been possible by the power of every citizen's vote: PM\nCongress' \"fatwa\" that should not start rallies with \"India Mata Ki Jai\" shows their disrespect for our Motherland: PM Modi\nCongress ruined the banks They got loan for their cronies cleared by making a call: PM Modi\nFive years ago, the headlines in the newspapers revolved around corruption. We have put a check on corruption: PM Modi\nThe people of the country do not accept the Congress, they do not accept Congress' dynastic politics, they do not accept the casteism spread by Congress: PM\nMy colleague of the Council of Ministers at the center, Arjun Meghwal, Bharatiya Janata Party's National Vice-President Bhai Avinash Rai Khanna, our brother from Hanumangarh district Mr. Patel Vishnoi ji, our fellow MP Bhai Nihal Chand Meghwal, Hanumangarh Nagar Parishad Chairman Mr. Rajkumar Hisaria ji, District President Mr. Krishna Choriya ji and in this election the Bharatiya Janata Party All our candidates, dedicated to Ramesh activist and community service ... From Dr. Ram Pratapji to Hanumangarh ... Ram Pratapji IA, Mr. Abhishek Mutoria from Nohar, Mr. Dharmendra Mohi Ji from Pilibanga, Mr. Gurmeet Singh Shahpani Ji from Sangariya, Suratgarh From Mr. Rampratap Kasenia ji, from Bhadra, Mr. Sanjeev Gniwal ji ... you are my most urgent, by closing fists with both hands up and blessing of Mother India Bless them all with the promise ... Bharat Mata Ki ... Jai ... Bharat Mata Ki ... Jai ... Bharat Mata Ki ... Jai! Thanks a lot.\nBrothers and sisters, today is December 4. Today is the day of the Indian Navy and today, on this Navy Day, I wish many navigations of the Navy from the land of heroes. Our Navy is a symbol of bravery and courage in the Viraat sea. Our Navy is the pride and glory of our country. Brothers and sisters, no one can imagine that this desert, this deserts, where water is beyond imagination, Samundar is far away from here ... But those who are purushdes ... those who are brave. Those who are resolute ... how they do amazing, this desert country has shown. Today I would like to say with pride that when our country is celebrating Naval Day ... the leadership of the Indian Army, Admiral Vijay Singh Shekhawat, son of this land and Admiral Madhvendra Singh ji served the country as head of the Navy. ..Which was not even distant from the sea, despite this the land was led by the land of the country's navy. I salute this soil, bowing down to the heroic mothers who gave birth to such heroes. Brothers and sisters, today when we are celebrating Navy's Day, I would like to mention with those proud daughters of the country with great pride ... there are such things in our country ... for a few moments. After that, he is forgotten ... good things of society, courage of society, courage of society, power of society, should remember it repeatedly, should be remembered for generations and then only history New out of Class meets is, get new motivation to get new strength. Brothers and sisters, the six daughters of our Navy showed amazing in the world ... 20, 22, 25, 27, 30-year-old daughters came out with a small boat made under the make in India. Today, after visiting the whole world by the sea route, these six daughters came back with the flag of Hindustan in the world. Big hard work, keep walking with the sea for nearly a whole year ... small boat, no modern machine, boat running through the hull ... Who will not be proud of Hindustan, for these six daughters of my navy. Come, brothers and sisters, for these six daughters, by clapping loudly for our navy, glorify them by speaking the joys of Mother India. Bharat Mata Ki ... Jai ... Bharat Mata Ki ... Jai!\nBrothers and sisters, today when I ... Hanumangarh, become Ganganagar ... in a way, the blessings of the gurus have come on this earth, then my mind becomes proudly proud, my forehead leans in front of this master tradition is. Brothers, I'm surprised. We can understand the power of power, but the balance of power will also be lost ... When will the throne be found ... how soon it is found, what kind of mistakes have happened in this temptation, the mistakes that we have to face today is. Brothers and sisters, when the country was liberated in '47, India was divided, it was so hasty to sit on the throne, that it was not even seen closely that after the partition of India ... and that too was divided in the name of the sect. ..Muslim wanted a different country in the name of Islam ... his agenda was clear but at that time the policymakers were under the leadership of the Congress, these Congress people have made such mistakes ... but the same happened in those The result of this is that the result of the same is that Guru Nanak Dev Ji went to Pakistan, his karmabhoomi, sadhan land, service land, steupar sahib. It would have been a little wiser that there would be some sensitivity in the leaders of the time, they would have seriousness that what is the place of Guru Nanak Dev in the life of Hindus, brothers and sisters, our Kartarpur would not have separated us from three kilometers Brothers and sisters Guru Nanak Dev Sahib can not separate us from us, but this lacked the ability to think of Congress party, lack of sensitivity, nothing else except Rajgadhi, he did not have the sentiments of millions of people of Sikh tradition and unfortunately Guru Kartarpur, connected with Nanak Dev ji, went to occupy Pakistan. Whenever any Hindustani sees this distance from across the border, the place of Guru Nanak Dev ji ... remains in his heart, which is the misfortune that I can not take control of this sacred earth and take it for granted.\nBrothers and sisters, the Congress Party has been in power for 70 years ... fought battles, won wars, talk of hoisting flag from Lahore, many things ... big things happened, but in the footsteps of Guru Nanak Dev Has not been arranged. Today, when I received the message of humanity from where Guru Gobind gave it, I came in the area of ​​Ganganagar and Hanumangarh, then by bowing down with great humility and first asking for the forgiveness of the Guru traditions that in our country there are such people for 70 years What they neglected ... that is the blessing of this master tradition that a holy work came in my hands and decided to make Kartarpur Corridor. The cabinet has decided. Now 365 days when he will become a corridor, whoever believes in any of my master's traditions, any Hindus who bow down in front of Guru Granth Sahib will go to Kartarpur comfortably. Return to the place of Guru Nanak Dev Ji Will come\nThese Congressmen should ask why should you be in Kartarpur India in '47 ... why did not you remember this, why did you make such a big mistake, why did you do so great injustice? Brothers and sisters, I have been seeing every day, my own fortune has come in the way of fixing every major mistake. It is in my destiny that those who have done evil have come in my destiny ... and my destiny ... my destiny has not created the ranks of my hands, my fortune is in the hands of 100 million people. Today, if I am able to do something ... if Kartarpur corridor is built ... we can go to Guru Nanak Dev Ji with ease, then whose credit is it ... whose credit is it ... you Kartarpur will be able to go to its credit ... who is ... who is ... who is ... who is ... who is ... no ... you are making a mistake ... it does not have credit for Modi. That was the strength to become the Kartarpur Corridor, so it was possible ... It was possible to take a step in the footsteps of Guru Nanak Dev ... that this strength is not Modi. This power is your vote ... Your vote is. If you had suppressed the vote even wrong at that time, then this corridor of Kartarpur is not made ... You pressed the finger on the right spot, lotus marks ... due to which the door has opened. The strength is your vote.\nBrothers and sisters, people think that what we do by voting and mistakes happen from there. We think that we vote, to make an MLA, we think we vote to win a party, we think that we vote for someone to make the chief, we think we vote To win someone or to defeat someone. If you do not pay the price of your vote so low, the price of your vote is not so low. Can you imagine what you can do? You tell me, in our area, we used to crave water for the farmers that they did not ... Did not need water ... We used to quarrel with Punjab often and did not used to do that water Should we not get used to that ... used to do that? Was the governments that were not? The Congress used to do that, did not use the canal, was that there was a government in Punjab, was not that there was a government in Rajasthan? Everything was there, there was no water. Why ... Because the government is why, why do people make the government ... It seems to people sitting in the government ... that they just have fun. Brothers and sisters, you have made such a person Prime Minister, you have voted for such a person, he only lives for you, he awakens only for you, he battles only for you and if he bends too, then Just and just for you\nBrothers sisters, our Sirhind feeder and our Rajasthan feeder ... people used to demand ... get water ... Punjab used to say water is not where, but trouble was not water, trouble was the mind. It was a straightforward point that the canal is raw ... broken ... is getting seepage ... the water is not going to go ... the water is going to waste ... if you remove so much path, then my Punjab is also happy ... My Rajasthan is also happy ... My Ganganagar is also happy ... My Hanumangarh is also happy! And we started the work of ensuring the canal of Sirhind feeder ... Rajasthan feeder ... brothers-sisters, costing about two thousand crore rupees. Now seepage will be closed and more than 800 cusec extra water will be brought to your fields. Tell me, brother-in-law, who is doing this water work ... Who is doing this water work ... Who is fulfilling your demand for water ... how are these water being brought to the canals? Made a mistake again ... fixing this syringe feeder, fixing this Rajasthan feeder ... This is not Modi, it is making a vote of yours ... is voting for you. If the vote falls in the right place, then only MLA, the MP is not formed, the government is not formed ... If the right place is voted, then your rightful thing happens, your fortune changes ... and so, brothers and sisters, I I have come to you today to do the right thing, we need your help, you need blessings.\nYou just remove the newspaper five years ago ... what the headline used to be in the newspaper ... Find out the 2013-14 newspaper ... what was the first thing on the newspaper ... it was a scam in coal ... Happened ... so lakh crores went ... did not come that? Ever had to do the scam of Tujo ... did not come that was coming? Ever used to scam in the submarine ... did not come? He stole it, looted it, ate it ... it used to be the news that it did not come ... Was it the discussion on the four sides? It has been five years since my brother-in-law, you have got to read such a news ... got a news read? You tell me the money which was used to take away the country's money has not ceased ... it did not happen ... it saved money or did not survive? Lakhs-crores of rupees stopped from stealing or did not stop? Who would stop ... Who stopped ... Who would stop ... Who should stop ... Hey, Modi has not stopped, this one of your votes has stopped ... One of your votes. If a person wages a common wage in the village, then if someone asks him that you have done a great job ... what made you wonder ... Hey you saved the millions of rupees of the country ... He will say, 'Sir, I have not seen lakha. ..Who would I save millions of crores but when he explained it, he would feel ... Yes, the power of my vote is so much that I save lakhs of millions of crores of rupees in the country ... brother No-sisters, this is work.\nBrothers and sisters, these days the Pakistanis used to keep you, I-I. Ever stealthily went to the camp of our army and went away after killing the people by shooting the bomb ... now he had become accustomed ... and for the last 70 years he had such governments that hit and run away .. Nothing is going to happen. Brothers and sisters, the army was in the past, was not it ... that the army was earlier or not ... The war was earlier or there was no ... were the brave soldiers or not? Are the sacrifices that are young people of my country or not ... do they have arms or not? Everything is there, the army is also young, there is also the power to fight the Jijan ... The enemy is also sitting in front of it but what would have happened ... today so many died, so many dead today ... the news came or it did not come? Brothers, surgical strikes have shown how to respond. Brothers and sisters, these surgical strikes did not show the strength of the army of India ... showed the power of the heroes or showed them ... Our army is strong, it is not decided that happened? Brothers and sisters, who did these surgical strikes ... Who did this surgical strike ... who gave the answer to Pakistan ... who shut the mouth of Pakistan ... how did it reduce Pakistan's hegemony ... Brothers and sisters, then I am saying, making a mistake, Modi did not do it ... It did not Modi ... Whatever happened, there was a surgical strike, bravery with these heroes came ... this strength is your vote That is. It is the power of your vote that it can work.\nBrothers, you tell me, this is our farmer ... India's farmer has a strength. The farmer is never going to be demanding, the farmer is the food adder ... Now we want to make the farmer an active energy consigner too. The farmer of my country is also an aadnadaar, now he will also be a vendor. We are bringing Revolution of the energy of Sunshine in the country. हम किसान को कह रहे हैं, तुम्हारे खेत के किनारे पर सोलर पैनल लगाओ, बिजली पैदा करो और पानी भी...बिजली का खर्चा मत करो...सोलर पंप से पानी उठाओ स्प्रिंकलर करो, ड्रिप इरिगेशन करो, आधुनिक खेती करो और पैसे बचाओ। भाइयो-बहनो, 28 लाख सोलर पंप किसानों को देने का हमने फैसला किया है। आने वाले समय में ये पहुंच जाएगा। इससे किसानों का बिजली बिल खत्म हो जाएगा, इतना ही नहीं, वो जो बिजली पैदा करेगा... अपने खेत में जितनी जरूरत है उससे ज्यादा बिजली होगी तो सरकार वो बिजली खरीद लेगी। किसान को बिजली का भी पैसा मिलेगा।\nभाइयो-बहनो, ये कांग्रेस वाले झूठ बोलकर के किसानों का अपमान करने में ऐसे माहिर हैं और ये नामदार...अगर नामदार को कोई कह दे कि हरी मिर्ची का किसान को कम पैसा मिलता है, लाल मिर्ची का ज्यादा मिलता है, तो वो भाषण दे देगा कि किसानों को हरी मिर्च की नहीं खेती करनी चाहिए, लाल मिर्च की खेती करनी चाहिए। जिसको हरी मिर्च की और लाल मिर्च की समझ नहीं है...जिसको ये ज्ञान नहीं है कि चने का पौधा होता है कि चने का पेड़ होता, अब वो हमें किसान की भाषा समझाने लगे हैं। आप मुझे बताइए भाइयो-बहनो, कांग्रेस के जमाने में किसानों के घर सोने के थे क्या...जरा बताइए ना सोने के थे क्या,  किसानों के घर चांदी के थे क्या...किसानों के घर के बाहर चार-चार ट्रैक्टर खड़े थे क्या...किसानों के घर के पास दो-दो मारुति खड़ी थी क्या…किसान हर छह महीने विदेशों में घूमने जाते थे क्या और मोदी ने आकर के बंद कर दिया सब क्या? ना-ना मोदी ने आकर के सब लूट लिया क्या...किसान का बंगला था, झोपड़ी हो गया...क्या झूठ बोल रहे हैं? अगर देश के किसानों की मुसीबत का कारण है तो ये आपके 70 साल के पापों का परिणाम है। हर सरकार को ये मुसीबत झेलनी पड़ी है...और मैं विश्वास से कहता हूं मेरे भाइयो-बहनो, अगर देश के पहले प्रधानमंत्री...अगर ये किसान का बेटा देश का पहला प्रधानमंत्री बना होता...सरदार वल्लभभाई पटेल देश के पहले प्रधानमंत्री बने होते तो मेरे देश के किसानों की ये दशा नहीं होती। एक परिवार की चार पीढ़ी जिनको ना खेत की समझ है, ना किसान की समझ है, उन्होंने ऐसी नीतियां बनाईं कि देश का मेरा किसान बर्बाद हो गया। इसके लिए जिम्मेवार आप लोग हैं...आप लोग हैं नामदार, आप और आपकी चार पीढ़ी जिम्मेवार है...जरा जवाब दीजिए।  \nभाइयो-बहनो, चुनाव आता है तो किसान के गीत गाते हैं। 2009 में चुनाव आया तो उन्होंने घोषणा की कि भारत सरकार किसानों का कर्ज माफ कर देगी और किसान ने भी मान लिया कि हां यार ये तो करो...बाकी ठीक है...सरकार आए-जाए...कम से कम हमारा तो हो जाएगा...किसान उस बात में आ गया और इन लोगों ने किसान के साथ कैसा धोखा किया। आज मेरे किसान भाई- बहन चौंक जाएंगे...ये कितना झूठ बोलते हैं, कितना झूठ करते हैं! राजगद्दी पाने के लिए कैसे कैसे पाप करते हैं और मेरे देश के भले-भोले किसानों के साथ किया ऐसा। 2008 में उन्होंने किसानों का कर्ज माफ करेंगे ऐसा करके वोट बटोर लिए। उस समय देश के किसानों का कर्ज था छह लाख करोड़ रुपया...कितना था...जरा बताइए कितना था... उन्होंने कर्ज माफी कहा तो छह लाख करोड़ माफ होना चाहिए कि नहीं होना चाहिए था...छह लाख करोड़ माफ होना चाहिए था कि नहीं होना चाहिए था? उन्होंने किया क्या...ये झूठ कितना बोला भाई...छह लाख करोड़ के सामने 58 हजार करोड़ रुपया सिर्फ माफ किया। छह लाख करोड़ के सामने 58 हजार करोड़…और राजगद्दी पर बैठ गए और मैडम ने रिमोट कंट्रोल से पांच साल चला भी लिया! इतना ही नहीं जब सीएजी ने रिपोर्ट निकाली तो सीएजी ने रिपोर्ट निकालके कहा कि ये जो आपने 58 हजार करोड़ रुपया बांटा है, उसमें 35 लाख ऐसे लोगों को पैसा गया है जिनका न किसानी से लेना-देना है, ना कर्ज से लेना-देना है, ये कांग्रेस की मिलीभगत वाले लोगों के पैसे आ गए हैं, ये किसानों को नहीं मिले हैं। भाइयो-बहनो, इस प्रकार से झूठ बोला...झूठ करना और झूठे वादे करने वाली कांग्रेस पर कोई किसान भरोसा करेगा क्या? कोई किसान भरोसा करेगा?\nअभी कर्नाटक में चुनाव हार गए। किसानों का कर्जमाफी करने का वादा किया था, उसके बाद भी उनकी आधी संख्या हो गई। आधी से कम हो गई। जनता ने उनको नकार दिया, तो पिछले दरवाजे से देवेगौड़ा जी को गले लगाकर के बैठ गए। बैठ गए तो लोगों ने कहा...कर्ज माफी करने के लिए कहा था...लाओ। आप हैरान हो जाएंगे...कर्जमाफी का वादा किया था...जनता ने उसके बाद भी उनको हरा दिया था...किसानों ने उनको नकार दिया था लेकिन पिछले दरवाजे से सरकार बना ली, तो लोगों ने कहा बेटा लाओ अब, बोले थे ना लाओ, लाओ...अब जब मांग रहा है तो ये वारंट निकाल रहे हैं... किसानों को जेल में भर रहे हैं। क्या ऐसी कांग्रेस पर भरोसा करोगे क्या...ऐसी कांग्रेस पर भरोसा करोगे क्या?\nभाइयो-बहनो, आपने देखा होगा, चुनाव किस तेजी से रंग बदल रहा है। आज तेज गति से चुनाव रंग बदल रहा है। एक साल से चल रहा था...एक साल से...कांग्रेस वालों ने पहले चलाया...भाई यहां तो कुछ करने की जरूरत नहीं है। यहां की जनता हर पांच साल में बदल देती है...हर पांच साल में बदल देती है। और ऐसे ही हवा बना दी कि हमारे यहां तो नियम है अगले पांच साल दूसरी सरकार। लोगों के गले उतरने लगा। लेकिन सच्चाई ये थी कि यही राजस्थान है, जिसने भैंरो जी को दुबारा सरकार बनाने का सौभाग्य दिया था... जब ये बात बाहर आने लगी कि नहीं-नहीं भाई, दोबारा भी सरकार बन सकती है तो फिर कांग्रेस वाले सोचने लगे, कुछ नया झूठ चलाओ भाई। तो फिर वो सट्टा बाजार, सर्वे वाले ऐसे-ऐसे आंकड़े निकलवाए कि ऐसे-ऐसे आंकड़े निकलवाए कि भाजपा का तो कोई मेल ही नहीं है...20 भी नहीं आएगी, 21 भी नहीं आएगी, 40 भी नहीं आएगी, भाजपा की तो हार पक्की है। लेकिन जैसे-जैसे चुनाव पास में आ गया, फिर कहने लगे नहीं जीत तो सकते हैं...नहीं जीत तो सकते हैं। कांग्रेस जीत तो सकती है। फिर थोड़े दिन में टिकट बंटने लगी तो फिर मामला बिगड़ गया। अब उन्हीं के राग दरबारी आजकल लिख रहे हैं कि कांग्रेस पार्टी को जीती हुई बाजी हारने में कितनी महारत है ये राजस्थान ने दिखा दिया।\nउनके राग दरबारी जो चौबीसों घंटे उनके गीत गाते रहते हैं, उन्हीं के लिए जीते-मरते हैं, दुनिया की कोई सच्चाई स्वीकार नहीं करते हैं, पूरी तरह उनके यहां गिरवी रखे हुए हैं, ये लोग दो महीने पहले राजस्थान में कांग्रेस का जय-जयकार होने वाला है...ये कहने वाले आज कांग्रेस के नेताओं को गाली दे रहे हैं कि तुमलोगों ने जीती हुई बाजी हार दी...जीती हुई बाजी हार दी। अरे दिल्ली के एयर कंडीशंड कमरों में बैठकर के खेल खेलने वालों, ये जीती हुई बाजी हारी नहीं है, ये जनता-जनार्दन ने बाजी जीत ली है भाइयो। भारतीय जनता पार्टी के प्रति उनका प्रेम-विश्वास, विकास के प्रति उनका प्रेम और विश्वास ये आज खुलकर के नजर आ रहा है।\nमैं राजस्थान में जहां गया हूं...मैं कल्पना नहीं कर सकता हूं कि इतने सवेरे ऐसी रैली हो...मैं पूरा रोड भरा पड़ा देख रहा हूं। अरे दिल्ली मैं बैठे हुए सिर्फ इसका नजारा देख लें ना, तो भी पता चल जाएगा कि हवा का रुख किधर है। कोई दुविधा नहीं है। विजय निश्चित है। कोई दुविधा नहीं है..भारतीय जनता पार्टी की विजय निश्चित है। अब राजस्थान की जनता को विकास चाहिए अब राजस्थान की जनता को नया राजस्थान चाहिए और राजस्थान की जनता को भरोसा है कि दिल्ली में मोदी और राजस्थान में वसुंधरा जी मिलकर के राजस्थान का नया भविष्य बना सकते हैं। और इसीलिए भाइयो-बहनो, मैं आपसे आशीर्वाद मांगने आया हूं, एक भी कांग्रेसी को जीतने मत दीजिए, ये झूठ बोलने वालों को जीतने मत दीजिए। उनको ऐसी सजा करो...ऐसी सजा करो ताकि वो जमीन पर आकर के जनता का सच्चा काम करें। इसी एक अपेक्षा के साथ आपने जो आशीर्वाद दिए...इतनी बड़ी तादाद में आकर के आशीर्वाद दिए...भाइयो-बहनो, ये ऐतिहासिक दिवस है मेरे लिए, आपका ये आशीर्वाद ये बहुत बड़ी शक्ति है। मैं फिर एक बार सर झुकाकर के आपका नमन करता हूं। मेरे साथ बोलिए भारत माता की...जय...भारत माता की... जय...भारत माता की जय! Thanks a lot.\n"