"PM's signatures of the historic agreement between India and NSCN\nNaga courage and commitment are legendary Equally, they represent supreme levels of humanism: PM\nPeace, security, economic transformation of North East is among my highest priorities: PM\nShri Rajnath Singhji, Home Minister\nShri Muivah and all senior leaders of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland.\nMy warm greetings to all those present here today on this historic occasion!\nI wish that Mr. Isak Swu, who played a leading role in this agreement, was present today. He could not I wish him speedy recovery. Just as his contribution to this agreement has been huge\nThe Naga political issue has been delayed for six decades, taking a huge toll on generations of our people.\nI sincerely thank Mr. Isak Swu, Mr. Muivah and other Naga leaders for their wisdom and courage, for which their results and cooperation, which has resulted in this historic agreement.\nI have the deepest admiration for the great Naga people for their extraordinary support I compliment the National Socialist Council of Nagaland for maintaining the Ceasefire Agreement for nearly two decades, with an understanding of honour that defines the great Naga people.\nMy relationship with the North I have travelled to Nagaland on many occasions I have been deeply impressed by the rich and diverse culture and the unique way of the Naga people. It makes only our nation, but also the world.\nThe Naga courage and commitment are legendary. Equally, they represent the highest levels of humanism Their system of village administration and grass-root democracy should be the rest of the country\nThe respect for the infirm and elders, the status of women in society, the sensitivity to Mother Nature, and the emphasis on social equality is a natural way of life. These are values ​​that should constitute the foundation of the society\nUnfortunately, the Naga problem has taken so long to resolve because we did not understand each other. It is a legacy of the British Rule The colonial rulers had, by design, kept the Nagas isolated and insulated. They propagated terrible myths about Nagas in the rest of the country. They deliberately suppressed the reality that the Nagas were a highly developed society. Naga people among the rest of India This was part of the well known policy of division and rule of the colonial rulers.\nIt is one of the tragedies of Independent India that we have lived with this legacy. There were not many like Mahatma Gandhi, who loved the Naga people and was sensitive to their feelings. We have continued to see the prism of false perceptions and old prejudices.\nThe result was that connectivity between Nagaland and the rest of India remained weak throughout this divide. Economic development and progress in Nagaland; and, durable peace was elusive\nSince becoming Prime Minister last year, peace, security and economic transformation of North East has been among my highest priorityities. It is also the heart of my foreign policy, especially the 'Act East' Policy.\nI have been deeply concerned about the resolution of the Naga issue. Soon after entering office, I appointed an interlocutor for talks with the Naga leaders, who not only understand the Naga people as well as their aspirations and expectations, but has great affection and respect for them.\nGiven the importance of this initiative, I asked my office to supervise the talks; and I personally kept in touch with I want to thank you for my senior colleague, Home Minister Mr. Rajnath Singhji, whose support and advice is unavoidable in bringing us here today.\nToday's agreement is a shining example of what we can achieve when we deal with each other in a spirit of equality and respect; trust and confidence; When we seek to express concerns; When we leave the path of dispute and take the high road of dialogue It is a lesson and an inspiration in our troubled world.\nToday, we mark not only the end of a problem, but the beginning of a new future. We will not only try to heal wounds and resolve problems, but also be your partner as you restore your pride and prestige.\nToday, to the leaders and the people of Nagaland, I say this: You will not only build a bright future for Nagaland, but your talents, traditions and efforts will also make the nation stronger, more secure, more inclusive and more prosperous . You are also the guardians of our eastern frontiers and our gateway to the world beyond\nEqually, the rest of the nation will join you in a future of dignity, opportunity and prosperity for the Naga people\nToday, as you start a new glorious chapter with a sense of pride, self-confidence and self-respect, I join the nation in saluting you and conveying our citizens.\nThank you."