"Share\n\nDr. Kalam is a leading light who will always be remembered for his services\nDr. Kalam's life as President has always been inspiring for the nation: PM\nDr. Kalam's contribution in the field of science has always made India proud: PM\nThe Prime Minister Narendra Modi has condoled the passing way of the former President Dr.APJ Abdul Kalam\nIn a statement, he said that Dr. Kalam had a leading light who would always be remembered for his services In his condolence message, the Prime Minister said, \"The news of the passing away of former President of India, and especially of the beloved Mr. Abdul Kalam, is a very tragic news for the whole country and for the scientific alm of the world. In his work, his life, his every point is still a guide for the country, as a scientist, he has brought India to new heights. In empowering India, His life-long effort to connect the power of India is a very big capital. He was also a President, even after and afterwards he used to say that I am a teacher, I am a professor .. Teaching is my passion. Today, even the end times of life, between the students, doing their own dear deeds, they spent the last moment.\nBorn in an ordinary family-born Tamil Nadu, started the journey of life from far away Rameswaram and you have a huge contribution in enhancing the prestige of India from the people of India.\nPersonal was a great, senior guide in my life. I had the opportunity to work closely with them. I have lost a good guide in my personal life, the country has lost one of its kind, who served India, to empower India. Who made his momentous moment, to empower the young generation of India to empower, to empower them Farewell to such a great man, I do not believe that anyone will get filled. The country has lost much today today.\nI offer my respect for that great soul. The country is mourning today. His work will inspire us to take the country forward.\nOnce again I bow down to the life of this great man, his work, his inspiration, in this grief-stricken state of the country, in this state of deep shock, I do not have the word to say anything more ... . \""