"Bihar must be free from unemployment and Goonda raaj: PM\nModi can not go back to the era of loot and jungle raj, says PM\nPM Modi urges people to vote wisely and elect a stable BJP Government\nLong live Mother India\nSome people are on the second floor, some people are on the third floor, if someone falls, what will I answer? Once you become a new government, you will be reaching new heights. Believe it, but at least get down now. I will worry that if something happens then I will be very sad.\nMy partner in the central government, Mr Ananth Kumar Ji, State BJP President, Mr. Mangal Pandeyji, Former Deputy Chief Minister of the State, Mr. Sushil Kumar Modi, Legislative Assembly leader Shri Nand Kishore Yadav, BJP in-charge Shri Bhupendra Yadav, in the center, my colleague of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Radha Mohan Singh Ji, Mr. Ravi Shankar Prasad ji, Mr. Dharmendra Pradhanji, Mr. Rajiv Mr. Rudyji, Mr. Giriraj ji, Mr. Ram Vilas Paswanji, and our former Chief Minister of Bihar, whose face always laughs, like our jiman Ram Manjhi ji, my companions, Mr. Upendra Kushwaha, all of us guide, our oldest senior Leader, Dr. C. P. Thakur, our former State President, Mr. Gopal Narayan Ji, Mr. Shakuni Chaudhary Ji, MP Mr. Arun Kumar, former MP Riman M. Singh, former state minister Dr. Prem Kumar. Bihar's Kona Kona comes from our brothers and sisters, Tohra Sabat Shabat Shabat Shantam\nWhen I asked for the time for this program here, I could not imagine that I would be able to see such a thing. Wherever my eyes are reaching, the forehead itself seems to be the forehead and the greatest thing that is seen in me is your passion. Take a look at this program by all political pundits, the result clearly shows who is going to be the next government. Brothers and sisters, when we first tweeted in the social media, then one of the leaders here used to make big jokes and they used to say, tweet, chirpate, and they used to sneak a big mockery. Today, he also liked the way to tweet and today when I landed, he tweeted that after 14 months you are coming to Bihar, you are welcome. Chief Minister, I am very thankful to you for the welcome. How time is changed and what is the outcome of changed times. That was also a time, he used to say that we have a Modi, what is the need of another Modi. What you need to come to Bihar You did not come Bihar and see today, how disturbing people are, how disturbing their people makes them restless. The Prime Minister of the last ten years, he had come to inspect the air once in ten years and my 14-month-old is also troubling the Chief Minister of the state, he is miserable. How heavy they would have been to each day When there is so much love with their loved ones, they are so much attachment that their distance is difficult. But do not worry, I have come now, you will not have to face much longer.\nBrothers and sisters, I want to ask you, you will answer, do you think there should be a change in Bihar? Things should change? Change the situation? Should be light from the darkness? Should unemployment be employed? Need to get rid of felony? Want a life of happiness? Brothers, give me a chance to serve if this is needed. Let me give you a chance to serve you and I assure you that the dreams of the people of Bihar have been fulfilled by the independence of the country, I will complete you within 60 months. I promise you that we are not the people who escape from the responsibility, we are the people who take responsibilities. I can sometimes understand that I am convinced of a single person, I can also understand that I do not like the face of anyone, I also understand that perhaps there may be a confrontation in our political future. But brother was so bad I came in a room and gave a slap to death, giving a throat. You got angry about one person and threw the whole development journey of Bihar. Is this a democracy? Are these modalities of democracy? I understand that there can be differences in politics, can be dissatisfaction. He came out to get angry and also threw my throat but I am not sad about what you did with us. I am sorry that what you did with the people of Bihar\nThe people here have stood behind you for the liberation of the Jangaraj, and today again you are dragging Bihar towards the same Jangaraj. Do you want to tell me my brothers and sisters, in Bihar, on the day of Jungleraj again? Should he play the death game again? Should this felony happen again? Should this robbery again? The brothers and sisters of my Bihar can not be left in this situation, and therefore, brothers and sisters, whose election becomes a government and who does not make it, is not for this. These elections are for preparing the future of the youth of Bihar, this election is to change the fate of the farmers of Bihar, these elections are for the protection of the mothers and sisters of Bihar and hence, brothers and sisters, without going on the path of development, Bihar Will not be good. And so I have come today to insist that you come, you have tried all of us, you have seen all kinds of models, once you try us also. Give an opportunity to my colleagues of our NDA to serve the people of Bihar. Let me assure you today, take a look at our Delhi government. I do not know whether the political scholars here have ever calculated or not. In Delhi, Modi's government has the highest minister, the most important minister, if anyone has the most important department, then I have these leaders in Bihar. In a way, the leaders of Bihar are running entire Hindustan today. You can guess where this power can take Bihar from.\nBrothers and sisters, you have sent me for five years and have supported me very much. I salute the people of Bihar, I have given the support you have given me. Tell me, those who are saying that we will not allow Modi to enter Bihar, we will not allow Modi to come to Bihar, we do not need Modi in Bihar, if such people will form the government and have no relationship with the Center then What will be good for Bihar? Is there a government in this country fighting with another government? What will be the benefit of a state? Should these warring governments require a shoulder-to-shoulder government? Brothers and sisters, I sit in Delhi, which is a resource all over the country, give me a chance to serve once, do your work come or not, you see.\nI am so surprised that my birth took place on Gujarat's land. Dwarkadhyad is in Gujarat, Lord Krishna is an idol of the people of Gujarat. The work of Yaduvansh has been done on the soil of Gujarat for centuries, but I am a priest of Krishna, I would like to ask, I remember one thing of Shrikrishna when he was a child and people got annoyed due to Kalinag If the child Krishna had power, he had cut off Kalinag. Kalinag had not finished that, and today people talking about Yaduvans are crying that they have to drink poison. O Krishna, the descendant of Krishna does not drink poison, but only ends the lineage of Kalinag. This is his strength and you have poisoned because you have selfishness. You have to make some arrangements for your sons and daughters, but why did you force all the Yaduvans to drink poison? Why did they force them to drink poison? What is their crime? And so I am surprised, read in the newspapers, what is going on here, whether the farmers here will be good or not, is not being discussed; Whether young people will get employment or not, is not being discussed; Whether the felony will end or not will not be discussed; Industry-factories do not seem to be engaged, not being discussed; There will be no electricity in the village, it is not being discussed; Farmers will get water whether they will get it or not, it is not being discussed. What is being discussed, who is a snake, who is not a snake, who drinks poison, who drinks poison. Hey brother, you both decide that who is the snake, who is poison, who drinks poison, who drinks poison. Both of you have an internal matter, sit in a room and fix it. Do not force the people of Bihar to drink poison. This is an internal matter. The people of Bihar want drinking water. Bihar's young man needs employment. Development of industries in Bihar should be developed. Roads in Bihar are required.\nBrothers and sisters, elections in Bihar have now come. When this last election was going to vote, Ram Vilasji was still telling, he also said in his speech. He told you that if I do not power you in 2015 then I will not come to ask for votes like that? Did you remember? I will not ask for a vote if I will not do it, was that so? They said that? Came power? Came power? Did not come, did they come to demand that vote? Did not break your trust or break it? Do not touch your back in the hole? Oh, leave us, snatching in your back, the people who have been doing these things, such people can not be reassured again. And so, brothers and sisters, I have come here today to urge you to change the fate of Bihar. Bihar has the power to change the fate of Bihar not only but the fate of entire India. There are so many natural resources, such a great type of human force, that is such a source of great power. It is centuries before the nation which was proud for the land that the whole country was proud of, it is the strength that Hindustan is proud of and it has to bring me back and that's why I have come to you.\nBrothers and sisters, all these troubles are more than 100 days. After 100 days the people of Bihar will discharge their leave. The people of Bihar will now never accept such people. I'm so surprised. Once I came to Patna. There was a meeting of our party's work committee and the Chief Minister here called us to dinner. Now they snatch our plate. By calling on food and never taking away a plate? This Lalu ji is saying, I am drinking poison today, I had even poisoned that day, and then my mind was badly hurt. What is so untouched in politics? This ritual of public life was to take the plate served on the table, my mind had suffered a lot, I never spoke, nor did I ever put it in my mind, let's be okay brother but when Jitan is oppressed on Ram Manjhi Restless I thought that what Modi has to offer, he pulled the plate, grab the plate of the son of a tea-haired man, pull the plate of a poor son, but for a Mahadalit, he took all the money of the whole, pulling all the virtues. Took it. Brothers and Sisters, then I thought that there is something wrong with DNA as DNA of democracy is not like that. The DNA of democracy is to respect and honor its opponents but what has happened to George Fernandes in the democracy he learned and played? This was connected with the earth, what was done with them? What did Sushil Modi do with those who walked side by side? All these leaders, who have never been together with them, should have gone with them, what did they do with them? Will you still not understand this DNA of democracy? Will such people be sorry?\nBrothers and sisters, and so today I have come to say that I can not leave Bihar on the basis of such elements. People of Bihar should take oath in the jungle Raj will not come again in Bihar. Do you know the full meaning of RJD? Do you know the full meaning of RJD? RJD has a full meaning - the fear of forest Ranjada, RJD means everyday - fear of forest Ranjh daily. Do you want to fear the forest rage every day? Should not you want to get rid of this fear? And so, brothers and sisters, this election is the choice of freedom from the fear of wildlife every day and so I have come to say this. You see beforehand the governments, what has happened with Bihar and what will we do with Bihar? Today I have been inaugurating several programs, I have come to the shilanasaya, I have come to give the land of Bihar with thousands of crores of rupees.\nBrothers and sisters, a lie is being spreading in relation to the thirteenth finance commission and the fourteenth Finance Commission. From 2010 to 2015, whose government was you know, the money that the government gave to Bihar through the Finance Commission was about Rs 1.5 lakh crore. Now from 2015 to 2020, it is our turn, what we decided to give, four hundred and fifty million rupees. What was the first thing - half lakh crores, how much will it now - four hundred and fifty million rupees There will be four lakh crores of rupees for the people of Bihar. Tell me if the development work will go ahead or not? He promised that if there is no electricity, then no vote. They did not do anything and neither came to me nor said to me. But when I went for my foreign trip after becoming a government, I went to Bhutan first. Very small country, there is less population than Bihar, less than Patna. Which agreement was signed in Bhutan - Bhutan will be invested by the Indian government and the electricity generated by water, contracted for hydroelectric power, laid the foundation stone and thus the power that will be generated in Bhutan, the highest part of it is in Bihar The public will get it. We made this decision and after the formation of the government we did this in my first foreign trip. My second visit was to Nepal. नेपाल में भी जल विद्युत् का करार किया और वहां से बिजली बन करके कहाँ आएगी, इसी इलाके में आएगी। मुझे बताईये, आज इतना बड़ा बिहार, 300 मेगावाट बिजली के भी आप मालिक नहीं हो जबकि आपको 5000 मेगावाट बिजली की जरुरत है। इन सरकारों ने केवल 300 मेगावाट बिजली बनाई है, बाकि बिजली ये बना पाएंगे क्या? इतने सालों में जो बिजली नहीं दे पाए, वो अब दे पाएंगे क्या? मैं वादा करता हूँ, मेरा अनुभव है और मैंने करके दिखाया है। मैं बिहार में 24 घंटे घरों में बिजली देने का वादा करने आया हूँ। और बिजली आती है तो अकेली बिजली नहीं आती। बिजली आती है तो सिर्फ़ घर में रोशनी आती है, ऐसा नहीं है। बिजली आती है तो इसके साथ जीवन बदलना शुरू हो जाता है। अगर बच्चों को पढ़ाई करनी है, कंप्यूटर सीखना है तो बिजली आने के साथ वो भी शुरू हो जाता है। अरे मोबाइल फ़ोन चार्ज करना हो तो भी दूसरे गाँव जाना पड़ता है। जाना पड़ता है ना? मोबाइल फ़ोन कितना ही महंगा क्यों न लाए हो लेकिन आपके काम नहीं आता है क्योंकि पटना में बैठी हुई सरकार आपको बिजली नहीं देती है। मुझे बताईये, आपको भी अच्छे टीवी शो देखने का मन करता है कि नहीं करता है? सास भी कभी बहू थी, देखने को मन करता है कि नहीं करता है; टीवी पर अच्छे गाने सुनने का मन करता है कि नहीं करता है? अगर बिजली नहीं होगी तो कहाँ से देखोगे? इन्होने आपको पिछली सदी में धकेल करके रखा है। बिहार को उन्होंने आधुनिक नहीं बनने दिया है। बिजली आएगी, कारखाने लगेंगे। हम कारखाने लगाना चाहते हैं, हम उद्योग लगाना चाहते हैं।\nआज बिहार का एक संतान, एक युवा मेरी सरकार में मंत्री है और मैंने उसे इतना बड़ा काम दिया है, स्किल डेवलपमेंट का। ये स्किल डेवलपमेंट बिहार का भाग्य बदलने वाला है, यह मैं आपको कहने आया हूँ। यहाँ उद्योग लगे, यहाँ के नौजवानों का स्किल डेवलपमेंट हो और यहाँ का जीवन बदल जाए, बिहार के नौजवान को बिहार में अपने बूढ़े मां-बाप को छोड़कर रोजी-रोटी कमाने कहीं जाना न पड़े, ऐसा बिहार बनाने का मेरा इरादा है और उसके लिए मुझे आपको आशीर्वाद चाहिए और वो आशीर्वाद लेने के लिए मैं आया हूँ। भाईयों-बहनों, आज वक़्त इतना बदल चुका है, रोड कनेक्टिविटी चाहिए, रेल कनेक्टिविटी चाहिए, एयर कनेक्टिविटी चाहिए। लेकिन अब जैसे-जैसे युग बदला है लोग कहते हैं हमें तो गैस ग्रिड चाहिए। चाहिए कि नहीं चाहिए? सूरत में मेरे यहाँ बिहार के लोग रहते हैं, वो जब यहाँ वापिस आते हैं तो यहाँ झगड़ा होता है जब वो कहते हैं कि जैसे यहाँ नलके में पानी आता है ना वैसे गुजरात में नलके में गैस आता है। यहाँ के लोग भरोसा नहीं करते। बिहार के लोग जब मुझे मिलते है तो बताते हैं कि मोदी जी मेरे गाँव के लोग तो मानने के लिए तैयार नहीं हैं कि ऐसा भी होता है। बिहार के भाईयों-बहनों, वो दिन अब दूर नहीं है जब मैं पटना तक शुरुआत करूँगा और सैंकड़ों किमी गैस की लंबी पाइपलाइन लगा करके पटना में घरों में गैस देना प्रारंभ कर दूंगा और आगे बिहार के और स्थानों पर भी गैस जाएगा। रसोईघर में टैब चालू करते ही गैस आएगा। अब गैस का सिलिंडर लेने के लिए भटकना नहीं पड़ेगा। किसी दलाल को पैसा नहीं देना पड़ेगा। ये काम हम करते हैं और हजारों करोड़ रूपया लगता है इन कामों के लिए। आज मैं इसका शिलान्यास करके आया हूँ। काम शुरू हो जाएगा, बजट मंजूर कर दिया है। आपके यहाँ बरौनी में फ़र्टिलाइज़र का कारखाना बंद पड़ा हुआ है। यहाँ के नौजवानों को रोजगार चाहिए कि नहीं चाहिए? रोजगार मिलने चाहिए कि नहीं मिलने चाहिए? अगर कारखाने नहीं होंगे तो रोजगार कहाँ से मिलेगा और इसलिए हमने उस फ़र्टिलाइज़र का कारखाना, जो बंद पड़ा था, उसको चालू करने का निर्णय किया है ताकि यहाँ के किसानों को सस्ता खाद मिल जाए और यहाँ के नौजवान को रोजगार मिल जाए। और करीब 5 हजार करोड़ रूपया लगने वाला है, कोई कम पैसा नहीं है यह।\nभाईयों-बहनों, कुछ लोग होते हैं जो वादे की खातिर वादे करते हैं, फिर वादे भुला देने की कोशिश करते हैं और इनको वादे की याद दिला दें तो मुकर जाने की आदत रहती है। जैसे आपको कहा गया था कि बिजली दूंगा तभी तो वोट मांगने आऊंगा। मैं भी चुनाव के समय यहाँ आया था। मैंने भी वादे किये थे लेकिन मैं वादे भुलाने के लिए नहीं आया हूँ। मैंने जो वादे किये थे, उन वादों को मैं खुद दोबारा याद करने यहाँ आया हूँ और मुकर जाने का तो सवाल ही नहीं उठता है। लोकसभा के चुनाव में पटना की धरती पर जब बम धमाके चल रहे थे, लोग मौत के घाट उतार दिये जा रहे थे, हिंसा के मातम से लोकतंत्र का गला दबोचा जा रहा था, उस समय बम धमाकों के बीच डरे बिना, विचलित हुए बिना, गुस्सा व्यक्त किये बिना, नाराजगी व्यक्त किये बिना पूरे शांत मन से उस सभा को मैंने संबोधित किया था। मौत अंगड़ाई ले रहा था उस मैदान में, लेकिन पूरी स्वस्थता के साथ मैंने बिहार की जनता से संवाद किया था और ऐसे संकट की घड़ी में भी मैंने कहा था कि दिल्ली में जब हमारी सरकार बनेगी और जब पूरी योजना बनने लगेगी, हम बिहार को 50 हजार करोड़ रुपये का पैकेज देंगे। आपको याद है, नहीं है न? मैंने ये वादा किया था और आज जब मैं बिहार की धरती पर आया हूँ तो मैं आपको मैं कहता हूँ, वो वादा मैं निभाऊंगा और सिर्फ़ 50 हजार करोड़ से बात बनेगी नहीं अब तो क्योंकि दिल्ली सरकार में बैठने के बाद बिहार को मैंने बारीकी से अध्ययन किया है। बिहार में क्या अच्छा हो सकता है, उस पर मैं सोचने लगा, बिहार के सभी नेताओं से बातचीत करने लगा, सुझाव लेने लगा और मेरे मन में धीरे-धीरे एक समृद्ध बिहार का चित्र बनने लगा, एक विकास वाले बिहार का चित्र खड़ा होने लगा। मुझे लगा ये अगर सपना मुझे पूरा करना है तो 50 हजार करोड़ से पूरा नहीं होगा और इसलिए मैंने उससे भी ज्यादा बड़ा पैकेज देने का विचार कर लिया है। लेकिन अभी पार्लियामेंट चालू है मेरे जुबान पर थोड़ा ताला लगा हुआ है। मैं बोल नहीं पा रहा हूँ लेकिन जैसे ही पार्लियामेंट समाप्त हो जाएगी, मैं आपको खुद आकर बता दूंगा कि कितना बड़ा पैकेज आपको मिलने वाला है।\nआजकल कुछ ऐसे झूठ फैलाये जाते हैं, किसी ने हमसे माँगा नहीं था लेकिन जब बजट आया तो हमारा सपना था बिहार को आगे ले जाने का, बिहार में औद्योगिक क्रांति लाने का, बिहार के नौजवानों को रोजगार मिले, इसलिए हमने बजट के अन्दर एक योजना बनाई स्पेशल स्टेटस वाला राज्य, उसमें सबसे फायदा होने वाली बातें कौन सी हैं और हमने पाया कि स्पेशल स्टेटस में दो बड़ी महत्वपूर्ण बातें हैं। हमने तय किया कि जो सबसे बड़ा फायदा है, वो बिहार को मिलना चाहिए और इसलिए हमने बिहार के लिए, नए इंडस्ट्रियल इन्वेस्टमेंट करने के लिए 15% इन्वेस्टमेंट अलाउंस और 15% का एडिशनल डेप्रिसिएशन अलाउंस इसमें रिडक्शन की हमने घोषणा कर दी और मैं समझता हूँ कि हिंदुस्तान में स्पेशल केटेगरी का इतना बड़ा लाभ, बिहार अगर दम हो तो ले सकता है। कितना बड़ा लाभ मिलेगा, इसका आप अंदाज कर सकते हो। बिहार के नौजवानों को कितना रोजगार मिल सकता है, इसका आप अंदाज कर सकते हो।\nभाईयों-बहनों, अभी तो ये शुरुआत है लेकिन मैं जो ये नजारा देख रहा हूँ इससे मुझे साफ लगता है कि जैसे लोकसभा में अपने मेरा साथ दिया, विधानसभा में उससे भी बढ़कर आप मेरा साथ दोगे। बिहार में इस बार आप निर्णय कर लीजिये कि दो-तिहाई बहुमत के साथ ही सरकार बनाएंगे। दो-तिहाई बहुमत के साथ ही एक मजबूत सरकार बनाईये। मुझे बताईये कि किसी ट्रेक्टर को एक इंजन लगा हो तो ज्यादा तेज चलता है कि दो इंजन लगा हो तो ज्यादा तेज चलता है? बताईये, कितने इंजन चाहिए? आपने दिल्ली में तो आपने इंजन दे दिया है अब बिहार में इंजन दे दीजिए। दो इंजन से बिहार की गाड़ी ऐसी तेज चलेगी भाईयों कि पिछले 60 सालों में जो नहीं हुआ, वो तेज गति से हमारी विकास की यात्रा आगे बढ़ेगी। इसी एक संकल्प के साथ मैं एक बार फिर एनडीए के मेरे सभी साथियों का हृदय से अभिनन्दन करता हूँ और बिहार का भाग्य बदलेगा इस विश्वास के साथ आप सबका बहुत-बहुत धन्यवाद।                  "