"PM Modi speaks at 87th ICAR Foundation Day Celebrations in Patna\nThe country will need a second green revolution, which should come from eastern India: PM\nScientific innovations in agriculture sector should move from land to benefit of farmers: PM\nIndia should aim to become self-sufficient in the sector, says PM\nAll the guests present\nAll the greats, today I have the opportunity to honor me. Those who have contributed positively to some extent in the agricultural sector of the country through their respective areas. I congratulate all the greats who received such awards from the heart. Many congratulations.\nThis festival happens every year and it is for a long time but it happens only in Delhi. So the last time I went to the first time I had said that Bhai, I would just go out of Delhi and it started today with the land of Patna in Bihar. I also thank the State Government for contributing in making this festival a success and I am grateful to the friends of the department that they have taken an initiative. So because of that state, there is a discussion for a few days within the state, many new things come in front of many people. These agricultural scientists come here from all over the country, due to their interaction with the local people, they get information about what is going on in their respective areas. So by going to these different places in a way, we have an extra benefit to us naturally and it has started here today and I am also happy that it is starting from Bihar. Because Pusa was born on this earth and a foreigner would know India's agricultural power in the era of slavery, she must have realized and this work created by Phillip USA became popular under the name of Pusa. But why would they have chosen Bihar, it would not have happened suddenly. When they were thought they would have come to meditation, it would be the most extreme place, people here would be experimental, progressive, and would be thinking of doing new things in the agriculture sector. I would have guessed that by going to other parts of India there would be some extra power of agriculture, then they would have thought of starting that work here. Now it's going to be almost 100 years. So I do not see the whole record till then I can not say what it is but I guess. It means that there is a lack of ability to get new grounds in the agriculture sector in both the land and the people here.\nWe sometimes forget about our things. Things will not have any sudden start, for some reason, some might have begun for a special reason. If you go to the root of it, then meditation comes and I congratulate Radha Mohan Singh for the reason that the reason with the cause of disaster has gone to Delhi from here. Now there is no farming in Delhi but Pusa is there and where there was a farming which filled the belly of the country, Pusa went away. So, we have tried to bring it back and I believe that if someone had thought about 90 years ago, there would definitely be some force in it, there will be some strength. I have to find once again to find him, and the country's scientist will agree with me how we can make progress in these new areas. Some things you guys are doing well today I do not know how much our scientific friends might have liked or how much it will be. Because the scientist is so lost in his work. The important time of close zodiac is to go to the lab itself. Neither his family comes to work, nor does he himself work. He is immersed in it, feels like a madman, and only then it is good for generations to come. When one spends his dream then dreams of others, and therefore the respect to the scientists should be respected, the more the appreciation of the contribution of scientists, the stronger it will be, the better will be the welfare of future generations.\nUnfortunately in our country, we have our own difficulties to fight against poverty, and therefore we can not give as much budget as we can in these areas. Despite this, even sitting in a small lab, our scientist works constantly and gives some new things.\nBut the last time I talked about moving to another step, you kept it as a plan, Lab To Land How much the yield came in the laboratory, the cheeks become like coconut in the laboratory, but if it does not happen on earth, then it does not work. That is why our true criterion is that in the laboratory which we have succeeded in, in the lab, it should also be constrained on the earth and should be constrained by the farmers. In a way a fellow traveler of a scientist should be our farmer. extension of the scientist should be a farmer We should make arrangements for this and therefore, according to the scheme, there is a plan to adopt one block by making them a group of agricultural scientists. His lab will be anywhere, but he will feel that what I am doing is researching that kind of interest in the farmers of that area, then he will join them there, connect with a progressive farmer, connect with the farmers and the knowledge of which It is the property that is through the farmers on the ground.\nAnd the farmer has a nature, it does not work for speech and speech. As long as he does not see with his eyes, he does not believe in anything. And once he sees it with his eyes, he becomes ready to take his risk again, he becomes ready to face the crisis. And so it is necessary that we have to convert each and every lab to every labor lab, how to convert every farmer to scientist. And I know that journey, the way you are doing, the penance you are doing, it is a bit difficult to go out, but the day you go. Any scientist can search well 100-100 of good medicine and the family does not even know where it worked. They think yes, dear, the night comes late, now we will eat food, we will go to sleep. But when it is known that a person was struggling with life and his medicines came to work, his life was saved and when it comes to know that such a life of millions of people who are going to survive this medicine, then the family also Tan, yes, those of us have done, my husband has done, my brother has done. When it happens, when someone sees his achievement outside You do not even see the satisfaction done in your lab until you see it in the farm and in the hands of the farmer, you can not be satisfied. And we are working towards making that arrangement.\nIndia did first green revolution, we got the benefit of it. But now the country can not wait much for second green revolution. Anyway, it's late. For second green revolution, we have to get ready for ourselves. In which area to go, how to go The first green revolution was the first requirement that the country should not be brought out from food, the country's stomach was full. Second green revolution can not mean much, its purpose can be anything else. Why not agro-economists in our country, our country's agro-technicians, agro-scientists of our country, scientist associated with food security, do all these workshops together, do workshops at every level. And make a design workout that yes, what is the model of second green revolution, what priorities are, what things we should go to produce. What is the need to increase productivity, what should be increased. In the entire global environment, what needs to be done in the world today and there are many countries in the world, they are economically difficult to do some things, then they say that bring it from outside, do not do it here. So how many countries are there to find and we will send from outside. We should prepare our second green revolution in this form with a detailed thought.\nOur architecture college teaches a lot. There is so much for building, how the road is made on that also. I believe that ever this agro scientists, progressive farmers, government, need to make a syllabus by sitting with architecture colleges, what is our architecture of infrastructure? If our canal is made then what modern canal becomes, what material is made of. There are plenty of research to make the road, but research is very rare for making canal. This is to make me complete paradigm shift. One basic thing is to bring change and therefore our architecture colleges are responsible for the fact that how is our infrastructure done.\nIn the olden days, inside our village, large kiosks of soil were prepared in the farmers' families and what was to be filled with was of great importance. The specific type of material was put into the Kothi and the food was filled in that box. He was not spoiled for years and the technique to remove was such that he did not remove from the top, used to remove it from the bottom so that the old goods first came out, the new material went up. See how ordinary people's intelligence was amazing. These were made of storages or used to make a cottage in which the stuff was filled, what things they had, they had the knowledge that due to which our agro-product could handle for so long. How much work has been done technically here in respect to preservation We have a tradition of Pickles, Pickles. Where was the technology at that time? The poor woman of the village also preserves pickles in such a way that the pickle was not bad all year round. Meaning that science was on the street of that house. In the changed age, how to do these things more well, so that in our agricultural sector\nBecause wastage today is a matter of great concern. We have to go to the value addition. If the farmer is so hard to do and if his cooked things are wasted then what a big loss it is. I urge the agro scientists to do a research by doing a job and give me a report in six months? I want to move forward in one direction.\nOur farmers produce fruits but the age of fruit is very low. Deteriorate in very short time. Its packaging is also expensive because it has to be handled by one thing. If worn out, they become worse. The fruit from which juice gets out These are sold as many aerated water markets. There is a taste like this. I do not even remember the name, but people keep drinking in many types of bottles. coca-cola and fanta and what's not, thums-up Can we mix natural fruit, its 1 percent, 2 percent, 5 percent natural juice? If the juice of natural fruit is mixed in this aerated water. Its market is very big. I believe that the farmers who produce fruits in India will never be wasted, their goods will be sold only by the farm and 5 percent if it gets mixed in it. His goods will be sold only by the farm and 5% will be mixed in it. The farmer who produces my fruit will never be sad. But until these scientists will not tell by searching, it becomes difficult to convince companies. Can we do this kind of research, we can explain that these are the results If you add natural fruit juice to 5%, then your market will not have any problems, there will be no problem in your test of test, your product will be good and will also have your nutrition value, which ultimately will benefit your business. We need to think about how we do new things.\nOn some of the things we have taken for the initiative, we are stressed on productivity in the world of this world of values, in very large quantities. We are also getting less land, families are expanding, we are going to divide the pieces of land in each family. Our farmer can not be happy without emphasizing how large acre productivity is on us. We have to give it.\nLast time I had said in my mind that farmers have a great need of pulses and oil seeds for the country. Oilseeds and pulses ... See how much I tend to bow down to the farmers of this country. He believed that matter and this time so far the news has come that our farmers of record-breaking showing pulses and oilseeds have given it. Otherwise he was not ready to change the crop but he believed that Bhai country is needed Let us leave the rest, this time goes to pulses and oilseeds, and in very large quantities, I think it will be one and a half times, two times now These - I think that India has to import itself and India.\nOur agricultural scientists and progressive farmers and government should sit and decide. Since India is an agriculture oriented country. Let us decide how much of the agricultural sector still we are importing and we decide that after the year, we will not have to import at least anything in the agricultural sector. We will become self-sufficient, our farmer will have to motivate for this work. We will have to work targeted, and then our farmers will get financial benefits. If they do not, then there will be no profit. Even today, if the farming country is required to get some vegetables from overseas in five star hotels abroad. Our farmer can also prepare, he can get a little knowledge, he can get the method he can. The farmer has the ability to fulfill the country's needs, it is necessary that we have tried to add knowledge of the reservoir and the strength of the farmer and to add it. Some things are very simple that we can do and do it.\nOccasionally our farmer has mostly no irrigation network in our life, mostly our farmer is dependent on the grace of God, if it is rains, then it is a good thing, if it does not happen then there is trouble. The way to which the extra income is. There should be animal husbandry in it, poultry farm, fish industry is a bit prevalent. But one of our things has not been noticed and that is on honey .. honey bee .. globally is a very big market and at least work hard and there is no chance of deterioration in it and production will also sell if honey bottle If it is filled in 2-5-10 years then nothing happens to him. In today's country, I was told that maybe 5 lakh farmers are involved in the activity of honey. We can target this by reaching 5 million. One year, two years, in three years. उसकी income कितनी बढ़ेंगी आप कल्‍पना नहीं कर सकते और दुनिया में market है। ऐसा नहीं कि market नहीं है। हमारे किसान को हम इस प्रकार से नई-नई चीजों के साथ कैसे.. और उसके खेत में वैसे ही होने वाला है।\nमैं नहीं जानता हूं कि हमारे scientist मित्र मेरी इन बातों को स्‍वीकार करेंगे कि नहीं करेंगे क्‍योंकि मैं न तो ऐसे ही किसानों के साथ बैठते-उठते सुनी हुए बातें मैंने जो भी ज्ञान अर्जित किया है, उसी की बात मैं कर रहा हूं।\nहमारे जिस इलाके में elephants, हाथियों के कारण खेती को बड़ा नुकसान होता है जिन-जिन इलाकों में हाथी है। मैंने सुना भी है, पढ़ा भी है और मेरा मानना है कि उसमें सच्‍चाई भी है। ऐसे खेतों में अगर honey bee हो तो honey bee की आवाज़ से हाथी भाग जाता है। वो आता नहीं है। अब मुझे बताइए farmer का protection होगा कि नहीं होगा। अब ये इसको कौन समझाएगा, उससे बात कौन करेगा और कम से कम investment से इतनी बड़ी चीज को बचाता है और international science magazine इस बात को स्‍वीकार कर चुके है कि हाथी उस आवाज़ को सहन नहीं कर सकता है तो वहीं से आते ही चला जाता है पीछे। हमारे कई इलाके ऐसे हैं जहां हाथियों के कारण किसानों को परेशानी हो रही है। हम ऐसे व्‍यवहार्य चीजें और उसके साथ-साथ उसको शहद का व्‍यापार भी मिल जाएगा, उसकी आर्थिक संपदा को भी फायदा होगा।\nदूसरा काम है, जो मेरे स्‍वच्‍छ भारत मिशन से भी जुड़ा हुआ है और organic farming से भी जुड़ा हुआ है। अब ये मान के चलिए कि दुनिया में organic चीजों का एक बहुत बड़ा बाजार खुल गया है। holistic health care ये by and large समाज का स्‍वभाव बना है।\nअभी हमने देखा योगा दिवस पर दुनिया ने क्‍या इसको महत्‍व दिया है। वो इसी बात का परिचायक है कि holistic health care की तरफ पूरी दुनिया जागरूक हुई, उसमें युवा पीढ़ी ज्‍यादा जागृत है। कुछ लोग तो यहां तक exchange ला रहे हैं कि वो chemical से color किए हुए कपड़े पहनने के बजाए colored cotton से बना हुआ कपड़ा ही पसंद करते हैं और अब तो cotton भी कई colors में आना शुरू हुआ है। natural grow हो रहा है, genetic engineering के कारण। लेकिन organic requirement दुनिया में बहुत बढ़ रही है। हमारा किसान जिस पैदावार से एक रुपया कमाता है अगर वो organic है तो उसका एक डॉलर मिल जाता है। economically बहुत viable हो रहा है। लेकिन, उसके कुछ नियम है, कुछ आवश्‍यकताएं हैं। लेकिन एक काम हम कर सकते हैं क्‍या? आज मान लीजिए देश में vermin-composting . मान लीजिए आज 50 मिलियन टन होता है।\nमैं आपको अनुमान कहता हूं। क्‍या vermin-composting हम 500 मिलियन टन कर सकते हैं क्‍या? आज अगर केंचुएं, earth warms . ये मान लीजिए देश में 10 मिलियन टन है। ये 100 मिलियन टन हो सकते हैं क्‍या। आपको कुछ नहीं करना है। सिर्फ लोगों को ज्ञान देना है, बाकी काम तो वो केंचुएं खुद कर लेंगे। और कोई भी छोटे नगर के बगल में ये काम चलता है, तो उस शहर आधा कूड़ा-कचरा वो ही साफ कर देंगे। स्वच्‍छता का काम भी चल जाएगा, composed fertilizer भी तैयार हो जाएगा और जो केंचुए का काम करते हैं उनके केंचुएं भी बिकते हैं। बहुत बड़ी मात्रा में केंचुएं बिकते हैं। एक ऐसा क्षेत्र है कि जो organic farming को बढ़ावा दे सकता है, हमारा कूड़ा-कचरा साफ हो सकता है, हमारे chemical fertilizer की requirement कम होती है, किसान की खेती सस्‍ती हो सकती है। इन चीजों को साथ लेकर के हम सब वैज्ञानिक जगत के लोग। क्‍योंकि ये बात आपके level पर आएगी तो गले उतरेगी और उसको स्‍वीकार करेगा। आप प्रयोग करके कहीं लगाओगे वो करेगा। कुछ लोग कर रहे हैं। स्‍वच्‍छता अभियान का सबसे बड़ा दूत केंचुआ बन सकता है और हमारा बहुत बड़ा काम वो कर सकता है और उससे organic farming को एक बहुत बड़ा बढ़ावा मिल सकता है। हमारी जमीन बर्बाद हो रही है। chemical के कारण उसकी उर्वरा ताकत कम होती रही है, उसकी हमें चिन्‍ता करने की आवश्‍यकता है। ये काम हो सकता है सहज रूप से। ये चीजें प्राकृतिक व्‍यवस्‍थाओं का उपयोग करते हुए की जा सकती हैं। मैं आग्रह करता हूं कि हम हमारे कृषि जीवन में जो second green revolution की ओर जा रहे है। उसको एक नए दायरे पर ले जा सकते है।\nकई वर्षों से pulses में yield में भी बढ़ावा नहीं हो पा रहा है और pulses में सबसे बड़ी challenge है कि उसके protein content कैसे बढ़े? क्‍योंकि भारत जैसा देश जहां दलहन से ही protein प्राप्‍त होता है गरीब को, protein content ज्‍यादा हो इस प्रकार का दलहन का निर्माण कैसे हो? ये हमारे scientist lab के अंदर mission के रूप में काम करें। हम उसमें achieve कर सकते है परिणाम मिल सकता है।\nहमारे देश का तिरंगा झंडा और उसमें blue colour का चक्र। मैं मानता हूं देश में चर्तुर क्रांति की आवश्‍यकता है। तिरंगें झंडे के तीन रंग जो है और blue colour का चक्र है उन चार रंगों की चर्तुर क्रांति की आवश्‍यकता है।\nएक तो saffron revolution, अब saffron revolution का अर्थ पता है भांति-भांति के लोग अलग-अलग करेंगे। ऊर्जा का रंग है saffron और कहने का मेरा तात्‍पर्य है ऊर्जा क्रांति। ऊर्जा क्रांति बहुत आवश्‍यक है। अब आप देखिए बिहार इतना बड़ा प्रदेश। सिर्फ 250-300 मेगावाट बिजली का उत्‍पादन का होता है। अभी मैं भूटान गया, भूटान के अंदर hydropower project का मैंने काम शुरू किया है, उसकी maximum बिजली बिहार को मिलने वाली है...Maximum बिजली।\nबिहार को आगे ले जाने के लिए आज मैंने अभी एक पंडित दीनदयाल उपाध्‍याय ग्राम ज्‍योति योजना का आरंभ किया गांव में 24 घंटे बिजली। हमारे किसानों को भी अगर value addition के लिए जाना है तो उसको इस प्रकार की बिजली की सुविधा सबसे पहले चाहिए तब जा करके वो technology introduce करेगा और इसलिए हम भूटान से नेपाल से ऊर्जा के द्वारा कैसे बिजली बिहार को पहुंचे, बहुत बड़ी मात्रा में बिजली कैसे मिलें उस दिशा में काम में लगे है आज बिहार की अपनी बिजली है उसे तीन गुना का काम मैंने भूटान में जा करके कर दिया है। लेकिन उससे काम होने वाला नहीं है उसकी और जरूरत है।\nदूसरा है green revolution जिसकी मैंने चर्चा की, हरा रंग है, तीसरा है white colour, white revolution और white revolution में हम जानते है। हमारा दूध उत्‍पादन, हमारे पशुओं की तुलना में दूध की quantity बहुत कम है। ये हमारी quantity कैसे बढ़े, पशुओं की संख्‍या बढ़ने से काम होना नहीं है। पशु के द्वारा ज्‍यादा दूध उत्‍पादन..... और हमारे पशुपालन को भी आधुनिक बनाना पड़ेगा। हमारे यहां जो sheeps है...भेड़े। मैंने एक छोटा प्रयोग किया था जब गुजरात में था। हमारा जो भेड़ पालने वाला होता है वो जब उसका ऊन निकालता है, उसके बाल निकालता है तो उसके पास एक कैंची होती है । उसके टुकड़े हो जाते है। टुकड़े होने के कारण जो income होती है वो इतनी income होती नहीं है। दाम कम हो जाता है। मैंने क्या किया ऐसे जितने भेड़ वाले थे उनको जो five star hotel में और नीतिश कुमार जी जिस मशीन का उपयोग करते है trimming का। मैंने सभी जो भेड़ पालक है उनको मशीन दिया और battery वाला दिया। तो आज वो क्‍या करता है साल में दो बार उस मशीन से उसके बाल निकालता है। उसकी लंबाई ज्‍यादा होने के कारण उसकी income बढ़ गई। छोटी-छोटी चीजे होती हैं जी, लेकिन सामन्‍य प्रयोगों से भी हम कितना बड़ा बदलाव ला सकते है।\nहम हैरान है जी, हमारा देश इतनी सारी हम आज भी मैं नहीं मानता हूं कि हमारे यहां पशुओं के hospital में dentist की व्‍यवस्‍था नहीं होगी पशुओं के लिए। अगर हमारे दांत खराब होते हैं तो पशुओं के होते नहीं है। पशु खाता नहीं है या loose motion कर देता है। कोई पूछने को तैयार नहीं, देखने को तैयार नहीं कि उसका dental problem है। मैं जब गुजरात में था मैंने एक बड़ा अभियान चलाया था पशुओं की dental treatment का। हमारा मोतीबिंदु होता है पशु का मोतिबिंदु होता था मैं पशुओं का मोतिबिंदु का ऑपरेशन करता था बहुत बड़ी मात्रा में। मैंने अमेरिका हमारे कुछ डॉक्‍टरों को भेजा था lager technology सीखने के लिए और पशुओं का bloodless surgery कैसे हो और मैं पशुओं के bloodless surgery में सफलतापूर्वक हमारे यहां लोगों को काम पर लगाया था। हमारे पशुपालन को वैज्ञानिक तरीकों में हमें लाना पड़ेगा। उसकी भी पीड़ा को हमें समझना होगा और मैं मानता हूं, तब जा करके हम white revolution की ओर आगे बढ़ सकते हैं।\nऔर मैंने चौथा कहा वो, blue revolution. आज भी बिहार में इतना पानी है, लेकिन बिहार, आंध्र से 400 करोड़ रुपए की मछली लाकर के खाता है। अगर हम blue revolution करें। गरीब से गरीब किसान, जहां छोटे-मोटे तालाब हैं। अगर हम उसको मत्‍स्‍य उद्योग और उसमें भी कई अब तो विशेषताएं हैं। even ornamental fish का revolution इतना बढ़ आया है। बहुत बड़ा market है, global market है, ornamental fish का। हम अगर इस blue revolution की ओर भी उतना ही ध्‍यान दें और ये सारी चीजें हैं जो ultimately गांव-गरीब किसान का भला करती है और इसलिए हम इन बातों को लेकर के हमारे वैज्ञानिक तौर-तरीकों के साथ ये जो हमारा तिरंगे झंडे का तीनों रंग है और चौथा हमारा blue अशोक चक्र है, उन चतुर्थ क्रान्‍ति की दिशा में कैसे आगे बढ़े और हमारे किसान भाइयों के भलाई के लिए और एक सुरक्षित आर्थिक व्‍यवस्‍था किसानों को मिले, उस दिशा में कैसे काम करे।\nमैं फिर एक बार राधामोहन सिंह जी का अभिनन्‍दन करता हूं कि आज पटना में। क्‍योंकि मुझे लगता है जी हिन्‍दुस्‍तान का green revolution, second green revolution को पूर्वी उत्‍तर प्रदेश, बिहार, पश्‍चिम बंगाल, असम से ही आने वाला है। ये मैं साफ देख पा रहा हूं। और यही बिहार की धरती हिन्‍दुस्‍तान में कृषि क्रान्‍ति लाकर रहेगी और जिसका प्रारंभ आज इस कार्यक्रम से हो रहा है।\nमेरी बहुत-बहुत शुभकामनाएं, बहुत-बहुत धन्‍यवाद।"