"\nDevelopment is the only solution for all problems related to poverty and unemployment: PM\nIndia will progress only through the development of the states and for the center and states have to work together: PM\nLadies and Gentlemen,\nToday there are many more fundraising events of the foundation stone. All of us have now started to understand that development is not a substitute for development. If we have to fight poverty, we have to develop, we have to fight unemployment, then we have to develop, we have to fight illiteracy, then we have to develop, if we have to provide health facilities, then development will have to be developed. If there is a medicine for all the sorrows, then it is a medicine - development It is a good thing that between the states these days, the atmosphere of a competition is going on in development. States have started to feel that the state went ahead of me in that matter, now we will try something, we will go ahead. After all, the country has to move ahead and it is going to move ahead with the development of the states. Therefore, the development of the states for the development of the country .. By taking this mantra, be the center or state, it is necessary for all to work together, to advance work.\nThe Chief Minister gave detail in details of how much harm politics has in development works. The work that was done in the time of Atal ji ... if it was six months, it would have been fulfilled, it would have been fulfilled-come 2015 today. I agree with Nitish ji that if the election of Atal ji was a little longer, if it was for six months, then at that time under the guidance of Atal ji .. and this was the railway minister, Nitish ji, this work was completed Happen. They are right. But later the government changed and the railway minister came from here that the work was stopped and after the arrival of it, it was started. Now, what politics does, but the loss happened to Bihar, the people of Bihar. With this soreness of Nitish Kumar, I also mix my tone.\nBut I am of the opinion that we should keep the journey of development continuously. Today Nitish ji told very good things that Bhai is an IIT, we should bring new faculties according to the needs and capacity of the people here. I believe that the capacity of the new campus is so much, 500 is the bigha land ... it will be. We are trying to make the top cost faculties in the world to be brought to India so that our youth of India, which is necessary for the country, in which the IIT is, emphasizes those things which are necessary. Go. The time for making plans was completed just by sitting in Delhi. Now the values ​​which rise in the mind of the state, according to the necessities of which Delhi should be molded, this is my thinking and I am moving forward to that.\nAn incubation center is starting today. This Incubation Center, I believe, is a very big secret. IIT complex, more than the building, these Incubation centers are very important, our initiative. So I am convinced from this. People from the state I have come from, have worked hard, God will be pleased, Lakshmi would have liked to go there but this is the land where Saraswati dwells. The young men here are stunning And I believe, the brightness here that can make the whole of India rattling, such a brightness is on this earth. ..And I believe that the incubation center we are thinking is going to make, that too is a special purpose.\nToday we are seeing that medical services, health sector, only hold the doctor's pulse, ask four questions and decide not what is the disease, what should the medicine be given? The body is passed from the inside of a large number of machines, like the machines are put on the shelf after which the disease is fixed, after which treatment is decided. Technology has increased in the entire Health Sector, so many new resources are being invented. Today, the poor person has to provide these resources to the poor. It is very expensive to bring from abroad. This talent of my youth from Bihar is being given an opportunity to impress the talent of Bihar in this incubation center, how to invent new subjects of Health Sector, mainly with Electronic and Digital Mechanics, to produce them so that our In our hospitals for the poorest of the poor, the best tools available in India should be prepared, the benefit of the poor, we work in that direction. That is why I see this incubation center, which is going to be made on earth in Patna, but it will become an important program to fulfill the health needs of the poor in India.\nAfter all, infrastructure is very important, infrastructure is of great importance. If infrastructure is not given much importance, then we will be left far behind. We are giving emphasis on this, whether there are railways in Bihar, road to air, infrastructure, increased connectivity, increase capacity. Bihar has probably given maximum number of maximum railway ministers in India if any state has given them. Since the time this railway department is a reservation for Bihar. Railway Minister has met, the work of giving rail has filled me in my mind. How can I connect the remote areas of Bihar through rail, the development of the mainstream. There is a lot of infrastructure now, how can I move forward, I am going ahead with the plans in this direction.\nToday, we have launched an important program. Well, Nitish ji has praised Dharmendra Pradhanji so much that I understand the importance of this project. Nitish ji is right, the way the road is important in the coming days, the importance of the railways is the same as the gas grid. In the whole economy, the economically shaped economy is taking shape and the cost of building expensive infrastructure has to be created, infrastructure has to be created. I see the availability of gas in the energy sector transforms the entire economy of that country. One of the most powerful efforts to change the economy of Bihar .. Ganga is with us, we are coming with energy Ganga, you have.\nHundreds of kilometers to lay the gas pipeline How come home and gas from the pipeline in Patna .. Like the water coming in the house kitchen in the house kitchen, the water comes as soon as the tap is turned on, the plan is for this. Every family has reached this .. Pipeline will come from hundreds of kilometers away, yes is a big business, but once it is found, then the life here will be beneficial for years and also here in the quality of life too big It will also benefit, economy will also benefit.\nLike Nitish ji said that the electricity has been forgiven till the money, of the fertilizer factory. At that time our Sushil ji used to come, why Saheb used to take us 300 crores. But even then Bihar has done this work by taking the trouble. Our Sushil ji was the finance minister, despite having difficulty. Even after doing this, even 10 years passed, nobody remembered the fertilizer factory. What is the crime of Bihar? The government here, despite the problem of taking out money from Bihar's pocket, gave it but it was stopped. We have decided that this is Bihar's right. This fertilizer will be operational The farmers here get cheaper fertilizers, we will do this work. There was no blame on the people of Bihar or the government of Bihar. The Bihar government came forward. But the work was stopped. But brothers sisters, I assure you that this work will also be completed and the youth will also get employment and the farmer will also get the fertilizer, by fully managing it, we will go ahead.\nBrothers sisters, in this concept of development we have also always tried, cooperative federalism. Our opinion is that if the states get help, if the states get opportunity, then the strength of the country will grow very much. Therefore, the 14th finance commission which has come into effect, due to which the states are getting huge benefits. One state is happening, one is not happening, it is not so. All the states are happening. That is why no Bihar got less, more got, got lesser than any other state, got more, it is not so. Because we have plans. Today the situation is such. There was a time in which the treasury of India was, the center and state 65-70% of it lived in the treasury of the Government of Delhi. 38-35% lived in all the states and in Tijawari. We have made such an important decision, have taken hard work on the head. But just like Nitish ji said that Modi is your hope on you, we have made an important decision to fulfill it. It is a decision that is to vote in finance commission due to which in Bihar in the coming days .. If I look at the five-year finance commission, then Bihar will get approximately Rs 4 lakh crore rupees by almost every passing year from 2020. Are. Fourteen million rupees are about to get the rupees, which has only got only 1.5 lakh crore rupees in the past. Half a million lakh rupees four lakh crores in the coming days .. because we believe that this state should move forward.\nI believe that unless progress is made in the East, the country can never move forward. Whether it is Bihar, whether it is eastern Uttar Pradesh or Odisha, whether it is West Bengal, whether Jharkhand is Assam, Nagaland or Mizoram, this is not the eastern part of India, when it does not develop, it is not India's wealth. Might be possible. That's why Bihar's development, this is our prime agenda. The development of eastern India, our purpose is our goal. In order to take it forward, we will bring out many new schemes and complete it.\nIn the coming days, I have said to some of our colleagues that you go, make a foundation, open the door, move the work forward. Like the Muzaffarpur Gold-year National Highway, 77 kilometers of double lane has been completed. There is a cost of around six crore rupees. Four Laning of Patna-Gaya-Doby Road has been approved. About 1231 crore is the cost. Four Laning of Patna-Kolhalwar-Bhojpur and Bhojpur-Buxar Road has also been approved. The cost is close to Rs. Work of Bhagalpur bypass has been approved. The cost is around 230 crores rupees. Improvement of Shivhari-Sitamarhi-Jaynagar-Nirihia road has also been approved. The cost is around Rs 701 crores. The work of Fatwa-Harnod-Barra Road has also been approved. The cost is around Rs 590 crores. All the National Highway projects which this government has already sanctioned, all of which cost about five thousand crore rupees. Because I know that these things should be of immense use to take Bihar to the new heights of development. And we want to do it.\nYou will remember I came here in the last Lok Sabha election. Amid the bomb blasts in Gandhi Maidan, I was speaking. At that time, I said that if we come to power at the center, then we will give special package to Bihar. At that time, I had announced ... I had announced before the election, I had said that the package of 50 thousand crore rupees would be given to Bihar. Brothers sisters, when I saw things closely in Delhi, I came to the conclusion that Bihar's imagination in my heart's mind, if I want to take Bihar along with carrying 50 thousand rupees Things are not going to be talked about. She needs to do more. I will not announce it today, I will come and announce it at the right time, but I say so much that I will fulfill the promise I have made, I will take it further than this, I have come to promise you this. So that Bihar should not interfere in the development journey, and the journey of development should be carried forward at a fast pace.\nWith this one expectation, I believe that the schemes which have started today, the programs which have started, and the people of our ministries are also going to come forward, they will take this matter forward. Today I have called agricultural scientists across the country, on the land of Patna. Now after this program, I am going to sit with him, because I believe that if there is a possibility of India's second green revolution, then there are in the eastern region of Hindustan. Is in Bihar, is in Bengal, is in Assam, in eastern Uttar Pradesh. The possibility of second green revolution is in this area. That's why I have called agricultural scientists across the country today on the soil of Patna. They are going to sit here and discuss it. In the coming days, there will be an effort to give a new force to the agriculture sector here.\nOnce again I congratulate the heart of the Bihar government, the people of Bihar's Jarnadan, welcome the Chief Minister of the country, for the sake of respect.\nThanks a lot."