"PM addresses at the Birth Centenary function of Shri Girdhari Lal Dogra in Jammu \u0026 Kashmir\nPM Narendra Modi pays tribute to Shri Girdhari Lal Dogra\nThere is no question of political untouchability Everybody who has been respected: PM\nDear brothers and sisters present\nThe program, which is being run in the name of Girdhari Lal Ji, has been organized by him and he is a centenary year. Usually, the misfortune of politics is that after the death few politicians survive. In a short time, they are forgotten. People also forget, but there are exceptions that do the work in their tenure. The kind of life they live, due to which they survive even after many years of death and I believe Girdhari Lal Ji is one of them.\nI was watching before coming here yesterday on behalf of his life, he came from the inspiration of patriotism in public life. They came in public life, when taking, receiving, becoming was not seen far and wide. At that time he had come in public life and linked himself to the movement of freedom on the soil of Lahore, even during the student period, he had added himself with this strong emotion to do something for freedom. And later in his political journey, he had the opportunity to stay in power for maximum time in life. In which 26 good budgets are rarely given to two or four people. Two times behind giving budget 26 prove that there is expertise and support for the acceptance and stability in the political life and the other person's responsibility, then it is by going only. Otherwise people come, go, get formed, it changes, it remains. But when the basic things happen, then it is possible.\nAnd today, in Jammu and Kashmir two or three generations will be such that in public life which will be proud to say that I had the privilege of walking by the finger of Giridhar Lal Ji. The beginning of shaping my political life was from his hands. Just as Ghulam Nabi Ji was telling me that he prepared me. It is also a success that is behind them to create a tradition of such workers who further advance their political life and in this view they are not just politicians but in those persons who constantly try to maintain consciousness in a public life Who were concerned about preparing the generations.\nI just came here, so I inaugurated his exhibition and was watching the exhibition. One thing touched my mind that touches in that exhibition so that it does not appear in today's political life. I do not see any single person from his family anywhere in the pictures I saw in his political journey. This is not a small issue. It is a great thing to have such a long public life, political life, and in the corridors of power. There is a close relationship with all the first Prime Ministers of the country, but there is no single picture in the political journey anywhere in the family. I can imagine that this is hard work, not easy. There is a lot of desire for ones. But at the time of your work, Bhai when you come home to your place is fine. People in the family appeared in a photo, when? Only when there is a photograph of his funeral trip, family members are visible only there. This is a message in itself for today's political life. Occasionally people think that Bhai was celebrating this centenary and so on? I believe that this is the greatest lesson that when they remember their life, which is not seen today, they appear there, and perhaps they sometimes wish to live in that way. That way the desire to do some work goes on. There is inspiration from that and in that sense I believe that they must have followed the boundaries of public life. This activity has to be taken care of in every activity and then it would have been possible to go through such a long term.\nI also see one thing that Dogra Sahib will be very sure of the assurance of the individuals, I feel like this. As he made Ghulam Nabi ji the president of the Youth Front, the test of the individuals would be very good. They should measure the equal measure whether the person is right or not. And his example is that he has chosen son-in-law. This was their ... .here was no match for ideology of Aurangzeb and his political ideology. Despite that, do not give a chair, do not give it to the daughter. And it is also a feature that the son-in-law is not known due to father-in-law and is not known due to father-in-law. Otherwise, in the public life of such a year, Arunji may have ever felt that father-in-law is sitting in such a big place, but he also kept himself away and he kept them away. You decide for yourself your own destiny, I will fulfill my responsibility and today we know what things are happening due to son-in-law. And so I say that there was no public life on the basis of which party was with whom, who was associated with, and whose work was under his leadership.\nAnd there is a great need in public life today, which is a matter of concern. We do not let our inheritance divide. Occasionally everybody has a person in public life working in his own era about his ideals, but he has won for the country, dies for the country. We are people of today's generation, it is not their work that we create wall for them, for us all those great men, all those great men, who have worked for the country, should be the subject of respect and dignity, in this Should never be untouchable. Whether he was in the National Conference or in the Congress, the Prime Minister should come or should not come. The question is not to come, it should be so that they had to prepare for their youth country.\nAnd therefore our heritage should never be divided. Do not be in any idea, I remember when Atal Ji's government was formed, Atalji became the first Prime Minister for the first time. For the first time or second time, perhaps for the first time, maybe 13 days, I did not remember the second time, and on that very same day a very big leader of the Communist Party, who had died in Kerala. At that time he was not in power and now the oath ceremony was complete. Atalji said at the same time, Advaniji went to his funeral, he has done a lot of work for the country. Was the leader of the Communist Party. His idea that the Bharatiya Janata Party's grim opposition was a stream. But on the second day of formation of government, there was no program to wear flowers, Advaniji was sent there. This requires public life.\nIn public life .... now we are sitting here with fun but looking past you how you have to fight. This is the natural virtue of democracy. Every forum has its own thing, but political touching does not work. For the living, it is necessary for the living and the living to have equal values, it is necessary to respect them and under this Dogra ji would have opposed us today, maybe even his son-in-law. But their life, we see their work with glory, learn from them and get ahead. With this expectation we should keep remembering such great men, take inspiration from them.\nThe holy month of Ramadan is on the elevation. With great enthusiasm and enthusiasm, the country and the world are waiting for Eid. For the holy festival of Eid from my side, all the great teachers who believe in this tradition are very happy with the heart.\nThanks a lot."