"Share\n\nThe elections on 7th December in Telangana are a chance for the people of the state to reject the grounds of caste and dynastic politics: PM Modi\nTRS and Congress are two sides of same coin. They are the A and B teams: PM Modi in Hyderabad\nWe are committed to take Telangana to newer heights by guided by the 'Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas': PM Modi in Hyderabad\nShri Laxman ji, President of Bharatiya Janata Party sitting on stage, Shri Murlidhar Rao, BJP's National Secretary General, Mr. Nadda, my colleague of the Council of Ministers at the Center, my fellow in the Parliament and former Union Minister Mr. Bandwaru Dattatreya, Mr. Shree Piripiranandji, Bhai Kishan Reddy Ji , Indrasen Reddy G, N Ramchandra ji, Dr. S. Mallareddy, Mrs Balasubramaniam Shri Venkataramani, Dr. T. Rajeshwar Rao, Mrs. Y. Geeta ji, Mr. Bukankarasih Reddyji, Mr. V Venkata Reddyji and Mr. Bhadmabal Reddy from Rajendra Nagar, Prabalashekhar Ravi, from LB Nagar, Rajendra Nagar, CR Reddy ji from Hyderabad, Mr. N Prabhakar from Uppal, T Rajasingh from Ghoshmahal, Moherreddyji from Medchal, Madhavrao from Kukatapalli Mr. Kanrajala Prakash Ji from Chevalla, Mr. Shreeganesh ji from Sikandraban Canttment, Mr. R Sridhar Reddy from Jubilee Hills, Bhanwarlal Verma from Santhanagar, Devarakarnaar ji from Nemapalli, Satish Goud ji from Sikanderabad, Jitendra ji from Malgapet, from Surjanampalli Jee Yoganand ji, Charminar te T Umamahindar ji, Karwan to Amar Singh ji, Bahadurpura, Mr. Hanif Ali ji, Chandrayan Gutta Miss Syed princess-in-law, Sir Yktpura C Rupraj G Sriramulu Yadav from Maheshwaram ... arrived in large numbers, my dear brothers and sisters ... with both hands, by speaking Hail Mother India, bless my colleagues here. Bharat Mata Ki ... Jai ... Bharat Mata Ki .... Jai!\nBrothers and sisters, this mood of Hyderabad clearly shows that the election is for the Bharatiya Janata Party. In a way, for the people of Telangana, for the people of Hyderabad, it is to decide that in true sense we have to give strength to democracy in this country or not to give it. The way in which the politics of India is being manipulated by a great deal of democracy, due to which new rulers are being created, the dynasty is flourishing, the family is flourishing, and so in this election, all around this country A new type of monarchy is roaming, strangling democracy, challenging them, Telangana has the opportunity to create an ideal land for the country. Here are five parties in the electoral fray, and sitting in Delhi, taking the flag of Liberalism every day and night, I want to tell them today, if you have courage and sincerely you are liberal then this dynasty politics Raise voice against The whole parties are taking root in dynasty. In a family, father also contest elections, son can also contest elections, it may be the party's decision, but if the whole party goes on dynasty, the subject of the doctrine, the policy-determinant is trapped in all dynasty, then how much danger arises for democracy. Will happen. The dreams which Babasaheb Ambedkar had dreamed of, which the constitution has written to us, are doing these rituals, familyist parties, family politics, to get rid of the constitution of the constitution. There are five parties, only and only one political party is a democratic system; it runs through a democratic system; it grows through a democratic system; it grows, it grows, and that party's name is Bharatiya Janata Party.\nYou tell me, whether this is a Majlis family or not, is a dynasty or not, the same family does everything that does not, the name of politics comes in wealth, it is deposited in them that does not happen, their family does not. Is not that people are on the post? Second party TDP, now see this party was born, for Telugu's self-respect, the name of the Namdhari's father, as he had insulted Andhra, was a generous Andhra and at that time, NTR had given birth to the Telugu Desam Party, but for today's selfishness, the Namdhari's father, for the sake of happiness, insulted Andhra, Telugu. In the lap of the son's son put the whole party. This TDP will also be a family party, dynastic party, all decisions will be made by one family, all power will be confined to one family. Do you tell me whether the TDP party is a family party or not a party of a family, is not a Dynasty party, is it a threat to democracy, is not it a threat to democracy? The third nomad, All India Party, four or four generations ruled for so many years of independence. This Congress party also ... is the name of democracy left ... what is the name of democracy left? ... the Congress party has also become a family party that has not been formed ... the party is going for the same family Is that not going to happen ... As long as the person of the family does not qualify, then he is being pulled or is not being pulled? The whole party ... The party which took place for more than 100 years ... was dedicated to a party whose life was spent by many ascetic great men, such a party was dedicated to a family. Is it not that it is cheating with democracy..Is there a betrayal of democracy or not?\nBrothers and sisters, now just talk about it here. I just want to ask the youth of Telangana. After all, why did you ask for separate Telangana? Why did so many troubles for different Telangana for so many years, why did so many youth give sacrifices to different Telangana, why martyrdom was given? Telangana was given for a bright future. A family was not entitled to rob Telangana brothers. Do you tell me this is not that the TRS is a family party or not a family party, is that Telangana is not for the family only for them? Is it not that it is equal to stabbing democracy ... is not it the killing of democracy? Whether the four parties are TRS or TDP, whether it is Majlis or Congress, these parties are becoming a threat to the country's democracy and hence whatever BJP does not like ... you may think that Modi does not like Do you ... you may have thought ... You did not want that Modi come by choice ... Even today you have not got angry ... sanctioned, but if you have anything left in front of democracy then with courage Town come and Priwarwadi politics, it's going to be so severe threat to democracy, go just a little bit more aware of him.\nBrothers and sisters, this election is clearly a criterion, a criterion of democratic process that we have the best chance to overcome the power of our vote, dynasty, familyism, racism, sectarianism ... all together. Your poll is on 7th December.\nBrothers and sisters, both of them speak Anap-Shanap for the nominee KCR, KCR recites to the nominee. It seems that both know each other very well. Do not think that sounds. Both know each other's properties equally well. They describe its properties, they describe its properties. And their names are these, they do not remember what they had said yesterday, when they had spoken, what they had said, nothing remembered. Those who are caught in the slip, they cringe them, they name it ... Someone has read it here that you tell me that what is the KCR, this TRS party is the BJP's B team. That is why they said. I just want to remember you, this is not an old thing, they will keep singing their songs, who are playing their songs, but they are neutral, which is fair, they will surely reveal this truth. You will remember, just a few months ago, the elections in Karnataka were held and in that Karnataka election and this was the speech of Namdhari that it was JDS, BJP's B team. What is the party of Deve Gowda ji ... JDS party ... in Karnataka every time he used to roam every speech that BJP's B team, that is the BJP's B team, that is the BJP's B team. Let me tell you, when the results of Karnataka came, the government whose brother was made ... the Congress did not become JDS, the Congress-JDS was not created, it meant that A team-B team were either or not. The Congress party was JDS that was not, how much lies! Now let's say that you keep writing and they are thinking from the back door right now, do anything BJP should not be able to go, take a little you, take a little you, stop the BJP. If there is really only one character, same habit, one type, same thinking in somebody, then it is in the two people in Congress and TRS. Congress is also a family party, this is also a family party. Congress should also cast racist politics, they also cast racist. Congress also went from cultism, they also ran from cultism. Congress should also do the politics of appeasement, this is also the policy of appeasement, both are two sides of the same coin, both are two sides of the same coin.\nSo brothers and sisters, if indeed Telangana is looking for alternatives for its bright future, then you have only one option left and that option is named Bhartiya Janta Party. Secondly, just tell this, when KCR was a young leader, then what party was working in the party, were they Youth in Congress or not? He became a minister ... his first apprenticeship did not happen in TDP, whether Chandrababu was his master or not, when he went to Delhi, Madam Soniaji did not remain his mentor, he became a minister in UPA forest or not, Did they happen that their apprenticeship was there? Those whose education was initiated here, whose life was started there, which came from all the good and bad habits from there, if their natural friendship would be the Congress and the TRS will not be? It's not that A team B team is that .. Tell me, brothers and sisters that your eyes are sticking to dust or are they not? Are they misleading you or not? Are my voters of Hyderabad ... voters of my Telangana ... I want to ask the nominees from Delhi, do you believe them that they will accept whatever lies you spread? It hurts on your self-esteem ... They dare to speak this kind of language in front of you, it hurt your self-esteem. And so brothers and sisters, this election is the election for the bright future of Telangana. You tell me, any of you can take your life for the bright future of Telangana or can not you? But if these people come, you will get an opportunity to do something in the street, will there be any opportunity, will they sit down and eat or sit down? And so, brothers and sisters, I have come to urge you to use this election to get rid of dynasty, familyism, casteism, in this election.\nBrothers and sisters, the great scholars of our country were sitting in the Constituent Assembly and there was a lot of discussion in the Constituent Assembly that the deal with the Dalits in this country, which has happened with the tribals for centuries ... whatever happened through our ancestors ... washing it ... is the responsibility of the present generation to get rid of it ... and then by taking reservation for scheduled cast-schedule triob in this country ... towards them equality, they are equally Significant work was done to bring attention. At that time, there was talk of reservation on the basis of sect and in the Congress which today people give names of great names, they too were sitting in it. Today is the birthday of Rajendra Babu, he was also sitting in it and the country's scholars decided to not give reservation on the basis of sect for India's unity and integrity, for India's bright future. RSS were not the ones, then even the BJP and the Jan Sangh were not born, at which time the great men of the country had made a decision after a long thought that for the unity and integrity of India, for the creation of Samras society in India, Minority There should be no reservation game in the name of reservation. Brothers and sisters, I am amazed to save the chair for the family of the hungry people, the countless great men of the country who had said the sin which was said to be sin on the punishments of Danes, The country's Constituent Assembly had accepted the game of reservation to the minority, it is a betrayal with the country, is not it the brother-in-law? Whether there is an insult to the Constituent Assembly ... Dr. Is not there an insult to Babasaheb Ambedkar ... is it the act of insulting the great men sitting in the Constituent Assembly or not?\nBrothers and sisters, they will come and go, the power will come, the party will become spoiled, but this country remains, this responsibility is of every citizen of the country. Every political party in the country belongs to every politician of the country. Tell me and they are talking about reservation in the name of the minority ... where they will bring, from where the Supreme Court has tied up the boundaries, they will not be able to go on it, this means that the dalits have the right, something in it Will steal from, some tribe has the right, ST's, will steal from it ... Some who owed the OBC, will steal from it. To save your chair, this is what you have got the right, from which the game is going to steal from the back door. Will you let go of this ... will this sin happen? What should be the reservation in the name of the community? Should there be a similarity to keeping the country one, should not it be? भाइयो-बहनो, ये जो तूफान उठाया हुआ है...चाहे नामदार हों और चाहे नामदार के apprenticeship करके जो आये हैं, जो इतने साल यहां मुख्यमंत्री रहे हैं।\nभाइयो-बहनो, अटल बिहारी वाजपेयी ने भी राज्यों का निर्माण किया था, तीन राज्य बनाए थे। मध्य प्रदेश में से छत्तीसगढ़ बना, उत्तर प्रदेश में से उत्तराखंड बना, बिहार में से झारखंड बना और तब लालू यादव जैसे लोग घोषणा करते थे कि झारखंड बनेगा तो मेरे सीने पर से बनेगा, यहां भी ऐसे लोग थे। आन्ध्र में ऐसे लोग थे ऐसा नहीं था लेकिन भाइयो-बहनो, वाजपेयी जी ने जिस कुशलता के साथ सबको विश्वास में ले करके तीन राज्यों का निर्माण किया, न कोई खून-खराबा हुआ, न कोई जहर बोये गये, हंसते-खेलते राज्यों का निर्माण हुआ। और वो राज्य जो नया राज्य बनने का जो उमंग था, जो उत्साह था, जिस तेजी से उन्होंने प्रगति की, बीमारू कहे जाने वाले इन राज्यों को जैसे ही छोटे राज्य के रुप में जगह मिली, वो आज हिन्दुस्तान के तेज गति से दौड़ने वाले राज्य बन गये। क्योंकि उनको ऐसी लीडरशिप मिली, प्रारंभिक काल से भारतीय जनता पार्टी का नेतृत्व मिला, ये तीनों राज्य प्रगति कर गये। क्या कारण है कि तेलंगाना के पांच साल बरबाद हो गये, एक परिवार की भलाई के लिए एक परिवार के अंहकार के लिए तेलंगाना अनेक गुना हिन्दुस्तान को आगे ले जाने की ताकत रखता है, तेलंगाना छोटी ताकत नहीं है, वो खुद तो आगे बढ़ सकता है, देश को आगे ले जाने की ताकत रखता है, इतना सामर्थ्य इस तेलंगाना में है। लेकिन लोग ऐसे बैठ गये, लीडरशिप ऐसी आ गई और तेलंगाना आंदोलन की भावनाओं का लाभ उठा करके, सारी भावनाओं को परिवार में समेट लिया भाइयो-बहनो। तेलंगाना के नौजवानों का क्या होगा, इसकी उनको परवाह नहीं है। इसलिए मैं कहता हूँ पांच साल बरबाद हो चुके हैं, और बरबाद मत होने दीजिए।\nआप अपने भविष्य के लिए सोचिए, अपने बच्चों के भविष्य के लिए सोचिए। देश का सर्वश्रेष्ठ राज्य तेलंगाना कैसे बने, इस पर सोचिए और जब ‘सबका साथ सबका विकास’ ये मंत्र होता है, तभी ये संभव होता है। सिर्फ वोट बैंक के खेल खेलने से विकास की यात्राएं नहीं चलती हैं भाइयो-बहनो। और इसलिए आज मैं आग्रह करने आया हूँ कि आप इस दिशा में आगे बढ़िए। भाइयो-बहनो, आज तेलंगाना के विकास के लिए हम राजनीतिक भेदभाव देखने वाले लोगों में से नहीं हैं, किसी भी दल की सरकार क्यों न हो लेकिन तेलंगाना मेरा देश का हिस्सा है, मेरा ही देश तो है ये और इसलिए दिल्ली सरकार विकास के मामले में कभी कोई कोताही नहीं बरती है। तीस हजार करोड़ से ज्यादा के प्रोजेक्ट तेलंगाना को हमने समर्पित किए। आठ हजार करोड़ रुपये के दस बड़े रेलवे के प्रोजेक्ट चल रहे हैं। मेट्रो आन-बान-शान के साथ आप देख रहे हैं भाइयो और बहनो...इतना ही नहीं दस हजार करोड़ रुपये के हाईवे प्रोजेक्ट, इसका काम तेजी से चल रहा है क्योंकि हम जानते हैं, देश का भविष्य, देश की युवा पीढ़ी का भविष्य, देश के गरीब से गरीब व्यक्ति का भविष्य, विकास के बिना बदल नहीं सकता है। वोट बैंक की राजनीति से जिंदगियां नहीं बदलती हैं, सरकारें बनती होंगी, जीवन नहीं बनते हैं भाइयो। हम जीवन बनाना चाहते हैं, सपनों को सजाना चाहते हैं, सपनों को संकल्प में परिवर्तित करना चाहते हैं और हम यहां की स्थिति बदलना चाहते हैं।\nभाइयो-बहनो, ये कैसे लोग हैं, मैं आपको बताना चाहता हूँ। हमने एक सपना लिया है और मेरा सपना-आपका सपना अलग नहीं हो सकता है। आपके पास पक्का घर होगा, आपके पास रहने के लिए बंग्लो होगा, हो सकता है एक से अधिक घर हो, घर के पास गाड़ी खड़ी होगी, आपके पास सब कुछ होगा लेकिन अगर आपको मैं पूछूँ...क्या हिन्दुस्तान में हर गरीब के पास, जिसके पास अपना घर नहीं है, अपनी मालिकी का घर नहीं है, ऐसे हर हिन्दुस्तानी को उसका अपने मालिकी का घर मिलना चाहिए कि नहीं मिलना चाहिए। मिलना चाहिए कि नही मिलना चाहिए। आपके पास खुद का घर है लेकिन आपका मन करता है कि मेरा देश का कोई व्यक्ति बिना घर का, फुटपाथ पर, झुग्गी झोपड़ी में जिंदगी न गुजारे, ये आपका सपना है कि नहीं है...ये आपका सपना पूरा करने के लिए मैंने बीड़ा उठाया है। 2022, आजादी के 75 साल होंगे, 2022 आजादी के 75 साल होंगे और हमने ठान कर रखी है कि इस देश में हर परिवार के पास अपना पक्का घर होगा...और घर भी सिर्फ चारदीवारें नहीं, पक्का घर होगा...घर में नल होगा, नल में जल होगा, बिजली भी होगी, गैस का चूल्हा होगा, शौचालय होगा और घर पुरुष के नाम पर नहीं, उस परिवार की महिला के नाम होगा, महिला मालिक बनेगी। अब आप कहेंगे, मोदी जी हर चुनाव में लोग बोलते ही हैं, ये सही है। इतना झूठ बोला जा चुका है, इतना झूठ बोला जा चुका है, सारी पार्टियों ने ऐसी आदत डाल दी है कि लोग ऐसी चीजों को गंभीरता से नहीं लेते हैं लेकिन मैं आपको इसलिए कह रहा हूँ कि अब तक 1 करोड़ 25 लाख से ज्यादा...और ये मेरा चार साल का हिसाब दे रहा हूँ...1 करोड़ 25 लाख से ज्यादा परिवारों को घर की चाबी दे दी गई और ये दिवाली उन्होंने मनायी...ये दिवाली उन्होंने अपने पक्के नये घर में मनायी। और ये काम भी बहुत तेजी से चल रहा है।\nभाइयो और बहनो, अगर लीडरशिप में दम न हो, लीडरशिप अगर परिवार का भला ही देखती हो, बेटा-बेटी, चाचा-चाची, मामा-मामी-मासी, इसी में लगा रहता हो...तो तेलंगाना में ये काम नहीं हुआ। हिन्दुस्तान में हुआ, तेलंगाना में सिर्फ पांच हजार घर बने, सिर्फ पांच हजार घर बने। ऐसी सरकार चलाते हो क्या? दिल्ली सरकार पैसे दे रही है, काम आगे बढ़ाना चाह रही है, आप नहीं कर रहे। भाइयो-बहनो, कांग्रेस के नामदार से भी मैं कहना चाहता हूँ, यूपीए वन, यूपीए टू मैडम की रिमोट कन्ट्रोल वाली सरकार दिल्ली में चलती थी, मोदी ने चार साल में 1 करोड़ 25 लाख घर की चाबी सुपुर्द कर दी...ये मैडम...उनकी रिमोट कन्ट्रोल वाली सरकार और उस सरकार में आपको जानकर सदमा पहुंचेगा...सिर्फ अठारह हजार घर शहरी आवास के बने थे, सिर्फ अठारह हजार घर। भाइयो-बहनो, शहरी क्षेत्रों में, शहरी क्षेत्रों में हमने 12 लाख घर चार साल में बना दिए, उन्होंने दस साल में अठारह हजार...हमने चार साल में 12 लाख घर बनाकर के दे दिया। इसलिए मैं कहता हूँ भाइयो और बहनो, अगर नेतृत्व सही हो, नीयत साफ हो, नीति स्पष्ट हो और जनता-जनार्दन ही हमारा परिवार हो तो सपने सिद्ध होते हैं, ये हमने करके दिखाया है। और भाइयो-बहनो, मैंने काम को और गति दी है...12 लाख पूरा कर लिया है... कुछ में थोड़ा थोड़ा काम बाकी है...उसको मैं गिनता नहीं हूँ, इसलिए मैं कहता हूँ कि मार्च महीने तक 25 लाख तक शहरों में पूरा कर दूंगा। 25 लाख शहरी घर बनाने का काम पूरा दूंगा।\nभाइयो-बहनो, गरीबों के लिए शहरों में और 65 लाख मकानों की स्वीकृति दे दी है, यानि मार्च महीने के बाद जो काम चलेगा उसमें हमारा टारगेट शहरों के गरीबों के लिए 65 लाख का है। 2022 का सपना कैसे पूरा होगा उसका मिनट टू मिनट टाइमटेबल बना करके हम देश के लोगों के कल्याण के लिए काम कर रहे हैं। भाइयो-बहनो, मध्यम वर्ग का परिवार किराए के घर में रहता है...उसका भी मन करता है...उसका भी खुद का घर हो, बच्चे बड़े हैं, शादी होनेवाली है, उनके लिए भी एक कमरा चाहिए, घर चाहिए। 70 साल में किसी भी सरकार ने मध्यमवर्गीय परिवारों को घर बनाने के लिए ब्याज में मदद करने की कभी कोई योजना नहीं बनाई थी। हमने 18 लाख रुपया तक कमाने वाले लोगों को घर बनाने के लिए ये सारी सुविधाएं देने का एक अहम फैसला लिया और उसके कारण आज मध्यमवर्गीय परिवार भी अपना खुद का घर बनाने  में सफल हुए हैं।\nभाइयो-बहनो, इतना ही नहीं, उज्ज्वला योजना लेकर हम चले और गैस का चूल्हा देना...पुरानी सरकार में तो गैस कनेक्शन चाहिए, तो एमपी को कतार लगानी पड़ती थी...हम गरीबों के घर के सामने जा करके खड़े हो गये और सामने से पूछा। भाइयो-बहनो, इस देश में आजादी के बाद जितने गैस कनेक्शन दिए थे, उतने गैस कनेक्शन हमने चार साल में दे दिए। जो काम साठ-पैंसठ साल में हुआ था वो काम हमने चार साल में कर दिया। काम कैसे होता है भाइयो-बहनो...हमने एक एलईडी बल्ब की योजना चलायी, जिसके कारण मध्यम वर्ग के परिवार के जेब में, किसी का महीने में 100 रुपया बच रहा है, किसी का दो सौ बच रहा है, किसी का पांच सौ बच रहा है। बिजली के बिल में कटौती आयी, देश में 16 हजार करोड़ रुपयों की बचत हुई और ये कांग्रेस के नामदार के जमाने में जो एलईडी बल्ब चार सौ-साढ़े चार सौ में बिकता था, ये कौन बिचौलिए खाते थे, वो तो वो जाने, हमने आ करके उसकी कीमत 30-40 रुपये कर दी भाइयो। कहां चार सौ-साढ़े चार सौ का एलईडी बल्ब...ये मेरे मध्यम वर्ग के परिवार को काम आया और 16 हजार करोड़ रुपये की बचत मेरे मध्यमवर्गीय परिवारों के जेब में हुई है, काम ऐसे होता है।\nभाइयो-बहनो, आपको मालूम होगा कि मोबाइल फोन का बिल कितना आता था, आज मिस्ड कॉल नहीं करना पड़ रहा है। कोई भुगतान के बजाय आप अपने रिश्तेदार कहीं भी रहता हो, आप बात करते हो, ये कैसे संभव हुआ भाई, इसका कारण एक ही है...पहले ये ऑपरेटरों के पास से माल खाया जाता था आप से लिया जाता था, उनको दिया जाता था, हमने सब चोरी बंद कर दी। हेल्दी कॉपिटिशन कर दिया और आज मोबाइल फोन मुफ्त में हो गया...कर दिया...और डेटा, डेटा भी आज से पहले आपका एक-एक हजार रुपये का बिल आता था ...आज भाइयो-बहनो, उस परिवार का 70-80 रुपयों मे काम पूरा हो जाता है, ये काम हमने करके दिया है। और इसलिए भाइयो और बहनो विकास के लिए स्टार्ट अप इंडिया, स्टैंडअप इंडिया, मेरे देश का नौजवान अपने पैर पर खड़ा रहना चाहता है, 14 करोड़ मुद्रा योजना के लोन स्वीकृत हुए हैं, बिना बैंक गांरटी, मेरा देश का नौजवान बैंक के पास जाएगा, अपने कागज रखेगा और उसको पैसे मिल रहे हैं। कोई अपना सैलून चला रहा है, कोई टैक्सी ला रहा है, कोई ऑटो ला रहा है, कोई गेस्ट हाऊस बना रहा है, कोई कोचिंग क्लास शुरू कर रहा है, कोई कपड़े के फेरी लगा रहा है...अपने पैरों पर खड़ा हो रहा है और औरों को भी रोजगार देने की ताकत के साथ खड़ा हो रहा है। और इसलिए भाइयो-बहनो, आयुष्मान भारत योजना...ये नामदार उसका भी मजाक उड़ा रहे हैं और मैं हैरान हूँ, अभी दो महीने हुए... तीन लाख से ज्यादा लोगों ने गंभीर बीमारी के लिए इस देश के महंगे अस्पतालों में जा करके ऑपरेशन करवाये, गरीब कभी सोच नहीं सकता था कि उसका ये आपरेशन होगा और वो ठीक होगा और वो घर में कुछ कर पायेगा वो सोचा नहीं, उसने मान लिया था-वो मौत का इंतजार कर रहा था। दो महीने में तीन लाख लोगों को ये मदद मिली। पांच लाख रुपये तक का खर्च भारत सरकार ने दिया, किसी परिवार के सिर पर एक रुपये का खर्चा नहीं आया, उसके लिए जीवन वरदान बन गया, लेकिन इन तीन लाख में, तेलंगाना का एक भी नहीं है क्यों...क्योंकि यहां के मुख्यमंत्री ने ताला मार दिया है। वो कहते हैं कि मुझे आयुष्मान भारत नहीं चाहिए। अगर ऐसी रुकावटें डालने वाली यहां सरकार होगी, तो आपका भला कैसे होगा भाइयो-बहनो। और इसलिए नामदार ने देश को तबाह किया है और ये परिवार ने तेलंगाना को तबाह किया है।\nमैं आज आपसे आग्रह करने आया हूँ, सात तारीख को भारी मात्रा में मतदान करके, भारतीय जनता पार्टी के कमल निशान पर बटन दबा करके,  भारतीय जनता पार्टी को विजयी बनाइये। एक बार हम पर भरोसा करके देखिए। हमने हिन्दुस्तान को बदल दिया है, हम तेलंगाना को बदल कर रहेंगे, ये विश्वास मैं दिलाने आया हूँ और मैं आपको विश्वास दिलाता हूँ, तेलंगाना में आप बीजेपी की सरकार बनाइए, मैं कंधे से कंधा मिलाकर आपके साथ चलूंगा। आपका मुझपर पूरा अधिकार रहेगा, आपकी भलाई के लिए आपके सपनों को पूरा करने के लिए मैं कभी भी पीछे नहीं हटूंगा, ये विश्वास देने के लिए आया हूँ आज आपके पास। मेरे साथ दोनों हाथ ऊपर करके बोलिए..भारत माता की...जय...भारत माता की...जय...भारत माता की...जय! Thanks a lot."