"\n10\nSkill India mission is not only to fill pockets but to bring an understanding of self-confidence among the poor: PM Modi\nIn the coming years, India will be the largest supplier of workforce to the world: PM\nTargets of the Skill India initiative is that we need to formalize the informal self learned sector: PM\nI will form a army of poor, every poor is my soldier, we will win this war against poverty\nWe need to provide a boost to entrepreneurship to India: PM Modi\nMatching job creation with industry is the key to end unemployment: PM\nAttend all the greatness present and outside of this hall through technology and all my young friends present here\nToday the whole world is celebrating 'World Youth Skills Day'. India is also taking an important step on that occasion. A few days ago, the whole world celebrated International Yoga Day and the people of our country were surprised that the world is looking at us, on this side? We never believed that the world ever looks at us with pride. On World Yoga Day, we have realized that today the whole world sees India with a great respect and dignity.\nThere are so many discussions about education in our school that all the children go to school. They are less in Secondary, less in the Higher Secondary. Those numbers fall in the colleges and fewer people reach the toppertopper. So where does all this go and what happens to those who go? Those who go up, they have all sorts of anxiety. But whatever remains to be done should also be there or not. This is our mission for those who remain. And who else go? The child of the rich family is no longer left He gets something for him. From ancestral tradition The one who remains is the child of the poor, and in a way we have made a war against poverty very plan. And this is to win the war. And to win the war against poverty, I want to make the army of the poor. Every poor child is my army, every poor young man is my army. With the strength of them, on their own it is to win the war against poverty.\nToday, a young man from the country is not ready to do anything by spreading his hands. He does not want to live a miserable life. He wants to live with self-respect, he wants to live proudly. Skill, skill, strength, it only brings money in pocket, it is not so. He fills self-confidence in life. Fills a new force in life. She believes that I will go anywhere in the world. I have this power, I will fill my stomach, I will never ask for help. These strengths come in and so this Skill Development is not just a program for filling pockets to fill. This is a new confidence in our poor families and an attempt to bring about a new energy in the country.\nFor centuries we've heard for centuries. We do not know what happens in rich families. But the society we come from, comes from life. We often used to hear that our father and our young companions were all saying this in our family side-by-side, that brother would learn some work. Standing on your feet.\nIn our country, this is easily spoken in middle class, lower middle class, poor families. If a child is 12 to 15 years old, then parents say that, hey, Bhai should learn some work, stand on your feet. If the thing which resonates in our house-house does not reach the ears of the government and we have heard that voice, have heard that pain. Who lives in the minds of every parent, that the son or daughter can learn some work and stand on their feet. Once the children stand on their feet, the parents of the poor family feel that life has been blessed. He lives in his motive. His motive is to make a huge bungalow and make huge carts, he does not. Our mission is through Skill Mission, fulfilling those dreams and therefore taking this state together in an organized way in a structured way, we will carry forward this work with a fresh start.\nIn the last century, within the world, we have made our name in the world through IIT, the world accepted our IIT as a good institution, we are proud of this thing but in this century we need ITI, if In the last century, IIT made a name in the world, in this century, our small, small IIT units make names in this world by taking these dreams we want to move forward.\nWe say that we have 65 percent of our population below 35 years of age, if they do not have the skills, if they do not have the opportunity then how to overcome the challenges. If he is not able to overcome the challenges, then he will become a challenge for us, and therefore, for the first time in India, if there is a priority, then it is to provide jobs for the youth of the country. It is necessary to prepare qualified young people. To make a suitable young man, prepare a mechanism, an arrangement to prepare a structure, to try to fulfill all those needs through this mission. We are young countries of the world, there are many countries in the world where prosperity is very much but people are not. There will be four cars in the house, but who run it is a matter of concern.\nKeep in mind that the workforce which the world is going to require, the world will get the most workforce in the coming decades if you get it from India. The demand of the world is clear in front of us that the world is going to be needed, but are we ready for it? What we have prepared More and more, our focus now remains towards the nursing staff. If you see people going to the nursing staff or our people who work in the message which went to the Gulf countries, we have run around them. We should be prepared not only in India but by mapping the necessity of human resource of the whole world in India. Let us be in the nursing of paramedics. We are 25 institutes, certified institutions, take the youth from here. Run your work We have the world's requirements, a very big job market, we have to prepare our people by studying the job market in a scientific way. What is our condition today, many of us will have experienced one thing sitting here, sometimes your friends will be told. Look, if you get a good driver here, I do not have a driver. Now the answer to this question is to find out that there are young people in the country, unemployed, and they are upset without the driver. Can not we find the way out? And what happens nowadays that he learns to change the gear-cleaning carriage from anywhere in the tradition and if we hold steering, we sometimes take him risk ririsk and keep him. Now that someone of our train learns by making that training institute and sometimes our risk is also there. Can we arrange to certify these people who did not go to any institution to learn traditional in their own way, but at least those who keep it, know that yes, brother, this is the certificate, is. Even if you have learned yourself Today the age has crossed 35-40 but he feels that I do not have any authority, there is no identity, then this government is going to make this arrangement, even if you have learned from tradition, but if you have basic norms If you cross, we will give you a certificate which will not be less than an engineer, I believe in it. Now this is a big problem, Sabbarwal was telling that everyone says what is Bhai experience, he says, first do the work then I will tell the experience. The first cock that is the first egg, the debate is going on, the job is not experienced, the experience is not the job, it does not work, it continues.\nWe need ours to emphasize entrepreneurship. Occasionally, the people of the industry are also afraid to keep the entrepreneur, they feel like I will keep the man and if any sir, the sir will come and if he gets more then he will die, my factory will be locked and not ready to keep. The stiffness of the law is sometimes such that our young people do not get place. We want to increase the opportunity for employment in the country. Those who want to go for entrepreneurship get opportunities. Those who want to go for an apprenticeship, get the opportunity. The experience will not come unless he gets this opportunity. And this is how our efforts are to promote the apprenticeship. This entire mission was not confined to our skill. With it added entrepreneurship. Because we do not want everyone to be able to find a job somewhere, it is not necessary. A driver can also become an entrepreneur. He can also drive a car on a contract and become a sub-contractor. We want to bring these skills inside it. The way in which sometimes it happens, you can not do anything unless you add value. Suppose you are driving but you tell him, I also have a typing computer. So immediately say good-good brother also comes, so let's go - when the work of driving is done then keep doing the computer. So when he knows the extra quality, its value increases. We want him to have the skills of multiple activity in skill. I was telling someone to tell me that there was a lot of time, there was a plumber, so the work that was done as a plumber used to do it, but he slowly prepared himself for the yoga trainer and enjoyed It is that after going for yoga trainer one or two hours in the morning, he was earning more, while lower than the plumber later. What happened then, with the yoga training now the plumber was added, so where yoga training does, tell the people only. Look at the plumber and you need to go away. He learned a new thing Both things are such that in which he did not need any college degree. They started earning. We want to trust these things within the country. In the coming days, there is a need of workforce in the number of millions of crores of people all over the world. And in the next decade we have around four-and-a-half, five million people will be surplus workforce with us. If we remove this mismatch, we prepare it according to the requirement, then our young people will get the opportunity to get employment. What happens occasionally is that there is an area where the chemical industry is coming but what is taught there is automobile taught. Now he does not get the job there. We have to do mapping that has worked, a huge amount of work has been done in which area what is our potential, what is the establishment, what kind of requirement is there. We will do such human resource training so that he can get ready for walk to work, if he gets work near his home then he is not financially burdened with more financial burden. Otherwise, that does not work in the range of 100 kilometers of what it learns. I remember when I used to work in Gujarat, initially I saw those things used in automobile which were not in the market. Our technology was Well, after all, the course changed, all the trainers who were trained, had to make a lot of changes, but still today in many places it may happen. And so it is necessary that all our training institutes have to be dynamic. Technology is changing so fast, if our training is not dynamic then our person will not be relevant. If the old-fashioned cook does not have to run oven today, then the cook will not work at home. He should come, oven what, everything to learn, additional training is necessary and therefore dynamics are very important for him. Our efforts are in the direction of the training we are focusing on. India has been recognized for centuries in the field of skill. We have forgotten this mode of ours. Centuries ago, how much our attributes were considered here. The strength of our skills was considered. We have to regain it once again. If today, China has made its mark in the world that China has become an identity that as it has become the world's manufacturing factory. If China is the world's manufacturing factory, then the identity of Hindustan can become the capital of the world's necessary human resources. We have to emphasize on the power that we have. We will get things as much as we can stress on our strength and therefore our endeavor is to train us according to the needs of human resources, by mapping, according to the need of human resources. And we should know. Today, even today, I tell you there are not many trained drivers in the country today. The system, which requires a lot of trained drivers, is not available for the kind of modern system that needs modern training. Then he keeps learning about moving. To say, there is no reason for unemployment. Keeping in mind the employment, keeping in view the model of development, we should develop human resource development. Try adding these three.\nOccasionally what happens is that those who have such training institutions do not know how the world is changing. They walk through their old ways. It is necessary that as it is here today, people who are employed are also sitting, employers are also present, and people who are prepared for employment opportunities are also present, and there are people who make policy decisions for all these things too. . There are all kinds of people in this hall. Why, we have to make habit With the people of our industry, we will have to sit down constantly with our technical world. They will have to ask what it looks like next ten years. What kind of things are you looking at? He says next ten year is such a thing to come. If this is such a possibility, then we should make our syllabus the same way from now. Our training institution should be prepared from the top so that people from the training institutes come out and if they have got new technology then they will get the placement. So, with the futuristic vision we have to think that what is the design of development of the next ten year, which technology is going to work, how to make the system, our human resource development should be according to that. अगर हमारा human resource development according to that होता है तो मैं नहीं मानता हूं कि बेरोजगारी का कोई कारण बनता है, उसको रोजगार मिलता है। कैसी training से कितना फर्क होता है, मैं अपने अनुभव कुछ शेयर करना चाहता हूं। गुजरात के लोग, मैं गुजरात में था इसलिए वहां का उदाहरण दे रहा हूं। सेना में बहुत कम जाते हैं। अब वो उनका development ही अलग है। लेकिन हमने सोचा है भई क्‍यों न हो हमारे लोग क्‍यों न सेना में जाएं। तो मैंने जरा पूछताछ की, कि क्‍या problem है भई। नहीं बोले जब physical exercise और exam होते हैं उसी में fail हो जाते हैं। तो उनको बोले वो आते हैं तो हमारा उसमें scope है, कोटा है लेकिन हमें मौका नहीं मिलता है। तो मैंने क्‍या किया army के कुछ retired अफसरों को बुलाया। हमने कहा भई हमारे जो tribal belt है वहां के नौजवानों को तुम trained करो कि exam कैसे पास करते हैं। सब हमारा मेल बैठ गया। उन्‍होंने training के camp लगाने शुरू किए। एक-एक महीने के camp लगाते गए और जब भर्ती होने लगी तो करीब जो 5-7 percent लोग हमारे मुश्‍किल से जाते थे। 35-40 percent तक पहुंचा दिया था। training मात्र से। उनको समझाया कि भई ऐसे दौड़ते हैं, सीना ऐसे करते हैं, जरा एक-दो चीजें तुम्‍हें करना आ जाएगी तुम्‍हारी entry हो जाएगी। वो तैयार हो गए। कहने का तात्‍पर्य यह है कि ऐसा नहीं है कि कोई नौजवान जाना नहीं चाहता, लेकिन कोई उसको समझाए तो। चीजें छोटी-छोटी होती हैं लेकिन बहुत बड़ा बदलाव लाती है, बहुत बड़ा बदलाव लाती है। और आज, job market एक इतना बड़ी field है, क्‍योंकि हर किसी को कोई न कोई सेवादार की जरूरत होती है, किसी न किसी की व्‍यवस्‍था हो जाए। मैं जब skill development के लिए मैं काफी दिमाग खपाता रहता था क्‍योंकि मुझे लगता है कि ये और आज से नहीं मैं कई वर्षों से इसमें ज़रा रुचि लेता था। मैंने बहुत साल पहले ये सबरवाल जी को अपने यहां भाषण के लिए बुलाया था। जब मैंने सुना कि ये job market में काफी काम कर रहे है तो मैंने कहा कि भई बताओ तुम क्‍या-क्‍या सोचते हो। It's a matter of years ago. कहने का तात्‍पर्य यह है कि मुझे पता लग रहा था कि इसका एक अलग महत्‍व है। इस महत्‍व को हमें अनुभव करना चाहिए। एक बार मैंने बहुत छोटी उम्र में दादा धर्माधिकारी को मैं पढ़ता रहता था। आचार्य विनोबा भावे के साथी थे। Gandhian थे और बड़े ही समर्पित Gandhian थे। चिंतक थे। एक बढ़िया उन्‍होंने अपना एक प्रसंग लिखा है। कोई नौजवान उनके पास गया कि दादा कहीं नौकरी मिल जाए, काम मिल जाए तो उन्‍होंने पूछा कि तुम्‍हें क्‍या आता है, बोले कि मैं graduate हूं। तो कहा कि अरे भई मैं तुझे पूछ रहा हूं कि क्‍या आता है, अरे बोला मैं graduate हूं। अरे भई तुम graduate हो मैंने सुन लिया, मुझे समझ आ गया, तुम्‍हें आता क्‍या है। नहीं बोले कि मैं graduate हूं। मुझे कुछ काम तो मिले। चल अरे भई तुझे driving आता है क्‍या, तुम्‍हें बर्तन साफ करना आता है, तुम्‍हें रोटी पकाना आता है क्‍या, कपड़े धोना आता है। क्‍या आता है बताओ न। अरे मैं तो केवल graduate हूं। दादा धर्माधिकारी ने बढ़िया ढंग से एक चीज को लिखा है, अपने स्‍वानुभवों से लिखा है और इसलिए आवश्‍यक है कि उसको जीवन जीने का भी कौशल्‍य इस हस्‍त कौशल्‍य से आता है। जो हाथ से वो कला सीखता है जो ताकत आती है उससे जीवन जीवन्‍य का कौशल्‍य प्राप्‍त होता है और उसको प्राप्‍त कराने की दिशा में हमारा एक प्रयास है। हम उसे entrepreneur भी बनाना चाहते हैं।\nअब आप देखिए tourism हमारे देश में develop कर रहा है। जो स्‍थान tourist destination है, वहां tourist guide तैयार करने की कोई institute है क्‍या, नहीं है। वहां पर language courses है क्‍या। अगर आगरा है, tourist destination है तो आगरा के अंदर language courses सबसे ज्‍यादा क्‍यों नहीं होने चाहिए। ताकि वहां पर उनके बच्‍चों को सहज रूप से लैंगवेज आती हो, tourist को लगेगा अपनापन, उसकी भाषा में बात करेगा। ये अगर हमें tourism develop करना है तो हमें हमारे वहां के driver को manners सिखाने से लेकर के language से communicate करने वाले लोगों तक की एक सहज समाज में फौज खड़ी करनी पड़ती है, जिनकी रोजी-रोटी भी उसी से चलती है। हमें जब तक इस प्रकार का टारगेटिड और जो कि देश की ताकत को बढ़ाता है, service sector में भी हम specific चीजों को करें तो बदलाव आता है। आज देश में tourism को बढ़ावा देने के लिए बहुत बड़ी ताकत है, बहुत बड़ी ताकत है। लेकिन उस प्रकार से जो human resource तैयार करने चाहिए, वो human resource करने के लिए हम उतने उदासीन होते हैं। मैं तो इस मत का हूं कि जो-जो tourist destination हो वहां पर हमेशा competition होते रहने चाहिए guide के। who is the best guide । कौन उस शहर का बढ़िया से बढ़िया वर्णन करता है। Competition हो, ईनाम देते रहो, आपको बढ़िया से बढिया, आपको ढेर सारे नौजवान मिलते रहेंगे जो history बताएंगे, archaeology बताएंगे, architecture बताएंगे, व्‍यक्तियों के नाम बताएंगे। सब पचासों सवालों के जवाब दे पाएंगे। धीरे-धीरे potential खड़ा हो जाएगा। कहने का मेरा तात्‍पर्य यह है कि हमारे यहां संभावनाएं बहुत है, मुझे जब मैं skill में काम करता था, मैंने क्‍या किया, हमारे यहां अफसर लोग आए हुए थे। चल रहा था, कैसे करना हे, मैंने कहा कि एक काम करो भई, गर्भाधान से लेकर मृत्‍यु तक, जीवन में कितनी चीजों की आवश्‍यकता होती है, उसकी एक सूची बना लो और जो सूची बनेगी, उतनी skill चाहिए। तो उन अफसरों ने कहा अब हम सोचते हैं। उन्‍होंने सरसरी नज़र में दो-तीन दिन बैठे बनाए तो कोई nine hundred and twenty six चीजें लेकर के आएं। कि वो जन्‍म के बाद उसको ये चाहिए, पढ़ाई के समय ये लगेगा, शादी के समय गुलदस्‍ता लगेगा। सारी चीजों की लिस्‍ट बनाई। कोई nine hundred and twenty six चीजें ऐसे ही सरसरी, वैसे बनाई जाए तो शायद दो हजार निकलेंगी। मैंने कहा कि इन nine hundred and twenty six का skill development है क्‍या तुम्‍हारे पास। लोगों को जरुरत है। ये हमने सोचना होगा। अगर भई गुलदस्‍ते की जरुरत है तो गुलदस्‍ता देना और value addition कैसे होता है, मैं हैरान था, मैं कोई अगर technology नई आए तो देखने का ज़रा शौकीन हूं।\nएक बार मैं एक tribal belt में गया। तो वहां मुझे, वहां के आदिवासी बच्‍चियों ने एक गुलदस्‍ता दिया और मैं हैरान था कि उस गुलदस्‍ते के हर फूल पर मेरी तस्‍वीर लगाई हुई थी। मेरे लिए वो surprise था। मुझे लगा कि उन्‍होंने चिपकाया होगा। तो मैंने ज़रा यूं करके देखा तो ऐसा तो नहीं लगा। तो मैंने फिर उनको वापिस बुलाया। मैंने कहा कि ये क्‍या है, ये tribal बच्‍चियों की मैं बात कर रहा हूं। बोले, हमने गुलाब की पत्‍तियों पर laser technique से आपकी फोटो छापी है। अब आप बताइए value addition करने की क्‍या सोच होती है। एक आदिवासी इलाके की गरीब स्‍कूल की बच्‍ची को भी ये दिमाग में आता है कि टैक्‍नोलॉजी का कैसे उपयोग होता है। मतलब work dynamics बदल रहे हैं। हम उसके लिए सज्ज कैसे करे। मुझे तो लगता है कि कोई ये चलाए न कि भई एक घंटे का training , board लगाकर बैठ जाए। क्‍या, mobile phone कैसे उपयोग किया जाए, मैं सिखाउंगा। मैं बताता हूं साहब लोग लग के queue में खड़े हो जाएंगे। बहुत लोग है जो ये तो ढूंढते रहते है कि नया model कौन सा आया है। लेकिन उनको ये पता नहीं होता है कि ये green या red button के सिवाए इसका क्‍या उपयोग होता है। अब किसी के दिमाग में है हां भई मैं ये करूंगा, आप देखिए लोग जाएंगे कि अच्‍छा भई मैं नया लाया हूं अच्‍छा बता कैसे operate करेंगे, क्‍या-क्‍या चीजें होती हैं। सीखने क लिए लोग जाएंगे, उपयोग करेंगे। कहने का तात्‍पर्य यह है कि हमें ये जोड़ना है, हमें कौशल्‍य के साथ जीवन जीने की क्षमता, कौशल्‍य के साथ रोजगार के अवसर, कौशल्‍य के साथ विश्‍व के अंदर भारत का डंका बजाने का प्रयास। इस लक्ष्‍य को लेकर हम इस काम को लेकर के चल रहे हैं मैं राजीव प्रताप रूडी और उनकी पूरी टीम का बधाई देता हूं जिस प्रकार से इस कार्यक्रम की रचना की है। जिस प्रकार से इस कार्यक्रम को आगे बढ़ाया है। और उसमें देखिए innovation कैसे होते हैं। मुझे बाहर, आपको भी मौका मिले तो देखिए एक बच्‍ची ने ये जो ship के अंदर कंटेनर होते हैं। वो जो rejected माल जो होता है container उसको लगाया है और उसने कंटेनर को ही अंदर school में convert कर दिया है। जो कि discard होने वाला था। वो टूटने के लिए जाने वाला था। देखिए कैसे लोग अपने कौशल्‍य का उपयोग करते हैं। किस प्रकार से चीजों में professionalism आ रहा है। हमें इन चीजों को लाना है और मैं मानता हूं कि भारत के नौजवानों के पास भरपूर क्षमताएं हैं, उसको अवसर मिलने चाहिए। वो किसी भी चुनौतियों को चुनौती देने के लिए सामथर्यवान होता है और अब भारत जो कि demographic dividend के लिए गर्व करता है उस demographic dividend की गारंटी skill में है, trained man power में है और उस trained man power schools पर बल देकर के हम आगे बढ़े, यहीं मेरी शुभकामनाएं हैं और इन नौजवान बच्‍चों को जिन्‍होंने दुनिया में हमारा नाम रोशन किया है। वे अब जा रहे हैं। World Competition में, हम उनको बहुत-बहुत शुभकामनाएं दें।\nमैं आशा करता हूं कि हम दुनिया में इस क्षेत्र में हमारी पहचान बनाएं कि हां भई हमारे नौजवानों में कौशल्‍य के अंदर और ये Olympic से कम नहीं होता इनका ये game, इनका ये कौशल्‍य दिखाना। बड़ा महत्‍वपूर्ण होता है। हमारे देश में अभी ध्‍यान नहीं गया क्‍योंकि वो नहीं है, glamour नहीं है। लेकिन धीरे-धीरे आ जाएगा। आज शुरू किया है मैंने। धीरे-धीरे दुनिया का ध्‍यान जाएगा।\nThanks a lot."