"PM expresses gratitude to President Rahmon and the people of Tajikistan for warm welcome \u0026 hospitality\nIndia shares deep historical, cultural \u0026 civilizational links with Tajikistan: PM Modi\nConnectivity is vital for realizing the trade \u0026 commerce between India \u0026 Tajikistan: PM\nIndia, Tajikistan, to the International North South Transport Corridor\nIndia \u0026 Tajikistan step up strategic cooperation\nHis Excellency President Rahmon,\nMembers of the media,\nLet me begin by expressing my deep appreciation and gratitude to President Rahmon and the people of Tajikistan for the warm welcome and hospitality.\nI am happy to visit Tajikistan. It is a beautiful country This is the last stop on my visit to the Central Asian countries. But, we\nWe share deep historical, cultural and civilizational links. Tajikistan is near to India We are separated by a narrow corridor. Our language links are the closest in Central Asia\nToday, we have formed a deep bond on the basis of our shared aspirations for our people, and peace and stability in our region.\nIt is a great pleasure to meet President Rahmon We met briefly in Ufa. His personal commitment and leadership is a source of great strength for our relationship.\nWe discussed measures to tap the rich potential in trade and commerce and to encourage joint ventures and investments. We have tasked our joint commission to meet soon and finalise a concrete roadmap to expand our trade and economic relations.\nAgriculture is important to both our economies I am delighted that President Rahmon and I will address a workshop on advancing our cooperation in agriculture later today.\n\nConnectivity is important for realizing the full potential of trade and commerce between our countries.\nWe welcome the International North South Transport Corridor. Other connectivity initiatives such as our planned investment in Chahbahar Port in Iran and the Ashgabat agreement will help.\nBut, I also hope that we can promote prosperity across the region.\nWe agree to further strengthen our defense cooperation It is a strong pillar of our strategic partnership.\nWe are both in the proximity of the main source of terrorism. Combating terrorism and extremism has always been an important and productive area of ​​cooperation. At a time of growing threat of terrorism, we have resolved to intensify our cooperation further.\nIndia and Tajikistan will also continue to support the aspirations of the Afghan people for a peaceful, stable and prosperous nation.\nWe will work closely in international forums, including the United Nations, where we already support each other's initiative. I conveyed appreciation for Tajikistan's continuous support for India's candidature for permanent membership of a reformed UN Security Council.\nIndia's membership of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization is a new dimension to our partnership\nWe are deeply grateful for the decision of the Government of Tajikistan and the authorities of Dushanbe to install a bust of Rabindranath Tagore in the city.\nIt highlights the cultural and spiritual links between our two countries. The popularity of Tagore's poetry in Tajikistan, is mirrored in the continuing admiration of Bedil's poetry in India. This is our shared heritage, which we are truly proud of.\nI am happy to release today in Hindi translation of Babujon Gaffurov's masterwork on Tajik history. This would enable a much broader understanding of Tajik culture and history in India.\nFinally, I thank President Rahmon and Tajikistan for the support in making the International Day of Yoga on June 21st a huge global success.\nI wish to thank President Rahmon once again for the warmth of his welcome, which reflects the love and affection that people of Tajikistan have for the people of India. This is a sentiment.\nI have extended an invitation to President Rahmon to visit India at an early date and are looking forward to receiving him in Delhi.\nThank you very much"