"Kyrgystan and India are also united by the bonds of shared democratic values: PM\nIndia-Kyrgyzstan discuss trade, investment, tourism, culture and human resources development\nIndia-Kyrgyz Center for Information Technology established in Kyrgyz State University in Bishkek\nPM Modi appreciates Kyrgystan's strong support to India's candidature for permanent membership of a United Nations Security Council\nPM Modi congratulates President atambaev on Kyrgyzstan joining the Eurasian Economic Union\nPresident Almazbek Atambaev\nMembers of the media,\nIt is a great country I am deeply touched by the warmth and the hospitality.\nClose ties over centuries creates a special kind of closeness and goodwill that adds a lot of charm and interest to the visit. Kyrgystan and India are also united by the bonds of shared democratic values.\nWe see a significant place for Central Asia in India's future. We can reinforce Sustainable We can contribute to cooperation and integration across the different regions of Asia. We both seek a peaceful and secure neigbourhood. And, we have shared interest in combating extremism and terrorism that has become a threat without border.\nMy visit to all countries in the region demonstrates the importance that we attach to a new level of relations with Central Asia. Kyrgystan is a key part of that vision.\nI was pleased to meet President Atambaev. His contribution to democracy and development is admirable.\nI am happy that our Election Commissions have signed an agreement on cooperation The Kyrgyz Parliamentary delegation to India\nI had very enriching discussion with President Atambaev. I deeply appreciate his commitment to the relationship We spoke at length about strengthening our relations in trade, investment, tourism, culture and human resources development. I welcome the agreements on Standards and on Culture today. Collective initiative between India and Central Asia will boost our economic ties.\nI look ahead to the tele-medicine link with India It is the first in the region And, it tells us about the possibilities of the digital world We will also initiate the second phase of the Kyrgyz-India Mountain Bio-Medical Research Center.\nWe will improve our engagement in capacity building and increase the training offers for Kyrgystan to 100 this year. I am happy that we have established an India-Kyrgyz Center for Information Technology in the Kyrgyz State University in Bishkek.\nInformation Technology is critical for success today and for creating opportunities for the youth We will be able to set up similar centers in other major cities in Kyrgystan\nAgriculture is an important sector in both India and the Kyrgyz Republic. We will soon hold a round table in Bishkek to explore possible avenues for cooperation and the concrete projects in the agricultural sector.\nLater today, I will have the privilege of unveiling the statue of Mahatma Gandhi on the street that bears his name. I thank the people of Kyrgystan for this honor His life and message are universal and timeless This statue will also remind the residents of our shared values.\nKyrgystan's commitment to the United Nations Peacekeeping Missions is truly laudable. And, it is a great pleasure for India to support this region. Kyrgyz Armed Forces\nOur defense ties are strong We have just completed a joint exercise, 2015. We have decided to hold joint military exercises on an annual basis.\nThe IT Center in the Kyrgyz Military Academy is an example of innovative cooperation.\nOur new agreement on defense cooperation will provide a framework to broaden our engagement. This will include the defence technology\nI congratulated President Atambaev on Kyrgyzstan joining the Eurasian Economic Union We agreed that A Free Trade Agreement between India and EEU will substantially increase our cooperation .Joint Study Group 's Fasibility Report We agree that this will make a commitment to the country.\nThe Shanghai Cooperation Organization\nI am grateful for Kyrgystan's strong support to India's candidature for permanent membership of the United Nations Security Council. I sought his support for the United Nations and its Security Council.\nFinally, I thank President Atambaev and Kyrgystan for the support of the International Day of Yoga on June 21 a huge global success.\nI look forward to my meetings with Speaker Jeenbekov and Prime Minister Sariyev later today.\nI am confident that the visit will take place. I look forward to an early opportunity to receive President Atembaev in India.\nThank you very much"