"\nThere is an enormous potential for cooperation between India and Turkmenistan: PM\nAs India deepens its relations with Central Asia, Turkmenistan will play a crucial role in it: PM\nIndia and Turkmenistan agree to combat terrorism and extremism collectively\nPM appreciates President and people of Turkmenistan for the support in making #YogaDay a huge global success\nHis Excellency Mr President,\nMembers of the media,\nIt is a great pleasure to visit Turkmenistan. I am happy to see Ashgabat It stands on a once rich trading route since ancient times. It is now a beautiful 'Ak Shaharim' or the White City. It reflects your great vision and the nation's prosperity.\nMr. President, I am very grateful to you and the people of Turkmenistan for a very warm welcome and generous hospitality.\nOur long standing and deep-rooted civilisational and cultural ties are well known It has created a sense of familiarity and goodwill between our people It is a strong foundation of close relations between our two countries\nIndia attaches great importance to this relationship There is a huge and rapidly growing economy, and Turkmenistan, a nation rich in resources.\nAs India deepens its relations with Central Asia, Turkmenistan will play a crucial role in it.\nWe have shared interests in a peaceful and stable Afghanistan and Central Asia. We also have common causes in combating terrorism and extremism in our region.\nConnecting South and Central Asia will open up new economic opportunities in our region and beyond.\nI thank Mr. President for sharing this vision\nThe most important initiative in our relationship is the TAPI Gas Pipeline. Regional Economic Cooperation We welcome the agreements between the four countries for the pipeline. We are underlined\nI also proposed to President that we should explore multiple options, including the additional possibility of land-sea route via Iran.\nI have spent our long-term investment in the energy sector in Turkmenistan. We welcome the decision by ONGC Videsh Limited to open an office in Ashgabat.\nWe had a very positive discussion on India's interest in investment in downstream industries, including petrochemicals and fertilizer. The Memorandum of Understanding in the fertilizer sector will enable long term arrangements for supply of fertilizers from here to India.\nConnectivity is an area of ​​priority for both countries. If we use the Iran route, Ashgabat is the first capital we will reach in Central Asia\nWe are grateful for Turkmenistan's support to join the Ashgabat Agreement on trade and transit. I have also proposed that Turkmenistan is a member of the International North South Transport Corridor.\nTogether with the Kazakhstan-Turkmenistan-Iran rail link, and India's proposed investment in Chahbahar Port in Iran, these initiatives will strengthen connectivity between our countries.\nTraining and Human Resources Development India will increase its training scholarship program I welcome the upgrading of the Turkmen Institute of Industrial Training in Ashgabat.\nThe agreements on sports and tourism will deepen\nLater today, I will have the pleasure of unveiling the bust of Mahatma Gandhi It will be a reminder of our shared commitment to the cause of a peaceful, inclusive and a just world.\nI am looking forward to inaugurating the Yoga and Traditional Medicines. It is a tribute to our cultural links. It also gives us opportunities to revive our very old tradition of fruitful cooperation in traditional medicines. I also proposed to him that as an international center for Holistic Healthcare. I offered full support for it\nThe defence agreement is a reflection of our shared interest in close security cooperation, including in combat terrorism.\nI am grateful to President and the people of Turkmenistan for the support in making the International Day of Yoga on June 21 a huge global success.\nI congratulated the President on the 20th anniversary of the adoption of Permanent Neutrality by Turkmenistan. India acknowledges the contribution of this policy to peace and stability in Turkmenistan and the wide area.\nAgain, Mr. President, this is a short but very productive visit I am confident that our relationship will grow in the coming years.\nI look forward to receiving you, Mr. President, in the near future\nThank you."