"India becomes permanent member of Shanghai Cooperation Organization\nIndia has strong strategic ties with China \u0026 Russia: PM at SCO Plenary Session\nIndia shares spiritual, cultural, political and economic relations with whole of Central Eurasia since ancient times: PM\nPresident Putin, all honorable leaders of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization and all the invited people,\n• I thank you for inviting India to the plenary session of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization.\n• I have brought good wishes from the 125 million Indians.\n• I express our gratitude to you for making India a full member of SCO.\n• It is a symbol of historical and ancient relations between us.\n• In this area, which is called pivot of human history, peace and prosperity will also be encouraged.\n• India's membership will take forward our shared vision of re-linking and integrating various areas of Eurasia.\n• With the Central Eurasian region, there have been spiritual, cultural, political and economic relations since ancient times of India. And both of us have accomplished this.\n• Since the beginning of this century, since the political scenario of this region has started to change, India has reinforced its historic relations with Central Asian countries.\n• My current visit to all five countries of Central Asia is a symbol of how much importance India gives to this area.\n• India has strong and deep strategic relations with China and Russia.\n• Our membership of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization is in the form of a natural link of these relationships.\n• Integrated and linked Eurasia in mutual cooperation with SCO with all the countries present here I can become one of the most dynamic areas of the world.\n• For the past few centuries, the focus of this large landed countries has been in the direction of the sea and other areas. Now the time has come that we extend our hand towards each other in this terrain.\n• We have all the tools needed for success.\n• We live in 2/5 of humanity. We have a lot of natural resources, skill, market and technology.\n• India has been actively participating in SCO's activities as an Observer.\n• In the coming time, India is ready to extend support to traffic and communication in this area. We can connect the south coastal coast of Asia with physical and digital connectivity networks from the north corner of Europe. International North South Transport Corridor is a step taken in this direction.\n• India will be happy to assist in the development of infrastructure in this area.\n• We support all efforts that help in increasing trade and investment in this area by reducing the barriers.\n• Increasing needs of India's energy and resources; And a large market present in India, SCO can play an important role in bringing prosperity to the region.\n• At the same time, together with the countries of India SCO region, human resource development; information technology; pharmaceuticals and healthcare; banking and capital market; small and medium enterprises; micro-finance; Ready to work in the areas of food security and agriculture.\n• SCO area is endowed with cultural diversity. In this context, more and more exchanges between our citizens, especially the youth, will help in enhancing mutual understanding within and outside this region.\n• The ecology of this area is quite fragile and our natural heritage is very beautiful. We are ready to work together with SCO to fight for sustainable development and to climate change.\n• We believe that prosperity is the basis of the future.\n• India will contribute to enhancing peace and friendship in this area.\n• Terrorism and extremism are emerging as a major threat to this region. We will face them together with SCO. Peace and stability in Afghanistan have the right to the people of Afghanistan and this will increase peace and prosperity in the entire region as well.\nExcellencies; Finally, I would like to say that 1/6 of humanity resides in India. India is progressing at 7.5 percent growth rate. India is an opportunity for neighboring countries. On the other hand, partnership with neighbors is very important to realize the dreams of development of India. In this context, our partnership with SCO is very important to fulfill our dreams. I assure you that India will support SCO in every field.\nOn this occasion, I congratulate Pakistan on joining SCO.\n• I wish the success of this meeting and in the coming time you will establish a strong relationship with everyone. I am happy that the membership of India will be in the Chairmanship of Uzbekistan. I wish President Karimov very well. Thanks a lot."