"PM Modi complements South African President Zuma for starting the 'Regional Outreach' at BRICS\nEurasia can play a vital role as Economic Corridor \u0026 Trade Route for the World: PM\nIndia attaches high importance to the Eurasian region: PM Modi\nExcellency, President Putin, my eminent BRICS Colleagues, Distinguished Leaders\nFirst of all I would like to thank President Zuma Ji that he started Regional Outreach on the margin of BRICS Summit. This gives an opportunity to develop more understanding and partnership with other countries, thereby facilitating BRICS achieving its goals.\nI congratulate President Putin for organizing this outreach meeting for the foresight I have seen. This is a historic meeting. In this, all the big countries of the Eurasian region have been gathered. There has been a change in the nature of Eurasia in this century. It has excitement and mobility. It has the power to play an important role again as one of the world's leading economic corridors and trade routes.\nIndia attaches great importance to its relations with this region.\nBrazil and South Africa, Latin America and Africa are the two leading nations of continents. These countries link Eurasia to these two continents, which will be two major pole of the global economy.\nThe Eurasia area has huge reserves of resources. Major economies of fast pace development in the world are part of it. This area has the privilege of being a vast source of advanced technologies and skill and talent.\nWe have all the resources to build a future in which all development can be ensured.\nFor this, we have to take some more steps: -\nFirst of all, we have to create an atmosphere of peace, goodwill and faith in this area. Here are the long pending issues and unresolved questions. But we should not allow differences and disputes in building a collaborative future. It is necessary for the advancement of this sector to maintain lasting peace in all the countries.\nSecond, we have to strengthen regional connectivity - physical and digital and regional integration. For the prosperity of Eurasia, it is necessary that there are better connectivity in different regions and become the strength of each other. We have to eliminate the barriers to trade and need to improve logistics arrangements.\nThird, new institutions for regional development, such as BRICS New Development Bank, provide new facility of long term finance.\nFourth, we should re-awaken the ancient spiritual and cultural episodes linking this vast area.\nIn the end, we have to be united to combat terrorism, extremist forces and other international crimes such as money laundering and drug trafficking. The threat of terrorism is far more than our fantasies and is long-term. It has the ability to eliminate the stability of this region and become a major obstacle in the path of development.\nInitiatives like International North-South Transport Corridor, Conference on Interaction and Confidence Building in Asia, Eurasian Economic Union and Ashgabat Agreement are taking this field in the right direction. India has also initiated several initiatives for regional connectivity, which will deepen our relations with the Eurasian region.\nBRICS will be happy to become a partner in building this sector's bright future. This field will provide greater reliability and stability by becoming a new tool in the development of the global economy.\nThank you."