"\nPM speaks at BRICS Plenary Session\nPM Modi complements BRICS Nations for their active support and participation during International Day of Yoga on 21st June\nWe must speak in one voice, without any distinction and discrimination between groups and countries, sponsors and targets: PM\nTogether we can not solve any challenge better if we focus on the UN and the UN Security Council. This must be soon: PM\nClimate change is one of our foremost global challenges We need to focus on renewable energy \u0026 energy efficiency: PM\nBRICS is a critical pillar of hope in the world with political security and economic challenges: PM\nThank You Chairman,\n• I once again thank President Vladimir Putin for his hospitality and good governance. I have given us the opportunity to come to this new area and to see him.\n• During the past year, I heartily appreciate President Rousseff's excellent leadership. BRICS has touched new heights last year.\n• I thank my BRICS colleagues with heartfelt thanks to International Yoga Day on June 21 for contributing to a global success. These days were adopted in 193 countries and in hundreds of cities.\nBRICS is a key pillar of hope in the world full of political, security and economic challenges.\n• Because BRICS's work is not only for BRICS countries, but also for the welfare of the world, especially for developing countries.\n• The discussion of the people was very meaningful and we have discussed in detail in detail during the first session and lunch.\n• The challenges facing the world are for all countries. Therefore, consensus, collaboration and cooperation are essential among all the major countries. And everyone should follow international rules and norms.\n• We are meeting in the 70th year of the United Nations. This year, the world has major or concrete decisions on development and climate change.\n• Any challenge, financially social or political, we will be more successful in solving them. When we meet the United Nations and its Security Council, at the scheduled time. If this global institution is to be useful for the 21st century then its reformation is mandatory and it is necessary to do it as soon as possible.\n• Peace and stability is the foundation of social and economic development. It is our obligation towards our own, and the world that we take effective action on the main security challenges of our time, terrorism and extremism.\n• We should fight against one by one, without distinction between groups and countries, sponsors and targeted countries. We should also do this in BRICS, in the United Nations and its Security Council and other Committees.\n• We should have the main agenda of poverty reduction in the development agenda in 2015, before the United Nations.\n• BRICS's successes in the financial sector are commendable. This includes New Development Bank, the Contingency Reserve Fund, Export Credit Insurance, Financing for Innovation and new proposals Customs Cooperation and Reinsurance Pool.\nBRICS Economic Cooperation Strategy BRICS is a milestone in progress. It also includes several social initiatives. I am glad that the proposals of India given in Fortalza are included in this. In our Restricted Session on Economic Cooperation, I had suggested BRICS cooperation between the Annual BRICS Trade Fair, BRICS Railway Research Center and the Supreme Audit Institutions.\n• Climate Change is one of the major global challenges facing us. BRICS countries should make Renewable Energy affordable and able to be available to everyone and start a major program on Energy Efficiency Technologies. This is the way to adopt Clean Energy. I would like to be the first big project Clean Energy funded by the New Development Bank and it would be great if we are together for our five countries.\n• By the end of this year, BRICS countries need to have more coordination; In order to ensure meaningful and ambitious settlement in Paris,\n• We may also consider BRICS Digital Initiative, in which our capabilities can be used for a new development option for developing countries. We can make delivery of services more effective by using Digital Technology in the field of development and can enhance financial inclusion and empowerment.\n• Last year, I had talked about paying attention to youth. BRICS countries need to focus on taking initiative for empowerment of women in their countries and developing world.\nExcellencies,\n• We talked about the issue of migration. On one hand, migrations can be a source of strength to strengthen and balance the global economy by looking at the world's demographic trends.\n• On the other hand, there are some humanitarian issues that are due to conflict and lack of migration. The United Nations should think deeply on this.\n• We welcome Russia for the initiative of organizing BRICS Heads of Migration Services for the first meeting of BRICS Standing Working Group on Migration.\n• We are all equally strong in the agricultural sector and in many areas, it is also the first place in the world. I recommend that BRICS Agricultural Research Center be established, which will be a great gift to the whole world.\n• In the same way, we can consider making an arrangement in which we can invest in the foodgrains and land rich countries, by investing in manufacturing and infrastructure, to part of the additional foodgrains in the food grains countries. This will be the second important step.\n• Water deficiency is an important challenge for the future. The availability of water, its better use, drinking water in developing countries are the main challenges. This is an area in which we have good experience and expertise in all countries, so that we can make changes in our countries and other countries.\n• I also suggest that a forum should be created that connect our provinces or states and our local governments. They can learn a lot from each other. Urbanization is a big challenge, but it can prove to be a great opportunity in the coming decades. We can learn a lot from each other by starting the process of conversation and cooperation between the cities.\n• Some BRICS members are Sports Powerhouses. We should organize a BRICS Sports Meet in a single sport by establishing BRICS Sports Council. As a start, we can organize a Football Meet in India next year. This is a game that is popular in all BRICS countries.\n• Finally, congratulate President Putin for a successful summit again, I believe that the commitment and determination I am looking for among the BRICS members will keep BRICS touching a new height and we have a lot to do for world welfare. Will be able to do something.\n• Next year I will be blessed to welcome you to India. I invite you to the next BRICS in India.\n• Before completing my talk, today came a good topic for the next session that we develop the BRICS Film Festival. Another suggestion is that if we can do Film Award for BRICS, then in a way, I think that a lot can be promoted to us as this area can also be a part of the film making Cultural activity, Knowing can also be the reason for knowing. Then we can also consider that, once again I express gratitude to President Putin and all of you, thank you."