"PM Narendra Modi addresses BRICS Business Council\n'BRICS Economic Cooperation Strategy' would prove to be a milestone for all BRICS Nations: PM\nPM Modi welcomes the setting up of 'BRICS Information Sharing and Exchange Platform'\nPrime Minister Modi proposes an annual BRICS Trade Fair to strengthen economic cooperation\nYour Excellency President Vladimir Putin,\nYour Excellency President Dilma Rousseff,\nYour Excellency President Xi Jinping,\nYour Excellency President Jacob Zuma,\nMembers of the BRICS Business Council\nI express my heartfelt gratitude to President Putin for hosting BRICS Summit.\nI also thank them for this meeting with the BRICS Business Council.\nIt has been one of the most important additions to the BRICS Summit.\nMeeting BRICS business leaders at one place will increase economic cooperation between the BRICS nations.\nI thank the members of the BRICS Business Council for their very useful work and will eagerly look forward to its recommendations, and we will all go ahead and do some work plan.\nEconomic cooperation was one of the main reasons behind the establishment of BRICS.\nWe are around 44% of the world's population; According to the purchasing power parity, our share in global GDP is about 40%; And our share in world trade is 18%.\nWe have many similarities. Also, we have a lot of resources and complementary resources for each other. Each of us has a unique expertise in agriculture, manufacturing, technology, services, human resources and sustainable development.\nThe global economy is still not strong. Major developed markets like Europe are going through a crisis. Financial markets are unstable. One-sided ban is hurting the global economy.\nSo it is very important to close cooperation between BRICS economies. We should also strengthen BRICS business engagement with the most developed areas of the world.\nIn my opinion, infrastructure supply, chain renewal, agricultural supply chains, waste management, clean energy, affordable housing, and manufacturing supply chains across BRICS will give us business opportunities and also benefit from economic development.\nLooking at our own strengths, we can make a great deal of skill development.\nBRICS companies should use every BRICS country to provide services to the surrounding areas.\nFor more close economic cooperation, BRICS is developing fast-growing frameworks.\nNew Development Bank has become a reality. It is headed by Shri K.V., an excellent banker of India. Kamath will. We should welcome projects that have cross-BRICS collaboration.\nContingency Reserve Arrangement will come into existence shortly. This will help in bringing stability to BRICS economies.\nI hope you will take advantage of BRICS arrangements on financing arrangements for export credit insurance and innovation.\nSuggestion for building BRICS Reinsurance Pool is a welcome step towards helping big projects.\nWe hope that soon an agreement will be concluded between the Customs Administration. This will be an important trade facilitation step.\nThe BRICS Economic Cooperation Strategy to be adopted today will be a significant milestone in the development of BRICS.\nI welcome the establishment of a dedicated BRICS Information Sharing and Exchanging Platform, which caters to the beneficial purpose of the practical information store for business communities in our countries.\nI am going to propose an annual BRICS Trade Fair shortly after, which will be hosted by a nation presiding over BRICS. India will be very happy to host the First Trade Fair.\nI will wait eagerly to the council's report.\nThank you."