"Share\n\nPM Modi congratulates people on Kazakhstan on 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate \u0026 20th anniversary of his Constitution\nIndia expands civil nuclear cooperation with Kazakhstan\nIndia-Kazakhstan deepen defense and security cooperation\nHis Excellency President Nursultan Nazarbayev,\nMembers of the media,\nI am happy to visit this beautiful country It has been a short but a memorable and rewarding visit.\nI would like to express my deep gratitude to President Nazarbayev and the people of Kazakhstan for the exceptional welcome and hospitality.\nExcellency, I congratulate you once again on your 75th birthday. I wish you great health and a long life\nMr. President, your leadership is deeply admired. You have put Kazakhstan on the path of rapid progress. You have also played a stellar role in regional and global affairs.\nI congratulate the people of Kazakhstan on the ocassion of 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate and 20th anniversary of the Constitution of Kazakhstan.\nI also learned that this beautiful new capital is still celebrating Astana Day.\nSo, this is a good time to visit Kazakhstan\nLast evening I spoke about India's relations with Central Asia. Kazakhstan will play a critical role in advancing this vision.\nWe greatly value our relations with Kazakhstan We have enormous synergies of markets, resources and skills for a strong bilateral relationship. We discovered remarkable convergence in our economic policies, approaches and strategies in a number of areas.\nWe have shared perspectives on many international issues, including regional peace, connectivity and integration; reforms in the United Nations; and, combating terrorism\nKazakhstan is the largest financial partner in the region But, our relations are modest, compared to our potential. We will work on a new level.\nKazakstan was one of the first countries with which the uranium purchase agreement We are happy\nWe intend to extend cooperation in other minerals, as well\nHydrocarbons is another area of ​​high priority for us Last evening, we launched the drilling operations for exploration in the first oil field with Indian investments in Kazakhstan.\nI am pleased that President Nazarbayev responded positively to my request.\nWe will also give our directives in manufacturing and infrastructure. I was very encouraged by the interaction at the Business Roundtable yesterday that I chaired with Prime Minister Massimov.\nWe expect a new roadmap for cooperation from the United Business Council of our chambers of commerce and industry.\nKazakhstan's Green Bridge Vision is similar to India's ambushious plan of adding 175 GW of renewable energy in the next seven years. This is another priority area of ​​cooperation. In adddition, India will participate on a large scale in the Expo 2017 in Astana.\nWe will also enhance cooperation in Space and Information Technology, including their application for governance and development.\nWe both agree that the connectivity is an important issue.\nThe International North South Transport Corridor, the Iran-Turkmenistan-Kazakhstan rail link, India's interest in joining the Ashkabat Agreement on trade and transit and Iran's Chahbahar Port in India's investment connectivity to strengthen\nThe joint study group on India's proposal for a Free Trade Agreement with Eurasian Economic Union is a step towards our close economic integration.\nDevelopment of human resources Yesterday, I inaugurated the India-Kazakhstan Center of Excellence in Information and Communication Technologies at the Eurasian National University. We are happy\nConsistent with our focus on youth, we have launched a new youth exchange program with six Kazakh universities for the next five years.\nOur defense and security cooperation is a significant dimension of our strategic partnership. We both want to make it strong, including in defense production. We welcome the new Memorandum of Understanding on defense.\nPresident and I agree on the pressing need for reforms of the United Nations and its Security Council. I thank him for Kazakhstan's continuous support for India's candidature for a permanent seat in a reformed United Nations's Security Council and for a UN-Conventional Convention on International Terrorism.\nI reiterated India's support for Kazakhstan's candidature for a non-permanent seat in the UNSC for 2017-18.\nI am also grateful to him and the people of Kzakhstan for the support in making the International Day of Yoga on June 21st a huge global success\nMr. President, thank you for a very productive and pleasant visit. I feel that this visit has opened the door to a much broader and deep relationship, including many new areas of productive cooperation.\nI have extended an invitation to President Nazarbayev and look forward to receiving him in India.\nThank you."