"Share\n\nAll the great dignitaries present, and the great tradition of India in Uzbekistan, exchange between great culture and traditions of Uzbekistan and Uzbekistan, making a bridge of non-existent efforts are going on with all the greatness related to you to see me today Got the opportunity.\nHere is the cultural program that was presented to the daughters of Uzbekistan, and I was seeing that they have not only practiced, they have done sadhana in one way and the best performance was not only moving their hands and feet but also their mind-temple I was experiencing this.\nYesterday I had a lot of discussion with my Prime Minister and President. Yesterday when we were having dinner at night, there was a musical plan for musical instrument, but it was very western but with very good efforts, we made a very successful effort to present Indian songs. I congratulated the President and I was surprised that the President knew about the capital, which song he would play before, then he proudly told me - and the Prime Minister also said - that we are here In all villages, music urges the school. In some quantities, we have opened music schools in the last five years and want to increase these schools even further and also show that everybody's interest in Indian music is increasing, and we make an effort to perform the rituals through music. Are there. If the war needs liberation then the music never lets the person go towards the violence. These things came to me very much after listening to the President.\nMany aspects have been discussed for the development of personality. These things are taught in Personality development. But I believe that there is huge power of language in the development of Personality. You will find a person of another country, and if he speaks the first word in your language, you will see without any identity, without any information you are completely numbing, it opens - this strength is in the language. If any foreigner we meet Indians, then say hello. It seems that we got somebody.\nThe language which protects the language, handles the language, the language that the language is addressing, makes the country its future strong, but it keeps its essence continuously with its grandeur. Language is such a window that if you learn that language then you get an opportunity to immerse yourself in the ocean of knowledge available in that language, you get joy.\nHere we are saying \"Water ray water, what is your color?\" Mix the water with which it becomes the same color. Language also gets a new partner every moment. Try making language a friend. The language is like the whirlpool of the air, which flows through the garden which touches the air, and then we get excited about it.\nThe language takes the smell of where it passes through. The era that passes through, takes the fragrance of that era, the area that passes through, brings the smell of the area together. The one who passes through the tradition brings the smell of the tradition together, and every smell makes it like a garden of life in a way, this language, where we feel every kind of fragrance.\nDirectly with the financial status of the language. Whose financial prosperity, the wing of their language flew heavily. All the people in the world want to know that language, because there is convenience for economic business. Economic rituals become a language, and I see that the importance of the languages ​​of India in the coming days is going to increase because India will want to connect with the world as it will on economic progress.\nIf the language was an object, there was a unit - and if it was done with a DNA test, then I believe that the greatest thing was handled, that the heart of the language is huge, it is revealed by its DNA. Because language absorbs everyone in its own right. She does not have any binding There is no binding of color, neither is the bond of time, nor is the bond of the field special. There is such a huge heart that is the language that absorbs everyone in its own right. Inclusive.\nI once went to a territory in Russia - if I say \"Tea\" then they did not understand, I used to understand \"tea\". I did not understand \"Door\", I used to understand the \"door\". So many ... like our watermelon speaks, watermelon. They also speak melon. In what kind of language does the language embrace itself? Even here, if someone plays \"a double\", then we play \"sitar\" here. If someone plays \"tent\" at you, then you play \"tanpura\" here, if someone plays \"cities\" here, then you play \"nagad\" here. The reason for this is so similar, because the heart of language is huge, it absorbs everything in its own way.\nHow big a scholar are you, how many big linguists are, but God is one step ahead of us. We can post-mortem of every language. What is his composition, how does grammar happen, what word does it look like - all can do. But there are two things which God has given to reveal the human origin. There is a parallel between two languages ​​in any part of the world, the person of any color, in any age person. One is \"cry\", the second is \"laugh\" - everyone has a language to cry, and there is only one language to laugh. There is no difference and no scholar has yet opened their grammar.\nThe relationship of the two nations in today's era is not limited to just under the governmental arrangements. People-to-people contact is based on the strength of the relationship between the two nations. And people-to-people contact is the basis of cultural exchanges, the traditions of each other, history, knowing culture, living is a huge force. This is a great effort to increase people-to-people contact with India and Uzbekistan, a very big effort. These relationships are deep and live long for a long time. Change Governments, change leaders, change leader, but this relationship never changes. I congratulate you on this with my heart, with your efforts.\nFortunately for traveling with Central Asia's five countries together, hardly ... very few people will be blessed to travel together. I got that good luck and the journey of about 5 countries in Central Asia, first started from the journey of Uzbekistan. This is my last public appearance on this trip. I say with great satisfaction and pride that this journey has been very successful. There is a long journey that has long been successful, and in the coming days, the economic-collective relations of India and Uzbekistan will deepen, which will give strength to the two countries, give strength to this region, and together with India, For the welfare of common people, they will continue to work exemplary in order to fulfill their objectives. With this belief, I once again congratulate everyone on the President of Uzbekistan, the Prime Minister, the publicity of the people here and for making such a great program in this ceremony, and the dictionary that has been created In the days to come, new generations will work.\nToday is the era of technology. Through online, we can learn the language online. We also learn language by listening and can also learn from audio. In a way, in today's palm, the world has become the basis for knowing, understanding, recognizing. I am confident that in the coming days, all these efforts are going on in this technology will also be involved in it and through technology, how do we learn our languages ​​from audio system itself - audio, visual, written text, all things together If done, there is a lot of convenience in picking up. Whatever help India needs to do in its direction, India will definitely help.\nThen once again I congratulate you all, thank you very much."