"Share\n\nPM addresses the statement from Media during the Joint Press Briefing with President of Uzbekistan at Tashkent\nIndia's relations with Uzbekistan has ancient roots and has left a strong imprint on both Nations: PM\nFew countries can match Uzbekistan in nurturing Hindi \u0026 Indian culture: PM Modi\nPM Modi, President Karimov discussed various initiatives to further increase connectivity between India and Uzbekistan\nIndia and Uzbekistan agree to strengthen cooperation in defense and cyber security\nHis Excellency President, Islam Karimov, President of Uzbekistan, Members of the Media,\nI am delighted to be in the historic and beautiful city of Tashkent. It carries the warmth of familiarity.\nI thank President Karimov and the people of Uzbekistan for their very warm welcome and hospitality.\nIt is a pleasure to meet President Karimov He has led the great vision and wisdom in Uzbekistan's progress and advance peace and prosperity in the region.\nToday, I have embarked on a five-nation tour of Central Asia. It reflects our resolve to start a new era in our relations with Central Asian Republics\nOur relationship with the region has been rooted and has left a strong imprint on both. It now occupies a significant place in India's future.\nI have begun my journey in Uzbekistan. This underlines the nation's importance for India, not only in the context of this region, but also more broadly in Asia.\nIn recent years, India and Uzbekistan have built a strategic partnership on the foundation of mutual respect and shared interests.\nThis includes expanding economic cooperation, combating terrorism, advancing stability in the region and promoting regional integration.\nPresident Karimov and I had very cordial and productive discussions. His perspective will be of immense benefit to me in the days ahead.\nI share President Karimov's wish to raise the level of our economic engagement. I have been convinced that there is a strong interest in Indian business to invest in Uzbekistan. There is a great range of areas in Uzbekistan. I have urged him to make the process President responded positively to my suggestion.\nPresident was also supportive of our ongoing cooperation in Information Technology and energy.\nWe have discussed the issues\nPresident Karimov and I discussed various initiatives to further increase connectivity between India and Uzbekistan.\nI briefed him about the International North South Transport Corridor and suggested that Uzbekistan consider becoming a member. I sought his support for India's Ashgabat Agreement.\nI am pleased with the agreements in the areas of Culture and Tourism, because they will bring our people closer.\nFew countries can match Uzbekistan in nurturing Hindi and Indian culture. Tomorrow, I look forward to meeting a vibrant group of Indologists and Hindi language practitioners.\nIndia will expand cooperation in capacity building through the number of training offers in India Consistent with our commitment, the Uzbekistan-India Information Technology Center has been upgraded this year.\nI welcome President Karimov's assurance to ensure rapid completion of the Entrepreneurship Development Center in Tashkent.\nWe also discussed regional and international issues, including the situation in Afghanistan. We also have shared concerns about the growing threat of extremism and terrorism in our expanded neighborhood.\nWe agreed to intensify security cooperation and exchanges. The bilateral Joint Working Group on Counter Terrorism will meet later this year. We also agreed to strengthen cooperation in defense and cyber security\nWe look forward to working together the framework of Shanghai Cooper Organization.\nTomorrow, I will be paying a visit to the Monument of Independence and Humanism and the Memorial of Late Indian Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri. We are thankful to the people of Tashkent and Uzbekistan, for the protection of the legacy of our former Prime Minister\nThis is a very rewarding visit. It has sown the seeds of a rich harvest in the years ahead.\nI look forward to the opportunity of receiving President Karimov in India.\nThank you again for your hospitality and a wonderful meeting. Thank You"