"PM Modi talks on the launch of #DigitalIndia Week\nOur demographic dividend should get digital strength: PM\ndream of a #DigitalIndia cyber security becomes an integral part of national security: PM Modi\ndream of a #DigitalIndia where the world looks to #India for the next big idea: PM Modi\ndream of #DigitalIndia where 1.2 billion connected Indians drive the nation: PM Modi\nAll my colleagues of the Cabinet Council, sitting on stage, all the friends of the industry, all the ambassadors of different countries and young friends in large numbers,\nI congratulate Mr. Ravi Shankar Prasad and his team very much from heart and congratulate him that he has drawn a blueprint for changing the future of India with a comprehensive integrated approach, and in the closest, all the plans have been created, I believe that Those dreams of crores of people who are cherishing the dreams will be realized.\nHere are some of the friends of the industry who have heard about the thoughts of what they think they can do in the context of Digital India, on the platform here. Our Ravi Shankar Prasad was sitting on the counting, sitting on what he was saying and told me that about 4.5 lakh crore rupees invested .. and about 18 lakh people employed .. And this is what is sitting above They are told and sitting down in a very big way .. They just have to listen. In this area, friends from the industry who already work in this area are sitting.\nTime has changed very fast. Earlier, when we used to go to a family and talk to a small child then what did the child do? If your glasses were to be pulled, or if you had a pen in your pocket, then he would have raised it. But today you want to mark that she does not touch the glasses or she picks the pen she snatches your mobile phone. The mobile phone catches itself properly when it comes in hand, you mark it .. and starts it, and if you do not have the operation, then it starts crying, that is, the other understands what it understands or understands the digital power. Time demands that we understand this change and if we do not understand this change then we will be falling somewhere in the corner, the world will go away and we will be left to see that there was a time that people used to sit centuries ago, on the banks of the river. The villages used to sit, the cities were settled on the banks of the river or on the seashore.\nThe time changed. Later, where the highways passed, the city started settling there but now the human race will settle on where the optical fiber passes. This huge change has come and therefore if the country of 100 billion people in the world wants to realize its power then which is thousands of years old great culture .. We are hundred and fifty million inhabitants, we 65 percent below 35 years Of age, this song is not about talking. Whatever the heritage, which is the power, with modern science, it is mandatory to add modern technology. If demographic dividend is not available, then this demographic dividend. We will not be able to raise the amount at the global level. Therefore, the country needs to be prepared. Today there are around 25 million-thirty million internet users in our country. In the number of users, this number is very big in the world but those who are deprived of it are also bigger than the world. Those who had their own access, who had their own strength, could do it themselves, which they needed, they adopted. But who can not do it himself, what should he give up on his luck? A section of the country .. He goes ahead with the digital world with a very fast speed and if he is deprived of the vast majority of the country, then due to the rich and poor ditch problems arise, due to convenience in the city and village Due to the gap which arises, due to the situation of digital divide, the situation can arise.\nTherefore, it becomes our obligation, we have the responsibility that we should not be deprived of the poor from the poor due to this modern science, which has become a very large catalyst agent for the needs of human needs. This facility will not be available till we reach the village, the poor, the farmers, it is the developmental things, nor will they be able to take advantage of it, nor will we be able to serve it. Therefore, we have acknowledged this challenge that in the coming years, poor and poor people should also make this platform available in far-off village, which platform they use to fulfill their needs as per the need. are. How the world is changing, you must have seen you in the house .. Let's never decide that let's go to eat well in a restaurant today, four people from the family sit and discuss where you will go and your 15-16 yrs It's a child, he listens, so what does he do? He immediately goes to Google Guru. Google asks Gurus, what is the best restaurant in close proximity, what is the best menu? And they sit on the table and book there sitting. This is such a big change, while understanding this change, we should also develop our own systems. Minimum government maximum governance, technology plays a huge role in realizing this dream. e-governance, the best way to achieve the normal human .. which is his right in government services. e-governance is going to change rapidly in m-governance. 'M' doesnt mean Modi governance All the business, all the requirements, all the arrangements around the phone of the mobile phone .. The whole government is going to be present in your mobile phone, that day is not far.\nBut for that we have to make ourselves aware, we have to develop the arrangements. e-governances easy governance, is economical governance .. It is financially favorable governance .. And to give us strength as much as we can, we have to emphasize it. In the same way, we have a problem, in government, there is so much activity to be done for the same work, so much time is wasted. Conversion is very simple through modern science. And just as you told in the presentation today that there are 10 works in 10 government positions today, all the certificates have to be given in ten places. Now all those troubles will go away. When the systems are set up, all your things will be made available to you from a digital number and the business will move forward. In the coming days .. Today we are discussing that children have to take such a burden and go to school. The weight of books is more than their weight in their box. The problem of these children is also in Digital India. All the syllabus can roam in a small equipment with them. That's why some people, when such a thing happens, they think that this is a big elite class work, big job is for people .. It is not real.\nWhen the satellites were released, some years ago, some people used to debate that poor country like India! These are being released for satellite! What is the use! But if the satellite today correctly predicts weather forecast then the poor farmer has a direct benefit. Whenever you spend, there is criticism, but it will fulfill the needs of human beings later. See all the plans that you have seen. Now look today, go to the bank, and so on. But those days are not far away that the bank is going to be a payday, the bank premises is going to be less. The whole banking business is going to run from your mobile phone.\nWhatever change we are making, we should make ourselves aware or not to make this change. If we look, then we need to carry forward these tasks at a fast pace since the 19th century. When the world saw industrial revolution, we went backward, why? Because we were slaves. We did not get the benefit of the Industrial Revolution. But today when IT revolution came, we are free, we are youthful nation and we have talent. As far as IT is concerned, the world believes in India's iron. We do not have to miss this opportunity. In the era of slavery we missed the opportunity, this opportunity is not lost in IT revolution. There is also a need to emphasize something else in front of it. We have a compulsion of Petroleum Import, there is a need for energy, it is necessary, we have to bring the source down. But it does not bother that Hindustan is the second largest import electronic goods. Is this country where there are so many IT professionals, where there is such a large number of industrialists? And there is no such big technology. Can we not make electronic goods in such a large quantity in our country that are qualitatively globally competitive, and made up of India so that India never had to import from the outside.\nThrough Digital India, we can move forward towards making electronic good in India. We want to invite the industry of the country. I am ready to give the government the help that young people need for start-up. And today in the direction of start-up in the world, the number of youth in India is very large. In the coming days, perhaps after the US, we will come on number two, for start-up. But it's going to increase further. I challenge the youth of the country even if IT professionals are ours, people of Indian origin are seen in a lot of quantity in IT companies in the world, but what is the reason that Google's innovation is not here in ours. What is the reason that innovation is out. Through Digital India, we are inviting young people of the country to innovations, that you should come, accept this challenge.\nCountry like India is the first requirement. Like Make in India, the same is important in design In India. Our product is ready according to the interest, nature, nature of the citizens of our country. In the language that he understands, the product is ready in that language. The age group which needs to be addressed is required according to the product. There is a market for 500 million people. Keeping this concept in mind, young people of our country using their talent, while keeping innovations, new power can fill new life inside Digital India and to strengthen it, Invite young people. Look at the world, I believe that it is time to give India a great responsibility. We can see that the bloodless war in the world .. and I am speaking with great responsibility, the clouds of bloodless war are cruising. When the clouds are cluttering in this bloodless war then can it be able to live the life of happiness and prosperity, can India lead it or not? To give the world protection from bloodless war to live a life of peace and happiness Can India's talent come in handy or can not come? The bloodless war I talk about is the issue - we want to emphasize on cyber security. And today when we are launching this Digital India, then it is our effort to make dreams come true, then I would definitely like to say ...\nI dream of a DIGITAL INDIA where:\nHigh-speed Digital Highwaysunite the Nation\nThere was a time for demand for highways. Now the highways are not going to run highways too should also need highways.\nI dream of a DIGITAL INDIA where: 1.2 billion Connected Indians drive Innovation\nI dream of a DIGITAL INDIA where: Knowledge is strength - and empowers the People\nI dream of a DIGITAL INDIA where: Access to Information knows no barriers\nI dream of a DIGITAL INDIA where: Government is Open - and Governance Transparent ... And when I say technology can help a lot in fighting the fight against corruption. All leakages can be stopped. We used the All Digital Platform, which was auctioned by coal. Many mines were auctioned, lakhs of crores of rupees were used, but it did not even get a single blame on the government. Why, because we used this digital platform, we fully emphasized on transparency. And so, to prevent corruption, information and communication technology can also be used as a huge instrument.\nI dream of a DIGITAL INDIA where: Technology ensures the Citizen-Government interface is Incorruptible\nI dream of a DIGITAL INDIA where: Government Services is easily and efficiently available on mobile devices\nI dream of a DIGITAL INDIA where: Government proactively engages with social media\nI dream of a DIGITAL INDIA where: Quality Education reaches the most inaccessible corners driven by Digital Learning\nI dream of a DIGITAL INDIA where: Quality Healthcare percolates up to the remotest regions powered by e-Healthcare\nI dream of a DIGITAL INDIA where: Farmers are empowered with real-time information to be connected with global markets\nI dream of a DIGITAL INDIA where: Mobile enabled Emergency Services ensure Personal Security\nI dream of a DIGITAL INDIA where: Cyber ​​Security is an integral part of our National Security\nI dream of a DIGITAL INDIA where: Mobile and e-Banking ensures financial inclusion\nI dream of a DIGITAL INDIA where: e-Commerce drives Entrepreneurship\nI dream of a DIGITAL INDIA where: The world looks to the next Big Idea\nI dream of a DIGITAL INDIA where: the Netizen is an Empowered Citizen\nThank you."