"\n1\nI salute all of you, I very much like giving a warm welcome to this holy land of Lord Birsa Munda. Our agriculture minister, Mr. Radha Mohan Singh, described how the land was started in the field of agricultural research, how it started on the soil of Bihar, and how it was left untouched by this work a hundred years ago in detail.\nI see, today it is not only Jharkhand, but a large number of people are also seen from South Bihar. Because the people of South Bihar have an equal understanding that the benefits of this research center will be available only to Jharkhand, People of south Bihar will also get the maximum benefit, they know them well.\nIndia is an agricultural country, we have been listening to this for centuries. But it is also a misfortune that the agriculture sector of the country has been abandoned on the luck of the farmers. The result of that is that the world which has progressed in the field of agriculture, India is still far behind. Regardless of the maintenance of the land, whether it is to provide good quality seeds, whether it is to provide water and electricity to the farmer, whether the farmer produces things, find the right market for it, get the right price, the price increase process With the help of agriculture, subsidiary industry, animal husbandry, pharmaceutical industry, work of honey. By taking these things together, a balanced, a comprehensive, integrated one-time, we do not plan, we will take the economic growth of our village. Can not change the forest, we can not make a difference in the lives of farmers.\nThat is why the present government sitting in Delhi ... is the conventional agriculture, which is moving forward by learning from our forefathers, our siblings. How he became a farmer, how he became an agricultural scientist and what is the yield per hectare today, is how it grows, it is a matter of concern. This is not the solution of all this, it is not so. No way can be searched for it, it is not so. It is necessary that through the policies of the government, through training, through the method of providing resources, agriculture can be made modern and scientific.\nThe population is increasing, the land is getting reduced. Today, fifty years ago, the family which had hundreds of bigha land ... families were expanding, son, son's sons, cousins, their son..but the pieces of land would have been there now the family had two beagha, five bighas of land Must have been. The land is divided into small pieces, the family is expanding. The population is increasing, the land is getting reduced. In such a situation, if we do not grow our productivity in the available land, we will not get more crops, neither will the country's stomach, nor will the farmer's pocket be filled.\nThat is why the development of agriculture should be such that the people of the country also filled the stomach and the farmers' pockets were filled and therefore the first requirement is to revive our traditional agriculture, to do research, to research. India is such a vast country, that working in a laboratory in one corner will not work. According to all the agro climatic zones, according to the air, there will be amendments according to the traditions according to the land. Then going to use those resources. If the experiment is successful in Kerala, the experiment will go to fit Jharkhand. Sometimes the farmers will accept it and if any experiment fails, then the farmer will not be able to hand them.\nThat is why the land in which he lives, the natural state that lives in, the tradition that he cultivates, in the same way if we make amends, then bring scientific knowledge, then the farmer will accept it in a natural way and the farmer will be able to accept it. There will also be. That is why we have students from far and remote areas, get modern education in the field of agriculture, they have the opportunity to research them, and in their own area, make new modifications in the direction of doing good to the farmers of that area, To implement, an important effort in that direction. Under which today, an institute is getting Jharkhand in the field of agricultural research. Its advantage is to get this entire area.\nOur country has seen the first agricultural revolution, but it has been many years. Now the demand of time is that the second agricultural revolution in the country should be delayed. Where is the possibility of this second agricultural revolution? I can say on the basis of the information that now if there is a possibility of second agricultural revolution in Hindustan, then it is the eastern region of eastern Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Bihar, Orissa, West Bengal, Assam and other parts of India; There is a possibility of agricultural revolution. That's why the government has focused its entire focus on the development of this area and the way we are initiating a research institute for the development of this area, in the same way, the farmer needs fertilizer and urea. In this area, fertilizer factories are closed in this area. Our government decided ... whether it is a factory of Gorakhpur, whether it is a factory of Sindri, whether it is a fact of planting factories in West Bengal and Assam, it is a matter of putting in Bihar, these factories will be installed at the cost of billions of rupees. Will be started so that the farmers here get fertilizer, urea, they get the food and the production that is nearby, the burden of transportation, also get freedom from them and eat it here. The factory start here youth employment too.\nThe government has taken an important initiative. Nowadays, if we are sick then the doctor says before giving the medicine, go to the pathology laboratory, conduct blood tests, urine test, conduct a blood test and then decide whether there is a disease and after that the medicine will be given. Nowadays, the doctor sends you a blood test instead of giving direct medicines inside the village. What is decreasing inside the body, its address is applied first, after which the medicine is given. As is the nature of our body, so is our nature of this earth mother too. Just as we are sick, our earth mother is also sick. As we worry about our body, it is important to worry about the health of Mother Earth as well. What is our mother earth sickness? What are the drawbacks? How have we misused our Mother Earth? How much have we sucked him? It is necessary to study..and therefore the government has decided to create a soil health card for every farm in the country. A card will be removed by testing the earth. Just like a person has a health card, the farmer's land mother will also have a health card. What are the drawbacks in your earth, what are the diseases, which crop is suitable for your crop, which is good to plant pesticide, which is bad to set, which fertilizer is OK, which is bad to add, it is a complete understanding of farmers If it is found earlier then the farmer can decide that I have this land, it will be born in the paddy, the pulses will be born and decide what will be born, he can decide. Once, if it sows the crop according to its land, then there is a lot of income, more crops are born. We are engaged in bringing these changes in the scientific way throughout the whole of India. And this work can gradually become the job of giving employment to young people.\nWherever the pathology laboratories are in India today, where does that government run? The government is too small. People run, people create their own pathology laboratory, they come, they are tested, they take their own expenses, they earn their bread, they also worry about the health of the people. Gradually, we want to prepare young people in the country to prepare a laboratory of preparing a soil health card. So that the young man can become his own business..Zemin, his job of testing soil and his employment started and the young man of the village started earning only in the village. Open the doors of his employment and get the right information to the farmer in respect of the land so that he can move in the right direction of production, we are working in that direction.\nBrothers and sisters, our agriculture is equally important with animal husbandry, the importance of fishery is equally important, poultry is of the same importance, working of honey is equally important. If our farming runs for 6 months - 8 months, then these things benefit in the farmer's economic condition during the rest of the period. Our milk is less in comparison to the animals we have today. Animals in the world are low, milk production is high. We have more cattle, milk production is less. This situation is about to turn us around. How much milk should be produced per animal ... so that animal husbandry which is a farmer, animal husbandry should never be costlier. As much as the cost of cattle rearing, income should be given to him more than his income. Therefore, we have decided to provide services in the field of dairy, Jharkhand. Dairy development in Jharkhand, gain of livestock farmers, farming as well as animal husbandry arrangements, we are making efforts in that direction.\nOnce I was traveling in Bihar, there people told me that in Bihar every year about 400 crores of fish eat by importing from other states. Now this 400 crore rupees goes elsewhere. If there is a right to the right of the potty industry, where the youth of the country gets employment, the people's needs will be fulfilled only if 400 crore rupees are left there. How many people will get Rosie bread from those 400 million rupees?\nSo we want to develop the systems. There are some areas in our country where farmers are engaged in the bee keeping and there are some farmers who produce lakhs of rupees from honey production. Do we prepare at least one district in every country ... in every state, prepare farmers for honey, prepare for honey, prepare for honey. And a district of every state..The farmers of the fields also work with their cultivation, animal husbandry as well as honey production. Honey is not bad either. Packed in bottle and kept. Runs for years Today there is a demand in the world. We want to take our farmer towards change in a modern way.\nToday the farmer has become aware, has raised towards Vermicompost. Can not we decide that we had hundred kilos of earthworm for the last time ... If we had hundred kilos of earthworms, this time if we did two hundred. You just have to dig a pit and put garbage in it. The rest do the work themselves. He also handles your land and nowadays the market of earthworms is becoming very big. Our land will also survive, consumption of urea will also survive. Our land is being ruined due to urea, it will also survive and through Vermi-compost we can increase production, it is the work to do in our home, we can do it. Therefore, we are going to take one step after one step towards bringing about change in our agricultural sector with an integrated approach.\nEven today in our country..While the Prime Minister of our country, Lal Bahadur Shastri, he once said - Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan The farmers of the country told to fill the stocks of food, then the farmer of this country has never looked back. He worked so hard, so much hard work, filled the stocks of food. Now there is no need to order food from abroad. But my farmers sisters, brothers, we filled up the stocks of food, but today the people of the country, especially the poor, have a great need of pulses in their food. Protein meets it, gets it from the pulse. Our production of pulses is very low, we have to bring it from abroad. I urge the farmers of the country that if you have five acres of land, then do the traditional work you do in four acres of land. You cultivate pulses in at least one acre of land. The pulses that come from outside the country should not be brought back, and the poor people from the poor who want pulses, they can provide us pulses. That is why the government has given a special package for the pulses which will produce lentils, moongs, grams etc., they will get an additional minimum support price so that the production of pulses in the country will be encouraged. And the need of the country to fulfill the farmers of our country.\nBy taking these things we have taken up another task. That is - Prime Minister Krishi Irrigation Scheme. Very important job. If our farmer gets water then he has the strength to produce gold from the soil. Today most of our agriculture is dependent on the sky, dependent on God. If the rain is cured, then the work goes on. If the rain is not correct then the matter becomes disturbed. He needs water If we can manage the delivery of water properly, there is not only one crop, it can give two crops, one can take three crops and in the rest of the time, it can earn a living by producing something or some other time. With the Prime Minister's Agricultural Irrigation Scheme, to bring water to the whole of India in the fields, this government is stepping in to carry out a huge earthquake and we want to complete that work in the coming years.\nHow many reservoirs have remained But those reservoirs do not have the means to take water to the fields. I am surprised ... the power plant may seem like but the wire which is not used to carry electricity, then what is the factory? If the canals become water, the water will be filled, but if there is no canal to bring that water, what will it do by looking at that water? Therefore, how are the use of drop water of reservoirs across the country, how our farmers benefit from it, we are working in that direction.\nCountries like India will also have to save water. Therefore our request is - per drop more crop. Every drop of water should produce a crop. One should use a drop. micro-irrigation का उपयोग करना चाहिए..टपक सिंचाई, sprinkler, जहां जहां किसानों ने इस आधुनिक technology से पानी का उपयोग किया है, मेहनत भी कम हुई है, खर्चा भी कम हुआ है, उत्पादन ज्यादा बढ़ा है, मुनाफा भी ज्यादा बढ़ा है।\nमैं किसानों से आग्रह करता हूं, देश भर के किसानों से आग्रह करता हूं कि आइए, ये हम flood irrigation..क्योंकि किसान का स्वभाव है, जब तक वो खेत में, लबालब पानी से भरा हुआ उसको खेत दिखता नहीं है, तब तक उसको लगता है कि पता नहीं फसल होगी कि नहीं होगी। ये सोच गलत है। फसल को इतने पानी की ज़रूरत नहीं होती है। पानी का प्रभाव भी फसल को नुकसान करता है, पानी का अभाव भी फसल को नुकसान करता है। अगर सही मात्रा में पानी पहुंचे तो उससे सर्वाधिक लाभ होता है। इसलिए micro-irrigation के द्वारा, टपक सिंचाई के द्वारा फसल का लाभ हम कैसे उठाएं, पानी पहुंचा पहुंचा कर कैसे लाभ उठाएं..।\nआपने देखा होगा कि अगर कोई बच्चा घर में बीमार रहता है, और आपने अगर सोचा हो कि एक बाल्टी भर दूध ले लें, दूध के अंदर केसर, पिस्ता, बादाम डाल दें और उस बाल्टी भर दूध से रोज़ बच्चे को नहलाना शुरू कर दें। क्योंकि बच्चे की तबियत ठीक नहीं रहती, वजन नहीं बढ़ता है,ढीला ढाला रहता है और पूरे दिन पड़ा रहता है, बच्चे की तरह वो हंसता, खेलता, दौड़ता नहीं है तो एक बाल्टी भर दूध..बादाम हो, पिस्ता हो, केसर हो, उससे उसको नहलाएं, आप मुझे बताएं कि बच्चे को इतने बढि़या दूध से नहलाने से उसकी तबियत ठीक होगी क्या, उसका वजन बढ़ेगा क्या? उसकी सेहत में सुधार होगा क्या? नहीं होगा। लेकिन अगर समझदार मां एक एक चम्मच से एक एक बूंद दूध पिलाती है, शाम तक चाहे 100 ग्राम दूध पिला दे, बच्चे के स्वास्थ्य में सुधार नज़र आना शुरू हो जाता है। फसल का भी ऐसा ही है, जैसे बच्चे को एक एक चम्मच दूध से बदलाव आता है, फसल को भी, एक एक बूंद पानी अगर उसके मूंह में जाता है तो उसको सचमुच में विकास करने का अवसर मिलता है। जिस प्रकार से हम बच्चे का लालन पालन करते हैं, उसी प्रकार हम फसल का भी लालन पालन कर सकते हैं। इसलिए मैं सभी किसान भाईयों को micro irrigation के लिए, टपक सिंचाई के लिए फ़वारे वाली सिंचाई के लिए आग्रह करता हूं। पानी बचाएंगे, पैसा भी बचेगा और फसल ज्यादा पैदा होगी, इसकी मैं आपको गारंटी देने आया हूं।\nसरकार ने एक open university.. किसानों को रोज़मर्रा जानकारियां देने के लिए, रोज़मर्रा प्रशिक्षण करने के लिए, सरकार ने किसान चैनल चालू किया हैं। हमारे देश में कार्टून फिल्मों की चैनल होती है, स्पोर्ट्स की, समाचारों की चैनल होती है, मनोरंजन के लिए चैनल होती है, लेकिन किसानों के लिए चैनल नहीं थी। भारत सरकार ने पिछले महीने सिर्फ और सिर्फ किसानों की आवश्यकताओं के लिए एक किसान चैनल चालू किया। आपने भी अब देखना शुरू किया होगा, उसमें सारी जानकारियां बताई जाती हैं। किसान के सवालों के जवाब दिए जाते हैं, देशभर में कृषि क्षेत्र में क्या क्या प्रगति हुई, उसकी जानकारी दी जाती है। मैं चाहता हूं ये किसान चैनल हमारे देश के किसानों के लिए एक open university के रूप में काम करे। घर घर आ करके हर किसान को वो गाइड करे। किसान और किसान चैनल, कृषि में आधुनिकता कैसे आए कृषि में वैज्ञानिकता कैसे आए, कृषि में बदलाव कैसे आए, उस दिशा में काम करे।\nआज जो झारखंड की इस धरती में जो प्रयास आरंभ हुआ है, वो उत्तम स्तर कक्षा के कृषि वैज्ञानिकों को तैयार करेगा, कृषि क्षेत्र के निष्णातों को तैयार करेगा और हमारी कृषि को आधुनिक बनाने की दिशा में झारखंड की धरती पर से एक नया युग प्रारंभ होगा, इसी एक विश्वास के साथ मैं आप सबको, खास करके मेरे किसान भाइयों को हृदय से बहुत बहुत शुभकामनाएं देता हूं। झारखंड को भी बहुत ही जल्द, ये संस्थान निर्माण हो जाए, बहुत तेजी से यहां के विद्यार्थियों को लाभ मिले, उस दिशा में आगे बढ़ें, इन्हीं शुभकामनाओं के साथ आप सबको बहुत बहुत धन्यवाद। जय जवान, जय किसान।"