"Share\n\nRays of the Sun were welcomed by Yoga all over the world on #YogaDay 21st June: PM\nThe world is keen to know more about India, our values, our traditions, our culture: PM\nLet us gift our sisters a social security scheme, says PM\nPM Modi encourages Beti Bachao Beti Padhao, urges people to share photos with #SelfieWithDaughter\nNamaskar, My Dear Countrymen!\nLast time in Mann Ki Baat I had requested to send me memorable pictures if you go out on a vacation anywhere in India and if you find them happen, kindly 'Incredible India' hashtag When Isaid that, I had never imagined that Lakhs of people have posted photos on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. I can say that India is full of diversities and I was able to witness so many magnificent scenes in those pictures; be it of architecture, art, nature, waterfalls, mountains, rivers or seas Government of India had never thought that in terms of tourism would you all be into such a massive way. I liked some pictures so much that I re-tweeted them. And as I understand, if some one did not have the picture of Belum caves in Andhra Pradesh many people had never come to know that something like that exists in our country Madhya Pradesh's Orcha Fort is another example of that. We assume to be a state with scarcity of water, but when someone sends a photo of Menal waterfall, it is a matter of great surprise. Really, a great work has been done. We will promote and also continue doing such work and the whole world will watch it, whole nation will watch it and our new generation will also watch it.\nMy beloved countrymen, though you have elected me as the Prime Minister of the country but at times, the human is in all posts and the prestige associated with it and submerges itself within it. I can say that 21st June, The International Yoga Day is the same way At that time, when I proposed the International Yoga Day, it was just an idea. But the scene that was witnessed on 21st June was such that wherever the sun dawned, where its radius reached, there was no landmass, where it was used by yogi We can say with conviction that the sun never sets in the world.\nThe way Yoga was received and welcomed with open arms around the world, there was no Indian who would not be proud of it. I too got delighted And when the people of France chose River Seine and Eiffel Tower in which they take pride to do Yoga, they gave a equal status to it as River Siene and Eifel Tower. In New York people did yoga at Times Square. If we think about Sydney, Australia then the picture of Opera House comes in our mind. The citizens of Australia gave equal respect to yoga and did yoga at the Opera House. Whether it is North America, Silicon Valley or Milan's Duomo cathedral is a great place for us. On 21st June when I saw Mr. Ban Ki-moon, UN Secretary General doing yoga at UN headquarters, I was really happy Similarly, UN Peace Keeping Force performed a spectacular display of Yoga. In India, our soldiers too were doing yoga in Siachen on white sheet of snow and sea too, wherever our naval ships were posted, Indian Navy by the Yoga program carried out by the program. Delhi made it to the Guinness Book of World Records Rajpath turned the Yogpath that day. I am a thankful to India and the rest of the world and can say that the International Yoga Day was not for name. It seems that as the world, there was a new inquisitiveness, new joy, new hope and new connection.\nFew days back, when I tweeted a photo of a Vietnamese child doing yoga, it was such a sweet photo that it got a lot of attention from the whole world. Everybody, be it men-women, old-young, village-city, developed or developing countries Yoga in true terms; I do not know how the intellectual class, elites of the world will analyze this event. But I can feel and every Indian can experience that the whole world is very curious to know more about India. Curiosity towards India has increased The world wants to know about the values, the rituals and the heritage of India It is our responsibility that we can not share any kind of legacy and introduce ourselves to the world. We can only do this when we ourselves are proud of our traditions.\nAt times, we are so familiar with our values ​​that we do not feel there is nothing new in them but we ourselves do not know that our family values ​​are a whole lot in the world. Why do not we familiarize with the outside world? The world will be very surprised to know about them. I am sure, they will be intrigued. There are many things that our forefathers have given us to which are the best and the whole world too The success of International Yoga Day has brought a new responsibility along with it. It is our responsibility. It is our responsibility that we can see the whole tradition of Yoga on one platform from the Universe.\nI request the youngsters, especially the IT professionals, that all of you are going to create an online Yoga Activity program. We will come to know about all the Yoga organizations, Yoga teachers and all the necessary information about Yoga from the online program. One database must be ready and I believe you can do it. One must start from somewhere and it will surely turn out to be a great power. I have seen and learned from the perspective of recent occurrences that a government that works and the government that is action-oriented can bring in results if the targets are set. You should not forget that\nCan you imagine that there is a department under Government named Ayush Nobody has paid attention towards this department. The only mention was in Ayush in some corner of the newspaper being a small department once in 2 to 5 years. But it led the International Yoga Day It was this small department that organized this event in the whole world. Therefore, this is an example that if there is a target then even a small department\nIn the last few days, Yemen to Afghanistan In some hours, we reached Nepal and helped people over there. When people wanted to open a bank account under the government's new scheme, Jan Dhan Yojana, how the people working in bank helped them do so and connected millions of Indians to the bank.\nOn 15th August last year, when I visited the red fort for toilets in schools, I had said that by next 15th August The work which could not be completed in 60 years. The promise was really daring Almost four and half lakh toilets were to be built but I can say it with satisfaction that 15th August is still far off, the work of building toilets by the people is on the verge of completion.\nThis means that the government, people and government workers, all want to work If we pledge to work in an unselfish way \"Welfare for All, Happiness for All\" then the government will also work efficiently. The people who are a part of the government will also work well\nI have experienced this. This is the true strength that drives a nation forward. Last month, we had launched three Insurance schemes. I had started from Kolkata and it has received such a commendable response in such a short span of time. There have been very few steps which have taken the perspective of social security but we are taking a big leap. In such a short time, more than 10 crore people have become a part of these schemes. I have a thought Rakshabandhan comes in the month of August. Can not we start a massive movement before this festival and make women, be it our mother or sister, a part of this, thereby giving benefit to them under this Insurance program. Be it a sister who is a domestic help in your home or your own sister? 12 or Rs. 330 plans for Rakshabandhan for his whole life. This can be a great gift for a big gift Why can not we set the target of Rakshabandhan as a target and in a number of 2 crore, 5 crore, 7 crore and 10 crore ... try to reach the sisters so that they can reap the benefit of this scheme. Let's come together and try to complete the pledge.\nWhenever I hold a man's session, many people send me suggestions. This time many people have suggested that I say something about the monsoons Yogesh Dandekar from Nagpur, Harshvardhan ji from Mysore, Praveen Nadkarni, Divyanshu Gupta has asked me to say something about the monsoon in this session of Mann Ki Baat. They have sent in some really good suggestions And this is a season of happiness And every one of us, whatever the age is ... Surely the first showers of the monsoon. I am sure, you can also enjoy the rains with bhajiyas, pakoras, corn and a hot cup of tea. Just as the rays of the sun give us life, as well as rain. Every drop of water is precious. As a responsible citizen and as a member of the society, we will cultivate the habit of conserving every drop of water. It should be our pledge that water from the villages in the villages and water for the cities are available for them. If the rain water does not flow away, it goes into the earth, then the aquifers get recharged and the year long water woes get resolved. Rain water harvesting is not a new concept. It is being practiced over the centuries Be it check dams, watershed development, small lakes or small ponds in fields, we need to save the precious waters everywhere. I always tell people, that if you go to Porbander, the birth place of Mahatma Gandhi, you will be able to see a two hundred year old underground water tank which has got direct recharged with the rain water. You can still see it. If you ever go there, do visit the place And you will find that even after two hundred years it is still functional, brimming with water and the water does not even stagnate. Porbander is a coastal city, so drinkable water was collected during the rainy season. Even in those times We can also do the same This should in fact be a mass movement Every and every village should have the facilities for rain water harvesting.\nSimilarly, we find greenery so appealing to our eyes. We all like greener surroundings Gardens and trees bring in an element of freshness in our lives. This monsoon season, there should be mass plant sowing campaigns conducted by youth and social organizations. And I can take a leaf from my personal experience and offer you a suggestion. This is an intensely rural technology Whenever you are a plant, place an earthen pot near it. You just need to fill it once or twice in a month. You will see how fast the plant grows in a lush green tree. I have even been telling the barricades on the trees These will be your biggest asset in the long run.\nIt is true that the rains are pleasant and bring in a lot of fun at the same time. It is also true that rains also bring many diseases. Doctors get to see so many patients that they rarely get the time to breathe. We all know that rains cause many water borne diseases Increased moisture in the environment leads to bacterial growth and so Cleanliness is very important in monsoons It is often used Most of the people boil and drink water during this season. It has its own benefits And this is true that the more care we take, the healthier we will be We need monsoons and we need water\nDear citizens, we have recently launched three schemes for the people in the cities. We have around 500 small cities Our policy is 'Waste to Wealth'. We can earn from waste too. Garbage can be recycled to make fertilizers, bricks and even electricity. Contaminated water can be recycled to make it and water in irrigation. We have to take this movement forward.\nIn the Amrut scheme, we have launched a massive campaign and taken initiative in our cities. We should become a country which is able to match the living standards of the world. We should have smart cities, comparable to world standards And yet at the same time, the poorest of poor person should have an accommodation of his own and that too full with water, electricity, sanitation and access to a school. In 2022 when India celebrates its 75 years of Independence, we wish that every Indian has a house of his own. Keeping all in this mind, we have launched three major schemes. I am positive that these schemes will bring about a qualitative difference in the lives of the urban people.\nI am the owner of the social media. I keep getting many new suggestions and new ideas and also good and bad information about our government. And sometimes it is so happens that a small comment from a person in some remote village in India is just touching our hearts. You are aware that the government has launched \"Beti Bachao Beti Padhao\" program. But you can not imagine the force that is to lent to the program when a village or a society adopts it. A few days back, Sarpanch in a small remote village of Haryana, Sri Sunil Jaglan ji launched 'Selfie with Daughter' campaign. Such an environment was created that every father wished to click on a selfie with his daughter and post it on the social media.\nI like this idea, and that too for a special reason In Haryana, the number of girls in comparison is boys. Around another 100 districts in the country have had a similar dismal situation of skewed sex ratio. But it is the worst in Haryana. In that very same Haryana, if a Sarpanch of a small indistinct village lends this meaning to the \"Beti Bachao Beti Padhao\" program, then I definitely get overwhelmed. It makes me so happy and it gives me a new hope and I do express my happiness. I request you to take a selfie with your daughter and post it on #selfie with daughter. And do not forget to post a tagline about \"Beti Bachao Beti Padhao\" with it, whatever is the language it can be in Hindi, English, your mother tongue or your native language. And I promise to re-tweet the most inspirational tagline with you and your daughter's selfie. We can turn \"Beti Bachao Beti Padhao\" into a mass movement. I urge you to take forward the program launch by Sri Sunil in Bibipur village of Haryana. I request you to post on #selfie with daughter Lets us all the joy and prestige of our daughters and see how happy this whole experience of \"Beti Bachao Beti Padhao\" becomes. Let us all rid ourselves of this bad name\nSo the monsoon season May be all you enjoy the rain Make our country clean and green And remember, the International Yoga Day was not a single day initiative. Continue practicing Yoga, then see what difference it makes you and your life. And I say this from my experience Please take this forward. Make Yoga a part of your life And that initiative related Incredible India, do keep posting a picture of which part of the country you go to. The country and the world will awaken to our diversity I felt that the handicrafts did not receive due attention Do make it a point to post the handicrafts There are so many things that people will be able to make. Do you keep posting their pictures? We have been able to expand our reach to the world. We have a easy medium on our disposal and so we will all do it.\nMy dear countrymen, that is all for today I will meet again in the next edition of Mann Ki Baat Many people expect me to announce some huge plans during this program. But I'm working on them This is my time This gives me immense pleasure\nThank You Very Much!"