"Share\n\nEvery person It is not just about a roof \u0026 4 walls, it is beyond that: PM\nThe decision to make cities will not be taken by the government but by the people of the city, the local administration: PM\nThis government is committed to protecting the consumers at all times: PM\nToday, under this one roof urban India has assembled. Urban India In a way, people are sitting in this science building, whose responsibility is the responsibility of the convenience of about 40 percent of the citizens in the country. About 40% of the country's population is close to 40%, which either lives in cities or lives its lives based on cities. How to get them the quality of life, what is the basic need of a normal human being, and when the whole world's attention is towards India, then we should be able to equate the heights that the world has reached and move it forward. How to initiate in the direction, how to get started and move in which direction.\nConsidering the fulfillment of these two goals, on one hand, the family who lived in the slum-house, on one hand, came to the city in search of roti-roti, forced civilian and changing the other side of the global environment. In the situation, we have to go through. We can not sit down because of disappointment that the world has gone a long way, we can not know whether it can be or not. We can not sit down by sadness and say that it is okay that they have come for their livelihood, they will live their lives. Do not live! We can not leave the poor of our country on their fortune. It is our responsibility, we have responsibility, and if we plan ahead to move those responsible, then circumstances can be changed, the situation can be improved and the goal can be achieved.\nKeeping these things in mind, you will be discussing with everyone in detail for two days to bring about change in this urban life. There are also elected representatives of the people, and there are government officials, whether it is the municipality, or the Maha-Municipality that is responsible for the responsibility of urban areas. We are all gathered today to resolve and move ahead together.\nIn the history of India, June 25-26 can not be forgotten. 40 years ago, for the sake of power, the country was made into a jail by obstructing the emergency. Under the leadership of Jai Prakash Jai Narayan, under the leadership of Jai Prakash Jai Narayan, in the country, the dream of complete revolution was locked in jail; democracy lovers were locked up in jail; These days were 40 years ago! Today, on 25th June and on 26th June we want to cherish those dreams that wherever every citizen flourishes, progresses, and offers opportunities for this democratic system, he has the opportunity to get it. In that direction, we are getting ready to work.\nToday, I am happy that only yesterday we have decided to make a national memorial in the memory of Loknayak Jai Prakash Narayan Ji in the Cabinet. For those democracy-loving citizens, it will always be a guide-maker, and we want to continue our efforts in the direction of all the plans for development, with the support of public-general, how to move forward with the participation of people-general. There are about 500 cities in our country. Most of the villages are going to earn livelihood and they are going away. Our urbanization is getting very fast. It would have been good 25-30 years ago, we would have considered urbanization as a chance, urbanization was considered an opportunity. In a small place thickly populated people are one way of driving source of the country's economy. We would have known that power and we would have known her role in our development journey in the form of our urban growth engine and would have given strength to it in this way, we too could today have been able to match those prosperous and progressive cities of the world. But .. come late to repair. Do not talk about what has not happened before, if you keep crying and crying. Old experiences are very bad, I know and do not even need to sit frustrated on the basis of that. If with the intention of achieving the goal with clear vision and keeping the citizen at the center, if we do the plans, then I do not believe there can be any obstruction.\nHere in two days we will be presented directly to the works of the best practices of many cities. If Hyderabad can make an unprecedented growth in the taxation system, it can also improve the collection in place of new taxes of any kind, and then the city can also do it. If Karnataka can go ahead with solid waste management in relation to the process of compost then more cities can grow. It is not that such things are going to be discussed here that we have never even heard of it, no! We want to do the same things that this country can do and somebody has shown it. Now we have to go ahead with all of them, you can see the change of the country. Now the state like Chhattisgarh, the state facing the problems due to Maoism, a very large area which protects the forests, has created a huge movement against open defecation and is trying to make Chhattisgarh free from open defecation. Will do it If you take a goal and if the leadership walks, then the conditions can be changed. A lot is happening. Based on all the experiences under this plan ... that is, there are no air talks, one step on how to move ahead and how to move forward, how to do something good before, happens at one place, how to do it everywhere Yes. Some people try to create a sense that why do not we all meet together. India is rapidly becoming urbanize, in a way, look at a small country of Europe, in India, a new country is born every year, in cities, what is the biggest challenge before us! To overcome that challenge, we have to go ahead with certain plans. If there are some legal obstacles, then it will have to find ways, financial arrangements will also be arranged. In this regard, the local government, state government, central government will all have to make a model so that we do not get stuck due to money.\nToday, how we strongly encourage the model of PPP model public partnership has been almost approved. How do we get foreign direct investment for maximum urban infrastructure? How we can get financial resources from anywhere in the world, but how do we change these conditions at the scheduled time.\nAny person, a poor man, has a dream of a poor person, he has his own home, and once if he becomes his own house, then he will start to dream again. When there is a house, then only four walls do not get roof, when the poor gets home, gradually his intentions change. When you get home, you feel that it will be good if you take one-fourth of the distance. Then it feels good to bring the man two chairs. Again does not mean that you do not have a TV, it will be good if you do not get the TV, then it seems to do all this. If you work harder then it will be good. Then it seems that he was spending a lot of money. Now he will save a little money, I will bring it next month. Changes in life begin. And the same, self-motivation comes from these reasons. Our endeavor is to give only a house, that is, a family which is homeless, become a householder not only, but to give him the status of living, to fill his life in his heart, to see life enjoying his life. And the dream to give to future generations is to be fulfilled, such an environment is intended. In the cities, more than two crore households have to build houses for them. Now our country is such that if it does not happen then the answer will be sought from me. No one will ask them why they are 200 million homeless. Nobody will ask, what is the country's nature, what will they do? We have to live with that. But someone will say that due to this fear we will stop working if the work of the country is not good. And so our responsibility is to make our poor families home.\n75 years of Independence in year 2022 We are thrilled to take the name of those freedom fighters. If you remember Bhagat Singh, Sukhdev, Rajguru, then what kind of sacrifice was! If Gandhi Sardar sees his legacy, then it seems as if he was suffering. Did not even dream that they dreamed of dreams that every family in India has their own house? I believe that when 75 years of independence are celebrating then there should be a voice within us that there should not be any poor in our country, that we will change that which has to be forced to live on the sidewalk or on the slum. It is our responsibility and once you take out this mood, you will find the way. How are the cities being developed today? If you go to any city and ask very few cities, you will find that there will be a blueprint for the city where after five years it will be on paper. What will be the city after ten years, its blueprint will not be found on paper. Those who are the private property developers, they know that the city will increase, grow in this direction, then they will take the land there, put the plans. The house will stand up but life does not reach the living arrangement. No road is built, neither electricity nor any drainage is arranged. People come, take money and also take houses. Why is not the rest arrangement? Because the city's leadership did not make the city, some property dealer has increased the city. This is what mismatch is to change that mismatch. How will the city grow, when will it go, which way will go forward, in the west, it will grow further in the East, what will be the place for the smallest person in the society, this plan, unless the city's leadership does not take long with the vision This situation will remain.\nWe want this one change through this AMRUT plan. The city began to think itself, the city started making plans, and decides where to go, to decide the city. Depending on the need, they can move, grow, and after the development of the system, the involvement of the record comes, the encroachment comes, the road is not there, the problem of traffic comes. There is no water, no problem, we are facing all the problems, and you will find it around every city that someone has made it and after that the city has to be adopted and it is very difficult. Why should not we plan it?\nWhen we came up with a talk of clean India for the development of cities in our country, I believe that people are two steps ahead of the government, in the work of clean India, the government looks less, people are more visible. I am particularly grateful to the media. I am looking, otherwise I remember that when on August 15, when I spoke about clean India, I was scared. These days my hair will snatch. There is garbage here, there is garbage, but today I salute those who did not do this, they took up the task of training the citizens and people of all the media are doing it. Are doing their own way, people are explaining why, why waste is here Why do not you throw it here\nI think when history will be written, the leadership of the Media's Clean India campaign which is doing the media today, will cause a change in the country. I, I see. It can be changed and today we have Solid waste management, waste water treatment. Our development can not be such that it will create a conflict between the city and the village. Our development should be such that cities and villages should be complementary to each other. If the city needs water, the villagers do not get water or get water, then the city will have to give water and there is such a thing of drinking water, where there is a subject of humanity, no one can say, No, why do not we waste water treatment and those villages should be returned to the fields then the farmers will not be disturbed even the village will not be disturbed and the city needs drinking water. Will be. Why do not we worry about this, we are behind making compost by making solid waste management. Why do not work towards making organic fertilizers Give the same fertilizer to the nearby villages. We have seen that the big cities, which are the villages of 30-40 kilometers around the big city, they mostly cultivate vegetables, mostly. Because they get the market early in the morning, they run on a daily basis in the city market. If we give organic fertilizers, compost fertilizers, which we make from the garbage of the cities, if we give it in the village, then the vegetable will get organic vegetable. If our input cost is less then the vegetable will also be cheaper. The vegetable will come cheap if the poor man also consume 100 grams of vegetable, then two hundred grams will be eaten and the vegetable will eat more then the problem of Nutrition will be solved. Ultimately, the burden of the budget will decrease, the facilities will increase. But if we work through this thinking, then this work can increase and therefore our cities have a model of development and hence, in the AMRUT scheme, it has been emphasized that how we do these things in the way of the plan, Poor people get home, people get normal facilities to live life\nThe smart city concept is the smart city that will become the first time a smart city scheme is in such a way that the Government of India will not decide the cities. The state government will not make the cities smart. The decision to make cities smart is that the city's leadership, the city's citizen, they will decide the city's municipality. The voice should not be imposed, the voice should rise from the bottom and therefore, for the first time in India, the decision to make a smart city based on the challenge route. Many countries of the world have used this. कुछ पैरामीटर तय किये गए हैं और जो शहर इस पैरामीटर को पूर्ति करेगा वो entry पाएगा इस स्पर्धा में। फिर उसकी दूसरी exam देनी पड़ेगी फिर उसको पार करेगा तो select होगा, जब select होगा तो फिर भारत सरकार, राज्‍य सरकार मिल करके उस शहर की ताकत को जोड़ करके उसको स्‍मार्ट सिटी बनाने की दिशा में आगे बढ़ेगी। अगर ये योजना ऊपर से आएगी तो क्‍या होगा? ये काम क्‍यों नहीं हुआ है, वो दिल्‍ली वालों ने नहीं किया है, ये काम क्‍यों नहीं किया वो हमारे राज्‍य सरकार वाले नहीं करते, नहीं ! ये नीचे से होना है और कहीं पर कोई कठिनाई न आए उस दिशा में आगे बढ़ना है।\nमैं समझता हूं यहां पर आये हुए सभी महानुभवों के लिए ये चुनौती है उस चुनौती को स्‍वीकार कीजिए और जो पैरामीटर तय हो उस स्पर्धा में आइये जीत करके आगे निकलिए और एक बार जब.. जीवन में स्‍पर्धा हर जगह पर होती है। आप मेयर भी बनते हैं तो स्‍पर्धा से ही तो बनते हैं, किसी ने ऊपर से तो नहीं बैठा दिया आपको। आप कहीं नौकरी लेने जाते हैं तो वहां भी तो competition होती हैं आप competition को पार करते हैं तो select होते हैं तो हमारे शहरी विकास में भी competition आवश्‍यक है। उस competition को ला करके स्‍मार्ट सिटी बनाने का प्रयास है। कभी-कभी कुछ लोग माथापच्‍ची इसी में खपा रहे हैं कि स्‍मार्ट सिटी चीज है क्‍या? बहुत.. बहुत ज्‍यादा दिमाग खपाने की जरूरत नहीं है। हम.. मान लीजिए किसी रेलवे स्‍टेशन पे गये, और जो पूछताछ वाला व्‍यक्ति वहां बैठा है उसको दो सवाल पूछने हैं और उसने हमको चार-पांच सवालों के जवाब दे दिए जो कि हम पहले उसको पूछने के लिए सोचकर गए थे लेकिन वो समझ जाएगा कि उनको ये पूछना है, वो जवाब दे तो हम कहें यार ये बड़ा स्‍मार्ट आदमी है। मेरी आवश्‍यकता से भी वो एक कदम आगे है, मेरे हिसाब से ही यही स्‍मार्ट सिटी है कि जो नागरिकों की आवश्‍यकता है उससे दो कदम हम आगे चललें, उसकी जो आवश्‍यकता है, आप मांगोगे हाजिर है, आप चाहोगे, हम सोच रहे हैं, आपका सुझाव है हां हमारी योजना बन रही है- दो कदम आगे है। आप देखिए देखते-देखते smart city बन जाएगी। technology है environment friendly development है। हमने प्रकृति के साथ जीना है energy saving यह हमारी स्‍वाभाविक व्‍यवस्‍था है walk to work ये concept लाना पड़ेगा वरना एक जगह पर रहता है और रोज डेढ़ घंटा वो travelling करता है फिर नौकरी पर जाता है तो उसकी maximum energy travelling में जाती है बची-खुची का में लगती है, तो वो काम कैसा होगा। अगर उसकी energy saving होती है। walk to work का concept develop धीरे-धीरे हमारे यहां होता है और एक composite व्‍यवस्‍था विकसित होती है कि जहां सबकुछ available हो साइकिल पर भी जाए तो अपना काम हो जाए। हमने इस प्रकार के मॉडल को develop करना ही होगा और जब ये develop करेंगे तो अपने आप शहर के भीतर कई छोटे-छोटे शहर बन जाते हैं। वो एक प्रकार से पूर्ण शहर बन जाते है। हम उस विचार को ले करके कैसे आगे बढ़ें तो smart city के concept को हमने आगे बढ़ाना है। चाहे housing for all की बात हो, चाहे हमारे 500 नगरों को प्राणवान बनाना है, अमृतमय बनाना है चाहे दुनिया की बराबरी करने वाले हमारे smart city की दिशा में कदम उठाना है। एक composite योजना के साथ urban India का हमारा विज़न क्‍या है, उसको ले करके हम आएं और ये योजना सरकार में बैठ करके कागज पर बनाई हुई योजनाएं नहीं हैं। शायद हिंदुस्‍तान में इतनी बड़ी मात्रा में consultation पहले कभी नहीं हुआ होगा, जितना consultation इस योजना को चरितार्थ करने के लिए लगाया गया है। सभी प्रकार के stake holders को इसमें जोड़ा गया है। उनसे पूछा गया, उनसे जानकारी ली गई है। उनकी समस्‍याओं को समझा गया है और उसको चरितार्थ करने का प्रयास किया है। financial world को भी, उनको भी विश्‍वास में लिया, बताइए कैसे होगा। real estate developers है उनको भी पूछा गया कि बताइए, भई कैसे आगे बढ़ सकते है जो कानूनविद हैं.. कि जिसके कारण कानूनी समस्‍याएं न आएं, उनसे पूछा गया। दुनिया में जो अच्‍छा हुआ है जिन्‍होंने अच्‍छा किया है उनको भी साथ जोड़ा गया है। इस क्षेत्र में जिन-जिन की पहचान है दुनिया में उन सबकी सलाह ली गई है और इन सबसे विचार-विमर्श करके black and white में चीजों को प्रस्‍तुत करने का प्रयास किया है। एक बार ये चीजें तैयार हुई हैं, अब आगे बढ़ने में देर नहीं।\nये सरकार consumer की सुरक्षा इस पर सजग है। Parliament में एक बिल already हमारा गया हुआ है, इस अवसर पर चर्चा होगी हमारी। वरना हमारे देश में चाहे अनचाहे ये जो builder lobby है उनकी छवि काफी गिरी हुई है और गरीब आदमी अपनी जिंदगी का पूरा पैसा उसमें लगाता है यानी उसके जीवन की वो एक ही घटना होती है और फिर जब वो लुट जाता है तो उसका तो सब लुट जाता है। ये छोटे-छोटे गरीब consumer को protect करने के लिए संसद में कानून लाया गया है ये आने वाले सत्र में पारित होगा तो हम विकास चाहते हैं, घर को जोड़ना भी चाहते है लेकिन साथ-साथ हम सामान्‍य नागरिकों की आवश्‍यकताओं की पूर्ति को ध्यान देना चाहते हैं।\nमुझे विश्‍वास है कि आज, 25 जून, ये शहरी भारत, विज्ञान भवन में एकत्र हो करके आधुनिक भारत के निर्माण के लिए वैज्ञानिक तौर-तरीके से आगे बढ़ने का संकल्‍प ले करके आगे बढ़ेगा। नगर-पालिका, महानगर पालिका का जो नेतृत्‍व आया है मैं उनसे गुजारिश करना चाहता हूं यहां सब राजनीतिक दल के लोग होंगे, यहां सभी राजनीतिक पृष्‍ठभूमि के लोग होंगे लेकिन एक बात निश्चित है हम जब इतिहास पढ़ते हैं तो उन बातों को गौर करते हैं कि फलाना राजा था 5 साल ही उसको कार्यकाल मिला था लेकिन उसने अपने राज्‍यकाल में ये दो चीजें अच्‍छी करके गया था | 200 साल के बाद भी लोग उसको याद करते हैं 100 साल के बाद भी अच्‍छा उनके कार्यकाल में ये काम हुआ था, उनके कार्यकाल में उनके कार्यकाल में ये तालाब बना और शहर की पानी की समस्‍या हल हुई थी। उनके कार्यकाल में डेढ़ सौ साल पहले स्‍कूल बना था, स्‍कूल में से इतने बड़े-बड़े लोग तैयार हुए। जिसको शासन का अवसर मिलता है उनकी पहचान पचासों साल के बाद भी.. कौन सा अच्‍छा काम करके गये उससे तो नापी जाती हैं| मैं उन नगर-पालिकाओं के अध्‍यक्षों से कहना चाहता हूं। मैं उन महा नगर-पालिकाओं के अध्‍यक्ष से कहना चाहता हूं कल्‍पना कीजिए कि आप 80 साल के उम्र के होंगे आपका पोता उंगली ले पकड़ कर आपके साथ चलता हो तो आपके दिल में इच्‍छा क्‍या होगी। जरा कल्‍पना कीजिए मैं दावे से कहता हूं कि आपके दिल में इच्‍छा ये होगी कि जो छोटा पोता जो ज्‍यादा कुछ समझता नहीं उंगली पकड़कर वहां ले जाएंगे और कहेंगे देखिए ये भवन हैं न मैं जब अध्‍यक्ष था न तो मैंने बनाया था। ये जो गांव में तालाब है न, मैं जब अध्‍यक्ष था न मैंने बनाया था। हर किसी की ख्‍वाहिश होनी चाहिए कि अपने कार्यकाल में अपने शहर को कुछ अच्‍छा नजराना दे करके जाए। आपकी जीवन की सफलता उसमें है। आपकी जीवन की सफलता उस बात में नहीं है कि आपने कितने लोगों को पराजित किया कितनी बार चुनाव जीतकर आये। कितनी बार गठजोड़ करके सत्‍ता को हासिल किया। ये सफलता का मानदंड नहीं होता है। सफलता का मानदंड ये होता है कि जिस जनता जनता जनार्दन की आपको अवसर दिया है उनके लिए क्‍या करके गये, अगर ये मन में संकल्‍प ले करके जाते हैं ये इरादा ले करके जाते हैं कि मुझे पांच साल का कार्यकाल मिला है मुझे तीन साल का कार्यकाल मिला है जनता जनार्दन ने मुझे अवसर दिया है। मैं मेरे नागरिकों के लिए ये करके जाऊंगा और उसका जो संतोष मिलेगा ना अद्भुत संतोष होगा। अद्भुत संतोष होगा। जीवन भर जीने के लिए वो आपके लिए एक बहुत बड़ा अवसर बना हुआ होता है। अपने पोते के पोते भी अगर आपके आंखों के सामने हैं तो आपका मन करेगा कि आप अपना achievement उसको बता कर जाएं, ये आपका सपना रहता है।\nआपके दिल में भी वो सपने जगें, आप भी कुछ करने के लिए कृतसंकल्‍प हों। अर्थात प्रयत्‍न करके शहर के जीवन में बदलाव लाएं। वहां के सामान्‍य से सामान्‍य नागरिक के जीवन में बदलाव लाएं इन शुभकामनाओं के साथ मैं आज के इस अवसर पर विभाग के सभी लोगों को बहुत-बहुत शुभकामनाएं देता हूं ताकि देश के शहरी जीवन में बहुत ही अल्‍प समय में बदलाव आये और 2022 में जब देश आजादी के 75 साल मनाता हो तब हमारे शहरों में भी हर परिवार में स्‍वतंत्रता की आनंद की अनुभूति दें उसको हम सफलतापूर्वक पार करें इसी शुभकामनाओं के साथ बहुत-बहुत धन्‍यवाद।"