"Rajpath has turned into Yogpath today: PM\nYoga is more than just physical fitness, says PM\nWe are not only celebrating a day, we are training a new era of peace, Sadbhavana: PM\nAll the great people associated with Yoga in India and all over the world\nNobody could have imagined that the Rajpath can turn into Yogpath. Under the aegis of UNO, International Yoga Day is inaugurated today. But I believe that this is not just a beginning of celebrating 21st June as International yoga day, but it is the beginning of a new age for the human mind. Sometimes some distortions creep in This is a tradition for centuries and over the years.\nToday I want to mention that over centuries of the great men, the sages, the saints, the yoga gurus, the yoga teachers and the yoga practitioners who have centuries for this tradition of practice and it has taken forward and it has developed some points to its development. Today I offer my respect to all those luminaries and I feel proud of them.\nWhich part of the world is this practice developed and where all is it spread, I think that is not very important for me What is really important is the fact that different types of revolutions are taking place in the world. Humanity is scaling new heights of development. Technology is now a part of a human being's life in a way. All other aspects are growing fast. But it should not happen that everything else grows but human beings get stuck at one place. If all the systems in the world grow but humanity remains where it was ages ago then this kind of a mismatch too can prove to be a cause for crisis for human race. Therefore it is necessary that human being also undergoes inner development and aspires for excellence.\nToday, the world has the knowledge of Yoga to which different countries and people of different races and traditions have contributed. The idea is to accept everyone's contribution and see how yoges can help develop the inner conscience, how to strengthen our inner energy and human beings stressful life of relieved and peace of life. Most people think that Yoga is a form of exercise. I think this is the biggest mistake. Yoga is not some kind of gymnastics, for having it been so, the children working in a circus would have been called a yogi. Yoga is not about being flexible or the ability to do difficult postures. Sometimes we have seen in some music concert that the musicians in the beginning tune their instruments. Someone tunes the strings, the percussion instrument or tabla, it takes around five to seven minutes The audience will start and think when the program starts. So this tuning program is before the beautiful melodious music. The tuning is but a small part of the whole concert and so are the asanas in Yoga. The rest of the journey is very long Therefore, it is necessary to learn and understand that journey. We are working in this direction.\nI express my gratitude to the UNO I am grateful to all the 193 countries who passed this proposal unanimously and I also thank the 177 countries who have co-sponsored and realized the importance of Yoga. Today, the rays of the sun in its journey from the first point to the last point of the day. The world will have to accept the first time that the sun never sets in the world of practitioners of Yoga and that every place where the sun shines, there Yoga will mark its presence and the world has received this message today.\nMind, body, soul, intellect should be balanced and in harmony, they should be in their natural state of balance and to achieve this state Yoga plays an important role. Today on the beginning of the occasion, I want to convey that it is only the only program for human welfare, a program for the stressed world, a program to spread love, peace, unity and harmony, it is a program of spread the awareness about Yoga and to forever make it a part of our lives.\nI offer my heartfelt good wishes for this program. We will continuously strive to take this program forward in every street and corner of India. With this hope"