"\n1\nYoga has spread It is a holistic approach to health and wellbeing: PM\nYoga is a vision for a harmonious future for humanity, says PM Modi\nA healthy body and a disciplined mind are the foundations of a world free from fear: PM\nFellow practitioners of yoga assembled here today and all over the world,\nToday we are celebrating the first International Day of Yoga When I spoke at the United Nations General Assembly on September 27, 2014, urging the world community to adopt an international day of yoga,\nThe community of nations responded as one On December 11, 2014 the 193-member United Nations General Assembly approved the proposal by consensus with a record 177 co-sponsoring countries. Well, in the history of the UN itself is a big event.\nAs I stand here today, the International Day of Yoga is being celebrated worldwide.\nMillions of people around the world are participating in this event. From sunrise in the far east to sunset in the furthest corner of the western hemisphere, people will join the great celebration of yoga today.\nIn India, this morning, millions of people participated in a simple yoga demonstration at Rajpath, in states and district capitals, in community groups and in their homes. This solidarity in yoga, this coming together with our brothers and sisters in other countries, brings near our hearts and minds I am happy to release here today on a commemorative coin and postal stamp on the occasion.\nI am grateful to the international community for the support I acknowledge with all humility This support is the great tradition of yoga, the tradition that helps individuals and societies to discover a sense of oneness with the self, with each other and nature.\nThe reach and spread of yoga spans continents, cuts across colors, class and creed. I am told that there are communities of yoga practitioners\nFrom the banks of the river Indus to every continent in the world is spreading harmony between man and nature and a holistic approach to health and wellbeing.\nThose who are familiar with Yoga know that Yoga is not one of the kind in which one person will not be in the world who does not want that he wants to live a life alive. . Everyone wants to live a life full of life and I believe that yoga is the herb to live this life.\nIn order to benefit fully from yoga, to understand yoga in its entirety, we must understand who is a yogi\nA yogi is a person who is in harmony - with her, her body, with her surroundings, with nature. Yoga is the means to achieve that harmony\nFrom the Upanishads, comes from the idea of ​​Yoga to transform human consciousness through control of body and senses through constant practice. The body is the realization of the Supreme Being.\nThe Bhagvad Gita - The song of the world - is a call to action and defines itself as a yogic. The Gita says \"Yoga Karmeshu Kaushal\" - that is, yoga is excellence at work. Work with devotion and without attachment is yoga.\nThe Gita also says \"Yogi and Kuru Karmani\" - act with the understanding of a yogi\nYoga is, therefore, a harmonious future for humanity. It is an \"phase\" That is a state of mind and is a distinct system. Many people see yoga as a system, yoga is a state, yoga is not an institution. Yoga is the faith and we can not find it in that form until we recognize it in its fragmentation.\nPeople often think that yoga is just a set of exercises. Yoga is a philosophy of discipline and meditation that transforms the spirit and makes a good person in thought, action, knowledge and devotion.\nThe problems of modern life People suffer from stress related illnesses, lifestyle related diseases like diabetes and hyper-tension. We have found ways to control communicable diseases, but the burden of disease is shifting to non-communicable diseases. Young people who are not in peace with themselves There is ample evidence that practicing yoga helps combat stress and chronic conditions. If the body is a temple of the mind, yoga creates a beautiful temple.\nThe benefits of yoga are manifold. When practiced correctly and with discipline, Yoga leads to:\nPerfectness, strength, and general well-being, peaceful and stress-free living. Sometimes, in identifying the power of Yoga, we make the same mistake, just as we do in identifying ourselves. The person who has not seen the tree, the tree becomes a tree, there is no knowledge of it and tell it any seeds (seeds) that see that it is potential in that it can become such a great tree, then he will not believe that hundreds will ask questions. . But if the proper plantation of the same small seed is food, food, water, and nature, then the same seed becomes converted into a tree. God has given all powers even within man. I have given it to you and you have not given it, it is not so. Human power has given this power, but who knows the art of its rearing, which gets the opportunity to develop it, under the arrangement, under faith, gradually develops under the practice, so also It can achieve the height of excellent life and God has given the will to elevate itself from where the creatures are, and yoga is a means of creating that circumstance and therefore Have knowledge does not have the experience does not have to be it possible that the suspect Yoga but that it is possible for him to explain the story of the tree made from seeds. If the seed can be converted into tree, male can also get the position of Narayana. Ahham Berhmasmi Ramdev ji was saying ego bahmasmi Water, consciousness, gets the power to absorb everything in its own way, when it expands itself. Yoga is a way of traveling from the self to the samasthi. Yoga is a way of moving from ego to vyam and therefore, who wants to move from the ego to vyam, who wants to go towards the samasthi himself, who wants to learn to live with nature, the yoga takes him to the finger It is only for him to walk, and if in this sense its power can be learned. And today it is a matter of joy, when we entered the 21st century from the end of the 20th century. Remember that moment. Where the sun rays were going all over the world, Anand festival was made. When the century was changed, how was that moment again today the world is experiencing that moment. Where- where the radiations of sun are going. Anointing Yoga The journey from east to west end is going on. It has created an opportunity as it was the moment of admission in the 21st century from the end of the 20th century and the world which the world has experienced has been doing it for Yoga today. For every Indian, for every yoga boyfriend, for a person sitting in every corner of the world, there can be no greater pride for this and when we are moving forward in that glorification, then control and mastery of our life-energies (prana) leading to health, long and disease free life, capacity for full enjoyment of life\nOpening and refining of the heart's emotions leading to greater compassion, mutual understanding, and sensitivity to the needs of others.\nFull development of our mental powers, leading to heightened concentration, intelligence, creativity, intuition.\nLiberation of our spirit from ignorance, suffering, incapacity, leading to freedom, equality, constant joyfulness and inner strength to overcome all challenges of life. It awakens the deeper sense of unity and oneness with the whole universe and all living beings.\nTogether, these lead to the realization of our highest divine Perfection\nAt a community level, the evolution of the individual through yoga results in:\nReduction of greed, coarseness and violence\nEnormous reduction in healthcare and social support\nA dramatic reduction in conflicts and misunderstandings within families, communities, and between nations\nIncreased collaboration and business\nCompassion towards all beings: plants, animals and humans and long-term and ecological thinking in all socio-economic planning.\nIncreased power of innovation, technology and knowledge; deep impact of art, music, poetry, dance to uplift the quality of life and an overall increase in the pace of human development and evolution.\nTo sum up, in a world of excess, of seeking after materialism, yoga promises restraint and balance In a world suffering from mental stress, yoga promises calm. In a distracted world, yoga creates focus, creates concentration. In a world of fear, yoga promises strength and courage. A healthy body and a disciplined mind are the foundations of a world free from fear. In crafting a new self through Yoga, we create a new world.\nWe live in a world that is divided, in a world in conflict over material gains. A world in conflict fails to understand every other How do we understand ourselves?\nSwami Vivekanand says in his book on Rajyoga - \"Every soul is potentially divine. The goal is to manifest the Divinity within by controlling nature, external and internal. Do this either by work, or worship, or control, or philosophy - by one, or more, or all of them - and be free. This is the whole of religion. Doctrines, or dogmas, or rituals, or books, or temples, or forms, are but secondary details. \"\nIt is this freedom that will free us from misunderstandings, from doubt, to conflict, and lead us toward world peace.\nWe are a point in history, where global warming threatens the world. The world's ecology is threatened by human greed and excess. Yoga shows the way to consumption that is healthy, balanced, and in tune with nature.\nWe will need to raise a generation that lives.\nSri Aurobindo said \"Indian Yoga is probably the one of these dynamic elements of the future life of humanity. It is now emerging from the secret schools and ascetic retreats in which it has been taken and its place in the future of the human power and utilities.\nThe spread of yoga, therefore, is the symbol of a changing world. In the past, yoga was the preserve of a select few saints. Today, it is available to all - in the words of Patanjali, \"universal\" or a universal culture.\nIt represents a world where knowledge flows, without restriction of country, creed or class. It represents a world where people come together across boundaries, for reasons and concerns that unite the planet.\nYou can imagine that in Aurobindo's time it was not seen that Yoga would become the subject of general, it was in a very limited scope, but the Yogi was the sight of Arvind and he had seen it that the time would come when Yoga was public Will become part of the life of He will not be confined to some traditions or saints, he will reach the masses. Today, 75 years ago Shri Arvind saw what we have been seeing today. And this is what is the identity of the power of the sages, and this strength comes from the surrender of yoga, comes from the experience of yoga and the yogic life. The closest parallel I can think of\nAs we work to make the benefits of yoga, we will also work to keep the obstacles in knowledge down, to ensure free flow of knowledge and information across boundaries. We will work to maintain an open world free of prejudice and discrimination.\nI greet all present here today, my fellow travelers in spreading the message of yoga. I would like to thank all my fellow practitioners in different countries. Yoga is our collective gift to humanity It has originated in India, but it draws its energies from the millions who practice it around the world. International Yoga Day is the brainchild of a government or the United Nations. It is a reflection of the largest knowledge based people A movement of people whose lives have been touched, by changing by yoga We will take this forward movement to aim for better health, more fulfilled lives and more connected communities.\nOn this day, I also pledge the spirit of India, the collective energy of our people, to the creation of a more equal world, a world without fear, a world of peace. We will build on the foundations of the Indian spirit and its creative genius to reach out and foster a culture of inclusiveness, of fraternity, of one global family - Vasudhaiva Kutumbamaam.\nI will end with the grand invitation of good health and peace - the Shanti Paath,\nSarve Bhavantu Sukhinah"