"Share\n\nToday, terrorism and radicalisation are the biggest challenges facing the whole world; It is not only a threat to peace and security, it is also a challenge for economic development: PM Modi\nWe need to work together against economic offenders and fugitives: PM Modi\nBRICS countries have been contributing to global sustainability and development, we have played an important role in shaping the economic and political structure of the world: Prime Minister\nYour Excellency President Cyril Ramaphosa,\nYour Excellency President Michel Temer,\nYour Excellency President Vladimir Putin,\nYour Excellency President Xi Jinping,\n\nI thank President Ramaphosa for the success of BRICS Summit in Johannesburg and organizing this meeting in July.\nWe represent 42% of the world's population in BRICS. BRICS Global Growth Engine has been built for the last few years. However, there are still many possibilities of increasing our share in world GDP (23%) and trade (16%). They are not compatible with the population.\nExcellencies,\n\nGlobalisation has brought millions of people out of poverty. However, there are challenges in front of distributions similar to the benefits of globalisation. Continual difficulties are coming in front of multilateralism and rule-based world order and protectionism is increasing. Currency devaluation and sharp increase in oil prices are challenging the profits earned over the past few years.\nBRICS countries have been contributing to the global sustainability and development. We have played an important role in shaping the world's economic and political structure.\nWe have made significant contributions in making the architecture of global economic governance more representative and democratic and will continue to work even further in this direction.\nWe should talk to the developing countries in multilateral institutions, including the United Nations and its Security Council, with more representation. This is the purpose for which we have come together in BRICS.\nWe have to work together with multilateral institutions like UN, WTO, UNFCC, World Bank, to ensure the rule-based world order, which will maintain their relevance and the realities of time Shown In this regard, I have suggested 'Reformed Multilateralism' in my meeting of Johannesburg.\nInclusion of new Industrial Revolution, future of work, etc. The G20 agenda has enriched the discussion of global development. We are eager to collaborate in BRICS countries new Industrial Revolution.\nIn this context, the topics of globalization and migration must be addressed through better multilateral coordination and cooperation. Managing labor issues in the Global Supply Chain, it will be necessary to ensure excellent work in the entire value chain. The portability of workers' social protection schemes worldwide and the smooth movement of laborers are important.\nSocial-economic issues like women's empowerment and sustainable food future will be raised in the G20 Summit. Earlier I had suggested the need for disaster resilient infrastructure on sustainable development and infrastructure. We have to work together to take this forward.\n\nExcellencies,\n\nIndia values ​​and appreciates the progress made in enhancing BRICS political exchanges. In this regard, our foreign ministers, NSAs and the special messengers of the Middle East have made important contributions.\nWe all agree that terrorism and radicalisation are the biggest challenges facing the whole world today. This is not only a threat to peace and security, it is also a challenge for economic development.\nWe have urged the implementation of FATF standards from all countries. The BRICS and the G20 countries have to work together to strengthen the UN Counter Terrorism Framework to prevent the terrorists' network, their financing and their movement.\nWe need to work together against economic criminals and fugitives. This problem can be a serious threat to the world's economic stability.\nExcellencies,\n\nOur support base in the G20 has started to be strong. Our BRICS Sherpas has been consulting and cooperating with G20 cases.\nThe G20 Summit is headed by a developing country. It is an advantage that the focus of the G20 agenda and its results should be brought to the priorities of the developing countries.\nI, in the end, once again thank President Obama for the successful hosting of the Johannesburg Summit and the meeting.\nI also give the confidence of full support and cooperation of India to Brazil and its leadership for the forthcoming BRICS Chairship. I am confident that BRICS cooperation will reach new heights under Brazil's Chairship.\nExcellencies,\n\nI am also thanking the President of Brazil, you have been guided from the last 6 times and have an opportunity to work with you and as you said, this is the last meeting with us.\nVery good luck\nThanks a lot"