"Share\n\nRespected President, Honorable Prime Minister Shri, all senior dignitaries who are present on the stage and all dignitaries present,\nThe respected noblemen of India and Bangladesh,\nFor me this is the moment of good fortune, it is the moment of pride for the Indians. The great man who spent his entire life in the service of the country, he struggled all the time for the change in the life of the common man, and politically he was the inspiration for millions of workers like me - like Bharat Ratna Sir, Today, Atal Bihari Vajpayee Ji is honoring Bangladesh. At the time of Bangladesh's war, with the warriors of the war, the Indian army, who had shed its blood, and every Indian citizen, at this time, struggled to realize Bangladesh's dream in a way, at that time the leadership which Atal Bihari Vajpayee Ji received , Got his guidance - while continuing to oppose the direction of the political party of the country, which he has constantly tried, he is remembered today, for this, Bangladesh's'm very grateful.\nIf Vajpayee's health was cured and today himself was present here, then this opportunity would have four moons. And all of you have prayed for the health of Atal ji, I believe that your prayers will be formed, and Atal ji will also be able to guide us all by becoming healthy again.\nOn this occasion, it is a matter of great joy that the award is being given in the memory of that war and being given by the Honorable President, who himself is a glorious freedom fighter and being respected by his hands It is a big pride in itself. And secondly, under the leadership of Banga-Bandhu, under whose guidance, Bangladesh fought and won this fight, getting this honor in the presence of her daughter. And the third thing that I have never told before, it is absolutely proud to tell me today. I came too late in political life. As a young activist, as a young worker who was not a member of the political party, I have never been a worker of the Bharatiya Jana Sangh - but when under the leadership of Atal ji, Indian Jansangh made a satyagraha for the support of the creation of Bangladesh and mentioned in this annotation, that as a volunteer in the Satyagraha I came to Delhi from my village. And those glorious battles that you fought and in which every Indian wanted to see your dreams come true, one of those crores of dreams was also I, at that time they saw those dreams.\nToday, on this very sacred occasion, Vajpayee ji, on December 6, 1971, MP of an opposition in the Parliament of India. I want to read a paragraph of the speech that was given as What is the long-standing leadership, we can remember from his speech on December 6, 1971. From his speech, I am speaking his quote - \"By the recognition of late Bangladesh, a correct step has been taken. The process of changing history is going on in front of us. And destiny has put this parliament in this important area when we are not only fighting with the people who sacrificed their lives in freedom struggle, but we are also trying to give a new direction to history . Today, the blood of the fighters and Indian soldiers in our country is flowing together. This blood will create relationships that will not break under any pressure, which will not become a victim of any diplomacy. The liberation of Bangladesh is coming closer. \"\nIt was Vajpayee's speech in the Parliament of India on December 6, 1971. Today, when I am accepting the honor given to Vajpayee, then this is the time to resolve our relationship with this respect which Vajpayee ji has said in two sentences, and also said in his speech that day , Which I read before I read it again. They said - \"This blood will create such relationships that will never break, by any pressure\". And secondly he said \"whoever will ever become a victim of diplomacy anywhere\".\nWe have to give both of these things to Vajpayee ji to new generations so that the relations of India and Bangladesh remain unbreakable, our dreams come true. With the help of each other, with these good wishes, I once again express my gratitude to the respected President, the Honorable Prime Minister of Bangladesh, Bangladesh Government and the people of Bangladesh. And with the pride of Bharat Ratna Atal Bihari Bajpayee ji who honored me, I fulfill my point of view.\nThanks a lot."