"Excellency, Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina\nMembers of the media,\nWords of welcome Thank you for your thoughts and your meeting today.\nI am deeply honored and touched by your special gestures for my visit. Everything I have experienced here reflects the warmth and generosity of the people of Bangladesh. And for me, there is a wonderful feeling of visiting a neighbor.\nThis morning I paid tributes to Bangabandhu, a great leader of our age. His vision and leadership, his humanism and sacrifices, gave birth to the dream of Sonar Bangla. Today, that dream prospers through the leadership of Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina and the genius of the people of Bangladesh\nEarlier today, we launched two bus services that will connect our citizens more easily and our two nations more closely. We were privileged to be the Chief Minister of West Bengal.\nThese two events highlight our shared values ​​and inter-connected destinies.\nMy first visit to Bangladesh My personal journey has been enriched by the good wishes from countless people here.\nWe are not just neighbors We are two nations bound by the threads of history, religion, culture, language and kinship - and, of course, passion for cricket\nWe have the emotional bonds of shared struggles and sacrifices that bring us together as sovereign and equal nations.\nNow, we are successful fellow travelers on the road to development. Our growing cooperation is a shared affinity of neighbors.\nThat is why I want to Bangladesh\nAs we deepen our political engagement and celebrate our rich inheritance, as our economies get more integrated and our people better connected, our nations more prosperous\nIt will also open new economical doors for India's Northeast. And, it will enable our countries to integrate with South Asia and connect it with the dynamic East.\nThe vision of SAARC is a gift of Bangladesh.\nWe are also among the largest contributors to the United Nations Peacekeeping. And, we can also make our region safe and more prosperous, and the seas more secure.\nThis is a relationship of great importance for us and our region\nThe visit is an historical moment. We have resolved a question that has lingered since Independence. Our two nations have a settled boundary It will make our borders more stable\nOur Parliament's approval of Land Boundary Agreement reflects the consensus in India on relations with Bangladesh.\nWe accepted the settlement of the maritime boundary last year. It is the proof of the maturity of our ties and our shared commitment to international rules.\nSo, we stand at a moment of huge opportunities in our relationship. Prime Minister and I recognize that.\nWe will work together And, we will address our challenges in a spirit of friendship and from a position of mutual trust and confidence.\nOur agreements reflect this vision and commitment\nWe have renewed existing trade and transport agreements. We have added new dimensions to our economic ties.\nThe coastal shipping agreement will boost bilateral trade The Indian Economic Zone will promote Indian investments in Bangladesh.\nThe new border haat at Kamalasagar will reinforce traditional economic links. And, the agreement on blue economic and maritime cooperation We should now extend our frontiers of cooperation to Space\nI am conscious of the huge trade unbalance, despite duty free and free access to Bangladesh in India. Yet, I have assured Prime Minister that we will do everything\nIndian investments in Bangladesh I will also try to trade smooth and easy, including at the border The agreement on standards and testing is a step in that direction.\nPower supply from India to Bangladesh will grow from 500 MW to 1100 MW within two years. The 1320 MW Rampal Power Project is making progress in its laws and regulations. We can do more in the electricity sector, here and in India\nConnectivity is the catalyst for deeper engagement. Bangladesh's decision to allow transit of power equipment and food-grain to the Northeast echoes the strength of your human values ​​and our shared economic opportunities.\nConnectivity by road, rail, rivers, sea, transmission lines, petroleum pipelines and digital links will increase. Today, we have unveiled some of the pathways to this future.\nAs I have said before, we will deepen regional connectivity and cooperation between Bangladesh, Bhutan, India and Nepal. There is a natural logic to this arrangement.\nOur development partnership is scaling new heights. The quick implementation of the line of credit of 800 million US Dollars and full disbursement of 200 million dollars in subsidy\nWe're pleased to extend another line of credit of 2 billion US dollar to support infrastructure and other development activities in Bangladesh\nAs the three agreements on human trafficking, fake Indian currency and marine safety show, our security cooperation is growing.\nI am confident that we both have the political will and mutual confidence to further improve border management and coordination to prevent illegal activities, trafficking and movements.\nOur rivers should not our relationship, not a source of discord Water sharing is, above all, a human issue. It affects life and livelihood.\nWe have seen political resolve and mutual goodwill with the Land Boundary Agreement.\nI am confident that with the support of state governments in India, we can reach a fair solution on Teesta and Feni Rivers We should also work together\nExcellency, people in India We want you to succeed in your Mission 2021 and 2041. The success of Bangladesh is important.\nSo is the success of our partnership We are We will be able to set new directions in our relations. I am confident that we have done that today.\nAnd for everything again I say Thank you, thanks a lot.\n"