"Share\n\nThe farmers, brothers and sisters coming from the corners of the country, the scientists associated with agriculture, the meaning and all the extravagance and people in this program are also connected through the channels through the channels, I also salute them.\nMany people would think, so many channels are running, what's new? Sometimes it seems that the growth of TV channels is so big in our country, but when there are so many things, then there is little difficulty in finding things that are needed. If you need some information for sports today, you can easily find it through the TV channel. The game of India is not even the game of the world. And you have seen that due to the channels related to sports, many of us have started taking interest in different subjects of sports, whereas in our school colleges, sports have not been given the same amount of priority, but those channels contributed, Sports created interest in the new generation and its positive results were also seen, earlier sports were seen as sports. But people who started to know slowly, this is a very big economics. Millions of people have a rosary roti and they will be very few in the playground, but there are thousands of people behind the players, who do different types of work, that is such a big institution, Through these arrangements it has been discovered that the farmer is such a big class in India. How did he get things in the field of agriculture? We must obey this point of view that if our country is to take ahead, then the villages of our country will have to take it forward. If the village is to be taken forward, it will have to give priority to the profession and promote it. This is the truth associated with the simple economic life of India.\nBut what is the condition of the day, you will be surprised to know how big the farmers have done in our country, how much the society has given to the life, the people of the old gadgets who study, two hundred years ago today South In India, the farmers of the Consumer area studied in South India and you will be surprised today, two hundred years ago, when there was no Urea, there was no potato, there was no such facility, at that time there was Science used to produce 15 to 18 tonnes of paddy a hectare. To say, our ancestors had new experiments with knowledge of science at that time, two hundred years ago in our country, about 12 to 15 tons of wheat was produced by our farmers in some areas. Was there. Today, the average production in the country is about per hectare, all kinds of paddy mixed, average production is two tonne per hectare. The population is increasing, the land is not growing, the requirements are increasing, then what is the solution we have, we have the only solution that we increase productivity, increase our productivity per hectare, our income will increase.\nToday, the country produces two tons of average per hectare. The world's average is three tons. Should at least all the farmers of India, get scientific, technological, seed supply, and supply of medicines, everybody can think of mill how to produce three tonne per hectare, now it will be two to three, it seems very much It is small, but it is a very difficult task, it is very difficult work, but if you dream, then in every tehsil, why do not you compete in the competition, that brother should have such land in our tehsil. TI went, what were the reasons that we have increased only by two tons, and more why not increase.\nIf there is a tahsil in the field of agricultural production in the country, then there is a need to create an environment of big competition and in the unit it is said that there are climatic zones, in some areas there are few crops, some quantity Maybe, some areas are like this, where there are some crops that are high in quantity. But if there is tahsil unit, then there is convenience for the competition and if our country's farmer Lal Bahadur Shastri Ji should say this, Jai Jawan Jai Kisan will give a mantra. Before Lal Bahadur Shastri, we used to eat wheat from foreign countries. The government officers who are the government officers of that period, they may have either become senior or have become retired. The first work of the district collector was that the arrangement for delivering the wheat that has come from Kendla port or on the port of Mumbai, has not been reached or reached, it did not reach it; used to go. The country used to eat and eat from the outside, it is a reality.\nIn front of the farmers of the country, Lal Bahadur Shastri ji kept the goal of Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan, and the background of the battle was a background, the country was a tributary of devotion and in the simplest language of Lal Bahadur ji. The farmers of our country caught this matter, and the farmers of the country decided that we would fill the stocks of food. The farmer of our country, after that, never allowed India to starve and die. Farmers' pockets are not filled or filled, the nation's citizens have never dropped short enough to fill the stomach. Despite understanding this fact, we will not change the situation if we do not bring changes while looking at the changed age. There was a time when we were told that the best of fine farming, medium business and junior jobs were the resonance of our house-house, but if there are three children going to a farmer's house today, ask what the brother has thought of reading this Good at it, it's a bit sensible, then he'll put it on a job. This may also work, but it is a small one, he does not understand much, I am thinking, put him in the farm. That is, even in this house, it has been made to think that we should send that fast baby baby to a job somewhere. And whoever is right, brother and nowhere else will he cultivate, he will feed his stomach, which was considered best for cultivation, that farming was inferior, and the job which was considered to be inferior, the cycle has only reversed, I think that Again, we have to reverse it once, and if we try, success can be achieved.\nI have an experience of mine as being Chief Minister of Gujarat, I was once called in Junagadh Agricultural University and honoring progressive farmers. When I was about to go, I was wondering what would I say in front of them, mind ... I was walking while traveling in the way and it sat in my mind that it would be all very old farmers, If so, tell such a thing for them, tell me the same thing where I got it. And the audience saw so I was surprised. Almost all of the below 35 years of age and I gave prize to about 12 or 15 farmers on that day. They were all young, Jeans had come in pant and T-shirt. I asked him Bhai what was written. All were well-educated brothers. So I said how come back to farming. So, we have taken advantage of some of the changes that have changed. If we once again bring modern science to technology, village and farm Khalian, the common man of the country, the country's young man who has run away from agriculture, can again be associated with agriculture and the country's economy Can give a new speed. But for this we have to create a confidence that will have to create an environment.\nMore than 50 percent of Hindustan farmers will be in the village, who will not know that there will be an agricultural department in the government, there is no agriculture minister. Some policies regarding agriculture in the government, some do not know. The farmer of our country has been left out of luck. And this is the same mood in the nature, but I do not know Brother has become angry now. I do not know now God is angry and the poor person is living his life by following this fact.\nThis area has been neglected large, we have to make the area vibrant, make it dynamic and there are various types of work going on for it. I have noticed that after harvesting the farmer in his field, the next thing which remains behind is burnt. He thinks where Bhai will be picked up, who will take him, he burns in the field. He did not know that if these things, if I make a few pieces again and again, then it can only be fertilized, that can increase my production. But due to ignorance he burns. Many farmers will be sitting here too, they too will burn such things in the fields in the fields. It is still happening if someone guides them slightly, we have seen that those who cultivate banana, after removing banana, they think that the goddess is not there any use after that. But today science has started to produce the best type of paper from that banana, started making the best type of clothes. If that farmer knows that, banana will earn after cultivation and due to that earning it will never be able to cry. Once the banana has failed too.\nI went to see an experiment, ie, after removing the banana, that which stood in the empty, if it remains part of the plant, if it is thickened inside the soil, then the second crop does not need water for 90 days. There is so much water content inside that banana that without water for 90 days the plant can remain alive. But if these things did not reach, then someone would agree that the man used to spend it for lifting it and I remember he used to take it from the farm, take it Bhai. As he came to know, he started adding value to his chain.\nHow do we go about multi-utilization in agriculture in our country, how to go into multiple activity, due to which our farmer's hard work can benefit him. Occasionally the farmer puts a crop, but if someone explains to him in a scientific way. If it is put next to this crop, then that crop gets strengthened and your crop will stand up for free. Which of the farmers of you knows how this kind of arrangement will be. Now there are many farmers, he does not know that if he puts a poor thing, then he only puts one. He does not know that in the middle put this thing in the middle. They compensate each other in themselves and I get an extra income. These things have to reach them. The farmer of our country is a nature. What is the nature of the farmer? Take any thing to her, they never refuse outright. Not at all-not worthless, does not do it. She does not even select Outright. Listen to your talk, ask your question, you will see fifty times, will come to you three times, keep thinking about it. But still will not accept Farmers then accept when they see success with their eyes. This is his nature and so long as he does not trust the farmer, he does not believe. Yes brother, the system because it is not the reason that he is not bold but it is a matter of fact it is a mistake that means the year has got worse. The year has gone wrong 18-20 year old girl has dreams of doing yellowing. If one year got worse then the girl's marriage stays for four years. This is his suffering and therefore the farmer does not dare immediately, who thinks it will bring the matter to the farmer.\nTo solve these problems, to bring the farmer through experience and to reach the farmers through the farmer, this is the farmer's channel and hence one thing we must recognize is that a major change in our agriculture sector is important. Today is the global economy, we spend a lot of money on the satellite, leaving the satellite one after the other. The technology of those satellite's technology is the biggest benefit of technology, then it has benefited the weather information has started to get closer. The farmer did not believe in the first weather information, the man was right. He used to say that the sun will not come out. But now that the government is spending, the government is leaving a lot of satellite. This billions of trillions of rupees have been spent. If the biggest benefit can be obtained then the farmer can get it. They can take the weather news equally. Through the farmer channel, I want to admit to our farmers that they must see this meteorological science on TV and I would like to say to our Prasar Bharati friends and peasant channels that once the farmer was convinced that Yes, brother, in relation to this rain, in relation to running the air, there is equal information in relation to sunlight, so it is well known that what should be done in such a condition. Will have you will find a way to handle the situations that I know.\nToday this system is not common today but it is also known that it is also not interested in it. I go to the website in my habit of using this technology but in the days of the rain I do not see any news first, by going to the website, at that time I was just as important as the 5-6 system of the world. From where the weather information was found, it was immediately seen every time. This program was my morning morning morning at 5-6 places. I used to see that what is the weather situation in the whole world, when rain is coming, it is a matter of rainy days.\nI want the general human to be connected to it, the second is today the global economy. If we find out that there is a country, that there was a lot of groundnut there. But this time his manguplila has decreased. Then the farmer of India will know that brother was the country with the most groundnut and his condition was bad. Meaning Globally the Market of the Peacock is going to die. The farmer may think that Bhai is in his field two months before, because the rain is different in every place, then the decision will be made that brother is an opportunity this time. All of them have gone bad. I can do something out of it. If I go to the groundnut then my market will be confirmed and they will go away. हम पूरे वैश्विक दृष्टि से दुनिया के किस Belt में किसानों का क्या हाल है किस प्रकार का वहां पैदावार की स्थिति है, बारिश की स्थिति क्या है, बदलाव क्या आ रहा है, उसके आधार पर हम तय कर सकते हैं।\nहमारे देश में जो खजूर की खेती करते हैं, अरब देशों में हम से दो महीने बाद फसल आती है। हमारे देश में जो लोग इसके खेती करते हैं उनको दो महीने पहले Market मिल जाता है और उसके कारण अरब देशों में जो क्वालिटी है उसकी क्वालिटी हमारी तुलना में ज्यादा अच्छी है क्योंकि natural crop वहीं का है। लेकिन उसके वाबजूद हमारे यहां खजूर की खेती करने वालों को फायदा मिल जाते है क्यों, क्योंकि हम दो महीने पहले आ जाते हैं। हम ये..ये global economy की जो चीजें हैं उसको अगर गहराई से समझ करके हम अपने किसानों को guide करें तो उसको पता चलेगा वर्ना कभी क्या होता है किसान को मुसीबत। एक बार हवा चल पड़ती है कि टमाटर की खेती बहुत अच्छी है तो किसान बेचारा आंख बंद करके टमाटर की खेती में लग जाता है और जब टमाटर बहुत ज्यादा पैदा हो जाती है तो दाम टूट जाता है। दाम टूट जाता है टमाटर लंबे दिन रहता नहीं तो वो घाटे में चला जाता है और इसलिए कृषि में उत्पादन के साथ उसकी अर्थनीति के साथ जोड़कर ही चलना पड़ेगा और उसमें एक मध्य मार्ग काम करने के लिए सरकारी तंत्र किसान चैनल के माध्यम से प्रतिदिन आपके साथ जुड़ा रह सकता है। आपको शिक्षित कर सकता है, आपका मार्गदर्शन करता है, आपकी सहायता कर सकता है।\nहमें अगर बदलाव लाना है तो जिस प्रकार से विश्व में बदलते बदलावों को समझकर अपने यहां काम करना होगा। मौसम को समझकर काम की रचना कर सकते हैं। उसी प्रकार से हम Technology के द्वारा बहुत कुछ कर सकते हैं। आज दुनिया में कृषि के क्षेत्र में Technology के क्षेत्र में बहुत काम किया है। हर किसान के पास यह संभव नहीं है कि दुनिया में Technology कहा है वो देखने के लिए जाए..विदेश जाए जाकर के देखें, नहीं है। मैं चाहूंगा कि इस किसान चैनल के माध्यम से नई-नई Technology क्या आई है वो नई-नई Technology किसान के लिए सिर्फ मेहनत बचाने के लिए नहीं उस Technology के कारण परिणाम बहुत मिलता है। Technology का Intervention कभी-कभी बहुत Miracle कर देता है। हम उसकी ओर कैसे जाए?\nउसी प्रकार से राष्ट्र की आवश्यकता की ओर हम ध्यान कैसे दें। आज भी, लाल बहादुर शास्त्री ने कहा किसान ने बात उठा ली। अन्‍न के भंडार भर दिये। आज malnutrition हमारी चिंता का विषय है, कुपोषण यह हमारी चिंता का विषय है और कुपोषण से मुक्ति में एक महत्‍वपूर्ण आधार होता है प्रोटीन। ज्‍यादातर हमारे यहां परिवारों को गरीब परिवारों को प्रोटीन मिलता है दाल में से। Pulses में से। लेकिन देश में Pulses का उत्‍पादन बढ़ नहीं रहा है। प्रति हेक्‍टेयर भी नहीं बढ़ रहा है। और उसकी खेती भी कम हो रही है। अगर हमें हमारे देश के गरीब से गरीब व्‍यक्ति को प्रोटीन पहुंचाना है तो Pulses पहुंचानी पड़ेगी। Pulses ज्‍यादा मात्रा में तब पहुंचेगी जब हमारे यहां Pulses की ज्‍यादा खेती होगी, Pulses का उत्‍पादन ज्‍यादा होगा। हमारी University से भी मैं कहता हूं Agriculture University एक-एक अलग-अलग Pulses को लेकर हम उसमें Research कैसे करे? Genetic Engineering कैसे करें? हम प्रति हेक्‍टेयर उसका उत्‍पादन कैसे बढ़ाए? जो उत्‍पादति चीजों हो उसका प्रोटीन content कैसे बढ़े? उस पर हम कैसे काम करें, ताकि हमारे किसान को सही दाम भी मिले?\nदेश को आज Pulses Import करनी पड़ती है। हम ठान ले कि दस साल के भीतर-भीतर ऐसी मेहनत करे, जब 2022 में जब हिंदुस्‍तान आजादी के 75 साल मनाएगा उस समय हमें Pulses Import न करना पड़े। हमारी दाल वगैरह import न करनी पड़े। हम किसान मिलकर के यह काम कर सकते हैं, हम एक Mission Mode में काम कर सकते हैं और दुनिया में बहुत प्रयोग हुए हैं, दुनिया में बहुत प्रयोग हुए हैं, उसकी आवश्‍यकता है।\nआज हमारे देश में Oil Import करना पड़ रहा है। एक तरफ हमारा किसान जो पैदावर करता है, उसके दाम नहीं मिलते और दसूरी तरफ देश की जरूरत है, वो पैदा नहीं होता। हमें विदेश से Oil लाने के लिए तो पैसा देना पड़ता है लेकिन किसान को देने को हमारे पास कुछ बचता नहीं है। अगर हमारा Oil Import बंद हो जाए, खाने का तेल, क्‍या हम उत्‍पादन नहीं कर सकते, हम Target नहीं कर सकते।\nइन चीजों को हमारे किसान को हम कैसे समझाए और मुझे विश्‍वास है कि एक बार किसान को यह समझ में आ गई कि यह देश की आवश्‍यकता है, इसके दाम कभी गिरने वाले नहीं है, तो मैदान में आ जाएंगे। इस देश के पास करीब-कीरब 1200 टापू हैं। 1200 टापू है हिंदुस्‍तान के समुद्री तट पर। टापुओं पर उस प्रकार की खेती संभव होती है, जहां से हम हमारी तेल की Requirement पूरी कर सकते हैं। आज हम तेल बाहर से लाते हैं। हमारे किसान, हमारे पंजाब के किसान तो कनाडा में जाइये, खेती वहीं करते हैं, अफ्रीका में जाइये हमारे देश के किसान जाकर के खेती करते हैं। हमारे देश के किसान हमारे टापुओं पर जाकर कर सकते हैं खेती। कभी वैज्ञानिक अध्‍ययन होना चाहिए। और मैं चाहूंगा कि हमारे जो किसान चैनल है कभी जाकर के देखे तो सही, टापुओं का रिकॉर्डिंग करके दिखाए लोगों को कि यह टापू है, इतना बड़ा है, इस प्रकार की वहां प्राकृतिक संपदा वहाँ पड़ी है, यहां ऐसी ऐसी संभावना है। Climate उस प्रकार का है कि जो हमारे Oil seeds की जो requirement है उसे पूरा कर सके। वैज्ञानिक तरीके से हो, मैं इसका वैज्ञानिक नहीं हूं। मैं इसके लिए कुछ कह नहीं सकता। लेकिन मैं एक विचार छोड़ रहा हूं इस विचार पर चिंतन हो। सही हो तो आगे बढ़ाया जाए, नहीं है तो प्रधानमंत्री को वापस दे दिया जाए। मुझे कुछ नुकसान नहीं होगा। लेकिन प्रयास तो हो।\nमैं चाहता हूं कि इस किसान चैनल के माध्‍यम से एक व्‍यापक रूप से देश के कृषि जगत में बदलाव कैसे आए। आर्थिक रूप से हमारी कृषि समृद्ध कैसे हो और जब हम कृषि की बात करते हैं तब बारिश के सीजन वाली कृषि से आप भटक नही सकते 12 महीने, 365 दिन का चक्र होता है।\nहमारे सागर खेडू, समुद्र में जो हमारे लोग हैं, उनको भी सागर खेडू बोलते हैं…fishermen. वो एक बहुत बड़ा आर्थिक क्षेत्र है। वो Within India भी लोगों की आवश्‍यकता पूरी करती हैं और Export करके हिंदुस्‍तान की तिजौरी भी भरते हैं। अब इसके माध्‍यम से fisheries क्षेत्र को कैसे आगे बढ़ाए। बहुत कम लोगों को मालूम होगा। Ornamental Fish का दुनिया में बहुत बड़ा market है। जो घरों के अंदर Fish रखते हैं, रंग-बिरंगी Fish देखने के लिए लोग बैठते हैं उसका दुनिया में बहुत बड़ा Market है खाने वाला Fish नहीं, Ornamental Fish और उसको, उसके farm बनाए जा सकते हैं, उसकी रचनाएं की जा सकती है, उसकी Training हो सकती है। एक बहुत बड़ा नई पीढ़ी के लिए एक पसंदीदा काम है।\nहमारी कृषि को तीन हिस्‍सों में बांटना चाहिए और हर किसान ने अपने कृषि के Time Table को तीन हिस्‍सों में बांटना चाहिए, ऐसा मेरा आग्रह है और प्रयोग करके देखिए। मैं विश्‍वास से कहता हूं कि मैं जो सलाह दे रहा हूं उसको स्‍वीकार करिए, आपको कभी सरकार के सामने देखने की जरूरत तक नहीं पड़ेगी। हमारी कृषि आत्‍म-निर्भर बन सकती है, हमारा किसान स्वावलंबी बन सकता है और हमारे कदम वहीं होने चाहिए, सरकारों पर dependent नहीं होना चाहिए और मैं इसलिए कहता हूं कृषि को तीन हिस्‍सों में बांटकर चलना चाहिए एक-तिहाई जो आप परंपरागत रूप से करते हैं वो खेती, एक-तिहाई Animal husbandry चाहे आप गाय रखें, भैंस रखे, दूध का उत्‍पादन करे, मुर्गी रखें, अंडे रखे, लेकिन एक तिहाई उसके लिए आपकी ताकत लगाइए और एक तिहाई आप अपने ही खेत में timber की खेती करें, पेड़ उगाए, जिससे फर्नीचर के लिए जो लकड़ी लगती है न वो बने। आज हिंदुस्‍तान को timber Import करना पड़ रहा है। जंगल हम काट नहीं सकते तो उपाय यही है और उसके लिए भी जमीन खराब करने की जरूरत नहीं है। आज हमारे देश की हजारों-लाखों हेक्‍टेयर भूमि कहां बर्बाद हो रही है। दो पड़ोसी किसान हो तो एक तो हमारे देश में सब छोटे किसान है, बड़े किसान नहीं है, छोटे किसान है और देश का पेट भरने का काम भी छोटे किसान करते हैं। बड़े किसान नहीं करते, छोटे किसान करते हैं। दो-तीन बीघा भूमि है, पड़ोसी के पास तीन बीघा है, तीनों भाई हैं, लेकिन बीच में ऐसी दीवार बना देते हैं, बाढ़ लगा देते हैं कि दो-तीन मीटर उसकी जमीन खराब होती है, दो-तीन मीटर इसकी खराब होती है। सिर्फ इसी के लिए अगर एक बार हम इस बाढ़ में से बाहर आ जाए और अगर पेड़ लगा दें एक पेड़ इस वाले का, एक पेड़ उस वाले का, एक इसका और एक उसका और आधे इसके आधे उसके। अब मुझे बताइये कि जमीन बच जाएगी कि नहीं बच जाएगी। लाखों एकड़ भूमि आज बर्बाद हो रही है। मैं किसानों से आग्रह करता हूं कि अड़ोस-पड़ोस से अपने भाई हो या और कोई हो दो खेतों के बीच में जो बाढ़ में दो-दो मीटर, पाँच-पांच, सात-सात मीटर जमीन खराब होती है उसकी जगह पर पेड़ लगा दें। और वो भी timber और सरकार आपको permission दें। आपके घर में बेटी पैदा हुई हो पेड़ लगा दीजिए, बेटी की शादी हो पेड़ काट दीजिए, शादी उतने ही खर्चें में हो जाएगी। और इसलिए मैं कहता हूं एक-तिहाई timber की खेती, एक-तिहाई हम regular जो खेती करते हैं वो और एक-तिहाई देश को Milk की बहुत जरूरत है। हम पशु-पालन कर सकते हैं और हमारी माताएं-बहनें करती हैं। 365 दिन का हमारा आर्थिक चक्र हम बना सकते हैं। और एक बार यह बनाएंगे, मैं नहीं मानता हूं हमारे कृषि क्षेत्र को हम परेशान होने देंगे। लेकिन इस काम के लिए हमने इस चैनल का भरपूर उपयोग करना है। लोगों को प्रशिक्षित करना है, उनमें विश्वास पैदा करना है।\nउसी प्रकार से हमारे देश के हर तहसील में मैं कहता हूं एक-दो, एक-दो प्रगतिशील किसान हैं, प्रयोग करते हैं, सफलतापूर्वक करते हैं। उनके खेतों का Live Telecast, Video Conferencing खेत से ही हो सकता है। खेत में इस सरकार जाए, चैनल वहां लगाए, वो किसान दिखाएं घूम-घूम कर, देशभर के किसान देखें उसके पत्र-व्‍यवहार की व्‍यवस्‍था कर दी जाए। सारे देश के किसान उसको पूछते रहेंगे कि भई आप यह कर रहे हैं मुझे बताइये कैसे हो सकता है, मेरे यहां भी हो सकता है। हमारे देश में प्रगतिशील किसानों ने ऐसे पराक्रम किये हैं। मैंने कई किसानों को जानता हूं जिन्‍होंने Guinness Book of World Records में अपना नाम दर्ज कराया। मैं एक किसान को जानता हूं मुस्लिम नौजवान है, पिता जी तो खेती नहीं करते थे वो खेती में गया और आलू की पैदावर प्रति हेक्‍टेयर सबसे ज्‍यादा पैदा करके दुनिया में नाम कमाया उसने। अगर मेहनत करते हैं तो हम स्थितियों को बदल सकते हैं। और इसलिए मैं कहता हूं कि हम किसान चैनल के माध्‍यम से जहां भी अच्‍छा हुआ है, प्रयोग हुए हैं उसको हम करना चाहते हैं। आप पंजाब में जाइये हर गांव में एक-आध किसान ऐसा है जो Technology में master है। वो जुगाड़ करके ऐसी-ऐसी चीज बना देता है और वो जुगाड़ शब्‍द ही Popular है।\nमैं पंजाब में मेरी पार्टी का काम करता था तो मैं चला जाता था खेतों में किसानों के साथ देखने के लिए, समझने के लिए, हरेक के पास मोटर साईकिल का पुर्जा है उठाकर के कहीं और लगा दिया है, मारूति कार का पुर्जा कहीं और लगा दिया है। और वो अपना पानी निकाल रहा था। ऐसे प्रयोगशील होते हैं। किसान इतनी Technology को करते हैं जी, मैं समझता हूं कि और लोगों को इसका परिचय Technology का परिचय दो। एक बार हम इन चीजों को जोड़े और दूसरी तरफ हमारी universities किसान चैनल को आधुनिक से आधुनिक चीजें मुहैया कराने का एक network बनाना चाहिए। और कभी किसान चैनल भी competition क्‍यों न करे। बस इस प्रकार की competition करे। अब जैसे यह चैनल वाले होते हैं गायकों को ढूंढते हैं, नाचने वाले को ढूंढते हैं, competition करते हैं, तो उत्तम प्रकार की खेती करने वालो के लिए भी competition हो सकती है, उनके भी प्रयोग हो सकते हैं, वो आएं, दिखाएं, समझाएं, मैं समझता हूं कि ये चैनल सबसे ज्यादा पॉपुलर हो सकते हैं और एक बार और प्रसार भारती मेरे शब्द लिख करके रखे, अगर आप सफल हो गए और मुझे विश्वास है कि जिस लगन से आपने कम समय पर काम किया है। ये सिर्फ technology नहीं है और कोई और चैनल चलाने के लिए technology सिर्फ चलती है, खेतों में जाना पड़ा है, गांव में जाना पड़ा है, किसानों से मिलना पड़ा है, आपका मटेरियल तैयार करना पड़ा है, मैं जानता हूं कि कितनी मेहनत इसमें लगी है तब जाकर चैनल का रूप आया है। लेकिन अगर बढ़िया ढंग से चली तो तीन साल के बाद आपको चलाना मुश्किल हो जाएगा। इसलिए मुश्किल हो जाएगा कि जो 24 घंटे वाले हैं न वह भी अपनी चालू कर देंगे। उनको उसकी ताकत समझ आएगी। आज उनके यहां इसको मौका नहीं है, लेकिन आप अगर सफल हो गए तो दूसरी 20 चैनल किसानों के लिए आ जाएगी और एक ऐसी competition का माहौल होगा, मेरे किसान का भाग्य खुल जाएगा।\nऔर इसलिए मैं आज इस किसान के माध्यम से आपने जो नई शुरूआत की है देश के गांव और गरीब किसान को जोड़ने का प्रयास किया है, जिसे मैं आधुनिक विज्ञान के साथ जोड़ना चाहता हूं, मैं जिसे satellite की technology के साथ जोड़ना चाहता हूं, जिसको अपना भविष्य बनाने का रास्ता बनाने के लिए तैयार करना चाहता हूं उस काम को हम सफलतापूर्वक करेंगे।\nउसी एक विश्वास के साथ मेरी बहुत-बहुत शुभकामनाएं देश के सभी किसान भाइयों और बहनों को मेरी हृदय से बहुत-बहुत शुभकामनाएं, बहुत-बहुत धन्यवाद।"