"\nRespected family members of dinners and brothers and sisters\nIt is a privilege for me to participate as a worshiper on the occasion of \"Shabd Brahm\" (The divine). In our culture, the 'Shabd' is treated as 'Brahm' (God). Its capacity is as powerful as the Almighty God\nThe celebration of the 50 years of literary journey of Dinkar ji is not only due to the fact that 50 years have elapsed. Even after 50 years, his creative works continue to be a source of inspiration for us and for future generations alike. They see it as the same reverence and that is how it is worth all the respect.\nThose are the creators of literature In the real sense, they are like saints Whatever we have read about in the sages in the Vedas and the Upanishads, they represent the same era. They are visionaries, observe the society closely, weigh its different dimensions, the viewpoint and help us find a solution.\nDinkar ji's entire literature is associated with the farmers and their livelihood. It is about the poor and the villages The creations find an audience, sometimes it touches the heart of the young, the elderly, men, women, sometimes a specific land area or a specific incident. Some of his creations have the ability to reach from the old. They can relate to the past, present and the future. They touch the lives of not only those who are they but they resonate with the future generations as well. Such is the power of the writings of Dinkar Ji.\nJai Prakash Narayan ji who revolutionized India was much older as compared to the young generation, and Dinkar ji's poems were as like a bridge between the two. Everyone knows that that fight against corruption, the poems of Dinkarji, which is just the song, will inspire the youth and awaken the country. He would not let the society be a voice spectator. Not only this, he will not sleep in peace, as long as the society sleeppt. He wanted to keep the society alert by awaken his spirit. He did not know He wanted that flame inside him should spread everywhere, but he did not visualize it as a destructive force. This is a rarity\nI am a worshiper of Goddess Saraswati and hence I am able to experience the power of the spoken word. I know that power within me As a worshiper and a priest I know that Dinkar Ji has given us an invaluable gift and we have to take it forward to future generations.\nI sometimes feel that in our country there may be thousands of poets and lovers of literature in every generation. I believe that there was literature lover in thousand who could be recited by Dinkar ji's creations by heart. This is a small achievement Some people recite the shlokas from Ramayana, Mahabharata, Vedas and Upanishads. Similarly, there were others who would orally reciting Dinkar ji's words. They may be finding pleasure in the same, in lending voice to Dinkar ji's creations. They may be thinking that people may or may not hear me but the world will definitely listen to Dinkar Ji.\nDinkar Ji created \"Parshuram Ki Pratiksha. His creations had inputs from history as well as cultural sensitivities, the greatness demonstrated by India at various points and the ability to imbibe everything The way Dinkar Ji has experienced it is time and again through his creations. And this way we can open insightful windows through his literature in a understanding of India. If we have the potential we can open doors too But if there is no potential, we can at least open the windows Dinkar ji has laid the foundation of such a potential among us.\nDinkar ji told us to some things but maybe forget them Time and again, some vices creep into the society They are different every time Someone tried once to be close to Dinkar ji citing that he belonged to the same caste. He wanted Dinkar ji to support him This happens in many a times in the society. But in such situations too, how apt was his thinking, we get a glimpse of it Dinkar Ji was a member of the Rajya Sabha and had a chance to be both view and experience politically, yet he kept himself aloof from such an environment. He wrote a letter to the gentleman in 1961 that is the only way out of the situation in Bihar is that people should forget their caste and come together to the merit. Remember the state does not run on the support of one or two castes. It requires the support of many, and if we fail to rise above casteism then the social fabric of Bihar will rot. The letter was written in 1961, the date is such a inspirational message for Bihar. These are not the words of a person in politics nor are they the words of a poet or literary person They are the words of a saint like man who could have been the future and who was worried about Bihar's future. And that is why his words had power to clarify his ideas.\nIf Bihar has moved forward, if Bihar has moved forward, then it is a thing, unless the eastern end of India develops, India can not rise forward. The western end however rich it is, can not make a difference till the end of India joins the road to development. Our motherland can not realize its true potential till then. It is our dream that the eastern end gets equal to the western end and there is no reason why it can not do so If Bihar, Bengal, Assam, North Eastern states all rise and move forward then the world will watch in amazement, the progress made by India.\nDinkar Ji also dreamed of the development of Bihar. Bihar should be glorious, progressive and prosperous Bihar may earn its own glory and pride and not borrow it from someone else It has the potential; it just needs opportunities to be prosperous Bihar has the strength, which gives it a chance.\nWe are committed to delivering Dinkar Ji's dream. The journey of 50 years of his creations still inspires us to do something, not merely recite his verses. It will be a great achievement for us, so today, in this auditorium, remembering his literary creations, we should see this as a chance to recommit ourselves. May his blessings remain with us so that we will fulfill our commitments and move forward to the realization of the dreams of Bihar?\nWith these expectations I would like to thank you all for giving me the opportunity to meet the family members. I consider myself very fortunate.\nThank you."