"Share\n\nPresident of the Republic of Korea, PARK Geun-hye, promis nnn CEO of the two countries, other representatives of Business and Industry, ladies and Gentlemen!\nI am very happy to be here I also thank you for being I hope the CEOs of the two sides would have been very fruitful.\nFriends! India and Korea had cordial relations The relationship between the two countries goes back to the first century, when an Indian Princess travelled from the kingdom of Ayodhya in North Korea to a boat.\nShe is the Korean king Many Koreans Trace their lineage to her\nWe are also bound by the Buddhist traditions. A famous Korean visitor to India was Hyecho, a Buddhist monk who visited India in the eighth century to Buddhism. He wrote the \"account of travel to the five Indian kingdoms\"\nWe have so much in common No wonder then that Bollywood films are very popular in Korea.\nFriends! I am here to build on this relationship In fact, I have always been fascinated by Korea I came here when I was Chief Minister of Gujarat and even before that Honestly speaking, while in Gujarat, I used to wonder as the country of the size of Gujarat. I ad-mire the spirit of entrepreneurship of the Korean people I admire the way in which they have created and sustained their global brands.\nFrom IT and Electronics to Automobiles and Steel, Ko-Rea has given examples of products. Similarly, the Korean companies are very strong in construction sector and they are in-volved in building iconic structures around the world. You also have an impressive infrastructure and record for R \u0026 D as well as innovation.\nWe want to get a lot of what has already done That is why I, along with a large business delegation, are here. The good news is that India-Korea bilateral trade has risen after signing of Korea-India CEPA in January 2010.\nThe South Korean Investment Zone in Rajasthan State is progressing well.\nMany Hundred Korean companies are operating in In-dia. Lot of your products specially in Consumer Electronics And many of them are being pro-duced there Hyundai Motor is the 2nd largest car maker of India\nHowever, there is still a lot of scope for improvement. South Korea ranks only 14th in FDI flows in India I can not accept that the reason for this low volume of FDI lies with us not with you But I can tell you that India is a land of potentials Now, India is also a land of enabling policy environment. Moreo-ver, there is a renewed commitment of my government for chang-ing the face of the country. We can join hands in our people and industry. There is a lot that we can do together\nFor example, there is a potential for cooperation between India's software and Korea's hardware industry. Your car making and our designing capabilities can be put together Though we have become the third largest producer of steel, we need to add a lot of value in it. Your steel-making capacity and our resources of iron ore can be put together. Your ship-building capacity and our agenda of port led development can become driver of our growth. Infrastructure including housing is another field where we can work together in a big way.\nIn my last visit, I got your wonderful Saemangeum project We have made many such Saemangeums Let us do this for mutual benefits and a win-win spirit.\nFriends! Since my government has taken over, we are working on faster and inclusive growth. We want a quantum jump in all this There is no time for incremental changes The sectors which are strong in Korea Many of them are present in India For those who are not there, I extend an invitation to come to India and explore the opportunities.\nWith your presence in India and your interac-tions with our CEOs, you must be already knowing what we are doing and in which direction we are going to I would just throw some light on the size and scale.\nWater, Transportation, Railways, Sea ports, ship-building, Electricity including renewable, IT infrastructure and services, Electronics, Construction Industry, are all very promis-ing sectors in my country.\nJust to give you some examples: We have planned to build 50 million homes by 2022. In addition, we are going to de-velop smart cities, long industrial corridors, and mega investment areas. For this purpose, we have refined our FDI Policy in con-struction. We have eased the conditions for Real Estate Investments We are also experiencing a regulatory framework for this sector.\nWe have targeted 175 Giga Watt of renewable energy in the next few years. In addition to generation, the issues of transmission and distribution of electricity are equally important for us.\nWe are ready to modernize our Railways, we are planning to have metro rail in fifty cities and high speed trains in different cor-ridors. We have upgrade our Highways\nThis year we have made maximum allocation for these two sectors. In addition we have opened up Railway for 100% FDI.\nWe are putting up new ports and modernizing the old ones through a sophisticated plan called Sagarmala. There is a similar focus on upgrading the existing Airports and putting up regional airports to increase connectivity to places of economic and tourist importance.\nWe would like to promote manufacturing in a big way. For this purpose, we have launched a campaign called \"Make in India\". This campaign and commitment includes bringing our industrial infrastructure, policies and practices to the best global standards and to convert to India in a global manufacturing hub. To provide digital infrastructure across the country, we have launched another campaign called Digital India.\nCleaner and Greener development and Zero defect We have launched a clean India campaign with emphasis on better environmental technologies.\nTo enable all this, in last eleven months, we have taken measures to improve the business environment and en-hance the investor confidence. We do believe that 'ease of doing business' has become an important factor in attracting investors. We also believe that FDI is important and it will not come in the country without a global competition busi-ness environment. So, we are working aggressively for doing business.\nTo create employment and self-employment opportunities in the country, we have launched the Skill India Mission and other innovative missions. On the other hand, we have fast tracked approvals in industry and infrastructure. This includes en-vironmental clearances, industrial and shipping licenses. In addi-tion, we also have enhanced the FDI limits in key sectors like Defense and Insurance. We also refined the FDI policy in medical devices\nWithin a very short time, we introduced GST Bill in parliament. We are making our taxation system more stable, pre-dictable and transparent We have already resolved many taxation issues affecting the foreign investors. This is all the more beneficial for business and bring in technology and capital.\nWe have got good results of these initial steps. The sen-timers for private investment and inflow of foreign investment are positive. Our growth rate is above 7%. FDI inflows have gone up by 39% during April-2014 and February-2015 against the same period in the previous year.\nMany international financial institutions including the World Bank, the IMF, the OECD and others are predicting even faster growth in the coming years. Moody's has recently upgraded the rating of India as positive on account of our concrete steps in various economic segments.\nThus, we have restored the global positioning of India in terms of its politics, governance and economy. But we are not going to stop here We have to and we will do a lot better.\nFriends! once again, I invite you to change We are also ready to work with you.\nYesterday, I announced the formation of a positive me-chanism for hand holding of Korean investors. It will be known as Korea Plus In addition to any issues\nThank you."