"Excellency, President Park Geun-hye,\nMembers of the Media,\nIt is a great pleasure to visit Republic of Korea. I would like to thank the President for the warm welcome and hospitality.\nI had excellent discussions with President Park today. Her own visit to India in January 2014\nI am happy to visit Korea in the first year. I have visited here before as Chief Minister.\nKorea's Economic Growth In the short time since then, Korea's global leadership in manufacturing and technology has become more visible.\nKorea is also a strong pillar of democracy in Asia.\nKorea's rapid progress has made the vision of an Asian century strong\nIt will not be based on the strength of Korea's economy, but also its contribution to peace and stability in the region.\nWe consider Korea as a critical partner in India's economic modernization.\nI am here on a time We are pursuing a comprehensive program of economic modernization that covers all sectors of our economy and policies and procedures of all aspects.\nWe have a special focus on infrastructure and developing a world class manufacturing sector. Korea can be a leading partner in this enterprise.\nOur relationship started with a strong economic emphasis. But, it has now become strategic in content\nThe need for closer involvement among countries\nFor all these reasons, this is a very important visit for me\nI am happy that we have agreed to upgrade the bilateral relations to 'Special Strategic Partnership'.\nThe decisions today Republic of Korea is the second country with which India has a diplomatic and security dialogue in 2 + 2 format.\nI welcome the decision of our national security councils.\nWe have also agreed to expand cooperation between our armed forces\nWe intend to deepen our cooperation in defense technologies and manufacturing of defense equipment in India. This sector offers huge opportunities in India\nI have requested President of the United States Her response has been positive\nWe had extensive discussions on our economic relations.\nMany Korean brands President Park and I see vast opportunities for Korean companies to participate in our 'Make in India' Mission I will meet Korea's business leaders tomorrow. Korean companies have the right to succeed in India\nWe will also install a channel - Korea Plus - to facilitate their investments and operations in India\nI sought President's support for new areas.\nApart from defense equipment, I invited Korean investments in areas such as ship building, including LNG tankers.\nOur decision to establish a joint work group on shipbuilding reflects our seriousness to cooperate in this area. Korean companies will be participating in India's plans to acquire and manufacture LNG tankers Tomorrow, I'll visit a shipyard in Ulsan.\nPresident Park and I shared the view that our moderate trade is well below its potential. We agreed to review the Comprehensive Economic Partnership Agreement and other market access related issues. I conveyed our desire to see a balanced and broad-based growth in bilateral trade.\nWe also had productive discussions on international issues.\nI welcomed Korea's diplomatic efforts to maintain peace and stability of the Korean Peninsula. I also shared his concerns that the proliferation of nuclear and other weapons of mass destruction would not be in the country. I offered India's support to Korean people for peaceful re-unification of Korean Peninsula.\nWe discussed our engagement in the East Asia Summit and with ASEAN We have a shared interest in an open, balanced and inclusive regional architecture. We have common views on maritime security in this region.\nWe agreed to work together and other countries in the region to ensure the independence of navigation and security and security of sea lanes of communication. Challenges of cyber security and terrorism are also areas of interest\nThe visit to Korea has just begun, but it is already very productive. We have laid the foundation for a relationship that has two major Asian countries with shared values.\nThank you."