"Share\n\nBorn with a golden spoon, Congress has been serving its own interests for generations: PM\nCongress shedding crocodile tears for the farmers, they should answer why they did not increase MSP for the farmers: PM\nIf only the Namdars had thought about the welfare of poor, they had ensured gas connections to them: PM Modi\nThe close aides of the 'Namdar' Congress leader say that Urban Naxals, Maoists and Separatists are 'revolutionaries! This is unacceptable: PM\nSuch is Congress' arrogance that shamefully terms army chief as a goon: PM Modi\nCongress questioning the valor of our courageous Jawans who conducted surgical strikes is unacceptable: PM\nLong live Mother India!\nMr Madan Lal Ji Saini, state President, sitting on the platform, Mr. Madanlal Ji Saini, the Chief Minister of the Council, Mr. R. Chaudhary, my colleague of the Council of Ministers at the center, Mr. Arjun Ram Meghwal, State Vice President Bhai Rajendra Gehlot ji, Mr. Pushp Jain Ji, Viramdev Singh Ji, Sukhram Leaderiya Yes, Mr. Nand Kishore Solanki Ji, Omprakash Modi ji, Navaratan Mall Singhvi ji, Ramakant Sharma ji, Paburam Janeji, Hukumdev Singh G, Bhanwar Singh ji and the candidate of Bharatiya Janata Party in this election, our workers worker, devoted to social service, Mr. Ajay Singh Kilos ji, from Jail, Mrs Manju Waghmar ji, Mr. Mohan Ram Chaudhary from Nagaur, Mr. Bihari Lal from Nokha Vishnoi ji, Shriman Bhanwarlal Rithadia ji from Medta, Shri Ramchandra Uta ji from loneliness You are the most requested of me that by closing the fist by both hands, bless our companions by saying Jai Mata Ki Jai.\nBharat Mata's ... Jay! ... Thank you very much.\nBrothers, today's day is a special day of idol. Today is the 128th death anniversary of Mahatma Jyotirao Phule. First of all, since 100 years ago, Mahatma Jyotirao, who had spent his life for society, who had spent his entire life for the welfare of the oppressed and the oppressed, I respected the 128th anniversary of such a great leader I am And they have shown the path that they have shown to be dalit, suffer, exploited and deprived, till the people who are oppressed in the society will not give opportunity to live by self esteem, they will not provide facilities for development, then our society is complete. Can not develop by nature in a healthy way. The Bharatiya Janata Party government, even if we get an opportunity to serve in Delhi, whether we get an opportunity to serve in Rajasthan. We live in the same mantra of people, everyone's development - all development. This minister is associated with Jyotiba Phule's inspiration. This mantra is associated with the inspiration of Baba Saheb Ambedkar. These mantras have come with the smell of mud of Hindustan. This is not just a political slogan. One dream is that the welfare of hundred and fifty million Indians Then once again our Mother India, Jagatguru's place is insured. We are working on this dream and therefore brothers and sisters, we want blessings from you.\nBrothers and sisters, this is from our Nagaur identity, male and slogan. The slogan is from bull, male and slogan. It is from labor. It is from working people. Is from the worker. In the blood of the people of Nagaur, there is also complete resolution and sanskar. Here, the feeling of valor and sacrifice in the particle particles is inspiring the whole country. Brothers and sisters, on this land of bravery and labor, a worker is in the battleground against the nominee. And then one of you, not a little different from you. The life that you spend, I have lived the same life. The life you are living, the same life I am living. No, you are born with a spoon of gold and I am born with a spoon of gold. Neither your parents, grandparents ever ruled, nor did my parents, grandparents ever ruled. For the first time, a worker who grew up from among you, once again, the land of this truth of Nagaur, the land of the valor, the land of the devotees, the land of the Kamdars, a worker came to ask for blessings from you.\nBrothers and sisters, after all, for whom is the government. Government is for the poor Government is for the common man. If a poor person becomes ill, then he has no support except the government. A poor person, a normal human being, has to go from his village to another village somewhere relative, then can not go without the official means. Brothers, if the rich becomes ill, then ten doctors stand in queue outside his house. If the rich becomes ill, then the plane will fly in the largest hospital in the world. Where will i be poor Where will my normal human be? But this misery, this trouble only knows who has left you. Those who are born with a spoon of gold, if they walk in the field without wearing shoes, then how does a fork pierce, it does not even have the knowledge. We know this trouble.\nBrothers and sisters, some people are such that if someone holds a paper and someone says that they have to speak on the farmers then they take a rote. Those who do not know that gram is a plant that grows a tree. Those who do not understand the difference between moong and lentil. They have come out to explain the farming of the country today. Brothers and sisters who are cut off from the earth Those people who are not even aware of four or four generations, these people can never understand your sadness. Your miseries can never be overcome. And so, brothers and sisters, we are seeking votes in your election. One we are seeking votes based on our work. Second, we have gone with the mantra of development, demanding votes for it. Brothers and sisters, we are not asking you for the good of our grandchildren. We are asking for votes from you, to do good to the earth, to help the people here. I am asking for a vote to make you dream.\nBrothers and sisters, this is our biggest problem in Rajasthan, water. If people of Rajasthan do not get water, then they have the power to produce gold from the soil. Now tell me, the country was free, before 10 years, 20 years, 30 years, in 40 years, Congress governments of that time had done the work of getting water in your fields, then today you had to suffer? Would not it have been cheap work? Do the farmers of Nagaur district have to go to Gujarat or Mumbai? The people of Gujarat-Mumbai have to be forced to come to Nagaur or not? But brothers and sisters, at that time there was no one to ask them. There was no opposition, there were not so many media persons. The one who said, the same government, whatever he does, the government and the people who are waiting for the poor and poor people will be waiting now that it will happen, like this, it will happen. Brothers and sisters, I congratulate Vasundhara ji for the government of Vasundhara ji that he has worked in irrigation water for 1.5 lakh hectares of land in Rajasthan. A lacquer banana of my Rajasthan, make a Baawadi, Baawdi, for centuries it does not forget Rajasthan. Vasundhara ji has provided water to 1.5 lakh hectares of land. My brothers and sisters, how can we forget How can you forget this work? And so, brothers and sisters, I have come to insist on you. Re-lining of feeder in Rajasthan, Rs. 1300 crores has been approved. You can easily imagine how much profit it is going to get here.\nBrothers, you know, what is your strength of a vote? You have thought, you have thought what is your strength of a vote? Do not tell ... What is the strength of your vote? Brothers and sisters, you tell me, the country has been so long years of freedom, who does not have a house to live, should I have to get my own home to live or not? Tell all that you should meet or should not be found. Brothers and sisters, in our country there were no more than 15 million people who had no home to live. The raw Si, lived in a small place in the huts. One million and twenty five lakhs, they have got a strong home to live. They got the key of the house The house also did not give the names of the men of the house, remember my parents This Modi works for you. In our country, there is such a tradition that if there is a house, there will be a car in the name of her husband, in the name of her husband, in the name of her husband, in the name of her husband, and if the husband is not there, then everything will be named after the son. Nothing on the woman's name. We changed the rules. We said that the government which will give the house, the government which will give the house, the woman who will be the head of the house. We will give it on his name and today we have given the name of one crore 25 lakh women to the house. This time these families of Diwali forbade burning lamp in their own house.\nBrothers and sisters, in our Rajasthan, 7 lakh people have got the house. Seven lakh people have got such a house Not even a house, a strong house, a house tap, a tap in water, a gas connection, an electric lamp, a toilet. Whatever is needed to live such a life, has given readymade. In your Nagaur district, you can say proudly and say proudly. In Nagaur district, 16 thousand people who did not have a home, they got the keys. They accepted Diwali. 16 thousand And some people would have felt, the Congress has been provoking that you do not find the house.\nI am coming to Nagaur's land and telling you. I am speaking on the death anniversary of Jyotiba Phule. Speaking of the saints of the earth. Until 2022, there will be no single family left. Brothers and sisters, there will not be a single family who will not get the benefit of this. We will worry about it. Brothers and sisters, now I want to ask, who gave 10 million 25 lakh houses in the country? Who gave home to one crore 25 lakh poor? Who gave? Who gave 7 lakh houses in Rajasthan? Who gave 16 thousand houses in Nagaur? Hey Modi did not give it, it has given you one vote. Due to a vote you have done. Do not make any mistake that your vote creates an MLA. Do not make this mistake that a party wins your vote. Do not make this mistake that your vote constitutes a party's government.\nIf your vote is made by an honest government, if you vote in the right place then there are 10 million and 25 million poor people. If your vote is right then we get 7 lakh people in our house. If your vote is right then 16 thousand poor get home to be found in Nagaur. Now you know the power of your vote. We do not mistake that we are voting for making an MLA. We are voting to form a government. We are voting for Rajasthan to make. We are voting for the good of the people of Rajasthan.\nBrothers and sisters, the poorest of the poor, even today, our middle class family makes meals with wooden stove, so the smoke in the whole house is filled. It is not filled. You must have experienced. Mothers, sisters, are you now allowed to burn a wooden stove? Should not we get rid of that !! For 75 years, four-four generations of the Congress Party have been named by the Raj, but they did not get the idea that the smoke that emanates from burning the firewood to my mothers sisters. One day the smoke of 400 cigarette goes into their body. Did anyone think !! Our mother, our sisters, who cooks food for us at home, the smoke of 400 cigarettes goes to her body every day. Children who play in the house, their childhood only develops in diseases. Should mothers and sisters get rid of this trouble or not? Even those big people, rich people whose large cars run in homes, burns the gas stove in their house. And the poor poorly whisper kills and dies. And if there is wet wood in the rainy days, then how much trouble does it know my mother and sister. Did they ever see this Namdar? Did the trouble-maker know that? Their four generations went away, did they know? Why did not know What is smoke, they just do not know. How the wood stove burns, you do not know. This is Modi who is born from the stomach of a poor mother and who has seen his mother burning the wood stove, cooking food. How did water come out with smoke, he has seen it. And so there was a pain in the heart that I have come looking at my mother's problem. I will release millions of mothers of my country from this trouble. From this there was a bright plan. And brothers and sisters, we have given gas connections in 60 million households across the country. Given for free And in our Rajasthan also our government has given connections of 50 lakhs of gas to brothers and sisters. He gave them freedom from smoke. Tell me, brothers, these five million sisters, who got rid of the smoke, would bless them or not? Will they get blessings or not? Who will get this blessing now? Hey, Modi will not get it, Vasundhrajaji will not get it. You will receive these blessings because this is due to your vote. You voted in the right place, so 50 lakh mothers of my mother were freed from the trouble of smoke. Nobody will earn its virtue, those who voted, they will earn votes. These virtues are not of Modi. This is not Vasundhara ji. These virtues are all of you.\nBrothers and sisters, and so I have come today to you. This is the work of virtue, it is sacred work. It is the job of wiping the tears of the poor, so I have come to demand a vote from you brothers and sisters. You tell me, do we have trouble due to corruption? Should corruption go or should not go? I have cleaned up from the top right now. Do you see this or not? Has not been cleared up from the top or not? What caused this? Your vote is due. Right now I have to do it too, will it be possible without your blessings? I have to do it even now, I have started now, but these Nomads are screaming like this, screaming like they have gone for seven generations.\nYou will be surprised, brothers, how these countries have run these people. How did these people run these countries? You would be surprised that these people used to run such countries, which the daughter was never born, which was not born. That daughter would have become a widow. Is there such a wizard? This Namdar's government was such a magician. बेटी पैदा नहीं हुई और विधवा हो जाती थी। सरकारी दफ्तर में उसका नाम चढ़ जाता था और हर महीने उसके नाम से विधवा पेंशन का चैक कट जाता था। पैसे कट जाते थे। ये कैसा खेल है! जो बेटी पैदा नहीं हुई, उसको विधवा बनाना, विधवा बनाकर रजिस्टर में नाम लिखना!! और हर महीने पेंशन का पैसा ले जाना!!!\nभाइयो-बहनो, ऐसी चोरी चलती थी, इसको मुझे बंद करना चाहिये कि नहीं बंद करना चाहिए था? अब जिसको ये मलाई खाने को मिलती थी। वो मोदी मुर्दाबाद बोलेंगे कि नहीं बोलेंगे? मोदी की जाति पूछेंगे कि नहीं पूछेंगे? मोदी की मां को घसीटेंगे कि नहीं घसीटेंगे? मोदी के बाप को गाली देंगे कि नहीं देंगे? ये इसलिये चिल्ला रहे हैं क्योंकि सारी दुकानें बंद हो गई है। ताले लग गए ताले। भाइयो-बहनो, जो बच्चे पैदा नहीं हुए, स्कूल में स्कॉलरशिप ले रहे हैं। जिसका घर नहीं, उसके नाम से राशन कार्ड है। अनाज लिया जाता है। कोई ऐसी चीज नहीं हैं जिसमें इन्होंने लूटने के रास्ते न खोजे हों। मैं तो रास्ते बंद करते करते देख रहा हूं कि एक रास्ता बंद करता हूं तो नया निकलता है। दूसरा बंद करता हूं तो तीसरा निकलता है। ऐसी भूलभुलैया बनाई है इन्होंने चोरी करने की। 70 साल में ऐसी महारत हासिल की है। भाइयो-बहनो, एक एक गली का गेट बंद कर रहा हूं, ये आपके आशीर्वाद से हो रहा है। और क्या फायदा हो रहा है, मालूम है। 6 करोड़ लोग, ये आंकड़ा छोटा नहीं हैं। 6 करोड़ लोग अभी तक तो मैं खोज पाया हूं। जो पैदा ही नहीं हुए थे, वो बराबर पैसे कमा रहे थे। और रकम कितनी, हर साल 90 हजार करोड़ रुपया। सोचा है कभी 90 हजार करोड़ रुपया कितना होता है? ये हर साल 90 हजार करोड़ रुपया मार लेते थे। पता ही नहीं चलता था। अब मोदी ने ये गेट बंद कर दिया, दरवाजा बंद कर दिया तो चिल्लाएंगे कि नहीं चिल्लाएंगे? चिल्लाएंगे कि नहीं चिल्लाएंगे?\nभाइयो-बहनो, पहले रोजगार के लिये गरीबों को ऐसा लूटा जाता था, ऐसे लूटा जाता था। विधवा मां मेहनत-मजदूरी करके बेटे को पढ़ाए, बेटी को पढ़ाए। बेटा-बेटी ग्रेजुएट हो जाएं, नौकरी के लिए सरकार में अर्जियां देते रहे। फिर इंटरव्यू का कागज आ जाए। लिखित परीक्षा हो जाए। इंटरव्यू का कागज आ जाए। इंटरव्यू का कागज पहुंचते ही दूसरे दिन एक झोलाछाप नेता आ जाए घर में, माताजी, नमस्ते। कैसी हो, सुना है बेटे का इंटरव्यू निकला है। बेटी का इंटरव्यू निकला है, बहुत अच्छा है। तो कैसा करोगे, तो मां कहती है हां बेटा जाएगा, मेहनत कर रहा है। रात-रात पढ़ता है, इंटरव्यू देगा। तो वो झोला छाप कहेगा, ऐसे नौकरी नहीं मिलती है। इंटरव्यू में तो सिफारिश लगती है। आपकी कोई जान पहचान है क्या?\nतो वो विधवा मां कहेगी मेरी तो कोई जान पहचान नहीं हैं। तो ऐसा करो मां, मैं जरूर तुम्हारी मदद करूंगा। मैं देखता हूं कहीं मेल बैठता है क्या।\nवो जाता है दूसरे दिन आता है। मां काम हो जाएगा, मैं गया था। एक आदमी है कर देगा काम पर, बस 50 हजार रुपया चाहिए। मां कहेगी, 50 हजार कहां हैं तो वो कहेगा। वो जमीन है ना, वो गिरवी रख दो। एक बार बेटे की नौकरी लग जाएगी तो सब ठीक हो जाएगा। वो गरीब मां, बेटा इंटरव्यू में पास हो जाएगा, इस भरोसे ये झोला छाप नेताओं को 50 हजार रुपया पकड़ा देती थी, भाइयो-बहनो। और देश में लाखों करोड़ों युवाओं को, उनकी माताओं को, पिता को लूटा जाता था। मैंने आकर एक काम किया। मैंने कहा क्लास तीन, क्लास चार में कोई इंटरव्यू ही नहीं होगा। लिखित परीक्षा में जो पास होगा। उसका जो नंबर आएगा, उसी नंबर पर उसको नौकरी मिल जाएगी। कोई इंटरव्यू करने की कोई जरूरत नहीं हैं। बोलो, भ्रष्टाचार गया कि नहीं गया। ईमानदार को अवसर मिला कि नहीं मिला? जिसका हक था, उसको काम मिला कि नहीं मिला? ये सबको मिलना चाहिए कि नहीं?  ये किसलिये हुआ? ये क्यों हुआ? मोदी ने किया है क्या? नहीं, मोदी ने नहीं किया, आपके वोट ने किया है। ये आपके वोट की ताकत है जिसके कारण सच्चे काम हो रहे हैं। इसलिये मै कहता हूं। इसलिए मैं आपसे कहने आया हूं कि आप भारतीय जनता पार्टी के कमल निशान पर बटन दबाकर फिर एक बार वसुंधराजी की सरकार बनाइये।\nभाइयो-बहनो, आप मुझे बताइये, ये कांग्रेस वाले दिन-रात मुझे गाली देते हैं। देते हैं कि नहीं देते हैं? ये सरकार मानों उनकी बनती है तो क्या करेंगे। दिल्ली से लड़ाई चालू करेंगे ना। दिल्ली से भिड़ते रहेंगे ना। तो राजस्थान का भला होगा क्या? भला होगा क्या? वसुंधरा जी की सरकार होगी तो लड़ाई झगड़े नहीं होंगे। दिल्ली का कमल छाप इंजिन और राजस्थान का कमल छाप इंजिन, दोनों इंजिन, डबल इंजिन लग जाएंगे, राजस्थान कहां का कहां पहुंच जाएगा। और इसलिए भाइयो-बहनो, आज मैं आपके पास आया हूं कि कांग्रेस वाले किसानों के नाम पर रोना रो रहे हैं। स्वामीनाथन कमीशन ने, 10 साल पहले ये नामदार की सरकार को रिपोर्ट दिया था और उस समय कहा था। दस साल पहले कहा था कि अगर किसानों को उनकी लागत का डेढ़ गुना एमएसपी मिलेगा तो किसान की जिंदगी मुसीबत से मुक्त होगी। 10 साल पहले दिया था। आज ये जो किसानों के नाम पर घड़ियाली आंसू बहा रहे हैं। उनको उस समय ये रिपोर्ट देखने की फुर्सत ही नहीं मिली। अलमारी में रख दिया। मोदी आया तो उसने सारा निकाला कि देखो भाई, मेरे किसानों का कुछ करना है।\nभाइयो-बहनो, मोदी सरकार ने किसानों को उनकी लागत का डेढ़ गुना एमएसपी देना शुरू कर दिया। भाइयो-बहनो, अगर ये दस साल पहले दे दिया होता तो मेरे किसी भी किसान को कर्ज की मुसीबत झेलनी नहीं पड़ती। मेरा कोई किसान कर्जदार नहीं बनता।\nभाइयो-बहनो, अगर हिंदुस्तान का पहला प्रधानमंत्री, एक मां का बेटा, जिसने जीवन भर गांधीजी के साथ रहकर के किसानों के हक की लड़ाई लड़ी थी, अगर वो मेरे देश का किसान बेटा, सरदार वल्लभ भाई पटेल देश का पहला प्रधानमंत्री हुआ होता तो मेरे देश का किसान आज सबसे ज्यादा सुखी होता। क्योंकि उनको किसान का पता था। किसानी का पता था। उनको किसान की मुसीबतों का पता था। नामदार जो सोने का चम्मच लेकर पैदा हुए हैं, जिनको किसान क्या होता है, ये भी पता नहीं हैं। आज किसान के नाम पर घड़ियाली आंसू बहा रहे हैं। और इसलिये भाइयो-बहनो, आप मुझे बताइये, पहले आपको समय पर यूरिया मिलता था क्या? आप सच बताइये यूरिया मिलता था क्या? फसल बर्बाद होती थी, यूरिया आता था क्या? पिछले चार साल में यूरिया के लिये इंतजार करना पड़ रहा है क्या? समय पर यूरिया मिलता है कि नहीं मिलता है? जितना चाहिए, उतना मिलता है कि नहीं मिलता है? इसका कारण ये है कि पहले यूरिया की चोरी होती थी। किसान के नाम पर यूरिया निकलता था। सब्सिडी किसान के नाम पर चली जाती थी। लेकिन चोरी होकर यूरिया केमिकल की फैक्ट्री में चला जाता था। उससे और चीजें बनती थी, खेती के काम पर नहीं आती थी। और वो कारखाने वाले कमाते थे और किसान मेरा यूरिया के बिना मरता था। हमने एक महत्वपूर्ण काम कर दिया। हमने यूरिया का नीम कोटिंग कर दिया। अब एक ग्राम यूरिया भी किसी फैक्ट्री में काम नहीं आ सकता है। सारा का सारा यूरिया खेत में ही काम आता है। चोरी बंद हो गई, मेरे किसान का फायदा हुआ कि नहीं हुआ?\nऔर इसलिये भाइयो-बहनो, मैं आज आपसे आग्रह करने आया हूं कि आप भारतीय जनता पार्टी को वोट दीजिए। विकास के लिये सरकार बनाइये। आपके सपनों को साकार करने के लिये सरकार बनाइये। फिर एक बार वसुंधरा जी की सरकार बनाइये। ये कांग्रेस ने झूठ फैलाया है। उस झूठ का पर्दाफाश कर दीजिए। और आइये मेरे साथ बोलिये, भारत माता की जय, भारत माता की जय।  बहुत-बहुत धन्यवाद जी।\n"