"\nHello,\nIn China and in Mongolia I had taken a farewell after seeing the Indian community, but before coming to Korea, I decided to see you first. First of all, you decided to do more work after your philosophy because Rabindranath Tagore had called Korea Lamp of East. Perhaps the people who are superstitious, who are the intellectuals, the words which come out of their mouths, the sentence which comes out of their pen, could not have been imagined at that time. 1925-30 period And then the progress of Korea, Korea, the status of Korea was not what it is today. How did Korea last thirty years ago, the people of Korea also describe it well. But about 80-90 years ago Rabindranath Tagore had seen that Korea, this is Lamp of East. It was seen as the brightness of the east as a stunning string. And the people here, who had been seen by Rabindranath Tagore, showed it after fulfilling it.\nMy government is an important part of the policy, especially foreign policy. . And that is Act East Policy The first was Look East Policy Now look very much. And we are seeing that this land, neighboring countries are moving forward at this fast pace. In relation to India, the same thing was said in the beginning of the 21st century that now the sun has risen from India, now Hindustan will play a very big role in the world.\nWorld economists, economists, gave a new word to the world - BRICS. Brazil, Russia, India, China, South Africa - and they said that this is a group of BRICS countries, which has economic activity, will drive the economic life of the world, its shadows will remain. It was said in the last days of the 20th century and at the beginning of the 21st century.\nBut within the last 10 years, within 15 years, world tones have changed. The voices of economic experts have changed and they started saying that Bhai was telling us what BRICS-Brix was saying, who were thinking. But it seems that \"I\" in BRICS is rolling, \"I\" is going down, worrying all the way that if the dream which BRICs saw for the entire world economy, it is now rolling is. Why? Because \"I\" rolled.\nBut in the past year, the voices of the world have changed, not the world's view has changed. The world is now beginning to think that BRICS will not be possible without \"I\" in BRICS. Whether there are institutions like Global Bank, IMF, Rating Agency, Moody's - in the last 2-3 months, in different firms, in different folks, one voice says that India is the world Economy is the fastest growing economy. Fastest Growing Economy of the World Is the century of Asia. We thought that we would be or will not be anywhere in Asia? But today Asia thinks that the way India is standing up today, 21st Century will be a century of Asia.\nOne thing is certain that you have come from India, have come in the form of Professionals - no more than five years have come before, no one will come ten years ago - there is not even a very large number of Indian community in Korea. There are very few numbers. Most people will know each other by name, they will know from the village, there is a small family so close. But in the enthusiasm of this small family, I think that you have seen in Korea that you have seen the Revolution of Technology in Korea, you also want to be like that in India. Do not want to want that? Should not that be? How would you be without? Your experience, your knowledge, whatever you have got here, will be associated with India, the convenience of moving forward to India will increase.\nThere was a time when people used to say - I do not know what sin has committed in the past life, they were born in India, this is a country! This is no government! These are some people! Let's go, go away somewhere else. And people would have gone, in some years we also saw these people of the industrious people say that now we should not do business here, now we have to stay here. And most people even put one leg out. I do not go into the reasons. Nor do I want to make any political commentary. But it is the truth of the earth that there was a disappointment among the people, the resentment was also there. And today I can say with confidence that dignitaries from different life spheres, why not be big Scientists, how much there is earnings in foreign countries, even if there is less earnings, still eager to return to India today. You are getting joyful.\nRight now I was speaking so there was a voice from there that we are ready to come. The mood that has changed, the mood swings have changed. And finally what the country would be! The government is not the country, Modi is not the country, it is only the hundred and fifty million people who are Hindustan. And you imagine, we are those people who have come here from India in this generation. Still our family is there That village, that farm, that valley, those streets, those flats, that university, that man, that friend - everything is in front. Friendship is still on Twitter, Facebook. But what is the relationship?\nImagine, a few years ago, a girl got married to Ayodhya and came to Korea. The centuries have passed. Sunrata got married here with Kim Suro. The daughter of Ayodhya's Raj Gharana came to marry, came centuries ago And still there are many families in Korea, who write Kim with their names. And all of them who are in lakhs of people, they all live by the pride of having their relationship with India. If a girl came here centuries ago, the princess's mother got married, and in those centuries the family grew, growing, growing. And after centuries, all the people associated with Kim Sarnam feel their friendship with India. We have just arrived. And therefore our Bharat Bhakti sentiment, India's development concerns. If something bad happens to you in India, then you will be equally worried as it would be to see the direct incident. This is what is the power which is the power.\nSometimes there are many things that we do not see as we live there. But you see it from here. If we sit in the cricket stadium and see the match, then there is not much attention to which the ball went, and on which side the player stood. But whoever sat in the house sitting on TV, everyone knows that where he stands, where did he go, how did he go? So, you know what is happening in India, how it is happening, sitting away from it, everything is well known. And today the Communication world has changed so much that you have the news of moments, news of every corner. Technology has changed the era. India has chosen the path of its development. And we are going to believe that you should have seen here that when you were in Hindustan, then your thinking, and after coming to Korea, your thinking - a great change has come. If there have been, there will be entanglements in those issues, and should come here to meditate - everyone has problems. Did 30 years ago do not have problems with Korea? Did the countries which were free before 30-40 years ago did not have problems? The problem was for everybody but when the country decided, the solution to those problems and the courage to go on that path, the problems were also solved and the new heights of development could also be achieved.\nToday China goes ahead with such a fast speed, what is the reason? Continuous for 30 years His growth was around 10 percent, 9 percent -10 percent. This development changed the whole life of China, the whole thinking. Korea! In 30-35 years, there is a changed country. And that's why I believe this. I know To bring this thing to the hundred and fifty million people, connecting everyone for this work, that work is difficult. But anyway I am not one of those people who draw a streak on butter. I know how to fix the stone.\nI see her herbs, and the name of the herb that I have been carrying with herbs - the development The solution to all our problems is development. To get education from the poorest of the poor family, to bring health facilities to the poor from the poor family, to have a poor home to live poor from the poor - so it will not be possible without development. And that's why we have kept the highest attention center for development. And the result of this is that within a year, we have emerged as the world's fastest growing nation. And to develop is to make only bigger roads, make buildings, this is not my thinking. I want to change the life of a normal human being - Quality of Life\nNow as I have been lying behind, brother should have toilet in every house. What is the reason that in our 21st century, our mothers and sisters have to go to the open to read for defecation? What does it look like? So I have felt behind it, trying and explaining to everyone, I urge everyone to have toilet in your house and the countrymen understand. DeshGujarat will take place. But work is not that difficult. The work that has not happened for centuries, it is difficult to work, is not it? But should not do that? Should not do that? Should not be 100 percent or not, should not it? I have just taken this mantra and gone guys.\nWe have a lot of work, difficult, can not get political advantage, so do not do that, the country can not bear that day now. The young man of the country is not ready to bear these things. He says that put politics in front and bring some changes, this country wants and we are engaged in that direction. In every field, we have to overcome new heights of development, have to make policy decisions and also to improve the systems. In some things we have become habitual in the habit of people. I do not see the fault of any government in it. All of us, we are 125 million people including Narendra Modi, we all are responsible. Sometimes we are asked to start the program late - this is Indian Time. What is the language, what do you say for your country? We do not even know this, have become habituated. Late in government office. No, what's in it, Late has to come. I was surprised when I became the Prime Minister, the news did not come to the notice of what Modi was doing, the news came that the news was coming that all the people started to go on time in the office. Offices are open from time to time. The officers are going in office for a long time. It takes a moment to read these news and think that, if the government changed, the attitude changed too, the environment also changed, but I had pain after reading this news. Should the government employee go to office or should not go on time? Now this is a news item? Go home this afternoon and feed the mother on time, tasting good food, tweet that mother gave good food! This is comfortable. We have lost these instincts.\nWe have tried that we do not have the country's interest in our every step, I am coming to work for the country, or are not coming. I even throw a garbage in there, meaning I work against the will of the country. Even my devotion is awakening that does not wake up. It is my attempt to create this devotion among the hundred and fifty million people. If we do this then then there are no government, no one, no one can stop Hindustan going forward, guys. India has its own global responsibility. The human race, which is surrounded by crises today, the ability to show the path to India is in contemplation, India is in the spirit of India, it is in India's culture, it is in India's culture, it is necessary that Indians have faith in him.\nHow any country deals with its neighbors, how it relates to neighbors, it is the most important. When we have discussions of foreign policy, what happens first? At any time they used to be Diplomatic Relations and those big words Then trade and commerce, the same thing has come. Brothers and Sisters, we are choosing a new path. And the way the true identity of India is, we have not done anything new, and that is the path - of humanity. By putting humanity in the center point, putting human values ​​in the center, can we associate ourselves with the world? These days the discussion of the Revival of SAARC countries is being discussed, the soul is coming in the concept of the SAARC concept, it is being discussed. And India is carrying out its obligation. Who are these SAARC countries - Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Nepal, Bhutan, Pakistan, Maldives, India - these are the countries. We have added these countries on the basis of humanity. Has given priority to sensitization.\nFive Indian fishermen were sentenced to death inside Sri Lanka. Whatever the Government of India has had in connection with the Raj-bhaya connection, he used his extensively and based on the issue of humanity and the five fishermen were brought back alive. Sri Lanka is an independent country, they could hang on hanging, their law had decided. But sometimes humanity also has a power.\nMaldives Our neighboring country in SAARC. If there is a crisis of drinking water then water is drunk by water purification from the technology. One day in his entire country, his drinking water plant was in crisis, it was a huge loss. Citizens of a country did not have drinking water. The President of the Maldives has sent us a message, Sir, that is a lot of trouble. We said that you do not worry. The aircraft sent the water to the country, the steamer was turned on the second day, and until the plant started, a single Maldivian citizen could not be thirsty.\nOur inspiration was humanity at the center of the royal family relations. We have kept humanity in the center. A young man from India was working as a pastor of Christian sect in Afghanistan. करीब-करीब एक साल से आतंकवादी उसको उठाकर ले गये, तालिबान के कब्‍जे में था। जिंदा है या मर गया, कुछ पता नहीं चला। लेकिन हम लगे रहे थे, मानवता का काम था। Father Prem, जिसको तालिबान के लोगों ने उठा लिया था, उसको वापस लाना है। अफगानिस्‍तान और भारत के राज द्वारी संबंधों में मानवता का वो तत्‍व था। एक साल के बाद तालिबान के हाथ में से उस फादर प्रेम को वापस लाये और उसके मां-बाप को सुपुर्द कर दिया।\nबांग्‍लादेश। जिस दिन से बांग्‍लादेश का जन्‍म हुआ, एक सीमा विवाद का भी जन्‍म हो गया। 41 साल से उस समस्‍या का समाधान नहीं हो रहा था। आशंकाओं के बीज बोये जाते थे, सरकारें बदलती रहती थीं, समस्‍या खड़ी रहती थी, हमने एक साल के भीतर-भीतर बांग्‍लादेश और भारत के सीमा-विवाद को समाप्‍त कर दिया। और मैं देश के सभी राजनीतिक दलों का अभिनंदन करता हूं, सभी राजनीतिक दलों का! पहली बार हिंदुस्‍तान की lower house और upper house दोनों ने... अगले कार्यक्रम के लिए सूचना आ गई है। Lower house और upper house दोनों ने संपूर्ण सहमति से... एक भी वोट against में नहीं गया... पूर्ण बहुमत से निर्णय किया, संपूर्ण बहुमत से, सर्वसम्मति से। केंद्र बिंदु? मानवता।\nअभी नेपाल में भूकंप आया और नेपाल के प्रधानमंत्री ने publicly कहा। और मैं उनका बड़पन्‍न मानता हूं, उन्‍होंने publicly कहा... नेपाल के प्रधान मंत्री publicly कहे कि नेपाल में भूकंप आया, ये मुझे मोदी के टि्वटर से पता चला। ये उन्‍होंने publicly कहा और जिस तेज गति से भारत नेपाल के आंसू पोंछने के लिए दौड़ पड़ा। और नेपाल पे संकट बहुत बड़ा आया है। मैं गुजरात में जन्‍मा हूं, मैंने गुजरात के भूकंप को देखा है, मुझे मालूम है कि भूकंप की त्रासदी कितनी भयंकर होती है। लेकिन भारत नेपाल के साथ कंधे से कंधा मिला करके खड़ा हो गया है। हमारे राज द्वारी संबंधों के केंद्र बिंदु में है मानवता।\nयमन में हमारे चार हजार भारतीय फंसे हुए थे, बमबारी हो रही थी, चारों तरफ मौत का साया था, हिंदुस्‍तान के नागरिक बच पाएंगे या नहीं ये सबकी शंका थी। हमने साहस किया, राज द्वारी संबंधों का उपयोग किया, बमबारी के बीच में दो घंटे बमबारी रोकने के लिए हम समझा पाये और इतने में हम विमान ले ले करके चार हजार लोगों को बाहर लाये। चार हजार लोगों को लाये, उसमें 48 देशों के लोगों को लाये थे। अमेरिका ने अपने नागरिकों को सूचना दी थी कि आप फंस गये हो तो आप भारत सरकार से संपर्क करो, वो बचा पाएगी आपको।\nनेपाल में 50 से अधिक देशों के लोग फंसे हुए थे, दुनिया के सभी देशों ने दिल्‍ली में भारत सरकार से संपर्क किया और भाईयों और बहनों नेपाल से भी 50 से अधिक देशों के नागरिकों को बचा करके बाहर निकालने का काम हमने किया। हमने यमन में से पाकिस्‍तान के नागरिकों को भी बचाया और पाकिस्‍तान ने भी 12 भारतीय नागरिकों को बचाया। बचाया, इतना ही नहीं, special plane से पाकिस्‍तान ने उन नागरिकों को हिंदुस्‍तान छोड़ने की व्‍यवस्‍था भी की। इन सबके केंद्र में, हमारे पड़ोसी देशों के साथ मानवता के अधिष्‍ठान पर हम दुनिया को अपनेआप जोड़ने की कोशिश कर रहे हैं।\nदूसरी तरफ है टेक्‍नोलॉजी। कोरिया जानता है कि टेक्‍नोलॉजी के द्वारा विकास को कितनी नई ऊंचाईयों पर ले जाया जा सकता है। हमारी कोशिश है भारत manufacturing hub बने। हमारी कोशिश है दुनिया के पास जो टेक्‍नोलॉजी है वो टेक्‍नोलॉजी भारत में भी हो और भारत के पास जो Talent है, उसमें नया innovation और research हो ताकि दुनिया को हम कुछ दे सकें। और इसलिए मेक इन इंडिया का मंत्र ले करके मैं पूरे विश्‍व को निमंत्रित कर रहा हूं।\nआप वो नौजवान हैं जो टेक्‍नोलॉजी से जुड़े हुए हैं, जो आधुनिक विज्ञान से जुड़े हुए हैं। आपके पास एक अवसर है, अनुभव पाने का। आप यहां आएं हैं। जितना ज्‍यादा सीख सकते हैं सीखे, जितना ज्‍यादा जान सकते हैं जानिए,आखिर वो किस काम आएगा, मुझे मालूम है! और इसलिए मैं आप सबको, आप सबको विकास के लिए नई ऊचाईयों को पाने के लिए दूर भारत के बाहर रहते हुए भी अपने जीवन को नई ऊचाईयों पर ले जाइये, ये शुभकामना देने आया हूं और मैं आपको विश्‍वास दिलाता हूं। हिन्‍दुस्‍तान - उस पर जितना अधिकार नरेन्‍द्र मोदी का है - उतना ही अधिकार आप सबका है। संकट की घड़ी में हिन्‍दुस्‍तान पासपोर्ट के कलर नहीं देखता है। हमारा खून का रिश्‍ता काफी होता है और इसलिए हिन्‍दुस्‍तान से भले ही आप दूर हों लेकिन वह भारत मां के आर्शीवाद सदा सर्वदा पर बने रहें। ये मैं आपको शुभकामनाएं देता हूं और मैं चाहता हूं आपकी प्रगति, आपका जीवन, आपका आचार-विचार कोरिया में भी भारत के प्रति गौरव बढ़ाने वाला रहेगा और आज मैं।\nमैं अनुभव करता हूं दुनिया में भारत सरकार की कचहरी में बैठे हुए अफसरों से ज्‍यादा, भारत के नागरिक हिन्‍दुस्‍तान का झंडा ऊंचा कर देते हैं। एम्बेसी में बैठे हुए लोगों की संख्‍या तो पांच, दस, पंद्रह, बीस, पचास होती है, लेकिन आप हजारों की तादाद में होते हैं। और आज मैं पहली बार देख रहा हूं कि एम्बेसी और भारतीय समाज कंधे से कंधा मिलाकर काम करने लग गये हैं। ये बहुत बड़ा परिवर्तन आया है। बहुत बड़ा परिवर्तन आया है।\nऔर इसलिए मैं आपको फिर से एक बार कोरिया की धरती पर आपके उत्‍साह और उमंग के लिए बहुत-बहुत आभार व्‍यक्‍त करता हूं, आपने जो मेरा सम्‍मान किया, स्‍वागत किया, ये सम्‍मान स्‍वागत मोदी नाम के एक व्‍यक्ति का नहीं है सवा सौ करोड़ देशवासियों का सम्‍मान है। मैं फिर एक बार आप सबको बहुत-बहुत धन्‍यवाद देता हूं।\nभारत माता की जय, भारत माता की जय, भारत माता की जय।\nThank you."