"\nHello\nLast night I was also in Mongolia. When my Mongolia was scheduled to arrive, I called the phone to Mr. Sri Ravi Shankar, he was in America. He told me that there is a wonderful spiritual consciousness in Mongolia, and you definitely take some time to meet him. If I go back to Mongolia and you went without seeing the people, then perhaps my journey would have been incomplete. The power of our spiritual heritage is such that there is no language, no skin color, no one can wear clothes, no food, no food, but spirituality connects us with the soul and it remains the birth day of birth and birth. .\nSri Sri Ravi Shankar traveled all over the world and met the spiritual consciousness arising from the land of India, with modern colors, with modern decoration, like the new generation of the world, molded in that form. In Mongolia, the message of home \"art of living\" is echoing. Someone could imagine that even a small country in the country of Andaman .. and in such a large stadium, this big masses are present here today. It tells you how your spiritual interest towards India is, how it looks.\nYou have presented Surya Namaskars here today. The whole world is living in mental stress and society is full of unrest. The person should get rid of stress, the society needs peace. This person gets relief from stress and peace comes from brotherhood, yoga is a medium. I was enjoying so much when looking at the sun salute from above. The people of Mongolia dyed in the colors of India's tricolor flag are proudly performing the Surya Namaskar, all the people of the age are performing the Surya Namaskar..and not only do they get together \"Vasundhava Kutumbakam\" .. singing this song .\nI am the first Prime Minister of India who got the privilege of coming to Mongolia and respected the way Mongolia welcomed all day long, it seems that Mongolia has won me.\nI congratulate everyone of Mongolia for such a grand celebration and heartily express my gratitude for honoring me.\nOn June 21, the whole world is celebrating International Yoga Day. I urge all the citizens of Mongolia to collect the Mongolia collectively and the whole world is liberated by the use of yoga, how is liberation through yoga, how is stress discharged by yoga, yoga Let me tell you how peace is established in society, this is my prayer.\nMy very best wishes to all of you, very good luck to Mongolia, very much good luck with the friendship of India and Mongolia. Thanks a lot."