"Your Excellency President of Mongolia,\nYour Excellency Chairman of Great Hural of Mongolia,\nYour Excellency Prime Minister of Mongolia,\nHonourable Members of Parliament,\nHonourable Members of Diplomatic Corp,\nI am happy to visit Mongolia, a country of great people Your country reminds us how beautiful this world is. It is really a great honor. It is a special privilege to do in the 25 th year of democracy in Mongolia. You are the new bright light of democracy in our world\nI am deeply grateful for your generosity in hosting me on a Sunday. I am humbled by the warmth of the welcome and your wonderful hospitality. ; Everything that I see and experience here speaks clearly of unlimited goodwill for India\nI bring the greetings of your 1.25 billion spiritual neighbours. There is no higher form of a relationship; no bonds more sacred than this We are honored that we are in the way\nAs the life of a human being, in the life of a nation, too, some things are as precious as the gift of friendship. So, I would like to say that the people of the people\nIndia and Mongolia are on a significant milestone. We are celebrating sixty years of diplomatic relations But, our ties are timeless in spirit\nAround two thousand years ago, monks from India crossed hard terrain and long distance to spread the message of Lord Buddha in this enchanting land. Many people go to the hot tropics of India.\nCenturies ago, when our horizons and our mobility were limited, the great Mongols united Asia and Europe Their stories of courage, courage and adventure continue to captivate human imagination around the world Their impact on human history has been profound.\nIn the winding course of history, our own cultures, literature and art becomes interconnected. And, it continues to shine in the richness of India's diversity and culture.\nToday Indians and Mongolians are talking about the bonds of hearts and minds. That bond thrives through the monks from Mongolia who comes to India every year for spiritual learning; And, the hundred of others\nIt lives through the work of Kushok Bakula Rinpoche India's Ambassador here from 1990 to 2000. The Pethub Monastery that will be established here.\nIn the popularity of the yoga in Mongolia, we see the unity of our spirit.\nFive decades ago, we were strongly supported with the United Nations as a proud and sovereign nation. In turn, time and again, you have stood in solidarity with us, the United Nations and elsewhere.\nWhile the human bonds have been strengthened, our economic ties have been modest. But, I have no doubt that our relations will progress with every new age. It will draw strength from India's economic growth.\nA year ago, a nation of 1.25 billion people voted for change and progress in the largest democratic election in human history. We have worked with speed, resolve and ambition to fulfill our pledge\nIn less than a year, our growth has rebounded to 7.5% .India has emerged as one of the fastest growing major economies in the world. And, we have the ability to grow even faster\nAt a time when the global economy is weak, the world speaks in a voice that is expected to become the new locomotive for global economic momentum.\nWe are conscious that our challenges are vast across India's immense social and economic diversity. But, we have faith in our good policies and good governance.\nWe draw confidence from the unity of our nation Even more, we get our energy from the aspirations of a young India, with 800 million youth under the age of 35 years. They are interested in their dreams\nSo, as we change the lives of our people, we also create opportunities for the world. And, we have our ability to help our friends. This is the urge of the land of Buddha and Gandhi. This is the instinct of our family.\nAs the Indian economy adds strength to our region and the world, it will also benefit Mongolia\nMongolia's economic growth is also impressive So, our bilateral ties will also grow, despite the distance and demands of geography.\nMongolia's rich mineral resources can fuel our partnership And, I hope that location will not be a constraint on Mongolia's right to choose its partners.\nWe can seize the economic opportunities of the digital world and work together to make it more secure against growing cyber threats. We can use India's expertise in dairy to launch this vast steppes. We can work together to add value to Mongolia's pashmina resources right here. We can create partnerships in affordable modern healthcare in Mongolia. We use our heritage of traditional medicines to improve our country and abroad. As Indians travel abroad more, Mongolia has the opportunity, with its natural and spiritual wealth, to become a major destination for them.\nMore than just trade and investment, our development partnership is a reflection of our shared ideals and vision. I believe that the great form of this partnership is the development of human resources and institutions.\nThis gives a nation its own ability to be the responsibility for its progress. It enhances its independence of choice And, it makes progress more sustainable\nWe are deeply committed to this vision.\nToday, I will lay the foundation stone for the expansion and upgrading of the Atal Bihari Vajpayee Center for Excellence in Information and Communication Technology.\nUnder India's training program, Mongolia is one of our biggest partners. We will increase the ITEC training slots for Mongolia from 150 to 200. We will also establish an India-Mongolia Joint School.\nLater today, I will hand over the equipment that can help cancer in Mongolia. This is the first demonstration of civil nuclear sector.\nFinally, today I am conveyed to Prime Minister dollar Line of credit to develop institutions, infrastructure and human resources in Mongolia\nOur security cooperation is growing We can learn a great deal from each other. The well-known skills of Mongols! We are proud of conducting exercises together. And, I am happy that we have signed agreements today to cooperate more closely on security and cyber security.\nWe have also agreed that India will help establish a cyber security center in Mongolia's defense and security establishment. But, the real strength of our relationship lies in the goodwill between our people and the faith that distances us across unites. It is a power that can do more than just draw our two countries closer. It can help advance peace, stability and prosperity in Asia and the Pacific Region.\nThere was a time when the messengers of Lord Buddha linked Asia with his message of love and compassion. The shifting sands of time have not buried their footprints, because the value of their message never diminishes.\nWherever I have travelled in Asia - from the edge of Pacific to the center of the Indian Ocean; from the sea shores of Southeast Asia to the lofty heights of the Himalaya; from the thick forests of the tropics to the expanse of these steppes - I see thriving monuments and temples dedicated to Lord Buddha.\nThe eight-fold path of Lord Buddha prescribes not just the path to happiness of individuals, but also a guide to the well being of societies and nations. It is a message of kindness, love and compassion for all It is a lesson of deepest respect for human beings and human rights; for faith in peace and non-violence This is a path that tells us to reach the poorest and the poorest in our societies. It is a wisdom that sees the inter-dependence of the universe and the virtue of simplicity. Therefore, it is a path to a sustainable planet.\nIt is the world that is threatened by the man and nature. As in the prosperous West, Asia of growing incomes and aspirations must remember and follow this message. Above all, it is a guide for peace, equality, respect and cooperation between nations, small and large, weak and powerful\nIt is a call for each of us, as individuals and as the nations, to the universal responsibility to mankind and our planet. It inspires us The teachings of Lord Buddha are reflected in the principles of democracy.\nThe path of righteousness is based on freedom of mind, liberty of thought, liberty of action and liberty of speech. These are the foundations of democracy It is defined by the recognition of inter-dependence, acceptance of diversity and belief in co-existence.\nIts essence is the freedom of human beings, faith in dialogue, rule of law, and resolution of differences through peaceful means. So, if we follow the path of the master, it will also be natural to walk on the path of democratic values.\nHere, in Mongolia, we see the union of these two ideals\nI say this to Asia:\nWhatever forms of government is selected, we can still apply the principles of democracy in our engagement with each other.\nWhatever path we have chosen, whatever is the history of our disputes, or the nature of our claims, we are linked by the common spiritual heritage across the vast arc of Asia.\nThe convergence of Buddhism and democracy provides us a path to build a peace and cooperation, harmony and equality.\nThis is a region that has been woken up to its destiny. No region in the world has seen so much progress in the last half century as Asia. No age has seen change on such scale in one generation as our continent\nThis is a region of ancient wisdom and youthful dynamism. It is a continent that is expected to lead the world in the 21st century. Yet, this is also a region that lives on the uneasy edge of uncertainty, of unsettled questions, of unresolved disputes and unforgotten memories.\nAcross Asia's diversity, we also see growing disparity of hope and opportunities. Asia has given much to the world. It is now the responsibility\nSo, now more than our own requirements, I am sure we will able to do the requirements that Asia wants from us and the world has been thinking about us. And I am sure that with our spiritual background, and our extraordinary quality of the mind\nAnd I am sure that the path of righteousness is paved with the freedom of mind, liberty and thought. I am sure that whatever we have decided, and in the widening course of history, our own cultures, literature and art becomes interconnected and it continues to sign in the richness of India's diversity and culture. Today Indians and Mongolians are telling the world that the bonds of hearts and minds have the power to overcome the obstacles of distances.\nThis is a symbol of our friendship and respect for our friendship.\nAs the sapling grows, it will be an emblem of our growing partnership\nIn time, it will also become a symbol of humanism in the world and conservation of our planet.\nI thank you once again Thank you.\nMay happiness be bestowed on all.\nWhen I entered the parliament, I saw its symbol, I found a special connection with this Parliament. The symbol is a lotus You will be happy to know that my party's symbol is too lotus So it is a very special connection with you\nThank you very much"