"Your Excellency Prime Minister Saikhanbileg\nDistinguished members of Mongolian delegation,\nMembers of the media,\nI am happy to visit Mongolia It is a great honor to be the first Prime Minister of India to do so.\nIt is a special privilege to meet on the occasion of two important milestones that unite us - 25 years of democracy in Mongolia and 60 years of diplomatic relations between our two countries.\nI am deeply grateful for your welcome and hospitality that has touched our hearts. You have embraced us with unlimited generosity and warmth of a true friend.\nYour Parliament's decision to host me on a Sunday is a remarkable gesture of honors for India.\nI could not have started a better way. It started with a historic Gandan monastery, where I handed over a sapling of the Mahabodhi Tree. This is a token of friendship from the people of India.\nI am here in respect and appreciation for our timeless kinship You have called your spiritual neighbor and third neighbor. We will always fulfill the responsibility that comes with this honor.\nToday, Mongolia is also an integral part of India's Act East Policy. The destinies of India and Mongolia are closely linked with the future of Asia Pacific Region. You can work together in this region. So, I am also here in commitment to our shared responsibility.\nPrime Minister has spoken about the relationship and our meeting today. I will have the honor of my vision in the Parliament a little later.\nI was very pleased with my discussions with Prime Minister today. We have strong convergence of views on bilateral relations and our regional and international partnership.\nThe agreements that we have These cover economic relations, development partnership, defense and security, and people-to-people contacts.\nWe will take our economic partnership to a new level. Today, I am happy to announce that India will provide a Line of Credit of One Billion US dollar to support\nSupporting development of human resources We reiterated our efforts in Mongolia. India will increase the ITEC training slots for Mongolia from 150 to 200. We will also establish an India-Mongolia Joint School.\n\nLater today I will bring the pleasure to the foundation stone for the expansion and upgrading of the Atal Bihari Vajpayee Center of Excellence for Information and Communication Technology. I will also visit the National Cancer Center to gift Bhabhatron II. It is a state of art nuclear medicine cancer therapy machine, developed and manufactured in India.\nWe attach high attention to our security cooperation. We will continue to participate in each other's defense. The agreements today will deepen our cooperation in border security and cyber security Cooperation between National Security Councils will provide a strategic framework for cooperation. We have also agreed that India will help establish a cyber security center in Mongolia's defense and security establishment.\nOur business and investment relations are modest We recognize that there are physical limitations. But, we agreed that the new opportunities There is a huge potential in civil nuclear sector, mining, healthcare, pharmaceuticals and dairy. We should also explore the potentials of using digital technologies to expand our economic relations.\nI conveyed to Prime Minister that we greatly value our international partnership, which is based on our friendship, shared spiritual heritage and democratic values These areas are also available in our region.\nI conveyed India's sincere appreciation for Mongolia's strong support for United Nations Security Council of India's permanent membership.\nIn a reflection of our commitment to deepen our relationship, we have decided to upgrade our Comprehensive Partnership to 'Strategic Partnership'. We also agreed to renew our Treaty of Friendly Relations and Cooperation.\nSo, at a significant milestone in our relationship, we are starting a new era in our partnership.\nI am looking forward to the rest of my stay in Mongolia. Thank you."