"\nBharat Mata Ki Jai, Bharat Mata Ki Jai\nHello! It will be a big surprise for all those Indians who are living outside of India and Hindustan today, in such a large quantity in China ... how time is changing, what time is changing rapidly. Anyone could imagine that Indian citizens in China are living the life of love, which is seeing the world today?\nToday is 16th May. Just one year ago on May 16, 2014, this is not a two-and-a-half hour time difference, it has troubled you the most. Waking up very soon, while people in India fell asleep, you started asking \"what did the result come?\" There was still the sun rise in India. But you ... you were upset that the sun will rise in India soon, and the news will get you right away. Was not that so? To know the results of the election of Hindustan, you knew that there was a difference of two and a half hours, yet had they become ready or did not wake up in the morning? If the news came late, were they troubled or not?\nPeople from some part of the world were not sleeping overnight and at that time the situation in which the elections were held in India was the result of which the elections were held. On May 16, a year ago, the same voice was being heard from all over the world - \"Sad day dat ray bhaiya, sad dhane rah bay rai bheyaa\".\nIf you were living abroad, how much time did you spend? Hindustan? It was like this - from India, come on, let's go. Was it that did not happen? Was anyone willing to ask? Was anyone ready to listen? Was anyone willing to see? Within a year-within you, you can talk to the world with eyes and eyes, or can not you? Does the world see you respectfully or not? Do you feel proud of India's progress itself or not?\nBrothers and sisters, Janata Janata is the form of God. This is the form of Paramatma in public. The public has a third eye of the jarnadan. The mass is fantastic intellectualization. And he also takes the step of taking the form of \"Sarvjan Hishay, Sarvajanik Smokha\" and leaving his immediate personal interests. Koti-Kotti people of India introduced a collective power, the Koti-Kotti people of India introduced the collective will power, the Koti-Kotti people introduced a collective resolution power. And hundred and fifty million people were determined to change their destiny. And then after going to the polling booth, we made such a big decision by pressing the button.\nBut no one can imagine what? And what was the propaganda that was propagated towards me in the election. Who knows Modi? Who knows outside of Gujarat? Well, his car runs in Gujarat, who knows? Did not say that? Everyone used to say this And when it came to foreigners, \"Hey Bhai, abroad, he does not understand anything, what will he do?\" Did you hear this discussion? Did you hear that had not heard? By the way my criticism was not, she was right, she was speaking the truth. Because I did not have much to go out of Gujarat, I had no identity. And outside India, the question does not arise. But criticism was right, the apprehension was not correct.\nThere are many such incidents in the world and India has introduced its sense of identity. Otherwise seeing my Bio-data will someone tell me the Prime Minister? What will make? If you want to buy shares in your company, will you? No man, this tea is not worth the tea! Is not the tea seller and the prime minister in the railway compartment? I do not like anyone seeing my Bio-data. But it is the power of the people of India, the power of the constitution of India, the blessings of Dr. Baba Saheb Ambedkar, and the determination power of the people of India is that the son of a poor mother, even if devoted to society When the decision comes out, the Janata is blessed by the people.\nToday, after a year of May 16, I bow my head in front of this class of people. I salute them, bow down to them. And once again today, on 16th May, which I had told from the land of Ahmedabad last time, had said to the coast of Sabarmati, I repeat today - though politicians are more expert in forgetting things. Their efforts are that people are good people forget. Neither do I want to forget, nor do I want to forget. Because these are the things that inspire the work. Gives the power to give life. And I said at that time that the people of the country who have given me the responsibility, I will not lack any diligence. Did not say that was said? Have taken a day off also? What is celebrating vacation? What am I doing? All the time God gave the time, the power given it, I have followed it honestly or not? Have not done that?\nI said the second I am new, I do not have the experience, but I will do my best to learn everything. Am I not doing that? Do not I try to learn from everyone? Want to learn from our critics or do not want to? Do I try to learn from what is happening in the world, or do not I? Like a student, I try to welcome every good thing with open mind, and I try to apply for the country.\nI said the third thing and I said the third thing that because of the inferiority of the experience, maybe I may be wrong, but I will not do any wrongdoing with bad intentions.\nAnd today, on May 16, 2015, when I am speaking from China's land, away from Hindustan, I am telling this satisfaction that in the whole year, no one has accused us on the grounds that we have made a vow of selfishness There is no such allegation from any wrong move. Even today, I have a small India in front of Shanghai. Every tale of India is present here. Probably, I did not even think when coming to the stage, I did not even think that after 16 years, after one year, I will get such an opportunity, the opportunity today is that of the smallest India I have, the representatives of every state are here. Today I have come to ask you for blessings, you bless me that we have successfully passed the steps towards India's development journey, we have successfully crossed it. You bless us, even in the unknown ... I am asking this blessing for you because it is my conviction - the Janata Janardan is the form of God. And so I want blessings. You bless me, there should be no mistake with me, so that there is no harm to my country. Give me both hands up Give me both hands up Your blessings are my greatest strength, very big strength.\nThis is my last event in China's siblings. Three days into my journey in China, today I will be away from here, from this program immediately for Mongolia. You will celebrate tomorrow on Sunday, I will work in Mongolia. Anyone can imagine that on Sunday on Sunday, Mongolia called a session of its parliament and a person in India on Sunday's holiday ... the time has changed, the guys have changed, the time has changed.\nIn China's history, I believe this journey will be seen as a new border mark. Scholars of global relations are closely watching this journey. And I also understand its greatness. For the first time in China's history, the President of China welcomes the leader of another country to another city outside Beijing, this is the first time in China's history. I congratulate with the heart of the President of China, and thank him that he did not come to Beijing in Beijing and welcomed India's delegation. The countrymen, this welcome was not of Narendra Modi, the reception was not with the delegation that came with me, this welcome was of hundred and fifty million people. And whoever knows this, they are surprised that the attitude of respect to India in China is the beginning of a strong foundation in itself, which will be the close relationship between India and China in the coming days. This is the festival of strong foundation.\nIndia's friendship with China, what did she get from China, what India got - that weighing from that scales will not work. China and India are one-third of the world's population, one-third On one hand, the whole world and on one hand both of us. Have we ever recognized this power? We only forgot, we should say that we are a poor country, leave it man. The time has changed Friends And so China and India can not only solve their problems, but they can also liberate the world from many disasters.\nTen years ago, 15 years ago, 20 years ago, no one could think that anybody would ever ask the developing countries on the map of the world? The word \"Developing country\" was also used because it was backward that did not look good. And so the word \"world of development\" came into the world, but in the second sense they believed that there are people who are gone, backward people.\nBut today a new air on the map of the world, time has also changed there. The whole world is watching that developing countries, especially China and India, are able to bring together a new world of excitement, new excitement, new momentum. And India has to carry out this responsibility and I assure you the people of India, Hindustan is preparing for it all. We have a lot to give to the world.\nThe way terrorism is the enemy of humanity. On the day when innocent people are killed, the blood of each other is thirsty, there is no land in the world which is not blood-patch due to terrorism. Wounded with wounds, riddled with bullets, who will wear the ointment of the world? Who will trust the life of this crisis? He can give it, whose ancestors gave the mantra of Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam. The whole world is a family, we all are brothers, the language will be different, the size of someone's eye will be one, the size of someone's nose will be one, the color of someone's skin will be one, the hair color of one's hair will be one but all of us - Vasudhaiva family Thousands of years ago our ancestors considered the entire world as a family, this power is in our veins, in our DNA. And let us introduce the world to it, realize the world, to get the world out of the crisis, we also go with the finger and expect it from India. And I say, Hindustan is getting ready for it.\nThe whole world is dumped in another concern. All are far away from the same discussion - Global warming, Climate change, Nature's crisis. This situation has not been created by anybody else, this situation has been created by a person, if the situation is created by the person, then the person can also deliver liberation from them. And he will have to love nature. We are the people in all the world, for centuries, when there was no crisis on nature, there was no crisis in trees and plants, there was no carbon dioxide in the air, the water was not dirty, everything was good, in spite of our long-standing sage -Munis told us, taught to love nature. And when we used to put the foot down from the bed in our childhood, the mother used to say, \"Look, the son is up in the morning to keep the feet on the floor on the ground, neither do the apology of the mother of the earth.\" None of you , Whose mother is not told this in childhood. Today those who are discussing global warming know that in my veins this sense is that the earth is my mother. This earth is my mother, as the son of her protective mother, the mother is my responsibility, the same is for my Mother Mother, it has been taught to us. Not only this, it was taught in childhood that the whole universe is not your whole family, it has been taught that the whole universe is your family. In our childhood we taught our mother that \"Look, son, this is a donation, it is your maternal uncle.\" Did not say that? \"This is sun, it's your grandfather\", he does not heal. The whole Brahmand has his family, the land on which the imagination has come from, to avoid global warming, there can be no better way to love nature and we are the people who said, Exploitation of nature is a We are allowed to exploit the nature of nature, exploitation of nature is not allowed. \"Milking of nature\" - We can not take more than this.\nToday, the great elements which are rich in knowledge for the world to get rid of problems are rich in the great cultural heritage, we have forgotten ourselves, once we know our power, we will go in that direction, the power And the power to reconcile the whole world in us will be born in us.\nIndia is moving forward towards a new role and it has started accepting that role. I have met the chief of more than 50 important states of the world in the last one year. Sometimes I can understand the criticism of doing less work. I can understand the criticism of someone living, sleeping, not working. But my bad luck is that I work more, it is criticized. \"Why did Modi go to so many countries? Why do you get so many people? If you have more work, more power, if it is a crime, then it is acceptable to do this crime for the hundred and fifty million people. Because my resolve is, every moment of my time, every particle of my body, is for just and only 500 million people.\nAnd I believe, even if I have to sow whatever is sown in a year, should I have the time or not? What would people say if I did the same job in the fifth year? \"Oh man, this is not going to be living, I do not know what will happen after the election, how will that be?\" The world believes in me because it is the first year of the government with a full majority and for 30 years in Hindustan There was no government of absolute majority, due to which the world did not have faith in India. जिन लोगों को लगता है कि मोदी एक साल में इतना सारा क्यों किया, मोदी ने शरीर से भले ही एक साल में किया हो लेकिन दरअसल मोदी ने 30 साल के पुराने काम को पूरा करने का प्रयास किया है।\nआज देखिए, चीन में कैसा बदलाव आया है, आमतौर पर शासन व्यवस्था में protocol होते हैं, कार्यक्रम होते हैं। लेकिन कोई देश अपनी युवा पीढ़ी को दूसरे देश के नेता से जब मिलवाता है तब उसका अर्थ बदल जाता है। कोई देश अपने देश के राजनेताओं से मिलवाए, अपने देश के उद्योगकारों को मिलवाए, इसका एक मूल्य है। लेकिन कोई देश अपने देश की युवा पीढ़ी को किसी से मिलवाता है, इसका मतलब ये हुआ कि उस देश को समझ है कि भविष्य के लिए पूंजी निवेश कहां करना चाहिए और ये पूंजी निवेश dollar, pound वाला नहीं है, ये पूंजी निवेश अपनी युवा पीढ़ी को वो तैयार कर रहे हैं, भारत की तरफ देखने का नजरिया कैसा हो। और इसलिए चीन के मेरे तीन दिन के प्रवास में दो Universities में जाकर के विद्यार्थियों को मिलने का कार्यक्रम, ये अपने आप में मेरी पूरी यात्रा का सबसे अद्भुत कार्यक्रम मैं मानता हूं, जहां मुझे युवा पीढ़ी से मिलने दिया गया है। युवा पीढ़ी से मुझे बातचीत करने का अवसर मिला है और चीन की युवा पीढ़ी अगर भारत को जान ले तो फिर पूछना ही क्या है! कहीं रूकना नहीं होगा! और मैं, मेरी यात्रा में जो शियान गया, शायद यहां बहुत कम लोगों को मालूम होगा। मैं बता दूं आपको, यहां कोई समय सीमा है क्या? आपकी तो कल छुट्टी है, मुझे नहीं है।\nदेखिए, शियान का जो मेरा कार्यक्रम बना, उसकी बड़ी एक विशेषता है। हम लोग सब बचपन में पढ़ते थे इतिहास कि ह्येन सांग नाम का एक Philosopher आया था हिंदुस्तान, China से और भारत भ्रमण किया था और उसने बहुत कुछ लिखा था, दार्शनिक थे। मेरा जन्म जिस गांव में हुआ है, महेसाना जिला में वडनगर में पैदा हुआ था, गुजरात में, तो ह्येन सांग ने जो लिखा है, उसमें उसने मेरे गांव का वर्णन लिखा है। और वो वहां जाकर के रहे थे और हम समान्य रूप से सोचते हैं कि भगवान बुद्ध Eastern part of India में थे। बिहार और उस क्षेत्र के पास। लेकिन ह्येन सांग ने लिखा है कि भगवान बुद्ध का प्रभाव Western India में भी उतना ही था। और उन्होंने लिखा था कि वडनगर में, जो कि मेरा जन्म स्थान है, वहां पर बौद्ध भिक्षुओं की शिक्षा-दीक्षा के लिए एक बड़ा educational institute था, हजारों बालकों के रहने का hostel था, वो उसने लिखा है कि मैंने देखा वहां, वो भी काफी समय वहां रहे थे। जब मैं मुख्यमंत्री बना तो मुझे मन में विचार आया कि भई ह्येन सांग लिखकर के गए हैं तो जरा देखें तो क्या है। तो मैंने सरकार को कहा कि जरा खुदाई करो भाई। अब कोई अपने यहां खुदाई करवाए, क्यों करेगा? लेकिन मैं ऐसा ही हूं, मैंने खुदाई करवा दी और आश्चर्य है कि मेरे गांव में से वो सारी चीजें मिलीं खुदाई करने से, वो hostels मिले हैं, सारी चीजें ध्यान में आईं, ह्येन सांग ने जो लिखा है सब।\nजब मैं चुनाव जीत के आया और राष्ट्रपति जी का जब मुझे टेलीफोन आया तो उन्होंने टेलीफोन के अंदर इस बात का उल्लेख किया है, उन्होंने बराबर अध्ययन करके रखा था कि मोदी आखिर चीज क्या है। और उन्होंने मुझे फोन पर मेरे जन्म स्थान का वर्णन किया। मुझे बड़ा आश्चर्य और आनंद भी हुआ। बाद में वो भारत आए तो उनकी इच्छा थी मेरे गांव जाने की लेकिन वो गुजरात आए, गांव तक तो नहीं जा पाए थे क्योंकि वो अहमदाबाद से 80-90 किलोमीटर दूर है, समय का आभाव था। लेकिन उन्होंने मुझे एक और बात बताई है। उन्होंने कहा, तुम्हें मालूम है? मैंने कहा क्या? बोले ह्येन सांग जो हिंदुस्तान में रहे, तुम्हारे गांव में रहे औऱ वहां से जब वो वापिस आए तो वे मेरे गांव में आए थे, शियान में आए थे। और वहां पर एक बहुत बड़ा बुद्ध मंदिर बना हुआ है और कल वो मुझे वहां ले गए और ले जाकर के ह्येन सांग की जो लिखी हुई किताब थी, वो मुझे दिखाई और उसमें वो उन्होंने निकालकर के रखा था कि देखो ये तुम्हारे गांव का नाम है, चीनी भाषा में लिखा हुआ था और ये तुम्हारे गांव का वर्णन है।\nदो देशों के मुखिया इतनी आत्मीयता, इतनी निकटता, इतना भाईचारा, ये अपने आप में जो परंपरागत रूप से वैश्विक संबंधों की चर्चा होती है, उससे plus one है और ये plus one समझने के लिए कइय़ों को अभी समय लगेगा। और मैं मानता हूं कि मानवजाति के कल्याण के लिए चीन और भारत का एक विशेष दायित्व है, चीन और भारत ने, मानवजाति के इस दायितव को निभाने के लिए अपनों को भी सजग करना पडेगा और कंधे से कंधे मिलाकर के चलना भी पड़ेगा।\nआप लोग यहां रहते हैं, आप यहां आए नहीं थे, उसके पहले चीन की विषय में आपकी धारणाएं क्या-क्या थीं? कैसा सोचते थे? पता नहीं वो क्या खाते हैं? पता नहीं वो क्या पीते होंगे? यहां आने के बाद धारणा बदली की नहीं बदली? और मैं मानता हूं कि आप लोग इस काम को एक बहुत बड़ी सेवा करके कर सकते हो। चीन के लोगों में भारत के प्रति जिज्ञासा है, उत्सुकता है। लेकिन उस उत्सकुता को, जिज्ञासा को, हकीकत में बदलने का काम न नरेंद्र मोदी कर सकता है, न यहां की Embassy कर सकती है, न यहां के ambassador कर सकते हैं। अगर वो उत्तम से उत्तम काम कर सकता है तो मेरे देश का नागरिक कर सकता है, आप लोग कर सकते हो। आप भारत का सही चित्र, हर चीनी नागरिक में कैसे पहुंचाए, उसकी जो जिज्ञासा है उसको, हमारी शक्ति का परिचय कैसे कराया जाए, हमारी सांस्कृतिक विरासत परिचय का कैसा कराया जाए।\nऔर दुनिया को इन बातों का आश्चर्य होता है, IT के माध्यम से, विश्व में भारत की पहचान बनाने में, हमारे professional 20-22 साल के नौजवानों ने बहुत बड़ा कमाल का काम किया है। सारी दुनिया को अजूबा हुआ कि ये हिंदुस्तान के पास talent है! और अभी जब Mars mission सफलतापूर्वक पार किया, मंगलयान पर भारत के युवकों को जो सफलता मिली है उसके कारण विश्व हमारी युवा शक्ति, talent के प्रति आकर्षित हुआ है। लेकिन समय की मांग है, भारत के नागरिक चीन को अधिकतम समझें, चीन के नागरिकों को समझें और चीन के लोग अधिकतम भारत को समझें, भारत के नागरिकों को समझें। चीन के लोग जितनी संख्या में हिंदुस्तान में रहते हैं, उससे ज्यादा संख्या में भारतीय लोग चीन में रहते हैं। और इसलिए भारतीय नागरिकों की जिम्मेवारी ज्यादा है। हम दोनों को जोड़ने के लिए हजारों वर्ष की सांस्कृतिक विरासत है, हम अलग नहीं रह सकते, जितना people to people contact बढ़ेगा, उतनी हमारी ताकत बढ़ेगी। राज व्यवस्था, शासन व्यवस्था, शासक उनका एक दायरा अलग है लेकिन people to people contact का दायरा अलग है, उसकी ताकत अलग है। और मैं उस ताकत को पहचानता हूं हमें उस ताकत को जोड़ना है, उसे जानना भी है, जोड़ना भी है।\nआज पूरे विश्व में tourism का बड़ी ही बोलबाला है, सामान्य व्यक्ति भी दुनिया के दो-चार देश तो ऐसे ही देखने चला जाता है। भारत में tourism के लिए बहुत संभावनाएं हैं। दुनिया में tourism का three trillion का business है, छोटा नहीं है। हम भारत के नागरिक के नाते, हम यहां जो लोग काम करते हैं, हम कोई बड़े उद्योगकार नहीं हैं, हम professionals हैं। अच्छी जिंदगी जी सकते हैं, अपने बच्चों को अच्छी पढ़ाई करा सकते हैं। लेकिन हमको हिंदुस्तान में जाकर के 200-500-1000 करोड़ का कारखाना नहीं लगा सकते हैं क्योंकि हम उसी background से यहां पहुंचे हैं। तो क्या देश की सेवा करने के रास्ते बंद हो गए क्या? नहीं हुए हैं। ज्यादा नहीं आप सिर्फ हर साल पांच चीनी नागरिकों को हिंदुस्तान देखने के लिए धक्का मारो, बस। उनको कहो “चलो भई अपना गांव दिखाता हूं, हमारे यहां शादी है, देखो कैसे होता है।“\nआप कल्पना कर सकते हैं कि अकेले भारतीयों के द्वारा चीन की कितनी बड़ी मात्रा में यात्री आ सकते हैं अगर एक ह्येन सांग 1400 साल पहले आने के बाद, एशिया के अंदर चीन और भारत को जोड़ देता है तो आप तो हजारों की तादाद में हैं, लाखों लोगों को ले जा सकते हैं, क्या कमाल कर सकते हैं! भारत का tourism तो बढ़ेगा ही बढ़ेगा लेकिन चीन में भारत को समझने की एक नई दृष्टि बनेगी, नया अनुभव मिलेगा। और हम जितनी मात्रा में... क्योंकि अगर हम हमारी विरासत पर गर्व न करें, हमारी शक्ति पर गर्व न करें तो दुनिया में कोई नहीं करेगा। कोई मां मौहल्ले में अपने बेटे को दिन-रात डांटती रहे, कहीं भी खड़ा है, मां आकर डांट दे, कहीं खेल रहा है तो मां आकर के डांट दे, तो मौहल्ले के बच्चे, उस बच्चे को कभी स्वीकार करेंगे क्या? स्वीकार करेंगे क्या? जिस बच्चे को उसकी मां ही दिन-रात डांटती है, उस बच्चे को दोस्त लोग भी स्वीकार नहीं करते हैं। दुनिया भी हमें तब स्वीकार करेगी, जब हम खुद भी तो अपने देश का गौरव गान करना शुरू करेंगे।\nहम ही अगर हमारे देश को कोसते रहेंगे, हम तो ऐसे हैं, हम तो वैसे हैं, हमारा तो ऐसा था, अरे छोड़ो यार, देश ऐसे नहीं चलता, दोस्तों। हर समाज की अपनी कमियां होती हैं, हर समाज की अपनी कठिनाइयां होती हैं, हर देश की अपनी मुसीबतें होती हैं लेकिन हर कोई आगे तब बढ़ते हैं, जिसके अंदर आगे बढ़ने का माजा होता है और वो माजा हमारे में है, सवा सौ करोड़ देशवासियों में है। और इसलिए मेरे भाईयों-बहनों चीन में रहते हुए, चीनी भाषा को भी सीखने का प्रयास करते ही होंगे, क्योंकि एशिया की सदी है, 21वीं सदी है, मान के चलो। इसमें कोई dispute नहीं है दुनिया में, सारी दुनिया मानती है कि 21वीं सदी, एशिया की सदी है तो फिर तो यहीं कि भाषाएं ही चलने वाली हैं, उन भाषाओं के माध्यम से भी हम अपनी भूमिका अदा कर सकते हैं, एक नई ताकत को संजो सकते हैं।\nआप देखिए एक साल के अंदर चाहे World Bank हो, IMF हो, दुनिया की कोई भी रेटिंग एजेंसी हो -एक स्वर से दुनिया ने क्या कहा है? भारत का सात प्रतिशत से भी ज्यादा growth. सारी दुनिया कह रही है कि इंडिया आज विश्व का सबसे तेज गति से आगे बढ़ने वाला देश है। यह मैं नहीं कह रहा हूं अंतर्राष्ट्रीय संस्थाएं कह रही हैं, जिनकी इस प्रकार के शब्दों की ताकत होती है। एक साल के भीतर-भीतर, “छोड़ो यार, डूब गए, कुछ होगा नहीं, अरे भगवान बचाए। पता नहीं पिछले जन्म में क्या पाप किए कि हम हिंदुस्तान में पैदा हुए।“ यही जो मनोभाव था उसमें से आज दुनिया कह रही है कि विश्व का सबसे तेज गति से कोई आगे बढ़ने वाला देश है, उस देश का नाम हिंदुस्तान है, मेरे देशवासियों!\nआखिरकर 30 साल में China कैसे बदला? रातो-रात नहीं बदला 30 साल लगे हैं और 30 साल तक उनका विकास दर दुनिया में सबसे तेज गति से था। उस growth का परिणाम था कि चीन आज नई ऊंचाईयों पर अपने आप को ले गया। भारत को भी विकास दर को आगे बढा़ना होगा। भारत को भी आर्थिक गतिविधियों को आगे बढ़ाना होगा। भारत को Technology में आगे बढ़ना होगा। भारत को Research \u0026 Analysis में आगे बढ़ना पड़ेगा और एक बार इस नये युग की ओर हम आगे बढ़ेंगे हम दुनिया को बहुत कुछ दे पाएंगे। इस विश्वास के साथ हम कदम उठा रहे हैं।\nलेकिन जैसे हमारे सपने हैं, वैसे हमारे पैर जमीन पर भी है। शुरू में लोगों को बड़ा आश्चर्य हुआ कि मोदी clean India का movement लेकर क्यों चला है? स्वच्छता अभियान क्यों चला रहा है? यह प्रधानमंत्री 15 अगस्त को लाल किले पर से Toilet की बात करता है? बहुतों को आश्चर्य हुआ, लेकिन मैं मानता हूं कि मुझे वहीं से शुरू करना है। और मैं इसे छोटा नहीं मानता, मैं इस काम को छोटा नहीं मानता। क्योंकि मुझे दुनिया के सामने सवा सौ करोड़ का देश, इतनी बड़ी सांस्कृतिक विरासत, इतना सामर्थ्य जिसके पास 65 प्रतिशत जनसंख्या 35 से कम आयु की हो, वो देश सीना तानकर के खड़ा होना चाहिए कि नहीं होना चाहिए? क्यों रूकना चाहिए, क्यों झुकना चाहिए? और इसलिए मेरे भाईयों-बहनों देश को चाहे सामाजिक जीवन हो, आर्थिक जीवन हो, शैक्षणिक जीवन हो, वैश्विक संबंध हो हर प्रकार से इस देश को नई ऊंचाईयों पर ले जाने का संकल्प लेकर के हम आगे बढ़ रहे हैं। और आज चीन के इतिहास की एक अद्भुत घटना है। यह मैं नजारा देख रहा हूं, जहां भी मेरी नजर जा रही है, माथे ही माथे मुझे नजर आ रहे हैं।\nआप लोगों ने इतने बड़े कार्यक्रम की रचना की है मैं आपको सौ-सौ सलाम करता हूं दोस्तो , सौ-सौ सलाम करता हूं। चीन में यह विशाल जनसागर, यह विशाल जनसागर सिर्फ चीन में ही नहीं पूरी दुनिया में संदेश देगा, यह लिखकर के रखिए - यह घटना छोटी नहीं है। यह सिर्फ एक भाषण नहीं है, यह वक्त बदल रहा है इसका सबूत है। वक्त कैसे बदल रहा है इसका जीता-जागता उदाहरण है।\nमैं फिर एक बार.. और यह मेरे लिए आनंद का विषय है कि 16 मई, 2015 आपके बीच आनंद भरे पल बिताने को मिले। मैं आपका बहुत-बहुत आभारी हूं और मुझे विश्वास है कि अगली बार आप जब आएंगे... और वैसे भी 2016 चाइना को हिंदुस्तान आने का वर्ष है। 2015 हिंदुस्तान को China आने का वर्ष है, 2016 China को हिंदुस्तान जाने का वर्ष है। आप सर्वाधिक लोगों को China से हिंदुस्तान ले आइये, हिंदुस्तान का नजारा दिखाइये। आप देखिए भारत और चीन मिलकर के मानव कल्याण के लिए नई ऊंचाईयों को पार कर सकते हैं। इसी एक विश्वास के साथ मैं फिर एक बार आप सबको नमन करता हूं, आप सबको प्रणाम करता हूं, आप सबका अभिनंदन करता हूं। और आपका हृदय से बहुत-बहुत धन्यंवाद करता हूं, इस समारोह की योजना के लिए और चीन के अंदर इतना बड़ा समारोह अपने आप में इतिहास की एक नई मंजिल की ओर ले जाता है।\nबहुत-बहुत बधाई, बहुत-बहुत धन्यवाद।"