"\nAll the dignitaries' present and dear student friends,\nThis is a moment of great happiness for me as I am going to be a part of that pious job which will instill a sense of pride for centuries to come. There were some leaders in the world that had a chance to interact with the students of two universities in such a short span of three days while visiting other countries as a guest. Very few people can become fortunate as I am and I am grateful to you for this.\nThe basics of India is philosophy and it is also mentioned in the Vedas that the light of knowledge should flow free from all directions. Our philosophy enunciates \"Gyan Bhadro\". Thoughts and knowledge knows no boundaries, neither east nor west They are the people of the world.\nJust now, two Chinese students quoted different Slokas from the ancient Indian texts. They said and I quote \"Nainam Chindanti Shastrani Nainam Dahti Pavakaha\". They presented their views in a manner which can act as a storehouse of knowledge for the world. The soul is never born The soul can not be destroyed I understand that the Chinese students here They mentioned \"The Gita\" too which states \"ma faleshu kadachina\" meaning to do ones full. It needs to study about Mahatma Gandhi or India. And if India and China were able to scan the history of their rich cultural heritage, we would discover that both the nations were ardent learners, they were courageous to gain new knowledge and were ready to take pains for it. Huen Tsang came to India some 1400 years ago and similarly academic Indians must have travelled to China and all for the sake of knowledge. This boldness was displayed to acquire knowledge, to learn different cultures and traditions. It is easy to open It is easy to invite But opening the doors for knowledge requires immense courage. If one is not the strongest then one is scared of being engulfed by the ideas of others. Will those ideas overpower us? When a person is strong inside, he is open to the views and ideas of others. And so China today after the age of Buddha is to learn about the great cultural heritage through the life of Gandhi, I think this is itself a big and important event.\nThose relationships that are born out of economic considerations are profit and loss centric. But the relations that are fostered through knowledge, work on the principle of the future generations. Mahatma Gandhi, though born in a corner of India was a global figure, he was an icon and the various crises that the world is struggling with, can his ideologies show a way out? The world today is facing two major crises - one is global warming and the other is terrorism. Gandhi's ideas have been addressed to solve these problems, which means the students of this university through Gandhian Study can outline the relevance of Gandhi in today's age through humanity not just for China but for the world A Chinese person Mr. Zen Centi, admired Gandhi and came to live in Sabarmati Ashram in 1925. He stayed there as Gandhiji's disciples. The Ashram inmates could not So Mahatma Gandhi wrote his name as Shanti Jain.\nSimilarly a Chinese scholar Tang Yung - Shan was close to Rabindra Nath Tagore He has written that when he met Mahatma Gandhi, Gandhiji was full of praise for China.\nZen Centi after staying with Mahatma Gandhi returned to China and started a newspaper by the name Penang. In the 1930s Gandhiji was fighting a great war for India's independence He was lodged in Yerwada jail in Pune and was on a fast in death. When Zen Centi learned about it, he immediately came to India and requested to meet Gandhiji. Gandhiji had refused to meet anyone inside the jail during his fast. But such was his love for Zen Centi that Gandhiji met him in the jail. Such was his love for a Chinese citizen\n21st Century is Asia China and India If this one is third population is benefited and is free of problems, then a third of the world will be free of crises. So India and China should be together new heights, with humanitarian approach, with humanity, based on Buddhist ideology and Gandhian experiments, so that we can inspire the world to lead a life which is the welfare of the world.\nMy heartfelt congratulations to Fudan University I believe that our thoughts will enhance and strengthen the Indo Chinese relations. With this belief my best wishes\nThank you very much"