"\nFriends!\nI am really happy to be here Before coming to this forum, I had very detailed discussions with the CEOs of major Chinese companies. I am sure our interactions today will lead to benefits to the people and businesses of the two countries.\nAlongwith me a number of officers and prominent Indian CEOs are also present here.\nAs you know, China and India are two great and old civilisations of the world. They have provided many lights of knowledge Today, we together, represent more than one third of the global population.\nIndia and China have a common history of five Thousand Years and a common Boundary of over Thousand and four hundred kilometers.\nTwo thousand years ago, at the invitation of the Chinese Emperor Ming, two Indian monks came to China. They brought many Sanskrit scriptures on two white horses They translated many Buddhist classics and scriptures in Chinese language.\nIt is believed that they introduced Buddhism in China. The king built a temple in honor of this event. The Temple is popularly known as White Horse Temple. The temple then grew in importance as Buddhism grew within China, and spread to Korea, Japan and Vietnam.\nThe serenity of Buddhism in Asian countries is the seed of their success. I strongly believe that this century belongs to Asia And Buddhism will be a forward unifying and catalysing force among the Asian countries.\nYour famous scholars like Fa Hien and Hiuen Tsang have taught many secrets of Chinese wisdom to Indians In addition, they discovered many secrets within India itself. Hiuen Tsang had visited my own home town in Gujarat. From his works, we know that there was a Buddhist monastery there. When Hiuen Tsang returned to China he brought him Sanskrit scriptures and books of wisdom. The traditional systems of medicine of the two countries based on natural elements also have a lot in common.\nIn recent times too, this stream of knowledge is flowing across our borders. Prof. Ji Xianlin of Peking University was a great Sanskrit scholar. Valmiki's Ramayan in Chinese Indian government has honored him by bestowing a prestigious Award in 2008.\nMore recently, Prof. Jin Ding Han has translated Bhagwad Gita and Mahabharat of the translations are also popular with the Chinese people. I thank these Chinese scholars for introducing Indian culture to the Chinese people.\nFriends! India has always been a knowledge society Whereas, you have been an innovating society Ancient China was very advanced in Science and Technology Like Indians, Chinese too sailed to the Americas and the distant corners of the world in their ships. They had the Mariners' Compass and Gun Powder\nBut I must add that during this time, Indian astronomy and mathematics were quite popular in China. Indian astronomers were appointed on the official boards set up to prepare calendars.\nThe Indian concept of Zero and that of nine planets have been helpful in discoveries in China. So, our ideas have a role to play in your innovations.\nThus, we have a lot in common and we can do a lot together. As we have helped one another growing spiritually There are such instances of economic exchanges in the past. It is believed that China gave silk and Paper to India We both have potentials of growth and problems of poverty, which we will tackle together I am personally committed to take the co-operative process forward.\nThat is why even as Chief Minister of Gujarat, I visited China. As Prime Minister too I am convinced and committed for exchange and co-operation for socio-economic development of the two countries\nI have lot of hope from the relationship which I and President Xi are trying to build During his visit to India in September 2014, Chinese investments worth 20 billion US Dollars (Rs. 12 lakh-crore) were committed. We signed 12 agreements covering industrial parks, railways, credit and leasing, with cumulative amount of investments of 13 billion US Dollars.\nWe are very proud of the sectors where China is strong. We need your involvement The scope and potential, the breadth and length of infrastructure Just to give some examples:\n• We have planned to build 50 million homes by 2022. In addition, we are going to develop smart cities and mega industrial corridors;\n• For this purpose, we have refined our FDI Policy in construction. We are also coming up with a regulatory framework for this sector;\n• We have targeted 175 Giga Wats of renewable energy in next few years. In addition to generation, the issues of transmission and distribution of electricity are equally important for us;\n• We are modernizing our railway systems including signals, engines and railway stations. We are planning metro rail in fifty cities and high speed trains in different corridors;\n• Similar is the case with highways which we want to build in faster way;\n• We are putting up new ports and modernizing the old ones through a sophisticated plan called Sagarmala;\n• Similar focus is on upgrading the existing Airports and the local airports to increase connectivity to places of economic and tourist importance;\n• In financial services too, we are moving towards a more inclusive and faster delivery of financial products including bank loans and insurance;\n• For this purpose we opened 140 million bank accounts; Increased FDI in insurance upto 49% and has set up MUDRA Bank to fund the micro-businesses;\n• Recently, I have launched innovative schemes for insurance and pension to increase our citizens.\nIn March this year, I had a discussion with Jack Ma of Alibaba in Delhi about possible co-operation for strengthening this micro-credit sector of India.\nAs you have successfully done, we also want to promote manufacturing in a big way, especially for our youth who form our population of 65%.\nSo, we want to make things in India For this purpose, we have launched a campaign called \"Make in India\". It is also the effort of my government to encourage innovation, R \u0026 D and entrepreneurship in the country. In this year's budget, we have set up some innovative institutional mechanisms for that purpose.\nWe have learned from the development of labor-intensive industries, making conditions for sustainable foreign direct investment, skill development, infrastructure creation and export-led development model.\nAll these are an economic opportunity for the Chinese companies. You will already be knowing the direction of my government. We have committed ourselves to making and improving the business environment. I can assure you that once you decide to be in India, we are confident to make you more and more comfortable\nMany Chinese companies have the potential of investing in India. The potential lies in manufacturing, processing as well as in infrastructure\nI am here to assure you Our regulatory regime is much more transparent, responsive and stable. We are taking a long-term and futuristic view on the issues. Lot of efforts have been made and are still underway to improve the 'Ease of Doing Business'. We do believe that FDI is important and it will not come in the country without a global competition competitive environment. Therefore, we have rationalized a number of issues.\nIn particular,\n• We are making the taxation system transparent, stable and predictable\n• We have removed lot of regressive taxation regimes In our very first Budget, we will not resort to retrospective taxation.\n• We are reducing the complicated process, making them available at one platform, preferably online;\n• Simplifying the forms and formations\n• Definite mechanisms for hand holding have been set up in the form of hub and talk models. Investing is the nodal agency for this purpose.\n• In this year's budget, we allowed tax pass through AIFs, rationalization of capital gains of REITs, modification in PE norms and deferring the implementation of GAAR for two years.\n• We have fast tracked approvals in industry and infrastructure. This includes environmental clearances, extending the industrial licenses, delicencing of defense items, and simplification of cross-border trade.\n• Within a very short time, we introduced GST Bill in parliament.\nSimilarly, for infrastructure development, we have taken some far reaching steps.\n• First of all we have made an all-time high allocation for Roads and railways sectors.\n• In addition, we are setting up India Infrastructure Investment Fund\n• We have also allowed Tax free Bonds in the infrastructure sector including roads and railways.\nWe know that a lot more has done to done. But we are committed to take this process forward. We\nHowever, our initial measures have helped in building up an enhanced investor confidence. The sentiments for private investment and inflow of foreign investment are positive. FDI inflows have gone up by 39% during April-2014 and February-2015 against the same period in the previous year;\nOur growth rate is above 7%. Most of the international financial institutions including the World Bank, the IMF, the OECD and others are predicting even faster growth and even better in the coming years. Moody's has recently upgraded the rating of India as positive on account of our economic steps.\nFriends! Indo-Chinese partnership should and will flourish I hope We have been complemented We can complement in the present and future too. As two major economies in Asia, the harmonious partnership between India and China is necessary for economic development and political sustainability of the continent. You are the 'factory of the world'. Whereas, we are the 'Back office of the world'. You give your product on hardware, while India focuses on software and services.\nSimilarly, Indian component manufacturers have mastered in high-quality precision and the Chinese players have mastered the art of mass production. The component design expertise of Indian engineers and low cost mass production by China can cater to the global markets in a better way. This industrial partnership of China and India can bring about greater investment, employment and satisfaction of our people.\nFriends! Let us work together in mutual interest and progress and prosperity of our great countries\nI will conclude by saying that now India is ready for business. You must be sensing the winds of change in India. I only ask you to come and feel the same\nI\nThank you very much"