"Share\n\nA kind of spiritual activity through respected Prime Minister and Taichi, simultaneously the activity of balance of the body and on the other hand, the vision of Yoga ...\nI congratulate Prime Minister for imagining his program. And I would like to congratulate you very much for liking this place, because it is the Temple of Haven and you have to get heaven, then mind, intellect, body should balance the three and at the same time whether the land belongs to India or land belongs to China. The point of our cultural unity, the search for it will be as strong as the formula of unity between us, the same as the imagination of Haven that will be realized for mankind.\nYoga, tan, mind and intellect are the art of keeping the three balanced and today when the world is undergoing mental stress, frustration has become such a word of every generation. If there is a concern of every terrain in the world, then the path of liberation from that problem is Yoga. In the United Nation last September, when I proposed in relation to International Yoga Day, 177 countries of the world become Co-sponsor. China Co-sponsor with India. In this type of regulation, the support of most countries in the history of Uran and passed in less than a day, this is the International Yoga Day on June 21 which is going to be the whole world.\nWhat a strange coincidence is that in the square of the Temple of Haven, the Chinese-born's children are doing yoga and the children of Indian origin are taiichi. We have got this amazing mean of adding cultural heritage to ourselves. It has to move us forward. Yoga also leads to liberation, it is also liberation from yoga. And so why is the human mind passing through a time of crisis, in any corner of the world, it has the support of giving a new life, whether it is a Taihi or a Yoga.\nOn 21st June, the whole world will understand the meaning of yoga in perfect sense and the holistic care that is needed in the world today can be achieved by achieving this natural state.\nI once again express my gratitude to the Prime Minister, for the composition of this program."