"Share\n\nWe believe in 'Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas'. Modi does not believe in vote-bank politics: PM\nCongress as well as TRS, Both the parties believe in dynastic politics, they appease the minority, believe in vote-bank politics and do not have internal democracy: PM\nThrough 'telephone-banking', Congress got loan cleared for the cronies: PM Modi\nCongress 'seventy years of misrule at Center and TRS' Five years of mis-governance in Telangana are responsible for the farmers\nCrores of farmers The Swaminathan Commission report, they did not implement MSP: PM Modi\nThe CM in Telangana had promised to give homes to poor. But what happened to that promise? Where are the houses? Were his promises false or not: PM\nBharatiya Janata Party national general secretary Shri Murlidhar Rao, senior leader of our party, former minister of the center my colleague Mr. Bandaru Dattatreya Ji, the Chief Minister of the State Mr. Premeander Reddy Ji, District President of Nizamabad Pallai Ganga Reddy Ji, Mr. L. Bhupati Reddy Ji , Mr Venkata Ramani Ji, Mr. Dugga, Pradeep Kumar, Dr. V. Murlidhar Goud, Mr. Bazzo G Bhaskar ji and Bharatiya Janata Party candidate in this election ... Mr. Indla Lakshminarayana from Nizamabad city, Mr. Gaddam Anand Reddy from Nizamabad Rural, Mr. Banla Lakshma Reddy from Yehla Reddy, Mr. Aljapur Srinivas from Bodhan, Dr. A Swarna Reddy, Mudhol from Nirmal From Dr. Ramadevi, Mr. Venkata Ramanna Reddy from Kamareddy, Ms. Aruna Thara from Jukkal, Banswara Mr. Naidu Prakash, Mr. M. Ravindra Reddy from Jagtial, Dr. G Venkat from Korutla, Mr. Padudruri Vinay Reddy from Aramur, Mr. Rajeshwar from Balakonda and my dear brothers and sisters in large numbers ... all of you in such heat today In large numbers ... you come to bless me, come to bless our candidates, I express my heartfelt gratitude for this.\nToday, when I came to Nizamabad's land, I would like to remember that youthful power first ... Today, the daughter whose name is being glorified by the name of the country, who has established her name in this world, Adivasi daughter Malawat Purna, who won Everest at a very young age. I congratulate him ... and the second brother, Mohammad Hasmuddin, who has extended India's honor by giving medal to India inside the Commonwealth Games. And this is the identity of our country's youth power, the identity of our New India, India's new confidence is the rhetoric.\nElections are going on in five states. So far, I had the opportunity to go to four states, today I got a chance to come to the fifth state also. Wherever I have an opportunity to go, I have seen such an excitement and enthusiasm, have seen the same environment.\nThose who believe in development, who are confident in forming a new Telangana, who are confident in forming a new India, those people who believe in development, today, by putting maximum faith in the Bharatiya Janata Party and taking the country forward with shoulders Running with the BJP Brothers and sisters, this is not our Telangana. Made of conflict of many years. Many young people are made up of sacrifices and that is why the government here has no right to ruin that sacrifice. There is no right to any political party, no political leader, and any government to play a little bit on the dreams which the people of Telangana had dreamed of. But, for the last four and a half years, the team, Telangana, what the government did for the last four and a half years, the election is the election of the government to ask for a pie-pie. Those who gave the youth here, the farmers here, the dalit, the oppressed, the oppressed, the deprived people, and the tribals, gave their assurance of development at a faster pace, they have not fulfilled their promises. In this election, this Janata Janardan should teach a lesson.\nHere the Chief Minister and his entire family believe that Congress has never developed in this country, yet he continued to win the elections for 50-55 years ... here the Chief Minister and his family feel, if the Congress did something Without winning, he will win, nothing needs to be done. And that's why they are learning from the Congress, they are taking Congress's habits and running only with the artists of the Congress. But the Chief Minister, that time has changed, the country is a young man. The Congress ruled for 50-55 years without doing anything but now no political party in the country can win elections again without doing anything for 50 months. The Chief Minister had said that I will make Nizamabad London, I will make smart but here also for power, water and roads, people of this Nizamabad are craving and when they said they would make London, then I told the pilot of my helicopter today. Come, let's take a bit of a whirl, see what has happened, I have come and seen. Where the economic situation is weak, even in such states, the condition of such cities is even better. How is London ... Just like the Chief Minister, stay there for sometime and five years, there is plenty here. The underground drainage is going to be built here, the drainage is going on, the work of the damages is going on, you have to decide. These Chief Ministers are such that their party is such that half-incomplete words, half-incomplete promises, half-incomplete work, half-incomplete plans, they even removed half-government, they did not even complete five years. Do you trust such people?\nBrothers, it is good they declared elections a while ago. With this, at least a few months ago you had the possibility of getting rid of troubles. People here crave for water. Five years have passed, drinking water is not available. And he said, if I do not bring water from the Godavari water then I will not come to demand votes. Did they come to ask for votes? They had made a false promise that they did not have ... they are misleading leaders or not ... such a leader should be farewell or not ... should he be punished or should not be? The person who can not drink water can not be given such a government. Brothers and sisters, the government is for the poor. If a rich person becomes ill, then 10 doctors stand in line with his house, if he has to go to a big hospital, then he gets into the special plane, but if poor becomes sick, then he has no choice but to go to the government hospital. it happens. That is the same shelter for him. But brother-in-law, what is the condition of the hospital in Telangana, what will happen to the poor, this is a living-waking specimen. If you ask the students what is the condition of the medical college here, you will know. Instead, the hostels of the village are good, they have done this work. These chief ministers feel insecure themselves, not trusting themselves. That is why either rely on astrology or rely on worshiping texts, either by keeping lemon and chilli alive. So consider yourself insecure that we have made an Ayushman India plan, Prime Minister PMJ scheme, more than 500 million people of this country ... if serious illness comes to someone, kidney, heart, if serious illness of cancer If this is done, then what will the poor poor middle class person spend in the hospital? Modi government has planned, Modi care If the family has to spend five lakh rupees a year, then it will give the government of India. Brothers and sisters, they are so insecure, so insecure that there will be no plans for Modi's name if he plans to name him, otherwise he refused to join this scheme. They have done injustice to the poor, poor people.\nFriends, this Ayushman Bharat Scheme has been two months. Three lakh families have taken advantage of it in two months. Their operations have been of serious type. His life is saved. Brothers and sisters, there is not even one Telangana in it, and it is your chief minister responsible for this, his government, his party is responsible. Brothers and sisters, Bharatiya Janata Party is the only mantra, with everyone, everyone's development. We also need all of us and we should also develop all of them. Vote Bank's politics has ruined the country. Vote Bank's politics has put termites in the development journey ... It has become a habit of the government to take care of the termite and vote bank. And that is why the politics of the vote bank is flourishing, the politics of caste is flourishing, the politics of family politics is flourishing, the politics of nephew-nephew is flourishing, and development is completely over there.\nBrothers and sisters, in the development journey Bharatiya Janata Party has chosen the path that is the path of Panchatattva. On the path of Panchatattya, we want the nation to emancipate the problems and empower the common man of the country. Our Panchatattas are- son-daughter's education, earning of the youth, medicines to the elderly, irrigation for the farmer and public hearing. With these five elements, we are moving ahead by taking the path of development. Your love will be seen on my eyes, your enthusiasm, people sitting in Delhi. But I pray to you to let me speak peacefully ... I salute your love, salute your enthusiasm. The people who are accounting for the elections, just come here and see, the direction of the wind is going on. Brothers and sisters, this is the Congress party ... this UPA ... and this was your chief minister in the UPA government, Madam when the government with a remote control ran. Brothers and sisters, who have eaten the salt of the UPA government, who have worked under the madam under the leadership of the UPA government, who have taken over as ministers in the UPA government, are here friendly matches with the Congress. Congress ... Congress is not a party against them. If the people in Telangana have a fighting party for Janardan in true sense, then it is only the Bharatiya Janata Party. Both of them have collusion. And watch their friendly matches, how is their friendly match going on?\nNow Madam Soniaji had come to Telangana, next to her son was sitting, mother and son were sitting on both platforms, and see the biggest joke of this century, see the biggest joke ... in the meeting where the son is sitting beside There the mother is saying that this is the family party TRS, Chandrashekhar Rao, this chief minister is a family member. Please tell me whether these are both family members or not. You tell me, in the character of Congress and in the character of TRS there is a difference between these two parties? Congress is also a familyist, it is also a family, and there is no inner democracy in the Congress too. There is no other democracy within them, Congress also votebank politics, it also politics of votebank, Congress also appoints the minority, They also apply for Minority. In every way, both sides are of the same coin, both are crisp. Brothers and sisters, both parties are competing in lying, who is more lies, the competition is going on.\nBrothers and sisters, how is development, how normal life's life changes, we have shown in four years. Remember that day when elections were going on in 2013-14. What the Congress party had brought in the agenda that if we come back by winning again then the house which gets the gas cylinders, gets 9 today, we will come and give 12. By promising 12 cylinders, they used to vote for the government. In the Congress era, 25 coupons were given to the MP, 25 coupons were used to stand for the connection of gas and people in the house of the MP that give me a coupon, I need a gas connection. Someone had to recommend, sometimes black money had to be spent, sometimes corruption had to be done, then go and get a gas connection. It was his government's business till 2014. Brothers and sisters, when a mother prepares a meal by burning a wooden stove, then the smoke of 400 cigarette smoke in her body, and children who play in the house, they grow up in the disease from childhood. Brothers and sisters, I have seen poverty, I have lived through poverty. When my mother used to cook food from a wooden stove, the whole house was filled with smoke, water kept coming out of the eye, I saw the pain. After becoming the Prime Minister, I decided, I will release every mother from this pain. I will give every poor mother to freedom from cooking with a wooden stove. I will give a connection to home gas So far, 6 million families have given free gas connections. Brothers and sisters, our Telangana also benefited 5 lakh families.\nBrothers and sisters, in the 21st century, there should be electricity connections in the poor house too, should not it be light or light, should it be arranged for the education of its children or not? These two governments have ruled for 50-55 years and the Congress has sat here for four and a half years but there are also brothers and sisters ... Even today there are millions of families who do not have electricity connection in their home. I have pioneered the good fortune and going to the front door in 4 lakh homes in Telangana, the Indian government gave the electricity connection. In Nizamabad alone, the work of giving electricity connection to 15 thousand poor families. Brothers and sisters, I promised you in the election, I will not let this country rob me, I will not let the middlemen escape, I had promised and today I proudly say that we have the right of common man to get his bank account Has reached up to. Earlier, had to take scholarship, middlemen had to pay a commission. पेंशन लेना है, बिचौलियों को कमीशन, मनरेगा का पैसा, बिचौलियों को कमीशन, विधवा पेंशन, बिचौलियों को कमीशन, राशन कार्ड में खाना, बिचौलियों को कमीशन...मैंने तय किया, ये सारा मैं सीधा बैंक के खाते में जमा कर दूंगा। लोगों के जन धन अकाउंट में खाते खोल दिए।\nभाइयो-बहनो, 6 करोड़ लोग...आप हैरान हो जाओगे जो बच्चा पैदा नहीं हुआ उसके नाम स्कॉलरशिप जाती थी, जो बेटी पैदा नहीं हुई, वो विधवा हो जाती थी और उसको पेंशन मिलता था। चोरी और लूट चलती थी। 6 करोड़ ऐसे झूठे भूतिया लोग थे, मैंने निकाल दिया और देश का 90 हजार करोड़ रुपया बचा लिया भाइयो। भाइयो-बहनो, देश आजाद हुआ, तब से जो बैंकों से लोगों को कर्ज मिलता था और बैंको का राष्ट्रीयकरण होने के बाद तब से लेकर के 2008 तक इस देश के धनपतियों को बैंको से जो कर्ज मिलता था...अचानक 2008 से 2014 में...जितना 40 साल में कर्ज मिला था उतने ही रुपये बैंकों से लुटा दिए गए और धन्ना सेठों के हाथों में दे दिए गए। लाखों-करोड़ों रुपये दे दिए गए। 2014 में आकर के मैंने गेटवे बंद कर दिया तो ये सारे बैंको को लूटने वाले परेशान हो गए। 2008 से 2014 तक जो ये बैंकों के रुपये लुटा दिए गए हैं,  लाखों-करोड़ो रुपये लुटा दिए, ये पैसे आपके हैं। उन्होंने टेलीफोन बैंकिंग चलाया था। नामदार का फोन चला जाए उसको पैसे मिल जाते थे और वे मौज करते थे। मोदी ने आकर के हिसाब मांगा तो भागे-भागे फिरने लगे, भागने लगे। भाइयो-बहनो, हमने सुना था दो आंखें, बारह हाथ, एक फिल्म का नाम सुना था...दो आंखें, बारह हाथ। ये जो बैंक से रुपये मारने वाले लोग हैं ना, उसमें सबसे ज्यादा पूंजी 70-75% ये 12 लोगों ने ही मारा है, 12 लोगों ने। और नामदार की दो आंखें ये 12 हाथ लुटेरे...ये ही फिल्म चलती रही...दो आंखें, बारह हाथ। नामदार की दो आंखें बराबर देखती थीं कि लूट चल रही है कि नहीं और ये बारह लोग बैंकों से लूट गए। हमने आके कानून बदल दिया। वो भले भाग गए हों उसमें से दो-चार, जो कुछ यहां बचे हैं, कानून बदल दिया और अब तक 40-45 हजार करोड़ रुपये की उनकी संपत्ति जब्त कर ली है। हमने कानून बनाया है, विदेशों में भी उनकी संपत्ति अब हिन्दुस्तान जब्त कर लेगा भाइयो। \nभाइयो-बहनो, अब ये तेलंगाना, क्या इसमें कांग्रेस को घुसने देंगे, जिस कांग्रेस ने हमारे नौजवानों को गोलियों से भून दिया, तेलंगाना मांग करने वाले नौजवानों को मौत के घाट उतार दिया। सालों तक तेलंगाना को जिसके लिए लड़ना पड़ा, क्या आप ऐसी कांग्रेस को माफ कर-कर के तेलंगाना में घुसने देंगे? भाइयो-बहनो, आप मुझे जवाब देंगे...तेलंगाना बनने के बाद चन्द्रशेखर राव की सरकार ने तेलंगाना को बर्बाद किया है कि नहीं किया है...बर्बाद किया है कि नहीं किया है? इसका कारण क्या है मालूम है? क्योंकि चंद्रशेखर राव की अप्रेंटिसशिप कांग्रेस में हुई है, उनकी सारी शिक्षा-दीक्षा कांग्रेस में हुई है...उनकी सारी शिक्षा-दीक्षा कांग्रेस में हुई। अब ये उनके विद्यार्थी रहे, वहां से ही सब सीख के आए, और उन्होंने बर्बाद किया। अब मान लीजिए जिन्होंने उनको सिखाया है वो तो इसमें पीएचडी किया है, अगर वो आ जाएंगे, इन्होंने जितना बर्बाद किया, वो इससे 100 गुना ज्यादा बर्बाद करेंगे। और इसीलिए आप उधर गिरो तो कुआं, इधर गिरो तो खाई और इसीलिए तेलंगाना के लिए एक ही रास्ता बचा है भाजपा। भाइयो-बहनो, ये कांग्रेस पार्टी 55 साल तक देश पर राज किया है...गली से लेकर दिल्ली तक उनका राज था...पंचायत से पार्लियामेंट तक उन्हीं का कारोबार था...चार-चार पीढ़ी ने राज किया, चार-चार पीढ़ी ने, लेकिन विकास की चर्चा करने की बजाय इस चुनाव में चर्चा क्या कर रहे हैं...मोदी की जाति कौन सी है, मोदी की मां की उम्र क्या है, मोदी के बाप का नाम क्या है? क्या भाइयो-बहनो, क्या ये चुनाव के मुद्दे हैं क्या? ऐसे मुद्दों पर चुनाव लड़े जाते हैं क्या? और इसीलिए भाइयो-बहनो, मैं कहना चाहता हूं, इस देश को जिन्होंने बर्बाद किया उनको दोबारा कभी घुसने मत दीजिए।\nहिन्दुस्तान में जिन-जिन राज्यों ने कांग्रेस को निकाला है दुबारा कभी कांग्रेस को घुसने नहीं दिया। उत्तर प्रदेश...मायावती चलेगी, मुलायम चलेगा लेकिन कांग्रेस नहीं चलेगी। ये उत्तर प्रदेश ने दिखा दिया है। बिहार...लालू चलेगा लेकिन कांग्रेस नहीं चलेगी, कांग्रेस को घुसने नहीं दिया। बंगाल देख लीजिए, कम्युनिस्ट चलेगा, ममता की गलतियां चलेंगी लेकिन कांग्रेस को घुसने नहीं देंगे। हिन्दुस्तान में तमिलनाडु देख लीजिए, हिन्दुस्तान में मध्य प्रदेश देख लीजिए, झारखंड देख लीजिए, गुजरात देख लीजिए...जहां से कांग्रेस जाती है वहां की जनता दोबारा कांग्रेस को घुसने नहीं देती है। मैं तेलंगाना के लोगों से आग्रह करता हूं, आप कांग्रेस के एक भी व्यक्ति को जीतने मत दीजिए वरना वो सुधरेंगे नहीं। मैं आपसे आग्रह करता हूं, भारतीय जनता पार्टी को मौका दीजिए। तेलंगाना में कमल छाप इंजन लगाइए, दिल्ली का कमल छाप इंजन है, दो इंजन लग जाएंगे अरे तेलंगाना को मैं कहां से कहां पहुंचा दूंगा। भाइयो-बहनो, 7 तारीख को कमल के निशान पर बटन दबा कर के भारतीय जनता पार्टी को अभूतपूर्व विजय दिलाइए। हमारे सभी साथी, सारे उम्मीदवार आगे आ जाएं, उम्मीदवार सारे आगे आ जाएं, सारे उम्मीदवार आगे आ जाएं। हमारे इन सभी उम्मीदवारों को दोनों हाथ ऊपर कर के, मुट्ठी बंद करके भारत मां की जय बोल करके आशीर्वाद दीजिए। Long live Mother India. Long live Mother India. Long live Mother India. Thanks a lot."