"Members of the Press,\nLadies and Gentlemen,\nLet me begin by expressing my deep gratitude to President Xi, Premier Li and the people of China for the exceptional welcome and hospitality.\nIam very grateful to President Xi for his special gesture of hosting me in Xian; And, for showing me the city's extraordinary heritage It is a treasure of the world\nXian is also a symbol of ancient and cultural links. I have a personal connection with Xian via Monk XuanZang. He visited my hometown 1400 years ago.\nI am happy to visit China in the first year of my government.This is one of our most important strategic partnerships.\nThe reason is obvious The re-emergence of India and China and their relationship will have a deep impact on the two countries and the course of the century.\nOur relationship has been in recent decades.\nBut, we have an historical responsibility to turn this relationship into a source and a force of good for the world.\nWe are committed to setting a new direction.\nI believe that my discussions with President Xi and Premier Li have advanced our relationship in that direction.\nOur conversations were candid, constructive and friendly We covered all issues, including those that trouble smooth development of our relations.\nI stressed the need for China to reconsider its issues on some issues. I suggested that China should take a strategic and long term view of our relations. I found the Chinese leadership responsive\nOn the boundary question, we agreed that we continue to explore a fair, reasonable and mutually acceptable resolution. We both reiterated our strong commitment to all efforts to maintain peace and tranquility in the border area.\nI found sensitivity to our issues; And, interest in more intensifying confidence building measures. I also reiterated the importance of clarification of this regard.\nI request tangible progress on issues related to rivers and trans-boundary rivers. I also discussed some of our regional concerns\nWe agree that as we move ahead, we should be sensitive to each other's interests; strengthen mutual trust and confidence; continue to manage our differences with maturity; and, seek solutions for outstanding issues ..\nOur decision is to improve.\nBilateral cooperation We have set a high level of ambition for our economic partnership. We see enormous bilateral opportunities and many similar challenges, like urbanization.\nWe are pleased with the developments from the Summit last September.\nThis includes cooperation in the Railways, where we have identified specific projects, and the two Chinese industrial parks in Gujarat and Maharashtra. I am happy that the two chief ministers are here with me\nBoth leaders were very supportive about their participation in the development and infrastructure sectors. In Shanghai tomorrow, we will see over twenty ventures in the private sector take concrete shape.\nPresident Xi and Premier Li were very concerned about the specific concerns I had raised on our trade deficit. We look forward to We have agreed to create a high-level task force to develop a strategic road-map to expand economic relations. It will cover a broad range of areas including Infrastructure, IT, Pharma, Agriculture and Manufacturing.\nAn area of ​​high priority for us Indians and Chinese do not know each other well, much less understand each other\nWe have decided to take the relationship out of the narrow confines of the national capitals to the cities, cities and our people.\nFor the first time, India has launched a State and Provincial Leaders' Forum with any country. This is a continuation of our firm commitment to cooperative federalism in India.\nThis is the \"Year of India\" in China; The \"Year of China\" in India This will expand\nWe are establishing a Center for Gandhian and Indian Studies in Shanghai, a Yoga College in Kunming and a bilateral Think-Tanks Forum.\nThe Nathu La route for Indian pilgrims to visit Kailash Mansarovar will become operational in June. I want to thank China for that\nOur decision to open a consulates in Chengdu and Chennai reflects growing mutual confidence and shared commitment to expand our relationship.\nThese steps will help make our relations more broad-based and people-centric.\nFinally, we have many common global and regional interests. For example, we have a shared interest in the international climate change negotiations. We are trying to strengthen regional connectivity\nTerrorism is a shared threat. Instability in West Asia issues to both of us Peace and progress in Afghanistan benefits us both. I am confident that our international partnership will deepen.\nToday, we have signed over 20 agreements, covering diverse areas of cooperation. This shows the depth and maturity of our relationship and our participation\nThis is a very productive and positive visit.\nI look forward to working with President Xi and Premier Li. I have welcomed President Xi's proposal to hold regular summits to realize our vision for the relationship. I have also invited Premier Li to visit India at a early date.\nI look forward to Shanghai tomorrow. Thank you. Thank you, very much"