"\nMy dear brothers and sisters,\nToday, I am proud to dedicate this modern steel unit to the nation. Somebody said (IISCO), someone would tell him, but today's opportunity is going to give pride to all of us. Right now I was listening to the honorable chief minister. He told a very good thing, and he said that as much work as possible by the Central and State governments, the country will move forward as fast as possible. Constitution of India has given the federal structure, but unfortunately for many years after independence, relations between the center and the states have always been tense. People sitting in the center used to believe that we were special and they did not count anything to the states. I have also been the Chief Minister of the State for a very long time. And so I know well that this behavior with the states of the Center will not do good to the country. And that's why we brought a huge change as soon as we came, said Cooperative Federalism. Talk of Cooperative competitive federalism The policy commission was created. And now Delhi will not run the country alone, now the nation is not on one pillar, by combining each pillar of all the states, the country will move forward on 30 pillars. This is what we thought.\nTeam India, I am telling Day One, without Team India, Hindustan can not progress. The Prime Minister and the Chief Minister are a team together. This team will push Hindustan ahead, there is no party but there is a bigger country than the team. Today, how is progress due to Team India, today a sick unit stood with strength, got jobs for thousands of people. In pursuing Hindustan Steel in the field of Steel, this land of Burnpur came to work in Bengal. If the main government here, the government here, would not have been able to do so. Work together and get results. This team is an example of India's success that we are dedicating this unit to the country today.\nTwo days ago you must have seen, 41 years old, there was a case hanging from Fourteen One Year. The work was hanging from the time of \"Bang-Bandu\" Mujibur Rahman. But just two days ago, the boundary between India and Bangladesh was in dispute, the tension continued, its solution was solved. How did it happen? Due to team India. Mamta ji, the Government of Bengal, Assam, Tripura, Meghalaya, Mizoram, decided to join the Delhi government with shoulder-to-shoulder decision. All political parties took the decision. And for the first time, this country can proud that there is no Rajya Sabha or Lok Sabha - in both Houses, one vote has not been opposed, all of them have been together and this vision of Team India can show us the whole world. This decision of the Indian Parliament for the whole world, this decision of Team India, the result of the efforts of the Central and the State to go together. Today, problems can be solved with any country in the world today. If Team India is a bargain, if problem can be solved from abroad, then it can be resolved very easily at home. And that is our best effort.\nNow look at the 14th Finance Commission, we swear: What did the result come from? There was a time when the country's 60-65% of the property was owned by the Delhi Government in the Tijori. And 35-40% of the money was kept in the treasures of all states. The result of the decisions that we have made after coming here has come that 62% of the treasury which is the total treasure of Hindustan Today is in the treasures of the states and only 38% is in the treasury of Delhi. We have brought this change, because development is not possible without the help of the state. If the development is done then the states and the Delhi together will be possible and this is an example of this. There can be many instances of which we are trying to walk\nAnd I believe ... If I see the map of Hindusthan, I believe from the very first day that there is an imbalance on the social status in India's development, there is an imbalance on the economic level, there is an analysis on the educational level, but geographical There is also an imbalance on the static. Look at western side of Hindusthan - be it Kerala H., Karnataka, Goa, Ho, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Delhi, Haryana, Punjab - you see economic activity at the western end. But the eastern region of Hindustan has been neglected. Whether eastern region of Hindusta, whether eastern Bihar or Bihar, whether it is Bengal or Odisha, whether Assam or North East, is very powerful states. People here are strong. Treasures of natural wealth have been filled. But still they have remained behind in the development phase. If India wants to see us in a grand manner, India will never be strong if India becomes a part of mother's body. And that's why our dream is to make Hindustan's eastern division as the most powerful, bringing the western edge of Hindustan with the same level and if Bengal is not strong, Kolkata does not strengthen then the eastern part of Hindusta can not be too strong And hence, there is a need to give strength to this land of India to strengthen Mother Bharti.\nSecond Green Revolution We are dreaming but where will the Second Green Revolution be? I am seeing clearly the most fertile land for the Second Green Revolution, nowhere is the most power anywhere, then it is in eastern Hindusta u na. Whether it is eastern Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Orissa, Bengal, Assam, North East, there is abundant water, land is also very high. If the farmers have to do well, if the country is to do good, then Hindustan's Second Green Revolution can be done by focusing on this earth and in the next 5-10 years, the economic life of the whole village can be changed. And we are trying to bring the country to new heights with this vision.\nYou know, this day of 2014 was the day of election. The political parties were attacking each other around. We also came to Bengal, we were also attacking. And the people were attacking us, but what were the thoughts? See the February 2014, March, April newspaper of the same thing. Coal scam of 1 lakh 76 thousand, scam of spectrum, scam of submarine 7, scandal in water, scam in the land, scandals in the sky, scandals scandals, we used to hear the whole time. Brothers and sisters have been in the city for a year now in New Delhi. If news comes in the newspaper then what comes? There is no news of coal scam. If news comes, the news of coal auction comes and the news of having deposited Rs 3 lakh crore in government treasury by swallowing 1 lakh 74 thousand crores scam.\nBrothers sisters, if working with the universe. Where are the coal mines? In the eastern region of Hindustan. Those who have such a natural wealth, this state should not be poor. And so we made policy changes. We said that coal mines will be auctioned. What was the first Qin? There was a letter from a leader's house that he gave it to the mine of coal and gave it without asking anyone. There was no new money in the treasury. All this, we have closed down, made an auction, made auctioned and also decided that the money will come in the auction, the money which will come in the auction of coal, the money will not go to Delhi's safe but go to the treasury of that state so that the government Prosperity of the state West Bengal is also getting its benefit, Jharkhand is getting it, Chhattisgarh is getting it. Wherever there are coal mines, the statehood is getting. For the first time, the government working for the poor made a very big decision. In our country, there are mineral resources, coal, where most of the tribal people live in that area are in the jungles. Coal was used to go, the treasury property was used, but those districts were not good for the poor, tribals. We have decided that a foundation will be built in those districts. Some part of this royalty will be put in that foundation and that money will be for the good of the citizens of that district. Whether they have to be educated, have to be given food, will have to give home, give water. This money will be spent for them.\nI had recently met the chief minister of Chhattisgarh, he told me a lot of fun. He said, Sir, this fund will be formed from the money coming from the royalties of the mines, billions of rupees are coming in rupees and because of this our tribal district, we will not have to pay any money from the government vault now. And perhaps more than the states, they will become a fast growing state. If we make policy changes, we build policies with a long vision, then we have seen examples of how the nation's development can be changed.\nBrothers and Sisters, what is this country that we have been exporting iron ore abroad, continue to grow, keep on providing raw materials and keep steel from abroad? Brothers sisters, such a country can not go that we send out wheat and bring the chapati out in the outside. That can not be. If iron ore is ours, then we will make sure that we will give employment to the youth and this country keeps on dreaming that in 2020 we can walk two steps ahead or not in the place we are in the world today. We want to work in that direction. Today, steal strikes are coming from China. Even though we have steal iron ore, we do not even do the product. Our mineral wealth is finally, those who are pundits of economics know that the money will come from money? She knows well where the money will come from? Where the money will come from, where will the money come from, where will the money be born from, there are three major places, there are three major places where money is more likely to come from:\n• From one of our fertile land, the more valuable we produce,\n• Second, by increasing the value of our mineral wealth by adding value to it, from it we create a new product, money comes in our treasury and\n• The power of third hundred and fifty million people, their skills, the skills of our youth, the wisdom of our young people, our knowledge power, our skills, can create those rupees\nAnd so, by taking these three streams, on one hand, skillfully training the youth of the country, on the other hand, to increase the value of mineral wealth, and on the other hand, through experiments like soil health card, through the Prime Minister's agricultural irrigation scheme, farmers By reaching the ground and checking the surface of the earth, by showing the path of his, the product of which in the lesser land improves the financial condition of the family, such a product will be We are working in Aa.\nAnd I believe in within a year-within we have found. Today all the world has started saying, Today in Hindustan world, my dear brothers and sisters take pride, all the world was saying that a year ago Hindutva would not be drowned, Hindutva can not do anything; Hindusta has not rolled down, In economic composition, now Hindustan can not make its place, all the world has accepted it. Within a year-the whole world is saying in a voice. IMF Ho, World Bank Ho, Moody's Ho Everyone is the world's rating agency, all the rating agencies are saying - India has become the fastest growing country in the world today. Has become the country with the fastest economic growth in the world.\nBrothers and sisters, a strong foundation has been laid, seeing within a year-and within the strong foundation, the world has started saying that India is making its place at the fastest pace in the world economy. Brothers and sisters, especially to provide employment to the youth, fight against poverty, fight with the strength of youth, if the government and the people go together, then we can bring changes, this is an example. .\nI want Bengal also to reach new heights of development, and which was the magnificent history of Bengal, the economic door of Hindustakan used to be in the hands of Bengal. Bengal used to do economic work for the country. Those powers will be met again. Bengal will go a long way, Eastern Hindusthan will move forward. Not only this, Bengal's economic power is going to be very useful in strengthening our relations with the countries of the East. Therefore, for national reasons, for international reasons, to move forward to the whole world, when our Act is East Policy, then Bengal is an important factor. And I believe that this strength of Team India will work together to meet all of our dreams, with the strength of the center and the state together.\nWith this one belief, I once again thank you all with heart. And I assure all my workers and sisters that your sweat will not be useless. Your sweat will not go unnecessarily. It is your perspiration that will change Hindusth in the whole world or not in the air. This is my world.\nMy very best wishes, very many thanks"