"\nAll the greatness present,\nThis program is being held in an auditorium of Calcutta, but this program is being run simultaneous on 115 locations of the country. I bow to all the greatness present in that program.\nWorship today Gurudev is the sacred festival of Ravindranath Tagore's birth anniversary. In the battle of Bengal, every one of Hindustani's head gets elevated, the eyes get glowing, the sew gets widened. There are many incidents in India's historical life, whose inspiration is from this earth. If the change started somewhere then it was from this earth. And Gokhale used to say that Bengal who thinks today, Hindusthan thinks later in the same way.\nAnd this land was at a time when the complete reins of the economic development of Hindusthan were in his hands. India's economic activity was centered with Bengal. The characteristic of this earth is that they remain absorbed in the worship of Lord Durga. But it is also the blessings of Sarasvashti and also blessed with Lakshmi. And, where both Saraswati and Lakshmi are blessed, this is the land. Talking about the manufacturing sector in the industrial world, this is the land which has contributed a lot.\nAnd now the Hon'ble Chief Minister, in his speech, was saying that there is no bank in the villages. It is 60 years of accounting. Their pain is very natural, I also add my swan to it. But they put this thing in front of me, because they trust, if they do, then they will do the same. You can suppose that the nation was made to the nation of the poor for the poor. But the poor of this country never had the opportunity to see us in the banks.\nEven today, the scheme which we have come up with, 80 to 90 Percent people of this country, who have no insurance, which are not likely to get a pension. The country of 100 million people, 80-90 percent of the population, how much pain can be done if these general requirements are not fulfilled in their destiny. And all these schemes are being born, coming, it is one of our responsibilities towards the poor, one of the condolences towards the poor. And how much we can develop, how much we can get to new heights. But if its success does not reach the shack of the poor, then development is incomplete. And so on one hand we are shaking the whole world to touch new heights of development, motivating for Make in India, on the other hand, the bank accounts of the poor from the poor try to do it day and night. And I am glad that when we came out of the Prime Minister Jan-Dhan Yojana, we announced, on August 15, I had the imagination to be completed by 26th January, but all the friends working in the banks of the country helped so much, Janaandolan became. With more than 95 per cent of the people in the country being the mainstream of the country, the Banking Sector has added 15 million new accounts. Which were never even half.\nThis work was completed in 100 days. And I told the poor that these countries are for you, the government is for you, the bank is for you. You do not have to pay a single penny, open a bank account, from Zero balance But rich people are rich in wealth. The courage to discuss the poverty of the rich is less in people, but I want to discuss the richness of the poor today. We had said that Zero balance will open accounts. But I salute those poor people today that they thought in their mind that this is not good, it does not suit us. And today I proudly say that in the 15 crore bank accounts opened, the poor have deposited Rs.15,800 crores in them.\nLook at the power of the poor of this country. And then it seems to go and do something for these poor people. And I believe that the poor do not have support. We have to change our thinking, our activities will change, our modes will change. The poor do not want support, the poor should have power. If he gets strength then he is ready to fight against poverty and he is ready to take full power to enjoy liberation from poverty, he needs to give strength.\nAnd today when I am speaking on the occasion of the birth anniversary of Gurudev Ravindra Nath Ji, Gurudev wrote in 1906 the self-poem in this poem, I understand that the 1906 thing that is being implemented in 2015 is also being implemented to us. Gurudev had said, \"It is not my prayer that you will save me from the difficulties.\" Do not take away my burden or console me, give me the ability to bear my burden \"- That was what Gurudev Ji had said. And today our resolve is to obey the order which Gurudev has given. And from the same, this plan and Calcutta are happening on the earth. Because I am a believer, whatever thing starts with this earth, it grows only when it grows, results get only. And on the birth anniversary of Gurudev's birth, something started and if the person who had expressed the feelings of the person he had expressed, then I am Vishwaras, the blessings of Gurudev will make this scheme a success and the poor in the country have the opportunity to get a new power Will be rendered. This is my whole world.\nWhen we started the Pradhan Mantri Janhyan Yojana, many people seemed to be wondering what would happen, but today the experience is coming that one scheme after the other for the poor - Once the bank account is opened, then we do not stop there. Want. He was our foundation, we are going to unfold one after another. We said that you will be surprised, some people in this country get government pension, about 3.5 million people, about 3.5 million people and how much pension was received? Somebody got seven rupees, somebody 20 rupees, somebody hundred hundred, somebody two hundred and fifty. To get a pension, one has to go to auto rickshaw at this age or go to the bus, then the cost of pension from the pension would be done by going into the bus. But it was going on. We came and decided that anyone who gets a pension will not have less than one thousand. And we've started to give up. Why? Live with poor summit, he should have power We tried to give that power to him.\nSometimes people in our country think that these are those big industrial houses, they do a huge economic revolution in the country. This is a big confusion. His contribution is but very limited. Who runs the country's economy? A small business person, who stands at the crossroads, sells vegetables, runs a wash shop, sells biscuits, runs tea and drinks, sells clothes, sells readymade garment. Small people! In Hindustan, about five and a half million people spread the country to the economy. And large industrial houses employ a lot of people, these five-five and half crore people who work for small work, they employ about 14 crore people, you can imagine that the stomach of 14 crore households The work is done by them. And his total wealth is not what many people have. There is no 11-12 lakh crore rupees. And the money that they want them from interest, from the market - no bank does not give them money, the brokerage is small. The average of all these loans is seventeen thousand rupees, if the average is calculated then seventeen thousand rupees. They have to take money from moneylenders. That kind of companies have to go there to take money in which their blood is sucked. Due to being a government working for the benefit of the poor, we have introduced the Concept of a Currency Bank in this Budget and not only in the budget but the budget session is going on, the work of the currency bank has started. And under these five and half million ordinary people, who get 5 thousand rupees, 10 thousand rupees then they can increase their work very fast. We have run a huge campaign to give them bank loans. They should get the money, the government is going to ask from the front and tell that brother, do you have any plans to move forward? To work for the poor, how to work after one another.\nSimilarly, in ours, we are also fighting a big fight against corruption, bringing a revolution that these leakages will be locked automatically. We get subsidies for the gas cylinders. Get rich and become poor, everyone gets subsidies. We decided that the subsidy will be in Direct Bank's account. Public-fund account opened, and in the bank account in which the gas cylinders, direct subsidy will go, it is the world's largest record that in the account of more than 12 million people, Government of India gives subsidy of direct-direct gas cylinders. . And because of that, it was first subsidized under some name, it all stopped, a huge difference has come in comparison to the first. I do not want to speak in the figures because I want to find some people searching for it, you can not imagine the leakage of billions of rupees in rupees, billions of trillions of rupees which we stopped.\nThis is an example of how public money works in the follow-up as soon as it opens. And today there are three new plans. Our country, when we brought the money bank, we had said \"Funding the Unfunded\" who do not get funds, those who do not get the money will fund them. When we came up with the Jan Dhan Yojana, we had said, who does not have the banking system, the banking system, whose account will not open its account, and today we have come that we do not have any security cover, Shake the armor.\nOne scheme is the Prime Minister's Security Insurance scheme - In the film we saw, there was a big hit dialogue that there is no shroud in 12 rupees. We have come with an insurance scheme of Rs 2 lakh for Rs 2 lakhs, because we want that in the life of the common man of the country - because the crisis does not come to the rich, the poor comes to the poor, sleeps on the sidewalk, the poor man dies It goes, takes the bike, dies, the child goes to school, comes under the bus, dies - who will protect him? And therefore, an awareness comes, the partnership becomes and like Randindranath Tagore has ordered us, it is Gurudev's order, give him power - this is an effort to give power.\nInsurance of Rs 2 lakhs, if injury is done, then two lakh rupees can also be got, one lakh rupees can be found. You also think, you will have a driver here, broom-wipers, someone working here, a cooking cooker will do some work. Do not you think that by paying 12 rupees on your own pocket, you can not afford to insure it? I want to pray to millions of people of this country today that you are your driver, your driver is your driver, he is your man of the society, be it poor people with your leader, in your neighborhood The broom is coming. You tell him 12 rupees for me nothing is nothing. If I ever drink coffee in the evening, then come to spend Rs 12. I will spend for you And if one was deposited in the bank and told the bankers that the wedding should be bitten, tell me how much protection will be given to his life. And he will never leave you, will you? Will never be.\nIn the same way, the Prime Minister Jyoti Jyoti Bima Yojna - the one who is in the 12-rupee ski in the former, also in natural calamity, if someone dies, he will get benefit. If today's ski was done in Nepal, then the family members would get help in the incident which happened in Nepal. And Natural Calamity is not in our hands. Similarly, the Prime Minister Jyoti Jyoti Bima Yojana is of 18 to 50 years of age. Generally you know that if you want to take out insurance, you do not know how many doctors check you, how much medical checkup happens - and they decide whether to give them or not. Do not know if it will be rolled up then This ski is such that you just have to fill the form. Even if you are sick, you can get insurance for it. For the first time with this kind of thinking we have come. There is no other than poor poor person and per day one rupee. A rupee of 330 rupees a day If you can even get your insurance to your own employee, even home wife. You can do this with your own small-time working shop, people who work in the shop, from them too. Do you think 330 rupees is not difficult for a person to spend in the year, neither hard to do for them, or if someone does it for them. But protection for a society can be a huge task.\nThe third plan we are launching today - the Atal Pension Scheme. You see that only 10-15% of the population in this case is fortunate enough to get pension. Where to spend old age for everyone else is a matter of concern, how to spend is a matter of concern. How do the lives of people above our 60 years? This scheme is such that it does not have to be taken from the vote, because the benefit of this scheme will start when it is 60 years old. And now it will look like Yar has been added to the scheme, but when the benefits start to get started, then he will be remembered by Rabindranath Tagore, then it will be remembered for the Kolkata program - and then this event will be remembered that yes, that happened on that day. Now, children are not seen in old age, but it was Modi who did something, man, some work came. Generally the politicians bring those plans, which will benefit in the next election. But I am not a politician. I have come as a valiant servant. And so the plan I have taken today is for the youth so that when you are 60 years of age you never need any support. You have the power inside you, you have your own strength. You can also spend old age with your pride.\nIf you have a pension of one thousand rupees, you have a pension, then it is in the skis, if you want two thousand pensions, its scheme is, if you want three thousand pensions, then its ski is in it, if you want four thousand, then its ski is five thousand If you want it is ski और जून महीने से मई महीने तक उसका tenure है, उसमें जुड़ने का। बचत आपको करनी है, लेकिन यह पहली बार ऐसी पेंशन स्कीसम है कि सरकार उसमें गांरटी देती है और आपके पैसे कम पड़ गए तो पैसे भरने का जिम्मास सरकार लेती है। अगर आपको उसका रिटर्न कम मिलेगा तो उसकी जिम्मेावारी सरकार लेती है। और उसके कारण, सामान्य गृहणी भी ये अटल पेंशुं योजना के साथ जुड़ सकती है। किसान - कभी किसान ने सोचा है कि मेरे लिए पेंशन हो सकता है? इस योजना के साथ अगर आज 18 से 40 की उम्र का किसान का बेटा जुड़ा जाता है तो वो जब 60 साल का होगा, अपने आप उसका पेंशन आना शुरू हो जाएगी। एक सुरक्षा का माहौल बनेगा और उसी माहौल को बनाने के लिए सामान्य मानव के जीवन में... और खासकर के गरीब और निम्न, मध्यम वर्ग के लोग जो जीवन को एक संतोष के साथ जीना चाहते हैं, उनके लिए सरकार की योजनाएं होनी चाहिए।\nऔर इसलिए वोट की राजनीति से हटकर के भी, समाज में अगर शक्ति पैदा करेंगे तो शक्तिशाली समाज स्वंय गरीबी के खिलाफ लड़ाई लड़ने के लिए एक बहुत बड़ी सेना बनकर के खड़ा हो सकता है। और हमारी कोशिश ये है, हमें गरीबी के खिलाफ लड़ाई लड़ना है लेकिन उस लड़ाई लड़ने के लिए हमारे सिपाही, हम गरीबों को वो ताकत देना चाहते हैं, वो स्वंय इस गरीबी के खिलाफ लड़ाई लड़ने के लिए हमारे सिपाही बनेंगे।\nऔर इसलिए गरीबों के कल्याण के लिए आज इन तीन योजनाओं का आरंभ हो रहा है। मुझे विश्वास है कि देश के गरीब 115 स्थान पर इस कार्यक्रम को जो सुन रहे हैं। आज कार्यक्रम का आरंभ हो रहा है विधिवत रूप से, लेकिन हमने जब प्रधानमंत्री जन-धन योजना शुरू की थी तो एक हफ्ते पहले ट्रायल शुरू किया था कि भई देखो कैसे मामला गाड़ी चलती है। और तब हमारा अनुभव था प्रथम सप्ताह में जब हमने काम किया शुरू, नया था, लोगों को समझाना था। लेकिन एक सप्ताह के अंदर हम करीब 1 करोड़ लोगों के बैंक खाते खोलने में सफल हुए थे। वो भी अपने आप में एक बहुत बड़ा record था। इस बार भी हमने 1 मई से Trail basis पर काम शुरू किया था। बहुत बड़ा announcement नहीं किया था, ऐसे ही शुरू किया था। और आज मुझे गर्व के साथ कहना है कि इस 1 मई से शुरू किया हमने, इस 7 दिन के भीतर-भीतर 5 करोड़, 5 लाख लोगों ने enrolment करा दिया है।\nये अपने आप में सरकार की बातों पर भरोसा कितना है, स्वंय की सुरक्षा के लिए सामान्य मानव जुड़ने के लिए कितना आतुर है और हमारे banking sector के लोग भी सरकार के इस काम को करने के लिए कितने उमंग और उत्साह के साथ जुड़ रहे हैं, इसका ये जीता-जागता उदाहरण है। और मैं पश्चिम बंगाल को भी बधाई देता हूं, ये 5 करोड़, 5 लाख में, 42 लाख पश्चिम बंगाल में भी है, 42 lakhs. आने वाले दिनों में... क्योंकि 1 जून से योजना विधिवत रूप से प्रारंभ होने वाली है। अधिकतम लोगों से मेरा आग्रह है कि 1 जून के पहले इस योजना का लाभ लेने के लिए अपने निकट बैंकों का संपर्क करके, वो जुड़ें। और अटल पेंशन योजना में सरकार की तरफ से जो special incentive दिया जा रहा है, जिसमें सरकार आपको गारंटी दे रही है, सरकार कुछ न कुछ धन दे रही है, ये 31 December तक है। मैं चाहता हूं कि 31 December तक अटल पेंशन योजना में जो भारत सरकार का आपको योगदान मिल रहा है उसका फायदा उठाइए, जून महीने से कार्यक्रम प्रारंभ हो रहा है लेकिन इस बार हमने 30 अगस्त तक उसको लंबा किया है। तो मैं चाहूंगा कि 30 अगस्त के पहले इन तीन योजनाओं में सर्वाधिक लोग जुड़ें।\nमुझे विश्वास है कि एक ऐसी सुरक्षा की व्यवस्था हम लेकर के आए हैं जो मूलतः गरीबों के लिए है, सामान्य मानव के लिए है और जो संपन्न लोग हैं, वे भी अपने यहां काम करने वाले लोगों के लिए इस काम में जुड़कर के अपने यहां काम करने वाले और कुछ तो परिवार ऐसे होते हैं दो-दो पीढ़ी तक एक परिवार उनके यहां काम करता है। ड्राइवर होंगे तो तीन पीढ़ी से ड्राइवर उनके यहीं काम करने वाले होंगे, एक प्रकार से वो परिवार के अंग बन जाते हैं। सरकार की ये योजना आपके माध्यम से गरीब की सेवा का एक कारण बन सकता है, आपके जीवन में भी संतोष का कारण बन सकता है। और आखिरकर ये धरती ऐसी है स्वामी विवेकानंद ने हमें दरिद्र नारायण की सेवा करने की प्रेरणा दी थी। ये धरती ऐसी है जहां से रामकिशन मिशन के द्वारा आज भी गरीबों के कितने सेवा के काम हो रहे हैं। हम भी उस संकल्प को लेकर के आगे बढ़ें, इस व्यवस्था का फायदा उठाएं, जन-धन की योजना को जन-कल्याण में परिवर्तित करें। इसी एक अपेक्षा के साथ मैं आपको बहुत-बहुत शुभकामनाएं देता हूं।\nThank you."