"1\nQuestion: Where do you get inspiration to work?\nPrime Minister: Many times more incidents and incidents of inspiration get inspiration. But for that we have to make that kind of nature. How to live life in a difficult and difficult way. What's the hobby of reading from among you people? They are saying that the teacher is not like books, but the hobby of reading books, except how many such are ..! You guys have ever read a book. Pollyanna ... ..Pollyanna is a book of doing. I read that book in my childhood. It has been translated into almost all languages. It is a book of 70-80 pages, and is a child's character in that book, and there comes an idea in her mind about how good things can be drawn from everything.\nSo he wrote the incident, the gardener working in the garden of his house became old and the body became so crooked, so once the child asked, how is the grandfather? So he said that no-now he is old, see, I can not stand on top like this, my waist has become so stupid, I am just waiting for death. So the child said no, no grandfather do not do that. See how much God is merciful to you. Before you were standing and you had to make such a turn to work in the garden. Now God has made such arrangements. You do not have to turn around and you can easily do the work of the garden. That is, one cause of misery for one another was the reason for that inspiration for another and therefore I believe that there is no such event, no matter what the attitude of seeing it towards us, on the basis of which the inspiration of life becomes. So I will say to all of you and tell the system here, keep the five-six books in the library Pollyanna and alternately read all the children. If there is a meeting in assembling, then there is also some context in it. Okay!\nQuestion - How many hours do you work, how do you face stress?\nPrime Minister: I do not work for how many hours I work, and I do not enjoy it because I do not count how many hours I worked when we start counting that I have worked so many hours He did this work, he did the work, then it seems that man became very much. Second, you must have seen people in your experience when Masterji has given you any Home work and when the Home work is written, then oh! This will be bad Saturday-Sunday! All the teachers have written so much. But when you go into the room and start writing and you complete the Home work then you must have seen as soon as the Home work is completed, you get tired. Have you noticed that not so, if the work is completed then the fatigue or does not descend. As long as the work is left, it does not seem to be tired. So it is confirmed that the work is never tired, there is no exhaustion of work, once you do it, then the work is enjoyed. There is satisfaction, and therefore the more work you get, the more enjoyment it is. The more work the more satisfied it is.\nSecond, an old story is a very good story, someone was sitting on the mountains on the hillside, and an eight-year-old girl was raising her three-year-old brother and climbing the mountain, Swamiji asked, Do not you think? So he is not my answer, he is my brother, then Swamiji said, I am not asking who is with you, I am asking that you do not feel tired, you have to climb so big a mountain, you take your little brother You are climbing up, you do not feel tired. No, Panditji is my brother. Then Swamiji asked again. Hey, I am not asking you, who is, I am asking you that you are not tired, then he is not a master, I am telling you neither is my brother. To say, it was that those who live for themselves do not feel fatigue. Understand! I find myself a hundred crore countrymen. My, I am a member of those families, my family of 100 million people is my family. They will enjoy or do not do anything for them, or they will or will not want to work harder. Will not or will not want to live for them. Then you will feel tired! That's the reason for this.\nQuestion: Who believes in the biggest success of life, who gives credit?\nPrime Minister: Life should not be weighed on the scale of success or failure, on the day when we keep on account of success-failure, success and failure, then disappointment comes. Our endeavor should be to carry a goal. Sometimes the obstacles come, sometimes the difficulties come, sometimes have to go back two steps, but if they put that goal in front, then all these things become useless. So success and failure should never be seen as the scales of achieving the goal of life, but should learn a lot from the failure. Most people are not successful because they do not learn anything from failure. The more we can learn from the failures, perhaps the success does not give us education. My life is such that every step had to face the failures and I do not calculate the successes, nor do I work to succeed. To achieve a goal is to serve your Mother India. Serving one hundred and fifty million people Failure - Success keeps coming. But try, I try to learn more than failure.\nQuestion: What if you are not in politics?\nPrime Minister: See, the greatest happiness of life is this, how to live as a child ... how much joy is there to remain a child and when you grow up, then it shows how much loss of childhood is lost, if God asks me If I want to, then I would say, keep a child alive.\nQuestion - The Secrets of Success while facing difficulties.\nPrime Minister: I think I have been asked this question right now, it is almost the same question. If anyone has any field in life, to be successful, then we should know that I have to be told, we should know which way to go, we should know, we should know how to go, we have to Know how long it should be. If our thinking is clear in these things, then the failures will come, even then obstacles will come, even then your goal will never be lost. What happens to most people if you come here after watching a good movie, you will ask what you want if you want to say in the evening, I want to be an actor.\nToday, somebody who came here watching the World Cup asked, \"What do you want me to be a cricketer?\" The war is going on, the soldiers of the army are being martyred, so if the news is coming then it does not mind- no, now we have to go to the army and die for the country. These are those who are always new-minded and have no success in their life, and therefore our desire for the mind should be seal. Today is a wish tomorrow, second desire is the third desire, then people say - this big wave! He used to think this yesterday - he thought it was useless. Then desire should be seal and when desire becomes seal, then the resolution becomes in itself and once the resolution is created then do not look backwards needed. Obstacles are difficulties, we have trouble, we have to stay busy. Success will be kissing your steps.\nWell, of you ... live here, there is such a big premises, do any of you ever have a desire to become a very good player? Sports man! Someone has to be a Babu by reading and writing to everyone. Now I will ask who is to be the police officer, then all hands will rise up, who is to be the doctor, all hands will raise it, it does not matter! What are you doing to be good .. in your mind? What are you doing? Those who are trying to become doctors, they stand up, who are working hard to become a doctor. Sit down. Who are they who are working to become collectors? .. good. For those who want to go to IIT, who are they? Tell me one thing? If you are dreaming then dream of becoming less dreamed and dream of doing one more time, you will enjoy and enjoy it.\nBut I would love to be .. It's such a nice premise, right now, in three games, inside three games ... this is our land, this is the land of our tribals. We will bring a name in the world and you will see Can bring. You must have seen a year ago, in the neighborhood, in Jharkhand, there were no girls with their daughters. But they went to the international world. They did not even have clothes, they did not even know what the plane was, but they came by earning names in the world, inside the game. .. There were tribal girls of Jharkhand. We should have the intention that not only to play, but to become a good player, I will make an environment. I will be a good player myself. ..And where this campus happens, there is the possibility of preparing good players, there is a possibility of finding talent and I would like to be in this nice premises ..\nSecondly, how many of you are people who come to play even a single day in the week, do not get out of the room, go to Sharma, get scared, how many? .. do not tell you guys See life should be sports, no matter how to read. Three or four times a day should be sweat, should work hard, run, play and jump. There is no harm to his studies. Sports comes, sports man spirit comes and sports man spirit comes, so also comes a different joy. so shall? will do? Four times a day, do you sweat, will you? So will you stand in the sun for it? Do not do this\nThank you"