"\nHuge numbers of great privileges!\nWhere the mother Danteshwari is blessed, the area where tribals have taught the way to live the world, such is the land of Bastar. Today is my good fortune that I got an opportunity to come in between you, got a good fortune to visit you. Today, a program was going to happen in Raipur too, but yesterday the storm of wind blew all over there. Many of our colleagues were hurt. I pray to God that all these brothers and sisters on duty are very healthy soon. Dr. Raman had told me yesterday ... and the state government is fully concerned about his health and very soon all of them will be healthy.\nToday there have been many decisions and decisions. It may have happened for the first time in Bastar's history that the decision of achieving new heights of development with an investment of 24 thousand crore rupees in one hour of this festival is a state, even for the entire state, if there is a project of 5 thousand crores , Then there is a very glorious event for the state. While today a district has 24 thousand crore rupees ... I can guess how well this bastar will change in the coming days.\nToday you go to any tribal and ask, go and ask the poor person of any village, ask any farm worker, ask any farmer what is your suggestion, what should he do? What do you expect to do? I say with confidence, I say from experience, all of them ... why not live in any state, why not live on any part of the land. The only answer is that the sahab do anything, children Do something like that you get employment. The farmer also wants the children to get employment because he knows that if he gets employment to go ahead in life then his own world will make it by his own hard work, he will do it, he will do it, once he will get employment Get it. The first priority for India is that the young people of our country get jobs, get opportunities, they want to be a partner in the task of advancing the country. ..And no parent wants to spend hundreds of thousands of kilometers away for the son-daughter's employment and spend life in the slums of the cities, no parents want. Every parent wants that son pass, and some get his job. The son also wants, daughter also wants that old-time parents leave helpless and do not have to go to live the life of slums in the city. That is why the responsibility of the government is created, the responsibility of the governance becomes that we should move the development forward in such a way that development in all the land of India, development in far-off forests and reach the fruits of development till the poor hut . To reach the fruits of development till the poor cottage means that employment opportunities are available to the poor families of poor. Therefore, in the center of the path of development we have chosen, we have the only resolution that the young people of the country get opportunities, get jobs, get an opportunity to move forward.\nToday in Bastar district ... coal was also before, iron ore was also before, the governments were also first, people were also first, there was also unemployment but still went to such a slow pace to find a solution to the problem that people were disappointed Were drowned in the trough Today, our effort is to get railway connectivity all over India, in the distant and remote areas, rail tracks, facilitate people to travel and visit. When the train takes place, when the train arrives, it does not work just for the journey, it does not do that, it gives speed to one life, also gives meaning-life speed. Rail tracks from Jagdalpur will connect you with the mainstream of India. When we bring the Prime Minister Jan-Dhan Yojana, connecting the poor with the financial mainstream and talking about the train till Jagdalpur in Bastar, then our efforts are made to leave the citizens here with the mainstream of India.\nRight now the Chief Minister was telling in detail that how long will we make our livelihood by selling and selling raw material abroad? ..And how are we people that iron ore so send us out and bring the steel out! Now that business has to stop us. If iron ore is ours, steel will be ours and if we want the world, then we will give steel, we will add the sweat of our young man in iron ore and make steel from the same iron ore and while making steel from the same iron ore, the lives of my young people They will also be able to fight against every crisis of the world. Such a life will be elevated, we are working in that direction. Our effort is to move the country on new heights of development.\nToday I came here seeing the dream of Dr. Raman Singh ji coming down on the earth. In spite of being a friend to Raman Singh ji, I have always been a respected honor and most respected me when the people here are expensive .. Chironji, cashew nuts, they used to buy salt, Salt in return ! And those who had a sense of exploitation of society used to take those expensive products in exchange for salt and instead of getting the citizens' salt in Bastar district, they did not know what they were ready to give. Raman Singh ji decided in the beginning as soon as the government was formed that I would reach the salt people. Despite being a friend from that day, I felt a special respect that I have a companion who thinks every moment for the poor, thinks for tribals.\nToday, when I came to the city of knowledge, the imagination is in it. What is the way to bring people who have gone on the path of violence back to the mainstream, I think Raman Singh ji Has made the way. Solved on the shoulder! The same can solve the problems. On the shoulder gun, these problems do not solve. The land on which Naxalism was born and due to which Naxalism was discussed in the country, go there and see, after the experience they have learned .. And they also left that path. Today, the Naxalbari, from where the path of violence started, bombs, firearms and pills used to move, the stream of blood flowed, it was closed today. Those who think that .. the day that the death game will stop it will not be. I countrymen! You want to believe that there is no need to be disappointed. It will also close. When bloody game was being played in Punjab, was anyone ever thought that the bloody game will end in Punjab and people will live the life of happiness? Are living today. Had Naxalbadi thought? Today people are also living there too I believe that even in this land, people walking on this wrong path will also live in them.\nToday I went to that city and came to the city. More than 800 children found who had no sin, had to disperse with their parents. On the way of violence, the youths who had become mad, killed somebody's father, killed somebody's mother, forced a parent to move away from there. I met those 800 children who lost their family members. Due to the violence of Maoism, there has been trouble in his life. But today, I congratulate Dr. Raman Singh Ji for saying that he wanted to take away all the things that the Maoists were tired, who wanted to take children on the path of sword, bomb, gun, Raman Singh ji Caught the computer, and I saw the consciousness which I saw in his eyes .. I have seen the faith, seeing those 800 children, I say there is no future for violence. If there is a future, then it is of peaceful ways, that I have come here today, have come and experienced, have come and experienced. I want to tell the youngsters who have gone on the path of violence to do at least one experiment, put the gun down on the shoulder for at least two-five days. Wear plainly tribal clothes, wear such clothes and because of the family which has lost a loved one, the death of somebody's father has happened, someone's mother has died. There is a child who lives in that house, five Come and spend the day just like this with him, talk to him and tell him not to tell who you are, just talk like this. I believe that the child will force you to reconsider your thoughts, your experience, your heart will change. You will also move on to how much big sin you have committed in the violence of violence. Once, by embracing humanity, getting rid of demonic instincts ... do not get any more, get some time from these distressed families. You will never have to go to that path again. You will also feel that you have done something wrong. If a government changes you, no law changes you, a greedy greed that changes you, a child who is suffering from your bullets can change your life. The condition is that after accepting humanity, you can spend a few moments with him and see. I saw those children today .. Violence has never resolved problems. You can get out of the way by sitting. If Chhattisgarh becomes free from this crisis, then I believe in the number one on the economic heights in India, Chhattisgarh can come and stand in India. The future of young people can change and Chhattisgarh has that strength, it can also change the future of India. So my brothers and sisters! Development is the only way that will solve our problems.\nI got an opportunity to see Raman Singh Ji's livelihood college today. They have laid a trap in the entire state. Even if there is a prosperous country rich in the world .. One thing has become his main job today. The world's happiest nation is also giving importance to skill development. In the world to teach skills, every country has become a priority. The campaign to reach the peak from Hunar in Chhattisgarh has been launched, he is a very kind person. I have come and seen. I saw those children and girls, but there is a lot of energy in the eyes, it is fast, and there is an unimaginable belief in things. Big officials also have to talk to CM or PM, then some moment takes time to set. I saw that the kids used to talk fast. There was no hesitation, there was no hesitation in their point of view. This is the level of confidence that is very big to grow in life. They have come here seeing me today.\nWe have been taking the mission of skill development across the country as young people of our country have to provide employment. And if employment is to be given, skill development is the simplest way. In every area of ​​life, every young man will have the skill in hand The person who has the skill in his hands never gets to spread his hand to live a life, he can live life on his own terms, but on his own terms. He has never been compelled and Raman Singh ji has done this work through livelihood colleges. It can also be an example for other states of the country. I would like, I will also try to come to see more and more states of the country, see this, understand this model and discuss how it can be implemented.\nBrothers and sisters! You have given us a chance to serve you with a huge majority. Chhattisgarh is standing behind us with all the strength and I assure you that as much as you have given, we will return with development including interest.\nToday, I got the privilege of giving bonus to our farmer's brothers and sisters, and I also asked them what they would do, I asked everyone. Everyone knows how to use these money to make the lives of their children, the blueprint for them is ready in their mind. This is what everyone's aspiration Our endeavor is to fulfill it.\nThere was a time .. How did the world see on the side of Hindustan? Most were not ready to see, and those who were watching looked at the big neglect or saw them as a joke. Seeing the environment changed or not changed? The world started asking the Hindus, did not they? The world's rich countries also had to accept the importance of India or not have to believe. Country hundred and fifty million! It does not need to live by bowing down the head. That time went There is a resolution of the hundred and fifty million people that our country is raised due to the eye-to-eye eye by lifting the forehead, and is born to live in tune with life, not born to bend. That power lies within us, lies within the hundred and fifty million people. I know that power well. When I talk to anyone in the world, Modi alone does not talk, hundred and fifty million people talk together and together, the world is starting to believe in India as the iron. The whole world has begun to believe that there is a country which has a fast economic growth in the world today. In the whole world, then that country is named - Hindustan.\nHow fast the change is coming, but there are some people who have enjoyed happiness only in keeping people poor during their lifetime, they have only joy in keeping sad. If there is some change in it, then they are sad now. I can understand their problems. Those who could not win the victory, for 60 years, they are not able to digest. Except for spreading lies to the people, whom the public has rejected, except for confusing the public, there is no way left to mislead the people.\nI assure the countrymen, remember these days, during this period I also came to Chhattisgarh, last year. What was in the newspapers? What news did TV come in a year ago? .. आज इतने का भ्रष्‍टाचार हुआ, आज ये घोटाला हुआ, वो घोटाला हुआ, इसने इतना मार लिया, उसने उतना लूट लिया, यही खबरें आती थीं कि नहीं आती थीं। कोयले की चोरी की चर्चा होती थी कि नहीं होती थी? एक साल हुआ है मेरे भाईयों-बहनों! एक भी खबर आई है क्‍या? क्‍या ईमानदारी से देश नहीं चलाया जा सकता क्‍या? चलाया जा सकता है। एक साल के अनुभव से मैं कह सकता हूं कि ये देश ईमानदारी से चलाया जा सकता है।\nचिठ्ठी–पर्ची से कोयले की खदानें दे दी थीं। आज हमने सार्वजनिक रूप से auction किया और वो खज़ाना राज्‍य की तिजोरी में दे दिया। कोयले के auction का पैसा राज्‍य के खज़ाने में आ गया। इतना ही नहीं, जहां पर खनिज़ निकलता है, उस इलाके के जो जिले हैं.. और ज्‍यादातर पूरे देश में आदिवासी क्षेत्र है जहां पर खनिज़ सम्‍पदा है। वहां हमने special संगठन की रचना की है। वहां से कुछ हिस्‍सा लोगों के कल्‍याण के लिए खर्च कर दिया जाएगा। पहली बार गरीबों के लिए रुपए तिजोरी से निकालने का काम हो रहा है।\nमुझे विश्‍वास है कि जिस विकास के रास्‍ते पर हम चल पड़े हैं, उस रास्‍ते से देश की समस्‍याओं का समाधान भी करेंगे, आपकी आशाओ-आकांक्षाओं को परिपूर्ण भी करेंगे और आपके साथ कंधे से कंधा मिला करके देश को नई ऊंचाइयों पर ले जाने में हम सफल होंगे।\nइसी एक विश्‍वास के साथ मैं फिर एक बस्‍तर को, छत्‍तीसगढ़ को हृदयपूर्वक बहुत-बहुत शुभकामनाएं देता हूं।\nThanks a lot."