"Share\n\nToday we have gathered on such a festival which is triple in one way, it is Triveni. Today's Holy Day is of Buddha Purnima, when Lord Buddha had taken the body. Today is the holy day, when Lord Buddha received the address and today is the day when God has rescued the body and turned towards Divinity. But today we feel a little cumbersome at this glittering festival, because of the burden that the Lord Buddha was born on the whole earth, our beloved Nepal is going through a very big crisis. It is also hard to imagine how terrible this torture will be, and for how long Nepal's suffering victims will have to face these tortures, it is also difficult to guess. But Lord Buddha has given the message of compassion that there is also an opportunity for the human race to live that compassion. Inspired by the same compassion, we share the sorrows of the brothers of Nepal, wipe their tears and they also get a new power, for this we pray at the feet of Lord Buddha today.\nWhen Lord Buddha is discussed then it is natural that what he had said in today's era, what he had done and what he had given to live the life of today, the world of today, is the benefactor of today's world what? And if we look at any topic of life which is not present in the Buddha today? If salvation is war from the water then it is found only through the Buddha's path. Occasionally the illusion of people is that power and splendor is complete to solve the problems, but the life of Lord Buddha denies this thing. The opportunity to get the address of Lord Buddha is known to all of us, but in one of the conduct of Lord Buddha it seems that he already ... the land of his mind was ready. After the rain comes, after harvesting the seed, it is in our meditation, but the earth has its own strength, it has its own supremacy, which later becomes the form of Urvra, then our meditation goes.\nLord Buddha is feeling that from the time of his birth he had come in the form of receiving the address, and the opportunity to get the duly attestation which was another in the eyes of the world .. What was the reason that the person who owns the family Who is born in a person who is self-taught in warfare, a person who has immense power, has immense wealth, even after this, it is not complete for human welfare; There is some strength beyond this, and it is mandatory to go to that power. When this belief is inherent ... how big a conviction will be, how great will be that leaving all these things in the moment, Raj-Vaibhav, Power, money, leave everything and get out There is a power above all these, which will be used by human beings, the work of human welfare will come. These thoughts are not small. When Lord Buddha looks, there is a continuity view. The inner compassion was reflected in their romance, and it was flowing. Buddha, who was once in the form of Siddhartha, was sitting between Raj-chit\nSiddhartha and Debavrata go to prey two brothers and Buddha's eyes are only there when a swan is killed by the arrows of Devvart, and Siddhartha exposes his life to save him, the joy of hunting his brother Want to be busy in it .. And then leaving all of your brother's love and everything else, the path of his principles, a child in childhood, and he says that no! I will not kill! If the compassion had not flowed from within, if life had not been inspired by compassion, then this event would not have been possible, because the kind of racism that is followed in the royal house, to prepare for living among the warriors , Who is equipped with arms, that person shows so much compassion for a bird and becomes ready to leave his brother, then that compassion Mr. intensity will be so high, it comes style. This feeling is the same, that is the strength that inspires him to leave the royal palace. And see the end of life, see the intensity of compassion that they express compassion even after living in the life of the king in childhood. And in the end of life, a person suddenly ignites the nails within their ears, even then ... themselves were suffering from pain, the body was moaning .. To punish the nails in the ears will be painful pain, Could can style but still had time for his brothers who reflect the same compassion. The same compassion appears to the person who kills him. Life was so unitary, he gave the order of integration. We can predict the sensitivity of this integration as to the end of life.\nThere is a discussion today that the 21st century is Asia's century and there is no dilemma in the world, not the differences. All in this regard believe that the 21st century is of Asia. There can be differences in which country will belong to which country, but Asia will not have any differences. Those who have envisioned '21st Century Asia Century', perhaps they have not looked at one aspect. Without the Buddha, there can never be the 21st century of Asia. Without a Buddha can be '21st Century Century of Asia' .. And Buddha is what can make '21st Century Asia Century' an inspiration in the world and what is that inspiration? The world is battling crises, hurting one another, violence is at its peak. The physical terrain of the world is bloody, then where will the message of compassion come from? Who can give the message of love between this mentality of death and who is the strength, what is the person whose talk will be ready to accept the world, then the place looks the same. The edge is visible in one place, that is - Buddha. This path is also to show the way to the world, even for mankind, which is passing through the crisis. Any ideas in your own lifetime can be so effective? Not possible. We can see the many flow of thoughts in the world, in the tenure of the father of that thought .. that idea has spread so much, it has not been so much publicized. Later would be spread by his disciples. The government will spread through the system but if a person is alive - if he has a name, then there is only one name in the whole world, that is Buddha. On this large land area, these thoughts have reached and the inspiration of the masses has become a center of respect. In that sense, it will have to believe that all the things associated with Buddha are ... Sometimes, seeing this aspect, it seems that Buddha was also knowledge-wise. Unless conviction happens, unless things are weighed on the scales of ideas, unless the comparative study is done better then the world does not accept things automatically. Knowledge of Buddhas was the power of knowledge, only then the world would have accepted them, the world would have weighed on the scales and accepted it.\nAt that time, there was a lot of evil in social life ... and evils. The fears ran round. Geo-extension had become an instinctive state trend. At such times, i.e. discussing sacrifice in such a difficult time, discussing limitations, giving message of love and compassion and talking about social reform. The issues that we are discussing in today, in India, God, two and a half thousand years ago Buddha also touched these issues.\nI was just here ... when I was given the book, I was studying, I was impressed with one thing, I think I should tell you. It is written in one place - \"But without welfare, it is a distant thing like the future and the world, the meaning of this life can not be achieved.\" Leave the matter of happiness after death, there is no happiness in this life too. Can get It is said further, \"How, according to the wages, the laborer who does not work and the person who does not pay the wages according to the work or on time, both can not prove their physical meaning.\" May celebrate, May celebrate the first, they would have imagined that Lord Buddha had kept in mind about the workers and about the worker about two and a half thousand years ago.\nBeing a caste system, a high and low price, talk about good and bad, Lord Buddha was very sensitive in that subject. What else wanted! At one place he has said, \"The less eloquent people who are humiliated by others should be very strong\" \"What is the desire! Those who are humiliated, they are very hostile, they become great, and \"the ugly people who are suffering from sunlight, wind or hard work\", they do not do their work, they are soaked with sweat, whose faces are dull. They want These people improve, i.e. every moment .. Dalit, afflicted, exploited and deprived, people continue to make their place inside their hearts. It is said in one place, in the manner in which they have kept women's pride. It is said in one place. In the manner in which he has kept the pride of women, how he has discussed women empowerment, has done in his own way, according to the era of age. They have said: \"The number of women in this Lok, they will become men in the next life, who are considered to be inferior births today, they will bear high birth in the next life\" and further say, Even after all, they will never get proud. \"You see, I was watching sitting like this, but what was their attitude of looking at the society? They wanted change in the society, wanted an evolution, wanted an evolution, the person's life should also go to the semiconductor, the society was also a semiconductor, it was their endeavor. The message of Buddha was that the 'Ekla Chalo Re' could not bring these results, he was insensitive to the organization and also got the same mantra from Baba Saheb Ambedkar, to be organized and therefore whenever Buddha talk If you come to- Buddhham Saranan Gacchami, Dhamma Saranan Gacchumi, Sangam Saranan Gakkhami These mantras come in front of us repeatedly. The power of the organization and in this form as if it was a knowledge medium, he was also a self-destructor. They believed in integrity, which people could add, believe in adding and their efforts to transform the power of an organization from it.\nLord Buddha has also given the mantra for the development of the person, I understand that there can be no bigger message than this. Today, read the books of various management books, how many lectures for the development of the person, how many texts are put-down, I understand that a mantra of Buddha is enough for it. Put all the ideas of the person development in a scales, keep all the texts and in the second scales, keep a mantra of Lord Buddha with a word of three words, I think the scales will bend towards Buddha. What was that mantra? The best mantra of the person development was 'App Deepo Bhav' I think 'Above Deepo Bhav' can not have any other way to the upward journey of a person's life and in that sense I would say that Lord Buddha himself .. some people It is said that they were the light of the former, they are described much more in this form, but I believe that perhaps in the light of the past, our imagination has the power of power, There is a limit to our imagination. It seems that it was a strong band for the entire Brahmand. From the fast pulse of which, from time to time, he received the light which flows like that, and therefore he himself was a strenuous beam, how can we attain that divine path by getting the light from that strenuous mass? , In which there is compassion, in which there is a tendency to take together, in which there is a will to live for others and there is a way to sacrifice for it.\nBuddha has shown us the paths we have shown, when we go by that path .. Lord Buddha has discussed Ashtanga and I believe that without knowing the path of Ashtanga, without seeing the Buddha can not find and In that Ashtang path, Lord Buddha has said what is said to be a right vision, secondly, the sankalak sankalpa, third samayak vani, fourth samayak conduct, fifth samayak livelihood, due diligence, samyak chetna, samyak medya Rather, these eight routes .. These eight routes the right view, right thought, right speech, right conduct, right livelihood, right effort, right conciseness, right construction Kkbgwan Buddha has advised us. Even today, United Nation accepts international Yoga Day. In order to support 177 countries of the world Yoga Day and this type of resolution has never received such a huge support in the history of the UN, in such a short time, such an idea has not been accepted in the entire history of the entire UN There is also a path to liberation from indulgence and yoga is the path to liberation from disease and if one step goes forward, then it leads to meditation, for which God Buddha inspires us to go And in this sense, the solutions to those problems that meet the problems we are facing in today's era, the problems we are facing, satisfies these requirements. Even in entire Asia, wherever I am going these days, the state governments, the governments of that nation, once cared for me while making my program and I also like it when they do it. If there is a temple of Buddha then I would definitely take it there.\nIf I was Chief, then China could not imagine, in China, in China, the program I created was organized to spend one evening in my Lord Buddha's temple. If I went to Japan now, then in Kyoto, the Prime Minister himself came here and took me along with this temple of Lord Buddha's temple. अभी श्रीलंका गया, सभी बौद्ध भिक्षुओं के साथ मिलने का मुझे अवसर मिला और मैं देखता हूं कि कितनी बड़ी आध्यात्मिक चेतना है लेकिन बिखरी पड़ी है। समय की मांग है कि संकट से अगर विश्व को बचाने के लिए, बुद्ध का करुणा प्रेम का संदेश काम आता है तो ये शक्तियां सक्रिय होनी चाहिए और भगवान बुद्ध ने कहा था, उसी रास्ते पर संगठित भी होना चाहिए और तभी जाकर के सामर्थ्य प्राप्त होगा और मैं, ये अच्छा हुआ कि हमारे कुछ लोगों का ध्यान नहीं गया अभी तक वरना कई चीजें हमारे देश में विवाद का कारण बनाने में देर नहीं लगती है।\nमैं गांधी नगर में मुख्यमंत्री था तो हमारा एक सचिवालय का नया परिसर बना है, उस परिसर में मैंने बहुत बड़ी एक भगवान बुद्ध की मूर्ति लगाई है, प्रवेश होते ही सामने है और मैं जिस मुख्यमंत्री के निवास में रहता था वहां पर भी प्रवेश पर सामने ही भगवान बुद्ध विराजमान हैं। अभी तक शायद इन लोगों का ध्यान नहीं गया वरना तो अब तक मेरी चमड़ी उधेड़ दी गई होती। शायद एक कारण ये है.. वो मेरे ज्ञान या जानकारियों के कारण नहीं है, कुछ बातें होती हैं, जो हमें पता भी नहीं होती है। मेरा जन्म जिस गांव में हुआ, तो जब हम बच्‍चे थे, पढ़ते थे तो यहां आए थे, यहां रहे थे.. थोड़े बड़े हुए तो पता चला कि ह्वेन सांग काफी समय मेरे गांव में रहे थे। क्‍यों रहे थे? तो फिर पता चला कि.. हमारी सामान्‍य Impression ये है कि भगवान बुद्ध पूर्वी क्षेत्र में थे लेकिन आपको यह जानकर आश्‍चर्य होगा कि भारत के दूर, सुदूर पश्चिमी क्षेत्र में, मेरे गांव में बौद्ध भिक्षुओं के लिए एक बहुत बड़ा हॉस्‍टल था और हजारों की तादात में बौद्ध भिक्षुओं की शिक्षा-दीक्षा का वहां काम होता था। तो ये सब ह्वेन सांग ने लिखा है।\nमैं जब मुख्‍यमंत्री बना तो मुझे स्‍वाभाविक इच्‍छा हुई कि भई ये लिखा गया है तो यहां कुछ तो होगा। मैंने मेरे यहां पुरातत्‍व विभाग को कहा कि ज़रा खुदाई करो भई, देखों की क्‍या है। मुझे खुशी हुई कि वे सारी चीजें खुदाई में से मिल गईं। बुद्ध के स्‍तूप मिल गए, वहां के हॉस्‍टल भी मिल गए और ह्वेन सांग ने जो वर्णन किया था कि हज़ारों की तदात में लोग वहां शिक्षा-दीक्षा लेते थे। उसके बाद मैंने एक ग्‍लोबल Buddhist Conference की थी और बहुतेक बौद्ध भिक्षुओं को मैं उस जगह पर ले गया था। .. और मुझे ये भी खुशी थी कि हम एक जगह पर खुदाई कर रहे थे तो वहां से तो हमें भगवान बुद्ध के अवशेष मिले हैं। सोने की एक डिबिया मिली है जो अभी एमएस यूनिवर्सिटी में रखी गई है। भविष्‍य में सपना है कि भगवान बुद्ध के जो अवशेष हैं, वहां एक भव्‍य भगवान बुद्ध का एक मंदिर बने और विश्‍वभर में भगवान बुद्ध से प्रेरणा पाने वाले सबके लिए ये प्रेरणा का केंद्र बने।\nतो मेरा नाता.. मैं हमेशा अनुभव करता हूं कि कुछ विशेष कारण से भगवान बुद्ध के साथ है, उन विचारों के साथ है, उस करुणा और प्रेम के रास्‍ते के साथ है। मुझे आज बुद्ध पूर्णिमा के इस पावन अवसर पर भगवान बुद्ध के चरणों में आ करके बैठने का अवसर मिला, उनका स्‍मरण करने का अवसर मिला और आप सबके दर्शन करने का अवसर मिला, मैं अपने आप को धन्‍य मानता हूं।\nमैं फिर एक बार नेपाल के लोगों के लिए भगवान बुद्ध से प्रार्थना करता हूं कि मेरे पीडि़त भाईयों को बहुत शक्ति दें और बहुत ही जल्‍द हमारा ये प्‍यारा भाई ताकतवर बने और शक्तिशाली बन करके हि‍मालय की गोद में फले-फूले, यही प्रार्थना करते हुए मैं मेरी वाणी को विराम देता हूं।\nThanks a lot"