"His Excellency, President Ashraf Ghani, members of the media,\nI am happy to welcome President Ghani and his delegation to India\nWe are meeting in the shadow of the horrible calamity in Nepal. President Ghani and I speak for our two countries, South Asia and the world to the people of Nepal: Your courage and humanity has earned the respect of the world. And, you are not alone at this moment of tragedy and trial\nWe will do everything possible with rescue and relief And, when you rebuild your life and reconstruct your homes and heritage.\nPresident Ghani and I discussed the historic efforts of rebuild his nation. We in India admire the courage and resolve of the Afghan people. They are succeeding against huge challenges\nThe relationship between India and Afghanistan is not just between two countries or governments It is a timeless link of human hearts.\nWe deeply value the friendship and the goodwill of the Afghan people. Every Indian, in turn, holds the Afghan people in the highest affinity and esteem.\nThis is why we stand with the people of Afghanistan, as they build a united, stable, democratic and prosperous nation.\nThis is the responsibility of our friendship. It also stems from our commitment to regional peace and progress.\nFourteen years ago, we started a new chapter in our relationship, in a new era for Afghanistan, under the leadership of President Karzai. The partnership has blossomed, despite the barriers of geography and hurdles of politics.\nWe will continue this journey in partnership with President Ghani and his National Unity Government with Chief Executive Dr. Abdullah Abdullah\nAnd, it will not be limited to the decade of transformation. This is an enduring commitment\nThe peaceful democratic transition It reflects the faith in democracy of the brave Afghan people and great wisdom. Preserving the mandate and political unity\nI conveyed our support for President Ghani's vision for peace and stability in Afghanistan.\nWe have a shared interest in the success of an Afghan-owned and Afghan-owned process. This should be conducted within the framework of the Constitution of Afghanistan, without the shadow of violence.\nIt should reinforce the political, economic and social progress of the last fourteen years. And, it should protect the rights and aspirations of all sections of the society, including Afghan women.\nIts success requires a positive and constructive approach from neighbors, including an end to support for violence.\nWe share Afghanistan's pain over persisting terrorism and extremist violence that destroy lives and derail progress.\nI love him for terrorism\nWe are deeply grateful to the Afghan security forces, who protect our people in Afghanistan as they will their own.\nPresident Ghani shared his impressive vision for Afghanistan's prosperity, based on its talent, resources and location. We believe that Afghanistan's direct surface link to India and the rest of South Asia and increased to seacould turn Afghanistan into a hub that connects Asia's diverse regions and beyond.\nWe are ready to welcome Afghan trucks at the ICP Attari. We are also ready to join the successor agreement to Afghanistan Pakistan Trade and Transit Agreement. This will re-establish one of the oldest trading routes of South Asia. I also reaffirmed my commitment to take in the Chahbahar Port project in Iran forward. We will also quickly conclude a bilateral Motor Vehicles Agreement.\nWe will expand our development partnership, which include infrastructure, agriculture, connectivity, human resource development, community projects and humanitarian assistance. We will explore new trade and investment opportunities.\nAfghan children have a special focus in our efforts Today, I conveyed fresh support for Habibia School in Kabul, the Indira Gandhi Child Health Care Hospital and Red Crescent Society for the treatment of children with congenital heart disease.\nAfghan security forces of Afghanistan I am happy that we have delivered three Cheetal Helicopters to Afghanistan, which will add to the growing capabilities of the valiant Afghan Forces.\nExcellency, Afghanistan's success is a very deserved destiny of Afghan people. But, it is also important for the world In the troubles of our times, it has acquired added importance\nIndia will walk shoulder to shoulder with you and the Afghan people in a mission of global importance.\nYour visit has added new momentum to our partnership.\nThank you, Sir, thank you Excellency"