"My Dear Countrymen,\nNamaskar!\nI was not feeling like doing this today I am feeling heavy and burdened There were news of hailstorm, unseasonal rain and damage to farmer's crop. Suddenly, out of nowhere strong winds blew in Bihar, causing death of so many people and inflicted lot of damage And the earthquake has shaken the whole world on Saturday. It seems the trend of natural disasters has continued. Be it the Nepal earthquake and in India as well as the earthquake took place in different states of India. The earthquake is the cause of the earthquake. However, the loss to Nepal is frightening.\nI have seen Kutch earthquake very close on Jan 26, 2001. I can clearly imagine how destructating these disasters are. I could imagine that Nepal and the victimized families But my dear brothers and sisters of Nepal, India Work has begun to provide support to people facing crisis across India and Nepal. First and foremost work Some people should still be alive under the debris and should get evacuated safely from there A team of experts Sniffer dogs have been sent as they have the ability to trace any individual staying alive under the debris. Our whole endeavor Post rescue operation, there is a need to undertake relief work as well. Rehabilitation work will continue for long However, humanity has a power of its own Nepal is a dear to 125 crore people of India Their grief is our grief India will make sure to wipe the tears of each Nepali\nThousands of our Indian brothers and sisters were left stranded in Yemen a few days ago. It was a very tough task to evacuate the Indians alive, amidst horrific situation, between the tension of bombs and guns, amidst firing but we managed to do so Not only this, when we were safely rescued a newborn girl who was just a week old It brings a sense of satisfaction to the mind by rescuing a week old girl alive with raining bombs, guns and shadow of death.\nWherever I went overseas in the last few days, I received compliments for one thing and that was saving for citizens of 48 countries of the world in Yemen. Be it the citizen of the US, the UK, France, Russia, Germany, Japan, we helped the citizen of every country And due to this, the world has experienced the old saying of India, \"service religion religion:\", meaning the greatest service to humanity is to serve others. Our Ministry of External Affairs, our Air Force and our Navy have done this work with such courage and responsibility. This is what I believe in. And I am happy that all people were evacuated safely without any damage and it should be noted that India's special quality is that our culture is quite old.\n\nRecently when I visited France, I went to a memorial of the first World War there. The reason for visiting the place was that it is the centennial year of First World War, but at the same time it is the centennial year of India's valour. This is the centennial year of the sacrifices made by the Indian heroes and the \"service to religion:\", meaning the greatest service to humanity is to serve others and how this phrase has been lived by our country; this year is also I'm saying this because very few people knew that about 15 lakh Indian soldiers had put their life on stake during the first world war from 1914 to 1918. And the Indian soldiers did not die for India's cause. India did not want to take any country But the Indians had showed amazing strength Very few people would know that about 74,000 of our soldiers sacrificed their life in the First World War. And this is also a matter of pride that about 9200 soldiers, who lost their life, were given gallantry award Not only this, there were eleven such individuals who received the highest honor of Victoria Cross. About 4700 Indians had sacrificed their life, especially during World War in March 2015 in France, which has made a memorial as a mark of respect for them. I went there to commemorate and express my gratitude.\nIf we see all these incidents, then we can say to the world that our country thinks in the direction of peace, happiness and welfare of the world. The country keeps doing something in this direction and if needed India finds itself in the first row among the highest contributors in the United Nations Peacekeeping Force. That is the matter of pride for us\nIn the last few days, I got the opportunity to accomplish two important tasks. We are celebrating the 125th birth anniversary of respected Babasaheb Ambedkar There has been a controversy about the land where his memorial was built for many years. I am satisfied that the Government of India decided to allot the land for the memorial of Babasaheb Ambedkar. Similarly, there must be an International Center in the name of Babasaheb Ambedkar in Delhi so that the whole world knows this sage, his thoughts and his work. This was also a matter, which was pending for years I completed and laid the foundation stone of the memorial. I pledged to complete the work in 20 months, which did not happen for 20 years. And at the same time there is a thought in our mind and we are working on it. Even today there are many families in our country that are forced to carry on their head. Is it a matter of grace for us that even today some families in our country have the burden of dirt on their head? With all earnest, I said in the government forum to get us free from this blur in the year when we commemorating Babasaheb Ambedkar on his 125th birth anniversary. Now, we will not tolerate a situation where any poor will have to take the load of dirt on our country. For this we need the support of the society I need cooperation of people\nBabasaheb Ambedkar used to say 'Stay educated' whole life. Even today, education has not reached many Dalits, exploited, and deprived ones in the society, especially girls. We should also pledge on the occasion of 125th birth anniversary of Babasaheb Ambedkar. There should not be any other city or locality. Government should do its duty And if it gets the support of the society, then we will definitely feel an sense of satisfaction. I want to share a matter of happiness and share with others I take pride of the fact that two daughters of India have made the country proud. One daughter -Saina Nehwal became the world's no 1 in Badminton, and the second daughter Sania Mirza became the world's top player in Tennis Doubles tournament. Congratulations to both country and all I feel proud of the effort and strength of our own. But sometimes, we lose cool When the Cricket World Cup was on and we lost to Australia in the semi-finals, the kind of words used and the treatment meted out. How can not be a defeat? Victory and defeat are part and parcel of life. If the players of our country have been beaten in a match, then they should be encouraged. There is a need to build a new environment. I am sure that we will learn from the defeats going forward and we will not lose control in the few moments by indulging in action-reaction. And I'm getting worried Whenever I see that something happens all of a sudden, a mob surrounds and burns the truck, burns the vehicle. And we see these things on TV as well. Accident should not happen Even the government must make full effort But my dear countrymen can tell me if we should Dead ones do not come back Can not we ensure law to take its course?\nWell, today my mind has been very sad due to these incidents, especially due to natural disasters. But amidst this also, we will move forward with courage and confidence. Be it person of this country - dalit, oppressed, exploited, tribe, villager, poor, farmer, small businessman, we will move on the path of welfare for everyone. Examinations of students are over Especially, the students of 10th and 12th standard must have a program of celebrating the holidays. I wish all you a very good vacation; Get the opportunity to learn something new And since you have worked hard the whole year, then I wish that you spend some time with your family\nNamaskar to everyone"