"\nAll the greatness present,\nI am feeling proud in myself because when we were young, there was news of the Gyanpeeth Award, then with great care he used to read it, who is receiving this award, what is the background of what he has got. It was great curiosity and the state of his mind, this is how he can come here and get a chance to sit, what can be the big deal.\nToday's day is a distraction day. The severe earthquake has troubled the human mind and did not know how much damage would have happened because information was coming up. The pain of Nepal is also our own pain. I spoke to the Prime Minister of Nepal, spoke to the President and assured that the hundred and fifty million people are with you in this trouble. Pray to God that give divine power to endure this terrible accident. Give strength to those families who have suffered disaster. There has also been some or little effect in India too. My condolences too towards them.\nThis is the opportunity of the Golden Jubilee. 50th is the function. There is no technical development in society, no matter how much has happened, but there is no extension of human sensitivities as well, no attempt to touch the heights, it is not known to mankind what will happen? And so, in the era of science and technology, literary practice works as a great medicine to save human sensibilities, to highlight human sensibilities and to compose literary literature. Nowadays, you create software for computer and put one or two thousand words along with programming inside the software and tell the computer to make something out of it and remove it, maybe it makes it. But that will be production, he will assemble, Creation can not do, and this creativity is what is the manifestation of the sensation. He flows in the form of a philosophy and then touches the normal human life for generations to come. We have proverbs from tradition. With the effect of centuries, by experience, the collection is made up and we must have seen how much of a proverb has become the direction-maker of life. What a great teaching is given to a proverb. It is not known who was the author of this saying, who was the controller, what period was created, nothing is known. But even today, he is able to add the same proverb to those who have had the opportunity to educate the illiterate person from the illiterate society of the society. That is, we can imagine how much power that can explain the state from the bottom to the sky, can be added.\nNot only that, it has the power to add to the era of the past, the present and the future to come. I used to mention the adage that we used it well in everyday life. The power of literature is many times more than that and when the initiator does, I do not believe that he writes something for the reader, I do not believe it, nor does he write that he has to teach something, nor does he He writes that he has to make a dispute and make his place. He writes so, he can not live without writing. There is a fire inside him, there is a flame inside him, there is a yearning inside him, and after going through the ink, those sensations begin to flow out of the word, which keeps vibrating for generations, becoming a path-seeker And then that literature becomes a power of society. Anyone can imagine, who has made Vedas, when are they, where are they, but even today the human race is facing problems which are finding solutions from it.\nI was just France. I was talking about the President of France because COP-21 is due in France and the world is worried about the environment. I said when there was no crisis on nature, the whole earth was filled with immense nature. Nobody has exploited that nature in that era, in that era, those who composed the Vedas in this era have given so much scholarly description of how nature should be created, why should be the relationship of human life and nature. I said this is the way to the world can show that yes, to avoid global warming, then how can be avoided? How to protect the environment and how things are done entirely by the scientific criterion are not just preachy, are not only emotional, there is no stock of Sanskrit verses only. It meant that before ages, one would have imagined that what is going to happen in front of the land and that path will follow those limitations right now, but there will be no composition for any time to make any composition. Maybe there will not be the Gyanpeeth award at that time, it means that it is a sadhana that runs through the ages.\nWhen I look at the life of Nemadji, I do not compare, I am sorry, neither can I catch the height of Nimda ji and I can not even catch the person I am going to mention. But look at the life of Shri Arvind ji and listen to the things of Narmada Ji, it feels very close. He was also well versed in English, but the way he tried to shake the soul of Hindustan by holding back to basic and the original life. It is the misfortune of the country that these things have not come to us in a broader way, but when it gets noticed, the world's attention is going to go. As Nemadji ji is saying, not the power of this back to basic, sometimes it is going to go, and then what can be the way to save mankind from crises, what can be the way humans see human beings , It comes straightforward, and then does not need the pseudo-junk life to go, there is no need to take shelter of pseudosity, there is a power from within, which combines.\nNeil Armstrong had gone on the moon, was a scientist, technology, space science. He started with a type of life on the day of youth, he was lost in space, dedicated himself to him and when he came back, he I have written in my diary, I think that she is a very big message in itself. He wrote, I went when I was an astronaut, but when I came I became a human being. See, from where in life, what comes out and this is the power. Nemadji ji has given the letter-body through his pen, for his future generations. This letter-body will be helpful in future generations, I have full faith but a worry is also haunting me.\nWe print books here, very few are sold. I do not have complete knowledge of Marathi literature, but in Gujarati, most of the 1250 books are printed, 2250 and I would ever ask why 2250 are printing, then say Paper which is ever cut, then it is not wastage, it exits from so many. Paper remains in the publisher's mind, there is an age in the writer's mind, there is a lot of difference, and they sell well-selling ten, twelve, fifteen years, half of them would probably go to the library, then the mail would go away. is.\nI sometimes think that when we make a nice house, what happened to an architecture? They would have said this to the bathroom. He must also have said that what is the drawing room? But how many people would be spending bills worth billions of rupees and they would have said that there would be a room, a good library, and how many architecture would be, who would have said that even if there is less space but to keep a corner Keep it Why do not we put habit, why do not we add habit? If there is a worship in the house, there will be a separate place for shoes, all will be but there will be no separate place for the book. I am not talking about the lawyers because they have the same support. But normally, in the second, the student also got a guide, so why not read the text book? The train used to go from the train, now it is not even a matter of concern, the entire generation is a disciple of Google Guru. Put a word Google asked Guru, find Guruji and bring it, all Brahmand kills the search and because of this, the study should not be merely a trend, it should be an instinct. Unless they become our DNA, we can not get involved with newness, can not be associated with extensiveness, we can not recognize the coming tomorrow.\nWhen I was the Chief Minister in Gujarat, when I celebrated the Golden Jubilee of Gujarat, I had given a program in the Golden Jubilee year, in Gujarati I say, \"Vatva Gujarat\" i.e. Gujr read and started a big campaign, I read myself by going to the library It was so that people would see that the book should be read and the atmosphere was such that library's library started to empty. Will the library be empty for the first time? Where is that good fortune? There will be many books in the library which will not have been used till 20-20 years? This situation should also be changed. If you have a child's mental habit, because it is also a store of knowledge, there is a great power to lead a life and therefore we should try the efforts of people should become a habit in society-life.\nEven if we join technology, with the help of Google gurus, still basically start things like reading things once and do not mind again. Read the next, read it, read it, thinks and does not need to be read to become a writer, sometimes even for himself, a mirror is needed and the mirror in which the face is visible. If you look at the book mirror then the inner person is seen and in that form the book mirror and I believe that Narmada, that mirror is to be done that what are the consequences of withdrawing from our original world and with the world Who are we thinking, where are we? Do you find yourself okay? Let me see him and hence I am the Dnyanpeeth Award today, when I saw Nemar ji found a statue of Saraswati Devi ji, he used to be happy, Shawl looked happy, coconut looked happy, but when a check of 11 lakh came Why were uncomfortable? Because in our country there is no idea of ​​the union of Saraswati and Lakshmi. If the country has to move ahead then it is necessary to meet Saraswati and Lakshmi too. God bless me with a great power. The immense estate will still be lying within very much. There will be very little left now, there is so much in abundance, let us continue to serve, keep serving so that generations of future will also become bloated.\nI congratulate him very much, I respect the heart and this responsibility is very big, the work that Namwar Singh ji has played. I congratulate him and the Jain family has played this tradition for 50 years in a good way, has rewarded, encouraged, and congratulated the family too.\nThanks a lot."