"Share\n\nPM Modi criticizes Congress for its double standards with regards to the national security of India, remembers those who were martyred during 26/11 Mumbai terror attacks\nGovernment has worked tirelessly and ensured 90% of LPG gas cylinders for the poor women: PM Modi\nCongress never thought about the tribal communities It was only under Atal Bihari Vajpayee Ji's leadership, that a dedicated Ministry of Tribal Affairs was created: PM\nCongress believes in caste-based politics, they are now questioning what is Modi's caste: PM\nWhen we came to power, we started investigations and curbed corruption. Nearly Rs. 90,000 crore which has gone in the pockets of the corrupt has saved: PM\nWe have launched the Ayushman Bharat Yojana. This is the best medical treatment and affordable healthcare facilities to the poor and the middle class: PM\nBharat Mata Ki ... Jai ... Bharat Mata Ki ... Jai ... Bharat Mata Ki ... Jai!\nOn the stage, my colleague in the Parliament and the Jathedar of the Bharatiya Janata Party, dedicated alliance, my friend Bhai Omji Mathur, MP Bhai Chandra Prakash Joshi, MP Subhash Chandra Baharia, Chief of District Panchayat Shri Parm Singh Ji Hada, District President Shriman Laxmi Narayan Dad, Convenor Bhai Damodar, District Incharge Mr. Pukhraj Paharia, Bhilwara District Incharge Shri Gurcharan ji, Chairman of the Municipal Council Reema Deepika G. Kanwar and Bharatiya Janata Party candidate in this election ... Shahpura from our senior leader Mr. Kailash G Meghwal, Kalal Lal Gurjar from Mandal, Vithal ji Shankar from Bhilwara, Gopal Lal Sharma from Datlangarh, Mr. Rupalal Jat from Gangapur, Shree Gopichand Meena from Shippur, Jabar Singh Sankhal from Asind, and my dear brothers and sisters of Bhilwara, who have been camping in huge numbers.\nThe people who are watching all those people around me, who are watching the excitement and enthusiasm, who are the Rajdarbari and the habit of singing songs and songs ... and who sit in air-conditioned rooms and lose the BJP, keep singing such songs Check out these views. It is the land of Rajasthan, it is the land of heroes and the number of such challenges came in Bhilwara, but many challenges came, but it was Bhilwara who had not left Rana Pratap's side. In the troubles which did not leave Maharana, who liked to take the trouble even during times of crisis, till the last breath, Rana stood up with Pratap, I bow to the land of Bhilwara. If you want to take a drink ... If you have to decide, make a firm mind, then if you have to learn the world then you will have to learn from Rajasthan because Rana Pratap has made that tradition and this time Rajasthan has decided. I was in Alwar yesterday, what was the sight. Today, I am looking at Bhilwara ... Brothers-sisters, this time Rajasthan has decided that once again in Rajasthan BJP will be made government. I will trust the new development of development and give new momentum and write a new history in Rajasthan, it will make the land of Rajasthan, I believe it. This is the birthplace of Lord Devnarayan ji, the incarnation of Lord Vishnu of Bhilwara. This is the land where there is patriotism in the particles, the courage is. It is the land of heroes, it is the land of heritage, it is the land of glory, it is also the land of development.\nBrothers and sisters, today is 26th November ... When the rule of Madam in Delhi was ruled by the remote control, when there was a Congress government in Maharashtra, the Congress government in Maharashtra also had a Congress government in Delhi and these 26 / 11 ... Terrorists attacked Mumbai in the presence of many civilians of our country, the soldiers of the country were terrorized by militants. Brothers and sisters, the horrific incident of terrorism is going on for 10 years today. And I remember that when the terrorism incident took place in Mumbai, the election campaign was going on in Rajasthan. If at that time any one of these countries criticized the incident of terrorism, killed innocent people, used to speak so much, then these royals used to bounce like this ... Such jumbles that locks on the speaker's mouth Used to say ... and say, I remember equally ... they used to say that this is war, war ... Pakistan has spoken war on Hindustan and these people are doing politics ... at this time Delhi Strengthen the hands of the government ... Must have ... should not be politics in the name of terrorism ... They were great preaching ... and their Ragdrbari were large fledged Band, were read fiction written by Congress, keep writing. I want to ask those Ragdarbaris, I want to ask the Congress party that on November 26, 10 years ago, such a terrible event of terrorism had happened, the whole world was shaken and the Congress was playing a game to win elections from it! The same Congress used to teach patriotism at the time, but when my country's army went to Pakistan to go to her house and made a surgical strike, the accounts of the terrorists paid and a newspaper had written it by asking the citizens of it. That the trucks are carrying dead bodies ... when the country's army did such a great feat, the enemy went and killed in his house, every Indian was proud that Did not happen? Whether it was an example of patriotism or not ... whether it was the legacy of bravery or not, was it the saga of bravery or bravery? But at such times the Congress raised the question, show the video, video ... whether the surgical strike happened or not? Does the army of the country's army come out with a fist of death, what will the camera carry in hand? At that time, he did not remember patriotism, but in 26/11, these rage-singers used to sing bouncing more than the Congressmen. Today they will have to answer after 10 years. Remember those days ... in the different corners of Hindustan, sometimes in Bangalore, in Hyderabad, in Ajmer, sometimes in Delhi, in Ayodhya, sometimes in Jammu ... days were used to bomb those days. Were not used to be..that were not? Brothers and sisters, we have fought such a fight against terrorism, have fought such a thing that it is costing them to get out of Kashmir's land today, seeing death in front.\nBrothers, Hindustan will never forget 26/11 and the criminals of 26/11 ... We are in search of the spot. Law and law will keep working, I assure the countrymen once again. Brothers, Terrorism on one side, Maoism on the other side ... When the tribal children in the forests are to catch the age pen, the Maoists catch the gun in their hands. Naxalism, Maoists bring innocent people to death. Last year, the incident took place in Chhattisgarh, our security forces were working there to protect democracy, the Maoists attacked there and this is the hero of Rajasthan's Bharatpur martyr. The Maoists, the Maoists who killed my youth in Bharatpur, were beaten to death, these Congress leaders are giving certificates to these Maoists to be revolutionary. The Naxalites are revolutionary ... and these people are talking like a special person, brother, brother. Are the revolutionaries who are killing innocent people? Are they ... Brothers and sisters, we have answered Maoism in the same language. Terrorism has also responded in the same language, there is no place for violence in democracy. In democracy everyone has the right to tell their own story, there is a system. These are the elections we are currently holding in Jammu Kashmir, the elections of panchayats are going on. These terrorists threatened ... if someone will cast a vote and if there is a black mark to vote on his finger then his fingers will be cut off ... if someone votes, he will be killed. Even in Bastar ... In Chhattisgarh, the Naxalites had threatened to kill those who voted but look at the loyalty of the common man towards India's democracy, see the strength of democracy ... The voting of the three-phase Panchayat in Kashmir is complete. ..70% -75% of the voting is going on and in Bastar, 70% of the voting was done.\nBrothers and sisters, this seems like a force, one feels courage, after going to the terrorists, iron can be taken ... then they can be eliminated. But brothers and sisters, today 26/11 is another day and it is our constitution day. Babasaheb Ambedkar ... a constitution that came out of the collective thinking of the experienced, knowledgeable and learned people of the country, that our country was offered on 26th November and that is why today's day is one of the rights of hundred and fifty million Hindus is. Today's Day is a day of pride for the oppressed, oppressed, oppressed and disadvantaged. Today is a day of respect for those who believe in social justice, and therefore today 26/11 is the day of the Constitution of India, I bow to the makers of the Constitution, especially Babasaheb Ambedkar, today, from the land of Rajasthan, the land of Bhilwara. I salute\nBrothers and sisters, Babasaheb Ambedkar has shown the way to end the distinction of the society, the Constitution also gave equal rights to all, found justice, but it is asking the Congress party, the nomadars and the nomad's disciples are asking for a chapat ... what is the caste of Modi? Brothers and sisters, you tell me if the Prime Minister of India goes to America ... the president of America meets him, if there is talk for the good of India, then does the President of India ask the Prime Minister of India ... Hey brother , The rest later, first tell what kind of race you are, so what does he ask? Oh, when the Prime Minister of India goes, then the front is seen to be one caste. There are hundreds of hundred Hindus, this is the caste. Brothers and sisters, but this Congress party is backward, high-low, me-your caste, that species-that nation, such a poison has been digested, so it has digested that wherever there is swallowing, the same poison swallows and then the racism Discuss. You tell me, brothers and sisters, the other leaders of Congress, they made a second speech. The other leader of the Congress will be discussing issues related to development ... whether it has reached water or not, it is a discussion ... whether the road is built or not, it should be discussed ... whether electricity is provided or not, it should be discussed ... whether children's studies are getting better It is a discussion ... It is not that corruption happens, it should be discussed ... Congress party is not discussing it. You see the Congress party's issue in which election ... what is the caste of Modi, tell me is this the issue of elections ... Secondly, who is the father of Modi ... what does he decorate the Namdhari? And look at their mood ... they should have seen the video, they say, who is this Modi who is seeking the account of his four generations? Hey Modi is nothing, he is a worker, he is a worker, but he is such a worker behind which there are hundreds of millions of people standing. No one dares to ask the question of 4-4 generations of Namdar for 60 years, that courage is in me. Four generations, you have to answer ... or you will not have to give ... answer should be asked or should not be asked? He says, Namdhari, why would you account..Yes..You are so named. The people of this country can not ask for your account, you can not ask for the account of your work. And who is Modi, answer me? But Modi also wants to calculate, Modi gives accountability too. Give an account of the moment, give the account of the pie-pie.\nBrothers and sisters, when I was in the election in 2014 ... I had promised the countrymen ... I promised the countrymen, I am repeating that promise again and I want to ask you today. Am I not able to fulfill the promise or landed. I want to ask ... I had said that I will not keep any effort to work hard ... I had said so ... I had said it. You tell me you find a lack in my hard work ... do not work day or night, do not I? Have you ever heard that I took a leave, have you ever heard that I went for a walk here, have you ever heard that I was lost for seven days? Did I promise that I did not fulfill that promise?\n\nI am giving my account or not giving it to me. I am giving my account for my pie-moment, moment or not? Now they ask for the account of my work, let me give it ... let me? You will remember and if the leaders of the Congress come here, then ask them also ... will they ask? Ask one by one standing up ... Brothers and sisters, country's freedom ... 60-65 years have passed ... after that you have given the Prime Minister the opportunity to serve you. Four generations of his four generations and tea-house I just want to ask ... Brothers and sisters, just ask them when your four generations used to rule the country, from the street to Delhi, you used to run the business of yours ... from the Panchayat to the Parliament were you ... Is it not true that the era of 65 years had passed, four generations had ruled, but the rural households did not even have 40% toilet facilities. Remember ... you did not have 40% toilet facilities in the village before coming to me in 2014 ... how many ... how many ... and 4 years Modi made 40% ... 95%, ninety Five percent ... do not say this to the work ... do not say that it was confirmed or not? In 65 years, 40%, 95% in 4 years ... do not speak to work or do not speak, should it be such a thing or not?\nBrothers and sisters, your four-year-old ruled the country, there were banks, there was a branch of the bank, there were people, but four-queen's rule, 65 years of time, but only 50% of the people in this country who were accounting in the bank. How many ... how many? 50% ... how many? Half were those who had an account in the bank. This Modi came ... In every year, every Hindustani bank opened an account in the bank. Open the doors of the bank for the poor. Who says work ... If you have done the work, then you can not! You are going to ask who is the caste, who is the father. Brothers and sisters, you know the connection of gas, what was the Congress promised when the elections were going on in the state of Congress in 2013? 9 cylinders will give 12 cylinders, did not ... and they had announced that if they would become Prime Minister then give 12 cylinders. भाइयो-बहनो, पार्लियामेंट के मेंबर को 25 कूपन देते थे गैस की, और वो सालभर में 25 परिवारों को ऑब्लाइज करता था...और उसके लिए लोग बेचारे लाइन लगा करके खड़े रहते थे कि मुझे जरा गैस का एक कूपन दे दो, मुझे गैस का चूल्हा लेना है, गैस का कनेक्शन लेना है। ये इनका राज करने का तरीका था। भाइयो-बहनो, देश में 55 प्रतिशत घरों में ही गैस का कनेक्शन पहुंचा था। 65 साल में 55 प्रतिशत, कितना? आपको आंकड़े याद रखने पड़ेंगे तभी तो उनको हिसाब मांगोगे ना। 65 साल में 55 प्रतिशत, 65 साल में...65 साल में...मोदी ने 4 साल में 90% घरों में गैस का चूल्हा दे दिया।\nआप मुझे बताइए, इनको परेशानी है कि ये माताएं-बहनें मोदी-मोदी क्यों करती हैं। अरे नामदार, आप तो सोने का चम्मच लेकर के पैदा हुए हो...जब लकड़ी का चूल्हा जला कर के खाना पकाते हैं तो घर में जो धुआं होता है...एक मां के शरीर में 400 सिगरेट का धुआं जाता है, 400 सिगरेट का...और घर में जो छोटे-छोटे बच्चे खेलते हैं वो बचपन में ही बीमारी के शिकार हो जाते हैं...और ये मोदी है, सोने का चम्मच लेकर के पैदा नहीं हुआ था...उसने गरीब मां को लकड़ी का चूल्हा जला कर के धुएं के बीच खाना पकाते देखा था। उसे उस मां का दर्द मालूम था और इसीलिए उसने आकर के देश के 90 प्रतिशत घरों में गैस का चूल्हा पहुंचा दिया क्योंकि मेरी मां उस धुएं की मुसीबतों से मुक्त हो जाए और बच्चों को अच्छा खाना खिलाए। अब उनको परेशानी है कि सारे देश की माताएं-बहनें मोदी को आशीर्वाद दे रही हैं। अरे मोदी ने उनको मुसीबतों से मुक्ति दिलाई है इसीलिए आशीर्वाद मिल रहे हैं। और यही माताएं-बहनें शक्ति का रूप हैं, जो आपके हर हमले का वार मेरी माताएं-बहने झेलती हैं और आपको करारा जवाब देती हैं।\nभाइयो-बहनो, कहने के लिए तो मैं महीनेभर बोलता रहूंगा तो भी कम पड़ जाएगा...मैं भीलवाड़ा को पूछना चाहता हूं...आप मुझे बताइए...आपके यहां, आपके यहां पानी 3 दिन के बाद आता था कि नहीं आता था...भीलवाड़ा पानी के बिना तरसता था कि नहीं तरसता था...चंबल के पानी के मामले को लटकाए रखा था कि नहीं रखा था...कांग्रेस उसका नाम देने को तैयार था क्या? अरे मोदी की मां कापिता का हिसाब-किताब मांगने वाले...अरे भीलवाड़ा की जनता के दुःखों का हिसाब कर लेते। अरे कम से कम पानी पहुंचा देते तो भीलवाड़ा का इतना गुस्सा नहीं फूट पड़ता। मैं वसुंधरा जी का अभिनन्दन करता हूं कि उन्होंने आकर के उस काम को हाथ में लिया और आपको संकटों से मुक्त करने की दिशा में प्रयास किया। भाइयो-बहनो, बीते पांचसाल में 36 हजार किलोमीटर नई सड़कें बनी हैं।\nभाइयो, मैं आज आपको कहता हूं, आज मेरी बातें गले नहीं उतरेंगी और इनके जो रागदरबारी हैं ना वो आपको गले उतरने नहीं देंगे...हमने पिछले 4 साल में जो रोड बनाए हैं, ग्रामीण सड़क हो, स्टेट हाईवे हो, नेशनल हाईवे हो, केंद्र सरकार हो, राज्य सरकार हो हमारे बाद 25-30 साल के बाद अगर कांग्रेस को फिर मौका मिल जाए तो हमने जो सड़क बनाई है ना, उस पर दुबारा डामर लगाने की भी ताकत नहीं होगी उनमें। इतने भी इनके पास पैसा नहीं होगा। वो सोच ही नहीं सकते कि इतना बड़ा काम हो सकता है देश में। भाइयो-बहनो, 36 हजार किलोमीटर इतना ही नहीं, हमारे इस राजस्थान में 70 हजार करोड़ रुपये के 3 एक्सप्रेस वे बन रहे हैं। जिस समय ये तीन एक्सप्रेस वे का काम पूरा होगा आप कल्पना कर सकते हो, राजस्थान के इन्फ्रास्ट्रक्चर का लेवल क्या होगा भाइयो। दुनिया को अचरज होगा कि हिन्दुस्तान में ऐसी सड़कें भी होती हैं, ऐसी व्यवस्था भी होती है, उस काम को हम पूरा करने में लगे हुए हैं भाइयो।भाइयो-बहनो, रेल कनेक्टिविटी ये हमारा भीलवाड़ा मैनचेस्टर माना जाए और अब तो हड्डियां भी ठीक कर देता है। भाइयो-बहनो, ये हमारे भीलवाड़ा को व्यापार जगत को ट्रांसपोर्टेशन की ताकत बहुत बड़ी मदद करती है। ये रोड, ये रेल...16 हजार करोड़...हम जो रेल का नेटवर्क खड़ा कर रहे हैं..आज ये गुड्स ले जाने वाला, सामान ले जाने वाली ट्रेन 25 किलोमीटर से मरते-मरते चलती है...वो जब बन जाएगा तो 75 किलोमीटर की स्पीड से चलेगी। एक जगह से सामान दूसरी जगह पे पहुंचेगा...व्यापार, धन, कारोबार को नई ताकत मिलेगी।\nभाइयो-बहनो, हमारे देश का नौजवान और ये हमारा राजस्थानी कभी हाथ फैला करके नौकरी मांगने वाला समाज नहीं हैये... उसके खून में नहीं है। याचना करना ये राजस्थानी के ब्लड में नहीं है...उसके रक्त में नहीं है। वो आंख में आंख मिलाकर के सीना तान कर के खड़ा रहने की ताकत रखता है। हमने उसकी भावना को समझा है और इसीलिए हमने हमारे देश के नौजवान, हमारे राजस्थान के नौजवान रोजी-रोटी के लिए किसी पर आश्रित न बनें, अपने पैरों पर खड़े हो जाएं उस दिशा में काम किया। प्रधानमंत्री मुद्रा योजना ले आए और अब तक 14 करोड़ लोन स्वीकृत हुआ है...14 करोड़। ये आंकड़ा बहुत बड़ा होता है। लाखों-करोड़ो रुपया लोन बिना बैंक गारंटी इन नौजवानों को दिया है...और 70 प्रतिशत वो लोग हैं जो पहली बार बैंक से पैसे प्राप्त करने में उनको सफलता मिली है...और वो अपने पैरों पर खड़े हो कर के कारोबार चला रहे हैं। कोई टैक्सी लाया है, कोई ऑटो लाया है, कोई सैलून चला रहा है, कोई अपना छोटा सा दुकान का ठेका चला रहा है, कोई कपड़े की फेरी कर रहा है, कोई कच्चा माल लेकर के पहुंचाने का काम कर रहा है। अनेक प्रकार के काम इन नौजवानों ने शुरू किए हैं...और खुद तो कमाते हैं, एक-दो और लोगों को भी रोजी-रोटी देने का काम...14 करोड़ लोन स्वीकृत होना ये आजादी के इतिहास की बहुत बड़ी घटना है...और इसीलिए मेरे भाइयो-बहनो, मैं आपसे आग्रह करने आया हूं कि ऐसे युवा उद्यमी...अकेले राजस्थान में ये 50 लाख लोगों को ये मुद्रा योजना का लाभ मिला है भाइयो-बहनो।\nमैं चाहता हूं कि देश के विकास के लिए, देश की प्रगति के लिए जिन कामों को हमने हाथ में लिया है, विकास के मेद्दे पर हम आगे बढ़ना चाहते हैं। आज दिल्ली का कमल छाप इंजन राजस्थान की भलाई में...सेवा में लगा हुआ है। राजस्थान का कमल छाप इंजनआपने चार साल-साढ़े चार साल-पांच साल सेवा करने का मौका दिया, एक बार फिर पांच साल सेवा करने का मौका दीजिए। मैं आपको विश्वास दिलाता हूं, जो काम पिछले 50 साल में नहीं हो पाए हैं, एक बार मुझे आपकी सेवा करने का मौका दीजिए, मैं राजस्थान को कहां से कहां पहुंचा दूंगा भाइयो-बहनो। फिर एक बार वसुंधरा जी की सरकार बनाइए, फिर एक बार भारतीय जनता पार्टी की सरकार बनाइए। आइए, मेरे साथ बोलिए...भारत माता की...जय...भारत माता की...जय! Thanks a lot."