"Share\n\nPeople from across the world should also come to India's parliamentary elections which are the \"kumbh of democracy\": PM\nJust like the Kumbh, Indian parliamentary elections, with their huge scale and complete disenfranchisement, can be a source of inspiration for the world: PM\nKumbh is as much about social reform as it is about spiritualuality, says PM Modi\nOn the stage, the Foreign Minister of our country and the country's first Foreign Minister, Women's Foreign Minister Sister Sushma Swaraj Ji, General V.K. Lion, Vinay Sahasrabuddhe ji and all the great blessings come from many countries of the world, I welcome you very much. I welcome the Prime Minister of India, but since yesterday I have been the representative of the Lok Sabha from Uttar Pradesh where I have come, and therefore I also welcome you in particular.\nThere is a belief in the Hindu tradition in our country that when someone comes by pilgrimage, if you greet him, then he who gets a part of the virtue which he has earned in pilgrimage is also blessed, so I am happy that you are all one I have come here with a pilgrimage of priceless cultural heritage and today I got an opportunity to see your vision, then I have a part of the virtue that you have earned. I got it.\nYou are more fortunate than me because I have not been able to go to the Kumbh of this time till now. You have come here but I am about to leave tomorrow. There will hardly be such a zigzag since I started to understand that where I am not fortunate enough to go, I will go tomorrow too.\nAs long as the Kumbh Mela does not go there, it is not predictable that how much is the heritage, and according to the fixed date and time of thousands of years, according to the time table, this is going on. There is no invitation card. There is no guest or no host. Even then, there are pilgrims from all over the country and the world where there is a Kumbha at the feet of Mother Ganges and there. It is an unusual thing that people go here for thousands of years without any type of paper, letter, letter.\nAnd you are touched by the pumpkin that you have touched, your mind has touched it, but you also know that there is no complete Aquarius, if this is the power of the semi-kumbha, then how will it be if you have a complete Aquarius that you can guess? is.\nCulturally, unity in India has been given a tremendous force. This sex is now in a way bound for the Spiritual Inspiration but it is a part of the social reform movement. In a way, it is a Panchayat of that time, whatever democratic framework of that time it is, because the social leaders who work in society are social leaders and academicians, they traveled in their respective areas for three years, met people. , Used to communicate, and once in three years there was a small Aquarius, all sat down and discussed for 40-45 days, what is going on in the corner of India. And some of them used to decide something.\nAnd once in 12 years, after reviewing the 12-year period, after 12 years, how society needs guidance, what kind of change needed in society was a perfect democratic system. And social, political, religious leader including Kings, King Maharaja also lived there and a 12-year roadmap was prepared from this discussion and it was reviewed every three years.\nIt is a big thing in itself that has never come before the world. You may have seen this time too, there was no exact social message in this Kumbh Mela. The message was for the general good. And you have not seen any discrimination there. Everyone is the Ganga officer, sinks in the Ganges. Does your activity according to your faith.\nIndia is going to become a destination of tourism because the world is in search of peace. Apart from the turmoil of personal life, he wants to spend some moment for himself, his internal. Money, glory, prosperity, good hotel, all these things affect him, do not inspire him, he has got bored with the impressive world. He is in search of Inspiring World.\nAnd you may have experienced in Aquarius that despite the lack of physical wealth, how can the joy of an intervention be searched, can be saved and the way of life can be made. He must have seen you well with your eyes.\nAnd I believe that when you return to your country, people of different kinds will ask you what was the end ... Did you spend so much money to dip inside a river, many people are surprised that what does it have? But when you see the scene there and the makeshift arrangement, then what is the level of organizing capacity of India? You must have experienced this in itself.\nI was told that Daily comes to the information center of Missing Person or Missing Child in the thousands there. Because there are so many millions of people, then sometimes a child gets away with a hand, there remains an elderly person. Then it is not known in such a crowd. There is such a perfect mechanism that after finding that the complaint is missing in hours and two hours, it is related to the family. Can anyone imagine?\nEvery day on the banks of the Ganges, one type of country is gathered in Europe; daily and all the arrangements are being made in a temporary arrangement i.e. the management students are universities, for them it is a matter of study. That such a large amount of people have come in their own way, have come with their habits, have come with their language. But an arrangement that is caterating everyone, is able to handle everyone and everyone's expectations are being fulfilled. This is a very big event in the world of management in itself.\nAnd the world will pay attention to this and I congratulate Sushma ji on behalf of the Foreign Ministry of India. That the Kumbh Mela i.e. a task which he thought was yes ... yes Bhai is okay people come .. but it has a social form. It has a managerial aspect, it has modernity, technology is there, there is a system, and there is reverence, cultural consciousness also happens.\nThe world of this amazing meeting is seen today by people of the world and India has made such a first attempt. You have made a big contribution in making this effort successful. That's why you also are congratulating officers. I thank you too much.\nIn India the cultural heritage of India is an unprecedented ability to attract the world and we are committed to it. Through this type of plans, we want to connect the world with this great heritage of India.\nAnd I believe that the world will also recognize the modern India of India and will also strive to get acquainted with the world from priceless heritage. In the coming days, we will have elections of parliament. As the Kumbh Mela is organized, the arrangements by the complete technology of the makeshift arrangements there, it is a center of attraction in itself. Similarly, more than 800 million people vote, vote fairly. The whole mechanism of this is the world's largest election. The world's largest .. And I will try this ... I have also told the Election Commission that every country in the world came out for India's tourism tourism. To see the tourism of India and not just on the day of voting, no march Came in the month, came in the second week of March, came to the 3rd week of March, came in April, no one came in May, two or two representatives of every country in the world are here every week, thousands of people in the world People come How many people are in the rug of democracy in India.\nHow does a person sitting in the village in India understand the things of the country, how he decides in relation to the country. India's choice for the world is unique in itself. If my kumbh has such a great power that displays the managerial capacity, then the creation of my country's election, the conduct of elections and such a large democratic participation. It also inspires people who believe in democracy in the world. And for the democracy that has not yet reached it can also be a cause for inspiration. So I would like to get the commission of our country ready, our Foreign Ministry should fully help them. And universities around the world, students from around the world, democrats all over the world, all those people who believe in democracy, come in the coming days, the kind of Kumbh of democracy coming here too. And what is the commitment of the common man to the democracy of India, commitment to human values ​​of the common man of India, see him with his eyes and convey the message to the world that India thinks what we think, from someone's eyes We have seen another Hindustan by our side, have seen the real Hindustan, have seen powerful Hindustan and are capable of giving something to the world. Ndustan seen.\nWhen you have seen the renewal, the renewal for the people of India will be a cause of reverence, but suppose you are not even aware of that reverence, then you will know much about how much nature is a lover. That society, which has faith in a tree for thousands of years, sees God in trees and plants even if anyone understands that society, the world does not ever face the problems of climate change or global warming, if we already know these things . They were not just a tree sighting. Those people of India may know its mythology, it will be for the people of India but for those who do not know mythology, it is the power that we see God even in the plant. And we are used to so much symbiosis towards nature. Along with symbiosis, there are people who have tremendous reverence for nature, which is very essential for humankind. Due to conflict with nature today, this great tradition has given way to the way out of human beings who are trapped in crisis. Whether it is a philosophy of renewal, it is a matter of respect for the river, it is a matter of up-to-date management, with any aspect to see, this is a case study for the world, a case study for Universities and enhancing the fascination towards India. For, the great traditions of India, the traditions that show the way to the welfare of human beings, are also important in this regard. Your coming on such a significant occasion is a matter of great pride for me, a topic of happiness.\nI once again welcome you to heart and every time you get an opportunity to spend here, you will definitely use that time to understand India and you will go to your country and tell the world that what you have heard from Hindustan there are a few. Hindustan is much more, you know the ancient Indian who you know This is India which can be capable of giving direction to human beings in the days to come. You will come back as an ambassador of this great tradition of India in true sense, that is my best wishes to all of you.\nThanks a lot."