"Share\n\nMy colleague of the Council of Ministers, all the motivational expertise of Panchayat Raj system, coming from different parts of the country,\nI congratulate with all the states which have received the privilege of honoring me today. Today the District Councils and Gram Panchayats are also going to be honored. I congratulate all of them with my heart. On the Panchayat Raj Day, I congratulate all the active people who are involved in Panchayat Raj system throughout the country today.\nMahatma Gandhi always used to say that India lives in villages. How can we move forward towards the development of those villages, even the remote small villages also have big dreams now. And I believe that under all of you, there will be progress in the direction of the village. I do not believe that now .. just like our Chaudhary Sahib was telling you that there is already three times the budget that is going to happen. Sometimes I think that in the Panchayat that we have come to choose, we have thought that what we want to do in our 5 years of life by giving our village? Ever wondered how our village will remember us after 5 years? As long as we have to do something for the village in our mind - if this spirit is not created then circumstances do not change because of the budget alone.\nIn the last 60 years, the total amount of rupees should be given, all of which should be given, and then to see what happened in Bhai village, if so many rupees were made then why did not the result come? And so should sometimes think of Panchayat level. There are some states in our country where Panchayats make their five year plan, they form a five-year plan. We will do so many things in 5 years and keep the writing of that village panchayat in it in the board and due to which work is done in a certain direction and the village comes out of some problems. We also used to admit that Bhai will do this in our village in 5 years. If we do this, then you see that the change will start.\nHow does the combination of both budget and leadership bring results? We know that creating a CC road in the village is such a great job and very important work like this kind of mentality remains. You know what the reason behind this is, I also know. But there are some sarpanchs that make a CC road, they make a CC road, but planning ahead and putting a good tree on both sides. Plant trees, and as soon as they enter the village, it looks like a green village. So the CC road is made from the budget but their leadership quality is that by planting the village after planting the plant, planting the plants and making the tree, and if someone comes to the village right away, then every aspect changes. There are some other types of what the sarpanch do, and if a wealthy person from the village went to earn something then he would say that brother, you have given the village a gate. So, the gates of 2, 5, 10 lakhs of big stones are put in place. He thinks that if I made a gate, then the work of the village was done. But the other think that I will plant a tree. You also sit and sit down thinking that literally people who plant trees, CC road, enter half km, one km. If you go to the village from the loss of green trees, how would that scenario be? This is the quality of leadership which gives us priority. This is the effect of this work .. In which you do not have to spend the budget, you do not have to worry about the budget. Which is to be found .. As stated at least 15 lakh and more than 1 crore more than\nBut besides this a lot of money comes to the village. Anganwadi runs, primary school runs, the PHC center runs, many things run, the cost of which comes from the government's own system. There is nothing to do with it. As a Sarpanch, as a village Panchayat, have we focused on these things? That Bhai, in my village, one child will not be able to be deprived of vaccination. We will gather the people of Panchayat with all their heart and awaken the village that Bhai is vaccination, all the children have happened that happened, let's see! Now there is no money in it? Budget does not seem to be, leadership looks. There is a sense of responsibility for doing something towards a society.\nIn our village there is a school, a teacher, the government is spending the budget, we have ever seen - that Bhai our teacher is coming or not? Do children go to school or not? Does the school run on time that does not run? Do children take part in sports? Do children do not use the library? If computer is given then it does not move? This is a panchayat. Go ahead and read the children of our village, you do not have to spend the budget, neither do you have to worry about the budget, only you have to worry about the village, worry about the next generation.\nWe have a hope worker here, have you ever asked Asha worker how your work is going on, is there any difficulty? Every village has a government, but it is scattered. Can we make an effort whether one day a day, for one hour, as many government people are in the village, they will sit together and sit together and do their own village, their development .. What can they do for them. Sit down and discuss it, the teacher will say that I have to do this but I am not doing it, the Anganwadi worker will say that yes, yes I help, Asha said the worker will not be good, I will spend 2 hours tomorrow for you. .. If we take leadership in the village and take the team, so many people of the government are here but we do not even know. So many people of the government live here but we do not even know. Even the bus's driver, the conductor would also be there and would just run, that too is a government's majim. Constable would be, he is also a gentleman. Patwari is, he is also a gentleman.\nHave we ever thought that, at least one hour a week will we sit together as a government? Collectively, we will discuss the development of our Panchayat. You see, the change will start, the team will begin to be formed. And I can not tell the things in which the budget is a problem. But otherwise in our country an environment has been created why not, not the budget. The reality is not that. There is a budget but there is a need to do more to worry about the work which does not produce results. There is no drop out in our village, child, do we suffer pain, if our child leaves our school then we are hurt. If we are the head of the panchayat then any child of the village should leave school, we should suffer so much, the entire Panchayat should have pain. If we do this, if we do this, I do not believe that someone in our village will be uneducated. And any sarpanch can decide that during the tenure of my tenure no one child will drop out. If you do so, then I say that the Sarpanch is going to be serving a generation. I believe this.\nNREGA works in every village. Do we give priority to water in it? Use as much power as you want, but use NREGA to manage water, will there ever be a problem of water? We can develop the systems. The requirement is to give leadership together. There will be some people in our village who have been young sometimes in the government. Be teachers, become patwari and have retired. That is, take the government pension. Being a government servant, take pension after retirement. There will be three in a village, five will be, ten will be, fifteen will be. Can one meet these retired people once a month? Their experience because they are empty, they have time, if you believe there are 5 retired teachers in the village. Tell them that Bhai has four children in his village like this, many poor people have left behind, give a little time, do not teach them a little bit. If he would have been retired, neither would he have been teaching in DNA. Let's say yes- yes I understand. I will read these four poor children, I will worry about them. We motivate a little to the people, let us lead you to see what the village can not do like ours? My village .. and I saw, I have seen many villages in the country such that due to the activation of the Sarpanch, there has been a change in the village.\nWhen I was the Chief Minister, an incident had caused me a lot .. i.e. my mind was very stirred. In Kheda district, where Sardar Patel Sahib was born. Inside a village there was women reservation under Panchayat Pradhan. Women reservation, then the villagers decided that if the head of the house is women then why should not all women members be formed? And the village decided that no man would contest elections. All the members of the Sab Panchayat will also become women. Reservation was one-third but all decided by the villagers. One day he asked me for the time all the women members of the panchayat and the head of the panchayat. It was a great surprise for me that this village is a big brother, all the men have withdrawn themselves and given the business in the hands of women. So I also thought that if I could get it then that was all I was a Panchayat of 17 members. So they came to meet And this is a 2005 or a 2006 issue. So the most educated woman in the country was the chief, she had read up to the fifth grade. That is, the village was so backward that there were no more educated people. So my mind went like this, I asked them, I said now the Panchayat is in the hands of all the women, if you have to run the business of the village then what to do, what do you plan to do? The answer he has given, I do not believe in the Government of India, has ever been thought of in this form. At least I was the chief, I did not think in this form. That answer forced me to think. The typical village was ordinary women.\nI asked him if you have to run the business for five years now, then what is in your mind? The Prime Minister who did not read, he answered me. He said to me, \"We want that there is no poor in our village.\" Now look what the imagination is, is there ever in our country that the Panchayat, the municipality, the municipal corporation decided to sit together in our village There will be no such schemes in the poor villages. Once the work begins at such a large level, how big a difference it is! Can we ever think of being the head of the Panchayat that at least 5 families, I am not saying much, 5 families will do some work in the composition of the Panchayat, they will give them fruit to plant trees and do something But will bring 5 out of poverty.\nIf a village in India brings five people out of poverty in a year, what is the difference between the whole of India? Can not do anything, can you guess? And I tell you all these things that the constraints of the budget are not work - our determination power, our imagination, are connected above it. If we insist on this, we can convert this system to the true meaning of our village.\nWe will not be able to develop the village till we create a sense of pride and respect towards the village. Born in that village, it should be respected. You see, in the village where Mahatma Gandhi was born, a person from that village will ever get somewhere, he will say, I am from the village where Mahatma Gandhi was born. Will not say that? Everyone lives, that there is such a thing, the pride of the village is that he Do we ever have an attachment to our village, be proud of the village, do such things? Do not do it. Can the birthday of the village be celebrated? Maybe it will not happen on record, then the village will decide which day will be celebrated on birthday. On that day the village should be gathered and those who have left outside the village, to earn livelihood in the cities, some have made great progress, some have been educated by the doctor, that everyone should be called on that day. One day all people, stay together with all new ones. Get some children's programs, get some adult programs, get some senior citizens program, the oldest person in the village will be honored. And a sense of belongingness! Those who have gone out of the village, they will also feel that on that day, let us be Bhai, now we are making roti-roti, we are living in a big city. Let us next year donate this village to our village, this development in our village do it. You see, there will be such an atmosphere of public participation, the look of the village will change.\nSometimes you have thought, to prepare our next generation .. so many times I ask the village, Bhai is the oldest, oldest tree in your village, which tree, which tree will be the oldest? The village does not know, why? Do not meditate! Can we decide the people of Panchayat that let's see what is the oldest age tree, it is the largest, take school children to see that Bhai is the oldest tree in his village, this is it. He will be 200 years old, 100 years old, 80 years old, whatever he will be. Let us respect him too, glorify him too. This is what is the biggest evidence of the development of the village. He is a witness! How do we add pride to our village, how to attach ourselves to the village with love? You see, the change will start coming automatically. And so I urge you to lead, lead with many innovations.\nOur country has made a very big decision. Sometimes there are talks with the countries of the West and when many say that there is reservation in the Panchayati system for women in India then there are many surprises. In the decision making process of women in the political process, women have been given such a great authority that there is a great surprise for many of the world's largest countries. लेकिन कभी-कभी हमारे यहां क्या होता है।.. एक पहले तो मैं सरकार से जुड़ा हुआ नहीं था, संगठन के काम में लगा रहता था तो देशभर में मेरा भ्रमण होता था। तो लोगों से मिलता था। मिलता था तो थोड़ा परिचय भी करता था, एक बार परिचय देकर मैंने कहा, आप कौन हैं? तो उसने कहा मैं so and so SP हूं। तो मैंने कहा SP हैं! और political meeting में कैसे आ गए? क्योंकि मैं... SP यानी Superintendent of Police.. ये ही मेरे दिमाग में था। क्योंकि SP यानी पुलिस – पुलिसवाला हो के ये meeting में कैसे आ गए? तो मैंने कहा SP... तो बोले नहीं-नहीं मैं सरकारी नहीं हूं तो मैंने बोला क्या हैं? तो बोले “मैं सरपंच पति हूं।“\nअब कानून ने तो empower कर दिया लेकिन जो SP कारोबार चला रहे हैं भई... है ना? हकीकत है ना? अब कानून ने महिलाओं को अधिकार दिया है तो उनको मौका भी देना चाहिए। और मैं कहता हूं जी, वो बहुत अच्‍छा काम करेंगी आप विश्‍वास कीजिए, बहुत अच्‍छा काम करेंगी। सच्‍चे अर्थों में गांव में परिवर्तन होंगे। अभी आपने छत्‍तीसगढ़ का भाषण सुना। बिना हाथ में कागज़ लिए गांव में क्या काम किया है, उन्‍होंने बताया कि नहीं बताया? और पता है उनको कि सरपंच के नाते अपने गांव में कितने काम हैं, किन-किन कामों पर ध्‍यान देना चाहिए, सब चीज का पता है। ये सामर्थ्‍य है हमारी माताओं-बहनों में। इसलिए ये SP वाला जो culture है वो बंद होना चाहिए। उनको अवसर देना चाहिए, उनको काम करने के लिए प्रोत्‍साहित करना चाहिए। और हम अवसर देंगे तो वे परिणाम भी दिखाएंगे।\nतो मैं आज पंचायती राज दिवस पर आप सबको हृदय से बहुत-बहुत शुभकामनाएं देता हूं। जो award winner हैं, उनसे आप बात करेंगे तो पता चलेगा कि उन्‍होंने अपने-अपने यहां बहुत नए-नए प्रयोग किए होंगे, जो आपको भी काम आ सकते हैं। लेकिन अगर गांव तय करे तो दुनिया देखने के लिए आए, ऐसा गांव बन सकता है जी। ये ताकत होती है गांव की, एक परिवार होता है, अपनापन होता है, सुख-दु:ख के साथी होते हैं।\nउस भाव को फिर से हम जगाएं और गांवों को बहुत आगे बढ़ाएं, इसी एक अपेक्षा के साथ बहुत-बहुत शुभकामनाएं।\nThank you."