"All my colleagues of the Council of Ministers held on stage,\nAll the greats on stage,\nRepresentative brothers from different countries of the world,\nI congratulate all the department's colleagues for creating this program, because for many years we have been listening to one thing and it has a lot of influence on our mind. Everywhere we used to hear a word, Brain Drain There was also criticism that what would happen to this country would be such criticism of Brain Drain. And today 15-20 years ago, people sitting here may have expressed a lot of anxiety. He was a Mind Set, but today is the journey from Brain Drain to Brain Gain. This is our trip. Now, by exiting Brain Drain, we should think what our strategies should be for Brain Gain, coming out of that thinking.\nAnd so the effort is that now she ... we do not have to worry about five 50 people who will reach the world, then it will be empty. It is a very loud, there is no shortage, there is no shortage of talented manpower. Secondly, India should take account of its power and strength. And that should also be taken in the global prospect. And if today, in the global prospective, India's biggest power is human resources of India, our Manpower This is our greatest strength. And if this is our biggest asset, then it should be given priority in the center of our development journey that the country has 65 percent population below 35, and in the coming days it is more average and lesser. India is going to be more young in coming days. If it is our property, we should prepare the model of our development journey, keeping in mind the property.\nAnd if we have to prepare it then we should also globally see what is the situation of the world. How much development will have done, must have overcome the new heights of technology, even then a lot of the world will be like this, in the coming days - which can be a kind of Handicap without Manpower. Now like Trehan Ji was telling that if we do not create the Sport System then health sector will collapse in many countries of the world. To say this is to say that we have this power. Now how do we enhance this in a scientific manner?\nDue to personal relations in India, some have gone to the Middle East, where no wages have been started. Some five people have gone before, some 50 will have taken. Then more people of a district would have gone to the same country that tradition would have gone. But by institutionalized this matter, by taking the cooperation of all the people working in this sector, coordinating all the government departments, making a road map and incorporating everything in it, what is our destination, our way and means In these disciplines, we will not stand a Perfect Mechanism unless we proceed in scientific way, even then having such a huge asset, people would crave for the workforce and for the reason that we did not work here Be troubled. And so, while keeping in mind the global requirement we must do our work plan. It is an important effort of the same direction in which people from the countries of the world meet, sit and talk. The SAARC countries have specially contributed to it. Now, what we need, sit down, think, understand and try to go to us in his direction.\nOne, we have to do a work-and I would like it to be state governments, private companies, people who work in the film, can also be the government of India - all work together. In India also, we have different strengths, different strengths, in whatever workforce we have. There are different features. The work that youngsters can do towards Karnataka, it is possible that the youth of Assam will not be able to work like that. But the work that a young man of Assam can do is probably not able to do Karnataka. So India is so vast that the human resources which are here in our power also have many diversities filled with its powers.\nOur job will be to mapping these types of powers. Now we have to be seen. Sports - We know that there are few players from the localities, we do not meet them everywhere. It does not mean that the game is not playing everywhere, if everyone plays in the school, then each terrain has to be characterized. You will see that there will be good students in Mathematics where some of the best quality mathematics students will be met, a Traditional development has happened. We do not have a kind of nature, which is the nature of the human estate that we have, this kind of human property, there will be a variety, there will be many types, we will decide the priority, then the focus must be done, It is not necessary that every type of Talent should be developed in every corner of every scale of India - it is not necessary. Suppose we considered a State to be very important for two skills and set Center for Excellence to it. And he took them wherever he was interested in Hindustan, and those who are ready to be exported to the world where they are necessary, then you can see how much we can improve our work in Qualitative. So an important job is to have our own Mapping\nAnother important task is human Resource Development. As long as we do not prepare our Manpower ... Suppose we have a carpenter here, this Carpenter is getting work in U.A.E. If someone is a small institution here, be private, like running coaching classes. If there is a coaching classes run anywhere, private is yours, that is, 25-25 youths who are going to go to the country, what is the manner, what is the food Does have meaning. If you developed Soft Skill in this way, then after that the real strength is the Plus Soft Skill, then what will be its value addition? Suppose you are sending it to him but that country is technological advance, so whatever comes in our old system .. Maybe, he went to build a house there but Deign will come, email will come from Deign then it will be re-computer Reading Does it come or does not come, can understand Deign .. How is it Value Addition? If we do a little bit in her direction ...\nToday there is a demand for our nursing in the world. In our nursing routine, we study, study, study, and have a great reputation. But can we also research that what more value Addition can be? What other things can be added? We try that direction. Suppose we decide that we will run the Language class for those who go by this way. These language classes can have double benefits. If we have to increase tourism in India and we have such language classes, then some people will go abroad, but those who stay here will know the language, when the time of tourist is needed, we will get that work. In a way, they can work in many areas.\nWhat I mean to say is that as long as we are within our strength, it is a necessary work that I feel, to measure it, saply measure it, and measure it more.\nSecondly, we must also target Global. India has a benefit - English language. But we have accounted for the whole world. One of the few things in those countries is mandatory, and this is not the strength of their bus. In which country are those things? And if we target him by his goal, his trouble is what he is identifying and then working on us, Immediate can get you the market. Immediately they will have the requirement if you know at some place that development is not possible in the Health Sector there, it is not possible for the next 25 years, Ok, we will only focus for Health Sector in that country. See, you start getting work from one end.\nSo which country is essential in the world? And there is the most deficiency on that, in that area, can we prepare and enter in our country? They will also be good, we too will be good.\nThe second part is that there are things set up but cost is a problem, work force is a problem Then our work remains that we address him and how do we prepare for addressing him? The more we send our man power than the value addition and send it for targeted work, we can make a huge contribution to the global economy too. And of course, the young people of India will get employment, then the economy of India has to be benefited and it will benefit.\nThere are many areas like this. Like we say tourism Now to say tourism does not mean that there is only tourist destination. After saying tourism there are many things behind it. Even food habits will be of soft skills, language will be, guide, even if you have drivers of your cab, they will be trained, fifty things will be there. If we want to increase our tourism, how do we improve our service even in our country, qualitatively? What are our facets to improve Qualitatively? So, for our country's needs we can also develop such fifty new institutions of this type and it can and should be done on the model of public private partnership. We can do a very large role in it.\nNow I went to Germany So the same thing was happening with Germany's Chancellor Agenda Merkel, when we met at lunch time, and the guest was just getting set, the meeting was yet to start. They talked about things, when they came to know that I am vegetarian, they raised the topic. He said that I made myself an Indian Kadhi, I have learned to speak. But still I do not get perfect right now. And sometimes I have problem in relation to ingredient. When I heard this, I immediately noticed the service sector of my country. This means that nowadays, Yoga has taken a meditation on holistic health care in the world as is the case of a vegetarianism. But they do not know that too much development has happened in vegetarianism. Can we decide to give service in this direction? If there are big hotels here, if they do the work of teaching people in the world like this, special classes, even create a tourist for tourists. 3 day cooking class, 3 day field visit. You can see how many facets of service can be taught, how many ways can it be taught, how many new innovative we are because we have huge wealth in human resources. Some things are such that we give those services so that our own products also go together. Occasionally it happens that if you take this, you will get it together, then it can also be added together. Therefore, we should serve only by IT, those limited our thinking has made, out of that we should come out, its scope should be increased. And only the highly educated people need the world, it is not so, the world of many types of people is needed and this requirement is going to increase. And so we have to think about the scope of our service layers, multiple layers service. If we do, we will get great benefits, serve the country and serve the world.\nSome of the rules that we have made in the olden days have been made with that fear - somewhere the world will come, will eat. There was lack of confidence because we were slaves for many years. We have to come out of that mentality. I still can not understand why arbitration is not there in our country? Global arbitration Why not in our country? Why do we still have to go to London for arbitration? Do not we have that kind of chartered accountant, that type of lawyer? Are you But we have kept the law such that our own .. Yes and some people are scared, no-no do not start here, all these world-wide wise advocates will come, then our work will not work. It's not going to happen this\nIn the days of thinking that technology will come, the job will go, the computer will come, the job will go. Today we are seeing that the global scope of the job has been created due to technology. The time has changed. We should visualize situations and we do not have to be afraid, so big, there is a country of 100 million. Why should we live under pressure from the world? We should make our strength, we can show our existence in the world, with this mood we must have our plans and compositions.\nIn the same way, the sector of finance, we are now seeing through Mauritius IA, via Singapore, we are afraid to do it here? Why do not we? Why do we divert our strength to Mauritius, Singapore or Malaysia? We make our laws and regulations in such a way so that we can digest these things and develop our own systems. We are working in that direction And in the coming days you will see, we want to develop those systems that globally to India .. yes we have to build boundaries also. Like intellectual property right, now we will not work towards the global parameter's intellectual property right then the world will not be associated with us.\nWe know our entertainment industry holds huge power. It is not just the power to make films in India. But in the intellectual property right let them give the world to us, I believe we can globally become a huge destination, for their own creative work. India has such a great potential for creative work - there will be a car built in the world, the car will be manufactured, but what is the design of the seat inside the car? The power to make them is in Hindustani. And that car will sell more, not because of how your machine is, how the seat is, the car sells on the basis of how comfortable it is to sit, how comfortable it is to get off and people who do that work are also people. Service! Creative services! We have so many possibilities for this and we can take advantage of it.\nYoga and IT today, there are two areas which have also supplied Hindus in the world and through this it has reached Hindustan. But there is a specialty, both of them have arrived because the government is not there ... it's been late for you, they have arrived because we are not there in क्योंकि सरकार का mind set ऐसा बना हुआ है वहां, सालों से, ये हिंदुस्तान के 20, 22, 24 साल के नौजवान हैं, जिन्होंने दुनिया में भारत के IT माध्यम से पहचान खड़ी की है, ताकत के रूप में पहचान बना दी है। उसी प्रकार से दुनिया का मानव जो कि stress के कारण परेशान है, frustration से जी रहा है, बहुत कुछ पाने के बाद भी संतोष अनुभव नहीं कर रहा है तो वो ढूंढ़ता-ढूढ़ता आया, वो योग उठाकर ले गया। कोई आकर के ले गया, कोई जाकर के दे आया, ये दो route से हमारा हुआ है।\nहम इसको और अधिक scientific बनाकर के एक बहुत ही, यानी भारत की अपनी सोच के रूप में, हम ऐसे किन-किन क्षेत्रों में.. मान लीजिए संगीत, दुनिया को, दुनिया को, मैं मानता हूं संगीत के माध्यम से हम बहुत कुछ दे सकते हैं। दुनिया को अभी तक ये भी पता नहीं है कि तन डोले इसलिए संगीत होता है कि मन डोले इसके लिए संगीत होना चाहिए। ज्यादातर परिचय यही है कि संगीत यानी तन डोले, संगीत से मन डोलना चाहिए और ये ताकत हिंदुस्तान में है! ये ताकत हिंदुस्तान में है! ये देश है कि किस प्रहर में कौन सा राग हो, किस बीमारी में कौन सा राग हो, बालक अवस्था हो तो कौन सा राग हो, निवृत्त अवस्था हो तो कौन सा राग हो। यहां तक जहां वैज्ञानिक काम हुआ हो, क्या दुनिया को हम ये सेवा नहीं दे सकते हैं? फिर से एक बार गुरु-शिष्य परंपरा revive हो और मान लीजिए हिंदुस्तान में एक हजार अच्छे सितारवादक हैं। और दुनिया के एक हजार शिष्य उनके यहां आ जाएं, उनके यहां रहें, सितार सीखें, साल भर का अपना गुरु-दक्षिणा दें और वापिस चले जाएं। क्या भारत का, संगीत की दुनिया में जिसने साधना की है, उसको कभी भूखे रहने की नौबत आएगी क्या? कभी नहीं आएगी और जो यहां से सीखकर गया, वो सिर्फ सितार ही सीखकर जाएगा कि पूरा हिंदुस्तान लेकर के जाएगा? हिंदुस्तान अपने आप पहुंत जाएगा कि नहीं जाएगा?\nहमारी service sector की ताकत ये है कि विश्व में हमें अपने आप को पहुंचाने का एक बहुत बड़ा अवसर हमारे सामने आया है। सिर्फ विश्व की सेवा करेंगे, ऐसा नहीं, विश्व को अपना बनाने की ताकत हमने पाई है.. और समय-समय पर इस देश ने किया है। I was just France. फ्रांस में मैं युद्ध स्मारक पर श्रद्धांजलि देने के लिए गया था। प्रथम विश्व युद्ध की शताब्दी हुई। सेवा कैसी हमारे लोग कर सकते हैं, इसका एक उत्तम उदाहरण है। एक सौ साल हो गए हैं, प्रथम विश्व युद्ध में करीब 14 लाख हिंदुस्तान के जवानों ने किसी और के लिए लड़ाई लड़ी थी, अपने लिए नहीं, हमारी जमीन को बढ़ाने के लिए नहीं, हम मर रहे थे इसलिए बचने के लिए नहीं, किसी और के लिए। और करीब-करीब 75 हजार लोगों ने शहादत थी। मैं मानता हूं कि दुनिया समझे किसी भी प्रकार की सेवा यानी अपना जीवन आहूत कर देने तक की सेवा देना, इस देश ने करके दिखाया है। अगर उसने किसी की रक्षा के लिए अपनी जान देकर के दिखाया है तो जीवन बचाने के लिए हमारे डॉक्टरों ने दुनिया में जाकर के अपने करतब दिखाए हैं।\nऔर इसलिए मैं कहता हूं कि हम इस क्षेत्र को सीमित न मानें। ये बहुत बड़ी मानवता की सेवा है। ये बहुत बड़ी देश की सेवा है। उसको हमारी ताकत को जल्दी पहचाने, हम अपनी ताकत को ढूंढे, उसको हम globally requirement के अनुसार value addition करें, दुनिया की requirement का हम mapping करें, और हम कर सकते हैं। 2025 में किस देश की किसकी जरूरत पड़ेगी, ये हम कर सकते हैं। आज इतनी सारी चीजें हो सकती हैं और उस प्रकार से हम तैयारी करें।\nमुझे विश्वास है सेवा के क्षेत्र में हम इन कामों को करेंगे तो जरूर ही भारत अपनी एक जगह बना सकता है। सरकार में जो नियमों को बदलना होगा, उसको भी बदलते हुए इन कामों को करना चाहिए। मैं फिर एक बार.. सबने मिलकर के इस बात को आगे बढ़ाया है और भी इसको बल दिया जाए। सरकार में भी इस बदले हुए brain drain के जमाने को छोड़कर के brain gain की दिशा में हम अपनी योजनाएं को केंद्रित करें। इस अपेक्षा के साथ बहुत-बहुत शुभकामनाएं।\nThank you."