"Share\n\nA dream was absorbed in 1992. All the great-minded people, who have faith in Ambedkar, became active and became a world-class center, made efforts in that direction. Government files continue to run Keep discussions going on. The government which was formed by Baba Saheb Ambedkar, due to the constitution, those governments had great difficulty in remembering Babasaheb. So many years passed, the case was going on in more than 20 years. When my responsibilities came to work, then it was a pain that I had been so sad that Bhai had such a thing.\nBut I have decided that even though 20 years have been wasted but now we will complete this work within 20 months. Sometimes I personally think, if Babasaheb Ambedkar was not there then would Narendra Modi be called? On the later side of which I was born, the condition that I grew up, if Babasaheb Ambedkar was not there, I could not reach here. It is not like the oppressed, oppressed, oppressed, disadvantaged people of the society have only done good to them. And sometimes when I hear it, it hurts me that Baba Saheb Ambedkar was the god of Dalits. No, they were for human being. Nor was there a ray of hope for all those who were oppressed, afflicted, exploited, deprived and neglected all over the world in India alone. And we too should have done wrong by reconciling Baba Saheb in a small circle and by insulting them. There were so many humans.\nImagine that time. Life time we see Baba Saheb, he was a victim of social untouchability, but even after death he remained a victim of political untouchability. The country should not have social untouchability, the country should not have political untouchability. Life of Baba Saheb .. and what he has given the message, even today in the 21st century, the work there is for every government, which is said to be Baba Saheb. What message did they give? Be educated, get organized, fight, struggle Be educated, even today, all the governments of India .. The main task in front of them is how we achieve 100% literacy and how to move forward, to achieve that goal. We are going to commemorate Baba Saheb Ambedkar's hundred and a half years, then become a teacher of Baba Saheb who has given us a mantra. If we make man educated at the last end of society, then Babasaheb will be honored with the highest regard. Will be. It will be the best way to celebrate the hundred and a half years, because it is the people who have remained deprived of education, for whom Baba had won awards, he struggled throughout his life and therefore a natural duty is created for us. That duty is to be obeyed. India has got such a constitution, in which the hatred and bitterness have no place in the Constitution.\nYou can imagine that a child born from a dirty mother's womb, who has stepped down in the name of caste, has no system to live with respect, how much bitterness in such a person's heart, how rage, How much could be a change in price But inside Baba Saheb, he was the form of God, who, in a stream of the constitution, which had passed on his own life, did not allow the tortures to be converted into bitterness. The price of change is not born in any corner of the Constitution. History will ever evaluate what elevation of life will be in this great man who had such a great responsibility, if he wanted, he could have such a thing in those situations, but he could not.\nBasically, in the original, bitterness, malice, and exchange of love never flourished in his heart; he left some place for him to flourish in the coming generations. I think we talk of the Constitution but never look at those aspects. Do not look towards that social status.\nI'm glad I was born in that state. Where Sayajirao Gaekwad had glorified Baba Saheb Ambedkar. Honored them, proudly acknowledged their life. And Baba Saheb Ambedkar always gave priority to justice and affection. Today all of us, as I say, where the Constitution can reach a person like me.\nThis is the composition of the Election Commission. Very few people will know that what is the importance of fair elections at that time, what is the strength of fair elections in democracy, sown the seeds of that thing, by creating the Independent Election, it was Baba Saheb's thinking and today we all have a Trusts such an arrangement that all parties of Hindustan should not be opposed, but accept the Election Commission proudly. Baba Saheb gave us this arrangement.\nSee their fairness In the countries that are called the world's richest-rich, most forward countries, women also had to fight for 50-50, 60-60 years to get the right to vote. Had to agitate, women did not have the right to vote, voting was not right. From a well-educated country, from a progressive country, giving money to democracy like democracy, it was his morale, but the son born of a Dalit mother's womb gave the right to vote for the mothers and sisters within India on the very first day of the Constitution. It gives justice, it's just theirs.\nIndia is a federal structure. How will the federal framework run, how will the arrangements be? I do not believe what will happen after the normal human 50-60 years, he sees, I do not believe. Today we see how many fine things have to be paid to maintain our federal structure. And even then somewhere there would be no mistake. It was Baba Saheb Ambedkar, who had understood that he composed the constitution of an independent Finance Commission. The Finance Commission guides the system of distributing balances and funds of states and states independently and still they all trust and trust in the system. This time the states have received the amount up to 42%. It is a big event in India's history. That is, in a way the states have not imagined that the reserves of the same amount were found this time. It is for the first time that the total number of safe in the country, which is more than 60%, more than 65% of the value of the state and the center together, the states have got more today. India has only 35% of the amount. How has this strength been achieved? It is a matter of decision at the time of the government ... but the original child has written in the original of Baba Saheb Ambedkar, then it happened and therefore, in the society, when we look at these things, it seems that Bhai is our future generation Understanding the great deeds of this great person should not be understood, should know the thoughts of this great man or should not know? Should our future generations try to live by following the ideals of this great man or should not?\nIf we have to do this, then what we are going to give birth to the system today, within 20 months, the activity begins its own, such is my expectation. This is the task of serving the future generations and this government is not doing any favor, the Modi government is also not benefiting. In a way society has to repay its debt, there is a small effort to repay the debt.\nAnd so I think that whatever the things have come out of us through Baba Saheb .. We will sometimes see, Baba Saheb .. Women Empowerment, how many times have they seen this? There are still disputes today. Look at the courage of Baba Saheb at that time, he has succeeded in bringing the laws, which, in India, have a great power for empowerment of the world. This was an attempt by Baba Saheb that caused the Hindu Marriage Act 1955. It was the fate of Baba Saheb that the Hindu Succession Act 1956 was made. The Hindu Minority And Guardianship Act 1956, made up of the Hindu Adoption and Maintenance Act 1956. These laws gave strength to those people of the society, especially women, it was the specialty of Baba Saheb.\nEven today, when I listen to people, I am surprised that those who made such speeches would have ever read Ambedkar. Well ... they were not ready to embrace them, after they leave, they will be ready to read them. Anyone can imagine that the talk of Labor Reform in the world is talked of about Communist ideology. Discuss the Labor Reform, the Leftist goes into the ideology of ideology, but very few people will know that when the British was a sultanate, the British Viceroy was sitting here .. and the strength of Baba Sahab Ambedkar in that council, in 1942, The British used to exploit the sultans of the laborers, it was the strength of Baba Sahib that before 1942, the laborers had to work for 12 hours. In 1942, Babasaheb Ambedkar had made a fight for Viceroy and was determined to work for 12 hours and 8 hours.\nThis is not a small decision and therefore, by observing Baba Saheb tied in one border. How big was Baba Sahib's role in India's entire development journey, we can not understand this. This is my good luck, because I believe every moment and seeing my life, I feel every moment that this great man has given us a lot, has given so much. What was their role in the society, the role of adding society? Never have the role of breaking society.\nWe see all their thoughts, money was piled up in front of them - be it, get it, do it. I do not want to go into his discussion, history exists. But he did not get disturbed by it. And therefore, the importance of equality as much is the importance of Mamata. Especially those who consider themselves high, those people themselves have to think that discrimination in society is not going to last long. It has to be accepted and a country like India is full of diversity in which social unity holds a great unity. Baba is celebrating 125 years of his life, then how can we make the bugle of social unity strong.\nAnd so I say - Samata + Mamta = Samarata. Comfort + Depression = Samarassa And so it is my identity. This is part of my own family, this feeling we have to show to Jikir and I believe that this is what we are trying to start. In order to make the concept of society through that effort, in the power to empower the society, the lateral spirit of the Constitution has not hurt him. In order to play his conscious role, this consciousness will become a center. This world is going to be the center of consciousness, we should look at that dream.\nWe talk about Martin Luther King, but Baba forgets Sahab and so if Martin Luther King speaks of the world, then we should try that when the world talks about Martin Luther King, then also Baba Saheb Ambedkar To be forced to do It will happen, when we will present the correct form of Baba Saheb, the right thing about his thoughts, the right thing of his work in the right format near the world. This will be the biggest work in this center that the whole world knows about Baba Saheb. Understand the basic elements of India and it can be easily understood through Baba Saheb.\nAnd so I say that we take inspiration from Baba Sahib and motivate them with their ideas and ideals, in order to empower the society, to fulfill the dream of making the nation a great nation .. Whatever our responsibility is to Should try to complete.\nI congratulate all the members of the department that the hanging thing, for more than 20 years, is in a way accepted by the political untouchability of the project. He has liberated him. Now complete it in the next 20 months. But keep in mind that his creation should be of that level so that he would inspire us for the coming centuries, it should be constructed.\nI once again bow to Baba Saheb Ambedkar and for hundred and twenty years .. give strength within us, give us strength to add, give everyone the strength to carry and walk, the person sitting at the last end of the society, he is our service Stay in the center point of this, such blessings of Baba Saheb continue to meet so that in order to fulfill those dreams which are incomplete, we should also get some work, with this expectation once again, I very much like to say.\nThanks a lot!"