"\nChancellor Merkel, Members of the Media\nI want to sincerely thank the Chancellor Merkel and Germany for the very warm welcome that my delegation and I have received.\nI am particularly grateful that in the first year of my government, India was chosen as a partner in the country.\nChancellor Merkel was generous with his time for me, my delegation and the CEOs of many Indian companies in Hannover. Today, my delegation and I have once again been heartily welcomed in Berlin.\nI also thank him for the very open, constructive and perceptive discussions on relations between India and Germany. This is a reflection of her deep concern for Germany's interests and her commitment to India - Germany relations\nYesterday in Hannover, she accepted the invitation of India's Lion to raise the level of Germany's engagement in India and assured me of a strong response by Germany's Eagle. I believe that there will be a strong partnership between the King of the Earth, Lion and the King of the Skies, the Eagle.\nWhen I last came to Berlin, Germany was successful in winning the World Cup Final. This time in Berlin, I feel that we are also successful in taking the strategic partnership between India and Germany to new heights.\nWhenever anyone in India talks about technology, manufacturing or high quality, Germany is the first country to come here. So, it is natural that when India has embarked on a new journey for 'Make in India' for economic development and employment, we look forward to Germany's strong partnership.\nWhatever objectives we think in the terms of economic transformation and improvement in quality of life,\nMy objective of coming to Germany was not only to invite the German industry to India, but to assure them that they would find a open and stable environment, which would be easy to do business in; and that they will have my full support\nI feel deeply encouraged by the enthusiasm and interest that I have seen in the Chancellor Merkel and Germany. Equally, the feedback that I have got is great benefits to framing our policies.\nI have also decided that we will establish a mechanism for German companies to facilitate their investment and business in India.\nOur goal of 'Make in India' and creating employment for our youth Germany is a world leader in this field. India will have to pursue its skill development program in accordance with its own circumstances. But at the same time, there is a lot that we learn from Germany. We had a detailed discussion on the subject. Similarly, we want to strengthen our close cooperation in the areas of science, technology and education.\nAn area that has great priority for me and renewable energy As I have already said, we intend to add 175 Giga Waters of renewable energy during the next seven years. Germany is the developer of clean energy We will also like your cooperation on manufacturing of equipment for clean and renewable energy in India; and enhances the challenge of climate change.\nDevelopment of India as a manufacturing hub and expansion of infrastructure of India will also be beneficial for trade. Our imports would also grow. And, it is natural that German companies will benefit from lot from it. In this context, I would like to state that the negotiations between India and the European Union on a Broad-based Trade and Investment Agreement has been stalled for two years. I have requested Chancellor Merkel that India and European Union should resume the negotiations quickly and conclude a balanced and mutually beneficial agreement at the earliest.\nWe will also like to improve our cooperation in the area of ​​advanced technology and defense. I hope that the German companies will participate enthusiastically in this and that your government will support them completely.\nChancellor Merkel and I had also discussed international developments. We in India believe that economic momentum in Europe is important for the global economy and European stability for global peace. The world looks to Germany for leadership in addressing both challenges I also congratulate her on the successful outcome of talks with Iran. This will be the beneficial Inability and violence in West Asia Peaceful and democratic development of Afghanistan is important for both of us The direction that the Asia-Pacific region will take in this century would be great significance to the whole world.\nThe spread of terrorism is growing The threat is coming closer to us We need a comprehensive global strategy to deal with this global challenge, in which India and Germany can work together. Equally, in the coming days, maritime cyber and space security would be a matter of concern to everyone and we should increase our cooperation as well as this area.\nIt is my belief that India and Germany are two countries that have the right to be permanent members of the United Nations Security Council Our membership will also be beneficial to the world. We would like to see tangible progress in the United Nations Security Council reforms during the 70th anniversary year of the United Nations.\nWe also look forward to a successful outcome of COP-21 in Paris this year.\nOnce again, I would like to thank everyone, specially Chancellor Merkel for a very successful and productive visit and I look forward to hosting the visit to Chancellor Merkel in India in October.\nThank you.\nPM's Reply to the questions during the Joint Press Statement with German Chancellor Angela Merkel at Berlin\nAnswer to the question about Prime Minister's visit to Germany\nPrime Minister Shri Narendra Modi: Today the entire world's attention is going towards India. India has made its place in the world economy as the fastest growing economy. India has three major such facilities, which none in the world has. Demographic Dividend, Democracy and Demand And seeing these three things, there is every possibility of becoming a manufacturing hub in India. Where there is low cost manufacturing, with \"zero defect-zero effect\" and for all the world's investors, India is a place where there is abundant work force.\nWhere there is a huge demand in domestic demand and where there are democratic values. Who share both Germany and India equally So there is an environment that is favorable to many countries of the world and especially to India friendly. Germany's strength is manufacturing, to meet the needs of the world, German companies and India's environment, if they both work together, we can meet many requirements of the world very well.\nIndia's work force, which will be ready in this manufacturing sector. They can be converted in the form of a world work force in the coming days. Employment in India is the biggest requirement and therefore our focus is on making a manufacturing hub.\nThe companies that were found in Hannover Fair later, Chancellor Merkel had an evening dinner, along with the industrial houses here, it has also been discussed in detail and I see whether there is skill development, whether it is vocational education. Whether the technology is up-gradation in the Railways, the expansion should be the work of the Defense manufacturing sector, the development of the engineering sector is a new horizon; today, German companies in all areas are ready to work together with India. And the conversation between Mary and Chancellor Merkel has led to the confidence of these companies, and the confidence of those companies has also increased.\nI think that in the days to come, human resource development should be the work of professional management, it is a matter of moving forward in the direction of manufacturing, Germany and India will advance successfully in all areas, with the belief that I return here today I have been\nAnswer to the question related to the issue of Global Terrorism:\nPrime Minister Shri Narendra Modi: I believe that terrorism is a major threat to humanity. Whoever believes in humanism. There is no language, no part of the land, no tradition, but one of humanistic forces is very important and all humanist powers need to speak against terrorism with one voice, with the same intensity, collectively efforts need to.\nAnd we are seeing 25 years ago today, people of India used to tell the world about the threat of terrorism, some people used to tell us, this is your law and order problem. Today the world has come to understand how terrible it is and it is a fight against humanity. Unless we collect humanist forces and we do not behave equally in front of terrorism, they get open ground. Where do you meet the weapon, how can it be stopped? If there are governments to shelter the terrorists, then how to create pressure on those governments? As with the sensitivity of the nuclear weapon, the same should be done against the countries of terrorism. If this is a mood and we must terrorize terrorism and those who support terrorism should be our first strategy and the world will think seriously about it.\nSecond important work is pending in the United Nations for a very long time in a proposal discussion. It is very important to have a definition of terrorism. I would like that when the United Nations is going to complete its 70 years. Pass that resolution, define it, and prepare the rule of binding things for the people of the world. Then the world can be gathered against this humanity against the backdrop of a platform. I am familiar with Chancellor Merkel's ideas. They hold the same clear views against terrorism, as much as we have been troubled by the people of India for 30 years from terrorism. We feel and I believe that now the whole world, the way terrorism is spreading, will become more aware and work together to further protect this humanity.\nIn the United Nations Security Council (UNSC), answer to a question related to India's permanent membership:\nPrime Minister Shri Narendra Modi: One topic you have asked is permanent membership, in the Security Council, I want to draw attention to the world's point of view. You know that these years are going to be 70 years of UN and the whole world is going through the year of World War I century. The world should know that more than 75 thousand soldiers were martyred during World War I in World War I, and more than 1.4 million Indian soldiers had to take part in World War I. There was no interest in India, there was no plan for India. After UN, you see Peace Keeping Force, the largest military in the Peace Keeping Force, which is sent to India, has one name in it. In the Keeping Force of Peace Keeping India, India is often appreciated for doing the best work under the guidance of the UN, and India whose history and culture have never invaded that country which has not fought.\nThe country where the non-violence envoy Mahatma Gandhi was born, the country where Gautam Buddha was born, which is dedicated to the culture, tradition and peace, if that country does not get permanent membership security council in 70 years Wait till he has to wait, then the question arises that those who rely on peace, living for peace, whose peace is in DNA, justice should be done to such a country now, the time has gone too much.\nThank you"