"Congress has no vision for welfare of Rajasthan: PM\nBJP believes in strengthening unity in India, Congress speaks about dividing India: PM Modi\nCongress never thinks about the poor and marginalised Everyone knows their conduct towards Dr. Ambedkar They did not even give him the Bharat Ratna: PM\nRajasthan State BJP President Mr. Madan Lal Saini, the popular Chief Minister of Rajasthan, Mr. Vasundhara ji, all the senior superintendents of the stage, all the candidates of the Bharatiya Janata Party and my dear brothers and sisters of Alwar, who have been camping in large numbers ....\nNamdhari of Lord Bhartruhari on the holy land of Alwar, known to be known as the Sinhdwar of Rajasthan, who had taken the favors of leaving the raj-pat to give life to a deer. This is the land of bravery of emperor Hemu who ruled Delhi. This is the land of Maharana Pratap's courage. This is the land of Prithviraj Chauhan's youth. This emerald is the land of renunciation. This is the land of devotion to Meera. This is Bhamashah's land of dedication. And, this is the land of 60 million 80 million heroes, courageous and Rajasthani who holds Hindustan in heart. Mata Narayanani, Hanuman ji of Pandupole, who is sitting in Shayan Mudra, is gathering all of you, the people of Alwar, Rajasthan and the country ahead.\nMy dear brothers and sisters from Rajasthan, a large number, I respectfully salute you from the land of Alwar today. Traveling from Alwar also started in 2013. Today once again, bowing down to the same land, I am launching the election campaign in Rajasthan. These huge crowds, people standing on these rooftops ... sit in rooms of Delhi air conditioners and win the one in the morning, beat the other in the evening, then win the other day on the second day, for their people, this little bit Take a look at what the wind's attitude is. See the mood of the land of Rajasthan.\nBrothers, I got an opportunity to go to Chhattisgarh, get a chance to go to Madhya Pradesh and today it has an opportunity to visit the brave land of Rajasthan. And I have seen that the country's youth, the country, the village, the poor, the farmer's son, our mothers and sisters, every citizen is watching this election by taking the same mantra and that mantra is what will be the development, development Who will do it and everyone is giving a blessing to the development journey of the Bharatiya Janata Party by remembering the previous governments. Brothers and sisters, today when I am campaigning for Alwar, Rajasthan, then it is the earth, it is the land of pride, it is a land that is crushing the ego. And that is why Hanuman ji is worshiped here, who destroyed the ego. This is your mood, this huge crowd, JanSalab, is proving that the ego of Namdhars will shatter the alarms.\nToday the Congress party is going down so low that day, falling down so much that they have abandoned the rituals of politics, have forgotten the etiquette and they have the courage to argue on development issues. Have lost If you have courage in the Congress party, then do not forget that Vasundhara ji has done the work that has been done during his tenure, challenging him. But the last 5 years of his previous government is so bad, it is so bad that he does not even have the courage to remember the works of Vasundhara ji. And when you have someone to give you an account of your own deeds, neither do you have any vision for the well-being of Rajasthan or there is no argument for answering the fierce battle going on in your party. The issue of election becomes ... What is the caste of Modi? You tell me brother ... what will be the vote of Modi on the basis of what is it? Hey Modi happened anywhere, wherever he was born. Will he decide the future of Rajasthan? Will the Congress Party still be able to leave the poison of casteism? Would you also want to run politics with the scales of racism?\nBrothers and sisters, whenever the Congress party has an opportunity to say something to him, you constantly see the rage judges who sing their songs, they will remain silent but the public can not forget these things. Whenever the fundamental nature of the Congress appears, in his voice, the same thing is seen in practice. They are immersed in casteism. Being oppressed, oppressed, exploited, deprived, poor, weak, and the hatred towards them is filled with Congress's rags. To defeat Bhaiya-Sanson, Babasaheb Ambedkar in the elections, how did the Congress party's veteran politicians use the language, how did they use the language? From then on till date, Challenged nomadars, they fall behind him. Brothers and sisters, Babasaheb Ambedkar should have got Bharat Ratna but it was not remembered to give Baba Saheb Bharat Ratna to the Congress who was drowned in the poison of casteism. Four generations of the same family were given four Bharat Ratna ... sticking to the walls in the same house ... Babasaheb did not remember them, this is their racial mentality. Brothers and sisters, Babu Jagjivan Ram ... was born from the womb of a dalit society ... he challenged Namdhars in the Emergency, raised a voice against the emergency ... what had he done to Babu Jaggubabu? The family, you know well\nBrothers and sisters, the Mandal Commission was being discussed inside the Parliament, in the context of reservation of OBC, the report of the Mandal Commission was being discussed and it was mentioned that Mr. Rajiv Gandhi, the nominee ... take out the debate of Parliament and see the division The poison that Rajiv Gandhi raised against the commission, which used the language, which he had criticized, is still echoing between the walls of the Parliament of India.This is a reflection of their mentality. Brothers and sisters, when we came to the Parliament with the bill to give constitutional status to the OBC Commission, the same Congress party should be Dalit, suffering, exploited, deprived, backward, due to their hostility towards them ... OBC Commissions To obstruct the obstacles that can be obstructed in passing in the Parliament ... ... to try as much as possible ... brothers and sisters, we got stuck, fought, difficult to pass that bill. Brothers and sisters, Congress leaders ... Somebody should scold my mother, someone asks me questions about my caste, I am not surprised. There is no one to say this, but the person who wants to call is a nomad. At their point of view, nothing happens to their intentions, so the Congress knows all about whom to say. Hey no one can do the moon in which the party. And brother, there was a big attack on my caste even when Gujarat elections were going on. Then the anger of the people appeared and they suspended them and after 2 months, you should get throated. Why? Why the dust in the eyes of the people?\nBrothers and sisters, I just want to ask, this is the result of the casteist mentality of the Congress Party, the biggest massacre against Dalits ... This is where the Congress has got an opportunity to run the government. Brothers and sisters, who can forget the violence against Dalits in Mirchpur, Haryana, 2010. Who can forget who was prosecuted against Dalits during the Congress government in Gohana, Haryana, in 2005? In 2000, 11 Dalits were killed in Karnataka, who could forget them. Brothers and sisters, the backward people of the society, the Dalits, the victims of the Congress party, the exploiters who consider the voters to be the only vote bank, have the same value and balance of caste for them. Brothers and sisters, our sacraments are different, the tradition of our country is different, the principles of the Bharatiya Janata Party are different. And we ... great sages of India, Rishis, Munis have added Hindus, these Congressmen have broken Hindustan.\nBrothers and sisters, what was the message of the great saint Kabirdas? The great saint Kabirdas said, \"Kabira well is one, many people filled with water. There is a distinction between vessels, water is one in all. \"That is, God does not make any distinction between man and man, he sees no caste, he sees no color. The capacity of a man, whatever his thinking is, becomes what he does. The Sikh Gurus have also given the same message and have been saying the Sikh Guru continuously and today when they go to anchor they also experience ... The Sikh Guru has been saying this, the possessions of Manas, the identity of Bhai. That is, treat each person equally, keep an equal value towards everyone.\nBrothers, Congress should know that this land is the land of Saint Sriramani Valmiki, this land is of Vedvasa, this land belongs to Surdas, it is the great saints of the earth, Kabirdas who, through their great compositions, have unity, harmony, Social harmony is the message of the same. Sant Ravidas ji has said, \"Do not ask birth, ask caste, Arutu. 'Ravi Das' is worshiped by Satya Prabhu, Kou Nahin Jat Kushat. \"Sant Ravidas ji Maharaj says that no one should ask who is born in a caste? What is caste-fauna, they are the children of all Gods, there is no small or big race. Brothers and sisters, Guru Ramanand ji of Saint Kabir had said, that the Hari is to be worshiped; There is also the mantra of the Bharatiya Janata Party - everyone's development with everyone. And we have got the same rites, poor, poor, oppressed, exploited, suffer, deprived, farmers, women, villages, city, read-written, illiterate, everybody hari for us Is the form, it is the form of Hari. And so, I would say this just like the Saint Ravidas ji said that the Hari is to be blessed as a god. The poor who are poor, they are poor. The farmer who belongs to the farmer should be the owner. Those who suffer, exploit, and deprived, they are victims, oppressed and deprived. The youth who is young is like a young man. The public should be like that. That which India is like, it should be of India.\nBrothers and sisters, the party which has ruled India for 4-4 generations, who are sitting on the Namdar Party, I just want to ask them. Ruled the 5-5, 6-6 decade. What is the head of India in any country of the world, then what world asks her for her caste? When the leader of India goes, then the world does not see Modi, nor does Modi's caste look, the world looks to be a hundred and a half million Hindus, one is Hindustani. Brothers and sisters who threatened to bomb India on their own till today, our strategy has caught them in the bowl, bowl. Brothers and sisters, this is not Modi's caste behind it, there are hundreds of hundred Hindus. And so brothers and sisters, this is the ego of the Congress party, it is in the root of the problem. They do not accept democracy. They do not accept defeat. Do not accept public order They are sitting in mind that this casket has been written in the name of their family, no one else can come on it, no one can sit. And he also sat down a tea dish. They are not digested. They are those racist mentality or not the result of the same poison that these kinds of acts are seen, brothers and sisters.\nBrothers and sisters, the history of Rajasthan is a witness, Vasundhara ji was telling ... the people of Rajasthan have definitely spoken a few things. Ever since the Bharatiya Janata Party has created a place in the heart of Rajasthan, this is BJP ... This public has blessed the blessing of Bhairon Singh ji for making two successive governments. And this is Rajasthan which never blesses the Congress with the absolute majority, never gave it even halfway because they do not seem to mind their mind. They are manipulative and nowadays, in every street, the chief ministers are turning around, wherever they go, our Chief Minister, go there, our Chief Minister ... go to that our Chief Minister is our Chief Minister. His whole party is so confusing on the Chief Minister, if the leader is so confused then what will happen if the party does not fuse?\nBrothers and sisters, their pride is well-known in the life of Rajasthan. You know that my alwar's brother was the ego of the Congress party who did what with Kunwar Pratap Singh ji, what people here will forget? With the Kunwar Pratap Singh ji, what kind of act did the ego of Congress do to this, those things are still alive today? Hey Kunwar Quit, Pandit Naval Kishore Sharma who lived a dedicated life of Congress, what did you do with him, will the people here forget about this? If Pandit Naval Kishore Sharma got the privilege of honoring, honoring him, then the land of Gujarat got it. When he came to me as governor, we had presented an example of how the Chief Minister and the governor could be regarded as best. And you used to work as much as possible to defame such a person, as much as possible to make a border.\nBrothers and sisters, this is the ego of the Congress so that there is no talk of development, not discussing issues of public good. You must have seen the video of a leader of Congress has become viral. In that video, there will be no new workers there, the poor Indians are calling for the victory of the mother, then the Congress leaders went ... Do not speak, do not say, Soniaji ji say hi. It's been viral, you have to be seen. For this Congress party, there is another mother from Bharat Mata, Bhaiya. For us, there is a bigger country than the brothers. Brothers, bigger country than the party. They will come, they will come, this country is Akar-Amar, this country is going to be, our future generation will be proud of the country.\nBrothers and sisters, look at the rituals of the Congress party. These Maoists, Naxalites bring innocent people to death. Burning schools of the village, break them, pull up the pillars of electric power so that the village remains in the dark, anger inside them can arise. Such Maoists call the Naxalites the leader of the Congress as a revolutionary, then it does not understand where the confluence of this party has been expanded, where and where it has reached. और इतना ही नहीं, अभी छत्तीसगढ़ में चुनाव की ड्यूटी पर हमारे भरतपुर का अर्धसैनिक बल का जवान वह वहाँ पर ड्यूटी पर तैनात था, लोकतन्त्र के काम के लिए गया था लेकिन ये माओवादी जिनको कांग्रेस वाले क्रांतिकारी कहते हैं, नक्सलवादी जिनको कांग्रेस के नेता क्रांतिकारी कहते हैं...उनको ये पता होना चाहिए भरतपुर का अर्धसैनिक बल का मेरा एक जवान उसको इन आतंकवादियों ने शहीद कर दिया मेरे भाइयो और बहनो। उनके प्रति सम्मान करोगे कि इन गोलियां चलाने वालों को क्रांतिकारी कह-कह कर उनका सम्मान करोगे?\nभाइयो-बहनो, मुझे विश्वास है पहले की तरह फिर एक बार राजस्थान की जनता नया इतिहास बनाने वाली है, फिर एक बार भाजपा की सरकार बनने वाली है। और हमें वोट चाहिए विकास के मुद्दे पर, हमें वोट चाहिए हमारे काम के आधार पर। और आपको मेरा आग्रह है कि उनके 5 साल और हमारे 5 साल की तुलना कर लीजिए। कांग्रेस की राजस्थान की सरकार के 5 साल और वसुंधरा जी की सरकार के 5 साल, हर तराजू पर तौल दीजिए। हम जनता की ज्यादा सेवा कर पाए कि नहीं कर पाए, इसके आधार पर हमें वोट दीजिए, ये मैं दावा करने आया हूँ।\nभाइयो-बहनो, ये कांग्रेस पार्टी आजकल एक नया खेल खेल रही है। और मैं बहुत गंभीरता से कहना चाहता हूँ कि कांग्रेस पार्टी ने एक नया खेल खेला है। लोकतन्त्र में आस्था न होने के कारण पार्लियामेंट को चलने नहीं देना, पार्लियामेंट में रोड़े अटका देना, न संवाद करना, न बात करना, न विवाद करना, पार्लियामेंट में कोई काम होने नहीं देना, ये तरीका उन्होंने अपनाया है। अब एक नया खेल शुरू किया है। मैं देश के बुद्धिजीवियों से आग्रह करूंगा कि इसका गंभीरता से विश्लेषण किया जाए, इसका एनालिसिस होना चाहिए। देश के उज्ज्वल भविष्य के लिए गंभीरतापूर्वक इसको कसौटी पर कसना चाहिए।\nकांग्रेस ने एक नया खेल शुरू किया है, हिंदुस्तान में उनको जो बड़े-बड़े सुप्रीम कोर्ट के वकील दिखते हैं, ऐसे सुप्रीम कोर्ट के वकीलों को ढूंढ़-ढूंढ़ करके वे राज्य सभा में बिठाते हैं, राज्य सभा का टिकट देते हैं, वे राज्य सभा में आते हैं। अब हमें मालूम है कि राज्य सभा में हमारा बहुमत नहीं है, वहाँ संख्या का संतुलन अलग सा है और इसलिए कांग्रेस ने एक नया दांव खेला है। ये वकील जो दिन-रात सुप्रीम कोर्ट में वकालत करते हैं, वो राज्य सभा में आते हैं और जो काम सुप्रीम कोर्ट में कानून के तहत, संविधान के तहत, अपनी तर्कशक्ति के तहत, अपने मुद्दों के तहत जो काम उनको सुप्रीम कोर्ट में करना चाहिए, अपने देश की भरपूर वकालत करके जीतने का प्रयास करना चाहिए, अब वो वहाँ हो नहीं पा रहा है क्यूंकि तर्क में दम नहीं, न्याय उनके साथ नहीं...और इसलिए, अब उन्होंने एक नया खेल खेला ह Yes आप जानते हैं जब ये अयोध्या का केस चल रहा था, कांग्रेस के नेता, राज्य सभा के सदस्य सुप्रीम कोर्ट को कह रहे हैं कि 2019 तक ये केस मत चलाओ क्यूंकि 2019 तक ये चुनाव है। भाइयो-बहनो देश के न्यायतंत्र को इस प्रकार से घसीटना उचित है क्या? क्या देश की न्यायपालिका की स्वतन्त्रता को स्वीकार करना चाहिए कि नहीं करना चाहिए? उन पर इस प्रकार का दबाव डालना चाहिए क्या? लेकिन कांग्रेस के लोग बेशर्मी के साथ सुप्रीम कोर्ट में जाकर के ये कहने की हिम्मत करते हैं। फिर भी, जब उनकी बात नहीं चलती है तो मैं ये गंभीर आरोप लगाना चाहता हूँ। अब उन्होंने एक नया खेल शुरू किया है। और नया खेल ये शुरू किया है कि अगर सुप्रीम कोर्ट का कोई जज उनके राजनीतिक इरादों के अनुसार न्यायपालिका का समयपत्र नहीं बनाता है, टाइम टेबल नहीं बनाता है, अयोध्या जैसे गंभीर, संवेदनशील मसलों में सुप्रीम कोर्ट अगर संवेदनशीलता के साथ देश को न्याय दिलाने की दिशा में सबको सुनना चाहती है, तो उसमें रोड़े अटकाने के लिए जब कोर्ट में फेल हो जाते हैं...तो ये सुप्रीम कोर्ट के जो वकील कांग्रेस ने राज    य सभा में बिठाए हैं वे सुप्रीम कोर्ट के न्यायमूर्तियों के खिलाफ इंपीचमेंट लाकर के उनको डराने-धमकाने का नया खेल शुरू किया है। भाइयो-बहनो, ये खतरनाक खेल है। ये कांग्रेस पार्टी देश के न्यायमूर्तियों के खिलाफ इंपीचमेंट के नाम पर डरा-धमका कर के न्याय की प्रक्रियाओं को dare करने का, संवेदनशील मुद्दों को सुनने से रोकने का पाप कर रही है। ऐसी कांग्रेस पार्टी जिसका न्याय में भरोसा नहीं, न्यायपालिका में भरोसा नहीं, न्यायमूर्ति में भरोसा नहीं, इंपीचमेंट लाकर के राज्य सभा की अपनी ताकत के बल पर देश को बंदी बनाने का काम कर रही है, इनको कभी माफ नहीं किया जा सकता। और मैं देश की न्यायपालिका को विश्वास दिलाना चाहता हूँ, देश के न्यायमूर्तियों को विश्वास दिलाना चाहता हूँ कि देश की जनता ने जब तक हमें देश की सेवा करने का मौका दिया है, हम कांग्रेस के काले कारनामों को लोकतन्त्र के मंदिर के भीतर नहीं होने देंगे, पूरी ताकत से रोकेंगे और न्यायपालिका भी स्वतन्त्रता से काम करेगी। मैं न्यायमूर्तियों से भी कहना चाहूंगा कि इंपीचमेंट की धमकियों से डरो मत, आप हिम्मत के साथ न्याय की राह पर चलो, देश उनके साथ चलेगा ये मैं उनको विश्वास दिलाना चाहता हूँ।\nभाइयो-बहनो, मैं वसुंधरा जी को, उनकी सरकार को, उनकी टीम को बधाई देता हूँ... राजस्थान को जिस प्रकार से विकास की ऊंचाइयों पर ले गईं। चाहे किसान हो, गाँव हो, गरीब हो, इनफ्रास्ट्रक्चर के मुद्दे हों, जनकल्याण के काम हों, कोई क्षेत्र ऐसा नहीं है जिसमें समाज के हित में वसुंधरा जी की सरकार ने बढ़-चढ़ के काम न किया हो, लोगों की भलाई के लिए कदम न उठाया हो। भाइयो-बहनो, राजस्थान में विकास को एक नई गति दी है, नई दिशा दी है, व्यापक फलक पर विकास को ले जाने का काम किया है। इतना ही नहीं भाइयो-बहनो, कांग्रेस ने 50 साल में जितने हायर सेकेन्डरी स्कूल खोले थे...अब देखिए 50 साल में कांग्रेस पार्टी ने जितने हायर सेकेन्डरी स्कूल खोले थे, उससे करीब डेढ़ गुना 5 साल में वसुंधरा जी ने करके दिया है। जो काम 5 साल में वसुंधरा जी ने किया है, वो काम अगर कांग्रेस की गति से होना है तो और 75 साल लगते भाइयो-बहनो, 75 साल। हायर सेकेन्डरी स्कूल खोलने के लिए 75 साल इंतजार करना पड़ता, ये वसुंधरा जी के कारण वो काम 5 साल में हो गया। आप मुझे बताइए, आपको 5 साल में काम करने वाली सरकार चाहिए कि 75 साल तक इंतजार कराने वाली सरकार चाहिए?\nभाइयो-बहनो, 50 साल में कांग्रेस सरकारों ने जितने मेडिकल कॉलेज खोले हैं, उतने ही मेडिकल कॉलेज 5 साल में वसुंधरा जी ने खोल दिए। जो काम इन्होंने 50 साल में किया, वो काम वसुंधरा जी ने 5 साल में कर दिया। अगर कांग्रेस पार्टी होती, यही मेडिकल कॉलेज का काम करने के लिए 50 साल और लग जाते। आप तय कीजिए, 50 साल इंतजार करना है कि 5 साल में काम पूरा करने वाली वसुंधरा जी चाहिए हमें। भाइयो-बहनो, दिल्ली में भारतीय जनता पार्टी की सरकार है। राजस्थान और हिंदुस्तान और दुनिया में फैला हुआ राजस्थानी भारत के विकास में बहुत बड़ा योगदान दे रहा है। राजस्थान के जवान सीमा पर सुरक्षा में बहुत बड़ा योगदान दे रहे हैं, उस राजस्थान के लिए जितना करें उतना कम है। जितना करें उतना कम है। लेकिन जब यूपीए की सरकार थी तो वो राजस्थान को सिर्फ 1 लाख करोड़ रुपया देती थी, भाइयो हमने आकर के ढाई लाख करोड़ रुपया कर दिया, ढाई लाख करोड़। इतना ही नहीं, और कुछ व्यवस्था, योजनाओं के विकास के लिए 36,000 करोड़ रुपया अतिरिक्त देकर के राजस्थान के विकास को हमने बल देने का काम किया है।\nभाइयो-बहनो, 4 वर्ष पहले जब कांग्रेस की सरकार थी तो एक दिन में सिर्फ 12 किलोमीटर हाईवे बनते थे। आज लगभग 27 किलोमीटर हाईवे एक दिन में बनते हैं भाइयो-बहनो। यानि वो रहते तो आपको रास्तों के लिए कितना इंतजार करना पड़ता और राजस्थान में तो 4 गुना स्पीड से काम वसुंधरा जी ने करके दिखाया है। स्टेट हाईवे के क्षेत्र में 9,000 किलोमीटर से ज्यादा काम हुआ है और 25 किलोमीटर प्रतिदिन की सड़क बना करके राजस्थान ने अपने स्टेट में रास्तों के लिए भी एक अद्भुत काम करके दिखाया है। भाइयो-बहनो, 5 साल में 36,000 किलोमीटर नई सड़कें राजस्थान में जोड़ी गई हैं, 36,000 किलोमीटर। भाइयो-बहनो, ये कांग्रेस के 50 साल में नजर नहीं आता है जो 5 साल में वसुंधरा जी करके दिखा दी हैं।\nऔर इसलिए भाइयो-बहनो, उज्ज्वला योजना गरीब माताओं को गैस का चूल्हा देना ...जो दिल्ली में बैठे हुए उनके राग दरबारी हैं, ये राग दरबारियों को ये बातें समझ में नहीं आती हैं। 2013 में जब चुनाव की तैयारियां चल रही थीं, उस समय कांग्रेस पार्टी में चर्चा क्या थी? कांग्रेस पार्टी में चर्चा ये थी कि गैस का सिलिंडर 9 देना चाहिए कि 12 देना चाहिए। एक परिवार को साल में 9 सिलिंडर मिले या 12 सिलिंडर। इसी पर कांग्रेस के राष्ट्रीय अधिवेशन ने चर्चा की थी और बाहर निकलकर घोषणा की थी कि दुबारा हमारी सरकार बनेगी तो हम 9 के बजाए 12 सिलिंडर देंगे। ये कांग्रेस, ये इसकी सोच!\nये मोदी की सरकार बनी, हमने सपना देखा कि देश में 8 करोड़ परिवार ऐसे हैं जहां हमारी माताएं लकड़ी का चूल्हा जलाकर के खाना पकाती हैं और धुएँ में जिंदगी गुजारती हैं और एक माँ जब लकड़ी का चूल्हा जला करके खाना पकाती है तो उसके शरीर में 400 सिगरेट का धुआँ जाता है, 400 सिगरेट का। और घर में जो बच्चे खेलते हैं, उनका तो बचपन बीमारी से ग्रस्त हो जाता है। भाइयो-बहनो, मैंने गरीबी में बचपन गुजारा है। माँ धुएँ में खाना कैसे पकाती थी वो मैंने जीवन में बचपन में देखा है और तब से मन करता था कि जो अमीरों के घर में गैस का चूल्हा है, मेरे गरीब के घर में गैस का चूल्हा क्यूँ नहीं होना चाहिए। एक जमाना था, नामदारों का जमाना, वो राजशाही ठाठ, राजशाही सोच और उसके कारण एमपी को 25 कूपन देते थे। एमपी को कहते थे कि तुम साल भर में 25 गैस की कूपन बाँट सकते हो, 25 लोगों को oblige कर सकते हो। एक एमपी 25 कनेक्शन दे पाता था। मोदी ने कहा कि बदलो। हमें ये मानसिकता बदलनी होगी। भाइयो-बहनो, जब से गैस सिलिंडर देना शुरू हुआ करीब 60 साल में कांग्रेस पार्टी ने 13 करोड़ गैस के कनेक्शन दिए। कितने? जरा जोर से बोलिए। कितने? 60 साल में कितने? 60 साल में कितने?\nभाइयो-बहनो, मोदी ने आकर के 4 साल में 12 करोड़ कनेक्शन दे दिए। 12 करोड़ कनेक्शन दे दिए और उसमें 6 करोड़ उन परिवारों को जिनको मुफ्त में हमने ये देने का काम किया है भाइयो-बहनो। गरीब माताओं को इस प्रकार से मदद की जाती है। अकेले राजस्थान में 50 लाख माताओं-बहनों को ये धुएँ की जिंदगी से मुक्ति दिलाने का काम हमारी सरकार ने किया है भाइयो-बहनो।\nमैं जरा कांग्रेस वालों को पूछना चाहता हूँ, आजकल जहां भी जाते हैं फटी जेब से भांति-भांति के वादे निकालकर के बांटते रहते हैं, ये फटी जेब वाले कुर्ते में से वादे कहाँ से निकलते हैं समझ नहीं आता है। ये फटी जेब वाले कुर्ते से वादे निकालते हैं। जरा मैं पूछना चाहता हूँ इस देश की सेना के जवान 40 साल से वन रैंक वन पेंशन की मांग कर रहे थे। वन रैंक वन पेंशन की मांग कर रहे थे कि नहीं कर रहे थे? वन रैंक वन पेंशन की मांग कर रहे थे कि नहीं कर रहे थे? देश की सेना के जवान बार-बार कह रहे थे कि नहीं कह रहे थे? मैं जरा कांग्रेस पार्टी को पूछना चाहता हूँ, ये नामदार को पूछना चाहता हूँ कि आपने वन रैंक वन पेंशन इस देश की सेना के जवानों की इस मांग को लटका के क्यूँ रखा? ये हमारी सरकार है, हमने आकर के वन रैंक वन पेंशन का काम पूरा कर दिया। 11 हजार करोड़ रुपया सेना के जवानों के खातों में जमा करा दिया भाइयो-बहनो।\nकिसान हो, जवान हो, देश का भविष्य बनाने के लिए हर समाज के, हर वर्ग के कल्याण के लिए काम करने के इरादे से चलने वाली भारतीय जनता पार्टी की सरकार फिर एक बार राजस्थान में वसुंधरा जी की सरकार बनाइए। विकास के लिए बनाइए, आपकी समस्याओं के समाधान के लिए बनाइए, आधुनिक राजस्थान बनाने के लिए बनाइए और दिल्ली की ताकत राजस्थान में काम आए उस सोच के साथ राजस्थान की सरकार बनाइए। इसी अनुरोध के साथ हमारे सभी उम्मीदवारों को…जरा सभी उम्मीदवार यहाँ आ जाएं…हमारे इन सभी उम्मीदवारों को दोनों हाथ ऊपर करके भारत माता की जय बोलकर के आशीर्वाद दीजिए।\nLong live Mother India. Long live Mother India. Long live Mother India. Thanks a lot.\n"