"\nFriends,\nI am really happy to be here in Hannover Fair It is an added pleasure to the speaker Merkel. Myself and Chancellor Mercel had a very good interaction. You also have met a number of Indian companies and CEOs. I believe that the participation in Hannover fair will be both sides. I request you to visit the India pavillion and the stalls of our State Government and private companies\nYou will be able to see the winds of change in India. We are very strong We need your involvement The scope and potential, the breadth and length of infrastructure Just to give some examples:\n• We have planned to build 50 million homes by 2022. In addition, we are going to develop smart cities and mega industrial corridors.\n• For this purpose, we have refined our FDI Policy in construction. We have also got a regulatory framework for this sector.\n• We have targeted 175 Giga Watt of renewable energy in next few years. In addition to generation, the issues of transmission and distribution of electricity are equally important for us;\n• We are modernizing our railway systems including signals, and railway stations. We are planning metro rail in fifty cities and high speed trains in different corridors.\n• Similar is the case with Highways\n• We are putting up new ports and modernizing the old ones through a sophisticated plan called Sagarmala;\n• Similar focus is on upgrading the existing Airports and up of regional airports to increase connectivity to places of economic and tourist importance.\n• In financial services too, we are moving towards a more inclusive and faster delivery of financial products including bank loans and insurance.\n• For this purpose, we opened 140 million bank accounts; Increased FDI in insurance upto 49% and has set up MUDRA Bank\n• We also announced innovative schemes for insurance and pension for our citizens\nWe also want to promote manufacturing in a big way. For this purpose, we have launched a campaign called \"Make in India\".\nThis is a historic opportunity for the German companies. You will already be knowing the direction of my government. We have committed ourselves to making and improving the business environment. I can assure you that once you decide to be in India\nGermany ranked 8th among overseas investors in India About 600 Indo-German Joint ventures are currently operating in India. The purpose of my being here and participating in the Hannover Fair is to highlight that there is more potential in Indo-German economic collaboration. Although we have a vibrant relationship, our economic partnership is not as much as both countries would like to have The flow of investments from Germany is well below the potential and less than Indian investments in Germany.\nMany more German companies have the possibility of investing in India to take advantage of India's potentials The potential lies in manufacturing and well-being. I know that It is also from the Indian side also\nI am here to assure the German companies that India is now a changed country Our regulatory regime is much more transparent, responsive and stable. We are taking a long-term and futuristic view on the issues.\nLot of efforts have been made and are still underway to improve the 'Easy of Doing Business' in the country.\n• Reducing the complex procedures, making them available on a platform, preferably online, simplifying the forms and formats.\n• Defined mechanisms for hand holding have been set up in the form of hub and spoke. Investing is the nodal agency for this purpose.\nWe do believe that FDI is important and it will not come in the country without a global competition competitive environment. So, in this year's budget we have rationalized a number of issues which were bothering you. In particular,\n• We have removed lot of regressive taxation regimes In our very first Budget, we will not resort to retrospective taxation. And if such issues do arise, they will have to be reviewed at the highest level. We have taken bold steps of not dragging the litigation in some cases.\n• In this budget, we allowed tax pass through for AIFs, rationalization of capital gains of REITs, modification in PE norms and deferring the implementation of GAAR for two years. We\n• We are trying to introduce an element of transparency and predictability in taxation system.\n• We have fast tracked approvals in industry and infrastructure. This includes environmental clearances, extending the industrial licenses, delicencing of defense items, and simplification of cross-border trade.\n• Within a very short time, we introduced GST Bill in Parliament\nSuch measures have helped in building up an enhanced investor confidence. The sentiments for private investment and inflow of foreign investments are positive. FDI inflows have gone up by 36% during April-2014 and January-2015 against the same period in the previous year;\nOur growth rate is about 7% -plus. Most of the international financial institutions including the World Bank, IMF, UNCTAD, OECD and others are predicting even faster growth and even better in the coming years. Moody's has recently upgraded the rating of India as \"positive\" on account of our concrete steps in various economic segments.\nIt is the effort of my government to encourage innovation, R \u0026 D and entrepreneurship in the country. In this year's budget, we have set up some innovative institutional mechanisms for that purpose.\nSimilarly, for infrastructure development, we have taken some far reaching steps.\n• First of all we have made an all-time high allocation for Roads and railways sectors.\n• In addition, we are setting up India Infrastructure Investment Fund\n• We have also allowed Tax free Bonds in the infrastructure sector including roads and railways.\nI wish all success to the Hannover Messe I also wish all participants good luck and progress. I also take this opportunity for more and more German companies to India I assure them all\nFriends! Indo-German partnership should and will flourish I hope Let us work together in mutual interest and for the welfare of the people of the two great countries.\nAt the end, it is my advice to you to come and feel the change in India's regulatory environment. Please do not do old perceptions\nThe symbol of lion for make in India We know that our biggest need today is to create jobs for our 65% population which is young. So, make in India is the need So, the lion can not be stopped. We are confident that our journey to make India a global manufacturing hub can not be stopped. We will and we will make corrections wherever it is needed\nOnce again I invite you to India I hope you are in India\nThank You very much"