"Share\n\nHer Excellency, Chancellor Dr. Angela Merkel, Vice Chancellor, Mr. Sigmar Gabriel Minister Dr. Johanna Wanka, Minister-President Mr. Stephan Weil Chairman of Deutsche Messe Dr. Wolfram von Fritsch\nIt is truly a great privilege for me to be the inauguration of the world's largest industrial fair.\nFirst, I want to thank the city of Hannover and Hannover Messe. They have been very generous in allowing us to unleash our lions in this city. The lions are a symbol of a new India They roar; but with a message of friendship and promise of partnership, from .25 billion people of India This is also the message of 15 states, 20 CEOs and 350 companies from India participating in this Fair.\nYour choice of India as a Partner Country reflects the new confidence in India. Our decision is to introduce our priority:\nWe want to accelerate economic growth\nWe want to build world class industry and infrastructure.\nWe want to transform our cities and villages; clean up our environment; and improve the quality of life\nOur presence as a partner We will naturally pursue our goals, skills and enterprise. But, we know that we will be more successful For people in India, Germany is a valued partner; And, an enduring symbol of technology and innovation, quality and productivity.\nEven more, India and Germany share a close and warm relationship. It goes back centuries, in the intellectual journey of German scholars. It has grown in depth and diversity from our birth as modern republics at the same time, Through the passage of history, Indians and Germans have formed a relationship of mutual fascination and goodwill.\nIt also includes a vibrant economic partnership that extends beyond the last century. Today, you can easily think of companies like Siemens as Indian! Nearly a hundred years ago, India's great poet and philosopher, Rabindranath Tagore said, that Germany has done more than any other country to open India to the Western World\nToday, I come to seek German partnership in my own mission to open up. India's seamless economic potential. To the industry of the world that has assembled here today, I say that we have no special bias for our host today! India is open and ready to embrace the world As I have travelled around the world, I have seen a new level of interest in building, investment and innovation in India. It mirrors the surge of our own people and industry; the new tide of expectation in our 800 million youth - for opportunities and progress And, if we want to fulfill the dreams of our youth, we must turn our industry into a manufacturing hub for the world and an engine for employment at home. And, we must equip our youth with the skills, and the demands of the globalized world.\nWhatever we want to do, from reaching the cutting edge of industry to meeting the most critical social need, we require investment and technology, industry and enterprise. That is why for me, Make in India is not a brand. Nor is it simply a slogan on a smart lion!\nIt is a new national movement. And, it covers the whole spectrum of our government, society and business. To this informed audience, I hardly need to change this: Our scale of transformation is vast; Therefore, the opportunities we offer are huge\nYou are also familiar with our demography and our demand The question that you ask is that we can turn this potential into a reality; and, our vision in action\nWhat you are looking for is just an attractive destination; but, also the assurance that it is open; And, it is easy to reach and work in You want the rules will not change frequently; and there was no surprises So, we have moved with speed, resolve and boldness to fulfill our pledge\nWe are making a stable economic environment that inspires confidence at home and abroad. We are pursuing strong fiscal discipline to do I know how much Chancellor Merkel will appreciate that point!\nWe have taken measures to improve our policies and open up to foreign direct investments in key areas like insurance, construction, defense and railways. Railway is the thread that binds India It will now be a fast track to India's transformation. And, what is a department of the government is now open to 100% Foreign Direct Investments\nWe are removing unnecessary regulations and simplifying our procedures. We are using digital technologies and endless wait. We will guide you and your projects. We have set up Invest India and country desks in it. We will nurture innovation and protect your intellectual property. There were institutions in India that felt beyond scrutiny. Well, they no longer are We are reforming institutions in ways that have not happened in decades. We are building a tax regime that is predictable, stable and competitive. We will now address the remaining uncertainties. The Goods and Services Tax is a long needed revolution that is becoming a reality.\nFor us, the world class infrastructure We have made a sharp increase in public investments. We have established a National Infrastructure and Investment Fund and a new institution for integrated development of this sector. We are offering attractive new financial instruments for long term funds. We seek to express our growth with the cleanest and most efficient use of energy.\nWe have set a target of 75 Giga Wats of new capacity for renewable and clean energy in the next seven years. It is a challenging goal-yes; but, important to pursue Good governance With transparency and speed, we have resumed long stalled projectsand allocation of resources. This is adding new wave to our economy. We are instituting a rational framework for acquisition of land without causing distress to farmers and other landowners We are making a predictable and transparent environment approval process. Above all, we know, as you do, that is the journey of travel in Delhi, but its success depends on state capitals and districts.\nSo, for the first time, we are working as Team India - a new partnership between the Center and the States. We speak of cooperative federalism, but also of competitive federalism, where states will excel by competing with each other for investments and jobs. We are also giving them more resources, so that you need I also see them as partners in our international engagement.\nBut, I am also aware that it is easy to change policies and write new laws than it is to change attitudes, culture and systems Every CEO who has tried a turnaround knows that. Our task is huge; It will not be completed overnight. But, I'm confident that it will And, we are moving firmly and clear in that direction. The wind of change is there And, it is gathering speed When IMF, the World Bank, credit rating agencies and expert speaks in a voice of optimism about India, we know that the wind is blowing in the right direction. And, it has made the fastest growing economy in the world\nSo, my message to you is this: You will find environment that is not only open but also welcome. We will make it easy to do business in India. And, we will be able to listen So, our industry is here to showcase their skills. There are many Indian examples of technical leadership in the world. But, we want a future in which excellence defines every sector and every industry in our country And, they are here to seek your partnership\nIt is not just about financial flows, new technology or products. It is also about learning from each other; about seeing possibilities in new ways India is a nation that is blessed with so much goodwill in the world. Everywhere, I see a strong desire for India to succeed\nThe progress of one sixth of humanity will be the best result for the world and our beautiful planet. It will be a world of more hope and opportunities; a world more confident of its success This is a time of political instability and economic challenges; And, threats of violence The humanity needs the support of international partnerships more than ever before.\nIndia will do its part - as an anchor of economic stability; an engine for growth; And, as a force of peace and stability in the world So, let me invite you to do business and make in India - for India and the world Let me invite you to our partner I also welcome you to enjoy our timeless traditions; the ceaseless celebration of diversity; and, the warm embrace of friendship.\nI wish the Fair all success When its shutters come down, I hope that many new doors would have opened.\nThank you once again."