"Share\n\nOn the evening of Sunday 12th April 2015 the Prime Minister unveiled a statue of Mahatma Gandhi in Hannover, Germany. The PM paid rich tributes to Gandhi ji and his ideals. A large number of people were present during the event.\nText of PM's address, after unveiling the bust of the Mahatma Gandhi, at Culemannstrasse, in Hannover, Germany\nMahatma Gandhi was certainly born in India. Mahatma Gandhi was born in the last century but he was not only of India, nor he was a century old. They were all over the world and they were age men and for ages, when humanity is discussed, then the life of Mahatma Gandhi, his words, his determination, will also guide mankind towards the time of crisis. The world is going through two crises. An Intimidation And Another Global Warming The whole world is concerned about it and if we look at Mahatma Gandhi, then both of these problems are solved in Mahatma Gandhi's thoughts, he meets his ideals. They used to love nature. They talked about nature as well as life and they were very aware of the environment.\nAt that time, there was no discussion of environment anywhere in the world, at that time he used to keep giving message through his life to attract people towards natural life. The world that is getting bloody today. The life of terrorism on human life is bent on destroying humanity. Then, the message of Mahatma Gandhi's non-violence, the message of Mahatma Gandhi's co-life and the message of 'Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam' of India's land, is a great way to save humanity from this crisis, and in that sense Mahatma Gandhi still stands for the entire human race. Ideal, motivational.\nI express my heartfelt gratitude to the public of the Mayor Stefan, Hanover, that the statue of Mahatma Gandhi is here today and I was told that the people here voted to decide that the statue of Mahatma Gandhi in our Hanover should be there.\nDemocratically, and hence the establishment of the statue of Mahatma Gandhi today is a matter of pride for the citizens of Hanover, which is a matter of pride for Germany and as I said, every Indian will be proud but everybody in the world who believes in humanity Today is a proud opportunity for a person. I once again congratulate Meyer Stefan a lot.\nMany of 780 Indian residents of Hannover seem to be unveiling of Gandhiji's statue by PM @narendramodi pic.twitter.com/ZLmSMYVwA8"