"\nHis Excellency President Hollande and all representatives of the present media,\nI am very happy to come here to France here today. I congratulate the President and the people of France for my welcome and respect. This is my first visit to Europe. But the first visit I am starting from France. It is a symbol of how deep the relationship between India and France is, how old, how important are they and what significance they have in the future. France is one of India's closest friends and trusted partners. As the President said, we are moving forward in a variety of common traditions. France is standing with India in both good times and challenging times. France has always been sensitive to India and on the international stage France has openly supported India and supported India. We are two big democracy countries. Our values ​​are alike Our interests are in many ways connected with each other, complementing each other. Our relations are broad, from the ground to the sky, from the ocean to the space and now we are also collaborating in the cyber sector. There is no such area in which there is no partnership between France and India. Today, Mary and President Olong have a very good conversation. Our defense sector is old and intensive. France has always been a trustworthy supplier in Defense Equipment and Technology. From Fighter Jet to Submarines, our cooperation has been great. Considering the critical operational need of Fighter Air Craft in India, I have talked about buying the President from 36 Rafael Jets Flyaway Condition at the earliest through the agreements of the two governments. We both have decided that it is given in a different process for India, as well as the President has fully supported Make In India in the Defense sector and Make In India As an Ambition you have praised it as a project but not as a project.\nCompanies of India and France will together create defense equipment in India, as well as develop defense technologies. In this context, today, my French defense companies have talked a lot in detail. Today we have taken the defense partnership of India and France to a new level. France is one of the main partners in India in the field of nuclear power. I am happy that after making Six Nuclear plants in Jaitapur, we have made progress. In order to reduce the cost of generating power, both parties have signed an agreement to conduct further technical competence and study. Especially, between India and A \u0026 T, there has been an agreement to create Forgings in India and I believe that this agreement is very important. This will be a great example of Make In India and India will get a new place in the field of Advanced Technology.\nIndia is very grateful for the solid support of France for membership in the International Export Control Regime. India and France have completed 50 years in space cooperation. I am glad that today President and I have issued a joint postal stamp of India and France. We have decided to cooperate with the team to build and promote the launch. After India's Mars mission, we will now cooperate in Planetary Exploration. Today, India is growing at the fastest pace in the world. France can contribute big in the development of India and it will also have economic benefits here. This morning I met the industry of France in the field of Infrastructure. President and I also meet with the CEO Forum. My belief has increased that French companies will increase investment in India. We will also cooperate in the renovation of India's Railway Infrastructure. We will move forward with France in other areas of our government like Skill Development, Renewable Energy, Energy Efficiency, Smart Cities, Digital India sectors. Science and technology is an important pillar of our relationship. There are two important agreements today. I am a Sustainable Development of the Ocean Economy that emphasizes Blue Revolution. In this context, today I welcome the agreement in the field of Marine Biology. I am very happy that France will go ahead with us in Urban Heritage and Tourism Promotion. All are familiar with France's capabilities in this area. I was very pleased to tell the President that the citizens of France would be allowed to come to India easily via Electronic Travel Authorization, which build relationships and also facilitate tourism. Today, we have concluded that after studying in both the countries, our students can do professional training in more time in the country. Thereby increasing their ability to get employment. There is a challenging environment in the world today. Many areas are in turmoil. Whichever is affected. There are many uncertain questions about stability in the changing world.\nMarine, cyber and space security are the cause of concern for all. Terror is spreading and taking new forms. This challenge is being faced in many areas and cities of the world. Whether it is Paris or Mumbai, India and France have suffered and understood each other's pain. This global challenge requires a comprehensive global strategy. Every country has this obligation to give complete support in the fight against terror, and do not let terror groups take refuge and punish the terrorists as soon as possible. India and France see these challenges in a sense in many ways and for this reason we will further strengthen our security cooperation. In this context, we will exchange views about the Indian Ocean. The Reforms of the UN Security Council is a joint responsibility for both of us. I am very grateful to France for support for the Security Council of India's Permanent Membership. I sincerely believe that in the Cop-21 conference in Paris at the end of this year, France will lead a new roadmap under the leadership of France. India and France together will further enhance their cooperation on topics related to climate change and energy. Finally, I thank the President again. I believe that our Strategic Partnership has reached a new height today which will contribute to brightening the future of the citizens of both countries and to achieve peace, security and prosperity in the world.\nThanks a lot."