"2\nAll the greatness present,\nAn experience in our country comes that many things keep moving around perception. And when you look closely at her, the picture looks a bit different. As if asking a common man, he will feel that \"Bhai, these big industries are big business houses, they get more employment.\" But if you look closely, the picture is something else, so much more The capital is engaged. So many tamasangam, air force, all these have come to see us.\nBut if you look closely, then finally we are in development. Employment is our priority, and the country like India with demographic dividend, where 65 percent of the population is below 35 years, that country should have the youth power at the center of its development policies. If they match equal, then we can cross new heights. As many of the big industries we have been listening to, only about 1.55 million people get jobs. Twenty-three hundred million people in the country employ jobs, these are the very big people for whom the discussion is in the world, half the newspapers filled with those who give it.\nBut the person doing small work in this country employs 5.7 million people, 12 million people. A lot of arrangements are in place to give employment to those two billion. But if we help a little bit for people who provide employment to 12 million people, then we can guess how big a difference can come. And this 50 million 75 lakhs are people working in this area, which are self-employed in a manner - tailor-made, potters, tire riggers, people repairing bicycles, carrying an auto rickshaw There are people working, vegetable sellers, poor and poor people. If there is more business in the whole of his business, then more than 11 lakh crores of rupees have not been capitalized. That is, only 11 lakh crore rupees have been capitalized, 5 million 75 lakh are leading it and 12 million people fill their stomach.\nWhen these things came up, it seemed that the opportunities for self-employment should be increased in the country. Understanding the power of the nation's economy, the people who are at the bottom, their power should be understood. And should provide opportunities for them and this currency has been conceived from this original thought. My own experience was working in it because it is not so easy to make judgments based on the figures of the financial world. But sometimes the experience comes in handy.\nWhen I was Chief Minister in Gujarat, I paid a little attention to the kite industry. Now in Gujarat, kite is celebrated as a big festival, and mostly, it is now the whole Environment Friendly Industry, Cottage Industry. And in the number of millions, poor Muslims are engaged in that work, more than 90 percent of kite making and junk work is being done by Muslims in Gujarat, but they used to do the same old things. If he wanted to make a kite of three colors, then he used to paint three colors and paste it and then made a kite. Now the world has changed, the color of the three colors can be printed, the time can be saved. So I worked for an institution in Chennai that just survey what's the problem, what the difficulties are, the experience came that little help should be given to a little bit of skill development, to teach a little packaging, How big changes can bring. I am happy to say today that the business of kite worth about 35 crores was a bit of help, that the industry of kite crossed 500 million.\nThen I became interested in it, then I started to innovate many things. Bamboo, bamboo they were brought from Assam Due to the fact that the bamboo lease which was needed in the kite did not have the bamboo in Gujarat then I caught these genetic engineering people. I said bamboo, why do not we have it here, the difference between two lumps is greater so that it will be our product of local bamboo. If the bamboo brings it out from the outside, then it is the arrangement of finance and then I called the advertising company. I said that sitting with kites can be an advertised job on the kite, can their earnings increase.\nI had given so much attention to small things and I had enjoyed so much pleasure in that work - I'm Talking about 2003-04 - I meant to say that there was little attention in the work which was neglected, of finance Arranged, he carried forward at a fast pace. All these strengths are far away. You see, every village will be two or four Muslim children, so it is innovative, they are blessed with God's blessings in technology. They immediately catch things. You give a lock to repair it, and they will give it the same lock the next day. In whose hands these traditional skills are. If we help such people and if they keep some mortgages, then they have nothing to keep in mortgage - except that their faith. His biggest capital is his faith. This is the capital of the poor man, Imaan. With that capital, the currency wants to add its capital, so that it becomes the key to success and we want to work in that direction.\nPotters, now electricity has reached the village. He also wants me to make mockery and make things. But if the electric motor is found then my work will get faster. But there is no money to buy Electric motor. They do not have too much time for the bank and there is no network. But today, big people of the bank are sitting here. Keep writing my words. After one year, the bank will place the queue for the currency, and they will say that 50 lakhs give us a client.\nBecause now, whatever the work done by the Bank Sector of Hindustan in the Prime Minister Jan-Dhan Yojana, the lesser I congratulate, the less I congratulate, the less I congratulate is as little. No one could think, because there was a thought in regard to the bank that banks can not go below this scope. So the people of the bank went to the village-village house-house during the summer days and went to the poor hut and tried to bring it to the main stream of the country's finance, and 14 million people of this country, 14 crore people bank account Linked to So if we have experienced these strengths, then this is a different step.\nToday, there is a chance on the one hand, the silver anniversary of SIDBI is SIDBI at the age of 25 and originally the SIDBI business started with this work, small people ... but faster because India is in the rhythmic way. If you progress, the expectations will not be fulfilled. We need to change that rhythm to jump. We need to increase the scope. We need to add more people to it and have a general human experience.\nYou see, wherever women go to self-help group in India, maybe such honesty may not be seen anywhere on the issue of money. If they have to deposit the money on 5th date, then on 1st date they come by depositing them. Saving is our nature, we need to give it more strength. Our traditional power is that.\nIn the field of business through the money bank, in the field of self-employment, the people living in the financial system on the lower section of the industry are our biggest client, our biggest target group. We want to focus on that. These 5 crore 75 lakhs are small traders ... and how much is their average debt? They have capital of 11 lakh crore all over India and there is no more amount in the whole country and if the average loan is withdrawn then the average loan of one unit is 17 thousand only. There are 17 thousand, that is, nothing. If he is given the power of debt of one lakh. If so much is added to it and it is 11 lakh crores, it can reach one crore. We can imagine GDP of the country's economy, such a huge force of strength from the bottom, which was ever untapped.\nAnd so when we came with the Prime Minister's Jan-Dhan Yojana, we had said, where the bank does not want to add it to the bank. Today, when we have come with the exchange, our mantra is not funding which is un-funded, we take the initiative to fund it.\nThis is such a system, in which the normal person will be introduced at the start of time, it is not possible because the experiences of the behaviors are very bad. He says that Bhai, I have to take money from the moneylenders only. 24 percent, 30 percent interest has to be paid, that is what I got used to. He will not believe that he can get a loan like this. We want to create a new belief that you are working for the country, be part of the development of the country, the country is ready to worry about you. This is the message I have to give.\nAnd through the concept of this currency, we want to move forward in the same direction. Value addition in agriculture sector in our country - such a big possibility. If one of his methods is developed then our farmer will never have to undergo crisis. And through this small entrepreneur, this complete network can be set up, which is the common farmer who generates normal work and work in value addition. And do the local level. No big arrangements are required. Himself his work will move forward.\nAnd we see the common man selling it, the poor get a little less money, but if there is a small unit, the pickle from the mango gets more money and packing the pickle in a nice bottle and more. If you get money and get ready with a bottle of bottle, then more money is available.\nThat means time has changed, branding, advertising has all been needed. We want to give strength to such small people. And if they get strength then the lower level of the economy of the country, the stronger the stronger, the economy of the country is going to benefit. And when I tell these figures, you may also be shocked that such a big thing is that twenty-five million people get jobs. And on whom no one sees, he fills up to 12 million people. How big is the difference. These 12 million people have the power to give 25 crore jobs. She has had potential. And there is no need to make big changes in any government system. Need some sensitivity, take a little understanding and want a little pro-active role.\nThe currency has been erected in a platform, with the platform, it has to be ... the arrangements of small financial arrangements have begun today. Micro finance is used in many places in the world. For that I would like to study the microfinancial success of the whole world. We have adopted the good things which are appropriate for us, we adopt him. And Hindustan is such a big country that whatever goes on in Nagaland is not necessary in Maharashtra. Diversity needs. And according to the variations, make your model according to local needs. Otherwise, we will sit in Delhi and say this for tailor and then say that if you get this, then you will not get a match. He is there to ask him that Bhai talks are what you need for? If we do this, then we can help a very large section of society under this section.\nIt is our endeavor to worry about the common man ... and you have to see one step of this government, you will see mobility. Otherwise, the announcement of plans in the country was generally considered to be a work and if you announce a new plan everyday, then the people who understand the country on the basis of the newspaper, they believe that the wow country has moved a lot forward. And after two-four years, see that the same remains the same. Our effort is to land the plans.\nThe Prime Minister Jan-Dhan Yojna looks straightforward. Initiative scheme - The biggest cash transfer work in the world Gas subsidies The gas subsidy cylinder of 130 million people, subsidy directly went into his bank account. That is, if you decide once that this work is to be completed and you see every work ... When we talked about the Prime Minister Jan-Dhan Yojana on 15th August, that work was completed within about a hundred hundred days.\nWhen we completed the work of initiatives within 100 days after the Pradhan Mantri Jan-Dhan Yojana, we started the initiative.\nAnd today, when the announcement was made inside the budget, not even 50 days, they put the plan in front of you today. And this will be functional and the result of this is that I say no more than a year. Within one year, our Established Banking System will go towards the model of currency. I say the claim because its strength is going to be recognized in its strength. They will set up a flexible banking system, a big office, no airconditioning is needed. Such Bare footed bankers can be prepared, which can also work for big banks on currency models.\nIn the coming days, it is possible to work more and more people by investing more and more people with ease, and the people who pass through the crisis, the poor man dies due to the hazard of interest. To save him and to give him the opportunity to work for his strength, he is working towards the opportunity, the way in which he is worried about the class in the country, the same is the concern of the farmer of the country. .\nFor some reason the farmer of the country is struggling with natural calamities. Last year, the rainfall decreased. Due to the low rainfall, the farmer was suffering from the same difficulty and this time the amount of untimely rain and wet fall. The destruction of the farmer so much has happened. We had sent ministers. Go to the fields and talk to the farmers and take stock of the situation. With all these ministers yesterday, I took the report in detail. What can we do to help these farmers. And I had said on the first day that to save the farmer from this trouble, to accompany him, bring him out of the crisis. This is the responsibility of the government, of the society, and it is necessary to worry about the farmer.\nNatural calamity has come before. लेकिन सरकार के जो parameter रहे हैं, उन parameters में आज के संकट में किसान को ज्यादा मदद नहीं मिल सकती है। और इसलिए ये संकट की व्यापकता इतनी है और उस समय है जबकि उसको फसल लेकर के बाजार में जाना था। एक प्रकार से उसके नोटों का बंडल ही जल गया, इस प्रकार से हम कह सकते हैं। इतना बड़ा उसका, उसका पूरा पसीना बहाया हुआ उसका, ये हालत हुई है। और इसलिए हमने insurance company को भी आदेश किया है कि बहुत ही proactive होकर के उनकी मदद की जाए। बैंकों को हमने आदेश किया है कि बैंक उनके जो कर्ज हैं, उनके संबंध में किस प्रकार से restructure करे ताकि उनको इस संकट से बाहर लाया जाए।\nसरकार की तरफ से भी एक बहुत बड़ा अहम निर्णय हम करने जा रहे हैं। अब तक खेत में 50 प्रतिशत से ज्यादा अगर नुकसान हुआ हो, तभी वो उस मदद पाने की list में आता है। 50 प्रतिशत से ज्यादा अगर नुकसान हुआ होगा तभी आपको मदद मिल सकती है। अगर 50 प्रतिशत से कम हुआ है तो मदद नहीं मिल सकती है। राज्यों के मुख्यमंत्रियों का भी ये एक सुझाव था कि साहब ये norms बदलना चाहिए। हमारे मंत्री अभी जाकर के आए, उन्होंने प्रत्यक्ष देखा, और ये सब देखने के बाद एक बहुत बड़ा हमने एक महत्वपूर्ण निर्णय किया है कि अब किसान के वो जो 50 प्रतिशत के नुकसान वाला दायरा था उसको बदलकर के 33 percent भी अगर नुकसान हुआ है तो भी वो किसान हकदार बनेगा।\nउसके कारण मुझे मालूम है बहुत बड़ा बोझ आने वाला है, बहुत बड़ा बोझ आने वाला है लेकिन किसान को 50 प्रतिशत वाले हिसाब में रखने से उसको ज्यादा लाभ नहीं मिलेगा। 33 percent जो कि कईयों की मांग थी, उसको हमने स्वीकार किया है।\nदूसरा विषय है उसको जो मुआवजा दिया जाता है। देश में आजादी के बाद सबसे बड़ा निर्णय पहली बार हुआ है 50 प्रतिशत को 33 प्रतिशत लाना। और दूसरा महत्वपूर्ण आजादी के बाद इतना बड़ा jump नहीं लगाया है, किसानों को मदद करने में हम इतना बड़ा jump इस बार लगा रहे हैं। और आज उसको जो मदद करने के सारे parameters हैं, उसको अब डेढ़ गुना कर दिया जाएगा। अगर उसको नुकसान में पहले 100 रुपया मिलता था, 150 मिलेगा, लाख मिलता था तो डेढ़ लाख मिलेगा, उसकी मदद डेढ़ गुना कर दी जाएगी।\nकभी हमारे यहां incremental होता था 5 percent, 2 percent, 50 प्रतिशत वृद्धि। और ये किसान को तत्काल मदद मिले। राज्यों ने सर्वे का काम किया है। भारत सरकार और राज्य सरकार मिलकर के उसको आगे बढ़ाएगी लेकिन मैं चाहता हूं हमारे देश के किसानों को जितनी मदद हो सके, उतनी मदद करने के लिए ये सरकार संकल्पबद्ध है। क्योंकि आर्थिक विकास की यात्रा में किसान का भी बहुत बड़ा योगदान है और हमारी जीवन नैया चलाने में भी किसान का बहुत बड़ा योगदान है। बैंक हो, insurance company हो, भारत सरकार हो, राज्य सरकार हो, हम सब मिलकर के किसान को इस संकट की घड़ी से हम बाहर लाएंगे। ऐसा मुझे पूरा विश्वास है।\nफिर एक बार मैं SIDBI की इस रजत जयंती वर्ष के प्रारंभ पर उनको मैं बहुत-बहुत शुभकामना देता हूं और SIDBI आने वाले दिनों में नए लक्ष्य को लेकर के और नई ऊंचाइयों को पार करने में सफल होगा, ऐसी मेरी शुभकामनाएं हैं।\nऔर मुद्रा platform प्रधानमंत्री मुद्रा योजना आने वाले दिनों में देश की आर्थिक, जो पक्की धरोहर है उसको जानदार बनाना, शानदार बनाने के काम में मुद्रा बहुत बड़ा role play करेगी। और ये पूंजी उसकी सफलत की कुंजी बने, ये मंत्र को हम चरितार्थ करेंगे। इसी एक शुभ आशय के साथ आज इस महत्वपूर्ण योजना को प्रारंभ करते हुए मुझे खुशी हो रही है, मेरी बहुत-बहुत शुभकामनाएं।\nThank you."