"\nBrothers and sisters,\nwelcome everybody. Two days big detail is going to be discussed. There will be many important points from this churning which will come in the form of policy or rule and hence, the more we will contribute to these discussions with a longer vision, then this two-day conference will be more meaningful. Today, I want to tell a few things about this subject. In relation to climate or in the beginning of the environment, some of us have been misinterpreted and we presented our talk to the world like this that it seemed as if we do not care about climate or care about environment. And the entire world, due to the mistake of our expression, it is sitting in the mind that the world is becoming environment conscious. The world is worried about the climate that it is a country that is putting a stingy and its root cause is not that we have played an important role in spoiling the environment. Our or our ancestors have had a role in ruining the climate. The reality is vomiting. We have grown up in that tradition, those people who grew up in the policies, rules and bonds, where nature is considered as God, where the worship of nature is considered worthwhile and where nature is protected by human sensibilities Has been added together. But for our sake, for some reason, we have been slaves for many years, because of our being a slave for centuries, our mentality remains that we are very much hesitant to keep our point in front of the world. It seems that the world has grown beyond this, we are people of the third country. Our point of joke will not be made. Unless there is a confidence within us, maybe we will not be able to deal properly on this subject.\nAnd I want to say with all the greatities present in this hall today that we are sensitive about the nature. The world can not raise question marks for us. Even today, per person, if anyone has contributed to carbon emission, then we are among the least contributors. But then there was a need that when there was a concern about climate issues in the world, India should have first led it. Because the maximum class in the world is that the worry of the environment continues in the direction of restriction, while we have been protecting the nature for centuries-have been the parties to move forward in the development of life. The world that is going through the crisis of the environment today is going through the crisis of Global Warming, he is still not getting the way how to save, because he is trying outward efforts. And I have said many times that in the root of the problem we are making all policy-rules to prevent carbon emissions, we are moving forward in the direction of a bond within the world, but we can change our life style. Not ready. In the root of the problem, mankind, which has gone on increasing consumption, and where there is a tradition of more consumption, there is loss of nature, where the nature of consumption is low, there is less exploitation of nature and hence As long as we will not focus on our life style and do not bring this one thing in the center of the world, we may, in spite of all the efforts, It's a country, it's hard to take off their hugs. We do not believe that we are people who grew up in these things. If those things have been forgotten again, then we should think about it. As an example, I say that nowadays there is a big discussion of Recycle in the world and it is believed that there is a new science in the world, a new system has come. Just look at how our nature of recycle, reuse and minimal usage is here. Just look at your old grandmother's life in her home. If the clothes in the house would have been old, then it would make cushion for laying out of the night. If he is no longer useful, then he will use that place for broom and paw. That is, how to recycle a thing. Everything in the house was an intuitive tradition for us. The nature was intuitive.\nI have seen people of Gujarat eat common accounts, but mango is also used to do so, reuse, maybe no one can not think out. To say it means that there is no borrowed item from outside. But we have not kept those things in that terminology diligently by the world. We have not been able to keep our things in the way of the world. We have the divine in the plant here. Jagadish Chandra Bose, through science, when in the laboratory proved that there is a creature in the plant, after that we decided to believe that the organism is not so, it is not so. Let us mention the Gita from the millennial years, mentioning the Mahabharata that we have come to believe that there is a divine in the plant. And so the worship of the plant, protection of the plant, all these things were taught to us from the traditions. But in the tense sequence, we only made attempts to find ourselves in some other way. Sometimes I think ... there is a large number of urban secretaries. How can we do things traditionally? I know the things I will say, those who are so called English people, they will ridicule him for 48 hours. Will make big jokes, you will also get big entertainment on TV, because there are people of different thinking. Like I tell you one thing. You will know from here who has lived with the village. There used to be a tradition in the village that when the full moon was there, grandmothers used to try to thread the thread inside the needle in the light of the moonlight, why was the eye sight, but that reflected the moonlight light.\nToday the new generation may be asked that you have seen the light of the moonlight? Did you get out of the full moon night? Now we have cut so much from nature.\nIf our urban body decides, make people believe that Bhai, we will not burn street light on the full moon night. Not only that, the festival will be celebrated throughout the city, people will compete in all the neighborhoods, throwing threads in the needle. There will be a community event, a joy festival will be done and the environment will also be protected. Things are shorter. Can you imagine how much energy will be left if all street lights are shut down using the moonlight night once in a month? How much energy will be left, how much emission will we reduce? But this will keep this thing according to the carbon emission, so that the so called themselves read and write, they say that the wooh is a new idea, but the same cheeses call our village grandmother that she will say the story of needle and thread They are old people, they have no understanding, the country has changed. Can we inspire our youth that Bhai Sunday, Sunday on cycle, suppose someone may also say that Modi has now become an agent of cycle companies. It is a big misfortune of the country. Do not know who decides everything. It is not necessary that everyone should buy the cycle, decide that Bhai will not use the instruments used in the energy one day a week. It's your compatibility.\nWe talk about the life style of society that we can contribute so much to the environment. Can easily give and have a little effort. I know the life of a teacher equally. When I was Chief Minister in Gujarat, I used to go back to those backward areas, in the month of June, where girl child education is very low. The temperature was 40-44 degrees in June and I lived in such a village for three days. As long as I was the Chief Minister, he used to do the work regularly. Once upon a beach I went to a village. There was not a single tree, not anywhere in the whole village, but the school that was in such a thick forest, like a small hut school, was such an environment. So was the surprise for me. I said that the man does not see a tree anywhere, but the school is big green, what is the reason. So there was a teacher, the initiative of that teacher was such a unique initiative, what did he do - from anywhere there was a bottle of bisleri, took it empty, brought the oil which was empty on the petrol pump and took it Lakhar gave one to the students, cleaned himself and told them that your mother, after washing the utensil in the kitchen, the kitchen water, fill this water in this bottle and come to school every day, bring it with you . And we also wondered why all the children come in hand to fill this dirty looking water. He gave every child a tree and had said that you have to pour water daily from this bottle. Fertilizer was also found. The result of an indefinite effort of a person was that the entire school campus was absolutely green. It is meant to say that we should do so, how much more can we induce those instinctive nature, for those things, which is the natural nature of society.\nOnce I went to Israel, in Israel, the least rain in the desert, how to use one drop of water, how to recycle the water, how to make sweet water with the water of the sea, quite a lot he did in all these subjects is. Has made considerable progress. Israel is still a desert where there is yet to be green and there is one absolute: they have made the desert greenish.\nWhen Ben Guerrian is considered as the Father of the Nation of Israel, when I went to Israel, I was convinced that I have to look at the place where he lives, to go to his tomb. So I requested the government there to be a long time ago. So I went, his house was in that deserted area, he lived there. And two things touched my mind - one was the picture of Mahatma Gandhi in his bedroom. They worshiped them before rising in the morning and the second feature was that the stone which was in their tomb was holding stones in a basket beside them. Normally, such a big leader will go there, then think that keep flowers there, bow down. But since they have to protect greenery, to protect greenery. Do not destroy flowering fruit, to raise this ritual, if you have to honor Ben Burien's tomb, then what was to be done, pick a stone from the basket and keep stones and what they used to do in the evening, gathering all the stones. Then put them in the basket. Now look at the types of arrangements that people develop for protection of the environment. We can promote this on the basis of how we brought these things to our lives, along with all the other things about ourselves. In our schools, how to create an environment in all of these nature protection, nature worship, nature conservation, how it becomes part of this natural human nature, we must go in that direction. And we are those people whose way Tateen Munjita This is the one whose life has been the ideal. Where Wayne Takten has been the ideal of Munjita, we do not have the right to exploit nature. We do not have the right to use more nature, abuse, than exploiting nature. The exploitation of nature in the world is the nature, tapping nature in India is a sacrament. Exploitation is not our nature and therefore the world is passing through this crisis, I still believe that India should lead the leadership to save the world in this area. And with that mind, India should make its plans. Guide us to the world climate change and we follow the world. Decide the world parameter and we follow the world, it is not so. Indeed, in this subject we have inherited it for thousands of years, we can lead the world, we can guide the world and India can pave way for it to save the world from this crisis. With this belief we can get out of this conference. We will serve the world a lot. With that vision, we bring changes that we have to make changes in our system for a reasonable time. Just like now we will not say this ..\nWell, some people have assumed that both the defense and development of the environment are a one-on-one face. This thinking is fundamental wrong. Both can be run side by side. Both can be stepped together simultaneously. There are some do's and don'ts, it must be followed. If he is adhering to us then we also guard him and some things for him, just as we did his auctioneering of coal mines, but along with the amount of money that was taken from him, he increased it four times for environmental protection. Because that's an important part. If necessary, he also made changes. We should keep trying how we try to make a difference in this way and if we try, we can get the results. Secondly, most confusions are very much spread here. Land Acquisition Bill is discussed now. In this Land Acquisition bill, there is no word about forest land, not in relation to the land of tribals, in relation to Forest Land. That land, its owner, is not within the purview of Land Acquisition Bill, but even then, those who do not understand these things. They keep running round the clock. They do not know, they do not even mention anything. An attempt is being made to confuse them. I think this kind of effort to mislead the society will be a small matter for you, you will have political principles, but due to the loss of the country due to it and should be stopped by spreading such illusions, there should be complete debate on the truth needed. There may be conspiracies in it, there is nothing bad in it, there is democracy. But the truth that you want to say is not in it, so keep telling lies. The country does not run and hence, especially the ministers and officials associated with the forest department are present here, especially in this regard, I want to mention that under the Land Acquisition Act, land of forest land, tribal land, संबंध नहीं है। उस दायरे में वो आता नहीं है, हम सबको मालूम है कि उसका एक अलग कानून है, वो अलग कानूनों से protected है। इस कानून का उसके साथ कोई संबंध नहीं है, लेकिन झूठ फैलाया जा रहा है और इसलिए मैं चाहूंगा कि कम से कम और ऐसे मित्रों से प्रार्थना करूंगा कि देशहित में कम से कम ऐसे झूठ को बढ़ावा देने में आप शिकार न हो जाएं यह मेरा आग्रह रहेगा।\nआज यह भी यहां बताया गया कि Tiger की संख्‍या बढ़ी है। करीब 40% वृद्धि हुई है। अच्‍छा लगता है सुनकर के वरना दुनिया में Tiger की संख्‍या कम होती जा रही है और दो-तिहाई संख्‍या हमारे पास ही है तो एक हमारा बहुत बड़ा गौरव है और यह गौरव मानवीय संस्‍कृति का भी द्योतक होता है। इन दोनों को जोड़कर हमें इस चीज का गौरव करना चाहिए। और विश्‍व को इस बात का परिचय होना चाहिए कि हम किस प्रकार की मानवीय संस्‍कृतियों को लेकर के जीते हैं कि जहां पर इतनी तेज गति से tiger की जनसंख्‍या का विकास हो रहा है। हमारे पूरब के इलाके में खासकर के हाथी को लेकर के रोज नई खबरें आती है। हा‍थी को लेकर के परेशानियां आती है। अभी मैं कोई एक science magazine पढ़ रहा था। बड़ी interesting चीज मैंने पहली बार पढ़ी, आप लोग तो शायद उसके जानकारी होगी। जब खेत में हाथियों का झुंड आ जाता है, तो बड़ी परेशानी रहती कैसे निकालना है, यह forest department के लोग भांति-भांति के सशत्र लेकर पहुंच जाते हैं और दो-दो दिन तक हो हल्‍ला हो जाता है। मैंने एक science magazine पढ़ा, कहीं पर लोगों ने प्रयोग किया है बड़ा ही Interesting प्रयोग लगा मुझे। वे अपने खेत के बाढ़ पर या पैड है उस पर Honey Bee को भी Developed करते हैं मधुमक्‍खी को रखते हैं और जब हाथी के झुंड आते हैं तो मधुमक्‍खी एक Special प्रकार की आवाज करती है और हाथी भाग जाता है। अब ये चीजे जो हैं कहीं न कहीं सफल हुई हैं आज भी शायद हमारे यहां हो सकता है कुछ इलाकों में करते भी होंगे। हमें इस प्रकार की व्‍यवस्‍थाओं को भी समझना होगा ताकि हमें हाथियों से संघर्ष करना पड़ सके। मानव और हाथी के बीच जो संघर्ष के जो समाचार आते हैं, उससे हम कैसे बचें। हम हाथी की भी देखभाल करें, अपने खेत की भी देखभाल कर सकें। अगर ऐसे सामान्‍य व्‍यवस्‍थाएं विकसित हो सकती है और अगर यह सत्‍य है तो मैंने कहीं पढ़ा था, लेकिन किसी प्रत्‍यक्ष मेरी किसान से बात हुई नहीं है लेकिन मैं कभी असम की तरफ जाऊंगा तो पूछूंगा सबसे बात करूंगा कि क्‍या है जानकारी लाने का प्रयास करूंगा मैं, लेकिन आपसे में उस दिशा में काम करने वाले जहां हाथी की जनसंख्‍या हैं और गांवों में कभी-कभी चली आती हैं तो उनके लिए शायद हो सकता है कि ये अगर इस प्रकार का प्रयोग हुआ हो तो यह काम आ सकता है। मेरा कहने का तात्‍पर्य यह है कि यह जगत सब समस्‍याओं से जुड़ा हुआ होगा हम ही पहली बार गुजर रहे हैं ऐसा थोड़ी है और हरेक ने अपने-अपने तरीके से उसके उपाय खोजे होंगे। उनको फिर से एक बार वैज्ञानिक तरीके से वैज्ञानिक तराजू से देखा जाए कि हम इन चीजों को कैसे फिर से एक बार प्रयोग में ला सकते हैं। थोड़ा उसे Modify करके उसे प्रयोग में ला सकते हैं। इन दिनों जब पर्यावरण की रक्षा की बात आती है, तो ज्‍यादातर कारखानें और ऊर्जा उसके आस-पास चर्चा रहती है। भारत उस अर्थ में ईश्‍वर की कृपा वाला राष्‍ट्र रहा है कि जिसके पास Maximum solar Radiation वाली संभावना वाला देश है। इसका हमें Maximum उपयोग कैसे करना है और इसलिए सरकार ने Initiative लिया है कि हम Solar Energy हम Wind Energy Biomass Energy उस पर कितना ज्‍यादा बल दें ताकि हम जो विश्‍व की चिंता है उसमें हम मशरूफ हों। लेकिन मजा देखिए, जो दुनिया Climate के लिए Lead करती है, दुनिया को पाठ पढ़ाती है अगर हम उनको कहें कि हम Nuclear Energy में आगे जाना चाहते हैं कि Nuclear Energy Environment protection का एक अच्‍छा रास्‍ता है और हम उनको जब कहते हैं कि Nuclear Energy के लिए आवश्‍यक Fuel दो तो मना कर देते हैं यानी हम दुनिया की इतनी बड़ी सेवा करना चाहते हैं लेकिन आप सेवा करों यह नियम पालन करो व‍ह नियम पालन करो। मैं दुनिया के सभी उस देशवासियों से यह निवेदन करना चाहूंगा कि भारत जैसा देश जिस प्रकार से नेतृत्‍व करने के लिए तैयार है Environment protection के लिए Civil Nuclear की तरफ हमारा बल है। हम Nuclear Energy पर आगे बढ़ने के लिए तैयार हैं, हम उसे करने के लिए तैयार हैं क्‍योंकि हमें पता है कि पर्यावरण की रक्षा में अच्‍छे सा अच्‍छा रास्‍तों में महत्‍वपूर्ण है। लेकिन वही लोग जो हमें Environment के लिए भाषण देते हैं वो Nuclear के लिए Fuel देने के लिए तैयार नहीं है। ये दो तराजू से दुनिया नहीं चल सकती है और इसलिए विश्‍व पर हमें भी यह दबाव पैदा करना पड़ेगा और मुझे विश्‍वास है कि आने वाले दिनों में यह दबाव दिखने वाला है, लोग अनुभव करेंगे हम Solar Energy की तरफ जा रहे हैं। Biomass की तरफ जा रहे हैं। लेकिन मैं Urban Bodies को कहना चाहूंगा अगर हम स्‍वच्‍छ भारत की चर्चा करें तो भी और अगर हम Environment की चर्चा करें तो भी। Waste Water \u0026 Solid waste Management की दिशा में हम लोंगों को आग्रहपूर्वक आगे बढ़ना चाहिए। Public Private Partnership Model को लेकर आगे बढ़ना चाहिए। Solid Waste Management की ओर हमने पूरा ध्‍यान देना चाहिए। और आज Waste Wealth का एक सबसे बड़ा Business है। Waste में से Wealth create करना एक बहुत बड़ा Entrepreneurship शुरू हुआ है। हम अपने Urban Bodies में इसको कैसे जोड़े। Urban Bodies में Waste में से Wealth को create पैदा करने में स्‍पेशल फोकस करें। और आप देखिए कि बहुत बड़ा बदलाव आ सकता है। एक छोटा सा प्रयोग है मैं Urban Bodies से आग्रह करूंगा मान लीजिए हम हिंदुस्‍तान में पांच सौ शहर पकड़े, जहां एक लाख से ज्‍यादा आबादी है और वहां पर हम तय करें अब देखिए आज जो शहर का कूड़ा-कचरा फेंकने के लिए जो जगह जमीन की जो जरूरत है हजारों एकड़ भूमि की जरूरत पड़ेगी अगर ये कचरों के ढेर करने हैं तो अब गमिल लाओंगे कहां से और अब जमीन नहीं हैं तो क्‍या मतलब है कि कूड़ा-कचरा पड़ा रहेगा क्‍या और इसलिए हमारे लिए उस पर Process करना Recycle करना Waste Management करना यह अनिवार्य हो गया है। अब वैज्ञानिक के तरीके उपलब्‍ध हैं अगर हम Urban Body Waste Water Treatment करें और पानी को ठीक करके अगर किसानों को वापिस दे वरना एक समय ऐसा आएगा शहर और गांव के बीच संघर्ष होगा पानी के लिए। गांव कहेगा कि मैं शहर को पानी नहीं देने दूंगा और शहर बिना पानी मरेगा। लेकिन जो अगर शहर पानी प्रयोग करता है उसको Recycle करके गांव को वापस दे देता है खेतों में तो यह संघर्ष की नौबत नहीं आएगी और एक प्रकार से Treated Water होगा तो Fertilizer की दृष्टि से उपयोग इस प्रकार से पानी को इस प्रकार से बनाकर दिया जा सकता है। और Urban Body जो होता है उसके गांव जो होते हैं वो ज्‍यादातर सब्‍जी की खेती करते हैं और वही सब्‍जी उनके शहर के अंदर बिकने के लिए आती हैं रोजमर्रा की उनकी आजीविका उससे चलती है। हम इन्‍हीं को Solid Waste Management करके Solid Waste में से हम मानव Fertilizer बनाएं और वो Fertilizer हम उनको दें तो Organic सब्‍जी शहर में आएगी कि नहीं आएगी। इतनी बड़ी मात्रा में अगर हम Fertilizer देते हैं शहरों के कूड़े-कचरों से बनाया हुआ तो अच्‍छी Quality का विपुल मात्रा में सब्‍जी शहर में आएगी तो सस्‍ती सब्‍जी मिलेगी या नहीं मिलेगी? सस्‍ती सब्‍जी गरीब से गरीब व्‍यक्ति खाएगा तो Nutrition के Problem का Solution होगा कि नहीं होगा। Vegetable Sufficient खाएगा तो Health सेक्‍टर का बजट कम होगा कि नहीं होगा। एक प्रयास कितने ओर चीजों पर इफैक्‍ट कर सकता है इसका अगर हम एक Integrated approach करें तो हम हमारे गांवों को भी बचा सकते हैं हमारे शहरों को भी बचा सकते हैं। कभी-कभार अज्ञान का भी कारण होता है। हमारे यहां देखा है कि फसल होने के बाद अब जैसे Cotton है Cotton लेने के बाद बाकी जो है उसको जला देते हैं। लेकिन उसी को अगर टुकड़े कर करके खेत में डाल दें तो वहीं चीज Nutrition के रूप में काम आती है Fertilizer के रूप में काम आती है। मैंने एक प्रयोग देखा था केले की खेती हमारे यहां हो रही थी तब केला उतारे के बाद केला देने की क्षमता जब कम हो जाती है तो वो जो पेड़ का हिस्‍सा होता है उसके टुकड़े कर कर के उन्‍हें जमीन में डाले और मैंने अनुभव किया कि उसके अंदर इतना Water Content होता है केले के Waste Part में कि 90 दिन तक आपको फसल को पानी नहीं देना पड़ता है वो उसी में से फसल पानी ले लेती है। अब हम थोड़ा सा इनका प्रयोग चीजों को सीखें, समझें। इसको अगर Popular करें तो हम पानी को भी बचा सकते हैं, फसल को भी बचा सकते हैं। हम चीजों को किस प्रकार से और इसके लिए बहुत बड़ा आधुनिक से आधुनिक बड़ा विज्ञान की जरूरत होती है ऐसा नहीं है। सहज समझ का विषय होता है इनको हम जितना आगे बढ़ाएंगे हम इन चीजों को कर सकते हैं। Urban Body आग्रहपूर्वक Public Private Partnership Model उसमें Vibrating Gap funding का भी रास्‍ता निकल सकता है। आप जो इन Waste खेतों के किसानों को उसके कारण अगर Chemical Fertilizer का उपयोग कम होता है तो Chemical Fertilizer में से जो सब्सिडी बचेगी मैं आपको विश्‍वास दिलाता हूं वो सब्सिडी जो बचेगी वो Vibrating Gap Funding के लिए शहरों को दे देंगे, यानी आपके देश में से Wealth Create होगी और जो आप खाद्य तैयार करोगे वो खाद्य उपयोग करने के कारण Chemical Fertilizer की सब्सिडी बचेगी वो आपको मिलेगी। आप गैस पैदा करोगे, गैस दोगो तो जितनी मात्रा में गैसा पैदा करोगे जो गैस सिलेंडर की जो सब्सिडी है वो बचेगी तो वो सब्सिडी हम आपको Transfer करेंगे आपके Vibrating Gap Funding में काम आएगी। हम एक उसका Finance का Model कर सकते हैं, लेकिन भारत सरकार, राज्‍य सरकार और Local Self Government ये तीनों मिल करके हम Environment को Priority देते हुए हमारे नगरों को स्‍वच्‍छ रखते हुए, वहां के कूड़े-कचरे को Waste में Wealth Create करें और बहुत Entrepreneur मिले हैं। उनको हम कैसे प्रयोग में हम करें मैंने एक जगह देखा है जहां पर Waste में से ईंटे बना रहे हैं और इतनी बढि़या ईंटे मजबूत बन रही हैं कि बहुत काम आ रही है। आपने देखा होगा पहले जहां पर बिजली के थर्मल प्‍लांट हुआ करते थे वहां पर बाहर कोयले की Ash जो होता है उसके ढेर लगे रहते थे। आज Recycle और Chemical में से ईंटे बनने के कारण सीमेंट में उपयोग आने के कारण वो निकलते ही Contract हो जाता है और दो-दो साल का Contract और निकलते ही हम उठाएंगे यानी कि जो किसी पर्यावरण को बिगाड़ने के लिए संकट था वो ही आज Property में Convert हो गया है हम थोड़ा इस दिशा में प्रयास करें, initiative लें, हम इसमें काफी मदद कर सकते हैं और मेरा सबसे आग्रह है कि हम इन चीजों को बल मानते हुए आने वाले दिशों में दो दिन जब आप चर्चा करेंगे। गंगा की सफाई उसके साथ जुड़ा हुआ है गंगा के किनारे पर रहने वाले, गंगा किनारे के गांव और शहर मैं उन संबंधित राज्‍य सरकारों से आग्रह करूंगा इसमें कोई Comprise मत कीजिए। बैंकों से हम आग्रह करेंगे उनको हम कम दर से लोन दें। लेकिन Approved Plant उनमें वो लगाये जाएं Sewerage Treatment plant किये जाएं। एक बार हमने सफलतापूर्वक ढाई हजार किलोमीटर लम्‍बी गंगा के अंदर जाने वाले प्रदूषण को रोक लिया पूरे दुनिया के सामने और पूरे हिंदुस्‍तान के सामने एक नया विश्‍वास पैदा कर सकता है कि हम सामान्‍य अपने तौर तरीकों से पर्यावरण की सुरक्षा कर सकते हैं। यह विश्‍वास पैदा करने के लिए Model की तरह इस काम को खड़ा करना और ये एक बार काम खड़ा हो गया तो और काम अपने आप खड़े हो जाएंगे। एक विश्‍वास पैदा करने की आवश्‍यकता है और किया जा सकता है। एक बार हम किसी चीज को हाथ लगाएं पीछे लग जाएं परिणाम मिल सकता है और मैं चाहूंगा ज्‍यादातर इन पांच राज्‍यों से कि जो गंगा के किनारे की उनकी जिम्‍मेवारी है छह हजार के करीब गांव है, एक सौ 18000 किलोमीटर हैं कोई आठ सौ के करीब Industries हैं जो Pollution के लिए तैयार है इसको Target करते हुए एक बार गंगा के किनारे पर हम तय कर ले वहां से कोई भी दूषित पानी या कूड़ा-कचरा गंगा में जाने नहीं देंगे। आप देखिए अपने आप में बदलाव शुरू हो जाएगा। फिर तो गंगा की अपनी ताकत भी है खुद को साफ रखने की। और वो हमने आगे निकल जाएगी लेकिन हम तय करे कि हम गंदा नहीं करेंगे तो गंगा को साफ करने के लिए तो हमें गंदा नहीं करना पड़ेगा गंगा अपना खुद कर सकती है। लेकिन हम गंदा न करे इतना तो संकल्‍प करना पड़ेगा और उस काम को ले करके आप जब यहां पर बैठे है जो गंगा किनारे को जो इस विभाग के मंत्री हैं वो विशेष रूप से आधा-पौना घंटा बैठ करके उन चीजों को कैसे आगे बढ़ाया जाए। विशेष रूप से चर्चा करें मेरा आग्रह रहेगा फिर एक बार मैं इस प्रयास का स्‍वागत करता हूं और मुझे विश्‍वास है कि इस सपने के साथ फिर एक बार मैं दोहराता हूं ये एक ऐसा विषय है जो हमारी बपौती है, हमारा डीएनए है। हमारे पूर्वजों ने इन मानव जाति की बहुत बड़ी सेवा की है। विश्‍व का नेतृत्‍व हमारे पास ही होना चाहिए Climate के मुद्दे पर ये मिजाज होना चाहिए। पूरे विश्‍व को हम दिखा सकते हैं कि यह हमारा विषय है। हमारी परंपरा है। दुनिया को हम सीखा सकते हैं इतनी ताकत के साथ हम यहां से निकले यही अपेक्षा के साथ बहुत-बहुत शुभकामनाएं धन्‍यवाद।"