"\nAll senior nobility\nI am quite familiar with this forum, but first I used to sit there, today I am sitting here and when I sat there, in a small room, I used to sit in a small forum between Chief Minister and State High Court Chief Justice, There was no media, not a camera, it was a matter of great openness and my image was such that I used to speak a little bit freely. But now maybe I will say so much or not, I do not know.\nBut also I believe that I used to speak very openly, yet I can say that I was afraid to say a lot. And maybe even the chief minister who is here also will have it in his mind, whether Bhai said or not, tell or tell our difficulties and I have experienced this situation and I am sitting here today, then I consider it necessary How do our interactions between these two mainstream movements, how openness arises, how to strengthen each other, the strength that can be strengthened for India's strengths. If we can fulfill these things, then we can serve a great deal of this country. I do not want to touch those topics which are generally discussed in this forum every time. Most of the topic in discussion is of Pendency. Sabarwal was a sahab, Lahotti Saheb, Balakrishna Saheb, in all these periods I have been listening to this. And it is still being discussed. If you see the speeches of the former Prime Ministers then it is also mentioned in this. The second topic is that everybody has expressed concern about corruption in every forum and so I do not want to add anything new to it and therefore I do not touch that topic. Everyone is worrying about this, but we have not been able to find the solution yet, maybe after the meeting of today's forum, this churn may also be possible through all the things.\nBut it always comes to my mind that we are all one kind of human being, we are playing different responsibilities. Everyone has got different things according to their merit, ability and conviction. But those who are in the jurisdiction are not like that. They have come from among the people, but have come from among the people like us, but God has liked them for Divine work. The work you have is a Divine work. Your work is different from whatever work you have, which God wants to do through you, and that is why we have the work that is done by the people and the work that is done for the hundred and fifty million people of the country. And therefore your responsibilities are very much and the country has expectations from you too and the common citizens have the highest expectations because he feels that I can not reach God, but there is a place where I will have something. Where I can not reach God for him, then he looks at you, and how much bigger divine work is with you in that sense and I am sure that wherever you are sitting, remembering the same thing every moment there And it has not been taught in the quotation books to the general citizen. Because of his behavior, due to his behavior, this institution has created this belief in the mind of ordinary human being due to his character. This belief is not an injected belief. It has evolve and when it has evolve faith, then its strength is also very much and therefore I believe that how to make this great tradition more exposed and how to make it more vibrant, stunning, it is our obligation.\nRight now Dattu Saheb was calling for Quality Man Power. Today, we are fortunate that today we have pride for the man power in this field. But we also have the obligation of how Manpower in the coming generations will come in this area and therefore our concerns are with Infrastructure, as much as worrying in the Digital Form, the form of modern technology is to cover this system, more than our It is a matter of great concern that we will have to do our mechanism of Human Resource Development for this field to prepare for future generations. How to Get the Best-Best Breed, Law Faculty Best-to-Breed, How to Be Judiciary And therefore the institutions responsible for our work are the best responsibilities of state governments that should be our Law Collages, Law Universities, how to prepare them, keeping in mind the future and the future. And in the larger quantity we will strengthen this area, many of our needs will be met.\nWhen I was the Chief Minister, I used to sit here. Once there was a subject in our meeting, Pendency was being discussed. The report that a High Court Judge did was at least surprising to me, he said, \"Our court runs for two to three days a week and it runs, it also runs for two to three hours, so say we can do Pendency from Can. So I had such a mind that what is the correct thing is this? So do not say, there is no reason but in the building we sit, it is not light and electricity does not come. You can imagine we can ask the judiciary again and again why Bhai is Pendency but if someone thinks that the power is not available, then how long will the court run? How many days will run, how justice will increase And so all responsibilities are not one-sided. And once again, it also shows why there is no electricity in it, then if someone had gone to a Five Star activist court then he had brought the stay, then there is no denying that pillar. Now tell me where does the matter stop and stop? And so, with a comprehensive Integrated approach, we will set a goal in the right direction, together with all the units, so it is not difficult to overcome these things. Digital India is a very big mission of the Indian government. It also says in my experience in Digital India as soon as we use technology in our judicial system, our facility will increase, our Qualitative change will come, in our work more needs are Qualitative change. When there was a time when searching for reference then 10 books had to be put in hand. Today, find any reference, just go to google guru. In two minutes, Guru ji comes to live. This facility is large, the faster the convenience of this facility, we have everything in our judicial system, all the old judges, etc.\nYesterday I had met our Chandrakupa Saheb and I was telling me that no 50 crore pages have already been digital in Allahabad. There is a lot of work, a lot of work has happened. And I believe that as fast as possible, there is a lot of work to bring in the efficiency of this field in the coming days. Occasionally it seems that the country needs a strong nominee or a competent judiciary. Powerful Judiciary or Perfect Judiciary. I would like to discuss all the noblemen sitting in this forum in their respective circles. We are going to be Powerful as fast as we are becoming powerful and not to be powerful. But as fast as the perfect has become compulsory. Our Judiciary Be Powerful, Our Judiciary Perfect We are also empowered, we are also capable, and this requirement is because this is a place for the common man. I am from that community, I consider myself fortunate to be from that community. Fortunately, therefore, I believe that we have rounded our scrutiny round the clock. Every moment, we put the left foot on the right foot, our community is scrutiny, and the time has changed so much that the news which did not take place in Gossip Column ten years ago, has become a breaking news today. There has been such a difference, when Ever since the editor was given fifty times in place in Gossip Column, whether it should be kept in Gossip Column or not, it has become a Breaking News today. And we have twenty-four hours of his scrutiny. I am proud of that community, it is Scrutiny, I am proud of him. And due to this, and every five years, people have to go account and also account. The institution that we come from is very bad. But in spite of this, I can say today that the community, the system that governs the rulers, has given birth to so many institutes to bring their bondage on them. They themselves have made laws. Election Commissions Her freedom puts us in bondage, but we have done it. RTI puts on us, we have done it. Not only that, we are moving forward towards the Lokpal. We are putting restrictions on us, we are doing, because we want the person to be so good, if the institutional network is not good, then there is a possibility of a decline.\nAnd I always believe that parents keep money in Lock and Key inside the house. What the thief to avoid? There is a very small thing for Lock and Key thief. He can carry the entire vault and take it. Parents keep Lock and Key in the house so that the child's habit is not bad. Therefore, this system develops. We also need to. We are lucky that the world sees us, scolds us, criticizes us, winks our skin. You do not have that luck. You get to hear criticism or not, no one who has been convicted, has been hanged on the gallows. He also comes out and gives a statement that I believe in justice, I will get justice above. That is the credibility of this institution. And when criticism is impossible, then these inbuilt demands for time to develop our own self-examination arrangements. We develop such type of Inbuilt Dynamic Mechanism. And in which there should not be any interference of the government. Politicians should not be at all. People of the same faculty, what should we do that today if we will not develop these systems. We will not develop that DNA inherent, then the faith which has evolve will be minor injuries. I believe the country will suffer a great deal. We will make this mistake if people who make the government, then there is a place to repair the mistake and that place is yours. But if you make a mistake, then there is nothing left except this. That's why we do not have the right to make a mistake, but even then if we make a mistake then there is a place where reform can be done. Will survive, but if you make a mistake then nothing will survive.\nAnd in this sense, I look at you as a Divine Power and look at that Divine Power. Then we all agree together, we will not be criticized, we have to criticize ourselves repeatedly and It's a tough job, I know it's a tough job. Within the purview of the Constitution, it is not difficult to give justice in the realm of rules, because for two minutes you have to work milk and milk water. You have a power, you have a third eye, you can see things Because your development has happened, but there is great difficulty to find between Perception and Realty. Sometimes we have to think that somewhere, there are five Star activists, so do not drive our entire Judiciary. Is not the attempt to drive the judiciary by spreading a type of hoard? Is not it difficult to give justice within the purview of the Constitution? But in the environment of perception it is very difficult to give justice, and therefore 15 years from now, 20 years ago, the happiness which was enjoyed for the judiciary was not enjoyable today. He is afraid that if it is going out and I will do it, then what will happen? This atmosphere has been created and then going to the Judiciary to get more courage will all have to make efforts. Whether it is a people sitting in the government, even if there are people sitting in the media, even if there is a tribe of the Five Star activist. If we do not give strength to this institute, then we will shoot at our feet. And so I believe that these things need change and I believe that we can make changes.\nAs far as Infrastructure is concerned, I am a party to good systems. Poverty is a virtue I do not belong to this philosophy. Otherwise, we have been reading this for centuries that a poor poor Brahmin starts from there, that there was torn clothes and he is all the ascetic and he is not fashionable to believe. The time has changed. Why should not be the best best infrastructure. Why should not the systems be best exemplified and efforts should be made in that direction. I assure you that this is a priority in this government. This time around, about nine thousand seven hundred forty nine crore Rupees 14th Finance Commission has been directly given to the states directly by the Earmark for the judiciary and I would urge the states not to go anywhere else, judiciary work Go in So the small problems you have to solve yourself will be solved.\nAnd I hope that the Chief Minister of the state will pay attention to this matter, give personal attention and worry about how it can happen. We are finally going to have some things, which means that I have seen successful use of the Lok Adalat in Gujarat where I have lived. And once I had calculated that justice was done in 35 paise. Thirty Five Paisa, I talked to some Judges after eating dinner at night and then I felt that I would verify once again. So I questioned only a little bit at night and I came to know that 35 paisa is not available now, but for an average of Rs 50-55, justice is available, it is spent. I think this system is very powerful in a country like India. We will see that there is so much Pendency, but the Below Poverty Line family will be the case minimum. This is the case of big people, because where the little people get the lawyer, where will the poor be? And therefore, the place for the poor is in these smallest arrangements. We should strengthen these public court type arrangements, expand it, the judiciary's current people, the retired people of the judiciary, extend such a framework, if the poor and I see that even bigger cases are being solved by sitting . Maybe we will be concerned about this work if we do this.\nOne topic was probably getting me from Lahoti Saheb. ऐसे ही बातों-बातों में उन्‍होंने चिंता व्‍यक्‍त की थी। इन दिनों जो परिवार टूट रहे हैं, तेजी से परिवार टूट रहे हैं बड़ी वो चिंता व्यक्त कर रहे थे, और यह दौर बढ़ता चला रहा है। हो सकता है कि इस प्रकार की संवाद वाले Institution जितनी family Court develop होगी, भारत जैसे देश में परिवार टूटना हमारे लिए एक बहुत बड़ा कष्‍टदायक होगा। हम उस वक्‍त Focus करके सामाजिक व्‍यवस्‍थाओं को बचाने में कैसे काम कर सकते हैं। इस पर हम संवदेनाओं को लाकर के उन चिंताओं को कैसे बढ़ा सकते हैं। अगर गरीब को न्‍याय देने के लिए अगर लोक अदालत है, तो परिवार को न्‍याय देने के लिए family अदालत है। खासकर के नारीशक्ति के कल्‍याण के लिए यह वयस्‍थाएं बहुत ताकतवर बनी है। उसको हम और अधिक आधुनिक कैसे बनाएं, आधुनिक Speedy कैसे बनाए और उसमें एक विश्‍वास बना हुआ है। वहां जाने वाले व्‍यक्ति को लगता है कि ठीक है भई चलो दो कदम मैं चला दो कदम तुम चलो रास्‍ता निकल गया छोड़ो अब नहीं जाना है अब अपना काम करो। यह मूड बन रहा है। और मैं मानता हूं इस मूड का और अधिक सार्थक बनने का हमें प्रयास करना चाहिए और वो प्रयास हम करेंगे, तो अवश्‍य ही लाभ होगा ऐसा मुझे लगता है।\nसरकार में भी व्‍यवस्‍थाएं विकसित हुई कि भई हर चीज court में चली जाती है चलो inbuilt कोई ही Arrangement करे उसमें से Tribunals पैदा हुई। Tribunals को भी ज्‍यादातर lead करते हैं निवृत Judge, लेकिन मैंने आकर के देखा है कि मैं बहुत निराश हो गया हूँ। शायद आज भारत सरकार में, मुझे लगता है करीब-करीब हम सौ tribunals की ओर पहुंच रहे हैं और एक-एक Ministry की तीन-तीन-चार-चार tribunals बन गई हैं। और Tribunals का disposal तो और चिंताजनक है। मैं चाहूंगा कि Supreme Court के वरिष्‍ठजन बैठें, मंथन करें कि भई यह Tribunal नाम की व्‍यवस्‍था से सचमुच में प्रक्रियाएं तेज हो रही है, नहीं हो रही है, न्‍याय मिल रहा ,है नहीं मिल रहा है कि और एक Barrier खड़ा हो रहा है। एक बार देखा जाए कि इतनी Tribunal की जरूरत है या नहीं है, क्‍योंकि फिर Tribunal है तो बाकी तो Budget वहीं चला जाता है। शायद Tribunal का Budget Court को चला जाए तो Court की ताकत बढ़ जाएगी, इतना Budget Tribunal में जा रहा है। हो सकता है कि हम इन चीजों को एक बार देखना चाहिए और तू-तू, मैं-मैं के रूप में नहीं है। अपनेपन के भाव से, साथ मिलकर करने के भाव से इसको एक बार देखने की आवश्‍यकता है। \nयहां पर काफी चीजों का उल्‍लेख हुआ है इसलिए मैं इन सारी बातों में नहीं जाता हूं, लेकिन हम जिस महान परंपरा में पले-बढ़े हैं उन महान परंपरा में कानून और न्‍याय इन दो मुख्‍यधाराओं को कभी compromise नहीं कर सकते वरना समाज और व्‍यवस्‍था चल नहीं सकती। कानून और न्‍याय दोनों की ओर जाना है, लेकिन अब जगत बदलता जा रहा है। पहले के समय में जितने हम चीजों को Handle करते थे, उससे रूप बदल गए। अब criminal offenses उसकी तुलना में economic offenses बढ़ रहे हैं। अब हमारी Expertise उस ओर जाए ऐसी आवश्‍यकता हो गई है। दुनिया Cyber crime में आ रही है। cyber crime की कोई सीमा नहीं है, वे Global Community है। हमारे अपने कानूनों को हमने उस प्रकार से नये विधा के साथ तैयार करना पड़ेगा। हमारे लोगों को भी उस प्रकार से तैयार करना पड़ेगा। हमने कभी सोचा भी नहीं होगा आने वाले दिनों में Maritime law एक बहुत बड़ा कारण बनने वाला है। Maritime Security को लेकर के Issue बनने वाले हैं। यानी बदलते हुए युग में उन नए-नए challenges और मैं मानता हूं कि शायद 20-25 साल के बाद Space Related Law के बीच स्थिति पैदा हो जाएगी। इस Space पर किसका कब्‍जा है, किसका नहीं। International court के दायरे में आ जाएगा यह दिन आने वाले हैं। इसका मतलब अपने आप को हमें सजग करना होगा। आज कानूनी न्‍याय प्रक्रिया के अंदर Forensic Science एक बहुत बड़ा Role play कर सकता है। लेकिन हमारे पास न Bar के पास न Bench के पास, उसका scientific knowledge अभी तक.. क्‍योंकि उस पीढ़ी के पास यह था नहीं। \nमैंने एक प्रयास ज‍ब गुजरात में था तो हमने गुजरात में एक Forensic Science university बनाई थी और दुनिया में एकमात्र Forensic Science university है और वो गुजरात में है। बाकी जगह पर colleges भी है Forensic Science के Department हुआ करते हैं, तो Forensic Science University में Judiciary के लोगों को हमने replace की थी और गुजरात high court के judges ने मेरी मदद की थी और करीब-करीब सभी district judges का Forensic Science University का दो-दो दिन का courses हुआ था। क्‍योंकि यह एक ऐसा विज्ञान develop हो रहा है जो आने वाले दिनों में judicial process के अंदर एक बहुत बड़ा महत्‍वपूर्ण role play करने वाला है। हम उस बात में कैसे ध्‍यान दें। हम उसमें Forensic Science की जानकारियों के लिए क्‍या व्‍यवस्‍था करें, तब जाकर के आने वाले दिनों में न्‍याय की प्रक्रिया में Technology और विज्ञान का भी role किस प्रकार से उपयोग में हो उस पर हमें सोचने की आवश्‍यकता बनने वाली है। हमारी law universities के student के लिए भी यह कैसे हो। \nएक और समस्‍या जो हम अनुभव कर रहे हैं, जनता ने हमको चुनकर के भेजा है कानून बनाने के लिए लेकिन हमारा काफी समय और कामों में जाता है। संसद में हम क्‍या करते हैं आपका मालूम है और अनुभव यह आ रहा है कि जो Act के drafts, drafting है कानून का यह सारी pendency के मूड में एक वो भी कारण है कि कानून बनाने में, उसकी शब्‍द रचना में कुछ न कुछ ऐसी कमी रह जाती है कि ultimately वो न्‍यायपालिका के पास जाकर उसके interpretation में सालों लग जाते हैं और तब तक कई निर्णय हो जाते हैं फिर बेकार हो जाते हैं। जब तक हमारी law universities वगैरह में drafting के लिए हम proper manpower तैयार नहीं करेंगे और कानून बनाते समय ही हम इस पर care नहीं करेंगे तो हो सकता है कि समयाएं हमारी बढ़ती जाएगी। कोई हम ऋषिमुनि तो है नहीं कि एकदम से Zero defect वाला कानून बना पाएंगे। लेकिन minimum grey area हो वो दिशा में तो प्रयास करे। यह हमारे सामने बहुत बड़ा challenge है। और मैंने अनुभव किया है कि इस प्रकार का Man Power हमें उपलब्‍ध नहीं होता है। आने वाले दिनों में इस काम को कैसे किया जाए। यह एक आवश्‍यक काम है जिसको कभी न कभी हमकों करना होगा। और विशेषकर के वो हमारी जिम्‍मेदारी है हम अगर इस काम को ठीक तरह से करेंगे तो हो सकता है कि आने वाले दिनों में कानून जितना अच्‍छा होगा और संविधान के सारी मर्यादाओं के पालन करते हुए बनेगा तो मैं नहीं मानता हूं कि कानून के कारण समस्‍याएं पैदा हुई। \nदूसरा हमारे देश में यह भी विषय आ गया कि भई हर चीज के लिए कानून बनाओ। मैं मानता हूं कि संविधान अपने आप में हर काम करने के लिए बहुत सारी हमारी व्‍यवस्‍थाएं देता है, लेकिन एक बन गया है और मेरे मन में विचार आया है कि मैं कानूनों को खत्‍म करता चलू। इतना बोझ बन गया है जी, मैंने एक कमिटी बनाई है। उस कमिटी में मेरी कोशिश है कि तुम कानून खत्‍म करो अभी अभी मैंने सात सौ कानून खत्‍म करने के लिए तो कैबिनेट से approve ले लिया। लेकिन अभी-अभी मेरे सामने नजर में 1700 कानून आए। one thousand seven hundred और मेरा एक सपना था मैं per day एक कानून खत्‍म करूं। 5 साल के मेरे Tenure में per day एक कानून खत्‍म करने का यह सपना मैं पूरा करूंगा। यह कानूनों के जंजाल में हमारा पूरा न्‍याय तंत्र फंसा पड़ा है और यह जिम्‍मेवारी executives की है कि वो इसको ठीक से चिंता करे और मैं तो राज्‍यों को भी कहूंगा आपके यहां भी एक छोटी-छोटी टीम बैठाकर के जितने बेफिजूल कानून है उसको निकालिए। जितना सरलीकरण हम लाएंगे सामान्‍य मानव को खुद को समझ आएगा कि यह हो सकता है या नहीं हो सकता है और व्‍यक्ति को अगर समझ आता है तो सामान्‍य नागरिक कानून तोड़ने के स्‍वभाव का नहीं होता है। वो कानून के साथ चलने के लिए स्‍वभाव का होता है। लेकिन उसको कानून के साथ चलने के लिए सुविधा पैदा करना यह हम सबका दायित्‍व है। उन दायित्‍वों को हम पूरा करेंगे तो हो सकता है जो बोझिल माहौल है, उस बोझिल माहौल में से हम काफी एक मुक्ति का सांस ले सकते हैं और यह मुक्ति का सांस भी एक नई आस्‍था को उजागर कर सकता है, नई आस्‍था को जन्‍म दे सकता है और उस दिशा में हमारा प्रयास रहे। यही मेरे मन में कुछ विचार है। हम आने वाले दिशा में उसको करे। \nजहां तक राजनीतिक जीवन में बेठे हैं मेरे जैसे लोग हैं, चाहे हम शासन व्‍यवस्‍था में हो, हमारे संविधान ने तो हमारे लिए मर्यादाएं तय की है, लेकिन हमारे शास्‍त्रों ने भी हमारे लिए मर्यादाएं तय की हैं। अगर हम कहें, अगर हमारे उपनिषद की तरफ नजर करे तो हमारी उपनिषद कहती है शस्‍त्रय शत्रम यत: धर्म: ,शस्‍त्रय शत्रम यत: धर्मस्‍य, यानी कानून नरेशों का भी सम्राट होता है। राजा का भी राजा होता है। \nऔर इसलिए आज अगर शासन में बैठा हुआ कितना ही ओजस्‍वी तेजस्‍वी व्‍यक्ति क्‍यों न हो लेकिन कानून उससे बड़ा होता है। इस मूलमंत्र को लेकर के चलना। चाहे हम किसी पद पर बैठे हो तो भी हमारी जिम्‍मेवारी बनती है और उसको हमें करना पड़ेगा और महाभारत के अंदर भीष्म ने एक बात कही है भीष्म ने वो बात कही है वो शायद समाज जीवन को चलाने के लिए उसकी अपनी एक ताकत है और महाभारत में भीष्म इस बात का उल्‍लेख करते हुए कहते हैं, धर्मन: प्रजा: सर्वा: रक्षन्ति स्‍म: परस्‍परम्। कानून के प्रति सम्‍मान की भावना रखना ही वो मुख्‍य शक्ति है जो समाज को एकजुट बनाए रखती है। देश की एकता और अखंडता के लिए यह मूल मंत्र जो हमें सहस्‍त्र वर्षों से प्राप्‍त हुए हैं, उन संस्कारों को लेकर के हम चलेंगे। हम बहुत कुछ कर सकते हैं। \nमैं फिर एक बार...आप सबने मुझे आकर के आप सबसे बात करने का अवसर दिया मैं आपका आभारी हूं। मुझे विश्‍वास है, मैं कागजी कार्रवाई थोड़ी कम करने वाला इंसान हूं, ज्‍यादा पढ़ा-लिखा नहीं हूं तो जो मन में आया वो बोला है और मैं नहीं चाहूंगा कि आप उसको judicial तराजू से देखें, एक सामान्‍य नागरिक के मन के भाव है उसी प्रकार से देखना और उसमें से कुछ अच्‍छा है तो उसको आगे बढ़ाना नहीं है, तो मुझे वापस करना। \nThanks a lot."