"\nAll the greatness of finance world,\nWe have met people today on the 80-year journey of the Reserve Bank. Our country has 80 years of special importance. According to that, opportunities are remembered for 25 years, 50 years, 75 years, 100 years in the world, but perhaps India is the only country in which 80 years is also considered as a major hike and the reason for this is that our Here it is considered as Sahastra-Darshan, Chandra-Darshan. When 80 years are there, the opportunity to see the full moon one thousand times, the Reserve Bank has received the blessings of the coolness of one thousand full moon and in that sense this opportunity has a special significance.\nI am not a human being of this world, so the speech that you heard now is not the subject of my software. This is all out of the software God has given me. But I would say that after becoming a Prime Minister all these things have to be understood, they have to learn. Once every two months, I have to meet Raghuram and I see that he comes with 3 or 4 slides and explains me so perfectly that he might have been the best teacher too. Nobody has to question me I absolutely understand that yes ... they want to say this, and this is what it means, this is the result of it and it means that there may be very similarity between the government and the thinking of the RBI, then it would have been possible. And I believe this is very necessary and in that matter I express my satisfaction as a representative of a government. I am very much congratulating Raghuram ji and his whole team, who is playing his role, and in the 80-year journey, many people who have contributed so far from Mr. Deshmukh and his team, many people Will the young man prepare for this work? Then this institute reaches this height.\nIt will also be molded in Global Perspective, here too there will be a lot of hardship to maintain the relevance of RBI in the changed global environment. Those who have given leadership at this time, they all are also congratulations and I extend my heart to the people who have extended this work to me so far. I congratulate him very much and express his gratitude on behalf of the countrymen. Rich or wealthy person also gives time to his family doctor or not, but surely he gives time to the banker. Most of them will be lunch-dinner, most of them will be with the banker. Wherever the rich also need to go, the place to ask is the bank, I have come here to ask for the same today and I have come here to ask for my family and my family, among whom were born, whose Growing up in the middle, they are poor families. I grew up among the poor. My childhood is there. I have seen those things in my life and now I have become Prime Minister, my family has become so elaborate that in a way, all the poor, one type of marginal farmer living below Below poverty line, in a way, the oppressed, oppressed, exploited , Deprived, tribal, all these are my family members and as a representative of that family, today I have come to demand this money from the world and when you are celebrating 80 years of course, I will not do it, I have full faith and I congratulate all the policymakers of the RBI, they have liked financial inclusion as their subject and are celebrating this occasion at the age of 80 years. This means when you will be 100 years old and when the centenary celebrates, where the century has reached this financial inclusion, I understand that if I set the target also, within 20 years, the banking system of India will go to the door of the poor A blueprint of the type is working, and when you think of a stay of 20 years, I will give you a suggestion.\n2019 is being 150 years of Mahatma Gandhi 2022 Independence of the country is going to be 75 years. 2025 you are 90 and 2035 will be your 100. Assuming these four important hurdles, we can prepare a map that, to go into financial inclusion, this will be our target group, this will be our road map and we will continue to be Achieve and Bank of the Corporative Sector across India. Or micro-finance institutions or our nationalized banks or our RBI is themselves, we all think in one direction, can it be?\nIf the Prime Minister Jan-Dhan Yojana was not successful, I do not believe that the people associated with the financial system had an idea of ​​such power. This is a very neglected class. Even after so many years of independence, more than 50 percent of the people, the backbone of the economy, the banking system had not even reached its doors. I want to congratulate every small and marginalized person of all the banks today that they have done their work, have done hard work, and the country has achieved Achieve today. This is not a small achievement. After India's independence, connecting poor people with the economic mainstream of the country, it is a huge achievement in itself. He has created a new faith in the financial world and has indicated a new direction.\nOn the other hand, we will not change our view of looking towards the poor. Not on the individual level, as a society's economic structure, we will probably take a project, take the results, but until it becomes conviction, Article of faith is not created, we can not possibly get the result and become the Article of faith Behind or behind conviction, there are some incidents that change our thinking.\nI believe the success of the Prime Minister Jan-Dhan Yojana indicates that. The government had prepared, the RBI had admitted that the banks had helped us to open the Zero balance account and you can see that there is no bigger chance of seeing the richness of the poor. Bankers will have seen the poverty of the rich many times, many rich people who did not deposit money on time, they would have seen. Will the bank manager taking risk also be disturbed? If you did not end the marriage, then I will die? So you have seen the poverty of the rich but this public wealth scheme has got the privilege of seeing the richness of the poor. In spite of asking to open an account from Zero balance, the 14 million people who opened the bank account have 41 per cent people who do not think they should not do it for free. Some should keep something and he deposited 14 thousand crore rupees. 14 thousand crore rupees Even after opening the poor Zero balance account of the country, even deposits 14 thousand rupees is deposited in the bank, I think it can not be rich in poverty.\nIf we understand it as a force and this is the psychological role of those who are their rituals, their minds are the ideals of the mind, they are also a great force of the nation. We should nurture them, that power should be recognized by us and I believe this is a great requirement for the people of the Banking sector. 14 million bank accounts were opened with us, we are eligible for congratulations but 41 percent of people submit money, I think they are the reason of inspiration for us. For our new plans, one can become a land mark for us and I hope that in the coming days, it is okay to do great work with 5-50 clients, and when we were in school Then it is taught that what is a simple example, first solve it, then we have grown up with it, hence no one will go on a difficult example, but now there is a need to change thinking and it is necessary that we should increase this mass How do we get into ours? How was that part of our development journey? What is our roadmap for him? Now I believe that the biggest important task in front of us is that the general person whose bank account is open, how is he operational?\nThe government has made some plans. These are the schemes which are going to move forward from the bank's route. The bank is going ahead with the route, after not doing it, what is it for? This is the plan. In which the Prime Minister Jan-Dhan Yojana and direct cash transfer arrangements and 8 thousand crore, I tell you, I do not tell this figure, but I will just tell that the political pundit should know how much extra subsidy was done. There was no cylinder in it, cylinder was not even a taker, but the cheque was cracked. Now this system can also be brought to mean transparency. There can be such a big reform from the banking system, so maybe we had not thought it was happening today, and in that sense it is a matter of great pride for the people of the bank that a big role in bringing transparency in the country today is the banking sector Have started doing. This also produces a new faith in us, gives birth to a new hope.\nThere are some things that we have seen, in your bank, to keep them happy, no. 2, no 3, no. 4, no. 5, no. 6, no 7, no 8, no 9, no 10, in the bank. How hard work do you have for Every work has to be appreciated, but every time you are an employee of Class IV, you do not have to do anything. In the morning and evening, let's be okay? It just keeps running throughout the day, it will be your experience. Ask your driver so much, hey is your son's exam, yet you came to work today? Only his life gets blessed Hey! My son has exams and my boss also remembers this. You must have seen the poor just need so much. Your No. 2, No. 3, Your No 2, No. 3, No. 4, You have to sweat to run it. Only two words are enough to run that poor. That is to say that this is what we have been placed on the fourth level. What is that thing in her DNA, which gives such a big result, takes the risk for you, does not sleep throughout the night. Whatever he does for you, he can do it for the country too. He is a poor person, he needs a little support. The one who gives results in your personal life, that poor nation can give results in life. As long as intellectual, we will not be convinced, unless this will not become our article of faith and our view of everyday events from the perspective of what I am saying, then inclusion will be a programme, not inclusiveness will form.\nI do not have the inclusion programme, inclusion in nature and once you think then your happiness will be something else. You must have seen which women give money to self-help group, take an interview of any of them, take 100 people survey, they will tell you that women who are women in self-help group, poor from poor But if he has to return 100 rupees on Wednesday, then come to Mars and knock on the door that take my 100 rupees. You see such a great power, how do we add strength to the nation's development? I believe, the atmosphere that is now created and those results will be very big. Now we are moving forward with the concept of currency bank. I want to be further evolve in the form of a mobile banking. There are more than 5 crore poor people in this country who give employment to the most people and today the situation of finance, average people do not have more than 17 thousand rupees. Only 17 thousand rupees, only 17 thousand rupees loan, how is he driving the economy, how many people are giving jobs, how much bigger contribution is made in GDP.\nIf these are 5-6 million people Whoever sells vegetables, sells milk, sells paper, there are small people What do they want? Thousands of rupees, two thousand rupees, five thousand rupees, they will have the strength to do something new. The newspaper sells the newspaper in the morning, if it is two thousand rupees then the balloons will be sold in the afternoon, the snow lorry will run in the evening. By doing four types of work in his day, he will take his income from 2 thousand to 20 thousand and drive the country's economy and it will have the power to give employment to 6 people. Can we pay attention to those things? Our farmer commits suicide, should not this pain be on newspaper pages and on TV screens? When our farmer dies, does the banking sector shake the heart? Due to taking money from the moneylenders, sometimes he is able to die. After 60 years, we are celebrating 80 years now, after the RBI, we can say in our heart that we will extend our hands to our banking system so that the farmers will not be able to commit suicide due to minimal debt. Can not this be our dream?\nI do not believe that due to this, a bank will be sinking? We sometimes think that a company came to us and said that Bhai is our factory, we want to upgrade technology, we are going to bring environment friendly technology, bringing the carbon emission reduction, So much money We gladly give or not? Also print in our brochure that we have done so much to promote carbon emission, we are very proud, but some farmers come and say that I have to plant 50 trees, give me a bank loan. Tell me, is this a big factory doing a lot for carbon emission, is not it? But me, he is in my scales, but this is not. Do you see our banking sector, we import timber, the farmer is dying. If we take initiative, we can make a new plan that the marginal farmer in our country, the more land goes into one farm and another farm demarcation, which fences in it, it is so wastage, it is so wastage. A country like India needs to worry about the land being wasted. He does not pay any attention to his direction but we take initiative by banking that the brother who demarcation is your border, if you plant trees, then we will finance you so much and this tree will become your owner and will be our partner, Daughter will get married and four trees will be cut, sell as timber, so give the bank enough money, then tell me whether it will happen or not?\nWhether we will be contributing towards carbon neutral development or not, and the farmer's crop will be wasted, but if the tree is standing then he will feel, I have a shadow right now, I do not have to die in life, this tree's With support I will make a new life again. विश्वास पैदा हो सकता है कि नहीं हो सकता है? और इसलिए मैं कहता हूं कि हमें समाज के भिन्न-भिन्न तबके और बड़े creative mind के साथ हम किस प्रकार से finance की व्यवस्था करें, जिसके कारण वो एक long term stability के लिए फायदा कर सके। हम उस एक नए तरीकों को कैसे सोचें? जिस प्रकार से finance inclusion में immediately हमारा दो चीजों पर ध्यान जाता है।\nएक आर्थिक layer income के आधार पर, रहन-सहन के आधार पर दूसरा सामाजिक ताने-बाने, जाति-प्रथा का थोड़ा प्रभाव रहता है लेकिन inclusion में एक नए parameter की ओर देखने की जरूरत है और वो है geography inclusion। आज भी देश में देखिए हमारी economy को और ये हम सबने सोचना चाहिए। गोवा हो, कर्नाटक हो, महाराष्ट्र हो, गुजरात हो, राजस्थान हो, हरियाणा हो, देश का पश्चिमी छोर वहां तो आर्थिक गतिविधि दिखती है लेकिन जो देश का पूरब का छोर, जिसके पास सर्वाधिक प्राकृतिक संपदा है, वहां आर्थिक गतिविधि नहीं है। हमारे financial inclusion के model में, मैं देश के पश्चिमी छोर पर तो हमारी आर्थिक व्यवस्था, हमारी बैंक व्यवस्था सबसे ज्यादा काम कर रही है लेकिन पूरब का इलाका जहां पर इतनी बड़ी प्राकृतिक संपदा पड़ी हुई है, जहां पर इतना सामर्थ्यवान मनुष्यता का बल है, मैं उसके विकास के लिए क्या करूंगा? इसलिए हमारे geographical inclusion आवश्यकता है, वो कौन से इलाके हैं जिसमें Potential है लेकिन हमारी reach नहीं है, हमारे inclusion में जिस प्रकार से समाज के भिन्न-भिन्न तबको की ओर देखने की आवश्यकता है उसी प्रकार से भारत के भिन्न-भिन्न भू-भाग की ओर देखने की आवश्यकता है कि वो कौन सा भू-भाग है? कि जिसमें सामर्थ्य है लेकिन अवसर पैदा नहीं हुआ है और विकास करना है तो उसकी परंपरागत ताकत को सबसे पहले पहचानना पड़ता है। क्या हमारी बैंकिंग व्यवस्था में district को अगर एक block माने तो हमारे पास मैपिंग है क्या? कि भई वहां का Potential ये है, un-potential इतना है, tap करना है तो इतना। सरकार और बैंकिंग व्यवस्था मिलकर सोचें कि आप raw material के लिए decision ले लीजिए, आप human development resources के लिए कोई decision ले लीजिए, आप manager skill के लिए कोई decision ले लीजिए, आप वहां पर energy supply करने के लिए कर लीजिए, आप infrastructure के लिए कर लीजिए, banks are ready, हम यहां के नक्शे को बदल देंगे।\nInclusion में हमने, हमारे देश के विकसित इलाके, विकास की संभावना वाले इलाके, विकास से वंचित रहे गए इलाके इनके सारे parameter बनाकर के हमारे inclusion के मॉडल में इसको कैसे प्रतिस्थापित करें? मैं समझता हूं कि अगर ये हम करेंगे, तो बहुत है। भारत को दुनिया में आर्थिक ताकत की ओर बढ़ना है। 3 साल का बच्चा, 6 साल का होता है तो उसकी ऊंचाई बढ़ने में फर्क तुरंत आता है कि पहले वो दो फुट का था, अभी वो चार फुट का हो गया लेकिन 20 साल वाले को चार साल बाद भी दो इंच बढ़ाना मुश्किल हो जाता है। आप जहां बढ़ चुके हैं, वहां बढ़ने की गति धीरे रहेगी लेकिन जहां कुछ नहीं है वहां थोड़ा सा डालने से बढ़ना शुरू हो जाएगा और वो एक नए Confidence को जन्म देगा और आज विश्व में भारत के next 10 year के growth rate की जो चर्चा हो रही है, उसका potential यही है।\nहिंदुस्तान की second green revolution करने की जगह अगर कहीं है तो हिंदुस्तान का पूर्वी इलाका है। हिंदुस्तान के mines और mineral में अभी हमने जो decision लिए हैं। आप कल्पना कर सकते हैं कि हिंदुस्तान के सभी धनी राज्य बनने की संभावना, जिनके पास कोयला था वो राज्य बन रहे हैं। छत्तीसगढ़ हो, झारखंड हो, उड़ीसा हो, बंगाल हो, ये राज्य एक नई ताकत के साथ उभरने वाले हैं। क्या हम बैंकिंग सेक्टर के लोगों को ध्यान है? कि भई इतना बड़ा वहां कल्पना भर का एकदम से Jump आया है, हम बैंकिंग व्यवस्था के द्वारा वहां कैसे बदलाव लाएं? अगर हम इस बात को करेंगे, मैं मानता हूं कि परिणाम बहुत प्राप्त होंगे। एक और क्षेत्र है, जिसको भी मैं financial inclusion का एक महत्वपूर्ण हिस्सा मानता हूं, जिसका संबंध न आर्थिक स्थिति से है, न सामाजिक स्थिति से है और न ही इसका संबंध भौगौलिक परिस्थिति से है और वो है Knowledge में हम financial partnership कैसे बने?\nहमारे देश को सौभाग्य प्राप्त हुआ है कि 65 percent population, 35 से नीचे है। ये 35 से नीचे का जो population है, हमारी जो young generation है, उसे या तो skill चाहिए या Knowledge चाहिए। आज जो वर्तमान intuition हैं, उससे उसको जो प्राप्त होता है, globally competitive बनने के लिए कुछ कमी महसूस होती है। अब हम globally competitive knowledge institution लाते हैं तो हमारे देश के नौजवान के लिए वहां पढ़ना कठिन हैं क्योंकि उसके पास उतने पैसे नहीं है। क्या बैंक एक ऐसा mediator बन सकती हैं? कि कितना fee वाली institution क्यों न हो? गरीब से गरीब का बच्चा भी वहां पढ़ने जाएगा, हम खड़े हैं। हम ज्ञान उपार्जन के प्रयास में कभी पीछे नहीं हटेंगे। गरीब का बच्चा भी कितना ही धन खर्च करके अगर पढ़ाई करने ताकत रखता है, हम पूरा करेंगे। मैं समझता हूं कि लंबे समय के लिए benefit करने वाला ये सबसे बड़ा investment है, सबसे बड़ा financial inclusion है और इसलिए हम हमारी education system, हमारे students उनका अच्छे intuition में पढ़ने का इरादा और उसको, अगर हमारा human resource development की ताकत जितनी ज्यादा होगी, देश को आने वाली शताब्दी में नेतृत्व करने की ताकत आएगी। हमारी इमारतें कितनी अच्छी बनीं हैं, इससे दुनिया में हिंदुस्तान की ताकत बढ़ने वाली नहीं है, हिंदुस्तान की ताकत बढ़ने वाली है, हिंदुस्तान की युवा पीढ़ी के पास कितना सामर्थ्य है, कितना ताकत है इनके अंदर, उस ताकत का आधार दंड-बैठक से नहीं आता है, उस ताकत के लिए ये शिक्षा का अवसर होना चाहिए।\nअगर कोई educational institution world class बनाता है, बैंक मदद करें, student पढ़ने के लिए जाना चाहता है, बैंक मदद करें और मैं विश्वास दिलाता हूं जी। अब तक का आपका जो NPA का अनुभव है, इसमें कभी ऐसा कटु अनुभव नहीं आएगा, मुझ पर भरोसा कीजिए। देश का नौजवान पाई-पाई लौटा देगा, लौटाएगा लेकिन देश बहुत आगे बढ़ेगा और इसलिए हम financial inclusion एक सब्जी बेचने वाले से लेकर के एक top class, high qualified man power तैयार करने तक पूरा chain कैसे बनाएं? मैं समझता हूं कि एक बहुत बड़ा role कर सकते हैं और एक विषय मेरे मन में है। Make in India, मैं Make in India की विस्तार में और बातें नहीं करना चाहता हूं। मुझे पूरा ज्ञान भी नहीं है शायद सोचा जाए। हम आज आरबीआई के 80 साल मना रहे हैं। आज हम संकल्प कर सकते हैं क्या? कि फलां तारीख को जो हमारी currency छपेगी, उस currency का कागज भी Indian होगा और Ink भी Indian होगी। ऐसा नहीं चल सकता, जिस गाधी ने स्वदेशी के लिए इतनी लड़ाई लड़ी, वो विदेशी कागज पर उसकी तस्वीर छपती रहे, वो शोभा देता है क्या? क्या मेरे देश के पास ऐसे उद्योग कार नहीं हैं? उनको compel किया जाए कि ये फैक्ट्री लगानी है, पैसा नहीं है, दूंगा लेकिन ये लगाओ बगल में, लाओ दुनिया से technology लाओ और हमारी currency हमारी नोट, कागज हिंदुस्तानी होना चाहिए, ईंक भी हिंदुस्तानी होनी चाहिए और मैं चाहता हूं कि आरबीआई इस बात को समझकर के एक नेतृत्व दे, ये Make in India तो यहीं से शुरू होता है जी।\nमैं मानता हूं कि हम इन चीजों को कर सकते हैं, लेकिन मैं ये भी मानता हूं कि देश आज जहां पहुंचा है, उसमें आप सबका बहुत योगदान है, इन institutions का बहुत योगदान है और वो इंसान हूं, मैं मानता हूं कि idea कितने ही होनहार क्यों न हो? अगर institutional frame ताकतवर नहीं हैं तो सारे विचार बांझ रह जाते हैं और इसलिए institutional strengthen हो, आरबीआई की गरिमा और कैसे बढ़े? बैंकिंग सेक्टर की अपनी गरिमा कैसे बढ़ें? सभी संस्थाएं अपने आप में ताकतवर कैसे बनें? जितना संस्थाओं का नेटवर्क ताकतवर होगा, स्वतंत्र रूप से निर्णय करने का होगा, ultimately देश का लाभ होने वाला है। जरूरी नहीं है कि प्रधानमंत्री की इच्छा के अनुसार देश चलना चाहिए, देश आपने जिन values को स्वीकार किया है उन values के अनुसार चलेगा और देश आगे बढेगा। ये मेरा विश्वास है और उस बात को लेकर के हमको चलना चाहिए।\nहमने एक छोटा सा initiative लिया देखिए देश की ताकत देखिए। कभी-कभी हम अपने देशवासियों को कुछ भी कह देते हैं, मेरा अनुभव अलग है। हमने ऐसे ही कानों-कानों में एक बात शुरू की थी कि भई जो लोग afford करते हैं, इन लोगों ने gas subsidy नहीं लेनी चाहिए। अब जो लेते थे, वो कोई सरकार से 500 रुपया मिलने वाले थे, भूखे नहीं रहते थे लेकिन ध्यान नहीं था, ऐसा चलता है यार, ध्यान नहीं था। सहज रूप से हमने बातों-बातों में कहा, मैंने कहीं publically रूप से नहीं कहा था और मैं हैरान था, मैं सचमुच में हैरान था, 2 लाख लोगों ने voluntarily अपनी gas subsidy surrender कर दी। कानों-कानों पर बात पहुंची, ये देखकर के मेरा विश्वास बढ़ा तो मैंने अभी officially मैंने पिछले हफ्ते launch किया कि जो भाई afford करते हैं, उन्होंने gas subsidy को surrender करना चाहिए और सरकार का इरादा subsidy बचाकर के तिजोरी भरने का नहीं है, हमारे इरादे ये हैं कि आप अगर एक सिलेंडर छोड़ते हो, तो मैं वो सिलेंडर उस घर को देना चाहता हूं, जिसमें लकड़ी का चूल्हा है और जिसके कारण pollution होता है और जिसके कारण उनके बच्चों को धुएं में पलना पड़ता है और बीमारी का घर हो जाता है। मैं financial inclusion की जब बात करता हूं तब आप जिस गैस सिलेंडर को छोड़ें, वो उस गरीब के घर में सिलेंडर जाएं ताकि उस महिला को लकड़ी जलाकर के धुएं में अपने बच्चों को पालने की नौबत न आए। मुझे बताइए ये सेवा नहीं है क्या?\nमैं विश्वास करता हूं कि सभी हमारे बैंक अपने सभी कर्मचारियों को विश्वास में लें, एक-एक बैंक resolve करे कि हमारे बैंक के 20 हजार कर्मचारी हैं, हम subsidy छोड़े देंगे, सारे industrial house decide करें कि हमारे यहां जो 5 हजार employee हैं, हम subsidy छोड़ देंगे और इसका मतलब ये नहीं कि वो industry उनको पैसे दे, ये मैं नहीं चाहता। voluntarily देना यानि देना, हर व्यक्ति को। अगर हिंदुस्तान में हम एक करोड़ लोग ये गैस सिलेंडर की subsidy छोड़ दें इतनी ताकत रखते हैं। एक करोड़ गरीब परिवारों में जहां लकड़ी का चूल्हा जलता है, जिसके कारण जंगल कटते हैं, जिसके कारण carbon emission होता है, जिसके कारण गरीब के बच्चे को धुएं में पलना पड़ता है, financial inclusion हर छोटी चीज में संभव होता है। अपने आचरण से, अपने व्यवहार से, अपने vision से ये संभव होता है। मैं फिर एक बार आप सबका बहुत आभारी हूं, मैंने काफी समय ले लिया। Take\nकिन मुझे विश्वास है मैंने पहले ही कहा था मेरे ये software नहीं है, मैं इस क्षेत्र का नहीं हूं लेकिन मैं जिस बिरादरी में पैदा हुआ हूं, गरीबी मैंने देखी है और गरीब की गरीबी से बाहर निकलने की ताकत है। थोड़े hand holding की आवश्यकता है, थोड़ा सा hand holding करने की ताकत, बैंकिंग सेक्टर के पास है। आइए हम सब मिलकर के देश को गरीबी से मुक्त कराने के अभियान को, financial inclusion के इस mission से आगे बढ़ें।\nमेरी आप सबको बहुत-बहुत शुभकामनाएं हैं। Thank you."