"Share\n\nJai Jagannath, all the senior officials who took the stage on stage. Grandmother Holy Utk Day, Odisha Reputation Day, A Osir More More Congratulations to All Odisha.\nToday, it is my good fortune that on the holy occasion of Utkal day, I had the privilege of coming to Earth on Jagannath ji. To make this Orissa, many people spent their lives, did sadhana and on Utkal day I specifically salute Utkal Mani Pandit Gopupundo Das. I salute to the pride of Utkal Madhusudan Das. I salute Veer Surendra Sai and I remember his virtue to Maharaja Krishna Chandra Gajapati ji. This Birsa Munda also ignites the revolution, and I also salute Birsa Munda, and remembering Biju Babu always remember every Odisha resident to create modern Odisha. I congratulate all these greats and the people of Odisha with heart, I salute them and I convey my best wishes to the Odyssey on the Odisha day. Congratulations and cross the new heights of Odisha's development. The fate of the young people of Odisha is bright, rugged, powerful, and the new generation of Odisha in the welfare of the nation will have the opportunity to make its invaluable contribution.\nBe a farmer of Orissa, a laborer of Orissa, my fisherman's brother in Orissa or an aborigine of Orissa. This is the earth. For which the whole of India proud, honors. Here the Sun Temple is giving light to India today, it communicates a new hope. I salute such a holy land today.\nI came to Earth on the first week of April last year, Rourkela. Probably came on April 4th and today within a year-within, I have come between you again. I came last year then wanted to understand your dreams, wanted to understand your hope, aspirations. Today, when I came, I have come to give an account of one year and in our democracy, it is our responsibility that we give public accountability to our work. Give an account of the moment, calculate the pie-pie and give it the account of pie-pie. Brothers and sisters, this Rourkela is a small India. There is no corner of India which does not reside in Rourkela. Anything happens in Rourkela, Hindustan gets its instant vibration in the entire corner, and in any corner of India, if there is anything in the moment, it is known in Raurkela in a matter of two minutes that this has happened in that corner of India. This so-called relationship with the whole of India, is the relationship of this earth. Here is the connection between people. In a small way, Rourkela has a huge contribution in giving India the power of steel to make Rourkela in a way.\nThe Iron Man was done by Iron Man Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel and after independence, a city has given India the power of steel, then the name of the city is Rourkela. It has a bit of power and from where there is little power, the nation never goes backwards. Crosses new heights of development. Here, Dr. Rajendra Babu laid the foundations of the steel factory many years ago. The laborer who will be here also would think that I try to make steel by trying out the minerals from the iron, which seems like the soil from Iron, prepare strong steel, prepare good steel but Rourkela My brothers and sisters do not just make the plate. You just do not build such a width so thick, its just the plate. By the standing of the heat you sweat, the hard work you do, and you also keep your body in check. Only do not produce the plate of steel, you create an invisible force in India's military power, the security power of India, the power of one power.\nToday India is running a dream of becoming indigenous in maritime security. Today, India's focus on how our warship is built in our country. But it is possible to become a warship because, in Rourkela, a laborer is checking himself by standing in the middle of summer for India's security, then there is security of India, then there are warships going on, then go Made of here, cooked steel comes in handy for the protection of India. The power to take the iron against those forces comes in the strength of the enemy's strengths, when it is standing in a strong tank and also with the enemy's enemy, and also bows on the enemy. That tank is manufactured in India, when strong steel is made in Rourkela and so my dear brothers and sisters, in the lap of the Himalaya, the army of the country's army is standing on a tank and protects Mother Bharati. There is also the smell of furor. Then the nation is protected and the work of steel production in that sense is also associated with the protection of the nation.\nThis steel production does not only give the economic life of Odisha but a new force in the economic life of the whole country. In this backward area, this industry has increased employment prospects. For the poor and the poor, there is an opportunity for livelihood and in future, due to its development, there will be more employment opportunities. Development and new opportunities are going to be created.\nToday the expansion of this project is going on and Expansion is not even two steps, but in one way its strength is going to double. Due to this strength there will be huge increase in the capacity of the steel sector of the country. Looking at, India has left the US behind in the production of steel. But still we are far behind China and when I talk about Make in India, then we do not have to be behind anyone. We have to move forward in it. Country is 65% full of young people. 65% of children in India's mother's womb are playing in the lap of mother Bharti, who are under 35 years of age. How big is our strength? If they get an opportunity, if they will get employment, if they have the right skill development, then it will take our youngsters forward in the last 60 years from where they have come, in 10 years, it is my confidence in my youngsters.\nAnd so, the industrial development of the brothers and sisters country. The mineral wealth inside India. We should not do this by sending raw materials abroad, trading, and stomping. Our mineral wealth is ours. Those raw materials, in the world market, money will be available. Trading will also go away from your family. Fifty-five people's stomachs will be filled, but India's future will not exist and therefore our efforts are that India has the raw material, which is the mineral wealth that India has. What is our strength in mine-mineral There should be value addition in it, it should be processed, its value should be increased and the product that is produced from it, will go into the world market as the best type of things, then India's economic prosperity will increase manifold and hence our Try to create a network of industries based on the raw material that is raw material in our country. To give opportunities to the youth, funds should be made available to them from banks and efforts towards a new industrial revolution in the country.\nBrothers and sisters at one time, no one was ready to see India. The past decade has passed through such troubles that due to which the whole world had turned away from us, but today, brothers and sisters, I say with great pride that within 10 months, the cloud of despair has burst, the sun of hope is again Once on the middle of the sky, and the attention of the whole world is focused on capital investment within India today. The railways, roads, the home for the poor, the industry, the factory, the attention of the people of the world has come to India today and we want to take advantage of this opportunity. We want to invite the world. Let's try your luck. India's soil is fertile. Here, whatever capital you put in here, the amount of return in the world, there is more power than it is in the earth and therefore I invite the world and want to do it in that area.\nI am ridiculously telling that India's development can not be the only complete development of India, due to the development of India's west end. Maharashtra went ahead, Gujarat went ahead, Goa moved forward, Rajasthan went ahead, Haryana progressed, Punjab progressed, this will not work. They keep on growing and growing, but it will be good if the country also goes forward, Chhattisgarh will grow, Bihar go ahead, West Bengal goes forward, Assam goes ahead, Eastern Uttar Pradesh goes forward, see the entire India map. Eastern India's area should move as much as the western edge of India has grown, and so my brothers and sisters, my complete attention is on how the eastern region of India ranged from Orissa to the eastern region. How to become a participant in the development journey, we are trying our best to bring all the plans of the government towards that direction, it is our endeavor.\nSo far, the people who lived in this tradition had lived in such arrogance in Delhi that they regarded the states as small and considered low. We have decided to change this character. This tradition is not approved by me. Center or state is equal partner, there is no height, no defect, no top, no bottom is there. There is no one to give, there is no taker, both are together partners, so to run the country, and so we have talked of cooperative federism. Brothers and sisters did not ask for anything from us. But we believed, because I myself have been Chief Minister for many years and the person who has lived till the longest time in the country has become the Prime Minister and hence what is the problem of the Chief Minister, what is the trouble of the state? It's well understood. I can understand Odisha's pain by sitting in Delhi, I can understand, because I have worked in the state. There was a time, here you have mineral mines, but for royalty, you have to make the rounds of Delhi. Within a few days of becoming our government, we have decided. For many years the royalty case was stuttering and settled in royalty, because we believe if the states will have money, then the state will not go back for development and therefore we have done this work.\nPayments are given to the states by the brothers sisters Finance Commission. Last year, on behalf of the Indian Government, the Finance Commission gave Odisha about 18 thousand crore rupees to Odisha. Brothers sisters reached 18 thousand crores when we reached 60 years of reach. In a single moment we made Rs 18 thousand crore 25 thousand crore, 25 thousand crore. If the states go forward, the country will move forward. The state will progress progressively, then the country will progress. We are moving ahead with this mantra and I believe that after one successive Indian government has tried to touch the new dimensions of development. The state which will be progressive, the state will use this money with long-term plans, it will not be late in reaching number one in the state of India. I came here to give you confidence. Now the responsibility is made of the states that they decide the path of development, put emphasis on the infrastructure. Do not avail the benefits of the program for a long time, take the power to give the power to the state. You will see that the future generation will be happy and that power has become in Odisha. There is a golden history, the golden age is Oudya's. Once again that golden time can come, Udaya and I am clearly watching that the opportunity is standing up and standing. Brothers and Sisters You Know\nSometimes the people of Odisha will feel that we have such a fortune that the black mother of coal has touched us. Something did not get there. The coal burden was made, today we made the diamond as diamond, the diamond made brother, the coal mines were auctioned, the people who were afraid of handling coal, we have worked to introduce this coal into diamonds. When the report of the CAG came, he had said that one lakh 76 thousand crores of rupees have been looted by the country's treasure in the theft of coal mines. I had said this in the speech last April, then many people used to say that Sahib would not be one lakh 76 thousand, would have taken a little bit, but not much. Many people would say that Sir would not be one lakh 76 thousand. Must have taken a little bit but have not taken much. Some people used to say that. People used to say, so I too did not argue too much. The CAG has said, but the Supreme Court canceled the 204 coal mines given to the Supreme Court by the Supreme Court, by the Supreme Court. This was the split of the thieves and robbers. The Supreme Court showed red eye. 204 coal mines were canceled. We have decided. We will do auctioned by a transparent system, will auction, open auction in front of the world, will be auctioned in the presence of the media people and my brother-in-law has just auctioned just 20 of 204, more than just 20 and you It is known that 204 quarries did not come in rupees in the vault of Hindustan. More than two lakh crores of rupees have been deposited in the government treasury by the auction of just 20 and will not deposit the money in the treasury of Delhi. In states where coal is to be consumed, these money will go to their treasury. उड़ीसा के खजाने में जाएंगे, छत्तीसगढ़ के खजाने में जाएंगे, झारखंड के खजाने में जाएंगे। राज्य में ताकत आएगी। भाईयों-बहनों, ईमानदारी के साथ अगर काम करें तो कितना बड़ा परिवर्तन लाया जा सकता है। ये उदाहरण आपके सामने है।\nये लोग जिम्मेवार नहीं हैं क्या? क्या उन्हें जवाब देना नहीं चाहिए? ये दो लाख करोड़ रुपया 20 खदानों का आया कहां से? तो पहले पैसे गया कहां था? भाईयों-बहनों मैंने आपको वादा किया था। दिल्ली में आप अगर मुझे सेवा करने का मौका देंगे तो ऐसा कभी कुछ नहीं करुंगा ताकि मेरे देशवासियों को माथा नीचे कर करके जीना पड़े और आज मैं सीना तानकर के आपके सामने हिसाब देने आया हूं, 10 महीने हो गए सरकार को एक दाग नहीं लगा मेरे भाईयों बहनों, एक दाग नहीं लगा मेरे भाईयों-बहनों। भाईयों-बहनों अभी हमने नए कानून पास किए। minerals के संबंध में कानून पास किया और मैं नवीन बाबू का आभारी हूं कि संसद में उन्होंने हमारा समर्थन किया तो राज्यसभा में भी वो बिल मंजूर होने में हमारी सुविधा हो गई और हम मिलकर के देश हित के निर्णयों को करते चलेंगे और देश हित में हम काम करते जाएंगे।\nभाईयों-बहनों मैं जब पिछली बार आया था तब तो मैं प्रधानमंत्री नहीं था लेकिन यहां के लोगों ने मेरे सामने एक मांग रखी थी। राजनीति का स्वभाव ऐसा है कि पुरानी बातें भुला देना, जितना जल्दी हो सके भुला देना लेकिन मेरे भाईयों-बहनों, मैं राजनेता नहीं हूं, मैं तो आपका सेवादार हूं। मुझे पुरानी बातें भुलाने में Interest नहीं है। मैं तो खुद होकर के याद दिलाना चाहता हूं और मैंने गत वर्ष 4 अप्रैल को इसी मैदान से, मैंने जो घोषणा की थी तब प्रधानमंत्री नहीं था। आपने प्रधानमंत्री बनाया और आज जब मैं पहली बार आया हूं, तो मैं उस वादे को पूरा करते हुए बताना चाहता हूं कि इस्पात General hospital, अब इस्पात General hospital, ये मेडिकल कॉलेज cum Super specialty Hospital के रूप में उसको विकसित करने का निर्णय भारत सरकार ने कर लिया है।\nभाइयों-बहनों लेकिन मैं नहीं चाहता हूं, कि इस अस्‍पताल में आपको कभी patient बनकर के जाना पड़े। मैं आप उत्‍कल दिवस पर आपको शुभकामना देता हूं कि अस्‍पताल तो हिंदुस्‍तान में बढि़या से बढि़या बने, लेकिन बारह महीने खाली रहे। कोई बीमार न हो, किसी के परिवार में मुसीबत न हो, किसी को अस्‍पताल जाना न पड़े। लेकिन यहां के मेडिकल कॉलेज से होनहार नौजवान तैयार हो करके देश के स्‍वास्‍थ्‍य के लिए भी तैयार हो। एक बात और भी हुई थी, ब्रहामणी नदी पर दूसरा ब्रिज बनाने की। मैं आपकी कठिनाई जानता हूं। आज मैं आपको विश्‍वास दिलाता हूं ब्रहामणी नदी पर दूसरे ब्रिज का काम भी कर दिया जाएगा और उसके कारण राउरकेला की connectivity कितनी बढ़ने वाली है इसका आपको पूरा अंदाज है भाईयों-बहनों।\nभाईयों-बहनों आज मैं दूर से ही जगन्‍नाथ जी को प्रणाम करते हुए उनके आर्शीवाद ले रहा हूं, लेकिन पूरा ओडिशा और एक प्रकार से देश और दुनिया के जगन्‍नाथ के भक्‍त नव कलेवर के लिए तैयारी कर रहे हैं। कई वर्षों के बाद नवकलेवर आता है। पूरा ओडिशा पूरे विश्‍व का स्‍वागत करने के लिए सजग हो जाता है। रेल की सुविधा चाहिए, हवाई जहाजों की सुविधा चाहिए और कोई – संबंधी आवश्‍यकताएं हो satiation जैसी आवश्‍यकता हो, भारत सरकार कंधे से कंधा मिलाकर के ओडिशा के इस नवकलेवर पर्व में आपका साथ देगी और ऊपर से इस काम को आगे बढाने के लिए 50 करोड़ रुपया भारत सरकार की तरफ से भी इसमें मुहैया किया जाएगा।\nभाईयों-बहनों आज इस्पात के इस कारखाने के Expansion के साथ हम आगे तो बढ़ेंगे और आगे बढ़नें का संकल्प लेकर जाएंगे, विकास की नई ऊंचाइयों पर आगे बढ़ेंगे और मैं राज्यों को निमंत्रित करता हूं। आईए एक नए युग का ये शुभारंभ करने का अवसर है। लंबी सोच के साथ हम विकास की नींव मजबूत बनाएं। तत्कालीन फायदे से मुक्त होकर के हमारी भावी पीढ़ी के कल्याण के लिए हम अपने रास्तों को प्रशस्त करें।\nमैं फिर एक बार SAIL के सभी मित्रों को हृदय से अभिनंदन करता हूं। यहां के छोटे-मोटे इस्पात के कारखानों के मेरे भाईयों-बहनों को अनेक-अनेक शुभकामनाएं देता हूं। मैं उड़ीसा Government का बहुत आभारी हूं और मैं कल्पना नहीं कर सकता हूं भाईयों-बहनों। मैं नहीं मानता हूं कि कभी सरकार किसी कार्यक्रम में इतनी भीड़ आती हो। चारों तरफ मुझे लोग ही लोग नजर आ रहे हैं। आपने मुझे जो प्यार दिया है, ये प्यार एक प्रकार से विकास के प्रति आपके समर्थन की अभिव्यक्ति है। देश के नौजवानों के भविष्य को बदलने के लिए आपके संकल्प की अभिव्यक्ति है। हिंदुस्तान के गरीब को, किसान को ताकतवर बनाने के, आपके सपनों को पूरा करने का जो संकल्प है, उसका खुला समर्थन करने का आपका ये प्रयास है। मैं इसके लिए मेरे उड़ियावासियों को शत-शत नमन करता हूं, उनका अभिनंदन करता हूं।\nबहुत-बहुत धन्यवाद करते हुए। जय जगन्नाथ-जय जगन्नाथ-जय जगन्नाथ।"