"\nAttendees all the greatness and young colleagues present.\nToday there is also energy consolidation and there is also Triveni Sangam. Triveni Sangam is in the sense that three important initiatives which we are celebrating today as Golden Jubilee ONGC Videsh Limited, Engineer India Limited and Barauni Refinery Limited, which have contributed in the last 50 years in all these three fields. This campaign has been carried forward and has made constant efforts to give India power in the field of energy. I congratulate all the great men associated with those three institutions with great heart and I believe that when we are celebrating the Golden Jubilee Year, what was our style of working behind, what was our decision, who was it? Our philosophy was that, because of which we went ahead, what are the shortcomings, because of which if there was any deficiency, then what was it and now when we are standing at a turning point of 50 years then we will have 50 years of coming Target will happen. What will be our path, what will be the path of accumulation of our power and what will be done in our past to strengthen the nation, you will also make me a road map, I have full faith in it.\nWhen a country progresses, when the system gets involved with the idea, if there is no arrangement with the idea, then the ideas remain barren, nothing emerges beyond that and therefore if the country has to progress then every Idea will be institutionalized And the country progresses from a longer level to a stable state when its institutional mechanism is stronger. In an institutional mechanism, auto-pilot is such a system that he keeps on using it regularly.\nI think that we also need to create new systems for the coming era, and in the present, the systems which we have, which are Institutional Mechanism, how to make that institutional mechanism more modern for the coming century. How to do new innovation, how to incorporate the young man, and not only to the borders of India but in the global perspective, how can we determine the direction of our development and how to overcome those goals How do you do? The more we pay attention to those things, the world's expectations and the 1/6 population of the world, this 1/6 population can not stop saying that we have trouble, we have this difficulty. It should be a target of 1/6 of the world's population that we will raise the 1/6 burden of the world on our shoulders alone and there will be no positive contribution for us to give happiness to the world. With this global perspective, India has to make itself aware, India will have to prepare herself and I believe that the country has 65% of the population under 35 years of age, who have the right to live with good dreams Dreaming for such an energetic country for those who have the potential.\n... and fulfilling dreams is not difficult and I believe that today, when we have met at the energy gathering ceremony on this important occasion, then the confluence of tomorrow, today and tomorrow will be stable in our mind-brain, To overcome the heights, the world's work can be successful in preparing the incoming India, and in this sense, today I had the good fortune to come in between you. I would like to congratulate you with the heart for this. I am sure that I will work in the service of the nation in a very good way.\nAfter the formation of a new government, several new initiatives have been taken. We know that if we want to develop, if we want to achieve the Global Bench Mark, then it is very important for us to be Self Sufficient in the field of energy. We also need to grow in some area, its first requirement is energy. Today is Technology Driven society and when Technology is a Driven Society, Energy has set its core role. Sources of energy can vary, which are not in our attention even today, may also be exposed to the world in the coming days, but to see the development journey of the entire human race, then one of its own places of energy Energy is the power to give energy to development in a way, and in that sense we have energy security for this and also our responsibility and to fulfill that responsibility. We have taken some steps in the direction.\nIn the last ten months we have stressed the reforms in this area and strengthening the reform has brought many important things. It is our first intention to worry about the general citizen here. Our aim is to get the common man of the country more and more easily.\nSubsidy Transfers In the scheme of transferring the largest subsidy of the world, we have succeeded in a period of just a hundred days and I believe that one thing is to start in something, achieve something and get some time to time ... While weighing things down, I see the Secretary, Mr. Shree and his team all friends of the department in the shortest possible time of 100 days in the world's largest subsidiary transfer screen The 12 million people get subsidies in the bank account is not a small task. When the world was the biggest job and when the money was opening, then some people used to dare to joke, but do not do it now, because Janaanan was not for generating. There was an attempt to convert into manpower and in the beginning it was to add energy power. Anyone can imagine that by giving a direct benefit to the beneficiaries, we have stopped the big leakage. I would particularly urge the political scholars to go deep into that depth. I do not want to claim on my behalf. The corruption against corruption is very much the opposite, but if institutional mechanism, transparent mechanism, policy driven arrangements to fight corruption, we can stop the leakage and this excellent example is proved by cash transfer. . How many cylinders were used earlier, how many cylinders are used, this will know.\nLast time, we had mentioned a brief mention in parliament that why those who are comfortable on this should get subsidies. Can not there be such people in the country who can say that Bhai is fine, now God has given us a lot, has given us a lot in the country and does not need subsidies for gas cylinders. We can cook our own food with our sweat and can fill our stomach. A little touch had been done on the subject but touching about 2 lakh 80 thousand people of the country responded positively and participated in this \"Give it up\" movement. The question is that two lakhs, three lakhs people joined it, the question is that if the country is to run us then the country becomes ready to participate. Every citizen of the country is prepared to participate. They should be given an opportunity. Citizens of the country should rely on. Our biggest initiative is that we want to move forward by trusting citizens of Hindustan and you will be happy to know that a section of society who said that yes, now we do not want to take gas now by subsidy, we give our money Can. More than 2 lakh 80 thousand people have benefited the country in a way. It will save at least 100 crores of rupees. This 100 million rupees will be used to build a school in a village or it will not come. If the child of a poor person is ill, then his work will come or not. The one who has done this work has done the job of serving the poor in a way. And we do not want to save money from those cylinders which have survived, we want to bring it to the poor so that today they are burning the lamps in the smoke, the mother who is worried, finds a way, her child gets the benefit of health.\nWe have launched a campaign of how gas cylinders have reached the poor house, and seeing this success today, we had said earlier that we should say a little bit but the response which the country has given to me is that, with the two lakh 80 thousand people I took the responsibility of this work and I congratulate him, congratulate and appeal to the countrymen for whom it is possible for his pocket ... who has the power to cook his own food, please And it may not be subsidized gas cylinder. There is also a pleasure to give, it is also a satisfaction to give and when you do not take a subsidy of gas cylinders, remember in mind that the money which is going to be saved in the country, the work of some poor will be coming. It will be the satisfaction of your life, happiness and I duly urge the countrymen.\nWhen I was thinking this, then I had asked the department to check it first. There is no cylinder of Modi's name. I was fortunate that I have never been confused with this world, because it was neither taken earlier nor is it today, then I could speak with a moral force. Yes, I can do it and I duly duly with the countrymen I appeal that if you have reached this country, the country is contributing. Poorest is contributing to the poor. You have the smell of poor sweat in your pocket to reach here. Let us join this \"Give it Up\" movement, we will release gas subsidies, offer from the front and also establish new records by achieving new goals. I assure you that the cylinders, you will leave the subsidy, we will bring it to the poor. This will work for the poor.\nWe have done another job .... 5 kg cylinder. The student who comes to the city for studies ... now he will do with a full cylinder, now the poor person lives in a room or there are people who have gone for a job. This is the people of the hailing caste, who go from one place to another, they will get a 5kg cylinder, so that poor people will be also affordable and they will be arranged to meet their needs. We have tried that direction.\nWe did one deregulate diesel as well. Due to deregulating diesel now it is considered an important for reform. If the international prices were low then there was little facility but let the market decide because the global market is under pressure and I have seen that the country has readily accepted it. Sometimes prices go up and prices go down, but people know that Bhai does not have any role of government in it. The situation in the market has been associated with that. So the citizen of India is also ready to play his responsibilities as a buyer and also be part of Global Economic. This is a positive view of development in itself as I see. I see that it will also benefit. We made another important decision. When we talk about energy, we have to make efforts in all areas.\nIn order to mix it with petrol for ethanol we took initiative, taken it duly. Our farmer cultivating sugarcane is upset because the cost of sugar is decreasing at its cost, sugar factories are shutting down. If a new system is added for it. If sugar-making sugar .. they have more, sugar prices are broken, there is no importor in the world, in such a situation, you do not make sugar. Make ethanol, make ethanol in some quantity, mix it in the control. Go. At some point it was said about the petroleum lobby that it is so powerful that no one can make a decision. we decide. Many people will be sitting here, maybe they will not feel good, but we have made the decision and because of that we also worry about climate, we also worry about the environment, at the same time we also worry about the economy. And our poor farmer is a sugarcane farmer. By ethanol, now its very helpful. We have done a great way to give strength to our sugar sector, and there was no earlier ethanol MSP. The decision of the Minimum Support Price was not. There was no price ... no price for it. We decided it would be 48.50 paise to 49.50 paise so that if there is a price in one state, second in another state, then the situation may not be bad and any company can take direct due to it. No tender process has been fixed, market rate has been fixed. I think there will be another benefit too because of that.\nAnd one thing we have urged the states to take initiative. Jin-ji states which have barren land. Where the possibilities of other crops are low, cultivation of Jatropha can be very good. Jatropha can be good for cultivation and it is like oilseed like Jatropha which does not produce edible oil, but gets any substance, promote it and develop it as bio-diesel and in whatever quantity we will bring Bio-diesel to the market. Our farmer who runs a pump or runs a tractor will also benefit from it. It is our effort to give the poor man how to benefit.\nIf we are to develop in the country then India ... and if only the western edge is developed then the development of the country will never be possible. Unbalanced development sometimes becomes a problem for development itself. Development should be balanced We can understand the difference between every state of 19-20. But the country can not run with the difference of 80-20. And so, in the West, we see economic activity, but in the east where the highest natural wealth is complete, East India, where there are capable people, their power is not reduced, but they do not get the opportunity. If the country has to move forward, then our goal is to get the eastern region of India, whether eastern Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Orissa, Assam, West Bengal and North East, where there is huge potential for development. But we have requested the force.\nIf the land is formed by Second green revolution, then East India will become, I am clearly visible. Where there is abundant water, likewise, there is a possibility of huge contribution in industrial development in eastern India and for that the gas grid network needs energy. अगर पटना के पास गैस पाइप लाइन से मिलेगा, तो पटना में उद्योग आएंगे। बिहार के उन शहरों में भी उद्योग जाएंगे। असम में भी जाएंगे, पश्चिम बंगाल में भी जाएंगे, कलकत्‍ता में भी नई ऊर्जा आएगी और इसलिए हमने गैस ग्रिड का पाइप लाइन के नेटवर्क का एक बहुत अभियान उठाना हमने तय किया है और इतना ही नहीं शहरों में क्‍योंकि शहरों के pollution की बड़ी चर्चा है। और उसके लिए हमने तय किया है कि हम परिवारों में पाइप लाइन से गैस का connection करें। यह हम देना चाहते है। अब तक हिंदुस्‍तान में 27 लाख परिवारों के पास पाइप लाइन से गैस connection है। हम आने वाले चार साल में यह संख्‍या एक करोड़ पहुंचाना चाहते हैं, एक करोड़ परिवार को। अब पूरे-पूरे पूर्वी भारत में गैस ग्रिड से गैस देने का हमारा लक्ष्‍य है। मैं जानता हूं हजारों करोड़ रुपये का हमारा investment है लेकिन यह investment करना है, क्‍योंकि अगर एक बार ऊर्जा के स्रोत वहां विपुल मात्रा में होंगे, तो हमारा पूर्वी भारत में भी उद्योग लगाने वाले लोग पहुंचेंगे, अगर गैस उनको मिलता है तो उद्योग लगाने के लिए जाएंगे और फिर ऊर्जा की गारंटी होनी चाहिए, उसको लेकर के हम आगे बढ़ना चाहते हैं। हमने इस क्षेत्र में विकास करना है तो skill development में भी बल देना पड़ेगा।\nइस कार्यक्रम में विशेष रूप से IIT जैसे हमारे Institution के हमारे students को बुलाया है। हमारे देश में यह बहुत बड़ी challenge है कि इस क्षेत्र में innovation कैसे करें। हम अभी भी पुराने ढर्रे से चल रहे हैं। यह young mind की जरूरत है और young mind का एक लाभ है, वो बड़े साहसिक होते हैं वो प्रयोग करने के लिए ताकत रखते हैं। जो अनुभव के किनारे पहुंचे हैं वो 50 बार सोचते है कि करू या न करूं, करूं या न करूं। अच्‍छा कबड्डी का खिलाड़ी भी Retire होने के बाद जब कबड्डी का खेल देखने खड़ा होता है, तो उसको भी डर रहता है कि अरे यह कहीं गिर न जाए, वो चिंता करता रहता है और इसलिए young mind जिसकी risk capacity बहुत होती है। ऐसे young mind को आज विशेष रूप से बुलाया है।\nमैं आग्रह करता हूं कि इस क्षेत्र में बहुत innovation की संभावनाएं है। innovation को हम किस प्रकार से ऊर्जा के क्षेत्र में हमारा mind apply करे। भारत को हम ऊर्जा क्षेत्र में सुरक्षित कैसे करे, स्‍वाबलंबी कैसे करें। उसकी पहली आवश्‍यकता है innovation, technology innovation, technology up-gradation, दूसरा है skill development. हमने skill development का एक अलग department बनाया है, लेकिन skill development को भी हम area specific, need specific and development specific बनाना चाहते हैं, requirement specific बनाना चाहते हैं।\nअब हमने एक बार हिसाब लगाया कि सिर्फ हमारे पेट्रोलियम सेक्‍टर में जो काम करते हैं जैसे गैस की पाइप लाइन लगती है, अब गैस की पाइप लाइन लगाने वाला पानी की पाइप लाइन लगाने वाला नहीं चल सकता। उसके लिए एक special skill चाहिए। व्‍यक्ति वही होगा, extra skill की आवश्‍यकता है, value addition की आवश्‍यकता है। हमने ऐसे ही सरसरी नजर से देखा तो करीब-करीब 136 चीजें ऐसी हाथ में आई कि जो field level पर food-soldier जो है उनके skill के लिए करने की आवश्‍यकता है।\nहमने एक अभियान चलाया है। आने वाले दिनों में इन सभी sectors में हम skill development को बल दे और सामान्‍य गरीब मजदूर भी है जो यह पेट्रोलियम सेक्‍टर में, ऊर्जा के सेक्‍टर में मान लीजिए solar energy पर हम initiative ले रहे हैं। अगर solar energy में initiative ले तो solar energy में वो wire-man काम करेगा कि solar energy में skill development का नये सिरे से सिलेबस बने, नये सिरे से उनके लिए कहीं एक व्‍यक्ति या दो व्‍यक्ति एक साल के दो साल के जो भी आवश्‍यक हो Skill Development Mission के साथ जोड़कर के हम पेट्रोलियम सेक्‍टर में भी ऊर्जा के सेक्‍टर में भी, ऐसी कितनी भी नई चीजें – और मैं तो चाहूंगा हम कंपनियों के साथ मिलकर के इसको करें। कंपनियां भी पार्टनर बनें और कंपनियों के साथ मिलकर के करेंगे तो Human Resource Development यह भी हमारे लिए उतना ही आवश्‍यक है जिसको लेकर के हम आगे बढ़ना चाहते हैं और मुझे विश्‍वास है कि हम आने वाले दिनों में एक प्रकार से innovation के लिए पूरा-पूरा अवसर, उसी प्रकार से इसको भी पाने का अवसर..।\n2022 में भारत की आजादी के 75 साल हो रहे हैं। देश आजादी का अमृत पर्व बनाने वाला है। जिन महापुरूषों ने सपने देखे थे भारत को महान बनाने के और इसके लिए आजादी भी अपने आप को बलि चढ़ा दिया था, जवानी जेल में खपा दी थी, अपने-अपने परिवारों को तबाह कर दिया था, इसलिए कि हम आजादी की सांस ले सके, हम आजाद भारत में पल-बढ़ सके। हम वो भाग्‍यशाली लोग हैं, जो उनकी तपस्‍या और त्‍याग के कारण आज आजादी का आनंद ले रहे हैं। क्‍या हमारा जिम्‍मा नहीं है कि जिन महापुरूषों ने देश के लिए इतना बलिदान दिया हम उनको कैसा भारत समर्पित करेंगे। कैसा भारत देंगे। 2022 जबकि हिंदुस्‍तान की आजादी के 75 साल है। इस ऊर्जा के संगम में जो लोग आएं हैं मैं आपसे आग्रह करता हूं कि 2022 में जब देश आजादी का अमृत पर्व मनाए तब आज हम ऊर्जा के क्षेत्र में करीब 77% import करते हैं। तेल और गैस और पेट्रोलियम सेक्‍टर में। क्‍या आजादी के 2022 के पर्व पर, अमृत पर्व पर हम यह 77 में से कम से कम मैं ज्‍यादा नहीं कर रहा हूं, 10% import कम करेंगे, हम उतना 10% growth करेंगे, स्‍वाबलंबी बनेंगे यह सपना लेकर के आज हम कट कर सकते हैं क्‍या। एक बार हम 2022 में 10% import कमी करने में सफल हो जाते हैं, 10% growth करके हम उस ऊंचाई को पार कर सकते हैं तो मैं आपको विश्‍वास दिलाता हूं कि 2030 में हम यह import को 50% तक ला सकते हैं। लेकिन First Break-through होता है, पहला Break-through और मैं मानता हूं कि आजादी के दीवानों से बड़ी प्रेरणा क्‍या हो सकती है। आजादी के मरने-मिटने वालों को याद करके कह कि मैं इस क्षेत्र में काम कर रहा हूं, मैं मेरे देश को यह देकर के रहूंगा, आने वाले पांच-सात साल मेरे पास हैं। मैं पूरी ताकत लगा दूंगा और मैं देश में यह स्थिति पैदा करूं, ये सपने हम देखे कितने क्षेत्रों में initiative लिये है।\nहम मेगावाट से बाहर नहीं निकलते, हम गीगावाट की चर्चा करने लगे हैं। 100 गीगावाट solar energy, 60 giga-watt renewable energy, wind energy की दिशा में जाना यह अपने आप में बहुत बड़े सपने हमने देखे हैं। इन सपनों से आगे बढ़ेंगे तो हमारा import कम होगा। और 10% Growth...वो तो हमारी growth requirement है..लेकिन हमारा जो Growth होगा वो 10% से ज्‍यादा लगेगा, तब जाकर के हम 77% से 10% कम कर सकते हैं। तो हमारे लक्ष्‍य ऊंचे होंगे, तब जाकर के हम इसको पूरा कर सकेंगे और मैं चाहूंगा कि उसके लिए हम प्रयास करें।\nएक क्षेत्र की जितनी कंपनियां है, समय की मांग यह है कि हमारी ऊर्जा क्षेत्र की जितनी कंपनियां है Government हो चाहे वो Private कंपनियां हो, हम भारत के दायरे में ही अपने कारोबार को चलाकर के गुजारा करे यह enough नहीं है। हमारी इन कंपनियों को target करना चाहिए, जल्‍द से जल्‍द वो Multinational बने, क्‍योंकि ऊर्जा का एक पूरा Global Market बना हुआ है।\nएक मैं देख रहा हूं कि इन दिनों energy diplomacy एक नया क्षेत्र उभर गया। वैश्विक संबंधों में energy diplomacy एक requirement बन गई है। हमारी कंपनियां जितनी Multinational बनेगी, उतना मैं समझता हूं इस क्षेत्र में अपनी पहुंच बना पाएंगे, अपनी जगह बना पाएंगे। उसी प्रकार से ऊर्जा के क्षेत्र में India and Middle East, India and Central Asia, India and South Asia Corridor बनाना और उसको गति देना हमारे लिए बहुत आवश्‍यक है। आने वाले दिनों में इस क्षेत्र में काम करने वाले हमारे सभी महानुभव इन चीजों पर focus करके कैसे काम करे। कुछ ऐसे अनछुए क्षेत्र हैं, जिसमें हम अपना पैर पसार सकते हैं, कि North America और Africa में Gas Power के रूप में हम स्‍थापित कर सकते हैं क्‍या? मुझे विश्‍वास है कि अगर इन सपनों को लेकर के हम अगर आगे बढ़ते हैं, उसी प्रकार से हमारे जो बंदरगाह है उसके साथ LNG terminal का network उसके साथ हम कैसे जोड़ सकते हैं। कई ऐसे विषय है कि जिसको अगर हम बल देंगे तो मैं समझता हूं कि हम इन चीजों को पार कर सकते हैं और यह बात निश्चित है कि ऊर्जावान भारत ही विश्‍व को नई ऊर्जा दे सकता है। अगर भारत ऊर्जावान बनेगा तो विश्‍व को नई ऊर्जा मिलने की संभावना है, तो 1/6 population के नाते दुनिया हमारे लिए क्‍या करती है इन सपनों से बाहर निकलकर के हम विश्‍व के लिए क्‍या करते हैं, यह सपने देखकर के चलेंगे तो देश का अपने आप भला होगा।\nमैं फिर एक बार इन तीनों संस्‍थाओं को बहुत-बहुत शुभकामनाएं देता हूं, विभाग के इन सभी साथियों को उनके achievement के लिए हृदय से अभिनंदन करता हूं, बहुत-बहुत धन्‍यवाद।"