"Share\n\nAll the beloved brothers and sisters, who came in large numbers and especially friends from Maharashtra, greeted them,\nBole So Nihal..Set Mr. Akal! Martyrs ... stay silent! Shaheedo..Keep on! Martyrs ... stay silent!\nToday is a big motivational watch for me. Every new citizen of the country gets a new inspiration, whose name is on the ears like the mother of Sardar Bhagat Singh ji, Sukhdev, Rajguru, Batukeshwar Dutt and Bhagat Singh ji, on the earth with a brave mother, I have had the opportunity to bow down the samadhi of heroes. This is the specialty of the land of Punjab. This earth has given the highest sacrifice in the battle of freedom. Many brave soldiers have given martyrdom while holding the front of the border to protect the country ... and the farmers of this country filled their food reserves with the sweat of their farmers to pursue the country. This is such a land, where even before independence, the people here live for the country and live for the country even after Independence. I respect this earth, all the heroes here, and all the valiant mothers here.\nThe British did .. how much was the fear of Bhagat Singh .. It was decided that on March 24 Bhagat Singh Ji will be hanged. But the scared English Sultanate hanged Sardar Bhagat Singh ji, breaking all the traditions, violating all the rules And not only that, instead of giving that body to their families, the Sultanate did the work of collecting the garbage from the Lahore jail and collecting garbage in kerosene and side by side without any respect. That is the earth, here his body got dissolved. I have come today to salute Bhagat Singh, Sukhdev Rajguru .. that great tradition of those heroes.\nBrothers and Sisters, today, listening to any one name in India, young people and old people all become conscious of every corner in every corner of India, the inspiration is found, that name is Sardar Bhagat Singh. In that name it is the strength, which still inspires the country's youth to live and die for the country. Such great men sacrificed, then the country of liberation was free. To fulfill their dreams .. and to fulfill those dreams as much as we can to make India as India was.\nOur village is populated, our farmers are happy, our young people are employed, dalit, afflicted, exploited, deprived, village, poor, city laborers, there is a change in their lives. Unless we bring this change in the country, the true tribute to the great men who sacrificed for the country will remain incomplete.\nBrothers and sisters is our dream too, it is our duty to make this mother of mother Sujamam, Suphalam. It is the mother of India, the young people can overcome new heights in life according to their aspiration, everyone gets opportunity, development, and the effort to take such a country to new heights, we all have the responsibility. Then go to these great men will be a true tribute.\nWe've dreamed - 2022! When 75 years of India's independence will be fulfilled. 75 years of our country is a nectar festival. This nectar festival has special significance. When we celebrate Amrit festival in 2022, then there should not be any family in this country who does not have a house to live in.\nI have come here today on the tombs of Bhagat Singh ji, brothers and sisters. I remember the sacrifice of that great man and I feel like the poor and the poor person of the country. Whenever they celebrate the nectar of freedom, then find their own home. 2019! 150 years of Mahatma Gandhi will be complete How to celebrate 150 years of Mahatma Gandhi? Can not we please the great men of our country in the form of clean India? Is it not the responsibility of the hundred and a half million Indians of India that we have sacrificed our Mother India for which we have cleaned it, keep it neat and clean, we should fulfill this obligation and dream of clean India to complete 150 years of Mahatma Gandhi On the occasion we complete Every village, every street, every street, every family, everyone should fulfill their obligation.\nAnd today, March 23! Ram Manohar Lohia ji also has the opportunity of birth anniversary. Ram Manohar Lohia ji was such a Rajpurush, when he used to run a political movement, he took care of one thing along with his ideology. They used to run hygiene movement in their youth. Ram Manohar Lohia used to run hygienic movement continuously. Today is his birth anniversary, Bhagat Singh is the festival of martyrdom and when you remember these people living for Mother India, then our Bharat Mata is clean, every citizen who has passed new heights of development will have the opportunity. In this direction, we want to move forward.\nMy farmers, brothers and sisters, Punjab has saved the country from hunger. The farmer has done the virtue of giving food to the country, but now Punjab is getting deeper in the land. Danger has gone down the line too. Water is a gift given by God. Without saving water, we can not save the crops, save lives, and therefore I will urge the farmers of Punjab's farmers to produce crops, use modern science. Per drop more crop, micro irrigation, drip irrigation, sprinkler. A lot of cheeses have been accepted by science today. Occasionally until our farmer, the farm is not filled with water, his eyes do not rest. He feels that the entire farm will be fully filled with water, then the crop will be harvested.\nMy peasant brothers and sisters also belong to poor families .. I have seen all these things closely and therefore I tell you that science has changed and so I tell you a small talk. If a child remains sick in the house, does not increase weight, smile does not appear on the face, it is thin and the desire for the parents is that the son gets tired, the weight increases, the jogging. Parents, such as almonds, saffron, pistachios, pour this milk daily in the bucket daily, if the baby is not given to the child through the bucket, then will the weight gain? What will smile on the face? What will be the health? You will not even know. There is saffron, pistachios, milk with almonds, milk on the bucket, daily bathing with milk, but nothing in his body will be there. But if the sensible mother-father spoon one teaspoon of milk, start drinking 10 teaspoons, 15 teaspoons, 20 teaspoons daily, then the weight of the child will start increasing. The body will be saturated. The kind of nature that happens to the child, the same nature is of the crop and hence, by giving lots of water to the crop, the crop is good, such old ideas will have to be abandoned. Feeding the drop-water should be better than the crop, it will be good, there will be more yield in less land and then going to the water which is going down in Punjab, the water will come up. My brothers and sisters will save the rain water, drop-down water, put them back in the ground, then will be able to solve the problems of Punjab's water.\nWe have such a large network of canals, but the amount of water we should go to is not going as much. Water in the starting area reaches but water is not available where the canal is the last place. We have made a plan - 'Prime Minister Krishi Irrigation Scheme'. Under the scheme, our dream is to send water to every farmer's farm, to connect rivers, to clean canals, to construct new canals. If the farmer gets water then I assure that the farmers have the strength to produce gold from the soil, that my farmers are in the siblings and they can change the economic condition of India. That's the work and we have to go.\nI have to tell my family members a concern to me today and that concern. I am seeing that in the temptation of more crop, we are making such mistakes today due to which our land is ruined. The ground is losing its strength. If the Mother Earth will lose its power, then how will the children on this earth be nurtured? The way we use the chemical fertilizer. What has been done by Punjab farmers, our brothers and sisters! In what quantity, which fertilization should be done .. We are making a big mistake. Scientists say that science has proved that more than four times the use of potash is also wasted by the use of nitrogen crops, and also waste the land. Use nitrogen less than four times but how much is used in our Punjab, do you know? 57 times! You can imagine as if to give medicine in the family, but if you give more dose then death also happens. Because of the fact that nitrogen is multiplied, our crops and our land destroy us all. I urge the farmers of Punjab to give direction to the country, you lead the country and decide that we will not make the mistake of pouring more than the fertilizer requirement, we will not make such a mistake. Not only this, potash should not be used more than the phosphorus dabbal, otherwise the farming is ruined. But what we do, the use of phosphorus from potash inside Punjab is 13 times. While not more than two times. Tell me, my farmer sisters and brothers that Punjab, Punjab village, farmer of Punjab, Punjab's crop on which entire India is living, if the same thing happens then the entire country will die and so my farmers, brothers and sisters You have come to science, modern equipment .. and in which the government helps the whole. You use it right. It is good for us to misuse it, but we suffer a lot for a long time and so I want to specifically ask why my farmers, brothers and sisters should stay away from it.\nThe government has made an important plan for the farmers. We have implemented this plan and we want to reach you and it is - Soil Health Card. Like the Citizen's Health Card, how its body is, how blood is, how it is, what are the weaknesses, that all health card is revealed. Just like the nature of the human body, so is the nature of land too. Land also has diseases, there are drawbacks in the land but we do not know and because of that we can not use the land for which we can. To explain this, the government has planned to give Soil Health Card to village-village farmers. How is your land, how is your land's health, what are the deficiencies in your land, which crops can be good in your land, if you have to add medicines, then which medicine is needed, if you have to put Fertilizer Which Fertilizer is to pour, how much to pour, all these things are known by Soil Health Card, and if the farmer plans with Soil Health Card, then I assure that my farmer sisters and brothers also have a small farmer 40-50 rupees per year. Education, which is everything in surplus as the lack of knowledge, they will survive. My farmer will have a huge advantage. That's why we have done a lot of big work in the whole country, Soil Health Card. And I believe that the farmers of our Punjab will also be concerned about this matter.\nOne of my farmer's brothers sisters fell so the rain decreased last year. In many states of India, due to low rainfall, the farmers suffered losses, there was drought in some places and they were still wet from above. I know how big an objection has come to the farmers. I have ordered the officials of the Government of India, the Ministers, the work of the survey has started, the State Government and the Government of India together with you in the hour of your crisis. The damage done to you ... Our farmer can be able to endure .. In whatever state the government can help, the government will not be lagging behind in any condition. I want to convince you\nMy brothers and sisters, when I came here on this holy festival of Sardar Bhagat Singh Ji, on this holy festival, then I .. The government has announced in the budget .. Because Punjab and the farmer have unbreakable relationship and hence Amritsar It will be useful for farmers in such a institute for Horticulture Education. It will be started and today when I came here, we will build this new institute as Sardar Bhagat Singh Postgraduate Institute for Horticulture Research and Education in this form so that Punjab farmers The new generation will benefit from it.\nBrothers sisters, the Indian government thinks that if the country has to move ahead then states will have to move forward. If our states are not strong then the country will not be strong. If the states do not move ahead then the country will not move forward and therefore our plan of every government is to strengthen the states. Now this time, on the basis of the report of the 14th Finance Commission, Punjab alone is going to get big profit. I can well imagine how much Punjab can go by using these rupees correctly and I am confident that this money will be very useful in changing Punjab's life through progressive decisions under the leadership of Badal Saheb. Earlier, in the previous Five Year Plan, Punjab received 20 thousand crore rupees under the Five Year Plan from the Government of India. For the next five years, the siblings will be increased to 54 thousand crore rupees, more than double. Not only this, for the Panchayat and the municipalities, the Indian government had given the first four thousand crores, this time we increased the amount to six thousand crores. This will also help the village's person to take advantage of it. This time too, about four thousand rupees more than the earlier, more than four thousand rupees will come from the vault of the Government of India for the development of Punjab.\nThe situation has become such. There was a time that in the treasury of Delhi, about 60-65 percent of the country's all the treasures were kept. राज्‍यों के पास 35-40 प्रतिशत रहता था। हमारे आने के बाद चित्र हमने बदल दिया है। अब राज्‍यों के पास करीब-करीब 60-62 प्रतिशत राशि रहेगी और केंद्र के पास सिर्फ 38% राशि रहेगी और राज्‍य मजबूत होंगे। राज्‍य विकास की नई ऊंचाईयों को पार करेंगे। उस दिशा में हम काम कर रहे हैं।\nयहां पर रास्‍ते बनाने के लिए भारत सरकार की जो योजनाएं हैं.. रेल को बढ़ाने के लिए.. आज मेरे लिए खुशी की बात है कि अमृतसर से आनंदपुर साहब रेलवे की योजना का साकार रूप हमारे सामने खड़ा हुआ है। यह गर्व की बात है। आनंदपुर साहब यात्रियों के लिए एक मुख्‍य धाम है और किसी को भी हिमाचल में भी किसी जगह जाना है तो आनंदपुर साहब से ही जाते हैं। चिंतपुरणी जाना है, ज्‍वालाजी जाना है तो यहीं से जाते हैं। इस पूरे इलाके को इसका लाभ मिलने वाला है। एक प्रकार से विकास की नई ऊंचाईयों को पार करने की दिशा में हम लगातार प्रयासरत है।\n..और मैं आपको विश्‍वास दिलाता हूं, मेरे पंजाब के किसान भाईयों-बहनों, आपने कभी सोचा था.. किसान 60 साल के बाद.. उसको कभी पेंशन मिल सकता है। सरकारी मुलाजिम को तो पेंशन मिल जाता है। किसान को पेंशन मिल सकता है क्‍या? 60 साल के बाद हर महीना उसको चैक मिल सकता है क्‍या? मेरे किसान भाईयों-बहनों इस बार भारत सरकार ने एक योजना बनाई है जिसमें Public Private Partnership के modal पर.. किसान को.. 60 साल के बाद अगर वो इस योजना से जुड़ जाता है, तो उसको हर महीना पांच हजार रुपया पेंशन की राशि मिल सकती है। हमारे देश के किसान का बुढ़ापा भी सुख, शांति और गौरव से बीते उस दिशा में काम करने का एक अहम कदम इस बार हमने बजट में उठाया है।\nभाईयों-बहनों इन दिनों किसान को गुमराह करने के लिए भांति-भांति के प्रयास हुए हैं। कल मैंने रेडियो पर मेरी “मन की बात” में, किसानों ने जितने सवाल पूछे थे, सारे सवालों के मैंने जवाब दिये और मैं किसानों को विश्‍वास दिलाता हूं कि अगर इस देश को आगे बढ़ना है तो किसान की रक्षा करनी होगी, गांव का भला करना होगा, लेकिन साथ-साथ किसान के बेटों के लिए भी चिंता करनी होगी। किसान के बेटे को रोजगार चाहिए। आज सेना में जितने जवान हैं वो कौन है? 80% से ज्‍यादा जवान किसान मां-बाप के बेटे हैं। किसान अपने बेटे को सेना में भर्ती करता है, युद्ध के लिए भेजता है। उसे मालूम है कि अगर परिवार में तीन बच्‍चे हैं तो तीनों का जीवन आज खेती से गुजरता नहीं है। हर किसान को पूछो कि भई आपके तीन बेटे हैं क्‍या चाहते हो? हर किसान कहता है – एक बेटा तो खेती करेगा लेकिन दो को तो कहीं भेजना चाहता हूं, कहीं नौकरी कर ले, रोजी-रोटी कमा ले, पढ़-लिख करके अपना करोबार चला ले। हर किसान की यह चिंता है। अगर विकास नहीं होगा तो किसान के बच्‍चों का क्‍या होगा? क्‍या मेरे किसान के बच्‍चे दिल्‍ली और मुंबई की झुग्‍गी-झोपड़ी में जिंदगी गुजारने के लिए मजबूर होने चाहिए?\nकिसान के बच्‍चों को भी रोजगार चाहिए, किसान के बेटों का भी भला होना चाहिए और इसलिए मेरे भाईयों-बहनों हमारी सरकार किसान का तो भला चाहती है, गांव का भी भला चाहती है, किसान के बच्‍चों का भी भला चाहती है। इस तरह एक लम्‍बी सोच के साथ, देश के विकास की ओर आगे बढ़ने की दिशा में हमने प्रयास किया है। आज वीर सरदार भगत सिंह जी के आशीर्वाद मिले, सुखदेव-राजगुरू के आशीर्वाद मिले, भगत‍ सिंह जी की माता जी के आशीर्वाद मिले, हमारा देश विकास की नई ऊंचाईयों को पार करे और नई ऊंचाईयों को पार करते-करते हम आगे बढ़े।\nभाईयों बहनों हमारे देश को भ्रष्‍टाचार ने तबाह कर दिया, बर्बाद कर दिया। कैसा-कैसा भ्रष्‍टाचार हुआ है! मैं आपको बताना चाहता हूं.. कोयला.. जब मैं यहां चुनाव में आया था और कोयले की चोरी की बात कर रहा था तो हमारे पुराने लोग जो सरकार में बैठे थे, वे गुस्‍सा हो जाते थे। सीएजी ने कहा था एक लाख 76 हजार करोड़ रुपया, अकेले कोयले में घोटाला हुआ है। यह आंकड़ा इतना बड़ा था कि लोगों के गले नहीं उतरता था। लोगों को यह तो लगता था कि भ्रष्‍टाचार तो किया होगा इनकी आदत है, लेकिन इतना नहीं हो सकता। ऐसा लोग सोचते थे। कुछ लोग तो ऐसे थे जो कहते थे - जीरो थ्‍योरी, जीरो थ्‍योरी। एक नये पैसे का घोटाला नहीं हुआ यह कहते थे। भाईयों बहनों 204 कोयले की खदान भ्रष्‍टाचार के कारण गुस्‍से में आकर के सुप्रीम कोर्ट ने रद्द कर दी। अब हमारे आते ही यह हुआ।\nपाप उन्‍होंने किया था.. बिजली कारखाने बंद हो जाने की नौबत आ गई। कारखानों में कोयला नहीं जाएगा तो कारखाने बंद हो जाएंगे ऐसी स्थिति पैदा हो गई। लेकिन हमने ईमानदारी की, पारदर्शिता की, नीतियों की योजना की और हमने तय किया कि हम सार्वजनिक रूप से Auction करेंगे, नीलामी करेंगे। और जो भी लेना चाहता है वो नीलामी में बोले पैसा, जो ज्‍यादा पैसा देगा, उसको मिलेगा। भाईयों बहनों क्‍या हुआ! 204 में से अब तक सिर्फ 20 खदानों की नीलामी हुई है, अभी तो 180 खदानों की नीलामी बाकी है। 204 खदानों में एक लाख 76 हजार करोड़ के घोटाले की बात थी। लेकिन यह घोटाला तो उससे भी बड़ा निकला। 204 में से सिर्फ 20 की नीलामी हुई है और आपको जानकर के आनंद होगा कि दिल्‍ली में आपने ईमानदार सरकार बिठाई है। उसका परिणाम यह हुआ है कि अब तक करीब-करीब दो लाख करोड़ रुपया सरकारी खजाने में आना तय हो चुका है। 180 खदान बाकी हैं। सब खदाने जाएंगी तो कितना बड़ा भंडार मिलेगा, यह रुपया किसके काम आएगा? गांव के काम आएगा, गरीब के काम आएगा, किसान के काम आएगा। देश विकास की नई ऊंचाईयों पर जाएगा।\nकोयला छोडि़ए, इन्‍होंने कोई जगह पाप करने के लिए छोड़ी नहीं भाईयों। सरदार भगत‍ सिंह जी आत्‍मा दुखी होती होगी इन लोगों के कारण। LED Bulb! बिजली बचाने के लिए LED Bulb लगाने की बात है। आपको मालूम है 2014 में सरकार ने LED Bulb कितने रुपये में खरीदे। करीब-करीब 300 रुपयों में एक बल्‍ब खरीदा। हमने उसमें गहराई से काम किया, Department को लगाया, व्‍यापक रूप से काम किया। कंपनियों को भी दबाया। कोई रुपया-पैसा देने की बात बंद करो, गरीब का भला करो और आपको जानकर के खुशी होगी कि जो LED का Bulb एक साल पहले कुछ सरकारों ने 300 रुपये में खरीदा था आज उसकी कीमत 80 रुपये में हमने लाकर के रख दी। एक बल्‍ब पर दो सौ-सवा दौ सौ रुपये, चोरी होते थे। करोड़ा बल्‍ब जाएंगे तो कितने रुपये जाते होंगे। भाईयों बहनों आपने हमें ईमानदारी के लिए बिठाया है, ईमानदारी से काम करने के लिए बिठाया है और उसका परिणाम है कि आज 300 रुपये में बिकने वाला बल्‍ब.. जो भ्रष्‍टाचार के कारण रुपये खाए जाते थे, हमने उसकी कीमत 80-85 रुपया लाकर के रख दी है। सरकार 80-85 रुपये में खरीदेगी और LED का Bulb पहुंचेगा और उसके कारण गरीब से गरीब के घर में बिजली की बचत होगी। किसी का 200 रुपये बचेगा, किसी का 400 रुपये बचेगा। गरीब का हमें आशीर्वाद मिलेगा।\nभाईयों बहनों ईमानदारी, देशभक्ति, अगर काम करने का जज्‍बा लेकर के.. सिर्फ देश के लिए जीना, सिर्फ देश के लिए मरना इस संकल्‍प को लेकर के चलते हैं तो कितने उत्‍तम परिणाम आते हैं यह आपके सामने मौजूद है। मैं फिर एक बार.. बादल साहब ने जितने विषय रखे हैं उन सभी बातों पर भारत सरकार गंभीरता से सोचेगी, उनके साथ भी मैं विस्‍तार से बातें करूंगा और भारत सरकार पंजाब के लिए जितना ज्‍यादा कर सकती है करने में कभी पीछे नहीं रहेगी।\nमेरा तो पंजाब से अनेक रूप से नाता है। एक तो मैं यहां कई वर्षों तक रहा हूं। एक प्रकार से मेरी शिक्षा-दीक्षा, राजनीतिक शिक्षा-दीक्षा का अवसर मुझे बादल साहब की उंगली पकड़कर के सीखने का मुझे अवसर मिला है। यह मेरा सौभाग्‍य रहा है। दूसरी बात, मेरा जन्‍म गुजरात में हुआ है और जो पहले पंच प्‍यारे थे, उन पहले पंच प्‍यारों में एक गुजरात के द्वारका का था और इसलिए मेरा तो आपके साथ खून का नाता है। इसलिए पंजाब के लिए मैं जो कुछ भी कर सकता हूं, मुझे करने में खुशी होगी। यह कर्ज चुकाने का अवसर मुझे मिला है। मैं उसे चुकाकर रहूंगा।\nइसी एक बात के साथ फिर एक बार मेरे साथ पूरी ताकत से बोलिये – शहीदो..अमर रहो! शहीदों..अमर रहो! शहीदो..अमर रहो! Thank you."