"\nGreetings to all my dear Farmer brothers and sisters!\nToday, I feel so fortunate to avail this opportunity. When I speak to farmers, I speak to the village and its residents, and also to the farm labourers. I am also speaking to the mothers and sisters who work on the farm fields. And in this context maybe the feeling is a little different from all interactions.\nWhen I decided to talk about farmers in Mann Ki Baat, I never expected that farmers from far off villages across the country would willing to ask many questions and would provide such information. I was able to get your letters and questions in such huge numbers. I can say that you are very aware and active and you all are probably the person who listens to you. First of all I would like to express my heartfelt greetings to you all. I have heard of your life Despite being so much misery, I can not imagine what you have gone through your life\nYou all have me aback but I take this Man to teach you a chance for education and experience. My dear farmer brothers and sisters, I would like to assure you, that all the questions and queries from different aspects that you brought to my notice will be addressed by me and I will bring my thoughts on those subjects on consciousness and sensitivity and not let my village, my poor people, my farmer brothers will not be forced into this troubled condition. I am shocked, farmers have written letters related to farming but they have also brought some other issues, like the problems of the village mafias and gangs. I can understand the problems related to natural calamities, but they are also facing the issues.\nSome farmers have been drinking contaminated water in their villages, some have raised concerns on their facilities, and some have also mentioned that there is no facility to dispose off dead animals, which leads to various diseases among the villagers . This suggests that today through Mann Ki Baat, the governing bodies are getting a unique opportunity to explain We are able to understand and provide solutions to all these small but important issues. I feel so embarrassed when I read your letters and think what we have done. I have no answer to this question What is we done? Yes, you have touched my heart I will try my best to bring a change and will awaken the sleeping government to run in the most appropriate way. This is my primary focus.\nI am aware that you had to face great difficulties. This year, due to the unseasonal rain and hail-storm, all the states had had a lot of difficulties. Farmers, across all corners of the country A poor farmer who leads his life through slogging in the fields I am sorry Our government is also taking stock of the situation, on various issues of the farmer and is in touch with different departments of the state. The ministers are also out of the field visiting different states and collecting reviews and analyzing its situation. I have also asked the government to work together with the government and strive to help. I can assure you that the government will take a decision on this difficult time. We will do whatever is possible to help you and do our best to meet those\nVillagers and farmers have raised various issues. Irrigation problem is one of the most important issues Farmers are also angry due to the unavailability of roads in villages. They are also unhappy about the increasing price of fertilizers. There is no electricity They are also unhappy about the fact that they are unable to educate their children, who in their wish is also a complaint. Mothers and sisters are angry with the drug abuse. Some women have also addressed the issues of tobacco intake by their husbands. I can understand your pain. Some farmers believe that they can only hear the strategies adopted by the villagers. Farmers have mentioned that they are slog day and night to provide food to the whole nation, but they never receive the full amount of money in return. When they go out to sell the crops and other farm products So, they are left with no other option They are doomed in both cases, if they produce more or less This means, farmers have brought their letters. I can assure all my farmer's brothers and sisters. I will inspire the government to speed up the actions I can say that you are losing patience This is quite natural as you have been waiting for sixty years. I will try to find a full-proof solution\nMy farmer brothers, I have found one primary problem among your various questions that are the 'Acquisition of Land Bill', prevailing in nearly all the states. I am shocked to hear these rumors It is good that you have raised such issues and questions. I will try You must be aware that the acquisition of land bill passed passed 120 years ago. Post-independence, this law was conducted in 60-65 years. Today, the activists, who call themselves as the supporters of farmers, also governed the country and the farmers. Everybody believed that there should be a change in this law and I too believe in the change. We were in opposition and we too believed in the change of law.\nIn the year 2013, a new law was passed in haste. We too supported the government If a law benefits the farmers, who will not like it, so we too supported the law. But after the initiation of the law, some of the concerns have raised in our minds. We feel that this way we will be betraying the hopes of farmers We do not have any rights to betray the farmers On one side, when our government was formed, we saw that all the states raised their voice to amend the law, to improve the law; The law must be modified to plug the loop holes. On the other side, we found that no government is ready to implement the law, only Maharashtra and Haryana governments under Congress rule was the farmers who are happy-wishers of the farmers, they brought a ordinance and decided that only half the decided amount as compensation What kind of justice After review all these points, we felt that some re-thinking When things are done, then some drawbacks remain The motive may be good but if there are drawbacks, then they should be rectified\nNow, I will speak most of the major drawbacks. All the people, who are self-proclaimed well-wishers of farmers Are you all aware that there are 13 different laws in our country through which most of our country's land, like Railway, National Highway and minefields is acquired. Are you aware that in the law of the previous government, these 13 areas have been excluded from the law? With this exclusion, I mean that the farmers will receive the same law You tell me, is this a drawback? This was a mistake or not? This was a mistake or not? We have modified this law and the farmers will receive four times the compensation, even if these 13 areas are used for railways or highways. We have tried to improve the law. Who would say that this amendment is against the farmers? This is why; we had brought a ordinance If we did not bring the enactment, the lands of the farmers were used according to the previous law and they would not have received their compensation. When this law was passed, many in the government too raised their voice against this law. Even those who were involved in the making of the law, got upset and said that this law is not beneficial to the farmers, nor the village or the country This law can be useful, it is said only to fill the treasury of the officials and for their enjoyment, to promote red-tapism If this was true, apt modifications should have been done or not? Thus, we have tried to overcome the drawbacks of the law. Firstly, we have included the 13 laws which were excluded under the Acquisition of Land Bill, so that the farmers are provided with the remuneration and all rights and they do not have to lose due to the exclusion. I have heard the rumors being spread, that is, Modi government is passing a law, which will provide less remuneration to the farmers and they will not get the full compensation.\nMy dear farmer brothers and sisters, I can not even think of committing this sin. In the year 2013, under the dispensation of previous government, the compensation which was decided in a bit We have decided to provide four times the compensation. Not only this, we have also included the 13 areas which were excluded in the previous law. We have also continued with the clause that in the case of acquisition of land for development of the city, the land owners have developed land of 20%, so that they all times financially benefited. The youth of the family gets a job We have also decided to provide We have also added a new program. The new addition is that the district authorities will have to announce that who will be employed from the family, in what field they will be employed Government has given the written announcement for the same. We have fixed this feature.\nMy dear farmer brother and sisters, we all agree that the government should be used first Post this, the barren land should be used Lastly, when there is no option left, the farm lands can be touched. So, we have started a survey for finding all the barren lands.\nWe have received complaints from our farmers With the enactment of this new law, I can assure you that before use the land, a survey will be conducted, and then it will be decided so that more than the required land is not acquired. Sometimes, in the foresight that something is going to happen, there is lot of damage. In the name of Social Impact Assessment (SIA), if the judicial proceedings are carried on for several years, how can a farmer be in this situation in a right decision? He can not decide whether to grow in the field, as he is in a fix as he will keep thinking that judgment can come any day. This will lead to two to four years of loss and things will be stuck due to red-tapism Due to the long and difficult proceedings, a poor farmer is forced to beg before the officers to get their work done - Sir, please write this, please do not write this .... this is going to happen, that is going to happen . I do not want to sell my officers to these officers. I do not think Processures were long and difficult I have tried this process simple and easy\nMy dear farmer brothers and sisters, the law was passed in the year 2014, but the states have not yet Farmers are still at the same place. States have opposed this law Please tell me if I want to say or not? I would trust the states or not? How can a country run without trusting its own states? So, I believe we should trust our states One, I am willing to trust my states and secondly the improvement in our country and secondly the improvement. movement, they are free to do so That is why; I would like to request you to do these rumors. These rumors are absolutely 'against farmer' rumours. It is the part of the conspiracy of keeping the farmers as always. This is a part of the conspiracy of not taking the country forward. Our farmers and our farmers also save as well.\nNow, if one were to ask the farmer residing in the village that what are your plans for your three sons? He will answer that one of them will carry the farming but the other two So, now even the sons of farmers They are too out of the house So arrangements need to be too So we have decided that whatever is important for the welfare of the village, the welfare of the farmer and whatever is important for the workers of the farming community, all such things should be connected. We are the ones who believe in \"Jai Jawan Jai Kisan\". Jai Jawan is the security of the country As far as the security of the nation is concerned, the farmers of the nation do not ever step back from their responsibilities. If some land is not required for national security And I have complete faith So we have added the clause for taking land for such purposes. I want to ask and not If water is needed in the fields, do not we need toals? There are still many poor families in the village who do not have a house to live in. Is not land required for construction of houses? Tell me is this for the industrialists? Is this land being demanded for the ultra rich? Try and understand the truth\nYes, there is something I want to announce without a doubt. In the new ordinance too, any private industryist, owner of a manufacturing unit, has had the same set of rules that were laid out in the Land Acquisition Act of 2013. The rules for the corporates are the same as in 2013. Then why this lies is being spread My farmer brother and sisters, misunderstanding is being created that you can not get your legal rights. This is entirely false. No government can take your legal rights. The constitution given to us by Baba Saheb Ambedkar ensures that you do not have any court in the country of any part. All we have done is to bring some sort of system to your doorsteps.\nWe have created an Authority. Now this Authority will work on the district level and the issues will be resolved by the district level itself by the Authority. And if you are not satisfied with these solutions This is the arrangement we have made.\nThere is a misconception that the law related to returning the acquired land in five years has been scrapped. This is not true, dear farmer brothers and sisters, we have never said when a project is undertaken, a timeline has been specified in terms of the number of years in which it is completed. If the project is not completed in the specified time period, then whatever farmer's wish to be adhered to So we have set a timeframe for government projects What is the case today, those lands which were acquired about 40 years ago, the government has not done anything on them. This can not continue any longer We have decided to set a time limit to governmental projects Yes there are projects which take time, maybe around 20 years For example if 500 km long rail track is to be laid then it will take time. So we want it all written down, the time frame in which a project will be completed. So, what we are doing is the responsibility of the government. We have fixed the government's responsibility.\nLet me also tell you something, dear farmer brothers Those sitting in the air conditioned rooms who formulate these rules have no idea of ​​the condition of the villagers. Whenever a dam is made or a reservoir is built, the rule is to acquire land till the point where there is a possibility of water getting to the maximum level in a span of 100 years. So the water gets filled once in 100 years. For 99 years no water gets filled Yet the land lies with the government What is currently happening in the states is that land has been acquired, compensation paid and still farmers are working on those lands. If the land gets flooded once in 100 years, that year can be taken. The law of 2013 All we want is that if the land does not get flooded then it will be available for farmers for cultivation. And so that land should not be acquired from the farmer. This kind of flexibility is necessary So the farmer benefits even after giving up the land and also get compensation in his land. This will be doubly benefit the farmers This kind of organization is both necessary and practical. And we are the ones who have thought about it\nAnother misconception is being promoted I urge you, my brothers and sisters to protect yourself from such politically motivated propaganda. The law which was promulgated in 2013 has no provision for consent in schemes. So people are being misled on this consent issue The issue of consent did not exist before, it does not exist now. And so my brothers and sisters, to say that it is beneficial for you before but it is not so now, this is a unfortunate attempt to mislead you I assure and insist that this consent clause is very much functional in case of private industries, corporate and individual enterprise.\nAnother thing I would like to share is the PPP model. Dear brother and sisters, if a road worth Rs.100 crore is made, will the corporate run away with it? The ownership of the government The owner of the government The construction agency is different The construction agency is different because the government does not require the amount of money. The government wants that a road be made in the village, as well as hospital and the poor children get education, so monetary investment is required. The private investors He does not take it with himself He makes it for the government In a way he invested his money. This means in a government project is the PPP model. But the ownership rests with the government and government means of all of you, of 125 crore Indians and therefore we have said there was no need for a consent. So it was necessary for me to dispel these myths around the PPP model.\nSometimes this issue of consent will increase red-tapism and nepotism Tell me, there is a village; A road has been constructed from that village, now a road has to be constructed till the next village which is 5 kms ahead. The road for the first village has been made, but the road to other village lies with the previous village. So tell me will the villagers wilfully give the road to the other village? Tell me will they give their consent? So what sin are the people of other village committed? Should they get the roads? Similarly, if I am making a canal, this village has got the water and we have to provide water supply to another village and the land falls with the people of the previous village who already have water and they deny giving their permission for acquiring their Land and say that we have already received the water, we are not going to give consent for land acquisition. So now you tell me, the people of the other village should get water or not?\nMy brothers and sisters, this is a practical issue. So we are evolving a process This is for the farmers' right, not for industries and industryists. It is the betterment of the villages, the villages and the benefits of their children.\nAnother issue is coming up I have said this before In every farmer family, the farmer wants to do farming and other sources of employment. Such are the times today If we make a road and government establishes an industrial corridor next to it, which is not private I re reiterate that a corridor by the government, not for the rich, or the industrialists, so if the government makes a corridor on the left or right of a 50 or 100 km road, then all the residents of the nearby villages - maybe 50, 100, 200 villages falling along it will have a chance for employment, their kin will get employment\nTell me dear brother and sisters, do we want the children of our villages to suffocate in the slums of Delhi and Mumbai Should they not get an employment opportunity near some 20-25kms away from their village? So this corridor will be made by the government The government will make these corridors and create these jobs for the villagers. This proposal is about government ownership, it is the betterment of the villages, the betterment of the farmers of villages, it is the betterment of the future generations of the villagers, it is the betterment of the poor of the villages, it is to make electricity The Land Acquisition Bill, which we have tried to solve all of these shortcomings of the bill authentically. Still I have maintained in the parliament that if anyone feels that some short comings, we are ready to make amendments.\nWhen we put the bill in the parliament, some leaders of the farming community gave us some suggestions and we added them. We still say that the land acquisition should be pro farmers. We have committed for this. There are lots of lies being spread. I request you, dear brothers, do not get swayed and do not make your decision. Important issues is how to make farmers strong The farmer should get his efforts; Farmers should get a proper market, a proper storage for their production. It is our effort to make the best of the villages and the farmers.\nDear brothers and sisters, their yield is increased by our farmers. And so we have introduced \"Soil Health Card\" If a person falls ill for a laboratory test, then it is similar to a lab test can be undertaken for our motherland. So we are working\nAnd so, not a land acquisition And so we have introduced the concept of \"Soil Health Card\" Every farmer is going to benefit from it. Your undue expenses on fertilizers Your yield will increase. That is the right price for your production, there should be proper granaries, proper rules and regulations and that you are saved from exploitation. I remember, when I was the Chief minister of Gujarat, I worked a lot in this direction. The condition of farmers in our Gujarat was very bad, we worked on the water issues and we saw a big change. The farmers made a huge contribution to the development of Gujarat which was beyond all expectations. The whole villages will be deserted We want this kind of change in the whole country, which makes our farmers very happy.\nAnd so my farmer brother and sisters, today I got a chance to talk to you. But the issue of the ordinance is making headlines every day. But my dear brothers and sisters, I will speak to you again and other issues. But I want to assure you that whatever you have written to me, I will shake the whole government and will make them the reality. I am happy that you have given me so many things and I believe that you have given me as you trust me. I want to assure you\nI wish your blessings and blessings at all times You are the elders of the country, you can never feel wrong This has been your tradition And these farmers do not suffer, should be the prime focus of my government Today, after listening to this \"Mann Ki Baat\" many thoughts have happened in your mind. Please do write in the Akashvani address. I will talk again Based on your letters, I will try to rectify all the mistakes I will try to speed up the efforts and I will try to justice\nWe are in the middle of the auspicious festival of Navratri. My Heartfelt Greetings to you All!"