"Share\n\nThis is a great unique type of model of construction. Owner-driven Reconstruction project. Originally this idea was started in Gujarat after 2001 earthquake. And when there was a Tsunami in Sri Lanka, the high-power delegation from Sri Lanka came to Gujarat. They wanted to study And for that when they came to Gujarat, they found this Owner-driven project. They were so enthited And I am happy that today's the owner-driven reconstruction project implemented.\nThere is a plan to build 27,000 houses under this project, and plan to set up 27,000 families. It means this is an effort to create more than 50 thousand children of such 27,000 families, their fate, which are small children of that family.\nThis house, brick and stone made walls is not just about. This house is not a building made by an artisan. In a way, India and Sri Lanka have a humble attempt to help the unhappy families of Sri Lanka, the victims of Jaffna, to be happy in their pain, help them and bring prosperity in their life.\nThe family whose house was worshiped today was worshiping. I asked that girl, how does a daughter feel? So he was so happy seeing his house. I asked him what do you want to be in life? What is the wisdom that he has answered and how much is the obligation? That little girl said to me, \"I want to be a teacher\".\nIndia has built thousands of homes. We have the satisfaction of it. But from the response of that girl, I think, when the teacher will become, the girls living in these homes will become a teacher then that - we will probably be able to build a house - but they will be able to make the lives of millions of people in the coming days.\nI wish all these families, who are getting their house today, wish their best. And I pray to God that he should cherish his dream in this house, live happier life, make many progress, go ahead by reading their children and become a strong foundation for serving Sri Lanka. These are my best wishes to all of them.\nIn the second phase, 45,000 houses, we are also going ahead with it. 26 thousand houses have been completed and we will complete the work too soon. This I assure Jaffnawas There will be four thousand houses in Central Yuva Province, where his work will move very fast.\nI again wish all the brothers and sisters of Jaffna best wishes for a very happy life and for the progress of Sri Lanka, by my side, there will always be cooperation and support from India, I assure you.\nThis is one of the last public events of my two-day trip to Sri Lanka. And it is heartening to me that this is my last event of the two-day journey which is a program to wipe the tears of the sufferers. In trouble, there is a new hope, a new confidence program for those who give life to the jigings. And this program is most satisfying to me.\nI wish you all very well. Thank you."