"All the senior executives present,\nAccount!\nTo be the first Prime Minister of India in Jaffna, I would not bow down to this earth without any program here, even if it was considered as a huge event throughout Sri Lanka and the whole world.\nJaffna is making a new identity. The whole world is experiencing a new fragrance of love message from Jaffna, the whole world is experiencing. And it is my good fortune that in this aroma of peace, brotherhood and goodwill, I also got the opportunity to breathe.\nChief Minister Mrs. Vigneshwar ji praised Gujarat very much. Those days in India who are moving forward by emphasizing Co-operative Federalism, appreciated them and what are their expectations from India? He also mentioned about him.\nRelations of Sri Lanka and India are of specific type. We're just neighbors, it's not like that. We are culturally interconnected people. Jaffna has had many ups and downs in her life. The people here have faced many difficulties. Here, the world-renowned Library, which had close proximity to almost one million books of the best type, Manuscripts, in a way, the priceless treasure of mankind, Jaffna. But that whole burnt water was found in the Khak. Once again a lot of texts have been re-assembled, the library has been once again revived. Road became a railway, became a railway station, became a port, became a airport - all these things are used to connect humans. But when books are made, where the book is, there is a work to add centuries. It has happened once again to link centuries, and for this I congratulate the heart of all the greatness of Jaffna.\nToday, I am glad that I got the privilege of coming here for the foundation stone of a Cultural Center. In connection with the construction of this Cultural Center, in relation to architecture. And by doing competition, it is decided, which design is it? And it was also seen that the traditions of Jaffna have an expression in it. And this, which was shown its video, was shown walkthrough. Clearly, the amazing combination of the old and the new has been done. It is a matter of pride for India that we have an opportunity to build a unique type of Jungle and Cultural Center of World Level.\nI assure Jaffnas to Sri Lankans that the Government of India has taken up this task, we will complete on time and will do better than imagination and it is a matter of great happiness for me that I also received an invitation for the Cultural Program. And this is how clear the Commitment is. This is how much Commitment is there in Commitment.\nToday, in a way, my journey is Triveni Sangam. Before coming here today I came to inaugurate railway in Talaimanar. The mind was so pleased that seeing the view that there is a railway track to the ends of the sea and there is Rameswaram. This project itself is a citizen of any Indian who has done this work, gives pride, gives happiness. Today, the railway project that has been launched in Talimanar, I believe, will give a new momentum to the development of this entire region.\nIt is another pleasure for me today that today we are releasing Jaffna's Housing Project. And in those times of crisis, the families which have tolerated. Today, when he meets his house, if he meets one of his home, the strength of his blessings is very large and in a way, we have been told here, the service Paramodharma: This Housing Project is one of the best religious functions that can serve In the form we have got to do. And what I am doing in this third project - I have had the opportunity to lay the foundation of a Central Cultural Center. And this way my journey has become Triveni today.\nI was invited to the Parliament yesterday, I was invited there. There was an opportunity to address me in the Parliament and I told the things of my mind there, which have been printed in newspapers today. Sri Lanka also has to progress. Unity and integrity will progress. Unity should also be harmonious and there is no land, no citizen, every one will get equal opportunity and everybody will have the possibility to move forward. These greetings will remain to every Sri Lankan citizen from India, every citizen.\nI say the experience of my political life. Peace, unity, goodwill - this is the basic mantra of progress, it is the basic mantra of development. And I also want to see you on new heights of development, I want to look at this surface.\nYou welcomed me, respected. I am very grateful to you and I assure you - whatever you can from India to progress and development of Sri Lanka. India will never be behind These friendships are centuries old and have lasting friendship. We will continue to play it.\nI once again thank you very much for all of you.\nVancam"