"Business representatives from India and Sri Lanka,\nDistinguished guests,\nI am happy to be here at The Ceylon Chamber of Commerce\nThank you for coming here in such large numbers.\nIt is a real honor to visit Sri Lanka.\nOver the course of these two days, I will meet people from all walks of life.\nFor me, this is one of the most important meetings in Sri Lanka.\nThis is because no matter how old and strong the relationship is, economic cooperation is often the locomotive.\nIt is also important for us\nOur path will be determined by our economic choices and the quality of governance. But, business enterprises will remain critical for our success.\nI often say that a neighbor's fortune There are many in India who will argue that India is too big to need her neighbors. There are many people in our region who worry\nI disagree with both views\nFor one, we need a stable and peaceful neighbourhood to concentrate on national development.\nI also believe that countries are well together\nI said at the SAARC Summit that the barriers of boundaries inhibit progress; international partnerships give it speed That is why we see a growing tide of regional integration and cooperation across the world.\nOur region is rich in resources We constitute a large market. We complement each other Therefore, our cooperation can be of huge benefit to all of us. There are already powerful examples in South Asia that show us that difference in size is no constraint to beneficial partnerships, if we have our strengths and our opportunities are seized.\nBhutan benefits from hydropower exports to India Nepal has significant manufacturing exports to India - in part driven by Indian investors Infrastructure, energy, supply chains, traditional handicrafts, modern manufacturing, tourism and services - there are no limits to our possibilities.\nI hardly need to tell this informed audience about the transformation unleashed in India over the past ten months. There is new purpose and clarity in our policies; a new vision for inclusive development; new standards in our governance; And, a new level of energy in our economy Last quarter, India was the fastest growing global economy. We are confident that we can grow even faster.\nThe progress of one-sixth of humanity\nThe global confidence in India has been restored. The world`s engagement with India is a new level. But, the first claim on us should be that of India's neighbors. And, I will be happy if India is a catalyst for economic growth in our own region. That is why I speak of a neighborhood where trade, investment, ideas and people move easily across the borders.\nAnd, as I said in Kathmandu, Nepal, in November, India will do its part for the region. We will work to integrate our markets We will make trade smooth and possible through the most direct routes. We will invest in regional connectivity And, we will share our capabilities in science and technology with South Asia, from advanced medicine to disaster management or space science.\nAs a friend and neighbor, we will be able to visit Sri Lanka's economic progress.\nSri Lanka is a nation of many achievements and great strengths. It has education, skills and enterprise It has an excellent location. And, it has won peace now Sri Lankan businesses have shown that they can compete with the best in the world. Our garments and tea industry know that!\nWe are pleased to become Sri Lanka's biggest trading partner Our Free Trade Agreement in 2000 was a pioneering initiative in the region. It has given a big boost to our trade. Sri Lanka's export to India has grown sixteen times - yes, sixteen times - since then This is impressive by any standards\nI know there is a great trade unbalance. I am ready to work with them. I want to grow We will try to make it easy and smooth. That is the kind of philosophy of India Our agreement on Customs cooperation is a step in that direction.\nIndia is opening up to the world We offer duty free access to Least Developed Countries, including in South Asia And, India has Free Trade Agreements with ASEAN and others\nWe should ensure that Sri Lanka does not fall behind in the changing and competitive world. That is why India and Sri Lanka should move boldly to conclude a comprehensive Economic Partnership Agreement. You should also attract investments from India That should be the natural result of our proximity and your strengths.\nIndian investments can also upgrade and expand your infrastructure It is also natural that Indian investors are more likely to invest here because of familiarity and proximity. They are already here And, I know that there are many big commitments in the pipeline. They are looking for your support\nDuring this visit, I am pleased with progress on Sampur Thermal Power Project and the Trincomalee Oil Farm. That is good for Sri Lanka's energy security and for our partnership.\nSustainable development of the Ocean Economy\nI also believe that when we connect the lives of people, we strengthen the bonds between nations We have extended visa on arrival facility to Sri Lanka from April 14. We need to connect with our countries by air and sea.\nIndia and Sri Lanka were, in some ways, better connected in the past In the past, a person could buy a rail ticket in Colombo and travel to Chennai by rail and ferry! Air India's decision to launch direct flights\nTourism unites people and creates economic opportunities. India is already the biggest source of tourists here We will work together\nIn conclusion, let me return to the point India's progress gives us the ability to create opportunities for our neighbors. Our development partnership has injected commitments of 1.6 billion dollars in assistance from India That has helped rebuild and upgraded infrastructure in Sri Lanka.\nToday, we have offered another Line of Credit of about 318 million dollars for the railways sector. The Reserve Bank of India has agreed to provide Central Bank of Sri Lanka a currency swap arrangement for 1.5 billion dollars. Sri Sri Ranke Rupee\nIt is not just development partnership We will also be supportive in advancing your commercial interests. I believe in Sri Lanka`s capabilities We should engage more We should open\nWe should move forward with greater belief in our own strengths; more trust in each other; And, with more confidence in our partnership\nAs I was saying before, Sri Lanka has the most successful We will be able to make it happen\nThank you and wish you all the best. Thank you very much"