"Share\n\nThe people of India are our high command We are committed to serve them and fulfill their aspirations: PM Modi\nThe Congress does not have the courage to confront Modi Such cheap level of politics is unacceptable: PM\nCongress-led government in the state and center created a 'BIMARU' state with its poor governance and corrupt activities: PM Modi\nSardar Patel He worked for farmers' welfare and empowered them: PM Modi\nBJP is committed to farmer welfare In the last 15 years, under Shivraj Singh Chouhan Ji's leadership, Madhya Pradesh has seen rapid strides in agriculture sector: PM\nCongress manufactures and spreads lies Smt. Indira Gandhi Ji gave the slogan of 'Garibi Hatao' but they were unable to eliminate poverty: PM\nBharat Mata Ki ... Jai ... Bharat Mata Ki ... Jai ... Bharat Mata Ki ... Jai!\nMy colleague of the Council of Ministers, Dr. Virendra Jee, MP Bharal Prahlad Patel, Nagendra Singh Ji, Chairman of Damoh district Devnarayan ji, Mr. Jitendra Singh of Chhatarpur, Mr. Pushpendra Pratap Singh, Former District President, Mr. Akhilesh Ayechi, President of Tikamgarh, District of Panna President Mr. Sadanand Gautam ji and our party dedicated to the service of Bharatiya Janata Party and your service in this election Dwar ... Smt. Lalita Yadav from Barmal Malla ... Harishankar Khatik from Jatara, Manendra Singh ji from Maharajpur, Brijendra Pratap Singh from Panna, Archana Singh from Chhatarpur, Pushpendranath Pathak from Bijawar, from Pata Pendibenath, Pateria ji, Mr. Abhay Yadav from Prithipurpura, brother Rajesh Prajapati from Chandla, Mr. Rahul Lodhi from Khargapur ... You can listen to the glory of India's mother by raising both of your hands. Te and give our blessing to all these fellows ... Bharat Mata Ki Jai ... ... Bharat Mata Ki Jai ... ... Bharat Mata Ki ... Glory! Thanks a lot.\nMaharaja Chhatrasal ... By pronouncing the name, the crown is proudly elevated, the cena gets widened. By joining the roots of history, the resolve to create a new history also makes it self-conscious. Brothers and sisters, today I have come to take blessings for you. But the accident which happened in Satna in the past, the children who lost their lives, I am also in the grief of all of you. I am in the grief of their families and those who are in the hospital, pray to God for their health benefits very soon. Brothers and sisters, we are entering into the last round of elections and as the last phase of the election is approaching, the enthusiasm of the BJP is increasing. And in the camps of the Congress ... Now there are no dreams of making a government there, now who will save their bailout here is a matter of concern. Brothers, I used to come Chhatarpur earlier too. As a worker working in the organization, I am familiar with the rallies of Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and you are witness to this that you have been witnessing that change in our whole Bundelkhand in the past 15 years. These changes have brought no kings, neither have Maharaj brought, they have brought Shivraj. And brothers and sisters, when you are going to vote, you have to remember what was the reason that 15 years ago you had cleared the Congress party by selecting it. No one was allowed to escape in the corner. Why was this your anger? Why was there so much resentment towards your Congress? This displeasure was because he used to do politics, racism, brother-niece, self-defeating, fight against one another, create a gap in society, and divide it into politics and considered him the politics, and with his election math Used to lay down. And at that time the Chief Minister of the Congress, he is still speaking on the issue of Danke, that there is no need to win the development-development election. Just by combating caste-system, two elections will win. Those who play these games have crushed your dreams.\n15 years ago, that means 55 years of Congress rule and 15 years rule of BJP Shivraj ji, you should weigh the scales and see that the old age people here are 30, 40, 50, 60 or 80. ..When you spent 15 years ago in the Congress rule, the difficulties that you have lived in, whether any of you wants to force your children, your sons and daughters to live such a life. What ... would you like a life of such trouble ... your sons should not get the road, do not get the road, will you like such a life ... Do not meet the hospital, Do not get doctor, will you like such a life ... Do not move forward without corruption, will like such a life ...? If you do not want that life again, then Madhya Pradesh, Chhatarpur, Panna, everybody will have to decide that our parents have made a mistake, we have made a mistake, 55 years, but now our children Do not make the mistake of bringing the Congress back for the future of the future. You agree with my point ... by closing both fists, give me an answer, agree..Continue?\nBrothers and sisters, today, where Madhya Pradesh has reached, now there is strength in putting a huge jump. For 15 years, in the process of taking out Madhya Pradesh, now there is an opportunity to move forward very fast in a true sense, do not let this chance go or else the 55-year old story will be repeated in Madhya Pradesh. And so, brothers and sisters, I have come to request you. Now look at the irrigation work. I have full knowledge whenever the matter of Bundelkhand comes, then water will be discussed first. The talk of Chhatarpur will come, water will be discussed first. And when I used to stay in the organization at that time then I was told here. If I had stopped at night then I would have said that I would have to wake up early in the morning because there was trouble in coming water, for a bath I would have got to take bath and I had to do that because the Congress governments used to be, drinking water for bathing There were also times of trouble. He used to experience himself when I came here to do the work of the organization.\nBrothers and sisters, today there are many things done in our area of ​​irrigation. You tell me that this Barirapur Dam, who had kept this hanging..Briarpur Dam who kept hanging for so many years? Who did not let the work of Bariyarpur Dam complete ... Who kept the water without water? Brothers, will you forgive such a Congress? This came as the government of Shivraj ji, the government of Bharatiya Janata Party came to you that the whole work of your Barripur Dam was done and the work of bringing water to the farmers was done. Brothers and sisters, after becoming our government in Delhi, we took out 14 such schemes in Madhya Pradesh, which was a living specimen of the working style of Congress ... For the years even today, incomplete, half-money drowned, half a penny Gone, the work remained incomplete, got into a dispute with the contractor, and all the money was lying in the game to share the rupees. We have explored 14 major schemes by searching from Madhya Pradesh and today millions of hectares of land are getting water. By completing 10 out of 14 plans we have done the work of sending water to the brothers.\nWith an Prime Minister's Irrigation Scheme, an effort to irrigate nearly 3 million hectares of land in the entire country and 1.5 lakh hectares of land in it, this is the land of the farmers of Madhya Pradesh, where the water supply is done and my farmer, My Chhatarpur Citizens, if he gets water once, then he has the power to produce gold from soil.\nHe is ready to shed his sweat in water and has the power to create a new energy from the water through perspiration. This is my farmer of Chhatarpur and for that we have carried forward this work. Brothers and sisters, our Chhatrasal University, proud of the area's youngest Chhatrasal University do not do that? Is this Chhatrasal University today making a name in Madhya Pradesh or is not it? This Shivraj can live, Bharatiya Janata Party can do it, it is not the disease of the bus of Congress, it is not the work of Raja-Maharajas, this is what people are sitting on the hearts of Janardananda, for the people who He can do the same.\nBrothers and sisters, our small ponds in this area ... who had a lot of access in the times of Congress ... they had occupied ponds too ... they had sat down to become owners ... this Shivraj Ji evacuated the ponds, removed the illegal occupants, attempted to revive the ponds, and to bring the water, to remove the encroachment, make the ponds alive ... creating new ponds ... rain drop drops Save it, its The big campaign today is possible by Shivraj ji, who will solve the problem of water here.\nBrothers and sisters, this is our Madhya Pradesh ... In India, Madhya Pradesh is a geographical place that can become a major center for attracting travelers all over the country. If someone comes here somewhere, then he can think of Madhya Pradesh. That work will be done in the coming and going expenses and in our area there is a lot of possibility to promote tourism. On the land on which there are Khajuraho, which is the sanctuary of panna on earth, how big power can be for tourism, brothers and sisters, we are working towards strengthening it. And tourism is such an area ... At least capital is employed in tourism by employing more and more people. When tourism comes out, tourists come from outside, small guest houses earn, taxis earn, cakes earn money, toys sellers earn, fruit sellers earn, temple worship items The seller earns, taxicaber-autowala earns, tea seller earns. And that's why, brothers and sisters, at least the capital investment is in the field of greater employment prospects and that is why ... and when it is our place in the 12 major places of the country like Khajuraho, Tajmahal and Ajanta-Ellora. ..India Government has made a detailed plan to promote this tourism. For developing such theme-based tourism, it is estimated to cost Rs 10 thousand crore. You can imagine when tourism will increase, so much benefit here.\nBrothers and sisters, we are trying our best to promote technology in our country. Now technology is not a game of big wealthy house ... This technology is the mobile phone in the hands of the poor and we are working to give them this strength inside them. Creating a huge weapon of empowerment. We have created 3 lakh common service centers. There are 2.5 lakh Panchayats in the country, 3 lakh Common Service Centers have been created and all the schemes of the government can get the village man from his common service center in his village through technology. Now that he has to make reservations for the railway then he does not have to go to the railway station from his village, he can go to the Common Service Center and book his railway ticket and decide when to go. His time and money are saved. He does not have to go to the government office to take a form, he gets the form at the Common Service Center. To get the form, the government office has to spend Rs 215, not to spend the rent, he can give his own form there. If the farmer has to remove his insurance, then his application is available to him there. This common service center and its inside ... and when there was a Congress government, there were about 70-80 thousand common service centers in the country. Within 4 years of coming, we created 3 lakh common service centers, and about 10 lakh young people got jobs in the Common Service Center only, and daughters have got the opportunity to run their own Common Service Center in their own village. . In the thousands of my 10th-12th studies, my daughters have also started the Common Service Center and also have been making livelihood and have been serving the village. We have done this work.\nBrothers and sisters, our effort is that the young man of our country ... and this thing is certain ... the young man of my country also wants the life of self respect. The young man of my country does not want to spend any favor on someone's favor. Government parents, government parents, government parents can not run this monarchy tradition in democracy. Here the young man of my country, he is also my boss, I also own the government. Our hundred and fifty million people are our high command. It is not a remote control government; Some madam sit in the house and run the government with a remote control, it is a government that is aimed at the high command of 100 million people. Brothers and sisters And that's why employment ... Today the young man of the country wants to make his own life decisions, wants to stand on his feet. She wants to be an employer rather than a person who gets employment, rather than a buyer. Those who have grown up in the mentality of the monarchy, have been born with spoon of gold, nothing is seen except the royal houses, for them the government will give them, the government will give it and the people depend on the government ... the same trust Forcing them to live ... This is their habit of Rajshahi-era, the family remained even after independence. We have changed that thinking, we want to give strength to the youth of the country to stand on their feet, want to give empowerment, to strengthen, to intensify their intentions, and for this we bring the Prime Minister's money scheme. . We opened the bank doors to the youth of the country.\nThose who have dreams, who have a resolution, who have the power, who have good intentions, such millions of my youth intend to provide employment by standing on their feet and that is why we brought the Prime Minister Money Scheme. These Prime Minister Money Scheme ... We told the banks ... These big men loot the banks ... The old government had a telephone and you used to open the bank's vault. The amount of money the banks paid in the 50 years of the country in 2006-2014, in 8 years, it was given to the big money by opening the bank's vault at Madam's government. तिजोरी खाली कर दी बैंकों की, लुटा दिए पैसे, बैंकों को डुबा दिया। बहुत बड़ा पाप किया इन लोगों ने, हमने कहा-हम बैंकों के दरवाजे खोलेंगे लेकिन ये धन्ना सेठों के लिए नहीं, मेरे देश के नौजवान के लिए खोलेंगे, बिना गारंटी, बिना गारंटी लोन देंगे और हमने बिना गारंटी 1-1 करोड़ रुपये तक के लोन की योजना बनाई और मुझे खुशी है, इतने कम समय में 14.5 करोड़, आप विचार कीजिए हिन्दुस्तान में कुल परिवार है 25-26 करोड़। भारत में सवा सौ करोड़ जनसंख्या लेकिन परिवार 25-26 करोड़...उसमें से 14.5 करोड़ लोन स्वीकृत होना, ये अपने आप में हिन्दुस्तान के कितने परिवारों तक ये रुपया पहुंचा होगा, कितने परिवारों के कोटि-कोटि नौजवान अपने पैरों पर खड़े हुए होंगे। और वो तो अपने पैरों पर खड़े हुए...लेकिन किसी ने सैलून चालू किया, किसी ने टेलरिंग का काम शुरू किया, कोई ऑटो ले आया, कोई टैक्सी ले के आ गया, किसी ने गेस्ट हाऊस बना दिया, किसी ने ट्यूशन क्लास शुरू कर दिए, अलग-अलग काम शुरू किए उन पैसों से और खुद अपने पैरों पर कमाई शुरू की...2-4 लोगों को और भी रोजगार देने का काम उस नौजवान ने किया है।\nदेश में रोजगार कैसे बढ़ते हैं...वो राजाशाही मानसिकता में, सोने के चम्मच लेकर के पैदा हुए लोगों के दिमाग कन्फ्यूज हैं, जिनका दिमाग कन्फ्यूज है उनको समझ नहीं आता है। उनका दिमाग कन्फ्यूज है और उनकी पार्टी फ्यूज है। और इसीलिए भाइयो-बहनो, और अकेले मध्य प्रदेश में 1 करोड़, 1 करोड़ मुद्रा योजना के लोन स्वीकृत हुए हैं। ये नौजवानों ने मध्य प्रदेश में खुद के पैरों पर तो कमाया है औरों को भी कमा कर देने का काम उन्होंने किया है। लेकिन भाइयो-बहनो, कांग्रेस पार्टी...इस चुनाव में ना उनकी चार पीढ़ी ने काम क्या किया इसका हिसाब देने को तैयार है…55 साल मध्य प्रदेश में राज किया, क्या काम किया ना उसका हिसाब देने को तैयार है। शिवराज जी की सरकार ने क्या काम किया, उसकी चर्चा करने को तैयार नहीं है। मोदी ने आपकी चार पीढ़ी...चायवाले के 4 साल, आपकी चार पीढ़ी और चायवाले के 4 साल...हम देश को कहां से कहां पहुंचा के उसकी चर्चा करने के लिए तैयार नहीं हैं...और आपने देखा होगा मोहल्ले में भी जब लड़ाई होती है, पानी का झगड़ा हो जाए, कूड़े-कचरे का झगड़ा हो जाए और जब कोई...उसके पक्ष में सत्य न हो, उसके पक्ष में न्याय न हो तो लड़ाई के अंदर वो फिर सीधा मुद्दे छोड़ कर के तेरी मां-मेरी मां पर आ जाता है। जब मुद्दे नहीं होते हैं दारिद्र्य होता है, कुसंस्कार भरे पड़े होते हैं, अहंकार सातवें आसमान पर पहुंचा होता है, तब जा कर के किसी की मां को गाली देने की हिम्मत आती है भाइयो।\nआज मुझे दुःख के साथ कहना पड़ रहा है, आजादी के इतने साल जिन्होंने राज किया, उस पार्टी के जिम्मेवार लोग मोदी के साथ भिड़ने की बजाय, मोदी पर हमला बोलने के उनके सारे शस्त्र नाकाम हो गए हैं, तो अब मोदी की मां को गाली दे रहे हैं, मोदी की मां को बदनाम कर रहे हैं। जिस मां को राजनीति का र मालूम नहीं है, जो मां अपने पूजा-पाठ घर में अपने भगवान के स्मरण में समय बिता रही है, उस मां को राजनीति में घसीट के लाए, कांग्रेस के लोग मोदी से मुकाबला करने की आपकी ताकत नहीं है। पिछले 17-18 साल से सीना तान कर के आपको एक-एक मौके पर चुनौती देता आया हूं और...और आपको पराजित कर के आया हूं। और आप...यहां तक पहुंच गए...मां को घसीट के ले आते हैं! अरे यहां भी चुनाव भी लड़ने वाले लोग भी एक-दूसरे की मां की चर्चा नहीं करते होंगे। करते हैं क्या...करते हैं क्या...क्या कांग्रेस को शोभा देता है क्या..उनके नेता को शोभा देता है क्या? मैं सभी माताओं-बहनों से कहना चाहता हूं कि इस प्रकार की भाषा बोलने वाले, और किसी मां को अंदर घसीटने वाले लोगों को जबरातोड़ जवाब माताओं-बहनों को देना चाहिए ताकि कभी किसी मां को बीच में लाने की हिम्मत ना करें। और कांग्रेस वाले ये समझते हैं कि मोदी को मां की गाली देने से उनकी जमानत बच जाएगी...भाई बच पाएगी...बच पाएगी? और मैं तो हैरान हूं वो सिर्फ मोदी को नहीं, हमारे शिवराज जी को भी ना जाने क्या-क्या गालियां देते हैं। वो तो नामदार है...हम कामदार हैं और नामदार को तो किसी को भी गाली देने का हक होता है जी। नामदार को कोई टेलीफोन आ जाए...बात करने में लंबी बात चल जाए और रखी हुई चाय ठंडी हो जाए तो भी नामदार गाली कामदार को देता है कि तुमने चाय ठंडी क्यों लाई? अरे भाई नामदार तुम टेलीफोन पर बैठे थे उसमें चाय ठंडी हो गई लेकिन गाली कामदार को पड़ती है। पाप नामदार करते हैं, गुनाह नामदार करते हैं, गाली हम कामदार खाते हैं मेरे भाइयो-बहनो। ये नामदार की मानसिकता होती है।\nमैं हैरान हूं...अरे शिवराज जी के खिलाफ मु्द्दों पे लड़ाई लड़ो ना। और उनको परेशानी है मध्य प्रदेश का बच्चा-बच्चा शिवराज जी को मामा क्यों कहता है? हर कोई...किसी के मुंह से मामा क्यों निकलता है। अरे जिसके दिल के अंदर दो-दो मां का प्यार भरा होता है वो ही तो मामा होता है। लेकिन कांग्रेस के राजा, महाराजा, नामदार नींबू की माला पहन करके, सारे पुरातन इतिहास, कथाएं, लोककथाएं उसमें से उनके जितने भी मामा जानकार हैं... क्योंकि लोग अपने अपनों को जानते हैं, जो उनके हैं उनको वो जानते हैं, जो हमारे हैं उनको हम जानते हैं...ऐसे-ऐसे मामाओं का नाम निकाला और शिवराज जी को मामा कहते हैं तो उन्होंने द्वापर युग को...कंस मामा को याद कर दिया, उन्होंने शकुनी मामा को याद कर दिया। अरे राजे-महाराजे...अरे नामदार...आप शिवराज जी को मामा लोग कहते हैं, उससे परेशान हैं और ऐसे-ऐसे मामा को याद करते हो...अच्छा होता अगर आप क्वात्रोची मामा को भी जरा याद कर लेते, जिसके लिए आपने घर के दरवाजे खोल के रखे थे, जिनको आपने हिन्दुस्तान की सुरक्षा के धन को लुटाने के परमिट दे दिए थे, बोफोर्स का कांड कर दिया था वो आपके मामा क्वात्रोची याद क्यों नहीं आए। आप मामा शिवराज को गाली देने से पहले जरा आपके मामा को भी तो याद कर लो, जो मामा क्वात्रोची और दूसरे मामा एंडरसन...बताइए मामा एंडरसन भोपाल गैस कांड के गुनहगार और ये नामदार के पिता जी की सरकार थी...स्पेशल हवाई जहाज में उनको अमेरिका पहुंचा दिया गया था। भोपाल में गैस पीड़ितों..हजारों लोगों की मौत के गुनहगार, उसको चोरी-छुपे से पहुंचा दिया था। अच्छा होता वो मामा एंडरसन भी तो आपको याद आता। अरे मामा क्वात्रोची और मामा एंडरसन जिसने देश को लूटा, भोपाल की जनता को मौत के घाट उतार दिया और आप मामा शिवराज को गाली दे रहे हो। जितनी गाली मामा शिवराज को दोगे इतना ही जवाब ये भांजा और भांजियां देने वाले हैं।\nभाइयो-बहनो, मैं आज जब आपके पास आया हूं तब ये कांग्रेस पार्टी, न उसकी नीयत बदली है ना उसके इरादे बदले हैं, ना उसकी आदत बदली है, क्योंकि कुछ बुराइयां उनकी रगों में लहू की तरह समा गई हैं। भ्रष्टाचार, ये कांग्रेस का शिष्टाचार है...भ्रष्टाचार, ये कांग्रेस के संस्कार बन गए हैं। और इसीलिए भाइयो-बहनो, जिस दल के संस्कार ही भ्रष्टाचार हों, जिस दल का शिष्टाचार ही भ्रष्टाचार हो...कांग्रेस के लिए भ्रष्टाचार ये लाइफलाइन है, कांग्रेस के लिए भ्रष्टाचार ये उनकी स्टाइल है और इसीलिए ऐसी कांग्रेस को किसी भी हालत में भाइयो-बहनो प्रवेश नहीं देना है। आखिर इन लोगों को मेरे से परेशानी क्या है भाई? उनको परेशानी ये है कि चार-चार पीढ़ी ने राज किया और आज ये मोदी की ताकत देखिए...नोटों की हेराफेरी में जमानत पर जिंदगी गुजारनी पड़ी है, जमानत पर जिंदगी। ऐसे तिलमिलाए, ऐसे तिलमिलाए हैं कि मोदी मिल जाए तो पता नहीं उसकी क्या कर डालें वो। हमने 4-4 पीढ़ी तक राज किया, अरे चायवाला समझता क्या है...हमें जमानत लेने के लिए मजबूर किया...ये आपके पापों का अभी तो पहला पन्ना खुला है, सारी किताब खुलना बाकी है। अब बच नहीं सकते, मोदी है तब तक लिख कर के रखिए, देश को लूटने वाले, देश के गरीबों को लूटने वालों को पाई-पाई वापस देना ही पड़ेगा, मैं छोड़ने वाला नहीं हूं।\nभाइयो-बहनो, इन लोगों को परेशानी इसीलिए है कि इस देश में नोटबंदी के पहले ऐसी-ऐसी कंपनियां बनाई थीं, एक 8 बाय 8 का कमरा...आप सोचिए 8 बाय 8 का कमरा, दो गाड़ी खड़ी रह सके इतना छोटा कमरा, ऐसे कमरे में 200-200-400-400 कंपनियों का एड्रेस था। 200-200-400-400...और उन कंपनियों के बैंक में खाते थे, कारोबार नहीं था...रुपया इधर से आता था...रंग बदलता था, काला सफेद होता था, उधर जाता था...उधर से उधर जाता था और रुपयों के चक्कर चलते थे चोरों की लूट चलती रहती थी। भाइयो-बहनो, मोदी ने ऐसी 3 लाख कंपनियों को ताले मार दिए। 3 लाख कंपनियों को...आप मुझे बताइए, ये 3 लाख कंपनियों के ताले लगे हैं, 50-55 साल तक कांग्रेस के राज में ये पाले-पोसे गए लोग..ये लोग मुझसे नाराज होंगे कि नहीं होंगे, मुझे गाली देंगे कि नहीं देंगे, मेरे खिलाफ षडयंत्र करेंगे कि नहीं करेंगे? 1.5 लाख ऐसे संस्थान जो सवालिया निशान की तरह हमारे सामने उभर कर के आए, ऐसे 1.5 लाख संस्थानों पर हमने कदम उठाए, हिसाब मांगा, जवाब मांगा। ये तिलमिलाए, 55 साल तक हमें किसी ने पूछा नहीं, अरे नामदार हमारे साथ थे, तुम कौन कामदार होते हो हमारा हिसाब मांगने वाले, चिल्ला उठे। भाइयो-बहनो, उनकी मुसीबत ये है।\nआप हैरान होंगे भाइयो-बहनो, अभी आपने खबर पढ़ी होगी, सरकार ने कालेधन वाले पर, सरकार के इनकम टैक्स डिपार्टमेंट अकेले ने 30,000 करोड़ रुपया, ये छोटा आंकड़ा नहीं है भाई, 30 हजार करोड़ रुपया...ये लोगों की चोरी पकड़ी जा चुकी है। भाइयो-बहनो, क्या ये चोरी करने वाले मोदी को पसंद करेंगे क्या...चोरी करने वाले मोदी को पसंद करेंगे क्या? इतना ही नहीं भाइयो-बहनो, जिन्होंने रुपये उठाए...मारे गए, और अब सरकार को बैंकों को पैसा देना नहीं चाहते हैं, कुछ लोग भागे-भागे फिरते हैं। अब तक ये बातें ये बताने को तैयार नहीं हैं, अब तक 35 से 40 हजार करोड़ रुपया उनका भी जब्त कर के रखा है। अरे विदेशों में उनकी जो संपत्ति थी उसको जब्त करने का भी कानून हमने बनाया और उसे भी जब्त कर लिया है। भाइयो-बहनो, कोई बचने वाला नहीं है और इसीलिए इनको परेशानी हो रही है, फर्जी कंपनियों के कारण परेशानी हो रही है। भाइयो-बहनो, मैं आपसे अनुरोध करने आया हूं कि भारतीय जनता पार्टी जो विकास के मंत्र को लेकर के चल रही है, भ्रष्टाचार को जड़मूल से उखाड़ फेंकने के लिए, 55 साल पुरानी बीमारी है उसको मिटाने के लिए मैंने बीड़ा उठाया है, मुझे मध्य प्रदेश में बीजेपी की सरकार बना करके दीजिए। मध्य प्रदेश में सफाई करने की मेरी सुविधा बढ़ जाएगी भाइयो-बहनो। आपके पाई-पाई का हिसाब आपको मिले, आपको पल-पल का हिसाब मिले, आपके सपनों का छतरपुर बने, आपके सपनों का मध्य प्रदेश बने, इसीलिए भारतीय जनता पार्टी को आप विजयी बनाइए।\nभाइयो-बहनो, आयुष्मान भारत योजना, कोई कल्पना कर सकता है, कोई गरीब परिवार अगर बीमार हो जाता है ना, मध्यम वर्ग का परिवार होगा, घर में बीमारी आ जाए तो पूरा परिवार तहस-नहस हो जाता है. लाखों के कर्ज में डूब जाता है, भाइयो-बहनो, क्या आजादी के इतने सालों के बाद, क्या मैं मेरे देश के वासियों को उनके नसीब पे छोड़ सकता हूं क्या? क्या मुझे उनकी चिंता करनी चाहिए कि नहीं करनी चाहिए और इसीलिए हम आयुष्मान भारत योजना लाए। अमेरिका की जितनी जनसंख्या है, कनाडा की जितनी जनसंख्या है, मेक्सिको की जितनी जनसंख्या है इन तीनों देशों की जनसंख्या मिला दें उससे भी ज्यादा लोगों को हिन्दुस्तान में आयुष्मान भारत योजना का लाभ मिलेगा। 11-12 करोड़ परिवार करीब 50-55 करोड़ नागरिक, उनके परिवार में कोई मुसीबत आ गई, बीमारी आ गई गंभीर तो आज 15 हजार अस्पताल, महंगे से महंगे अस्पतालों के दरवाजे उनके लिए खोल दिए हैं...और अगर उसके घर में कोई बीमारी आई तो 5 लाख रुपया हर वर्ष, हर वर्ष 5 लाख रुपये तक का खर्चा सरकार देगी भाइयो-बहनो, ये मैंने वादा किया है। अभी तो योजना लागू की है...मैं सिर्फ वादा नहीं करता हूं...वचन नहीं देता हूं, हमने लागू कर दिया। दो महीने अभी हुए हैं... इस देश के 3 लाख से ज्यादा परिवारों ने जो सालों से दवाई नहीं करवाते, जो ऑपरेशन नहीं करवाते थे, 3 लाख परिवारों ने ऑपरेशन का लाभ लिया और उनकी जिंदगी बच गई भाइयो-बहनो। ये काम करने का हमने प्रयास किया। और इसीलिए भाइयो-बहनो, आज मैं आपके पास आया हूं...इस देश के गरीब को ताकतवर बनाना है, इस देश के बच्चे को पढ़ाई, इस देश के युवा को कमाई, इस देश के किसान को सिंचाई, इस देश की जनता को सुनवाई, इस देश के बुजुर्गों को दवाई, इस संकल्प को लेकर के हम आगे बढ़ रहे हैं। आप मेरे साथ भारत माता की जय बोल कर के हमारे सभी साथियों को आशीर्वाद दीजिए। भारत माता की...जय...भारत माता की...जय...भारत माता की...जय!\nभाइयो-बहनो, आप लोग 28 नवंबर को वोट देने वाले हैं। भारी संख्या में वोट देना है, भारी संख्या में मतदान करना है। बहुत-बहुत धन्यवाद!"