"Share\n\nIt is a great privilege for me to come to this sacred site of Mahabodhak Society today and have the opportunity to take blessings of all the worship saints and I thank the heart of the President of Mahabodhi Society in particular for this. I am especially grateful to you that you have given me the opportunity to see the statutory relics and get the virtue.\nReceiving the blessings of Buddha Bhakshus. He prayed for our progress, for our unity, for our unity, for India and Sri Lanka - this thing is about touching my heart and I once again bow to everyone.\nSrimad Anagarika Dharmapala has played an important role in cultural and political renaissance in Sri Lanka. He has played an important role in the formation of Mahabodhi Society for the revival of Buddhism. This society has also contributed significantly to the glorification of the ancient temple of Mahadevi Verma located in Buddhadea.\nIt is said that if there is a country that is the oldest Buddhist religion in the world then that country is Sri Lanka.\nToday if we go to many countries of the world, we are seen doing this sacred work on Sri Lankan Bodhikshu.\nBuddha joins us all, and it is a privilege for me as Swamiji told me that when I was the Chief Minister of Gujarat I had organized an International Buddha Sabha. All great empires were coming from more than 20 countries of the world, you too were, because the common image is that the Buddha was influenced only in the eastern part of India but I came from Gujarat, from the western end of India, but there But the Buddha had the same effect.\nI have been fortunate that in the village where I was born, the Chinese philosopher Hiuen Tsang came to India about eight hundred years ago and he lived in my village for a long time in the description of India that he wrote eight hundred years ago. And he has written that in my village where I was born, there was a huge center for the training of Buddha monks. More than 10,000 people could live there, so was such a big hostel.\nSo when I became Chief Minister of Hiuen Tsang, I got excavation in my village. And you all will be happy to know that when all excavation was done then all the things were found - the big hostel, the centers of training of Buddha monks And not only that, there is a place here in Gujarat, excavation of God's Mori, that place, then the relics of Lord Buddha meet us in a Golden Box.\nAnd I had taken Thiru Ji, she had taken them to show all the things, to show them.\nAnd there was a dream of my mind, when I was the Chief Minister from where we got the relics of Lord Buddha, my dream is to build a magnificent Lord Buddha's temple. I always feel like the world is passing through the crisis today. This is the way of the Buddha who is liberating from war, which is living in fear of terrorism in the world.\nAnd once again I had the privilege of taking blessings of all saints at this holy place ... I once again bow to everyone. I salute for welcoming respect, and thank you all."