"Share\n\nSo much rain and today Working Day, despite this scenario - I will always be indebted to you for your love. I can definitely say that Mauritius has won me. I have made myself and when you have made me your own, then my responsibility also increases. And I assure you that India will not have any shortage to fulfill this responsibility.\nI congratulate all citizens of Mauritius. If any person in the world will see Mauritius today, will know the history of Mauritius, then what will he think in his mind? The same thought will come in his mind that hundreds of years ago, who came here as a laborer, who had been brought, have made this earth a paradise! How have this country taken to new heights! And then you have done hard work, you have shed the sweat, the suffering your ancestors have got, but Credit goes to our account. Because everyone thinks that Bhai, who are they? They are those who came from India, they are.\nAnd the world will recognize Hindustan that the laborer for the world was brought, which was brought up by the fields. Forcibly was brought. If he joins with life, he automatically creates a heaven on earth. You have done this work, your ancestors have done and therefore I am proud of being a Hindustani and I bow to you, I congratulate you and salute your ancestors.\nSometimes it is normal to see whether it is good or not, not to see all the mangos. If you see one-half mango, then you know, yes, the harvest is good. If the world looks at Mauritius, then he will believe how Hindustan will be. How are the people there? If the sample is so good, then how will godown be! And so in front of the world today India can say with pride that we are the people of the tradition of that great heritage that have gone through the same mantra.\nWhen India was known as gold-oyster in the world. When India was recognized as a cultured society in the world, at that time the people of that land did not even try to capture the world. The snatch of the other was not in his blood. A common person also speaks the language that the Prime Minister of a country speaks. The mildness of such thoughts, ease does not come like this, do not come from books, it is filled with our blood, and is filled with our sacraments. And our mantra was \"Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam\". The whole world is our family. We are the people of this element, and because of this, today no person of any Indian origin has gone in any corner of the world, so he has not tried to defeat anyone, to win everyone Have tried, have tried to create their own.\nThe year 2014 was also important for Mauritius. It was also important for India. India had formed mixed government for many years, the coalition governments were formed. One foot, then one foot, its one hand, then one hand. Mauritius also had the same situation. Even here, there was a mixed government.\nThe citizens of India who thought in 2014 the same citizens of Mauritius thought. Citizens of India made stable government with a full majority after 30 years. The people of Mauritius also gave a stable government with absolute majority. And the root cause of this is that the generation that is today, wants a change for generations. The generation that is today wants development, whatever generation it is today wants opportunity, not a favor. He is not happy with anybody's grace. He says that my arm has breath, give me a chance. I will make a streak on the stone that can be used to change the life of the world. Today's young man is not fond of making streaks, he wants to make a streak on the stone. His thinking has changed, his views have changed, and the hopes in his mind have become aspirational, the responsibility of governments is to take the nation to new heights of development to fulfill the aspirations of youngsters.\nAnd today, when I came in between you, my government has not had much time, but I am so confident that on the side of which India was not ready to see and even see, they were looking for an eye. . For the first time the world is not showing eye to India, trying to make eye contact with India. The country of 100 million people, can not it be an opportunity to change the fate of the world? Should not such dreams be snooped? Generals, Generals, Generosity, World Benefices The mantra which our ancestors have brought us to papa-pasa. Is there no demand of time, that we should give things to our world with our imagination, our own imagination, the world for which the world has been craving for centuries? And I promise, this power is in that land. It is in those rituals, which can give the world the path to solve the problems.\nToday the entire world and especially those settled on small islands are worried about what will happen after 50 years, hundred years later. Due to the Climate Change, will the earth not get absorbed in the ocean? For centuries, the ancients who worked hard to make Paradise, will not even dream of drowning? Dreams will not shatter? The whole world is worried due to global warming. And the small countries living on the islands have a deep concern for me that they should understand that this world does not sacrifice us for their happiness, this normal human thinks. And therefore, which is the principle, which is the guidance, which is the leadership, which, in this tradition of consumption, save the society, the generals everywhere, the people come forward for the praise of the superhuman life? When such a crisis arises, then India is the strength that power centuries ago ... When Mahatma Gandhi lived in Sabarmati Ashram, the Sabarmati river was full of water, there was a lot of water. It was a period of 1925-30, but even if someone gave water to Mahatma Gandhi and gave more than needed, Gandhi would be angry and say, \"Brother, do not waste water, give as much as you need, if half of it If you need gliass, do not fill it with full glue. \"The river was full, the water was in front, but the thinking was not of its own pleasure; thinking was the pleasure of the coming generations and therefore Gandhi gave us strength Areas that we have as much to use as much as we need. If the world believes in this little principle of Gandhi that we do not consume excessive consumption, then what will be the problem of climate? Will the ice melt? Will the ocean be boiled? And there will be a crisis of living and death in front of a country like Mauritius? Will not done. This little thing\nWe are people of that tradition in which tradition has been taught to love. The guarantee is that people, \"the earth is this mother\", it is taught from childhood. Perhaps there will be no such tradition in the world that \"the earth is a mother\" make this resolve. And so, even if the child keeps legs down from the bed even in a small age, then the mother says, \"Look, son, when you walk on the ground from the bed, then bow before this earth mother. His apologies, so that you are keeping a foot on his chest. \"This was a ritual, this is the sacrament, which inspired the protection of Mother Earth and the protection of Earth Mother means that the nature, the environment, the rivers These forests ... give a message of defense. If it is saved, then there is no crisis of climate. We are the only people who call the river a mother. The value of the mother in our life is as much as the value of the river. If the moment we forgot that the river is this mother and ever since we got home in our mind that after all the river is H2O and what is it. When we believe the river as H2O, water is, H2O ... When the mother's spirit towards the river dies, the responsibility of guarding the river also ceases.\nWe have received this sacrament and under the same rites we are connected to nature's protection. Our ancestors have told us - humans should exploit nature. Sometimes you have seen as much milk as the calf, as much as the calf is needed. No one tries to bite the mother, bite the cow. And therefore nature should also be exploited, nature should not be exploited. \"Milking of Nature\" has been told here. \"Exploitation of the Nature is a Crime.\" If we go with this idea and ideals, then we can give a way to protect from the crisis the human being is facing.\nWe are those people who have considered the entire Brahman as a family. You see small things but how to make life. To understand the whole universe as a family, it is explained not by the books, but by the rituals of the family. When the child is small, then the mother brings him to the open ground and explains, \"Look, son, this moon which looks, this moon is not your mama.\" Do not say that? Did you say or did not say so? Have you ever heard in the world who says that the sun is your grandfather, the moon is your mama, that is the whole universe is your family. There can never be a conflict with the nature of the samskar that they meet, nature co-ordes with nature. And so, the time the world is facing, it is time to lead the world on the basis of Indian thought. Climate Save the world do not teach us\nWorld, when Mauritius will say more What is the reason for it, do you know? Because you can say that \"Bhai, I am about to die, I am about to drown\". So its effect is greater and therefore the world is awakened .. I went to many such areas these days. I went to Fiji, where I met different countries from different countries. Now that was the pain of his whole time, that was the pain, somebody listened to us, somebody would save us, somebody would protect our future generations. And those who think far away, they have to start from today.\nBrothers and sisters India is the youngest country in the world today. 65% of the population is under 35 years of age. This Mauritius is 1.2 Million, and Hindustan is 1.2 billion. And 65% of the population is under 35 years of age. Youthpower is a necessity in the world. The world needs workforce. The amount of knowledge, the amount of rupees, the amount of dollars, the pound, the stock of the property, but if the strength of the arms of the younger generation is not found, then the car gets stuck there. And so the world is in need of Youthful Manpower, Human Resource is required. India today wants to move forward in that direction, the manpower that the world needs in the coming days, we should create such a manpower in India that we have the ability to fulfill whatever needs in the world, that skill Yes, that is power.\nAnd so we started with Skill Development in a mission mode. Mapping the needs of the world, starting today's work of preparing such people, what kind of people want people after the coming 20 years? And once India's youngster goes into the world, it will not go with the arms only, it will not be taken by carrying two arms, even with heart and mind. And the brain that talks about Vasudhaiva kutumbakam Talks about adding to the world.\nAnd so, in the days to come, once again it is going to be an age-round affair, the possibility of this era can make India a role in the form of a catalytic agent by spreading the world into the change of the world. Assuming those opportunities as an opportunity, Hindustan wants to move forward. Bless all humanist powers spread in the world to bless India so that people of this mind, people of this mindset, reach the world, spread all over the world and play their role in the path of world welfare. This is Digital World. Everyone is mobile at hand, everyone is taking selfie. Take or do selfie, it hurts me very much. The world has changed. Selfie takes it, brings it to her companions within a moment, \"The look has just come to meet Jogi.\" The world is changing at a fast pace. India is preparing itself in that direction and the youth of India who has given the world a distinct identity through IT, Hindustan's\nOtherwise, what was the identity of Hindustan? I remember equally once I went to Taiwan. It was very long ago, the Taiwan government went on the invitation. Then I was nothing, the Chief Minister was nothing else, just like ... here Mauritius came here once. There are some people who got me old today So my tour of five-seven days was his computer engineer, he was my interpretor, the government had put it there. Then I was watching, hearing, asking for five-seven days, and there was a curiosity in her mind. So he was last one day, he had asked me, he had asked me. I said, \"If you do not mind, I want to ask a question.\" I said, \"what?\" I said, \"will not you feel bad?\" I said, \"Ask if it feels good, I will feel bad if you stay in your mind. \"Then\" no no .. \"He ran away from the sick. I again requested \"Sit down, sit down. Tell me what happened. \"Then he asked me,\" Sir, I want to know, is Hindustan still a country of snakes? What is the country of sorcery? Black magic goes on in Hindustan? \"The bigger propaganda was frighteningly asking me. I said \"no man now that time went away. Now we do not have the strength in people. We can not play with snakes anymore. Now our devaluation is so much that we play with the mouse. \"And the Indian youth of India today dodges the world by clicking on the computer today. This strength is in ours\nOur youngsters have made a different identity of the world by making them on the computer. विश्‍व को भारत की तरफ देखने का नजरिया बदलना पड़ा है। उस सामर्थ्‍य के भरोसे हिंदुस्‍तान को भी हम आगे बढ़ाना चाहते हैं।\nएक जमाना था। जब Marx की theory आती थी तो कहते थे “Haves and Have nots” उसकी theory चलती थी। वो कितनी कामगर हुई है, उस विचार का क्‍या हुआ वो सारी दुनिया जानती है मैं उसकी गहराई में नहीं जाना चाहता। लेकिन मैं एक बात कहना चाहता हूं आज दुनिया Digital Connectivity से जो वंचित है और जो Digital World से जुड़े हुए हैं, यह खाई अगर ज्‍यादा बढ़ गई, तो विकास के अंदर बहुत बड़ी रूकावट पैदा होने वाली है। इसलिए Digital Access गरीब से गरीब व्‍यक्ति तक होना आने वाले दिनों में विकास के लिए अनिवार्य होने वाला है। हर किसी के हाथ में मोबाइल फोन है।\nहर किसी को दुनिया के साथ जुड़ने की उत्‍सुकता... मुझे याद है मैं जब गुजरात में मुख्‍यमंत्री था तो एक आदिवासी जंगल में एक तहसील है वहां मेरा जाना नहीं हुआ था। बहुत पिछड़ा हुआ इलाका था interior में था, लेकिन मेरा मन करता था कि ऐसा नहीं होना चाहिए मैं मुख्‍यमंत्री रहूं और यह एक इलाका छूट जाए, तो मैंने हमारे अधिकारियों से कहा कि भाई मुझे वहां जाना है जरा कार्यक्रम बनाइये। खैर बड़ी मुश्किल से कार्यक्रम बना अब वहां तो कोई ऐसा प्रोजेक्‍ट भी नहीं था क्‍या करे। कोई ऐसा मैदान भी नहीं था जहां जनसभा करे, तो एक Chilling Centre बना था। दूध रखने के लिए, जो दूध बेचने वाले लोग होते हैं वो Chilling Centre में दूध देते हैं, वहां Chilling Plant में Chilling होता है फिर बाद में बड़ा Vehicle आता है तो Dairy में ले जाता है। छोटा सा प्रोजेक्‍ट था 25 लाख रुपये का। लेकिन मेरा मन कर गया कि भले छोटा हो पर मुझे वहां जाना है। तो मैं गया और उससे तीन किलोमीटर दूर एक आम सभा के लिए मैदान रखा था, स्‍कूल का मैदान था, वहां सभा रखी गयी। लेकिन जब मैं वहां गया Chilling Centre पर तो 20-25 महिलाएं जो दूध देने वाली थी, वो वहां थी, तो मैंने जब उद्घाटन किया.. यह आदिवासी महिलाएं थी, पिछड़ा इलाका था। वे सभी मोबाइल से मेरी फोटो ले रही थी। अब मेरे लिए बड़ा अचरज था तो मैं कार्यक्रम के बाद उनके पास गया और मैंने उनसे पूछा कि “मेरी फोटो लेकर क्‍या करोगे?” उन्‍होंने जो जवाब दिया, वो जवाब मुझे आज भी प्रेरणा देता है। उन्‍होंने कहा कि “नहीं, नहीं यह तो जाकर के हम Download करवा देंगे।“ यानी वो पढ़े-लिखे लोग नहीं थे, वो आदिवासी थे, दूध बेचकर के अपनी रोजी-रोटी कमाते थे, लेकिन वहां की महिलाएं हाथ से मोबाइल से फोटो निकाल रही हैं, और मुझे समझा रही है कि हम Download करा देंगे। तब से मैंने देखा कि Technology किस प्रकार से मानवजात के जीवन का हिस्‍सा बनती चली जा रही है। अगर हमने विकास के Design बना लिये हैं तो उस Technology का महत्‍व हमें समझना होगा।\nऔर भारत Digital India का सपना देख कर के चल रहा है। कभी हिंदुस्‍तान की पहचान यह बन जाती थी कोई भी यहां अगर किसी को कहोगे भारत... “अरे छोड़ो यार, भ्रष्‍टाचार है, छोड़ो यार रिश्‍वत का मामला है।“ ऐसा सुनते हैं न? अब सही करना है। अभी-अभी आपने सुना होगा, यह अखबार में बहुत कम आया है। वैसे बहुत सी अच्‍छी चीजें होती है जो अखबार टीवी में कम आती है। एक-आध कोन में कहीं आ जाती है। भारत में कोयले को लेकर के भ्रष्‍टाचार की बड़ी चर्चा हुई थी। CAG ने कहा था एक लाख 76 हजार करोड़ के corruption की बात हुई थी। हमारी सरकार आई और सुप्रीम कोर्ट ने 204 जो खदानें थी उसको रद्द कर दिया। कोयला निकालना ही पाबंदी लग गई। अब बिजली के कारखाने कैसे चलेंगे? हमारे लिए बहुत जरूरी था कि इस काम को आगे बढ़ाएं। हमने एक के बाद एक निर्णय लिए, तीने महीने के अंदर उसमें Auction करना शुरू कर दिया और 204 Coal Blocks खदानें जो ऐसे ही कागज पर चिट्ठी लिखकर के दे रही है यह मदन भाई को दे देना, यह मोहन भाई को दे देना या रज्‍जू भाई को... ऐसा ही दे दिया। तो सुप्रीम ने गलत किया था, हमने उसका Auction किया था। अब तक सिर्फ 20 का Auction हुआ है। 204 में से 20 का Auction हुआ है। और 20 के Auction में दो लाख करोड़ से ज्‍यादा रकम आई है।\nCorruption जा सकता है या नहीं जा सकता है? Corruption जा सकता है या नहीं जा सकता है? अगर हम नीतियों के आधार पर देश चलाएं, पारदर्शिता के साथ चलाएं, तो हम भ्रष्‍टाचार से कोई भी व्‍यवस्‍था को बाहर निकाल सकते हैं और भ्रष्‍टाचार मुक्‍त व्‍यवस्‍थाओं को विकसित कर सकते हैं। हिंदुस्‍तान ने बीड़ा उठाया है, हम उस दिशा में आगे बढ़ रहे हैं।\nभारत विकास की नई ऊंचाईयों पर जा रहा है। भारत ने एक सपना देखा है “Make In India” हम दुनिया को कह रहे हैं कि आइये हिंदुस्‍तान में पूंजी लगाइये, हिंदुस्‍तान में Manufacturing कीजिए। भारत में आपको Low Cost Manufacturing होगा, Skilled Manpower मिलेगा। Zero loss का माहौल मिलेगा। Redtape की जगह Red Carpet मिलेगा। आइये और आप अपना नसीब आजमाइये और मैं देख रहा हूं आज दुनिया का भारत में बहुत रूचि लगने लगी। दुनिया के सारे देश जिनको पता है कि हां भारत एक जगह है, जहां पूंजी निवेश कर सकते हैं, वहां Manufacturing करेंगे और दुनिया के अंदर Export करेंगे।\nबहुत बड़ी संभावनाओं के साथ देश विकास की ऊंचाईयों को पार कर रहा है। मुझे विश्‍वास है कि आप जो सपने देख रहे हो वो कहीं पर भी बैठे होंगे, लेकिन आप आज कहीं पर भी क्‍यों न हो, लेकिन कौन बेटा है जो मां को दुखी देखना चाहता है? सदियों पहले भले वो देश छोड़ा हो, लेकिन फिर भी आपके मन में रहता होगा कि “भारत मेरी मां है। मेरी मां कभी दुखी नहीं होनी चाहिए।“ यह आप भी चाहते होंगे। जो आप चाहते हो। आप यहां आगे बढि़ए, प्रगति कीजिए और आपने जो भारत मां की जिम्‍मेवारी हमें दी है, हम उसको पूरी तरह निभाएंगे ताकि कभी आपको यह चिंता न रहे कि आपकी भारत माता का हाल क्‍या है। यह मैं विश्‍वास दिलाने आया हूं।\nमैं कल से यहां आया हूं, जो स्‍वागत सम्‍मान दिया है, जो प्‍यार मिला है इसके लिए मैं मॉरीशियस का बहुत आभारी हूं। यहां की सरकार का आभारी हूं, प्रधानमंत्री जी का आभारी हूं, आप सबका बहुत आभार हूं। और आपने जो स्‍वागत किया, जो सम्‍मान दिया इसके लिए मैं फिर एक बार धन्‍यवाद करता हूं। और आज 12 मार्च आपका National Day है, Independence Day है। और 12 मार्च 1930 महात्‍मा गांधी साबरमती आश्रम से चले थे, दांडी की यात्रा करने के लिए। और वो दांडी यात्रा कोई कल्‍पना नहीं कर सकता था कि नमक सत्‍याग्रह पूरी दुनिया के अंदर एक क्रांति ला सकता है। जिस 12 मार्च को दांडी यात्रा का प्रारंभ हुआ था उसी 12 मार्च को महात्‍मा गांधी से जुड़े हुए पर्व से मॉरिशियस की आजादी का पर्व है। मैं उस पर्व के लिए आपको बहुत-बहुत शुभकामनाएं देता हूं, बहुत बधाई देता हूं।\nफिर एक बार आप सबका बहुत-बहुत धन्‍यवाद।"