"Share\n\nSir Jagannathji, all the noblemen of the Council of Ministers of the Government of Mauritius, all senior citizens, brothers and sisters,\nSir Jagannath ji said that I welcome the Prime Minister of India in small India. It is a feeling of a sense of belongingness in the whole mind, it feels like a vibration in the mind. In a way 1.2 million countries have come to embrace the country of 1.2 billion. This is our cultural heritage in itself. We can imagine that our ancestors came here in the form of a hundred and a half hundred years ago as laborers and together with Tulsidasized Ramayana, Hanuman Chalisa and Hindi language came. If these three things were not there in these hundred and a half hundred years and everything else would have been, then we could guess where you were and where I was. We have kept it, have kept it, and have kept it together.\nIn 1975, when the World Hindi Conference was held in Nagpur, Shri Shivsagar ji came there and you had proposed at that time, should be a World Hindi Secretariat. This idea was accepted in 1975, but moving that thing forward- The passing years have passed. And I believe that the foundation stone of a new building of the World Secretariat is going on today, it would have been a pleasure for Hindi lovers spread all over the world, but I am sure that Sir Shivsagar ji will be very happy wherever they are. This work of their dreams is coming true today.\nWhen Atal ji was the government, then there was an attempt towards furthering the idea of ​​1975. Dr. Murli Manohar Joshi came here. Then there was an obstacle in the train and maybe this work was written in my own destiny. But I would like to be no longer late. Whichever start of it, decide now that it will be inaugurated on such a date.\nMauritius has served a lot of Hindi literature. In many SAARC countries, there is love for Hindi language. Many language speakers have learned Hindi language. Hindi is taught in many Universities of Dunia. Many books have been translated into Hindi. The translations of books in many languages ​​have been translated. But, like the Dhanadhya litterateur Dinkar ji used to say that Mauritius is the only country that has its own Hindi literature. I believe this is a big deal.\nIt is now the Pravasi Bharatiya Divas of 2015. This time, the program was kept in the Pravasi Bharatiya Divas that an exhibition of literature created by the diaspora has been set up. Whatever the compositions that Indians have spread across the world, they have done different language, it was an exhibition. And I proudly say today that more than 150 books were of Mauritius in this exhibition of literature written by Indians spread across the world. That is, the Hindi language has been loved so much so that it has been done so much that he has got so much affection, probably sometimes there will be some areas of Hindustan where there will not have been so much affection as found in Mauritius.\nLanguage has its own strength. Language is a medium of expressions of expression. When a person speaks something in his own language, then he does not come out of the mind, he comes out of the heart. When talk is done in another language, the first thought, the translation goes on in the brain and then appears. To select the correct word, the brain kills the entire dictionary and then appears. But, there is a huge medium of expression of its language. Jaishankar Rai had said that Mauritius's Hindi .. This is the living proof of the victory of the devotees of the workers. This was said by Jaishankar Rai.\nAnd I believe that the Hindi literature written in Mauritius has not been written with the ink coming out of the pen. The literature written in Mauritius has been written with the drop of sweat from workers, from that pen. Here is the smell of sweat in Mauritius which is a Hindi literature. And that smelling will give literature more new strength in the coming days. And like I said that expression of the expression .. Language of every language is not possible. And the meaning of the house is impossible.\nAs has been said here- \"Radhika stole bamboo stuff.\" Now the people who are sitting here know Hindi language, they fully understand what I am saying. \"Radicals stole the flute.\" But in this very great English translation, I would say, \"Radhika has stolen the flute. Go to police station and report. \"Language expression is a very large medium of expression. Prices expressed by language also give strength. We know our Prime Minister Mr. Anirudh Jagannath ji. Names also speak but we may not know that a word has come from the English dictionary from Jagannath and the original word is that of Jagannath .. And word has come in English - Juggernaut. That is, such a source, a source of power that can not be stopped. There is a word in Angazzi for this - Juggernaut. He has gone from Jagannath.\nBecause when Jagannath ji travels in Puri and the scene that has reached it, the word has reached there. I once went to the area of ​​Russia which was adjacent to Hindustan. People there do not know the word tea but know the tea. Door does not know but know the door. Occasionally this is also a chance.\nAnd I would like that technology which is becoming our World Hindi Secretariat also has a great deal of technology. In almost all languages ​​of Hindi, Hindi has made its place, in some form or not, but from the back door, but it has already been discovered that he should find out in what form we came in and why it was approved. The words of our language have arrived in many languages ​​of the world. When we know it, we are proud. This becomes the cause of a national self-respect in itself.\nThese are the auspicious moments for today's Hindi lovers spread all over the world. Today is March 12, when Mauritius is celebrating its National Day. I have come to Mauritius for the hundred and fifty million of the country's millions of good luck.\nToday is that day, March 12, 1930, when Mahatma Gandhi started the journey of Dandi from the coast of Sabarmati. Dandi travel was a turning point for India's freedom movement. The same came from the coast of Sabarmati that drinking the water of Sabarmati, I also got good fortune. Today, on 12 March, this opportunity has come. Mahatma Gandhi came to Mauritius Mahatma Gandhi gave great love to Mauritius. Hundred Years Initiative .. Those who loved Mahatma Gandhi very much, this was Manilal Dr. hundred years ago he started Hindi newspaper here .. Hindustani. This feature of that newspaper was that .. even when some people do quarrels of languages, but that Dr. Manilal has taken the path of Mahatma Gandhi's inspiration. The Hindusthani newspaper was such that some pages were printed in Gujarati, some were printed in Hindi and some were printed in English and in a way the newspaper with three language formula came out hundred years ago.\nBut that Hindustan newspaper was a huge medium of connecting people of Mauritius. So the influence of Mahatma Gandhi's ideas was expressed in him. And homeland love becomes exposed from indigenous language. It is exposed from your language. We are not people bonded in the bonds of language. We are those people who want to embrace all the languages, because that is the reason for prosperity. If the English did not embrace Jagannath then the word juggernaut is not created. And therefore, the reliability of language also does not bind to bind. When air moves from a garden, the air spreads its fragrance. The language also has the power that it continues to transmit new consciousness, new energy, and new life with its flow for centuries.\nIn that sense it is a matter of great pride for me that a new building of the World Hindi Secretariat is being built on the soil of Mauritius. For the language lovers, for the Hindi language lovers, for India lovers, and the great heritage which has been reverberating within, I am very much happy about the efforts being made to connect the world with that great heritage. . And on this occasion, I am very grateful to you for the opportunity to come in between me.\nThanks a lot."