"Share\n\nDear brothers and sisters who came in all the great excellence and the vast majority,\nSeychelles is my first meeting, but it looks like you have been associated with people long ago.\nDespite the fact that I came late late yesterday, I was experiencing the love of the people of Seychelles all along the way. For the kind of reception that was honored, I thank you very much from the government, the citizens here and the heart of you all.\nSeychelles and Indo-Scientology say that we were the same land thousands of years ago, but when the cataclysmic happens then everything is shattered. It was the land and the land of India, thousands of years ago, thousands of miles away. Nature separated the earth, but did not separate our hearts.\nAnd sometimes it seems that there is a huge ocean between India and our Seychelles. But this sea is not for us to split, it is the ocean that connects us. Standing on the banks of the ocean, we can finger and say that there is my Mumbai, on the other side there is mine, and mine is Kochi. It is close, this identity .. And in this sense, I understand that we have a special relationship of people.\nToday India boasts of the fact that wherever you went to the country, where you went, the difficulties that live between life, centuries - there is no short time - it is said that in the beginning some people had come here in 1717, and Since then, it has been running. Hundreds of hundred years, it was known to be very large. But in this entire period, by your behavior, the people here have made you their own, and you have made this country your own. This is our original cultural heritage - Vasudeva Kutumbakam - The whole world is a family. And those who have grown up with these rituals, for whom the earth is a mother, they do not have geographical boundaries for self-realization.\nThe country's borders do not share their feelings. Emotions are spread like ocean, and with your behavior, the country feels proud that you go anywhere in the world ... even today, Kantilal lives in the world, give the name of Shah. Now he does not stay in our midst, but he also illuminated the name of Seychelles in the world by work, as the name of an original Indian illuminated the name. The world honored them. Many awards were given to them. And that's not just due to financial business. They had mostly worried about nature to protect. Today, the world that is worried about the climate change, Kantilal Shah was working to make people aware of those issues from Seychelles, from the time of his youth, and were awakening people. People were awakening people for collective wealth, generating sensitivities. As an Indian, this kind of his life, his work of pride, gives pride to every Hindustani, gives pride. And there are countless people here who have made a huge contribution in the creation of Seychelles by their intellect, power, ability, imagination, power, wealth.\nThere is a large number of Indian communities living here. And the people of Gujarat are very familiar with an old incident that when the Iranian came to Parsi and the king sent a bowl of filled milk and the Parsi community mixed it and returned it. The bowl was full but when the sugar was sent, the milk did not go out and remained inside. Filled, but the milk became sweet. And then it was a symbolic message that Parsi gave a message that even though we have come from Iran, we will find such solutions on the soil of Hindustan, which will increase your sweetness. I think the same tradition ... people of Indian community have come together in Seychelles in the same way that has exposed the light of Seychelles, which has enhanced the sweetness of Seychelles, has given strength to it. And in this manner, by my behavior, by my conduct, when some of my Indian brothers go to any corner of the world and win for the good of that society, works for the well-being of society, their life for that land So, we are very proud of the people of India. I am expressing my pride in front of you today. Expressing happiness, I am congratulating you. And I believe that our future generations will also keep these rituals to these traditions, and India's pride in the world will play an important role in identifying India.\nBrothers and sisters, elections were held in India a few months ago, and after many years, after almost 30 years, the people elected by the absolute majority in India formed a government. And I was told that when the election results were coming to India, the results were coming, then you were also celebrating here. This celebration was also linked to the fact that you also want to make progress of Seychelles - also try for it - but in your heart also, that India also progress, India can also get new heights.\nAnd we are those people who call the Vaasudev family, then we have imagined that the whole world should move forward, live whole world peace, progress the whole world. This is our dream, this is our sacrament, this is our resolve that we are people of the world, people of world welfare. And to do that work, India will also be able to fulfill its responsibility. If India is poor, India is backward, India remains rare, India can not play any role in fulfilling the aspiration of the world. If it is to play the role of world welfare, then India needs to be strong, India must be strong, it is necessary for India to become a green country with happiness and happiness. And so, in the last nine-ten months, efforts have been made to ensure that the country crosses new heights of development. India's all-round development and India has more and more connected to the world.\nToday, the small countries of the world who inhabit the islands have settled on the islands, they all have one of the biggest concerns. Who makes the world a nuclear bomb, who does not make it - it is not a matter of concern for people living in the island, but it is a matter of concern that \"if this happens in global warming then will we stay or not? Now, will it not go inside our island water? For centuries, which has been conserved, two-three, three-three generations have been consumed, will it not be immersed? \"\nAnd the job of saving the world is that people sitting on the island just do something to protect themselves and that will be all, it is not so. Together, the whole world will have to worry about climate change as much as today the world discusses terrorism. As much as the crisis seems to be seen from terrorism, the same is true for the people living on these small-eyed islands, due to climate change, the crisis is felt.\nIndia has been commemorating us ... for centuries, we have got the ritual that if the child gets up from the bed in the morning and keeps the feet on the ground then it is taught that you are keeping these feet above the earth mother. First apologize to Mother Earth That is, we have no right to torment this mother, it is in our culture and culture. Love nature, communicate with nature, learn from nature - that is what we have been taught. The whole universe is considered as a family, and therefore the task of saving the world from this crisis - the tradition we have built, the rituals which we have progressed, the culture we have inherited - If we learn to live it, show people the way to live and make the habit of living it, then the whole human being can easily walk on a path and go ahead to get out of such a huge crisis. Yes, may be\n. We are those people who consider the river as mother, those people who see God in the plant. These are the things that are connected with protecting the climate. But along with these traditions, modern things have to be emphasized too. We have to adopt the path of development which can not create obstacles in the welfare of human beings even after centuries. We all have the power to consume everything that God has given to us. But we do not have the right to consume what we have been given to our children. Is there such a parent? There are such parents in the world who eat their children too? No parent is like this. And so today, after 100 years, your children will have children, children of children will be children of children. Will they not get water? Will they get clean air or not? Will they get good earth to live or not? We have to go and give them the inheritance, so we have to change our life today. And that's why we work in that direction.\nIndia has raised a huge bead. And that is Bidi Solar energy and Wind energy. We want that the role of India to save the world from this crisis should be paid to that role and we have taken the resolution of 100 Giga Watt Solar Energy to pay that role in 2022 - when India's independence It will be 75 years. When India celebrates the liberation festival of our independence, we want to give the world a sense of purpose so that India too plays an important role in protecting the world from global warming. We are heading towards 60 Gigawatt Wind energy. These targets are very big, not small. But we have taken these resolutions because of our inspiration ... our inspiration is to burn the lamp in any house of Hindustan, it is not. Our inspiration is that people living on these small islands are living, protecting their life as small countries, it is our inspiration, it is our resolve. And therefore solar power will be in Hindustan, but the direct benefit of Seychelles to future generations, we are working on taking this dream.\nToday, India has much to offer to the world. India is today the youngest country in the world. 65% of the population is below India's 35 age group. In a country where millions of people are young, they can also change the fate of the world if they get an opportunity. The effort of this new government is to give maximum opportunities to young people, how to get more opportunities for their development. That's our endeavor in that direction. And so make In India we have run this campaign. I am inviting the world to come, come in my country and make whatever you are making.\nAnd I assure you will make less than what you make, it will be soon, it will be good. Today your product goes to five countries, make it in India, it will start reaching in 50 countries. Today there will be five, ten, zero in your balance sheet. Seeing your balance sheet and adding five, ten zeroes will be added, this is the strength. And I see that the world is attracted to attraction.\nIndia has a big discussion of railway. So big huge rail. That is, if I calculate how many passenger travels in the Indian Railways in 24 hours in the Indian Railways, then maybe hundred Seychelles, at a time, in the railway compartment of India. You can imagine how many developments there is in the railway. We want to make the railway modern. We want to reach the railway areas far and wide. And why are the people of this railway behind us? Only people of India have the convenience of transporting so much is not the motive. Railway is a system which is a tool in many ways to save the crisis of Global Warming. Mass transportation is less emission. And when the emission decreases then global warming decreases. And if there is a reduction in global warming, then there is a concern about the climate change and the concern of climate change is solved, which means that Seychelles is guaranteed to live.\nThe railway will be built there, the railway will increase there, but the benefits will be to the citizens of these small countries of the world who live on these small islands. Because India is such a big country. We want India's railways to move at a fast pace. We want India's railroad to expand further, we want India's railroad to be modern and therefore we have opened the path for 100 percent Foreign Direct Investment. I told the world that you have technology, come on. You have money, I'm here. You want to expand your business, IA. India's railroad can also increase the economy of many countries of the world, it is so powerful. And so I'm putting this work in Make in India.\nSmaller countries like Seychelles, should they not be protected? The problems that are caused by piracy from small countries. All their maritime businesses fall into crisis. Should this be a cause for protection of the society or not? Does India not have the obligation to increase its hand in the guarantee of security in the Indian Ocean, with full force? So that citizens like Seychelles have to move forward in the world trade so that this sea coast can be saved from crises like piracy? If they are to save then India will have to move forward in the Defense Sector and to increase, we have emphasized Manufacturing in the Defense Sector in Make in India in India. Indigenous systems we want to develop.\nToday I have launched a radar here. Due to the release of this radar, a new force is available for the Seashell's maritime security, new sightings, new eyes are available. They can see that there is some bustle in the range of 150 km, is not happening. How did India do this work? Because the possibility of indigenous manufacturing in India has arisen. Further, we want to increase things in the sector of Defense so that its benefits are available. Who will get the benefit? You will find our friendly countries like you, neighboring countries will get the security of this Indian Ocean. And so every step of our move, every step taken on India's soil, is our effort to adapt and adapt our concept of global welfare and its benefit is going to be met.\nWe are focusing on skill development. आज पूरे विश्व को, विश्व के बहुत बड़े-बड़े देश, बड़ी-बड़ी Economy वो एक संकट से जूझ रही है और जिसका उपाय उनके पैसों में संभव नहीं है। जिसका उपाय उनकी Technology से संभव नहीं है। और वो है Man power. हर किसी को Work force चाहिए। दुनिया की Fastest Economy को भी Talented Workforce की जरूरत है। आने वाले 20 साल में पूरी दुनिया को सबसे ज्यादा Workforce देने की ताकत है तो हिंदुस्तान की है। क्योंकि वो देश है, उसके हाथ में हुनर हो, Skill हो, दुनिया को जिस प्रकार के मानव बल की आवश्यकता है, उस प्रकार का मानव बल तैयार हो - उस दिशा में हमारा प्रयत्न है। Skill development को हमने एक Mission रूप में लिया है। और हम Skill development के द्वारा ऐसे नौजवान तैयार करना चाहते हैं जो स्वंय अच्छे entrepreneur बन सकें। जो entrepreneur नहीं बन सकते हैं वो स्वंय Skilled manpower के रूप में Job प्राप्त कर सकें। कुछ Job seekers हैं, उनको अच्छी Job मिल सके। कुछ Job creator बन सकें। एक प्रकार से विश्व की आवश्यकताओं की पूर्ति में जो चीजों काम आ सकें, उन-उन चीजों को बल देकर के और भारत की विकास यात्रा को आगे बढ़ाने की कोशिश कर रहे हैं।\nआज हमने कई महत्वपूर्ण निर्णय़ लिए हैं। राष्ट्रपतिजी Michel के साथ आज मेरी विस्तार से बातें हुई हैं। और भारत और Seychelles मिलकर के हम कितनी ताकत से आगे बढ़ सकते हैं। हमने एक महत्वपूर्ण निर्णय किया है। आप सबको बहुत खुशी होगी सुनकर के। सुनाऊं? भारत सरकार ने निर्णय किया है कि Seychelles के जो नागरिक हिंदुस्तान आने चाहते हैं, उनको तीन महीने का वीजा मुफ्त में दिया जाएगा। उतना ही नहीं, अब आपको यहां जाकर के दफ्तर में कतार लगाकर के खड़े नहीं रहना पड़ेगा। Embassy के चक्कर नहीं काटने पड़ेंगे। अब Visa On Arrival होगा। आप Airport पर आए ठप्पा लग गया, आ जाओ।\nहम चाहते हैं भारत और सेश्लस के बीच में Tourism बढ़ना चाहिए। और यहां जो गुजराती लोग हैं, उनको तो मालूम है। गुजराती लोग तो ढूढते रहते हैं कि Sunday को कहां जाऊं? इस Weekend पर कहां जाऊं? हम चाहते हैं कि Air Frequency बढ़े, Direct flights बढ़े। हिंदुस्तान के भिन्न-भिन्न कोने से Seychelles को सीधे हवाई जहाज जाएं। वहां से यहां आएं। उससे Tourism को बढ़ावा मिलेगा और Tourism को बढ़ावा मिलेगा तो उसके कारण Seychelles से जो लोग हिंदुस्तान जाएंगे वो भारत को अच्छी तरह जानेंगे। और भारत से जो लोग यहाँ आएंगे वो Seychelles की Economy को ताकतवर बनाएंगे।\nऔर मैं मानता हूं Tourism दुनिया में तेज गति से बढ़ रहा व्यवसाय है, तेज गति से। लेकिन Tourism मानव जाति को जोड़ने का एक बहुत बड़ा माध्यम है। विश्व को जानना-समझना, अपना बनाने का एक बहुत बड़ा अवसर है। और उस अवसर को हम आगे बढ़ाना चाहते हैं।\nभाईयों-बहनों आज समय की सीमा है। कुछ ही घंटों के लिए मैं आया हूं, पहली बार आया हूं। लेकिन लगता ऐसा है कि अच्छा होता, मैं ज्यादा समय के लिए आया होता। अब आप लोगों ने इतना प्यार दिया है तो फिर तो आना ही पड़ेगा। ज्यादा समय लेकर के आना पड़ेगा, आप सबके बीच रहना होगा, इस सुंदर देश को देखना होगा। तो मैं फिर एक बार आपके प्यार के लिए आपका बहुत-बहुत आभारी हूं। और मेरी तरफ से समग्र देशवासियों की तरफ से आपको मेरी बहुत-बहुत शुभकामनाएं हैं। और स्वागत सम्मान के लिए आपका बहुत-बहुत आभार व्यक्त करता हूं।\nआवजो। Hello."