"Thank you, President Michel, for your kind words\nI am deeply touched by my extraordinary hospitality and warmth.\nI regret that I would love to stay longer Anyone who visits this wonderful country will find it hard to leave\nShort is it, but this visit has been very productive.\nIt is no surprise that Seychelles is my first destination in the Indian Ocean Region.\nWe respect Seychelles as our Indian Ocean neighborhood\nOur relationship is unique and special. It is based on deep sense of mutual trust and confidence. It is marked by a spirit of respect and equality; and enormous goodwill and warmth\nIt draws strength from our shared values ​​of democracy and inclusiveness It is nurtured by a common purpose - progress of our people and peace and prosperity in the Indian Ocean Region.\nSeychelles has made impressive progress It has been shown that size is not barrier to the scale of achievements\nThis visit and my conversation with President Michel has reinforced my conviction in the relationship.\nOur security partnership is strong It has enabled our shared responsibility to advance maritime security in the region.\nIt is a privilege to be a partner of Seychelles in the development of its security capabilities.\nToday, I am happy to announce that we will be giving one more Dornier aircraft to Seychelles.\nLater today, I will have the honor of launching the Coastal Surveillance Radar Project. This is another symbol of our cooperation.\nThese steps will enable Seychelles to secure these beautiful islands and the vast expanses of waters around them. Seychelles will also continue to make an enormous contribution to the security and security of the Indian Ocean Region.\nOur agreement today on hydrographic survey adds a new dimension to our maritime cooperation. I thank Seychelles for their confidence in India\nWe also hope that Seychelles will soon be a full partner in the maritime security cooperation between India, Maldives and Sri Lanka.\nPresident Michel and I also underlined the importance of comprehensive cooperation in the Indian Ocean Region. We expressed support for a more active and productive Indian Ocean Rim Association.\nOur development partnership is also a strong pillar of our relations.\nAssumption Island is a strong boost to this partnership.\nWe are happy to become a partner in human resources and capacity building in Seychelles. Indeed, Seychelles is one of the biggest recipients of Indian assistance in this area. We intend to extend this future in the future\nSeychelles is a leader in advancing the concept of Blue Economy. We also believe that the Ocean Economy is indispensable to meeting our future challenges\nToday, President Michel and I have agreed to establish a joint work group.\nThis cooperation will increase our understanding of marine ecology and resources. We will improve our ability to harness new potentials in a sustainable and balanced manner.\nThis is a major step in advancing our scientific and economic cooperation.\nWe have been able to expand our business and investment relations. We are confident that we can achieve it, especially as Seychelles looks like a future in which information technology and services play an increasingly important role.\nI also expressed hope that Seychelles would be able to quickly utilize the committed 75 million dollars in grants and credit in accordance with its priorities.\nWe deeply value I welcome the launch of direct air services to India by Air Seychelles last December.\nWe have decided to grant free visas for three months to the citizens of Seychelles. We will also extend to the facility of visa-on-arrival\nI thanked President Michel for his government's support for India in international forums. This includes the endorsement for India's permanent membership of the United Nations Security Council.\nWe had strong convergence of views on climate change. We are two nations that are vulnerable to its impact. And, we are deeply committed to combating it.\nWe expressed our commitment to strong national action. We also called for a strong and ambitious global effort, especially on the developed world.\nI reiterated our continuous support to the position of the Small Island Developing States. Equally, I renewed India's strong commitment to our partnership with Africa.\nOur relationship is a powerful example of warm friendship and productive partnership. For India, this relationship means a lot.\nThis visit has reinforced the special warmth in our ties and taken our strategic partnership to a new level. I am grateful to President Michel and the people of Seychelles for this.\nI look forward to the visit of President Michel to India at the earliest.\nThank you."