"Share\n\nIn the last four years, The BJP Government at the Center, has worked for greater recognition, and spread of Indian culture and traditions, far and wide: PM\nI feel a deep sense of anguish, when I see the leaders of the Congress, abuse the same traditions: PM Modi\nCongress party which once governed most Indian states, is now restricted to just two or three states. Now, the people of Mizoram, have a golden opportunity to rid themselves of the Congress culture: PM\nThe double engine of BJP governments in both the center and the state will take the newest heights: PM Modi\nAll the leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party sitting on the platform and the candidate dedicated to the Bharatiya Janata Party's social service in this election .... Achhunga, Mr. H. Lalruata, Mr. C.S. Chawangchuma, Mr. Ramdinjawwa, Mr. Joseph Laljawaliyan, Mr. Lalanupuya Chongtho, Mr. Kina Ranjan Chakma ... Friends, it is always a pleasure to visit this part of the country. In the last 4 years, I have travelled to different states of North-East 27 times. Last December, during my visit to Mizoram I had the opportunity to dedicate the Tuirial Hydro Electric Power Plant to the people. Today, I come to your blessings for the Indian Janata Party\nBrothers and Sisters, Mizoram has a rich culture, it is a tradition that all of you have cherished. Your song, music, dance, your dining, your outfit is spectacular, wonderful. There are every color associated with nature, every moment of happiness. Brothers and Sisters, My own belief has been that rich is the same who is associated with its roots, respects its culture, its language, its tradition.\nThis is my vision, my thoughts That is why, in the last 4 years the BJP government has done the Center for greater recognition and spread of Indian culture and tradition far and wide. But friends, I feel a deep sense of anguish when I see the leaders of the same tradition\nAll of you, especially the youth here, will remember how a few months ago Congress leaders insulted the costume of North-East. In the North-East, the local rituals are given to me at different places, they call it outlandish; This is the truth of the Congress leaders who come here to talk big things. Brothers and Sisters, the governance of such years of Congress is witness that your feelings, your expectations, your aspirations for it does not matter. The Congress has nothing to do with the real heritage of India settled between the forests on the ground. Priority for the Congress is not yours, people of Mizoram but the chair of the government, which protects people from different types of fear. This story is from Mizoram to Madhya Pradesh, from Chhattisgarh to Rajasthan. In order to save its government surrounded by allegations of corruption and nepotism, Congress is also running on this formula here too.\nSisters and Brothers, our country has now understood this Congress formula of divide and rule. That is why, The Congress party which once ruled most Indian states is now restricted to just 2 or 3 states. Now, the people of Mizoram have a golden opportunity\nSisters and Brothers, the Bharatiya Janata Party is moving ahead with the goal of development of the country and only. Our mantra is 'everyone's development with everything' We also have the commitment that whatever rights I have received in the constitution will be protected at all costs.\nOver the last four and a half years, we have connected every region of North-East to development with Sisters and Brothers, Act East and Act fast for India's East. The efforts of the BJP and its allies have also been appreciated by the people of North-East. North-East has now moved forward since bomb-block, shutdown and blockade. Everybody is experiencing today that the sense of harmony has been strengthened from Itanagar to Aisol, from Kohima to Kamrup.\nSisters and Brothers, the Central and State Government double engines have now increased the pace of development of all the North-East states. Now the turn of the people of Mizoram is to connect with this mainstream of development. Sisters and brothers, when peace comes, new doors of development open. All of you on the BJP, Mizoram's, North-East's trust is because we have connected this part to the rest of India, creating a gate to strengthen our relations with East Asian countries.\nOn May 27, 2016, can Mizoram forget when our state was connected to the broad gauge railway line for the first time? I still remember the joy that came to your face when I signed the Silchar-Bhairabi Daily Passenger Express. Now, at a cost of about Rs 5,000 crore, the new broad gauge line from Bhairabi to Sherang is also working rapidly and efforts are being made to complete it even in the next one-and-a-half year.\nSisters and Brothers, India's entire development is possible only when our eastern part develops. And so, the BJP is dedicated to the development of North-East. Especially our focus is on connectivity, highways, railways, airways, water ways and information systems. Transformation through transportation is our main agenda for the development here. On this, about 90,000 crore rupees are being spent on North-East infrastructure. During the last 4 years, 1000 km rail line has been changed to broad gauge. 15 new railway lines are being set up at a cost of around 50 thousand crore. Campaign to connect every capital of North-East states with broad gauge is in progress.\nSisters and Brothers, BJP government also gives attention to speed and progress too. When there was a Congress government at the center, during that time, about 100 km of railway line was built in north-east every year or was changed to broad gauge. Now that there is a BJP government at the Center, the speed of these works has increased more than three times.\nIn addition, new airports are being made in North East, Sisters and Brothers, old airports or helipads are being upgraded, they are being connected to the flying plan. National Highways of more than 5,000 kilometers are being constructed, telecom projects worth around Rs 5,000 crore are underway. Apart from this, in Mizoram alone, in the last 4 years, nearly two-and-a-half kilometers National Highway has been constructed whereas 200 km of State Highway has been converted into National Highway. The central government is spending about Rs 8,000 crore on Mizoram's 50 major road projects.\nSisters and Brothers, the unprecedented expenditure on infrastructure that is taking place in the North-East, has created thousands of jobs for them. Here are the engineers, the surveys, the car drivers, the truck-trolley, the workers, the jobs of many different types of jobs are also made here in Mizoram. Sisters and Brothers, With better connectivity, your life will be easier, if of living is increasing, its impact is very much on the tourism sector. In the coming days, when connectivity projects will be completed, the number of tourists will increase and this means that for you, there will be thousands of new opportunities for employment for the youth here. I would like to specifically mention to the youth of Mizoram today that they take full advantage of it. Besides, for the youth who want to start their start up, they can also use the North-East Venture Fund of 100 crores. The last time I came to Mizoram, I started this by handing a check to some of the youths here.\nThis work is being done in Sisters and Brothers, North-East, but here too Mizoram is not able to take full advantage of this due to the Congress government. The truth is that the Congress government here is not concerned about you all. Congress is not a party of development, a party with culture of hanging, stalking and wandering. Corruption is the basis of politics for them. I give you some examples of this. About 250 crore rupees have been released, Brothers and Sisters, but you will be surprised to hear the activities of the Congress government here. Brothers and Sisters, the Congress government did not spend any hundred million rupees for your development. Not only this, the expenditure of which was utilization certificate, where did the money, where did it, and what was done, the Congress of Mizoram of Congress has not been able to give it so far.\nBrothers and Sisters, this is the way to work here. I have been told that big government games are played in the contracts given by the state government here, and the brother-nephew of Fakir is run. After all, is this Congress government running for you or for the relatives of Congress leaders? Brothers and sisters, today, the situation in Mizoram is that 28 of the 46 projects running with the help of the central government are lying late for a fixed time. Apart from this, 20 projects out of the 36 projects under North-Eastern Council, NEC scheme are running behind schedule. This is the working culture of the Congress, which has led to a bad situation in the infrastructure, the roads are insufficient, while in the neighboring states of Manipur, Arunachal and Assam there are villages or shining roads.\nThis is the situation of roads in Sisters and Brothers, Mizoram, when the Chief Minister himself is a PWD minister. Over the years, the PWD Ministry has the Chief Minister. You just blame that once Congress gave contract to the contractors related to it, then the Chief Minister is not the only time to peep over to see how much work has happened, how it worked, no work to do, nothing to do. Brothers and Sisters, along with the road, the power situation is also crispy and the department itself also owns the Chief Minister. People in village-village are troubled by the power cuts. Even though Mizoram has the capability of generating electricity, the people here have to face the problem.\nSisters and Brothers, if the Congressional right was good then Tuirial Dam would have been long ago. The DM was approved by the government headed by Atal Bihari Vajpayee in 1998. After that the Congress governments were engaged in hanging it, and in December last year, we dedicated all of you to the people of this country. After being operated with full capacity of this dam, our Mizoram can move forward to become the third power surplus state in North-East after Mizoram, Sikkim and Tripura.\nBrothers and Sisters, the plans are made by looking at the Congress in the Congress, the workers of their own people get the job done, who vote for them, they also give them the benefits of the schemes. The example of Congress culture is also New Land Use Policy. Through this, how the Congress has distributed money to its people from the public exchequer, its entire raw card has been opened by the CAG and newspapers across the country have printed it. Sisters and Brothers, if there is a question on this plan, then another scheme called the New Economic Development Program (NEDP). People are saying that there is a huge gap in giving contracts to their people in this too. In the name of the poor, close relatives of Congress leaders are being benefited.\nSisters and Brothers, On one hand Congress makes plans for its own people, while BJP is there for the common masses of the country. We are working for the development of the country, for the development of all, without discrimination. At this time a bright scheme for providing free gas to poor sisters, tribal sisters is being run across the country. Under this scheme, about 60 million gas connections have been given in the country. In Mizoram, nearly 25 thousand families have been discharged from smoke and they have got a connection of gas under Ujjwala. Similarly through the Jan Dhan Yojana, the Central Government opened an account in more than 32 crore people across the country. I am glad that a bank account of about 3 lakh brothers and sisters of Mizoram with a population of 10-11 lakh has been opened under this scheme.\nSimilarly, the people of Mizoram are also ahead in adopting the Prime Minister Jyoti Jyoti Yojana and the Prime Minister's Security Insurance Scheme. About 200 million people across the country are associated with these two schemes, more than 1.25 million people belong to Mizoram. Sisters and Brothers, a big campaign is going on in the country to give its home to the poor. Under the Prime Minister's Housing Scheme, a key has been given to them by creating their own house for more than 100 million poor, homeless families in the country. But the Mizoram Government is not serious about giving home to the poor. Despite repeated requests from the Center, the government here is not cooperating with us to get the poor home. It is now necessary to go to this government due to the same rudeness towards the village and the poor.\nSisters and Brothers, Mizoram has also provided a lot of resources. There are many such areas, full of bamboo forests, there is aisol, be mangled, collapsible, clove. The bamboo dance here is famous all over the world. This bamboo has also been a great medium for your income. But what is the attitude of the Congress towards it, you should also know this very well. As long as the Congress government was in the center, there was also a ban on cutting and trading bamboo in non-forest areas. Because of this, you had trouble, but the Congress never cared for it. Sisters and Brothers, when the BJP came to power at the Center, we changed the law and brought bamboo to grass category instead of tree. Now Mizoram's sister-brother can grow bamboo in his farm by making large accessories, fans, furniture, curtains and other art works, can be easily made and sold.\nBrothers and Sisters, BJP's vision of resource development and culture, is also to make the country sporting power. North-East also has a big role in this. For the past 3-4 years you may have seen whether it is asiated, Commonwealth Games, India's performance is historic. The World Woman Boxing Championship is currently underway, in which the North-East dancer is ringing. Talents are rich in Sisters and Brothers, Mizoram too. It's a big football center. For here it is said that the child learns before kicking and asking for bread later. For this talent the country has come to work, the BJP is committed to developing facilities here. Mizoram's football team is one of the best teams in the country, too many players from India's national team are also from Mizoram right here. Football is Mizoram's Passion. When the BJP government is formed here, it will also work to make the house-to-house passion and also to carry the talents to the global platform. For the development of football, the government has made serious efforts in the last 4 years. Last year, India had under-17 World Cup for the first time. इसके आयोजन की तारीफ दुनिया भर में हुई थी। Brothers and Sisters, स्पोर्ट्स हो, संस्कृति हो, संसाधन हो, सुरक्षा हो या फिर स्वाभिमान, भाजपा की सरकार देश और समाज से जुड़े हर पहलू पर ध्यान दे रही है।\nBrothers and Sisters, to speed up the development of Mizoram and to provide a corruption-free government in the state, the BJP seeks your blessings and your support. That double engine of BJP government in both the Centre and the State will take Mizoram on to new heights.\nआप यहाँ भारी संख्या में मुझे और सभी उम्मीदवारों को आशीर्वाद देने के लिए आए, इसलिए हृदय से मैं आपका बहुत-बहुत धन्यवाद करता हूँ। Thanks a lot."