"\nRespected Chairman Madam,\nIn my resentment, in the house and the resentment in the country, I also make my voice. This country, on the issue of separatism, on the issue of terrorism, did not think beforehand on the basis of debate, neither thinks even today, nor will it think further. The House also expresses my resentment towards any kind of action which has happened today, and I assure the House, I assure the country that after taking any action, whatever activities Whether it is being done by consulting the Indian government or not by informing the government of India.\nAnd so, I request the Hon'ble Members of this House that you must make political commentary on time. The Bharatiya Janata Party is a part of the government there, you should also criticize it very much, and it is your right and should be. But we should not do that in relation to the unity of the country, we have different tones, this message should not go to the world, should go to Kashmir or go to the country. And so I want to convince this House and the whole country that this government does not accept any such objection. We have no agreement on the unity and integrity of the country. Only the steps are taken in the constraints of the Constitution and will be taken forward.\nSecondly, why are Modi ji quiet? I had spoken in detail in this House in detail in this matter too. And so there is no reason why we have to keep quiet. We are those people who have sacrificed Shyama Prasad Mukherjee for these ideals. And so please do not teach us patriotism. And I want to tell you that we have sought clarification of some things, and as the Honorable Home Minister said, after the clarification, they will also be given information to the House.\nAnd so I say once again that this indignation is not of any party, this indignation is of the country. This resentment is not of that bench and that of the bench, this indignation is of the whole house. And we express our resentment to the separatist forces, those who support separatism, and those who misuse the law in one voice, and in the coming days, which is necessary for the unity and integrity of the House. It will be raised by the government."