"\nHonourable Chairman Sir,\nWe had a detailed discussion on the resolution of the honourable President's address. I am also here to reply to the honourabble President's address and a request for this house to pass this motion of the horourable President's address with a consensus.\nAll the honourable members have communicated their ideas in detail during the discussion. I am grateful to all This is a fact that this house is a Council of States. There are lots of members among us who have represented a particular state and during their time of representing that state, public mood prevailing situation in what it is today from somewhat different. Now the political situations have changed People have changed their decision And in that sense, from the perspective of the Council of States, the representation of the sentiments of the people of those states, the representation of the sentiments of the government of those states, which people have elected is a must and this is also natural as well. What is more important is the state which we represent rather than the party we are representing and it is our responsibility to state in which it is today. And in that sense, this house will definitely be the public opinion. The people have given us a mandate with a great expectation to run the government and though the scope for criticism and arguments is always there, it is our collective responsibility, our country of goodness for one another with cooperation, and I believe that we will not return in carrying forward this collective responsibility\nSecondly, the threats have not worked or the work in democracy I used to receive many letters for 14 years to threaten me in jail but here I am standing in front of you today. I am not aware of those games but I It is going to be embedded in the pages of history. And so, everybody knows about the character of the people In the same democracy, during the emergency Is there any bigger threat than that? Therefore, please do not keep words The country should run according to the existing laws and the ambit of existing laws.\nAnd lot of members in this house have the same objection that we are just promoting the old names. I said that in the other assembly and I am repeating it here that this is the discussion that is new or old will drift us further apart. The problem is long-standing The real worry about the problems And we do not believe that these issues We do not have the knowledge We too have many drawbacks. But by the way And this is the strength of democracy Nobody can claim to be complete But if we come together But if God is not willing to do so, then our thought is that we are the only one who can achieve everything.\nTherefore, May be this assembly has never heard before, and probably it is my true statement that never had any member of this house had heard, while having control on Treasury Bank, they have praised and acknowledged the contribution of others in their role in the development of this country How do they accept the role of others in the development of nation, when they are not willing to give any credit in freedom movement But it was me, who announced from Red Fort, that the country has moved forward due to the contribution extended by all previous governments, Prime Ministers and State Governments. You can refer to my old speech delivered in this house only, where I have affirmed these words with great responsibility and pride. We do not believe that the country came into existence on 15 August 1947. This country is legacy of thousands of years. This country has been in existence since it sages, saints, teachers, workers and farmers, and not by governments Governments will keep changing People like us will come, run the system and the leave\nAnd so I request you please do not force us to live as per your approach or as per the thought process which is within you, which is with you. Please do not force us to live with the perspective you have lived with which we have never followed and please do not try as well. You said that I am just limited to explaining the plans. I can go further, even up to the years of 84-86, but I will not waste that much time.\nAt the time of NDA Government, there was a scheme named \"Multipurpose National Identity Project\". You brought \"Aadahar UIDAI\" - it was the same scheme with a new name. During Atal ii's time, there was \"Sampoorna Rural Rojgar Yojna\", you brought \"Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act\" During Atal ji's time, there was \"Freedom of Information Act\", you brought \"Right to Information Act\". During Atal ji's time, there was \"Antodaya Ann Yojna\", you brought \"National Food Security Act\". During Atal ji's time, there was \"Sarv Shiksha Abhiyan\", post 86th Constitutional Amendment, you brought \"Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act\".\nDuring Atal ji's time, there was \"Swarnim Jayanti Gram Swaraj Yojna\", you brought \"National Rural Livelihoods Mission\" During Atal ji's time, there was \"Total Sanitation Campaign\", you brought \"Nirmal Bharat Abhiyan\". During Atal ji's time, there was \"Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority\", you brought \"Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority Act\".\nHonorable Chairman, there was some political talks here as well. I heard talks like \"who is he\", \"who are they\" or \"how many\". I would like to focus on this issue In political life, taking decisions on perception has always been possible by errors and you know And so it is very important to understand We can not move on the basis of perception only. I just heard Venkaiah ji telling that the majority of farmers and dalits etc. are with us\nToday, on one hand BJP represents Ladakh, on the other hand it represents Kanyakumari If it represents Kutch on one side, the other side it represents Arunachal Pradesh. And so you can see BJP represent the areas Kutch to Kanyakumari. Earlier they used to think that we are limited to Hindi Belt only but today you can see that we have successfully formed government in Southern India. We also know that we have been accused of being part of the upper classes only;\nThere are few states with highest tribal population, like Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Rajasthan and Gujarat. And the tribal society of these states have voted for Bharatiya Janata Party You also know that Goa - where decisive voters are from Christian society - BJP is ruling there full full Nagaland - where maximum voters belong to BJP Government Jammu and Kashmir - where decisive voters are Muslims - is having BJP government Punjab, with majority of Sikh community as decision makers too has our government from so many years.\nSo, these are the areas being ruled by BJP and hence, ground reality must be considered that now BJP is a party, as it emerged, which is different regions across widely accepted. And so the perception based on which is the thing of the past We are well aware of the era when the ancestors of our Sitaram ji used to tell people that vehicle which is running on your blood and not running on petrol. We have heard such dialogues long ago So do we need to pay attention to these kinds of dialogues in today's world? Time has changed\nQuestion asked by Mr. Sharad Yadav\nPrime Minister Shri Narendra Modi: I am thankful to Sharad ji that he has delivered And please spare some time to read my book \"Samajik Samrasta\". I have explained your feelings in detail, and you will be very happy to read it. I am not saying that you will also enjoy the same happiness I totally Is the sanitation campaign a program for corporate sector or for rich people only? The poor society of India, living in huts, is craving for quality of life. Can not we provide them hygienic environment? And so when I run such campaigns I talk about honors of our mothers and sisters Due to Jan Dhan Yojana, poor people are able to open their bank accounts. Is this a corporate program? This program is not associated with rich people or corporate world. The issue of toilets in schools, which schools are covered under this program? The schools where poor children are studying, for example, a driver's son goes to this type of school. There are no toilets I am working hard to resolve this issue Is this a program for rich people or corporate world? Soil Health Card Who are covered under it? Poor farmers having small piece of land I talk about Per drop-more crop Why? Since he is a small farmer, he is a small farmer. How can he produce more crops? I am working hard in this direction. Is this a program for corporate world? Will rich people make money from it?\nWe auction Coal Blocks to earn money The eastern belt of India is full of natural resources. Be it Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Assam, Poorvanchal - these states are full of natural resources, take orissa despite having so much natural resources is not able to come out of poverty. Do you want to get out of poverty? Is the western part is the only part for the development? I am pained that country\nSo, the money generated from Coal auction, will be used in the upliftment of the states, who are in possession of coal This will give the poor one chance to fight against poverty Is this happening for the rich? Is this the place for the Corporate World?\nClean Ganga: 40 percent of the country's population is directly or indirectly financially connected with the river Ganga. For some, cleaning Ganga, will be a matter of devotion For some, it is an environmental issue, but cleaning Ganga, is also a massive economic program, on the whole. It has the power to awaken the country financially. This may help the poor to bring a change in their lives financially. This government is only determined to serve the dejected poor class of the society.\nSkill India: Anand Ji was sharing the facts, I do not intend to share the same, and various committees were formed, various missions were set, many came and many left, I do not talk about this, but all Successful countries, too, are focussing and working towards the goal of Skill Development. It is our responsibility that we use our demographic dividend in the most appropriate way. If we have the demographic dividend, we have the hands Having Me has not been the purpose I believe, if the youths of our country have skills, it can become a strongening catalyst for reaching new heights in the country. Therefore, we are focussing on the poor children, who have left their studies after 5th or 3rd grade, should be provided with Skill development program.\nHousing for All: Who are these people, who do not have homes to live in? Are They Corporates? These people are none other than the poor We are trying to provide them homes, by building 3 crore houses in the villages and 2 crore houses in the cities, by the year 2022, when we will celebrate the pure Indian independence We will always move ahead There is no requirement of any political agenda for this dream true, we will also ask the Congress to support the venture. This venture is not a part of Government programs, but this is a program for the poor citizens of our country. So, we are focussing on this problem.\nI am sure, you will support us, in moving forward with the goal of the upliftment of the poor We all can see that, intelligent people do different analysis, but in our entire budget, 42 percent is devolution is for the states that include Indian economy, we need to think about them. When we speak of the development of nation, it is high time to combine the state's and nation's riches and its time to see the policies in a perspective. You are the representatives of the state. This is the Council of States, where huge devolution has been provided. Once the money is used in the infrastructure and development of the state, it will lead to economy generation. I would like to request all the respected representatives of the states, the state of development of the right direction of any huge amount of money, which will help the state to develop and help in all the problems of end.\nWe have come up with a new MUDRA (Micro Units Development and Refinancing Agency) scheme in our current budget. We want to know that who runs in the economy in our country? We have not researched on this issue The common men of this country are the one who provides jobs, perform jobs, as well as our country's economy. We have the auto-drivers, auto rickshaw repairs, auto rickshaw owners, scooter repairs, cycle repairs, boot polisher, fruit sellers, bread sellers and many more. These are all common people of our country, who provide 5.5 crore jobs to the poor and 11-12 crore jobs on the whole. This is not a small amount They have the ability to provide jobs But, it is highly disappointing to see that if there is no organization\nThey borrow money from the money lenders on 120% interest and spend half their lives in paying the interest. For the first time, our government has formulated MUDRA scheme, wherein these sectors get benefitted with institutional arrangements with funding and they will be financially developed themselves. I believe, other factors related to financial development will also be affected by this new scheme and will lead the nation to new heights.\nWho are these people? About 54 percent of the population is conducting small scale business in the rural areas. 46 percent of the population are running More than 60 percent of those who are involved in these businesses, are Scheduled Caste or Schedules Tribbe or OBC I believe that they can move forward in their development at a very high pace. We are trying to provide jobs Till now, the institutional finance, which has been given to them ..\nMs. Mayawati's Question\nPrime Minister Shri Narendra Modi: Respected Chairman, Sir, this assembly comprises of all the senior citizens. These citizens are much more experienced, hard-working and have contributed I am quite new in this assembly, thereby requesting you to assist me in this situation.\nRespected Chairman, Out of 125 Crore population, 29 Crore citizens have Life Insurance policy. Only 10 crore citizens of Accidental Death Cover Insurance Only 6 crore citizens have the Organized Pension Scheme Cover Other than this, under the BPL category, a widow or any other senior citizen has the pension scheme ranging from 300 INR to 1500 INR. This is a very common scheme We are trying to solve a problem And, I believe we are trying to reach all the sections of our society with the help of Prime Minister Safety Insurance Scheme, Prime Minister Life of Light Scheme and Atal Pension Scheme. We are planning to simplify these schemes.\nWith one rupee per month and for citizens under the age group of 18 to 70 years, we can generate Accidental Death Cover insurance of 2 lakh rupees. I believe, considering the present scenario of our nation, we are worried about poor country of our country. Under Prime Minister Life of Light Scheme, we can generate 330 rupees, which is one rupee per day, and citizens under the age group of 18 to 50 years, can use the benefits of this insurance without any medical tests. Not only this, Rs. 2 lakh risk coverage will be given to the family, in case of death.\nAtal Pension Scheme, Under the pension scheme, after 60 years, any citizen who requires a pension of one, two, three, five thousand or any other amount, this pension plan will be required as per pension amount. If a 20 year old opts for this scheme and requires a pension amount of Rs. 5000 after 60 years, then he is required to contribute Rs. 248 per year till the age of 60, and he can get the pension of Rs. 5000 per month, throughout his life In case of death, his wife will be benefited with the pension amount. In case of death of both mother and father, their children will refunded the deposited amount of Rs. 8.5 lakh Our nation's requirement of social security and its awareness will be fulfilled through this scheme. We have tried our best to uplift our society with the safety and satisfaction among the senior citizens. Our country's farmers believe \"I slog day and night, will get old and then will be eventually separated by our children If I had pension ... \"So, with the help of this scheme, even the farmers will be benefited, housewives ... .so, if children leave them in their old age, or if they do not have children, they can still Continue to avail the benefits of this pension scheme.\nWe have also come up with a new Gold Bond scheme. Even after independence, our gold's hallmark is run through some or other foreign hallmark This is very disappointing that our country does not own its Gold Hallmark So, with this sovereign Gold Bond, we will have our own gold coins, biscuits, Ashok Chakra emblem and we have the world around everywhere. There are a few things, which is a powerful weapon for our country, which will act as a powerful weapon for selfish respect. When we speak of Sovereign Gold bank and for example, we speak of 20 thousand tonnes of gold, this may lead to Anand Sharma to stand up and narrate the quantity of gold mentioned by me. To this, I would say, this is just a way to speak\nWe are unable to use the gold in our country, gold monetization; it is only a dead money in our country It will be a great driving force for uplift the nation's economy with its circulation. So, we are going to redeem the policy Citizens can keep any amount of gold, borrow money and go ahead in their lives. I believe, with this venture, a huge amount of gold in the form of dead money will provide an enormous boost to our nation. In the same way, we want to proceed with the Golden Gold bond It is not mandatory to buy gold in the form of metal, but you can also buy gold in the form of paper. Eventually, you will refunded the amount. This will also support I believe our country will be immensely benefited with this scheme.\nI believe, a country requires good ideas and customs for positive development. We can not expect a positive outcome, with just good ideas We need a combination of both ideas and customs, which will lead to the path of upliftment. Therefore, we are trying to adopt and develop a work culture, which will help us in achieving our goals.\nShri. Ghulam Nabi ji and Shri Anand ji have raised the issues of transfers of officers, which is very disappointing. I am observing that people are so distressed, just like a gram seed dries off in water. They are in great pain, as they have been transferred. I would like to say that, we should look in our own reflection in mirrors, before giving such sermons\nYour government was formed in the year 2004. You had dismissed the Cabinet Secretary, as soon as the government was formed.\nYour government was formed in the year 2004. You had appointed Foreign Secretary without considering the convention of seniority.\nYour government was formed in the year 2004.\nYour government was formed in the year 2004.\nNot only this, you have been insulted the governors, kept them in darkness and dismissed them We have not done anything like this. I may address to Gulm Nabi, an ex-health minister, who has received a secretary from your Nobel Prize from UN for Polio. You had dismissed him, while he was receiving the award from UN. So, we need to decide Even though I am new here, I have a huge treasure\nAnd so, we have decided and we are determined to move in the direction of Good Governance. One more fact has come up in consideration that we have received some from our supporters, some from those who think of us and some from those who have special love for us And, I have received a lot of love from them.\n\"We can see nothing on the ground. I really appreciate Modi ji's statements, his way of thinking, but I am unable to see any result on the grounds. \"I would like to say to supporters that you have been in government for ages and have in the power with power I pray to God to save all of us from that toxication of power As, when we are addicted to Power, the addiction becomes too high, so when the head is quite high above the ground, we are unable to look down and see the ground level. I believe, the more you look down, the more you can connect with people, so I would like to know about the work done.\nRailways and Highways, both are run by the Government However, there is, always been a clash between the two, as the railways would never allow more than 350 projects of the highways and, the latter would never allow permissions to railways for more projects. Some need to build a railway line across the road line and some need to build an over bridge across the railway line. There were 350 projects, we came and we noticed and asked both the departments to sit the table and clear all the misunderstandings and got a MoU signed between the two, and today I am happy to announce that we have launched a portal for online portal. same. Online clearances are now being provided. The projects, which were stuck in these departments for the past 350 years, stand all clear now Now, if any new project is undertaken, it has been decided within the same 60 days. At present, we have just 22 projects in hand, which are under process This is a pure example of good governance.\nLet me give you the details of the work done on the grounds. I will speak of the UPA first, where 7.4 Km per day of highway was awarded, but only 5.2 Km per day used to be achieved. Anand ji, let me give you the accounts of 9 months now. We award the work of 18 Km per day, and we have received the reports that we achieve 10.1 Km per day. Its double and this is how a work is done, and the government can run on ground level.\nRailway:\n2013-14-New line- UPA- 390 Km.\nNew line- 9 months- NDA 2410 Km.\n2013-14 - Gauge Conversion - 585 Km\nOur 9 months - 700 Km.\nUPA - doubling - 675 Km.\nOur - 810 Km.\nI am trying to convey that we are connected to the grounds of our country, and I am sure you will be able to see the results through our work.\nAdarsh ​​Gram Scheme: I would like to convey my special gratitude and appreciate About 600 members have joined hands and supported in this work. I have been informed, I love to speak about people in this way, especially, if I have spoken to our respected Motilal ji Veera, he has done a tremendous work in a village called Mohali, Chhatisgarh. He took initiatives to open accounts for all the Ration card holders, connected the people with Aadhar Cards, built committee for safeguarding government distribution, so that the poor can be benefited through PDS system. Respected Motilal has worked on these critical grounds.\nSo, if the members of the parliament take such initiatives and interests, it can help the villages to transform with a new developed shape. I have all the information about the members I would like to mention the name of our member, Kamakhya Prasad from Jorhat, who has come up with perfect security schemes for ICDS and mid-day meals, so that children get the right meals. Our own Aviation minister, Mr. Ashok ji, who has adopted a village in Andhra Pradesh, took a pledge and surrendered himself to the prevailing alcohol in the village. The village members were forced to flee If we have the support of all the members, we have moved forward in the path of good governance and achieve our goals.\nYou must be aware of the labor practices, wherein our labourers who slogged the day and night, and be given the amount of Rs. 27,000 crores, which is not a small amount, but they are unable to receive the amount Why? As some labourers are paid just Rs. 50, Rs. 100 or Rs. 200, and they can not stick If he relocates to some other workplace, he has to bear extra fare for reaching the old workplace. 50 or 100. There are no accounts of the labors, who died for any reason There is no proper account of their payments and our government treasury has Rs. 27,000 crores, which is the labourers\nWe have tried to formulate the UAN (Universal Account Number) policy. With the help of this UAN policy, labourers will receive their payments in their accounts, irrespective of their location. With this, the labourers will be able to receive their pending amount of payment, from the treasury of Rs. 27,000 crore, which is lying with the government This money belongs to the Poor and is it their rightful money The government does not want to use this money for any other reason, we want to pay back the labourers. I believe, this is a result of Good Governance and will have a positive impact in the development of our nation.\nIf we talk about Prime Minister People's Money, I do not want to\nWe have been talking about MNREGA repeatedly I will not be repeating the same here, as that has been registered properly and has been addressed. Now, I would like to talk about Aadhaar Cards and MNREGA I do not want to criticize and make comparison between them. But, I have the strength and culture to say that, all our governments have contributed Our country must have faced various obstacles in reaching us, however, huge contributions have been done. Let us talk about the working card:\nIn 45 months under UPA, which is almost 3.5 years, 7 crore Aadhar settlements took place\nIn 9 months under NDA, 17 crore settlements took place\nSo, we can see the difference between 45 months and 9 months.\nYou have to compare between 45 months and 9 months\nIn 45 months of UPA government, 5,000 Aadhar cards were linked with MNREGA. And at the time NDA Government, 8 Lac Aadhar cards have been linked to this scheme. Now compare 5000 in 45 months versus 8 Lakhs in just 9 months?\nAt the time of UPA, 1.7 crore cards were linked to Job Cards. We have added 5 Crore people in 9 months. Compare 1.7 Crores versus 5 Crores?\nAnd so, I said that both policy and practices need to be developed.\nWe talk about MNREGA and job guarantee for 100 days During 2013-14, the average days of employment under this scheme were 42.5 days only, which is well short of 50%.\nAnd how many people got jobs for 100 days during 2013-14? Only 6.35% and when this issue was brought to the notice of honorable Supreme Court, it was admitted by UPA government, that they have no audit report for the expenses incurred, amounting to Rs. 1 Lac Crore in the last five years in MNREGA This affidavit has been filed by you in Supreme Court.\nWe talk a lot about plans, discussions related to it, credit, rules and strict laws. Nation wants us to do the best, for the benefit of poor people And you will see that in 9 months that the government is working in the same direction.\nRespected Mayawati has discussed about Bundelkhand Bundelkhand is divided into two states - Madhya Pradesh \u0026 Uttar Pradesh. An amount of Rs. 3,760 crore was disbursed for six districts of Madhya Pradesh. At the same time, an amount of Rs. 3506 Crore was disbursed for seven districts of Uttar Pradesh. Madhya Pradesh spent 96% out of it and you can see the results. Bundelkhand connected with Madhya Pradesh has shown a drastic improvement in wheat yield from 1,629 kilogram per hectare to 2,323 kilogram per hectare. The amount given for irrigation of 1,42,000 hectare land Milk production has improved from 9 lakh ton to 12 lakh ton. Around 561 milk cooperative societies have been initiated. Drinking water consumption has improved from 40 liters per person to 55 liters. Since you belong to Uttar Pradesh, I would like to share the progress of the Bundelkhand with Uttar Pradesh. Maybe your concern is quite genuine, but I have shared the facts about Central Asia.\nWe had a discussion on Bengal also. There are some people who are trying to run this country with imported ideology. They ruled the Bengal for 30 years. But Derek, I will not blame you for the current situation You can do what you want In the past 30 years, the image of West Bengal, which once was known as capital of industrial activity in India, and Kolkata, which was once known as industrial capital has been completely destroyed. West Bengal was one of the industrial development leaders for agricultural growth. In last 30 years, agricultural growth is reduced to minus figures. West Bengal’s share in industrial development is reduced to 4% from 10%. During 1976-77, 7.6% percent of total factories were running in Bengal which was reduced to 4% in 2008-09. During 1966-76, Industrial growth was 17.3% which was reduced to 7.8% during 2001-07. During 2007 National sample survey, it was observed that Bengal is the most affected state suffering from starvation. Only 60% schools have functional toilets for girl compared to national average of 75%.\nYesterday, Sitaram ji was discussing about closure of Nokia factory in Chennai. The nation wants us to create jobs and we have to try our best in this direction. To complete this task, we have to promote ‘Make in India’ campaign. Speed of infrastructure will decide job opportunities, and to increase the job opportunities, we should focus on infrastructure. \nYesterday, Shri Sitarajm ji had shown concern for closure of Nokia factory in Chennai and for 25000 employees who lost their job. I would like to state that this factory was not closed down due to our government’s policy. It has been closed due to certain steps taken by the previous government. I acknowledge your concern. Yes, 25000 employees have lost their job. But I would like to assure you, that we have taken necessary steps. And we hope that Nokia will resume shortly and jobs will be created. So we are already working in this direction. \nThe President, in his address has talked about Digital India. Honorable Chairman Sir, It is true that once there was a global theory of haves and have nots. I believe that in the coming days, digital divide could be one of the reasons for poverty and backwardness. Therefore, nation must not face the situation of Digital Divide. And to stop the Digital Divide, we need to associate even the poorest of the poor with digital technology. India is having more than 90 crore mobile users and is likely to touch the 100 crore mark very soon. We wish to introduce mobile governance. \nHow can the poorest of the poor become a part of this system? \nAnd when we talk of Digital India, we should aim to take the BPOs from centers like Hyderabad, Mumbai, Bangalore, Chennai and Ahmedabad to the North East where the youth is well versed with the English language and can speak it fluently. We are trying our best to proceed in that direction to arrange for a regular means of income for the youth. \nEveryone has also expressed their concerns over the issue of Black Money. This is the topic where nobody ever has expressed their thoughts before. Only we kept talking about it. And we had a lot of figures at that time. I believe that when Supreme Court had ordered to form SIT, back in 2011, our dream of extracting all the money stashed away in foreign banks would have been possible. However, SIT was not formed as the time as there were vested interests. If SIT was formed at the time, and all the procedures had started, it wouldn`t have been as difficult and time consuming to bring back the money. And I believe that even now all money stashed abroad must be brought back to the country. We are doing whatever legally required to address this issue. Also, whether it is about the G-20 summit, or about the dialogue with Switzerland or talking to America about MoU, we are on signing a MoU to exchange information with the world. One after other new countries are joining this movement because without proper information we won`t be able to fight this battle. \nOn the other hand, Indian citizens will have to declare information about any property or wealth that they have stashed away on foreign shores, as per the new laws. As a result of this, things will come into light and it is in this manner that we plan for bringing back the black money. We will complete this procedure and we must do this! \nAll the respected members present here have expressed their concerns over land acquisition. This is a gathering of seniors and I assure all of you that under this scheme, I have ensured from Day 1 that if there is anything against the farmers of the country, we are ready to correct it. But what has been promulgated has its flaws because we were a participant in that. We won`t deny that we had not done this. If we had done something good then don’t give credit to us but there has been a wrongdoing, then we too are responsible for it. But now we should come out of it - for the betterment and development of the country. And I don`t want to make into an ego issue or play politics here. \nWe will need land for irrigation in order to ensure that the farmers have enough water for their crops and thus thePrime Minister`s Krishi Sinchai Yojana will be a success. We will need land to make roads in villages and also to make houses for the poor under the Rural Housing scheme. And there is no provision in our current laws. Hence I request you not to spread rumors that there is a deduction in compensation. No one has ever tweaked the rules of compensation before. As decided the compensation will remain the same and there won`t be any decrease in that. But the law was made in 2013. What happened? It was implemented in January, 2014. The rule was implemented in Haryana in the month of July despite the fact that Congress was the ruling party there. They refused to give the compensation as decided by the rules made under the law. \nNot just that, we made these laws in Maharashtra where Congress was the ruling party. This means that states are finding it difficult to function as per these laws...I am not talking about Congress or BJP here...but they are definitely facing problems and finding it difficult. And all the states have expressed their despair, and as this is the Council of States, it is our duty to protect all states. And it is our first responsibility of this council to act upon the concern that the states have expressed and ensure that law does not prove to be a burden on the states and rework it according to the hopes and aspirations of the respective states. \nThe law will stay, we have to remove the flaws. If there is any flaw in that, then we will have to remove it as well. And I invite you all to come and help us in our quest of evolution tour to develop the country. And no matter how intelligent we are, we should consider the fact that the laws that have helped the country develop and also served the farmers of the country from 1894 to 2014, a total of 120 years, would not have lost its efficiency overnight. We have to think about the farmers of our country and strive to protect them but we have to do it together and this is my insistence. \nThere`s another misconception that is being spread, perhaps not intentionally but due to wrong information. I request you to not do this. The government has no intention to deduct anything from the 67% promised coverage for the poor. Some are spreading rumors about the decrease of coverage from 67 % to 40%, I believe that this will not happen and I request you to refrain from spreading such rumors and trouble us. This devolution that has happened...the work assigned to them was the restructuring of Food Corporation of India. See there are 50 different types of reports that comes to the government. You also must have submitted reports, but it is not on the basis of reports, the government only conveys its decision. I only inform you about the government`s decision. And I believe you are the connected with government`s decisions. Another thing is that due to this 42% devolution, the following changes will be seen...Derek ji, West Bengal will get Rs. 22,000 crore extra, Andhra Pradesh will get Rs. 15,000 crore extra, Orissa will get Rs. 8,000 crore extra. Likewise, I can tell all the extra money that every state will be getting but for now, I have brought the list of only 3 states. The budget features a comprehensive list comprising of Telangana as well. Everyone is getting 42 percent. \nNow the biggest thing about the rise of royalty on minerals that has been increased by 1.5 per cent which is going to benefit mostly the eastern regions of the country. Not only that, the money raised by the coal auctions will also be given to the states. Till date, 19 coal mines have been auctioned and more than Rs 1 lakh crore has been generated from the same. This money will also be given to these states. According to the calculation, of the total amount received, the bulk 62% will be with the states and only 38% will be with the center. This is a proper procedure that is being implemented and hence some people advice that it needs to be verified. \nNot only that, Foreign Policies were also discussed. In the current scenario, it is safe to assume that as opposed to earlier, the world is divided into different parts now. The dynamics of the camps of this world has changed over the years. To protect the supreme interest of India is the centre point of our foreign policy. I had said this before the elections, post it and even after becoming the Prime Minister of the country that the world needs to realise the greatness of India. As far as the foreign policy is concerned, our stance would be to build relationships with the world. We want to build deeper bonds with the neighbouring nations. However, we will be at par with the rest of the nations and never be subdued in front of them in order to build good relationships. However, we will also not be dominant. We just want to be at par with the other nations and develop healthy and fruitful relationships with all of them. \nWe are working in that direction and you will be happy to know about the return of Father Prem`s return from the clutches of the terrorists in Afghanistan which cannot be termed as an ordinary event. And in the past 9 months, 12000 Indians that have been stuck in various parts of the world have been retrieved back to the country. The nurses from Kerala, who were stuck with the terrorists, have also been brought back to the country, safe and sound. The government had provided them with air tickets to their home state. \nAnother important discussion was the issue of Jammu and Kashmir. I want to assure the house and also 125 crore Indians that the government formed in Jammu and Kashmir is on the basis of Common Minimum Programme and will continue to function with the same idea. We can`t support it on the basis of someone`s statement. The government will go forward with a zero tolerance policy towards terrorism. But if we continue to react to every statement made, I believe that we will not proceed in the correct direction. We are proceeding with our rules and plans. \nI will tell this clearly that the voters of Kashmir have not only honored democracy by coming out in maximum numbers to vote but they have also sent out a loud and clear message to the world about Kashmir. And hence, the fact that India had been advocating since the past 50 years, Kashmir voters had managed to put a seal of approval on it. Hearty congratulations to them! I congratulate the citizens of Kashmir. And we place our trust in the citizens of Kashmir and for the trust that they have placed in us, we promise to protect the unity and integrity of the country. And hence, once again I would like to say through the medium of this house and the head of the house that we assure that we will follow the proposals for the betterment of Kashmir, approved by the councils of India. There will be no compromise on the subject and I assure this to the people of the country. \nI would once again request the assembly to approve the President`s speech, of his proposal of vote of thanks with consensus. I would like to thank everyone."