"\nAll the greatness!\nI apologize to you first, because earlier this program was scheduled this morning. But I had to go to Kashmir today and because of that I had requested that if the time is changed then it will be fine. You changed the time and gave me an opportunity to meet you, so I am very grateful to NASSCOM.\nHardly any organization can become a Movement so soon, membership is done, all meetings happen, Memorandum is given to the government, expectations from the government, Rajguru is sometimes expressed, but NASSCOM's Character Not being It became a big movement more than the institution and in the beginning, which added some beads to the thread of NASSCOM. Today, a very beautiful garland has become gradually glorifying India.\nWhen NASSCOM is discussed, Dewang will definitely be discussed. I had a good introduction to Dewang and when a big storm was taking place over Y2k, the whole world was worried and at that time Atal ji's government was our pramod ji saw the IT department and the bigger was so much hype because of y2k did not know how What will happen. And at the time there was an opportunity to work with Dewang, but they do not stay very long between us. I honor them with Anjali respectfully and as fast as the NASSCOM progresses, the thoughts of Dewang will keep reminding us every time.\nWhen the NASSCOM started in 25 years, I think maybe this area will not be more than Hundred Million Economy, today it reached Hundred forty Six Billion. Such a big jump in 25 years, but most of the time when IT sector is discussed, it will have to agree that one reason why we are here today in IT, which is the main reason I think, is that the main reason is that the government here Is not there. The better we stay, the better. This whole charisma belongs to our young generation. 20, 22, 25 year olds who entered this area at that time. Millions of young people got employment through this network of NASSCOM, they got opportunities. The economy of the country has benefited. We also have some steps towards making India modern.\nBut one of the most different things that I have always felt is that due to this IT, the whole world had to change the attitude of looking at India. The first world had become the identity of our country, who were backward, superstitious, snake charmers. But our youth changed the minds of the whole world on the computer, and this area has a huge contribution in giving a new identity to the world, and for this, all of India associated with this region have such great greatness There are many congratulatory officers for service. I congratulate you.\nThe great dignitaries who have contributed in this field today, who have brought their start-up industries to much height by innovation, through the new application. Anyone who has earned from this area for social service like our Azim Premji, they all got an opportunity to honor me. I congratulate them all with heart. To those who gave birth to NASSCOM for their Achievement, to those who brought Nasscom to this place and to NASSCOM, I also congratulate the people who took you to many heights and I believe that you This courage, this effort of people will inspire the new generation and assure you to do many new things.\nYour program is IT- India Tomorrow and you are stressing on innovations. We have also been trying to synchronize things in the direction of Digital India for a few days. Time has changed so fast that the importance of highways is the same as that of i-Ways, Information ways. If the Highways were created then there would be progress and guarantee remains unfulfilled till i-way does not exist and so when Digital India is running on this thing, then we have the imagination. How to make the arrangement with digital vision that every citizen of India should be able to make that arrangement. That should be the extension. When we talk about Digital India, then how to develop Citizen Centric services, how we can develop them. We talk about Digital India, then how do we make changes in governance and this has been my opinion. Good governance has become a synonym for E-Governance and when I say E-Governance, then from my view it is also an easy governance, also there is a economic governance. And in that form all the definitions of governance are changing. How do we extend it? It seems like satisfaction is where we have reached today, but according to the need, we are far behind. There is a lot to do. Such a big country, so many people, you can imagine in which country 100 million mobile phones will be in the hands of people in the very near future. Hundred crore? Now as soon as people in your field prepare the Mobile app as fast as possible. I think you will capture Market as fast and there is no Consultancy Fee for the advice I give.\nJust Collect Banking I do not believe that someone is going to go to the bank. The world is going to be on Mobile Banking. How we move forward, the mobile governance is going to run on all the amenities, all the needs, the person wants to get from there. You must have seen that today, Astrologers also tell you what to do in the morning, not what to do on mobile. Everyone understands what the use can be. Everyone can develop in their own way NASSCOM has never kept an Agenda, what should be done by Astrology and IT, but people have done it.\nThe meaning of saying that is to worship is to take the support of IT. Even if he wants latest information from the world, he is also supporting IT. Even if you have to solve a problem even with IT, even if you want to shop, IT has become dependent on it in a way, and there is only one Guru in your family who is below 18, They all ask him, they will not ask you. In the house, the discussion will be going on in between the two brothers, then go in and ask for help by coming in. It is so that he has taken the place in this form. That is why we can imagine how many possibilities have spread in it and one of India's nature is Adapting these things. It is in Nature of India.\nOur normal person is also normal .. I tell my own experience and it was a big surprise for me. I was Chief Minister in Gujarat, so a tehsil was such that even where I did not get the opportunity to go after working for five to six years. My nature was that I should reach the maximum place, go to the area, meet people, it was my insistence. I told our government officials that Bhai, I have to go there to make a program. Now there was no such developments that there was no such development. I said, like this I will go, brother, do something. Make a bus routing program. I have to go there, well it was decided that there would be a Chilling Center there, a small center for the Milk Collection built a small building of 20-25 lakh and built the Chilling Center.\nI said okay, I come for the inauguration. All the tribals live in the jungle expanses and there was no place to hold the general meeting because of the forest. There was a three kilometer school, that was to hold a general meeting in the school grounds, to inaugurate the Chilling Center and to go there, there were some tribal women giving milk. He had also called about 25 women in Chilling Center during the inauguration that day. We did all the program and I was watching that twenty-five women were photographed from Mobile Phone. Suppose you can imagine that creating a Chilling Center of 25 lakhs was a huge event for the government. The common woman there too was a tribal woman who had come to fill the milk, had a mobile phone and was removing the photo and I went to him, I said, what would you do by removing my photo? The answer he gave to me is that I think that is also shocking to you. They said we will go and download it. Now you will not even realize where you have reached. If you recognize this power that your last client is two steps ahead of you, to fulfill that need, the Government should set up Infrastructure, you can do new innovations. Adopt your government to innovations. Seeing and seeing Revolution can happen.\nAnd I believe that there are many areas with the potential for GDP in the coming days, in which a connectivity area is going to be a huge area to increase GDP. The more, the better, the faster connectivity, the greater the likelihood of GDP, this is going to happen. The world is changing so fast, how can we capture that world. In the coming days .. I have a question in my mind. Do not be angry with you, because you have done a lot, have extended the honor of the country, even then, who does good, then there is expectations from him who does not do good, who will ask him, Bhai Yes is very good, take good prize. You are doing well, so my expectations are high. If you do not do well then I do not ask anything from you.\nDo not you have a question that does not make friends in Google My country? What is the lack of talent, those who went here have definitely made it. I do not believe that the government is a hindrance. To be very proud, to reach us in the world, we go to the innovations of that level so that our systems play a role in running the world and it can be friends, it is not difficult work. If my country's youngsters can reach Mars on less than Hollywood's film, then I think that you can do my friends too! It should be taken as a very big challenge of innovation. Everything else can be done then we just become a client, become a good customer, and become good, it is not our motive. We have to go beyond this. One area is such that in which there are many possibilities, I believe.\nI met the world's politicians after becoming Prime Minister. Maybe I met more than 50 politicians. My concern with Cyber ​​Security about all 25 to 30 politicians has worried all over the world about cyber security. Can my Hindustan youth come to the world with full Proof Innovations for Cyber ​​Security to sleep? The big market will keep you by writing it. There will be a lot going forward from the firewall. We will have to reach that position, and in relation to which the world will feel that, yes, we were worried, now we probably found the way. The strength of the whole world is that the power of cyber security is standing. Cyber ​​Security is needed. What can we do globally by creating such a Task Force by NASSCOM? It is true that this is a dynamic state. If you do one, then he does another, if you do the second, then do the third, but perhaps we can do the job of freeing a huge anxiety to the world. I am not afraid, I am not the master of this topic. I am a client, I speak as a client, general customer. If we do not provide this security, the day will not be far away that too big a square will be away from touching the mobile. He does not know whether or not he will not know where things will go, no matter where things will be recorded. Hey no, no, I do not do it, I do not have it. This day will come. And then going to this process will be such a big push, which we can not imagine, and therefore it is necessary that we can create an assurance to create trust that Bhai do not worry that this is the technology you are connected with, safe, do not worry. Your privacy is also not a problem.\nYour own Documents also do not have problems. Just like E-Business increases, those who come by making the portal are moving forward. Now, the bigger the e-database is being prepared, the digital database is being prepared, in the coming days, you will have to start down from your status and start a new business. Status, I am saying this because I'm going to do this using the word. In Public Life, you are going to rise higher, going high in the business world. There will be days when you have to start the Cloud Godown. Now you will ask your dad that I am going to start the Godown, then they will say that your intellect has worsened? Will Godown open? But in the coming days, a huge business of Cloud Godown is going to stand. In large numbers people will be ready to keep their Documents, all their systems and bank, complete the complete data of your Cloud Godown, the moment they believe that you provide security, do the security Provide. Cloud locker for the important document in the coming days, Even yesterday, which we have said of Gold Bond, after getting Gold Bond, there will be many people who will put Gold Bond in Cloud Locker. Cloud Godown and Cloud Locker This is becoming the area with the potential of such a large market. I understand that we have to think broadly and governments will also no longer need to keep the files in their offices. They keep things in their Cloud Godown and keep them safe for years, those days are coming.\nI myself, I'm probably the first politician to use Sound Cloud and my experience is so good, Sound Cloud. Otherwise, I used to roam around Yahoo first, revolving around YouTube. Now I went there and I have seen that I got involved with a very big world very fast. If we recognize these powers and strive towards integrating those powers, then I think that huge benefits can be in the coming days.\nOur Ravishankar said that a new parameter of the discussion of rich and poor is about to come and that is Digital Divide. Digital divide will also be emaci and poverty will be measured and therefore there is no division of society in the society, if we do not have a state of digital divide, then we have to move forward. I have seen that there is a huge problem in the government. One has already used to working in silos and they have now got their digital activity also in silos. और मैं मानता हूं, मैं तो technician नहीं हूं, मुझे लगता आप कर सकते हैं, फिर वही आप कर सकते हैं इसलिए कहने का मन करता है।\nकिसी भी language को किसी भी language में Translate करने वाले Software आपने बनाए हैं। उसकी लेखनी अलग है, उसका grammar अलग है, लेकिन Translation हो जाता है software से। मतलब Interpretation के लिए आपके पास बढि़या-सा Talent है जिसका उपयोग करते हो। सरकार के सामने यह समस्‍या है, किसी ने 15 साल पहले कोई Software लिया तो यह सारा Material उस भाषा के Software में है। 10 साल पीछे कोई दूसरा Software लिया तो उसमें है। यह इतना बिखरा पड़ा है और इतने अलग-अलग लोग माल हमको देकर चले गए हैं। अब उस समय जो लोग थे उनको लेने की जरूरत होगी शायद और लेने में भी मजा आता होगा। क्‍या हमारी यह जो बिखरी हुई चीजें हैं, हरेक का अलग-अलग Software है। अगर Language को आप Interpret कर सकते हैं बड़ी आसानी से एक software से, क्‍या इस challenge को उठाकर हमारी यह जो Raw data पड़ा है, अलग-अलग form में पड़ा है, उसको हम चाहे इस प्रकार से उसको synchronize करना, उसको Interpret करना, उसको उस form में रखना क्‍या इस काम को कर सकते हैं क्‍या। देश के Governance में एक बहुत बड़ा बदलाव आ सकता है इससे, क्‍योंकि आज मैं नया software लूं और लोगों को कहूं कि भई अब वो बदलो, वो फैंक दो इसमें डालो सारा। तो भई वो कहेंगे कि ठीक है साहब हम data entry करते रहेंगे। मैं नहीं चाहता हूं कि सरकारे data entry में ही लगी रहे। हमें बदलाव चाहिए और technology के उपयोग से क्‍या होता है देखा होगा आपने। बहुत-सी बातें होती हैं जो लिखने, पढ़ने, देखने को मिलती नहीं है, लेकिन मैं बताता हूं।\nहम लोगों ने गैस सिलेंडर की जो सब्सिडी है वो Direct Benefit Transfer करने की Scheme बनाई। 80 percent ग्राहक तक हम पहुंच गए। करीब 12 crore लोगों को हम Direct Benefit Transfer कर रहे हैं और यह काम हमने 30 दिन में पूरा कर दिया, कैसे? Just it with the help of technology. कितना बड़ा achievement और मैं मानता हूं आने वाले दिनों में यह जो भ्रष्‍टाचार के खिलाफ लड़ाई है न, उसमें technology बहुत बड़ा Role play कर रही है। इतनी transparency लाई जा सकती है, हम चाहते हैं यह लाना और इससे बड़ी देश की सेवा क्‍या हो सकती है। यह सिर्फ गैस का जो हमने direct transfer किया है न, मेरा मोटा-मोटा अंदाज है शायद 10 percent लीकेज तो मैंने बंद कर ही दिया है। Can you imagine ten percent यानी thousands of crore rupee है।\nअभी हमने Coal Auction किया है। पूरा technology का उपयोग किया, इतने बड़े बोर्ड पर public में उसको रखा। जिसको बैठना था, सारे पत्रकार भी बैठे थे। Auction हो रहा था। 204 coal blocks, जिसको Supreme Court ने सितंबर महीने में कह दिया कि भ्रष्‍टाचार हुआ है, रद्द करो। सब फायदा मुफ्त का उठा कर ले गए और आपको मालूम होगा कि एक जगह से चिट्ठी जाती थी, कोयले की खदान मिल जाती थी। Supreme Court ने निर्णय किया, हमने उसका फायदा उठाया। हमने तीन महीने के अंदर सारी योजना बनाई, Ordinance लाए, कुछ लोगों की नाराजगी स्वाभाविक है कि Ordinance क्‍यों लाए ? CAG ने कहा था कि यह जो coal block का आवंटन हुआ है, उसमें एक लाख 86 हजार करोड़ रुपये का घपला हुआ है। उस समय जब एक लाख 86 करोड़ अखबारों में हैडलाइन आई तो इस देश के नागरिक मानने को तैयार नहीं थे कि यार यह तो ऐसे ही लिख दिया होगा। CAG शायद सरकार से, उसकी भिड़ गई होगी। हम भी politically बोलते तो थे लेकिन मन में रहता था कि यार इतना होगा क्‍या? देखा भाई जिसने समंदर देखा नहीं है, जिसने गांव का तालाब देखा है उसको कोई पूछे कि समंदर कैसा है? तो वो क्‍या बोलेगा, क्‍या बोलेगा बेचारा। किसी को पूछेगा कि बताओ तो भई तो वो कहेगा कि तुम्‍हारे गांव में जो तालाब है न इससे बहुत बड़ा होता है। कितना बड़ा होता है, बोले बहुत बड़ा होता है। फिर पूछेगा.. ऐसे हमारी भी मुसीबत है.. हम तो कल्‍पना ही नहीं कर सकता है। अभी हमने 19 ब्‍लॉक का auction किया और technology का प्रयोग करके किया पूरी तरह e-auction था, सब लोग अपनी बोली computer से बोल रहे थे। 204 में से सिर्फ 19 का हुआ है, CAG का कहना है सिर्फ 204 में एक लाख 86 हजार करोड़ रूपये का घपला हुआ है। 19 का किया और अब तक एक लाख 10 हजार करोड़ रुपया की बोली, बोल चुके हैं। Technology से Transparency कैसे आती है इसका यह जीता जागता उदाहरण है और कहीं किसी ने उंगली नहीं उठाई है जी। एक सवाल नहीं खड़ा हुआ है। अगर हम ईमानदारी से आधुनिक विज्ञान का उपयोग करते हुए, नेक इरादे से चीजों को करें। क्‍या आने वाले दिनों में आप इसमें योगदान कर सकते हैं और मैं मानता हूं कि आप लोग कर सकते हैं और आपसे मेरी अपेक्षाएं हैं।\nअभी हमने एक कल्‍पना रखी है हम जानते हैं कि Tourism का sector. अभी हमारे चंद्रशेखर जी Two trillion Dollar का हिसाब बता रहे थे। आज दुनिया में Tourism का Business three trillion dollar का है और तेज गति से बढ़ने वाला business है। आज जो Tourist है वो न टेलिफोन करके जानकारी लेता है, न किताब पढ़कर निकलता है, वो Google Map से चलता है वो Destination Google से तय करता है, वो IT profession के द्वारा व्‍यवस्‍था के द्वारा चलता है। क्‍या हम भारत का Tourism में हमारे इस Profession के माध्‍यम से एक बहुत बड़ी marketing कर सकते हैं? हम पूरी दुनिया को प्रभावित कर सकते हैं क्‍या? और भारत में गरीब से गरीब को रोजगार देने में Tourism बहुत बड़ी ताकत रखता है और एक बार उसको सही चीजें प्राप्‍त हो। मगर इन चीजों को वो मेहनत करके करे, Database तैयार करके करे, easily accessible व्‍यवस्‍थाएं विकसित करे। आप कल्‍पना कर सकते हैं हम कहां से कहां पहुंच सकते हैं। हमारे नौजवानों को मैं आग्रह करता हूं।\nमैंने सरकार में अभी यह निर्णय किया है Heritage cities के लिए। मैं चाहता हूं कि देश में 50 ऐसे Heritage Cities में Virtual Museum तैयार किया जा सकता है क्‍या? देखिए यह किसी भी देश की विरासत को बचाने, संभालने में museum का बहुत बड़ा role होता है, लेकिन आज भारत के पास इतने पैसे नहीं है। कि हम world class museum को create करे, लेकिन virtual museum बना सकते हैं। मैं, नौजवानों आपसे आग्रह करता हूं, आइए virtual museum बनाइए, virtual museum बनाकर के एक बहुत बड़ा market खड़ा करे, tourism के साथ जोड़े और भारत सरकार तैयार है इस प्रकार के virtual museum को आने वाले दिनों में खरीदने के लिए तैयार है। एक बहुत बड़े Business की संभावनाएं हैं, Research करने वाली University मिल जाएगी, Professors मिल जाएंगे और फिर आप उसमें से तैयार करिए और इतना User friendly बनाएंगे, आप देखिए tourism को बढ़ावा देने के लिए यह virtual museum और Economical रहेगा। आप एक Museum खड़ा करे उसका खर्चा और एक Virtual Museum का बहुत फर्क पड़ जाता है। क्‍या हम इस काम को कर सकते हैं क्‍या? आने वाले दिनों में अगर इन चीजों का काम कर सकते हैं तो मेरा आपसे आग्रह है कि आप करे, बाकी तो शिक्षा है, Health है यह काम ऐसे है कि बड़े बहुत ही अनिवार्य हैं।\nRemotest to Remote Area में हम अगर अच्‍छी शिक्षा पहुंचाने चाहते हैं तो Technology बहुत बड़ी ताकत है। Long Distance education के द्वारा उत्‍तम से उत्‍तम शिक्षा हम दे सकते हैं और हम अगर उसका उपयोग करे हम बहुत बड़ी सेवा कर सकते हैं आप Corporate Social responsibility के नाम पर कई काम कर रहे हैं, मेरा एक आग्रह है स्‍वच्‍छता के लिए आप करें, लेकिन उसके साथ-साथ मुझे बताया गया कि 1800 members हैं आपके NASSCOM के, क्‍या 1800 Member कंपनियां कम से कम एक का उस कंपनी के मालिक या उसके partner जिस primary school में पढ़े हैं, जहां भी बचपन में गांव में होंगे, शहर में, जहां भी पढ़े हैं कम-से-कम उस स्‍कूल को आप एक E-library donate कर सकते हैं क्‍या? आप हमारी नई पीढि़यों को जानकारी का खजाना खोल दीजिए उनके सामने। आज Minimum 20 लाख किताबें E-Library के लिए आसानी से उसको उपलब्‍ध हो जाएगी। आज गांव में दो हजार किताबों की Library बनाना कठिन है, लेकिन आप जहां पढ़े हैं आपको एक Attachment होगा, आपका भी मन करता होगा, जिस स्‍कूल ने मुझे बड़ा बनाया, मैं भी उसके लिए कुछ करूं। आप देखिए देखते ही देखते वो Viral की तरह फैलेगा और फिर E-Library की लिए बहुत बड़ा business खुल जाएगा। यह है कि E-Library का structure बनाकर के दे देते हैं, E-Library service provide करते हैं। science magazine आज हमारा विद्यार्थी कहां से खर्चा करेगा। Even medical students के लिए science magazine महंगे पड़ते हैं, लेकिन हम E-Library Provide करे तो वो कितना सारा कर सकता है इसका आप अंदाज कर सकते हैं। और इसलिए हम Corporate Social Responsibility के नाते ही अपने व्यक्तिगत जीवन में जहाँ नाता रहा वहां कुछ करें, आप देखिये उनके लिए भी बहुत बड़ी चीज़ होगी और आने वाले दिनों में बहुत बड़ा लाभ होगा और Dynamic आप उसमें उत्तरोत्तर सुधार करवा सकते हैं क्योंकि आप इस field में हैं। दूसरा जब मैं सूचना की बात करता हूँ E-Waste इसके विषय में awareness नहीं है देखिये हमारे देश में environment की समस्याएं इसलिए आई कि जिस जगह कारखाना लगा दिया, They were not conscious about it. हमें E-Waste के सम्बन्ध में और NASSCOMM को विषय उठाना चाहिए और लोगो के लिए Awareness Campaign चलाना चाहिए online चलाना चाहिये, E-Waste के Solutions देने चाहिए, सरकार के साथ मिलकर के कोई project बनाया जा सकता है। Campaign चलाना चाहिए, वर्ना हम कहाँ से कहाँ पहुँच जायेंगे।\nकभी कभार इन दिनों हमारे यहाँ पहले अच्छा पेन रखना एक Status था, अच्छी घड़ी रखना एक Status था लेकिन अब अच्छा फ़ोन रखना एक स्टेटस हो गया है और एक दूसरे को मिलते रहते हैं और कहते है अच्छा-अच्छा तूने ले लिया Apple-6. अगर ये नहीं है तो लगता है कुछ नहीं है। बहुत साल पहले की बात है इमरजेंसी के दिन थे मैं Underground था, पुलिस हमें खोज रही थी। एक परिवार में मैं रह रहा था उनके एक भाई UK में रहते थे वो आये हुए थे शाम को पहुंचें तो सभी भाई बैठे थे, तो उन्होंने कहा कि में एक घड़ी लाया हूँ, दो-ढाई लाख की घड़ी होगी शायद सबने देखी, सुबह हम चाय-पानी के लिए बैठे थे और उनके एक छोटे भाई थे वो बड़े मजाकिया थे, तो उन्होंने उनसे पुछा कि time कितना हो गया, तो उन्होंने कहा कि आठ बज गए हैं, बोले नहीं-नहीं ज़रा ठीक से देखिये, उन्होंने बोला कि आठ ही बजे है, फिर वो बोले की आप ज़रा ध्‍यान से देखिये वो फिर बोले की आठ ही बजे है, तो दूसरे भाई बोले की अच्छा, मेरी 250 रुपये की घड़ी है उसमें भी आठ ही बजे हैं।\nहमारे देश में 1500 रूपए के मोबाइल वाला भी जो उपयोग देता है 25000 रूपए वाला भी उतना ही उपयोग देता है। लाल बटन, नीला बटन, Green button इससे ही एक मैं मानता हूँ कि सचमुच में हमें मोबाइल revolution लाना है, mobile app का revolution लाना है तो एक बहुत बड़े वर्ग को, 80 percent utility नहीं है 80 percent.. एवरेज मैं कह रहा हूँ, कितना ही बढ़िया सॉफ्टवेर वाला मोबाइल ले आईये, लेकिन उसका उपयोग ही नहीं करेंगे तो फायदा क्या होगा। क्या school-colleges में इसके बारे में awareness कार्यक्रम हो सकते हैं क्या? इसको करना चाहिए। वरना मैं मानता हूँ कि यह एक अलग प्रकार का E- Waste हैं। कोई भी पैसा अगर कहीं पर dead money के रूप में पड़ा है तो मैं मानता हूँ कि वो देश का नुकसान है। अगर मेरा 25,000 रूपए का मेरा मोबाइल फ़ोन हो और मैं उसका 80 प्रतिशत use नहीं करता मतलब कि वो मेरा dead money है सीधा- साधा इकोनॉमिक्स है, हमें लोगों को तैयार करना है और यह काम यही field के लोग कर सकते हैं. उसकी utility से ताकत बढ़ती है देश की, सामान्य लोगों की भी ताकत बढ़ती है और उस दिशा में हम कैसे काम करें इस दिशा में हमे सोचना है। आप जानते है कि मैं social मीडिया में काफी active रहा हूँ और काफी समय से active रहा हूँ, इस दुनिया की जब से शुरुआत हुई तभी से इसमें मेरी रुचि थी।\nMy gov.in मैंने मेरे कार्यालय से जोड़कर के मैंने देखा है कि मैं कोई भी चीज वहां question करता हूं, हजारों लोग मुझे respond करते हैं। मुझे कहीं भाषण करने जाना है और मैं पूछता हूं कि मुझे थोड़ा idea दीजिए, हजारों लोग तुरंत मुझे idea देते हैं। आपने देखा होगा यह जनधन योजना, प्रधानमंत्री जनधन योजना.. यह शब्‍द एक नागरिक ने दिया है, competition से आया है, my gov.in पर आया। अभी my gov.in के द्वारा मैं competition launch करने जा रहा हूं शायद एक दो दिन में कर लूंगा, मैं आपको भी निमंत्रित करता हूं इसमें आइए।\nPMO कार्यालय के लिए Mobile App कैसा होगा, ideas पहली competition का मेरा level है Ideas. और जो Best ideas आएंगे यह Google के साथ मिलकर के हम कर रहे हैं, जो Best ideas होंगे ऐसे लोगों की टीम को फिर Google office America जाने का निमंत्रण मिलेगा और दूसरा है education, Idea को implement करने वाला पूरा software तैयार करना। मैं चाहूंगा कि मेरे कार्यालय को भी इस India tomorrow जो innovation को लेकर के आप चले हैं तो मुझे भी आप लोग मदद करे।\nफिर एक बार मैं नहीं जानता मैंने ज्‍यादा ही समय ले लिया। मुझे यहां आकर अच्छा लगा, बहुत बहुत धन्‍यवाद।"