"Share\n\nPro-Poor Budget is the Pro-Growth Budget. In order to fulfill the needs of the people, the entire path has been extended from public funds to public welfare.\nEnabling states on one side; On the other hand, to emphasize national priorities, national needs. Special emphasis on SC, ST, OBC, Dalit, suffering, exploitation - those who are left behind.\nFor the first time in MGNREGA, the poor of the village got the bread and bread, hence the maximum amount was spent for the employment of the poor, which was a big discussion of the MGNREGA.\nOur country's small traders - Watches, sells vegetables, will have to climb the clothes - to get them money - the bank hands up - they do not get the money. For them, the funds are easily met, as much as what we need, for that we have introduced a different scheme of \"money\", which will be useful for them in the coming days.\nIn this budget, what we have in relation to black money, what we have commitment, we have completely kept it in front of the country. Now the black money is not good. Except in prison, now there is nothing in their destiny. We are bringing the new law, and today in very detail, we have presented a framework for taking action against black money. At the same time black money is not ready new. Even for that, the business that runs the benami transaction, is also bringing the law against it.\nBudget should also be an investment booster. Our economic capabilities should be strengthening. All the plans of this budget are going to promote investment, push forward the infrastructure and fulfill the dreams of the common man, and I can say, this is the budget that will create the highest employment opportunities.\nIn this budget, there are so many plans for the common man. Whether it is a matter of casual insurance, it is a matter of life insurance, it is a matter of pension, easy loan arrangements have been made in the bank for the expenses incurred in college for reading to our young people. After one, the systems have been developed smoothly.\nAnd most importantly, especially my farming siblings, especially my poor siblings, who are worried about their old age, every poor person of India, also the poor, the farmer, the farm laborer, even when in old age There is no work to do, he gets a pension, we have kept such a plan. For the first time every citizen in this country will get some benefit under the pension. We are going to do such a huge work through this budget.\n'All along with development' is moving forward with this mantra.\nI, my friend and companion, finance minister, Mr. Arun Jaitley, to motivate people to do new things with the new excitement and enthusiasm for the poor, for growth, for development, for employment, from ordinary to the common man. To convey, I congratulate myself very much.\nI believe this budget will provide us an opportunity to move us to new heights in the coming days."