"Share\n\nThe railway budget is a budget associated with poor people of the poor. Indian Railways is not just for connecting one place with another, but a powerful means of accelerating India's economy. Today's budget has brought about the all round development of the railway.\nYoung people can get employment from railway; Environment can also be worrisome by railways; India's image from railway can also be exposed in the world; Railway can give new direction to economic development. There is no such thing which this time the railway is untouched in the budget.\nI congratulate with the railway minister's heart that he has escaped the wrath of the then accolades and came here for a five year plan. For the first time, railways have said discipline in financial discipline and expenditure - this has been said. It is in itself to honor the common man's money in India, to use it properly - there is an effort in that direction.\nThe young man is desperate to get a job in the railway, but there was no transparency. Today the youth should get employment, but corruption free-of-charge arrangements, the minister has raised the ego in that direction.\nMost of the attention in the rail budget has been given on the convenience of the passengers, given at the speed of the railway, on the upgradation of technology, and the touching touch of all-new, newest fantasies, touching every aspect of development, today the Railway Budget The country has come in front.\nThe arrangements for the protection of women, what has been said of the helpline, the permanent arrangements are being developed, and the passengers traveling in the railway get good food, a facility environment is available. How to become a world-class railway station? Why just platform? Top 20-storey, 25-storey station why not? Why do not all types of facilities above? Railway stations can become the identity of a modern railway.\nSo far the railway budget will increase, the number of cans will be AC, the number of new trains would have been bound and remained tied in the same border. Without first raising the passenger freight, this budget, which proposes to invest more than 8 lakh crores for the first time, is itself a sign of good and unbiased intentions."