"\nAll the greatness present,\nI congratulate the State Department that they have composed this kind of program. Global relationships are not just on one track. Slowly in the global relationship, Soft Power has become the main stream, and Soft Power only gives the power to global relations, gives strength. Apart from the channels which are diplomatic to our global relations in India also, which is the power in our heritage, it should also be utilized in abundance. These relationships are very effective for a very long time.\nWhere in the world where Lord Buddha is present, collectively, if those countries remain with us then how big can our strength be? Where in the world where Ram and Ramayana are in contact, those who are proud, by joining with one fiber, if relations are developed today, then relations become self-respect. They become more powerful than Diplomatic Relation, they get a next level. In this sense, I believe that this effort will be very beneficial for deepening global relations, to broaden global relations and to add an element of commitment to an identity in global relations. We must also increase this in different ways. In this aspect, there is a specific power in India, and the world also recognizes that there is nothing to offer to the world.\nWhen the Ramayan serial was going on, we know, there was a curfew-like atmosphere in our country. Can anyone imagine what! In the later half of the 20th century, even the young generation of the country can attract the Ramayana ... and it has been a limit of time for thousands of years, nor is it a geographical limit. In so many lands of the world, these things reached and where we came from, we became known. ..And that was the time, as Sushma ji said, what is the nature of the relationship..when she walked Ramayan serial, even in the house, the style of addressing in the family had changed. Bhishri, Tatreshree, Matsushree, such a child were also talking in the house, they would do it for fun but there was a message in them. A new, the legacy of our scriptures ... and the tradition of addressing, people were learning. How is the cultural heritage still here?\nToday, when we read news, how oppressive it is to torture women, but the period of Ramayana was such that after watching atrocities on a woman, Jatayu was ready to sacrifice. Jatayu was unarmed, but still, fighting with such a great power, for the honor and glory of a woman. Can Jatayu not become our inspiration? Who can give more than the message of Abhay and Nirbhaya to Jayaayu? And in this sense, the words of Ramayana. The topics are discussed in it, how relevant is it even today.\nI was watching, some things that have been said in the Ramayana. Today, we talk about all these infant mortality, swine flu. Mother death rate, infant mortality rate .. The state of Ramrajya which has been imagined, said in the Ramayana has gone-\nNo pity, no poem All beautiful, all biruj sarira ..\nI think that for health .. No one can have any message for this big Health Sector. And it is said - non die prematurely, all were physically healthy and strong. From now on, the state of Ramrajya has been asked for the health sector.\nHow to Have a Social Relationship Today, social harmony is being discussed. The message was also at that time -\nLove all Chalih Swadharm Vibhushan Shruttiyati ..\nThere is social harmony and environment of mutual trust and love among all; are fulfilling their Dharma, their responsibility.\nToday, with the topics we sometimes think we find, how we find the way, in the imagination of Ramrajya, in the imagination of the Ramayana, these subjects have been very well said ... it has been said for civil religion-\nAll generous all paraphernalia Vipra Charan Sevak Male Female ..\nAll are generous and giving, all men and women are in service of others.\nI think in the imagination of the kingdom of Ramrajya, in the Ramayana's champs, we can still find solutions to our problems. Through our personal life and public life, how we can work in society, its message-\nDo not say anything Ram Pratap Visamata Khoi ..\nBy the grace of Ram all disparity, differences have been melted and non engage in enmity.\nWe get the message on every subject. I believe that this five day festival is going to be here, different traditions have developed in different countries of the world from the chronology. There is also a process in rituals with entertainment. There is also a process of pride for our great heritage.\nThis is good .... I am thinking that the State Department, it has joined Delhi, the world has joined, that will have to change this thinking. This country is very huge. Hindustan every single state should also have a global environment and its place, should be recognized. This program is being taken to many cities. That is an auspicious start. These worlds also know different corners of our country. Learn also our different traditions. People living in our different places try to understand the world even outside of Delhi. The form of a vast India continues to be associated with the world, it is also an attempt.\nI once again congratulate the State Department and Lokesh in heart very much.\nThank you."