"\nHonourable Members,\n1. In this new year full of aspirations and hope, I welcome you to the Joint Sitting of the Two Houses of the Parliament with the belief that your deliberations will be productive and useful.\n2. Dr. Shyama Prasad Mukherjee said,\n\"The greatest strength of India is her rich spiritual and civilizational heritage\". The core values ​​of our civilization emphasize universal good - welfare of all human beings The fundamental tenet of my government is that of Sabka Vikas- All Together, Development of All. Within a span of nine months, my government has articulated and embarked on a comprehensive strategy for unleashing the full potential of our country and its precious resource of 125 crore people Measures have been initiated to take action in a range of fields from sanitation to smart cities, poverty elimination to creation of wealth, skill development to conquering space, tapping demographic dividend to diplomatic initiatives, enhancing ease of doing business framework, empowering persons to ensure quality infrastructure, ending financial untouchability to making a country, a growing economy to stimulating economics, igniting minds to ensureclusive growth, promoting cooperative federalism to the states. A strong start has been made A promising future awaits us.\nHonourable Members,\n3. Poverty is a bane to dignified human existence. Development is actualized only when the last person gets an understanding of fulfillment, special, about his minimum needs Pandit Deendayal Upadhyaya had laid emphasis on holistic development of each and every human being -\nEkatm Manavata Darshan (Integral Humanism). My government is pledged to work for the welfare of the poor, the marginalized and the vulnerable sections of the society.\n4. Financial inclusion is critical to poverty elimination. My Government launched a ambition\nPradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana to universal access to banking facilities - a bank account, having in-built accidental insurance with a Rupay debit card. I am happy to state that the coverage under the scheme is close to 100% with a record 13.2 crore new bank accounts being opened, 11.5 crore Rupay debit cards issued and over `11,000 crore being deposited. This unprecedented goal was achieved in less than six months, making it the biggest such program worldwide.\n5. To ensure that the benefits of developmental programs reach the last purpose beneficiary without leakages and impediments, Direct Benefit Transfer Program is being implemented with renewed vigour. The biggest Direct Cash Transfer program in the world,\nPAHAL, for transfer of LPG subsidy, has been expanded across the country from 1st January, 2015, so far covering 75% of the user-households. In all, 35 schemes have been brought under Direct Benefit Transfer architecture. Special emphasis is made to make\nAadhar enrolment coverage universal\n6.\nSwachhata is an article of faith for my Government\nSwachhata will have an overarching impact on the quality of life and well-being of a person, especially the poor.\nSwachh Bharat Mission has been launched for achieving a Clean and Open Defecation Free India by October, 2019. Government has rolled out 'Swachh Vidyalaya' program and is 15th August, 2015 before every school in the school.\nSwachhata has a cascading impact on national development and the potential to generate wealth from waste. Sanitation and the idea of\nSwachhata needs changing My mission is to encourage people to participate in this mission. I appeal to all honourable Members of Parliament to spend at least fifty percent of their MPLADS funds on Swachh Bharat Mission.\n7. India lives in her villages. My government attaches the highest priority to sustainable socio-economic growth of rural areas. MGNREGS can be a powerful weapon to combat rural poverty. While implementing MGNREGS with renewed vigor, the emphasis is on improving quality and sustainability of assets under the program, besides mandating that at least sixty percent of expenditure will be directed towards creation of agricultural infrastructure. In keeping with my government's focus on \"Skill India\", \"Deen Dayal Upadhayaya Rural Council Scheme\" and \"Deen Dayal Upadhyay Antyodaya Yojana\" have been announced. Saansad Adarsh ​​Gram Yojana launched in October 2014, focuses on integrated and holistic development of our villages.\n8. Housing is a fundamental requirement for dignified living. My Government is confident of fulfilling the aspirations of all households, especially the poorest of the poor, to have a dwelling unit under the \"Housing for All\" by 2022, marking 75 years of our independence. A set of fiscal and non-fiscal incentives have been devised to leverage the value of land holding government and to afford flexibility to state governments in designing their own customized housing programs. To assist in housing sector, my government has liberalized FDI policy; Increased tax incentives for housing loans and enhanced the corpus of National Housing Bank\n9. My government attaches paramount importance to safeguard the interests of farmers and families affected by land acquisition. While taking utmost care to protect the interest of farmers, including his compensation entitlements, the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act has been suitably refined to minimize certain processural difficulties in acquisition of land inevitably required for critical public projects of infrastructure and for creation of basic facilities like rural housing, schools and hospitals, specially in remote areas.\nHonourable Members,\nKisan is the food security\nAnnouncement has been found in our fundamental civilizational values. My government attaches to the wellbeing of farmers This will need value-added agriculture, market reform, use of technology and improving productivity in areas with untapped potential The year 2015 has been designated as International Year of Soils. In view of the critical role of soil for productivity and farm output, a Soil Health Card Scheme has started. Price stabilization fund with a corpus of `500 crore has been set up for perishable commodities. To address the irrigation requirements of each village in a effective and sustainable manner,\nPradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchai Yojana, is being launched. Extension programs have been devised targeting resource-poor, small and marginal farmers, special focus on organic farming and green house technology.\nRashtriya Gokul Mission has been launched with the aim of conserving and developing indigenous cattle breeds.\n11. Food Processing has been able to generate employment in rural areas, specially for the landless poor, for the guaranteed remunerative price for the farm-produce. Creating infrastructure in rural areas to minimize A special fund of `2000 crore to provide affordable credit to the units in 72 notified food parks has been operationalized. Two Mega Food Parks, at Tumkur and Fazilka, have been able to direct / indirect employment to 30,000 people in the last 6 months.\n12. Former Prime Minister Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee had said and I quote:\n\"Poverty has multiple effects. Aparting our economy, it corrodes our democracy \"Inclusive growth covering the poorest of poor from our society of the most vulnerable and disadvantaged sections is my government's top priority. It has been given streamlining for scholarships schemes for students from SC, ST, OBC, and minority communities to ensure timely disbursement to the beneficiaries. Government has set up a new Venture Capital Fund for SC entrepreneurs To upgrade skill and training in traditional arts / crafts of minorities, a new scheme \"Upgrading the Skill and Training in Traditional Arts / Crafts for Development (USTTAD)\" is being launched. Outcome based integrated approach has been adopted for tribal development under the Van Bandhu Kalyan Yojana. Nanaji Deshmukh Scheme is being launched for construction of Hostels for Denotified, Nomadic and Semi-Nomadic Tribes.\nHonourable Members,\n13. Education is the priority of my government.\n'Padhe Bharat Badhe Bharat' has been launched. An initiative to map the entire country on a GIS platform, to have been taken out of schools Pandit Madan Mohan Malviya National Mission on Teachers and Teacher Training has been launched in the capacity of teachers. The Rashtriya Avishkar Abhiyan has been announced as a result of scientific temper among students. To ensure access to education in the remotest areas, Ishan Vikas and Ishan Uday schemes have started with students of North-Eastern regions. My Government has formulated National Sports Talent Search Scheme for encouraging sporting talent among children in the age group of 8 to 12 through National Sports Development Fund and Target Olympic Podium.\n14. India has the largest population of youth in the world. Majority of her population is already in the working age group To tap this demographic dividend and to bridge the demand-supply gap in skilled workforce, my Government has created a new Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship with the theme\n\"Hunar Hai to Kalyan Hai\". A new \"National Policy for Skill Development and Entrepreneurship\" is based on the principles of global standards. Focus will be on the rural areas. Public-Private Partnership is being fostered to create skill development models and channelize CSR funds in Skilling activities.\nHonourable Members,\n15. My Government is committed to providing affordable and accessible health care to all its citizens, specifically the vulnerable sections, in a efficient and equitable manner. To reduce preventable deaths, India New Born Action Plan has been initiated and four new vaccines have been approved. 'Mission Indradhanush' has been launched to achieve universal immunization with special focus on 184 high priority districts across the country. To create an integrated, enabling and empowering environment for Persons with Disabilities, My Government has launched new scholarship schemes for students with disabilities. A national help line with free number has been launched for those who need help against drug de-addiction and for rehabilitation.\n16. My Government has recently elevated the erstwhile department of AYUSH to a full-fledged Ministry with a purpose to increase the global and local footprint of the traditional systems of healthcare, due to recognizing that our villages were the repositories of our rich Ayurvedic heritage. National AYUSH Mission has been launched to promote cost effective AYUSH services, strengthen the education system and facilitate availability of quality AYUSH drugs.\nHonourable Members,\n17. Women had a place of reverence in our society since time immemorial. My government has taken many measures To provide complete support to women affected by violence, One Stop Crisis Centers, one in every state, is being set up for provision of integrated services including medical aid, police assistance, temporary shelter, and legal and psycho-social counseling. Another initiative was the launch of Himmat, a mobile based application, to ensure women's safety in Delhi.\n18. The unabated decline in child sex ratio since 1961 is a matter of grave concern. This trend has been reversed To ensure survival, protection and education of the girl child, my government has launched Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao Abhiyan, which seeks to change mindsets to celebrate the girl child. A new small savings scheme 'Sukanya Samriddhi Account' has been notified for the year. A Bill to amend The Juvenile Justice Act has been introduced in Parliament to reform the law.\nHonourable Members,\n19.\nShramik is the backbone of our economy My government believes in\nShrameve Jayate and has taken several labour welfare measures. Apprentice Protsahan Yojana has been launched to promote the apprentices in Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises in manufacturing sector EPF subscriptions have been made in the unorganized sector. Under the Employees Provident Fund Act, the statutory wage ceiling and the minimum pension were enhanced to `15,000 / - and` 1,000 / - respectively. While my government is fully committed to expanding the job market and to promote the welfare of workers, it is also committed to bringing transparency and accountability in labor-related regulations. To this end, the Shram service portal has been launched to ensure ease of doing business by allowing to register online and file instead of 16 different returns. A transparent online inspection scheme has been launched. Recent Amendments to the Apprentices Act, 1961 have made the legal frameworks friendly to both industry and employable youth.\nHonourable Members,\n20. Legal reform is one of the priorities of my Government. My government believes that governance and reforms are a joint effort of Team India, consisting of the Parliament, Union Government, State Legislatures, State Governments and the People of India. An example of this collaborative effort is the reform in the process of appointing the High Courts and Supreme Court and the legislation to set up National Judicial Appointments Commission. The government is also committed to cancel the obsolete and redundant laws. A Committee constituted for this purpose has identified 1741 Central Acts for repeal under different categories.\n21. Maximum Government is the guiding principle of my Government. With an aim to take governance to the doorstep of the poorest of the poor in remotest areas, government is leveraging technology. The system of Group of Ministers has been dispensed with and emphasis is swift decision-making. While introducing stricter and sterner measures to deal with corruption; the effort is to protect\nBona fide decisions are taken in public interest and to inspire confidence in the civil service.\n22. My government is firmly committed to engage in the process of governance and policy-making. My Gov Online Platform, a path breaking initiative, has been launched. This platform has ensured public participation in decision-making and ideation of various national flagship programs like\nSwachh Bharat Mission, Namami Gange,\nPradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana and\nNITI Aayog\n23. My Government has envisioned an ambitious program program, Digital India, to prepare India for technology based transformation and citizen centric transparency governance with service orientation.\nAadhar based attendance system and\nJeevan Praman,\nAadhar based Digital Life Certificate Portal, has shown that innovative use of technology can make enormous difference. Measures are being taken to\ndigital inclusion in rural areas, small towns, north-east and other remote areas, opening up immense job opportunities in these areas Promoting manufacturing of electronic goods\n24. My government is pledged to be a decentralization of power and as an important step in this direction, the Planning Commission has replaced a new body- The National Institute for Transforming India -\nNITI Aayog The underlying spirit\nThe NITI is a co-operative federalism so that the Union and State Government come on a platform for a common national agenda for development, with thrust on empowering the poor.\nHonourable Members,\n25. As a result of my government's sustainable efforts and series of policy initiatives, our economy is again on the high growth trajectory. According to latest estimates, our GDP is growing at 7.4%, which makes India the fastest growing company in the world. Inflation and Food inflation, in particular, are a record low due to a decisive measures taken by government. Fixed capital formation, which faces a near stagnation in the last few years, has increased Capital Markets are upbeat. Our external sector is now far more loyal, specially with a moderate current account deficit and a broadly stable rupee. Our foreign exchange reserves have been substantially enhanced.\n26. While my government has intensified efforts to bring more efficiency and equity in the tax system, prudence in expenditure management is also high on the agenda of my Government. A Constitutional Bill has introduced in the Goods and Services Tax that will simplify the indirect tax regime, broaden the tax base and result in better tax compliance.\nHonourable Members,\n27. My government is committed to taking all possible measures to stop production, both domestically and internationally. These measures include putting in place robust legislative and administrative frameworks, systems and process with due focus on capacity building, integration of information through technology, and fast tracking prosecution.\n28. Financial Sector institutional restructuring My Government will expedite implementation of the recommendations of the Financial Sector Legislative Reforms Commission SEBI's new Foreign Portfolio Investment Regulations have established a unified, simple regulatory framework. The Insurance Laws (Amendment) Ordinance, 2014 was promulgated enhancing the foreign equity cap 26% to 49% while safeguarding Indian ownership and control. This will enhance capital availability and ensure better access to insurance services, especially in rural areas and for economically weaker sections. Small Banks and Payments Banks are allowed to reach the banking system.\nHonourable Members,\n29. My Government has taken initiatives for improvement in 'Ease of Doing Business' through simplification and rationalization of existing rules and procedures. Leveraging IT and use Single window in a\nHub - Spoke is a reality Applying for Industrial License and Industrial Entrepreneur Memorandum now can be done on 24x7 basis on the eBiz website. A number of entries and exit regulations have been eased out.\n30. My Government has launched the \"Make in India\" program which aims to create a wholesome eco-system to transform India into a manufacturing hub. FDI in retail has opened up to selectively to bring in much needed capital, state-of-the-art technology and global best practices. FDI in Defense has been increased to 49% subject to certain conditions. FDI norms in the construction sector Continuous evaluation of Inverted Duties is being undertaken to make Indian industries competitive. Stress is being laid on research and innovation. While focusing on our focus on manufacturing for more jobs, my government will continue to work on our formidable strength in the service sector.\nHonourable Members,\n31. My Government is committed to realizing the true potential of entrepreneurs of India by nurturing the MSME sector. 21 MSME clusters are being supported by soft skills and common facilities through 965 interventions Khadi and village industries and traditional industries clusters are initiated in, hill and poverty-stricken areas of the country Focus is on technology upgradation, better financial access and market linkages to MSME units\n32. Textiles sector is the second largest employer after agriculture, providing direct employment to over 4.5 crore people The sector also favors one seventh of industrial production and more than one fourth of country's foreign exchange inflows. The growth and all round development of this sector has a direct bearing on the improvement of our economy, especially the poor artisans. Recent initiatives like setting up of business facilitation centers in different parts of India, bringing textile marketing on-line, incentives for technical textiles, promotion of Pashmina, special focus on increasing the coverage in the north-eastern part of the country. this sector\nHonourable Members,\n33. Cities are the engines of economic growth My government is committed to building modern amenities and infrastructure in our urban areas. The National Urban Development Mission is the finalized, special focus on water and solid waste management infrastructure. After extensive stakeholder consultations, the Smart City program is close to finalization. These two programs are interlinked and will be a fast growing urban future.\nHonourable Members,\n34. Robust infrastructure is critical for accelerating economic development and reviving economic growth. Indian Railways My government is committed to reform and infuse new vitality in this sector through better services, improved passenger-safety, and increased movement of freight. Two Dedicated Freight Corridors (DFCs), namely, Eastern DFC and Western DFC are expected to be commissioned by 2019. Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai and Kolkata have been taken up for the purpose of conducting the feasibility study for the Diamond Quadrilateral project. Metro Rail projects have been sanctioned for Ahmedabad and Nagpur.\n35. Several policy initiatives to revive \"National Highways Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited\" has been set up for construction of infrastructure in the north eastern states and border areas of the country. New standards have been set to improve quality of roads, both on highways and rural areas and electronic tolling have been introduced for hassle-free traffic on selected highways. e-Rickshaw and e-Cart have been introduced as a separate category under the Motor Vehicles Act 1988, enhancing convenience of passengers and generating thousands of jobs.\n36. My government has taken proactive steps to promote shipping industry These include giving life-time licenses to Indian ships, allowing Indian ships to flag out of country's waters freely, reduction of excise duty on bunker fuel and customs duty on the steel scrap of ship breaking. Government has also formulated\n\"Sagar Mala\" Project to promote Port-based development of the coastal regions and communities As part of \"Make in India\" initiative, ship designing capabilities, ship-building and ship-repair activities will be strengthened. An environment is being created to increase the Indian shipping tonnage and to reduce the transaction time on ports. An institutional arrangement for broad development of National Waterways for transportation has envisaged through the\n'Jal Marg Vikas' Project.\nHonourable Members,\n37. Power sector has made commendable progress achieving 76% capacity addition by January, 2015 against the 2014-15 target of 17,830 MW In order to provide 24x7 quality power in rural and urban areas, Deendayal Upadhayaya Rural Jyoti Yojana with an outlay of more than `43,000 crore and` 32,600 crore more than the outlay of Integrated Power Development Scheme, launched. Special attention is paid to the un-electrified villages in remote areas. My Government has started the project for improving transmission and distribution system in the North Eastern States. We will focus on developing and strengthening the National Grid by developing high capacity power corridors. To deepen the reforms in the Electricity sector, the Electricity (Amendment) bill 2014 has introduced. The ambitious National Smart Grid Mission and Energy Saving Schemes have been started.\n38. My Government lays enormous emphasis on\nclean energy The share of renewable energy in electricity generation is being increased from 6% to 15% of the energy mix in the next 7 years. The scheme for setting up 25 mega solar parks has been approved. The implementation of the Green Energy Corridor Scheme has been accelerated. Setting up the solar generating capacities with the international border My government has made successful efforts in attracting the global investors in this sector. Similar attention is being paid to bio-mass and hydro-energy Government will further expand India's nuclear power capacity with the highest global standards of safety and technological standards.\nHonourable Members,\n39. The petroleum sector has seen major reforms. Diesel prices have been deregulated and are now market driven. The price of petrol has also been decreased by more than `17 per liter. The government has put all the speculation about the long pending issue of revising gas prices and put in place a national interest. The ethanol policy has been revised to promote the use of ethanol in petrol and help sugarcane farmers.\n40. My government is committed to optimum utilization and transparency in allocation of natural resources. The process for auction of coal blocks has started in a manner which will reduce the power costs in the country, provide adequate fuel to increase power generation, steel of production, cement, aluminium and other essential materials. This will also provide huge resources from allotment of miners to the mineral and coal bearing states. The swift and timely action taken by my government in this regard prevented the closure of the minines which would have rendered thousands of jobsless In coming years, my government will make focussed efforts to expand exploration capacity and to increase domestic coal production to 1000 MTPA.\nHonourable Members,\n41. Water is the life line of human civilization. River Ganga has a very special place in the collective consciousness of our country.\n\"Namami Gange\", an Integrated Ganga Conservation Mission has been set-up with budgetary allocation of more than `2000 crore The Government is fully committed to implementing the Interlinking of Rivers Project with due consultation process.\n42. My Government took several proactive steps for protecting wildlife and for promoting cleaner environment. Stringent emission norms for cement industry were setcribed. Real-time online monitoring of industrial units in 17 critically polluting sectors started and National Air Quality Index launched. Compensatory Afforestation Fund Management and Planning Authority (CAMPA) will be strengthened and has adequate funds released to States / UTs for aggressive forestation and wildlife protection. Government has taken significant steps to streamline clearance processes in Environmental sector by taking into transparency and by empowering State Governments. Online application processes for Environment, Forest and CRZ clearances were introduced from July, 2014.\nHonourable Members,\n43. To make the enormous potential in the tourism sector, a new tourism policy for growth and sustainability is on the anvil. \"Tourist Visa on Arrival\" enabled with Electronic Travel Authorization, has been expanded to 44 countries. Infrastructure and facilities are being upgraded in major tourist and pilgrimage destinations. River Ghats in many pilgrim destinations are renovated. A special initiative for protecting and preserving the sanctity of our tourist destinations and monuments of national heritage has started. Dedicated tourist trains covering Jyotirling Circuits, Sukhmangal Circuit and South Dham Circuit have started. \"Swadesh Darshan\", which includes the Krishna Circuit, Himalayan Circuit, Coastal Circuit, Buddha Circuit, and North East Circuits, is a new scheme that has been launched for many years. A Statue of Unity is being constructed to commemorate the memory of Sardar Patel.\nHonourable Members,\n44. My government is committed to restore and rejuvenate the soul of cities. A Scheme 'Heritage Development and Augmentation Scheme' (HRIDAY) covering 12 cities in the first phase has been launched with the predominant objective of preserving the tangible and intangible cultural assets of these cities. A special scheme named \"PRASAD\" - Pilgrimage Rejuvenation and Spirituality Augmentation Drive \"- has been announced for rejuvenation of 12 pilgrim centers in convergence with\" HRIDAY \".\nHonourable Members,\n45. Terrorism and Left Wing Extremism pose a grave challenge to the country My government is firmly committed to deal with these challenges in the affected people and the affected states in a holistic way.\n46. ​​J \u0026 K occupies a place of enormous importance in the agenda of my Government Government has endeavored to create a sustainable and enabling environment in the state of Jammu and Kashmir, specially for various displaced segments of its population. This includes facilitating the rehabilitation of over 60,000 Kashmiri Pandits families. The government has taken steps in this regard. These include,\ninter alia, providing government jobs, economic opportunities and security During the recent unprecedented flood situation in the State, my Government made special efforts in cooperation with the State Government to minimize the impact of disaster and augment rehabilitation measures. The nation is deeply indebted to our armed forces and paramilitary forces for the outstanding service rendered during the relief operations in flood affected people in Jammu \u0026 Kashmir\n47. A high state of disaster preparedness is the key to contain loss of life and damage to property due to any natural disaster. This has been amply demonstrated during the very severe cyclone 'HUDHUD', by the State Government of Andhra Pradesh and Odisha together with the Central Government\n48.     My Government is committed to implement the idea of SMART Police (Smart but Sensitive, Modern and Mobile, Alert and Accountable, Reliable and Responsive, Tech-savvy and well Trained) to provide efficient, courteous and effective citizen services and meet the operational needs of the police personnel including women police personnel.\n49.     Government is accelerating the modernization of our Armed Forces, with a strong emphasis on “Make in India” in defence acquisition plans. Several initiatives have been taken to expand domestic defence industry, including liberalization of FDI for the defence sector; a new Defence Exports Strategy; a liberalized process for issuing clearances for defence exports; and a Technology Development Fund. To encourage domestic manufacturing of defence equipments and decrease import dependency, the list of Defence items which require industrial licensing has been pruned.\nHonourable Members,\n50.     Our Space journey continues to make impressive progress. On 24 September 2014,\nMangalyaan was successfully placed in the Mars Orbit, making India the first country to do so in the first attempt. We successfully launched the first experimental flight of GSLV Mark-Ill on 19 December 2014, which will enable us to launch heavier satellites in the near future. My Government is committed to use space technology and its applications in governance, social and economic development and resource management. My Government has also decided to launch a satellite for the use of SAARC countries to foster greater partnership and development of South Asian Region.\n51.       My Government is committed to deeper penetration of electronic media in remote and distant areas. Auctions will be conducted for 135 vacant channels in 69 existing cities of FM Phase-II as part of first batch of FM Phase-Ill. It will also facilitate migration of FM Phase-II to FM Phase-Ill. This will take private FM radio to cities having population of more than one lakh and border towns of Jammu \u0026 Kashmir, North-eastern region and island territories in a phased manner.\n52.     Our developmental challenges will continue to shape the strategic priorities in science, technology and innovation. Steps are being taken to channelize more resources for research and development in India; build world class research centres; nurture young talent and, promote international collaboration, including in the world’s largest optical ‘Thirty Meter Telescope’.\nHonourable Members,\n53.     Recognizing that our destiny is linked with our neighbourhood, my Government has reinvigorated our relations with our neighbours and is promoting greater cooperation and integration in South Asia. At the same time, we speak clearly about our interests and are fully prepared to defend our borders and secure our people.\n54.     With the visit of Chinese President Xi Jinping, we have significantly expanded our relations with our largest neighbour, China, based on mutual respect and sensitivity to each other’s concerns and interests. We have restored confidence and momentum in our time-tested strategic partnership with Russia with President Vladimir Putin’s visit. The historic visit of U.S. President Barack Obama as the Chief Guest of the Republic Day has elevated our relations with the United States to a new level. In the coming months, we intend to further deepen our cooperation with Europe. With Japan, a deeper political, economic and security relationship is at the forefront of a more active and purposeful Act-East-Policy, which is anchored in our relations with Southeast Asia and now extends to Australia and the Pacific Islands. We are also committed to deeper engagement with West Asia, Central Asia, Africa and South Americas.\n55.     My Government will continue to work with others to reform multilateral institutions, including the United Nations, and seek India’s rightful place in these institutions. We will also participate actively in regional and international groupings.\nHonourable Members,\n56.     My Government’s efforts have enhanced global recognition for India’s rich cultural heritage and traditions. On 11th December 2014, the United Nations, with a record co-sponsorship of 177 out of 193 member countries, took the historic decision to declare 21 June as ‘International Yoga Day’, exactly within 75 days of Prime Minister’s call at the United Nations General Assembly.\n57.     My Government has made an unprecedented effort to reach out to the Indian community abroad, which today not only feels more connected to India, but has responded enthusiastically to the call to participate in India’s transformation, inspired by Mahatma Gandhi, whose 100th anniversary of return to India was commemorated at this year’s Pravasi Bharatiya Diwas. Our decisions on PIO and OCI card-holders have been widely welcomed by the Indian community abroad.\nHonourable Members,\n58.     Our Parliament is the sanctum sanctorum of Democracy. The people of India, particularly the poorest of the poor in remotest areas, have reposed unflinching faith in this institution for fulfillment of their hopes and expectations. My Government will constantly endeavour for smooth conduct of legislative business and enactment of progressive laws in the Parliament which reflects the will and aspirations of the people. I urge all Members of the Parliament to discharge their solemn responsibility in a spirit of cooperation and mutual accommodation. By channelizing the patriotic energies of every citizen, we all collectively must work towards building a strong and modern India. Ek Bharat Shresth Bharat.\nJai hind"