"\nThe nation is now moving towards Gas Based Economy, says PM Modi\nCity Gas Distribution Network will play a major role in achieving Clean Energy solutions: PM Modi\nGovernment would strive to fulfill the targets of Clean Energy and Gas Based Economy: PM Modi\nMy colleague of the Council of Ministers present on the stage, Mr. Dharmendra Pradhanji, Dr. Harshvardhan ji, all the experts associated with different parts of the country through technology, entrepreneur joining today's Bidding process and all the great teachers present here.\nHow are brothers and sisters, how to do the future of India, nowadays, with great resolution in India, the work is being proven, we all have become his witnesses today. Today's next generation infrastructure in India is a very important step towards developing it. From the 9th Bidding Round, the work of setting up City Gas Distribution Network in 129 districts of the country will be started. Apart from this, the process of 10th Bidding has also started.\nThis introduction is very important because when these tasks are completed then the result will be very broad, it will be large. When the work started after 10th Bidding will move towards completion, more than 400 districts of the country will be covered under the City Gas Distribution Network. And I have been told that the path to get this facility will be opened to nearly 70 percent of the country's population. This is a huge achievement associated with the development of the country, making it easier for people of the country.\nBy the end of 2014, only sixty six districts of the country, 66 districts reached here, within the limits of the City Gas Distribution Network. Today, when I am talking to you, the work of City Gas is going on in 174 districts of the country. It will have access to more than 400 districts in the next two-three years.\nThese are not small figures. How our cities have taken strong steps towards Gas based Economy in the past four years, this is a grand picture of them. In 2014 about 2.5 million households had Piped Gas Connection. Its number has increased almost four times in four years. After the commencement of work in the cities where it is today, this number is expected to cross 2 million. Similarly in 2014 there were 947 CNG stations in the country. Do not forget that almost 25 years ago, three city towns of Delhi, Mumbai and Surat, where the first CNG stations were open. From then till 2014, the number of them reached 947. That is, if we take the average, then we can say that in almost a year, about 40 CNG stations are open, in these years, forty years every year. Now their number has increased to more than 1470. It is also estimated that by the end of the coming decade the number of CNG stations is increased to 10 thousand crossing arrangements.\nAfter tireless efforts of four years of brother-in-law, the Central Government, the country has now come to the position that it can move forward in the development of City Gas Distribution Network in a much faster way than before. The hassles coming in the development of this area, silos, disturbances coming to the fore, we have tried to overcome every challenge one by one.\nI talk about the mantra of reform, performance, transform, which is a very good example of this sector. The steps taken by the government in the last four years, which have been reformed, have enhanced the performance of this sector and we are in the transformation phase. Are about to enter.\nCompanions, 2022, our country is completing 75 years of its independence. We are working together to create a grand India, a new India, together with 130 million nationals. An India that is equipped with modern technology and is free from the outdated arrangements. With this vision, the energy sector of the country is being rejuvenated.\nThis is very important because the increasing economic activities in the country has increased the demand for energy. Along with this growing demand of energy, we have to take care of our commitment to clean energy too. We also need to show the world that without harming the environment, there can also be development. In such a situation, the maximum use of natural gas for our energy needs is very important for our country.\nOur effort is to increase natural gas consumption more than 2.5 times in the country by the end of next decade. And so the government is paying attention to all the dimensions of the Gas Based Economy. Increasing the number of LNG terminals to strengthen the gas infrastructure in the country, Nationwide Gas Grid and City Gas Distribution are being worked together simultaneously. To enhance the capacity of import of Liquid natural gas, old terminals are being modernized, new LNG Terminals are also being made.\nWith the cost of Rs 10 thousand crore, the work of new LNG Terminals in Ennaur in Tamilnadu and Dhamra of Orissa is in the final phase. Similarly, natural gas can be accessed to more and more districts of the country, for which the national gas grid eco system is being developed.\nUnder this, work on Jagdishpur-Haldia and Bokaro-Dhamra pipeline project is being done. Also, this project is being expanded from Barauni to Guwahati to connect the North-East areas with this gas-grid. About 13 thousand crore rupees will be spent on these projects.\nBecause of these projects Gorakhpur, Barauni and Sindri, these three fertilizer plants are also going to get a new life. For connecting every state of North-East including Sikkim with this grid, a joint venture has been created in the name of the Rainbow Gas Grid, with a cost of more than 9,200 crore.\nCompanions, who are investing in this sector, are also taken care of to protect their interests. Linking the prices of domestic gas to the global gas market has already been done. Companies have been given marketing and pricing freedom to increase the production of gas at the domestic level.\nIn order to pay attention to gas prices, for the operation of the gas grid, a separate transport system operator has also been created. Simultaneously, the government is also working on developing the gas trading exchange to create an environment of free gas market in the country, to maintain transparency in this sector.\nBrothers and Sisters, with these technical aspects and figures, we are most important to all of these works, these projects have positive impact on the country. These actions are going to bring a big change in the country at the social level, at the economic level and at the environmental level.\nCompanions, when any new arrangement is created in any place, it also creates eco system in the surrounding area. Just as a large hospital opens at some place, the medical stores will be opened around it, there will be dhababes, restaurants, tea shops, dharamshalas, small hotels will be opened, auto stand will become, will become a taxi stand; All of them work in their own way, but in the center of their existence they are in the hospital.\nSimilarly, when a gas arrives in a city, it also creates a new eco system. The establishment of gas based small industries in the city increases manifold. Giving gas directly to people's homes through pipes makes life easier for living easier. In order to lay that pipe, thousands of lakhs of youth get employment to prove CNG or PNG network. Auto, taxis and cars running in that city get a modern alternative to fuel. Plans that are going on in the country for gas infrastructure will get employment from millions of people.\nToday, the work that has started under Ninth Beading will directly provide employment to at least three lakh youths. Apart from this, the other arrangements that will develop will also create millions of new jobs. Especially for Eastern India and North-Eastern states, it will get huge benefit. To say that the gas based arrangements are not only for the industries, the manner of living of the people of that district is changing too. Their way of life is changing.\nIn the coming years, in hundreds of cities of India, you will see this change happening automatically and you too will become its partner. We can also feel lucky in this matter that we are witnessing such a major change in our lifetime, or else I remember the time when the common citizens of the country want to get the general connection of gas in their home. The recommendation till the legislators was standing in the queue for writing the letter. In that situation, the country has gone a long way.\nIf I say that in 2014 the people of the country have not only changed the government but also changed the way to implement the style of work, work culture and schemes of the government, then it will not be wrong. Today, on this occasion, I give you another example related to this sector. We talk about Gas Based Economy, we should not forget that giving LPG connection in the country started in 1955. Since then, there were 13 million LPG connections in the country till 2014. I.e. 13 million connections in 60 years. If you remember these figures, when talking to people you will be able to say with confidence that how change is happening, in 60 years, 13 million All the resources are the same in the country, the people are the same, the files are the same, the office is the same, the way to do Babu's work is the same, yet in the four years about 12 million connections have been given.\n13 crore in 60 years, 12 million in four years, if walking at that pace, then perhaps even after our two generations the family did not get these benefits. The scope of domestic gas coverage was just 55 percent before 2014, now it has increased to almost 90 percent. Definitely it has been a huge role in the Ujjwala scheme. Since the beginning of May 1, 2016, so far, 65 million women have been provided free gas connections under the Ujjwala scheme. This scheme has changed the way in which the people living in the country live.\nBetween the process of this beading, between shilanyas, today for the moment, we should also think about the woman who was blowing the wood stove so far. Filling the family's stomach by putting their health on the stake. Although this woman does not know the meaning of the Gas Based Economy, but the steps of the growing country towards the Gas Based Economy have certainly changed her life.\nBrothers and sisters, a while back I spoke to you about the environment. The big and better impact of the gas based economy that we are moving towards is going to be on our environment. When there are thousands of new CNG stations in the country, industries will get uninterrupted gas, CNG will be easily available in most districts of the country to fill taxis, auto and cars, so the pollution will be less as well. It is India's COP21 The commitment will further strengthen. It will strengthen India's contribution to protect the global environment. This will further increase the brightness of India's leadership on the global platform.\nThe expansion of the efforts of the government to co-workers, clean energy is very broad. The government has started a campaign in the direction of making the compressed Bio Gas, which comes out of the waste from our agricultural system, biomass is released. Five thousand Compressed Bio Gas plants will be set up in the country in the next five years under this campaign.\nThese plants will reduce problems like agitation, agri waste, and also help in increasing the income of the farmers. Apart from this, plans for making 12 modern bio-refinery at the cost of Rs 10 thousand crore are also being worked out to convert biomass into bio-fuel. The policy changes which have made changes in ethanol blending have also increased in Ethanol blending is.\nIn 2014, where there was a blending of about 40 million liters of ethanol in the country, it has now gone up to four times. The goal of the government is to move the blending of ethanol to 10 percent. In the coming year, the Ethanolblending year will be nearly eight times as compared to 2014.\nIncreasingly towards clean environment, the government has also decided to go for BS-4 fuel directly to BS-6 fuel. In Telecom we have 2G to 4G, 4G to 5G, we have been here directly from four to six. Apart from this, the decrease in the price of LED bulbs and the distribution of around 32 million LED bulbs in the country has also helped prevent emission of more than 30 million tonnes of carbon dioxide gas.\nThe government is working on the target of producing 175 Giga watt power from renewable energy in the country by twenty-two-twenty, till 2022. Under this, at least 100 Giga watt power will be made from solar energy. In the next four years, a campaign to distribute more than 28 lakh solar pumps to the government farmers is also being run. With the development of gas-based infrastructure in the country, these efforts will help in fulfilling India's global commitment.\nOne is that India will reduce its emissionintensity by 33 to 35 percent by 2030 and the second will meet at least 40 percent of the power needed from non-conventional sources.\nThe targets associated with brothers, sisters, gas-based economy or clean energy, these targets are committed to achieving India and will continue to do it. Not only for ourselves but for humanity, for our future generations, we have taken this resolution and it is our responsibility to prove it.\nOnce again, to all of you, the people of the towns in which the City Gas Distribution Network is commencing, the representatives of 10th Beading end with my many good wishes.\nThanks a lot."