"Share\n\nHello, my young friends Today is probably the whole day you have been preoccupied with the ongoing cricket match. On the one hand you have exams and the other on this world cup, you might be asking your score. Sometimes you should be elated about the fact that Holi is around the corner and then suddenly you will be feeling disappointed that even a festivities will go in for a toss. Why? Because the exams are approaching and I am sure But friends, I am in your moment of crisis This is a great opportunity for you; So I am there to offer my support I am not here to lecture you; I have some light conversations with you\nYou have been studying hard and you are tired Mother and children God only knows what Keep the phone, switch off the TV, you're the same thing. Be it the Class X or the Class XII, the whole thing And you may be sincerely wishing that it will be better I understand your mental condition and hence I am here to share Mann Ki Baat with you But this topic is a little difficult\nAs far as today's topic is concerned, the parents may wish that we touch those issues that they can not discuss with their children. Teachers must be wishing that I say the right things to students and the students may be wishing. I do not know who will benefit from my conversation but I will have the satisfaction to know that I was with my young friends in the most important event of their life. This is my idea behind the conversations. I do not have the right to guide you on how to write a paper I can not guide you on the tricks to get better marks. I have never scored better in my exam I was a very average student and we had a very bad handwriting. So I think that most of the time I could not comprehend my handwriting. Well\nBut today I want to tell you something important How you approach the exams in a long way There are many people who have seen this as the most important challenge of their lives and they believe that a failure here means failure for life. But friends, this is not so, and so do not take undue stress Yes, you need to get good results. The determination should be strong and the motivation high But the exams should not be a burden Which is the test So do not bother much about it\nSometimes, do not you think we are going to have a huge burden and the reason for this is that if we have children and relatives who are studying in the same class as your child, if your child and your relative's child are also in class tenth, then there is constant comparison? There is an feeling that our child should be better than everyone else's child, even your friend's child. And this is the constant comparison that creates a pressure on your child. You feel that your child earns a family But is it really your name or your own prestige that you are worried about? Do not feel that you are a responsible for making your child a part of an undue competition? Can not we associate with him? How does he cope with the competition? And this is really what you want? Just give s thought on it? Just think, in trying to compete with others, Is it fair? When you talk to children, talk about big dreams, talk of greater heights that can be achieved and you will see a change happening\nFriends, there is something that always bothers us We want to measure our success in comparison to others. Our entire energy is useless competition There are many points in life where competition is necessary but for self development competition with others may not be a good motivator. So start competing with yourself, compete with you to do better, to do more and more new heights. Concentrate on competing with yourself And you will find that this spirit of competition will give you such a lot of joy and satisfaction that you yourself can not imagine. We remember the athlete Sergei Bubka very fondly. This athlete broke out of 35 times. He will test itself only Every time he will set himself a new challenge and scale new heights. You also follow the same and then see that nothing can stop you from achieving success.\nDear friends, even students are different types Some people, irrespective of the exams, they are always happy about it, while some just collapse under the burden of exams. And some keep hiding behind the house But despite the type, exams are still exams and it is necessary to pass in them and I also wish that you pass well. But sometimes you have noticed that We seek out We do not have the faith in ourselves as first time. If someone is watching TV and the pitch is loud, we get irritated. If the mother calls for food we are irritated, but at the same time if our friend calls up, we end up chatting for one hour. Do you think some confusion about yourself?\nFriends Just keep doing simple things; you do need to go far If you have a sister or your friend who has been appearing in X or XII standard exam, just observe them. You will see, whether it is X or XII, the girls will definitely help the mothers in the house chores. Have you ever thought how they are to do work and yet score well in exams. Nowadays the girls are far ahead of boys in examination results. Just observe this around you\nThis will make you realize that issues are bother you are not external Sometimes the reasons are internal If you are in self doubt then confidence can not help And that is why I say that as confidence dips, blind faith begins to envelope us and we then start seeking excuses outside Some students are such that we call them Aarambhishura. Everyday a new thought, everyday a new desire, and then this resolution I expressly believe that these are the changing desires of the people. Friend, family and relatives make fun of you and hence I would suggest that you have fixed desires. These desires in turn will become resolutions. And resolutions can never be futile Resolutions are accompanied by goals And when the goals and action come together, the resolutions are achieved. That is why I say Desire + Stability = Resolution Resolution + action = achievements I have complete faith that in my life too achievements will be your feet Dedicate yourself to your commitment Do not get bothered about defeating others. Think of taking yourself yourself from where you are already And so test yourself daily against your own limits, so that the big a challenge in life comes, we will not have any problem And why should someone else take our exam? Make it a habit to take Every day we will test ourselves We will see if we have been progressed Have I reached more than yesterday Every day, every test Then such tests will not bother you no more in life. Every exam will be a chance to test and regulate oneself. And so who challenges himself\nSometimes we far exceed our own expectations Just try and remember You will be surprised at your own achievement Last year you got good marks Last year your uncle got married, a full week got wasted but still you managed very well. Before you would sleep for six hours and then last year you decided you will only sleep for five hours and you did it. What advice can we give you? You are your own advisor and Lord Buddha said Uppa Deepo Bhavahah\nIt is my belief that one should recognize one's inner light Those who set themselves on a new limit Secondly, sometimes we are busy thinking about the distant future. Some people live in the past Do not do so during your exams During the examinations Does a batsman anytime try and recall when he was out for a duck Or does he think that we will win this whole series or not Once he enters a match that he will come only after hitting a century? Not really. In my opinion a good batsman is focused on the ball he is facing. He does not think of the match, or of whole series You also get your mind in the present To win there is only one formula. Live in the present Victory will be yours\nMy dear friends, do you think exams are meant to exhibit your capacity If this is what you think then you are wrong Who can you show your capacity? Do you want to show it? You should think that this test is not to show your potential If you want to do this, you will get a new boost. Once you realize your potential and understand yourself, then you will keep fostering your strengths this strength will translate into a new potential and so do not take exams as a medium of exhibition, take it as a opportunity. This is a chance to know yourself, to explore yourself and to be with yourself. So live on, my friends.\nFriends I have seen that there are many students who become nervous during exams. Some go to the extent that look today was my wish Uncle did not wish me and big brother did not wish me And maybe this issue is debated for an hour or two in the family-who did not wish, who called him up flowers or not Friends rise above all this, do not get involved in all this Think about it If you have faith in yourself then such things will not arise. I have seen that many students become nervous I know that some people have the tendency to become nervous Some families have such an environment I believe that the reason for nervousness is the lack of faith in oneself How do you get this faith in yourself? If you gain mastery in your subject, you have done hard and have done multiple revisions. If you have the confidence that you have the mastery in some subject, you will see that 5-7 subjects there are only 2-3 topics for which you are never worried Nervousness is about some one or two topics. If you have mastered the subject you will not be nervous\nAll the hard work that you have done in the past year, all those books will be studied through the night. It will be in your mind As soon as you sit on your exam, it will come back to you. You must trust your knowledge, your information. Have the faith that all the hard work you have done? You should have the faith that however hard it is successful However, 'I will successfully complete it'. You should be confident about the timing, be it a two hour or a three hour paper I still remember, maybe you have been asked too, later our teachers instructed us to do easy questions first and tackle the difficult ones later. I believe someone will tell you the same and I believe that you will follow it.\nFriends, I have received many suggestions and experiences on MyGov.in. I will pass on to the education ministry but I would like to mention\nArnav Mohta writes from Mumbai, Maharashtra that some people make these exams an issue of life and death. As if whole world will finish if one fails these exams Vinita Tiwari writes from Varanasi that the news of children committing suicide on the declarations of these results saddens her. You too must be listening like news, but I have got good response from another gentleman. Mr. R Kamath has sent some good words. He has asked students not to become worried but warriors Really we should not sink in worries but should be a warrior in the battlefield I believe that we should not drown in our worries; we should continue with the faith Life is very long There are ups and downs but one should not perish with them. Sometimes, unwanted results are an issue. They give us the opportunity to find new strength\nI have also witnessed another thing Students as soon as they are out of the examination hall, they start estimating how they fared. Friends and family too ask the same question How was today paper? Whatever is done, please forget about it I would also request that questions As soon as he gets out say, oh the glow on your face Ok good .... Let us go and prepare for tomorrow. I will tell you ... what will be the effect if you calculate and come to know that you will lose 6 marks, then tell me will it not affect your performance the other day? So why waste time on this? Why waste your energy on this? After all the exams are over, whatever calculations you want to do How many marks will be scored, that should not be your concern at the time of exams After the paper finishes focusing on the next day's paper, forget the day's paper and you will see your burden lessening by 20-25%.\nQuite a few thoughts are rising in my mind. I do not know if they will be useful now But I would like to tell my educator and academician friends that can not celebrate a week long exam festival. It should have a sarcastic poetry session, or a cartoon competition, a debate competition. There should be someone on the lecture on the psychological aspects of exams so that this tension around the exams gets eliminated. If exams become a celebration then the students would not need to spend this time in this hearing. The students will ourselves become confident Also I believe that while teaching the syllabus, a different lecture should be conducted on topics pertaining to exams. This environment is not conducive.\nFriends, I know that whatever I am telling you, you must have heard a lot more than that Your parents must have lectured you I do not want to confuse you on this topic. I want to believe that all the boys and girls of this country who are going to give their exams are happy and joyful.\nI am talking to make you happy You will get good results. You will be successful, make exams a celebration, give exams in a joyful mood, and enjoy the whole atmosphere. Parents, teachers, and school -all should get together and experience what it is like to challenge the challenges And you can not\nI had a penchant for writing poetry, I had written a poem in Gujarati, I do not remember it fully but I have written it-if successful then you are worth envious of, if failed then you are nowhere. \" The way of the world Be successful, not to lose others Be successful for bringing those people in the world\nI have this faith that you will be happy with your heart. You will have great success And then, Whether we would celebrate Holi or not, Whether we were the uncle's marriage or not, whether I was a friend's birthday party or not, the Cricket World Cup or not- all these things unmatical, as it is for now Dimensions of happiness will be very different My best wishes to you Nation's future is as bright as your own future India's future will be defined by India's youth; It will be defined by you Be it the sons or daughters, both have to work in tandem\nCome to the festival My best wishes to you !!!"