"\nMy dear brothers and sisters of Arunachal .. Jai Hind.\nPerhaps in India, people of this state are like those who greet when they greet them and greet them for every country of India, Arunachal has made this tradition, this tradition is inspirational, exemplary. And for this, I congratulate the citizens of Arunachal, respectfully respect this great tradition.\nIt is a privilege for me to say that on the occasion of the establishment of the state, you have the privilege of making this festival among you. Our Honorable Minister, our Governor Shri, both of them came to Delhi and requested me to come to you. The love of the people of Arunachal is so much that I can not live without coming and for today's development for Arunachal's bright future, and in a way the development of Arunachal for the entire North East will become a growth engine, Arunachal is so fast Go ahead, give the entire North East the strength to move forward, because Arunachal is the largest state in geographical terms. The population is low but the strength is very much and therefore I give many state-of-the-day greetings on this occasion to this state celebration and I am confident that in the last 28 years, I will assure you, I will assure you.\nToday, in a way, many important functions are being done on the occasion of this state celebration and the biggest thing is that today Arunachal Pradesh will be connected directly to the capital of Delhi from Arunachal Pradesh, Naharlagun. More than 2100 long journeys will be crossed in 38 hours and this is a proud gift from the Indian Government on the birth anniversary of New AC-Express, I am proud to dedicate one unemployment gift to your feet today. Not only that, now you are sitting at night from Guwahati to Nahalagun, Guwahati in the morning and sitting in Guwahati on the night, the sun will rise here in the morning. After all, if the biggest obstacle in the development of North-East, then it is obstructing connectivity. Rail, Road, Air will increase as much as this connectivity, the strength of this sector is going to work in the development of the nation and in a way today Arunachal Pradesh is joining Delhi. It is not so today that entire India is connecting with Arunachal Pradesh. . Joining incredibly and I assure you that due to this train journey in the coming days, tourism will increase in such a large amount, people coming here will be able to come here, people will come here with trains and here are the beautiful instruments. You will see, the trees, the people here, the people here, the pure atmosphere of this, maybe there is such a good climate in one place in India, maybe the name of that region is Aru It's okay. The kind of fruits that are in Arunachal, if the air here is not pure, the air here is not pure, the nature here is not pure, then the flowers and fruits could not be here. In such a large quantity .. and it is a reflection of the pure air quality here and it is not like it that you have loved nature, you people have worshiped nature as your life and destruction of nature is not acceptable to you. . This is your sacrament, your tradition has saved Arunachal today, and therefore I also congratulate you on this great tradition.\nRailways are not the means of this traffic. To reach from one place to another, such as a scooter, a bicycle, a motor, it is not just the railway. The railway network works like a spinal cord for development in a way. Just as there is a role of spinal cord in the body, the railway can be a combination of power in India's economy and hence this railway will also become a force for the development of Arunachal Pradesh's economy. I have full faith that the Railways will not only be a means of transportation, but will remain an engine of development, which will take Arunachal Pradesh and the entire North-East to new heights of development.\nYesterday I was on the last edge of Rajasthan and today I am standing at the last end of the East India. And in Rajasthan today, I was giving agricultural worm awards. I congratulate the people of Arunachal Pradesh that in the award given in Rajasthan yesterday, there is also Arunachal Pradesh, who received a award from North-East. Here today, I congratulate the State Government, the Agriculture Department and the farmers here for this achievement with heartfelt congratulations. The people here yesterday met me in Rajasthan and yesterday they were given awards in Rajasthan. This honor is respected for the hard work of the farmers. In these hills also, in the opposite natural state, in the field of agriculture, which they have achieved new siddhi. He is congratulated for this. Among those who get the reward tomorrow are Assam, Meghalaya and Arunachal too. I congratulate these three states of North-East for the reward they have received.\nArunachal is getting the speed today, today Arunachal energy is also getting started and progress without speed and energy is not possible. If there is a need to make progress then energy should also be needed, energy should also be needed. Rail system gives you speed and today the foundation stone of 132 KV Watt Power Transmission Line has also been done. There is a project of about three thousand two hundred crore rupees. The project which is the railway, which is about a project of about four thousand two hundred crores and today, the transmission line which is going to be used to deliver this power, it will cost at least Rs. 3, 2, 200 crores. It is not like the electric pole, this electric wire is just burning the lamp in the house. It plays an important role in energy development tour. Just like the Government of India has launched a new campaign for the development of the railway, so is the dream we have dreamed. Should we not get 24 hours of electricity that every family should get. Should get? I wish that you meet, that your hope is fulfilled But it will not be so, electricity will have to be generated, electricity will have to be installed, every house will have to be covered. Then it will reach the power. The work is very difficult, the work is bigger, but nobody will have to do it. You have given me the blessings to do this work and I assure you that your blessings will never be useless. Your blessings are the strength that all your hopes, aspirations can be fulfilled.\nYou have the power that your dreams will be fulfilled. 24 hours of electricity, if we have to fight against poverty. We have to come out of poverty, not just sloganeering, poverty does not go away. There is a need to find a way to get rid of poverty, to make a road map, and to move on. Get dark in the room and take someone, make a queue out of it and say, Brother, remove this darkness, brother. One will believe and sit in the worship of the person going inside, the chanting will continue, the ghost will continue to call. Will the darkness be gone? Will you? They will call the other, take them with blankets, kill them, take out the darkness. What will it come out? If someone comes and burns a small lamp on there, then will the darkness go away or not? Will light come or not? If poverty is to be removed, then we will continue to slogan, poverty does not change.\nFor 40 years, we have come to hear this slogan. Poverty-related herbs will have to catch. With the herbs that the herb removes from poverty. The biggest herb is education. If we educate every child in the poor house, in every poor hut, even if it is written and read, then that education gives strength to fight against poverty and then comes out of poverty in the same generation. .\nSimilarly, there is another way of electricity, if its family is connected to electricity, its children's readiness increases. They start learning computers. They can read till late night and can stand in competition with and by standing up, they can proceed through education and initiation. If energy comes, small businesses start up in the village. Smaller firms start up. If a farmer is able to arrange to handle his crop, he can value-addition, increase the value. A network of small industries is created, which becomes a huge tool for fighting against poverty and hence, today the Transmission Line being set up at a cost of 3200 crores is being done for our campaign to fight against poverty Is part of. This is one of our ways to remove your poverty. We have come to you today that way.\nSimilarly in the field of education we have planned a \"Ishan Vikas\" in the past. It has made a large plan for the development of North-East and within that large scheme, which is a promising child of North-East, even if it is poor, like one thousand children, giving them special scholarship, their good studies We are focusing on that. Because of this, to fight against poverty, he too will become our strong soldier, become our partner, by reading and writing, he also works with shoulder to shoulder against us to fight against poverty. To get rid of poverty, we have chosen these paths. With the help of those paths we will move forward.\nToday, one third project has also started and it is the third project, people who are listening to this speech on TV, will be surprised to hear that this is the third project that will give the pure drinking water to the people of Itanagar. is. People of Itanagar, which cost more than 100 crores, get pure drinking water. Today, on the 29th birthday of the state, offering this project to give pure water to Itanagar citizens, there is also a slight pain for my mind. When the world will know that it took 60 years to get the pure water of drinking water to the people of Itanagar Capital here. When I listen to it, there is pain, but today when the drinking water of pure drinking is reaching, there is satisfaction in my mind that let the brother write some good deeds in my own destiny and therefore but there are so many mountains, there are plenty of water, as much as Water is near North-East. Others in India do not have it, but still this area is thirsty. What can be a big painful thing from this. I can understand that being thirsty on the shore of the sea, because even after being a saint, its water is not potable, but here it is pure water but water comes out. We have a saying that the mountain water and the mountain's youth, this mountain does not work. It is said that the mountain water and the mountain's youth, this mountain does not work. The young man who is young, as soon as he is young, he goes away from his mountain and earns his bread and bread. Will go to the army or go to Delhi, Mumbai will go, hard work will wage, Rosie will try to earn roti. Why, because where you live, there is no resource for roti-roti. For the sake of their old parents, the young people who lived in the hills of their own have to be forced to live in a densely populated life except those mountains. The hill does not work for the mountain of the mountain. Even the water of the mountain .. Any water that comes on the mountain does not work for the mountain, it comes and goes, it flows. But I have to change this proverb. I have to change the shape of a mountain that the mountain's youth also came to the mountain and the mountain water also came to the mountain and today's science can make it possible today's technology. How will this mountain water work?\nBrothers sisters have come to urge Arunachal brothers to come, you have a huge power of water. Recognize this strength, your youth and your water are both strong. If you do not understand its strength and the water will run away, then as the youth goes away, the water will also go and the progress will come, the progress will stop. I know Arunachal Pradesh's people are some Hydro project which is their consolation in Power Project. It was the same in Nepal at some point of time, that was the same in Bhutan. We have settled with Nepal, we have reached agreement with Bhutan and there is the same water as in Arunachal Pradesh, and the Government of India is involved in setting up power plants there. The entire economic power of Nepal and Bhutan will change through alone electricity. They are going to be transformed into a happy country and will be able to buy electricity from the power of Hindustan and earn money from Bhutan and Nepal.\nBrothers and Sisters Himachal Pradesh successfully carried out electricity in the water in our own country, the economic condition of Himachal has changed. This power is also within you. It is true that those people who have to displace for this type of project have to be displaced. Those who have to suffer losses should have complete arrangements for them, they should not have any problem, should emphasize both things, no poor poor family should be unhappy, they should not have any problem. There should be an opportunity of good life in advance and on the other hand should move from Arunachal Pradesh towards generating electricity. I assure Arunachal Pradesh can brighten Hindustan. Hindustan will light up Arunachal Pradesh! यह ताकत आपने पड़ी है, उस ताकत को अगर आप पहचानेंगे, तो अरूणाचल का भाग्‍य बदल जाएगा और इसलिए मैं आपके साथ जुड़कर के काम करना चाहता हूं, आपसे कंधे से कंधा मिलाकर के काम करना चाहता हूं। मैं आपके सेवक के रूप में आपके पास आया हूं, आपके साथी के रूप में आया हूं। आइये हम मिल-बैठ करके सिर्फ 132 किलोवाट की ही क्यों बल्कि हम पूरी ताकत से व्‍यवस्‍था क्‍यों खड़ी न करे। अरूणाचल हमारे साथ चले, हम अरूणाचल के साथ चले, हम कंधे से कंधा मिलाकर के चले। आप देखिए कि दुनिया बदलती है कि नहीं बदलती है।\nSolar Energy.. इन दिनों अपना अभियान चलाया हुआ है Solar Energy का। ऊंची-ऊंची पहाडि़या हैं, पांच-दस परिवार रहते हैं। मुझे उनको भी बिजली पहुंचानी है, Solar योजना के माध्‍यम से पहुंचानी है ताकि गरीब के घर में दीया जलें और गरीबी के खिलाफ लड़ाई लड़ने के लिए वो मेरा सिपाही बने। मुझे गरीबों की फौज तैयार करनी है इसी फौज से मुझे गरीबी के खिलाफ लड़ाई लड़ना है और गरीबी से देश को मुक्ति दिलाने में सफलता पाकर रहना है और इसलिए ऊर्जा हो, शिक्षा हो, इन माध्‍यमों से आगे चलना भाईयों।\nआज ईटानगर को शुद्ध पानी पहुंचने वाला है और आने वाले दिनों में यह व्‍यवस्‍थाएं Tourism को भी बल देतीह है, Tourism को भी ताकत देती है और इसलिए मैं आप सबसे आग्रह करता हूं कि हम Infrastructure पर बल दें, हम विकास की नई योजनाओं पर बल दें और इन योजनाओं के माध्‍यम से हम नई-नई स्थितियों को पाने का प्रयास करें। पूरे North-East के लिए 2014-15 के बजट में 53000 करोड़ रुपये की लागत के साथ विकास की नई-नई योजनाओं को हमने बनाया है। यह कम रकम नहीं है। पाई-पाई का उपयोग होना चाहिए। आप समझ गए। पाई-पाई का उपयोग होना चाहिए कि नहीं होना चाहिए? यह पैसा जनता का है कि नहीं है? यह जनता के काम आना चाहिए कि नहीं आना चाहिए? यह किसी की जेब में नहीं जाना चाहिए न, हर पाई-पाई का ‍हिसाब मांगोगे या नहीं मांगोगे? मेरे से भी मांगना, मैं जवाबदार हूं, आपको जवाब दूंगा और सरकारे राज्‍य की हो या केंद्र की हो जनता को जवाबदेह होनी चाहिए। पैसों की कमी नहीं है, पैसो की कमी नहीं है, अगर पाई-पाई योजना के साथ सही ढंग से सही जगह पर खर्च की जाए, समय पर खर्च की जाए तो हिंदुस्‍तान कहीं से कहीं पहुंच सकता है। यह आप को में विश्‍वास दिलाने आया हूं भाईयों।\nभाईयों बहनों हमने आने वाले दिनों में यहां पर FM रेडियो के लिए भी बड़ा नेटवर्क खड़ा करना तय किया है। कुछ ही समय में करीब-करीब 18 नई FM चैनल, जिसका auction होने वाला है, जिसका लाभ जरूर मिलेगा। 2G, 3G, 4G..अब मोबाइल फोन के बिना लोग जी नहीं सकते, वो जीवन का ‍हिस्‍सा बन गया है। लेकिन अगर connectivity नहीं है slow है तो आदमी तंग आ जाता है। स्थिति को बदलने के लिए भी North-East को लाभ कैसे मिले, उस दिशा में भी हमने काम प्रारंभ किया है।\nछह नई Agriculture College... North-East की अपनी एक ताकत है। North-East हिंदुस्‍तान का Organic Farming का Capital बन सकता है, यह ताकत है। आज भी North-East में chemical fertilizer की आदत कम है, लेकिन Organic Farming का जितना ब्रांडिंग होना चाहिए, मार्केटिंग होना चाहिए उतना नहीं हुआ है। हम चाहते है कि पूरा North-East दुनिया के लिए Organic Farming पाने का एक बहुत बड़ा Capital बन जाए और दुनिया में जो भी लोग wholistic health-care में विश्‍वास करते हैं वो Organic चीजें पसंद करते हैं, वो यहां के फल हो, यहां का अनाज हो, यह Organic चीजें उनको बाजार में मिलेगी, दुनिया आपके यहां आकर के खड़ी रह जाएगी, माल खरीदने के लिए और रुपया डॉलर में जाएगा, मैं आपको विश्‍वास दिलाता हूं। यह ताकत है North-East में और हम इसके लिए 6 Agriculture Universities को चालू करने वाले हैं, Organic Farming को हम काम देने वाले हैं।\nइतना ही नहीं भाईयों और बहनों हमने एक और काम शुरू किया है पहले North-East के लोगों को छोटा सा भी काम हो तो दिल्‍ली जाना पड़ता था। बार-बार मुख्‍यमंत्री हो, मंत्री हो, अवसर हो, जब भी देखो दिल्‍ली। क्‍यों, क्‍योंकि दिल्‍ली वाले यहां देखते नहीं थे। हमने बदल दिया है मैं मेरे मंत्रियों को महीने में दो बार यहां भेजता हूं दौरा करने और पूछने लगे कि बताओ भई पैसे भेजे थे क्‍या हुआ। हिसाब मांगना शुरू किया है। मैं भारत सरकार के अवसरों को लगातार भेज रहा हूं DONER(Development of North Eastern Region) Ministry के द्वारा अवसर आते हैं, वरिष्‍ठ अवसर आते हैं यहां के अवसरों के साथ बैठते हैं बाताओं भई क्‍या कठिनाई है, हम रास्‍ता निकालेंगे। यह जिम्‍मेवारी है और भारत सरकार pro-active होकर के जिम्‍मेवारी निभा रही है। पिछले दो महीने से काम मैंने शुरू किया है। आने वाले दिनों में यह बहुत तेजी से आगे बढ़ेगा।\nइन दिनों में Make in India का अभियान चला रहा हूं, लेकिन मैंने DONER(Development of North Eastern Region) Ministry से कहा है कि जैसे Make in India का हमारा अभियान है, लेकिन DONER Ministry के लोग Make in North-East उसका Perspective Plan तैयार करें, योजना बनाए, Make in North के लिए हम क्‍या कर सकते हैं उस पर योजना बनाएं। इस पर काम चल रहा है और मुझे विश्‍वास है कि आने वाले दिनों में विकास की नई ऊंचाईयों पर हम North-East को ले जाएंगे।\nआज इस महत्‍वपूर्ण अवसर पर, राज्‍य के स्‍थापना दिवस पर आपके सबके बीच आने का मुझे अवसर मिला, आपने मेरा स्‍वागत सम्‍मान किया, प्‍यार दिया और इतनी बड़ी संख्‍या में आप लोग यहां आए और मैं देख रहा हूं वहां पहाडि़यों पर भीड़ ही भीड़ है, हर मंजिल पर कोई न कोई खड़ा है। चारों तरफ अरूणाचल प्रदेश का यह प्‍यार। मैं आपको विश्‍वास दिलाता हूं अब दिल्‍ली हर पल आपकी सेवा में तैनात है और मैं आपका सेवक दिल्‍ली में बैठा हूं। मैं आपके लिए काम करने के लिए हर पल तैयार हूं। और आज इस राज्‍य के स्‍थापना दिवस के Festival को उसका उद्घाटन करते हुए मुझे गर्व हो रहा है और मैं इस Festival का उद्घाटन घोषित करता हूं और आप सबको बहुत-बहुत शुभकामनाएं देता हूं।\nमेरे साथ पूरी ताकत से बोलिये दोनों मुट्ठी बंद करके, हाथ ऊपर करके बोलिये जयहिंद, पूरी ताकत से बोलिये, आप लोग तो जयहिंद पूरे हिंदुस्‍तान को सुनाते हो – जयहिंद, जयहिंद, जयहिंद।"