"Share\n\nAll the staunch senior officials present, agricultural ministers, government officials from the states, progressive farmers coming from different corners of the country, and beloved farmers, brothers and sisters,\nThe Government of India is starting a new scheme from today. This scheme is being started today with this earth, the scheme is for all the farmers of India.\nGenerally, the Government of India holds the habit of inviting programs by calling some people in Delhi's Vigyan Bhawan. But I have thought of changing old habits. Some time back, the Indian government started the campaign 'Beti Bachao, Beti Teacho'. Started many schemes. But we decided that the schemes should be implemented in Haryana, initially to be done from there because Haryana has a very small number of daughters compared to the sons and the people of Haryana have spoken and spoken.\nToday these events are happening on the soil of Rajasthan. Now our Chief Minister Vasundhara Raje was telling that we have only one percent of the water. Now there is one percent water, so we will have to find some paths too. Rajasthan can not be thirsty. ..And this is Rajasthan where no langar was used. Which was not where water was. Used to be there, used to make baudi and give water to thirsty.\nWhen I used to work as a Chief Minister in Gujarat, I was fortunate that in South Rajasthan, I had the privilege of reaching Narmada water from Gujarat to Rajasthan and at that time our Bhairon Singh used to tell me that Narendra Bhai would give any rupee to Rajasthan Give money, give a diamond, there is no such worship for him, as much worship is given to any water.\nWater is the offering of the divine. Like the offerings in the temple, the offerings are received in the gurudwara and even a grain can not let us fall on the ground. If it falls, it seems, it is sin. In relation to this water, we should have this feeling in our mind that if a drop of water was washed away, in the wrong way, then we have committed some sin, we will have to apologize for the divine.\nSo much water of water..and we know more people of Rajasthan and Gujarat, because without water, life is difficult, we have experienced this. ..And therefore, the beginning of this program for the farmers today, we have started from the land where there is desert, where water is in crisis, where the farmer sweats sweat day and night, there is a problem to fill the stomach. It is an effort to send messages to the farmers of the land of Rajasthan .. And so I have come here today at the feet of the farmers of Rajasthan.\nWe have to transform our agricultural development with conventional farming practices and adopt scientific methods. There was a time, in our country a word used like a bimaru state used to be .. Bimaru! In which the word experiment has been running for the last 20 years. The state of Bimaru used to mean- Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh ... these are the Bimaru kingdoms. But I believe that the people of Rajasthan have chosen such a government, you have got such a chief minister, and seeing this, Rajasthan will be out of Bimaru category.\nI am saying that Madhya Pradesh was also counted in Bimaru state. But in Madhya Pradesh, under the leadership of Shivraj Singh Chauhan, a campaign of economic development was run and the result was that today Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh are not counted in Bimaru state. What specialty did they do, what? Shivraj ji did not come here today, but his state received the first number award, the highest was for agriculture production. They have revolutionized the agricultural sector. They modernized irrigation schemes, they developed the crop with the farmer in the modern education system..and no one could imagine that the territories of Ganga-Yamuna can move in the agricultural sector, Madhya Pradesh has grown to the Ganges and Yamuna The states left behind and today the country stood on one of the no. That was one of the strengths, due to which Madhya Pradesh came out of the state today.\nEven in Rajasthan, we believe that the efforts are being made to bring the agriculture, the farmer, the village, the poor one .. one step after another, the Rajasthan government and the Indian government, I am confident that Vasundhara ji Under the leadership of this government, Rajasthan will no longer be sick, it is my complete faith.\nEven when I came to the election, I had discussed the cancer special. The train here was known as \"Cancer Special\". These conditions need to be changed. I have now asked all states to make a \"High Power Committee\" in their respective state under a policy commission; Have asked to create an \"Expert Committee\". The Policy Commission has also said that he also created an Expert Committee. By taking the state's agricultural problems of the state, deciding the path of agricultural development in their state, they make their plans. Meet all the states and the Indian government by mixing common minimum items and implementing it in the whole country ... So far top to bottom Duniya was going on, now we are going to run from bottom to top. The first state will plan for agriculture, then the Indian government will sit with them and that work has just begun.\nSimilarly water .. There are some problems between the states. The decisions of those states will be decided, the talks will be done. By sitting, talking, exploring the way, and having difficulties in the journey of prosperity of the country, we want to move ahead with the difficulties we take. Want to take the country to new heights at a high speed\nToday Soil Health Card .. The scheme is being started for the entire country. And for his Soil Health Card, his declaration is \"healthy, farm green\". The farm can not be green if the hold is not healthy. Just add some, add fertilizer only, keep the seeds better than the seeds, keep the earth in water, but if the earth is not right, if it is not good then the crop does not get produced and no good crop is produced. Was there. Low crop yields. Light quality crop is produced. So the farmer should know that the soil on which he is working, how is that mother's health? This is my mother. If my old mother is sick in the house, then I can not sleep comfortably. I am a farmer, I am the son of the earth, I am the daughter of the earth. If I am sick of this disease then how can I sleep with peace and therefore .. Our hold, our mother, this is our soil, it should not be ill. He should not let him get sick. Should worry about his health, worry about his health and his weaknesses, should adopt scientifically the methods to fulfill those shortcomings.\nAs the body is sick and it is called a doctor in it - eat it, do not eat it. Sometimes the doctor says - Take this medicine, do not take this medicine. Sometimes the doctor says- rest for the day. Just as there are rules for the body, all the same rules are also for the mother, they are also for the soil. This is not our mother we have said this way. We stopped worrying about that mother! Because we thought - mother, what poorie will speak, as much as you can, get rid! Take out the water, get out! Keeping urea gives more crop, keep taking it! What happens to mother! Who cries! We did not care about mother. Today's demand is that we worry about Mother Earth. If we worry about Mother Earth, then I promise you, this earth mother will worry us.\nWith the attitude of which I have saved the daughter, the daughter has taught the work, the same mentality, I have campaigned in order to save the mother of the earth and I want the support of my farming brothers, this should help, save mother It is to save the soil, to save it and then by going, we can dream of Sujlam Sufalam India. Vande Mataram is so proud to sing, but Vande Mataram gives us a message 'Sujalam Suffalam' of Bharat Mata 'Sujlam Sufalam' Mother India! By that time, 'Sujalam Suffalam' can not be made, unless we have our affection for this soil, it is not our love for mother. We do not take steps to protect this mother. Soil Health Card is a remedy to fulfill this obligation.\n40 years from now, if we were ill 50 years ago, then Vaidyaraj of the village used to give some herbs, we would have been cured. But the time has changed. Even if they go to a bigger doctor, even then they do not give the medicine before. After examining you, do it, bring blood test, bring urine test, bring the test of KafA and we go to the laboratory to make blood test, iron, test our blood On the basis of his report, then the doctor decides that you have this problem. You will have to take this injection, this medicine will have to be taken, it will have to eat, it will not eat. Based on the test report of the blood. As the body is present, after giving a blood test, the doctor prescribes medicines, the farmer also needs to do the test of his soil. Is there any disease in him? Have not any deficiency? Is there any problem? And if it has happened, then there are also doctors of Dhara? They will tell us that this .. please, this will work for your soil. We have not done so till now, but now we have to do so that our efforts will be saved, our money will be saved, our years will be saved and we can get as much as we want the harvest.\nAnd to the farmer..Now the family is growing. Ten bighas will be in the middle of the first two brothers, then ten bigha becomes land in between the five brothers, then the farmer's family is not going to run much unless the crop is born. So this is Soil Health Card, whose mantra is - \"Healthy Dhara\" and whose message is \"Farm green\". In order to fulfill this dream, \"all my farming brothers\" have urged us to get our land tested, soil samples of our fields every year, \"healthy grass, field green\". The government is implementing this scheme in the country wide. Make him more scientific. Like now every small town has a blood test laboratory, Pethalagi is a laboratory, we want that in the days to come, millions of new entrepreneurs will be ready for those who are involved in these sex tests. Make their own laboratory and they can test the farmers in the lab. Where there is APMC, people of APMC should also create a lab at their own place and arrange the system to test the soil of the farmers as they come. Not only this, I urge all state governments of the state that there is a laboratory in their respective state of 10th class, 11th standard, 12th grade, college, wherever there is a school of knowledge. The school's laboratory is closed from the month of February to the month of June, because children take the exam and the rest begin the vacation. Convert the school's laboratory to the soil testing laboratory at the time of vacation. We teach soil testing to children of 10th-12th standard. Those poor children will also have income in the vacation and those who have science science will also be earning and the farmers of that area will also be tested for their soil. A cult, many hinges, we can proceed one after another. If this subject comes to them, then they can open their own laboratory. They can start their business business in this and my experience is, when I was in Gujarat, I applied the soil health card in whole Gujarat. The result was that the farmer started telling me that Saab did not know that our soil was such. We used to plant crops every year and our relatives would have been more productive, we did not have them. Now it was known what was the problem. Someone said that Bhai would have used this medicine, after testing this soil, it came to know that I was able to put ten thousand rupees of medicine in waste. Someone saw that I used to put the fertilizer fertilizer, after the test, it came to know that I did not need a fertilizer. We will get stuck on our unpaid expenditure due to soil testing. I assure you that if we have received information through soil tests, we will cultivate that method, decide the crop with that method, will use water through that method, use the medicine and fertilizer by that method, without any effort If there are three acres of land, then the farmer will be saved at least 50 thousand rupees, that is why I assure you today ... which went into extravagant ... The survival of a farmer of 50 thousand rupees, means that he has won a great victory in his life.\nWe will move forward in scientific way. Crop will be more, they will be different, earning more Extra expenditure will be saved. So I have come here to insist that as we are ill, blood tests are done, you should also do our sex test every year before the farming season starts. The government is going to run a big campaign for him, you help him.\nSecondly, water, water. One thing we have to understand, as the lack of water is as dangerous, the effect of water is also dangerous. We keep crying for the absence of water, but the problems caused by the effects of water. We do not care about it. Tell me, what happened in our Ganganagar area? The water was so! But the water that used to be used in chaos and due to which the situation of our soil became. सारा साल्ट मिट्टी पर कब्जा करके बैठ गया है। पूरी मिट्टी बरबाद कर दी, पानी ने बरबाद कर दी! Why? हमने पानी का अनाप-शनाप उपयोग किया। इसलिए मेरे भाईयों बहनों! पानी का अभाव और पानी का प्रभाव दोनों से बच करके चलना अच्छी खेती के लिए आवश्यक है और पानी के प्रभाव से बचना है तो हमें drip irrigation को लेना होगा। हमें पानी के अभाव से बचना है तो भी drip irrigation काम आएगा। हम micro irrigation पर चलें, स्प्रींकलर पर चलें।\nइस्राइल! इस्राइल के अंदर राजस्थान से ज्यादा बारिश नहीं होती है। मैं और वसुंधरा जी दोनों इस्राइल गए थे। क्योंकि राजस्थान और गुजरात दोनों जगह पर बारिश कम है, हम चाहते थे कि पानी कम है तो खेती हमें आगे बढ़ानी है। और वहां से जो लाए हम.. आपने देखा होगा, आपके यहां olive की खेती हो रही है। इसी बेल्ट में हो रही है, आपके यहां खजूर की खेती हो रही है और आने वाले दिनों में राजस्थान खजूर export करने लग जाएगा। एक छोटा सा प्रयास कितना बड़ा परिवर्तन लाता है, वो राजस्थान की धरती ने देखा है। अगर हम, जो इस्राइल ने किया है, drip irrigation के द्वारा.. टपक सिंचाई..बूंद बूंद पानी..। कभी कभी मैं ये बात बड़े आग्रह से कहना चाहता हूं, अगर फसल भी, जैसे घर में बच्चों को बड़ा करते हैं न.. वैसा ही काम है। बालक को बड़ा करने के लिए जितनी care करनी पड़ती है, फसल को भी बड़ा करने के लिए उतनी ही care करनी पड़ती है। अब मुझे बताइए मेरे किसान भाईयों बहनों, मैं एक छोटा सा विषय आपके सामने रखता हूं। मैं आशा करता हूं, ज़रा गौर से सुनिए। मान लीजिए आपके घर में तीन साल का बच्चा है। लेकिन उसके शरीर में उसका विकास नहीं हो रहा है, ऐसे ही मरा पड़ा रहता है, बिस्तर पर ही पड़ा रहता है, उसके साथ खेलने का मन भी नहीं करता है, कभी हंसता नहीं है, ऐसी मरी पड़ी सूरत ले करके पड़ा रहता है, तो मां बाप को लगता है, कि बच्चे को कोई बीमारी है, कुछ करना चाहिए। मान लो, आपको, उस बच्चे का वजन बढ़े ऐसी इच्छा है, बच्चा तंदूरूस्त है, ऐसी इच्छा है तो कोई मां ये कहेगी कि बाल्टी भर दूध ले करके, दूध में केसर पिस्ता डाल करके, बढि़या सा दूध तैयार करके, फिर उस दूध में बच्चे को नहलाएगी? और रोज़ एक एक बाल्टी दूध से नहलाएगी! क्या बच्चे की तबीयत में फर्क आएगा क्या? माताएं बताएं, आएगा क्या? बच्चे की तबीयत में फर्क आएगा? बाल्टी भर रोज़ केसर का दूध, उसको नहलाते चले जाएं, बच्चे के शरीर में कोई बदलाव आएगा क्या? नहीं आएगा न? लेकिन एक चम्मच ले करके दो दो बूंद दूध उसको पिलाएंगे, दिन में 10 बार-12 बार पिलाएंगे तो महीने भर में उसके शरीर में बदलाव आना शुरू होगा कि नहीं होगा? बाल्टी भर दूध नहलाने से उसका शरीर नहीं बनता है। दो दो बूंद पिलाने से उसका शरीर बनने लग जाता है।\nफसल का भी .. किसानों की सोच ऐसी है कि खेत लबालब पानी से भरा होगा पूरी फसल डूबी हुई होगी। पानी ही पानी नज़र आएगा तब फसल होगी। ये वैसी ही सोच है, जब बीमार बच्चे को दूध से नहलाते हैं। फसल को आप पानी से नहलाओ, ये ज़रूरी नहीं है। फसल को एक बूंद पानी पिलाना पड़ता है, एक-एक बूंद पानी पिलाना पड़ता है और इसलिए बूंद बूंद पानी से ही फसल अच्छी होती है। Flood-Irrigation से नहीं होता है। इसलिए मैं किसानों से आग्रह करने आया हूं कि भारत जैसे देश को यदि आगे बढ़ना है, तो हमें पानी बचाना पड़ेगा। “per drop more crop”.. एक एक बूंद पानी से अधिकतक फसल कैसे प्राप्त करें, ये ले करके हमें चलना है, तब जा करके हम कृषि क्षेत्र को आगे बढ़ा सकते हैं।\nये Soil Health Card की बात हो, पानी बचाने की बात हो, कृषि क्षेत्र को आगे ले जाने का प्रयास हो। मैं मेरे देश के किसानों से कहना चाहता हूं.. मैं पूरी तरह समझता हूं कि हिंदुस्तान को अगर आगे बढ़ना है, तो हिंदुस्तान में गांव को आगे बढ़ाना पड़ेगा। गांव को को अगर आगे बढ़ना है तो किसान को आगे बढ़ाना पड़ेगा और किसान को अगर आगे बढ़ना है तो हमारे कृषि क्षेत्र में क्रांति लानी पड़ेगी। इसलिए मेरी सरकार.. गरीबी के खिलाफ लड़ाई लड़ने का अगर सबसे बड़ा कोई ताकतवर हथियार है तो वो हमारी खेती है, हमारे किसान हैं, हमारी कृषि है, हमारी माटी है, हमारी फसल है। इसलिए सरकार की सारी योजनाएं कृषि क्षेत्र को आधुनिक बनाना, कृषि क्षेत्र को ताकतवर बनाना, इसी पर हमने केंद्रित की है और वैज्ञानिक आधुनिक कृषि के लिए आज हमें वैज्ञानिक योजनाएं ले करके, आज राजस्थान की धरती से उसका आरंभ कर रहें हैं।\nआने वाले दिनों में, मैं किसानों से भी कहना चाहता हूं, हमें हमारी कृषि को आर्थिक रूप से भी अब जोड़ना चाहिए, उसका आर्थिक बैलेंस भी करना चाहिए। हमें अगर आगे बढ़ना है, तो किसानों को तीन भाग में खेती करनी चाहिए, तीन भाग में। एक तिहाई जो वो खेती करता है, अपनी परंपरागत करता रहे, उसमें आधुनिकता लाए, वैज्ञानिकता लाए, technology लाए। एक तिहाई हम वृक्षों की खेती करें, पेड़ की की खेती करें। आज हमारे देश में इतना टिम्बर इम्पोर्ट करना पड़ता है। हमारे खेत के किनारे पर हम बाड़ लगाते हैं और दो दो फीट दोनों किसानों की ज़मीनें खराब करते हैं। उस बाड़ की जगह पर अगर हम पेड़ लगा दें तो 15-20 साल के बाद वो पेड़ हमें लाखों रूपया दे सकते हैं। ज़मीन भी खराब नहीं होगी। पेड़ लगने से ज़मीन को भी लाभ होगा और हमारी फसल को भी लाभ होगा। एक तिहाई पेड़,एक तिहाई हमारी रेग्यूलर खेती और एक तिहाई पशु पालन, poultry farm , fisheries , इन कामों पर लगाया जाए। दूध उत्पादन करें, पाल्ट्री फार्म चलाएं, फिशरीज वाला काम करें। आप देखिए, किसान को कभी रोने की नौबत नहीं आएगी, गांव की economy बदल जाएगी। इसलिए मैं आज आपसे आग्रह करने आया हूं कि हम एक नए तरीके से कृषि जीवन को आगे बढ़ाने की दिशा में आगे काम करें। इसीलिए आज जब Soil Health Card आपके यहां आरंभ हो रहा है।\nश्रेष्ठ कृषि करने वाले देश के किसानों को आज सम्मानित करने का मुझे अवसर प्राप्त हो रहा है। हम उनसे सीखें, वो किस प्रकार की फसल उगाए हैं, क्या प्रयोग किए हैं, हम उनसे जानें और हमारे इलाके में हम उनको लागू करें। मैं फिर एक बारे वसुंधरा जी का आभारी हूं, उन्होंने भारत सरकार का इतना बड़ा समारोह अपने यहां organize किया, इतनी बड़ी सफलता के साथ organize किया। मैं इसके लिए राजस्थान सरकार को हृदय से अभिनंदन करता हूं और मैं आपको विश्वास दिलाता हूं कि जितनी बातें आपने उठाई हैं, उन सारी बातों का समाधान हम मिल-जुल करके करेंगे और राजस्थान को नई ऊंचाईयों पर ले जाने में भारत सरकार कोई कसर नहीं छोड़ेगी, ये मैं आपकों विश्वास दिलाता हूं।\nThanks a lot."