"Share\n\nToday, all those student friends and present gentlemen who are beginning their new life,\nI told the special guest, you have seen some children I have kept an urgency that wherever there is a convocation, there should be 20-25 schools of that city and those poor children where two two children should call this convocation specially by inviting them. When this child sees this ceremony, this costume, all this, then a sanskar in their mind also awakens and instantly creates an inspiration, also in their mind that even such an opportunity has come in my life. Therefore, I insist that every University should have a Convocation if 50 children from the poor family .... One or two of the 40-50 schools should definitely be called. They should attend this function. There is a new inspiration from it and I would also like to say that those who have been born today should definitely talk to them for five minutes later. She discusses, share your experiences. You see how big your work will be.\nToday I got an opportunity to honor some former Directors When many people spend their lives, then such institutions develop. Such systems are developed. This institution has made an international position with the efforts of all the people of the East as well as the current people. I congratulate with everyone on their heart and whom I have the opportunity to welcome, I feel proud in myself.\nFriends, I have a question in mind that if you had brainstormed you would probably not be in this profession. It is my complete confidence that you have not thought of it before coming here. Why come again? It is because you have not thought with your heart. The work is of the mind, but the mind is not going to happen. You have prepared a profession in which you can fix the patient with your heart and can not do it with your mind and I tell you that your heart has forced you to come to this profession, It has inspired, that voice has arisen from within you and you have felt that Bhai is this people in this society .. somebody should serve them and I am going to know that this is a difficult task.\nWhen you go after holding a degree in the hospital for the first time, Patient will play Talia, let's come another one. They will feel that someone like us has come, talk to him, spend time, understand him and then build confidence in him. You have taken such a difficult task. But I believe that due to the pain and pain that you have received here, you will be able to serve a very good type of service in this area.\nWhen Symptom starts appearing in our country of Mental Health, the family feels that what is doing it odd, then the first thing that spells out in the mantra is to make some sunshine, they think that it will be fine and From there, the debacle starts. The intestine destroys the patient and the families feel that something has happened like this, someone has done something and in that life starts destroying. You can imagine what is the attitude of society to look at mental illness and change from it and it is a health related matter, it is a physical problem, its solution can emerge from that form. And diseases can be treated like this, it can also be done. Filling it in his mind, it is also very difficult to fill in that family's mind.\nThere will be some such families ... what would happen ... they would not want anyone to know that this is such a disease. They hide, they are scared, because if they come to know that there is a mind of one in their family, then the rest think that everything will be similar. This tree must have had similar results and therefore, no matter how tired the person is, it is a good doctor, yet, if a daughter gives 50 times, she thinks that her brother is a mess, do not give it or give it. That is, there is also a disease from a social point of view that does not fall in the eyes of the whole family, not the entire family. Occasionally at the time of Baba, something happened, grand-father, great grand-father .. and relatives know that their brother was a grandfather, at 55-60 years of age, even then the children of that family For four to four generations it has to keep listening ... some dude is messy. No screw seems loose\nThat is, this is a patient whose ignorance, superstition and awareness are surrounded by all these things and from it we have to work against the barriers of society to consider it as a patient in a scientific way. Later, the situation comes such that if there is a prospect, a little wiser, a little knows things, then he starts taking the medicines of depression and there is no end to it, the doze goes on increasing and depression also increases is. That is, even if the person himself is a little depressed, then he goes in this direction and in such a situation when your profession is to work, along with scientific methods, I said initially, this is a medicine by heart and therefore more than the normal doctor. Honesty sensations, sympathy towards a patient more than a normal doctor, is essential in this profession. There is no knowledge and experience in it, so much that does not work in it and in that sense you have got education initiation here. I believe that you will proceed successfully.\nSuch a situation will come in your life too .. I do not want that come .. but will come, will come as a joke, but will come. You will get married and after two or four years, when the husband or wife is married, what will you say? You have become like a patient. This has happened to you while living with these patients. That is, in such a condition, you have to work too. You have initiated education here, becoming a doctor, you are going to get a place in society. Your parents should have sent you here with so many arrows, how many expectations should be sent with them, how many difficulties should you have sent to them. I will urge you that whatever you have found, your hard work is there. Here, there is also the hard work of those who give education, there is also some contribution of your friends and friends. But those families who have sent you here with great hope, Armanas. So far you were a student and therefore he also thought that I have to give it, but now from tomorrow, he will also look at you from another perspective. Now Bhai happened to me, what happened, I taught you, done by debt and taught, done everything now you do it yourself .. expectations will take a new look. I hope that by moving ahead of your strength, you have the expectations, aspirations, expectations of your parents, and God will give you full strength to complete it towards you and without time, they can live proudly. Life Behavior, Siddis of your life. Make that base of their lives more liveable. I wish you all very well.\nOccasionally we also feel that we have arrived here, have come to Bangalore. From two kilometers away, from five hundred kilometers away, thousands of kilometers away have come to study. There were money, admission was received, there were good marks, I am reading, God has given the mind right, I read it well. Have you ever wondered whether these reasons have reached you at this place. If you think, you will know whether or not you will. The place is very low. Your money, your time, your intelligence, your family's contribution, your teachers' contribution goes where it goes. But remember the people who have contributed to them, and remember them every moment in life. Then you will not have to remember any great person to learn how to live life, no reference to any book will be seen. Only the events of your life can become the inspiration of your life. Remember that the first time you have come to Bangalore and an auto rickshaw would have brought you here, just remember his face and think that you had come to New but this did not ask for more money than you did for the same amount. There was the rent to reach here as much as possible. You will remember that when I started my life for the first time when I came to Bangalore, but there was an auto rickshaw, which had delivered me at the right time, at the right time. Does not he have any contribution in reaching it, if he is contributing, should I have to contribute by repaying that debt in my life? And I believe this is the way to pursue life. Where have we been due to whom? Sometimes there will be reading, there will also be fatigue, it will be on the exam day and it may have been mindful that after going at 12 o'clock at night, drink tea and go out of the hostel and sitting under a tree, selling the tea will be soya You must have awakened that you have exams tomorrow, do not drink tea, and he has left his sleep and made tea for you. And after drinking that tea you would have read two hours at night and your paper would have been very good in the morning. Does that tea person have any contribution in your life?\nI mean to say that we go ahead in life, not because of our own reasons, but because of the number of people who go ahead, and who are created due to the people sitting on the last or the end of the society and therefore, Because there are convocations, today with their education, today we are going to be overwhelmed at the high place of society, then due to which we will be here, I will not forget them in life. . We will try some moment to live for them. I believe that life is very blessed then.\nAfter all, a rich man from the rich .. You will get such people in a profession, you will get a lot of money, there will be a child, a car, a bungalow, everything will come and you will come and tell you that dude doctor does not sleep at night, know No matter what the problem is. Mindan is very thoughtful, the mind does not remain calm. Such patients will come to you. Everything is wealth, wealth, glory, money, it is all .. It means that these things do not get happiness in life, happiness comes from anywhere else, and therefore happiness: happiness is to enjoy inner inner happiness The effort of living this kind of life which God has given me the work area, the work area that I have chosen, and for those I am living for, this is auspicious for me. You see how the new color fills in life. And so, with the enthusiasm and enthusiasm, if we keep on continuing our life, I am confident that you can give something to society in the area you have come from.\nPatient ... here we have said ... Narva Narayana and Narayana Seva .... Service has been said here. And medical occupation is such that whose work is considered to be a service. Even if he does not take money, even if he does not take money, that work is considered to be a service. There are very few people who get service in service or opportunity in life. You are the people of the community whose work is considered to be every service of life, and for the person who performs worship in the temple that worshiping God is not a business, it is the work of awakening the consciousness of the priest, the service is the only way. In this way, the person who keeps the feeling towards the patient, then there is the experience of that kind of bliss in his life; he will also get the feeling of happiness. I believe that you will never feel tired in your life, will never feel restless. It will not feel like it would have been better if it were not there, there would be a feeling of good and the same would be the pleasure of life.\nYou will go from here, the society will see you, only the patient will see you and not the society. Because of the society we have reached, we will do something for that society. Will live happily ever after; If this is the feeling of the mind then our life becomes successful.\nToday, I congratulate all those who are the award winners who have received special marks and are beginning to embark on a new life, giving them my best wishes. I got an opportunity to come here today, so I am very grateful to you all.\nThank you."