"Share\n\nCardinal George Alencherry Archbishop Andrews Thazhath Archbishop Kuriakose Bharanikulangara Archbishop Anil Couto Shri Arun Jaitley, Dr. Najma Heptulla, Shri P.J. Kurien, Deputy Chairman, Rajya Sabha Monseigneur Sebastian Vadakumpadan\nI am delighted to participate in this function to celebrate the elevation of sainthood of two great saints of Kerala - Saint Kuriakose Elias Chavara and Saint Euphresia. The whole country is proud of their recognition Their elevation was preceded by that of Saint Alphonsa, who also hailed from Kerala.\nThe life and works of Saint Chavara and Saint Eupharia are a Christianity, but to humanity as a whole. They are shining examples of the goodment of humanity.\nSaint Chavara was a man of prayer and also a social reformer. In an era when access to education was limited, he stressed that every church should have a school. He has opened the doors of education to people from all sections of society.\nFew outside Kerala knows that he started a Sanskrit school, and also a printing press. His contribution towards women's empowerment was also notable.\nSaint Euphrasia was a mystic who dedicated her life to prayer and devotion to God.\nBoth these saints are dedicated to their lives. The ancient Indian saying: \"Aatmano mokshartham jagat hittayya\" - welfare of the world is the way to salvation - explains their life.\nFriends,\nSpiritualism is rooted in India`s heritage Indian saints and Greek sages had intellectual and spiritual exchanges of thousands of years back. India's openness to new ideas is manifest in the Rig Veda: Ano Bhadra: Revolutionary but worldly thoughts come to us from all sides. This philosophy has guided our intellectual discourse since time immemorial. Mother India gave birth to many religious and spiritual streams Some of them have even travelled beyond Indian borders\nThe tradition of welcoming, respecting and honoring all faiths is as old as India itself. As Swami Vivekananda said: We believe not only in universal toleration, but we accept all religions as true.\nWhat Swami Vivekananda had said was a century ago holds good and will, for ever, not only for this country but also for government or for that matter any government in India, run by any political party. This principle of equal respect and treatment for all faiths has been a part of India's ethos for thousands of years. And that is how it has become integral to the Constitution of India Our Constitution did not evolve in a vacuum. It has roots in the ancient cultural traditions of India.\nGurudev Rabindranath Tagore had inspired him from his dream of a land. It is that heaven of freedom we are duty bound to create and preserve. We believe that there is truth in every religion. Ekam sat viparha bhaadanti\nFriends,\nLet me now come to the issue which is central and critical for the contemporary world. The world is increasingly witnessing on the lines of religious lines. This is a matter of global concern In this context, the ancient Indian plea of ​​mutual respect for all faiths is now beginning to manifest in global discourse.\nThis long felt need and urge for the interfaith conference on 'Faith in Human Rights' at the Hague on 10th December, 2008. This was coincidentally also the 60th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights by the United Nations.\nReligious leaders representing every major world religion - Christianity, Hinduism, Judaism, Baha'i Faith, Buddhism, Islam, Taoism and indigenous religions meet, discussed and pledged to uphold universal declaration and freedom or religion or belief.\nIn their historical declaration, this is how they defined what constitutes freedom of faith and how it is to be safeguarded.\nWe consider the freedom to have, to retain, and to adopt, a religion or belief, is a personal choice of a citizen.\nThe world is at cross roads which, if not crossed properly, can throw us back to the dark days of bigotry, fanaticism and bloodshed. The harmonious convergence among religions could not be achieved even when the world entered the third millennium. And now it has been This shows that the rest of the world too is evolving along the lines of ancient India.\nSpeaking for India, and for my government, I declare that my government stands by the declaration. My government will ensure that there is complete freedom of faith and that everyone has the undeniable right to retain or adopt the religion of his or her choice without coercion or undue influence. My government does not allow any religious group, belonging to the majority or the minority, to incite hatred against others, overtly or covertly. Mine will be a government that gives equal respect to all religions\nIndia is the land of Buddha and Gandhi Equal respect for all religions must be in the DNA of every Indian We can not accept violence against any religion and any other way. My government will act in this regard\nWith this commitment, I appeal to all religious groups to act with restraint, mutual respect, and tolerance in the spirit of the ancient nation which is the manifest in our Constitution and the Hague Declaration.\nFriends,\nI have a vision of a Modern India I have embarked on a huge mission to convert that vision into reality. My mantra is Development - With everyone, everyone's development.\nIn simple terms it means food on every table, every child in school, a job for everybody and a home with toilet and electricity for every family This will make India proud We can achieve this through unity. Unity strengthens us Division weakens us I request you all to join me in this huge task.\nLet the elevation to sainthood of Saint Chavara and Saint Euphrasia, and their noble deeds inspire us:\n-to maximize our inner strength -to use that power for transforming society through selfless service -to meet our collective vision of a developed and modern India\nTHANK YOU"