"Share\n\nPresident Maithripala Sirisena and Mrs. Sirisena to India\nWe are honored that you have chosen India as your first overseas destination.\nLet me congratulate you on your historic victory. The Republic of Sri Lanka\nYour mandate carries the collective voice of Sri Lanka It represents the aspirations of your people for a united, inclusive peaceful and prosperous nation.\nIndia is Sri Lanka`s closest neighbor and friend The goodwill and support of the people of India\nThe timeless links of history, religion and culture provide a solid foundation of our partnership.\nWe also share a broad range of interests - economic development for our countries; peace and prosperity in South Asia; maritime security in the region\nIndeed, I believe that our destinies are inter-linked Our security and prosperity are indivisible\nPresident Sirisena and I had excellent discussions today on our bilateral relations and international issues.\nPresident and I are committed to unlocking the vast potential of our economic cooperation.\nWe are pleased to be the Sri Lanka`s biggest trading partner. I know that India enjoys a huge trade surplus I expressed my opinion\nI conveyed our readiness to promote the Indian investments and tourists in Sri Lanka.\nWe discussed expansion of cooperation in energy sector, both conventional and renewable.\nOur Commerce Secretaries will meet soon to review our bilateral commercial relations.\nIndia and Sri Lanka\nThe bilateral agreement on civil nuclear cooperation is yet another demonstration of our mutual trust. This is the first such agreement Sri Lanka has signed. It opens new avenues for cooperation, including in areas like agriculture and healthcare.\nPresident and I also agreed to extend our defense and security cooperation. We welcomed the progress in our maritime security cooperation, including the trilateral format with Maldives.\nThe Indian assisted projects for Internally Displaced Persons in Sri Lanka have made excellent progress. This includes the housing project, under which 27,000 homes have already been built. President and I expressed satisfaction with the progress.\nI assured President Sirisena of India's commitment to develop partnership with Sri Lanka. This will continue to cover a wide range of areas, including infrastructure. In this context, I am also happy with the MoU on cooperation in agriculture.\nPresident and I attach the highest importance to the fishermen's issue It affects the livelihood on both sides We agreed that there should be a constructive and humanitarian approach to the issue.\nWe will encourage the fishermen's associations on both sides to meet again soon. They should find a solution\nLike cricket, culture provides a strong bond between us The Program of Cultural Cooperation signed today will nurture those ties and promote contacts between people\nI am also delighted that Sri Lanka is now part of the Nalanda University Project.\nIt recalls a link forged 2300 years ago, by Prince Mahindra, known as Arhat Mahinda in Sri Lanka, and his sister Sanghamitra. They went to Sri Lanka as apostles of Buddhism.\nSri Lankan nationals visit the National Museum in New Delhi in large numbers to pay homage to the Kapilavastu relics. We have decided to reduce the fees for them.\nI thanked the President for his invitation to visit Sri Lanka. I am looking forward to visiting my beautiful country in March.\nI would like to once again welcome President Sirisena to India. We are at a new level. His visit today has set us firmly in that direction.\nThank you."