"\nAll the greatness present,\nI congratulate Piyush Ji and his team that they have decided to go ahead on a large scale and this three day workshop is being started in the same research today. A big change we have noticed that I do not know - in general when we are talking about energy when we talk about energy in the country, then in the context of Megawatt. For the first time India has started discussing Gigawatt. No one can imagine how much travel is possible from Megawatt to Gigawatt, how much is focussed, and how confident it is to get results.\nIn India, when I think in terms of energy, the discussions happening in the global context are in their place. The focal point of my meditation is something else. We all know that the development journey of human being, energy has played an important role in that development journey. In stone age, people also tried to erase the hunger of energy by rubbing stones. And since then the journey is continuously going on. There are continuous new initiatives Because humans believe that energy has an important role in its development journey.\nThere are still millions of families in India who are deprived of energy. The poorest of the poor also expect the child to read, read and write further. But when there is a time of exam, he can not read the night, because the house does not get energy, and his life stops there. Is it not a government, society, the responsibility of the country, that the poorest of our poor people get the energy that they need in order to realize their dreams? The light of development will not reach his house until he himself will not benefit from the light. And so within my heart and mind, an ordinary person of India is sitting, he is sitting poor person. Those villages in the dark are sitting in my mind. And I am searching for his way so that we can fulfill these requirements by using optimum utilization of whatever strength we have today, the power.\nIn general, the general person today sees himself connecting with the universe. If anyone listens to the news then he thinks that yes, I should have it too. Her dreams are now very high. And so he does not even wait for him. Wants to see changes in front of me, my children want to do something for me and so we went one point ahead, two points went ahead, five points went ahead .. the figures seem very good. But we have no choice without quantum jump. And that is why we want to speed up the speed at which we are moving ahead and cross the new heights and go ahead, with all the plans to move towards that boundary. Energy is an area in it.\nOn the other hand, which is our source for energy. Without the calculation of which source we will be able to generate energy, we can not go a long way. What do we want to be dependent on energy? Which resources do we have? How is the way to optimum utilization of those resources? And the success comes when we make our plans by keeping available resources available to us, keeping them in mind, then those plans give us the strength to sustain for a long period of time. And so in the field of energy, if we have to go to every village of Hindustan, then we need to focus on the central point of our plan, our own available resources. On one side, the world is very worried about climate. Resources are becoming more and more people are frightened. And on the other side, living with nature, living and fulfilling its needs are now being seriously considered.\nAnd under that today, Renewal energy in which India wants to focus its focus and India is not working hard to raise its flag in the world to fulfill its needs. I used to light the lamp in the house of my poor, come to light. Let's open new paths for his dreams to come true, so all of them are working hard. And so it is our effort to do so. And that's our inspiration. The poor cottage is our inspiration and hence this effort will come in color, it is my belief.\nToday the world is discussing the climate. Attempts have been made to address him in different ways. But when I talk about one thing, the world is not ready to follow that subject with me, nor is my willingness to obey. I always say that we talk about so much of the climate but we will not ... What will happen to carbon emission, we do this on a long long seminar. But this is our own Lifestyle and there is no one ready to discuss it, because all people know where it is going to be difficult to discuss with the Life Staule. And we and these habits have changed so much that we do not even know how we are living our life, we do not know.\nYou must have seen on the X letter at the airport, we climb some people when I hear them saying that I walk in a regulaler 15 minutes in the gym. And here I go to x letter. That is, I do not know how he changed the life style that he himself goes to the accelerator but says that I run regulators in the gym for 15 minutes. Walk in That is, here I am spoiling the electricity, and even there. I am not criticizing anyone because I also climbed X Letter. The reason for saying is that the habit of people has changed so much that we do not know that in reality we are going to account for the fate of our future generations. And how can such a parent be eaten which can be eaten by children? We are eating our future generations. No parent will want to see their children borrowed, every parent wants to leave some legacy for the children. If we want to give this waste world to our future generation, want to give a damaged earth. We do not even want to give him the right to live in the open air? Is it not our obligation to protect our future generations? And so we should also make changes in our lifestyle. And so, when addressing the issue of climate, then there should be discussion from the person to the universe, from the beginning to the universe, but the happening is going on from the universe, but no one is ready until it comes to the individual. All Discourses are required to change and it can be changed.\nThe second thing is that in the tradition in which we are born, we are told that in the world, we are living in the energy of the sun god. And the sun god has a chariot of seven horses. I do not know what mythology or Kalamana world may think about it, but the sun is the center of energy so that one can not deny it. In today's age, I see who should be the seven horses. Ours is the horse of the sun, the horse of energy, which seven horses run it? So far, we have a horse of a thermal habit, second is gas, third of Hydro, fourth is by Nuclear. Around this we are walking a bit. But we need to put three more horses - Solar, Wind and Biogas. Those who are in our reach and therefore, with the help of these seven horses, how does our chariot of energy grow further, we want to walk with them.\nI have started the effort in this direction. There are more than 50 countries in the world who have the grace of God in Solar radiation, there are about 50 countries in those countries. It is our endeavor to become an organization of these 50 countries and research together in the field of Solar Energy. How Solar Energy can be made more viable. How can technology be up gradation? These fifty-fifty countries, who have this strength, must work together to find and answer all the questions about their energy by joining themselves. We are doing some work in this direction. I believe that sometimes we will get success in this little effort.\nI remember when I was in Gujarat, in the beginning only a big fire was used to talk about Solar, because 19 rupees and no less than 20 rupees did not talk. And if anybody does such a community, then on the second day such headlines are formed that in the market there is electricity in two and a half rupees and Modi is taking Rs 20. Big corruption! I do not know what would have happened, but we kept upset that at that time I would have said that would be a bad name, but if you want to change the country, then you will have to face defamation. And we made the game changer but he made the game changer. As soon as we took the Initiative on the mass mass scale, 20 of the 19, 19 were reduced to 16, 15, 13 and were reduced to seven and a half. And maybe it would have been less even this time. That is, we are going in line with the thermal. It became a game changer in its own right, but we would not have thought of it. In the coming days, I believe that we are getting new research in the field of Solar Energy, of course, we are comfortable with this normal human being, in such a situation we will be able to reach it, that is my complete confidence. And our country's Youth talent will do this research. Will find new things new\nSome experiments can do even more. We must develop some hybrid system. We do not want to go anywhere in the ground. But can we pre-select the location where Solar and the Hybrid system of Wind we develop. Where there is also wind velocity, there is also solar radiation, in the same area, the wind is also solar, then the transmission cost falls short of the cost, the cost of infrastructure is reduced. It is possible. This is what I am giving the idea that it has no consultancy fee. Why do not we do this in the way, just as Piyush Ji was telling us to put a experiment above the canal in Gujarat.\nThere is a pond in our country. Now the ponds are dug by NREGA. Solar panel can be installed inside the pond? The bottom is water above Solar. Water will also survive, land will not be spent and you can develop your Solar project yourself so closely. We are the kind of innovative things that are consistent with our country, we think, the cost will come down and we can get the key from the low cost. We are going to rooftop policy. Which is remotest to remote areas, where there is so much cost of infrastructure to provide electricity, no Himalaya does not do the same. Why not work on Solar?\nThe talents of our country are such, I remember. I went to see a village in the Himalayas many years ago, in that village, the spring of water fell from great power. So he had a small turbine at the same place, now a retired soldier of the army, by planting a small turbine he used to grind the wheat grinding mill. Now this was his Hydro project. So, how do we develop such a decentralized business? The larger the amount we will develop the decentralized statistical descent system, it will also benefit the normal person, the cost will be reduced and the loss will be minimized. How did we move in that direction?\nHow to take advantage of this farmer in our country? I want to work on those of our engineering field. Solar pump If farmers of our country get expansive arrangements to remove water from Solar Pumpk, then today our farmers will reduce input cost and input cost will be reduced, then our farmers will become stronger. Today, the biggest cost of water in its input cost is to pay and the basic reason for the cost of water is electricity. And the electricity can not provide electricity then what the political parties do, declares in every election \"give power free\". And who are supposed to give free, who do not have electricity. If you bill, then it will be billed. But we have to understand the problems of the farmers and it is very important for us that we get complete expansions of water from the solar pump and the water in the field ... and once it will have a Solar Pump, the micro irrigation Will move immediately, because he will also get the benefit of Pumping System. And in micro irrigation, not only will we save energy, we will also save water. Not only that it is believed that in the agricultural sector, the crop gets by means of micro irrigation only, the quality gets very good, the farmer has the possibility of multiple benefits. So we are working in the energy sector. How we can bring a big change in society, and how we can work on those changes. We will think seriously about this.\nLike I said, saving energy is the time demand. We will have to create an innate nature and save as much energy as we save, we will save the coming generations. Energy can be used as a protector of generations. And it is also necessary to take that thing seriously. It is not that the Government of India is moving forward in this direction alone, you have seen almost all the states are present here. And this is the state that has accomplished something. That is, there is awareness in all the states of Hindustan today, the initiative is being done and those who are working in the state together with the people. I consider it an auspicious sign. If all the states go ahead together, then the GW of MW is not delayed. This strength is that when all the states are working together, then the journey of Gigawat from MW has come automatically and we are trying to get that journey. I assure you. These are the areas which are my article of faith. I have faith in it, I have reverence in it.\nI believe that the path of welfare of mankind should not be removed from the path that is o and I am a believer that to show the world the way to avoid global warming, if anybody has the natural power, then Hindustan has it, because We have been taught to love nature by birth. Our DNA is in, but if we forget it, then who will show the way to the world? और फिर दुनिया Emission के हिसाब-किताब से अपने समय बर्बाद करती रहेगी। जीने का रास्ताे क्याय हो वो दिखाने की ताकत भारत के पास के है और जो हजारों साल उसने जीकर के दिखाया है। अकेले महात्मात गांधी को लें, उन्हों ने जिन बातों को जीकर दिखाया है उसी को भी अगर दुनिया समझना शुरू करे, तो मैं समझता हूं global warming से लड़ने का रास्ताद उसको मिल जाएगा, बचने का रास्ताो मिल जाएगा। हम प्रकृति को प्रेम करने वाले लोग हैं, हम ही तो लोग हैं, जो नदी का मां कहते हैं। यह हमारे स्वामभाव में है और इसलिए मानवजाति जिस संकट की ओर आगे बढ़ रही है उसको बचाने का भी मार्ग... लेकिन भारत को खुद ने भी उसको जीने का प्रयास एक बार फिर से शुरू करना पड़ेगा। हम यह कहे कि हमारे ग्रंथों में इतना महान पड़ा हुआ है, तो हमारी गाड़ी चल जाएगी। यह होना नहीं है। जो उत्त म है उसको जीने का हौसला भी चाहिए और जो जीने का हौसला होता है तो औरों को भी उस रास्तेी पर खींच कर ले जाने की ताकत रखते हैं। उस ताकत के भरोसे हम आगे बढ़ना चाहते हैं। मैं फिर एक बार इस प्रयास को बहुत शुभकामनाएं देता हूं।\nमैं चाहूंगा कि अनेक विषयों पर चर्चा होने वाली है, विभिन्न expert लोगों से विचार-विमर्श होगा और इस क्षेत्र में काम करने वाले लोग भी हमें भी मिलकर के research और innovation पर बल देना होगा। सिर्फ हम Quantum jump कितना करते हैं, पहले कितना मेगावाट थी और कितना गीगावाट हो गई उससे बात बननी नहीं है। हमें technological qualitative change लाने की जरूरत है और उसके लिए research की आवश्यoकता है। हम जो कुछ भी कर रहे हैं उस पर बल देना चाहिए।\nदूसरा Manufacturing. हम Make in India की बात कर रहे हैं। हम चाहते हैं कि हमारे Solar या wind हो, Equipment manufacturing पर बल यहां पर मिले। अगर हम equipment manufacturing नहीं करेंगे और हम Equipment बाहर से लाएंगे और ईश्वमर कृपा से solar का फायदा उठाएंगे और बिजली बेचते रहेंगे तो हमारे यहां job creation ज्या‍दा नहीं होगा। अगर हमें Job create करनी है तो हमें Equipment Manufacturing पर भी बल देना पड़ेगा और उसमें भी innovations समय की मांग है। आज Wind energy में कितना Innovation हो रहा है और अब तो उसमें भी Hybrid system की संभावना दिखती है। मेरी क्षेत्र में रूचि होने के कारण इस प्रकार से काम करने वालों में, हमारे एक मित्र बता रहे थे कि अब wind mill जो होगी वो हवा में से जो humidity है उसको absorb करके वो बिजली भी दे सकती है और एक Wind Mill 10,000 litre शुद्ध पीने का पानी भी दे सकती है, हवा में से लेकर के। अब गांव में एक Wind लग जाए, मैं नहीं जानता वो technology सफल हुई है या नहीं, लेकर प्रयास चल रहे थे। अगर यह सफल होता है तो गांव में एक wind mill होगी। तो छोटा गांव होगा तो पीने के पानी की समस्याह भी अपने आप solve हो जाएगी। समुद्री तट के पीने के पानी तो तुरंत solution हो सकता है। यानी संभावनाएं जितनी पड़ी हैं हम innovation की तरफ जाए और इस समस्याu के समाधान के लिए काम करें। मुझे विश्वा स है हम एक ऐसे भारत को बना सकते हैं जो भारत में कभी आने वाली पीढि़यों का चिंता का विषय न रहे।\nऔर हम जो भी कर रहे हैं, गरीब के घर में दीया जलाने की हमारी कोशिश है। हम जो भी कर रहे हैं भावी पीढि़यों की जिंदगी बचाने के लिए कोशिश कर रहे हैं। उस कोशिश में आप हमारे साथ चल पड़े हैं। मैं आपका स्वा गत करता हूं और विश्वाोस दिलाता हूं कि हम सब मिलकर के इन सपनों को यथाशीघ्र पूर्ण करेंगे।\nबहुत-बहुत शुभकामनाएं, बहुत-बहुत धन्यावाद।"