"\nAll respected judges, all friends of the bar,\nDevendra ji said with pride that he was also associated with some time but I am outside the bar. But the benefit of the bar keeps getting away. I got the privilege of going to the Mumbai High Court premises for the first time in our life. Well it is not good to go there. And there was a chance to open a museum there. I congratulate with the heart of Mohit Bhai and his whole team and especially Mr. Jayakar Ji that they have done a great job.\nBy nature we are not aware of the history of Hindustan people. It may have been the effect of our fundamental spiritual philosophy. But due to lack of history conscious we have lost a lot. Even this little effort, whatever the museum will see, has many aspects of the justice system of India, the Manishi associated with this tradition and where this system started, where is the journey of the whole journey is a small effort . I would definitely like to see that in future, especially the students of Law, see that museum, try to understand it closely, and also have the opportunity to take the opportunity to step in and sometimes in that glorious tradition, and how big is the obligation When I realize that, then I think the area in which he is going, the profession in which he is going. What is the height of that profession, how great a tradition it is, how many nobles have contributed to it. With that he can add himself and in that sense I can think that the effort is congratulatory. I would pray that even if it had a digital version and it was also possible to see somebody exhibition online, then it might have worked.\nThe maximum number of countries in the world are such that where the museum has been considered an important part of social life and the museum has been understood in every system. People studying in the field of the museum are also respected. These days, there is a huge amount of museum construction in China. Every year there are large amounts of new museums coming in there, and they are adding new generations to their old legacy. Using modern technology. India has nothing to cherish, to beautify. We will never have to join pride with our great heritage and sometimes we will have to try it to give this great heritage to the next generation. And so, I believe, the Mumbai High Court is pleased to congratulate the noble cause.\n150 years of Bar Association, there is no short period, this is a big period. I do not know what events were taking place throughout this year, what things were presented, but the history of 150 years in itself will be a big event, how-how changes have come, how and how to stop , How-how fluctuations have come. If he had been prepared in the bar as an History or would have been, then congratulations on my behalf. But this legacy is not small and I was watching that Rao had come so much research and when it started so deeply, how it started, how many people were involved in it and heard so much pride and you even said \"I am in the times that Mahatma Gandhi used to be, I am in the times where Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel used to associate.\" You can imagine how proud it would be to yourself. Land and what things inspire in the person's life then.\nEver made a labor union, you can understand that there will be some demand. But why 150 years ago this legal profession was formed as an Association. This union is not then it is not. \"Meet Our Demands, Functional Mouradabad\" - This is not your area. I guess, I do not have any studies. Rao can barely publish on that. I guess the great men of that time who have done this imagination, the people of this profession, together with their qualitative change, how they continue to work dynamically, how to be well-equipped themselves. How to gain more knowledge, collective meditation can be deepened. That tradition would have started with a great ideology.\nIf there were any lawyers, if there were any advocates, then maybe they would not have met any of the great great men of the country, in the bar. These great men might have met so many people that there will be a debate between collective justice and injustice. There must have been discussion about why the country should be a slave, there will be a fire within. And only after leaving Sanat, who were spending life to save others from being jailed, to save life for the country of independence in jail, life was created to get freedom.\nIt will not be a small issue and we see the movement of the country's independence - the contribution of two people is shown in most of it. People associated with two traditions People coming from a legal profession and other people coming from the field of education. The people who came from these two areas led the movement of independence, gave strength to the freedom movement. We can imagine that at the time when the oppression of the British would have been run, if the people of legal profession had not stood side by side with the common citizen of India, who would have fallen in this war. Even those soldiers who had come out of the fight for independence must have believed that if the British sultanat would do wrong then here's the Bar Association, here are the lawyers, they will fight for me, save me, this sense is born. That is, the people of this profession have contributed a lot to keep the flame of freedom alive. This is a tradition associated with that great heritage and I have had the opportunity to come to the conclusion of its 150th birth anniversary.\nWhen you started, the President had come. When the government had started it was finished, then the government is second. There is another, there is also another, this is the only feature of democracy. But I believe time is changing very fast now. I think that the color of the bar after 150, what its agenda, what its activities should be, sometimes it should think seriously.\nToday I feel a need in the country and that is what keeps you from the point of view of Quick Justice, but how to give more attention to Quality Justice. Now Justice Justice is not part of the Judiciary, Quality Justice relies on those debating lawyers. How he has come to study, how he has come with reference, with a much quicker argument, he has shown a new path and a progressive unfoldment of that math, the churning between the plaintiffs within the court , Out of that, it turned out to be nectar which would be useful for generations to come. And then you must have seen it too. You must quote Judges of judges of many countries of the world, quote from another country. I have never gone to court, I have never been a lawyer, will have to do this. You will convince the front that this tradition has been done, it has been assumed that at that time it would have been done that all the processes that are processed are used by Quality Justice. And for the Quality Justice rulers also becomes a type of boundary mark and I have seen that in our parliament and in the assembly also there is a discussion, the Judge of Court is quote, the arguments made are quote, kept Quotation is quote. Why? Because everyone wants to keep their talk with power.\nToday, when Digital world is complete, our entire legal world system is Digitally Available. How do we use it? How can we make him stronger? There was a time, there was a Vaidyraj in the village, the whole village was healthy. Today, there is a doctor for every part of the body. Different doctors for the left eye, separate doctor for the right eye, are also such doctors. The way in which the medical profession has grown so closely, so many specialise Subjects have increased, I see that in Legal Profession, it is going to be in the direction of specialization filled with various variations. And where is the work of this bar where all people come with the same type of degree, everyone comes from the same type of university and that is the drive from the old Syllabus. But the work of the bar is made, keeping a simple debate, conducting seminars, doing workshops, and taking this skill towards Expertise. Who had to fight for the IPR a few years ago? For the sake of Intellectual property right, the days of the day may be rusted and unless the expertise is done then how will we fight the IPR? There was a time in which the issues of their village lived, issues of their neighborhood or lived in two traders. Today the whole world has changed, we have to work in a global environment. And therefore there is no direct connection to international laws, even then the reference has become mandatory, it is related to all your litigation.\nThe world of crime is changing completely. Today a new world of cyber crime has started. And when cyber crime has started a new world, then on the basis of our old book, what will we do to combat this cyber crime? In what way will we bring evidence? And then going to become acquainted with Forensic Science is the need of the hour. When I was in Gujarat, we had created a Forensic Science University. There is only one Forensic Science University in the world. And the judges used to come there, the bar's friends would come there to read regularly. Because he knew that in the coming days, Forensic Science is going to play a very big role in the process of Justice. Today the Economic Offenses are moving. A huge area has become a litigation related to the financial world. His specialty is going to happen. And in that sense the whole legal profession is being embellished in a new look. And in the bar, there is strength that how to make it more capable, the colleagues of your time. People of the world know this way, by calling them every month, by listening to them, by providing such types of books, by either E-Library's membership, how do we increase our preparedness and keep our powerful legal profession, then keep Justice Justice will also work with speed at a faster pace, and when it is so closely, Litigant will be there anyway, no one will be defeated, but at least satisfaction will be there.\nAnd finally, the belief in this arrangement persists that when the loser is satisfied, let's go, brother, I have put my full strength, my fortune was like that. At least the faith persists. If faith breaks down on our system then the systems get crushed. And so to be confident in the systems - Institutional Credibility - This is a great demand for time and we can try as much as for the institutional credibility. And it does not happen in one place\nAnd there is one area which is the biggest concern and I beg the friends of the bar to see if you can help us You must be surprised at the government, the main task of the government is to make the law. But the kind of manpower that the government has to do for law drafting, I always feel shortage. And today, sometimes there is criticism on the judiciary of Pendency - that is not working, Pendency is not, but in Pendency's mood, I sometimes feel that we are more responsible. They have created such laws that have 10 meanings. And because of that the problem grows. Where do we start? Build a good court building that make law in good parliament?\nAnd so these days I urge that any new act draft is to keep it online. Tell the friends of the bar that you should keep the skin of its hair in equal shape, see Bhai, what is wrong in it, remove, tell us. Only then do the acts become good and the act in which Minimam and we are human, we can not say Zero Gray Area, we are human, can be a mistake by human beings. But there is a minimum gray area. If we make laws, then I do not believe that Judiciary is late in deciding.\nThey can say with crackers that Bhai may be, this can not happen. And so the law that we have to make here can also be made better with the help of the Bar Association. There is a need to run Drafting Special Courses wherever we are law Universities. Draft an Act to the person who goes to a legal profession there should also be a professional training.\nGovernments have also had a nature. The good government is not the one who raises the jungle of laws. Every day a new law is made, we have been saying that we have made this law, we have made that law. That's why I always say that my success is that if we finish a law in five years every day. And I am glad that my quota of five years has been completed in eight months. 1700 are ending the law, do not know how- how the law is made and any law will come with a law of 1880 and it will stand and it will continue to spoil the court for two to six months. These also completely change the system. We are engaged, and I believe that completely, I have said to the Chief Ministers in the state too. I said that now it has become enough, now make some less, the more law will decrease, the convenience of justice will increase. Laws sometimes get difficult to get justice from the forest. And so the law is simple, if the law is to be a trust to the common man, and to be made unbiased, then the governments also have this responsibility. And as our Law Minister was saying that functioning of the three, juridissory and government - if one walks evenly and walks in the right direction then the country gets results. To achieve those results, we want to move forward.\nThese days all the world's attention is towards India. We have been listening for the past several years that 21st Century is the century of Asia. And we are also seeing that the people of the world have been focusing on Asia for economic activity and for the past few months India has got a lot of interest. Looking forward to India, the world is looking forward to seeing the hope. What is the reason? आप बार मित्रों को जानकर के खुशी होगी विश्व भारत पर भरोसा इसलिए कर रहा है कि दुनिया के लोगों को हिंदुस्तान की न्याय प्रणाली पर विश्वास है। उनको लगता है कि मैं पूंजी निवेश करूंगा तो भारत में Democratic System है, भारत में कानून का शासन है और भारत की Judiciary System है। जहां पर कभी कोई गड़बड़ हुई मैं दूसरे देश में जा रहा हूं, मुझे न्याय मिलेगा।\nआज अन्य देशों की तुलना में भारत का सबसे ताकतवर जो मुद्दा है, विश्व को प्रभावित करने के लिए वो ये है कि हमारे पास हमारे legal system हमारी Judiciary, totally independent है। और दूसरा उनका आनंद आता है हमारी यहां न्याय प्रणाली में अंग्रेजी का महातम्य है। उनको संतोष होता है वरना हम अपना भाषा में कुछ कह दें और वो बेचारा फंस जाए, उसको विश्वास है कि चलिए कम से कम उस language में मैं न्याय मांग रहा हूं जिस language से मैं परिचित हूं। एक ऐसी अवस्था बनी है और इसलिए भारत के आर्थिक विकास में भी सिर्फ सुशासन और सरकार नहीं, न्याय प्रणाली भी बहुत बड़ी ताकत के साथ आज विश्व में हमारी बात पहुंचाने का आधार बनी है। और इसके लिए ये सारी महान परंपरा और ये कोई एक दिन का काम नहीं है। अब तक न्याय प्रणाली से जुड़े हुए सभी लोगों ने जो योगदान किया है, इसकी प्रतिष्ठा बनाई है। किसी ने Judiciary में रहकर के किया होगा, किसी ने बार में रहकर के किया होगा उन सबका ये योगदान आज हिंदुस्तान की भलाई के काम आ रहा है, विश्वास बढ़ रहा है। और उस अर्थ में भी मैं पूरी न्याय प्रणाली में जुड़े हुए और अब तक जिन्होंने काम किया है वो और आज जो काम कर रहे हैं वो, वे सब अभिनंदन के अधिकारी हैं।\nवो देश को कैसी ताकत कहां-कहां से मिलती है। हम ये न सोचें कि देश को ताकत किसी एक कोने से मिलती है एक Multiple ताकत होती है जिसके कारण हम Ultimately लोगों को आकर्षित करते हैं और वो काम आज हो रहा है। और उस अर्थ में भी हमारी बहुत बड़ी भूमिका स्वतंत्र न्याय प्रथा प्रणाली जो दुनिया को स्वीकार करने के लिए हमारा एक कारण बन रही है।\nइन सब बातों के साथ मैं फिर एक बार, मुझे आपने बुलाया, मैं आपका बहुत आभारी हूं और ऐसे वरिष्ठ लोगों के साथ मुझे मंच पर बैठने का मौका मिला क्योंकि जो व्यक्ति का legal से कोई लेना-देना नहीं उसको मिलने का मौका मिले, ये अपने आप में बहुत बड़ी बात है।\nThanks a lot."