"\nAll the greats present\nWhen I went to New York, people of GE met me at that time, he had requested that our unit has expanded in Pune. You should come, I would have come to Maharashtra today, so I said that I am fine and want to see. How can I be in the state of art facility Manufacturing sector today, how can I have a modern industrial infrastructure, what can be the period of modern technology, I have seen it today. I congratulate GE for a lot of time. He has started this biggest project in India after the US and today he has announced to move further. Today's announcement in our mission of Make in India will surely emerge as a new force.\nI congratulate you very much and I assure you that in the field of employment for the young people of India in the field of development, I invite everyone in the field of industrial development that let us have the potential for development in India and India's Your development is also linked to development and today in the times of the Global Economy in the times of Competitive World, I assure the world's businessmen that India is an Ace Fertile land. Here is a talented youth that you can stand with full force within the Manufacturing competing world, move forward, and make the possibility of further moving forward. So many possibilities are lying in this country.\nIn the last days, India has been discussing the economic development of fast pace of India. We used to hear from a long time that 21st Century was the century of Asia, but later Sui did not reach India. Was stuck somewhere or else somewhere But in the last few months there have been decisions taken after one, which have been taken for Initiative. With the Priority, with which Vision we are moving forward. Today the world is thinking of \"21st Century Asia Century\", now their needle has turned towards Hindustan. And I believe 21st century is the century of Asia. I see clearly that India will play an important role in it. We want to move further in the Manufacturing Sector. The figures of India's GDP have just arrived, 7.4% and people of the world's distinguished economic world have written that if there is an economy going forward at the fastest pace in the world, then it is Economy Hindustan. We have to further this, we have to sustain it and we are focusing on all three areas - Manufacturing, Agriculture and Service sector.\nIn India, there are potential possibilities in manufacturing. We have Demographic Dividend. 65% of the population is under age 35. The country which has such a youth, can never be left behind to make India rich, this power is in the youth of India and I am seeing this if the world's wealth is to be attracted to India then the youth of India Sitting with a very big magnetic power. The magnetic power of our youth is completely positive for pulling the world's money into India and so we have kept the youth of our country in the center of development. Job creation, Human resource development for job creation, emphasis in skill development in Resource Development and for the first time, for the development of skill, the government has created a separate ministry, which will fully emphasize the skill development of India's youth power and I believe that Skilled Manpower of India can have a great power to attract the whole world. We have talent and I believe that young people of India have talent that has the power to attract the world's technology. The world was amazed to know that in the cost of making a Hollywood film, the young talent of India sent our Mangalya on the Mars Orbit. In less expensive than Hollywood film, the world is surprised at this knowledge and it is the result of our talent. On the basis of this talent we get the world .... If the talent and their technology meet together, then there will be different Situation and we can achieve the new miracle and we want to emphasize in that direction.\nOccasionally when decisions of governance are clear and any person in the world can believe, then predicable will be believed. Our efforts have been to make predictability in relation to our laws, in relation to our laws, in relation to our laws. Anybody will go and trust that, yes, Bhai Hindustan has everything, here are the facilities of the government, we will reach. In the past, a lot of steps were taken under Make In India. Now Devendra ji was telling that the initiative that Maharashtra has taken for business alone is for business. He is going to give inspiration to many states of India There was a time when the industrial development corporation (MIDC), which is the government's arrangement here, but the bureaucracy was scattered there in this way. Government laws were sitting under the rule in such a way that in the government system anyone had to set up the industry, then for 70 to 80 permission they had to wander for two to four years. Devendra ji had come and reduced the process of that permission from 70-80 to 30-35 and he was telling me that I am going to make it even further.\nWhen President Obama came here, there was a meeting of the CEO of India and the US. We want to promote Hindustan tourism, but if we have to make a hotel then we have to get permission for more than one hundred and ten. In more than 110 government offices, we have to make rounds. If we take one month to take one permission, then our papers roam about one hundred and ten months. And then our construction cost increases multiplied and when we go to the project we have thought that it remains viable. At least think of it for a few. After listening to this I talked to the concerned people and I am glad today that Devendra was telling me today that by reducing the 110-120 permission for hospitality industry, we are bringing it to 20. Good governance, it is a guarantee of development, Is of doing business gives opportunity to anyone to move forward and we want to emphasize that to take India to new heights. In the coming days we have crossed new heights in industrial development.\nGE's friends I was just looking at them and I told them that the development of ours here is of the water, the place and the name of the three. We said that you are in the city also in the Nabha, but are not visible in the water. There is a huge possibility of shipbuilding industry in India. There is so much sea coast. Steel is manufacturing. There is a vast amount of skilled manpower. If we move forward faster in the direction of shipping engine, then the possibilities of shipbuilding also increase and the youth of all the coastal states get new jobs and secondly I have told them that you should have components here Make parts, create parts and Final Product is formed out and India wants to move forward with great power in the field of defense. There are many possibilities of defense manufacturing here. India itself is a big buyer in itself, but at the same time, third worlds country we can export Defense equipment at a very cheap price. The Government of India has taken initiative for taking this opportunity. We have decided for 49% FDI in Defense manufacturing. GE has those possibilities, they want to come forward in it and also bring people who work in the field of defense.\nPune has also become a hub of education. Courses of Defense Engineering begin in the engineering college, so that good manpower is ready. People of Defense manufacturing should come to Pune and here is the engineering capability. These days Pune is emerging in the form of Engineering center of India, there is engineering capacity, how can we increase this and if we go ahead then in the coming days I am confident that we will have a lot in the field of Defense Can move forward\nRailway work is being done here, but we want India to be Self-Sufficient in Railways. In our railway technology, we become upgradation, we also expand the railway, increase the speed of the railway and the railway is not just a means of traffic, the railway can become the driving force of India's economy, in that form the railway can be taken forward . There are many possibilities for its manufacturing too. We want to try to force him and I say with confidence that in the days to come, through the optimum utilization of maximum resource on the strength of talented manpower, on the strength of our youth strength, we will put our economy on a new height I want to take it and I believe whether it is the area of ​​infrastructure, whether it is manufacturing, we would like to reach Phase-ii. And on the global competitive we will go in that direction.\nIndia's youth can play a key role in the world of economic development in the world, and India wants to move forward very fast for that work.\nOnce again, I welcome the new adventure decisions of the guru and want to convince the world's capital investors that India is full of potential possibilities and the Government of India will be able to make those decisions, It will be necessary to move forward in doing it faster, which will lead to India's economy.\nI once again thank you very much for calling me here and I have very good luck to you all.\nThank you."