"The 'remote control' Congress government never paid attention to\nState after state, people are rejecting the negative politics of Congress: PM\nCongress represents nepotism, corruption, caste based and dynastic politics: PM Modi\nChairman of the Bharatiya Janata Party sitting on the platform and my partner in the Parliament, Mr. Rakesh Singh ji, MP Mr. Ganesh Singh ji, Member of Parliament Mr. Janardhan Mishra, State General Secretary of Bharatiya Janata Party Bhai Vishnudutt Sharma, Sidhi District President Mr. Rajesh Mishra In this election, the social workers whom the Bharatiya Janata Party First of all you have presented for the blessing ... First of all, Mr. Rajendra Shukla ji from Rewa, Mr. Nagendra Singh Ji from Jug, Mr. Kedarnathji from Sidhi, Mr. Girish Gautam ji from Devtala, Mr. Panchuwal Prajapati ji from Mangaon, from Teonthar Mr. Shyamlal Dwivedi, Mr. Jugalkishor Bagri Ji from Raggaon, Mr. Ramkhevon Patel from Amarpatan, Mr. Surendra Singh from Chitrakoot Haji, Sriman Divya Raj Singh from Sirmaur, Mr. Satyendu ji from Churhat, Mr. K.P. from Semaria. Tripathi ji ... you are my most urgent, bless all these my colleagues while shouting the praise of India's mother ... Bharat Mata Ki ... Jai ... Bharat Mata Ki ... Jai ... India Mother's ... Jai!\nMy dear brothers and sisters in large numbers I want to make a complaint before starting my address ... I do? Why complaint does not look good? Do not complain ... do not you mind ...? No, no, I do not have any answer, otherwise I will give courage? Do not mind bad ... do you complain? But my complaint is sweet, it is not bitter ... complain? In 2014 when I was contesting the Lok Sabha election, the BJP had declared me a candidate for the post of Prime Minister ... in a way that time I used to woo the BJP for the country and vote for me ... and that campaign During this I had come here too, but half of the people did not even come at that time. Today, this Virat Jansagar ... wherever I am being seen, I have bowed down on millions of people who have gone with enthusiasm and resolved.\nBrothers and sisters, this is your love, sitting in Delhi, in your air conditioned rooms, people do not know where the wind's direction is going. I am coming from Jhabua now ... I can not imagine that such a big gathering can be held in Jhabua. The entire stadium was full. A small place of tribal areas like Jhabua and today Rewa has done amazing.\nBrothers and sisters, Vivekananda's mother-in-law Rewa, mother of Narmada who took energy from the bearer and witnesses of the stream of water flowing through the cylinders, the white lions' land, the people of Rewa, my hymn. Tansen's sur and Birbal's spot reply is settled in the people's particles, and due to Tansen, I also become a nity from Rewa. You would be surprised that Modi is from Gujarat and what he has to do with Tansen, what does he have to do with Rewa? You have to know the stories that you get to hear that Tansen sang Deepak Raga, and Deepak Raga had his strength so much that the whole body started to flame, Deepak used to be the force of anger, he used to get burnt. And in Tansen it was mastery, but the effect of Tansen's anger was so much that the lamp burnt the burn, and also burnt his body from within. Now Tansen was upset, what is the remedy for this situation? Someone told him that if someone can sing the melhor raga and if the rain falls due to the power of Malhar Raga, then if the body of Tansen bites, then the flame can be finished, then it can not happen ... and then where is my Born in my village, Vadnagar, there used to be two daughters of Nagar Brahmin family, Tana and Rei ... Akbar came to know that there are two daughters named Tanana-Riri in Vadnagar, they are masters in the world of music ... And they The lahar sang sings ... Tansen himself went there ... Tana-Riri sang Malhar's melody, rained down, and after finishing the Tansen's flame, it was done to realize the coldness of two small daughters of my village. ... and that's why my natural bonding is due to Tansen, why it does not become like Rewa, which is the land of Tansen.\nIt was one time that two daughters of Vadnagar had calmed the burning fire within Tansen, today a son has come from the same village, who has been engaged in spending his life to fulfill your dreams. Your resolve is my resolve, your dreams are my dreams, I am also connected with your happiness, if you work 10 hours then I will do 11 hours, if you work for 14 hours, I will work 15 hours To do your best, God has given me strength and power, intellect and talent ... He is the complete one. This is my family, this hundred and fifty million people. The manner in which the family chief expands himself for the well-being of the family, I have been spending momentum, sesameously for the betterment of my family, and never lacking in it. I'll come here to give you confidence. And this gives me energy by your blessings, it gives me energy, by the blessings of my mothers and sisters ... It is the power to run night and day to prove this resolution ... but when I see these poor And when I miss my own poverty, I feel that I will never sit in peace till I give them a place of equality in society ... do not bring any change in their life.\nBrothers and sisters, those elections, who became MLA, who did not make MLA, are not for such a limited purpose. This election became the government of which, who did not make it, who won the party, who did not lose the party for such a limited purpose. In this election, you have to decide that all your dreams of your young sons and daughters are still incomplete, who have just left studies or who are currently studying at school and college ... There is an election to decide, to decide. This election is not for determining the fate of any party, these elections are for determining your destiny and that is why my brothers and sisters, I have come here today to urge you ... Congress's rule of 55 years before casting vote 15 years old BJP rule, just remember for a moment. Here are the older people who are sitting 35-40-50-55-60-70-80 You think in your mind, remember the days when someone was sick in the house, the heat was faster and I used to think that if the fan was gone The mother would be fine in the disease but the power did not come, the feather like that was hanging and the sick mother would have worried ... Just remember that day when the Congress governments used to be. No pregnant mother was suffering from health problems, she was fighting for life and death and had to go to hospital in the nearby city, she had to cut the path of 20-25 kms but the paved road was not from the village ... and the difficulty was that the pregnant sister Had to go to the hospital ... but on a raw road they were taking them on the tractor or sitting in the cot, they are running and on the way either the child dies or on the way They are An die, but mother and child dead. Those days ... remember the way of Congress, then you will know that Shivraj ji's Bharatiya Janata Party government, take a quick account of what Prime Minister Modi did in sitting in Delhi.\nBrothers and sisters, for whom the government is meant for. Whether the government is for the rich, if he has to teach the rich to his children then send him to the largest school in the world, in any corner of India, where there is a good school, add money and send it for reading Will give If the poor have to teach children then they have to depend on the government's school and the responsibility of the government becomes that they worry about education. If poor is ill, then who, if rich, all sick doctors will stand in front of his house, take a special plane and go to a good hospital and if poor poor, then it is a government hospital. It does not have any choice for it.\nAmir has to go from one village to another, go to a scooter with a knock, take out a motor bike, take a car, the poor have to go, he will have to wait for the government to come. If the government's bus does not come then he will not be able to go to meet his relative and that's why this is my mantra that the government should be for the poor. Government should be for the common man, the government should be for the needy and we have tried that our government will fulfill this task.\nBrothers and sisters, to say that Shivraj ji's government has been in the state for 15 years, the BJP government has been in Madhya Pradesh, but in reality it is a calculation ... there is a need to improve. Janata Janardan gave us these 15 years but in 15 years ten years, there was a government of Madam in Delhi, there was a remote control government, and that is the ear when he heard the name of the Bharatiya Janata Party in Madam ... This Shivraj Chief minister in lion, Madhya Pradesh ... we will not allow him to succeed ... we can stutter the obstacles, obstruct and obstruct the obstacles we can put. For 10 years, Madhya Pradesh's Bharatiya Janata Party government has time to fight against Delhi every day. For the rights of the citizens of Madhya Pradesh, they had to fight every moment and whether they would be projects of water, projects of electricity, project of the road, education projects, obstacles in everything, that is why they fought for 10 years Went to In true sense, the Bharatiya Janata Party got an opportunity to work openly in Madhya Pradesh for four and a half years, when you formed the government of Bharatiya Janata Party in Delhi. In spite of this, where did Madhya Pradesh reach? If we had met for 15 years, today Madhya Pradesh would have been your dream. But brothers and sisters, there is still time now in Delhi there is a government which is ready to make decisions favorable to the people of Madhya Pradesh. In order to fulfill the hopes, aspirations of the people of Madhya Pradesh, the Government of Madhya Pradesh has a round-the-clock government to work side by side with Shivraj Ji's government. Now Madhya Pradesh has got double engine for the last four and a half years, there is an engine of Shivraj ji in Bhopal, then there is the engine of Narendra Modi in Delhi and both of these engines are engaged in taking forward Madhya Pradesh.\nBrothers and sisters, in the end, the decisions that the government has made before the voting, the work that has been done, the outcome of the results will show that we have to bring people. I say with confidence that those who know the Congress well, those who know the work of Congress and also know the exploits, once they go to Congress, they do not let them get back in again. You see, Uttar Pradesh ... A lot of prime ministers came from the Congress of Uttar Pradesh; 4 members from one family came from Uttar Pradesh, 3 from Prime Minister, Uttar Pradesh. The Congress was ruled by the Congress in Uttar Pradesh, but the people of Uttar Pradesh recognized the Congress as one who removed him from the bar, today it is 30-35 years, the Congress has not kept the feet again. . Have given up.. what is kept alive? You see the West Bengal, the Congress ruled the state of West Bengal, the masses of the people overthrew the Congress, came to the government of the Communists, later brought Mamta ji, but the people of West Bengal, despite 40-45 years of age, Is not ready to let go.\nBrothers and sisters, see Bihar ... people used to be big giants of Congress in Bihar, once the people removed the Congress from there ... they are good, bad people accepted anyone, people like Lalu accepted but again Bihar The Congress did not allow the foot to fall. See Gujarat, 30 years have passed, a Congress used to be there in the unicameral rule, the people of the Congress recognized it, once it was removed, for 30 years, even today the Congress does not allow the feet to fall. My brothers and sisters in Madhya Pradesh, we understand the understanding of the states of India, who are wise and we also have resolved in Madhya Pradesh. And there was a time the Congress used to give such slogans, half of the bread will bring Indira, that is the way she taught, die starving ... just our secret, our rule remains. It was taught that people were starving, they did not care about them. His throne was salute, it was taught.\nBrothers and sisters, wherever the Congress goes to India, again Congress does not come back. Even in my state of Madhya Pradesh, in the worst case scenario of 55 years, let me not vote in Madhya Pradesh and that is why the arrival of the Bhai-Bheo Congress means that brother-nephew, coming to Congress means the poison of caste, Congress It means that the fight of communalism, the coming of the Congress means to me- your game, the coming of Congress means corruption, corruption on the dargah, the coming of Congress Does that mean whatever you do for yourself? The Congress has ruined 50 years of the country by killing these people after killing people, and so, brothers and sisters, I have come here today to urge the people of Madhya Pradesh and you see that the Naxalites in Chhattisgarh had said that they will vote if they go to vote. Even after that, the flag of democracy by taxing more than 70% votes was foiled in Bastar, in Chhattisgarh, our country's pro-democracy citizens fouled. There is still a heavy turnout. श्रीनगर, वहां जो सरकारें पहले हुआ करती थीं वो चुनाव कराने की हिम्मत नहीं करती थीं, वो डरते थे गोलियां चल जाएंगी, मर जाएंगे...नगरपालिकाओं के चुनाव एक भी हिंसा के बिना पूरे हो गए, पंचायतों के चुनाव चल रहे हैं। कश्मीर घाटी में तीन दिन पहले मतदान हुआ...65% मतदान हुआ। आतंकवादियों ने बंद का कॉल दिया था...बम, बंदूक, गोली, पिस्तौल की धाक-धमकी दी थी उसके बावजूद भी लोकतंत्र में श्रद्धा रखने वालों ने वोट करके परचम फहरा दिया। मेरे मध्य प्रदेश के भाइयो-बहनो, अरे आतंकवादियों की धमकी के बीच भी लोग लोकतंत्र के लिए मैदान में आते हैं, भाइयो-बहनो, उंगलियां काटने की धमकियों के बाद भी लोग आते हैं। मध्य प्रदेश के लोग 28 तारीख को भारी मतदान करके भारतीय जनता पार्टी को विजयी बनाएंगे।\nभाइयो-बहनो, हमारे देश में आप मुझे बताइए, ये सूरज...ये सूरज मैं जरा आपको पूछना चाहता हूं...ये सूरज मोदी के आने के बाद निकला क्या...पहले सूरज था कि नहीं था...सूरज उगता था कि नहीं उगता था...पहले भी रोशनी देता था कि नहीं देता था...मोदी के आने के पहले भी देता था कि नहीं देता था? भाइयो-बहनो, 50 साल तक कांग्रेस की सरकारों को सूरज नहीं दिखाई दिया, 4 साल में मोदी को सूरज की ताकत दिखाई दी। कैसे फर्क आता है? सूर्य ऊर्जा में 50 साल में जो काम हुआ, हमने 4 साल में 9 गुना ज्यादा उस काम को कर दिया। 72 गीगावाट रिन्यूएबल एनर्जी आज देश में हमने उत्पादन करके दे दी। भाइयो-बहनो, हमारे मध्य प्रदेश में 55 साल कांग्रेस ने किया बेहाल, 55 साल कांग्रेस ने किया बेहाल और 30 मेगावाट नवीनीकरण वाली ऊर्जा, 30 मेगावाट थी भाइयो-बहनो, हमने 15 साल के अंदर मध्य प्रदेश में 4,000 मेगावाट नवीनीकरण ऊर्जा का काम किया। कहां 55 साल में 30 मेगावाट और कहां 15 साल में 4,000 मेगावाट... उनको सूरज नहीं दिखता था. हमें सूरज की ताकत दिखती है और इसीलिए हम जनता की भलाई के लिए उसको काम में लाते हैं। भाइयो-बहनो, आप सोचिए 55 साल में उन्होंने 30 मेगावाट किया, उनको अगर 4,000 इसी गति से करना होता 4,000 मेगावाट तो कितने साल लग जाते...अरे 3-3 पीढ़ी पूरी हो जाती तो भी वो 4,000 मेगावाट काम नहीं कर सकते, जो काम हमने 15 साल में कर दिया और आज मध्य प्रदेश के घरों में हर उपयोग के लिए 24 घंटे बिजली देने का सफल काम शिवराज जी की सरकार ने करके दिखाया है भाइयो-बहनो। हमारे किसान भाइयों-बहनों को हम सोलर पंप देने का बड़ा अभियान लेकर के चले हैं। आने वाले समय में 28 लाख खेतों में हम सोलर पंप देंगे। बिजली का बिल नहीं आएगा। सूरज शक्ति से चलने वाली पैनल होगी उसी से पंप चलेगा, उसी से पानी निकलेगा और ज्यादा बिजली पैदा हुई तो किसान वो बिजली भी बेच सकेगा और हम तो चाहते हैं हमारे देश का किसान जो आज अन्नदाता है वो अन्नदाता भी रहेगा और ऊर्जादाता भी बनेगा। वो अपने खेत में सूर्य ऊर्जा पैदा कर करके देश को ऊर्जा भी देगा, देश को रोशन भी करने का काम करेगा। इस योजना को लेकर के हम काम कर रहे हैं।\nभाइयो-बहनो, अभी हमारे राकेश सिंह जी गरीब के घर की चर्चा कर रहे थे, आप कल्पना कर सकते हैं प्रधानमंत्री आवास योजना, आपको किसी को याद आता है कि कहीं पर सरकार की आवास बनाने की योजना पहले चलती थी। रुपये तो निकलते थे लेकिन रुपये कहां चले जाते थे ये कांग्रेस के नेता के पिता श्री जब देश के प्रधानमंत्री थे तो भाषण दिया करते थे, वो कहते थे श्रीमान राजीव गांधी कि दिल्ली से एक रुपया निकलता है तो गांव में जाते-जाते 15 पैसा हो जाता है। दिल्ली से 1 रुपया निकलता है तो गांव में जाते-जाते 15 पैसा हो जाता है। जब राजीव गांधी की सरकार थी, पंचायत से पार्लियामेंट तक कांग्रेस का ही झंडा फड़कता था, कांग्रेस के सिवाय कोई पार्टी बची नहीं थी। भाइयो-बहनो, मैं पूछना चाहता हूं, जरा कांग्रेस वाले जवाब दो ये आप ही की पार्टी के प्रधानमंत्री श्रीमान राजीव गांधी ने कहा था, 1 रुपया दिल्ली से निकलता है,15 पैसा गांव पहुंचता है। मैं पूछना चाहता हूं वो कौन सा पंजा था जो रुपये को 15 पैसा बना देता था और 85 पैसे मार लेता था, वो कौन सा पंजा था?\nभाइयो-बहनो, गरीबों के आवास के नाम पर दिल्ली से अरबों-खरबों रुपये निकले पिछले कई वर्षों में लेकिन घर नहीं बन पाता था। हमने तय किया 2022, भारत की आजादी के 75 साल होंगे, हिन्दुस्तान में एक भी परिवार ऐसा नहीं होगा, जिसके पास अपना खुद का पक्का घर नहीं होगा। और ये सिर्फ वादे नहीं, 4 साल के भीतर-भीतर सवा करोड़ लोगों को घर की चाबी दे दी गई है। सवा करोड़ लोग जो कभी झुग्गी-झोपड़ी में जिंदगी गुजारते थे, फुटपाथ पर रात को सोते थे, पक्के घर में दिवाली मनाने का सौभाग्य हम दे चुके हैं भाइयो-बहनो। और हम सिर्फ चारदीवारी नहीं देते हैं, हम नल भी देते हैं और नल में जल भी देते हैं। हम बिजली भी देते हैं, हम गैस का कनेक्शन भी देते हैं, गैस का चूल्हा भी देते हैं, शौचालय भी देते हैं। भाइयो-बहनो, गरीब को सम्मानपूर्वक जिंदगी देने का हमारा ये प्रयास है। और इसीलिए भाइयो-बहनो आप कल्पना कर सकते हो पहले कैसी सरकार चलती थी, कांग्रेस के जमाने में सामान्य मानवी को गैस का कनेक्शन सीधा नहीं मिलता था। जब तक कटकी कंपनी की व्यवस्था ना हो, गैस का चूल्हा नहीं मिलता था, उसके जमाने में नियम था कि हर मेंबर ऑफ पार्लियामेंट को, एमपी को 25 कूपन मिलेगी हर साल 25 कूपन और वो अपने इतने बड़े लोकसभा क्षेत्र में एक साल में 25 लोगों को कूपन देगा, उस कूपन से उसको गैस का कनेक्शन मिलेगा। ये देखिए 21वीं सदी में कांग्रेस ने कैसे राज किया, इसका नमूना देखिए...एमपी को 25 कूपन, 5 साल में 125 कूपन और 125 घरों में गैस का कनेक्शन, मध्यम वर्ग का परिवार सुबह एमपी साहब के घर के बाहर कतार लगाके खड़ा रहता था, हाथ-पैर जोड़ता था...साहब एक कूपन दे दीजिए...वो कहता है अगले साल देखूंगा, आएगा तो दे दूंगा।\nये देश वही है, लोग वही हैं, सरकार वही है, कानून वही है, फाइलें वही हैं, लीडरशिप बदलती है सोच बदलती है, तो काम कैसे होता है...हमने तय किया, इस देश के 8 करोड़ माताएं-बहनें जो लकड़ी का चूल्हा जला करके धुएं में जिंदगी गुजारती है, हम, मेरी इन गरीब 8 करोड़ माताओं को लकड़ी के चूल्हे से, अंधियारी जिंदगी से, धुएं की जिंदगी से मुक्त कराएंगे। और एक मां जब लकड़ी के चूल्हे, धुएं के बीच रोटी पकाती है, एक दिन में उस मां के शरीर में 400 सिगरेट का धुआं जाता है...और घर में जो बच्चे खेलते हैं उनको भी इस धुएं का शिकार होना पड़ता है। मैंने गरीबी देखी है...मैंने धुएं में खाना पकाती मेरी मां को देखा है... दर्द होता था...प्रधानमंत्री बना तो मुझे लगा जो दर्द मेरी मां को होता था, ये करोड़ों-करोड़ों मेरी माताओं का भी दर्द मुझे मिटाना है। 8 करोड़ परिवारों को मुफ्त में गैस का कनेक्शन देने का अभियान चलाया और भाइयो-बहनो वादा नहीं, चुनावी घोषणाएं नहीं, 8 करोड़ परिवारों में से 6 करोड़ परिवारों को गैस का कनेक्शन, उज्ज्वला योजना में दे चुके हैं। भाइयो-बहनो, हमारे मध्य प्रदेश में भी 50 लाख परिवारों को गैस का कनेक्शन मिला है...और हमारे इस रीवा में भी 1.5 लाख परिवारों को ये कनेक्शन मिल चुका है। भाइयो-बहनो, अगर इरादे नेक हों, नीति साफ हो, नीयत में कोई खोट ना हो तो अच्छे काम बहुत स्वाभाविक रूप से होते हैं भाइयो-बहनो।\nआप कांग्रेस के पास कोई अपेक्षा नहीं करते। जिनके लीडर कन्फ्यूज हों और जिनकी पार्टी फ्यूज हो, वे किसी भी हालत में आपको करेंट नहीं पहुंचा सकते हैं। और इसीलिए भाइयो-बहनो, मध्य प्रदेश के उज्ज्वल भविष्य के लिए गत 15 साल में, 10 साल संघर्ष में बीतने के बावजूद भी, साढ़े चार साल में, दिल्ली का भी सहयोग मिलने के कारण मध्य प्रदेश जिस गति से आगे बढ़ा है, जिस प्रकार से सपनों को पूरा किया है... मैं आपसे आग्रह करने आया हूं, कांग्रेस का एक भी नुमाइंदा जीतना नहीं चाहिए, एक भी जीतना नहीं चाहिए। ये कांग्रेस का अहंकार...किसी की परवाह नहीं करना, अनाप-शनाप हर किसी का अपमान करना, ये जो उनका अहंकार है उस अहंकार को चूर-चूर करने के लिए 28 नवंबर एक मौका है। ये 28 नवंबर, अहंकार को चूर-चूर करने का मौका है...और मुझे दिल्ली में लोग कहते हैं कि दिल्ली की एक विशेषता है, सतयुग से देख लो, त्रेतायुग देख लो, मुगल सल्तनत देख लो...कहते हैं कि दिल्ली को एक ऐसा श्राप है कि किसी की भी कितनी ही सल्तनत बड़ी क्यों ना हो लेकिन चौथी पीढ़ी आने के बाद वो समाप्त हो जाती है। चौथी पीढ़ी के आगे किसी का कुछ बचता ही नहीं है, ये कांग्रेस का भी वही हाल हुआ है। ये चौथी पीढ़ी पर आके अटका हुआ है, अब बचने वाला नहीं है। और इसीलिए भाइयो-बहनो, भारतीय जनता पार्टी के कमल निशान पर बटन दबाइए, मध्य प्रदेश के उज्ज्वल भविष्य के लिए भारतीय जनता पार्टी को आशीर्वाद दीजिए, मेरे इन सभी साथियों को आशीर्वाद दीजिए और भव्य विजय के साथ 28 नवंबर को आपका मतदान, विकास यात्रा के एक नव प्रकरण की ओर शुरुआत करेगा, नया मध्य प्रदेश बनाने की दिशा की शुरुआत करेगा। मेरे साथ पूरी ताकत से बोलिए भारत माता की...जय...भारत माता की...जय...भारत माता की...जय! Thanks a lot."