"The 'remote control' Congress government never paid attention to\nState after state, people are rejecting the negative politics of Congress: PM\nCongress represents nepotism, corruption, caste based and dynastic politics: PM Modi\nMr. Thawarchandji Gahlot, my colleague of the Council of Ministers at the center, our staff worker from Dahod in our neighborhood and the Minister of Delhi in the Government of Delhi, Mr. Jaswant Singh ji Bhabher, the Chief Minister of the state Banshilal ji, Jhabua District President Bhai Om Sharma Ji, Mr. Raj Burfa Ji, Mr. Rajesh Aggarwal, Mr. Ashok Jain, Mr. Shantilal Bilawal Ji, Mr. Kishor Sah ji and others. Bharatiya Janata Party has made its candidate dedicated to Bharatiya Janata Party's people in the elections ... Nirmala Jee Bhuria, I Nirmala Jai ​​from Belalabad, Ranjana Baghel from Manvar, Kalsingh Bhabar from Thandla, Sardar Singh Mada from Gandhwani, Virendra Singh Baghel from Kukshi, Sir Sanjay Baghel from Sardarpur, Madosh Singh Dawar from Jodh, Mr. Guman Singh Demor from Jhabua, I urge you all to India bless all my colleagues in the calling sound of Mata Ki Jai please ... Bharat Mata Ki Jai ... ... Bharat Mata Ki Jai ... ... Bharat Mata Ki ... Glory!\nThank you very much.\nBrothers and sisters, when Jhabua comes, it seems that we have reached home. The old connection of so many years, people connected in every way, Dahod or Jhabua or Alirajpur never felt that we are people of another state. They all look the same, have their own relatives and relatives Here's the daughters there, there are daughters here ... such a close relationship and today they have come among my own family, I am feeling very fortunate in myself. This is the land of our earth goddari and southkaleshwari. This is the land of our earth hero hero Chandrashekhar Azad ji. Our Jhabua tribal tradition, culture, specialty has been a center of his faith. Not only in Madhya Pradesh but in the neighboring Gujarat, Rajasthan, with all these, this has been a special affair of the entire region and our Bhiliganj still resonates in the ears. The voice of the public, the talk of the public, the tradition of rites, the description of festivals, the description of the family, has been characterized by Bhilids. As such, they tell the story and touch the mind of the listener. I congratulate the heart of all the voters, who have such legacy.\nToday the world is debating on the environment, it is worrying, if the world had seen the lifestyle of tribals in Jhabua, Dahod, Alirajpur, Dungarpur, Banswara, centuries ago, would have understood how the environment would be protected. That is not enough to worry about it today. If we have the power to protect the environment then we have been in our tribal brothers. More than your life, who has loved the forest, has protected forests, has tried to save the future of mankind. When such a great tribal tradition is known to the world, it is astonishing that for centuries we have been here The tradition remains.\nBrothers and sisters, I have the opportunity to interact with people in the remote areas of India, using technology in the middle, I keep talking to people from the video conference and also from the people of our Jhabua district. There was an opportunity to talk with tribal sisters once. One of our Champa sister Annama, Champa sister Annama when I was talking to her, I saw, later on the second day was also very much featured in the newspapers, and when she was talking to me she came with Kadaknath He said and said, \"Look, our pride and pride are ours ... Brothers and sisters, this Kadkanath cock works to enrich Jabua's rich tradition and heritage to make the economic power and the whole region hard.\"\nBrothers, how is development, just remember that day, then what was the scope of development? What was the thought? And today even today there are people 30-35-40-50 years old and above all who know them all. Earlier, during the Congress days, lone fairs were held. Lone fairs and loan fairs were held, Babu people used to come. The government used to take loan fairs before the election and then what did they do? What is the loan? They say that our tribals take such a hen so much money, you will get so much money, this chicken will be so many eggs, you will sell so many eggs, there will be a hen, then such a hen will grow, then there will be so many eggs from this ... and they Our tribal brother used to think that he should take loan from the bank, should take this money, even if it should be done to make a loan but now he should do the work of poultry and then Kadaknath, then see What. The poor man thinks of taking big dreams, taking so much poultry, such a hen will be made, so many eggs will go and take loans, take a hen, go home, take big dreams, we will sell so much money in a few days so much money Then there will be so much money to sell so much chicken, then take the land, take the farm, take home, cycle will keep thinking. There was no week, and the big babu used to come in the village, a red-lighted car used to come and everybody used to come to the village, then he thought that our tribal brother had come. Come on..Come..Come brother, come from such a distance. , Came after the big day, sit and sit and the tribals also insisted that if the night had come and stopped at night and told to stop at night, the Babu would have stopped and my aboriginal people never left behind in hospitality. He thinks this Babu of the city, Babu with a red light cart has come, let's cure the guests, so far he has taken a loan, but two hens should be kadkanath on that night. The debt should remain like that and Babu knows that he has taken a hen, the guest would have become his and he never came out of debt.\nIt was a time, it was a way, we came and changed the situation. We give the money to the youth, we say take the tractor, take the tempo, take the truck, start your factory, start your shop, take the farm, do business, Dig the well, we moved in that direction. Their way of thinking did not get out of poultry and eggs. Even after so many years of freedom of our tribals, the future did not change, and so brothers and sisters, we have given a strength to the youth of the country today to stand on their feet, have given a new encouragement and new faith is. If he does not have the property before, then the bank did not give loans. If you keep a mortgage then you will get a loan, keep a farm, you will get a loan, who will not have anything, what will he be mortgage? What will he tell? Our government made the rule that my tribal brother and sister, if my countrymen take loan from the money scheme They do not have to give any guarantees to them, they will get a loan from the bank and they can run their business easily.\nBrothers and sisters, we have about 14 crore ... This figure is not small ... There are 25-27 crore households in India ... 14 crore loans have been approved without guarantee, and 70% of them are those who for the first time I have been fortunate to get money from him and he is standing on his feet today, working on his own and earning himself ... Not only this, but also give the opportunity to earn a lot of bread and bread in the village. Are there. By doing this work under the Prime Minister's Mudra Yojana, we have worked to give strength to the hands of youth of remote areas.\nBrothers and sisters, our tribal people continued to spend their life in forests, sometimes even under the whole life tree. I will not have any such elderly person today, he would have wanted to spend his life in the troubles, his children also had to spend the same trouble. It never happens that a parent thinks. Because of the governments that caused your life to go into poverty, your youth was destroyed, you stood on the brink of old age, even in the fate of your children, in the fate of your sons and daughters, again you would like to bring a government that will give you Forced to live life in the dark, used to burn firewood in wood smoke? Without a road, the village could not be used for two or two days, it would have to go, then travel to miles. Did you want to give your children's life again in the hands of such people? I believe that those who have seen difficulties of life have lived through difficulties, have faced many difficulties for 50 years of independence, they will not bring any government for the 1 minute which the government will bring to their children, sons and daughters too For 50 years, forcing them to live in such troubles. And that's why brother-in-law and you have a problem, look at the claims that you are claiming with the true criterion, and if you believe that brother is going to embrace, that work can not be done in 50 years. If Shivraj ji did in 15 years, the work that was not able to do 4 generations, Modi did it in 4 years, then the strength that such a government gives to such a government is less.\nBrothers and sisters, what was the demand of the people of the village today, when the Congress government was there, the Sarpanch of the village used to come in the office, so what were the demands ... they used to say that this people of my Jhabua district demanded this too They were saying, Sir, there is famine, give the job of digging the soil. Ever offered great memorandum and used to say that in our village there would be a minimum of mud of roads. If ... we have the facility to go and come. During the Congress era, the problems of the people of the village were such that they did not dare to demand more than the raw clay way. Today, when we formed the Pradhanmantri Gram Sadak Yojna, the tribal people of my village say that our village has got the road from here but if we get it from there, our way of 2-3 kms will be reduced. Sometimes my tribal person says, Sahab has got a single strip, now if the work with double strip is done then it would be nice. That was the time when development meant to put the soil and treat it as a road, we have changed it today. He says that the paved road of asphalt need one bar and not two strip. We showed the work of the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana and the brothers and sisters, the work that was done before, we have done double work, double. The more work we have done, if the Congress has to do it, one does not do the work of the soil, but to do it, it would take ten years for them to do the work they did in 4 years.\nBrothers and sisters, we have dreamed under the Prime Minister's house plan ... and our dream is, after 2 years, after 3 years, when 2022 will be 75 years of India's independence in 2022 ... Mahatmas like Chandrasekhar Azad Those dreams that were sacrificed, should the dreams be fulfilled after 75 years of independence or should not they? And that's why brothers and sisters, our dream is a dream, 2022 till the 75 years of independence, the income of the farmers of our country is double the income. Secondly, our dream is to be a tribal brother living in remote and remote jungles in our country, in this country, there should not be a single family in this country who does not have a strong house to live in.\nBrothers and sisters, I have seen a huge dream, I promised to give everyone a strong home. And see the strength of my promise, these are not the hollow promises like the Congress. Remember that which was spoken in the 4th generation in the 4th generation, they also have forgotten, nothing has landed down.We have promised, we have shown it . So far, by building 10 million and 25 million households, the keys have been given to the people. This time people have celebrated Diwali in their new pucca house. Brothers and sisters, their plans to build a house, they used to build the houses that they used to make in the year, they used to build the walls, we are building the house, there will be tap in the house, there will also be water in the tap, there will also be electricity in the house, There will also be toilets in the house and there will also be a gas stove for the mother and sisters to cook in the house, making such a house and giving it to them.And they made ... If we walk through the same speed then your grandchildren will ever see your house Will not find it, it will take years Ange. We live in your eyes, in front of your eyes, your children go to live in a permanent house, are working at this pace and want to show your life in front of your eyes.\nBrothers and sisters, they do lots of things in the name of the Congress farmers but I want to ask them. Brother, please tell me that you had a large project of 15 irrigation in our Madhya Pradesh, in which the farmer was going to get water, thereby becoming a farmer's life Why was the 15 irrigation projects hanging for so many years, why are you stuck? What is the reason that after coming to power of the government of Shivraj and coming to form our government in Delhi, we found out about 99 such and such a big project in search of big projects which were lying in half incomplete? There are 15 projects in this I belonged to Madhya Pradesh and are working towards fulfilling them and have made quite a lot of Madhya Pradesh, work to complete the incomplete ones is going on and due to this my farmer gets water. Interpretation she is working with the power to create gold from the soil, working to change his life.\nBrothers and sisters, this election was held in Karnataka only, in this election, Congressmen had promised that they would forgive the farmers' debt, take the vote, form the government, now interest, leave the matter of forgiving interest, debt waiver Leave it to the prisoners, warrants to send them to jail, warrants that you have not deposited money, prepare to go to jail. The farmers are leaving their homes and are running away and today farmers' movement is going on in Karnataka, farmers are demanding, then the chief minister says that whom you have called here, here are the goons. ये कांग्रेस का चरित्र देखिए, अभी 4 महीने पहले तो वोट बटोर लिए थे, आज उन किसानों को कर्नाटक में गुंडे कह कर के उनको जुल्म करने की दिशा में, जेलों में बंद करने की दिशा में काम कर रहे हैं। भाइयो-बहनो ऐसा ही एक ड्रामा कांग्रेस ने 2008 में किया था, 2009 के चुनाव के पहले गाजे-बाजे के साथ ढोल पीटा था, किसानों का कर्ज माफ करेंगे, किसानों का कर्ज माफ करेंगे लेकिन किया क्या? उस समय किसानों का कर्ज था करीब 6 लाख करोड़ रुपया, जब ये मैडम की सरकार थी ना दिल्ली में, रिमोट कंट्रोल वाली सरकार तब, 6 लाख करोड़ रुपया ये कर्ज देश के किसानों का था और उन्होंने चुनाव में वोट ले लिए, कर्जमाफी के नाम पर और 6 लाख करोड़ के सामने 60 हजार करोड़ रुपया भी माफ नहीं किया।\nये बातें बाहर नहीं आईं, इसीलिए नहीं आई कि 2009 में चुनाव जीत गए तो उनके जो रागदरबारी हैं उन्होंने बोलना बंद कर दिया और उस समय कोयले का घोटाला, 2G का घोटाला, हेलिकॉप्टर का घोटाला, पनडुब्बी का घोटाला, कॉमनवेल्थ गेम का घोटाला, इतने घोटाले हवा में थे, ये किसानों के साथ उन्होंने जो धोखा किया वो चर्चा में ही नहीं आया क्योंकि बड़े-बड़े घोटाले थे। और क्या घोटाला किया...6 लाख करोड़ के सामने 60,000 करोड़, दूसरा जिनको दिया CAG ने रिपोर्ट निकाली उस रिपोर्ट में 30-40 लाख लोग ऐसे निकले जिनका कर्ज माफ होने का कोई कारण ही नहीं बनता था, ना कोई उनका हिसाब-किताब था, लेकिन उनके यार-दोस्तों के खातों में रुपये डालकर के, ये देश के गरीबों के रुपये लूट लिए और अपनों को उन्होंने दे दिए।ये सारा CAG ने पकड़ लिया।इतना ही नहीं, जब ये सब पकड़ा-पकड़ी चली, चोरी पूरी पकड़ाने लगी तो उन्होंने एक नया खेल किया और ये नया खेल ये किया कि करीब सवा करोड़ लोगों को सर्टिफिकेट ही नहीं दिया कि आपका कर्ज माफ हो गया है और उसका परिणाम ये हुआ कि किसान को जिंदगीभर अब कर्ज देने से मनाही हो गई,चौकड़ी लग गई, उसकी तो जिंदगी तबाह हो गई। ये कांग्रेस के झूठे वादे, झूठे तरीके ये देशद्रोह प्रकार का काम, किसानद्रोह प्रकार का काम, देश के भविष्य के द्रोह प्रकार का काम, ये कभी भी माफ करने जैसा नहीं है। और इसीलिए मेरे भाइयो-बहनो, हमारे कांग्रेस के लोगों को बड़ी परेशानी है, उनको मोदी से झगड़ा किस बात का है? उनको परेशानी यही है कि मोदी इतना काम करता क्यों है, बिना थके, बिना रुके, दौड़ता ही रहता है, जब देखो कुछ ना कुछ करता ही रहता है…ना उसको अपना घर है, परिवार है, अपने लिए कुछ करना है। बस सवा सौ करोड़ देशवासी यही मेरा परिवार है, इन्हीं के लिए जीता हूं, उन्हीं के लिए दौड़ता हूं और इसीलिए उनको परेशानी हो रही है।और इसीलिए अनाप-शनाप बातें बताते रहना ये कांग्रेस के चरित्र का हिस्सा बन गया है।\nभाइयो-बहनो, आप मुझे बताइए और मैं आशा करता हूं कि आप मुझे जवाब देंगे।इस देश को भ्रष्टाचार ने बर्बाद किया है कि नहीं किया है...इस देश को भ्रष्टाचार ने बर्बाद किया है कि नहीं किया है...हर नीचे स्तर पर भी कोई ना कोई आपसे भ्रष्टाचार का पैसा मांगता है कि नहीं मांगता है...भ्रष्टाचार किए बिना काम होता नहीं आपका अनुभव है कि नहीं है...क्या देश को इस बीमारी से बाहर निकालना चाहिए कि नहीं निकालना चाहिए...निकालना चाहिए कि नहीं निकालना चाहिए...अरे दीमक लगती है ना दीमक, तो सबसे जहरीली दवा डालनी पड़ती है, हिन्दुस्तान में ये कांग्रेस के कालखंड में ऐसा भ्रष्टाचार फैल गया, ऐसा भ्रष्टाचार फैल गया कि मुझे नोटबंदी जैसी बड़ी तेज दवाई का उपयोग करना पड़ा ताकि जो गरीबों का लूट के गए हैं, वो देश के खजाने में वापस आए। वरना हम तो अखबार में देखते थे तस्वीरें कि बिस्तर के नीचे नोटें पड़ी हैं, बोरे भर-भर के नोटें पड़ी हैं बाबुओं के घर में नोटें, नेताओं के घर में नोटें, उद्योगकारों के कारखानों के पीछे नोटें, आज ये मोदी की ताकत देखिए ये पाई-पाई बैंकों में जमा कराने के लिए मजबूर कर दिया भाइयो।\nये जो घर बन रहे हैं, ये रोड बन रहे हैं, ये स्कूल बन रहे हैं, जो अस्पताल बन रहे हैं, ये जो गरीबों के कल्याण की योजनाएं बन रही हैं, ये सारे पैसे पहले बिस्तर के नीचे छुपाए हुए थे, बाहर निकले तो गरीबों के काम आने लग गए भाइयों, और इससे उनको परेशानी है।पहले अगर हृदय रोग की बीमारी हो, अस्पताल जाना हो, लाख-डेढ़ लाख-दो लाख खर्चा होता था, मोदी ने कहा कि नहीं भाई ये नहीं चलेगा, मेरे गरीब को सस्ते में चाहिए, सही दाम देकर दो, और जो चीज डेढ़ लाख की मिलती थी, वो 25-30 हजार पर आ गई। मेरे गरीब का फायदा हो गया। अब जो मुफ्त का कमाता था और कुछ लोगों को मलाई खिलाता था, उसका रुपया मैंने कम कर दिया तो मुझपे गुस्सा करेगा कि नहीं करेगा...वो मोदी के खिलाफ अनाप-शनाप नारेबाजी करेगा कि नहीं करेगा..मोदी की सरकार को हटाने के लिए दिन-रात एक करेगा कि नहीं करेगा! लेकिन मुझे काम करना चाहिए कि नहीं करना चाहिए...देश के सामान्य नागरिक की भलाई के लिए काम करना चाहिए कि नहीं करना चाहिए?\nभाइयो-बहनो, हमने जन औषधि केंद्र खोले देशभर में, जो दवाई 100 रुपये में मिलती थी, सामान्य मानवी को लूटा जाता था, हमने 10 रुपया कर दिया। उनकी तो कमाई कम हुई, मुनाफा कम हुआ लेकिन गुस्सा मुझपर बढ़ गया।आप मुझे बताइए गरीब आदमी को सस्ते में दवाई मिलनी चाहिए कि नहीं मिलनी चाहिए?\nहमारा तो मंत्र है बालक-बालिकाओं के लिए पढ़ाई, युवाओं के लिए कमाई, किसानों के लिए सिंचाई और बुजुर्गों के लिए दवाई। इस मंत्र को लेकर के हम काम कर रहे हैं। विकास यही हमारा मंत्र है, सामान्य मानवी की जिंदगी बदलना यही हमारा मंत्र है और उस मंत्र को लेकर के हम आगे चल रहे हैं। और इसीलिए भाइयो-बहनो मैं आपसे आग्रह करने आया हूं, आपने देखा होगा कि नीचे जो भ्रष्टाचार है वो खत्म कैसे होगा, मोदी ने ऊपर तो फटाफट सारे दरवाजे बंद कर दिए, सारे पाइपलाइन बंद कर दिए, चोरी करने के सारे रास्तों पर ताले लगाए लेकिन अभी भी जब नीचे होता है तो क्या करना उसका उपाय भाई...? छोटे-छोटे लोगों को कोई लूटता है, 5 रुपया, 10 रुपया मारता है तो क्या करना? हमने टेक्नोलॉजी का उपयोग शुरू किया है।पहले मनरेगा का पैसा...हमारा गरीब-आदिवासी मजदूरी करता था लेकिन पैसे लेते समय वो कहता था तेरा 100 रुपया बनता है, लेकिन 20 रुपया मुझे दोगे तो 100 रुपया निकालूंगा वरना नहीं निकलेगा...वो गरीब आदमी बेचारा कहता ठीक है 20 रुपया तू ले ले, मेरा 80 रुपया देकर के हमारा आज का दिन निकाल दे। हमने कहा ये सब चोरबाजारी बंद। सीधा उसके बैंक में खाता में पैसा डाल देंगे, ये कटकी कंपनी का काम बंद हो गया भाइयो-बहनो। हुआ कि नहीं हुआ?\nपहले बच्चा स्कूल में स्कॉलरशिप लेने जाता था तो स्कूल वाला भी स्कॉलरशिप देता नहीं था, आज नहीं कल नहीं फिर कहता तेरी मां को बुलाओ, तेरे बाप को बुलाओ और फिर उससे सौदा करता था कि देखिए स्कॉलरशिप का 500 रुपया मिलेगा लेकिन मुझे कुछ ऊपर देना पड़ेगा और तू मुझे 50 दे दे, तब जा कर बच्चों को स्कॉलरशिप देते थे। ये लूट चलती थी। हमने तय किया, बच्चों का बैंक का अकाउंट खोलेंगे और दिल्ली से सीधा पैसा उसके बैंक के खाते में डाल देंगे, कोई कटकी कंपनी पैसा नहीं मारेगी भाइयो-बहनो।\nभाइयो-बहनो, गरीब आदमी सोचता है कहीं नौकरी मिल जाए, ड्राइवर बन जाए, प्यून बन जाए, क्लर्क बन जाए, कुछ काम मिल जाए और वो नौकरी के लिए प्रयास करता है। बेचारा पढ़ाई की है 10वीं-12वीं तक अच्छी मार्क लाया है। अर्जी कर देता है तो उसका लिखित एग्जाम आ जाता है वो भी पास कर लेता है, इंटरव्यू का कागज आ जाता है, लेकिन जैसे ही इंटरव्यू का कागज घर पहुंचता है एक झोला छाप आदमी आ जाता है, नमस्ते-नमस्ते माता जी कैसे हो? अरे सुना है, बच्चे को इंटरव्यू आया है, वो मां कहती है...हां आया, अच्छे दिन आए हैं, बच्चे का इंटरव्यू आया है तो वो धीरे से कहता है, कि मां आप तो जानते हो भ्रष्टाचार का जमाना है, इंटरव्यू आ गया है इसीलिए नौकरी नहीं मिल जाती, कोई सिफारिश है, कोई रिश्तेदार है, कोई जान-पहचान है तो वो बेचारी बूढ़ी मां कहती है, भई हम तो गरीब आदमी, बच्चे को पढ़ाया, हमारी तो क्या पहचान होगी, हमें कौन पहचानेगा? तो वो धीरे से कहता है, मां मेरी पहचान है, मैं कोशिश करता हूं, देखो कल आकर के बताता हूं...देखो हां करता है तो…वो दूसरे दिन आ जाता है…मां को कहता है मां, मामला तो पक्का हो सकता है लेकिन 15,000 रुपया मांग रहा है, तो मां कह रही है भई 15,000 कहां है मेरे पास, तो मां कहती है…अच्छा भई देखो ये मेरे गहने हैं उसको गिरवी रख दो…15,000 रुपया ले जाओ मेरे बच्चे को नौकरी दिलवा दो।ये भ्रष्टाचार चलता था कि नहीं चलता था भाइयो...मुझे बताइए खेल चलता था कि नहीं चलता था...गरीबों के रुपये लूटे जाते थे कि नहीं जाते थे? हमने तय किया, कहा क्लास तीन-चार के अंदर कोई इंटरव्यू नहीं करेंगे। 10वीं-12वीं की परीक्षा..उसके रिकॉर्ड के आधार पर जो नौकरी पाने योग्य है उसके घर नौकरी का ऑर्डर चला जाएगा, भ्रष्टाचार का खेल खत्म हो जाएगा भाइयो।\nहमने एक के बाद एक कदम उठाए हैं। ये सारी चिल्लाहट, परेशानी कांग्रेस को इसीलिए है कि 50 साल तक जो लूट करने की उनकी आदत बनी थी उसको मैंने रोक लगाई है। और इसीलिए भाइयो-बहनो, देश के उज्व् ल भविष्य के लिए, हमारे मध्य प्रदेश के उज्व्ोल भविष्य के लिए मैं आपसे आग्रह करने आया हूं कि आप विकास के लिए वोट कीजिए, अपने बच्चों का भविष्य बदलने के लिए वोट कीजिए, अपनी जिंदगी बदलने के लिए वोट कीजिए। अरे हमने आयुष्मान भारत योजना लाई, गरीब परिवार में कोई बीमार है, डॉक्टर के पास जाएगा, 2 लाख-3 लाख खर्चा हो जाएगा, किडनी खराब है, हार्ट की तकलीफ है, कैंसर हुआ है, वो बेचारा कर नहीं पाएगा। हमने आयुष्मान भारत योजना लाई, हिन्दुस्तान के 50 करोड़ लोगों को किसी भी प्रकार की अगर गंभीर बीमारी है, वो अच्छे से अच्छे अस्पताल में ऑपरेशन करवाएगा और उसका खर्चा हमारी सरकार देगी। साल का 5 लाख रुपये तक का खर्चा सरकार देगी। भाइयो-बहनो आज गरीब बीमार हो जाएगा तो उसको कहां जाऊं, इसकी चिंता नहीं है, एक बार मोदी को याद कर लीजिए आपके लिए काम की व्यवस्था हो जाएगी। भाइयो-बहनो, हम हर व्यक्ति की चिंता कर रहे हैं, उसकी जिंदगी बदलने का प्रयास कर रहे हैं।आप देखिए हमारे मध्य प्रदेश में 55 साल तक कांग्रेस ने राज किया, सिर्फ 1500 स्कूल बना पाए, सरकारी स्कूल गरीब के लिए होता है, लेकिन शिवराज जी ने 15 साल में 4,000 स्कूल बना दिया। काम कैसे होता है...उनके 55 साल में 1500 और शिवराज जी के 15 साल के अंदर 4,000,ये गरीबों की भलाई करने के लिए काम किया गया है भाइयो-बहनो।\nमैं आज आपसे आग्रह करने आया हूं कि आप भारतीय जनता पार्टी को विजयी बनाइए, हमारे इन सभी होनहार उम्मीदवारों को विजयी बनाइए। मैं कंधे से कंधा मिलाकर के और आपका पुराना पड़ोसी होने के नाते मैं आपको विश्वास दिलाता हूं, हम कर के दिखाएंगे। भाइयो-बहनो, आदिवासी परंपरा, आदिवासी के महान नायकों ने क्या कुछ नहीं किया लेकिन उस इतिहास को दबोच दिया गया है। आपमें से बहुत लोग मुझे मानगढ़ में मिलते रहते हैं, मैं लगातार आता था...गोविंद गुरु का स्थान हमने कैसा बना दिया...और गोविंद गुरु जी ने आदिवासियों के समाज में से आकर के आजादी की लडा़ई कैसे लड़ी थी। गोविंद गुरु और इस पूरे इलाके के लोग मानगढ़ आते हैं, गोविंद गुरु को श्रद्धांजलि देने के लिए और मैं खुद भी जब मुख्यमंत्री थाचला जाता था... ऐसा भव्य स्मारक बनाया है कि मेरा हर आदिवासी गर्व कर सकता है भाइयो-बहनो। ये हमारी सोच का परिणाम है कि देश के हर महापुरुष को हम याद करते हैं, ये हमारी सोच का परिणाम है कि आदिवासियों ने हिन्दुस्तान की भलाई के लिए जो त्याग तपस्या की है उसका हम महत्त्व रखते हैं। और इसीलिए भाइयो-बहनो, आपके विकास के लिए, आपके परिवार के उज्व्।ल भविष्य के लिए, इस जिले के भविष्य के लिए, मध्य प्रदेश के उज्व्जल भविष्य के लिए, हम सब फिर एक बार शिवराज जी की सरकार बनाएं, भारतीय जनता पार्टी को विजयी बनाएं। मेरे साथ पूरी ताकत से बोलिए भारत माता की...जय...भारत माता की...जय...भारत माता की...जय! Thanks a lot."