"Share\n\nPM Modi has improved in 65 spots: PM Modi\nOur Government has put stress on Policy Driven Governance and Predictable Transparent Policies: PM Modi\nIn the last four years, more than 1400 archaic laws have been repealed: PM\nFinance Minister Shri Arun Jaitley, Minister of Commerce and Industry, Shri Suresh Prabhu, World Bank Vice President Mr. Chefar, Anand Mahindra ji, Rashish Shah ji, Soumitra Bhattacharya ji, B.K.Gaynka, Ramesh Bharti Mittal, other business leaders of the industry and other great dignitaries here, all of you are very welcome on Lok Kalyan Marg. One of the reasons behind this is to give Diwali good wishes to you, only to be congratulated, you have to congratulate, express gratitude, that you have taken away the country from an uncomfortable situation, in respectful parental status, new in terms of Ease of Doing Business Has been elevated to the height. Those who are present here and who are not present are all thankful.\nPeople of different government officials, employees, people in different municipal corporations, officers and employees who give clearance at port-airport, as well as those of industry, have a very important role in this. I recall that when I said for the first time four-and-a-four years ago that in the coming years we would be in the top 50, so many people seemed to be beyond the imagination. Before 2014 he saw instability in policy and decisions,\nThe policy was seen on paralysis, it was difficult for them to believe that India could also make a place in the Top 100. I do not accept any mistake of such people. When there are reports of corruption, scandals every day, the economy is shaky, fiscal deficit is uncontrollable, the world is saying to India that if you drown, other countries will also take the economy, then such a distrust is natural. is. But within just four years, the 180-degree changes that have come in the country, are also seeing you today.\nIn the case of Ease of Doing Business, we have now risen to the 77th rank by 142 ranks. Almost half passed.\nCompanions, this boom of 65 points in just four years. This is a record for any country, it is unprecedented. Today, India is at number one in South Asia in terms of Ease of Doing Business. While just four years ago we were at number six. For the second consecutive year, India has joined the list of top 10 countries to improve this kind of way. In the last 7-8 years and no country has improved 53 ranks in just two years.\nCompanions, which no one can imagine in the world, we have shown it.\nBy achieving the goal of the Top-50, we are just a few steps away. The World Bank has acknowledged in its report that India has improved its performance in 8 out of 10 parameters.\nIn two parameters, we have made a jump of more than 100 ranks.\nWe are continuously working with the State Governments on the goals of improving the rank of associates, the country, change the rank. Further strengthening the cooperative competitive federalism, our state governments have participated enthusiastically in this. Now we are moving towards implementing the reforms related to the Ease of Doing Business at the district level. Regarding how this route will be decided, the state governments are continuously communicating with each stake holder. Efforts are also being made to create a ranking system at the district level in the states. It is being tried that between the districts also there should be competition among the cities, the competition to overcome each other.\nFriends, business, business or industry is a need of our country because we want growth, needs infrastructure, employs employment, and increases per capita income. All this is possible only when the investment is done, the industry, the business should move in the right direction and the common man gets the benefit. For this, we are insisting on Policy Driven Governance and Predictable Transparent Policies. Our effort is on reducing discretion. A lot of people have experienced and you will also know that these rankings of World Bank are not taken into account by keeping everything in mind that we are doing.\nRacking is done on the basis of a few parameters, whereas the strategy of our Reforms, Perform and Transform is very broad. Truthfully, the goal of the reforms we are doing is ahead of the World Bank rankings. In the life of ordinary citizens, businessmen and small entrepreneurs of the country, in simplicity in work, ease of living, we are working for that. Today, when the ranking of ease of doing business improves, it means that even small business entrepreneurs in our country are finding it easy to do business, they have been able to send goods from one city to another, Connection is going to be easy, government approvals are getting fast, urgent permits are getting early. These are those efforts, which have been inspired by the aspirations and expectations of the countrymen. In which the country's need was taken care of and also the country's expectations.\nOther important decisions were taken to make the business, environment friendly of the colleagues. Our government changed thinking, changed the approach too. Whether it is GST, Demonetization, benami property law, insolvency code, fugitive law enforcers, these are examples of this commitment. Due to these efforts of the government, there is a fear of corruption in the country, the reputation of honesty has increased. Now more and more people have started paying taxes. They have started feeling that the government is using their tax properly.\nCompanions, you also know well that all these reforms, all decisions were not so easy. Changing technology, changing from law to software, and sometimes changing software is easy, changing nature is a lot more difficult. It was not easy to prepare the system for these reforms. But in a short span of time we have been successful in doing this. Many levels of entangled systems are moving towards making Business and Citizen Friendly today. In the last 4 years, more than 1400 old laws have been abolished in the country. Earlier, it took an average of one and a half thousand days to resolve commercial disputes in the country. 1500 days That is, nearly 4 years. After all the efforts, it has now been reduced to 400 days. Trying to reduce it further. In the clearance of the imported same, on an average of 280 hours before 2014, the time has now come down to less than 144 hours. We will continue to try to reduce it further.\nThe environmental clearances which used to take years and months to meet, now, such approvals are available in a few weeks. Recently, the work of environmental clearance for construction and other common works has been completely de-centralized and given to local bodies. GST has also strengthened the country's logistics sector. Turn-Around time has now decreased by about 15 percent compared to earlier. It is also time saving, and companies also have money. In order to comply with labor laws, first entrepreneurs had to fill 50-60 separate registrars. Our government has now reduced these registrations to 5. That is, the work that was done in the first 50-60 register, is now happening in five. The old system has now changed forever. Similarly, the passport which used to take three to four weeks, is now getting started in less than a week. Earlier, people had to wait for 8-10 months for the Income Tax Refund. Now the same thing is happening in a few weeks.\nYou may also recall that four or five years ago this news was often made headline that due to high traffic the website of the Railway Reservation has been hanged. We updated and upgraded the platform for more traffic, which has facilitated lakhs of crores of railway passengers. Cleanliness drive from the street to the railway platform, the disposal of the garbage is all about improving the quality of life of the common man of the country. The government has also made changes in the law for women to avoid working in the night shift. The law has also changed for small shopkeepers, small entrepreneurs to keep their shops open till late.\nCompanions, we have recently made a big effort for the MSME sector. Small business people associated with GST will now get a loan of up to 1 crore in just 59 minutes. Apart from this, several decisions have also been taken to increase production, increase the scope of the market and reduce the hassle associated with license and investigation. Financial enterprises, which are making new job opportunities, are also being given financial assistance under the Prime Minister's Employment Promotion Scheme. Under this scheme, the government is doing 8.3 percent of the EPF Contribution on its own for three years on making new job opportunities. The government has also changed the Apprentice Act and is running a new apprenticeship incentive scheme. Under the scheme, when the enterprise holds an apprentice, the government gives a quarter of the amount of stipend given to them. Many industries are connected to these arrangements.\nCompanions, I am a person who really believes in Minimum Government and Maximum Governance. The result of this is that the present credibility of India in the present world is strengthened by the fact that our country is constantly going on the path of improvement! Reforming people to make life easier. India's location is either going up or down in IMF, Moody's Ho, World Economic Forum or UNCTAD, in evaluation of all these institutions. More than that, all these institutions are fully confident and optimistic about the future of India, given the progress and speed of our reforms.\nOur efforts are now to bring India to the Trillion Dollar Club at the earliest. To achieve this, we need to improve every sector of the economy. We must also keep in mind that now the definition of all the sectors is also changing. Now Manufacturing and Services are becoming complementary to each other. There is a Value Addition in Manufacturing from the Service Sector and some factor manufacturing manufactures improve. New technologies, Artificial Intelligence and Information Technology have now become an essential part of Manufacturing Ecosystem. We must keep this change in mind.\nThe government is working on the Industrial Policy for better implementation of basic changes and incorporating realities into development. A policy that can understand the industry in new ways and understand the industry as a new dimension. These industrial policies will be in line with the New Vision of New India entrepreneur. The importance of Ease of Doing Business will remain in this industrial policy.\nCompanions, now we have to make an effort to join the top 50 in the ranking of Easy to Doing Business. In the coming days, I myself am going to do review meetings with different departments related to this topic. The decisions we will take to land till December, the effect will be seen in the results of ranking next year. Be a sector of clean energy, be a digital world, health sector, mobility, your efforts in every field will move the country forward, make self-reliant. In today's system, human intervention needs to be minimized in all the processes. There is a great need for this that we have modern technology and Digital Technology\nIncrease the use of more, increase in every area of ​​life. Develop a work-culture in which there is no need to go to the government office or any other agency's office to submit the form, show the document or deposit the fees. This kind of work-culture will further strengthen the Policy Driven Governance. With Ease of Doing Business, we need your suggestions to take advantage of the benefits of ease of living to every citizen of the country.\nCompanions, the confidence in you at this time, the confidence that is, is my greatest strength. I welcome your suggestion, suggestion. And now Mahendra ji was telling us that we do not decide which target in the corporate sector too, Modi is doing the same way. We are taught the people of Gujarat from childhood and are probably taught to every child - 'mark defamation forgiveness, no excuse mein' marks. That is, if you miss the target then you can be forgiven, but if target is low, then it can not be forgiven. And this is my mantra that when the goal is decided, then be in reach, but not in the grip. It should look like if I jump a bit, then I'll catch it. Belief should be nearby, not too far. Using this psychology, I am in the habit of deciding target. I believe that inside the country it is made original, the result of this origin is also getting.\nAnd once again I congratulate all of you with my words.\nThanks a lot !!!"