"Share\n\nPM Narendra Modi\nA senior Congress leader from MP has been saying in a video that they are willing to goons from support. Such a thing is absolutely unacceptable: PM\nMaking false promises\nCongress ruled for four generations. I challenge them to present a report card what they did in all these years: PM\nElections in MP is about rejecting the negative forces that have always focused on the 'divide and rule' approach: PM\nMy partner and my very old friend Mr. Fagan Singh, Mr. Kulaste, MP, Mr. Prabhat Jha MP, MP Jyoti Dhwarji, MP, Amitya Samitya Uike Jee, in charge of the program Bhai Sheshrao Yadav, Minister of State, Shri Kanhai Ram Raghuvanshi ji, Bharatiya Janata Party's District President Bhai Narinder Parmar, from Chatur, Vasant Makod ji from Betul, Prem Kumar Tyagi Ji from Haveli, Hoshangabad From Mr. Harishankar ji, and in this election the worker of Bharatiya Janata Party, who is present to take your blessings as candidate ... Our Chaudhary Chandrabhan Singh Ji from Chhindwara, Dinesh Rai Munmun from Seoni, Mr. Tikaram Korachi ji from Whitehorna , Mr. Tarachand Bavaria from Parasia, Mr. Vijay Uikeji from Lakhanada, Mr Nana Bhai from Saussure, Mr. Prema from Amravada Mr. Narayan, width Pandit Ramesh, Mr. Dr. Mr. Yogesh, Junnardeo from Amla Asif G, Thakur Das Ji Pipariya.\nBless all of our voters, my sisters, in a huge number, by loudly speaking Bharat Mata's Jai, bless these candidates. Bharat Mata Ki, Jai .... Bharat Mata Ki, Jai .... Thanks a lot!\nBrothers and sisters, this is Chhindwara, our largest district in Madhya Pradesh and it is also a place of reverence and faith. Not only in Madhya Pradesh but also in Maharashtra, there are many places in this area which have great reverence and faith, regardless of Khedapati Temple, Hinglaj Mata Ho, Mother Sharda, Temple of Bajrangbali, Doodaji's Dhuniwala area, countless reverence And the common people's faith is linked to it.\nIn this election, I have had the opportunity to go to some areas of Madhya Pradesh. Today I have also visited Chhattisgarh and have come here. And I have seen the views of the election gatherings, I can see this far and wide - people are only seeing people. And I have been told that here a rumors market is hot. Here are famous leaders for spreading five different rumors in the day. Never say that no-no Modiji will not come then. Then say that no-no, they were coming but they are in the Maldives, where they will come from. Why are you feeling so scared? How long will these rumors market? If you look at the activities of the Congress party, you will see the exploits, see the way to do their work, see their style of functioning - how is this Congress party, how much power has been given to lie, such as someone exercising every day, then gradually His strength to exercise is increased. As the thirteen sun salutes everyday, gradually 15-20 sun salutes, it does not hurt. This Congress has done such a tremendous practice of lying till independence that they have been mastered in lying, falsehood, spreading lies. So take a look at the activities of the last fifty years and see how they dump people in their eyes.\nHere, your MP often wins the election but the shops open in Ghaziabad, open in Nagpur. They know that if there is progress in Chhindwara, development has taken place, people here wake up, knowing the world, it is sure to have their borea-bistra circle. You must have seen how the Congress party has preferred people to contest elections in Madhya Pradesh and the nominee has hit them and the industrialists here have prepared that list and what is the basis for preparing these lists? Have you seen a video of them, have you seen? Madhya Pradesh Congress President's video has seen? They are saying in the video - The punk will run, the scam will run, the dishonest will run, the corrupt will run, there will be many cases ... it will run, I will run any candidate, just want to win. Now it is the scales that I will run a punk, a bad candidate will run, I will become corrupt and they are speaking in open meetings, they are not speaking to the BJP, they are saying their own video. Did you reach that video, reached you? Who can choose to hand over such people to the election, can they give Madhya Pradesh? This is an issue that the people of Madhya Pradesh should decide that whose leader has clearly stated in the internal meeting of the Congress that I want thieves, rogues, goons, those who break the law, they just want to win . If such people have brought them, then what will happen to my brothers and sisters in Madhya Pradesh? Should these goons save Madhya Pradesh? The standard which has been decided for the candidates whom they have decided - should such people save Madhya Pradesh? Can the people of Madhya Pradesh make the mistake of such people? This is not the only issue of electoral defeat and victory. Such people have become the heads of the people here. And Namdhari is sitting in Delhi like these people. Today is the issue, save Madhya Pradesh from going to such a claw. And I believe Chhindwara is going to create a new history this time.\nYou tell me that in some time the news took many days to reach, news of an area did not appear in other area. In that era, the Congress went lie, fifty years they had eaten, enjoyed fun. Now the news goes very quickly. The citizen of India remains silent, but the discrimination of Neer-Kshirs, the ability to distinguish between milk and water is in the citizens of India, do not try to underestimate them. In this election, you have brought 'cow' to confuse the voters of Madhya Pradesh. I do not criticize the cow's arrival in the Manifesto of the Congress of Madhya Pradesh, nor do I feel bad about it, it is their right. But the question arises that the Congress of Kerala and the Congress of Madhya Pradesh are different? Whether Kerala is the head of Congress and the leader of the Madhya Pradesh Congress is also nominated, those who are sitting in Delhi are the same. This is the possession of the same family on the Congress. Now Madhya Pradesh wants to know that you are singing in the Manifesto of Madhya Pradesh, but on the way openly in Kerala, the people of Congress cut off the cow's calf and took it out of the flesh and took the photograph and told us to eat beef. is. Then the question arises that Congress is true of Kerala that the Congress is true of Madhya Pradesh? Just say, you tell this country the truth. You bring cow, do not bring, like, do not do - this is your subject, but do not fool at least voters. This is their way. These promises do not have their own belief in those promises, they do not believe in themselves. Not only this, they cheat not just with the people but also from their leaders, their party's people. Cheating is in their blood, they are in their veins. That's why the public does not rely on one of their points.\nYou must have seen that when Namdhari meets people of Chhindwara, he tells them that the Chief Minister will be your own. When I go to Gwalior, I will not say it publicly, but I tell you, the Chief Minister will be yours. In eight different areas, there are eight different names for the Chief Minister. They make them fool too, they also fool the workers, and make people public also fool. Can the people whose character is malicious, whose style of function lies and falsification, can they give Madhya Pradesh to such people? There can be mistakes in public life, but it should be able to accept publicly, do not sin to fool the public.\nYou used to consider Janata Janardan as 'Taken for Granted', hence you have been living in 440 to 40. That's why I came to request you today. I want to open a small piece of paper that has been given to Madhya Pradesh. Nine times MP, Congress member for fifty years and most of the family's family members do this morning and evening. From today's time of no emergency Hey Kamal Nath, as you surrendered to a family, rendered devotion to the people of Madhya Pradesh, people of Madhya Pradesh, do not hate you, do not hate you. There is a lie in Madhya Pradesh that Chhindwara is not know where from where! They are also daring to tell that other areas of Madhya Pradesh will be made like Chhindwara just like other areas. Oh God forbid brother, do not make a brother, let Madhya Pradesh stay as it is. You tell me, unless the BJP government in Madhya Pradesh was built - even before thirty to thirty years, they were business - you tell that before that there was a development in Chhindwara? Roads were made, electricity was reached, hospitals and educational institutions were made etc. What? Was not that the roads were filled with pit? Tell me, who made the government bus stand of Chhindwara? Private bus stand, which you call Vivekananda complex, who has built it? Who built the gel complex? When did most of Chhindwara roads become? In 1990-91, for the first time when we got the chance, some roads were constructed, that too was made by the Bharatiya Janata Party. Who has rejuvenated the stadium here? Who made Chhindwara a municipal corporation from Nagarpalika? From the municipality to the assembly, you have given blessings to the BJP leaders, because they showed you the work. They carried forward your dreams.\nWhy do Kamal Nath, who is credited for starting a train in Chhindwara, forgets that the BJP's government of Sunder Lal Patwa had done the widening of the tracks of Chhindwara in 1997. Did Kamal Nath Ji have contributed a little to the Maja Gora Dam for the farmers? Since the government came after Shivraj ji, water from Maacha Gora Dam was reaching the areas where there was no water before. Who has done the job of delivering Rs. 75 crore pipeline from the scheme? Brothers, I just want to ask them. What was Spice Park made? What happened to the brothers and sisters, they started telling the park of 2009, their friends and friends took away the machine. It's all over. Was not their government? Brothers and sisters, who can trust such people?\nTell me, our farmers were showing big dreams and the soybean plant was started, what is going on? What is the Soybean Plant Running? Raj Darbari sang raja court, but what happened? Brothers, this is the model of their development. If it goes to Madhya Pradesh then what will happen to Madhya Pradesh? It is said that a Plywood factory was opened, and the names of some relatives were opened. Now they are millions of land ruins and allegations that they picked up the relative machinery too. Brothers, millions of rupees were taken for free, crores subsidy was taken and now the factory is not seen anywhere. These are such magicians, they do amazing. These are the deceitful merchants who sell these dreams, they are people who are misguided by dusting in the eye. Did you dream of yarn-mill? And in the name of the stock, were the shares of farmers for one thousand rupees in the market? Farmers had stopped one thousand thousand of their hard earned money? What made yarn? Farmers got money back? Who killed these millions? They have the habit of hitting these (public money) from top to bottom.\nI do not say much more, I would say that, such people, such groups who have chosen to fight the thieves with the tricks, I am not saying that their own video is saying, and their video Should not believe in the truth? Did they deny the video? This is not their own video, is it said? So they have chosen such people, who are in the field of elections. Can not give me chhandswara in the hands of such people, neither can I give Madhya Pradesh, nor can give the future of the farmers nor can I give the future of my youth, nor can I give protection to my mothers and sisters, neither my village Can develop them or they can develop the city. It is very important for such people to be farewell. And so, my brothers and sisters, I have come here today to take your blessings from Chhindwara. With your blessings, I have come to take Madhya Pradesh forward.\nBrothers and sisters, I want to ask Namdhari, going to the intersection-street-mohalla and playing a cottage cassette. If you have the courage, then give the account of your four generation, I am ready to give an account of my four-year pie-pie. Your four generations got the opportunity to rule the country, what did you give to the country? And so, I want to say to the Congress party and the candidates of the eight Chief Minister of the Congress and all the legislative candidates, you should also tell me, fifty five years of Congress and fifteen years of BJP. Go today, weigh on the scales, the BJP will have a bigger balance. Brothers and sisters were a prime minister of Congress, this is Namdar's father, Mr. Rajiv Gandhi. He had said that a rupee from Delhi gets 15 rupees after going to the village. Was it the magic of Congress? Rupee flows from Delhi, reaching to the village goes to fifteen paisa. I did not say this, Namdar! Your father had said. The then Prime Minister of India, Mr. Rajiv Gandhi Ji had said. अब सवाल ये उठता है कि जब राजीव गांधी प्रधानमंत्री थे, तब पंचायत से लेकर पार्लियामेंट तक कांग्रेस के सिवाय कहीं किसी का झंडा नजर नहीं आता था, पंचायत से पार्लियामेंट तक एकछत्र कांग्रेस का राज था। ऊपर से नीचे तक सब कांग्रेस के लोग राज कर रहे थे। उस समय आपके पिताजी ने कहा था कि दिल्ली से रुपया निकलता है पन्द्रह पैसा हो जाता है, जरा नामदार जवाब तो दो कि वो कौन से पंजा था जो रुपये को घिस-घिसकर 15 पैसे बना देता था। वो कौन सा पंजा था जो हिन्दुस्तान के गरीब के हक के 85 पैसे लूट लेता था। भाइयो-बहनो, और ये लूटने की उनकी पक्की व्यवस्था थी।\nये मोदी पर इतना गुस्सा क्यों करते हैं, मालूम है आपको? इतने नाराज क्यों हैं? बार-बार मोदी को अनाप-शनाप भाषा में क्यों संबोधित करते हैं, मालूम है न? क्योंकि, उनको पता है कि उनकी मुसीबत का कारण ही मोदी है। क्योंकि पहले रुपया निकलता था, पन्द्रह पैसा पहुंचता था, मुफ्त का 85 पैसे मिलता था। ये मोदी ने आकर ‘आधार’ लाया, जन धन का एकाउंट खोला, आधार पर वेरिफिकेशन किया, जांच की। आप हैरान हो जाएंगे, हमारे देश में 6 करोड़ लोग ऐसे मिले कि जिनका कहीं नामोनिशान नहीं था, लेकिन किसी को विधवा पेंशन जा रहा था, किसी के नाम पर राशन जा रहा था, किसी के नाम पर घर आवंटित होता था, किसी को मिट्टी के तेल की सब्सिडी मिल जाती थी, और ये सारे रुपये कमाने की उनकी बहुत परफेक्ट-साइंटिफिक व्यवस्था थी। अब मोदी ने आकर टेक्नोलॉजी का उपयोग किया।\nआप हैरान हो जाएंगे, जो बेटी अभी तक पैदा नहीं हुई, वो कांग्रेस के दफ्तर में विधवा भी हो जाती थी और कांग्रेस की सरकार में उसको पेंशन भी चला जाता था। जो बच्चा पैदा नहीं हुआ वो स्कूल में भर्ती हो जाता था, उसके नाम पर मध्याह्न भोजन का बिल बन जाता था, उसके नाम पर स्कॉलरशिप चली जाती थी, और माल कांग्रेस की सरकारों में बैठे हुए लोग खाते थे। मोदी ने आकर क्या किया? टेक्नोलॉजी का उपयोग किया। और लोगों को कहा कि आपके हक का पैसा कोई बिचौलिया नहीं, कोई बीच में झोलाछाप नहीं, कोई नेता नहीं, सीधा-सीधा आपके बैंक खाते में जमा हो जाएगा, और उसमें 6 करोड़ लोग ऐसे ध्यान में आए जो मौजूद ही नहीं हैं, लेकिन राजीव गांधी के जमाने से अब तक माल खा रहे थे। और आपको खुशी होगी भाइयो-बहनो, जब दिल्ली में ईमानदार सरकार बैठी है, तो देश के चोरी होने वाले 90 हजार करोड़ रुपए, याद रखिए! 90 हजार करोड़ रुपये, जो इस प्रकार के गलत कामों से चोरी कर लिया जाता था, इसको ये मोदी सरकार ने रोक लिया है। जिनका 90 हजार करोड़ रुपये गया, वो क्या मोदी को गाली देगा कि नहीं देगा? मोदी पर गुस्सा करेगा कि नहीं करेगा? मोदी पर नाराजगी होगी कि नहीं होगी? भाइयो-बहनो, ये नाराजगी ये गुस्सा इसी बात का है। 90 हजार करोड़ रुपये सालाना हिन्दुस्तान के गरीब के हक का पैसा लूट लिया जाता था।\nहमने इसको रोका, इसलिए उन्हें परेशानी हो रही है। मुझे बताइए भाइयो और बहनो, ऐसा काम मुझे करना चाहिए कि नहीं करना चाहिए? करना चाहिए कि नहीं करना चाहिए? देश के रुपयों को बचाना चाहिए कि नहीं बचाना चाहिए? गरीब के हक का पैसा गरीब को मिलना चाहिए कि नहीं मिलना चाहिए? मध्यम वर्ग के हक का पैसा मध्यम वर्ग को मिलना चाहिए कि नहीं मिलना चाहिए? देश के किसान के हक का पैसा किसानों को मिलना चाहिए कि नहीं मिलना चाहिए? देश के युवा के सपनों के लिए हिन्दुस्तान का पैसा काम आना चाहिए कि नहीं आना चाहिए? भाइयो और बहनो, ये बात नामदार को पसंद नहीं है। उनको तकलीफ हो रही है। और क्या-क्या बोलते हैं! डिक्शनरी में जितनी गालियां हैं, हिन्दी की डिक्शनरी निकाल लीजिए, अंग्रेजी की डिक्शनरी निकाल दीजिए, कोई भी डिक्शनरी निकाल दीजिए, जितनी गालियां हैं, ये कांग्रेस वाले सारी गालियां मोदी पर चिपकाने में लगे हुए हैं। चायवाले को गाली, पकौड़े वाले को गाली, चौकीदार को गाली, आदिवासी के पहनावे को गाली, सर्जिकल स्ट्राइक को लेकर के गाली, देश के सेनाध्यक्ष को गाली- न जाने क्या संस्कार हो गए हैं उनके! अरे, चुनाव में तो हार-जीत होती रहती है। लेकिन आप इतना आपा क्यों खो बैठे हो भाई? आपा क्यों खो बैठे हो, बैलेंस क्यों गंवा बैठे हो? और, पता नहीं क्या-क्या बोलते हैं और फिर बोलते हैं- मैं तो कन्फ्यूज हो गया हूं! अरे, आप कन्फ्यूज हो गए हो और पूरी पार्टी फ्यूज हो गई है। कितनी कोशिश करो, अब इस पार्टी में जान भरने वाली नहीं है, ये नामदार पार्टी का भला नहीं कर सकते हैं।\nभाइयो-बहनो, विकास कैसे होता है? ये किसानों को मूरख बनाने निकले! मैं जरा पूछना चाहता हूं भैया। पचास-पचपन साल आपने राज किया। क्या ये आपका जिम्मा नहीं था कि खेत में किसानों को पानी पहुंचे, जिम्मा था कि नहीं था? वो काम क्यों नहीं किया भाई? अब जब शिवराज जी कि सरकार खेतों में पानी पहुंचा रही है और फसल जोरों से उग रही है, आज मध्यप्रदेश खेती के क्षेत्र में हिन्दुस्तान की आन-बान-शान बन गया है भाइयो और बहनो। मैं मध्यप्रदेश के किसानों का अभिनंदन करता हूं, मध्यप्रदेश की सरकार का अभिनंदन करता हूं।\nभाइयो-बहनो, इंसान की हेल्थ कार्ड तो छोड़िए, हमने किसानों के लिए सॉयल हेल्थ कार्ड बनाए। ये धरती माता की तबीयत कैसी है, ये धरती माता बीमार तो नहीं है, ये धरती माता में कुछ करने की संभावना है कि नहीं है, ये धरती माता फसल के लिए योग्य है कि नहीं है, कौन सा फर्टिलाइजर चलेगा, कौन सा नहीं चलेगा, कौन सी फसल चलेगी, कौन सी फसल नहीं चलेगी- हमने उसके लिए सॉयल हेल्थ कार्ड बनाया। और देश में करीब-करीब 16 करोड़ किसान परिवारों को उनकी धरती माता के गुण और कमियों का पूरा ब्योरा दिया और उसके कारण किसानों को पता चलने लगा कि इस फसल के लिए वो पैसे बर्बाद करता था, लेकिन जमीन इसके लिए ठीक नहीं थी, उसने फसल बदल दी, उसकी कमाई शुरू हो गई। जब तक हमने सॉयल हेल्थ कार्ड नहीं निकाला था, तब तक ये छिंदवाड़ा के किसानों को भी मालूम नहीं था कि अकेले छिंदवाड़ा जिले में पांच प्रकार की समृद्ध मिट्टी है, ये मालूम नहीं था। पांच प्रकार की समृद्ध मिट्टी का मालिक ये मेरा छिंदवाड़ा है साहब! नागपुर के संतरे की चर्चा होती है, यहां के संतरे की कमलनाथ को कभी याद नहीं आई, ऐसी दुर्दशा कौन कर सकता है भाइयो! और इसलिए मैं कहना चाहता हूं भाइयो, हमने प्रधानमंत्री फसल बीमा योजना लाई। किसान को सुरक्षित करना और बुआई के पहले मुसीबत आए तो भी, बुआई के दरम्यान मुसीबत आए तो भी, फसल उगने के समय मुसीबत आए तो भी, कटाई के समय मुसीबत आए तो भी, कटाई के बाद मुसीबत आए तो भी, ऐसी हमने बीमा योजना दी कि किसान को सुरक्षा मिले, और उस प्रधानमंत्री बीमा फसल योजना के तहत देश को, किसानों को 16 हजार करोड़ रुपये के क्लेम मिल चुके हैं, 16 हजार करोड़ रुपये! उसमें 5,000 करोड़ रुपये अकेले मध्यप्रदेश के बीमाधारक किसानों को प्राप्त हुआ है\nभाइयो-बहनो। हम आपकी तरह ढोल नहीं पीटते। हम किसान की मुसीबत दूर करने के रास्ते खोजते हैं। उनको ताकत देने का प्रयास करते हैं। and you? जरा आपमें से किसी की पहचान हो तो कर्नाटक में फोन लगा कर पूछ लेना। यहां के मीडिया के बंधुओं को भी मैं कहूंगा, जरा आप भी पूछ लेना। इन्होंने चुनाव में वादा किया था किसानों के कर्ज माफ करने का। उसके बावजूद भी, कर्नाटक के लोग इनको जानते थे, उनको बहुमत नहीं दिया, जितने थे उसके भी आधे कर दिए, फिर वो पिछले दरवाजे से किसी के साथ लपेट कर के बैठ गए। और कर्जमाफी का वादा किया था, उसको पूरा करने के बजाय, सैकड़ों किसानों को ‘कर्ज चुकता करो नहीं तो जेल जाओ’ इसकी नोटिसें दी गई हैं, वारंट निकाले गए हैं कर्नाटक में। आप कर्नाटक में जाकर जानकारी ले सकते हो। किसानों को अभी तीन-चार महीने पहले वादा किया था और आज जेल भेजने के वारंट निकाल रहे हैं। क्या ऐसी कांग्रेस पर भरोसा करोगे आप? उनके वादों पर भरोसा करोगे? उनकी बातों पर भरोसा करोगे? अरे, जो कार्यकर्ताओं के सामने झूठ बोलते हैं, आठ जगह पर आठ मुख्यमंत्रियों की बात करते हैं, जिन पर उनकी पार्टी भरोसा नहीं करती है, उन पर छिंदवाड़ा की जनता कैसे भरोसा कर सकती है\nभाइयो और बहनो!\nभाइयो-बहनो, हमारा सपना है कि साल 2022, जब आजादी के पचहत्तर साल होंगे, हम हिन्दुस्तान में हर परिवार को उसका रहने के लिए अपना पक्का घर हो, इस सपने को पूरा करने के लिए लगे हैं। और ये सिर्फ वादे नहीं हैं। 2022 तक पूरा करना है। अब तक हमने सवा करोड़ घर बनाकर, एक करोड़ पचीस लाख घर बनाकर चाबी सुपुर्द कर दी है, मेरे प्यारे भाइयो-बहनो। हमने लोगों को घर की चाबी सुपुर्द कर दी है। और उसमें मध्यप्रदेश में पन्द्रह लाख गरीब परिवारों के हाथ में...वो नए घर में दिवाली मना चुके हैं। बातें नहीं, वादे नहीं, जमीन पर उतार कर दिखाया है। भाइयो-बहनो, अपने छिंदवाड़ा में शायद सवा करोड़ घरों की जानकारी लेनी मुश्किल होगी, हो सकता है मध्यप्रदेश के 15 लाख घरों की जानकारी लेनी मुश्किल होगी। ये हमारे छिंदवाड़ा में ग्रामीण इलाकों में 23 हजार गरीबों को पक्के घर दिए जा चुके हैं। और शहरी इलाकों में 23 हजार घरों की स्वीकृति दी जा चुकी है। और घर यानि सिर्फ चारदीवारी नहीं, हम ऐसा घर दे रहे हैं, जिसमें नल भी हो, नल में जल भी हो, शौचालय भी हो, बिजली भी हो, गैस का सिलिंडर भी हो, ऐसा घर देने का काम, एक प्रकार से परिवार को एक नई जिंदगी जीने के लिए तैयार करने का काम हमारी सरकार कर रही है। और इसलिए जो सरकार सवा करोड़ घर बना चुकी है, वो दावे से विश्वास पैदा कर सकती है कि हां, 2022 तक बाकी काम भी पूरा हो जाएगा और हिन्दुस्तान के हर व्यक्ति को घर मिल जाएगा।\nभाइयो-बहनो, मुझे बताइए, एक जमाना था, सुबह-सुबह लोग कमलनाथ के घर के आगे कतार लगा देते थे, अच्छे-अच्छे घर के लोग, गाड़ी में आते थे, स्कूटर में आते थे, किस चीज के लिए, कमलनाथ जी, गैस का कनेक्शन लेना है, एक कूपन दे दो न! तो कमलनाथ दूसरी तरफ देख कर कहते थे, ठीक है अगली बार आऊंगा तो देखेंगे। सालों तक घर में गैस के सिलिंडर का कनेक्शन लेने के लिए पूरे देश में मध्यम वर्ग के परिवार के लोग कतार लगाकर खड़े रहते थे और कुछ लोगों को तो भ्रष्टाचार करने की आदत भी हो गई थी। कुछ एमपी के नाम बदनाम होते थे, अखबारों में आते भी थे। और नामदार, एमपी लोगों पर कृपा करते थे। वो कृपा ऐसे करते थे कि भाई 25 कूपन तुमको देंगे, तुम अपने इलाके में एक साल में 25 घर में गैस का कनेक्शन दे सकते हो। अब विचार करिए भाइयो। 25 लोगों को गैस का कनेक्शन एक साल में ! हम आए, हमने तय किया कि जो हमारी मां खाना पकाते समय धुएं में जिंदगी गुजारती है, और एक मां जब धुएं से खाना लकड़ी जलाकर बनाती है, तो उसके शरीर में 400 सिगरेट का धुआं जाता है, 400 सिगरेट का। हर दिन जिस मां के शरीर में 400 सिगरेट का धुआं जाता हो, जिस घर में बच्चे छोटे-छोटे खेलते हों, और धुआं पूरे घर में फैला हो, आप मुझे बताइए उस परिवार का हाल क्या होगा! उस परिवार की तबीयत की स्थिति क्या होगी! मैंने गरीबी देखी है।\nधुएं में घर में बचपन कैसे बीता है, वो खुद अनुभव किया है। मैंने आकर फैसला लिया, मैं हिन्दुस्तान की हर माता को इस धुएं की जिंदगी से मुक्ति दिलाऊंगा। और हमने बीड़ा उठाया मुफ्त में कनेक्शन देने का। और हमारा सपना है, आने वाले दो साल के भीतर-भीतर हिन्दुस्तान के हर परिवार में गैस का चूल्हा होगा, गैस का कनेक्शन होगा। लेकिन ये बात जब करते हैं तो अब तक हम 6 करोड़ परिवारों में ये काम कर चुके हैं। गैस का कनेक्शन दे चुके हैं। भारत में कुल एक बिलियन 30 लाख लोग हैं, 1.3 बिलियन। सवा सौ करोड़ से ज्यादा जनसंख्या है। लेकिन, परिवार अगर हम कहें तो परिवार करीब हमारे यहां 25 करोड़ के करीब परिवार हैं। उन पचीस करोड़ में से हमारी सरकार बनने के बाद 6 करोड़ परिवारों को गैस का कनेक्शन मिला है। आप कल्पना कर सकते हैं, आजादी से हमारे आने तक जितना गैस कनेक्शन मिला, उतना हमने चार साल में दे दिया है भाइयो-बहनो। और मध्यप्रदेश में पचास लाख परिवारों को ये गैस का कनेक्शन मिला है। और ये हमारे छिंदवाड़ा में, कमलनाथ सोते रहते हैं, हमने डेढ़ लाख परिवारों को गैस का कनेक्शन दे दिया।\nवो दिन याद कीजिए जब एक कूपन लेने के लिए एमपी के घर लोग कतार लगाकर गिड़गिड़ाते थे, आज हम सामने से जाकर दे रहे हैं। आप मुझे बताइए भाइयो, जनता की सेवा करने वाली सरकार चाहिए कि नहीं चाहिए? जनता का भला करने वाली सरकार चाहिए कि नहीं चाहिए? जनता का सुख-दुख समझने वाली सरकार चाहिए कि नहीं चाहिए? सामान्य मानव की जिंदगी में बदलाव लाने वाली सरकार चाहिए कि नहीं चाहिए?\nइसलिए मैं आपसे आग्रह करता हूं, 28 तारीख को कमल के फूल पर बटन दबाकर भारतीय जनता पार्टी को विजयी बनाइए, शिवराज सिंह की एक बार फिर से सरकार बनाइए…और दिल्ली का इंजन और भोपाल का इंजन, ये डबल इंजन से पूरे मध्यप्रदेश को और छिंदवाड़ा को आगे ले जाने में आगे आइए। मिलकर एक सुखी और समृद्ध मध्यप्रदेश बनाने में पूरी ताकत से जुट जाएं। मेरे साथ बोलिए, भारत माता की... जय....भारत माता की...जय!"