"Share\n\nFor ten years, the Center was ruled by a 'remote-control' government, which never paid attention towards Chhattisgarh: PM Modi\nI challenge the Congress to choose someone as their party president\nCongress always puts one family first and the nation's welfare secondary: PM Modi\nCongress makes fake promises They should have been four generations for four generations. They kept the farmers in distress: PM\nCongress believes in 'telephone-banking' which ruined the banks A phone call from them will get loans for the cronies cleared and the nation had suffered: PM Modi\nIn my Parliament, my colleague, Mr. Chandu Lal Sahu, Mr. Inderjit Singh Khalsa, dedicated activist of the Bharatiya Janata Party in this election, who is here for your blessings and as a candidate for Bharatiya Janata Party in this election. Our candidate from Kurunda and your very famous old comrade Mr. Ajay Chandrachari ji, Ajay ji come here. Bhai Santosh Upadhyay ji from Rajim, Mrs. D.C. Patelji from Basna, Mr. Poonam Chandrakar from Mahasamund, you are my most urged, bless our companions by speaking Jai of Bharat Mata.\nBharat Mata Ki ... Jai ... Bharat Mata Ki ... Jai!\nVirgo ... I first ask forgiveness for you, I apologize, that is the last day of election today, there are rallies in all assembly constituencies, there are programs, usually I should not go on the last day, but Yesterday there was an oath ceremony of the government there in our neighboring country Maldives and I was specifically invited. That's why I was abroad yesterday, but as soon as I arrived, I have reached between you.\nIn the last day, there is no reason to think about a big rally and in spite of this, such a big rally in Mahasamund and our people thought that Pandal fell short and there were so many people standing in the sun. Those people who have had to stand in this sunlight and those troubles have happened to you, our system is getting smaller, your love has grown more ... And so, whatever discomfort you have received, I first apologize to you. But I assure those who are suffering in this heat, that your penance will not let us go unnecessarily.We will give you this development and return it with interest, I assure you that.\nBrothers and sisters, this is the land of Mahasamund, this area is not new to me. I have been a big witness to this area, as an organization worker, I have had the opportunity to work among you for many years and due to which the people's needs are, what are the problems of the people here, solving those problems What happens to me is that I have a lot of experience from this earthly information as an organization worker. And hence, after becoming the Prime Minister, what you have to go through and who has learned, I have a lot of work in Chhattisgarh's development plans.\nWe implement those schemes of the Government of India in Chhattisgarh which are very useful in the life of ordinary citizen of Chhattisgarh. And that's the reason that the BJP has given you three times the opportunity to serve on the issue of development. But in fact, Dr. Raman Singh has not got the facility of working in a true sense three times. Only these four and a half years have been found. Because before that the government in Delhi was sitting with a remote control. And it was remote in the hands of such a family that the BJP used to flutter when listening to the name. I was Chief Minister in Gujarat, I know that one of the BJP governments was not ready to listen to the remote control government sitting in Delhi. I had to fight Delhi for the betterment of Gujarat, Dr. Raman Singh ji had to fight with Delhi for the good of Chhattisgarh. Our 10 years' time ... the public believed us, but our full time went into conflict with these negative forces.\nOur Raman Singhji used to seek help from the UPA government to fight against Naxalism. They used to call for police forces, demanded modern weapons, used to arrange communication, but the government of Delhi sitting in front of Delhi, the remote control government seemed like it was not like Chhattisgarh is in Hindustan. They did not realize any responsibility. But even in such negative environment, in such a negative environment, Dr. Raman Singh ji and his team had inherited a sick state of Madhya Pradesh, in collaboration with the people of Chhattisgarh, with the support of Janata Janata Chhattisgarh, separated from Madhya Pradesh , Who came out with the identification of the bimaru, threw Chhattisgarh out of the disease and brought it to new heights of development. The first opportunity to flourish Chhattisgarh is when the BJP government in Delhi came when it came to power.\nBrothers and sisters, if you get such a 10-15 years, you write my words and keep it in Chhattisgarh ... I will assure you that his number will come in the first three states of India. And so today, when there is a government that thinks of the good of Chhattisgarh in Delhi today, today there is a prime minister in Delhi, who has ever had the privilege of spending his life in the tehsils of Chhattisgarh, in the forests of Chhattisgarh, the people of Chhattisgarh The person who has got the opportunity to work on the shoulder from the shoulder, when a person has become the Prime Minister, then in the heart of Chhattisgarh, he will go ahead. Stretched would wish, you can imagine. And that's why, brothers and sisters, I have come to urge you, this is a golden opportunity, for 10 years our government was destroyed by the Democrat control, hardly Raman Singh got the chance to work in four to four-four years and now Our Chhattisgarh has been 18 years old.\nIf there is a child in the house or a daughter is of the same age, then we behave in a manner that is 5 years old, then in another way, 12-13, then in the third way, but when it is 18, then its Dreams are awake, its expectations awake. He was not ready to walk at that pace from 1 year to 18 years of age. The 18-year-old child who is proud to run a hybrid cycle in his childhood wants to run on a fast moving bike, it is a difference ... and the difference in the person is also in my Chhattisgarh state. Now 18-year-old Chhattisgarh will want to run fast. Will come out with new dreams. Will work with the intention of fulfilling every resolve. If a parent fails to handle his children at the age of 18-23, then those children become the cause of their problems throughout life. Wise parents ... 18-23 years old are like this ... parents take care of their children and parents bring them up. My Chhattisgarh brothers and sisters, 5 years is very important in the life of Chhattisgarh.\nYou are the keepers of Chhattisgarh, you are the owner of Chhattisgarh, your future is associated with the future of Chhattisgarh. Umshaya of 18-23 years is very important and therefore I urge you that Chhattisgarh's parents are you, Chhattisgarh The keepers of you are you As the children are raised in the house specially after 18 years, specially they need to be raised in Chhattisgarh at the age of 18-23. Brothers and sisters, this time we have no right to make any mistake. For this important phase with a great resolution and when you have 100 percent support for BJP in Delhi, then strengthen Raman Singh's hands like this ... Give such strength to him that the strength of your next 25 years dream Keep the foundation in the next 5 years so that you will not have to wait until the next 3-4 generations. And so, brothers and sisters, do not consider this election a general election. Who became the legislator of this election, who did not make Towels out of this scales.\nYou decide and I want to say especially to the young people, the youth who are going to cast their votes for the first time, someone will be 18, someone's age will be 19, someone will be 20, who will be the first to decide the future of Chhattisgarh. Bar has got the right to vote for the election of Chhattisgarh, I want to ask those young people, your father, your grandfather, your uncle and aunt have to live like you have to suffer like this. Reddy, who had to cope with difficulties, what you want your life now also passed similar? Is there a young man who wants troubles, who had to suffer the trouble of his father too? Is there a young man who wants to go through the crisis by which the agony of his grandparents had to pass? Do not want a young man, you think people who used to rule when your grandparents had to live a life in trouble, who used to rule\nWhen your father could not fulfill his dreams, who used to rule, who ruled for 50 years, due to which the dreams of your family remained there? Will the young man of Chhattisgarh also give his future in the hands of such people who have destroyed the 2-2, 4-4 generation? I want to ask, do you want a government that ruined your ancestors and so I have come to say ... 50 years of experience is in front of you and 4-4 generations in Delhi ... this is not a short time Brothers If your generation gets a chance to do a good job then do good to the next 15 generations ... make your family stand on their feet ... bring them out of trouble. They got the opportunity to run these countries till 4-4 generations ... Rajgadhi was reserved for them, even after that ... he did well, the country did not do well.\nI had once come to Chhattisgarh, I had challenged the Congress because they said that Nehru ji had the grace that this tea-house became the Prime Minister. They take such credit to find such things ... then I had challenged them that if they had established such a liberal tradition, they are dedicated to such noble democratic values, then I said that 5 years For any person outside this family, just try to become a Congress President, quit the prime minister and make him the chairperson of the Congress, then one of his princes Mr. people who are just became Thekkye a court-Ragdrbari come in from the field and he made it Thekkye made that opened blueprint but is not the answer to my question. My question is straightforward ... For 5 years, look for a person outside this family as a president. The country is aware how Mr. Sitaram Kesri was removed from the party's post, how he was locked in the bathroom, how he was thrown out of the door and thrown on the sidewalk and Madam Soniaji was seated.\nThis history knows well Hindustan. You tell me the brothers, the dalit, the victim, the deprived, the backward, if he had become the president and he was made in his compulsion, he could not bear it for two years, he could not accept. Hey respect let me know why he can make someone out of this family for 5 years. Brothers. But do not lie, do not answer the right questions, mislead things by doing vulgar talk and do not even dare to ask them questions because their salt-water people also have eaten sometimes.\nBrothers and sisters, do you tell me whether the country should take ahead or not take the issue of development within the election? If someone promises, then the promises should be tightened on the criterion of truth or not? I ask the people of the Congress, you are dying in the eyes of the innocent people of Chhattisgarh, lying, and making new promises every day? Karnataka elections have just been done, you did this in Karnataka. You said that if you will come, then forgive the farmers' debt. Now your government is coming to be united, bhaiyo sahno ... the newspapers are printing everyday stories that on one side they had promised that the farmers will forgive the debt but hundreds of thousands of farmers who had debt on their heads would go to jail Warrants have been issued for them, warrants ... and they are playing games to lock them in jails. Why lie, you have misled the nation by lying for 50 years, now understand ... and the result of your lies is that the people of the Hindustan from 440 have brought you to 40.\nAnd so, when the election comes, when the government comes, then it is their job that the poor people of the country become powerful, the farmers of the country become powerful, they should have the strength to solve their problems, such a government should run. But after these elections, the emptying the treasure keeps playing such a promise and winning the election. But now the country is not confused with such promises. In the election of the Lok Sabha, you also promised farmers the debt forgiveness. Today alone, in Uttar Pradesh, Yogi ji who give to farmers, in Maharashtra, Devendra Fadnavis who give to farmers, Raman Singh ji is given in Chhattisgarh, Shivraj lives in Madhya Pradesh, gives Vasundhara in Rajasthan, Vijay in Gujarat Let us give our Rawat in Uttarakhand, give our Raghuvar slaves in Jharkhand, compared to him he was nothing, nothing was there. Even then, these Ragdarbarias used to make such drum-like drums that the farmers were waived debt ... the farmers' debt waiver and later the CAG report came. You will be surprised ... the rupee went to the treasure, but the borrowers who were farmers were not entitled to this debt waiver. The CAG report says that 8% were those who were not entitled to it and the money went into their account. Tell me, whose son-in-law was, whose nephews were, whose nephews were, who had a brother-in-law, just tell me? Who was paid in the name of this farmer..Why was the money of the farmers looted? एक तरफ देश का खजाना भी लूट लिया गया और दूसरी तरफ किसानों का हक भी लूट लिया गया।\nभाइयो-बहनो, हमने जो किसानों के लिए काम किया है...हमने किसान को ताकतवर बनाया है, हम उन्हें आधुनिक खेती की ओर ले जा रहे हैं और आज उन समस्याओं के समाधान के लिए रास्ते खोज रहे हैं। ये कांग्रेस के जमाने में ये चीनी घोटाले हुए, क्या वो किसानों के ऊपर मृत्युघंट बजाने का उनका प्रयास था कि नहीं था, तेल के घोटाले हुए क्या वो किसानो को मृत्यु घंट बजाने की उनकी कोशिश थी कि नहीं थी? भाइयो-बहनो, किसान को भी जिन्होंने छोड़ा नहीं है, वे आज किसानों के नाम पर घड़ियाली आंसू बहा रहे हैं। किसानों को जेल में बंद करने वाले, किसानों पे गोलियां चलाने वाले लोग, आज किसान अगर हालत खराब है साहबकहते हैं, तो 50 साल आपने किया क्या था? चार पीढ़ी का हिसाब दीजिए पहले। अगर 50 साल के अंदर किसान को पानी पहुंचाया होता तो मेरा किसान मिट्टी में से सोना पैदा करने की ताकत रखता था।\nउसको कभी आपके दरवाजे पर आकर खड़े रहने की जरूरत नहीं थी। जरा कांग्रेस के लोग बताइए कि आज जब आपकी सरकार थी, आज से 10साल पहले, स्वामीनाथन कमीशन के लिए किसान मांग कर रहे थे कि नहीं कर रहे थे..लागत का डेढ़ गुना मूल्य मिलना चाहिए, ये हिन्दुस्तान का किसान मांग कर रहा था कि नहीं कर रहा था...आपने उनको ये हक क्यों नहीं दिया...क्या आपको मालूम नहीं था कि रिपोर्ट आपके पास पड़ी है..क्या आपको पता नहीं था कि देश का किसान ये मांग कर रहा है...क्या आपको मालूम नहीं है कि पार्लियामेंट में बार-बार आवाज उठती थी? लेकिन आपके दिल में किसानों के लिए जगह नहीं थी और इसलिए आपने किसानों की लागत मूल्य का डेढ़ गुना देने की बात को कभी स्वीकार नहीं किया। ये भारतीय जनता पार्टी की सरकार आई जो किसानों को उनका हक देने के लिए प्रतिबद्ध है..हमने किसानों को लागत मूल्य का डेढ़ गुना देने का फैसला कर लिया और आज लागू कर दिया और मेरे किसान भाई को उसका हक मिल रहा है। इतना ही नहीं, हमने किसान की लागत कम हो उसके लिए भी कदम उठाए। आपको याद होगा, ये कांग्रेस के रागदरबारी जो हैं वो तो भूल जाएंगे...लेकिन जो देशहित में सोचने वाले पंडित लोग हैं वो जरूर ढूंढ़ कर निकालेंगे कि यूरिया का घोटाला कांग्रेस के जमाने में क्या था जरा खोल करके देखो।\nकिसान पर लाठियां चलती थीं, गोलियां चलती थीं, उसकी फसल बर्बाद होती थी लेकिन यूरिया नहीं मिलता था क्योंकि यूरिया का घोटाला करने में कांग्रेस डूबी हुई थी। ये भारतीय जनता पार्टी की सरकार के बाद आज यूरिया किसान को कालेबाजारी में नहीं लाना पड़ता है। आज यूरिया की चोरी बंद हो गई। जो यूरिया किसानों के नाम पर निकलता था और केमिकल फैक्ट्रियों में चला जाता था उसको हमने नीम कोटिंग कर दिया। आज यूरिया का एक दाना भी केमिकल फैक्ट्री के काम नहीं आता, वो सिर्फ और सिर्फ किसान के काम आता है। चोरी बंद हो गई, किसान को यूरिया मिलने लग गया और किसान को अपनी फसल बर्बाद होने से बचा लेने में मदद मिलने का काम हमारी सरकार ने किया। किसान को बिजली का बिल...हमने सपना देखा है...आने वाले समय में 28 लाख किसानों को सूर्य शक्ति से चलने वाले पंप देंगे। छोटा आंकड़ा नहीं है उसको बिजली का बिल नहीं आएगा और गुजरात में तो हमने प्रायोगिक काम शुरू कर दिया है कि किसान अपने खेत में फसल उगाने के सिवाय बिजली की भी खेप पैदा करेगा।\nजरूरत की बिजली सूर्य से निकालेगा और बची हुई बिजली सरकार उससे खरीदेगी। जैसे वो फसल बेचता है, वैसा मेरा किसान बिजली भी बेचेगा। मेरा किसान आज अन्नदाता है, कल अन्नदाता और ऊर्जादाता दोनों बन सकता है। ये काम करने की ताकत हमारे में है...आपमें नहीं है...और आप झूठ बोलते रहते हो। आए दिन झूठ बोलो...जहां जाओ वहां झूठ बोलो...जो चाहे बोलो...भाइयो-बहनो, लोकतंत्र में ऐसी झूठी बातें करने का आपको हक नहीं मिलता है...लोकतंत्र में ऐसी झूठी बातों के नाम पर लोगों को गुमराह करने का आपको हक नहीं मिलता है लेकिन आप मान करके चलिए ये जनता है सबकुछ जानती है। आप कितना ही झूठ बोलिए लेकिन जनता आपका हिसाब लेकर के रहेगी, आपको इसका जवाब दे करके रहेगी।\nभाइयो-बहनो, हमारे किसान आज 21 फसलों...धान...एमएसपी का जो डेढ़ गुना हमने किया है उसका लाभ ले रहे हैं। भाइयो-बहनो, हमने किसान को वैज्ञानिक खेती करने के लिए सॉयल हेल्थ कार्ड दिया, देश में 16 करोड़ किसानों को सॉयल हेल्थ कार्ड दिया है और मेरे छत्तीसगढ़ के पौने करोड़...75 लाख किसानों को, करीब-करीब सभी किसान एक प्रकार से, आज उनको सॉयल हेल्थ कार्ड पहुंचाने का काम हमने किया है। अरे आपके जमाने में इंसान का भी हेल्थ कार्ड नहीं था, हमने सॉयल हेल्थ कार्ड देकर के ये धरती माता की तबियत कैसी है, ये धरती माता किस फसल के लिए उपयोगी है..ये धरती माता उसको कौन सी दवाई की जरूरत है, कौन से फर्टिलाइजर की जरूरत है, उसका हिसाब-किताब निकाल करके हमने दियाहै। आप ये नहीं कर सकते क्योंकि आपको झूठे वादे करना, झूठ बोलना, फरेब करना, लोगों को गुमराह करना, इससे आगे कुछ आता नहीं है।\nभाइयो-बहनो, प्रधानमंत्री फसल बीमा योजना, बुआई के पहले और कटाई के बाद भी अगर किसान का कोई नुकसान हो जाता है, तो पहली बार प्रधानमंत्री फसल बीमा योजना हमने दी है। भाइयो, हमारे अकेले छत्तीसगढ़ के अंदर 13 लाख किसान फसल बीमा योजना का हकदार बने हैं और उन्होंने बीमा लिया और पिछले साल 1300 करोड़ रुपया, ये बीमा के तहत किसानों को दिया गया है। अरे आप क्यों मूर्ख बना रहे हो, क्यों किसान को गुमराह कर रहे हो? और इसलिए भाइयो-बहनो, आज हम आगे चल रहे हैं। मुझे बताइए भांति-भांति के नाम पर गरीबों को आवास देने की योजना चल रही थी कि नहीं चल रही थी..उसके बावजूद भी आज गरीब बिना घर के क्यों है? क्या गरीबों के नाम पर आवास की योजनाएं आपके रिश्तेदारों को, आपके चेले-चपाटों को, आपके ड्राइवर के रिश्तेदारों को, उन्हीं लोगों के बीच में घर बांटे थे कि नहीं बांटे थे? सच्चे गरीब छूट गए थे कि नहीं छूट गए थे? हमने प्रधानमंत्री आवास योजना बनाई और आज सवा करोड़ से ज्यादा लोगों के हाथ में घर की चाबी सुपुर्द कर दी भाइयो-बहनो। देश के अंदर एक नई क्रांति लाए हैं और हमारा सपना है...मेरे छत्तीसगढ़ के भाइयो-बहनो...रमन सिंह जी की सरकार को चुनिए, रमन सिंह जी की सरकार और दिल्ली में हमारी सरकार मिल कर के 2022 जब आजादी के 75 साल होंगे, हिन्दुस्तान के अंदर, छत्तीसगढ़ के अंदर एक भी परिवार खुद के घर की मालिकी का नहीं होगा...ऐसा एक भी परिवार नहीं होगा। हिन्दुस्तान के गरीब से गरीब को अपना घर होगा, ये सपना लेकर के हम चल रहे हैं।\nभाइयो-बहनो, हमारे देश का नौजवान आज रोजगार देने की ताकत के साथ खड़ा होना चाहता है। हमने प्रधानमंत्री मुद्रा योजना निकाली। बिना बैंक गारंटी आज देश में 14 करोड़ लोन स्वीकृत किए गए हैं। ये झूठ बोलने वालों के कान भी बहरे हैं, सच सुनने का इरादा नहीं है, सच सुनने की ताकत नहीं है, वो कान को बंद कर-कर के बैठे रहते हैं...14 करोड़ लोगों की बैंक से स्वीकृति हुई है और ये वो लोग हैं जिन्होंने अपना छोटा-मोटा कारोबार शुरू किया है और वो कारोबार करते हैं तो एकाध आदमी को और काम दे देते हैं, एकाध और व्यक्ति को भी रोजगार दे देते हैं...और उसमें करीब 75% ऐसे लोग हैं जिन्होंने पहली बार ज़िदगी में बै   क से लोन स्वीकृति पाई है, 75 प्रतिशत। आप कल्पना कर सकते हैं ये जो नए उद्यमी आ रहे हैं, छोटा-मोटा अपना कारोबार करने के लिए मैदान में आ रहे हैं वो देश के अर्थतंत्र को गति देने वाले लोग हैं...भाइयो-बहनो, ये भारतीय जनता पार्टी की सरकार ये काम कर रही है। और आपने बैंको को लुटा दिया...आप हैरान होंगे...देश आजाद हुआ...तब से लेकर के 2006 तक, इस देश में बैंकों से जितना कर्ज दिया गया था व्यापार उद्योग के लिए...2006-2014...8 साल में...50 साल में जितना दिया गया था, उतना ही दूसरा 8 साल में दे दिया गया...और टेलीफोन करके कहते थे हमारी पहचान वाला है, इतना करोड़ दे दो, 1000 करोड़ दे दो,500 करोड़ दे दो, 700 करोड़ दे दो... और पिछले दरवाजे से जिसको कमीशन पहुंचाना है, पहुंच जाता था भाइयो-बह not. ये सारे बैंक को लूटने वाले लोग, उनको बैंकों से पैसे 2014 से पहले मिले हैं, हमारे आने से पहले मिले हैं।\nआप मुझे बताइए जिन्होंने लूटा है और जिन्होंने बैंको को लुटवाया है क्या पाई-पाई वापस लेना गुनाह है क्या? लेना चाहिए कि नहीं लेना चाहिए...ये जो चोर लुटेरे हैं, उनको ठीक करना चाहिए कि नहीं करना चाहिए? और इसीलिए हम कानून लाए...उनकी संपत्ति जब्त करने का कानून लाए। इस देश में लुटेरे पहले भी थे, भाग भी जाते थे लेकिन उनकी संपत्ति को हड़प करने की कोई व्यवस्था नहीं थी। हम कानून लाए...हिन्दुस्तान में जो संपत्ति है उतना नहीं, दुनिया में कहीं पर भी उनकी संपत्ति है, उसको भी जब्त करने का कानून बनाया और ये जो भाग गए हैं ना, उनकी सारी संपत्तियां जब्त करने की हिम्मत हमने की है। बैंकों से लुटवाया था 2014 के पहले आपने...ये हमारी ताकत है कि दुनिया में खोज-खोज कर जहां भी उनकी संपत्ति है. उसको जब्त किया है और हजारों करोड़ों की रुपये की संपत्ति आज सरकार ने अपने कब्जे में ली है। जिस दिन उसकी बिक्री होगी, सरकार पाई-पाई वसूल करके रहने वाली है, ये मैं देश को विश्वास दिलाना चाहता हूं। ये सारे खेल..ये सारे खेल उन्होंने किए हैं...देश को लूटने के लिएहर पल मौका ढूंढ़ने वाले ऐसे लोगों को कभी भी अब देश मौका देने वाला नहीं है। और इसीलिए भाइयो-बहनो, छत्तीसगढ़ के उज्व्ेल भविष्य के लिए मैं आज आपसे आग्रह करने आया हूं।\nदेश को ईमानदारी के रास्ते पर आगे बढ़ाने के लिए, देश को इन ठेकेदारों से मुक्त कराने के लिए, छत्तीसगढ़ के उज्व््ल भविष्य के लिए, दिल्ली के संपूर्ण साथ सरकार के लिए, 18 साल से 23 साल के उम्र वाले छत्तीसगढ़ को नए सपने, नए संकल्प, नए इरादों के साथ आगे बढ़ाने के लिए, भारतीय जनता पार्टी को छत्तीसगढ़ की जनता विजयी बनाए। मैं आज...लोकतंत्र की, हिन्दुस्तान की ताकत क्या है...जब बस्तर के अंदर चुनाव हो रहा था, पहले चरण का...नक्सलवादियों ने बम-बंदूक और पिस्तौल का भय दिखाया था, लोगों को कहा था कि अगर वोट देने जाओगे तो मौत के घाट उतार दिए जाओगे, लेकिन गरीब आदिवासी के दिल में भी लोकतंत्र के प्रति श्रद्धा है और मेरे बस्तर के भाइयों-बहनों ने भारी मात्रा में मतदान करके बम-बंदूक और पिस्तौल को करारा जवाब दे दिया...मैं उनको बधाई देना चाहता हूं भाइयो-बहनो।\nकल कश्मीर में पंचायतों का चुनाव था, लोग चुनाव कराने से कई सालों से कतराते थे, गवर्नर रूल लगाने के बाद हमने तय किया, कश्मीरियत की कसौटी यही है कि कश्मीर के गांव के लोगों के हाथ में कश्मीर की ताकत होनी चाहिए। कश्मीर की सत्ता कश्मीर का गांव कश्मीर के लोग चलाएंगे और हमने चुनाव का फैसला कर लिया। आतंकवादियों ने मौत के घाट उतारने की धमकियां दी थीं। अगर उंगली पर निशान पाया गया तो उंगलियां काट देने के नारे दिए थे, पूरे कश्मीर में बंद कॉल के नारे दिए थे आतंकवादियों ने लेकिन ये मेरी कश्मीर की जनता देखिए...लोकतंत्र के प्रति उनकी श्रद्धा देखिए...60%-70% के बराबर वोटिंग करके कश्मीर की जनता ने ये सेपरेटिस्ट लोगों को, आतंकवादियों को करारा चांटा मारा है, करारा चांटा मारा है। और ये काम हमारी सरकार कर सकती है भाइयो-बहनो। कश्मीर की धरती पर लोकतांत्रिक तरीके से चुनी हुई सरकार, गांव की सरकार, पंचायत की सरकार आगे बढ़े, कश्मीर का भला हो, इसके लिए हमने रास्ता खोल दिया भाइयो-बहनो। कौन रोकता था कांग्रेस वालों को ये करने से...क्यों खर्च करते थे...क्यों डरते थे? आतंकवादियों के साथ पिछले दरवाजे से खेल खेलते थे।\nभाइयो-बहनो, ये देश ऐसे नहीं चल सकता था और इसीलिए हमने हिम्मत के साथ एक के बाद एक फैसले लिए हैं...और मैं आज भी कहने आया हूं भाइयो-बहनो, हमारे लिए सवा सौ करोड़ देशवासियों का कल्याण, हमारे लिए छत्तीसगढ़ के जन-जन का कल्याण, हमारे लिए छत्तीसगढ़ के जनजातीय समाज का कल्याण, हमारे लिए छत्तीसगढ़ के नौजवानों का कल्याण यही एक मात्र हमारा सपना है। ये सवा सौ करोड़ देशवासी यही मेरा परिवार है, उनका भला...यही मेरा सपना है और इसलिए मैं आपसे आग्रह करने आया हूं। आज चुनाव का आखिरी दिन है बस्तर से भी ज्यादा मतदान होना चाहिए, भारी मतदान होना चाहिए, कश्मीर की घाटी से भी भारी मतदान होना चाहिए, लोकतंत्र की ताकत बता देनी चाहिए और झूठ बोलने वालों को, झूठे वादे करने वालों को करारा जवाब देकरके...50 साल तक देश को बर्बाद करने वालों को फिर 5 साल के लिए छत्तीसगढ़ की धरती पर घुसने नहीं देना है। इस संकल्प के साथ भारतीय जनता पार्टी के कमल निशान पर बटन दबा कर के भारतीय जनता पार्टी को विजयी बनाइए...और मन में संकल्प करें पहले मतदान फिर जलपान। जब तक मतदान नहीं करेंगे जलपान नहीं करेंगे। बहुत बड़ी मात्रा में मतदान करके भारतीय जनता पार्टी को विजयी बनाइए। मेरे साथ दोनों मुट्ठी बंद करके, दोनों हाथ ऊपर करके पूरी ताकत से बोलिए भारत माता की...जय...भारत माता की...जय...भारत माता की...जय! Thanks a lot."