"There was competition on who can do maximum corruption,\nthere was competition on who can do fastest corruption,\nThere was competition on who can do most innovation in corruption.\nThere was competition as to whether coal would get more money or spectrum. There was competition as to whether CWG would get more money or defense deals. We all saw that and we also know who were the main players involved in this competition. I will leave it to you to decide which form of competition you would prefer.\nFriends\nFor decades, a narrative was made in India.\nThe progress has been achieved since 2014, it gives me confidence that nothing is impossible for 130 crore Indians.\nImpossible is now possible.\nIt was said that making a clean India was impossible, but people of India are making it possible.\nIt was said that a corruption free government in India was impossible, but people of India have made it possible\nIt was said that it is impossible to remove corruption from the process of giving their people, but people of India are making it possible.\nIt was said that it is impossible for the poor to leverage the power of technology, but the people of India are making it possible.\nIt was said that removing discretion and arbitrariness in policy making was impossible, but people of India are making it possible.\nIt was said that economic reforms in India were impossible, but people of India are making it possible.\nIt was said that the government can not be pro-growth and pro-poor at the same time, but people of India is making it possible.\nI have also been told, that there is a perception or theory that a developing economy can not grow at a higher rate for a longer period, without facing the problem of inflation;\nPost liberalization that is after 1991, almost all governments formed in the problem - what many experts call \"over-heating\" of economy after a short period of growth.\nAs a result of this we never had a sustainable high rate of growth.\nYou may recall, that we had a government, between 1991 and 1996 where the average growth was about five percent, but the average inflation was more than ten percent;\nThe government just before us between 2009 to 2014 had an average growth of about six and a half percent with an average inflation again in double digit;\nFriends\nDuring 2014 to 2019, the country will register average growth of seven point four percent and the average inflation will be less than four and half percent;\nPost-liberalization of Indian economy, this will be the highest rate of average growth and the lowest rate of average inflation in any government period of the year. With these changes and reforms, transformation is happening in the way The Indian economy has expanded the bouquet of its financing resources. It is no more dependent on banks credit for investment needs Take the example of funding\nDuring 2011-12 to 2013-14, that is, three years ago to this government, the average amount of fund raised through equity was about 14 thousand crore per year. In the last four years, this average is about rupees thirty three thousand crore per year. This is almost three times.The total amount raised by Alternative investment funds during 2011 to 2014 is less than four thousand crore rupees.\nOur Government took the initiative And, you can see the result -from 2014 to 2018 in four years, the total amount raised by alternate investment funds is eighty thousand rupees more than\nThis is a jump of the order of twenty times.Similarly, let us see the example of private placement of corporate bonds. The average amount of funds raised through this 2011 to 2014 is about rupees three lakh crore or about forty billion dollars.\nNow the average over the last four years has gone up to rupees five point two five lakh crore or about seventy five billion dollars.This is about seventy five percent of the jump. All of these are examples of confidence\nToday this confidence is not only by domestic investors, but also by investors. And the confidence shown in India continues, breaking the previous trend of pre-election years. In the last four years, the amount of Foreign Direct Investment received in the country was almost equal to what was received in seven years before 2014. To achieve all this, India needs reforms to transform.\nAnd by having the Bankruptcy Code, GST, Real Estate Act to name a few, - A solid foundation for decades of high growth has been laid. Four years ago, who would have believed that rupees three lakh crore or about forty billion dollars would be returned by defaulting borrowers to financial and operational creditors.\nThis is the impact of Bankruptcy and Insolvency Code. This will help in the financial resources more efficiently. While we attended the plumbing work on economy which was not attended for so many years, we also decided not to put a caution board of \"go slow, work in progress\". All these reforms were implemented without halting work for the well-being of the big sections of society.\nFriends\nIndia is a country of 130 crore aspirations and there is a unique vision for development and progress. Our vision of new India caters to all sections of the society, irrespective of their economic profile, their caste, creed, language and religion. We are working hard to create a new India which fulfills the aspirations and dreams of 130 crore Indians. Our vision of new India includes addressing the challenges of the future So today, while India has made its fastest train, it has also eliminated all un-manned railway crossings.\nToday, while India is building IITs \u0026 AIIMS at a rapid pace, it has also built toilets in all schools across the country. Today, while India is building a 100 smart cities across the country, it is also making rapid progress in over 100 aspirational districts. Today, while India has become a net exporter of electricity, it has also ensured that crores of households which were in darkness since independence have got electricity.Today, while India aims to land on Mars, it also ensures that every Indian has a roof over his head Today, while India is the fastest growing world economy, it is also going to remove poverty at the fastest pace.\nFriends\nWe have moved away from the A, B, C mentality - that is\n\"A\" for avoiding,"